u 

1920 

top y  2. 


.\°  o* 


V 


«-* 


vtX 


V 


° 


\  >     .  v  •  o  .        :>  cv 


^'% 


a, 


-4  ' 


e->' 


inTiTn^nramiiHinininnirajj^ 


COMPILED    BY    THE 


< 


[SIXTH  EDITION,  1920.] 

HAWAIIAN 

Cook  Book 


!=< 


1 


WOMANS'  SOCIETY 

OF 

CENTRAL  UNION  CHURCH 


ii 


'§'! 


PUBLISHED  BY 
PATTEN  COMPANY,   LTD.,  HONOLULU 


PpiiiMiin'Mim^mmmn^^  ; 


Hawaiian  Cook  Book 


COMPILED    BY   THE 


CWOMANS'  SOCIETY 

OF 

Jto/irCJ^,.  CENTRAL  UNION  CHURCH, 


Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite 
And  health  on  both." 

—Macbeth  III,  IV 


SIXTH  EDITION 


YOLULU    STAR-BJLLETIN,    LTD. 
1920 


■■'-. 
MM  r  - 


x\ 


a 


% 


erf 


M 


EXPLANATION 


XN  this  edition  of  the  book  it  is  aimed  to  feature  cookery 
of  Hawaiian  food  products. 
Because  there  are  now  so  many  reliable  cookbooks  containing 
full  lists  of  reqjpes,  these  are  obviously  omitted  here,  and  for  the 
same  reason  some  recipes  formerly  contained  here  are  eliminated. 
Hearty  acknowledgment  is  hereby  made  for  the  expert  assist- 
ance of  Mrs.  James  Russell,  past-mistress  in  the  knowledge  and 
use  of  Hawaiian   food  products. 


CONTENTS 


I.  Soups    Page     3  to     6 

II.  Fish "  7  to  33 

III.  Meats "  37  to  43 

IV.  Poultry  and  Game "  44  to  48 

V. .  Vegetables  "  48  to  55 

VI.  Cheese  and  Eggs "  57  to  58 

VII.  Bread  and  Yeast "  59  to  62 

VIII.  Salads * "  62  to  63 

IX.  Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes "  63  to  68 

X.  Cakes  and  Cookies  "  68  to  81 

XI.  Icings    "  81  to  82 

XII.  Pies  and  Pastry  "  82  to  86 

XIII.  Puddings "  86  to  96 

XIV.  Desserts'   "  96  to  100 

XV.  Sauces "  86  to  95. 

XVI.  Preserves "  102  to  108 

XVII.  Pickles "  108  to  110 

XVIII.  Ices "  101  to  102 

XIX.  Invalid  Cookery  "  118  to  120 

XX.  Miscellaneous    


Hawaiian  Cook  Book 


soups 

STOCK  FOR  ALL  KINDS  OF  SOUP.— Mrs.  C.  D.  Miller. 

Take  a  good  sized  shin  of  beef,  cut  every  particle  from  the 
bone  and  cut  up  into  inch  pieces ;  cut  or  saw  the  bone  into 
pieces  as  small  as  convenient  and  put  the  whole  in  a  sauce 
pan,  cover  with  cold  water  and  set  it  aside  in  a  cool  place  for 
half  an  hour,  or  even  an  hour.  This  will  drain  out  much  of 
the  juice  of  the  meat.  The  bones  from  roast  beef,  steak,  etc^ 
are  good  to  add  to  the  stock  kettle.  Set  this  on  the  stove  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  remove  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
keep  it  simmering  all  day  if  convenient,  several  hours  at  any 
rate.  The  next  morning  remove  all  the  fat.  This  is  a  good 
stock  for  soups,  hashes  or  stews.  To  make  soup,  take  out  the 
required  quantity,  add  vegetables,  macaroni,  tomatoes,  accord- 
ing to  fancy.  Pea  flour  soup  is  delicious  made  from  this  stock ; 
onion  is  an  improvement  to  the  soup  in  moderate  quantity. 
Whenever  stock  is  taken  out  of  the  kettle  or  jar,  add  water 
and  let  it  boil.  Chicken  bones,  scraps  of  meat,  mutton  bones, 
can  be  added,  but  never  any  vegetables.  It  is  well  to  heat 
the  stock  often  to  the  boiling  point.  (This  recipe  comes  from 
an  excellent  housekeeper  who  lives  in  the  country,  where  fresh 
meat  is  only  obtainable  once  a  week.  It  is  therefore  thoroughly 
reliable. — Ed.) 


POTATO  SOUP.— Mrs.  Parke. 

Boil  together  six  good  sized  potatoes  and  two  onions  in  water 
to  cover.  Mash  down  together,  add  one  large  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  celery  salt. 
Boil  three  pints  of  milk  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Mix 
thoroughly   and   strain   through   a   fine   strainer.     Re-heat   and 


4 

serve  with  crackers.     Chopped  parsley  may  be  added  just  before 
serving. 


CLEAR  SOUP.— (Brown.)— Mrs.  Parke. 

Three  pounds  lean  beef  cut  up  in  strips  put  with  three 
quarts  of  cold  water.  Boil  slowly,  but  steadily  for  two  hours, 
keeping  the  soup-kettle  covered.  Slice  3  onions  and  fry  in 
butter  till  of  a  light  brown  color.  Put  them  into  the  soup-pot, 
also  a  small  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  half  as  much  pepper,  a 
little  mace,  pinch  of  allspice,  teaspoonful  essence  of  celery,  or 
celery  salt  (use  fresh  celery  also  if  it  can  be  had),  a  little  sum- 
mer savory  of  sweet  marjoram,  tied  together  loosely  in  a 
cheese  cloth,  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Salt  to  taste.  Con- 
tinue to  stew  all  these  together  for  3  hours  more,  or  till  the 
beef  is  cooked  to  pieces,  then  strain  and  serve. 


TOMATO  SOUP.— Mrs.  W.  W.  Hall. 

One  quart  of  canned  tomatoes  (or  fresh  tomatoes  stewed), 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt  mixed  with  tomatoes,  and  boil  the  mix- 
ture. When  this  is  hot,  stir  in,  little  by  little,  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  This  will  cause  violent  effervescence.  When  the  mixture 
is  quiet  add  a  quart  of  hot  milk,  strain  and  serve  at  once.  It  is 
well  to  put  the  tomatoes  in  a  large  container  to  allow  for  the 
action  of  the  soda. 


TOMATO  BISQUE.— Mrs.  J.  O.  Carter. 

One  quart  of  tomatoes,  1  carrot  and  1  onion  stewed  together 
till  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  colander,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  1  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg.  Add  about  a  quart  of  water 
and  boil  20  minutes,  thickening  with  flour. 


FRESH    CORN    SOUP.— Mrs.    Bray. 

Cut,  or  grate  carefully,  the  corn  from  one  dozen  ears.     Put 
the  cobs  into  a  kettle  with  1  quart  of  water  and  boil  20  minutes. 


Remove  the  cobs  and  add  to  the  water  the  corn  and  1  quart 
of  milk,  and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire,' 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  also  a  large  piece  of 
butter;  stir  in  2  well  beaten  eggs. 


WHITE  SWISS  SOUP.— Mrs.  Bray. 

A  quart  of  mutton  broth;  when  it  boils  add  the  following 
mixture :  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  in  a  little  water 
till  smooth,  a  coffee-cup  of  milk,  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  nutmeg,  1  beaten  egg  should  be  stirred  in  the  soup 
until  it  boils  up.     Serve  in  a  hot  tureen  immediately. 


SAGO  SOUP.— Mrs.  H.  W.  Schmidt. 

Boil  y2  cup  of  sago  in  about  2  quarts  of  water.  A  quarter 
of  an  hour  before  serving  add  y2  cup  raisins,  a  few  pieces 
stick  cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste.  Just  before  serving  add  a 
cup  of  fruit  syrup. 


MULLIGATAWNY   SOUP.— (Indian  receipt.)— 

Mrs.  F.  W.  Damon. 

One  fowl  sliced,  or  rabbit,  4  onions,  6  cloves,  2  tablespoonfuls 
butter.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  and  meat  and  onions 
browned,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  curry  paste,  or  3  of  fresh  curry 
spices,  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Stew  for  45  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally,  then  add  3  pints  of  broth,  and  simmer  for  twenty 
minutes.     Thicken  before  serving.     Add  lime  juice  at  pleasure. 


CREAM  OF  ONION  SOUP. 

Peel  and  slice  one  dozen  small  white  onions,  then  fry  to  a 
light  brown  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
of  flour  and  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  season  to  taste,  and 
add  one-half  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Cook 
gently  for  half  an  hour,  strain  and  add  one  pint  of  rich  milk, 


and  one  cupful  of  cream,  and  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine  and  serve  at  once. 


CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

Boil  one  cupful  of  rice  in  three  pints  of  milk  until  cooked 
enough  to  pass  through  a  seive.  Grate  four  heads  of  Hawaiian 
celery  and  add  to  the  rice  and  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  boil  gently  until  celery  is  tender. 


GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Wash  one  quart  of  peas,  shell  them,  boil  the  pods  in  three 
pints  of  water  with  a  little  salt  until  soft.  Rub  through  a 
seive.  Stir  the  pulp  into  the  water,  in  which  the  pods  were 
boiled.  Add  one  head  of  lettuce  chopped  fine  and  the  peas. 
Boil  together  for  thirty  minutes.  Melt  two  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  another  pan,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  salt 
and  pepper.  Pour  the  other  mixture  on  and  stir  till  it  thickens. 
Serve  with  small  squares  of  toasted  bread. 


VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Ten  cents  soup  bone,  3  pints  water,  10  cents  soup  vegetables, 
2  tablespoons  of  salt,  y2  cup  Pearl  barley,  1  lump  of  sugar. 

Wash  the  soup  bone  and  see  there  are  rio  small  splinters  of 
bone  to  come  loose.  Put  into  the  water,  add  the  salt  and  boil  up. 
Skim  carefully  and  add  the  barley.  Tilt  the  cover  and  turn 
fire  low.  Wash  and  cut  up  all  the  vegetables  into  neat  dice. 
There  should  be  in  the  bunch  Hawaiian  celery,  parsley,  green 
onions,  two  carrots  and  two  turnips,  two  or  three  small  tomatoes 
Leave  tomatoes  till  last,  put  others  in  a  strainer  and  pour  a  little 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  rinse  under  the  tap.  Add  to  the 
soup  when  it  has  been  simmering  for  one  hour.  Cut  up  tomatoes, 
and  add  with  one  cube  of  sugar,  cook  30  minutes  and  serve. 


HAWAIIAN  FISH;  HOW  TO  COOK  THEM 


Published  by  The  Women's  Committee  of  The  Territorial  Food 
Commission  and  Federal  Food  Administration,  June,  1918. 


COMMONER   VARIETIES 
Name.  Method  of  Cooking.  In  Market. 

Aawa    Bake,  chowder All  year 

Ahi — Tuna  (red  meat)  ..Bake,  scallop,  fish  balls,  dry  Mar.  to  Dec. 

Aholehole    Broil All  year 

Aku — Bonita — Snap- 
jack  (red  meat) Dry,  fry,  scallop,  fish  balls All  year 

Akule   Dry .....All  year 

Amaama — Mullet   Bake,  boil,  broil,  fry,  cook  in 

ti  leaves,  chowder All  year 

Awa Chowder All  year 

Awa-aua  Raw  All  year 

Aweoweo   Broil  .. All  year 

Ehu  (red,  with  V  tail). .Broil,  steam  All  year 

Hapuupuu   _ Bake,  chowder,  steaks,  fry All  year 

Hee — Squid  Dry,  boil,  curry _ All  year 

Honu — Turtle  Steaks,  breaded,  fry All  year 

Iheihe  Broil  June — Sept. 

Kahala Bake,  fry,  fish  pudding,  fish  pie..All  year 

Kala Boil,    fry   All  year 

Kalikali    Bake,   fry All   year 

Kawakawa  Fry,   raw  Rare 

Kawelea  Bake,  fry,  fish  pudding All  year 

Kumu   Bake,  boil,  broil,  steam,  cook 

in  ti-leaves  All  year 

Mahimahi  ._ Chowder,  fry  in  deep  fat, 

scallop,  fish  jelly  All  year 

Manini Fry  whole;  broil  on  coals All  year 

Mano — Shark   Japanese  cake All  year 

Moano    Bake  in  ti-leaves,  fry All  year 

Moi Bake  in  ti-leaves,  boil,  broil, 

chowder Winter 


Name.  Method  of  Cooking.  In  Market. 

Oio    Fish  pudding,  raw  All  year 

Omilu   (Ulua  family). ...Bake,   boil,   fry All   year 

Ono  Bake,  boil,  chowder,  steam,  fry 

as  steaks All  year 

Oopu  (Hinana  is  young 

Oopu) Cook   in   ti-leaves Spring 

Opakapaka    Bake,  chowder,  fry  in  deep 

fat All  year — best  Dec,  Jan.,  Feb. 

Opelu (Mackerel,  small)  Dry,  raw All  year 

OpeluPalahu(Mackerel)Boil  All  year 

Papai    Boil  All  year 

Papiopio — small  Ulua.. ..Fry,  whole,  boil,  chowder, 

cream,  fish  pudding All  year 

Uhu  Raw,  bake,  bake  in  ti-leaves All  year 

Uku    Bake,  broil  steak,  chowder, 

steam   All  year 

Ulaula  (Red  Snapper 

with  Y  tail) Bake,  boil,  broil,  chowder All  year 

Ulua  (Pa-u-u ;  medium 

size)    Bake,  boil,  chowder,  fry,  cut  thin 

and  fry  in  deep  fat Jan.  to  May 

Ula  (Lobster)  Boil,  broil,  steam All  year 

Weke    Split  open  and  broil,  fry  whole, 

bake  in  ti-leaves. All  year 

Salmon  Bake,  fry  Rare 

Sword  Fish — A'u  .....Bake,  fry  Rare 


LESS  COMMON  VARIETIES 

Hahalalu   Broil All  year 

Hilu Broil  All  year 

Hinalea    Broil,  chowder  All  year 

Humuhumu  Broil All  Year 

Kaku  Bake,  fry  ...... All  year 

Kupoupou   Fry All  year 

Kupipi    Broil  All  year 

Lauhau _ Broil  All  year 

Lai    Broil  All  year 

Mamamo    Broil  All  year 


Name.  Method  of  Cooking.  In  Market. 

Mu Boil  : All  year 

Nenue  Boil  All  year 

Oama    Broil  All  year 

Palani     Boil  All  year 

Panuhunuhu    Bake  in  ti-leaves All  year 

Pa-u-u    Fry  All  year 

Poopaa  Broil  All  year 

Pualu    Broil  All  year 

Puapalu   Broil  All  year 

Uu Broil  All  year 


ABBREVIATIONS  USED    IN   RECIPES. 

c.  equals  cup.  pt.  equals  pint. 

T.  equals  tablespoon.  qt.  equals  quart, 

t.  equals  teaspoon.  lb.  equals  pound. 


HAWAIIAN  FISH. 
Name — Description.        When  in  Market — Method  of  Cooking. 

Ulua — silver  gray Jan.,  Feb.  &  Mar. — Boil  and  chowder. 

Wiki — small  red — Fried  whole. 

Ehu — red,  with  U-tail...July  and  August — Broiled. 

Mahi — dark  gray  skin...  All  year — Cut  thin,  egg  and  crumb,  and 

fry. 

Tuna — dark  meat March  to  Dec. — Scalloped  and  fish  balls. 

Pakapaka — silver  gray,  All  year — Fry  in  deep  fat,  and  chowder. 

Ulaula — red,  with  Y-tail 

large  fish All  year — Baked  with  stuffing. 

Kumu-red  All  year — Wrap  in  buttered  paper  and 

steam. 

Manini — silver,  dark 

stripe  around All  year — Fry  whole. 


10 
HOW  TO  COOK  FISH 

TO  BAKE 

Clean  the  fish,  remove  its  eyes,  slit  open  from  the  vent,  and 
dry  with  a  cloth.  Mix  thoroughly  and  place  in  the  vent  1  c. 
soft  bread  crumbs,  2  T.  melted  butter  substitute,  1  t.  chopped 
parsley,  y2  t.  finely  chopped  lemon  peel,  salt  and  pepper.  Sew 
up,  pull  fish  in  form  of  letter  S,  place  in  greased  baking  pan, 
and  put  a  little  grease  on  top.  Bake  20  minutes  to  the  pound 
in  moderate  oven,  basting  every  5  to  6  minutes.  Place  on 
hot  dish,  remove  strings,  and  serve  with  brown  gravy. 


STUFFING  FOR  BAKED  FISH. 

Fry  one  T.  of  chopped  onion  in  a  T.  of  butter  substitute.  Add 
a  c.  or  more  of  stale  bread,  which  has  been  soaked  in  hot  water, 
then  pressed  dry.  Add  a  T.  each  of  chopped  parsley,  suet,  and 
celery,  %  T.  of  salt,  and  pepper.  When  it  is  well  mixed,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  an  egg. 

To  make  a  change  in  the  above  dressing,  add  a  tomato  and  a 
large  chili  pepper. 


TO  BAKE. 

Any  white  fish  is  delicious  prepared  in  this  way :  Cut  in  two- 
inch  squares ;  sprinkle  a  pan  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper ;  lay 
the  fish  in  this ;  sprinkle  again  with  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  of 
thyme,  and  one  bay  leaf.  Pour  over  this  1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes, 
1  sliced  lemon,  a  few  bits  of  butter  substitute,  and  let  cook  in 
a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 


TO    BOIL. 

Place  in  dish  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  fish  entirely;  also 
1  T.  salt  and  a  slice  of  lemon  1  inch  thick.    When  water  boils, 


11 

drop  in  fish  and  cook,  allowing  20  minutes  for  each  pound,  and 
if  fish  weighs  6  pounds  or  more,  allowing  an  additional  20 
minutes.  When  done,  drain,  and  serve  very  hot  with  any  good 
fish  sauce. 


TO  BROIL. 

Clean  the  fish  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Rub  with  a  piece  of 
lemon,  dot  with  butter  substitute  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
broil  quickly  for  5  to  10  minutes.  Then  turn,  dot  with  butter 
substitute,  and  repeat  broiling  until  done. 


TO  FRY. 

To  Fry  in  Deep  Fat :  Clean  the  fish,  remove  skin  and  bones, 
and  dry  with  a  cloth.  On  a  paper  have  ready  mixture  of  1  T. 
flour,  1  t.  salt,  y2  t.  pepper.  On  another  paper  have  some  bread 
crumbs,  and  in  a  bowl  a  well-beaten  tgg.  Dip  fish  first  in 
flour,  then  in  eggf  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Have  fat  at  least 
three  inches  deep  in  pan.  When  it  smokes  from  the  center,  drop 
in  the  fish  and  fry  until  bijown.  Then  remove  quickly  and  dry 
on  crumpled  paper.  Serve  while  hot.  Fat  may  be  used  re- 
peatedly if  it  is  strained  and  not  allowed  to  burn. 

To  Fry  in  Steaks:  Cut  fish  into  steaks;  dry;  dip  into  flour, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  place  at  once  in  pan  containing  3  T.  of  oil. 
Fry   solwly,   and  turn.     Serve  with   sliced  lemon   and  parsley. 


TO  STEAM. 

Clean  the  fish  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Cover  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  wrap  up  in  a  thick  piece  of  paper  oiled  in  the 
center  as  you  would  wrap  up  a  parcel.  Cook  in  a  steamer, 
allowing  30  minutes  to  the  pound.  Remove  paper,  and  serve 
on  a  hot  dish  with  a  separate  sauce  or  gravy.  If  a  steamer  is 
not  available,  take  an  ordinary  covered  pan,  and  place  in  it  an 
inverted  fire-proof  dish.  See  that  depth  of  water  is  only  half 
the  height  of  dish,  and  proceed  as  with  steamer. 


12 

HAWAIIAN  METHODS. 

1.  Thin  skinned  fish,  such  as  Mullet  and  Moi,  are  cooked  in 
ti-leaves   (Lawalu  fish). 

2.  Thick   skinned,  fish,   such  as  Manini   and  Aweoweo,   are 
broiled  on  the  coals. 


Fish  Chowder 

2  lbs.  fish  3  pts.  fish  stock 

1  slice  bacon  or  salt  pork  1  pt.  milk 

2  onions  3  T.  corn  starch 
2  sticks  celery  Seasoning 

4  potatoes 

Boil  fish  in  3  pts.  water ;  remove  skin  and  bones ;  cut  in  small 
pieces  while  hot.  Slice  bacon  or  pork,  and  fry  with  onion,  being 
careful  not  to  color;  add  sliced  potatoes,  chopped  celery  and 
stock,  and  boil  until  potatoes  are  soft,  add  fish,  cornstarch,  and 
milk.  Serve  hot. 


Fish  Chowder 

2  lbs.  fish  6  barley  crackers 

y2  lb.  salt  pork  Parsley 

2  large  onions  Seasoning 

3  large  potatoes 

Dice  pork  and  fish ;  slice  onions  and  potatoes ;  soak  crackers 
in  milk.  Put  in  kettle  successive  layers  of  pork,  fish,  onions, 
seasoning,  potatoes  and  crackers ;  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
stew  gently  V/2  hours. 

1  fish     (4-5  lbs.)  6  butter  crackers 

6  potatoes  1  T.  butter  substitute 

2-inch  cube  fat  pork  or  bacon  1  T.  salt 

2  small     onions  y2  t.  pepper 

Wash  fish ;  remove  bones,  and  cut  off  head.  Cover  bones  and 
head  with  cold  water,  and  boil.  Cube  potatoes  to  equal  by 
measure   quantity   of   fish,   parboil   five   minutes,    and   pour   off 


13 

water.  Dice  pork,  slice  onions,  fry  together  in  omelet  pan,  being 
careful  not  to  burn,  and  strain  liquid  fat  over  potatoes,  together 
-with  water  (strained)  in  which  bones  were  boiled.  Add  salt 
and  pepper,  and  boil  10  to  12  minutes.  Then  add  fish,  let  simmer 
for  10  minutes,  add  butter  and  hot  milk,  and  just  when  serving, 
drop  in  broken  crackers. 

If  a  thicker  broth  is  desired,  add  1  c.  of  fine  cracker  crumbs, 
or  1  T.  flour  cooked  in  1  T.  butter  substitute. 

If  a  richer  broth  is  desired,  place  in  the  tureen  in  which  the 
chowder  is  to  be  turned,  2  eggs  beaten  in  hot  milk. 


New  England  Fish  Chowder 

Cover  2-lb.  fish  with  hot  water  (not  boiling).  When  cooked, 
lift  out  with  skimmer,  and  remove  skin  and  bones.  In  a  sauce- 
pan cook  1  pt.  of  thinly  sliced  potatoes.  At  the  same  time  fry 
about  34  lb-  of  chopped,  fat  salt  pork.  Add  1  large  onion 
chopped,  and  fry  in  the  pork  for  10  minutes.  Thicken  with  1  T. 
flour.  Add  hot  water  to  make  a  thick  gravy,  and  let  simmer 
10  minutes  longer ;  then  put  into  the  kettle  with  the  potatoes, 
add  fish,  salt  and  pepper,  and  3  or  4  soda  crackers  which  have 
been  soaked  in  1  pt.  of  rich  milk.     Let  boil  up  once,  and  serve. 


COLD  FISH  COOKERY. 
Codfish  Balls. 

1  qt.  raw  sliced  potatoes  2  T.  butter  substitute 

1  c.  codfish  Milk  or  cream 

1  egg  Pepper  and  salt 

Boil  potatoes  and  fish  together;  when  cooked  beat  till  light, 

add  butter  substitute,  a  little  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  egg.     Form 

into  balls  and  drop  in  hot  fat. 


Baked  Fish-Cakes 

Very  nice  fish-cakes  may  be  made  from  the  remains  of  a  fish 
dinner.  Almost  any  kind  of  cold  fish  may  be  used.  Remove 
the  skin  and  bones,  and  flake  the  fish  very  fine.     To  1  c.  fish 


14 

add  2  c.  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  and  thoroughly  mix  together. 
If  a  sauce  was  served  with  the  fish  and  some  was  left  over,  add 
about  3  T. ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  one  well-beaten 
egg.  If  the  mixture  does  not  seem  moist  enough,  add  a  little 
milk  or  cream.  Make  into  flat  cakes,  put  into  a  greased  pan, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Proportions  of  fish  and 
potato  may  be  varied. 


Fish-Cakes 

1  c.  hot  mashed  potato,  sweet    1  T.  butter  substitute 
potato  or  taro  1  T.  milk  or  cream 

2  c.  cold  flaked  fish  Seasoning 

Mash  potato  or  taro  very  smooth  with  the  milk  and  butter 
substitutes ;  add  seasoning ;  shape  into  flat  cakes  with  flour,  and 
fry  quickly  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat. 


Creamed  Fish 

Remnants  of  boiled  or  baked  fish  1  c.  stock 

Bread  crumbs  1  c.  milk 

Butter  substitute  Nutmeg,  sage  and  thyme 

1  T.  flour 

1  egg  Salt. 

Flake  fish  after  skin  and  bones  have  been  removed,  and 
place  in  shallow  baking  dish.  Prepare  sauce  by  heating  butter 
substitute  in  saucepan  until  it  bubbles;  then  stir  in  an  even  T. 
of  flour  and  cook  well  without  letting  it  brown;  add  c.  of 
boiling  stock  and  c.  of  hot  milk,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  a  little 
salt,  sage  and  thyme;  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
well ;  then  pour  slowly  over  a  beaten  egg.  Pour  sauce  over 
fish,  add  bread  crumbs,  and  small  bits  of  butter. 


Creamed  Fish  in  Ramekins 

1  medium-sized  fish  2  c.  cream  sauce 

2  eggs  (hard-boiled)  Bread  crumbs 
Milk  Seasoning 

Bake  fish  whole,  in  milk  until  tender ;  break  into  small  pieces, 


15 

add  2  c.  cream  sauce,  well  seasoned,  and  eggs,  sliced.  Put  in 
buttered  ramekins,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  15 
minutes. 


Fish  a  la  Creme 

4  to  6  lbs.  fish  1  c.  cracker  crumbs 

1  to  \y2  pts.  white  sauce  1-3  c.  melted  butter  substitute 

Clean  the  fish ;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  with  1  T.  of 
vinegar  till  the  flesh  separates  easily  Drain,  and  when  ccol, 
remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  flake.  Season  with  s?.lt  and 
pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  fish  on  a  platter  suitable  for  serving; 
cover  with  white  sauce,  letting  the  fish  soak  up  all  it  will ;  then 
arrange  another  layer  of  fish  and  sauce.  Moisten  cracker 
crumbs  in  butter  substitute ;  spread  over  the  top ;  set  the  platter 
in  the  oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs 
are  brown.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


Fish  Croquettes 

Cooked  fish  Grated  cheese 

Bread  crumbs  Seasoning 

1  egg  Cream  sauce 

Mince  fish,  and  mix  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  beaten  egg. 
Season  to  taste,  and  add  sufficient  cream  sauce  to  bind.     Roll 

into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with  cream  sauce  sprinkled 
with  grated  cheese. 


Curried  Fish 

Boil  the  fish,  cut  into  squares,  and  mix  with  a  good  curry 
sauce  made  with  cocoanut  cream  or  fresh  cream. 


Curried  Fish 

1  lb.  cold  cooked  fish  2  good-sized  onions 

2  T.  butter  substitute  1  T.  flour 

1  pt.  water  1  t.  curry  powder 

Juice  of  a  lemon  ^2  t.  salt 

Chop  the  onions  very  fine ;  put  them  with  the  butter  substitute 


16 

in  a  saucepan,  cover,  and  when  soft  add  the  curry,  the  flour,  and 
then  the  water  or  fish  stock.  Stir  until  boiling,  and  add  the 
fish.  Cover  and  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  10  minutes. 
Add  the  lemon  juice  and  seasoning,  and  serve  in  a  border  of 
carefully  boiled  rice. 


Dish  of  Fish 

Take  3  lbs.  of  any  white  fish,  boiled  and  chopped  fine.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Boil  3  sliced 
onions  in  1  qt.  milk.  Cream  3  T.  flour  and  Y^  lb.  butter  substi- 
tute. Pour  the  milk  through  a  strainer  on  the  flour  and  butter, 
and  return  to  the  boiler  to  thicken.  On  a  platter  put  a  layer  of 
the  seasoned  fish,  then  dressing,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used,  hav- 
ing dressing  on  top ;  sprinkle  with  fine  cracker  crumbs,  brown  in 
the  oven,  and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 


Escalloped   Fish 

3  c.  any  cooked  flaked  fish  2  t.  salt 

1  c.  fresh  bread  crumbs  *4  t.  paprika 

2  c.  cream  sauce  1  t.  table  sauce 

2  T.  finely  cut  parsley,  celery        1  T.  grated  onion 
top  or  green  pepper 

2  t.  butter,  or  cooking  oil, 
or  Crisco. 

Brush  an  earthen  baking  dish  with  cooking  oil ;  sprinkle  with 
half  the  bread  crumbs ;  cover  with  the  flaked  fish  from  which 
skin  and  bones  have  been  removed ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the 
bread  crumbs.  Cover  with  the  cream  sauce  to  which  the  other 
ingredients  have  been  added.  Bake  without  a  cover  for  30 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Fricassee  of  Fish 

\y2  lbs.  fish  2  T.  butter  substitute 

1  pt.  strained  tomatoes  1  t.  salt 

1  chopped  onion  1   saltspoon  pepper  (red  pfd.) 

1  T.  chopped  parsley 


17 


Cut  fish  into  slices  about  2^  inches  wide.  In  a  sauce  pan  cook 
onion  in  butter  substitute  until  soft.  Add  fish,  and  when  it  has 
cooked  about  10  minutes,  add  tomatoes,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper 
Cook  five  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 


Fillets  of  Fish 

Uncooked  fish  Onion 

Bacon  Cracker  crumbs 

Parsley  and  seasoning  Anchovy  sauce 

Bone,  skin  and  slice  the  fish.  On  each  slice  place  a  little 
chopped  bacon,  onion,  parsley  and  seasoning.  Roll,  and  fasten 
with  a  wooden  skewer.  Roll  in  flour,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  with  anchovy  sauce. 


Fish  Hash 

1  c.  cold  cooked  fish  Seasoning 

1  c.  cold  cooked  potatoes  2  T.  fat 

1  slice  onion 

Chop  fish,  potatoes  and  onion  fine,  and  mix  together.  Melt 
fat  in  frying  pan,  add  fish  mixture,  season  to  taste,  stir  until 
well  heated,  then  cook  without  stirring  until  well  browned  under- 
neath ;  fold  and  turn  like  an  omelet. 


Fish  Jelly 

Fish   (Mullet  preferred)  Paprika  and  tobasco 

2  T.  gelatine  Lemon  juice 

Hard-boiled  egg  Gherkins  and  olives 
Salt  and  pepper 

To  three  c.  of  the  water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled,  add  2 
even  T.  of  gelatine,  and  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  lemon  juice,  and 
tobasco.  Garnish  mould  with  hard-boiled  egg,  gherkins,  and 
olives;  add  layer  of  fish  broken  into  small  pieces.  Pour  on 
sufficient  liquid  to  cover,  and  place  in  cool  place  to  set.  Repeat 
process  until  mould  is  filled. 


18 
Kedegeree  (A  Breakfast  or  Lunch  Dish) 

2  c.  boiled  or  steamed  fish  2  T.  butter  substitute 

flaked  Seasoning 

2  c.  boiled  rice  Chopped  parsley 

2  hard-boiled  eggs 

Put  rice  and  fish  into  a  double  boiler  with  the  butter  substi- 
tute, seasoning  and  parsley.  Stir  lightly  with  a  fork  without 
mashing.  When  hot  all  through,  pile  on  a  hot  dish;  cut  eggs 
into  8  parts  and  stand  around  edges.  A  few  rolls  of  crisp  bacon 
are  good  with  this ;  if  used,  the  bacon  fat  may  replace  the  butter 
substitute. 


Fish  Pie 

Cold  fish  Hot  mashed  potatoes 

Seasoning  Butter  substitute 

Remove  the  bones  and  skin  from  any  cold  cooked  fish,  shred 
it,  and  add  seasoning  to  taste.  Grease  a  baking  dish,  cover  the 
bottom  with  potatoes,  and  add  the  fish  and  small  bits  of  butter 
substitute.  Season,  cover  with  a  top  layer  of  potatoes,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  10  minutes,  or  until  brown. 


Fish  Pudding 

2y2  or  3  c.  scraped  raw  fish  *4  c-  bread  crumbs 

24  c.  cream  4  eggs 

Mix  bread  crumbs,  cream  and  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  fish ; 
then  add  beaten  whites,  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  steamer,  top 
having  central  opening  as  in  angel  cake  tin,  cover,  and  steam 
uninterruptedly  for  25  minutes.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 


Fish  Pudding 

Awa,  Awa-aua,  or  Oio  4  eggs 

1  tin  mushrooms  ^4  c.  cream 

Yi  c.  bread  crumbs  Seasoning 

Grate  raw  fish,  mash  to  pulp,  and  season  to  taste;  add  bread 
crumbs,  the  mushrooms  (chopped),  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  the  cream  (whipped).     Just  before  placing  in  the  steamer, 


19 

which  should  be  greased,  add  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Steam  25  minutes,  and  serve  immediately  with  cream  sauce 
and  mushrooms.  A  delicious  way  to  use  these  fish,  which  are 
too  bony  to  be  cooked  by  other  methods. 


Salmon  Pudding 

1  lb.  salmon  y2  t.  mustard 

2  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 
1  c.  milk  Cayenne 

1  T.  flour  Onion 

1  T.  butter  substitute  Celery 

1  T.  gelatine  Green  pepper 

1  t.  sugar 

Boil  the  salmon,  remove  skin  and  bones,  shred  fine,  and  mix 
with  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  onion,  celery,  and  green  pepper. 
Then  prepare  a  cream  by  heating  milk,  with  flour,  butter  sub- 
stitute, sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  pepper,  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ; 
then  add  1  beaten  egg  and  cayenne  pepper.  When  cream  is  cool, 
add  gelatine,  soaked,  and  dissolve  in  hot  water,  and  pour  over 
fish.     Put  in  mould,  and  place  on  ice. 


Fish  in  Ramekins 

\y2  lbs.  fish  1  c.  hot  milk 

Bread  crumbs  Curry  powder 

2  T.  butter  substitute  Salt 

1  T.  flour 

Boil  and  flake  fish.  Make  a  white  sauce  with  the  butter  sub- 
stitute, flour,  and  milk;  season  with  salt  and  a  little  curry 
powder;  and  mix  lightly  with  fish.  Fill  the  dishes,  cover  with 
butter  and  seasoned  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 


Rechauffe  of  Fish 

2  c.  cold  boiled  fish  1  egg 

2  T.  butter  substitute  1  c.  cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

y2  c.  milk  or  cream  Seasoning 


20 

Cut  fish  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  chafing  dish  with  butter 
substitute,  milk,  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  egg  slightly 
beaten.    Simmer  for  five  or  six  minutes. 


Salad  (Good  for  Picnics) 

Have  cold  boiled  or  steamed  fish  flaked  with  no  bones  or  skin. 
To  every  cup,  add  1  c.  boiled  rice,  half  c.  chopped  celery,  a  little 
chopped  parsley.  Add  enough  mayonnaise  to  moisten  and  mould 
it.  Season  carefully.  If  anchovies  are  liked,  cut  in  thin  strips 
and  decorate  the  salad  with  them.  Served  at  a  picnic,  hard-boil- 
ed egg  chopped  fine  is  the  best  garnish. 


Scalloped  Fish 

Cold  fish  Chopped  parsley 

Cream  sauce  Paprika 

Bread  crumbs  Seasoning 

Place  in  baking  dish  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
minced  fish  and  parsley,  and  pour  on  generously  a  rich  cream 
sauce.  Let  top  layer  be  of  bread  crumbs  dotted  with  butter. 
Bake  until  well  browned. 


Fish  Souffle 

2  c.  shredded  fish  2  eggs  (whites) 

y2  c.  bread  crumbs  1  T.  butter  substitute 

1  c.  milk  Seasoning 

Mix  bread  crumbs,  milk,  butter  substitute  and  seasoning ;  cook 
5  minutes.  Add  fish  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  cassserole  set  in  water  from  20  to  30  minutes. 


Fish  Souffle 

1  c.  cold  boiled  fish  1  c.  cream  sauce 

2  c.  mashed  or  riced  potatoes  1  t.  salt 

3  eggs  y2  T.  WoT:chestershire  sauce  or 
Kitchen  Bouquet 

♦Add  the  picked  fish,  cream  sauce,  and  egg  yolks  well  beater} 


21 

to  the  potatoes.  Fold  in  lightly  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
till  stiff.  Brush  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  cooking  oil,  put  in  the 
mixture,  rough  it  on  top,  and  bake  till  light-brown.  Serve  at 
once. 


SPECIALS 
Aawa 

After  the  fish  is  carefully  washed,  put  in  the  stuffing,  and  sew 
up  the  opening.  Dredge  the  fish  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour, 
and  lay  it  on  slices  of  larding  pork  in  a  baking  pan.  Place 
slices  of  pork  also  over  the  back.  Allow  15  minutes  to  each 
pound  and  baste  frequently.  The  pork  should  supply  sufficient 
liquid  for  basting ;  if  not,  add  very  little  water. 

Serve  with  brown  sauce ;  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley  or 
watercress. 


Aku  (Portuguese  Style) 

Dice  the  fish,  and  cover  with  vinegar.  Add  a  large  onion 
(sliced),  2  pieces  garlic  (mashed),  salt,  and  let  stand  6  hours. 
Then  fry  in  hot  fat. 


Akule 
Clean,  remove  heads,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Cut  up  6  or  8 
green  onions  and  3  large  tomatoes  (canned  are  equally  good). 
Place  fish  in  well-greased  pan,  cover  over  with  onions  and  to- 
matoes, put  cover  on  pan,  and  cook  slowly  20  minutes  or  until 
done. 


Mullet  (Spanish  Style) 

Clean  2  or  3  mullet,  cut  into  3-inch  pieces,  and  place  in  a 
kettle  containing  1  T.  Crisco.  Add  cut-up  green  onions, 
tomatoes,  salt,  and  enough  cooked  rice  to  serve  the  family. 
Cook  30  minutes. 


Mullet  (Hawaiian  Style) 

Clean,    sprinkle   with   salt,   place   on    from   6   to   8   ti   leaves, 


22 

bind  with  wire,  and  bake  from  20  to  30  minutes.     Added  cocoa- 
nut  milk  gives  it  a  flavdr. 


Boiled  Mullet 

Put  mullet  in  saucepan,  almost  cover  with  water,  add  1  T. 
of  salt,  cook  y2   hour.       Good  served  with  poi. 

Kala,  Moi,  Papiopio,  and  Akule  are  good  this  way.  The 
Kala  should  be  skinned  before  cooking. 


Boiled  Mullet  with  Coconut  Sauce 

Boil  mullet  as  above.  When  nearly  cooked  throw  half  the 
water  away  and  in  its  place  add  juice  of  two  cocoanuts.  To 
secure  this,  grate  cocoanuts,  and  extract  juice  by  squeezing 
through  potato  press. 


Boiled  Mullet  with  White  Sauce 

Put  mullet  in  saucepan,  almost  cover  with  water,  and  add 
salt.  When  done,  lift  carefully  to  a  platter  and  pour  over  a 
sauce  made  of  1  C.  of  milk,  1  T.  flour,  1  T.  butter  substitute, 
and  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  up  rather  fine.  Moi  and 
Klumu  are  good  cooked  this  way. 


Mullet  in  Ti  Leaves 

Procure  8  or  10  ti  leaves.  Put  salt  on  2  or  3  medium- 
sized  fish,  wrap  in  ti  leaves,  put  in  oven,  and  bake  for  ^4 
hour.       Moi,  Weke  and  Kumu  are  good  this  way. 


Fish  With.  Cocoanut 

Clean  and  prepare  Mullet  or  Moi  for  baking  in  ti-leaves. 
Salt  them,  pour  into  the  stomach  and  gills  cocoanut  juice 
secured  by  grating  and  squeezing  the  pulp  of  a  cocoanut ;  tie 
up  in  the  ti-leaves  and  bake  in  the  oven  or  broil  on  the  coals 
outdoors.  The  latter  method  is  preferable,  for  the  juices  do 
not  dry  away  so  much  as  in  an  oven,  and  the  leaves  do  not 
stick  to  the  fish,  as  they  often  do  in  the  former  case. 


23 

Moi  or  Mullet  Special 

Put  3  fish  in  saucepan,  almost  cover  with  water,  add  salt,  and 
boil  for  ]/2  hour.  When  done,  lift  carefully  to  a  platter  and 
pour  over  a  sauce  made  of  2  c.  milk,  2  T.  flour,  2  T.  butter  sub- 
stitute, 1  t.  salt,  1  tin  each  (small  size)  shrimps,  mushrooms, 
and  oysters.  Take  some  seasoned  mashed  potatoes  and  mix 
with  1  beaten  egg.  Make  with  the  potatoes  a  border  around 
the  fish;  bake  in  hot  oven  for  15  minutes,  or  until  brown.  Serve 
in  the  same  dish. 


Moi  a  la  Spanish 

Cut  a  good-sized  fish  into  pieces  for  individual  serving.  Rub 
the  pieces  with  salt,  and  lay  side  by  side  in  a  baking  pan.  Place 
thin  slice  of  onion,  1  of  tomato  and  1  of  bell  pepper  (without 
the  seeds),  upon  each  piece,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Add  3  or 
4  dots  of  savory  fat,  and  cover  it  all  with  browned  bread 
crumbs.  Put  just  enough  water  in  the  pan  to  prevent  the  fish 
from  burning.  Chili  powder  makes  a  very  good  substitute  for 
the  bell  peppers. 


Kumu 


Clean  and  cook  in  ti  leaves.       A  pinch  of  prepared  kukui  nut 
may  be  added. 


Ulaula  (Spanish) 

To  1  good-sized  fish  add  contents  of  1  can  of  tomatoes,  sliced 
onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  Worcestershire  sauce ;  bake  in  a  me- 
dium oven  till  done. 


Ulaula  (Stuffed) 

Stuff  fish  with  cracker  crumbs,  mixed  with  1  beaten  egg,  salt, 
pepper,  celery-salt,  and  chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  cream 
sauce. 


24 

Steamed  Ulua  in  Mould 

2       large  c.  fish  Worcestershire  sauce 

1       c.  corn  meal  Pepper  and  salt 

]/2  c.  milk  2  eggs 

The  raw  fish  should  be  finely  picked,  and  the  corn  meal 
thoroughly  cooked.  To  the  fish  and  meal  add  the  seasoning  and 
eggs.  Stir  lightly,  turn  into  an  oiled  mould,  and  steam  30 
minutes. 


Sauce 

2l/2  T.  savory  fat  Pepper 

%  c.  corn  starch  y2  t.  salt 

1       c.  milk 

Stir  milk,  corn  starch,  and  seasoning  until  well  mixed,  and 
add  to  the  fat,  which  has  been  melted.  Let  mixture  boil  up 
well.       Serve  at  once. 


Aku  or  Kawakawa 

Cut  off  head  and  tail,  put  them  in  pot  with  water  to  cover, 
and  let  boil,  cut  the  remainder  of  the  fish  crosswise  into  slices 
from  y2  to  24  inches  thick,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper.  When  done  put  on  a  platter.  Fry  some 
onions  and  put  over  the  fish.  Use  the  liquor  from  the  boiled 
parts  for  a  gravy,  adding  to  it  a  little  soyo  or  tomatoes.  Pour 
the  gravy  over  the  fish,  and  serve. 


Hinana 

Beat  2  or  3  eggs,  add  chopped  onions,  and  2  or  3  c.  of  Hinana. 
Stir  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  like  griddle-cakes. 


Fish  Roe  (Creamed) 

Wash  the  fish  roe,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  t.  salt,  and 
heat  slowly.  Boil  for  1  minute.  Remove  dark  skin  and  veins, 
and  cut  roe  into  neat  pieces.  Make  a  good  cream  sauce,  sea- 
soned with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg;  add  roe,  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  for  20  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  toast  or 
crackers. 


25 
Hee  or  Squid 

Squid  before  being  cooked  must  be  pounded  with  salt  until 
very  tender.  Rub  the  squid  over  with  coarse  salt,  grasp  it  by 
the  head,  and  proceed  to  pound  it  up  and  down  in  a  bowl,  until 
a  slimy  substance  forms  ;  continue  this  process  until  the  skin  can 
be  easily  torn,  then  wash  it,  and  put  in  cold  water  and  let  come 
to  a  boil.       Add  a  little  salt  and  cook  until  tender. 

It  is  also  delicious  cooked  with  luau,  to  which  the  juice  of 
several  cocoanuts  has  been  added. 


FISH  ON  TOAST. 

Three  cups  of  cold  fish,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  parsley. 
Remove  the  skin  and  bone  from  fish  and  break  into  small  neat 
pieces.  Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  it.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  stir  in  the  flour,  add  milk  and  stir  till  it  thickens. 
Add  fish  and  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  gently  till  thick,  but  do 
not  boil.  Pour  on  to  the  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  the  par- 
sley and  serve  at  once. 


SALMON  PUDDING.— Mrs.  Hascall. 
One  2-lb.  can  of  salmon,  3  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  half 
cup  white  breadcrumbs,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  seasoning. 
Mince  the  fish,  add  the  butter,  crumbs  and  seasoning,  lastly  the 
well  beaten  eggs.  Put  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  for  one  hour. 


FISH  BALLS.— Mrs.  Cruzan. 

One  cup  of  cold  cooked  fish,  \y2  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1 
dessertspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  egg,  seasoning  and  nut- 
meg, lard  for  frying.  Pick  the  fish  fine  and  add  to  the  hot  po- 
tatoes the  seasoning  and  sauce.  Mix  with  half  the  eggf  and 
form  into  balls.  Roll  in  egg  and  sifted  crumbs,  and  fry  in  the 
hot  lard. 


26 

SCALLOPED  FISH. 

Have  ready  a  sauce  made  of  one  quart  of  milk,  one  half  cup 
of  flour,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  three  slices  of  onion. 
Put  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  becomes  thick.  Cook  for  ten 
minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  two  eggs,  and  one-fourth 
pound  of  butter,  and  strain.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  first  a  layer 
of  fish,  then  sauce  until  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  breadcrumbs 
and  grated  cheese  on  top.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


Turtle 

Cut  a  nice  steak  weighing  about  1  lb.,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  sprinkle  with  oil,  and  broil  over  a  quick  fire  for  about 
15  minutes;  put  it  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  with  sauce. 


Turtle  Sauted 

Cut  the  turtle  meat  into  \y2  inch  squares,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  fry  in  butter  substitute  in  a  saute'  pan  to  a  nice 
color.  Add  some  sliced  onions,  green  peppers,  mushrooms 
(cut  small),  a  clove  of  crushed  garlic,  and  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled 
and  cut  into  squares ;  moisten  with  some  stock,  and  cook  till 
tender.  When  done,  dish  up  on  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with  small 
timbales  of  plain  cooked  rice,  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  chopped 
parsley. 


Honu  or  Turtle 

Cut  into  thin  slices ;  beat  1  egg  with  1  T.  water ;  add  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  turtle  into  this,  then  into  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
very  hot  fat  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with  butter  sauce,  and 
garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 


Turtle  Curry 

Boil  turtle  meat  in  water  to  which  a  little  salt  has  been  added. 
Cook  until  tender;  remove,  and  cut  into  dice.  Then  make  a 
curry  sauce  as  follows: 

Put  1  T.  butter  substitute  into  a  saucepan.       When  it  bubbles 


27 

add  1  T.  flour  and  1  T.  curry  powder,  let  it  cook  a  few  min- 
utes, and  add  slowly  1  c.  milk  and  1  c.  cocoanut  juice,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Add  the  turtle  meat,  and  let  simmer  for  15 
minutes  or  even  longer. 


Tuna  and  Escalloped  Barley 

\y2  c.  well  cooked  pearl  barley      ^4  T.  corn  starch 
yA  lb.  Tuna,  boiled  yA  t.  salt 


c.  milk  Crumbs 


Arrange  the  barley  and  the  fish  in  alternate  layers  in  a  greased 
dish ;  make  a  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  corn  starch,  and  salt ;  pour 
this  over  the  barley,  sprinkle  the  top  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
until  well  browned  on  top. 


SAUCES 
Sauce  for  Boiled  Fish 

2  eggs  1  t.  ground  mustard 

1  T.  sugar  2  T.  vinegar 

1  t.  flour  Butter  substitute 

1  c.  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  flour,  mustard,  salt, 
and  pepper ;  beat  all  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  milk ;  let  the 
mixture  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  it  constantly ;  then  add  the  vine- 
gar and  butter  substitute  the  size  of  a  walnut. 


Hollandaise  Sauce 

2  T.  butter  1  T.  vinegar 

3  T.  flour  1  yolk  of  tgg 
1  c.  milk                                            Seasoning 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour,  add  milk,  and  stir  till  it  boils ;  add 
seasoning.  Just  before  serving,  add  yolk  of  tgg,  and  beat  well, 
add  vinegar,  and  do  not  boil  again. 


Mayonnaise  Sauce 

2  eggs  1  t.  vinegar 

1  t.  mustard  1   c.  olive  oil 

Salt  and  pepper  1  lemon 


28 

Break  yolks  into  a  bowl ;  add  mustard,  salt  and  pepper ;  whip 
for  a  few  seconds;  add  vinegar,  and  incorporate  slowly  the  oil, 
stirring  the  mixture  constantly;  meanwhile  add  lemon  juice. 
Keep  the  sauce  in  a  cold  place. 


Tartar  Sauce 

To  mayonnaise  add  chopped  parsley,  capers,  and  sour  pickles. 


CANNED  FISH 

The  use  of  canned  fish  is  not  encouraged.  There  are  per- 
sons however,  who  cannot  reach  the  fish  markets ;  and  for  their 
convenience  these  recipes  are  added. 


Salmon  Chowder 

1  medium  can  salmon  or  tuna     1  large  onion 

1   large  slice  salt  pork  Flour  ^ 

3  c.  potatoes  (diced)  Seasoning 

3  c.  milk 

Cut  pork  into  small  pieces,  and  fry;  add  onion  and  potatoes, 
and  simmer  until  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  milk,  and  slightly 
thicken  when  it  begins  to  boil.  Then  add  fish,  which  has  been 
strained  and  flaked,  and  season  to  taste.  Serve  hot  with 
crackers. 


Salmon  au  Gratin 

1  small  can  salmon  2  T.  butter  substitute 

Bread  crumbs  2  T.  flour 

Grated  cheese  2  c.  milk 

Make  sauce  of  butter  substitute,  flour,  and  milk.  When  cooked 
smooth,  like  cream,  add  salmon  cut  in  small  pieces;  pour  mix- 
ture into  individual  fireproof  casseroles,  cover  tops  with  bread 
crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  and  bake  until  brown  on  top. 


Salmon  Loaf 

1  lb.    cooked    salmon    (either     1  T.  finely  chopped  parsley 
fresh  or  canned)  y2  T.  salt 


29 

1  c.  soft  sifted  bread  crumbs     ]/A  T.  paprika 
y2  T.  onion  juice  y2  c.  milk 

1  T.  lemon  juice  2  eggs   (beaten  light) 

Pick  salmon  fine  with  silver  fork.  Add  other  ingredients, 
mix  thoroughly,  turn  into  greased  mould,  place  mould  in  dish 
of  hot  water,  and  cook  in  medium  oven  till  center  is  firm.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 


Mock  Salmon  Steak 

1  small  can  salmon  yA  c.  flour 

2  c.  steamed  stale  bread  crumbs     Onion  juice 

1  egg  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  salmon  and  bread  crumbs,  add  egg,  flour,  and  seasoning ; 
mix  well,  and  mould  into  form  of  steaks.  Fry  on  both  sides  in 
well  greased  skillet.  Garnish  with  lemon,  parsley,  and  quar- 
tered tomatoes. 


Mock  Salmon  Steak 

2  c.  hot  riced  potatoes  1  small  can  salmon 

1  egg  (beaten) 

Salt  and  pepper 
Cracker  crumbs  (sifted) 

Mix  fish,  potatoes,  egg,  and  seasoning,  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry 
on  both  sides  in  hot  skillet. 


Salmon  Puffs 

1  can  salmon  1  T.  lemon  juice 

1   T.  butter  substitute  2  eggs 

y>  c.  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

To  the  finely  chopped  fish  add  the  melted  butter  substitute, 
seasoning,  breadcrumbs,  lemon  juice,  and  eggs  well  beaten. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  pack  into  cups,  filling  them  about  $4  full* 
Set  into  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  for  y2  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Turn  out  on  platter,  place  on  the  top  of  each  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  and  pour  around  a  sauce  made  from  the  following 
recipe : 


30 

1  c.  cream  or  milk  ■    *4  t.  salt 

2  eggs  }i  t,  pepper 
1  T.  lemon  1  bay  leaf 

Pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  the  hot  milk  or 
cream,  add  the  seasoning,  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  con- 
stantly. White  sauce  with  an  egg  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
above  recipe. 


SHELL  FISH 
Hawaiian  Clam  Cocktail 
(Opihi) 

Remove  from  shell,  place  in  cocktail  glasses,  and  serve  with 
cracked  ice  and  cocktail  sauce. 


Crabs 


Boil  crabs  for  20  to  30  minutes,  or  until  a  bright  red,  in  a 
little  water  to  which  1  T.  of  salt  has  been  added. 


Crab  Cocktail 

Use  about  12  crabs.  After  they  are  boiled,  remove  the  meat 
with  care.  Put  into  a  bowl  1  bottle  of  tomato  catsup,  1  T. 
Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  dash  of  paprika,  juice  of  2 
lemons,  and  a  piece  of  ice ;  add  crab  meat ;  let  stand  for  5 
minutes. 


Deviled  Crabs 

12  crabs  y2  t.  paprika 

1   c.  milk  1  hard-boiled  egg 

\y2   T.  butter  substitute  1  T.  flour 

1  t.  salt  1  T.  chopped  parsley 

After  crabs  are  boiled,  remove  meat  with  care.  In  a  sauce- 
pan heat  butter  substitute  until  it  bubbles,  add  the  flour,  and 
cook  but  not  brown ;  add  the  milk  slowly,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  add  the  salt,  paprika,  parsley,  and  egg  (chopped  fine),  and 
the  crab  meat.       Mix  well  together,  have  the  shells  washed,  and 


31 

fill   with  mixture.       Cover  top  with  bread  crumbs.        Place  in 
oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 


Niumalu  Crab  Salad 

After  crabs  are  boiled,  remove  the  meat  with  care.  Add  % 
c.  of  chopped  onion  and  celery,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
vinegar. 


Deviled  Crabs 

8  or  10  good-sized  crabs  1%  c.  fine  bread  crumbs 

1   onion  Salt 

1  T.  butter  substitute  Pepper 

1  c.  plain  stock  Cayenne  or  tabasco 

1  T.  corn  starch 

Chop  onion  fine,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  butter  substitute. 
A'dd  stock,  and  thicken  with  the  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk  or  water.  Then  add  crab  meat  and  bread  crumbs.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  cayenne  or  tabasco.  If  too  dry 
add  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Fill  shells,  add  a  small  piece  of 
butter  to  each  shell,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes.  Serve 
with  slices  of  lemon  or  limes. 


Boiled  Lobster 

Have  in  a  kettle  enough  water  nearly  to  cover  the  lobster; 
before  it  becomes  very  hot  take  the  lobster  by  the  back  and  put 
into  warm  water  head  first;  this  smothers  it.  Cover  the  pot; 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  1  T.  salt,  and  boil  for  20-30  minutes, 
or  until  lobster  is  very  red. 


Steamed  Lobster 

Split  a  lobster  weighing  1  lb. ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
lay  it  on  a  platter,  set  in  a  steamer,  and  cook  for  about  10 
minutes.  When  done,  sprinkle  the  top  with  melted  butter,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 


32 
Broiled  Live  Lobster 

Wash  and  drain  a  lobster  weighing  about  1%  lbs. ;  split  it 
lengthwise ;  take  out  the  one  long  intestine  and  the  stomach ; 
crack  the  claws;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  between  an 
oiled  broiler ;  cover  the  front  part  of  the  split  side  with  a  piece  of 
tough  oiled  paper;  sprinkle  the  entire  lobster  with  oil,  and  cook 
for  15  minutes  over  a  brisk  fire,  turning  only  once.  When  done, 
put  the  lobster  on  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and 
pieces  of  lemon. 


Lobster  Cutlet 

2  c.  lobster  (boiled)  %  t.  salt 

1  c.  milk  1  t.  lemon  juice 

2  T.  flour  1  t.  parsley 

2  T.  butter  substitute  Paprika  or  cayenne 

2  egg  yolks  Grating  of  nutmeg 

Make  a  cream  sauce  with  the  butter  substitute,  flour,  milk, 
salt  cayenne,  nutmeg,  lemon  juice,  and  parsley,  chopped  very 
fihe.  Just  before  taking  from  stove,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  the  finely  cut  lobster.  Mould  into  chops  and  serve  on  a 
hot  platter;  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 


Lobster  Faroii 

Put  in  saucepan  1  T.  of  butter  substitute ;  when  it  bubbles  add 
1  T.  flour,  and  cook  but  not  brown ;  add  1  c.  milk,  and  stir  until 
smooth;  then  remove  from  fire,  add  1  t.  salt,  pepper,  chopped 
parsley,  1  hardboiled  egg,  cut  fine,  and  lastly,  the  lobster  meat 
cut  into  pieces  %  inch  square.  Have  the  shell  from  which  the 
meat  was  taken  carefully  washed  and  dried,  leaving  on  the  head. 
Put  the  mixture  into  shell,  cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs 
which  have  been  moistened  with  1  t.  butter  substitute.  -Place  in 
oven  to  brown. 


Lobster  Faroii 

1  lobster  3  eggs 

1  c.  cream  sauce  Salt 

%  c.  grated  cheese  Pepper 


33 

Boil  lobster  in  salted  water  about  20  minutes,  or  until  red. 
When  cold,  take  meat  from  shell  and  claws,  being  careful  to 
remove  cord  from  middle  of  body,  and  flake  into  small  pieces. 
Add  beaten  yolks  to  sauce,  then  the  lobster  and  the  cheese.  Beat 
whites  stiff,  and  mix  in  quickly.  Put  in  buttered  baking  pan, 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes.       Serve  at  once. 


FROGS'  LEGS 
Frogs'  Legs  Fried 

Remove  feet  from  2  dozen  frogs'  legs;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour,  after  which  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in 
bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  for  about  5  minutes;  drain,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  lemon. 


Frogs'  Legs  Sauted 

Have  3  dozen  frogs'  legs  prepared.  Season  with  salt  ana 
pepper,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  substitute  over  a  brisk 
fire  to  a  nice  golden  color.  When  done,  dress  on  a  platter  or 
in  a  small  casserole;  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  lemon 
juice.       Serve  very  hot. 


PICKLED  SALMON.— Mrs.  D.  Whitney. 

Soak  a  piece  of  salt  salmon  in  fresh  water  for  12  hours,  then 
cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  pieces  half  an  inch  thick.  Put  them 
into  a  jar  and  pour  over  the  following,  warm;  Cloves,  whole 
peppers,  sliced  onions,  a  little  essence  of  lemon,  and  sugar, 
boiled  in  vinegar. 


CLAM  CHOWDER.— Mrs.  Chas.  Dillingham. 

Take  2  or  3  slices  of  good  salt  pork  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  into  a  frying  pan  with  onion  cut  fine,  and  fry  till  brown, 
and  then  put  them  into  the  soup-kettle,  in  which  there  is  a  quart 
of  boiling  water.  Pull  the  hard  part  of  the  clam  separate  from 
the  soft,  chop  it  fine  and  put  it  in  the  water  at  once.  Put  in 
at  the  same  time  potatoes  to  suit  the  taste.  When  the  potatoes 
are  about  done,  add  the  soft  part  of  the  clams.       Take  a  pint 


34 


of  milk,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,   and  pour  into 
the  boiling  chowder.       As  soon  as  it  boils  up  it  is  done. 


FISH  CHOWDER.— Mrs.  Mott-Smith. 

Begin  an  hour  before  dinner  by  frying  in  butter  a  half  pint  or 
more  of  chopped  onions,  using  the  kettle  in  which  the  chowder 
is  to  be  made.  When  the  onions  are  brown,  pour  in  a  quart  of 
water  (boiling).  Add  to  this  4  to  5  large  potatoes  cut  in  thick 
slices.  Four  medium  sized  fish  will  be  enough.  When  the 
potatoes  are  done,  add  the  fish,  which  has  already  been  cleaned, 
drawn  and  cut  in  slices.  When  beginning  the  chowder,  put 
half  a  dozen  crackers  to  soak  in  milk  enough  to  soften  them. 
When  the  fish  and  potatoes  are  done  add  the  crackers  and  milk 
and  let  the  whole  come  to  a  boil.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
If  more  liquor  is  desired  add  as  much  milk  as  you  like.  Ulua, 
Mahimahi  and  Kahala  are  all  good. 


SQUID  WITH  COCOANUT.— Miss  E.  Ladd. 

Lay  a  fresh  squid  on  a  hard  surface  and  pound  it  with  a 
wooden  mallet  for  ten  minutes,  turning  the  squid  from  time  to 
time.  When  well  beaten  place  it  in  a  bowl  and  work  coarse 
salt  into  it,  kneading  well  with  the  hands.  Wash  thoroughly 
using  an  abundance  of  water,  then  put  it  over  the  fire  with  a 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender.  Boil  and  drain  a 
bundle  of  luau.  Cut  the  squid  into  small  pieces  and  add  it  to 
the  luau  with  the  juice  of  two  small  cocoanuts  and  a  teaspo'on- 
ful  of  arrow-root  (pia)  and  let  this  come  to  a  boil.  This  is  a 
bother  to  make,  but  the  result  is  excellent.  The  repulsive  look- 
ing squid  becomes  a  delectable  morsel  under  this  treatment. 


LOBSTER  AND  COCOANUT. 

Boil  the  lobster  and   cut  into   small   pieces  and  add   it  to  a 
gravy  prepared  as  above.       This  is  excellent. 


35 

FISH  PUDDING.— Mrs.  B.  Hofgaard. 
Ya  lb.  scraped  raw  fish  \yA  c.  unsweetened  milk  or 

U/2  oz.  suet  (i/2  mjik;  ^  water.) 

336  t.  salt  1  well-beaten  egg 

y2  t.  ground  mace  2  T.   flour 

H  t.  ground  ginger  1  t.  butter 

Mix  in  order  given.    Decorate  the  pudding  bowl   to   taste 
and  steam  1  hour,  40  minutes.    For  four  people. 


DEVILLED  CRABS.— Mrs.  Parke. 
Boil  the  crabs  until  tender;  remove  the  meat  from  the  shells; 
chop  or  cut  fine ;  add  salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  a  little  butter 
or  cream,  and  fine  bread  crumbs,  with  milk  enough  to  make  it 
very  moist.  Some  persons  prefer  mustard  in  the  place  of  the 
cayenne  pepper.  A  little  finely  chopped  onion  may  be  added  if 
desired,  but  it  is  better  to  omit  it  ordinarily.  Scrape  the  shells 
clean,  fill  them  with  the  mixture,  and  on  top  of  each  filled  shell 
sprinkle  a  little  sifted  cracker  crumbs  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Bake 
about  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


FISH  MOULTEE  (Indian  Recipe)— Mrs.  M.  F.  W.  Damon. 

Take  ulua  fillet  it,  egg,  bread  crumb  and  fry  with  a  little  tu- 
meric and  butter.  Scrape  half  a  fresh  cocoanut,  take  the  milk 
from  it,  cut  some  green  ginger  and  green  chillis  in  slices,  boil 
them  with  the  cocoanut  milk  and  a  little  water.  Add  the  fish 
and  let  stew  till  the  sauce  is  slightly  thickened.  Send  to  table 
with  rice. 


COOKING  SALT  SALMON.)— Mrs.  J.  M.  Cooke. 

Soak  it  over  night  in  cold  water,  flesh  side  down.  In  the 
morning  scale  it  and  put  in  a  saucepan  in  hot  water.  When 
it  reaches  the  boiling  point  pour  off  the  water  and  add  more. 
When  it  boils  again  pour  off  the  water  and  put  in  sweet  milk; 


36 

thicken  with  flour.  After  boiling  a  little  put  in  a  nappy  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  salmon  in  pieces  in  the 
cooking. 


SALMON   MAYONNAISE.— Mrs.   Kittredge. 

Remove  the  bones  and  skin  from  a  tin  of  salmon  and  break 
up  the  salmon  with  a  fork.  Make  sauce  of  the  following :  Three 
cups  of  cream,  teaspoon  brown  sugar,  y2  spoon  suet,  teaspoon 
pepper,  yolks  of  2  eggs  rubbed  smoothly  into  the  cream.  Into 
y2  cup  vinegar  mix  1  tablespoonful  mustard  and  add  2  table- 
spoonfulls  mixed  pickles  chopped  fine.  Stir  this  mixture  into 
the  salmon,  adding  3  lettuce  heads  cut  fine,  and  lastly  mix 
quickly  the  cream,  stirring  lightly  with  a  fork.  Ornament  the 
platter  upon  which  the  mayonnaise  is  piled  with  the  crisp  inner 
leaves  of  a  couple  of  lettuce  heads. 


SALMON  RISSOLES.— Mrs.  C.  D.  Miller,  Kona. 

Pour  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  salmon  into  a  small  sauce  pan 
and  put  it  on  the  stove  to  heat,  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch 
(or  flour)  in  milk,  add  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  just 
before  sending  it  to  the  table ;  it  may  be  poured  over  the  rissoles 
or  served  in  a  gravy  boat.  Put  the  salmon  in  the  meat  chopper 
with  about  four  freshly  boiled  potatoes,  mix  thoroughly,  flour 
the  hands  well  and  shape  the  mixture  into  little  cones,  fry  a 
nice  even  brown  in  hot  dripping  or  lard,  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley.     This  is  a  good  dish  for  lunch  or  breakfast. 


CREAMED  SALMON.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

One  pint  canned  salmon,  1  pint  milk,  1  pint  fine  bread  crumbs, 
2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  or  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  the  milk  and  add  the  butter,  pepper, 
salt  and  cornstarch.  Remove  all  bits  of  bone  and  skin  from 
the  salmon,  drain  off  the  fluid  and  mince  fine.  Put  a  thin  layer 
of  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  fish, 
then  a  layer  of  white  sauce.    Repeat  these  layers  ending  with  the 


37 

crumbs.  Bal^e  till  the  top  crumbs  are  a  handsome  brown.  This 
is  a  delicious  dish  for  breakfast  or  tea,  and  is  served  as  a  fish 
course  for  dinner. 


HOW  TO  COOK  LOBSTER. 

Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  water  deep  enough  to'  cover  the 
lobster.  Drop  it  in  alive,  and  cover  closely.  Cook  for  forty- 
five  minutes.     Cool  and  open  the  lobster. 


CODFISH  BALLS.— Butterick's  Cook  Book. 

One  quart  of  raw  potatoes  sliced,  1  large  cup  of  salt  codfish, 
1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  fish  and  potatoes  together  in 
plenty  of  water  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain  off  the  water, 
add  cream,  butter  and  seasoning  and  drop  from  a  spoon  into 
very  hot  fat.  The  mixture  should  be  a  moderately  stiff  batter. 
These  fish  balls  are  especially  delicious. 


MEATS 


TO  PREPARE  COCOANUT  JUICE  FOR  GRAVIES. 

Grate  the  cocoanut  and  add  a  very  little  fresh  milk,  and  let 
it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  half  an  hour,  then  turn  it 
into  a  clean  cloth  and  wring  the  juice  very  dry. 


MOCK  DUCK.— Mrs.  John  Wilder. 

Take  a  steak,  a  large  one  is  best,  though  if  you  can  tie  them 
up,  pieces  will  do,  even  if  small.  Take  out  the  large  bone,  and 
pound  the  beef;  make  a  dressing  of  bread  that  has  been  soaked 
in  water  and  squeezed  as  dry  as  possible,  2  pieces  of  bacon 
fried  and  chopped  fine,  with  1  large  onion,  or  a  number  of  small 
ones,  sage,  summer  savory,  a  little  butter,  and  plenty  of  salt  and 


38 

pepper.  Make  early  in  the  morning — it  is  better*  for  standing. 
Cook  it  a  little,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Put  the  dressing  in  the 
steak,  leaving  out  a  little  for  the  gravy.  Tie  it  up  tightly,  beat 
an  egg  well,  pour  it  all  over  the  steak,  put  on  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  in  lumps,  put  it  in  a  pan  with  water,  but  do  not  let 
the  water  touch  it.     Baste  often.     Cook  about  an  hour. 

Gravy  for  above. 

Any  cold  meat  gravy  is  nice  with  a  little  of  the  dressing, 
more  onion,  sage,  savory,  and  a  little  bacon  or  cold  beef  minced 
very  fine,  and  seasoned  highly  with  salt  and  pepper. 


BEEFSTEAK  PIE.— Mrs.  C.  D.  Miller. 

Take  about  2  pounds  of  steak,  slice  in  pieces  about  seven  inches 
long  and  %.  inch  thick;  dredge  each  piece  with  flour,  pepper 
and  salt  sparingly,  add  a  pinch  of  celery  salt,  shred  two  medium 
sized  onions  and  sprinkle  each  piece.  Ball  these  strips  firmly 
(some  tie  them  as  in  beef  olives),  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  place  on  the  stove  where  it  will  simmer 
(not  boil  fiercely)  for  one  hour.  Place  in  the  middle  of  a  deep 
pie  dish  an  inverted  tea-cup  and  lay  the  beef  rolls  around  it. 
Prepare  this  in  the  morning  then  set  it  in  the  safe.  Strain  the 
liquor  and  set  it  aside  to  cool,  then  remove  the  fat  and  heat  the 
liquor;  when  near  the  boiling  point  stir  in  one  dessert  spoonful 
of  butter  rubbed  with  two  of  flour  (rub  it  very  smooth),  add  to 
the  liquor  and  stir  till  it  is  smooth  and  creamy,  then  pour  this 
over  the  beef  in  the  pie  dish  and  cover  with  the  crust,  making 
two  incisions  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Chicken  cut  up  and 
prepared  in  the  same  way  is  delicious.  Use  any  good  pie  crust 
being  sure  to  cut  incision  on  top. 


RUTH  PINCH'S  BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING.— Mrs.  Kinney. 

Make  into  a  firm  smooth  paste,  1  pound  flour,  1  cup  of  suet 
chopped  fine,  a  little  salt  with  a  little  water.  Line  with  this  a 
basin  which  holds  V/2  pints.  Season  and  cut  up  a  pound  of 
tender  steak,  free  from  bone  and  skin,  with  an  ounce  of  salt  and 
^.teaspoonful  of  pepper.     Lay  it  in  the  crust,  pour  in  yA  pint  of 


39 

water,    roll    out   the   cover,   close   the   pudding   carefully,    tie    a 
floured  cloth  over  it  and  boil  for  2>y2  hours. 


HAMBURG   CAKES.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

Chop  a  pound  of  round  steak,  add  a  grated  minced  onion,  1 
egg,  1  cup  rolled  crackers  and  seasoning.  Make  into  balls  and 
drop  into  a  hot  pan  without  grease.  This  keeps  in  the  juice  and 
prevents  the  meat  from  being  greasy. 


BEEFSTEAK  ROLLS.— Mrs.  Kittredge. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  round  steak,  a  little  larger  than  a  slice  of 
baker's  roll,  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  of  the  steak.  Butter 
the  bread,  stick  in  a  few  cloves  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
celery  salt.  Roll  the  slice  of  steak  over  into  the  bread  with  a 
firm  roll  and  tie  up  well  with  a  string.  Dredge  each  roll  with 
flour.  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  fry  the 
rolls  till  quite  brown  in  the  butter.  Then  remove  them  to  a 
stewpan  and  add  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Let  them  simmer 
slowly  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Serve  with  the  gravy.  These 
are  nice  the  next  day,  cold,  cut  in  slices,  without  the  gravy. 


SPANISH  FRICEO.— Miss  Amelia  Hoffman. 

This  dish  is  made  from  good  beef  (the  same  kind  as  is  used 
for  beefsteaks),  lean  pork  or  young  mutton.  The  best  is  beef 
and  pork  in  equal  quantities.  Two  pounds  of  meat  is  enough 
for  six  or  eight  persons.  The  meat  is  beaten  till  soft  and  then 
cut  in  thin  slices.  Cut  raw  potatoes  in  thin  slices,  washing  them 
before  they  are  cut,  but  not  after,  and  take  2  soup  plates  of  them. 
Mix  with  the  potatoes  2  saucersful  of  onions  cut  in  slices.  Take 
a  pudding  dish  and  put  meat  and  potatoes  in  layers.  Scatter 
over  each  layer  some  pepper  and  some  Jamaica  pepper  and  salt ; 
put  on  every  layer  of  potatoes  a  pieces  of  butter,  and  ^  table- 
spoonful  of  thick  sour  cream.  Close  the  pudding  dish  well  and 
put  it  in  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  V/2  hours. 


40 
TO  COOK  A  CALF'S  HEAD.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

Calf's  head,  1  egg,  spoonful  of  flour,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  some  slices  of  bacon,  a  dozen  force- 
meat balls,  pepper,  salt,  mace,  an  onion,  bunch  of  herbs,  8  mush- 
rooms, pint  of  gravy.  Boil  the  head  three-quarters  of  an  hour; 
let  it  stand  until  cold,  then  slice.  Boil  the  brain,  in  the  cloth, 
chop  fine  and  beat  it  up  with  the  egg,  flour,  milk  and  nutmeg. 
Season  the  gravy  with  pepper,  mace,  cloves,  herbs,  onion  and 
cayenne  pepper.  Let  it  simmer  10  minutes,  strain,  then  add  the 
mushrooms.  Place  the  sliced  head  in  this,  and  cook  gently  15 
minutes.  Serve  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  with  the  brain  fritters, 
bacon  and  force-meat  balls  round,  and  the  egg  sauce  over  the 
whole.    The  brain,  when  prepared,  is  to  be  fried  like  fritters. 


VEAL   LOAF   FOR   LUNCHES.— Mrs.   Atherton. 

Three  pounds  veal  chopped  fine  with  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork, 
1  teacup  rolled  crackers,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Bake  \y2  hours,  and  slice  when  cold.  Bake  in  a  deep 
dish.  It  is  also  nice  when  hot  to  turn  out  and  serve  with  thick- 
ened milk.  Made  thinner  with  milk  and  fried  like  batter  cakes, 
it  makes  a  very  nice  breakfast  dish. 


BRAISED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

This  recipe  can  be  varied  either  by  preparing  the  leg  with 
a  stuffing  placed  in  the  cavity  after  having  the  bone  removed, 
or  cooking  it  without.  Having  lined  the  bottom  of  a  thick  iron 
kettle  or  stew-pan  with  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  put  over 
the  bacon  4  carrots,  3  onions,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs;  then 
over  these  place  the  leg  of  mutton.  Cover  the  whole  with  a 
few  more  slices  of  bacon;  then  pour  over  half  a  pint  of  water.' 
Cover  with  a  tight  cover  and  stew  very  gently  for  4  hours, 
basting  the  leg  occasionally  with  its  own  liquor,  and.  seasoning 
it  with  salt  and  pepper  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  be  tender.  When 
cooked,  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  flour  (quite 
brown)  ;  pour  some  of  it  over  the  meat  and  send  the  remainder 
to  the  table  in  a  tureen,  to  be  served  with  the  mutton  when 


41 

carved.    Garnish  the  dish  around  the  leg  with  potatoes  cut  in  the 
shape  of  olives  and  fried  a  light  brown  in  butter. 


CANNED  SHEEP'S  TONGUE  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE.— 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Judd. 
The  skin  having  been  removed  from  the  tongues,  fry  them  in 
butter  until  quite  brown,  then  place  on  a  platter.  Pour  into  the 
frying  pan  y2  a  tin  of  canned  tomatoes,  or  the  same  quantity  of 
fresh  ones  peeled  and  chopped  fine.  To  these  add  a  little  salt 
and  pepper  and  y2  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  When  thoroughly 
cooked,  pour  over  the  tongues  and  serve  hot. 


COLD  MEAT  COOKERY 


HAM  TOAST.— Mrs.  Chas.  Dillingham. 
Boil  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  chop  it  fine  and  mix 
with  the  yolks  of  3  well  beaten  eggs ;  add  %  an  ounce  of  butter, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  little  pepper.  Stir  this  in  a 
pan  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens.  Cut  the  crust  from  some 
nice  slices  of  bread,  toast  them,  and  turn  the  ham  over  them 
and  serve. 


HAM  CROQUETTES.— Mrs.  Bray. 

One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  1  of  bread  crumbs, 
2  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3 
eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Beat  the  ham,  cayenne,  butter  and 
2  of  the  eggs  into  the  potato.  Let  the  mixture  cool  slightly 
and  shape  it  like  croquettes.  Roll  in  the  bread  crumbs,  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  crumbs,  put  in  the  frying  basket 
and  plunge  into  boiling  fat.  Cook  2  minutes,  drain  and  serve. 
These  can  be  cooked  in  hot  lard  in  a  frying  pah. 


CALF'S   HEAD  CHEESE. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  until  the  meat 
leaves  the  bones ;  then  take  it  with  a  skimmer  into  a  wooden 


42 

bowl  or  tray;  take  from  it  every  particle  of  bone;  chop  it 
small;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
salt  and  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  sufficient ;  if  liked,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  sweet  herbs;  lay  in  a  cloth  in  a 
colander,  put  the  minced  meat  into  it,  then  fold  the  cloth  closely 
over  it ;  lay  a  plate  over  it,  and  put  on  it  a  gentle  weight.  When 
cold  it  may  be  sliced  thin  for  supper  or  lunches.  Spread  each 
slice  with  made  mustard. 


BAKED  HAM.— Mrs.  W.  L.  Whitney. 

Cut  the  rind  from  a  slice  of  fat  ham  about  four  inches  thick ; 
parboil  quickly  and  throw  off  the  water.  Place  the  ham  in  a 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  gen- 
erous amount  of  black  pepper.  Dredge  thickly  with  flour, 
cover  with  one-half  a  can  of  tomatoes  or  slices  of  fresh  ones ; 
dredge  again  with  flour,  sprinkle  well  with  black  pepper  and 
bake  for  about  three  hours. 


MEAT   BALLS.— Mrs.   Hascall. 

Two  cups  of  cold  steak  or  roast  chopped  fine,  two  slices  of 
bread,  salt  and  pepper,  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and 
thyme.  Pour  boiling  water  on  the  bread,  drain  and  mix  all 
together.  Mold  with  the  hands  into  oval  cakes,  and  fry  in  hot 
fat. 


COLD  ROAST  BEEF  STEW.— Mrs.  John  Wilder. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  beef.  Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
dip  each  slice  into  the  butter,  then  into  dry  breadcrumbs.  Put 
the  slices  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  and  chopped 
pickles  between.  Pour  on  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  from  the 
pickles,  and  add  one  cupful  of  gravy  or  stock,  cover  and  leave 
all  day  in  a  slow  oven  or  the  fireless  cooker. 


A  NICE  REAKFAST  DISH.— Mrs.  Bray. 

Mix  together  one  cup  of  cold  cooked  rice  with  one  egg,  three 
tablespoons  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper.       Line  a  baking  dish  with 


43 


this  mixture,  keeping  some  for  the  top.  Chop  up  cold  meat, 
season  it,  and  cover  with  gravy ;  place  in  the  baking  dish  with 
rice  on  top,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


TOAD  IN  THE  HOLE.— Mrs.  C.  D.  Miller. 
Put  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  bowl  with  a  pinch  of  salt. 
beat  into  it  one  egg,  and  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  milk.  Beat 
well,  and  pour  into  a  baking  dish,  and  drop  balls  of  sausage 
or  cold  meat,  or  cold  fish  into  the  batter.  Bake  for  half  an 
hour. 


BEEF  AND  POTATO  PIE.— Mrs.  C.  D.  Miller. 
Take  cold  beef  or  mutton,  pass  it  through  a  meat  chopper, 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  add  seasoning,  one  grated  onion, 
a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  enough  gravy  to  moisten, 
mix  together  well.  Have  ready  enough  mashed  potatoes  to 
cover  thickly,  ornament  with  a  fork,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


HAM  AND  TOAST.— Mrs.  Charles  Dillingham. 

Take  any  pieces  of  cold  ham,  put  through  the  chopper,  there 
should  be  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
and  add  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  cream, 
and  a  little  pepper,  stir  this  over  the  fire,  till  it  thickens.  Pour 
on  to  buttered  toast. 


HAM   CROQUETTES.— Mrs.  Bray. 

One  cup  of  finely  chopped  cold  ham,  two  cups  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  eggs,  and  a  little  cay- 
enne. Mix  well  together  with  a  fork.  Let  the  mixture  cool 
then  shape  and  roll  in  one  beaten  egg  and  then  in  crumbs.  Fry 
in  hot  fat. 


44 

GAME  AND  POULTRY 


In  all  of  these  recipes  rabbit  raised  on  the  islands  may  be 
used  with  good  results. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  POULTRY  OR  MEAT  TENDER 

The  day  before  have  the  poultry  cleaned  and  dressed.  Take 
several  large  Papaia  leaves,  bruise  them  with  the  handle  of  a 
knife,  wrap  them  around  the  fowl  or  meat  with  the  underside 
next  the  meat,  tie  with  string  and  cover  with  cheese-cloth. 
Keep  in  the  ice-box  till  ready  to  cook.  Leave  no  longer  than 
twenty-four  hours,  six  is  enough  for  steak. 


STEWED  CHICKEN  WITH  LUAU.— Mrs.  A.  Jaeger. 

Cut  an  old  hen  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with 
cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  gently  for  two  hours,  now  add  salt 
and  turn  fire  low.  Take  one  5c  bundle  of  Luau,  and  put  in 
another  saucepan  of  cold  water,  boil  up  quickly,  and  throw  the 
water  away.  Add  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  tender.  Strain 
and  put  in  with  the  chicken.  Boil  together  for  ten  minutes,  then 
add  the  juice  of  one  cocoanut,  let  it  heat  again  but  do  not  boil. 
Season  to  taste  and  serve. 


BOILED  CHICKEN.— Mrs.  James  Pratt. 

Stuff  the  chicken,  put  it  in  a  closely  covered  tin  pail  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water;  stew  2  hours  or  more;  mix  the  gravy  left  in 
the  pail  with  milk  or  cream,  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped,  a  little 
parsley  and  the  giblets  previously  boiled;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour  and  salt.  After  boiling,  pour  some  gravy  over  the 
chicken  and  put  the  Test  in  gravy  boat  and  serve. 


STEWED  CHICKEN.— Mrs.  Atherton. 

Cut  4  or  5  slices  of  salt  pork,  put  them  in  the  stewpan  and 
fry.      Cut  up  the  chicken,  put  it  in  and  cook  a  few  minutes  with 


45 


the  pork,  then  pour  on  a  quart  of  hot  water.  Stew  till  the 
chicken  is  tender,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  salt  a 
little  mace  and  a  cup  of  cream.  Pour  over  slices  of'  toasted 
bread. 


JEWISH  DISH.— Miss  Teuira  Henry. 
Take  a  chicken  and  fry  it  crisp  in  olive  oil,  sprinkling  it  with 
salt  as  in  usual  frying,  and  scattering  into  it  some  finely  cut 
onion.  Then  turn  the  chicken  into  a  saucepan  and  pour  on 
boiling  water,  just  enough  to  cover  it;  take  the  yolks  of  2  hen 
eggs,  mix  them  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  water  for  thick- 
ening; squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  good  lime,  and  add  some 
pepper  and  more  salt  if  needed.  Add  more  or  less  lime  also 
according  to  taste,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  on  the  fire  until  nice 
and  tender. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  MARINGO.— Mme.  Boueilch. 
Cut  up  a  very  nice  chicken  and  fry  it  in  sweet  oil  with  just 
a.  susPlclon  of  garlic.  Then  chop  some  onion,  another  sus- 
picion of  garlic,  giblets  and  a  few  mushrooms,  and  fry  all  with 
the  chicken  a  little  while.  Put  in  a  piece  of  fresh  lemon  or 
hme  peel;  add  soup  stock  or  hot  water,  the  juice  of  2  limes 
some  whole  mushrooms,  and  cook  till  done.  Throw  the  lemon 
peel  away.  After  toasting  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  fry  a 
golden  brown  in  butter,  lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  dish  and 
place  the  chicken  on  top  with  mushrooms  around  it.  Add  be- 
fore serving,  or  while  cooking,  a  large  spoonful  of  "cocoanut 
juice." 


CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  chop  half  a  middle-sized  onion,  fry  with 
1  ounce  butter,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  flour,  stir  for  half  a 
minute,  then  add  the  chopped  meat  and  a  little  over  a  gill  of 
broth,  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg ;  stir  2  minutes,  take 
from  the  fire,  mix  2  yolks  of  eggs  with  it,  put  back  on  the  fire 
for  a  minute,  stirring  the  while.  Lastly,  add  4  mushrooms 
chopped,  or    2    truffles,    or    both,    according    to    taste.     Turn 


46 

the  mixture  into  a  dish,  and  when  cool  enough  set  it  on  the  ice 
for  an  hour  or  two.  Then  shape  the  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  again  set  on  ice  till  it  is  time  to 
cook  them,  then  fry  in  hot  fat. 


A   GOOD   CURRY   SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cocoanut 

1  onion  A  small  piece  green  ginger 

1  T.  curry  powder  li/2  pints  sweet  milk 

Grate  the  cocoanut  and  pour  over  it  the  milk,  and  let  it  stand 
for  twenty  minutes.  Put  into  a  saucepan  the  butter,  mix  into 
it  the  curry  powder,  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  the  onion 
grated,  the  gingerroot  chopped  fine,  mix  together  and  add  the 
milk  with  the  cocoanut  strained  out.  Cook  together  until  it 
is  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Season  with  salt 
aiid  pepper  and  a  little  sugar.  This  sauce  can  be  used  for  any 
kind  of  curry.  Cold  meat  or  chicken,  shrimps  or  lobster.  It 
is  only  necessary  to  heat  the  sauce  with  the  desired  ingredients 
added. 


TO  STEW  WILD  DUCK.— Mrs.  C.  H.  Judd. 

Shred  thyme,  savory  and  sage  very  small  (dried  thyme,  sav- 
ory and  sage  will  do).  Put  them  into  some  strong  broth  with 
a  little  pepper  and  salt,  stew  them  together  for  y^  of  an  hour. 
Nearly  roast  the  ducks ;  add  the  gravy  that  falls  from  them  to 
the  sauce.  Quarter  the  ducks,  put  them  with  the  strained 
sauce  into  a  stewpan  over  the  stove,  and  let  them  stew  until 
done. 


PIGEONS  WITH  PEAS.— Leon  Dejean. 

Cut  the  pigeons  in  halves,  trimming  them  neatly.  Put  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  hot  add  the 
pigeons  with  i/2  dozen  cloves  and  1  division  of  garlic.  Keep 
the  pot  closely  covered,  and  shake  it  frequently  to  stir  pigeons. 
When  you  think  they  are  done,  uncover  the  pot  and  try  them. 
If  done  take  a  can  of  peas,  pour  off  all  the  water,  and  add  the 
peas  to  the  pigeons.      Have  ready  on  a  platter  some  bread  nice- 


47 

ly  toasted,  and  when  the  peas  are  heated  pour  the  whole  over 
the  toast  and  serve.  No  water  is  to  be  added.  The  pigeons 
cook  in  the  butter  and  their  own  juices.  Before  serving  them 
add  salt  if  the  butter  and  peas  do  not  make  the  dish  salt  enough. 
One  tin  of  peas  is  enough  for  4  or  5  squabs.  Cook  rather 
slowly  about  1  hour. 


CHICKEN  POT  PIE.— Mrs.  Van  Cleve. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  put  into  a  casserole  that  will  cover 
very  closely,  layers  of  fowl  and  seasoning,  salt,  pepper,  and  if 
not  -very  fat,  a  little  butter ;  when  full,  put  in  a  very  little  water 
and  cover  closely  with  a  biscuit  crust,  not  too  rich,  about  1  inch 
thick,  then  put  on  the  cover  and  set  in  the  oven.  Bake  slowly 
2  or  3  hours,  according  to  toughness  and  quantity.  I  have 
found  this  a  good  way  to  treat  any  meat  that  is  not  very  tender. 


OYSTER  STUFFING  FOR  FOWLS.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Parke. 

Take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  remove  all  the  crust  and  soften  it 
with  boiling  water.  Drain  off  all  the  water  as  soon  as  it  is  soft- 
ened, and  cover  closely.  When  well  softened,  break  up  very 
fine  the  remainder  of  the  loaf,  add  four  tablespoons  melted 
butter  (or,  if  you  wish  to  make  it  very  rich,  add  eight  spoonfuls), 
pepper  and  salt  to  season  highly.  Drain  off  all  the  liquor  of  a 
pint  can  of  oysters,  bring  the  liquor  to  a  boil,  skim,  pour  over 
the  bread  crumbs  and  add  the  soaked  crusts.  Beat  in  three  eggs, 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands.  If  needed,  add  a  little  sweet  milk. 
Last  of  all  add  the  oysters,  first  putting  in  a  spoonful  of  stuffing, 
then  a  few  oysters,  taking  care  not  to  break  them,  then  stuffing 
in  more  oysters  till  the  turkey  is  full.     Stuff  the  breast  first. 


MINCED   TURKEY  WITH  POACHED   EGGS. 

A  very  appetizing  dish  is  made  of  cold  boiled  or  roast  turkey. 
Trim  off  all  skin  and  most  of  the  fat,  especially  that  on  the  back ; 
pick  out  the  little  tid-bits  in  the  recesses.  Cut  off  all  that  will 
not  look  neat  when  sliced  cold.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of  minced  celery,  chop  up  the  meat, 


48 

put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little  butter  or  turkey  fat  to  prevent  burning, 
and  just  a  suspicion  of  onion.  Moisten  with  little  broth  made 
from  the  turkey  bones.  Poach  one  or  two  eggs  for  each  person ; 
arrange  the  minced  meat  neatly  on  slices  of  buttered  toast,  place 
the  egg  on  top  and  serve.  The  above  mode  of  preparing  a 
breakfast  dish  is  not  only  economical,  but  produces  one  of  the 
most  delightful  dishes  that  can  be  made.  Almost  any  kind  of 
boiled  or  roast  meats  and  poultry  or  game  can  be  utilized  in 
this  way. 


VEGETABLES 


POTATO    PUFFS.— Mrs.    Hascall. 

Two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  beaten  until  creamy  with  1 
tablesoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  egg  beaten  light,  salt 
to  taste.  Beat  all  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  and  bake  until  brown.  What  is  left  from  dinner  is  very 
nice  cut  in  slices  and  fried  for  breakfast. 


MASHED  KALO.— Miss  Sophie  Emerson. 

Wash  and  rub  off  all  the  rooty  filaments  and  soil  adhering 
to  the  kalo,  and  drop  the  clean  root  into  boiling  water.  When 
tender,  peel  and  mash  with  a  long-tined  fork.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  serve  while  steaming  hot. 


BAKED  TARO.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 
Scrape  all  the  outside  off  the  taro,  wash  clean,  and  bake  the 
same  as  potatoes.  If  the  taro  is  large,  cut  in  two  lengthwise. 
Bake  from  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  an  hour  and  a  half.  When 
serving,  do  not  cut  with  a  knife,  but  gently  press  the  taro  with 
your  hands  and  break  it  open.  It  will  be  mealy  like  a  potato. 
Eat  with  salt  and  butter. 


FRIED  TARO.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 
Boil  the  taro  with  the  skin  on.     When  done,  peel  it  as  you 


49 

would  a  boiled  potato.     Cut  it  in  slices,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 


TARO  CAKES  BAKED.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Boil  the  taro  until  done,  then  when  hot  pound  smooth,  using 
as  little  water  as  possible.  Mould  with  your  hands  into  small 
cakes,  put  into  a  buttered  pan  and  on  top  of  each  cake  a  little 
daub  of  butter.  Bake  until  brown,  and  eat  with  butter.  The 
children  like  them  with  butter  and  sugar. 

TARO  CAKES.— Mrs.  W.  H.  Rice. 

Pound  the  taro  to  the  thickness  of  paiai  (the  stiffness  of  thick 
dough),  nice  and  smooth,  using  as  little  water  in  so  doing  as 
possible,  after  which  drop  in  a  pinch  of  salt.  Roll  in  flour.  Be 
sure  of  always  using  the  latter  freely.  Fry  in  hot  fat,  as  in 
cooking  doughnuts. 


LUAU. 

Put  the  young,  tender  taro  leaves  (luau)  into  hot  water,  and 
when  they  have  boiled  10  or  15  minutes  pour  this  water  off 
through  a  colander  and  put  in  water  and  milk,  and  let  it  boil  till 
the  leaves  lose  their  form  and  are  very  tender.  Season  with  salt 
and  butter. 


HA-HA. 


Take  the  inner  stalk  from  a  taro  head,  peel  off  the  thin  skin 
and  put  on  to  boil  in  hot  water  salted  a  little,  and  boil  till  tender. 
Then  drain  and  lay  the  stalks  on  toast  and  pour  over  them 
drawn  butter,  sprinkling  chopped  hard-boiled  egg  on  top,  or 
chill  and  serve  as  salad  with  mayonnaise. 


STEWED  BREADFRUIT.— Mrs.  Hiram  Bingham. 

Take  the  full-grown  fruit  before  it  is  so  ripe  as  to  be  sweet 
and  soft;  peel  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  boil  in  just  sufficient 
salted  water  to  keep  from  burning.    When  the  breadfruit  is  about 


50 

cooked  and  the  water  nearly  all  evaporated,  pour  in  milk  made 
from  the  cocoanut.  When  thoroughly  heated,  it  is  ready  for 
the  table.  Of  course,  the  quantity  of  breadfruit  and  milk  should 
be  regulated  by  the  number  of  persons  for  whom  it  is  prepared. 
Breadfruit  may  be  used  in  every  way  in  which  potatoes  are  used 
in  potato-growing  countries. 


BAKED  BREADFRUIT.— Miss  Teuira  Henry. 

Pare  off  the  skin  of  a  breadfruit  in  the  same  stage  as  the 
above,  cut  it  in  half,  lengthwise ;  then  cut  it  partially  into  quarters 
lengthwise,  from  the  outer  side,  leaving  the  two  halves  still 
complete.  Wash  the  breadfruit  well  in  water  and  place  it  in  a 
baking  pan,  turning  the  outer  parts  upwards,  pour  in  a  small 
teacup  of  water  to  cause  steam,  and  let  it  bake  in  the  same  manner 
as  bread,  sprinkling  it  if  need  be,  after  the  water  dries  up,  to 
keep  it  from  burning.  When  a  nice,  crisp  crust  has  formed,  the 
breadfruit  is  cooked,  which  can  easily  be  tested  by  seeing  if  a 
fork  meets  with  on  obstruction  in  pricking  it  through. 


STEWED  BREADFRUIT. 

Fresh  breadfruit  is  very  nice  in  stews  instead  of  potatoes,  but 
it  requires  more  boiling  than  the  latter.  Small  pieces  of  it  cut 
up  into  soup  are  also  excellent.  In  either  case  the  breadfruit 
must  not  be  cooked  first,  but  used  raw. 


GREEN  PAPAIA  WITH  ONIONS. 

Take  a  green  papaia  that  is  just  maturing  but  not  in  the  least 
turning  yellow,  peel  it  and  wash  off  the  milky  sap,  cut  it  open 
and  scrape  out  the  seeds.  Slice  up  the  fruit  as  thin  as  shavings 
and  boil  it  in  two  waters,  pouring  on  boiling  water  for  the  second 
time.  When  cooked,  drain  off  the  water,  fry  some  onions,  and 
turn  the  papia  into  the  frying-pan  with  them.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  cover  it  over,  letting 
it  remain  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  upon  the  fire,  turning  it 
over  occasionally  with  a  spoon  until  all  be  well  blended  together. 

The  papaia  will  then  be  ready  to  serve. 


51 

KOHL-RABI  (Chinese  Turnip).— Mrs.  Spencer. 
This  vegetable  is  found  very  often  here  now  at  the  Chinese 
stands.  Peel  the  roots,  quarter,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices. 
Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  remove,  and  simmer  a 
few  minutes  in  the  following  sauce:  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  together  (not  browned). 
Add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Thin  it  with  boiling 
milk  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream,  and  stir  constantly  until 
very  smooth.  Beat  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs,  and  whisk 
them  into  the  sauce  the  last  thing  before  serving. 


EGG  PLANT.— Mrs.  Spencer. 

Boil  whole,  then  turn  out  lengthwise  into  halves,  take  out  the 
meat,  and  season  lightly  with  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  chopped  onion 
add  a  little  very  finely  minced  cooked  chicken,  tongue,  veal  or 
ham.  Return  this  mixture  to  the  egg  plant  shells,  and  brown 
them  in  the  oven,  after  sifting  a  few  bread  crumbs  over  them. 


FRIED  EGG  PLANT. 

Peel  and  slice  the  egg-plant  into  thin  slices,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  put  between  two  plates  with  a  weight  on  top.  Leave  for  an 
hour  or  two.    Dip  in  egg  and  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


STUFFED  EGG  PLANT.— Mrs.  W.  W.  Hall. 

One  egg  plant,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  3  good  sized  tomatoes,  1 
teaspoonful  chopped  onion,  %.  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  *4  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  bread  crumbs.  Cut  a 
medium  sized  egg  plant  into  halves  and  scoop  out  the  center 
leaving  a  wall  y2  inch  thick.  Chop  the  portion  taken  out,  peel 
and  chop  the  tomatoes  and  mince  the  two  together,  add  the 
seasoning,  return  the  mixture  to  the  egg  plant  shells,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  is  excellent. 


52 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

One  pint  steamed  egg  plant,  1  pint  bread  crumbs,  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Mix  and  bake  in  the 
oven. 


CREAMED  LETTUCE.— Mrs.   Spencer. 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  cut  the  heads  into  two  parts  (if 
large),  boil  in  slightly  salted  water,  press  and  drain  thoroughly, 
and  pour  over  them  a  rich,  highly  seasoned  cream  sauce. 


CREAMED  CABBAGE.— Mrs.  H.  A.  P.  Carter. 

Chop  the  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw,  boil  it  20  minutes,  then 
drain  carefully  and  cover  it  with  milk;  cook  it  until  tender, 
season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  buttefr,  and  just  before 
serving  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  cream. 


COLD  CREAMED  CABBAGE.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

Fill  an  ordinary  vegetable  dish  with  chopped  cabbage,  sprink- 
ling a  little  salt  and  pepper  through  it.  To  1  small  cup  rich 
milk  (cream  is  better)  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar  and  boil.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  2  well 
beaten  eggs.  Set  over  the  teakettle  till  it  thickens  like  boiled 
custard.  Then  taking  from  the  fire,  add  y2  cup  vinegar  and 
quickly  pour  it  over  the  cabbage.  Cover  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 
To  be  eaten  cold. 


BAKED  TOMATOES.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  and  pare  the  tomatoes  and  slice  a 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  well  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Fill  the  dish 
with  these  alternate  layers.  (Some  like  a  few  slices  of  onion 
mixed  with  them.)  Sift  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  on  top 
with  some  bits  of  butter.  Cover  and  bake  y2  hour,  remove  the 
cover,  and  when  a  nice  brown  it  is  ready  for  the  tab'le. 


53 

BREAD  CROQUETTES.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 
Chop  the  bread  very  fine,  removing  any  hard  or  brown  crust, 
soak  with  hot  water,  not  too  soft.  To  a  pint  bowlful  of  the 
bread  allow  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  egg  well  beaten, 
salt,  pepper,  sifted  sage  to  season  well.  Make  into  little  cakes, 
dust  in  flour  and  fry  a  light  brown.  They  are  good  without  the 
egg,  adding  a  rolled  cracker  with  the  seasoning. 


GREEN  CORN  PUDDING— Mrs.  W.  W.  Hall. 

Four  ears  of  corn,  two  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the 
lines  of  corn  down  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  with  the  back  of 
the  blade  scrape  from  the  cob;  this  leaves  the  hull  of  the  corn 
on  the  cob,  taking  only  the  inner  part.  Beat  the  corn  pulp 
thoroughly  with  the  Nother  ingredients ;  pour  into  a  baking  dish 
and  bake  one  hour.     Serve  as  a  vegetable. 

This  same  mixture  stewed  is  very  good. 


VEGETABLE  SUCCOTASH 

5c.  soup  vegetables  1  cup  raw  rice 

2  cups  of  water  Seasoning. 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cube  sugar. 

Wash  and  cut  up  the  vegetables  in  small  dice.  Put  butter  in 
saucepan,  add  the  vegetables  and  cook  without  browning  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  rice  well  washed,  the  seasoning  and  sugar, 
and  the  water  boiling.  Stir  well,  cover  closely,  and  turn  fire 
low.     Cook  for  thirty-five  minutes. 


BREAD  FRUIT. 

Pick  the  breadfruit  when  yellow.  Stand  in  a  cold  place,  with 
salt  around  the  stem.  Leave  until  it  is  a  little  withered  looking 
and  the  skin  brown.  Remove  stalk  and  bake  one  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Split  open  by  hand  remove  core,  and  serve  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  as  a  vegetable. 


54 

HAWAIIAN   LEEKS. 

Wash  and  take  the  outside  skin  from  the  leaves.  Cut  off 
the  root  and  some  of  the  green,  tie  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth 
and  boil  in  salted  water  for  forty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot  with 
butter  or  cream  sauce  poured  over  the  white  ends. 


CARROTS  WITH  LUAU  OR  SPINACH. 

Scrape  a  five  cent  bunch  of  carrots,  and  put  through  the 
coarse  meat  chopper.  Boil  in  salted  water,  with  a  half  teaspoon 
of  sugar.  Strain  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  put  in  a  hot  dish, 
and  around  it  put  spinach  or  luau,  prepared  as  follows:  Wash 
the  luau,  and  put  into  boiling  water  that  has  salt  and  a  tiny 
pinch  of  soda  in  it.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  and  pour  the  water 
away,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender.  Strain 
and  chop,  adding  a  teaspoon  of  butter. 


PEAS  IN  POD. 

Half  a  pound  of  young  green  peas.  Top  and  tail  them,  re- 
moving the  strings  without  waste.  Boil  in  salted  water,  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes,  strain,  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  butter  and 
serve  hot. 


BOILED    RADISH. 

Peel  radishes,  and  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  serve  with 
cream  sauce  or  brown  gravy. 


STUFFED  PEPPERS.— Mrs.  Spencer. 

Take  large,  sweet  green  peppers,  cut  a  hole  in  the  stem  end 
and  remove  stem  and  seeds.  Stuff  them  with  the  same  kind  of 
force-meat  that  you  would  use  for  a  turkey,  put  them  into  a 
baking  dish  with  a  little  stock  or  water,  and  bake,  basting 
occasionally.  The  peppers  must  be  placed  open  end  up  in  the 
dish.  A  simple  stuffing  of  crumbs  seasoned  with  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  onion  and  parsley,  is  also  very  nice,  and  so  is  sausage 
meat,  mixed  with  bread  crumbs. 


55 

BAKED  BANANAS. 

(Use  plantain  or  cooking  bananas. ) 
Baked  whole  in  the  skins,  remove  the  ends  and  bake  twenty 
minutes.    Serve  in  the  skins  like  a  potato. 

Second  Receipe.— Peel,  slice  in  half  lengths,  place  on  buttered 
dish  and  lemon  juice  squeezed  over  them,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

Third  Receipe.— Slice,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar 
and  put  in  buttered  baking  dish  with  first  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  bananas  with  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake  till  brown.     Serve  with  curried  dishes. 


SALADS. 

(Use  sweet  bananas;.  Sweet  bananas  cut  in  halves  lengthwise, 
balls  of  cream  cheese  or  cottage  cheese  sprinkled  with  chopped 
nuts  between,  the  bananas  dotted  with  mayonnaise. 

Second  receipe — Cut  bananas  in  dice  with  equal  quantities  of 
chopped  celery  and  a  few  chopped  walnuts.  Mix  with  mayonnaise 
and  serve  in  half  skins  or  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Third  Recipe — Cooking  banana  baked,  cooled,  skin  removed 
and  placed  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  and  chopped  nuts  on 
top. 


BANANA  DUMPLINGS. 

Slice  and  cut  in  pieces  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  cover  with 
pastry  as  for  apple  dumpling  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  cream. 


BANANA  CUSTARD. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  and  while  hot  pour  over  sliced  bananas 
and  let  cool.     A  favorite  with  children. 


BANANA  BROWN  BETTY. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  six  bananas ;  put  through  potato  ricer.     Fill 


56 

a  buttered  baking  dish,  layer  by  layer  with  crumbs  and  fruit, 
dot  with  butter  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 


BANANA  CREAM. 

One-half  box  lemon  jello,  four  bananas,  one-fourth  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  pint  of  water,  one-fourth  pint  of  cream.  Pour 
boiling  water  on  jello,  let  cool,  put  bananas  through  ricer  and 
mix  with  sugar.  Whip  cream  and  blend  all  ingredients.  When 
lukewarm  set  on  ice  in  fancy  mould.  Turn  out  when  set  and 
serve  with  lady  fingers. 


FRIED   BANANAS. 

(Use  sweet  kind)  Slice  in  half  lengths,  dip  in  tgg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Second  Receipe — Cook  in  the  fat  after  cooking  ham  or  bacon 
for  breakfast  as  you  would  cold  potatoes. 


SLICED  BANANAS.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Take  any  kind  of  fully  ripe  bananas  (excepting  the  plantain), 
slice  quite  thin,  into  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  and  grate  nut- 
meg over  the  top.  Let  this  stand  half  an  hour.  Just  before 
taking  to  the  table  add  cream  or  milk.     Nice  for  lunch  or  tea. 


BANANA  SAUCE.— Miss  S.   E.  Emerson. 

A  delicious  sauce  may  be  made  from  almost  any  kind  of  mellow 
banana  by  peeling  the  fruit,  and  putting  over  the  fire  in  a  porce- 
lain lined  saucepan  with  a  cup  of  sugar  to  every  seven  or  eight 
bananas,  also  a  cup  of  water.  Lemon,  orange  or  tamarind  is 
then  to  be  added  to  suit  the  taste. 


POI  COCKTAIL. 

This  is  the  accepted  first  meal  after  an  attack  of  seasickness. 
Beat  or  shake  well  together  one  glass  of  milk  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  poi ;  flavor  with  salt,  or  with  nutmeg  or  sugar,  and  serve 
very  cold. 


57 


BOILED   TARO. 


Cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  forty  minutes  in  salted  water. 
Slice  and  serve  with  butter. 


FRIED  TARO. 

Take  taro  already  boiled,  cut  in  thin  slices,  dip  in  flour,  pepper 
and  salt  and  fry  quickly  in  butter. 


TARO  CAKES. 

Put  boiled  taro  through  a  ricer,  season  with  butter,  pepper 
and. salt,  roll  into  balls  and  fry  quickly  in  deep  fat.  Make  the 
mashed  taro  into  cakes  while  hot. 


BEAN  SPROUTS.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Westervelt. 

Boil  in  water  till  they  are  tender  and  when  they  are  cold  mix 
them  with  oil  and  salt.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  made  with  extra 
amount  of  lemon  or  vinegar. 


A  SIMPLE  WELSH  RAREBIT.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  ,grated  cheese,  Y^  cup 
of  milk.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  or  double  boiler,  add 
the  cheese  and  milk  and  stir  until  the  whole  mass  is  creamy. 
Then  add  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  out  at 
once  on  to  thin- toast  or  crisped  crackers. 


CHEESE  FINGERS. 

Roll  thin  some  good  pastry,  cut  into  strips  about  four  inches 
long  and  less  than  two  inches  wide.  Strew  each  strip  with 
grated  cheese,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fold  lengthwise  and 
pinch  the  edges  together,  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Wash  over 
with  beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  powdered  cheese  upon  top,  then 
shut   the   oven    door   just   long   enough    to    glaze   them,    which 


58 

will  only  take  a  minute,  then  pile  them  log-cabin  fashion  on  a 
hot  napkin  laid  folded  on  a  hot  plate;  eat  at  once  as  they  are 
not  good  cold,  but  make  a  nice  relish  when  well  prepared. 


CRACKERS  AND  CHEESE.— Miss  Sara  King. 

Take  Boston  crackers,  split  them  and  spread  well  with  butter, 
sprinkled  liberally  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


EGGS 


OMELETTE. 

To  every  egg,  add  one  tablespoon  of  hot  water.  Whites  and 
yolks  should  be  beaten  separately.  For  a  savory  omelette  add 
salt  and  pepper,  a  little  onion  juice  if  liked,  finely  chopped 
parsley  or  herbs.  For  a  sweet  omelette,  sugar  and  flavoring 
as  desired.  Beat  whites  till  the  bowl  can  be  turned  upside 
down  without  them  falling  out.  Beat  yolks,  and  add  the  desired 
flavoring,  mix  thoroughly  without  beating  and  add  the  hot  water. 
Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  omelette  pan,  pour  the  mixture 
in,  and  cook  steadily  till  set. 

Fish,  chicken,  cheese,  oysters  or  peas  may  be  added.  Either 
one  should  be  heated  with  a  little  butter  and  put  on  the  omelette 
before  browning  the  top. 


CODDLED  EGGS. 

Put  the  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  pour  over  them  boiling  water. 
After  a  minute  or  two  pour  the  water  off,  and  again  pour  on 
boiling  water.  Cover  the  bowl  and  in  three  or  four  minutes 
they  will  be  soft-boiled,  a  longer  time  in  the  water  makes  them 
harder.    Eggs  cooked  this  way  are  very  delicious. 


DEVILED  EGGS.— Mrs.  Hascall. 
Boil  6  or  8  eggs  hard,  lay  in  cold  water  until  they  are  cold. 
Take  off  the  shell,  cut  in  halves,  slicing  a  bit  off  the  bottoms 


59 

to  make  them  stand  upright;  extract  the  yolks  and  rub  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  very  little  mustard 
and  just  a  dash  of  vinegar.  Fill  the  hollowed  whites  with  this, 
and  send  to  table  on  bed  of  chopped  cresses,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  vinegar,  and  a  little  sugar.  Lettuce  or  white  cabbage 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  water  cresses. 


YEAST  AND  BREAD 


POTATO  YEAST.— Miss  Sophie  Emerson. 

Grate  one  good-sized  potato,  add  to  it  one  and  a  half  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  salt  and  three  of  sugar.  On  this  mixture  pour 
one  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  it  up,  set  it  away  till  lukewarm  or 
cool,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  yeast.  Pour  into  a  large- 
mouthed  glass  jar.  In  24  hours  it  will  have  risen  and  be  fit  to 
use.  In  a  warm  climate  this  yeast  must  be  made  every  six  or 
seven  days.  If  there  is  no  potato  at  hand,  a  small-sized  kalo 
will  do  instead.  In  this  case  the  grated  Kalo,  the  salt  and  the 
sugar  must  be  set  over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan, 
and  with  the  pint  of  boiling  water  poured  in,  allowed  to  boil 
up  gently — just  a  minute  and  no  more. 


BROWN  OR  GRAHAM  BREAD.— Miss  S.  E.  Emerson. 

To  have  a  loaf  risen  and  ready  to  bake  by  the  morning  fire, 
about  9  o'clock  in  the  evening  sift  into  an  earthen  bowl  one- 
third  of  a  quart  of  white  flour  and  two-thirds  of  a  quart  of 
brown  or  Graham  flour,  the  latter  unsifted.  Give  the  yeast 
jar  a  shake  and  pour  into  this  flour  2  large  spoonfuls  of  light 
yeast.  Then  stir  in  either  milk  or  water  slowly  and  a  little 
at  a  time,  till  you  have  a  batter  thick  enough  to  knead.  If 
you  have  a  sweet  tooth,  add  a  little  brown  sugar  or  molasses; 
lacking  the  latter,  honey  may  be  used.  Now  set  away  your 
stiff  batter,  well  covered  up,  and  attend  to  it  the  first  thing 
in  the  morning,  when,  if  it  is  risen,  stir  well  or  cut  with  a  knife 
till  the  air  cells  are  broken,  and  drop  into  a  well  oiled  bread  tin. 
Wet  a  spoon  in  water  and  smooth  off  the  top  a  little  and  set 


60 

away  by  the  stove  to  rise.  It  may  take  over  an  hour  to  rise,  but 
often  less  time  will  do  it.  When  you  see  it  has  risen,  and  the 
surface  is  slightly  cracked,  set  the  loaf  into  a  slow  oven  and 
bake  steadily.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  brown  bread 
requires  a  much  longer  time  to  bake  than  does  a  corresponding 
loaf  of  white  bread. 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.— Mrs.  Hyde. 
Two  quarts  of  flour;  make  a  hole  in  the  center  and  put  in  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  tgg,  1  pint  of  milk  (boiled, 
but  cold),  J/2  cup  yeast.  Stir,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In 
the  morning  knead  15  minutes.  Let  it  rise  till  2  p.  m.,  then 
roll  thin  and  cut  round ;  put  a  little  butter  on  one  half  and 
double  over.  If  made  in  the  morning,  let  it  rise  till  noon ; 
then  knead  15  minutes  and  let  it  rise  till  2  p.  m. 


PENNSYLVANIA  RUSK.— Mrs.  M.  P.  Chamberlain. 
Two  pounds  flour,  1  pint  of  good  new  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  good  yeast.  Set  the  sponge  to  rise  over  night.  Early  in 
the  morning  add  a  little  salt,  2  large  spoonfuls  of  sugar  (either 
white  or  brown),  3  large  spoonfuls  of  butter,  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  and  half  a  nutmeg;  add  flour  till  it  is  of  the  consistency 
of  bread  dough.  Knead  well  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
and  set  it  to  rise  again.  When  risen,  mould  into  cakes  as  large 
as  a  hen's  tgg,  place  in  pans  and  set  to  rise  again.  When  well 
raised,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  little  white  sugar  and 
brush  them  over  the  top.  Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in 
a  quick  oven. 


BROWN  BREAD.— Mrs.  J.  O.  Carter. 
Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  molasses,  2  cups  of  Indian  meal, 
1   cup  flour   (coarse  preferred),   \J/2  teaspoonfuls  soda;  add  a 
little  salt,  and  steam  for  3  hours. 


NICE  BREAD.— Mrs.  J.  M.  Cooke. 
There  must  be  good  yeast.       Into   3  quarts  of  sifted  flour 
rub   1   large   spoonful  of  lard,  the  same  of   sugar,  and  a  tea- 


61 

spoonful  of  salt,  1  small  cup  of  yeast  in  water  or  milk,  and 
water  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  cover  and  let  it  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  work  in  flour  enough  to  mould  up, 
using  as  little  as  possible,  and  have  it  free  from  the  hands. 
Allow  it  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  till  it  is  light,  then  divide  it 
into  3  loaves,  handle  lightly  and  put  it  in  pans.  When  light 
bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  overu  When  removed  from  the 
pans  stand  on  the  side  to  cool. 


BREAD   FROM   WHOLE   WHEAT   FLOUR.— Mrs.   Cornelia 

Damon. 

This  is  made  just  like  any  other  bread  only  for  white  flour 
is  substituted  whole  wheat  flour  in  proportion  of  two  parts 
whole  wheat  flour  to  one  of  white  flour.  A  little  sweetening 
as  for  Graham  bread  is  liked  by  most  every  one,  say  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  flour.  This  is  a  matter 
of  taste. 

Bread  is  delicious  baked  in  cylindrical  tins ;  it  gives  a  nice 
tender  crust  all  over,  and  preserves  the  sweetness  of  the  loaf ; 
the  large-sized  baking  powder  tins  is  a  good  size.  When  ready 
to  form  your  loaves  put  the  sponges  into  the  tins,  filling  them 
about  two-thirds  or  three-fourths  full — experience  will  have  to 
teach  this — set  them  aside  like  loaves  till  light  enough  to  bake, 
'then  put.  the  covers  on  and  bake,  standing  the  tins  in  the  oven 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  The  oven  must  be  steady  and  mod- 
erate. 


GRIDDLE  SCONES.— Mrs.  Donald  Maclntyre. 

Two  breakfast  cupsful  flour,  3  large  teaspoons  baking  powder 
(Royal),  2  small  teaspoons  sugar,  1  small  teaspoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  breakfast  cup  milk. 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder  into  a  basin.  Melt  the 
butter  and  add  it  to  the  milk,  mix  all  together  into  a  soft 
smooth  dough,  roll  out  to  an  equal  thickness  about  V2  inch, 
divide  into  eight  equal  parts  or  any  style  preferred.  Bake  on 
a  hot  plate  or  griddle,  turning  them  occasionally  till  ready.  Or 
bake  them  in  a  very  hot  oven.  An  egg  added  to  the  milk  is  an 
improvement. 


62 

DELICIOUS  ROLLS.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 
A  little  over   1    quart    of    milk,    4    tablespoonfuls    butter,  3 
tablespoonfuls   sugar,  2   teaspoonfuls   salt,   ^  cup  fresh  yeast, 
(made  overnight).     Make  sponge  about  10:30  p.  m. ;  all  flour 
worked  in  at  6:30  a.  m.     This  makes  four  dozen  rolls. 


SALADS 


LOBSTER  SALAD.— Mrs.  Hyde. 

The  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs  mashed  fine.  Add,  gradually,  1  tablespoonful 
made  mustard,  5  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  or  salad  oil,  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  and  x/2  cup  vinegar.  Beat  the 
mixture  a  long  time,  then  add  a  cup  of  thick  cream.  If  desired, 
add  brown  sugar  and  lime  juice,  about  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Take  the  small,  crisp  inside  leaves  of  lettuce  that  has  been  kept 
a  long  time  on  the  ice.  Lay  a  row  of  them  round  the  salad 
dish,  put  the  lobster  in  the  center,  pouring  over  it  a  part  of  the 
dressing.  Then  lightly  tearing  the  remainder  of  the  crisp  let- 
tuce, put  it  on  top  of  the  lobster,  pouring  the  remainder  of  the 
dressing  over  it.  Garnish  with  the  coral  of  the  lobster  and  2 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. 


COLD  SLAW  DRESSING.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Beat  2  eggs  in  a  bowl  that  will  fit  in  the  top  of  a  teakettle, 
add  4  large  spoonfuls  of  water  and  4  of  vinegar  mixed,  an 
even  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  1  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  small 
egg.  Place  the  bowl  in  the  teakettle  and  stir  until  thicker  than 
boiled  custard;  then  strain  and  leave  it  to  cool.  This  dressing 
is  very  nice  on  raw  tomatoes. 


POTATO  SALAD.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

Peel  and  chop  boiled  potatoes  and  mix  with  them  a  grated 
onion.       Make  a  dressing  of  half  a  cup  vinegar,  a  tablespoon 


63 

butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  a  teaspoon  of  mustard.  Stir 
the  dressing  over  the  fire  until  very  hot.  Pour  over  the  po- 
tatoes, mixing  carefully.  Set  on  ice.  This  is  a  good  dress- 
ing for  aligator  pears,  prepared  as  above. 


FRENCH  SALAD.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

Take  the  fresh  tender  leaves  from  a  five-cent  head  of  lettuce. 
Wash  and  drain  them,  then  lay  them  lightly  in  a  cloth  on  ice 
until  needful  for  use,  then  break  them  in  pieces  small  enough 
to  eat  easily  with  a  fork.  Dress  with  2  dessert  spoons  of  oil  well 
shaken  through  them,  a  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  and 
pepper.  Take  the  salt  you  need  in  your  salad  spoon  and  dis- 
solve it  with  the  vinegar,  about  a  tablespoonful  if  not  too  strong, 
and  turn  over,  shaking  all  well  together  with  salad  fork  and 
spoon. 


CHEESE  SALAD.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  1  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
y2  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  hot  water,  a  little  mus- 
tard, salt  and  cayenne.  Mix  well  and  put  into  cups  to  form. 
Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 


FISH  SALAD.— Mrs.  A.  Gartley. 

To  one  cup  fish  which  has  been  boiled  and  picked,  add  1  cup 
chopped  celery,  3  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  mix  with  mayonnaise. 


FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Take  a  large  slice  of  onion,  put  in  bowl  and  add  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  Y&t  teaspoon  pepper,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  4  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  and  %  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  about  3 
or  4  tablespoons  tomato  catsup.  After  all  is  thoroughly  mixed 
the  onion  can  be  taken  out  or  left  in  if  desired. 


64 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES 


GRAHAM   MUFFINS.— Miss   Julie   Beckwith. 

One  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  piece  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  cup 
milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  Graham  flour  to  make  a 
batter  thick  enough  to  drop  in  rings  without  spreading. 
Thoroughly  mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  meal,  melt  the 
butter  and  mix  with  the  sugar  and  egg,  add  the  milk  and  grad- 
ually stir  in  the  meal,  and  drop  in  muffin  tins  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 


BREAKFAST   PUFFS.— Mrs.    Frear. 

Three  eggs,  3  cups  sifted  flour,  2Y/2  cups  milk  and  a  little 
salt.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  2  cups  of  milk  and  the 
salt,  stir  the  flour  in  lightly  with  the  egg-beater,  add  the  %  cup 
of  milk,  and  bake  in  hot,  buttered  gem  irons.  For  Graham 
gems,  use  2  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  wheat  meal  and  other- 
wise make  as  above. 


POP-OVERS.— Mrs.   Dr.    Raymond,   Kau. 

One  cup  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  egg  well  beaten,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  a  nutmeg.  Stir  well  together  and  drop  into  hot 
gem  pans,  well  buttered.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes,  and 
they  are  delicious  breakfast  cakes. 


NETTIE  CAKES.— Miss  Hattie  Judd. 

Two  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  Indian  meal,  1 
teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt.  Fry  them  Y\  inch  thick,  or  bake 
in  cups. 


SIMPLE  MUFFINS.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  pint  of  warmed  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  1  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 


65 

Mix  and  beat  hard  a  few  minutes.  Mix  at  night  and  in  the 
morning  drop  in  buttered  cups,  and  let  it  stand  from  20  to  30 
minutes,  or  until  well  risen,  then  bake.  For  tea  mix  at  9  in 
the  morning,  and  let  it  stand  all  day. 


HOMINY  CAKES.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

Two  cups  cold  boiled  hominy  (fine),  1  cup  of  flour,  a  little 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder.  Milk 
to  make  ordinary  pancake  batter — about  1^2  cups. 


SQUASH  CAKES.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

To  about  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  squash  left  from  dinner,  add 
2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, 1  small  cup  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  soda.  Flour  to  make 
rather  a  stiff  batter.     Fry  as  griddle  cakes. 


CORN  CAKES.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

One  pint  of  grated  corn,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  pepper,  salt, 
1  cup  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg.  Fry  on  a 
griddle. 


WAFFLES.— Mrs.   Hascall. 

Two  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  saltspoonful  salt.  Sift  the 
cream  tartar  into  the  flour,  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  hot 
water,  beat  the  eggs  very  light ;  add  the  flour  the  last  thing. 
Fry  on  a  hot  iron. 


RAISED   BISCUIT.— Mrs.   Dr.   Kittredge. 

One  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  cup  yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  early  make  stiff  with 
flour  and  knead  well  on  board.  Put  back  in  the  bowl  for  a 
second  rising.       When  very  light,  roll  and  cut  in  cakes  half  an 


66 

inch  thick.      Let  them  rise  half  an  hour,  then  bake.      Cover  the 
cakes  with  a  cloth  as  soon  as  baked  to  keep  them  moist. 


CORN  BREAD.— Mrs.  J.  B.  Atherton. 

One  cup  flour,  2  cups  corn  meal,  %  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon butter,  2  cups  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda. 


BAKED   RICE   CAKES. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  soft-boiled  rice,  3  eggs,  1 
spoonful  of  yeast  powder,  1  spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Thicken 
with  flour  for  a  stiff  batter.       Bake  in  gem  pans. 


CORN  POP-OVERS.— Mrs.  J.  D.  Brewer. 

One  pint  sweet  milk  scalded ;  stir  into  the  hot  milk  a  coffee 
cup  of  corn  meal,  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  Qgg,  a 
little  salt,  3  eggs  well  beaten  and  stirred  in  the  last  thing.  No 
soda. 


GERMAN  BREAKFAST  CAKES.— Mrs.  Dr.  Whitney. 

Two  cups  bread  sponge,  !/2  CUP  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  lard 
or  butter,  1  cup  milk.  Work  together,  roll  it  out  and  bake  in 
a  pie  tin.  White  hot,  spread  the  top  with  butter,  as  much 
sugar  as  it  will  hold  and  sprinkle  ground  cinnamon  over  all. 


GOOD  JOHNNY  CAKE.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

One  cup  buttermilk,  six  tablespoonfuls  Indian  meal,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  dried  bread  crumbs  sifted,  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one  or  two  eggs,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a 
little  salt.  If  sour  milk  is  used  instead  of  buttermilk,  add  a 
little  cream  or  butter. 


GRIDDLE  BREAD.— Mrs.  A.  F.  Judd. 
Roll  dough   (all  ready  for  the  oven)  out  rather  thin,  cut  in 


67 

diamond  shape  and  broil  on  gridiron  like  steak.      Eat  hot  with 
butter.      Good  for  campers  out. 


GERMAN  BUTTER  CAKES.— Mrs.  H.  W.  Schmidt. 

Two  cups  of  butter,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan, 
the  cake  to  be  y2  inch  thick  before  baking.  Before  putting 
it  in  the  oven  scatter  lumps  of  butter  over  the  top,  pressing 
them  into  the  cake.  Over  this  spread  a  cup  of  sugar  mixed 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 


FRIED   BREAD.— Mrs.   John  Wilder. 

Dip  slices  of  stale  bread  in  hot  water,  make  a  batter  of  1 
quart  sour  milk,  teaspoonful  soda,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2 
eggs.  Melt  the  buttter  before  putting  it  in.  Take  the  bread 
from  the  water,  dip  in  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


APPLE  FRITTERS.— Mrs.  Bray. 

Make  a  batter  with  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
sugar,  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder  mixed  with  flour.  Chop 
some  good  tart  apples,  mix  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Serve  with  maple  syrup. 


GRAHAM  GEMS.— Mrs.  Spencer. 

One  cup  of  Graham  flour,  1  tgg,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  a  small  lump  of  butter  in  each  compartment  of  the  pan 
(which  must  be  iron).  Let  the  pan  heat  on  the  stove  before 
putting  in  the  butter  and  batter.  Bake  10  minutes  in  a  hot 
over. 


SNOW-BALL    BISCUITS.— (A   Southern    Recipe).— Mrs. 

Woodruff. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.       Mix  quickly 
with  the  hands.       Sift  4  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder  into 


68 

this  and  stir  till  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add  \y2  cups  of  milk. 
Roll  out  about  1  inch ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CORN  BREAD.— (A  Southern  Recipe).— Mrs.  Woodruff. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  flour,  \y2  cups  of  white  corn 
meal,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.      Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CORN  MUFFINS.— (A  Southern  Recipe).— Mrs.  Woodruff. 

Four  ounces  of  butter,  4  ounces  sugar,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint 
of  corn  meal,  1  pint  of  wheat  flour,  2  eggs,  4  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven. 


CAKES 


HARTFORD  ELECTION  CAKE.— Mrs.  Charles  Grey. 

One  pound  of  flour,  y2  pound  butter,  10  ounces  sugar,  %  pint 
milk,  1  cup  yeast,  1  egg,  y2  pound  raisins,  %  teaspoonful  soda, 
1  teaspoonful  mace.  At  night  take  y2  of  the  sugar,  y2  of  the 
butter,  all  of  the  flour,  milk  and  yeast;  mix  and  set  in  warm 
place  to  rise.  In  the  morning  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar  and 
butter.  Warm  the  butter  before  using,  and  stir  thoroughly. 
Add  soda,  mace,  egg  and  raisins,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm 
place,  after  being  put  into  the  pans  to  rise  a  little. 


COCOANUT  CAKE.— Mrs.  T.  G.  Thrum. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of 
flour,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  as  for  jelly  cake. 

Filling 

One  grated  cocoanut ;  to  y2  of  this  add  whites  of  3  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth,  and  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  this  be- 
tween the  layers. 


69 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE.— Mrs.  C.  M.  Hyde. 

Four  eggs,  1  cup  butter,  \y2  cups  sugar,  \y2  flour,  \y2  corn 
starch,  y2  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


NUT    CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  1  cup  walnuts 
chopped  fine,  1  cup  raisins,  2  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  soda  and  1 
teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  2  cups  flour.  Frost  the  cake  and 
ornament  the  top  with  walnuts  smoothly  cut  into  halves. 


ORANGE  CAKE.— Mrs.  J.  O.  Carter. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  small  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
water,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  nearly  all 
the  juice.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  then  add  whites 
well  beaten.       Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Filling. 

Beat  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  juice  and  rind  of  1  orange  and 
enough  sugar  to  make  thick  enough  to  spread,  and  put  the  cake 
together  with  this  like  any  layer  cake. 


MAINE  PLUM  CAKE.— Mrs.  Dr.  Raymond,  Kau. 

One  pound  each  of  butter,  sugar  and  flour,  1  pound  raisins, 
2  pounds  currants,  y2  pound  citron,  1  teaspoon  powdered  cloves, 
Yz  teaspoon  mace  and  1  nutmeg,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  10 
eggs,  y2  cup  molasses.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  the 
sugar;  beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  add  to  butter  and 
sugar.  Then  by  degrees  put  in  two-thirds  of  the  flour,  in  which 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  have  been  thoroughly  mixed. 
Add  all  the  remainder  of  the  ingredients  and  stir  fast  for  a  few 
minutes.  This  will  make  two  good  loaves,  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  1  hour. 


CLOVE   CAKE.— Mrs.  W.   D.   Alexander. 
One  pound  flour  (3  cupfuls),  1  pound  sugar,  (2  cupfuls),  y2 


70 

cup  butter,  1  teacup  of  cream,  1  cup  raisins,  1  tablespoonful  of 
cloves,  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg,  4  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  soda. 


ONE  EGG   CAKE.— Mrs.  A.  F.  Judd. 

One  egg,  1  large  spoonful  butter,  1  cup  sugar  (ordinary  size), 
%  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour  only  just  to  top,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder  in  the  flour.  Mix  with  egg-beater  the  egg,  butter  and 
sugar  together.  Then  put  in  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  as  in 
sponge  cake.  Beat  it  well.  Flavor — fix  up  with  cocoanut  or 
cocoanut  and  jelly. 


RAISED   CAKE. — (Micronesian  Receipt). — Mrs.  H.  Bingham. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  y>  cup  butter  (small),  y2  cup 
cocoanut  or  condensed  milk,  one  full  cup  bottled  cocoanut  toddy, 
Sy2  cups  flour,  a  little  soda,  raisins  and  spice  as  you  like.  Let 
it  rise  and  bake  when  light,  usually  after  a  longer  time  than 
the  bread. 


DELICATE   CAKE.— Mrs.   Hascall. 

One  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  %.  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  whites 
of  5  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.     Flavor  with  almond. 


ICE  CREAM  CAKE.— Mrs.  J.  G.  Dickson. 

Take  J/2  cupful  of  butter,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  3  of  flour,  sifted, 
and  1  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  the  white  of  1  egg,  and  \y2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Use  the  whites  of  2  eggs  for 
the  icing.  Boil  2  cupsful  of  sugar  in  a  small  y2  cupful  of  hot 
water;  keep  stirring  until  it  boils;  boil  just  10  minutes;  pour 
this,  while  boiling  hot,  on  the  eggs,  beaten  light ;  beat  until  stiff 
and  cold,  adding  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Wet  a  broad  steel 
knife  by  dipping  in  water,  then  smooth  the  icing  with  it.  Bake 
the  cake  in  three  jelly  cake  pans.  When  cold,  spread  the  icing 
between. 


71 

CREAM  CAKE.— (Or  Washington  Pie).— Mrs.  E.  C.  Damon. 
One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Stir  the  above  together  without  beating  the  eggs.  Add  2  tea- 
spoons milk  last ;  then  put  in  the  oven.  Bake  in  a  round,  shal- 
low pan,  and  split  it  when  the  cream  is  put  in. 

Cream. 

Half  cup  sugar,  yA  cup  flour,  1  egg.    Beat  these  together  and^ 
stir  into  J/2  pint  hot  milk,  and  cook  as  for  custard. 


COCOANUT  CAKES.— Miss  M.  A.  Chamberlain. 

One  pound  of  cocoanut,  y2  pound  sugar  (white  powdered), 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Take  the  brown  skin  off  the  nut, 
wash  it,  dry  and  grate  it.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  with  it,  and 
work  all  well  together.  Make  out  in  little  balls,  place'  them  on 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


MINNE-HA-HA  CAKE.— Mrs.  H.  J.  Herrick,  W.  Levant,  Me. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  ]/2  cup  butter  stirred  to  a  cream. 
Whites  of  6  eggs  or  3  whole  ones,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2  heaping  cups  flour,  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  Bake  the  cake  in  3 
layers.  For  filling  between  the  layers,  take  1  cup  sugar  and  a 
little  water,  boil  together  till  brittle  when  dropped  into  water, 
remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  quickly  into  the  well  beaten 
white  of  1  egg.  Add  to  this  a  cup  of  stoned  raisins  chopped 
fine,  or  1  cup  of  hickory  nuts  chopped  fine.  Put  between  the 
layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake. 


MEASURED  POUND   CAKE.— Mrs.  T.  H.  Hobron. 

One  coffee  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  5  eggs,  1%  coffee  cups 
flour,   y2   teaspoon   soda,   1   teaspoon  cream   tartar. 


SUGAR   COOKIES.— Miss  Fidelia  Lyons. 
One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  nutmeg  for  spice,  1  cup 


72 


sweet  milk,    1   teaspoon  cream  tartar,   y2   teaspoon   soda.     Use 
flour  enough  to  roll,  and  bake  quick. 


CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE.— Mrs.  Dr.  Raymond. 

Break  2  eggs  into  a  cup  and  fill  up  with  sweet  cream,  and 
beat  in  a  bowl;  then  add  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  \y2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.     Flavor  with  lemon. 


DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE.— Mrs.  Helen  G.  Alexander. 

One  cup  sugar  and  T/2  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  lemon.  While  this  cake  is  baking 
in  a  tin  lined  with  paper  extending  an  inch  above  the  edge  of 
the  tin,  beat  the  yolks  with  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  a 
frosting,  and  while  the  cake  is  hot  and  still  in  the  pan,  put  this 
frosting  on  and  set  in  a  dark  place  to  harden. 


FIG  CAKE.— Mrs.  E.  O.  Hall. 

WHITE  PART.— Two  cups  flour,  1  cup  corn  starch,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  whites  of  6  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder. 

DARK  PART. — Two  cups  flour,  1  cup  cornstarch,  1  cup 
water  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  raisins  finely  chopped,  4 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  cloves  and  cinnamon  and 
other  spices  to  taste.  Half  of  the  above  quantities  will  make 
two  good  sized  loaves  of  cake.  Take  2  dozen  pressed  figs, 
sliced  thin.  Bake  in  pans  with  layers  of"  dark  and  light  and 
layers  of  figs  between,  after  having  rolled  the  figs  in  flour. 


FEATHER  CAKE.— Miss  Fidelia  Lyons. 

One  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted  into.  Bake  in 
a  loaf.       Nutmeg  for  spice. 


73 

ROLLED  JELLY  CAKE.— Mrs.  T.  H.  Hobron. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  3 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Spread  jelly  over  the  cake 
when  hot,  and  roll  in  a  damp  napkin. 


CENTRAL   UNION   CAKE.— Mrs.  T.   H.  Hobron. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  small  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour,  y 
cup  of  corn  starch,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  \y2  tea- 
spoons lemon,  4  eggs  or  whites  of  6,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk. 


SPONGE   CAKE.— Mrs.   Mary   E.  Nott. 

Five  eggs,  1  large  coffee  cup  white  sugar,  in  1  large  coffee 
cup  sifted  flour.  Lemon.  Butter  the  pan,  sift  and  measure 
the  flour,  pulverize  and  measure  the  sugar  so  that  everything 
may  go  quickly  together.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  add  the  sugar 
and  lemon,  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Lastly  the 
flour.       Mix  lightly  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.       It  never  fails. 


FRUIT  CAKE.— Mrs.  T.  W.  Everett. 

One  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  butter,  2 
pounds  currants,~2  pounds  raisins,  y2  pound  citron,  12  eggs,  y2 
teaspoon  soda,  y  nutmeg,  y  teaspoon  mace,  y  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, y  teaspoon  cloves. 


SILVER  CAKE.— Mrs.  Furneaux. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  scant  cup  butter,  whites  of  7  eggs,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  1  scant  cup 
corn  starch.       Flavor. 


DRIED  APPLE   CAKE.— Mrs.   H.  J.  Herrick. 

Two  cups  dried  apples,  2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
y2  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  soda,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon, 
Y2  teaspoon  each.       Soak  the  apples  over  night,  chop  fine,  boil 


74 

in  the  molasses  and  add  the  other  ingredients  when  cool,  Flour 
to  make  as  stiff  as  soft  gingerbread. 


MOUNTAIN  CAKE.— Mrs.  T.  W.  Everett. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  y>  cup  butter,  yA  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Flavor  with  nutmeg. 


SNOWFLAKE  CAKE.— Mrs.  E.  C.  Damon. 

Three  eggs,  \y2  cups  sugar,  y  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 
Whites  2  eggs,  y  cup  of  sugar,  beaten  together.  Frost  each 
layer  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanut. 


BOSTON  CREAM  CAKES.— Mrs.  T.  G.  Thrum. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  y  pound  of  flour,  8  eggs,  1  pint  water. 
Stir  the  butter  into  the  water,  which  should  be  warm,  set  on  the 
fire  in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  often. 
When  it  boils,  put  in  the  flour  and  boil  1  minute.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  let  it  get  cool.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  beat  into 
the  cool  paste,  first  the  yolks,  then  the  whites.  Drop  in  table- 
spoonful  upon  buttered  paper,  and  bake  10  minutes. 


CREAM. 

One  quart  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  constarch,  2  eggs,  2  cups 
sugar.  When  boiled,  add  a  lump  of  butter  and  set  the  custard 
aside  to  cool.  Add  vanilla,  pass  a  sharp  knife  around  the  puffs 
and  fill. 


BRIDE  CAKE.— Mrs.  A.  J.  Cartwright. 

One  pound  white  sugar,  y>  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour,  whites 
of   16  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.    Flavor  with  rose. 


ALMOND  CAKE.— Mrs.  Furneaux. 
One  cup  powdered  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  iy2  cups  flour,  half 


75 


cup  milk,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.     One 
cup  almonds  blanched  and  chopped.     Little  extract  of  almond. 


FRUIT  CAKE.— Mrs.  Furneaux. 
One  and  a  half  cups  butter,  \y2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  maple  syrup 
or  good  molasses,  half  cup  milk,  5  cups  flour,  5  eggs,  2  pounds 
chopped  raisins,  3  pounds  currants,  \y2  pounds  citron,  1  nutmeg, 
2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  allspice,  2  teaspoons  of 
cloves,  2  teaspoons  of  soda.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  one  and  a  half  hours. 


FRENCH  CAKE.— Mrs.  Atherton. 

Half  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3y2  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  4 
eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon. 


RIBBON  CAKE.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  \y>  cups  flour, 
whites  of  2  eggs,  \}/2  teaspoons  full  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  almond.  Bake  in  a  long  shallow  tin.  In  another,  same 
size,  bake  the  following:  1-3  cup  brown  sugar,  1-3  cup  molasses, 
1-3  cup  of  butter,  1-3  cup  milk,  \y2  cups  flour,  yolks  4  eggs,  1 
teaspoonful  each  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  half  teaspoonful 
soda,  half  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  half  cup  citron  sliced, 
half  cup  dried  currants.  Mix  about  2  tablespoons  of  flour  with 
the  fruits  before  adding  to  the  other  ingredients.  One  teaspoon- 
ful vinegar  added  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cool, 
cover  the  top  with  icing  flavored  with  lemon;  and  while  it  is 
soft,  lay  the  white  cake  on  top  of  it,  then  cover  the  loaf  thus 
formed  with  icing. 


COCOA  CAKES. 

One  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  half  cup  milk,  half  cup  flour, 
half  cup  cornstarch,  y±  cup  cocoa,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
half  teaspoonful  vanilla ;  cream  eggs,  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk 


76 

and  flour  and  cocoa  and  powder  sifted.     Bake  in  gem  tins  in 
moderate  oven. 


DOVER  CAKE. 

One  lb.  flour,  1  lb.  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  6  eggs, 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Caramel  Filling. 

One  lb.  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg.     Cook  until 
thickened. 


DOUGHNUTS. 

One  lb.  sugar,  1  pint  warm  milk,  8  tablespoonfuls  melted  but- 
ter, 1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  a  teacup  yeast,  3  eggs,  spice 
to  taste.  Flour  to  make  batter  to  stand  a  spoon.  When  light 
roll  out  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 


COCOANUT  CAKE.— Mrs.  Tracy. 

One-half  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  %  lb.  of  butter,  creamed 
with  the  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  half  of  grated  or  dessicated  cocoanut  soaked  in  1  cup 
of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in  shallow  pans  and  spread 
the  cake  with  cocoanut ;  let  the  top  layer  be  cocoanut. 


COCOANUT  PUFFS.— Mrs.  E.  O.  Hall. 

Grate  2   cocoanuts  very  fine.     Take   same  weight  of   sugar. 
Add  white  of  1  egg  well  beaten.     Bake  in  little  drop  cakes. 


ANGEL  FOOD.— Mrs.  B.  H.  Austin. 

The  whites  of  11  eggs,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  flour, 
1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Sift  the  flour  three  times.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  the  sugar,  add  baking  powder,  and  lastly  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  in 
a  tin  which  leaves  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  cake. 


77 

SPLENDID  FRUIT  CAKE.— Mrs.  B.  H.  Austin. 

One  pound  white  sugar,  1  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour,  2 
pounds  raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  1  pound  citron,  half  ounce 
nutmeg,  half  ounce  mace,  half  ounce  cinnamon,  1  cup  of  molasses 
or  syrup,  12  eggs.  Dredge  the  fruit  with  a  part  of  the  flour 
before  adding  it  to  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
three  hours,  if  in  one  large  cake,  and  if  convenient  let  it  remain 
in  till  the  oven  is  cold. 


CRULLERS  OR  TWIST  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
3  eggs,  half  spoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt  and  1  grated  nutmeg.  Boil 
in  hot  lard. 


HARD  GINGERBREAD.— Mrs.  J.  B.  Atherton. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  half  cup  butter  or  lard  dis- 
solved in  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  2  eggs. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  thin.     Cut  into  strips. 


COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  of  butter,  3  eggs,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  small  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  grated  nutmeg.  Roll 
thin,  and  bake  in  a  mould,  in  a  moderate  oven.  These  will 
keep  crisp  a  long  time  in  a  covered  stone  jar. 


GOOD  GINGERBREAD.— Mrs.  H.  A.  P.  Carter 

One-half  cup  butter,  3  cups  molasses,  y2  cup  cream,  5  cups 
flour,  3  eggs,  1  spoonful  -soda,  and  ginger  to  taste. 


LOU'S  DOUGHNUTS.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Parke. 

Three  eggs,  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  U/2 
cups  cream,  or  if  you  have  no  cream,  dessert  spoonful  of  but- 
ter, 3  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  roll.  Fry 
in  sweet,  boiling  lard. 


78 

SCOTCH  COOKIES.— Mrs.  Donald  Maclntyre. 

Rub  six  ounces  of  salt  butter  into  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour,  put  it  in  a  basin  and  break  in  four  eggs,  add  one  pint  of 
lukewarm  water  with  a  small  teaspoon  of  yeast,  mix  them  to- 
gether ;  cover  it  up  and  let  it  sponge  all  night  in  a  warm  place. 
Mix  it  up  in  the  morning  with  six  ounces  of  ground  sugar, 
stiffen  it  with  flour  so  that  it  will  not  adhere  to  the  table. 
Divide  into  two  ounce  pieces,  make  them  round  and  lay  them 
on  greased  tins  a  little  distance  from  each  other.  Put  them  for 
one  hour  into  a  steam  press  or  some  other  warm  place  to  prove 
them,  then  bake  for  about  five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  and 
brush  on  the  top  with  sugar  and  water. 


SCOTCH   BUN.— Mrs.  Donald  Maclntyre. 

To  make  a  bun  of  twelve  pounds  weight  have  four  pounds 
of  dough,  stone  four  pounds  of  raisins,  clean  four  pounds  of 
currants,  cut  small  half  a  pound  of  orange  peel,  half  a  pound 
of  sweet  almonds  blanched,  and  cut  in  four;  one  ounce  of 
allspice,  an  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  two  nutmegs  grated  and 
mix  the  spices  well  with  the  fruit.  Take  two  pounds  and  a 
half  of  the  dough,  add  to  the  fruit,  lay  it  on  the  baking  table 
and  mix  well  till  thoroughly  mixed.  Take  the  pound  and  a 
half  of  dough,  mix  it  with  four  ounces  of  melted  butter,  knead 
it  well  with  a  little  flour  till  smooth  and  stiff,  then  roll  it  out 
large  enough  to  hold  the  bun,  lay  the  bun  on  it,  gather  it  up 
round  the  sides  and  fold  it  nicely  to  cover  all  the  fruit.  Have 
the  hoop  buttered,  take  the  bun  upside  down  on  a  sheet  of 
paper  greased,  make  it  smooth  on  the  top,  and  prick  it  with 
a  fork  or  prick,  glaze  on  the  top  with  water,  put  it  into  a  quick 
oven ;  if  a  metal  oven  it  will  require  four  hours,  if  in  a  baking 
oven  three  hours  will  do  it. 


GINGER  BREAD.— Mrs.  Donald  Maclntyre. 

1  lb.  butter,  2  lbs.  flour,  y2  lb.  molasses,  y2  lb.  syrup,  2  eggs, 
Yz  lb  sugar,  3  teaspoons  ginger,  3  teaspoons  mixed  spice,  ^ 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  orange,  J^  lemon,  ^4  lb.  sultanas,  J4  lb- 
currants,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda.       Mix  all  together,  then  add 


79 

enough  milk  or  butter  milk  to  make  a  smooth  dough,  rather 
stiff,  then  melt  the  butter  and  add  it  last.       Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  for  two  hours. 


GOOD  GINGER  SNAPS. 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Flour  enough 
to  roll.       Roll  thin. 


GINGER  SNAPS.— Mrs.  Van  Cleve,  Minn. 

One  cup  molasses,  %  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  1  teaspoonful  soda  all  stirred  into  the  molasses  when 
very  hot.  Add  flour  when  hot,  just  enough  to  roll.  Not  stiff 
dough ;  roll  very  thin.       Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


JUMBLES.— Mrs.  T.  H.   Hobron. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of 
soda,  mix  soft.       Sprinkle  with  sugar  before  baking. 


MOLASSES    DROP    CAKES.— Mrs.    Spencer. 

One.  and  one-half  teacups  melted  butter,  2  cups  of  molasses, 
warmed,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  mixed  into  the  molasses,  3 
beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  2  of  cloves,  and  5  cups 
of  flour.  '  Stir  all  together,  and  drop  on  tins,  allowing  room 
to  spread. 


LEMON  SNAPS. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  2 
lemons,  juice  and  grated  peel.  Mix  rather  stiff,  roll  very  thin. 
Cut  into  shape  and  bake. 


FROSTED   CRACKERS.— Mrs.   Luther   Severance. 
The  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff;  stir  into  this  1  large  cup 


80 

of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  walnuts  chopped  fine.       Spread  on  salted 
crackers  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 


BANGOR  BROWNIES.— Mrs.  Edwin  O.  Hall. 

y2  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  j/2 
cup  of  flour,  2  squares  of  melted  chocolate,  ]/2  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts.  Mix  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  nuts,  pour  the 
mixture  into  a  buttered  baking  pan,  and  sprinkle  the  nuts  on 
top.       Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


ROLLED  OATS  MACAROONS.— Mrs.  George  P.  Cooke. 

^  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  cups  of 
rolled  oats,  2  eggs ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  buttered  pan  and  bake 
quickly.       These  are  very  nice  to  eat  with  afternoon  tea. 


MARBLE    CAKE. 

cupful  butter,  1  cupful  sugar,  y2  cupful 
sweet  milk,  iy  cupfuls  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  3 
egg  whites,  2  or  3  drops  almond  extract.  (Cream  butter,  then 
add  the  sugar ;)  cream  very  light.  Sift  flour  several  times 
with  the  baking  powder ;  stir  a  little  into  the  butter  and  sugar. 
Alternate  the  milk  and  flour  until  all  is  in,  then  add  the  flavor- 
ing and  stiffy-beaten  egg  whites.  When  ready  to  put  into  the 
pan  beat  for  ten  minutes.) 

DARK  PART:  y  cupful  butter,  y4  cupful  sugar,  y2  cupful 
clear  strong  coffee,  2  egg  yolks,  1%  cupfuls  flour,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder,  a  few  drops  vanilla,  1  teaspoonful  cinna- 
mon, y2  teaspoonful  allspice,  %  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg  and 
cloves.  (Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  egg 
yolks,  beat  until  very  light.  Add  the  coffee,  alternating  with 
the  flour,  (sifted  several  times  with  the  baking  powder  and 
spices).  Add  flavoring,  beat  ten  minutes.  Put  the  batters 
into  a  buttered  loaf-cake  pan  in  alternate  spoonfuls.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven ;  when  done,  leave  in  pan  fifteen  minutes  then 
turn  out  on  a  rack  and  cool.  (This  should  not  be  cut  for  24 
hours  and  is  better  with  icing.) 


81 

SPICE  CAKE.— Mrs.  S.  W.  Smith. 
One  cupful  butter.  2  cupfuls  sugar,  4  eggs,  i/2  cupful  clear 
black  coffee.  y2  cupful  sweet  milk.  3  cupfuls  flour,  y2  cupful 
cornstarch,  4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  2  teaspoonfuls 
ground  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  allspice,  /2  teaspoonful  ground 
cloves  and  a  little  vanilla.  (Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  little 
at  a  time,  then  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  Beat  until  light  '  com- 
bine the  coffee  and  sweet  milk ;  add  to  the  first  mixture,  alter- 
nating with  the  flour  and  cornstarch  previously  sifted  three 
times  with  the  baking  powder  and  spices.  Add  flavoring, 
then  the  stiffly-beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  immediately  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven.  This  cake  may  be  baked  in  a  loaf  or  two 
layers  and  put  together  with  a  white  icing.) 


ICINGS 


COMMON  FROSTING. 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  not  stiff,  1  cup  granu- 
lated sugar  with  a  teaspoonful  water  to  moisten.  Beat  eggs 
and  sugar  together  in  a  bowl,  and  put  over  the  boiling  tea- 
kettle and  stir  till  it  comes  to  a  wax.  Then  stir  it  in  the  air 
till  partially  cool.  Put  on  with  a  clean  knife  wet  in  cold  water. 
Put  on  warm,  as  it  dries  more  quickly  and  adheres  better. 
Enough  for  two  cakes. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

The  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  then  beat  in  a  teacup 
of  powdered  sugar  which  has  been  mixed  with  y2  pound 
grated  chocolate.  Flavor  with  6  teaspoonfuls  vanilla.  After 
this  icing  is  put  on  the  cake,  set  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes 
to  harden. 


CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs  (whites),  and 
5  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  powdered  and  sifted.  To  be  put 
on  the  cake  when  hot. 


82 

FROSTING  WITHOUT  EGGS.— Mrs.  Dr.  Raymond,  Kau. 
One  cup  of  white  sugar  and  5  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.     Boil 
5  minutes,  stir  until  cold,  and  put  on  a  cold  cake. 


KISSES.— Mrs.  Dr.  Raymond,  Kau. 
One  cup  sugar,  ll/2  cups  flour,  scant  x/2  cup  each  of  butter 
and  milk,  2  eggs,  iy2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the 
milk  and  the  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  is  well  mixed. 
Flavor  and  drop  in  small  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin,  allow- 
ing room  for  each  to  spread.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 


KISSES. 

Half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs  (whites  only). 
flavor  with  a  very  little  almond.  Beat  the  eggs  to  the  stiffest 
form  possible ;  add  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  flavor,  and  drop 
on  buttered  paper.       Bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 


BOILED  FROSTING.— Mrs.  Spencer. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  boiled  with  half  a  cup  of  water,  until  it 
will  draw  in  long  strings.  Then  turn  slowly  on  to  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  beat  briskly  while  stirring  in. the 
boiling  sugar.       Flavor,  and  spread  while  hot. 

N.  B. — In  all  recipes  where  yeast  is  called  for,  use  1  cake 
of  compressed  yeast,  mixed  with  1  cup  of  water. 


PASTRY 


MINCE  MEAT.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 
One  large  cup  of  boiled  tongue  chopped  fine,  2  large  cups  of 
apples  chopped  fine,  two  cups  of  stoned  raisins,  1  cup  of  Sul- 
tana raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1%  CUPS  suet>  1  CUP  mixed  fruit 
(y2  citron,   %  each  lemon  and  orange  peel),   1   cup  molasses; 


83 

add  sugar  to  taste;  1  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon,  y2  nutmeg, 
cloves  to  taste,  a  little  wine  or  brandy.  Moisten  with  boiled  cider, 
the  spiced  vinegar  in  which  sweet  pickles  have  been  made,  or 
fruit  juice,  or  some  of  each ;  add  bits  of  butter  when  making 
the  pie. 


SLICED  PAPAIA  PIE.— Mrs.  Kittrdge. 
Slice  the  fruit,  a  little  under-ripe,  as  you  would  ripe  apples. 
Pile  the  pie-plates  and  squeeze  over  the  fruit  the  juice  of  a  lime ; 
add  sugar,  ]/2  cup  to  a  pie.  Cover  with  an  upper  crust  and  bake. 
Papaia  can  also  be  used  like  squash  for  pies. 


BANANA  PIE.— Miss  S.  E.  Emerson. 

For  this  pie  the  variety  called  Iho  lena  is  the  best  to  use.  Take 
5  well-ripened  bananas,  slice  very  thin  or  chop  quite  fine ;  y2 
cup  sugar,  the  pulp  of  4  or  5  tamarinds  soaked  in  Y\  cup  warm 
water,  or  the  juice  of  2  Chinese  oranges,  1  tablespoonful  of 
cream  or  a  small  lump  of  butter,  1  pinch  of  mace  or  nutmeg  and 
y2  tablespoon  flour.  Pour  this  filling  into  a  pie-tin  lined  with 
crust,  cover  with  a  thin  crust  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This 
does  not  make  a  large  quantity,  but  enough  for  experiments. 
Some  grate  a  little  cracker  over  the  tarts  or  pies  before  baking. 
Some  prefer  this  without  the  upper  crust,  or  with  narrow  strips 
like  cranberry  tarts. 


A  GOOD  PIE  CRUST.— (Two  Pies). 

One  pound  flour,  ^4  pound  lard,  y2  pound  butter,  cooled  on 
ice,  %  teaspoonful  salt.  Rub  the  flour,  salt  and  lard  well  to- 
gether, then  add  as.  much  water  as  will  bind  it  well  together. 
Strew  the  pastry  board  with  flour,  and  roll  the  paste  to  half 
an  inch  thickness.  Divide  the  butter  into  three  parts,  spread 
one  evenly  over  the  paste,  fold  it  up,  dredge  a  little  flour  over 
it,  roll  out  again  spreading  another  portion  of  the  butter  as  be- 
fore until  all  is  used.       Cool  on  the  ice  before  using. 


POT  PIE  CRUST.— Mrs.  Jas.  Pratt,  Albany. 
One  quart   flour,   3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  butter  size 


84 

of  an  egg;  wet  it  with  milk  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  stiff 
as  biscuits,  then  cut  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  steamer 
which  has  been  buttered  to  prevent  the  dough  sticking.  Steam 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  then  place  around  the  meat  in  the 
platter. 


VINEGAR  PIE.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  iy2  cups  hot  water,  1  tablespoonful  sharp 
vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  nut- 
meg, and  bake  with  1  crust.  A  meringue  for  the  top  made  of 
the  whites  of  egg  and  sugar  is  an  improvement. 


MANGO   CUSTARD   PIE.— Mrs.   Kittredge. 

Stew  and  strain  through  sieve  the  fruit,  taking  it  when  under- 
ripe. Take  1  quart  milk,  1  cup  mango,  6  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar. 
Use  more  sugar  if  desired.  Line  pie  plates  with  paste  and  fill 
with  the  mixture.       The  above  is  enough  for  two  pies. 


PAPAIA   TART.— Miss  S.   E.   Emerson. 

Cut  open  a  ripe  papaia  and  remove  the  seeds.  With  a  spoon 
scrape  out  the  yellow  pulp  from  the  rind  and  place  in  a  bowl. 
Season  this  pulp  with  the  juice  of  3  Chinese  oranges  or  2  limes, 
and  Y\  of  a  cup  of  brown  sugar.  A  spoonful  of  butter  or 
cream  improves  it.       Bake  in  a  pie-tin  with  only  an  under  crust. 

SOUR  ORANGE  PIE.— Mrs.  Kittredge. 

Juice  and  pulp  of  7  mandarin  oranges,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1 
teaspoonful  pia  dissolved  in  y2  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  This 
is  enough  for  one  pie.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  of  rich  puff 
paste,  and  cut  in  narrow  strips  and  arrange  in  diamonds  for 
the  upper  crust. 


A  GOOD  APPLE  PIE. 

Slice  tart  apples  very  thinly  and  place  them  in  a  porcelain- 
lined  saucepan  with  a  very  little  water.       Cover  them  closely 


85 

and  steam  them,  but  not  soft  enough  to  lose  their  shape.  Pour 
them  into  pie-plates  lined  with  puff  paste,  sift  plenty  of  sugar 
over  them,  dot  some  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  thinly  sliced 
citron  over  the  whole,  add  a  suspicion  of  nutmeg  and  a  very 
little  lemon  juice  if  the  apples  are  not  tart  enough.  Cover  with 
puff  paste  and  bake.  Especially  delicious  when  eaten  with 
cream. 


LEMON    TARTS. 

Two  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  y2  cup 
water,  butter  size  2  eggs,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Boil 
until  it  thickens.       When  cold,  fill  tarts. 


LEMON  CHEESE.— Miss  Hobron,  Minneapolis. 
To  %  pound  butter  put  1  pound  loaf  sugar  broken  into  small 
pieces,  6  eggs,  leaving  out  2  whites  ;  juice  and  grated  rind  of  3 
lemons,  *4  pound  of  almonds  beaten  fine.  Put  all  into  a  pan 
and  simmer  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  it  begins  to  thicken 
like  honey.  When  cold  put  into  a  jar  for  use.  This  is  a  cele- 
brated English  recipe  and  is  excellent  for  filling  tarts,  etc.  It 
is  said  to  keep  seven  years. 


LEMON  BUTTER.— Mrs.  L.  McCully. 
Lemon  butter  for  filling  tarts  is  made  of  1  cup  of  white  sugar, 
3  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg,  the  juice  and  rind  of  1 
large  lemon.  Put  this  all,  after  beating  it  well,  into  a  bright 
basin  and  set  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Stir  it  constantly 
until  it  is  thick.  Small  cakes  are  nice  if  split  and  put  together 
with  this  jelly.       It  is  also  very  nice  as  a  filling  for  layer  cake. 


SQUASH  PIE.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 
One  pint  of  stewed  squash,  4  eggs,  1  even  tablespoonful  of 
ground  ginger,  y2  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  J/2  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  \yA  cups  of  brown  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Stir  all  together  with  a  pint  of  milk.  This  is  enough 
for  two  thick  pies. 


86 


LEMON  PIE. 


Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  lemon,  3  eggs,  separate  whites  from  the 
yolks,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Cream 
the  sugar,  lemon  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  flour,  then 
the  hot  water  and  set  it  over  the  fire  to  thicken.  Line  a  plate 
with  pie  crust  and  bake;  fill  this  shell  with  the  mixture,  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  from  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  set  this  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


A  DELICIOUS  PUDDING.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Parke. 

Four  eggs,  yolks  beaten  separately  with  4  tablespoonfuls 
flour  until  very  light.  Add  %  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  mix 
gradually  1  quart  of  rich  milk  with  this  batter.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  last.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  pudding  dish,  and  stand  in  hot  water.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Sauce 

One  cup  powdered  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter ;  rub  them 
to  a  cream,  add  the  white  of  1  egg  well  beaten,  nutmeg.  When 
ready  to  serve,  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water;  flavor 
to  taste. 


MONTEREY  PUDDING.— Mrs.  Kittredge. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  coffee-cup  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
sugar,  y2  cup  molasses,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice,  1  nutmeg  grated  and  a  little  salt, 
1  cup  stoned  raisins,  y2  each  chopped  citron  and  currants.  Put 
in  pudding  boiler  and  boil  2  or  3  hours. 


COLD    SAUCE. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  cream. 
Beat  to  a  cream ;  add  a  little  mace  or  nutmeg,  or  a  spoonful 
of  jelly  beaten  well  into  the  sauce. 


87 


BIRD  NEST  PUDDING. 


Soak  a  coffee  cup  of  tapioca  in  three  cups  of  water  over- 
night. Add  one  cup  of  water  and  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  in 
a  little  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  white  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lime. 
Peel  and  core  five  apples,  and  place  in  a  deep  dish.  Fill  the 
hollows  with  sugar,  then  pour  over  the  tapioca.  Bake  till  the 
apples  are  soft.       Serve  with  thin  cream. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  currants,  1  cup  of  raisins,  %  oi 
a  cup  of  suet,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  of  soda, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Steam  3  hours  or  boil  2y2  hours  in 
a  buttered  mold  or  floured  cloth. 


THE  QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of  milk.  1  cup  of  sugar. 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  grated  lemon.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  cool  a  little,  then  spread  on  a  layer 
of  jelly.  Beat  the  whites  well,  then  stir  into  them  a  cup  of 
sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  and  spread  over  with  jelly.  Brown 
slightly  in  the  oven.       Eat  cold  with  cream. 


AUNT  MARY'S  PAPAIA  PUDDING. 

Cook  the  half  of  a  ripe  papaia  for  one  pudding.  After 
cooking  the  fruit  till  quite  soft,  strain  off  the  water,  season 
with  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  and  the  juice  of  one  Chinese  orange. 
Then  beat  up  three  eggs  with  milk  to  make  a  custard,  sweeten 
to  taste  and  mix  with  the  fruit.       Bake  well  and  brown. 


SNOW  PUDDING.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

Half  of  an  ounce  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  warm 
water,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  2y2  cups  of  sugar.  Set  it 
away  to  cool.       When  it  begins  to  thicken,  stir  in  the  whites 


88 

of  5  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  sweetened.  Put  away  to  cool  in  a 
mould.  Take  the  yolks,  a  pint  of  milk,  rind  of  a  lemon  and 
a  little  salt,  and  make  a  boiled  custard,  and  pour  around  the 
white  part  in  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served  in. 


FIG   PUDDING.— Mrs.  J.   D.   Brewer. 

One  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  1  pound  flour,  y2  loaf  bread,  1 
pound  dried  figs  chopped,  \y2  cups  molasses.  To  be  steamed 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  eaten  with  hard  sauce.  Mix 
with  milk  or  water. 


A  VERY  DELICATE  RICE  PUDDING.— Mrs.  B.  H.  Austin 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  boiled  rice  and  1  pint  of  sweet 
milk.  When  boiling  hot  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
and  5  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  stir  on  the  fire  until 
thickened  like  custard.  Flavor- with  lemon  and  pour  into  a 
dish  ready  for  the  cake.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  sweetened  and  flavored,  cover  the  top,  and 
brown  delicately  in  the  oven.  This  is  far  superior  to  a  baked 
rice  pudding.       To  be  eaten  cold. 


COCOANUT  PUDDING.— Mrs.  Dudoit. 

Soak  3  tablespoonfuls  tapioca  in  cold  water  over  night,  boil 
1  quart  of  milk,  add  tapioca  and  boil  5  minutes,  then  add  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  dessicated  cocoanut,  boil  10  minutes, 
turn  into  a  dish  to  cool,  beat  the  whites  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  to  a  foam,  spread  on  the  top  and  scatter  over  with 
cocoanut,  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  a  little.  A  spoonful  of 
sugar  in  the  tapioca  custard  improves  it. 


COCOANUT  PUDDING.— Mrs.  S.  E.  Bishop. 

One  heaping  cup  of  finest  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  wet  in  cold  water,  1  cocoanut  pared  and  grated,  y2 
cup  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  6  eggs,  nutmeg 
and  flavoring. 


89 


Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk,  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  put  with  the  beaten  yolks.  Beat  up  this  mixture  with 
the  soaked  bread  crumbs,  stir  in  the  corn  starch;  then  the 
whisked  whites  and  flavoring;  last  the  grated  cocoanut.  Beat 
hard  1  minute,  pour  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  the  same  it  is 
to  be  served  in.       Bake  in  moderate  oven  y  of  an  hour. 


INDIAN  PUDDING.— Mrs.   C.   C.   Armstrong. 
Six  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  meal,  2  of  butter,  1  tea  cup  of 
molasses,  2  spoons  of  ginger  and  a  little  salt.  Pour  into  a  quart 
of  boiling  milk.       When  put  into  the  oven  pour  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water.       Bake  slowly. 


PUFF  PUDDING.— Mrs.  Hascall  and  Mrs.  Atherton. 
One  quart  milk,  6  eggs,  a  little  salt,   and  6    tablespoonfuls 
flour.       Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  whites  and  yolks  separately, 
then  put  them  together.       Add  the  flour  and  last  the  milk.  Bake 
about  20  minutes,  and  serve  immediately. 


SPICED   PUDDING.— Mrs.  J.   B.   Atherton. 
One  cup  molasses  or  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  3  cups  flour, 
1  cup  raisins,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  soda.       Boil  \y2  hours  and 
eat  with  hot  sauce.       Spice. 


MRS.  SARAH  GILMAN'S  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  5-cent  loaf  .of  stale  bread  well  soaked  in  1  pint  milk,  y2 
pound  raisins,  J/2  cup  currants,  small  piece  citron  cut  thin,  full 
cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  y2  teaspoonful  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg,  V2  cup  butter  and  4  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven  three  or  four  hours.  Stir  twice  during  the  first 
hour  and  a  half. 


BANANA   PUDDING.— Mrs.   Hoffman. 
Stew  bananas  and  strain  into  the  bake-pan  and  sweeten.  Melt 
1  tablespoon  buttter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoons  flour,   1 


90 

cup  milk.  Stir  until  cool,  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  beat 
the  whites  to  a  froth  and  add  them.  Stir  in  thoroughly  spice 
and  sugar.  Pour  on  top  of  the  bananas  and  bake  about  30 
minutes. 


COTTAGE  PUDDING.— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  spoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups 
of  flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking-powder.  Bake  %  hour. 
Serve  with  sauce. 


SAGO  AND  STRAWBERRY  PUDDING.— Mrs.  S.  C.  Allen. 

One  cup  sago,  wash,  and  add  4  cups  cold  water,  2  cups 
strawberry  juice,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  boil  until  the  sago 
is  cooked,  then  mould.  Eat  with  custard  for  sauce,  or  it  is 
nice  with  ice  cream. 


POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING.— Mrs.  B.  H.  Austin. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  syrup,  3  cups 
flour,  2  cups  seeded  raisins,  2  cups  currants,  1  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, and  a  few  drops  of  extract  lemon  and  vanilla,  and  %  nut- 
meg.      Steam  3  hours  in  any  sort  of  pudding  dish. 

Sauce. 

One  cup  of  sugar  'and  %  CUP  water.  Boil  until  quite  thick, 
then  add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  teaspoonful  flour  well 
stirred  together  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.       Flavor. 


DELICATE  INDIAN  PUDDING.— Mrs.  W.   C.  Parke. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  2  large  teaspoonfuls  corn  meal,  4  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar  (best  brown  sugar),  1  teaspoonful  butter,  3 
eggs  thoroughly  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Boil  the  milk, 
sprinkle  the  meal  into  it,  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Beat  together  eggs,  salt,  sugar  and  V2  teaspoonful  ginger ;  stir 
the  butter  into  the  cooked  meal  and  milk.  Add  gradually  the 
tgg  mixture.  Bake  slowly  1  hour.  Eat  warm.  Cream 
poured  over  the  pudding  is  a  great  additional  relish. 


91 


PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA. 


y2  c.  min.  Tapioca,  3  c.  hot  water,  cook  till  clear.  1  pineapple, 
chopped.  Cook  with  sugar  to  taste.  Lemon  if  desired.  Cool  and 
add  to  cooled  tapioca. 


PRUNE  WHIP.— (Excellent).— Mrs.  Edwin  O.  Hall. 

One-half  lb.  of  prunes,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  whites 
only  of  3  eggs,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Soak  the  prunes 
over  night  and  stew  until  tender,  add  the  sugar,  cool,  then  re- 
move the  stones.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  add 
these  to  the  rest  of  the  mixture  and  beat  the  whole  until  you 
can  turn  the  bowl  upside  down  without  spilling  the  contents. 
This  is  the  secret  of  complete  success  in  this  case.  Put  the 
mixture  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  15  or  20  minutes. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream.      It  should  be  light  and  spongy. 


RICE  PUDDING.— (Without  Eggs).— Mrs.  Edwi     O.  Hall. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  scant  cup  of  rice,  1  cup  of  sugar,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg.  1  cup  of  raisins,  a  little  salt.  Put  all 
into  a  pudding  dish  and  set  the  dish  in  a  steamer ;  steam  from 
3  to  4  hours,  stirring  occasionally  during  the  first  hour  to 
prevent  the  raisins  from  setting  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Eat 
cold  with  cream. 


BOSTON  LEMON  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  fine  breadcrumbs,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
half  cup  butter,  the  juice  of  three  large  limes.  One  teaspoon  of 
lemon  extract,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  and  five  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  sep- 
arately. Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  add  the  beaten 
yolks  and  lemon,  beat  well,  then  add  alternately  breadcrumbs, 
flour  and  beaten  whites,  add  baking  powder  last  of  all.  Butter 
a  mold  with  a  cylinder  in  the  center,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  steam  steadily  for  two  hours. 
Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  the  following  mixture: 
Rub  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  three  table- 


92 

spoons  of  butter,  the  juice  of  two  limes,  the  whipped  white  of 
one  egg,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.— (Good).— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

One  pint  of  milk,  5  even  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate, 
10  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread,  4  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  iy2  cups  sugar,  the  bread  and 
chocolate  with  a  little  of  the  milk  together.  Boil  the  rest  of 
the  milk  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and  let  it  thicken,  sirring 
all  the  time.  Put  a  little  vanilla*  in.  Put  in  a  pudding  dish 
and  bake  a  few  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  put  on  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


COLD  PUDDING.— Mrs.  W.  C.   Parke. 

Boil  1  pint  of  milk,  beat  2  eggs,  stir  into  them  3  tablespoon- 
fuls flour  till  quite  smooth ;  also  beat  in  a  dessertspoonful  of 
butter;  add  the  mixture  gradually  to  the  milk,  as  soon  as  it 
reaches  boiling  point,  add  a  little  salt.  Cook  10  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Turn  into  a  pudding  dish  and  serve 
very  cold  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  the  top,  and  with 
cream.  If  cream  is  not  to  be  had,  omit  the  sifted  sugar  and 
use  jelly  sauce. 


CREAM  TAPIOCA  PUDDING.— Mrs  Charles  Alexander. 

Soak  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  water  3  hours,  put  the 
same  into  1  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  15  minutes.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs  in  1  cup  sugar,  and  turn  into  the  pudding 
5  minutes  before  done.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Take 
the  whites  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  white 
sugar  and  pour  over  the  pudding.  Bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Eat  cold. 


CUSTARD  SOUFFLE.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

Two  scant  tablespoonfuls  butter,  2  of  flour,  2  of  sugar,  1  cup 
milk  and  4  eggs.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil ;  beat  the  flour 
and  butter  together ;  add  to  them  gradually  the  boiling  milk, 


93 


and  cook  8  minutes,  stirring  often.  Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  together,  add  to  the  cooked  mixture  and  set  away 
to  cool.  When  cool  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  to  the  mixture,  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  20  minutes, 
and  serve  immediately  with  cream  sauce. 


PEACH  PUDDING.— Miss  Laura  Greene,  Makawao. 

Pare,  slice  and  stew  ripe  peaches,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Take 
2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  pia,  or  arrowroot,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
a  little  sugar ;  wet  the  arrowroot  with  cold  water,  but  do  not 
make  it  too  thin.  Let  this  stand  a  while,  then  pour  on  boiling 
water  to  make  it  quite  thick;  add  the  peaches  hot,  and  stir 
well.  Let  this  stand  till  very  cold,  and  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar. 


POT-PIE   OF   OHIAS   OR  OHELOES.— Miss  Laura  Greene. 

Place  the  fruit  in  a  round  pot  which  has  been  well  buttered. 
Ohias  should  be  pared  and  sliced ;  add  butter,  sugar  and  spices. 
A  little  tamarind  improves  ohias.  Take  a  lump  of  raised 
dough  like  bread ;  roll  this  rather  long  and  narrow  and  put 
this  over  the  fruit,  around  the  sides  of  a  pot,  leaving  it  open 
in  the  middle.  Put  a  little  water  in  the  pot  to  keep  the  fruit 
from  burning;  cover  tightly  and  do  not  open  till  done,  which 
should  be  in  an  hour,  over  a  slow  steady  fire.  The  pot  should 
be  gently  turned  if  necessary.  Eat  hot,  with  butter  and  sugar. 
Dried  fruits  may  be  used,  but  should  be  soaked  over  night. 


MANGO  BROWN  BETTY.— Miss  Laura  Greene. 

Pare  and  slice  very  thin,  green  mangoes.  Place  a  layer  of 
fruit  in  a  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  bits 
of  butter  and  fine  bread  crumbs ;  repeat  till  the  dish  is  full ;  let 
the  top  layer  be  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  one  hour.  A  little 
water  will  keep  the  fruit  from  burning. 

Sauce  for  Same. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  each  of  corn  starch  and 
butter,  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  3  minutes.  Flavor  with 
vanilla. 


94 

BAKED   MULBERRY  PUDDING. 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  a  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs, 
1  cup  of  milk  (sweet),  3  cups  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  2  cups  of  berries.  Bake  an  hour  and  serve 
with  liquid  sauce.  , 


AMBROSIA.— Mrs.  Jas.  Pratt. 

A  layer  of  pineapples,  sliced ;  a  layer  of  oranges,  sliced,  al- 
ternated with  grated  cocoanut  and  sugar  till  the  dish  is  full ; 
final  layer  should  be  cocoanut  or  sugar. 

This  can  be  served  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla. 


CRACKER  PUDDING.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  Boston  crackers,  or  five  of 
bread  crumbs,  2  cups  of  milk,  3  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut. Pour  the  milk  onto  the  crumbs  and  let  it  stand  till  well 
soaked.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  with  the  butter 
to  the  soaked  crumbs  and  when  well  blended  fold  in  the  well 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  stirring  the  mixture  two 
or  three  time  before  it  browns  to  prevent  the  crumbs  settling 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING.— Mrs.  Williamson,  Manchester, 

N.  H. 

One  pound  of  suet,  1  lb.  raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  %  lb.  citron,  1 
grated  potato,  1  wine  glass  of  brandy,  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
1  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  grated  carrot; 
spices,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  each.  Wet  with 
cold  water,  pour  into  a  mould  or  cloth  and  boil  hard  for  6 
hours. 


SOUFFLE  PUDDING.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  spoonful  of  sugar,  butter 
the  size  of  an  tgg.     Scald  the  milk,  add  flour  and  butter  and 


95 

stir  till  they  do  not  stick  to  the  saucepan.  When  cold  add  one 
at  a  time  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  stiff, 
and  fold  them  into  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve 
immediately  in  the  same  pan. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


FOR   BATTER    PUDDING. 

One  tablespoonful  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  with  2  of  sugar. 
Stir  to  a  foam  and  add  1  teaspoonful  corn  starch  and  l/2  cup 
boiling  water.       Flavor  to  taste. 


FOAM  SAUCE.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

One  teacup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  beaten  together  till  smooth.  Then  place  over  the  fire 
and  stir  in  rapidly  3  gills  of  boiling  water,  and  soda  about  the 
size  of  a  pea.       Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  to  taste. 


HARD  SAUCE.— Mrs.  McCully. 

One  cup  sugar  and  ]/2  cup  butter,  beaten  together  till  light ; 
then  add  the  white  of  1  tgg  beaten  stiff.  Grate  nutmeg  over 
the  top. 


MILK  PUDDING  SAUCE.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  \l/2  cups  fine  sugar  and  a  little 
salt;  beat  all  together  till  smooth.  Flavor  to  taste.  Just  before 
sending  to  table,  add  5  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  milk. 


PUDDING   SAUCES.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

1.  One  cup  sugar,   1   cup  whipped  cream;   flavor. 

2.  Whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten ;  add  slowly  1  cup  powdered 


96 

sugar;  beat  till  very   stiff   and   flavor   with   lemon  juice  or   a 
spoonful  of  jelly.       With  the  jelly  it  requires  longer  beating. 

3.  One  cup  sugar,  ]/2  cup  butter,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Rub 
butter  and  sugar  together  until  it  creams,  then  add  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  set  over  the  teakettle  to  heat(  but 
not  to  boil),  stirring  constantly.       Flavor  to  taste. 


STRAWBERRY   SAUCE.      . 

One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3  tins*  of  straw- 
berries, crushed  and  strained,  the  whites  of  2  eggs.  Mix  well 
and  stand  the  bowl  in  hot  water,  stirring  the  mixture  con- 
stantly till  smooth.      This  sauce  is  also  good  with  boiled  rice. 

*(A  tin  of  strawberries  is  one  of  the  small  tins  such  as  the 
venders  bring  to  our  doors.  They  hold  not  much  more  than 
a  good  tumblerful. — Ed.) 


DESSERTS 


LEMON  JELLY.— Mrs.  Van  Cleve,  Minneapolis. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  1  pint  boiling  water,  2  cups  sugar, 
juice  of  2  lemons  (or  of  3  or  4  limes).  Grate  in  a  little  of 
the  rind  and  strain  into  a  mould. 


CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE.— Mrs.  T.  H.  Hobron. 

Soak  one  box  of  gelatine  for  an  hour  in  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Put  1  pint  of  milk  into  a  tin  pail  and  set  in  a  kettle 
with  boiling  water  to  boil.  Scrape  2  ounces  of  chocolate  and 
mix  with  8  spoonfuls  of  sugar;  wet  this  with  2  spoonfuls  of 
boiling  milk,  and  rub  until  smooth,  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Now 
stir  in  the  gelatine  and  then  the  yolks  of  5  eggs.  Stir  10  min- 
utes.      When  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla. 


97 

GUAVA  WHIPS.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Parke. 

Take  ripe  guavas,  sweet  and  sour  mixed.  Wipe  these  with  a 
cloth ;  if  not  perfectly  clean,  cut  off  the  ends  with  a  silver  knife ; 
mash  them  well,  strain  them  through  any  cloth  that  will  allow 
the  juice  and  pulp  to  pass  through,  but  not  the  seeds.  Beat 
into  the  pulp  .powdered  sugar,  about  1  cupful  to  a  pint  of  the 
guava.  *  It  is  difficult  to  give  the  exact  amount  of  sugar  to 
be  used.  It  is  best  to  sweeten  to  taste.  Serve  in  jelly  glasses, 
very  cold.  (The  guava  may  be  strained  through  a  fine  hair 
sieve. — Ed.) 


MANGO  PUDDING.— Mrs.  C.  B.  Hofgaard. 

Two  big  green  mangoes,  2y2  cups  water,  half  cup  sugar  (good 
measure),  half  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon,  3  tablespoons 
(heaping)  sago.  For  six  people.  Method  as  in  Bird  Nest  Pud- 
ding.   Page  86. 


APPLE  SNOW. 

Four  large  sour  apples,  bake  and  scrape  out  the  pulp,  add 
half  coffee  cup  of  sugar  and  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  together 
until  very  light.     Delicious  with  cake  for  dessert  or  for  tea. 


MERINGUE  OF  PAPAIA.— Mrs.  Kittredge. 

Take  the  fruit  a  little  under-ripe,  steam  till  quite  soft,  put 
through  a  sieve ;  then  take  2  cups  of  the  sifted  papaia,  1  coffee 
cup  sugar,  1  large  tablespoonful  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  juice 
of  2  limes  and  rinds  grated.  Make  a  rich  butter  paste  and 
line  2  pie-plates ;  put  in  the  mixture  and  let  it  bake  till  the  paste 
is  done.  While  baking,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  light  and 
add  1  teacup  sifted  sugar.  Remove  the  pies  from  the  oven  and 
spread  this  frosting  on  them  and  return  to  the  oven  till  the 
frosting  is  nicely  browned. 


BAKED  PAPAIA.— Mrs.  Hiram  Bingham. 
Take  the  ripe   fruit;   halve  it  and  scrape  out  all   the  seeds. 


Then  fill  the  spaces  with  good  vinegar  (lemon  or  lime  juice 
would  probably  be  nicer  if  obtainable)  and  white  sugar.  Bake 
until  quite  soft,  and  eat  hot ;  or  the  papaia  may  be  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  mix  with  acid  and  sugar,  and  baked  in  a  deep  dish 
with  an  upper  crust,  as  a  pie. 


ORANGE  MERINGUE.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

Five  or  six  oranges,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  pint  milk,  1  table- 
spoonful  corn  starch.  Pare  the  oranges  and  slice  them  in  a 
pudding  dish,  taking  care  to  remove  all  seeds.  Sprinkle  the 
cup  of  sugar  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  while  you  prepare 
the  following:  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling  and  thicken  with  the 
corn  starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Let  it  boil  a  few  min- 
utes, then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Let  the  custard 
cool  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the  oranges.  Cover  this 
with  a  meringue  of  the  beaten  whites  mixed  with  2  or  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  it  in  the  oven  till  of  a  deli- 
cate brown.  To  be  eaten  cold.  Strawberries  are  very  nice 
prepared  in  this  way,  only  taking  care  to  have  the  custard  quite 
cool  when  poured  over  them,  that  they  may  be  heated  as  little 
as  possible. 


PEACH  MERINGUE.— Mrs.  Chas.  Alexander. 

Drain  off  the  syrup  from  a  can  of  peaches  and  put  them  in 
a  pudding  dish.  Make  a  soft  custard  of  the  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
a  quart  of  milk  and  1  teacup  of  sugar ;  when  cold,  pour  over  the 
peaches.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  5  tablespoonfuls 
of  white  sugar  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 


MANGO  MERINGUE.— Mrs.  Hascall. 

Two  or  three  cups  of  stewed  green  mangoes  (not  too  sweet) 
flavored  with  lemon  or  a  little  nutmeg  and  poured  into  a  shal- 
low baking  dish.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites 
of  3  eggs  and  2  tablespoonfus  of  powdered  sugar.  Brown 
slightly,  and  eat  cold  for  luncheon,  or  with  nice  cake  for  dessert. 


99 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

One  quart  of  flour,  a  cup  of  butter,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  the  white  of  an  egg.  Rub 
the  butter  into  the  flour,  then  add  the  salt.  Beat  the  white  of 
the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  with  cold  milk  sufficient  to 
make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Make  the  cakes  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  on  pie-tins  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
done,  cut  around  the  edges  and  split  them,  place  a  thick  layer 
of  well  sugared  strawberries  between,  sift  powdered  sugar  over 
the  top,  and  serve  with  cream.  The  foregoing  is  a  recipe 
given  in  the  Ladies'  Home  Journal. 


GERMAN  PUFFS.— Mrs.  McCully. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  5  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  6  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  3.  Bake  in  buttered 
cups,  half  filled,  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Sauce. 

Beat  the  whites  of  5  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  1  cup  powdered 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  oranges.  Turn  the  pudding  from  the 
cups  onto  a  platter  and  cover  with  sauce. 


TAPIOCA  CREAM.— Mrs.  W.  F.  Allen. 

Swell  a  teacup  of  tapioca  in  milk.  When  swollen  add  a  quart 
of  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste.  Flavor,  and 
boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  The  last  thing  before  taking  it 
from  the  fire  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Eat 
cold  with  sauce. 


ROYAL   CREAM.— Mrs.   Cruzan. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  gelatine  which  has  been 
soaked  and  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,,  4  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  3  eggs,  vanilla  flavor.  Put  the  gelatine  in  the  milk 
and  let  it  stand  a  half  hour.  Beat  the  yolks  and  the  sugar  to- 
gether and  stir  into  the  milk.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  farina- 
kettle  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  like  soft  custard  (about 


100 

15  minutes).  Have  ready  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  the  instant  the  kettle  is  taken  from  the  fire  stir  them  in 
quickly  and  thoroughly;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  turn  into 
a  mould  and  set  on  ice. 


STRAWBERRY  CREAM.— Mrs.  B.  F.  Dillingham. 
Pick  the  hulls  from  a  box  of  berries  and  bruise  them  with 
a  wooden  spoon  with  6  ounces  of  powdered  sugar ;  rub  through 
a  clean  hair  sieve,  then  add  1  pint  whipped  cream  and  1  tables- 
poon gelatin  which  has  been  soaked  and  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water,  and  mix  with  the  strained  strawberries  and  put  into 
a  mould  to  harden. 


CHOCOLATE   CREAM.— (Good).— Mrs.  W.  D.  Alexander. 

Boil  1  quart  milk  with  a  little  salt  in  a  double  boiler.  When 
hot,  stir  in  3  tablespoonfuls  flour  mixed  smooth  with  a^  little 
milk.  When  it  thickens  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a 
cream,  with  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cook  3  or  4  minutes. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  tgg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  beat  well, 
then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate ;  spread  over  the 
cream  and  brown.  Serve  cold.  This  is  good  made  without 
the  chocolate,  and  flavored  with  lemon. 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD.— Mrs.  E.  A.  Jones. 
Put  4  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  in  a  clean  fry-pan 
and  stir  over  a  moderate  fire  till  it  melts;  be  careful  not  to  let 
it  get  too  dark.  Divide  this  into  6  moulds  or  cups,  turning 
each  so  that  the  bottom  and  part  of  the  sides  may  be  coated 
with  the  caramel.  Beat  together  in  a  bowl  3  eggs  and  4  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar ;  add  \y2  cups  of  milk  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Fill  the  moulds  with  this  mixture,  set  them  in  a  pan 
of  warm  water  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  till  firm  in 
the  center.       Turn  out  at  once  and  serve  when  ice-cold. 


SWEET  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.— Mrs.  P.  C  Jones. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  1%  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 


101 

ter,  1  egg,  J/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  pan  and  split  the  cake  open  to  receive  the 
berries. 


ICE  CREAM  AND  OTHER  ICES 


ICE  CREAM.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

One  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  sugar. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  as  boiled  custard.  When  cool  add  1 
pint  of  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Put  this  into 
a  freezer  with  the  unbeaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  freeze  as 
usual. 

Caramel  Sauce  for  Above. 

One-quarter  cake  of  unsweetened  chocolate  (2  bars),  1/2  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick  as"  molasses. 


FROZEN   BANANAS. 

Cut  six  large,  firm  bananas  into  thin  slices,  add  half  a  pound 
of  powdered  sugar  and  let  them  stand  half  an  hour.  Then  add 
a  quart  of  water  and  the  grated  peel  of  lemon.  When  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  pour  into  a  freezer  and  freeze  as  you  would 
ice  cream. 


PINEAPPLE  SHERBET.— Mrs.  McCully. 

One  quart  of  grated  pineapples,  5  pints  of  water,  the  juice  of 
4  lemons ;  make  very  sweet,  put  into  freezer,  then  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  9  eggs  and  freeze. 


ORANGE  ICE.— Mrs.  McCully. 

Two  parts  or  orange  juice  and  one  part  water,  sweetened  very 
sweet.  Put  into  the  freezer,  and  while  freezing  stir  often. 
When  nearly  frozen  add  to  each  quart  of  the  orange  water  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stirring  it  in  well 


102 

Lime  water  ice  may  be  made  by  substituting  limes  for  oranges, 
and  adding  a  larger  proportion  of  water. 


STRAWBERRY   ICE.— Mrs.   J.  S.  McGrew. 

Ten  tins  of  strawberries,  3  quarts  of  water,  4  pounds  of 
sugar.  Allow  the  strawberries  and  sugar  to  boil  about  5 
minutes,  or  merely  heat  thoroughly  through,  then  rub  the  pulp 
and  all  through  a  sieve.  After  which  add  the  water  and 
freeze  like  ice  cream. 


MILK  SHERBET.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

One  quart  of  milk,  juice  of  4  lemons,  \l/2  cup  of  sugar.  Put 
the  juice  and  grated  skin  of  lemons  together  in  a  bowl  and  set 
it  in  the  ice  chest,  or  a  cool  place ;  cool  the  milk  also,  and  when 
ready  to  freeze  mix  all  together.  To  make  it  richer  use  less 
milk  and  substitute  cream.       Condensed  cream  may  be  used. 


TAPIOCA   ICE. 

One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night ;  in  the  morning  put 
it  on  the  stove,  and  when  boiling  hot,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
boil  till  clear.  Chop  1  pineapple,  pour  the  tapioca  over  it,  stir 
together,  and  put  into  a  mould.  When  cold,  serve  with  sugar 
and  cream. 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 


PRESERVED    FIGS.— Mrs.    Hascall. 

Ten  pounds  ripe  figs,  5  pounds  sugar,  a  little  ginger-root, 
the  juice  of  three  limes,  grated  peel  of  one.  Put  the  fruit  in 
a  preserving  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  until  tender 
(about  1  hour).  Take  them  out  and  lay  on  a  sieve  over  night 
to  drain.  In  the  morning  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  by  adding 
a  very  little  water  and  setting  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  till 


103 

dissolved.  Then  put  in  the  figs  and  boil  about  20  minutes, 
adding  the  lemon  and  ginger.  If  the  syrup  is  not  thick 
enough,  take  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the  syrup  until  sufficiently 
thick. 


MANDARIN  ORANGE  PRESERVE.— Mrs.  Kittredge 

Soak  the  oranges  in  water  three  or  four  days,  changing  the 
water  night  and  morning.  Then  open  the  oranges  at  one  end 
with  a  pointed  silver  knife  and  carefully  remove  the  seeds  with- 
out breaking  the  orange.  Weigh  the  oranges,  and  add  the 
weight  and  a  half  as  much  more  in  sugar.  Melt  the  sugar, 
add  the  oranges,  and  let  them  boil  half  or  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.       Will  keep  without  sealing. 


CRANBERRY  SAUCE.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

To   1   quart  of  berries  add   1  pint  of  sugar,   and  y2   pint  of 
water.       Let  this  boil  for  ten  minutes  only. 


PINEAPPLE  JAM.— Mrs.  W.  Whittington 

4  lbs.  pineapples  weighed  after  pealing,  coring  and  grinding 
in  a  meat-grinder,  2  oz.  green  ginger  to  the  lb.  Boil  until 
well  reduced,  then  add  ^4  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.,  a  little  salt,  and 
boil  slowly  until  a  dark  amber  color. 

It  must  be  well  cooked  and  stirred  while  cooking. 


GREEN  GRAPE  AND  MULBERRY  JAM.— Ruth  C.  Shaw. 

Pick  over  green  grapes,  wash.  Boil  slowly  for  15  minutes. 
Drain  through  jelly  bag.  Pick  over  mulberries.  To  every  cup 
of  juice  add  2  cups  of  mullberries,  boil  for  5  minutes.  Meas- 
ure, and  add  1  cup  sugar  to  every  cup  of  fruit.  Boil  hard  until 
it  jellies. 


GUAVA  MARMALADE.— Ruth  C.   Shaw. 
Cut  off  ends  of  guavas,  slice.  Add  a  little  water,  cook  until 


104 

tender,  strain  to  remove  the  seeds.  Add  two-thirds  cup  sugar 
to  every  cup  of  juice.    Boil  fast  until  it  thickens,  stirring  often. 


POHA  JAM.— Ruth  C.  Shaw. 

Pick  over  fruit,  wash,  measure.  Boil  slowly  for  about  15 
minutes.  Add  Y\  cup  sugar  to  every  cup  of  fruit.  Boil  fast' 
until  it  jellies. 


EUGENIA  JELLY.— Ruth   C.    Shaw. 

Pick  over  fruit,  wash.  Boil  for  about  15  minutes,  drain 
through  jelly  bag.  Add  1  cup  sugar  to  every  cup  of  fruit  juice. 
Boil  hard  until  it  jellies. 


AFRICAN  MANGOSTEEN  AND  PAPAIA  JAM.— Mrs.  S.  W. 

Wilcox. 

Peal  the  mangosteens  and  chop  the  pulp  fine.  Add  a  little 
water  and  boil  until  soft.  Peel  and  slice  papaia  and  boil  with  a 
little  water.  Drain  and  strain  the  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Now 
combine  the  two  mixtures  half  and  half,  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  brown  sugar,  and  boil  down. 


ORANGE  MARMALADE.— Mrs.  Hudsped. 

3  Island  oranges,  squeeze  the  juice  rejecting  the  seed  and 
pith.  Cut  the  rinds  very  thin.  Add  juice  of  1  lemon  or  lime. 
Pour  over  the  juice  and  rinds  three  pints  of  cold  water,  then 
stand  in  a  cool  place  for  24  hours.  Boil  slowly  ^  or  1  hour 
and  add  3  lbs.  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  jellies. 


STRAWBERRY  JAM.— Mrs.  J.  A.  Hogg. 

Hull  and  wash  the  strawberries,  stew  them  without  adding 
any  water  until  tender.  Measure,  and  to  each  \y2  cups 
strawberries  add  1  cup  sugar.       Boil  for  20  minutes. 


105 

MANGO  DRINK.— Mrs.  C.  B.  Hofgaard. 

2  green  mangoes/  peeled,  sliced  and  boiled  in  J/£  cup  water 
with  y%  teaspoon  cinnamon,  until  tender.  Mash  through  seive 
and  add  2  glasses  water  and  ice,  or  iced  tea  infused  with  few 
cloves.  Serve  ice  cold.       Enough  for  1  quart. 


CHINESE   ORANGE   MARMALADE.— Mrs.   McCully. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  oranges  with  a  lemon-squeezer, 
getting  them  as  dry  as  possible.  Free  the  juice  from  the  seeds 
and  set  aside.  Cut  the  orange  skins  into  very  thin  strips  (scis- 
sors are  the  best  instrument  for  this).  When  they  are  all  cut, 
put  them  into  cold  water  over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  they 
come  to  a  boil  pour  the  water  off  through  a  colander.  Do 
this  three  times.  After  the  water  is  poured  off  the  last  time, 
add  the  juice  of  the  oranges  to  the  skins,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
boil  for  an  hour,  or  until  it  jells. 


GUAVA   MARMALADE.— Mrs.   W.    Chamberlain. 

Wash  and  cut  the  ends  off  the  guavas,  and  boil  till  soft. 
When  cool,  strain  through  a  sieve  and  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  sugar  to  the  pulp.  Cook  from  1  to  2  hours,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  prevent  it  from  burning.  If  cooked  thoroughly  it 
can  be  kept  a  year. 


DELICIOUS   GREEN    MANGO    SAUCE.— Mrs.   Kittredge. 

Take  the  fruit  when  fully  grown,  but  quite  hard  and  green; 
pare,  and  with  a  large  grater  grate  the  pulp  from  the  seed. 
Then  to  a  bowl  of  fruit  add  i/2  bowl  of  sugar — more  if  you 
prefer.  Put  in  a  close  container  and  stand  in  boiling  water 
till  the  fruit  is  thoroughly  cooked. 


GRAPE    SAUCE. 

Take  Hawaiian  grapes,  wash  them  and  pick  from  the  stalk. 
Take  two   saucepans,   squeeze  the  pulp   into  one,  and  put  the 


106 

skins  into  the  other.  To  every  cup  of  grapes,  add  to  the  pulp 
a  half  cup  of  water,  cook  this  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  through 
a  strainer  on  to  the  skins.  Cook  until  the  skins  are  tender, 
about  twenty  minutes.  Mix  one  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  with 
a  very  litttle  water.  Stir  into  the  grapes  and  cook  for  a  few 
minutes,  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  chill.  Use  for  grape 
short-cake,  or  as  a  sauce,  or  serve  with  whipped  cream,  or  pour 
over  vanilla  ice-cream,  or  mix  with  equal  quantities  of  cream 
and  freeze. 


GUAVA    JELLY. 

To  every  lb  of  Guavas  allow  1  cup  of  water,  pick  over  cut- 
ting off  the  ends  and  slice  roughly.  Put  in  a  large  container 
with  the  water,  boil  quickly  for  half  an  hour  stirring  occasion- 
ally to  keep  from  burning.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and 
strain.  Measure  the  juice,  and  put  on  the  fire  to  boil.  To 
every  two  cups  of  juice  take  one  cup  of  sugar.  Place  the 
sugar  in  a  warm  place  and  when  the  juice  has  been  boiling 
hard  fifteen  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  cook  till  it  jells,  watch- 
ing carefully.  Pour  into  sterilized  jars  and  do  not  disturb  till 
cold. 


MANGO    JELLY.— Mrs.    Atherton. 

Take  a  bucketful  of  green,  full-grown  mangoes ;  peel  and 
slice  them.  Let  stand  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  the  fruit  just 
covered  with  water  till  morning,  then  boil  20  minutes.  Drain 
off  the  liquor  through  a  colander  and  put  it  right  on  the  stove 
again  to  boil.  In  10  minutes  put  in  the  sugar,  nearly  quantity 
for  quantity,  and  boil  20  minutes  or  half  an  hour,  till  it  jells. 
Put  the  pulp  up  hot  in  glass  jars  (filling  them  full)  without 
adding  sugar,  and  use  it  for  making  pies.  It  will  keep,  if 
the  jars  are  well  filled  and  sealed,  for  six  months. 


PRESERVED  CITRON.— Mrs.  F.  S.  Lyman,  Hilo. 

Cut  the  citron  in  quarters,  remove  the  center  and  soak  the 
rind  in  cold  water  3  to  5  days,  changing  the  water  morning 
and  evening;  water  enough  to  cover  them  well.  On  the  sixth 


107 


day  put  them  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them 
and  boil  hard  for  1  hour ;  turn  off  this  water,  pour  on  a  fresh 
supply  and  boil  again  1  hour.  Take  the  peel  out  onto  a  colan- 
der to  dram,  and  prepare  a  syrup  as  for  any  other  preserve. 
When  the  syrup  is  well  boiled  down,  put  the'  peel  in  and  boil 
for  a  good  half  hour.  The  next  day  lift  out  the  citron,  boil 
the  syrup  down  once  more  and  pour  over  the  fruit;  let  this 
stand  till  next  day;  then  spread  the  peel  on  pans  in  the  sun 
to  dry.  Drying  will  take  2  or  3  days,  when  the  peel  can  be 
put  into  wide-mouthed  bottles  and  tightly  corked.  The  syrup 
is  excellent  for  cakes. 


APPLE  MERINGO.— Mrs.  T.  S.  Douglas. 
Peel  and  slice  the  fruit,  using  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  Boil  the  cores  and  peelings  for  15  minutes,  and 
strain  this  water  on  to  the  apples  and  sugar.  Let  the  whole 
boil  slowly  till  quite  thick;  then  put  it  into  jars  hot;  cover, 
and  tighten  the  covers  when  cold. 


PINEAPPLE  PRESERVE.— Mrs.  T.  S.  Douglas. 
Pare  and  cut  into  small  slices  and  weigh,  allowing  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  kettle  with 
enough  water  to  thoroughly  moisten  it,  and  let  the  syrup  boil 
half  an  hour.  Skim  the  syrup  and  put  in  the  fruit,  which 
must  boil  half  an  hour ;  then  take  it  out  and  lay  it  on  plates  in 
the  sun  to  dry.  Let  the  syrup  come  to  a  good  boil  again ;  then 
put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  another  half  hour.  Put  the  preserve 
hot  into  glass  jars ;  cover,  and  tighten  the  covers  when  cold. 


ORANGE  MARMALADE.— (Dundee).— Mrs.   Edwin  O.   Hall. 

Twelve  sour  oranges  (not  the  little  Chinese  oranges,  but  the 
large  fruit).  Cut  these  in  thin  slices,  rind  and  all,  cover  with 
6  quarts  of  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  for  24  hours,  then  boil 
hard  for  2  hours,  add  8  lbs.  of  sugar,  boil  1  hour.  Just  before 
taking  from  the  fire  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 

This  is  excellent,  equal  to  the  best  imported  Dundee  marma- 
lade. 


108 

ISABELLE  GRAPE  MARMALADE. 

Pulp  the  grapes,  heat  the  pulp  and  put  through  colander. 
Put  strained  pulp  in  with  skins  and  measure.  Allow  2  cups  of 
sugar  to  three  cups  of  fruit.  Boil  10  minutes  and  add  sugar 
and  boil  until  it  jells. 


ROSELLE  MARMALADE. 

Wash  one  quart  of  roselles  and  remove  seed.  Bring 
to  boil  one  pound  sugar  and  half  pint  water,  then  put 
in  the  fruit.  Boil  ten  minutes,  strain  through  colander,  and 
pour  into  moulds  or  small  glasses. 


PICKLES 


PICKLED  FIGS.— Mrs.  Clara  A.  Banning. 

Two  pounds  sugar,  2  pints  vinegar,  boiled  together  with  a 
handful  of  whole  cloves,  some  stick  cinnamon  and  a  tablespoon- 
full  whole  black  peppers.  Wash  the  figs  clean,  put  them  in 
and  then  boil  till  thoroughly  done.  Take  them  out  and  boil 
the  liquid  down  to  a  syrup,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 


CHOPPED   GREEN  TOMATOES.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Two  quarts  chopped  tomatoes,  2%  large  peppers  and  3  onions, 
all  chopped  fine,  and  y2  cup  salt.  Let  this  stand  all  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  well,  then  mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard, y2  of  cloves,  1  of  allspice,  %  of  black  pepper,  y2  cup  of 
sugar;  add  to  the  tomatoes  and  cover  with  strong  vinegar,  and 
boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  soft  and  clear. 


PINEAPPLE   PICKLES.— Mrs.    P.    C.   Jones. 

To   14  pounds  of   fruit  cut  in  slices  or   small  pieces  add  5 
pounds   of   brown    sugar   and   5   pints   of    vinegar,     as    many 


109 

cloves  as  you  can  hold  in  the  palm  of  your  hand,  and  as  many 
peppercorns,  stick  cinnamon,  broken  in  small  bits.  Let  the 
sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  boil  10  minutes  before  adding  the 
fruit.  Let  all  boil  together  until  the  fruit  is  tender  and  well 
seasoned;  then  remove  the  fruit  and  let  the  syrup  boil  5  or 
10  minutes  longer.  The  liquor  from  this  is  excellent  to  add  to 
mince  meat. 


CUCUMBER   PICKLES.— Mrs.   John  Wilder. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  (the  large  old  ones  are  the  best),  cut 
them  in  halves,  put  them  in  strong  salt  and  water.  Let  them 
stay  in  the  salt  and  water  over  night.  Prepare  the  vinegar 
by  putting  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  vinegar.  Spice  to 
taste.  Scald  the  vinegar  two  or  three  times ;  pour  it  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  for  2  or  3  weeks. 


PICKLED  MANGOES.— Mrs.  C.  C.  Armstrong. 

Select  hard,  almost  green  mangoes ;  perforate  the  skin  with 
a  penknife ;  then  take  1  pound  of  sugar,  20  pounds  fruit,  1  cup 
vinegar,  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon,  etc.  Boil  the  fruit  in  the 
syrup  a  long  time,  or  until  the  syrup  is  the  required  thickness. 


TOMATO    CATSUP.— Mrs.    P.    C.   Jones. 

One  tin  of  tomatoes,  1  gill  of  vinegar  or  8  tablespoonfuls,  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  \y2  of  salt,  1  of  cinnamon,  l/^  of  cloves, 
pepper  to  taste.  Heat  tomatoes,  strain  through  strainer;  then 
add  all  ingredients.  Boil  to  a  consistency  that  will  pour  from 
bottle.  Put  in  sterile  bottles  and  cork  tigtly  and  keep  on  a 
dark  shelf. 


TOMATO  CHUTNEY.— (Indian  Recipe).— Mr.  F.  W.  Damon. 

Two  pounds  apples,  mangoes  or  tomatoes,  l/2  pound  green 
ginger,  2  pounds  raisins,  !/2  pound  salt,  %  garlic,  1  pound  al- 
monds, 2  pounds  sugar,  5  teaspoonfuls  chilis,  2  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  or  in  the  fireless  cooker 
until   the  proper  consistency.       Bottle   and   seal   tightly. 


110 

TAMARIND  CHUTNEY.— (Indian  Recipe)— Mrs.  F.  W. 

Damon. 

One-half  pound  tamarinds,  y2  pound  dates,  i/2  pound  green 
ginger,  y2  pound  raisins,  y2  pound  onions,  J4  pound  chilis,  4 
tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  salt.  Pound  all 
with  vinegar  and  rub  through  a  sieve.       Bottle  and  cork. 


PINEAPPLE    VINEGAR— Emily   L.    Ladd. 

Wash  and  cut  up  one  pineapple  with  one  dozen  vis.  Add  1 

cup  honey  and  4  qts.  water.       Cover  with  clean  cloth.  Let  it 

stand  in  a  warm  place.       In  three  weeks  strain  and  store  in 
bottles. 


PICKLED    PINEAPPLE.— Mrs.    Hopwood. 

1  measure  vinegar,  3  measures  brown  sugar,  few  cloves,  boil 
together.  Add  4  measures  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
boil  fruit  till  golden  yellow.       Boil  syrup  longer  if  desired. 


PICKLED  ONIONS.— Mrs.  S.  W.  Wilcox. 

Peal  and  wash  the  small  Hawaiian  onions.  Pack  them  in 
salt  over  night.  In  the  morning  wash  and  dry  them,  and  put 
into  bottles  with  a  few  small,  red  peppers,  whole  cloves,  and 
pepper  corn.  Take  1  qt.  vinegar  and  1  cup  brown  sugar,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour  immediately  over  the  bottled 
onions.       Let  cool  and  seal. 


DON'TS    FOR   MOTHERS. 

Dont  try  to  do  two  days'  work  in  one ;  and,  in  your  home- 
making,  beware  lest  you  become  a  veritable  fiend  of  neatness. 

If  work  you  must,  simplify  your  duties  so  that  they  will 
not  prove  a  weariness  to  the  flesh.  Never  stand  when  you  can 
sit  down.  When  waiting  at  the  counter  for  change,  why  neg- 
lect the  stool  close  at  hand?  It  is  only  a  matter  of  five  minutes, 
perhaps,  but  it  may  be  five  minutes  too  long,  and  then  how 
your  poor,  tired  back  rebels  !■ 


Ill 

Don't  save  horse-car  fare  for  the  sake  of  taking  home  a 
pound  box  of  candy.  It  is  a  foolish  woman  who  will  squan- 
der her  pennies  on  trash,  and  then  walk  her  legs  nearly  off  to 
make  up  the  deficit. 

Don't  try  to  do  without  your  roll  and  coffee  or  glass*  of  milk 
when  the  luncheon  hour  arrives,  no  matter  how  long  and  dis- 
couraging your  shopping  list  may  be. 

In  short,  strive  not  to  be  an  amateur  in  the  art  of  caring  for 
yourself,  but  in  the  details  of  life  look  well  to  it  that  they  are 
made   subservant   to   your  womanly  needs. 


SUNDRIES 


PAPAIA    COCKTAILS. 

Scrape  a  ripe  papaia,  add  lemon  juice,  or  the  juice  of  Chin- 
ese oranges,  sweeten  to  taste ;  set  it  in  the  ice  chest  till  chilled 
then  add  to  each  cup  of  the  mixture  chopped  ice  and  serve  at 
once.  (This  is  a  nice  appetiser  with  which  to  begin  lunch  or 
dinner.  It  is  also  a  very  refreshing  relish  to  offer  a  tired 
friend  on  a  hot  day.) 


ALLIGATOR   PEAR   COCKTAIL. 

Cut  the  pulp  of  a  ripe  but  firm  pear  into  dice,  season  with 
cocktail  catsup,  lemon  juice  and  salt,  add  a  little  ice  water  and 
bits  of  chopped  ice,  and  serve  in  small  cups  or  glasses. 


LEMON   SQUASH.— Mrs.   Donald  Maclntyre. 

Four  lemons,  6  lbs.  sugar,  3  oz.  citric  acid,  12  breakfast  cups 
of  water.  Peel  very  thinly  the  rind  of  the  lemons,  remove  the 
white  skin,  cut  up  the  lemons,  throwing  away  all  seeds,  and 
boil  with  the  sugar  and  water  for  three  hours.  It  should  then 
be  thick  and  clear;  strain  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  citric 
acid,  stir  till  dissolved,  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  A  tablespoon 
to  a  glass  of  water  makes  a  delicious  drink. 


112 


CONFECTIONERY ' 


COCOANUT  CANDY.— Mrs.  P.  C.  Jones. 

Take  4  cocoanuts,  remove  the  brown  skin  and  chop  the  meat 
fine.  To  1  bowl  of  cocoanut  add  1  bowl  of  sugar,  (the  moist 
brown  sugar  is  best,  add  a  half  cup  of  molasses  if  this  sugar 
cannot  be  obtained.)  Add  a  little  water  to  the  sugar,  only 
enough  to  melt  or  partially  dissolve  the  sugar,  let  it  boil  up 
well  then  add  the  cocoanut.  Boil  slowly  until  the  cocoanut  is 
well  soaked  in  the  sugar.  Take  out  a  little  into  a  bowl,  beat  it 
a  few  minutes,  and  drop  on  well  buttered  paper.  If  it  spreads 
out  thin  and  watery  it  is  not  done.  If  it  is  done,  it  will  keep 
its  shape  and  harden  into  a  cake.  Do  not  try  to  drop  from  the 
kettle,  but  stir  a  little  at  a  time  in  a  bowl.  The  kettle  should 
be  set  back  on  the  stove  where  it  can  simmer  gently  while  the 
dropping  process  goes  on.  The  longer  it  simmers  the  richer  it 
grows.    This  is  an  old  standard  recipe. 


VINEGAR  CANDY.— Mrs.  Edwin  O.  Hall. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  ^4  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  ^  of  a  cup  of 
water,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  till  it  becomes  brittle 
when  dropped  into  cold  water,  then  pour  out  on  a  buttered 
platter ;  when  cool  pull  it  like  old-fashioned  molasses  candy. 


PEPPERMINT   DROPS.— Mrs.   Edwin  O.   Hall. 

One-quarter  cup  of  milk  heated  with  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
Stir  into  the  milk  powdered  sugar  until  the  whole  is  stiff 
enough  to  knead  like  dough.  Place  this  mass  on  a  board  and 
knead  into  it  a  few  drops  of  peppermint  oil.  Make  round  flat 
drops  and  lay  them  on  waxed  paper  to  harden. 

A  nice  variation  of  this  recipe  is  made  by  dipping  these  drops 
in  melted  chocolate. 


113 


A  HAWAIIAN  FEAST 


"AHAAINA,"  OR  MORE  COMMONLY  CALLED  "LUAU." 

Mrs.    Brickwood    and   Daughters. 

Preparation. — If  out  in  the  yard  under  trees  or  under  an 
awning,  strew  the  straw  or  rushes  over  the  place  intended  for 
the  feast;  then  spread  your  mats,  ti  leaves  or  la'i  in  the  place 
of  a  tablecloth ;  then  ferns  on  top  of  that,  and  then  plates,  cala- 
bashes (wooden  bowls)  or  bowls  of  poi,  and  pig,  turkey, 
chicken,  raw  fish,  cooked  fish,  crabs  and  limu  prepared  in  var- 
ious ways. 

How  the  Pig  is  Prepared  and  Cooked. — Kill  and  clean  as 
usual,  cut  open,  then  cut  under  the  fore  shoulder.  In  the 
meantime  have  your  furnace  or  imu  ready  and  stones  heated ; 
take  some  of  the  heated  stones  and  put  inside  the  pig  (if  you 
wish  to  stuff,  put  luau  inside)  ;  spread  ti  leaves  on  the  imu  and 
banana  leaves  on  the  top  of  that,  and  then  the  pig;  cover  with 
the  same  kind  of  leaves  as  are  under  it ;  spread  over  all  old  mat 
and  then  soil.       Bake  about  two  hours. 

How  to  Prepare  and  Cook  Salt  Pork,  Beef,  Turkey  and 
Chicken,  together  or  separate. — Heat  banana  leaves  and  slice 
your  meat-and  put  into  the  leaves,  with  a  little  salt  sprinkled 
over  it  and  a  little  water.  If  you  wish  to  put  luau  in  with  it, 
put  a  hot  stone  in  the  inside  and  tie  up  with  ti  leaves  and  put 
on  the  furnace.  It  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  furnace  as  the 
pig.  Taro  can  also  be  cooked  in  the  same  place.  First  scrape 
the  outside  off,  split  in  two  and  place  on  the  fire.  When  cooked 
it  is  called  "Kalo  papaa,"  or  baked  taro. 

Luau  is  the  taro  tops  (or  leaves)  of  three  kinds  of  taro — 
the  Haokea,  Lauloa  and  Apuwai.  The  young  and  new  leaves 
are  used  for  eating ;  the  old  leaves  are  sometimes  used  for  wrap- 
ping in  place  of  ti  leaves  or  banana  leaves. 

Cooked  or  Lawalu  Fish.— Take  an  anae,  kuma,  weke  or  any 
other  kind  of  fish ;  clean  as  you  would  for  boiling ;  take  eight 
or  ten  ti  leaves,  sprinkle  a  little  salt,  then  lay  on  your  fish  and 
wrap  your  leaves  well  round  it,  and  put  on  coals  to  cook,  turn- 
ing over  now  and  again  till  cooked.       Salt  salmon  is  sometimes 


114 

cooked  in  the  same  way,  having  first  washed  off  the  salt ;  or  it  is 
baked  underground. 

Kaihelo,  or  Fish  Sauce. — Grate  a  cocoanut,  then  take  shrimps, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  them,  pound  or  bruise  them,  put  in  a 
muslin  cloth,  and  squeeze  the  juice  over  the  grated  cocoanut. 

Baked  Hee,  or  Squid. — First  pound  with  a  little  salt  till  it 
shrivels,  then  rinse  out  in  water  and  put  into  banana  leaves 
with  ti  leaves  outside;  then  bake  as  the  pig. 

Wana,  or  Sea  Eggs. — Take  the  tongues  of  the  wana  and  put 
into  a  large  shell  and  cook  on  coals. 

Roast  Kukui  Nuts. — Roast  your  nuts  on  a  slow  fire  or  hot 
ashes,  then  when  cooked  break  the  shells  and  pound  the  meat 
into  small  pieces,  mixing  with  a  little  salt. 

Limu,  or  Sea-weed. — Huluhuluwaena,  Lipoa,  Limu,  Eleele, 
Limu  Kala,  Limu  Kohu. 


PUDDINGS. 

Kulolo. — Grate  cocoanut  and  strain,  mix  with  grated  taro, 
add  a  little  water,  about  a  pint  of  water  to  a  quart  of  cocoanut 
juice.  A  little  sugar  is  sometimes  used.  Use  2  taro  roots  to 
5  cocoanuts ;  put  into  ti  leaves,  banana  leaves  or  tin ;  then  bake 
underground. 

Koele  Palau. — Sweet  potatoes,  boiled  or  baked  underground, 
pounded  or  mashed ;  then  mix  while  hot  with  the  juice  of 
some  grated  cocoanut,  and  then  it  is  ready  for  eating. 

Piepiele. — Grate  the  raw  sweet  potato  and  add  the  juice  of 
grated  cocoanut,  and  put  into  leaves  and  cook  as  "Kulolo." 

Haupia. — Mix  pia  or  arrowroot  with  the  juice  of  grated 
cocoanut.  Heat  some  of  the  juice  and  add  to  the  rest,  and  stir 
till  cooked,  as  you  would  "Blanc  Mange." 

Papaiee. — Take  ripe  breadfruit,  scrape  the  inside  and  mix 
with  a  little  cocoanut  juice,  or  without;  stir  till  well  mixed 
and  put  into  ti  leaves  as  "Kulolo." 

Banana  Pudding. — Grate  the  cocoanut  as  for  Kulolo,  put  in 
the  banana  and  mix,  adding  a  little  pia  or  arrowroot.  When 
mixed  put  into  banana  leaves  and  ti  leaves  and  bake. 


KULOLO,  SOMETHING  GOOD. 

Six  cups  taro  flour,  4  cups  cocoanut  milk,  4  tablespoonful: 


115 

sugar ;  grate  fine  the  meat  of  2  cocoanuts  and  mix  all  together 
well,  put  in  a  deep  dish  well  buttered  and  bake  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven ;  eaten  warm  or  cold  it  is  excellent  and  cannot 
be  beat. 


POI  LUNCHEON  COOKED  OVER  AN  ORDINARY  FIRE 
OR  WITH  A  FIRELESS  COOKER.— Mrs.  Joseph  Emerson. 

Table  Arrangement. — Cover  the  tablecloth  with  ferns.  At 
each  place  put  a  bowl  of  poi,  salt  dish  or  shell  containing 
kukui  nut  or  inamona,  a  small  side  plate  with  native  salt,  a 
few  cooked  shrimps,  native  onions,  radishes  and  chili  peppers. 
One  can  buy  the  cooked  kukui  nuts  or  inamona  in  the  market. 
Crack  the  shells  open  and  take  out  the  kernel.  Pound  this 
with  Hawaiian  salt  in  a  wooden  dish  or  mortar.  The  Kauai  red 
salt  can  be  bought  at  the  market  by  asking  for  paakai  ulaula  o 
Kauai. 

First  Course. — Lomi  lomi  salmon.  A  salmon  belly,  toma- 
toes, 1  bunch  onions.  Soak  salmon  over  night,  pick  it  to 
pieces,  removing  all  the  white  membrane,  cut  onion  small,  slice 
tomatoes  (remove  skin)  add  4  whole  chili  peppers,  mix  all 
thoroughly  and  put  on  ice.  Serve  in  a  large  glass  dish  with  a 
lump  of  ice  on  top. 

Second  Course. — Mullet  orkumu,  get  small  ones  if  possible, 
clean,  sprinkle  with  coarse  Hawaiian  salt,  tie  up  in  ti  leaves 
and  broil.     If  not  too  large  serve  one  to  each  person. 

Third  Course. — Chicken,  luau,  sweet  potatoes. 

For  this  purpose  an  old  bird  is  just  as  good  as  a  young  one, 
have  it  cut  in  pieces,  scald  the  luau  and  have  the  potatoes  well 
scrubbed.  Take  an  agate  bowl  that  will  fit  a  steamer  or  fire- 
less  cooker  container,  and  line  it  with  banana  leaves,  then  ti 
leaves,  pack  tight  into  the  chicken,  scalded  luau  and  fill  up  any 
vacancies  with  sweet  potatoes,  scatter  in  coarse  Hawaiian  salt, 
cover  all  well  with  ti  leaves  and  then  with  about  four  thick- 
nesses of  banana  leaves,  over  all  put  a  folded  cloth  then  the 
cover  of  the  steamer.  Fasten  securely  so  to  prevent  any 
steam  escaping,  and  do  not  open  until  ready  to  serve.  Cook 
for  four  or  five  hours. 

Put  by  each  guest  a  few  cooked  shrimps,  radishes,  Hawaiian 


116 

salt,  chilis  and  native  onions,  poi  and  inamona,  all  of  which  are 
procurable  at  the  fish  market. 


PROVISIONS   FOR   ENTERTAINMENTS 

Allow  a  pound  of  butter  for  every  twenty-five  people,  two 
pounds  of  boiled  ham  for  sandwiches,  one  pound  of  coffee, 
one-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  one  quart  of  cream,  and  three  or 
four  cakes. «  One  quart  of  ice  cream  in  bulk  will  serve  seven 
or  eight,  in  bricks  it  may  be  stretched  to  ten  unless  ice  cream 
and  cake  are  the  only  refreshments.  Usually  a  quart  of 
pickles  and  one  of  olives  are  sufficient  for  such  a  company. 
A  quart  of  salad  will  serve  twelve. 

For  punch  to  serve  a  reception  to  fifty  persons,  use  three 
dozen  lemons,  or  two  and  a  half  dozen  lemons  and  a  dozen 
oranges,  three  bananas,  one  can  grated  pineapple,  one  can  sliced 
pineapple,  one  quart  of  blackberry  or  other  fruit  juice  and  five 
pounds  of  sugar. 

When  the  refreshments  are  limited  to  one  or  two  articles,  a 
greater  quantity  of  each  must,  of  course  be  provided. 


EVENING    OR   WEDDING    SUPPER    SERVED    BUFFET 

STYLE. 

Menu   including   a   salad. 

One  quart  of  salad  should  serve  five  persons,  and  fifty  per- 
sons "will  be  amply  supplied  by  10  quarts. 

Allowing  two  rolls  or  biscuits  for  each  person  provide  nine 
dozen  for  fifty  guests,  and  two  pounds  of  butter  to  be  made  into 
small  pats. 

To  make  good  coffee  allow  2%  pounds  of  ready  ground  high 
grade  coffee.  For  hot  cocoa  or  chocolate  allow  one  pound  of 
cocoa  to  ten  quarts  of  liquid  milk,  or  milk  and  water  mixed. 
Provide  about  one-hundred  and  fifty  lumps  of  sugar  for  the 
beverage. 

Ice-cream,  either  brick  or  bulk,  should  be  ordered  or  made  to 
provide  for  eight  servings  .to  each  quart.  About  eight  quarts 
will  be  sufficient.  If  a  fresh  fruit  or  syrup  sauce  is  served 
with  the  cream  one  quart  will  make  ten  servings. 


117 

As  for  the  cakes,  four  average-sized  loaf  cakes  will  usually 
serve  fifty,  as  each  cake  can  be  cut  in  ten  or  twelve  slices.  If 
small  cakes  are  served  allow  two  for  each  guest. 

Punch,  to  be  served  from  a  bowl  during  a  reception  should 
be  provided  in  eight  or  ten  quart  quantities. 

In  serving  meats,  one-third  of  a  pound  per  person  is  allowed 
in  purchasing  raw  meat,  and  if  poultry  is  to  be  roasted  the  al- 
lowance is  one-half  pound  each.  If  meat  or  poultry  is  made 
into  a  pie  the  amount  for  each  quest  is  reduced  to  one-fourth 
pound. 

In  serving  canned  fruit,  two  pieces  or  slices  is  allowed  to 
each  serving. 

A  pie  should  furnish  eight  pieces  and  a  medium-sized  cake 
can  be  counted  on  for  ten  slices. 

For  baked  custards,  puddings  or  molded  desserts  or  salads 
the  usual  estimate  is  one-half  pint  to  each  serving. 


CURRY   LUNCHEON.— Mrs.    Gartley. 

This  luncheon  is  essentially  Hawaiian,  easy  to  serve  and 
especially  appropriate  for  visitors  from  the  mainland. 

First  Course. — Tomato  salad. 

Second  Course. — Curry,  with  rice  and  accompaniments. 
Fruit  sherbet,  coffee,  cake. 

The  tomatoes  should  be  large  red  ones.  Scald  and  remove 
skin,  scoop  out  the  center  and  set  on  ice.  Just  before  serving, 
set  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture: 
Chopped  Hawaiian  celery,  a  little  sweet  pickle,  a  few  walnuts, 
a  little  onion  juice  mixed  with  a  good  mayonnaise. 

The  curry  can  be  fish,  lobster,  chicken,  rabbit,  lamb  or 
mutton.  A  good  curry  sauce  will  be  found  on  page  (?).  The 
accompaniments  are  steamed  rice,  served  in  a  separate  dish, 
and  the  following  five  served  in  the  Chinese  dish  made  spe- 
cially for  the  purpose :  Guava  jelly  or  quartered  limes, 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  chutney,  chopped  peanuts,  fresh 
grated  cocoanut. 

The  fruit  sherbet  should  be  made  from  any  Hawaiian  fruit 
in  season :  Grape,  sour-sop,  guava,  roselle,  papaia,  mango, 
orange,   fig,  strawberry,  pineapple  or  banana. 


118 


INVALID  COOKERY 


BURNT  FLOUR  CUSTARD.— Mrs.  R.  Lewers. 

One  pint  milk,  1  egg  well  beaten,  4  lumps  of  cube  sugar,  1 
pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  burnt  flour.  Boil  the  milk;  wet 
the  flour  with  cold  milk  and  the  egg;  stir  into  the  boiling  milk 
and  strain.  Excellent  for  the  sick. 

We  have  given  this  to  young  babies,  leaving  out  the  egg  and 
using  two-thirds  water  and  one-third  milk,  with  excellent  re- 
sults in  bowel  trouble.  The  flour  should  be  browned  in  an 
iron  pan. — Ed. 


BEEF   TEA.— Mrs.  W:   F.  Allen. 

Cut  any  desired  quantity  of  beef  into  small  slices  and  put 
(without  water)  into  a  double  boiler,  and  let  it  cook  an  hour 
and  a  half,  or  until  juice  is  extracted,  but  no  longer,  as  it 
spoils  the  flavor.  When  done,  strain,  add  salt  and  set  away  to 
cool.  When  cool  so  that  the  pot  has  hardened,  strain  through 
a  cloth.       Keep  on  ice  for  use  when  needed. 

Another. — A  quicker  way  and  a  more  nourishing  beef  tea  is 
made  by  pressing  the  meat  juice  in  a  press  made  for  that  pur- 
pose. Cut  from  a  good  steak  pieces  two  or  three  inches  square ; 
put  them  on  a  gridiron  and  partly  cook  them  on  both  sides. 
Have  the  press  hot  (and  also  a  cup  to  hold  the  juice),  and  put 
in  what  it  will  hold,  turning  it  until  the  meat  is  quite  dry ;  then 
empty  and  fill  again  until  you  have  what  is  needed  to  take  at 
once.  Meat  presses  for  this  purpose  can  be  had  at  Lewers  & 
Cooke's  and  Dimond's.       The  one  with  the  iron  cup  preferred. 


CHICKEN   BROTH.— Mrs.   W.    F.   Allen. 

Take  a  plump  fowl  (not  less  than  a  year  old),  have  it  dressed 
and  divided.  Pound  it  to  crush  all  the  bones,  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  it  cook  very  slowly  until 
the  meat  is  in  shreds,  then  season  with  salt  (and  a  few  white 
peppers  if  liked ;  peppers  if  used  should  be  cooked  with  the 
chicken),  and  strain.       Remove  the  fat  as  well  as  possible,  then 


119 

set  away  to  cool.  Put  on  ice  until  it  jellies,  when  any  remain- 
ing fat  can  be  easily  removed.  When  part  is  needed  heat  it 
and  add  a  little  boiled  rice  or  toasted  bread.  Some  sick  people 
like  the  jelly. 

Raw  Beef. — For  serious  cases  of  stomach  trouble.  Take 
a  piece  of  tenderloin  or  good  steak,  and  with  a  knife  scrape 
the  soft  meat  from  the  fibre,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
spread  between  two  very  thin  slices  of  bread  like  a  sandwich. 
Meat  prepared  this  way  and  lightly  broiled  is  very  delicate 
for  a  sick  person. 

Sago  Gruel. — For  a  small  bowl  of  gruel  take  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sago,  wash  in  a  little  water,  but  do  not  let  it  soak; 
put  it  into  a  procelain-lined  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  cold  milk 
and  let  it  cook  until  the  milk  is  thickened  and  the  sago  soft, 
perhaps     ten  or  fifteen  minutes.     Excellent  in  bowel  troubles. 


RAW    BEEF    TEA. 

To  half  a  pound  of  raw  beef,  free  from  fat,  and  finely  minced, 
add  10  grains  of  pepsin  and  2  drops  of  hydrochloric  acid.  Put 
in  a  large  tumbler  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  for 
2  hours  in  a  temperature  of  90°,  being  frequently  stirred.  Strain 
and  serve  in  a  red  glass,  ice  cold.  Peptonized  food  does  not 
keep  well,  and  should  never  be  used  more  than  twelve  hours 
old.  Preparations  of  beef  which  have  been  peptonized,  or  par- 
tially digested  outside  of  the  body,  are  far  superior  to  beef 
tea.  Beef  tea  is,  however,  much  used,  and  would  probably 
be  preferable  where  ice  is  out  of  the  question. 

Peptonized  foods  can  only  be  used  where  ice  is  obtainable. 
Make  it  only  in  small  quantities. — Ed. 


KOUMYSS. 

Dissolve  a  third  of  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  or  its  equiva- 
lent in  fluid  yeast,  in  a  little  warm,  not  hot,  water ;  take  a 
quart  of  milk  fresh  from  the  cow  ,or  warmed  to  about  blood 
heat,  and  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the  dissolved 
yeast.  Put  the  mixture  in  bottles  with  patent  stoppers ;  fill 
to  the  neck  and  let  them  stand  for  twelve  hours  where  you 
would  put  bread  to  rise;  that  is,  at  a  temperature  of  68°  to  70°. 


120 

Then  put  the  bottles,  upside  down,  on  the  ice  until  wanted. 
This  is  nutritious  and  somewhat  stimulant.  It  is  very  valuable 
and  will  sometimes  be  assimilated  when  nothing  else  can  be 
retained.      Each  quart  is  said  to  contain  4  ounces  of  solid  food. 


TOAST   WATER. 

Toast  3  slices  of  stale  bread  a  very  dark  brown,  but  do  not 
burn.  Put  into  a  pitcher  and  pour  over  them  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water ;  cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  on  the  ice  to  cool. 
Strain.       It  is  good  for  nausea  from  diarrhoea. 


APPLE   WATER. 

Slice  into  a  pitcher  half  a  dozen  juicy  sour  apples.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  pour  over  a  quart  of  boiling  water; 
cover  closely  until  cold,  then  strain.       This  is  slightly  laxative. 


FLAXSEED    LEMONADE. 

Into  a  pint  of  hot  water  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
three  of  whole  flaxseed.  Steep  for  an  hour,  then  strain  and 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.       Cool  on  the  ice. 


CRUST  COFFEE. 

Take  a  pint  of  crusts;  those  from  Indian  bread  are  best; 
brown  well  in  a  quick  oven,  but  do  not  let  them  burn.  Pour 
over  them  three  points  of  boiling  water ;  steep  for  ten  minutes. 
Serve  with  cream. 


LEMONADE    WITH    EGG. 

Beat  one  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  until  very 
light;  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  the  juice 
of  a  small  lemon.  Fill  the  glass  with  pounded  ice  and  drink 
through  a  straw. 


EGG   BROTH. 

Beat  together  one  egg  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  till 


121 

very  light,  and  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  well 
to  prevent  curdling.       Add  salt  and  serve  hot. 


HOT  MILK  AND  WATER. 

Boiling  water  and  fresh  milk  in  equal  parts  compose  a  drink 
highly  recommended  in  cases  of  exhaustion,  as  it  is  quickly  ab- 
sorbed into  the  system  with  very  little  digestive  effort.  This 
is  also  true  of  the  egg  broth. 


CHICKEN  CREAM. 

Take  half  the  breast  of  a  chicken,  cut  it  very  fine,  then 
pound  it  in  a  mortar.  Put  a  small  teacupful  of  milk  into  a 
saucepan  and  heat  it;  then  add  the  pounded  chicken  by 
degrees,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  is  the  consistency  of  thick 
soup.  Put  in  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  according  to  taste.  Serve  hot.  This  may 
be  made  with  beef,  mutton  or  veal,  but  the  meat  must  always 
be  thoroughly  pounded  first,  and  any  fat  removed. 


INDEX 


SOUPS. 

PAGE 

Clear  Soup ." 4 

Cream  of  Onion  5 

Cream  of  Celery 6 

Clam  Chowder  , 33 

Fish  Chowder _ 12 

Fish  Chowder 34 

Fresh  Corn  4 

Green  Pea  6 

Mulligatawny   5 

New  England  Fish  Chowder 13 

Potato  Soup  8 

Sago  Soup 5 

Stock  Soup  3 

Tomato  Soup 4 

Tomato  Bisque 4 

Vegetable  Soup 6 

White  Swiss  Soup  '. L  5 

FISH. 

Aku 24 

Aku  (Portuguese  style) 21 

Akule _ 21 

Aawa 21 

Crabs 30 

Crab  Cocktail 30 

Curried  Fish 30 

Deviled  Crab 30 

Fish  Roe  (creamed) 24 

Fish  with  Cocoanut  22 

Fish  Jelly 17 

Fish  Croquettes 15 

Fish  a  la  Creme  15 

Fish  Table 9 


124 

PAGE 

Fish  to  Bake 10 

Fish  to  Boil 11 

Fish  to  Steam  11 

Fish  to  Fry 11 

Fish  to  Fillet  ". 17 

Hawaiian  Methods 12 

Hinana  24 

Hee  or  Squid ." 9 

Kawakawa    24 

Kumu -. 23 

Lobster  Cutlet 32 

Lobster  Faroii '. 32 

Lobster  Broiled  32 

Lobster  Boiled  31 

Lobster  Steamed  31 

Mullet 23 

Mullet  Boiled  . 22 

Mullet  in  Ti  Leaves 22 

Mullet  Hawaiian  Style  21 

Mullet  Spanish  Style 21 

Moi  23 

Moi  a  la  Spanish  • 23 

Opihi 30 

Pickled  Salmon 11 

Salmon  Loaf  28 

Salmon  Puffs  i 29 

Salmon  Steak 29 

Stuffing  for  Fish 10 

Ulua   (steamed)   24 

Ulaula    23 

COLD  FISH  COOKERY. 

Creamed  Salmon  36 

Creamed  Fish , 14 

Creamed  Fish  in  Ramekins  ., 14 

Codfish  Balls 37 

Codfish  Balls  13 

Fish  Escalloped  16 

Fish  in  Ramekins 19 

Fish  Souffle  20 


125 

PAGE 

Fish  Scalloped  20 

Fish  Balls  _ 25 

Fish  on  Toast 25 

Fish  Scalloped 26 

Fish  Pudding  35 

Fish  Moultee   35 

Fish  Cakes  (baked) 13 

Fish  Cakes  14 

Fish  Hash  ig 

Fish  Pie ig 

Fish  Pudding  lg 

Fish,  Rechauffe  of 19 

Kedegeree lg 

Salt  Salmon  35 

Salmon   Rissoles 35 

Salmon   Pudding 19 

Squid  with  Cocoanut  34 

MEATS. 

Beefsteak  Rolls  39 

Beefsteak  Pie / 38 

Beefsteak  Pie  (Ruth  Pinch's) 38 

Braised  Leg  of  Mutton 40 

Calf's  Head  (to  cook)  40 

Cocoanut  Juice  for  Gravies 37 

Hamburg   Cakes    39 

Mock  Duck 37 

Spanish    Friceo    _  39 

Veal  Loaf 40 


COLD  MEAT  COOKERY. 

Baked   Ham   42 

Beef  and  Potato  Pie 43 

Calf's  Head  Cheese  41 

Cold  Roast  Beef  Stew  42 

Ham  Croquettes  41 

Ham   Croquettes   43 

Ham  on  Toast  43 

Ham  Toast  41 


126 

.  PAGE 

Nice  Breakfast  Dish  42 

Meat  Balls   42 

Toad-in-the-hole    43 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Chicken  Boiled  44 

Chicken  Boiled  with  Luau 44 

Chicken  Stewed 44 

Chicken  Croquettes  45 

Chicken  a  la  Maringo 45 

Chicken    Pot-pie 47 

Fowl  Stuffing 47 

How  to  Make  Poultry  Tender 44 

Jewish  Dish 45 

Minced   Turkey   47 

Pigeons  with  Peas  46 

Wild  Duck   (stewed) 46 

VEGETABLES. 

Breadfruit  , 50  and  53 

Breadfruit   (stewed) 49 

Bread  Croquettes  53 

Beansprouts 57 

Cabbage    (creamed)    * 52 

Cabbage  Creamed  (cold) 52 

Carrots    54. 

Creamed  Lettuce  52 

Eggplant  (fried) 51 

Eggplant   Stuffed   51 

Green  Corn  Pudding  53 

Green  Papaia 50 

Hawaiian  Leeks 54 

Ha-ha     49 

Kalo    (mashed)    48 

Kohl-rabi    : 51 

Luau  49  and  54 

Peas  in  Pod  54 

Potato   Puffs 48 

Radish  (boiled)  57 


127 

PAGE 


Stuffed  Peppers  54 

l*ro  £akes  ZZZZZ.49  and  57 

Taro  Bread . 48>  49  and  50 

laro   Boiled   cy 

Taro  Fried  - ZZ48and  57 

Tomatoes    (baked) 52 

Vegetable  Succotash 53 


CHEESE  AND  EGGS. 

Crackers  and  Cheese  53 

Cheese   Fingers   57 

Eggs   (coddled) 58 

Eggs   (Deviled)   53 

Omelette 5g 

Welsh  Rarebit 57 


BREAD  AND  YEAST. 

Bread,   Graham   ; 59 

Bread,    Brown    60 

Bread,   Nice 60 

Breads  Whole  Wheat  61 

Delicious   Rolls 62 

Griddle    Scones    61 

Parker  House  Rolls  60 

Pennsylvania  Rusks 60 

Potato   Yeast   59 

SALADS. 

Banana  Salad 55 

Cheese  Salad 63 

Cold  Slaw  Dressing  62 

FishSalad  - ....20  and  63 

French   Dressing 63 

Lobster  Salad  62 

Niumalu  Crab  Salad  „ 31 

Potato    Salad   62 

Salmon   Mayonnaise 36 


128 
BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

PAGE 

Apple   Fritters   - 67 

Breakfast  Puffs  . . . 64 

Corn  Bread  66  and  68 

Corn    Cakes    65 

Corn  Pop-overs   66 

Corn  Muffins 68 

Fried  Bread 67 

German  Butter  Cakes  67 

German  Breakfast  Cakes 66 

Graham  Muffins 64 

Graham   Gems   67 

Griddle   Bread 66 

Hominy  Cakes - 65 

Johnny  Cakes  66 

Nettie  Cakes  64 

Pop-ove'rs    64 

Raised  Biscuit 65 

Rice  Cakes   , 66 

Simple  Muffins 64 

Snowball   Biscuits 67 

Squash  Cakes  65 

Waffles    65 

CAKES  AND  COOKIES. 

Angel   Food   76 

Almond  Cake  74 

Bangor   Brownies 80 

Boston  Cream  Cake 74 

Bride  Cake 74 

Central  Union  Cake 73 

Cocoa   Cake 75 

Cocoanut  Cake 68  and  76 

Cocoanut  Puffs 76 

Cookies _ 77 

Crullers 77 

Cornstarch   Cake  69 

Clove  Cake  69 

Cream  Cake ._ 71 


129 

PAGE 

Cream  Sponge  Cake  . 72 

Delicate  Cake 70 

Dolly  Varden  Cake 77 

Dried  Apple  Cake 73 

Dover   Cake   7^ 

Doughnuts 76 

Feather  Cake  77 

Fig  Cake 79 

French  Cake  7- 

Frosted  Crackers  79 

^ruitCake-: ZZZZZZZZZZZJ3 and  75 

Fruit  Cake   (splendid)   yy 

Bingerbread  Cake  yy 

Singersnaps     79 

Gingerbread    (hard)    „ yy 

Hartford  Election  Cake  68 

Ice  Cream  Cake 70 

Jumbles yg 

Lemon  Snaps yg 

Lou's    Doughnuts yy 

Marble   Cake    _ §0 

Molasses  Drop  Cakes  79 

Mountain   Cake   74 

Measured  Pound  Cake  y\ 

Minne-ha-ha  Cake 74 

Maine  Plum  Cake  69 

Nut   Cake   69 

One-Egg  Cake "ZZZZZZZZ.     70 

Orange   Cake   ^9 

Raised  Cake 70 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake  ZZZZZZ  yz 

Ribbon   Cake   yc 

Rolled  Oats  Macaroons  .'...  80 

Spice  Cake  81 

Scotch  Buns  70 

Scotch    Cookies   78 

Snowflake  Cake  '  74 

Silver    Cake    , 73 

Sugar  Cookies  71 


130 
ICINGS. 

PAGE 

Boiled  Frosting 82 

Boiled  Frosting  Without  Egg ■> 82 

Chocolate  Icing  81 

Common  Frosting  81 

Kisses    - 82 

PASTRY. 

Apple  Pie  84 

Banana  Pie 83 

Custard  Pie  (Mango)  84 

Lemon   Butter : 85 

Lemon   Cheese 85 

Lemon   Tarts   85 

Mincemeat  for  Pies  82 

Papaia  Tart   :..: 84 

Pie   Crust    - 83 

Pot   Pie 83 

Sour  Orange  Pie 84 

Squash  Pie 85 

Sliced  Papaia  Pie 83 

Vinegar   Pie 84 

PUDDINGS. 

Ambrosia 86 

Aunt  Mary's  Papaia  Pudding  87 

Banana   Pudding  89 

Banana  Brown  Betty 55 

Banana  Dumplings 55 

Banana  Custard 55 

Baked  Mulberry  Pudding  94 

Boston   Lemon   Pudding 91 

Birds-nest  Pudding 87 

Cracker  Pudding  94 

Chocolate   Pudding  92 

Cold  Pudding 92 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding 92 

Custard  Souffle  Pudding  94 

Cottage  Pudding  90 


131 

PAGE 

Cocoanut    Pudding    88 

Delicious    Pudding 86 

Delicate  Rice  Pudding 88  and  91 

English  Plum  Pudding  94 

Fig  Pudding  88 

Indian  Pudding 90 

Indian  Pudding  (delicate) 90 

Monterey   Pudding 86 

Mango  Brown  Betty  93 

Mrs.  Sarah  Gilman's  Pudding 89 

Peach   Pudding   _ 93 

Pot  Pie  of  Ohia  • 93 

Pineapple  Tapioca -. 91 

Prune  Whip  91 

Poor  Man's  Pudding  90 

Puff  Pudding 89 

Queens'  Pudding  87 

Souffle   Pudding  94 

Spiced  Pudding 89 

Snow  Pudding 87 

Suet  Pudding 87 

Sago  and  Strawberry  Pudding 90 

DESSERTS. 

Apple  Snow 97 

Banana  Cream 56 

Baked  Papaia 97 

Caramel  Custard 100 

Chocolate  Cream 100 

Chocolate  Blancmange  96 

Germea   Puffs   99 

Guava  Whips ». 97 

Lemon  Jelly  , 96 

Mango  Meringue  98 

Mango  Pudding 97 

Meringue  of  Papaia  97 

Royal   Cream   ;. 99 

Orange  Meringue   98 

Peach   Meringue    98 

Strawberry    Cream    100 


132 

PAGE 

Strawberry   Shortcake   W 

Strawberry   Shortcake   Sweet 100 

Tapioca  Cream  99 

SAUCES. 

A  good  Curry  Sauce  ~ 46 

Banana    Sauce ! 56 

Cocoanut  Sauce 22 

Cold  Sauce  86 

Foam  Sauce 95 

Fish   Sauce 24 

Hard    Sauce : 95 

Hollandaise    Sauce 27 

Milk  Pudding  Sauce  95 

Mayonnaise  Sauce  - 27 

Pudding  Sauce 86  and  95 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Fish 27 

Sauce   for  Batter  Pudding 95 

White  Sauce 22 

PRESERVES. 

Apple    Meringo 107 

Chinese  Orange  Marmalade  - 105 

Cranberry   Sauce 103 

Eugenia   Jelly 104 

Green  Mango  Sauce  105 

Grape  Sauce 105 

Green  Grape  and  Mulberry  Jam 103 

Guava  Marmalade  103  and  105 

Guava  Jelly 105   and  106 

Isabella  Grape  Marmalade  : 108 

Mandarin   Orange    Preserve 103 

Mangosteen  and  Papaia  Jam 104 

Mango  Jelly 106 

Orange  Marmalade 104  and  107 

Pineapple  Preserve  107 

Pineapple  Jam  i !..... 103 

Preserved    Figs   102 

Preserved  Citron  106 

Roselle  Marmalade 108 

Strawberry  Jam 104 


133 
PICKLES. 

PAGE 

Cucumber  Pickles 109 

Chopped  Green  Tomatoes  108 

Pickled  Figs 108 

Pickled  Mangoes 109 

Pickled   Onions    110 

Pickled  Pineapple  108  and  110 

Pineapple    Vinegar    110 

Tomato   Catsup   _ _ 109 

Tomato  Chutney _. 109 

Tamarind   Chutney   110 


ICES. 

Frozen  Bananas  _ 101 

Ice    Cream _ 101 

Milk   Sherbet 102 

Orange  Ice 101 

Pineapple  Sherbet 101 

Strawberry    Ice 102 

Tapioca    Ice 102 


INVALID  COOKERY. 

Apple  Water  , 120 

Beef  Tea 118 

Burnt  Flour  Custard  : 118 

Chicken  Broth 118 

Chicken   Cream 121 

Crust  Coffee 120 

Egg  Broth   120 

Flaxseed   Lemonade 120 

Hot  Milk  and  Water  121 

Koumyss 119 

Lemonade  with  Egg 120 

Raw  Beef  Tea 119 

Toast  Water 120 


134 
MISCELLANEOUS. 


PAGE 


Candy    112 

Curry  Luncheon - 117 

Evening  or  Wedding  Supper  117 

Frog   Legs   - 33 

Hawaiian  Feast  113 

Lemon  Squash  Ill 

Mango  Drink  105 

Papaia  Cocktail  .•.— Ill 

Poi  Cocktail  ....- 56 

Pear  Cocktail  (Alligator) Ill 

Poi    Luncheon    115 

Provisions  for  Entertainments 116 

Turtle  (to  cook)   


o 


"    H    , 


A>  ■* 


**<&  %$  %.,v 

,^v  ./••%  '/%  /* 

■  i  ft     <!  - 


-6 


.0  o 


,0  a 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  012  822  606  0 


■ 


!     I 


