°^ 


.4? 


^    -life   .^ 


^ 


•**■ 


V  .♦•^L'* 


c"  V 


■»      o 


*  •  o. 


4? 


73 


%vo$i  m/w^y 


00ft 


"iBooR. 


C.  I,  HOOD  &  CO.,  Apothecaries, 


J  <  >\V  ]•  1.  I  .      M  A 


What  the  People  Think  of  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 


When  the  first  edition  of  Hood's  Cook 
Book  was  published,  in  1877,  referring 
to  public  sentiment,  we  advisedly  used 
the  following  language  :  "We  are  aware 
that  there  is  a  justifiable  distrust  of  reme- 
dies put  up  in  patent  medicine  style? 
owing  to  the  worthlessness  of  a  large 
majority  of  such  medicines."  And  we 
further  stated,  by  way  of  explanation, 
that  "Frequent  calls  over  our  counter  for 
a  reliable  blood  purifier,  alterative  and 
tonic,  was  the  motive  power  which  set 
us  to  work  to  compound  an  article  which 
we  could  use  in  our  own  family,  among 
our  friends,  and  conscientiously  advise 
our  customers  to  use  whom  we  meet  face 
to  face." 

WE  ARE  GLAD  TO  STATE 

That  the  prejudice  to  which  we  referred 
lias  gradually  given  way,  and  the  current 
of  public  opinion  has  been  changed 
from  one  of  doubt  to  implicit  confidence 
in  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  by  our  honest 
methods  in  advertising,  our  care  to  pub- 
lish only  truthful  statements,  and  by 
our  constant  care  to  purchase  only  the 
choicest  of  roots,  barks  and  other  articles 
entering  into  this  medicine.  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla received  its  first  commenda- 
tions from  our  neighbors  and  citizens  of 
Lowell.  Their  good  words  were  such  as 
to  make  calls  for  it  in  the  neighboring 
cities  and  towns  ;  and  thus,  from  a  small 
beginning,  the  circuit  of  demand  for 

HOODS  SARSAPARILLA 

Has  continually  increased  until  now  its 
name,  fame  and  curative  power  are 
very  widely  known  and  recognized.  It 
lias  made  its  way  against  the  most 
powerful  opposition,  and  stands  apart 
from  and  ahead  of  all  competitors,  not 
only  as  the  best  blood  purifying  and 
tonic  medicine  in  existence,  but  as  the 
cheapest  and  most  economical,  being 
the  only  one  which  gives  one  hundred 
doses  for  one  dollar.  Hence  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla may  appropriately  be  termed 
•'The  People's  Medicine." 


The  claims  made  regarding  the  curat  ive 
powers  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  are  based 
entirely  on  what  the  people  say  it  has 
done  for  them,  and  not  upon  some 
imaginative  list  of  diseases  and  com- 
plaints. There  is  not  a  single  thing 
which  we  claim  that  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
will  do,  which  it  has  not  already  accom- 
plished, as  will  be  seen  by  the  numerous 
letters  published  in  this  book,  and  whicli 
are  almost  entirely  from  people  unknown 
to  us,  and  of  whom  we  never  heard  till 
they,  of  their  own  accord,  wrote  to  us  to 
tell  what  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  had  done. 

HOOD'S  SARSAPARILLA 

Has  proven  a  sovereign  remedy  for  the 
most  severe  cases  of  scrofula,  whether 
in  the  form  of  terrible  running  sores  or 
ulcers,  or  in  the  milder  form  of  scrofulous 
humor,  and  for  salt  rheum,  scald  head, 
boils,  pimples,  ringworm,  and  all  diseases 
of  the  blood.  It  has  relieved  the  tortures 
of  dyspepsia,  biliousness,  sick  headache, 
indigestion,  and  all  troubles  arising  from 
a  weak  or  disordered  stomach.  It  lias 
restored  to  health  and  strength  the 
form  wasted  by  disease  or  prostrated  by 
change  of  climate,  season,  or  life,  im- 
proved the  appetite,  and  driven  off  that 

EXTREME  TIRED  FEELING 

Which  many  people  experience  at  certain 
seasons  of  the  year.  It  has  cured  people 
who  suffered  greatly  from  that  very  com- 
mon complaint,  catarrh  ;  and  those  who 
were  afflicted  with  the  pains  and  aches 
of  rheumatism  have  found  in  it  positive 
relief  and  permanent  cure.  What  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  has  done,  is  what  we  claim  it 
will  do.  We  submit  that  the  statements 
in  this  book  constitute  conclusive  proof 
that  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  all  it  is  repre- 
sented to  be.  If  you  suffer  from  any  of 
the  diseases  named,  try 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla 

Sold  by  druggists.  $1  ;  six  for  $5.  Made 
only  by  C.  I.  HOOD  &  CO.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

IOO  Doses  One  Dollar 


HIGH-STREET 


COOK   BOOK 


"All  the  labor  of  man  is  for  his  mouth,  and  yet  the 
appetite  is  not  filled."  —  Solomon, 

"  We  in. iv  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  hook--. 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks." — Owen    \4eredith. 


PUBLISHED     BY 
THE    LADIES   OF   HIGH-STREET   CHURCH,   LOWELL,  MASS. 


REPUBLISHED    BY    PERMISSION,   AND   COPYRIGHTED, 
BY  C.    I.   HOOD  &   CO„   PROPRIETORS    OF    HOOD'S    SARSAPARILLA. 

1885. 


INTRODUCTION 


"The  High-Street  Cook  Book"'  was 
originally  prepared  and  published  by 
the  ladies  of  High-Street  Congregational 
Church,  Lowell,  Mass.,  for  the  purpose 
of  being  sold  at  their  Annual  Fair.  The 
receipts  were  contributed  by  the  ladies 
themselves,  some  of  whom  have  quite  a 
local  reputation  as  excellent  cooks  and 
housekeepers,  and  were  such  as  they  had 
tried  and  found  valuable  in  their  own 
experience.  Thus  the  book  possessed 
the  great  advantage  of  being  thoroughly 
practical,  and  it  is  not  surprising  that  it 
was  a  great  success.  The  edition  pub- 
lished for  the  Fair  was  soon  disposed  of, 
and  the  demand  continued  so  great  that 
it  was  thought  advisable  to  have  the 
book  republished.  This  edition,  pub- 
lished by  Hie  proprietors  of  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla,  is  the  result,  And  believing 
that  the  circulation  of  so  excellent  a 
book  should  not  be  limited,  we  have 
decided  that  our  edition  shall  he  so  large 
thai  every  housekeeper  in  the  country 
who  desires  it  may  have  a  copy.  It  may 
be  obtained  free  of  your  druggist,  or  by 
sending  a  two-cenl  stamp  to  the  pub- 
lishers, C.  I.  HOOD&  CO..  Lowell,  Mass 


But  the  value  of  this  edition  of  the 
High-Street  Cook  Book  is  not  confined  to 
the  receipts  and  hints  for  cooking  herein 
contained.  The  information  that  is  given 
concerning  the  curative  value  of,  and 
cures  effected  by.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  is 
of  sufficient  importance  to  deserve  care- 
ful reading  and  considerate  attention. 
"Only  advertising!"  you  say.  Verj 
true.  But  as  "only  advertising."  we 
believe  it  will  prove  a  blessing  to  many 
a  poor  sufferer,  who  will  learn  from  it 
how  others  have  been  benefited  ami  how 
he  may  he  cured.  Honest  statements 
have  a  right  to  everybody's  attention. 
And  before  you  prepare  to  skip  lightly 
over  the  "advertising."  we  wish  to  im- 
press upon  your  mind  the  fact  that 
every  statement  we  make,  every  testi- 
monial we  use,  will  stand  the  closest 
investigation,  and  even  the  most  remark- 
able cures  are  confirmed  by  conclusive 
evidence.  We  believe  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla is  doing  a  vast  amount  of  good,  and 
we  republish  this  boot;  in  Hie  confident 
belief  that  it  will  help  on  the  good 
work  of  advancing  the  interests  of  a 
thoroughly  honest  and  reliable  medicine. 


The  High-Street  Cook  Book, 


BREAD. 


"  The  v>  >rj  Btafl  of  life; 
The  comfort  of  the  husband,  the  pride  of 
the  w iii." 

1.  Yeast. 

One  mp  of  hops,  two-thirds  cup  of  mall . 
both  thoroughly  boiled  in  four  quarts  of 
water  in  a  porcelain  kettle ;  never  In  tin 

or  iron.  Mix  one  cup  of  Hour,  one  cup  qf 
sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  salt,  together  in 
an  earthen  dish,  strain  the  water  (from 
the  hops  and  malt)  boiling  hot  over  this, 
stirring  it  quickly  and  thoroughly.  "When 
cold  add  to  it  one  i«int  (  f  yeast,  and  keep 
ii  (piite  warm,  hut  not  hoi.  until  it  begins 
to  ferment.  Bottle  next  day.  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  sharpens  the  appetite. 

'J.  Yeast. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  raw  grated 

potatoes,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  salt,  pour  on  four  quarts  of 
boiling  water;  stir  while  pouring  on. 
Steep  a  handful  of  hops  and  stir  in  the 
yeast.  When  cold  add  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  yeast   Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 


■i. 


Iiolls. 


<»ne  quart  of  new  milk  (boiled),  two 

(piarts  <  f  Hour,  one  <up  of  shortening 
robbed  into  the  flour.  "When  the  milk  is 
cool  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  add  one  cup  of  yeast  to  the  milk, 
pour  into  the  flour,  ami  lei  stand  until 
morning.  Then  knead  and  lei  rise; 
when  well  risen  knead  and  let  rise  again  ; 
two  hours  before  baking  shape  into  rolls. 
Bake  twenty  minutes.  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla combines  economy  and  strength. 


APPETITE. 

Ami  then  n>  breakfast  with 
What  appetite  you  hare."      Su  akespeare. 


Perfect  Health 

Cannot  he  enjoyed  Without  a  good  appe- 
tite. The  loss  of  appetite  soon  causes  a 
lack  of  strength,  the  system  gets  into  a 

low  state,  and  is  especially  liable  to 
severe  attacks  of  disease.  The  universal 
testimony  given  by  those  who  have  used 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  as  to  its  great  merits 
in  restoring  and  sharpening  the  appetite. 
in  promoting  healthy  action  of  the  dige  • 
tive organs,  and  as  a  purifier  of  the  hlood, 
constitutes  the  strongest  recommenda- 
tion that  can  be  urged  for  any  medicine. 

If  you  have  no  appetite,  take  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.  Made  only  hy  C.  I.  HOOD 
&  CO.,  Apothecaries,  Lowell,  Mass. 

Appetite  Restored, 

"  I  had  been  troubled  for  sometime 
with  poor  appetite,  particularly  in  the 
morning,  and  also  had  frequent  attacks 
of  rheumatism.  i  commenced  taking 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  and  now  my  appetite 
is  the  !>est  and  the  rheumatism  has  en- 
tirely left  me."    C.  A-EENS,  3704  Emerald 

Avenue,  Chicago,   [11. 

Dizzy  in   the  Morning. 

"  I  have  taken  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  and 
would  not  be  without  it.  When  i  beg  LI 
taking  it  !  was  dizzy  when  I  got  u\^  in 
the  morning,  had  a  headache  and  had  no 
appetite;  but  now  I  can  hardly  get 
b  cooked  to  eat."  Emma  Shepakd, 
1  Coral  Street,  Worcester,  Mass. 


HIGH-STREET    COOK    BOOK. 


4.  Graham  arms. 

One  quart  composed  of  two-thirds  gra- 
ham and  one-third  wheat  flour,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dessertspoonful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  pint 
of  sour  milk  and  heat  to  a  foam;  stir  this 
into  the  meal  and  hake  in  hot  gem-irons. 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  purifies  the  blood. 

5.  Bread  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  dried  bread  crumbs  soaked 
in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk;  let  it  stand  a 
while,  then  add  another  cup  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
mixed  in  a  little  more  than  one  cup  of 
flour,  and  salt.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is 
characterized  by  three  peculiarities. 

6.  Clay-Street  Brown  Bread. 

Two  cups  of  Indian  meal,  two  cups  of 
rye  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  cup 
of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
and  a  little  salt.  Bake.  That  extreme 
tired  feeling,  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla, 

7.  Brown  Bread. 

Three  cups  of  rye  meal,  two  cups  of 
Indian  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  well  together  and  then  add  one  cup 
of  molasses  and  one  pint  of  tepid  water, 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  it  (or  if  you  prefer,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  tartar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda).  Steam  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
vater  four  hours.  If  you  wish  a  crust, 
then  bake  for  half  an  hour.  This  must 
be  cooked  immediately  on  mixing,  or  it 
will  he  heavy.    100  Doses  One  Dollar. 


s. 


Corn  Cake. 


One  enp  of  Indian  meal,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  two- 
thirds  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder,  and  one  egg. 


<K 


Com  Cake. 


One  egg  beaten  to  a  troth  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  teacup  of 

sour  milk,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
salt  to  taste,  one  handful  of  Indian  meal  ; 
mix  with  Hour  to  a  batter  and  pour  into 
muffin-pans.  Bake  quickly.  Hoods 
Sarsaparilla  is  pleasant  to  take. 


Scrofula  and  Prostration. 

The  severe  prostration  which  is  de- 
scribed in  the  following  testimonial  is 
often  experienced  by  those  who  suffer 
from  scrofulous  sores  or  abscesses,  being 
caused  by  the  terrible  drain  upon  the 
system  made  by  these  heads  of  corrup- 
tion. The  power  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
to  remove  the  scrofula  taint  from  the 
blood,  to  overcome  its  weakening  effects, 
and  to  tone  up  and  restore  the  system  to 
health,  are  also  forcibly  illustrated. 

Mr.  Samuel  E.  Curtis,  of  Quincy,  Mass., 
a  well-known  stone-cutter,  says: 

"  From  a  boy  I  have  been  troubled  with 
scrofula  humor.  During  the  spring  and 
summer  of  1884  I  was  in  a  bad  way,  hav- 
ing some  of  the  time  six  or  seven  ab- 
scesses on  and  about  my  neck.  I  became 
so  weak  as  to  be  hardly  able  to  drag 
myself  about  and  was  almost  unable  to 
work.  Most  of  my  friends  felt  sure  that 
I  was  going  into  consumption.  Very 
soon  after  eating, 

A  DEATHLY  FAINTNESS 

would  come  on.  I  felt  I  must  soon  give 
up.  Every  piece  of  work  I  commenced  I 
felt  must  be  my  last.  I  had  tried  many 
so-called  remedies,  but  with  little  or  no 
benefit.  About  the  first  of  July,  a  friend 
recommended  to  me  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla, he  having  been  benefited  by  its  use. 
I  got  a  bottle  and  commenced  to  take  it 
regularly,  according  to  directions.  Be- 
fore I  had  finished  the  second  bottle  I 
had  another  abscess  come  on  my  side, 
but  that  one  and  the  others  soon  com- 
menced to  heal  up,  and  all  eventually 
disappeared.  My  general  health  im- 
proved. I  have  taken  about  five  bottles. 
When  I  commenced,  I  weighed  127 
pounds,  now  1  weigh  145,  and  I  feel 

STRONG  AM)  VIGOROUS. 
I  can  do  my  good  day's  work  with  as 
much  ease  as  ever  I  could  at  any  period 
of  my  life.  After  what  flood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla has  done  for  me,  I  feel  that  too  much 
cannot  he  said  in  its  praise.  It  gives  me 
pleasure  to  recommend  it  to  others,  as  I 
feel  confident  in  regard  to  its  intrinsic 
worth."    S.  E.  Curtis,  Quincy,  Mass. 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  made  only  by 
C.  I.  HOOD  &  CO.,  Lowell,  Mass.  Sold 
by  all  druggists.    100  Doses  One  Dollar. 


HOOD' S     SARSAPA  R  ILL  A 


to. 


Indian     CakCM. 


Scald  one  quart  of  meal,  one  table 
spoonful  "f  molasses,  one  half  teaspoon 
ful  of  soda,  salt.  Fry  In  small  cakes  In 
Uol  fat.    Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  now. 

//.      Whole-Wheat  Mucins. 

our  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Bugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
whole  wheat,  one  tablespoonful  molasses, 
one-half  cup  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder.  To  be  baked  in  1 1< »t  and 
buttered  Iron  gem-pans. 

tJ.  Parker  House  <  <>r»  Cake. 

Mix  our  cup  of  (lour,  one  cup  of  Indian 

meal,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

and  a  little   salt  together.     Mix  one  egg, 

one-half  cup  of  Bugar,  butter  size  of  an 

egg,  and  one  cup  of  warm  milk  together. 
Then  pour  the  liquid  Into  the  dry  mix- 
ture, beat  well,  and  hake.  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parllla  sharpens  the  appetite. 

13.  Waffles. 

Two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  butter  size 
<>f  an   egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 

tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little 
salt,  flour  to  make  a  thin  hatter,  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  separately,  and 
add  the  last  thing,    mo  Doses  One  Dollar. 

14.  Breakfast  Squash  Cakes. 
one  teacup  of  sifted  squash,  one  tea- 
cup of  flour,  one  coffeecup  of  milk,  one 
egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar. 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  melted  butter.  Baking 
powder  can  be  used  instead  of  cream 
tartar  and  soda  if  preferred. 

15.  Graham  Bread. 

Make  a  stiff  batter  of  half  a  pint  of 
warm  water  thickened  with  graham,  add 

to  it  one-third  cup  of  yeast,  bet  it  rise 
over   night,   and    in    the    morning   add    a 

small   piece  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 

sugar,  and  wheat  (lour  enough  to  mold. 
Let  the  bread  rise  in  pans  and  bake. 

to.  Blueberry  Cake. 

beat  together  three  eggs  and  one  cup 

of  BUgar;  add  one-half  cup  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  cup  of  milk,  and  four  cups  of 
Hour,  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 


oi  ciram  tartar  and  one  teaspoonful  <>t 

BOda  mixed   VI  ilh   It,  then   add   one  pint  ol 

blueberries  rubbed  in  (lour. 
t7.        Breakfast  Muffins. 

one  pint   of  warm  milk,  one  egg,  three 

tables] nfuls  (  f  yeast,  alarge  spoonful 

of  butter,  and  (lour  enough  h>  make  a 
Stiff  batter;  beat  them  together  \ei\ 
thoroughly,  and  let  the  batter  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  dip  this  lighl 
sponge  oul  very  carefully  into  iron  or  tin 
moulds,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If 
iron  moulds  are  used,  they  should  be  hoi 
when  the  batter  is  put   in. 

For  the  Children. 

Thousands  of  children  have  reason  to 

be  thankful  for  Mood's  Sarsaparilla.  as  it 
has  proven  a  cure  for  disagreeable  dis- 
eases of  the  blood  which  rendered  then- 
lives  miserable.  Even  infants  are  cured 
of  troublesome  complaints  by  this  medi- 
cine, as  the  following  letter  will  show: 

"  My  child  was  born  with  a  dry  COUgh, 
and  at  the  age  of  eight  months  was  taken 
with  inflammatory  rheumatism.  We  had 
the  best  medical  skill  in  the  city.  His 
ankles  swelled  greatly,  and  one  finger 
became  swollen  until  it  turned  purple. 
The  doctor  thought  it  would  require  am- 
putating, and  Ins  life  was  despaired  of. 
Then  we  commenced  to  give  him  Mood's 
Sarsaparilla, When  in  one  week  he  showed 

signs  of  improving.    We  gave  him  one 

bottle.  The  COUgh  and  swelling  disap- 
peared, he  gained  in  flesh,  and  is  now- 
well  and  Strong.  He  has  not  taken  any 
medicine  for  four  months.  We  hope  this 
may  induce  others  to  take  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla." ('.  Kkmi.u.i..  Davenport.  Iowa. 

Quick  Effect. 

"  I  began  taking  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  in 
the 'spring  of  1883,  when  I  was  bo  weak  I 
could  not  do  my  work,    [must  confess  i 

had  not  a  drop  of  faith  in  it  ;  but  it  has 
made  a  new  person  of  me.  All  I  ask  of 
any  one  is  to  try  a  bottle  of  Hood's  Sai  - 
saparilla  and  see  its  quick  effect.  Il 
takes  less  time  and  quantity  to  show  its 
effect  than  any  other  preparation  I  ever 
heard  of.  I  would  not  be  without  it  in 
the  house."  Mi;s.  C.  A.  M.  line.  \i;i>. 
North  Chili.  Monroe  County.  N.  Y. 


//  /  G  II-  S  T  R  KK  T    ( '  0  0  K     H  <>  0  K 


IS. 


SOUP. 

A  hasty  plate  of  soup 


Bouillon. 


Take  from  four  to  eight  pounds  of  beef 
from  the  shoulder,  according  to  the  num- 
ber for  which  you  dress  the  soup.  Put 
ou  early  in  the  morning,  for  six  o'clock 
dinner,  in  water  enough  to  cover  it  with 
two  quarts  additional;  let  it  boil  slowly. 
Take  it  from  the  fire  when  the  beef  is 
tender.  Let  it  stand  till  cold,  skim  off 
the  fat,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
strain  into  soup-kettle  and  boil  half  an 
hour,  add  a  root  of  celery,  or  pieces  cut 
an  inch  long.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  puri- 
ties the  blood.    100  Doses  One  Dollar. 

19.  Tomato  Soup. 

Take  about  three  pounds  of  beef  from 
round  to  make  stock,  pour  into  four 
quarts  of  water,  and  boil  four  hours; 
then  add  two  cans  of  tomatoes,  and  boil 
for  one  hour;  strain  into  an  earthen  dish, 
let  it  cool,  and  skim  off  all  the  grease; 
return  to  soup-kettle.  Take  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a.  little  milk 
until  smooth,  and  add  while  boiling  hot; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  a  table- 
spoonfnl  of  sugar.  Dissolve  quarter  of  a 
ieaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  water,  and 
add  to  the  above.  Fry  in  salt  pork  two 
slices  of  white  bread  cut.  into  dice,  and 
serve  separate  with  the  soup. 

20.  Ox-Tail  Soup. 

Take  an  o\  tail  and  divide  it  into  small 
pieces;  wash  nicely  and  put,  into  a  soup- 
pot,  with  live  quarts  of  water  and  two 
pounds  of  beef  from  shoulder.  Boil 
slowly  for  several  bonis;  when  done  so 
that  the  meat  falls  from  the  bone,  strain; 
let  it,  stand  over  night,  skim  oil'  the  Eat, 
then  return  to  the  soup-kettle  and  boil 
for  two  boms.  Add  one  onion,  celery, 
anil  two  tablespoonfulS  of  brown  flour. 
This  will  make,  when  (lone,  about  three 

quarts  of  liquor;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
\  glass  of  wine  will  greatly  improve  it. 

21.  Black  Bean  Soup. 

Take  two  pounds  of  beef  from  the 
shoulder,  put  into  three  quarts  of  water, 
and  boil  down   to   stock.     Put  a   pint  of 


black  beans  to  soak  over  night;  put  them 
into  fresh  water  next  morning,  and  boil 
until  soft  enough  to  strain  through  a 
sieve,  then  add  to  the  stock,  and  boil  for 
two  hours;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
This  will  make  about  three  quarts;  cut 
two  lemons  into  small  pieces  and  add  just 
before  serving. 

22.  Chicken  Soup. 

Boil  the  bones  of  two  chickens  with 
half  an  onion;  the  next,  day,  skim  off 
every  bit  of  fat,  and  add  half  a  cup  of 
pearl  barley,  which  has  been  soaked  over 
night  in  cold  water;  salt  and  pepper. 
dust  before  serving,  sift  in  one-third  tea- 
cup of  dry,  fine  bread-crumbs. 

An  Engineer's  Wife. 

Mr.  IT.  I).  Winans,  whose  wife's  state- 
ment is  given  below,  is  an  engineer  on 
the  Michigan  Central  Railroad.  He  says 
that  many  a  night,  after  coming  home 
from  a  hard  day's  work,  he  had  to  lose 
most  of  his  night's  rest,  caring  for  his 
invalid  wife.  No  medical  attendance  or 
other  medicines  seemed  to  do  her  any 
good.  But  when  she  began  to  take 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  improvement  began 
at  once.  She  soon  rested  much  better 
and  Mr.  Winans  has  not  lost  a  night's 
rest   since.     Mrs.  Winans  says: 

"  I  have  been  in  poor  health  several 
years,  and  have  tried  many  medicines 
but  did  not  receive  much  of  any  benefit 
from  them.  1  was  advised  to  try  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla,  and  did  so.  I  have  now 
taken  nearly  three  bottles  and  have  rc- 
ceived  more  benefit  from  it  than  from 
any  other  medicine  I  ever  used.  My 
trouble  being  caused  by  indigestion,  I 
was  very  much  troubled  with  restless- 
ness dining  the  night,  and  in  the  morning 
would  get  up  with  a  very  tired  feeling. 
After  taking  only  a  part  of  the  first,  bottle 
1  could  rest,  well  all  night  and  feel  re- 
freshed when  I  woke  up.  1  must  say 
ilia)  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  all  it  is  rec- 
ommended to  be.''  Mrs.  H.  IX  Winans, 
210  East  Mason  Street,  Jackson,  Mich. 

Pimples  on  the  Face. 

"  l  have  taken  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  and 
found  it  beneficial  for  pimples  on  the 
face,  and  Impure  blood."  CHARLES 
Cradt,  Portsmouth,  Ohio. 


I/on/r.s*    8  I  USA  PA  71 TL  I.   I 


93.  (ia in  Simp. 

Twenty-five  clams,  one  pint  of  milk. 

ball  a  piiii  of  water,  two  tables] nfula 

of  butter,  sis  peppers,  iitii«'  mace,  sail  to 
taste  (celerj  sail  i,  one  tablespoonful  corn 
Btarcb.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the  clams 
;iikI  put  it  in  :i  farina-kettle  with  the 
water,  peppers,  marc  and  salt;  boll  ten 
minutes,  then  strain  and  put  back  Into 

the  Keltic  with  tlit>  clams;  cover  closely 
and  boil  half  an  hour.  Heat  the  milk  in 
another  kettle,  stir  in  the  corn-starch, 
which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
the  butter,  POUT  into  the  kettle  with  the 
clams.  Line  the  tureen  bottom  with  P.os- 
ton  <  rackera  Bplit.    mo  Doses  one  Dollar. 

24.  Mock  Turtle   Soup. 

Take  a    calf's   head   well    scraped   and 

cleaned,  the  skin  remaining  on.    Lei  it 

soak  in  cold  water  over  night;  in  the 
morning pul  it  on  in  a  soup-kettle;  let  it 

boll  Slowly  until  it  falls  from  the  bone. 
When  done,  there  should  he  four  quarts 
of  stock;  add  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  one 
tablespoonfu]  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon- 

fld  of  cloves,  one  teaspoollflll  of   allspice. 

one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pep- 

per  to  taste.  Strain  this  into  a  soup-ket- 
tle, and  mix  half  a  cup  of  brown  Hour 
with  a  little  water.  Let  it  all  come  to  a 
quick  boil,  and  when  reads  to  serve,  add 
a  glass  of  .Madeira  or  Sherry  wine  and 
the  juice  of  two  lemons;  add  one-half  the 
meat  of  the  head  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Take  two  slices  of  white  bread,  cut  verj 
thiii  and  browned  and  buttered,  and  cut 
into  small  pieces  and  drop  into  the  soup. 

25.  Tomato  Soup. 

Ope  teaspooilful  of  butter,  two  lea- 
Spoollfuls  of  Hour,  one  pint  beef  stock, 
one  quarter  Of  a  small  onion.  Put  butter 
into   frying   pan,   CUt    an    onion    in    small 

pieces,  and  brown.  Add  one  can  of  toma- 
toes, and  cook  one  bom-,  pass  through  a 

sieve,  return  to  the  tire,  and  add  the 
Stock  and  Hour.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, ami  Worcestershire  sauce.  Serve 
hot.    n I's Sarsaparilla  cures  debility. 

26.  Coin    Soup. 

(For   Twelve    Persons.)      Nine   ears   of 

corn,  twelve  tomatoes.    Grate  the  corn 

from  the  ear;  put  it.   with  the   tomatoes 


and  two  (piarls  of  water,  into  a  SOUp-pot; 
cook  until  soft,  then  strain  it  through  a 
Bieve.  Pul  it  back  on  the  lire  in  thesoup- 
DOt,  and  add  a  pint  of  milk,  a   small  piece 

of  butter,  pepper,  ami  salt,    .inst  before 

Ben  tag,  put  in  a  small  bit  of  soda.  Sea- 
sonable tr angusl  until  < October. 

Pastor  ami  Peoplg, 

The  relations  between  pastor  ami  peo- 
ple in  the  smaller  towns  and  villages,  are 

as  a  rule  much  more  intimate  than  in  the 

large  cities.    Tin-  people  look  to  the  pai 

tor  for  ad\  ice  in  temporal  as  well  as  in 

spiritual  matters,  and  especiallj  in  cases 

of  sickness  is  he  Consulted.  We  ha\e 
just  received  letters,  given  below,  in 
which  the  advice   of   a   pastor   who   had 

himself  experienced  benefit  from  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla,  was  followed  with  the  most 
gratifying  results: 

"About  a  year  ago  1  was  for  a  long 
time  a  sufferer  from  a  had  humor,  w  hich 
came  out  all  over  my  face,  head,  and 
neck,  producing  a  burning  sensation  hard 
to  endure.  My  neck  and  the  lower  part 
of  my  face  were  badly  swollen.  I  had 
medical  treatment,  bul  in  vain.  I  could 
get  no  comfortable  sleep,  and  my  appe- 
tite left  me.  1  was  growing  worse  rather 
than  better,  when  I  was  advised  bj  Mi  , 
Stone,  our  minister's  wife,  to  try  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.  She  gave  me  a  bottle,  and 
a   very  few    doses 

GAVE  MB  AN  wl-l.riTK, 
and  in  less  than  :i  week  1  could  sleep 
quietly  and  saw  that  I  was  fast  Improv- 
ing; ami  in  two  weeks  tin-  humor  had 
entirely  disappeared  ami  l  felt  that  1 
was  well.    Once  or  twice  since,  i  have 

noticed  some  little  indication  of  a  dis- 
position on  the  part  of  my  old  enemy 
to  return  :    but   a   very  few    doses    of   the 

Sarsaparilla  were  sufficient  to  drive  him 

Off  again.  1  have  not  yet  taken  quite 
two  bottles,  but  I  always  want  a  little  on 
hand."     I. .u  is\    P.    bi\.  Dilton.  N.   II. 

"After  suffering  many  years  with  kid- 
ney complaint.  I  was  recommended  bj 
my  pastor,  BeV.  .1.  P.  Stone,  to  try 
H I's  Sarsaparilla.     I  have  taken  three 

bottles,  and  can  say  that  it  has  done  me 

more  good  than  any  thin  DWDi 

C.  Cl  KKIKK.   Daltoii.   N.  H. 


HIGH-STBEET    COOK    BOOK. 


MEATS. 


What  say  you  to  a  piece  of  beef  and  mus- 
tard ?  "  —  Shakesp  bah  k. 


27.  Sauce  for  dame. 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  boil  it  in  milk; 
when  done  add  the  gravy  from  the  bird, 
and  thicken  with  pounded  cracker. 

2S.  Meat  Patties. 

Line  small  patty-pans  with  good  put! 
paste  and  hake  in  a  quick  oven.  Chop 
remnants  of  chicken  or  other  meat  fine, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  heat  in 
a  little  butter  sauce.  Fill  the  shells  and 
put  them  back  into  the  oven  till  the  mix- 
ture is  slightly  browned.  A  little  flavor- 
ing of  tomato  improves  some  meats  us<  d 
in  this  way.    Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

29.  Lobster  Croquettes. 

Chop  the  lobster  very  fine  and  mix  with 
U  pepper,  salt,  and  bread-crumbs,  season 
well  with  celery-salt,  and  moisten  with 
melted  butter,  make  into  cakes,  dip  them 
into  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker-crumbs, 
and  fry  brown 

30.  1'otted   Piijeons. 

To  twelve  pigeons  take  one-half  pound 
of  salt  pork,  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  fry 
it  in  the  kettle  in  which  you  are  to  pot 
the  birds.  When  this  is  cooked  take  out 
the  slices  and  lay  in  the  birds,  with  an 
onion  chopped  fine  and  three  gills  of 
water,  cover  up  very  close,  and  add  fre- 
quently flour  from  the  dredging-box,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  Let  them 
boil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then 
add  a  thickening  of  browned  flour  and 
butter,  and  lay  several  halves  of  crackers 
in  on  the  birds,  to  steam  and  be  served 
witli  the  pork  around  the  dish.  It  is  nice 
to  roll  each  bird  in  the  brown  thickening 
before  putting  it   into  the  gravy. 

A  Mood  Purifier. 

"  I  have  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  for  a 
blood  purifier  in  my  family  for  several 
years,  and  cannot  speak  too  highly  of  it. 
it  has  been  very  beneficial  in  cases  of 
cramp  and  colic,  with  which  we  have 
been  troubled  in  ihis  section."  J.  E. 
Collins.  Bassett  House.  Piqua,  Ohio. 


A  Good  No  vie  at  Home. 

It  was  from  the  people  of  Lowell  and 
vicinity  that  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  received 
its  first  words  of  praise  and  recommen- 
dation. Their  good  words  led  many 
others  to  use  it,  with  uniform  excellent 
results,  and  thus  the  knowledge  of  its 
curative  power  has  become  very  widely 
extended.  We  are  pleased  to  state  that 
the  popularity  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  lias 
continued  undiminished  in  our  own 
home,  and  is  now,  as  it  has  been  for 
years,  the  leading  and  most  successful 
medicine  for  purifying  the  blood  ami 
toning  and  strengthening  the  system.  It 
would  require  a  volume  to  contain  all  the 
praise  Lowell  people  have  given  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Headache  —  Stomach   Disorder. 

Mr.  C.  W.  Marriott  is  the  well-known 
First  Assistant  Fire  Engineer  of  Lowell, 
having  been  in  the  Fire  Department  .31 
years  -longer  than  any  other  man.  He 
fully  endorses  his  wife's  statement,  which 
follows  : 

"Forfully  sixteen  years  l  was  troubled 
with  a  disorder  of  the  stomach  and  severe 
sick  headache,  which  nothing  seemed  to 
relieve  though  1  consulted  physicians  and 
have  expended  over  a  thousand  dollars 
for  prescriptions  and  advice.  I  was 
strongly  urged  to  try  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla, but  refused  for  a  long  time.  I 
bought  two  or  three  bottles,  but  gave 
them  away  without  giving  the  medicine 
a  fair  trial  myself.  Finally,  I  determined 
to  give  it  a  fair  trial  and  am  glad  I  did  so. 
1  had  become  all  run  down,  suffered  from 

NERVOUS    PROSTRATION, 

and  had  the  very  severe  attacks  of 
headache  every  fortnight  or  oftener.  a! 
Which  times  I  was  obliged  to  take  to  my 
bed.  and  being  unable  to  endure  any 
noise,  could  simply  sutler  patiently  till 
the  attack  was  over.  It  always  ended  in 
vomiting  spells.  Physicians  seemed  to 
think  there  was  no  help  for  me.  and  said 
there  was  nothing  to  build  from.  Soon 
alter  I  began  to  use  the  Sarsaparilla 
steadily,  my  attacks  of  headache  became 
less  and  less  frequent  until  they  ceased 
altogether  and  I  have  not  had  the  head- 
ache now  for  six  months.    My  appetite 


HOOD'S     8A  USA  /'.I  /.'//.  LA. 


lias  also  greatly  Improved  and  the  ner 
vousness  has  decreased.  My  stomach  Is 
siiii  somewhat  troublesome  al  times,  bul 
the  headache  has  entirely  gone,    l  can 

eal  almost  anything.     When   I   fust  look 

the  Barsaparllla  a  humor  came  ou1  on  my 
skin  which  caused  some  apprehension, 

and   1  erased  taking  the  nieilieino  for   a 

few  weeks,  hut  resumed,  as  i  believed  11 
to  be  doing  me  good,  and  with  the  excel- 
lent results  stated,  i  cheerfully  recom- 
mend Hood's  Barsaparllla  to  any  who 
may  be  troubled  with  sick  headache  or 
disorder  of  the  stomach."  Mrs.  C.  W. 
m  \i;i;i.>ri.  393  Middlesex  Street,  Lowell. 

31*  Potted  Pigeons. 

Tick,  soak,  and  boll  the  pigeons  with 
the  same  care  as  for  roasting.  Make  a 
crust  as  for  chicken-pie,  lay  the  pigeons 
in  whole,  and  season  with  pepper.  salt, 
and  shavings  of  butter  and  sweet  mar- 
joram. Hour  them  thickly,  then  strain  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  till 
the  dish  two-thirds  with  it,  lay  on  the  top 
crust,  and  close  the  edges  well,  make  in- 
cisions with  a  knife,  ami  hake  an  hour 
and  a  half.     Take  Hoods  Sarsaparilla. 

32.       Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Take  a  pint  of  milk,  four  tablespoon- 
fnls  of  flour,  two  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven,  and  serve  with  roast  beef.  The 
same  proportions  make  a  good  batter. 

83.       Chicken    Croquettes. 

Fourteen  ounces  of  chicken  chopped 
line,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  four  ounces  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  gait,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Mix  the  flour  smooth  in  a  little 
of  the  milk,  put  the  rest  oyer  a  sauce-pan 

of  boiling  water,  ami  when  scalded  pour 
In  the  flour,  sprinkle  the  salt  and  pepper 

over  tin1  butter  and  cut  it  in  the  milk; 
when  like  thick  cream  mix  it  thoroughly 
with  the  chicken  and  pill  it  aside  to  cool, 
then  make  it  Into  twelve  croquettes  from 
three  to  four  inches  long,  roll  them  in  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  in  grated 
bread,  and  fry  them  in  a  frying-hasket. 
re  to  use  only  flood's  Barsaparllla. 

Mad.-  only  byC.  I.  HOOD  &  CO.,  Apoth- 
ecaries. Lowell.  M;bs.     Sold  by  all  drug- 

gists.    100  Doses  ( toe  Dollar. 


Hood-'s  (<><>]>  Boohs 
Nns.  i .  2,  ami  .;.  published  by  C.  I.  Hood 
A  Co.,  proprietors  of   Eiood's  Barsapa- 
rllla,   Lowell,    Mass.,    have    had    a    \ery 

Wide    circulation,   and    are    still    sought 

after  bj  housekeepers  who  value  highly 

the  many  excellent  receipts  they  con- 
tain.    Copies    may    he    had  hy  sending  a 

two-cent  stamp  to  th<'  publishers. 
Lumps  in  the  Seek. 
Joseph  Dniiphy,  214  Central  Street. 
Lowell,  M;ess.,  had  BWellingS  and  lumps 
on  his  neck  and  face,  which  various 
pastes,  ointments,  and  medicines  failed 
to  stop.  A  shopmate,  whose  wife  had 
been  cured  of  a  sore  on  her  arm  by 
Hood's  Barsaparllla,  recommended  the 
medicine,  and  In-  bought  a  bottle.  In 
three  days  there  was  a  change  in  the 
eruptions,  and  Ave  bottles  effected  a 
complete  cure,  leaving  the  skin  smooth 
and  fair,  putting  him  in  good  condition. 

Scrofulous  Sores. 

"  I  was  severely  afflicted  with  scrofula. 
and  for  over  a  year  had  two  running 
sores  on  my  neck.  Took  five  bottles 
of  Hood's  Barsaparllla  and  consider 
myself  entirely  cured."  C.  E.  Lovejoy, 
Tyler  Street,  Lowell,  Mass. 

.l/i    Indiana    I'nst muster. 

■■  In  justice  t<>  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  I 
will  give  a  little  history  of  what  it  has 
clone  for  my  wife.  For  twelve  years  she 
lias  been  afflicted  with  a  stomach  trouble, 
which  at  times  would  take  different 
Shapes.  Sometimes  she  would  sutler 
severe  cramps,  at  other  times  an  aching, 
gnawing  sensation.     She    received    only 

temporary  relief  from  medicines,  until  a 
friend  induced  us  to  try  Hood's  Barsapa- 
rllla. About  Nov.  i.">.  1884,  she  began  to 
take  it.  weighing  then  only  113  pounds. 
She  has  now  taken  three  bottles,  ami 
weighs  130  pounds,  and  she  is  so  much 
reheved  that  she  feels  confident  Of  perma- 
nent cure."   Is  \i  mi  Pn  i  lis.  Yockey.  Ind. 

The  Best  Cure. 

"  I  have  used  the  renowned  BOOd'S 
S.i  rsaparilla,  for  scrofula,  and  find  it  to  be 
the   best  cure  for  the   disease."     Mi;s.   I.. 

MiLi.ru.  Baltimore  pike,  Cincinnati,  O. 


10 


TTTGII-KTIIKET     COOK    BOOK. 


34.  Tomato  and  Lamb  Pic. 
Take  the  remains  of  a  roast  of  lamb, 

or  a  boiled  leg  of  lamb,  and  cut  up  into 

small  pieces  (fat  and  all),  and  put  in  a 
deep  dish,  first  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs, 
then  the  meat,  and  then  either  cut  up 
raw  tomatoes  or  canned  tomatoes,  and 
pepper  and  salt  until  the  dish  is  full,  then 
turn  in  any  gravy  you  may  have  left.  On 
the  top  of  the  dish  put  coarse  bread 
crumbs  with  little  pieces  of  butter  to 
make  a  handsome  crust,  as  you  would  on 
scalloped  oysters,  and  then  bake  for 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  In 
place  of  all  bread-crumbs  you  can  use 
some  cold  cooked  potatoes.  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla  cures  biliousnes  and  headache. 

35.  Spiced  Tomato  Beefsteak. 

Take  a  very  thick  steak  from  the 
round  of  beef,  cut  gashes  into  it  with  a 
knife  and  fdl  the  holes  with  powdered 
cracker  and  spices,  and  little  bits  of  but- 
ter, then  roll  up  tightly  and  tie  with  a 
string.  Take  a  quart  of  canned  tomato 
in  a  tight  sauce-pan  and  lay  the  roll  of 
beef  into  it,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  cook 
slowly  for  at  least  two  and  a  half  or  three 
hours,  till  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done. 
Then  untie  the  roll  and  serve  on  a  platter 
with  the  tomato  about  it,  which  will  then 
be  a  thick  sauce.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
will  purify  and  enrich  your  blood. 

3d.  Veal  Loaf,  for  Lunch,  Etc. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veal,  boiled  a  lit- 
tle while  and  chopped  very  fine  with  a 
quarter  pound  of  raw  salt  pork,  two  or 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  pounded 
cracker,  one  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  and 
a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  well  to- 
gether, press  it  down  hard  in  a  pan,  set 
the  pan  into  a  meat-pan,  pour  water  into 
the  outside1  pan,  set  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
slowly  for  about  an  hour.  When  cold  cut 
in  slices.     Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  now. 

37.  (ceils. 

Mince  fine  one  cup  of  rare  roast  beef, 
add  one-fourth  cup  of  dry  bread-crumbs, 
one-fourth  of  ;i  small  onion  (grated),  one 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful Of  salt,  stir  in  a  Little  good  stock 
and   one    egg    (beaten).      The    mixture 


should  be  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  it. 
Heat  all  together,  and  when  it  cools 
mould  in  the  bowl  of  a  spoon  into  egg- 
shaped  balls,  roll  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry 
a  light  brown,  in  hot  lard.  Make  a  gravy 
of  one  cup  of  stock  thickened  with 
browned  flour,  and  flavor  with  one  tea- 
spoonful of  Halford  Sauce,  and  pour  over 
the  Cecils.    Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

An  Important  Statement. 

The  letter  which  Ave  give  below  is  of 
unusual  importance  and  deserves  careful 
consideration,  from  the  character  and 
prominence  of  the  gentleman  who  writes 
it.  Professor  Cilley  has  devoted  his  en- 
tire life  to  teaching,  and  is  widely  known 
in  New  England  as  an  educator,  in  the 
best  sense  of  the  word,  and  whose  pupils 
honor  and  respect  him.  He  always  has 
marked  influence  in  educational,  politi- 
cal, and  other  gatherings  which  he  at- 
tends.    He  says: 

"  I  cheerfully  give  my  experience  in  the 
use  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla:  I  had  been 

TROUBLED   WITH   CATARRH 

a  long  time,  and  had  used  various  medi- 
cines as  remedies  with  no  good  results, 
when,  in  the  summer  of  1881,  I  was  so 
affected  by  the  disease  that  speech  was 
somewhat  difficult,  and  my  voice  was  en- 
tirely unnatural.  I  then  began  to  use 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  as  a  remedy,  and 
with  such  good  effect,  that,  in  a  few 
weeks,  speech  was  easy,  the  voice  nat- 
ural, and  my  general  health  was  much 
improved.  Sometimes  a,  return  of  the 
disease  is  induced  by  taking  cold,  when  I 
resort  at  once  to  the  use  of  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla, which  I  keep  by  me  constantly, 
and  always  find  relief.  I  regard  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  as  an  invaluable  remedy  for 
catarrh,  and  judging  by  its  effects  upon 
myself,  I  cannot,  say  too  much  in  its 
praise."    J.  S.  Cilley,  Jericho,  Vt. 

Bheumatism. 

"  I  have  taken  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  for 
rheumatism,  and  have  received  great 
benefit  from  it.  I  cheerfully  recom- 
mend it  as  a  tonic  for  the  general  sys- 
tem.''   W.  lUrnnsAL,  Lebanon,  Ohio. 

II 1's  Sarsaparilla  is  made   only  by 

C.  I.  HOOD  &  CO.,  Lowell,  Mass.  Sold 
by  all  druggists.    100  Doses  One  Dollar. 


noons    s  i  //si  PA  i:  1 1. 1.  \. 


11 


FISH. 


hkI  ilitfr 


, ;iit  on  appel Ite." 

M  \<    i:  l    I  II. 


:is.  Cream  Oysters. 

One  pint  <>t"  cream,  a  little  more  than  a 
pint  of  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  Let  the  cream 
come  to  a  boll;  mix  the  flour  with  a  little 

COld  milk  and  stir  into  the  boiling  cream. 
Let  the  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in  their 
own  liquor,  then  skim  carefully.  Drain 
off  all   the   liquor,  ami   turn   the   oysters 

into  the  boiling  cream.  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla  is  a  valuable  aid  to  digestion. 

39.  Spiced   Mackerel. 

Have  one-half  do/en  small  mackerel; 
mix  together  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon 

(teaspoonful  of  each),  open  the  mack- 
erel and  sprinkle  this  mixture  in.  then 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  close  them  tightly; 
put  into  an  earthen  dish,  cover  with  \  ille- 
gal-, and  hake  them  an  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.    Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  now. 

40.  Fish  Balls. 

Boil  together  one  quart  of  sliced  pota- 
toes pared,  and  one  large  cup  of  salt  fish, 
about  half  an  hour.  Mash,  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  with  a 
small  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  and 
one  egg;  beat  together  with  a  spoon;  then 
have  the  fat  boiling  hot.  drop  into  the  hot 
fat  a  tablespoonful  of  this  mixture.  Do 
not  use  the  hands  to  make  them  into 
balls,  or  flour.  Von  will  find  them  very 
delicate  and  light.  Bood's  Sarsaparilla 
overcomes  that  extreme  tired  feeling. 

41.  Oyster   Fricassee. 

.Melt  one  cup  of  butler  in  a  spider,  put 
in  two  quarts  of  oysters;  let  them  boil 

Up  once,  remove  from  the  stove;  add  one 
cup  of  cream,  pepper  to  taste,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  Hour  mixed  in  a  little 
cold  milk.  Put  back  on  the  stove,  ami 
let  it  boil  till  the  oysters  are  cooked. 
Take  off,  and  add  the  yolks  of  thn 
well   beaten;  pour  over  ;i    platter  Of    hot. 

toasted  crackers.    Serve  hot. 

"  I  can  safely  say  that  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla will  drive  all  impurity  from  the 
blood."    (J.   \V.   Haktkk.  Smithville.  O. 


Well  Known  in  LotoeU, 

Mi.  Albert  Bates,  whose  Btatemenl 
follows,  has  been  for  man)  years  em 
ployed  by  J.  W.  Bennett,  Esq.,  a  leading 
contractor  ami  builder  of  Lowell,  and 
is  well-known  as  a  reliable  man  : 

"  From    1">\1 1    I    have   been    troubled 

with  scrofula  or  sail  rheum  humor,  which 

manifested  itself  In  various  disagreeable 
forms,    i  had  sores  on  different  parts  of 

my  body,  and  at   one  time    I    had  a   large 

bunch  c in  my  neck,  which  develo]  ed 

into  a  running  sore  and  troubled  me  for  a 
long  time.  The  most  serious  affection, 
bowever,  appeared  aboul  three  yeai 

on  my  leg  between  the  k and  ankle. 

From  an  injury  to  the  skin,  which  was 
comparatively  slight,  there  grew,  as  the 
result  Of  a  cold  and  humor,  a  running  sore, 
which  became  worse  and  spread  till  at 
one  time  it  covered  a  place  on  my  leg 
fully  six  Inches  long  by  three  or  [our 
inches  wide.  1  was  obliged  to  keep  it 
bandaged  constantly,  and  when  I  changed 
the  bandages  every   night,    it    caused   a 

>i  \  BSE   BURS  i  v.   BENS  k  HON. 

The  sore  was  also  very  sensitive,  and 
when  at  work  a  slight  touch  would 
cause  it  to  bleed,  ami  pain  Intensely. 
When  1  had  suffered  in  this  way  about  a 
year.  I  happened  to  be  reading  of  the 
cures  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  had  effected  in 
cases  similar  to  mine,  and  I  decided  to 
give  it  a  trial.  In  connection  with  the 
Sarsaparilla.  I  used  Hood's  Olive  Oint- 
ment   for    the    purpose    of    cooling    and 

soothing  the  soie.  and  it  served  its  pur- 
pose admirably.  The  effects  of  the  Sar- 
saparilla were  also  soon  apparent.    The 

sore  began  to  .mow  less,  ami  in  a  few 
months  had  entirely  healed,  leaving  a 
large  scar  which  1  suppose  I  shall  always 

have  upon  me.  My  blood  seems  to  have 
been  thoroughly  purified,  as  i  bave  not 
been  troubled  by  the  humor  in  anj  way 
Blnce,  though  before  l  began  taking 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  i  was  ^<  Idom  free 
from  it  in  some  form,  l  have  recommen- 
ded Hood's  Sarsaparilla  to  other  people 
frequently,  and  do  now  recommend  it  to 
every  one  troubled  with  scrofula  or  salt 
rheum,  or  any  in  need  of  a  medicine  to 
purify  the    blood."      Ai.ri  i;t    lis  i  l  -    . 

Basl  I'ine  Street,  Lowell,  M 


12 


B1GH-STBEMT    COOK   BOOK 


VEGETABLES. 

'Cheerful  looks  make  every  dish  a  feast." 
Massinger. 


42.  Baked  Tomatoes. 

Sixteen  tomatoes,  some  bread-crumbs. 
a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Bake 
the  tomatoes  whole,  then  scoop  out  a 
small  hole  at  the  top;  fry  the  bread- 
crumbs, and  till  the  holes  with  this  as 
high  as  possible;  then  brown  the  toma- 
toes in  the  oven,  and  take  care  the  skin 
does  not  break.  Time,  twenty-five  min- 
utes; sufficient  for  nine  persons.  Season- 
able in  August,  September,  and  October. 

43.  Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Cook  macaroni  soft ;  place  in  an  earthen 
dish  first  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then  toma- 
toes, seasoning  the  tomatoes  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  adding  butter.  Make  the 
last  layer  of  tomatoes,  and  bake  until 
this  layer  is  brown. 

44.  Corn  Oysters. 

Grate  young,  sweet  corn,  and  to  a  pint 
add  one  egg  well  beaten,  small  teacup  of 
flour,  half  gill  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  well  together, 
drop  into  the  fat  by  spoonfuls  about  the 
size  of  an  oyster.  If  you  are  all  run  down 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  will  build  you  up. 

45.  Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes  thin,  same  as 
for  frying.  Butter  an  earthen  dish,  put 
in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  bit  of  onion 
chopped  line;  sprinkle  on  a  little  Hour. 
Now  put  on  another  layer  of  potatoes  and 
the  seasoning.  Continue  in  this  way  till 
the  dish  is  filled.  Just  before  putting  in 
the  oven,  pour  a  eup  of  milk  over.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

46.  Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

One  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut 
in  dice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one 
tabiespoonful  of  chopped   parsley,  one 

tablespoonful    Of   salt,  one  tablespoonful 

of  pepper.  Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter, 
and  when  tin  y  turn  yellow,  add  the  pota- 
toes.   Stir  with  a  fork,  being  careful  not 


to  break  them.  When  hot,  add  the  pars- 
ley, and  cook  ten  minutes  longer;  serve 
immediately  on  a  hot  dish. 

Dyspepsia- 
Is  caused  by  carelessness  in  diet,  high 
living,  eating  too  rapidly,  too  rich  food, 
overtaxing  the  stomach  with  indigestible 
food,  etc.  Constipation,  headache,  heart- 
burn, sour  stomach,  distress  after  eating, 
faintness,  dizziness,  and  capricious  appe- 
tite are  some  of  the  many  distressing 
symptoms.  Persons  troubled  with  dys- 
pepsia are  miserable,  hopeless,  confused 
and  depressed  in  mind,  very  irritable, 
languid,  and  drowsy.  Dyspepsia  requires 
careful,  persistent  attention,  and  a 
remedy  to  throw  off  the  causes  and  tone 
up  the  digestive  organs.  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla has  proven  just  the  remedy  in  hun- 
dreds of  cases. 

The  Best  Results. 

"  I  have  had  dyspepsia  for  several  years 
and  was  urged  to  try  Hood's  Sarsaparilla, 
which  I  did  with  the  very  best  results. 
I  have  also  been  troubled  with  catarrh, 
but  since  taking  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
have  been  very  much  better.  I  have 
recommended  it  to  my  neighbors,  and  all 
who  have  taken  it  speak  very  highly  of 
it."  Mrs.  Mary  J.  Ryan,  131  High 
Street,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

Dyspepsia  Entirely  Cured. 

"  I  have  been  troubled  with  dyspepsia 
for  many  years,  so  that  at  times  1  would 
despair  of  ever  being  well.  Medicine  did 
not  seem  to  do  me  any  good.  1  was  for  a 
number  of  years  unable  to  work.  Two 
years  ago  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  was  recom- 
mended by  a  friend,  and  I  got  a  bottle 
and  used  it.  It  did  me  so  much  good  that 
I  have  taken  several  bottles,  which  have 
cured  the  dyspepsia,  and  I  now  consider 
myself  entirely  well.  I  cannot  find  words 
strong  enough  to  express  satisfactorily  to 
myself  my  feeling  in  favor  of  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla. it  has  done  everything  for  me, 
and  I  cheerfully  recommend  it.  I  think 
it  the  best  blood  purifier  in  the  market." 
Mi:s.   S.   M.  Beede,  Marblehead,  Mass. 

"  I  can  certify  to  the  above  as  being 
true,  and  also  say  that  other  members  of 
the  family  are  using  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
with  good  results."    S.  M.  Beede. 


HOOD'S    8 .1  USA  /'.I  ////.  /    l 


l;; 


t  7, 


OMELETS. 

Baked  Omelet. 


One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately.    Scald   tiif  milk.  ;iih1  thicken 

with  a  tables] aful  oi  flour     Let  It  cool 

:i  little;  add  the  yolks,  whites,  and  salt. 
Pour  Into  a  buttered  dish,  and  hake  until 
it  rises  all  over  like  a  custard. 


•;  8. 


Omelet. 


six  eggs,  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  troth, 
>oiks  well  beaten,  one  teacup  of  warm 
milk  with  tahlespoonful  of  butter  melted 
iu  it.  one  tahlespoonful  of  flour  wet  to  a 
paste  with  milk;  add  to  the  cup  of  milk 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  except 
the  whites — add  them  last.  <'o«»k  Imme- 
diately ahout  ten  minutes,  then  fold  like 
a  turnover.    Take  flood's  Sarsaparilla. 


49. 


Corn  Omelet. 


Take  half  a  cup  of  canned  corn  and 
Chop  it  very  tine  tor  the  same  amount  cut 
from  the  COh),  and  to  that  add  the  yolk  of 

on.'  egg  well  beaten,  with  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk 
(or  better,  cream).  Heat  the  white  of  the 
a  still'  froth,  and  stir  it  in  just  be- 
fore cooking.    Have  the  griddle  very  bot 

and  profusely  buttered,  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture on,  and  when  nicely  browned,  turn 
one  half  over  Hie  other,  as  in  cooking 
other  omelets.    Try  Sood's  Sarsaparilla. 

Headache  and  Scrofula, 

'•Alter  taking  three  doses  of  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  1  was  very  much  relieved 
from  a  terrible  headache.  1  have  been 
troubled  more  or  less  with  scrofula  for 
the  past  fourteen  years,  and  my  parents 
and  myself  have  spent  hundreds  of  dol- 
lars ior  medicines,  doctors'  bills,  etc.,  in 
the  effort  to  cure  it.  But  nothing  ever 
.  ted  me  so  much  as  Hoods  Sarsa- 
parilla. When  1  began  to  take  it  last 
October  my  face  was  a  terrible  sight,  all 
covered  with  pimples,  i  took  four  bot- 
d's  Sarsaparilla  and  now  there 
i  ii.  t  a  pimple  on  my  face.  My  friends 
say  to  me.  '  How  nicely  your  luce  looks  I 
What  did.  you  do  for  it?'  lam  perfectly 
willing  to  make  known  to  all  the  benelii 
l  have  received  from  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla."   T.  R.  Bobbins,  Concord,  v  n. 


Salt    1! hen  in. 

The  following  statements  ot  remark 
able  cures  of  severe  eases  of  salt  rheum 
bj  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  are  additional 
Illustrations  of  the  power  which  this  med- 
icine  has  overall   diseases  caused  bj 

Impure  blood.     If  any  of  our  readers  are 

afflicted  with  this  painful  and  extremely 

disagreeable  disease,  we  urge  you  to  give 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  a  trial.  We  know 
that  you   will   he   as   greatl)    benefited 

as  those  whose  testimonials  follow. 
Sood'S  Olive  ointment  will  be  found  an 
excellent  outward  application  to  allay 
the  intense  itching  and  burning. 

Cordially  Recommended. 

■•  I  take  pleasure  in  recommending  t<» 
the  public  flood's  Sarsaparilla,  for  it  lias 

done  wonders  for  me.     I  had  salt  rheum 

very  severely,  affecting  me  over  nearly 
my  entire  body,    only  those   who  have 

suffered  from  this  disease  in  its  worst 
form  can  imagine  the  extent  of  my  afflic- 
tion. It  is  impossible  to  describe  my 
sufferings.  I  took  many  medicines  but 
failed  to  receive  benefit  until  I  took 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla.     The  disease  began 

to  subside,  the  watery  pimples  with  their 

agonizing:  itch  and  paim 

disappeared,  and  now  I  am  entirely  tree 
from  the  disease.  My  blood  seems  to  be 
thoroughly  purified,  and  my  health  is 
greatly  benefited.  My  wife,  seeing  the 
benefit  1  received,  and  being  troubled 
with  restlessness  at  night,  also  took 
flood's  Sarsaparilla.    it  helped  her  very 

much,  and  she  now  sleeps  perfectly  well." 

Lyman  ai.i.kn.  Sexton  N.  E,  Church, 
North  Chicago,  111. 

From    108  to  135. 

'•1  was  seriously  troubled  with  sad 
rheum  for  three  years,  ami  received  no 
benefit  from  medical  treatment.  1  s.,w 
the  advertisement  of  the  good  Hood'sSar- 

saparilla  was  accomplishing,  and  decided 

to  take  it.  The  result  is  that  I  am  en- 
tirely cured  of  s;  It  rheum,  and  my  weight 
has  Increased  from  toe  lbs.  when  i  began 

i    flood'!    Sarsaparilla.  to   136  QOW." 
\ii;s.  Ai.i.  i.  Smith.  Stamford,  Conn. 

iioodN  Sarsaparilla  i-  made  only  by 
C.   1.  HOOD  &  CO.,  Lowell,  Ma--. 


14 


HIGH-STREET    COOK   BOOK. 


SALADS. 

••To  make  it   one   must   have   a   spark  of 
genius." 

50.  Dressing  for  Sandwiches. 

One-half  pound  of  nice  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  a  little  red  or 
white  pepper,  a  little  salt,  yolk  of  one 
egg.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the 
other  ingredients,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
set  away  to  cool.  Spread  the  bread  with 
this  mixture  and  put  in  the  ham  chopped 
fine.    Hood's  Sarsaparilla  for  the  blood. 

51.  Cooked  Dressing. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  mustard,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  popper,  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar.  When  all  is  mixed,  place  the 
bowl  in  hot  water  on  the  stove  and  stir 
constantly  till  it  thickens. 

52.  Potato  Salad. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  thin  slices, 
add  a  small  piece  of  onion  chopped  very 
fine,  with  a  bit  of  sour  apple.  Garnish 
your  dish  with  slices  of  beet  and  carrot 
cut  in  any  fancy  shape.  Pour  over  the 
potato  salad  dressing. 

53.  Salad  Cream  Dressing. 

Two  even  tablespoonfuls  dry  mustard, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
powdered  sugar;  scald  with  hot  water 
enough  to  mix.  Pour  in  the  oil  slowly, 
beating  all  the  time  — drop  in  all  the  oil 
it  will  contain— three  unbeaten  eggs,  and 
tie.it  all  together,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar. 
and  then  two-thirds  cup  of  milk:  put 
over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring 
constantly  till  it  thickens.  Strain  if  you 
wish.     When  cold  a  little  whipped  cream 

improves  it.    Hood's  Sarsaparilla  purifies 

the  Mood  and  tones  the   digestion. 

Canker  in  tin-  Stomach. 
'•This  certifies  thai  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 

has  been  used  witli  perfect  success  in  our 
family  for  canker  in  the  stomach  and  im- 
pure blood.  I  consider  my  little  one  en- 
tirely cured,  and  shall  continue  its  use  as 
afamflj  medicine."  M  its.  K.  E.  Burton, 
Somerville.  Mass. 


Glandular  Swellings. 

A  peculiar  form  of  scrofula  is  swelling 
of  the  glands  of  the  neck,  often  forming 
large  bunches,  which  are  very  disagree- 
able and  unsightly.  These  bunches  ac- 
cumulate a  quantity  of  foul  matter,  and 
have  a  weakening  and  depressing  effect 
upon  the  general  health.  We  give  below 
a  statement  from  a  lady  who  suffered 
from  an  affection  of  this  kind  and  was 
greatly  benefited  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

"  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  has  done  for  me 
what  the  best  medical  treatment  in  this 
vicinity  has  failed  to  accomplish.  My 
disease  was  an  enlargement  of  the  glands 
of  my  neck.  The  gland  back  of  my  left 
car  was  swollen  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg, 
and  the  glands  on  my  neck  and  collar 
bone  were  swollen  to  about  the  same 
size.  I  doctored  and  suffered  for  eigh- 
teen long  months,  and  could  find  no  relief 
in  anything  T  tried.    My 

WHOLE   GLANDULAR  SYSTEM 

seemed  affected.  I  read  in  a  book 
that  similar  cases  had  been  cured 
by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  and  I  decided  to 
try  it.  I  almost  immediately  found  relief, 
and  having  now  taken  five  bottles  of 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  I  believe  there  is 
nothing  equal  to  it  for  diseases  of  this 
kind.  I  have  also  used  three  boxes  of 
Hood's  Vegetable  Pills  and  Hood's  Olive 
Ointment  with  good  results.  T  am  now 
able  to  do  my  work,  something  1  have 
not,  done  for  li\e  years.  The  swelling  of 
the  glands  has  been  reduced  over  half, 
and  I  intend  to  keep  on  taking  the  medi- 
cine till  it  is  entirely  gone.  My  general 
health  has  never  been  better  than  now. 
T  most  heartily  recommend  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla to  all  Mho  may  be  suffering,  and 
T  know  of  six  families  who  are  using  it 
by  hearing  how  I  have  been  benefited  bv 

It.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  has  certainly 
done  me  great  good."  Mrs.  William 
McDonaIiD,  94  North  Street,  Wooster,0. 

I'lrasinif  Results. 

"I  have  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  in 
my  family  the  past  two  years  as  a  blood 
purifier  and  am  much  pleased  with  the 
results.  Having  accomplished  its  object. 
I  recommend  it  cheerfully."  John  H. 
I;  \  msi:\  .   Kansas  City.   Mo 


HOOD'S     VI  //.s.l  /'.i  ///  /.  /.   i 


i:» 


PUDDINGS. 


The  prooi  ■•'  tta 
eating." 


pudding  Ilea  Lu  the 


.> /.      Deltnonlco  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  li\<'  eggs  ami  white  of  one, 
[oar  large  tablespoonfula  of  corn-starch, 
five  tablespoonfmls  oi  sugar,  pinch  of 
salt,  Btirred  into  one  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  boil  five  minutes,  pour  into  ;i  bu1 
tered  dish,  frost,  flavor,  and  jelly.  Thai 
tired  feejlng     Take  Hood's  Sarsaparllla. 

.">.*.         fVhttpot  Pudding, 

One  quart  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  mo- 

,  two  eggs,  four  si nfuls  of  Indian 

meal,  well  beaten  together,  then  stir  Into 
the  milk  while  boiling. 

.*<>.   Tapioca  Fruit  Pudding, 

One-half  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over 
night  in  cold  water  enough  to  make  a 
quart.    In  the  morning  cover  the  bottom 

of  the  dish  with  any  kind  of  fruit,  either 
canned  or  fresh,  and  sprinkle  with  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  flavor 

to  t;iste;  pour  the  tapioca  over  the  fruit, 
and  hake  one  hour.  Serve  cold  with 
SUgar  and  cream. 

.',7.    Unhid  Apple  Pudding. 

Fill    a    three-quart    earthen    disli    with 

pared  and   quartered  apples.     Sprinkle 

on  these  one  cup  of  BUgar,  a  little  cinna- 
mon, one  taMespoonful  of  huiter.  a;id 
one-half  cup  of  water.  Cover  and  bake 
thirty  minutes.  Make  half  the  rule  for 
chopped  paste.  Boll  a  piece  <  f  the  paste 
into  a  strip  about  tw  I  inches  wide  that 
will  reach  around  the  pudding-dish;  roll 
the  remainder  to  cover  the  dish.  Take 
the  pudding-dish  from  the  oven,  slip  the 
strip  of  paste  between  the  apple  and  the 
dish,  and  put  on  the  top  crust;  return  to 
oven    ami    bake    an    hour.      Serve    witli 

creamy  sauce. 

.><*.    United  Plum  Pudding, 

Tint  e-quarters  pound  of  stale  bread, 
one-quarter  pound  of  Buet,  one-half  cup 
ni  BUgar,  three  cues,  one-half  pound  of 
raisins,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  g]  . 
wine,  one  teaspoouful  of  salt,  on 
spoonful  if  spice,  one-half  tcaspoonful  of 
soda.    Boil  live  or  six.  hours- 


Biliousness 

Is  often  caused  bj  frequent  changes 
in  the  weather,  the  Bymptoms  being 
lutier  taste,  offensive  breath,  tongue 
coated,  Blck  headache,  drowsiness,  dizzi- 
ness, loss  of  appetite,  it  this  condition 
is  allowed  to  continue,  .serious  cons. 
quenccs  may  follow.  The  besl  known 
anti-bilious  remedies  are  combined  in 
Hoods  Sarsaparllla,  in  such  proportion 
as  to  derive  the  full  medicinal  effects 
without  disturbance  to  the  system. 

TjOss  of  Appetite, 

"  During  the  spring  and  summer  I  was 
troubled  with  biliousness  and  loss  of 
appetite.  1  was  advised  to  try  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla,  and  did  so  with  the  besl 
results.  I  have  recommended  it  to  a 
.ureal  man]  of  my  customers,  to  whom 
it  has  given  entire  satisfaction."  E.  i:. 
\'owi.am>.  druggist,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

Bilious  Headache. 

••  i  was  troubled  with  a  bilious  bead- 
ache  for  two  years.    A  friend  advised  me 

to  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  and  having 
done  so,  I  feel  like  a  new  man  and  would 
recommend  it  to  all  Buffering.  I  am 
sure  they  will  get  their  money's  worth." 
A.  DRAGON     Northampton,  Mass. 

Helped   Very  Much, 

'■  I  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  last  spring 
andean  truly  say  it  helped  me  very  much. 
To  those  suffering  with  bilious  com- 
plaints,  nervous  j  rostration,  or  rheuma- 
tism. I  earnestly  recommend  it."  SIRS. 
E.  Carpenter,  ens  West  North  street. 

halama/oo,   Mich. 

■  1    have  used  Hood's   Sarsaparilla   for 

biliousness;  think  it  a  great  remedy  for 
that  complaint."  .1.  W.  Ajbbott,  Man- 
chester, N.  II. 

Whole  System    Benefited. 

"Hood's  Sarsaparilla  has  done  me  an 
Immense  amount  of  good.  My  whole 
system  has  been  built  up  and  strength- 
ened, my  digestion  improved,  my  head 
relieved  of  the  had  feeling,  and  my  throat 
relieved  of  the  severe  irritation,  l  con- 
sider it  the  best  medicine  I  have  ever 

used,  and  am  glad  to  speak  in  its  praise." 
MARI    1..    PXSLEj  Salem,   MaSS, 


16 


HIGH-STREET    COOK    BOOK. 


59.  Indian,  Pudding. 

To  two  quarts  of  milk  -when  boiling, 
add  two  cups  of  Indian  meal,  one-half 
cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  ginger, 
one-half  teaspoonful  allspice,  one-half 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  and  one  pint  cold  milk.  Beat  the 
eggs  and  stir  all  together,  butter  the  dish, 
and  bake  two  hours.  100  Doses  One  Dol- 
lar, is  true  only  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

60.  Orange  Pudding. 

Take  four  large  oranges,  peel,  seed, 
and  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Then  boil  one  pint  of  milk  and 
add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,,  and  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs;  when  done  let  it 
cool,  then  mix  it  with  the  orange.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  one  cup  of 
sugar,  spread  over  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding, setting  it  in  the  oven  to  brown 
slightly.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

61.  Sweet  Flour  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  five  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  six  eggs,  a  little  butter  half  the  size 
of  an  egg,  little  salt,  nutmeg,  sweeten  to 
taste;  stir  the  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk 
and  mix  with  the  milk  when  boiling  hot. 
Butter  the  dish,  put  some  raisins  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  beat  the  eggs  and 
sugar  together,  and  add  them  to  the  milk 
when  cold,  then  pour  the  whole  over  the 
raisins  into  the  dish,  and  bake  like  a  cus- 
tard.   To  be  eaten  cold,  without  sauce. 

6 'J.     Gingerbread  Pudding. 

Fill  a  common  sized  baking  dish  little 
more  than  half  full  of  apples  cut  in  thick 
Slices,  scatter  over  them  a  little  sugar, 
salt,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  and  pour 
over  them  half  a  cup  of  water.  Make 
tin;  gingerbread  of  one-half  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, half  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of 
butter,  nne  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  ginger  and  cinnamon,  flour  enough  to 
make  :i  thin  mixture.  Pour  this  over  the 
apple  and  hake.    Serve  it  with  a  saner. 

63.       Baltimore  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  suet 
chopped  fine,  two  cups  <>f  milk  (sweet  or 


sour),  two  cups  of  stoned  raisins,  seven 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Steam  the  pudding. 

Sauce.  —  Two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
and  one  cup  of  butter  beaten  together  to 
a  froth;  two  cups  of  boiling  milk  slowly 
strained  in,  and  set  on  ice  to  serve  cold. 

After  Scarlet  Fever. 

"  I  am  glad  to  bear  testimony  to  the 
superior  worth  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 
When  in  the  spring  I  felt  all  run  down 
and  much  debilitated,  I  found  it  just  the 
medicine  to  build  me  up.  My  wife  also, 
after  much  physical  prostration,  found  in 
its  use  new  life  and  most  lasting  benefit. 
Upon  our  little  girl,  who  had  been  sick 
with  scarlet  fever,  its  use  was  most  mar- 
velous, entirely  removing  the  poison 
from  her  blood  and  restoring  her  to  good 
health.  We,  therefore,  feel  that  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  deserves  our  highest  praise 
and  is  worthy  of  the  high  favor  it  holds 
at  the  hands  of  the  public.  E.  G.  Strat- 
ton,  Veterinary  Dentist,  26  Burrill  Street, 
Swampscott,  Mass. 

Effectual  Relief. 

We  are  pleased  to  receive  the  following 
from  a  reliable  and  respected  merchant 
of  Montpelicr,  Vt.: 

"  I  have  been  afflicted  with  a  bowel 
complaint  for  twenty-five  years,-  and  as 
often  as  one  week  in  eight  was  disabled 
for  business.  My  wife  was  reading  the 
testimonials  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  sup- 
posing there  was  some  truth  in  them. 
But  I  told  her  they  were  bought  up  and 
there  was  nothing  to  them.  She  urged 
me  to  get  a  bottle,  and  to  please  her  I 
did  so,  and  got  the  second  and  third. 
From  the  time  I  commenced  taking 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  till  now,  I  have  been 
free  from  the  complaint,  and  feel  thank- 
ful that  I  have  received  effectual  relief 
by  taking  the  medicine."  Jos.  FlSHER, 
of  Fisher  &  Colton,  Montpelier,  Vt. 

So  Strengthening. 

"We  all  like  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  it  is 
so  strengthening."  LIZZIE  BALFOUR, 
Auburn,  P.  0- 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  made  only  by 
('.  I.  HOOD  &  CO.,  Lowell,  Mass.  Sold 
by  all  druggists,    too  Doses  One  Dollar, 


HOOD'S    8  A  USA  /'.I  //  /  /.  /.  I 


17 


PASTRY. 

"Who  11  dare  deny  tii>-  truth,  there 'a  poetrj 

in  pie   •"  LOITOl  BIXOW. 

<;/.  r«rr  Paste. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  <>t' 
Boor,  oik'  Bcan(  teaspoonful  i>i"  salt,  one 
cup  <»f  Lcc-water.  The  treatment  the 
same  aa  in  plain  paste,  with  the  excep- 
i  rolling  the  dough  from  yon,  ami 
guarding  agalnsl  rolling  to  the  very  edge 
of  the  dough,  thereby  pre>  enting  the  air- 
cells  being  broken,  which  Insures  success. 


Mince  Meat. 


One   CUp   of  ehopped    moat,  one   and  a 

half  (ills  of  raisins,  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  currants,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  Prow  n 
sugar,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one- 
third  cup  of  molasses,  three  cups  of 
chopped  apples,  one  cup  of  meat  liquor, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
mace,  half  a  teaSDOOnful  of  cloves,  one 
lemon,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron,  half 
i  cup  of  brandy,  quarter  of  a  cup  of  wine. 
Do  not  put  in  the  brandy  ami  wine  until 
the  meat  is  cooked.  Cider  and  vinegar 
can  he  substituted  in  place  of  brandy  and 
wine,  if  preferred.  This  amount  will 
make  lour  pie-..  rjge  a  piece  of  solid, 
lean  meat  cut  from  the  round. 


Od. 


Mttrh-  Miner   1'ics. 


Six  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  two  cups 
of  cold  water,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 

cup  of  brown  BUgar,  one  cup  of  sour 

Cider,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  melted  Put- 
ter, one  and  ;i  half  cups  of  raisins,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  currants,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  citron  cut  line,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one 

tea8poonfu]  Of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of 
black  pepper,  one   wine  ulass  of  brandy. 

two  eggs  beaten  light.    Enough  for  six 

pies.     N,,w  take   II Ps  Saisapariila. 

Indifjestion. 
"  I  have  been  using  Hood's  SarsaparilUi 

for  indigestion,  kidney  and  liver  troubles. 

It  has  greatly  benefited  me,  and  I  would 
advise  any  one  afflicted  with  similar 
troubles  to  give  it  a  trial."  YV.  II.  WAIT, 
depot  master,  Syracuse.  X.  Y. 


The  h  tdneys  and  Liver 

An-  very  Important  organs,  ami  it  uot 

kept  in  pood,  active  condition,  much  i  uf 

feting  is  likely  to  result.    Hood's  E 
pariila,  by  its  purifying  ami  regulating 
Influences,  has  cured  many  seven 
of  kidney  ami  liver  complaints. 

Cold  I  ret     Pimples, 

"  I  was  si,-!.,  nine  or  ten  yi  ar  .  with 
difficulty  of  the  kidneys  and  liver,  and 
COUld  get  nothing  to  do  me  any  good.     At 

times  I  was  unable  to  do  my  work.  I  had 
cold  feet  nearly  all  the  time  — could  not 
keep  them  warm,  and  my  body  would 
break  out  with  fine  spots.  I  took  diffei 
cut  medicines,  but  could  get  no  relief.  I 
saw  Hood's  Saisapariila  advertised  and 
told  my  husband  I  would  try  one  bottle  ; 

then  I  could  tell  if  there  was  any  g I  in 

it.  I  had  taken  only  half  of  it  when  I 
began  to  feel  better,  and  for  years  I  la  \  e 
not  felt  as  well  as  I  do  now.  1  do  not 
have  cold  feet  now,  and  am  not  troubled 
with  pimples."  Mi:-.  I  \\\n  Millkk, 
1012  Ninth  Street,  Harrisburg,  Pa. 

Pain  in  the  Bach. 

"  After  seeing  three  doctors,  l  was  ad- 
vised to  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilhi  for  a 
pain  in  my  back,  caused  by  standing  on 
my  feet  while  at  my  work.  I  think  it 
must  have  been  trouble  with  my  kidneys. 

After  using  one  bottle  I  felt  almost  well. 

and  am  now  taking  the  second  bottle, 
which  I  think  will  entirely  cure  me." 
Hk.nhv    J.  BTAKDTB,  Kansas  <  ity.  Mo. 

Kidney  Trouble. 

"After  trying  several  physicians,  and 
paying  out  lots  of  money  for  medicine 

for  kidney  trouble.  I  took  a  few  bottles 
of  Hoods  Sarsaparilla,  and  I  am  pleased 
to  say  that  I  am  a  great  deal  better.  My 
rheumatism  is  almost  cured,  and  my  kid- 
neys are  now  in  good  order.  I  ha\  e 
faith  in  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  as  I  know- 
it  has  cured  many  in  my  neighborhood." 
D.  WEST,  Napoleon.  Henry  Count- 

C.  I.  Pitman,  Dorchester  Dist.,  Boston, 
took  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  to  purify  his 
blood,  and  to  his  great  surprise,  \\  cured 
a  severe  kidney  trouble  with  which  he 
had  Buffered  eleven  years 


18 


//  TGJET-  S  T  R  E  ET    COO  K     B  0  O  K. 


61. 


Lemon  IHe. 


Grate  and  squeeze  two  lemons,  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two- 
thirds  goblet  of  milk.  Use  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  for  frosting.  Make  a  rich  paste 
for  the  undercrust. 


68. 


Cheese  Sticks. 


One  cup  of  grated  cheese,  one  cup  of 
flour,  a  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
butter  same  as  for  pastry;  roll  thin,  cut 
in  narrow  strips,  and  bake  a  light  brown 
in   a   quick    oven.    Serve   with   salads. 

69.  Chopped  Paste. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  cups  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  one-half 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  Do  not  wash  the 
butter.  Put  all  together  in  a  chopping- 
tray,  and  chop  until  thoroughly  mixed; 
then  add  cold  water  (or  iced  water)  to 
make  a  very  stiff  paste,  which  will  take 
less  than  a  cup  of  water,  roll  out  once 
and  place  in  the  ice-chest  to  harden.  Be 
made  strong  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 


(K 


Tarts. 


Three  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  butter, 
half  cup  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  cream 
tartar,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  white  of 
one  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  white  sugar,  half  cup  of  cold  water. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  100  doses  $1 ; 
true  only  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

Given  Up  to  IHe. 

"I  was  completely  run  down,  and 
was  tor  nearly  lour  years  under  medical 
treatment,  being  given  up  to  die  by  physi- 
cians. They  had  prescribed  iron  and 
different  tonics,  hut  I  received,  no  benefit 
and  gave  up    In   despair.      My   mother 

urged    me   to   take    II I's   Sarsaparilla, 

and  at  last  I  consented.  I  must  say  I 
have  never  taken  anything  which  gave 
me  as  much  benefit  as  liood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla, which  restored  me  to  health  and 
vigor.  1  have  been  taking  it  about  four 
months  and  am  now  a  different  being.  I 
can  sew  all  day  with  very  little  fatigue. 
I  highly  recommend  il  to  any  one  whose 
system  is  prostrated."  Ni.i.ia  Noble, 
904  South  Adams  Street,  Peoria,  111. 


That  Tired  Feeling 
Which  is  so  distressing  and  so  all-per- 
vading, caused  by  change  of  climate, 
season,  or  life,  is  entirely  thrown  off  by 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  which  replaces  lan- 
guor and  inactivity  with  life  and  vigor. 

General  Debility. 

"  My  daughter  had  been  ailing  some 
time  with  general  debility,  and  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  was  recommended  to  us. 
After  she  had  taken  three  bottles  she 
was  completely  cured  and  built  up.  It  is 
with  great  pleasure  that  I  recommend 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla."  BenM,  M  iiuiie- 
LEES,  Supt.  Cincinnati  &  Louisville  Mail 
Line  Company,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Tired  all  the  Time. 

••  Two  months  ago  I  commenced  taking 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  as  an  experiment,  as 
I  had  no  appetite  or  strength,  and  felt 
tired  all  the  time.  1  attributed  my  con- 
dition to  scrofulous  humor.  I  had  tried 
several  different  kinds  of  medicine,  with- 
out receiving  any  benefit.  But  as  soon 
as  I  had  taken  half  a  bottle  Of  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla,  my  appetite  was  restored, 
and  my  stomach  felt  belter.  1  have  now 
taken  nearly  three  bottles,  and  I  never 
was  so  well  in  my  life."  Mrs.  Jessie  F. 
Dolbeare,  Pascoag,  K.  I. 

Felt  Like  an  Old  Math. 

"  T  have  taken,  by  advice,  a  bottle  of 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  and  it  did  me  good. 
My  blood  was  all  out  of  order  and  I  felt 
like  an  old  man.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
makes  me  feel  young  and  active  as  a  boy 
of  twelve."  Julius  Kratzer,  55  East 
Wayne  Street,  Fort  Wayne,  Ind. 

Loss  of  Appetite. 

"  1  know  that  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  has 
done  me  a  great  deal  of  good,  and  we 
esteem  it  in  our  family  an  old  and  valued 
friend.  My  husband  has  been  subject  to 
severe  headaches,  but  is  greatly  benefited 
by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  My  son  suffered 
from  spring  debility  and  loss  of  appetite, 
and  was  restored  to  health  as  soon  as  he 
began  to  take  our  favorite  medicine, 
Un,„\\i  sarsaparilla."  MRS.  Thalia  E. 
Smith.  Scipioville,  N.  Y. 


WOOD'  8    fl  i  RS  I  /'  I  ////  /    I. 


19 


CAKE. 

■•  w  nil  weighl  -  and  mea  lurei  |ns1 

<  >\  .11  of  <\  en  heal . 
Well  battered  tins  and  «iu i.i  nen i 

(Success  w  ill  i>f  complete." 


71.  dinner  Sua  its. 

One  cup  <>f  sugar,  one  cup  of  New 
Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter  (or 
pari  butter  and  part  lard),  tbree  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoon- 
fui  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  cloves  and  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
hot  water.  Hour  sufficient  to  thicken  to 
roll  out  easily;  roll  thin,  cut  them  small, 
and  bake  them  crisp  and  brown  in  a 
quick  oven.  Languor  overcome  by 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla.    Sold  by  druggists' 

7  9,  Fmit  Cake. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  twelve  eggs, 

two  large  nutmegs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
mace,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one-half 
teaspoonful  Of  ginger,  grated  yellow  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon  and  orange,  small 
glass  of  rose-water,  four  pounds  raisins. 
four  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of 
citron,  half  pound  each  of  sweel  and  of 
hitter  almonds  blanched  and  beaten  to  a 
paste  with  rose-water,    if  baked  in  one 

large  loaf,  it  takes  eight  hours  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  That  tired  feeling  — take 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 


:{. 


(Inn-olatr  Cake. 


one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one-half 

cup  of  butter,  four  eggs  (yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately  i.  one-third  cup  of  milk. 
two  and  a  half  cups  of  Hour,  one  tea- 
poonful  of  cream  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Flavor,  and  hake  in 
Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  now. 

74.  Nut  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  CUpg  Of  sugar,  half  cup 
of  Putter,  half  cup  of  milk,  three 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  half  tea- 
spoonful Of  soda.  tWO  and  one-half  cups 
of  (lour  and  nuts.    Hood's  Sarsaparilla 

gives  new  life  and  vigor.     It  is  made  only 

i  \  Q  i.  HOOD&  CO.,  Lowell,  Mass. 


II it  mors  a  ikI    Boils, 

I  lie  powerful  action  which  Hood's  s.n 
saparilla     has    upon    the     blood    and    the 

entire  system  speedily  expels  all  Impurl 
ties  and  gtares  new  rigor  to  the  whole 
body.  Bolls  and  all  humors  are  thus 
quickly  cured,  and  danger  of  their  reap 
pearance  is  avoided. 

••  in  the  early  part  of  last  spring  i  was 
troubled  with  boils, caused  by  my  blood 

being  out  of  order.    Two  hot  ties  of  Hood'-. 

Sarsaparilla  cured  me.  I  can  recommend 
it  to  others  troubled  with  affections  of 

the  blood. ••     .1.  SCHOCH,    I' ia,    111. 

Speedy  Relief. 

■■  1  was  for  some  time  troubled  with 
boils,  having  several  of  them  at  a  time. 
After  enduring  about  all  I  could  bear  in 
suffering,  I  took  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 
Four  or  five  bottles  entirely  cured  me. 
and  I  have  had  no  symptoms  of  the  re- 
turn of  the  boils.  1  cheerfully  recom- 
mend Hood's  Sarsaparilla  to  all  like 
afflicted,  being  sure  they  will  find  relief." 
E.  \.  Nightingale,  Quincy,  Mass. 

Hives  and  Pimples. 

'•I  had  been  troubled  with  hives  and 
pimples  for  some  time.  Other  remedies 
having  failed,  I  was  advised  to  try  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.  i  have  taken  two  bottles 
and  am  entirely  cured.  I  think  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  has  no  equal  as  a  blood  puri- 
fier."   Ki'iiK  M.  Petbie,  Portsmouth,  O. 

"Having  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  the 
past  six  or  BOVen  months  for  scrofula  and 
pimples  on  my  face,  which  1  have  had  for 
twelve  years  or  more,  I  can  recommend 
the  medicine  to  every  one  similarly 
troubled,    confident    that    they     will     be 

benefited  by  it."  P.  a.  Ducted  sne, 
Northampton,  .Mass. 

Blood  Poison, 

■•  I  have  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla   for 

blood  poison,  ami  I  believe  11  has  entirely 
cured  me."  w.  h.  Bake,  foreman 
Beatty's  Glassworks,  Steubenville,  Ohio. 

•■  I   was  troubled  with  my  blood   being 

out  of  order,     l  was  recommended  to 

take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  After  Using  it 
I  can  recommend  it  as  all  that  is  claimed." 
D.  C.  THOMPSON,   Kansas  City,  Mo. 


20 


HIGH-STREET    COOK    BOOK. 


75.  White  Mountain   Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and 
a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  ton- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  saleratus;  flavor  with  lemon. 


e. 


Snowball  Cake. 


One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter. 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
flour,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour;  beat 
the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  together, 
add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
foam,  then  the  flour,  and  milk  and  soda 
the  last.     100  Doses  One  Dollar. 

7  7.  Orange  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  four  eggs  (leaving  out  white  of  one), 
the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Frosting.  —  The  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  one  orange- 
Bake  the  cake  in  layers,  and  put  together 
with  the  frosting.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
makes  the  weak  strong. 


78. 


Aurora   Cake. 


One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  (whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately),  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda. 
Flavor  to  taste.  After  diphtheria,  take 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

79.  Sponge  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
flour,  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Weariness 
is  overcome  by   Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

80.  Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. 
Two  eggs  well-beaten,  our  cup  of  sugar, 

one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar  well  mixed  with  the  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  extracl  of  lemon,  one 
teaspoonful   of  salt,     stir  all  together 

until  quite  smooth,  then  add  one-half  tea- 
cup of  boiling   water,  in  which  one-half 

teaspoonful  of  soda  lias  been  dissolved; 
stir  briskly,  and  put  in  the  oven  as  soon 
as  possible.    Take   Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 


Catarrh 

Is  one  of  the  most  prevalent,  as  well  as 
one  of  the  most  disagreeable,  of  diseases. 
It  sometimes  destroys  the  nasal  bones, 
which  causes  loss  of  the  sense  of 
smell;  or,  the  matter  dropping  on  the 
bronchial  tubes  causes  bronchitis,  and 
often  pulmonary  consumption.  Besides 
the  uncomfortable  and  disgusting  flow 
from  the  nose,  there  are  ringing  and 
bursting  noises  in  the  ears,  pain  on  the 
top  of  the  head,  and  offensive  breath. 
Severe  nervous  prostration  follows,  with 
a  miserable,  tired  feeling  generally.  Ca- 
tarrh is  a  constitutional  disease,  and 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  being  a  constitu- 
tional remedy,  acting  through  the  blood, 
effects  cures  in  the  most  severe  cases. 

Bronchial  Tubes  Affected. 

"  I  have  been  troubled  with  catarrh 
about  a  year,  causing  great  soreness  of 
the  bronchial  tubes  and  terrible  head- 
ache. I  saw7  the  advertisement  of  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  as  a  cure  for  catarrh,  and 
after  taking  only  one  bottle  I  am  much 
better.  My  catarrh  is  cured,  my  throat 
is  entirely  well,  and  my  headache  has  all 
disappeared."  Richard  Gibbons, Hamil- 
ton, Butler  County,  Ohio. 

Asthma  or  Catarrh. 

"For  several  years  I  had  been  troubled 
witli  a  kind  of  asthma  or  catarrh  in  my 
throat,  and  had  tried  several  kinds  of 
medicine  but  could  find  nothing  to  help 
me.  My  wife  wanted  me  to  try  a  bottle 
of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  I  told  the  drug- 
gist of  whom  I  bought  it  that  I  had  no 
faith  in  it.  but  would  give  it  a  trial,  which 
I  did.  1  must  say  T  was  very  much  bene- 
fited by  using  it  and  would  recommend  it 
very  highly  to  any  one  having  asthma  or 
catarrh."  ELIAS  P.  Devries,  firm  of 
Devries  &  Peterson,  Omaha,  Neb. 

Hay  Fever. 

"Last  summer  I  had  what  the  doctors 
called  hay  fever,  and  used  medicine  for 
about  six  weeks,  but  received  no  benefit. 
I  was  advised  to  try  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 
I  took  one  bottle,  which  did  me  a  great 
deal  of  good.  I  have  continued  to  use  it 
in  my  family  and  can  recommend  it  as  a 
blood  purifier."     G.  Burris,  Alton,  111. 


irooirs     s  i  n  s  I  /'  l  // //.  LA. 


21 


.S7.  Sponge  Cake. 

Ten  eggs  (eleven  If  small),  <'ii<'  pound 
mi"  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  little 

salt,    llif   juice   iiinl    rind    of   one    lemon. 

82.  Snow  Flake  Cake. 

Coffeecup  of  butter,  two   and  a  naif 

coffeecups   <>f   sugar,  one   coffeecup  of 

milk,  stir  to  a  cream;  the  whites  of  twelve 

.   iii  cups  of  flour,  three  tablespoon- 

t'u'.s  of  corn  starch,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mi\  with 
flour;  eggs  last.    Flavor;  slow  oven, 

83.  Bridgeport  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
four  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  of 

tl<»ur.  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  <>f  cur- 
rants, one-half  pound  of  citron,  out'  tea- 
spoonful  Of  salcratus.  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
ui\ es  new  life  ami  vigor. 

<S'^.  Toe   (ream    Coke. 

Whites  of  Ave  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 

one  cup  of  milk,  one  tea  spoonful  of  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
three  cups  of  Hour.  Separate  this  mix- 
ture and  color  half  with  straw-hem  col- 
oring, flavor  this  with  vanilla  and  the 
white  with  lemon,  put  in  the  white,  then 
the  pink.  Bake  slowly.  Now  is  the  time 
to  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

sr>.  Cookies. 

Beal  one  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  and 

then  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar, 
tw>  eggs,  and  four  and  a  half  cups  of 
(lour  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  BOda 
mixed  with  it.  Roll  very  thin  and  hake 
in    a    quick    oven.     Hood's    Sarsaparilla. 

56.  Ginger   Cookies. 

<  >ne  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar, 

one  cup  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  alt. 
one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  salcratus  dissolved  in  onecup  of 
hot  water.  Boll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  and 
hake  quick.  Headache  cured  by  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.     Sold  by  all  druggists. 

57.  Wedding  Cake. 

Two  pounds  of  butter,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  pounds  of  flour,  six  pounds  ol 


currants,  Ave  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  nf  citron,  nineteen  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cloves,  si\  nutmegs, 
wine-glass  of  brandy.  This  will  make 
two  large  loaves.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
cures  kidney  complaint. 

Rheumatism 

Undoubtedly  arises  from  impure  i>i i. 

Lactic  acid  is  formed  in   the  decomposl 

tion  of  the  gelatinous  ami  albuminous 
tissues,  which, circulating  with  the  blood, 

acts  upon  certain  parts,  and  gives  rise  i  i 
the  local  manifestations,  the  pains  and 
aches,  of  the  disease.  It  particularly  at- 
tacks Hie  lihrous  ti>sues.  and  especially 

tho>e  entering  upon  the  composition  of 

the  joints.  We  do  not  claim  thai  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  is  a  positive  specific  for 
rheumatism;  we  doubl  if  there  is.  or  can 

he.  such  a  remedy.  Bui  we  call  attention 
to  numerous  cases  of  rheumatism  which 
have  been  cured  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 
andr.sk  you,  if  you  sutler  from  this  dis- 
ease, to  give  this  remedy  a  fair  trial. 

Inflammatory  Rheumatism. 

"My  wife  has  heen  troubled  a  long 
time  with  rheumatism,  and  was  so  bad 
last  spring  that  it  was  hard  work  for  her 
to  walk.  The  doctors  said  she  had  regu- 
lar Inflammatory  rheumatism,  she  de- 
rived more  real  help  from  taking  four 
bottles  of  Hood'8  Sarsaparilla,  than  from 
any  other  medicine  she  has  taken.      1 

have  taken  h I's  Sarsaparilla  myself 

for  my  blood,  and  I  have  greal  faith  in 
it."  Joseph  F.  Green,  corner  First  ami 
Canal  Streets,  Dayton.  Ohio. 

Hardly  Able  to  Walk. 
.Mr.  YY.   F.   Wood,  the  popular  clerk  Of 
the  Ashley  House,  Bloomington,  111  .  was 
a  severe  Bufferer  from  rheumatism,  being 

hardly  able  to  walk.  He  was  cured  Ly 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  .is  stated  below: 

••  I  was  troubled  very  much  with  rheu- 
matism in  my  hips,  ankles,  and  \ 
in  fact.  I  could  hardly  walk,  and  was  con- 
lined  to  my  hed  a  good  deal  of  my  lime. 
I  was  ais. i  \eiy  bilious  and  Buffered 
ly.    i    was   recommended   to   try 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  which  1  did.  1  have 
taken  four  bottles  and  am  now  well.  1 
gladly  recommend  Hood's  Sarsaparilla." 


22 


WIGH-8TBEET    CO  QIC    BOOK 


88.        Corn-Stai-clt   false. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour, 
one-half  cup  of  corn-starch,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Leave  out  white  of  one  egg  for 
frosting.  Three  Peculiarities  in  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.    too  Doses  One  Dollar. 


89. 


Buns. 


One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  yeast.  Make  a  stiff  batter 
at  night;  in  the  morning  add  one-half  cup 
melted  butter,  mould  into  dough;  when 
light  cut  into  small  biscuit;  rise  again; 
after  taking  from  the  oven  brush  the  top 
with  a  little  milk  and  sugar;  add  a  cup  of 
currants.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  sharpens 
the  appetite  and  tones  up  the  system. 

90.  liaised  Doughnuts. 

One  pint  of  boiled  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  pint 
of  fresh  yeast;  knead  at  night;  let  this 
rise  until  morning;  roll  or  twist;  fry  in 
hot  lard.  Blood  diseases  cured  by  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.    100  Doses  One  Dollar. 

91.  Molasses  Gingerbread. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
molasses,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  spoonful  of  ginger.  After  all  well 
mixed  together  add  one  well-beaten  egg. 

92.  Sugar  Gingerbread. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three- 
fourths  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  eggs, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  little  stiller  than 
cake;  add  ginger  and  salt.  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla is  purely  vegetable. 

93.  round  Cake. 

One  pound  Of  butler,  one  pound  sugar, 
one  pound  of  flour  lacking  two  spoonfuls, 
seven  eggs,  cition  if  yon  like.  Now  is 
the  time  to  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

94.  Crullers. 

Two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  Hour  enough 
to  knead  hard,  roll  as  tli in  as  a  wafer,  CUl 
in  strips  and  twist,  fry  in  very  hot  lard. 


To  Purify  Your  Blood 

There  is  no  medicine  in  existence  equal 
to  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  The  most  serious 
diseases  of  the  blood  yield  to  its  cleansing- 
properties.  Scrofula,  salt  rheum,  tetter, 
ringworm,  scald  head,  ulcers,  sores,  and 
boils,  are  cured  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 
It  also  cures  dyspepsia,  biliousness,  sick 
headache,  and  indigestion,  sharpens  the 
appetite  and  tones  up  the  whole  system. 

Mother  and  Daughter. 

'•  I  had  a  large  ulcer  on  my  leg  below 
my  knee,  for  over  a  year,  and  though  I 
took  everything  recommended,  it  did  not 
commence  to  heal  till  I  began  taking 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  discarding  all  other 
preparations.  I  now  feel  better  in  every 
respect  and  have  a  good  appetite.  I 
have  not  been  down  stairs  for  eight 
months,  but  now  i  feel  so  much  better 
that  I  will  be  able  to  do  so  before  long. 
I  shall  continue  to  take  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla till  the  ulcer  is  all  healed.  I  have 
great  faith  in  the  medicine  and  recom- 
mend it  to  every  one.  I  have  often 
thought  I  should  like  to  tell  how  much 
good  this  medicine  has  done  me."  Mrs. 
D.  Hutch  ins,  Pioscoe,  Coshocton  Co.,  O. 

"The  above  statement  is  from  my 
mother.  I  can  say  that  all  she  says  of 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  true.  It  certainly 
has  done  her  a  great  deal  of  good."  Mrs. 
R.  J.  HiTcniNS,  druggist,  Roscoe,  Ohio. 

Scrofulous  Humor. 

"  I  have  been  troubled  with  scrofulous 
humor  and  sores  breaking  out  all  over 
my  body  for  the  last  fifteen  years.  J 
have  taken  four  bottles  of  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla, and  it  has  entirely  cured  me.  1 
recommend  it  very  highly  to  any  one 
troubled  with  scrofula,  or  any  blood  dis- 
ease." Hf.nkv  P.n;<;s,  ism  Campbell 
Street.   Kansas  City,   Mo. 

Impurity  of  the  Blood. 

"  I  have  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  for 
Impurity  of  the  blood,  which  manifested 
Itself  in  a  disagreeable  manner,  and  am 
well  pleased  with  the  excellent  results. 
It  is  in  my  estimation  a  lirst-class  blood 
purifier  and  tonic,  and  good  for  the 
healthy  as  well  as  the  unhealthy."  J.  J. 
en  lddick,  Springfield,  ill. 


HOOD'S 


I  HSA  r  \  i;  1 1. 1    i . 


23 


FANCY    DISHES. 

irds  for  supper,  and  ail  endless  tn  >  - 1  of 
other  such  ladylike  luxiu 

Sir 


95.  Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

one  large  boa  of  perfectly  fresh,  nice 
berries,  mashed  with  one  pinl  of  sugar, 

twotables] rifuls  of  gelatine  dissolved 

in  one  cup  <>!'  hoi  milk,  then  cool;  one 
pint  of  cream  beaten  to  a  froth.  Mis  all 
together  and  freeze.  Bood's  Sarsaparilla 
cures  sick  headache. 

96.  Charlotte   Hnsse. 

w  Ithoul  i 
Take  one  pint  of  cream,  one-third  i'<>.\ 
of  gelattne  I  soaked  over  night  in  a  cup  of 
water),  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Whip 
the  cream,  then  whip  the  gelatine  and 
vanilla  Into  it-  Take  one  thin  sheet  of 
sponge  cake,  cul  Into  strips  and  fit  Into 
the  mould.  Sweeten  to  the  taste.  Pour 
mixture  in.  and  set  away  in  a  COOl  place. 

07.  Macaroon. 

Beal  together  two  cups  of  flour  and 
one-half  cup  of  butter;  heat  together  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  one  egg;  stir  the  two 
mixtures  together.  Mould  in  small  cakes 
dipped  in  sugar.    LOO  Doses  One  Dollar. 


98. 


Charlotte  Ilnsse. 


One  cup  of  milk  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  it.  one-half  pint  of 
thick  cream  whipped  to  a  Froth,  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  troth; 

sweeten  to  taste,  and  llavor  with  vanilla. 

When  it  begins  to  thicken,   pour  Into 
moulds  that  have  been  lined  with  sponge 

cake.     Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  now. 

99.         Peach   Meringue. 

Canned  peaches— Pour  over  them  an 
Icing  of  the  beaten  whiles  of  s; 
and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.    Brown 
lightly  in  the  oven.    Serve  with  golden 

custard,  made  from  the  yolks  of  the 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla  cures  biliousness. 
Well    Pleased. 
■•  My  blood  being  In  bad  condition   l 

took  three  Lotties  of  Hood's   Sarsaparilla 
and  am  well  pleased  with  its  effects.'1    I  >. 

J.  Grady,  ho  E.  3d  Street, Cincinnati, O. 


Hoods    llooi.    of    I'arlor   Conns. 

This  new  hook,  recently  published, 
descriptions  of  ov<  r  fifty  gam<  i, 
many  of  which  have  never  before  been 
published,  it  also  gives  valuable  Infor 
maiion  upon  bow  to  receive  and  enter- 
tain company,  propounds  and  answers 
arithmetical  puzzles,  tells"  How  to  make 
liagic  Squares,"  outlines  numerous 
amusing  forfeits,  and  gives  hints  in  re- 
gard to  making  ice-cream,  etc.    In  many 

respects  this  hook  is  a  decided  novelty. 

it  hasacover  especially  designed  forit, 
printed  In  colors,  giving  it  a  very  band- 
some  appearance.    Ask  your  druggist  for 

a  copy,  and  if  you  cannot  obtain  it  of  him, 
send  a  two-cent  stamp  to  the  publishers, 
c  I.  Hood  &  Co.,  proprietors  of  Hood's 

Sarsaparilla.  Lowell.  Mass..  and  the  hook 
will  be  sent  l>y  return  mail. 

I    Whole  Family. 
••  My  father-in-law  had   a   lung  com- 
plaint a  great  many  years,  and  his  wife 
was  troubled  with  general  debility,  and 

palpitation  of  the   heart.     My   wife    was 

also  very  nervous,  debilitated,  and  dys- 
peptic. They  have  doctored  and  taken 
other  preparations,  but  found    Hood's 

Sarsaparilla  to  he  the  most  effective  ami 
to  give  the  most  satisfaction.  I  can  rec- 
ommend it  to  any  one  needing  something 
to  build  up  the  system."  William  J. 
mi;i  i-.i.i:.  Secretary  Champion  Bridge 
Company,  Wilmington.  Ohio. 

Pain  In  the  Stomach. 

"Two  years  ago  1  commenced  taking 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  I  had  been  suffer- 
ing from  a  severe  pain  in  my  stomach  for 
a  long  time  and  had  tried  different  kinds 

t*\'  medicine  but  failed  to  get  relief  until  I 

Used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  It  helped  me 
after  taking  part  of  a  bottle.     Now  when 

I  feel  any  of  the  symptoms  1  take  it  ami 

it  helps  me."    li.  J,  «  boss,  Bath,  N.  n. 

To  (lea use  tin-  System. 

■■  For  a   number  of  years    past    I    have 

made  it  a  rule  to  use  a  medicine  everj 
spring  to  <deanse  my  system.  Last  Bpring 
I  used  three  bottles  of  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla, ami  derived  more  benefit  from  it 
than  from  any  other  medicine  1  have  ever 
used."    c.  P.  Smith,  Xoungstown,  Ohio. 


24 


HIGH-STREET     COOK    BOOK. 


100.  Strawberry  Cream. 

One  quart  of  strawberries,  one-half 
box  of  gelatine,  one  pint  of  cream,  one 
large  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  hot 
water.  Mash  the  berries,  then  add  sugar, 
and  mash  berries  and  sugar;  let  them 
stand  some  time.  Whip  the  cream  to  a 
froth.  Have  the  gelatine  soaked  in  cold 
water  to  cover.  Strain  juice  from  straw- 
berries, getting  as  much  as  possible 
through  muslin.  Now  dissolve  the  gela- 
tine in  hot  water  and  strain  into  straw- 
berries; place  the  basin  in  another  of 
ice-water  and  stir  till  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  add  whipped  cream.  Put  into 
moulds  to  harden.    Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

101.  Orange  Sherbet. 

Two  dozen  oranges;  peel  them  and 
strain  through  a  sieve.  Three  cups  of 
sugar;  strain  again  into  the  freezer. 


102. 


Russian  Cream. 


Two-thirds  package  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
four  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  milk.  Cover  the  gelatine  with 
water  and  let  it  stand  one  hour;  heat  the 
milk  to  a  boiling  point,  then  stir  in  the 
gelatine  and  when  well  stirred  in,  add 
the  yolks  of  the  four  eggs,  well-beaten, 
with  sugar,  stirring  briskly.  Cook  two 
or  three  minutes,  then  set  off  and  stir  in 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
troth.  Flavor  with  vanilla  before  putting 
in  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into 
moulds  and  set  away  to  cool.  (If  part  of 
the  milk   is  cream,  it  is  just  as  good.) 

103.  Snow  Padding. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in 
one  pitat  of  water,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
juice  of  two  lemons.  Strain  whin  it  be- 
gins to  thicken.  Mix  in  the  whites  of 
two  <"_rgs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mould 
it  before,  serving;  pour  around  it  a  soft 
CUStard  made  of  the  yolks.  Take  Bood's 
Sarsaparilla  for  the  blood. 

104.  Spanish    Cream. 

One  and  a  half  pints  of  milk,  four  even 
tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine,  yolks  of  three 

tour  tablespoonfuls   sugar;   boil, 
then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the 

after  taking  from  the  lire,  and  one  table- 
spoonful   of    vanilla.     Pour    in   mould. 


100  Doses  One  Dollar 

Can  be  applied  truthfully  to  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla only,  and  it  is  an  unanswerable 
and  convincing  argument  as  to  the 
strength  and  real  economy  of  this  great 
medicine.  From  its  superior  strength 
only  small  doses  are  necessary.  Thus  a 
bottle  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  will  average 
to  last  a  month,  while  other  medicines 
last  but  a  week.  So  for  economy  and 
strength,  as  well  as  for  health,  buy  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

"  I  am  practising  medicine,  and  can 
recommend  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  with 
confidence."  Dr.  H.  Benedict,  Spring- 
port,  Ind. 

Performing  a  Duty. 

"I  feel  that  I  should  be  neglecting 
my  duty  were  I  to  fail  in  giving  my  testi- 
mony as  to  the  value  of  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla. For  years  I  have  been  a  great 
sufferer  from  salt  rheum,  catarrh,  chronic 
dyspepsia,  kidney  complaint  and  consti- 
pation. I  tried  medical  advice  and  sev- 
eral kinds  of  medicines,  all  in  vain.  I 
am  now  sixty-nine  years-  old.  and  have 
been  using  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  the  past 
ten  months.  I  find  myself  much  im- 
proved in  health,  and  know  that  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  has  done  me  more  good  than 
anything  else  I  have  ever  used."  L.  A. 
Woodworth,  Meriden,  Conn. 

.    Caused  by  Ciga rettes. 

"Pimples  were  breaking  out  all  over 
my  face,  caused  by  smoking  cigarettes. 
I  tried  several  well-known  remedies,  but 
they  all  failed  to  do  me  the  least  good. 
Finally,  1  was  advised  by  my  druggist  to 
try  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  and  did  so.  1 
have  now  just  finished  my  second  bottle. 
and  all  traces  of  the  pimples  have  disap- 
peared."   .I.e.  Daniels,  Norwich,  Conn. 

Pure  Blood. 

"About  a  year  ago  I  was  pretty  well 
run  down,  being  troubled  with  rheuma- 
tism and  indigestion,  and  my  blood  being 
very  poor,  I  began  to  take  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla and  it  gave  me  great  relief." 
John   Lewis,  Torrington,  Conn. 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  made  only  by 
c.  I.  hood  &  CO.,  Lowell,  Mass.  Sold 
by  all  druggists,    too  Doses  One  Dollar. 


HOOD'S    8A  USA  PARTLl    I 


25 


Twpioca   lee. 


WS. 

one  <ii;>  iif  pearl  tapioca  over 
night;  In  the  morning  boil  in  water  till  it 
clears,  adding  one  cup  of  sugar  and  n 
little  salt.  Have  a  ripe  pineapple  chopped 
(not  very  One),  and  turn  the  tapiocn  and 
BUgaroverit  while  boiling  hot;  stir,  and 
turn  Into  a  mould  to  cool.  When  cold, 
eal  with  Bugar  and  cream.  Rood's  Sar- 
Baparilla  Is  sold  bj  all  druggists. 

WO.      Pineapple  Sponge. 

One  small  pineapple  (or  m  pirn  and  a 
half  can),  one  small  cup  of  Bugar,  one- 
balf  box  of  gelatine,  one  and  a  hair  cups 
of  water,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Soak  the 
gelatine  two  hours  in  a  half  cup  of  water. 
('hop  the  pineapple  and  put  it  and  the 

water  Into  a  sauce-pan  with  the  sugar 
and  the  remaining  cup  of  water.  Simmer 
ten  minutes;  add  the  gelatine;  take  from 

the  fire  and  strain.  When  cool,  add  the 
Whites  of  the  eggS,  and  heat   till  the  lnix- 

ture  1  »-iiis  to  thicken;  pour  into  a  mould 
and  let  it  harden.  Serve  with  Bofl  cus 
tard  flavored  with  wine.  Sick  headache 
cured  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 


JELLIES. 

Win 't  please   your  honor,  taste  of  these 
conserves  "'  mi  akk<im:a  re. 


107.  Clear  Apple  Jelly. 

Pare  and  core  Ave  dozens  of  sour  ap- 
ples, put  into  a  pan  with  water  to  cover 

(hem,  boil  gently  until  soft,  let  cool,  and 
strain  through  a  bag;  to  each  pint  of 
juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar  and  the 
peel  of  two  lemons,  boil  to  the  Btiffness 

of  calfs-foot  Jelly,  skim,  ami  add  the 
jlUce  of  one  lemon.  Kheuiiiat  ism  cured 
by   II I's   Sarsaparilla. 

108.  Fruit  .Jell,,. 

Pare  and  slice  very  thin,  six  oranges 
ami  m\  bananas,  ami  arrange  in  layers  in 
a  charlotte-russe  mould.    Make  :i  jelly  of 

half  a   bOX   of  gelatine   soaked  in  half  a 

pint  of  cold  water  for  two  hours,  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  the 
juice  of   three   lelliolis;   sweeten    to   !  a-l .   j 

pour  this  jelly  over  the  fruit  when  11  has 
partly   cooled,    and    set    away    in   a   cool 


place  to   harden.    That    tired  feeling 

take   Hood's   Sarsaparilla. 

mn.          Orange  Jelly. 

'1  lie  juice  of  six  OrangeS,  juice  of  tWo 
lemons,  one  DOUnd  of  White  Bugar, 

fourths  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  soaked  in 
one  pint  of  water  for  half  an  hour,  then 
add  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  stir  thoroughly,  and  strain  through 

a   flannel    hag   into    moulds.     Weal 

overcome  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

Dyspepsia. 

••  I  have  been  much  troubled  with  iK  - 
pepsia  tin'  i  iast  year  or  two.    After  Uyln 

many  medicines.  1  began  taking  Hood' 
Sarsaparilla,  and  am   now  almost  or  en- 
tirely   well."     MBS.    Ch  mm.is    1  i  i  i ,  ,i.\ 
Colerain  Avenue,  Cincinnati.  Ohio. 

'•I  was  troubled  very  much  with  dys- 
pepsia and  could  find  nothing  to  relieve 
me  till  I  was  recommended  to  try  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla.  l  have  used  it  three  weeks, 
and  it  has  done  wonders  for  me.  1  would 
recommend    it    to   every   one.   as   it    lias 

helped  me  more  than  any  other  remedy 
I  could  get."    Fred  Pohleb,  tori; 
Burdsall's  painl  works.  Indianapolis.  ln«i. 

Greatly  Relieved. 

"Being  troubled  with  chronic  female 
weakness  I  began  to  take  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla through  the  recommendation  of 
a  friend  who  said  she  had  been  greatlj 
benefited  by  it.  ami  before  the  first  bottle 
was  gone  i  was  greatly  relieved.  On 
going  to  my  druggisl  for  another  bottle 
1  found  he  had  none,  and  he  advised  me 
to  try  another  kind  which  he  said  was 
just  as  good  if  not  better.  I  took  it,  but 
found  it  did  me  no  good,  so  I  returned 
to  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  of  which  l  have 
now  taken  two  more  bottles,  and  am 
nearly  cured.     1  am  also  giving  it  to  my 

daughter,  who  is  very  delicate,  and  find 
it  a  great  help  to  her.    for  female  weak- 

I   should  by  all  means  advise   it    to 
be    given    a    trial."       MRS.    I..  C.  COVBT, 

Hudson,  N.  v. 

■  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  did  me  a  great 
deal  of  good.     1    had   no   particular  dis- 
ease,  but  was  tired  oul  from  overwork, 
and  it  toned  me  right  up."     M  B8.  I       I 
Simmons,  Harmons  Hotel,  Cohoes,  N    \ . 


20 


HIGH-STBEJBT    COOK    BOOR. 


PUDDING    SAUCES. 

110.  Lemon  Sauce. 

Boil  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  in 
two  cups  of  hot  water;  wet  a  tablespoon- 

ful  Of  corn  starch  In  cold  water,  add  to 
the  boiling  water  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

111.  Beacon- St.  Pudding  Sauce. 

Two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  but- 
ter worked  to  a  cream,  one  glass  of  wine, 
rose  water,  and  nutmeg;  stir  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  sour  milk, 
when  it  foams  add  it,  and  stir  all  well 
together,  then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water  without  stirring.  Put  it  in 
the  tureen,  disturbing  as  little  as  possi- 
ble. This  is  nice  for  a  boiled  fruit  pud- 
ding.   Take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  now. 

112.  Creamy  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  wine 
(or,  in  place  of  wine,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  three  additional  teaspoonful s 
of  milk  or  cream).  Beat  the  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then 
wine  gradually,  and  milk  gradually. 
Place  the  bowl  in  which  the  sauce  has 
been  made  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water. 
stir  until  it  iooks  smooth,  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve.    Take  Bood's  Sarsaparilla. 

A  Spring  Medicine. 

"I  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  for  a 
spring  medicine,  and  I  find  it  just  the 
thing  for  me.  It  tones  up  my  system  and 
makes  me  feel  like  a  different  man.  My 
wife  takes  it  for  dyspepsia,  and  she 
derives  a  greal  anioiinl  of  benefit  from  it. 
she  says  it  is  the  best  medicine  she  ever 
took."  Frank  <'.  Turner,  Boston  Fire 
Department,  Hook  &  Ladder  No.  l. 
Friend  Street,  Boston. 

After  Pneumonia. 

"My  daughter  received  much  benefit 
from  the  use  of  Bood's  Sarsaparilla  as  an 
excellent  tonic  after  a  protracted  attack 
of  bronchial  pneumonia."    F.  H.  Adams, 

.\eu   Hartford.  Conn. 


Our  Own  Folks  Take  It. 

The  confidence  in  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
by  those  who  are  employed  in  connection 
with  it  is  remarkable.  They  believe  they 
are  in  the  interest  of  a  good  thing,  and 
take  pleasure  in  increasing  its  sale. 
Many  of  our  employes  have  taken  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  with  beneficial  results,  and 
the  following  letter,  from  the  wife  of  a 
traveler  in  the  employ  of  ('.  I.  Hood 
&  Co.,  tells  frankly  the  good  it  has  done 
in  her  family  :  "I  had  terrible 
SICK    HEADACHES, 

about  once  a  week.  I  sought  medical 
advice  and  used  various  medicines,  but 
nothing  seemed  to  do  me  any  permanent 
good.  By  advice  of  a  friend  I  began  to 
use  Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  and  the  relief 
was  so  marked  from  the  very  first  that  I 
kept  on  and  am  now  entirely  free  from 
the  headaches.  1  am  not  like  the  same 
person,  my  health  being  improved  in 
every  way.  I  also  gave  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla to  my  little  girl  for 

SWELLINGS  IN  HER  FACE  AND  NECK. 
We  had  been  doctoring  for  them  a  great 
while,  and  had  had  them  lanced  twice. 
Since  we  began  to  give  her  Hood's  Sar- 
saparilla the  swellings  have  disappeared, 
and  she  seems  an  entirely  different  child. 
She  has  a  good  appetite,  and  is  gaining 
all  the  time.  1  can  recommend  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  to  all  as  a  sate,  sure  medi- 
cine." i\1ks.  P.  B.  LORD,  421  dates  Ave- 
nue, Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

All  Run  Down. 

"During  the  summer  I  was  feeling  all 
run  down,  and  thinking  I  needed  some- 
thing to  tone  up  my  system.  1  was  rec- 
ommended to  try  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 
After  taking  two  bottles  i  felt  much  bet- 
ter. I  had  also  been  troubled  with  dys- 
pepsia, and  Bood's  Sarsaparilla  helped 
me  more  than  anything  else  I  could  find. 
I  can  cordially  recommend  it  to  any  one 
feeling  as  I  did."  James  R.  Darrow, 
Harrow  House,  Fort  "Wayne,  Ind. 

"  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  as  a  blood  puri- 
fier has  no  equal,  it  tones  the  system. 
strengthens  and  invigorates,  giving  new 
life.  I  have  taken  it  for  kidney  com- 
plaint With  Ihe  best  results."  D.  R. 
sai  m)i:i;s.m  Pearl  Street,  Cincinnati,  O. 


Iloons     s   |  USA  PABILl    I 


27 


PICKLES. 


Hunger  Is  the  best  seasoning  for  meat. 

ClOKBO 


IVi.      Cucumber  TKckles. 

One  perk  <'!'   cucumbers,  tWO   gallon-  Of 

vinegar   (cold  .   one-quarter   pound   of 

ground   mustard,  one-quarter  i" d  of 

Bait,  two  ounces  of  mustard-seed,  t\\<» 
ounces  of  pepper-corns,  one  ounce  of 
whole  allspice,  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves, 
onions  if  you  please.  Alter  diphtheria, 
take  Hood's  Sarsaparllla. 


///. 


Chili  Same. 


Two  (niioiis.  six  chopped  peppers,  eighl 
ripe  tomatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  four  cups  of 
vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  all  kinds  of 
spiers,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard;  boil 
two  hours.  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  purely 
vegetable.    Sold  by  all  druggists. 

//."».     Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Take  nine  quarts  of  berries,  to  thai 
add  one  quart  of  vinegar  (after  masbing 
the  berries  somewhat),  allow    them  to 

stand  from  four  days  to  a  week,  and  then 
squeeze  out  the  juice  and  add  a  quart  of 
su^ai-  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes,  and  then  bottle  tightly.    This 

season  take   Bood'S  Sarsaparilla. 
116.    Street   Tomato  PichlCS. 

Remove  the  skins  from  seven  pounds 
of  ripe  tomatoes,  pu1  them  In  a  preserv- 
ing-kettle with  four  pounds  of  white 
sugar,  add  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
ounce  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon;  boil 
gently  several  hours,  or  until  rather 
thick.  This  will  keep  without  being 
canned  fur  a  year  or  more.  Dyspepsia 
cured  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 


117. 


Tomato  Sauce. 


Peel   <  Ighl    pounds  of    ripe    tomatoes, 

taking  out  the  hard  part-.  Put  together 
eight  pounds  of  tomatoes  and  four  pounds 

of  BUgar,    boil   without    any   water   until 

quite  thick,  then  add  one  pint  of  \  Inegar, 
let  it  boil  a  little  while  longer,  then  add 
due  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  our  of 
allspice,  and  one-half  ounce  of  cloves. 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla  enriches  the  blood. 


IIS.  To  Ciehle  l'eaehes  or  Pears. 

Take   a   half    peck    of   peaches,   two 

pounds  of  brown   sugar,  one  < ee  "i 

whole  cloves,  one  ounce  »>t  stick  cinna- 
mon, "in-  pint  of  sharp  vinegar.  I'ul 
eighl  cloves  into  each  peach,  make  the 

Bynip    and    boil    Hie    peaches    until    soft 

enough  to  put  a  straw  through  them, 
then  take  them  out  and  put   the  vinegar 

ill  and  boil  down;  put  the  cinnai and 

Cloves  in  when  the  peaches  are  taken  out . 
When  boiled  down,  pour  on  the  peaches. 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  purifies  the  blood. 

lift.       Tomato  Ketchup. 

One-half  bushel  of  tomatoes,  stew  them 
in  just  sufficient  water  to  keep  from 
burning;  then  strain;  add  to  this  eighl 
tablespoonfuls  <>f  salt,  four  even  tea 
spoonful  of  red  pepper,  six  of  allspice, 
six  of  cloves,  and  four  quarts  of  good 
cider  vinegar.  Boil  one  hour,  or  longer 
if  necessary,  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 
Bottle  tight;  does  not  ueed  sealing. 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  gives  an  appetite. 

Tor  a  Good  Thing. 

"  Esteeming  it  a  privilege  to  say  a  good 
word  for  a  good  thing.  I  gladly  make  thi- 
statement  :  About  two  years  ago  I  was 
attacked  with  what  my   physician  called 

i:t;\  SEP]  i 
Deep-seated  sores,  black  and  red,  came 
on  my  right  limb,  below  the  knee,  which 
baffled  the  skill  of  my  physician.  Various 
remedies  were  suggested  and  used,  until 
I  had  taken  over  twenty  different  kinds 
of  medicine,  and  applied  as  many  more 
externally,   without    apparent    success. 

Finally  I  was  induced  to  try  Hood's  Sar 
saparilla,  and  it  was  the  first  thing  which 
gave  me  any  permanent  benefit.  I  fol- 
lowed the  directions  given  on  the 
Wrapper   about   the    bottle.      I    used  two 

or  three  bottles,  and  gradually  recovered 

until  that  limb  became  as  Strong  as  the 
Other.  It  gives  me  pleasure  to  recom- 
mend Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  for  I  believe 
it  is  a  good  medicine  — one  of  the  best 
blood  medicines  made."  J.  V.  OUK, 
South  Columbia.  N.  11. 

Hoods  Sarsaparilla  is  made  only  by 

i  .  i.  HOOD  &  CO..  Lowell,  Mas-.  Si  id 
by  all  druggists,    bin  Doses  One  Dollar. 


28 


UK;  II-  8  '/'  E  /•//•:  T     COO  K     B  ()0K. 


CANDY. 


Sweetmeats,  messengers  of  strong  prevail 
incut  in  unhardened  youth." 

—  SH  AIvKSTKAKK. 


120.  Walnut  Creams. 

[  Without  Cooking.] 
Take  the  white  of  one  egg  and  stir  into 
it  enough  powdered  sugar  to  be  able  to 
roll  into  balls;  flavor  as  you  please,  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes; then  roll  into  balls,  and  place  half 
an  English  walnut  on  either  side  of  each 
ball,  and  press  together.  Impure  blood 
cured  by  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

121.  Butter  Taffy. 

Two  cups  of  light-brown  sugar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  one-quarter  cup  of  butter.   Boil 

till  it  is  brittle  in  water;  pour  into  pans 
and  let  it  cool.  100  Doses  One  Dollar  ; 
true  only  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

122.  Peppermint  Drops. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
water;  boil  live  minutes.  Flavor  with  a 
few  drops  of  the  essence  of  peppermint. 
Stir  until  quite  thick,  then  drop  on  a  but- 
ter''! paper.  Languor  thrown  off  by 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla.    100  Doses  $1. 

123.  Molasses  Candy. 

Take  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
one  pint  of  best  Porto  Rico,  or  New  Or- 
leans, molasses.  Place  over  a  slow  lire 
and  boil,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent 
burning  or  boiling  over.  "When  nearly 
done,  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
When  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  be- 
comes quickly  hard,  and  snaps  apart  like 
,i  pipe-stem,  take  from  the  fire;  add  one- 
half  teaspoonfulof  soda,  free  from  lumps, 
stir  quickly  to  mix,  and  pour  on  large, 
buttered  platters  to  cool.  Let  it  run 
down  (1  it.  A^  il  cools  keep  turning  in 
the    OUter  edges    towards    the  centre,  so 

thai  the  whole  may  cool  evenly.  When 
sufficiently  COOl to  handle  without  burn- 
ing the  hands,  pull  it  over  a  hook,  or  in 
the  hands,  as  fast  as  possible;  the  more 
the  candy  is  worked  the  lighter  it  will  be. 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  pleasant  to  take. 


(hills  and  Fever. 

"On  Nov.  'S3,  1884,  I  went  home  sick 
with  inflammation  of  the  lungs,  and  was 
attacked  every  other  day  by  chills  and 
fever.  I  did  not  go  out  again  for  four 
weeks.  I  also  have  had  for  years  rheu- 
matism, kidney  complaint,  and  catarrh, 
which  T  considered  incurable.  My  wife 
induced  me  to  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla, 
and  now  I  am  cured  of  everything  except 
the  rheumatism.  Even  that  is  growing 
less  every  day,  and  I  expect  to  be  soon 
relieved  of  it.  I  am  09  years  of  age,  but 
can  walk  half  a  mile  every  day  to  the 
cars,  and  go  to  my  business  in  New  York 
City.  I  took  no  medicine  bid  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  while  I  was  confined  to  the 
house,  and  I  earnestly  urge  all  who  suffer 
from  diseases  caused  by  impure  blood  to 
try  it."  H.  S.  Foster,  Scarborough, 
Westchester  County,  N.  Y. 

Sick  Abed  for  Weeks. 

"During  last  summer  I  was  sick  abed 
for  four  weeks,  and  had  two  doctors,  but 
they  could  not  seem  to  tell  what  was  the 
matter  with  me.  I  was  recommended  to 
try  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  which  I  did.  and 
it  helped  me  right  away,  and  also  cured 
me  of  dyspepsia,  with  which  I  had  been 
troubled  for  a  long  time.  I  took  three 
bottles  in  all,  and  have  felt  well  ever 
since.  I  think  it  is  tbe  best  medicine 
for  general  debility  there  is,  and  for  the 
good  it,  has  done  me  1  cheerfully  recom- 
mend it."  James  Sullivan,  .'"J  Brown 
street.  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

It  Did  Me  Good. 

"  I  have  suffered  with  scrofula  for  four 
years,  and  received  no  benefit  from 
numerous  medicines.  Hut  when  1  began 
taking  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  it  did  me 
good,  and  1  have  received  more  benefit 
from  it  than  from  all  other  medicines.  I 
am  still  taking  it."  .John  Kennedy, 
Torrington,  Conn. 

••  I  took  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  for  cough 
and  cold,  and  for  the  blood,  and  feel 
greatly  benefited  by  the  use  of  it."  Mrs. 
Callee  Curtis,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

•■We  sell  more  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
than  any  other  blood  purifier."  seeley 
&  Hart,  Williamsport,  Pa. 


Ileal)-  s     I  (torn     POWDER 


29 


12  I-     ChoCOlaU     (ream    Drop8. 

i  ■!■  tht  <  Yearn.  Take  one  pound  ol 
granulated  sugar,  add  water  enough  Co 
thoroughly  dissolve  the  Bugar  over  1 1 » « - 
lire;  add  oue-third  teaspoonful  of  pure 
cream  tartar  to  make  the  cream  perfectly 
smooth,  without  any  grain.  Don'1  Btir 
after  the  sugar  la  dissolved;  boil  quick. 
ii  >  often,  by  dipping  a  knife  In  the  sugar 
and  taking  a  little  of  the  sugar  from  the 
knife  between  the  thumb  and  finger. 
When  yuu  can  apread  the  thumb  and 
linger  apart  ami  have  the  su^rar  make  a 
thread  a  full  inch  or  more  long,  without 
breaking,  it  is  ready  t<>  pour  into  a  uapp) 
dish.  Now  flavor  with  one-half  greal 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Let  it  cool  until  it 
beginB  to  harden  a  little  around  the  edge 
of  the  dish,  —just  enough  to  take  a  Blight 
impression  from  the  finger,— then  stir 
briskly  until  it  creams.  Let  the  cream 
stand  long  enough  to  become  sufficiently 
hard  to  make  into  shapes— the  shapes  to 
stand  a  few  hours  to  harden  before  dip- 
ping in  the  chocolate.  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla  makes  the  weak  Btrong. 

Chocolate  for  the  Cream. — "W arm  one- 
half  pound  of  confectioner's  best  sweet 
chocolate  over  steam  or  hot  water  until 
it  is  thoroughly  melted.  When  ready, 
drop  the  creams  into  the  melted  choco- 
late two  or  three  at  a  time  i.  ami  lift  them 
out  with  two  forks,  placing  them  on 
glazed  or  buttered  paper  to  dry. 

For  all  candy-making  it  is  important  to 
have  suitable  kettles  to  boil  in.  Copper 
or  porcelain-lined  are  the  best;  iron  will 
discolor  the  candy.  A  -nvMnw  Is  much 
the  i. est  for  small  quantities,  as  the  heat 
can  he  bettor  regulated.  Headache  is 
cured  by  Hood's  Barsaparilla. 

Great  Benefit* 

\  well-known  and  highlj  respected  citi- 
zen of  Springfield,  Ohio,  sends  us  the  fol- 
lowing: ••Since  my  return  from  the 
army  l  Lave  been  greatly  annoyed  by  a 
throat  and  lung  trouble.  A  few  years 
agq  I  was  persuaded  to  try  Hood's  Sai- 
saparilla.  and  am  happy  to  state  that    I 

received  great  b<  neflt   from   it.     I  can 

cheerfully  recommend  Hood's  Sarsapa- 

rilla."    a.  <;.  Pi  i  h  \i;i>    Springfield,  <>. 

Hood's    Barsaparilla     is    sold    by    all 

ts.    loo  Doses  <»ne  Dollar. 


HoodSs  Tooth   Powder. 

Continues  to  grow  in  popular  favor,  owing 
to  its  great  merit,  and  the  universal  sat- 
isfaction which  it  gives,  being  regarded 
by  those  who  have  used  it,  the  verj  best 


preparation  of  the  kind  now  before  the 
public,  it  preserves,  cleanses,  and  beau- 
tifies the  teeth,  ami  hardens  the  gums, 
giving  them  a  bright,  healthy  color,  it 
leaves  a  cool,  refreshing  sensation  in  the 
mouth,  ami  gives  to  the  breath  a  pie 

sweetness.      It  is 

positia  i    b<  <>.\<>m\ 

to  buy  Hood's  Tooth  Powder,  for  Beveral 

reasons,  it  Is  put  up  in  large  bottles,  at 
a  low  price,  every  bottle  having  a  neat, 

patent  metallic  cap,  which  avoids  waste, 

keeps  the  powder  from  losing  its  fra- 
grance, and  makes  it  very  convenient 
to  use  while  traveling.  Hood's  Tooth 
Powder,  frequently  used,  is  very  effectual 
i:i  arresting  and  preventing  decay  of  the 
teeth.  No  injurious  ingredient  enters 
into  its  composition;  it  Is  absolutely  pure. 

IT  is  ENDORSED  r.Y  DENTISTS, 
many  of  whom  use  it  in  their  practice. 
The  leading  dentists  of  Lowell,  Mass.. 
unite  in  praising  it;  and  letters  have 
been  received  by  dentists  in  Boston  and 
other  places,  saying  that  as  a  preserver 

and  cleanser  of  the  teeth  it  cannot  be 
Surpassed.  Hood's  Tooth  Powder  is 
made  by  ('.  I.  Hood  £  Co..  Lowell.  Mass.. 
and  is  sold  by  all  druggists.  Price  •_•:. 
cents  per  bottle.    Mammoth  size,60cent8. 

Swollen    Owms  Cured. 
■•  Por  several  years  I  was  troubled  with 
swollen  gums,  accompanied  with  severe 
pains;  but  since   I  began  using  Hood's 

Tooth  Powder  I  have  not  had  a  return  of 
the  trouble,  and  recommend  the  Powder 
as  beneficial  to  the  teeth  and  .minis." 
SABAB  A.  MT.CLBAN,  Newton  Centre. 

What  Dentists  Say. 

■■  We  have  made  a  critical  examination 
of  Hood's  Tooth  Powder,  and  can  assure 
the  public  t!i;.i  it  does  not  contain  any- 
thing that  can  possibly  injure  the  teeth, 
cither  mechanically  or  chemically."  G. 
\.  Gerry,  C.  T.  Clifford,  W.  H.  Downs, 
B,  He  dd,  a.  T.  Johnson,  G.  A.  W.  Yinal. 
Nelson,  Lowell.  Mass. 


30 


//  / G  II-  S  T E  K  E  T    COO  K     B  0 0  K 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

125.  Best  Way  of  Keeping  Beef . 

Cut  up  the  meat  in  pieces  as  large  as 
you  desire;  pack  in  a  barrel  or  cask. 
Then  make  a  brine  as  follows:  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  salt  t<>  one  gallon  of  water. 
one  ounce  of  saltpetre  to  one  hundred 
pounds  of  beef,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ground  pepper  to  one  hundred  pounds  of 
beef.  Pour  it  on  the  beef  boiling  hot, 
and  cover  closely.  Your  meat  will  be 
good  and  fresh  any  time.  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla  cures  sick  headache. 

126.  A  Good  Brine  for  Bacon. 

To  one  pail  of  water  put  one  quart  of 
rock  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  saltpetre, 
one  pint  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar.  Roil;  skim;  then  pour  over  the 
hams.  Let  them  remain  three  or  four 
weeks;  if  you  prefer,  smoke  them.  This 
rule  we  have  used  for  years.  Now  is  the 
time  to  take  Hood's  Sarsaparilla. 

12  7.  Pla  i  n  Fa  mily  Dinners. 

[  For  a  Week  in  Winter.] 

Sunday.  —  Bouillon,  roast  beef  and 
Yorkshire  pudding,  potatoes,  celery,  rice 
croquettes,  mince  pie,  apricot  ice  cream, 
cheese,  and  coffee. 

Monday.  —  Cold  roast  beef,  fricasseed 
chicken,  mashed  potatoes,  celery,  the  re- 
main;; of  plum  pudding  cut  in  slices, 
wanned,  and  served  with  sifted  sugar 
sprinkled  over  it. 

Tuesday.  —  Tomato  soup,  boiled  leg  of 
mutton  with  capers,  mashed  potatoes  and 
turnips,  baked  sago  and  apple  pudding 
white  sauce. 

Wednesday.  —  Boiled  haddock  with 
plain  melted  butter,  roast  chickens,  po- 
tato balls,  stewed  apples,  boiled  onions. 
Squash,  cottage  pudding. 

Thursday.  — Tea  soup,  veal  cutlets, 
tomato  sauce,  boiled  rice  served  with 
cutlets,  mashed  potatoes,  Troy  pudding. 
egg  sance. 

Friday.  —  Oyster  soup,  broiled  halibut. 
chicken  pie,  French  peas,  lettuce,  pota- 
toes (shredded),  steamed  apple  pudding. 

Saturday.  — Boiled  corned  beef  and 
vegetables,  with  boiled  chicken  and  pork, 
Indian  pudding,  cream  sauce. 


Hood's  Olive  Ointment 
1'ossesses  healing  and  soothing  proper- 
ties superior  to  all  other  salves  or  oint- 
ments, having  proved  efficacious  where 
other  remedies  had  failed.  It  is  made 
of  carefully  selected  barks,  gums,  pure 
oil,  and  other  ingredients  known  to  pos- 
sess peculiar  cooling  and  curative  prop- 
erties. It  is  a  family  salve  of  such  power 
and  merit  that  it  should  be  kept  con- 
stantly in  the  house. 

Hood's  Olive  Ointment  is  a  positive 
cure  for  cuts,  burns,  flesh  wounds,  in- 
flammation, sprains,  chilblains,  salt 
rheum,  chapped  lips  and  hands,  hard  or 
soft  corns,  frost  bites,  sore  nipples,  and 
all  cutaneous  diseases  and  eruptions.  It 
contains  no  injurious  ingredients,  and  is 
perfectly  safe  to  use  at  all  times.  It  re- 
lieves the  intense  itching  which  accom- 
panies salt  rheum,  tetter,  etc.,  and  is 
often  a  great  aid  in  healing  scrofulous 
sores  when  the  patient  is  taking  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Hood's  Olive  Ointment  cures  by  ab- 
sorption; it  soothes  the  inflamed  mem- 
brane; it  allays  inflammation;  it  draws 
out  soreness;  it  quiets  pain.  Hood's 
Olive  Ointment  is  made  by  C.  I.  Bood& 

('<>..  Apothecaries.  Lowell,  ^lass.  Sold 
by  all  druggists.  Price  25  cents  per  box, 
or  six  boxes  for  one  dollar;  large  size  $1; 
six  for  $5. 

Terribly  Burned. 

11.  C.  Brooks,  Lowell,  Mass.,  was  terri- 
bly burned  on  the  back  of  the  neck  by 
the  spilling  of  a  pint  of  hot,  thin  size. 
He  was  in  a  stooping  position  at  the  time 
and  the  size  ran  over  his  neck  and  ears 
and  up  into  his  hair.  The  skin  came  off 
in  patches,  leaving  the  raw  flesh  exposed. 
Bis  pain  and  torture  were  Indescribable. 
lie  knew  the  beneficial  effects  of  Hood's 
Olive  Ointment,  and  directed  that  it  be 
put  on  the  wound.  By  its  constant  appli- 
cation,  and  with  no  other  remedy,  the 
burn  healed  rapidly,  so  that-  in  two  weeks 
he  was  out  of  doors;  the  flesh  came  back 
as  before,  and  the  skin  grew  smooth  and 
new,  without  a  scar.  Be  cordially  rec- 
ommends Hood's  olive  Ointment. 

••  I  must  say  Hood's  Olive  Ointment  is 
the  best    I    ever  used."     M.   J.   QuiNN, 
I  Albany,  N.  Y. 


HOOD* 8    VEG  r  T  I  BL  E    PILLS. 


:;i 


138.    Dinner  for  Ten  Persons. 

w  ,i  ■ 

First  ( 'ourae.  Blue  Point  oysters  ou 
shell,  mock  turtle  soup. 

Seee  Boiled  blue  ii-.li  and 

French  peas. 

Third  ( 'ourst .  Roast  turkey,  Bweet- 
breads  (larded),  dressed  celery,  rice 
croquettes,  jelly,  potato  halls. 

rt.  clear  jelly,  plum  pudding, 
hull  Ices,  pears,  grapes,  confectionery, 
and  coffee. 

fjff.  Dinner  for  Twelve  Persons 

April.] 

First    <  our»  .     <  te-tail   soup,  salmon, 

With  egg  sauce. 

Entrees.—  chiekeu  croquettes,  mutton 
cutlets,  tomato  sauce. 

Second  Course.  — Tenderloin  of  beef, 
mushrooms,  cucumbers,  boiled  capon, 
vegetables. 

Third  Course.— Lobster  salad,  maca- 
roni and  flu  i 

ert.  Almond  pudding,  pastry, 
frozen  pudding  with  spun  candy,  fruit, 
nuts,  raisins,  coffee. 

230.    Plain  Family  Dinners. 

For  July.] 

Sunday.  —  Green-corn  soup,  salmon 
and  green  peas,  roasl  filet  of  beef,  baked 
tomatoes,  boiled  new  potatoes,  straw- 
berry ice  cream,  cake. 

Mm kIh,/.  —  Lamb  chops,  tomato  sauce. 
potatoes,  cucumbers,  lobster  salad,  snow 
pudding. 

Tuesday.-  Veal  soup,  roast  lamb, 
green  peas,  potatoes,  dish  of  rice,  straw- 
berries and  cream. 

Wednesday.— Broiled  beef  steak  and 
mushrooms,  chicken  croquettes,  fruit 
Jelly. 

Thursday.  —  Vermicelli  soup,  roast 
yeal,  potatoes,  cucumbers,  string  beans, 
floating  island. 

Friday.  Fish  chowder,  boiled  salmon 
and  egg  sauce,  peas,  potatoes,  broiled 
lamb  chops,  fruit. 

Saturday.  —  Potted  pigeons  with  dump- 
lings and  vegetables,  vanilla  [ce  cream 
with  orange  Jelly. 

Send  for  hook  containing  statements  of 

many  cures  by    11 I's   Sarsaparilla,  to 

C.  I.  HOOD  &  CO.,   Lowell,   Mass. 


Hood's  Vegetable  PUls 

stand  unequalled  by  any  now  made,  foi 
i  roinpi  ami  efficient,  yet  gentle  action. 
are  purely  vegetable,  containing  no 
calomel,  mercury,  or  mineral  substance 
of  any  kind.     They  are  considered  bj 

thousands    the    hest    family    physic    c\ei 

produced,  and  there  are  mans  liome  In 
which  thej  are  constant!)  kept.  Thes 
do  not  cause  pain,  or  gripe.  A  cold  may 
bequlcklj  broken  up  by  the  prompt  use 
.. i    Hood't    V  egetable  Pills,  and  a  fever 

may  he  warded  off  by  the  timely  US6  ol 
this  efficient  cathartic. 

For  constipation  and  costiveness,  noth- 
ing can  be  more  satisfactory  than  Hood's 
Vegetable  Pills.  They  enable  the  bowels 
to  resume  prompt  and  healthy  action,  and 
keep  them  in  natural  condition.  Bilious- 
ness, sour  stomach,  headache,  jaundice, 
and  liver  complaint,  are  also  cured  by 
Hood's  Vegetable  Pills,  and  many  per- 
sons who  have  suffered  severely  with 
piles  have  also  been  completely  cured  by 
taking  them. 

Every  careful  housewife  keeps  physic 
Of  some  kind  in  the  house,  and  Tor  their 
many  superior  qualities,  we  can  honestly 
recommend  Hood's  Vegetable  Pills  for 

the  family  medicine  closet. 

Hood's   Vegetable  Pills  are  made  by 

('.   I.  Hood  &  Co..  Lowell,  Ma>s..  ami  are 

sold  by  all  druggists.    Price  25  cents  per 

ln>\:  live  boxes  one  dollar.  To  persons 
not  convenient  to  a  reliable  drugstore, 
we  will  send  them  by  mail,  on  receipt  of 
the  price,  either  in  postage  Stamps  or 
postal  note. 

A  Wevo  (load  Words* 

•  Hood's  \  t  getable  rills  are  the  best  1 
ever  used."    Mrs.  E.  BCason,  Hampton, 

N.  H. 

■•  We  think  we  cannot  gel  along  with- 
out Hood's  Vegetable  J'ilis."  Eva  m 
Pun  ii  i.i..  Eastman,  P.  <.». 

•■  We     have     Use. I       Hood's      Vegetable 

Pills,  and  we    think  they  are  splendid." 

Mus.  s.  \y.  Post,  Bennett's  Bridge,  Ct 
Rev.  James  I',  stone,  of  Dalton,  N.  H.. 

after  usiiiu'  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  Olive 
Ointment  and  Vegetable  rills,  writes: 
"  Your  preparations  are  all  they  profess 
to  he.  Mrs.  S.  says  your  Pills  are  the 
besl  she  has  ever  known." 


TABLE    OF    CONTENTS 


Bread. 

Blueberry  Cake 5 

Breakfast  Squash  Cakes  5 

Bread  Fritters 4 

BroAvn  Bread 4 

Clay-St.  Brown  Bread...  4 

Corn  Cake 4 

Graham  Bread 5 

Graham  Gems 4 

Indian  Cakes 5 

Parker  House  Corn  Cake  5 

Bolls 3 

Waffles 5 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins..  5 
Yeast 3 

Candy. 

Butter  Taffy 28 

Chocolate  Cream  Drops.29 

Molasses  Candy 28 

Peppermint  Drops 28 

Walnut  Creams 28 

Cake. 

Aurora 20 

Bridgeport 21 

Buns 22 

Chocolate  Cake 19 

Cookies 21 

Corn  Starch  Cake 22 

Crullers 22 

Fruitcake 19 

Ginger  Cookies 21 

Ginger  Snaps 19 

Hot  water  Sponge 20 

Lee  Cream  Cake 21 

Molasses  Gingerbread.. 22 

Nut  Cake 19 

Orange 20 

Pound 22 

Raised  Doughnuts 22 

Snowball 20 

Snownake 21 

Sponge 21 

Sugar  Gingerbread 22 

Wedding  Cake 21 

White  Mountain 20 


Fancy  F)ishcs. 

Charlotte  Russe 23 

Macaroon 23 

Orange  Sherbet 24 

Peach  Meringue 23 

Pineapple  Sponge 25 

Russian  Cream 24 

Snow  Pudding 24 

Spanish  Cream 24 

Tapioca  Ice 25 

Fish. 

Cream  Oysters 11 

Fish  Balls 10 

Oyster  Fricassee 11 

Spiced  Mackerel 11 

Jellies. 

Clear  Apple  Jelly 25 

Fruit  Jelly 25 

Meats. 

Cecils 10 

Chicken  Croquettes 9 

Lobster  Croquettes 8 

Meat  Patties 8 

Potted  Pigeons 8 

Sauce  for  Game 8 

Tomato  Beefsteak 10 

Tomato  and  Lamb  Pie. .  10 
Veal  Loaf,  for  Lunch  ...10 
Yorkshire  Pudding 9 

Omelets. 

Baked  Omelet 13 

Corn  Omelet 13 

Omelet 13 

Pastry. 

Cheese  Sticks 18 

Chopped  Paste 18 

Lemon  Pie 18 

Mince  Meat 17 

Mock  Mince  Pies 17 

Puff  Paste 17 

Tarts is 

Pickles. 

Chili  Sauce 27 

Cucumber  Pickles 27 

Pickled  Peaches 27 


Raspberry  Vinegar 27 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle . .  .27 

Tomato  Ketchup 27 

Tomato  Sauce 27 

Puddings. 

Baked  Apple 15 

Baltimore ig 

Boiled  Plum 15 

Delmonico 15 

Gingerbread 16 

Indian ic 

Orange n; 

Sweet  Flour 16 

Tapioca  Fruit 15 

Whitpot    16 

Pudding  Sauces. 

Beacon-Street 20 

Lemon  Sauce 26 

Salads. 

Cooked  Dressing 14 

Dressing  for  Sandwich. .14 

Potato  Salad 14 

Salad  Cream  Dressing.  .14 

Soups. 

Black  Bean  Soup 6 

Bouillon 6 

Chicken  Soup 7 

Clam  Soup 7 

Corn  Soup 7 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 7 

Ox  Tail  Soup 6 

Tomato  Soup G 

Vegetables. 

Baked  Tomatoes 12 

Corn  Oysters 12 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 12 

Scalloped  Potatoes 12 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  — 12 

Miscellaneous. 
Best  Way  to  Keep »Beef  .30 

Brine  for  Bacon 30 

Dinners  for  Ten 31 

Hood's  Cook  Books 9 

Plain  Family  Dinners...?,! 


REMEDIES,    CURES,    ETC. 


After  Scarlet  Fever 10 

All  Run  Down 20 

Appetite 3 

Asthma  or  Catarrh 20 

Besl  Results 12 

Biliousness 15 

Bilious  Headache 15 

Blood  Poison 19 

Book  Of  Parlor  Games.. 2:'. 

Catarrh 20 

Caused  by  Cigarettes..  .24 

Chills  and  Fever 28 

Cold  Feet 17 

Dizzy  in  the  Morning.. .  3 

Dyspepsia 12,  25 

Effectual  Belief 16 

Engineer's  Wife 0 

Erysipelas 27 

For  the  Children 5 


From  108  to  135 13 

General  Debility is 

Glandular  Swellings....  14 

Good  Name  at  Home  . . .  s 

Hay  Fever 20 

Hardly Ableto  Walk. ..21 
Headache 8 

Helped  Very  Much 15 

Hives  and  Pimples 19 

Hood's  Olive  Ointment  .30 

Hood's  Tooth  Powder. .29 

Hood's  Vegetable  Pills.31 

Humors  and  Boils 19 

Impurity  of  the  Bl00d..22 

Indiana  Postmaster 9 

Kidneys  and  Liver 17 

boss  Of  Appetite  ....  15,  18 

bumps  in  the  Neck 1) 

Mother  and  Daughter.. .22 


Our  Own  Folks 20 

Pain  in  the  Back 17 

Pastor  and   People 7 

Performing  a  Duty 24 

Pimples 6,  17 

Pleasing  Results 1 1 

Purify  Your  Blood 22 

Quick  Effect 6 

Rheumatism 10,  21 

Salt  Rheum 13 

Scrofula  Humor. ...4,  9,22 
sick  Abed  for  Weeks.  ..28 
So  Strengthening 10 

Speedy  belief 19 

Stomach  Disorder X 

Swollen  Gums  Cured  ..  .29 

Terribly  Burned 30 

That  Tired  Feeling 18 

Well  Known  in  Lowell  .11 


What  the  Druggists  Say  about  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 


Tiio  candid  opinion  of  reliable  drug- 
gists, regarding  any  medicine,  is  certainly 
of  greal  value,  because  they  are  Ear  better 
able  to  Judge  of  its  merits  than  any  other 
class  of  people.    As  they  communicate 

directly  With  those  who  use  Hit-  medi- 
cines, being  often   limes   requested   to 

give  advice  in  regard  to  what  should  be 
taken,  they  can  observe  the  effects,  and 
judge  of  the  curative  value  of  every 
article  of  this  kind  in  the  market.  Thus 
it  is  that  the  words  of  commendation 
and  praise  for  Hoods  Sarsaparilla,  which 
we  are  continually  receiving  from  drug- 
gists throughout  the  United  States,  is 
extremely  gratifying  to  us.  We  have 
space  here  to  present  only  a  very  few 
extracts  from  these  letters,  but  they  are 
'sufficient  to  show  the  esteem  in  which 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  held  by  the  entire 
drug  tr;de  of  the  country,  it  will  be 
observed  that  some  of  these  druggists 
have  become  so  convinced  of  the  great 
value  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  that  they 
have  used  it  themselves,  and  thus  are 
able  to  speak  from  personal  experience 
regarding  the  medicine. 

"I  have  used  Hood's  Sarsaparilla  in 
my  family  for  some  time  with  good 
results.  J  freely  recommend  it  to  all 
of  my  friends  and  patrons  as  the  best 
blood  purifier  on  earth."  William  S. 
Gaff,  Druggist,  Hamilton,  Ohio. 

••  Last  winter,  after  recovering  from  a 
prolonged  sickness  with  diphtheria,  and 
needing  something  to  build  me  up,  I  took 

two  bottles  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla.  I 
felt  good  results  from  the  first  dose.  It 
seemed  to  go  from  the  top  of  my  head  to 
the  ends  of  my  toes.  I  know  it  is  a  good 
thing,  and  on  the  strength  of  my  own 
experience,  1  have  sold  a  great  deal  of 

Hoods  Sarsaparilla.  I  consider  it  the 
best  in  the  market."  (;.  H.  Stkatton, 
of  .1.  W.  Oolton  &  Stratton,  Druggists, 
Westfleld,  M 

•*l  have  been  selling  Hood's  Baraapa- 
rdla  for  some  time  and  it  is  giving  good 
satisfaction  Seeing  the  benefit  people 
derived  from  it,  i  persuaded  my  wife  to 


give  it  a  trial.  She  has  been  troubled 
with  dizziness  and  constipation,  and  her 
blood  has  been  in  bad  order,  — in  fad, 
she  has  been  all  run  down.  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  is  doing  her  a  wonderful 
amount     of    good."     p,     M.    BALDWIN, 

Druggist,  Blanchester,  Ohio. 

•We  are  selling  large  quantities  of 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  and  are  pushing  it 
in  preference  to  all  others.  We  stop  and 
convince  our  customers  that  it  is  the 
strongest  and  best  in  the  market."  A.  B. 
Lee,  Druggist,  453  Grand  River  Avenue, 
Detroit,  Mich. 

"  I  think  a  great  deal  of  Hood's  Sarsa- 
parilla, and  am  selling  large  quantities 
of  it,  considering  it  one  of  my  reliable 
standards."  L.  C.  Gilson,  M.  D.,  Port- 
land, Me. 

"I  can  say  with  good  faith  that  I  never 
had  a  word  of  fault  found  with  Hood's 
Sarsaparilla  yet.  All  speak  of  it  in  the 
highest  terms."  R.  E.  Knapp,  M.  D. 
and  Druggist,  Ypsilanti.  Mich. 

"Hood's  Sarsaparilla  is  as  staple  an 
article  with  me  as  BUgar  and  tea."  it.  S. 
Meacham,  General  store.  Pittsford,  Vt. 

"  We  sell  no  article  of  medicine  which 
gives  more  general  satisfaction  than  doe- 
Hood's  Sarsaparilla,  and  we  sell  more  ot 
it  than  of  any  other  medicine  of  tin- 
kind."    W.  Clakke,  West  Buxton,   Me. 

"We  sell  more  of  Hood's  Sarsaparilla 
than  of  any  other  blood  purifier,  and 
cheerfully  recommend  it  for  purifying 
the  blood."  skki.kv  &  Hart.  Williams- 
port,  Pa. 

••  It  is  exceptionally  my  taste  ami  in- 
clination to  recommend  Hood's  Sarsapa- 
rilla as  compared  with  many  proprietary 
medicines,  as  the  consumers  are  satisfied 
with  the  curative  effects  of  the  same." 
.John  B.  Fxlla,  Eagle  Drug  Stoi 
ledo,  Ohio. 

Hood's  Sarsaparilla 

Sold  by  druggists.  $1  ;  six  for  .-:,.  Made 
only  by  c.  I.  BOOD  ,\  Co..  Lowell.  Mass 

IOO  Doses  One  Dollar 


SOLD  BY  DRUGGISTS- PRICE  25  CENTS, 


C  20 


2  8991 


+* 


V^-'V 


^  ' 


^^.     . 


r^  -V  "A  '     °    »    "  AT 


.♦    <6* 


ro,     *o  .  k  *     A 


^      ,^      ♦% 


W 

^ 


*W 


4  °*     - 


*9*t 


**. 


vv 


^Jv  A»* 


r      *  *  •  •* 


v  ..*: 


%<**  .*' 


^    -k&m2?^\    ^<y   it^mx*  ~+mj 


°o, 


#       "^  a"^        * 


lv      . «  • 


"*> 


o*\. 


•%  ^ '  *%i    S'«  "%>  ^'  •*- 

V     ♦*   ^f     V 


O^       *o  .  ^  *        A 


<>      *' 


'**. 


'> 


>  V 


if 


&v  va. 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY  INC. 


H 


^      AUG  89 


N.  MANCHESTER, 
INDIANA  46962 


'oV 


»0**. 


^■0^ 


°c 


i\  \  JV/A%  i: 


