I 


I*. 


COOK 


m5 
Ml 


mt\ 


m\ 


Hn\ 


F 


OLDMEADOW 


o 


wliQikWI) 


BOSTon  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


4/ 


t 


This    book    is    not    in 


MAR  27 


good    condition.      Please  ^  2  ^    l   ^ 

use  it  carefully.  l^  ^->  ^((.f-'^ 

B.  P.  L.  Form  No.  403. 

■  CT  IB   A 


NOV  27 

I        4  4       ^J 


.••  t . 


*J 


iMtM        I 


•r» 


r^o  i:.;  :^    | 


OCT  IS    4 


r  1 1  i  ;-< 


/:f 


JA/^s 


n 


"  .  ^ 


I 


HOME  COOKERY  IN    WAR-TIME 


HOME  COOKERY 
IN   WAR-TIME 

By  ERNEST  OLDMEADOW 


LONDON:    GRANT  RICHARDS  LTD. 

PUBLISHERS       :        :         :        :        MDCCCCXV 


PRINTED    BY   THE    RIVERSIDE   PRESS   LIMITED 
EDINBURGH 


INTRODUCTION 

A  CHARMING  lady,  who  is  also  a  good  cook  and  a  clear 
writer,  had  promised  to  write  for  the  publisher  of  this 
volume  a  little  manual  of  Home  Cookery  in  War- 
time. The  Red  Cross  called  her  away  before  the  first 
page  was  written  ;  and  I  am  bidden  to  step  into  the 
breach.  For  a  man  who  is  one  year  too  old  to  join 
anything  more  important  than  a  Home  Defence  corps, 
it  is  some  consolation  to  try  and  serve  his  countrymen 
in  another  way.  Cuisine  c'esi  mtdecine,  said  Michelet; 
and  good  cookery  is  a  cure  for  the  mind's  as  well  as 
the  body's  ills,  besides  being  cheaper  in  the  end. 


I  must  explain  at  the  outset  the  class  of  readers 
which  will  be  addressed  throughout  the  following 
chapters.  It  is  silly  to  go  angling  in  waters  where  no 
fish  has  ever  been  known  to  bite  ;  and  I  shall  there- 
fore exclude  from  consideration  the  cooks  in  luxurious 
households.  Speaking  broadly,  the  servants  in  great 
houses  are  the  last  to  respond  when  an  appeal  for  thrift 
and  frugality  is  made.  Even  during  sieges  and 
famines,  waste  goes  on  in  rich  kitchens.  I  admit 
gladly  that  there  are  magnificent  exceptions ;  but  the 
sad  truth  remains  that  the  servants  of  the  wealthy 
are  generally  selfish  parasites  and  that  it  would  be  a 
waste  of  breath  to  preach  economy  to  them  so  long  as 
opportunities  for  extravagance  exist.    Happily,  many 

5 


6  INTRODUCTION 

heads  of  families  are  turning  off  the  pampered  and 
strapping  footmen  who  ought  to  be  bearing  arms,  and 
are  attempting  to  reform  their  establishments  on  lines 
which  will  give  employment  where  it  is  most  needed. 
But  thousands  of  wasteful  cooks  will  go  on  in  the  old 
way;  and  I  shall  not  lose  time  on  suggestions  for 
economy  in  the  sphere  which  they  inhabit. 

With  reluctance  and  regret,  I  must  pass  by  the 
humblest  households  also.  There  could  be  no  more 
useful  or  patriotic  work  than  to  knead  better  ideals 
and  sounder  practices  of  cookery  into  the  hearts  and 
minds  of  the  working  classes.  Up  to  the  present, 
however,  the  task  has  been  hardly  begun.  We  know 
that  well-meaning  philanthropists  and  social  doctrin- 
aires have  laboured  long  and  unselfishly  to  this  end, 
but  their  industry  and  zeal  have  made  little  impres- 
sion. It  is  not  enough  to  ascertain  the  quantities 
and  proportions  of  proteids,  and  carbohydrates  and 
fats  and  salts  required  every  day  by  a  laundress,  or 
a  navvy,  or  a  stoker,  or  a  nursing  mother,  and  to  pre- 
scribe the  cheapest  dietary  in  which  these  quantities 
and  proportions  would  be  found.  The  wealthier 
classes  do  not  conduct  their  cooking  and  their  eating 
on  such  principles  ;  and  their  humbler  brothers  and 
sisters  are  still  more  stoutly  resolved  not  to  do  so. 
We  shall  not  raise  the  standard  of  cookery  among  the 
poor  until  we  have  informed  ourselves  more  correctly 
about  the  poor  man's  palate  and  about  the  attitude 
of  the  poor  man's  wife  to  processes  which  require 
more  elbow-room  and  more  detachment  of  purpose 
than  nine  out  of  ten  poor  women  actually  command. 
Let  nobody  imagine  that  I  am  writing  without  sym- 
pathy for  those  who  toil  hard  with  their  hands.    But 


INTRODUCTION  7 

it  is  necessary  to  be  practical  and  to  recognise  the 
futility  of  addressing  men  and  women  who  will  not 
read  this  book  and  would  regard  it  almost  as  a  docu- 
ment in  a  foreign  language  if  it  were  forced  upon  them. 
I  shall  assume  my  audience  to  consist  of  those  who 
are  cursed  neither  by  poverty  nor  by  riches.  So  far 
as  Home  Cookery  is  concerned,  the  most  receptive 
men  and  women  are  such  as  cultivate  a  wide  variety 
of  experiences  on  the  strength  of  moderate  incomes. 
I  am  thinking  of  the  scores  of  thousands  who  are  the 
salt  of  England  ;  the  people  who,  without  forgetting 
to  help  the  poor  and  to  provide  for  the  future,  seem  to 
get  the  most  out  of  life  ;  who  bring  a  wholesome 
curiosity  into  play,  and  are  always  picking  up  lore 
worth  having  ;  who  spend  their  bits  of  money  in- 
telligently on  every  occasion,  whether  it  be  the  choice 
of  a  book  or  the  planning  of  a  holiday  or  anything 
else  through  which  the  old  grooves  have  been  worn  too 
well.  In  writing  this  book,  I  have  kept  in  mind  the 
ladies  of  slender  means  who  maintain  a  certain  dignity 
of  housekeeping  on  resources  which  would  barely  pay 
for  a  stockbroker's  cigars.  I  am  thinking  of  the 
generous  hostesses  who  keep  open  house  so  pleasantly 
for  the  benefit  of  all  sorts  of  unhomely  visitors,  al- 
though their  own  means  are  small.  I  am  thinking 
too  of  mothers  who,  with  many  mouths  to  feed,  are 
none  the  less  determined  to  keep  the  flag  flying  and 
never  to  subside  into  slovenliness  in  the  kitchen  or  at 
table.  Nor  do  I  forget  the  young  wives  whose  fitful 
resolves  towards  old-fashioned  domestic  efficiency 
are  so  little  encouraged  under  modern  conditions. 
Last  of  all,  I  remember  the  many  men  who  more  or 
less  clearly  perceive  that  cookery  is  an  honourable  art, 


8  INTRODUCTION 

with  nothing  effeminate  about  it.  Although  "  the 
gentlemen  "  in  mid- Victorian  times  usually  looked 
down  upon  a  man  who  could  cook,  many  of  the  deepest 
scholars  and  strongest  men  of  action  in  history  have 
been  keen  on  cooking.  This  is  mainly  a  book  for 
women  ;  but  men  may  learn  from  it  how  to  be  less 
helpless.  In  short,  it  gives  advice  to  all  those  who 
take  a  direct  part  in  the  operations  of  their  kitchens. 
Some  of  my  readers  may  have  a  dozen  servants,  and 
others  may  have  no  more  than  a  woman  or  young 
girl  who  comes  in  for  a  few  hours  to  do  the  rougher 
work.  I  take  it  for  granted,  however,  that  they  are 
all  alike  in  wielding,  or  wishing  to  wield,  supreme 
power  in  their  own  kitchens  and  larders  ;  and  that 
they  are  not  above  the  preparing  of  a  dish  from  start 
to  finish. 


Unfriendly  critics  may  plausibly  say  of  this  manual 
that  it  is  disorderly  ;  that  it  abounds  in  repetitions  ; 
and  that  some  matters  are  discussed  at  length  while 
others  equally  important  are  hardly  mentioned.  The 
answer  is  that  I  have  not  tried  to  write  anything  like 
a  systematic  and  complete  cookery-book.  Indeed 
I  assume  throughout  that  every  reader  possesses  one 
of  the  regular  cookery-books  and  knows  how  to  use  it. 
I  have  aimed  rather  at  sending  housekeepers  back  to 
their  cookery-books  with  a  new  zeal  for  tasks  in  which 
they  may  have  grown  stale.  While  the  following 
pages  contain  at  least  a  hundred  practical  recipes, 
they  are  mainly  devoted  to  stating  and  illustrating 
the  great  facts  and  principles  from  which  all  worthy 
recipes  have  been  evolved.    The  woman  or  man  who 


INTRODUCTION  9 

peruses  and  applies  the  advice  given  between  these 
covers  is  certain  to  go  on  stud3dng  with  the  aid  of 
other  and  larger  works.     As  for  the  omission  of  many 
dishes  which  were  entitled  to  be  described,  I  can  only 
say  that  my  choice  has  been  guided  by  experience. 
Some  dishes  are  already  so  well  known  in  English 
kitchens  that  there  was  no  need  to  discuss  them  ; 
others  are  natural  and  obvious  variations  upon  the 
recipes  I  have  given  ;   and  a  third  large  group  com- 
prises dishes  which  rarely  give  satisfaction,  although 
their  names  sound  well  and  the  directions  look  pro- 
mising on  paper.    Again,   many  familiar  flats  are 
expensive  or  troublesome  out  of  proportion  to  their 
merits  ;  or  they  are  not  wholesome  ;  or  they  are  the 
seductive  enemies  of  a  palate  in  course  of  education. 
Most  of  my  omissions  fall  under  these  heads.    As  for 
the  others,  they  are  to  be  explained  by  my  careless- 
ness or  ignorance.     But  the  design  of  the  book  will 
become   apparent   only  to  those   who   will   read  it 
through,  repetitions  and  all.    They  can  turn  back  to 
particular  recipes  as  occasions  arise. 


If  I  have  said  little  that  is  explicit  on  Invalid 
Cookery,  it  is  partly  because  I  do  not  presume  to 
compete  with  the  writers  who  have  specialised  in 
such  work.  There  is,  however,  another  reason. 
Careful  observations,  made  during  an  illness  of  my 
own  and  many  illnesses  of  my  friends,  convince  me 
that  the  best  cookery  for  invalids  is  simply — the  best 
ordinary  cookery.  With  an  intelligent  doctor  to 
hoist  the  danger  signals,  a  sick  man  comes  through 
his  sickness  the  more  quickly  if  we  are  not  perpetually 


10  INTRODUCTION 

reminding  him,  by  a  special  diet,  that  he  is  ill.  This 
does  not  apply  to  certain  grave  cases  :  but  I  fear  that 
Invalid  Cookery  has  not  always  helped  the  doctor 
and  the  nurse.  When  an  intelligent  cook  grasps  the 
nature  of  a  patient's  malady  and  remembers  that  he 
is  lying  warm,  without  exercise  or  hard  work,  it  should 
be  easy  to  back  up  the  medicine  by  means  of  a  plain 
or  scanty  but  varied  and  attractive  diet. 

E.  O. 
Feast  of  St  Denis  of  France,  1914. 


CONTENTS 


I. 

THE    ROOTS   OF   THE    MATTER 

13 

II. 

THE    KITCHEN   AND   THE    LARDER       . 

31 

III. 

GOING   TO    MARKET   . 

.            38 

IV. 

HORS    d'CEUVRE 

70 

V. 

SOUPS                .... 

83 

VI. 

SAUCES             .... 

lOI 

VII. 

FISH                   .... 

117 

VIII. 

ENTREES         .... 

.          138 

IX. 

VEGETABLES 

167 

X. 

ROASTING   AND   GRILLING       . 

198 

XI. 

SALADS             .... 

204 

XII. 

SWEETS   AND   OMELETTES        .                 .        .         . 

213 

XIII. 

ITALIAN   PASTES           .                 .                 .                 . 

230 

XIV. 

SAVOURIES     .                 .                 .                 .                 . 

235 

XV. 

THE   TABLE    .                 .                 .                 .                 , 

242 

XVI. 

SOME    BOOKS  :     AND   A    BOOK 

253 

II 


CHAPTER  I 

THE   ROOTS  OF  THE   MATTER 

Hardly  had  the  Belgian  and  German  guns  at  Liege 
begun  their  awful  dialogue  before  England  was  loud 
with  voices  telling  the  non-combatant  how  to  comport 
himself  in  war-time. 

The  advertising  agents  instantly  primed  the  shop- 
keepers with  the  cry :  "  Live  as  usual :  Spend  as 
usual:  Pay  as  usual."  We  were  told  that  only  bad 
citizens  would  cease  to  play  golf,  to  follow  the  fashions, 
to  enjoy  hoUdays,  to  eat  daintily,  to  dance,  to  shop, 
to  go  to  the  play.     "  Live  as  usual." 

This  advice  is  not  wholly  bad.  It  aims  at  keeping 
money  in  circulation  and  men  and  women  in  employ- 
ment. But  many  writers  of  letters  to  the  papers  are 
pressing  it  too  far.  They  seem  to  argue  that  every 
well-established  habit  of  luxury  and  extravagance  is 
a  sacrosanct  vested  interest  which  must  be  kept  in 
being.  If  we  have  been  accustomed  to  eat  caviare 
at  a  guinea  a  pound  we  must  go  on  eating  it,  so  that 
the  caviare  merchant  shall  not  be  ruined.  If  it  has 
been  our  practice  to  buy  half-a-dozen  pairs  of  white 
kid  gloves  every  week,  we  must  pity  the  poor  glover 
and  go  on  buying.    And.  so  on. 

Now  the  truth  is  that  War  is  an  unusual  state  of 
life  which  demands  unusual  arrangements.  Since  the 
last  days  of  July,  twenty  million  men  have  been  rushed 
away  from  the  farms  and  fisheries  and  mills  and 

13 


14      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

forges  of  Europe  to  fight.  Fifty  strokes  of  a  dozen 
pens  have  changed  twenty  miUion  producers  into 
twenty  miUion  consumers.  In  other  words,  Europe  is 
not  living  as  usual,  and  we  must  adjust  ourselves  to 
her  new  life. 

Even  if  we  could  be  sure  that  there  will  be  no 
scarcity  of  food  and  fuel  and  raiment,  most  of  us 
would  still  be  unwilling  to  live  our  usual  comfortable 
lives  while  scores  of  thousands  of  Englishmen  are 
faring  roughly  in  the  field.  More.  A  time  of  War 
is  a  time  for  bracing  up  the  whole  life  of  a  nation. 
The  Enghsh  had  become  too  self-indulgent.  Too 
many  of  us  have  been  living  right  up  to  or  beyond 
our  incomes.  In  proportion  to  our  numbers  and 
responsibilities,  we  have  had  too  many  purveyors  of 
luxuries,  too  many  entertainers,  too  many  actors  and 
actresses  and  funny-men  and  musicians  and  novelists 
and  painters  and  paid  reformers  and  professional 
sportsmen.  To  take  a  single  illustration,  we  have 
had  too  many  pale  young  men  in  "  the  drapery  "  and 
not  enough  strapping  fellows  in  the  Army.  When 
the  War  is  over,  we  ought  to  be  tougher,  simpler,  and 
therefore  stronger. 

Those  who  find  these  arguments  superfine  will 
perhaps  listen  to  one  more  reason  against  "living 
as  usual " — namely,  that  most  of  us  will  lack  the 
money.  Directly  and  indirectly,  this  War  will  cost 
England  hundreds — perhaps  thousands — of  millions 
of  pounds.  Incomes  will  be  smaller  and  taxes  bigger  ; 
and  there  will  be  appeals  for  the  sick  and  wounded, 
for  the  \vidow  and  the  orphan,  which  only  hearts  of 
flint  will  resist. 

These  are  the  principal  reasons  for  publishing  a 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER        15 

short  manual  of  Home  Cookery  in  War-time,  such 
as  may  put  us  on  sounder  terms  with  both  our  con- 
sciences and  our  purses. 


It  is  taken  for  granted  throughout  the  following 
pages  that  the  reader  knows  the  A  B  C  of  cookery 
already,  and  that  nobody  is  to  expect  much  more  than 
a  number  of  sound  hints  on  the  departures  from 
ordinary  kitchen  routine  which  the  War  may  demand. 
Let  nobody  therefore  open  this  book  in  order  to  learn 
how  to  peel  a  potato  or  trim  a  chop  or  choose  a  sir- 
loin of  beef.  I  assume  from  the  outset  that  I  am 
speaking  to  housewives  who  already  possess  an  ele- 
mentary all-round  cookery-book,  even  if  it  be  no 
bigger  than  the  shilling  edition  of  Mrs  Beeton's  justly 
admired  work.  The  first  principles  of  boiling  and 
frying  and  baking  and  braising  and  steaming  will  be 
discussed  only  in  so  far  as  I  believe  that  they  are 
misunderstood  in  England. 


Although  we  may  learn  much  from  France,  this  is 
an  English  book  for  English  homes.  France  is,  with- 
out doubt,  the  seat  of  the  finest  cookery  in  the  world, 
and  this  praise  applies  not  only  to  the  haute  cuisine 
but  also  to  the  wonderful  cuisine  hourgeoise.  All  the 
same,  we  must  keep  our  heads.  Englishwomen  often 
return  from  holidays  in  France  (where  they  have  been 
whetting  tr^ir  appetites  in  the  sea  air  and  were  in  a 
mood  to  be  ^ased  with  everything),  and  straightway 
set  about  Fi  ^  chifying  both  their  kitchens  and  their 
tables.    They  /ush  to  buy  books  which  purport  to 


i6       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

expound  French  cookery  to  the  Enghsh  housewife  ; 
and,  in  forty-nine  cases  out  of  fifty,  they  end  by 
throwing  up  the  experiment  after  making  themselves 
and  everybody  else  miserable.  To  take  one  example 
only,  thousands  of  happy  homes  have  been  tempor- 
arily blighted  by  the  tyranny  of  the  stock-pot.  Young 
wives  find  it  writ  large  in  the  books  that  no  kitchen 
is  complete  without  a  stock-pot,  and  that  it  is  next 
door  to  downright  sin  not  to  keep  one  in  constant  use. 
Now  a  stock-pot  is  all  that  was  ever  claimed  for  it, 
provided  the  cook  is  to  the  manner  born  and  that  it  is 
used  in  what  may  be  called  stock-pot  conditions.  In 
a  country  house,  or  farm,  where  rude  plenty  is  the 
order  of  the  day,  a  stock-pot  is  all  to  the  good.  It 
costs  nothing  for  fuel,  because  the  big  kitchen  fire 
is  always  burning.  Every  day  there  are  many  mouths 
to  feed  and  a  large  quantity  of  stock  is  an  unmixed 
blessing.  But  the  case  is  altogether  different  when 
one  turns  to  the  small  kitchen  of  a  modern  English 
house  or  London  flat,  where  the  gas  stove  has  estab- 
lished itself  so  firmly  that  the  kitchen  range  remains 
unkindled  for  six  months  out  of  twelve.  In  such 
kitchens  the  stock-pot  takes  up  precious  room  and 
adds  to  the  gas  bill  an  amount  out  of  all  proportion  to 
the  value  of  the  stock.  Further,  the  mistress  of  a 
small  establishment  soon  finds  that  she  has  not 
nearly  so  many  odds  and  ends  to  throw  into  the  stock- 
pot  as  she  expected.  In  these  days  the  butcher  trims 
the  meat  more  thoroughly  than  of  yore  and  his  ex- 
ample is  followed,  more  or  less,  by  all  the  other 
purveyors  of  eatables.  Our  grandmothers  conducted 
their  housekeeping  in  vastly  different  conditions. 
The  huge  joints  for  their  large  families,  the  poultry 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER    17 

and  game  which  were  skinned  or  plucked  and  cleaned 
in  their  own  kitchens,  and  their  wealth  of  raw  and 
rough  materials  of  every  kind  yielded  them  a  constant 
supply  of  good  by-products  which  were  too  often 
wasted  although  such  scraps  would  have  rejoiced 
a  Frenchwoman's  heart.  Nowadays  the  poulterer 
cleans  and  trusses  our  birds,  too  often  taking  away 
the  parts  that  would  yield  many  a  delicacy,  such 
as  a  Cock-a-leekie  a  la  Franfuise  (Leek  Soup  with 
giblets)  or  a  Risotto  au  foie  de  volatile.  The  poul- 
terer fillets  our  fish,  the  greengrocer  often  delivers 
only  the  choicest  hearts  of  cabbage  or  cauliflower  or 
lettuce,  while  the  grocer  sells  us  most  of  his  goods  in 
bottles  and  jars  and  tins  and  packets  which  contain 
nothing  over  and  above  what  can  be  directly  con- 
sumed. So  let  the  superstition  of  the  stock-pot 
as  a  universal  obligation  go ;  and  with  it  let  us 
bury  most  of  the  nonsense  about  two  penny- 
worth of  bones.  Soup  for  twopence  has  a  plausible 
sound  ;  but  when  one  reckons  the  cost  of  the  gas  and 
the  flavourings,  it  will  generally  be  found  that  a  small 
quantity  of  one  of  the  admirable  new  vegetable 
extracts  (put  up  like  Liebig's)  costs  no  more  money 
and  gives  a  better  result  for  less  trouble.  The  dis- 
coverer of  bone-soup  a  hundred  years  ago  was  patted 
on  the  head  by  kings  and  even  by  a  Pope,  but 
bare  bones  as  now  chopped  up  and  simmered  are  a 
delusion  and  a  snare.  I  have  made  grand  stock  from 
a  ham-bone,  correcting  its  saltiness  by  omitting  all 
salt  from  the  vegetables  afterwards  added  :  but  that 
ham-bone  had  something  on  it  and  in  it. 

Instead  of  worrying  with  an  unwieldy  stock-pot, 
the  good  housewife  will  use  the  beaux  restes  of  her 

B 


i8      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

game  and  poultry  for  special  soups  and  for  entrees  of 
distinction  instead  of  sacrificing  them  to  augment  a 
gallon  of  characterless  stock.  Without  running  a 
stock-pot  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  days  a  year, 
stock  can  be  made  frequently  from  clean  odds  and 
ends,  or  from  cheap  meat,  and  used  right  up.  When 
all  else  fails,  foundations  can  be  made  cheaply  and 
cleanly  from  beans.  Butter  beans  and  their  like 
yield  light-coloured  stock,  while  flageolets  and  their 
brethren  will  give  stock  of  darker  hue.  These  bean 
stocks  can  be  bottled  and  kept  for  some  time,  pro- 
vided they  are  occasionally  poured  out  and  heated 
up. 

Some  people  will  feel  that  the  foregoing  paragraphs 
promise  poorly  so  far  as  economy  is  concerned.  Like 
rustics  who  believe  that  medicine  must  taste  nasty 
if  it  is  to  do  you  good,  they  are  persuaded  that  we 
must  put  up  with  unattractive  food  if  we  are  to  save 
money  in  war-time.  This  is  a  deadly  error — deadly 
because  it  soon  drives  back  those  who  hold  it  into 
their  old  extravagance.  Men  and  women  who  have 
been  accustomed  to  eat  pleasantly  and  daintily  will 
not  succeed  in  making  an  abrupt  change  to  coarse 
and  unpleasant  diet  without  injury  to  their  health  and 
tempers  which  will  be  found  expensive  in  the  long  run. 
Everybody  has  heard  of  things  that  are  "  Cheap 
and  Nasty  "  ;  but  the  cook's  motto  in  war-time  will 
be  Cheap  and  Tasty. 

Cheapness  and  tastiness,  however,  are  not  every- 
thing.   A  dish  might  cost  little,  and  look  appetising, 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER    19 

and  taste  good,  while  at  the  same  time  it  might  be 
indigestible  or  without  value  as  nourishment.  We 
must  have  Foods  that  feed.  But  these  pages  will  not 
be  extended  by  means  of  long  lists  of  foods  arranged 
under  elaborate  headings  in  scientific  terms.  The 
few  housekeepers  who  concern  themselves  with 
academic  dietetics  have  not  waited  for  the  appearance 
of  this  little  book  in  order  to  learn  about  proteids 
and  starch  and  nitrogen  and  carbohydrates  :  and 
they  know  the  chief  points  of  "  Food  Values  "  already. 
As  for  the  majority,  they  would  either  skip  such 
information  or  read  it  and  forget  it  a  minute  after- 
wards. But  there  is  a  more  practical  reason  for 
omitting  scientific  tables.  It  sounds  old-fashioned 
to  say  it,  but  in  matters  of  diet  we  still  get  on  best 
without  too  much  theory.  A  day  will  dawn  when 
the  analyst  will  be  able  to  tell  us  so  much  about  our 
food  that  the  art  of  medicine  will  be  almost  absorbed 
in  dietetics ;  but  that  day  has  not  dawned  yet. 
People  who  live  according  to  food  tables  certainly 
do  not  always  convince  us  that  they  have  found  the 
golden  secret  of  health  and  happiness.  In  the 
present  state  of  chemistry,  all  the  food  tables  ever 
printed  are  worth  less  than  the  old  saw,  "  One  man's 
meat  is  another  man's  poison."  To  certain  constitu- 
tions certain  foods  are  almost  venomous.  The 
writer  knows  a  woman  who  can  eat  practically  every- 
thing save  honey ;  and  a  man  who  has  the  digestion 
of  an  ostrich  for  all  other  foods,  but  is  upset  by  capers. 
To  many  people,  some  allowance  of  cereals  and  milk 
and  sugar  seems  of  vital  importance,  while  others 
hate  all  such  things  and  keep  alive  on  lean  red  meat, 
fresh  green  vegetables  and  sharp  wine.    Through 


20       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

not  recognising  these  wide  variations  of  constitution, 
most  of  the  authors  who  have  given  us  instruction 
in  cheap  cookery  have  done  as  much  harm  as  good. 
They  prescribe  messes  of  pottage  in  which  spHt  peas 
and  lentils  and  all  kinds  of  pulse  predominate  to  such 
an  extent  that  there  is  positive  danger  to  those  whose 
bodies  are  not  built  for  such  diet. 

It  follows  that  the  Compleat  Cook  must  under- 
stand not  only  the  food  but  the  feeders.  This  will  help 
her  to  steer  clear  of  many  a  disappointment.  Now 
and  then  it  will  call  for  the  taking  of  additional  pains, 
because  it  may  be  necessary  to  provide  two  small 
dishes  instead  of  one  large.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
will  often  help  towards  economy,  because  beaux  restes 
are  often  enough  for  one  but  not  enough  for  two. 
Many  a  housewife,  in  the  intimacy  of  a  small  home, 
wiU  urge  her  son  or  husband  to  finish  some  small 
remnant  on  the  ground  that  it  is  not  worth  keeping 
and  that  it  would  "  only  have  to  be  thrown  away." 
The  son  or  husband  has  probably  already  eaten 
quite  as  much  as  is  good  for  him — otherwise  he 
would  have  asked  for  what  is  left  on  the  dish — 
but  he  accepts  the  morsel  and  overfeeds  himself. 
Once  let  a  housewife  accept  the  notion  of  occa- 
sionally making  up  a  tiny  entree,  enough  for  one 
person  only,  and  she  will  often  find  the  problem  of 
an  informal  home  dinner  half  solved.  The  Brute 
wiU  get  something  he  likes  ;  while  she  herself,  for  a 
change,  will  be  able  to  enjoy  a  little  dish  all  her  very 
own,  according  to  her  mood  and  appetite.  Where 
the  staff  is  small  (and  this  book  is  written  first  and 
foremost  for  modest  establishments)  wives  are  usually 
averse  from  any  multiphcation  of  entrees  on  the 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER        21 

ground  that  they  make  so  much  washing-up.  This, 
however,  is  a  hardship  that  must  be  faced.  It  will  be 
faced  the  more  easily  when  one  examines  it  fairly.  A 
choice  of  entrees  does  not  increase  the  washing-up 
so  frightfully,  after  all.  In  any  case,  the  cook  who 
is  willing  to  lose  the  charm  of  variety  and  the  satis- 
faction of  economy  merely  to  save  fifty  or  sixty 
seconds  in  the  washing-up  had  better  put  this  book 
down  and  read  no  more  of  it.  But  let  her  first 
examine  her  conscience  and  ascertain  whether  her 
horror  of  washing-up  may  not  be  due  to  her  skimping 
the  dry-soap  and  the  clean  dry  towels. 


Food  values  bring  to  the  mind  the  whole  question 
of  Food  Fads.  The  War  has  stirred  up  scores  of  well- 
meaning  enthusiasts,  who  are  convinced  that  the 
Kaiser  is  really  doing  us  a  good  turn,  because  England 
will  be  led  to  solve  her  food  problem  by  vegetarianism, 
or  paper-bag  cookery,  or  "  unfired  diet,"  or  the 
steady  munching  of  nuts.  Let  us  be  quite  fair. 
There  is  something  useful  at  the  heart  of  every  fad, 
just  as  there  is  truth  buried  inside  nearly  every  error. 
We  shall  therefore  do  wisely  to  profit  by  the  kernel 
of  any  fad  that  is  thrust  upon  us,  so  long  as  we  throw 
the  husks  away.  Vegetarianism,  for  example,  has  a 
good  deal  in  it,  just  as  there  is  a  good  deal  in  "  Temper- 
ance." The  true  wisdom  is  to  steer  between  the  Scylla 
of  excess  and  the  Charybdis  of  total  abstinence. 
By  combining  the  more  liberal  use  of  vegetables  with 
some  of  the  flavourings  and  strengthenings  of  ordinary 
cookery  (such  as  good  gravy  or  meat  broth)  we  could 
often  save  money  and  increase  our  enjoyment.    As 


22       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

for  "  natural  "  and  "  unfired  "  food,  it  is  true  that  un- 
cooked food,  such  as  apples  and  pears  and  salads,  can 
do  nothing  but  good  to  those  who  use  them  wisely. 
The  paper  bag,  which  was  known  to  cooks  long  before 
the  oldest  EngHshman  now  living  was  born,  is  excellent 
for  some  dishes,  always  provided  that  the  right  kind 
of  paper  is  chosen  and  that  it  is  used  in  the  right  way  ; 
but  the  cook  who  tries  to  use  paper  bags  for  every- 
thing has  become  a  faddist  to  be  pitied  and  avoided. 
As  for  nuts,  they  certainly  have  a  high  food  value,  and 
all  the  best-known  monkeys  do  exceedingly  well  on 
them  so  long  as  they  can  get  insects  and  reptiles  also ; 
but  only  a  minority  of  human  beings,  bred  and  born  as 
we  are,  can  exist  upon  them  as  a  staple  food.  If 
nuts  should  abound  in  our  copses  this  year,  we  ought 
to  thank  Providence  and  see  that  none  are  wasted; 
but  there  must  be  something  besides  a  sack  of  nuts  in 
the  pantry.  Other  fads,  especially  the  proprietary 
and  much-advertised  fad  foods  which  claim  to  have 
been  predigested,  and  to  contain  the  nourishing 
elements  of  eggs  or  milk  or  meat  or  wheat  in  a  highly 
concentrated  form,  are  not  to  be  received  with  our 
arms  too  widely  open.  The  human  body  has  been 
fitted,  through  long  ages,  to  receive  new  life  from 
foods  which  are  not  concentrated  at  all.  Their  body- 
building and  heat-making  and  blood-enriching  and 
bone-forming  and  nerve-strengthening  elements  are 
dispersed  in  vehicles  (or  "  inert  "  substances)  which 
call  for  mastication  and  for  consumption  in  such 
bulk  that,  without  being  a  glutton,  one  escapes  the 
sensation  of  an  empty  stomach.  It  may  be  quite 
true  that  a  spoonful  of  this  or  that  or  the  other  patent 
preparation  is  equal  in  food  value,  from  the  analyst's 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER   23 

point  of  view,  to  a  nice  little  lamb  cutlet  with  green 
peas  and  a  couple  of  new  potatoes.  It  may  also  be 
true  that  the  spoonful  of  essence  can  be  swallowed 
in  ten  seconds,  while  the  lamb  cutlet  requires  ten 
minutes.  Nevertheless  the  essence,  with  its  too 
swift  and  local  onslaught  upon  the  system,  will  be 
found  to  do  the  consumer  worlds  less  good.  "  A 
Lunch  in  a  Tea-spoon  "  and  a  "  Two-minute  Dinner  " 
are  the  ideals  of  many  serious  persons  who  tell  us  that 
we  should  eat  to  live  and  not  live  to  eat.  No  man, 
however,  is  living  aright  if  he  becomes  a  miserable 
creature.  To  sit  decently  over  a  snowy  cloth  and  to 
treat  respectfully  the  good  gifts  of  God  as  they  come 
before  us  in  all  their  variety  cannot  fairly  be  called 
"  Living  to  Eat."  Indeed  such  a  meal,  enlivened 
by  talk,  is  a  refining  and  spiritualising  of  the  act  of 
feeding  and  is  all  on  the  side  of  progress.  [The  con- 
centrated fad-foods  are  often  useful  in  emergencies, 
and  a  really  clever  and  original  cook  can  turn  them  to 
all  sorts  of  uses.  For  the  most  part,  however,  they 
are  dear,  because  the  purchaser  must  pay  not  only 
for  the  contents  of  the  packet  but  for  a  proportion  of 
the  enormous  sums  which  have  been  spent  in  adver- 
tising the  brand.] 


To  those  who  have  decided  by  this  time  that  I  am 
a  reactionary  empiric,  I  give  the  advice  that  they 
should  hurry  back  to  the  shop  of  the  unprincipled 
bookseller  who  sold  them  this  deplorable  work  and 
that  (after  tendering  the  shilling  or  so  of  difference 
in  price)  they  should  insist  on  his  exchanging  it  for  the 
popular  edition  of  Sir  Henry  Thompson's   "  Food 


24       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

and  Feeding."  Sir  Henry  Thompson's  is  a  good 
book.  I  do  not  say  that  a  novice  would  arise  from 
its  perusal  a  Compleat  Cook,  as  Minerva  sprang  full- 
armed  from  the  brain  of  Jove.  But  "  Food  and 
Feeding "  is  sane  and  learned  and  human.  Its 
analyses  of  food  values  are  both  scientific  and  practical. 


I  must  here  warn  beginners  against  certain 
statements  as  to  food  values  in  the  propaganda  of 
Food  Reformers.  Only  this  morning  I  encountered 
some  perilous  advice  about  Brazil  nuts,  "the  kernels 
of  which  contain  over  ninety  per  cent."  of  outright 
nutriment.  A  little  knowledge  is  dangerous  indeed 
to  those  who  do  not  know  how  to  apply  it.  I  often 
meet  a  young  man,  with  a  fine  scorn  for  "  flesh- 
eaters,"  who  is  overfeeding  himself  so  grossly  on 
nuts  and  sugary  dried  fruits  that  he  would  be  more 
temperate  if  he  ate  a  pound  of  beef  every  day. 

Too  much  dietetic  doctrine  rivets  his  chains  more 
firmly  than  ever  on  the  hypochondriac.  I  remember 
obtaining  leave  one  day  from  an  indulgent  hostess 
in  a  house  on  the  south  coast  to  make  some  horse- 
radish cream  my  own  way.  Now  all  persons  who 
have  rubbed  a  large  fresh-pulled  horse-radish  on  a 
small  and  worn-out  nutmeg  grater  know  the  price 
that  must  be  paid  in  smarting  eyes  and  scalding  tears  : 
and  they  will  not  blame  me  for  having  felt  annoyed 
when  a  dear  old  gentleman,  of  conservative  tempera- 
ment, at  the  luncheon-table,  refused  my  cream  on  the 
ground  that  he  didn't  see  any  reason  for  changing  the 
old  recipe.  Perceiving,  however,  that  he  was  a  h3^o- 
chondriac,  I  let  drop  the  remark  that  horse-radish 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER        25 

was  good  for  the  heart.  He  continued  to  eat  his 
roast  beef  plain  :  but  it  is  literally  true  that,  late  in 
the  day,  I  stumbled  on  the  same  dear  old  gentleman, 
in  a  grandfather's  chair,  eating  the  remains  of  my 
cream  with  a  spoon. 


In  the  houses  where  this  kind  of  book  is  bought  and 
read,  men  and  women  are  over-nourished  rather  than 
underfed.  This  means  that  meals  of  high  "  food 
value"  may  do  more  harm  than  good.  Grown-up 
persons  do  not  need  much  feeding.  Indeed  the 
first  and  best  hint  for  saving  money  on  our  food  in 
war-time  is  as  plain  as  a  haystack :  because  it  is 
merely :  Let  us  eat  less.  Watch  some  men,  especially 
city  men,  at  their  midday  lunch,  and  you  will  see 
that  each  mouthful  is  too  large  and  that  it  is  swallowed 
too  quickly.  Without  running  into  the  other  extreme, 
and  mincing  like  Victorian  schoolgirls,  we  ought  to 
eat  and  drink  temperately,  deliberately ;  for  in  no 
other  way  can  we  fully  enjoy  our  food  and  benefit 
by  it. 


Smaller  quantities  and  cheaper  qualities  of  food 
will  not  mean  a  blunting  "of  the  reasonable  pleasure  of 
the  table,  so  long  as  we  have  variety.  One  reason 
why  so  many  Englishmen  insist  on  having  always 
the  prime  joints  of  meat  and  the  dearest  cuts  of  bacon 
is  to  be  found  in  the  monotony  of  their  diet.  When 
there  is  no  charm  of  surprise  to  whet  the  appetite, 
the  palate  finds  its  satisfaction  in  superfine  and  there- 
fore expensive  quality.    That  cat  meant  well  which 


26       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

brought  Sir  Walter  Raleigh  a  pigeon  every  day  while 
he  was  writing  his  unreadable  "  History  of  the  World  " 
in  the  Tower  of  London,  but  I  do  not  doubt  that  the 
prisoner  became  dreadfully  peevish  on  the  days  when 
the  pigeons  were  not  plump  and  tender. 

I  count  among  my  friends  an  interesting  couple  who 
firmly  believe  that  they  are  enthusiasts  for  cookery. 
Their  culinary  library  certainly  contains  seven 
thousand  recipes :  but  they  do  not  eat  seventy 
different  dishes  in  a  year. 

Variety  is  charming  :  and,  controlled  by  common- 
sense,  it  is  cheap. 


A  wit  once  wrote  a  parody  on  a  cookery-book  and 
began  one  of  his  recipes  with  the  words,  "  Take  about 
eight  ounces  of  anything  you  have  got."  He  wrote 
more  wisely  than  he  knew.  If  I  were  asked  to  state 
in  a  single  sentence  the  fundamental  rule  for  Home 
Cookery  in  War-time  I  should  say :  '*  Plan  your 
dishes  with  what  you  have."  In  the  chapter  on 
"  Going  to  Market "  I  shall  try  to  bring  out  this 
truth  from  another  point  of  view ;  but  it  is  so 
important  that  it  had  better  begin  to  be  hammered 
into  the  reader  here  and  now.  Cook  with  what 
you  have,  or  with  what  you  can  most  easily 
obtain. 

Perhaps  I  shall  be  allowed  to  illustrate  this  point 
by  a  simple  personal  experience.  One  Sunday  after- 
noon I  found  myself  alone  in  a  tiny  house  just  outside 
London.  The  "  cook-general "  had  been  called 
away  immediately  after  serving  a  conventional 
British  Sunday  midday  meal  consisting  of  roast  beef, 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER   27 

boiled  potatoes  and  white  cabbage.  The  house  was 
one  where  I  knew  that  I  could  do  just  as  I  pleased 
without  offending  my  hostess  and  her  family,  who 
had  stated  that  they  would  return  about  half-past 
eight  for  a  homely  supper  of  cold  beef  and  pickled 
walnuts  and  red  wine.  It  was  January,  and  a  sharp 
frost  prevailed.  Cold  beef  and  pickles  had  a  shivery 
sound.  Could  nothing  be  improvised  that  would 
give  a  warmer  welcome  ?  I  looked  round  the  pantry 
and  found  little  beyond  a  fine  Spanish  onion,  a  couple 
of  turnips  and  the  remains  of  the  midday  meal.  On 
a  shelf,  however,  there  stood  a  little  white  pot  of  the 
vegetable  extract  called  "  Marmite,"  which  tastes 
like  Liebig  or  Bovril,  though  meat  has  nothing  to  do 
with  it.  I  sliced  the  Spanish  onion  into  the  thinnest 
possible  slices  and  put  them  in  a  large  enamelled  stew- 
pan  on  the  gas  stove,  with  enough  boiling  water  for 
them  to  move  in  freely,  and  set  them  to  boil.  Having 
prepared  the  turnips,  I  cut  these  also  into  quite  small 
pieces  so  that  they  should  cook  more  quickly.  Mean- 
while I  foraged  in  other  cupboards  and  found  some 
tomato  catsup,  some  Worcestershire  sauce,  some 
tapioca  and  about  a  tablespoonful  of  Burgundy  at 
the  bottom  of  a  decanter.  As  soon  as  the  pieces  of 
onion  and  turnip  showed  that  they  were  half  cooked, 
1  put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  Marmite  at  the  bottom  of 
a  basin  and  poured  on  the  water  from  the  stewpan. 
After  this  had  been  well  stirred,  the  basin  contained 
a  quite  respectable  broth  which  I  seasoned  and  poured 
back  over  the  turnips  and  onion.  While  the  cooking 
of  these  vegetables  in  the  broth  continued,  I  cut  up  the 
cold  white  cabbage,  of  which  there  was  quite  a  con- 
siderable quantity,  as  too  much  had  been  boiled  in 


28       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

the  first  instance.  The  strips  of  cabbage  were  trans- 
ferred to  the  stewpan,  together  with  some  of  the 
gravy  of  the  beef  and  a  meagre  handful  of  tapioca. 
By  this  time  it  was  possible  to  turn  down  the  gas 
under  the  briskly  boiling  stewpan  and  to  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  about  six  times 
the  quantity  of  the  tomato  catsup.  The  cold  potatoes 
were  broken  up  with  a  fork  and  stirred  in  with  the 
other  things.  These  operations  were  taken  in  hand  at 
about  five  o'clock,  and  they  occupied  less  than  half-an- 
hour.  The  pan,  with  the  lid  on,  remained  over  the 
smallest  possible  flame  for  about  three  hours.  If  my 
friends  had  returned  an  hour  late,  no  harm  would 
have  been  done.  Of  course  I  interrupted  my  reading 
and  writing  occasionally  to  stir  the  stuff  with  a 
wooden  spoon  and  to  taste  it  from  time  to  time. 
The  tastings  proved  the  need  for  a  little  more  salt  and 
pepper.  About  eight  o'clock  I  added  the  glass  of 
wine  ;  but,  long  before  this  time,  the  frosty  air  was 
warmed  and  cheered  by  the  most  savoury  and  com- 
fortable of  odours.  Soup-plates  were  laid  to  warm  in 
a  bowl  of  hot  water,  while  I  cut  some  slices  of  bread 
and  butter  in  the  country  fashion,  not  too  thin,  and 
each  piece  the  whole  breadth  of  the  "household  loaf." 
This  rather  close-grained  bread,  when  it  is  a  day  old, 
carries  a  surface  of  butter  delightfully  as  compared 
with  the  square  loaves  baked  in  tins. 

My  mess  of  pottage — it  was  certainly  a  mess — ^had 
been  intended  merely  as  a  piping-hot  prelude  to  the 
cold  beef ;  but  everybody  came  up  for  a  second 
helping  and  the  beef  went  away  untouched.  The 
contents  of  the  stewpan  seemed  to  be  inexhaustible. 
Of  course  the  bottle  of  Macon  made  a  difference,  as 


THE  ROOTS  OF  THE  MATTER   29 

the  pottage  was  not  fluid  like  a  soup.    One  ate  it  with 
a  fork  and  a  spoon. 

This  is  a  rather  long  account  of  a  very  rough-and- 
ready  experiment,  but  it  will  serve  to  bring  out  the 
principal  doctrine  of  these  pages.  Among  those  who 
devoured  the  dish  so  heartily  sat  a  woman  who  hates 
onions,  and  a  man  who  loathes  tapioca,  and  a  child 
with  a  horror  of  Worcestershire  sauce  ;  yet  not  one 
of  these  persons  discerned  their  abominations.  The 
onion  had  boiled  down  into  a  perfect  unity  with  the 
broth,  and  the  tapioca  survived  only  as  a  slight 
thickening,  suggestive  of  the  kind  of  stock  which  cools 
into  a  good  jelly.  The  cabbage  maintained  its 
texture,  as  had  been  intended.  But  let  it  be  most 
clearly  understood  that  the  whole  thing  was  carried 
through  as  a  homely  rustic  supper,  as  far  from  res- 
taurant ideals  as  the  South  Pole  is  from  the  Equator. 
When  the  lady  who  hated  onions  asked  me  for  the 
recipe,  I  was  careful  to  explain  that  recipes  belonged 
to  entirely  different  undertakings.  A  recipe  expresses 
the  best  possible  way  of  cooking  a  certain  dish,  and  it 
presupposes  that  the  cook  will  obtain  all  the  specified 
ingredients  in  their  given  proportions.  My  modest 
pottage  was  arrived  at  by  an  exact  reversal  of  recipe 
methods.  In  carrying  out  a  recipe,  one  says  :  "I 
want  to  make  a  certain  soup  :  I  must  get  together 
the  necessary  things."  On  that  nipping  Sunday 
night,  however,  I  said  :  "  Here  are  certain  things  : 
what  can  be  best  done  with  them  for  some  hungry 
people  returning  from  a  cold  journey  ?  "  If  there 
had  been  carrots  in  the  house  instead  of  turnips,  or  if 
the  remains  of  the  cabbage  had  been  scanty,  or  if  the 
cold  sirloin  had  been  more  undercooked,  no  doubt  I 


30      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

should  have  prepared  something  entirely  different. 
Any  merit  that  there  was,  lay  in  the  adjustment  of 
means  to  ends.  And  if  the  housekeepers  of  England 
will  accept  this  principle  and  apply  it  they  will  have 
acquired  half  the  art  of  Home  Cookery  in  War-time. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE   KITCHEN   AND   THE  LARDER 

When  a  battleship  clears  for  action,  all  sorts  of  things 
are  pitched  overboard.  Down  into  the  green  depths 
go  the  piano  and  all  the  landlubbers'  tables  and 
chairs.  And,  if  we  are  to  take  up  the  simplifying  of 
our  daily  lives  in  real  earnest  and  with  a  determination 
not  to  drift  back  into  our  old  ways,  we  shall  do  well  to 
go  through  our  larders  and  our  kitchens  and  to  put 
them,  so  to  speak,  on  a  War  footing.  For  example, 
almost  every  pantry  contains  tinned  and  bottled  and 
jarred  provisions,  and  oddments  of  dripping  and 
condiments,  which  have  been  on  the  shelves  quite 
long  enough.  Let  these  be  brought  out  into  the  day- 
light and  examined.  On  the  principle  laid  down 
at  the  end  of  the  foregoing  chapter,  it  should  be 
found  possible  to  get  rid  of  some  of  them  by  working 
them  up  into  unconventional  combinations  which  will 
have  the  charm  of  novelty  and  perhaps  even  the 
excitement  of  discovery.  But  of  course  no  prudent 
storekeeper  will  use  her  tinned  fruits  and  tinned 
vegetables  and  tinned  fishes  while  the  fresh  article  is 
cheap  and  abundant.  Only  an  hour  or  two  before 
writing  this  paragraph  I  have  had  the  deplorable 
experience  of  eating  some  tinned  French  beans  in  a 
house  where  the  new  crop  of  the  same  vegetable  can 
be  bought  for  twopence-halfpenny  a  pound  ;  and  I 
learn  that  preserved  pears  were  served  yesterday  at  a 

31 


32       HOME /COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

luncheon  given  by  some  high-minded  ladies  to  discuss 
this  very  question  of  cheap  food  in  time  of  War. 

In  overhauHng  the  shelves  it  will  probably  be  found 
that  there  has  been  waste  in  buying.  When  servants 
are  allowed  to  go  shopping,  or  to  give  orders  at  the  door 
to  the  tradesman's  assistant,  or  to  draw  up  lists  of 
requirements,  they  almost  always  buy  extravagantly. 
Sometimes  out  of  a  mere  desire  to  be  important, 
sometimes  from  a  much  lower  motive,  they  ask  for  the 
largest  bottles  of  vinegar  and  of  oil,  the  biggest  tins 
of  mustard,  and  enough  pepper  to  make  a  whole 
parish  sneeze.  Before  these  things  are  half  consumed 
the  vinegar  develops  ropy  dregs,  the  oil  turns  bad, 
and  the  pepper  becomes  all  meek  and  mild.  Now  is 
the  time  to  make  rough  estimates  of  the  weekly  con- 
sumption and  to  see  that  money  is  saved  in  such  a  way 
as  to  heighten  rather  than  lower  the  quality  of  one's 
stores. 

Forgotten  jars  will  come  to  light.  It  may  be  that 
the  price  of  fruit  will  be  so  low  that  it  will  still  pay  to 
make  large  quantities  of  jam,  in  spite  of  the  higher 
price  of  sugar,  and  every  jar  or  wide-mouthed  bottle 
may  come  in  useful.  Indeed  sugar  is  not  indispens- 
able. Bottled  fruits  are  exceedingly  cheap  to  prepare 
and  are  more  useful  than  jam,  except  where  there  are 
children  and  people  with  a  sweet  tooth.  Those  who 
do  not  possess  the  proper  equipment  for  fruit -bottling 
may  simply  place  the  fruit  in  bottles  (taking  care 
that  they  are  perfectly  dry)  and  then  put  the  full 
bottles  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  finally 
filhng  them  up  with  boiling  water.  And  this  is  the 
place  for  a  useful  hint.  A  stopper  of  mutton  fat  will 
solve  the  almost  hopeless  problem  of  finding  bungs  or 


THE  KITCHEN  AND  THE  LARDER    33 

metal  tops  to  fit  the  jars  and  bottles.  Mutton  fat  is 
very  cheap  indeed,  and  the  butcher  is  glad  to  sell  it. 
Pickles  should  not  be  forgotten.  When  they  are 
home-made  according  to  the  very  simple  directions 
in  the  regular  cookery  books,  they  are  nearly  always 
relished,  and  they  send  down  many  a  piece  of  cold 
meat  which  would  otherwise  be  a  penance.  Nas- 
turtium seeds  are  excellent  when  pickled,  and  they 
put  a  wonderful  amount  of  life  into  all  sorts  of  dishes, 
although  few  cooks  serve  them  except  with  mayon- 
naise, or  boiled  cod,  or  mutton. 


In  the  kitchen  and  the  scullery  a  similar  stock- 
taking should  be  made,  and  utensils  which  have  been 
long  disused  should  be  either  furbished  up  and  brought 
into  action,  or  packed  away  in  a  box  to  be  given  to  the 
most  suitable  Relief  Committee,  or  to  poor  persons 
who  have  a  genuine  use  for  them.  At  the  same  time 
perhaps  it  will  be  necessary  to  spend  a  few  shillings 
on  earthenware  cooking-pots.  This  is  not  a  time  for 
laying  out  money  lightly,  but  the  cost  of  a  few  cas- 
seroles, large,  small  and  medium,  will  soon  be  recouped. 
Indeed  such  vessels  are  absolutely  necessary  to  the 
successful  practice  of  cheap  and  nourishing  and 
appetising  cookery.  What  we  call  roast  joints  (by 
which  most  people  mean  joints  baked  in  an  oven)  are 
not  cheap  as  a  rule,  and  they  are  often  unattractive 
after  the  first  day.  Besides,  quite  apart  from  the 
question  of  economy,  meat  is  far  better  when  it  is 
cooked  slowly  at  a  more  moderate  temperature. 
For  those  who  live  in  or  near  London  the  best  and 
cheapest  region  in  which  to  buy  a  casserole  is  Soho, 
c 


34      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

where  the  right  article  is  in  constant  demand  by 
French  menag^res  and  restaurateurs.  The  shop- 
keeper who  sells  it  is  generally  willing  to  tell  the 
English  novice  all  sorts  of  curious  things  about  the 
wrong  and  right  use  of  a  casserole.  For  example,  he 
will  probably  advise  that  it  should  be  rubbed  all  over 
with  half  of  a  raw  onion  before  its  first  exposure  to 
the  fire,  as  he  believes  that  it  will  last  much  longer 
after  such  treatment. 

Any  enamelled  saucepan  which  has  failed  to  keep 
a  whole  skin  must  be  sentenced  to  death.  It  is  not 
to  be  given  to  the  charwoman  or  even  thrown  into 
the  dustbin.  If  a  saucepan  with  a  bald  patch  in  the 
lining  is  dangerous  to  you  and  your  family,  it  will  be 
equally  dangerous  to  the  charwoman's  son  Clarence 
or  to  the  dustman's  little  daughter  Eva.  If  you  are 
dead  against  waste,  you  can  save  the  saucepan  for  a 
day  when  you  wish  to  relieve  a  fit  of  bad  temper  and 
you  can  then  bash  it  out  of  shape  with  your  largest 
hammer.  In  short,  you  may  do  anything  you  like 
with  it  except  allow  it  to  be  used  for  cooking.  One 
day  last  week  I  took  a  lot  of  trouble  telling  some 
friends  how  to  prepare  a  new  Friday  soup,  with  milk, 
cocoanut  butter,  fish  stock,  a  minced  onion,  a  packet 
of  dried  fish  in  flakes,  and  some  small  pieces  of 
macaroni.  In  working  out  this  novelty  I  had  been 
attentive  to  details  and  it  was  hard  to  see  how  my 
friends  could  go  wrong.  They  chose,  however,  to 
effect  the  cooking  in  a  large  enamelled  stewpan  from 
which  the  enamel  had  disappeared  in  the  most  vital 
spot.  Of  course  the  pieces  of  macaroni  stuck  to  the 
bare  metal  and  the  whole  mixture  was  ruined,  although 
I  had  succeeded  beyond  my  hopes  a  day  or  two 


THE  KITCHEN  AND  THE  LARDER    35 

before  by  using  exactly  similar  materials  in  a  sound 
vessel.  [Some  of  the  worst  of  the  cheap  enamelled 
goods  came  from  Germany,  and  it  is  to  be  hoped  that 
we  shall  not  try  to  capture  this  branch  of  Germany's 
trade.]  There  is  one  kind  of  saucepan  which  I 
cannot  help  recommending  by  name.  If  bears  the 
well-known  "  Gourmet  "  mark  and  most  ironmongers 
seem  to  be  able  to  get  it.  The  lid  (as  well  as  the  sides 
and  the  bottom)  is  enamelled  internally  and  there  is 
an  extra  bottom  with  a  fireproof  lining  so  that  the 
contents  of  the  pan  cannot  burn.  I  am  not  referring 
to  an  ordinary  double-cooker,  in  which  the  food- 
receptacle  fits  into  a  lower  pan  of  boiling  water. 
There  ought,  however,  to  be  a  double-cooker  in 
every  good  kitchen,  as  well  as  arrangements  for 
doing  the  work  of  a  bain-marie.  In  short,  there 
must  be  an  all-round  equipment  for  the  kinds  of 
cookery  which  avoid  close  contact  with  fierce 
heat. 

A  cheap  steamer  ought  to  be  in  every  kitchen,  but 
it  is  sometimes  missing  even  in  houses  which  contain 
all  sorts  of  expensive  and  foolish  little  futilities  for 
making  mayonnaise  or  cutting  up  cucumbers.  Most 
kinds  of  fish  and  vegetables  are  far  better  steamed 
than  boiled,  while  a  much  greater  proportion  of  their 
most  valuable  elements  is  retained.  I  remember 
once  being  allowed  to  taste  the  convicts'  dinner  at 
Portland.  It  included  some  steamed  potatoes  so 
delicious  that  (having  wrestled  with  an  infamously 
boiled  potato  at  the  hotel  only  an  hour  or  two  before) 
I  could  no  longer  believe  that  the  way  of  the  trans- 
gressor is  hard. 

A  frying-pan  is  a  tool  to  be  mentioned  with  circum- 


36       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

spection.  Of  late  years  a  saying  has  been  going 
round  to  the  effect  that  if  you  want  to  get  rid  of 
indigestion  your  first  act  must  be  to  throw  the  frying- 
pan  away.  To  those  people  who  are  too  lazy  or  too 
obstinate  to  learn  the  true  method  of  frying,  such 
advice  is  excellent,  because  most  of  the  fried  food 
served  in  England  is  indigestible  in  the  extreme. 
True  frying,  however,  is  quite  a  different  thing  from 
the  flinging  of  slices  of  fresh  or  cured  flesh  or  cylinders 
of  sausage  meat  to  be  scorched  with  a  little  grease  in 
a  shallow  pan.  The  sound  way  is  to  use  a  pan  deep 
enough  to  hold  a  bath  of  boiling  fat  in  which  the  food 
to  be  fried  can  be  completely  immersed.  Full  direc- 
tions on  this  point  will  be  found  in  every  standard 
cookery  book  and  must  be  studied  by  every  cook 
who  has  not  mastered  them  already.  As  boiling  fat  is 
nearly  twice  as  hot  as  boiling  water,  it  is  obvious  that 
wonders  can  be  worked  with  its  aid  ;  because  a  film 
forms  instantly  on  the  food  placed  in  the  bath  and 
all  the  finest  juices  and  flavours  are  prevented  from 
escaping.  A  little  practice  with  white  blotting-paper 
or  a  cloth  will  soon  enable  any  handy  and  intelligent 
person  to  rid  the  finished  friture  of  greasiness,  because 
the  frying-fat  at  its  hottest  is  not  at  all  sticky  but 
comes  away  with  surprising  ease.  Cooking  oil,  which 
need  not  be  the  purest  pressings  from  the  olives  of 
Provence,  but  should  not  be  of  too  low  a  grade,  is 
the  best  frying  medium.  Of  course  it  can  be  used 
over  and  over  again,  provided  one  watches  for  the 
little  danger-signal  of  smoke  so  that  it  never  over- 
passes the  safe  maximum  of  heat.  Beef  dripping  is 
also  an  excellent  frying  fat,  and  it  seems  easier  to 
procure  than  of  old.     Indeed  the  most  famous  of 


THE  KITCHEN  AND  THE  LARDER    37 

Mayfair  purveyors  has  begun   to  sell  the   highest 
quality  of  beef  dripping  at  sixpence  a  pound. 


Turning  from  the  kitchen  to  the  china  closet,  it  will 
be  seemly  to  put  away  the  thinnest  glass  and  the  most 
costly  china.  During  the  War  we  shall  hate  the  idea 
of  drinking  expensive  Champagne  and  rare  vintages 
of  Burgundy  and  Claret  and  we  shall  be  equally 
impatient  of  elaborate  and  ceremonious  dinners.  So 
let  the  fine  things  be  hoarded  against  the  day  of 
victory.  We  shall  enjoy  our  less  luxurious  fare  all  the 
more  if  we  eat  it  from  plain  white  or  willow-pattern 
plates — preferably  the  plain  white.  And  let  the  most 
exquisite  of  our  napery  be  stored  up  with  the  finest 
of  our  glass  and  china.  When  our  relatives  and 
friends  come  back  from  the  War,  we  shall  like  them 
to  know  that  we  have  not  been  clothing  ourselves  in 
purple  and  fine  linen  and  faring  sumptuously  every 
day,  but  that  we  have  tried  to  share,  afar  off,  what 
St  Paul  would  have  called  "  the  fellowship  of  their 
sufferings." 


CHAPTER  III 

GOING  TO  MARKET 

No  man  can  make  an  omelette  without  breaking  eggs, 
or  grill  a  steak  when  he  has  no  steak  to  grill,  or  braise 
a  Spanish  onion  which  he  does  not  possess.  The 
fame  of  Mrs  Glasse  survives  solely  in  the  misquotation 
which  advises  you  to  "  First  catch  your  hare  and  then 
cook  it."  In  these  days  we  are  no  longer  pot-hunters. 
Having  acquired  money  in  a  struggle  for  existence 
fiercer  than  any  cave-dweller's,  we  go  to  the  men  who 
sell  birds  and  beasts  and  fishes  and  eggs  and  butter 
and  vegetables  and  fruits.  They  also  are  struggling 
for  existence,  and,  even  in  Peace-time,  it  is  necessary 
that  we  should  watch  them  keenly. 

The  English  are  not  a  thrifty  nation.  With  the 
exception  of  a  small  minority,  made  up  for  the  most 
part  of  self-made  people,  everybody  lives  up  to  his 
income.  Two  husbands  out  of  three  are  convinced 
that  their  households  ought  to  be  run  more  cheaply ; 
and  forty-nine  wives  out  of  fifty  honestly  believe  that 
no  other  woman  could  perform  the  marvels  of  parsi- 
mony which  they  accomplish  every  day.  This  is  a 
curious  state  of  things.  Nearly  all  wives  are  loyal 
and  nearly  all  of  them  find  it  hard  to  make  both  ends 
meet  ;  yet  the  year's  menus  in  a  typical  English 
home  would  suggest  that  a  nice  little  sum  is  being 
saved  up  for  a  rainy  day.  The  explanation  is  two- 
fold.   Enghsh  housekeepers  rarely  get  the  most  out  of 

3S 


GOING  TO  MARKET  39 

what  they  buy  ;  and  they  rarely  buy  to  the  best 
advantage.  This  chapter  is  concerned  with  the 
question  of  buying. 


I  lived  six  years  ago  in  a  house  so  situated  that 
there  was  a  wide  choice  of  routes  to  London.  To  reach 
one  of  the  tram-lines  I  had  to  pass  through  a  quarter 
inhabited  by  the  upper  working  class,  who  favoured 
bay-windowed  houses,  all  alike,  with  plaster  horses 
in  the  semicircular  windows  over  the  front  doors  and 
with  tinny  pianos  or  raucous  harmoniums  in  the  never- 
ventilated  parlours.  Sometimes  I  went  in  the  opposite 
direction,  to  a  station,  and  walked  up  leafy  avenues 
where  every  house  lacked  a  number  and  was  dubbed 
"Sans  Souci,"  or  "The  Wigwam,"  or  worse.  And 
every  morning  I  saw  the  same  sad  sight.  Neither 
Mrs  Smith  of  749  Jubilee  Road  nor  Mrs  Smythe  of 
"  The  Rowans,"  Beechcroft  Avenue,  seemed  to  realise 
that  she  ought  to  go  to  market.  She  expected  the 
market  to  come  to  her.  In  Jubilee  Road  the  market 
took  the  form  of  a  coster's  barrow  in  charge  of  a 
beery  gentleman  whose  voice  was  the  worse  for  wear. 
In  Beechcroft  Avenue  the  market  was  represented 
by  a  pert  young  man  in  a  ready-made  blue  suit,  who 
always  had  enough  time  on  his  hands  to  exchange 
gallantries  with  Mrs  Smythe's  housemaid.  I  do  not 
doubt  that  both  Mrs  Smith  and  Mrs  Smythe  truly 
loved  their  husbands  and  that  they  would  have  given 
their  little  fingers  to  avoid  the  recurring  financial 
discussions  which  soured  life  at  "  The  Rowans  "  and 
at  No.  749.  It  simply  did  not  occur  to  them  that  a 
market  which  comes  to  one's  door  is  no  market  at  all. 


40      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

I  have  lost  sight  of  both  these  equally  estimable 
ladies,  but  I  do  not  doubt  that  they  are  being  hurried 
to  their  graves  by  the  houndings  of  monetary  worry. 
As  this  book  is  written  more  for  "  The  Rowans  '* 
than  for  Jubilee  Road  (where  literature  is  not  habitu- 
ally encouraged),  it  will  be  practical  to  confine  our- 
selves to  the  errors  of  Mrs  Smythe.  Shortly  after  the 
departure  of  Mr  Smythe  to  the  city,  his  spouse  hears 
the  bell  ringing  and  is  met  by  her  servant  with  the 
words :  "  The  butcher,  mum."  Now  what  takes 
place  in  Mrs  Smythe's  mind  ?  She  tells  herself  that 
she  had  ribs  of  beef  on  Sunday  ;  that  she  ordered  veal 
cutlets  for  Tuesday  night ;  that  a  beef  steak  was 
bought  on  Wednesday ;  that  Friday  will  be  a  fish 
day ;  and  that  therefore  to-day,  Thursday,  it  would 
be  nice  to  have  half-a-leg  of  mutton — the  shank  end. 
Accordingly  she  says :  "  Tell  him  to  send  half-a-leg — 
the  shank  end — of  mutton,  not  too  big."  Sometimes, 
by  good  luck,  this  turns  out  to  be  a  happy  shot.  But 
on  other  occasions  it  will  not  do  at  all.  The  young 
man  in  the  blue  suit  passes  from  "  The  Rowans  "  to 
*'  The  Lindens,"  and  thence  to  "  The  Hollies  "  and 
"  The  Beeches  "  and  all  the  other  trees  of  the  forest. 
When  he  returns  to  the  shop,  his  notebook  is  an 
awkward  document.  If  divine  Providence  had  only 
been  pleased  to  give  mankind  a  sheep  with  nine  legs 
and  only  one  shoulder,  the  butcher's  task  would  be 
easy ;  but  this,  after  all,  would  not  solve  the  problem, 
as  the  next  day's  orders  might  require  a  sheep  consist- 
ing entirely  of  chump  chops.  The  butcher  does  his 
best ;  but,  like  soldiers  and  other  men  of  blood  and 
steel,  butchers  are  usually  men  of  few  words,  and 
they  have  a  deep-seated  horror  of  ladies'  tongues. 


GOING  TO  MARKET  41 

It  follows  that  Mrs  Smythe,  who  is  a  good  customer, 
pa5ang  promptly  and  never  complaining,  may  not 
get  her  shank  end  after  all,  but  has  to  put  up  with  the 
upper  half  of  the  leg,  while  the  chatelaine  of  "  Kenil- 
worth,"  who  spends  thre^-and-ninepence  a  week  and 
is  always  threatening  to  go  to  another  butcher,  gets 
the  pick  of  the  shop.  Meanwhile  the  butcher  is 
loaded  up  with  fore-quarters  and  saddles  which  no- 
body wants.  Further,  as  he  has  delivered  all  the  half- 
legs  on  credit,  he  has  to  take  the  risk  of  never  getting 
his  three-and-ninepence  from  "  Kenilworth,"  which 
means  that  "  The  Rowans  "  must  pay  perhaps  a  half- 
penny a  pound  more.  Also,  somebody  must  pay  for 
the  young  man's  blue  suit  and  for  his  modest 
expenditure  when  he  takes  Mrs  Smythe's  maid  out 
on  Sunday  afternoons.  In  short,  the  whole  affair  is 
what  the  learned  would  call  an  uneconomic  trans- 
action. And  when  it  is  extended  to  the  fishmonger, 
the  greengrocer,  the  Italian  warehouseman  and  the 
provision  merchant,  the  wonder  is  how  Mr  Smythe 
has  kept  a  roof  over  Mrs  Smythe's  head. 

On  the  way  to  my  station  stood  a  row  of  shops — 
the  very  shops  from  which  the  blue  young  man  and 
his  colleagues  went  forth  every  morning.  And  there 
or  thereabouts  I  often  saw  an  edifying  sight.  A  young 
matron,  a  neighbour  of  the  lady  whom  I  have  called 
Mrs  Smythe,  though  her  superior  in  birth  and  social 
standing,  was  to  be  met  every  day,  like  a  French- 
woman with  her  bonne,  going  to  market.  She  was 
always  prettily  but  sensibly  dressed  in  blue  linen 
or  old-fashioned  print ;  always  unfiurried ;  always 
beaming  and  healthy.  Once  or  twice  I  happened  to 
be  in  shops  while  she  was  shopping.     I  noticed  that 


42      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

she  never  took  a  memorandum  from  her  Httle  bag  in 
order  to  buy  the  materials  for  a  premeditated  menu. 
The  market  came  first  and  the  menu  afterwards. 
Holding  to  the  great  principle  that  what  is  cheapest 
and  most  abundant  in  the  market  is  generally  what  is 
best,  she  seemed  to  get  the  pick  of  everything  at  about 
two-thirds  the  prices  paid  by  her  stay-at-home 
neighbours  for  less  desirable  purchases.  Yet  there 
was  no  beating  down  or  chaffering  in  the  French 
manner.  Her  rosy  little  servant  received  the  pur- 
chases into  a  net  bag  there  and  then,  thus  ending  all 
risk  of  underweight  and  overcharge  and  changing,  not 
to  mention  the  ugly  dangers  of  corrupt  manoeuvres 
on  the  part  of  the  young  man  in  blue.  No  doubt  this 
clever  woman  had  acquired  a  general  sense  of  menu- 
making  which  enabled  her  to  resist  the  seductions  of 
mere  cheapness,  so  that  she  would  not,  for  example, 
have  combined  salmon,  and  duck,  and  strawberries- 
and-cream  in  one  short  dinner  ;  but  her  obvious  rule 
was  to  base  her  cuisine  upon  the  market.  I  invoke 
her  gracious  image  as  I  write  and  beseech  her  to  be 
the  patron  saint  of  this  chapter. 


I  am  bound  to  warn  my  docile  readers  that  when 
they  put  these  counsels  into  practice  they  will  not 
enjoy  their  first  shopping  expeditions.  In  some 
places  it  still  requires  a  little  courage  to  go  out  with 
one's  servant  and  to  come  back  with  one's  dinner. 
But  this  War  will  be  a  poor  affair  if  it  does  not  blow 
away  the  remains  of  snobbery  from  all  decent  people. 
The  idea  that  nobody  of  gentle  birth  can  be  seen 
carrying  a  parcel  is  not  quite   dead,  but  the  War 


GOING  TO  MARKET  43 

should  kill  it.  Thousands  of  the  best  of  our  race  are 
carrying  heavy  knapsacks  at  this  moment  under  a 
scorching  sun,  and  it  will  not  disgrace  their  sisters  to 
bear  home  a  whiting  or  even  a  cauliflower.  Some 
of  the  tradesmen  will  sniff  a  little  superciliously ;  but, 
when  one  thinks  it  over,  such  sniffs  are  not  of  the  first 
importance.  Besides,  the  sniffs  sometimes  mean 
that  the  tradesman  discerns  the  beginnings  of  a  new 
relationship  in  which  he  will  be  obliged  to  treat  his 
customer  with  more  punctilious  fairness. 

The  housewife  with  common-sense  will  soon  dis- 
tinguish between  tradesmen  who  are  white  and  trades- 
men who  are  shady.  Among  the  shops  to  avoid  is  the 
shop  with  two  prices  for  the  same  article.  Some 
tradesmen  will  sell  you,  without  a  word  of  haggling, 
for  elevenpence,  a  pound  of  bacon  for  which  they  will 
ask  another  customer  tenpence  or  a  shilling,  and  there 
is  the  same  risk  with  all  goods  at  fluctuating  prices. 
No  doubt  it  is  to  avoid  this  danger  that  thousands  of 
people  have  given  up  shopping  altogether  and  have 
decided  to  "  Order  everything  from  the  stores." 
The  best  stores  give  good  value  and  careful  service  ; 
but,  with  all  respect  to  them,  better  and  cheaper 
cookery  can  be  achieved  by  the  housekeeper  who  will 
learn  the  ways  of  her  local  market.  Happily,  almost 
every  part  of  London  is  now  blessed  with  a  few  good 
shops  where  the  prices  of  perishable  foods  are  pro- 
minently displayed.  Many  of  the  fishmongers,  for 
example,  exhibit  blackboards  on  which  they  chalk 
the  prices  of  the  day,  sometimes  adding  the  informa- 
tion that  such  and  such  a  fish  is  cheap.  The  largest 
greengrocers  also  state  their  prices  plainly.  But 
when  one  turns  to  the  butcher  it  is  rare  to  see  price 


44       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

tickets,  except  in  the  low-grade  establishments.  For 
this  omission  the  butcher  has  a  partial  excuse. 
People  are  a  little  unreasonable  in  their  ideas  of  boning 
and  trimming  a  piece  of  meat  at  the  butcher's  expense, 
and  they  will  often,  after  deciding  on  a  joint,  say  that 
it  is  rather  more  than  they  want  and  that  they  cannot 
take  it  unless  it  is  reduced  in  size — an  operation  which 
may  mean  a  loss.  Still,  the  butcher  is  a  man  who 
wants  careful  watching. 


As  soon  as  you  have  decided  which  butcher  seems 
likely  to  suit  you  best,  it  is  well  to  treat  him  openly 
and  to  trust  him  so  long  as  he  plays  the  game.  It  is 
quite  a  mistake  to  think  that  he  despises  everybody 
who  does  not  buy  sirloins  of  beef,  legs  of  lamb,  fillet 
steaks  and  the  other  prime  cuts.  The  truth  is  that 
he  is  quite  glad  to  sell,  at  half  the  price  of  the  prime 
cuts,  the  brisket  and  the  flank  which  hardly  anybody 
asks  for,  although  these  parts  can  be  made  delicious 
by  processes  explained  in  all  cookery  books.  Necks 
of  mutton  and  stewing  beef,  which  are  better  for 
many  purposes  than  legs  and  sirloins,  are  part  of  the 
butcher's  stock  and  he  wants  to  sell  them. 

When  one  has  become  a  fairly  good  and  regular 
customer,  it  is  fair  to  insist  that  the  butcher  shall  not 
be  disobhging  with  such  things  as  calf's  liver,  sweet- 
bread, tongues  and  ox-tails.  In  some  shops  the 
request  for  these  things  is  always  met  by  a  smile  and 
a  shake  of  the  head,  sometimes  accompanied  by 
valuable  anatomical  information  to  the  effect  that 
an  ox  has  only  one  tail  and  that  everybody  cannot 
expect  to  get  it.    An  ox-tail  is  a  most  desirable  pur- 


GOING  TO  MARKET  45 

chase,  especially  in  cold  weather,  and  no  housekeeper 
ought  to  accept  constant  refusals.  As  for  the  sweet- 
bread and  the  pick  of  the  calf's  liver,  I  remember  a 
town  where  an  English  resident  could  hardly  get  these 
delicacies  at  the  principal  butcher's.  A  French- 
woman, always  alluded  to  with  great  reverence  as 
"  Maddum,"  doggedly  insisted  on  having  them  for 
her  rather  extensive  entertaining,  and,  if  the  butcher 
presumed  to  disappoint  her,  he  was  promptly  and 
sharply  told  that  she  would  not  darken  his  shop  door 
again.  This  was  an  extreme  case  ;  but  selfishness 
almost  as  great  is  to  be  found  in  every  locality,  and  it 
is  one's  duty  gently  to  insist  that  greedy  people  shall 
not  be  rewarded  for  their  meanness. 

A  good  butcher  will  be  rather  flattered  than  other- 
wise if  you  ask  his  advice,  provided  that  you  do  so  at  a 
slack  time  of  his  day.  He  will  pickle  or  marinate  the 
cheaper  cuts  for  you  and,  when  he  finds  that  you  are 
not  a  grumbler  and  that  you  want  him  to  have  his 
fair  profit,  he  will  give  you  the  advantage  on  stocks 
which  he  wants  to  sell.  He  does  not  like  suspicions 
expressed  about  the  origin  of  this  or  the  other  joint, 
but  when  he  is  fairly  and  openly  asked  if  he  can  supply 
chilled  South  American  beef  (which  is  often  excellent), 
or  the  admirable  New  Zealand  lamb  known  as 
"  Canterbury,"  he  will  answer  you  honestly.  Should 
he  sell  you  any  chilled  meat,  it  will  be  as  well  to  con- 
sult him  about  thawing  it,  as  sad  things  have  happened 
through  a  neglect  of  this  precaution.  I  write  this 
page  a  day  or  two  after  meeting  with  a  case  in  point. 
A  body  of  Red  Cross  workers,  most  of  whom  hold 
certificates  for  proficiency  in  cooking,  sat  down  to 
their  own  dinner  after  a  laborious  day.    Their  joint — 


46       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

a  leg  of  lamb — came  out  of  the  oven  smelling  ador- 
ably. It  was  browned  and  apparently  a  little  over- 
cooked, in  the  way  which  nearly  every  woman  loves. 
But,  when  the  carver's  knife  laid  it  open,  the  inside 
had  the  appearance  of  raw  meat  and,  when  touched 
with  the  finger,  struck  almost  as  cold  as  meat  that 
had  not  been  cooked  at  all.  The  certificated  cooks 
pounced  on  all  the  fr^dng-pans  they  could  find  and 
made  a  dinner  of  slices  fried  in  the  English  style. 

Smaller  purchases  should  not  be  left  for  the  butcher's 
boy  to  deliver  but  should  be  taken  straight  home. 
Larger  cuts  ought  always  to  be  weighed  as  soon  as 
they  arrive  :  because  the  weight  sometimes  fails  to 
agree  with  what  was  charged  for.  And  here  and 
there  a  butcher  will  be  found  trying  to  play  the 
meanest  of  all  mean  tricks,  such  as  sending  home  the 
hoof  of  a  full-grown  sheep  with  the  leg  of  a  baa-lamb, 
and  adding  to  the  bones  and  fat  which  you  have  asked 
him  to  remove  from  your  joint  some  bones  and  fat 
belonging  to  an  entirely  different  beast.  A  little 
observation  suffices  to  teach  anybody  of  intelligence 
whether  he  is  being  made  to  carry  more  than  his  fair 
burden  of  fat  and  bones. 


At  the  fishmonger's,  marketing  is  easier  than  at 
the  butcher's.  In  these  days  of  abundant  ice  all  the 
year  round,  bad  fish  is  a  rarity.  Among  the  good 
fish  it  requires  skill  and  experience  to  choose  out  those 
which  have  been  most  lately  caught.  Most  house- 
wives are  forced,  therefore,  to  depend  upon  the  fish- 
monger's good  faith,  and  happily  they  may  often  do  so 
without  disaster.     Should  a  beginner  read  these  lines, 


GOING  TO  MARKET  47 

I  can  only  warn  her  to  see  that  the  flesh  of  her  fish  is 
not  flabby,  that  the  eyes  are  bright  and  not  sunken, 
and  that  there  is  no  stale  odour. 

On  some  days  cod  is  very  cheap.  It  is  a  fish  which 
many  people  find  insipid,  because  it  is  so  often  served 
sodden  from  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  with  plain  pota- 
toes and  a  so-called  sauce  which  would  do  admirably 
for  bill-posting  but  for  little  else.  Steaks  of  cod, 
nicely  grilled,  are  delightful.  A  large  piece  of  steamed 
cod  can  also  be  made  attractive,  and  what  remains  of 
it  should  be  pounded  smooth,  and  flavoured  and 
potted  for  breakfast. 

Herrings  are  likely  to  figure  among  our  principal 
blessings  while  the  War  lasts.  Large  quantities  of 
them  used  to  be  sent  to  Germany,  and  we  shall  have 
the  benefit  of  what  the  Germans  must  now  do  without. 
If  herrings  were  caught  in  only  one  bight  or  sea-lough 
in  all  the  world,  gourmets  would  cheerfully  pay  a 
crown  apiece  for  them  and  would  give  herring 
dinners  in  the  most  expensive  restaurants.  But, 
these  fish  being  absurdly  cheap,  an  idea  has  got  about 
that  they  are  slightly  vulgar  and  one  has  had  to  be 
a  bold  man  to  include  the  herring  in  the  menu  of  a 
formal  dinner.  At  formal  dinners,  salmon,  lobster, 
trout,  turbot  and  soles — especially  soles — have  had  it 
nearly  all  their  own  way.  Some  diners-out  come  to 
hate  the  sight  of  salmon  by  the  third  week  of  the 
season,  and  would  be  filled  with  secret  joy  if  they 
could  exchange  a  portion  which  has  cost  the  hostess  a 
shilling  for  a  small  fresh  herring  which  would  cost  a 
penny  or  less.  Herrings  require  some  surgical  skill 
and  patience,  because  of  the  bones  ;  but  many  other 
delicacies,  such  as  quails  and  walnuts,  demand  deft 


48      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

handling,  and  we  do  not  shun  them  on  that  account. 
A  grilled  herring  with  potatoes  is  said  to  be  an  almost 
perfect  food,  and  when  the  peasantry  of  Munster  and 
Connaught  can  add  buttermilk  to  this  diet  they  seem 
to  be  the  happiest  and  healthiest  of  men. 

Of  recent  years  the  fishmongers  have  begun  to  sell 
a  fish  called  rock  salmon,  which  is  remarkably  cheap 
and  very  good  eating.  After  pursuing  some  pains- 
taking studies,  I  find  that  the  fish  appears  to  be 
called  rock-salmon  because  it  is  not  salmon  and  has 
nothing  to  do  with  rocks.  Its  true  name  is  "  cat- 
fish," and  when  encountered  in  the  water  it  cer- 
tainly has  a  cattish  head  which  is  less  attractive  than 
that  of  a  smoke-blue  Persian  pussy  at  a  show.  It  is 
by  no  means  an  unclean  fish  ;  indeed  its  head  is 
furnished  with  an  arrangement  which  enables  it  to 
crack  open  oysters  and  to  feed  upon  them.  One 
might  almost  say  that  in  buying  sixpenny-worth  of 
rock  salmon  one  is  sometimes  getting  oysters  to  the 
value  of  about  five  shillings  thrown  in.  When  no 
third  party  is  Hstening,  I  generally  ask  the  fishmonger 
for  cat-fish  by  its  proper  name,  but  some  of  the  rising 
generation  of  fishmongers  do  not  know  what  is  meant. 
Rock  salmon  can  be  served  in  many  ways,  but  I  find 
it  best  steamed  and  served  with  a  rosy  sauce.^ 

Whiting,  "  the  chicken  of  the  sea,"  when  fried  in  a 
deep  bath  of  oil  or  dripping,  make  a  pleasant  change 
at  a  low  price.  Skate,  which  is  heartily  despised  by 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  people,  will  delight  the 

^  After  writing  the  above  lines,  my  attention  was  drawn  to  a 
cookery  book  in  which  rock  salmon  is  identified  with  hake ;  but 
in  the  London  shops  it  is  certainly  cat-fish.  I  bought  one  weigh- 
ing nearly  four  pounds  for  a  shilling  on  8th  September  1914. 


GOING  TO  MARKET  49 

palates  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  others  when  it  is 
prepared  au  beurre  noir — that  is  to  say,  with  butter 
melted  and  turned  dark  by  means  of  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar  and  some  capers.  And  nearly  everybody 
will  like  skate,  d  VIndienne,  which  is  practically  a 
curry,  the  fish  being  served  amidst  some  well-boiled 
rice  and  drowned  in  curry  sauce. 

By  going  to  the  fishmonger's  instead  of  letting  his 
assistant  come  bicycling  round  to  your  tradesmen's 
entrance  for  orders,  you  will  often  be  able  to  buy  the 
finer  kinds  of  fish  at  low  prices.  The  market  is 
occasionally  glutted.  I  could  name  a  restaurant  in 
London  where  a  low-principled  proprietor  was  in  the 
habit  of  passing  off  halibut  for  turbot  in  some  of  the 
made  dishes,  such  as  Coquilles  de  Turbot  and  Turbot 
Mornay.  Through  inattention  to  the  market  he 
served  these  impostures  two  or  three  days  running 
when  turbot  was  selling  much  more  cheaply  than 
halibut.  And  I  have  known  a  day  when  a  stay-at- 
home  housewife  \fas  giving  cod  to  her  family  at  a 
price  which  would  have  bought  (allowing  for  the  more 
concentrated  nature  of  the  richer  fish)  an  equal 
ration  of  salmon. 

Plaice,  limandes  (generally  spoken  of  as  lemon 
soles)  and  other  second-class  fish  are  sometimes  dear 
out  of  proportion  to  their  merits.  But  mackerel  is 
always  a  good  purchase  when  there  is  no  doubt  about 
its  freshness.  Indeed  mackerel  is  often  much  more 
enjoyable  than  salmon  when  hot,  and  it  is  also  a 
tasty  and  satisfying  cold  luncheon  dish  when  it  has 
been  "  soused."  Fresh  haddock  must  not  be  over- 
looked ;  but  some  of  the  richly  coloured  objects 
which  are  passed  off  as  fillets  of  haddock  are  dis- 


50      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

appointing.  The  genuine  smoked  fillet  stews  beauti- 
fully in  milk  and  butter  in  an  earthenware  pot  ;  but 
the  wrong  article  can  only  be  commended  to  those 
who  eat  fish  as  a  penance. 

Shellfish  are  often  cheap.  Great  care  needs  to  be 
taken  with  mussels,  but  when  you  have  the  right 
specimens  and  know  how  to  prepare  them  they  are 
hailed  with  joy  by  those  who  like  them,  especially 
when  marinated  in  the  French  way,  with  a  sauce  like 
a  fish  soup,  which  one  can  eat  with  a  spoon.  A  few 
mussels  are  also  necessary  when  one  wants  to  improve 
some  steamed  fillets  of  rather  tasteless  fish  by  dressing 
them  in  the  mode  which  all  cookery  books  describe 
under  the  name  of  Normande.  As  for  scallops,  there 
is  nothing  much  more  distinguished  than  a  Coquille 
St  Jacques.  The  scallop  shells  ought  not  to  be 
thrown  away,  and  the  hot  scallops  should  be  served 
therein. 

The  papers,  especially  the  religious  weeklies,  usually 
contain  brief  advertisements  in  which  certain  Grimsby 
firms  offer  to  send  by  Parcel  Post  small  packages  of 
fresh  fish  already  prepared  for  cooking.  They  some- 
times give  the  purchaser  quite  a  large  quantity  for  a 
couple  of  shillings.  In  the  long  run,  however,  most 
people  find  this  no  cheaper  than  buying  fish  locally. 
Where  there  are  large  families  and  the  church's 
precept  is  closely  obeyed  on  days  of  abstinence,  these 
Grimsby  packages  may  be  taken  regularly  with 
advantage ;  but  in  small  households  there  would 
often  be  waste  unless  the  cook  is  clever  at  potting 
the  surplus. 

What  has  been  said  about  carrying  home  one's 
smaller  purchases  from  the  butcher  applies  to  the 


GOING  TO  MARKET  51 

fishmonger  as  well.  I  have  seen  fillets  of  sole  which 
could  not  possibly  have  been  fitted  to  the  skeletons 
of  the  fish  which  I  had  chosen  and  paid  for.  Still, 
on  the  whole,  the  fishmonger  will  treat  you  fairly 
well  if  you  are  reasonable  with  him  and  are  not  above 
taking  his  advice. 


At  the  poulterer's,  a  patriotic  housewife  will  deny 
herself  the  luxury  of  young  chickens  until  the  War  is 
over.  We  ought  to  let  most  of  the  chickens  grow 
up  to  lay  eggs  for  us.  Eggs  will  be  dear.  By  increas- 
ing our  home  output,  we  may  succeed  in  permanently 
securing  a  larger  share  of  the  egg  trade  for  our  own 
population.  As  for  the  bigger  chickens,  these  should 
be  kept  as  much  as  possible  for  the  sick  and  wounded. 
Chicken  broth  and  little  pieces  from  the  breast  are 
tempting  to  many  a  convalescent,  although  their 
food  value  is  slightly  overrated. 

By  casting  a  glance  every  day  at  the  poulterer's 
counter  you  are  sure  to  pick  up  great  bargains  from 
time  to  time.  During  the  first  month  of  the  War  I 
have  seen  rabbits,  poultry  and  grouse  at  such  low 
prices  that  they  have  often  been  cheaper  than  mutton 
and  beef.  Probably  we  must  expect  a  great  shrinkage 
in  the  imports  of  the  frozen  and  rather  tasteless  game 
birds  from  the  East  ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  English 
game  birds  may  be  cheap,  as  thousands  of  brace  which 
would  have  been  shot  to  give  away  will  drift  into  the 
market.  One  may  express  the  hope  that  venison  will 
also  come  into  its  own  again  during  the  War.  Pro- 
vided that  people  will  get  away  from  the  loathsome 
superstition  that  venison  must  be  outrageously  high 


52      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

before  it  is  fit  to  eat,  tlie  national  larder  can  be  en- 
riched to  a  great  extent  with  this  meat.  A  haunch  of 
venison  with  a  puree  of  chestnuts,  some  diamonds  of 
scarlet  runners,  and  a  little  red-currant  jelly  will  make 
a  meal  full  of  old-world  charm  and  often  twenty  per 
cent,  cheaper  than  an  equally  ample  repast  of  mutton 
or  beef  or  veal.  Indeed  the  whole  question  of  venison 
cookery,  which  would  require  a  book  as  large  as 
this  for  its  proper  discussion,  is  well  worth  going 
into,  and  every  housekeeper  should  risk  a  few 
experiments. 

The  poulterer,  when  he  plucks  and  cleans  and 
trusses  a  bird  for  you,  ought  not  to  keep  the  liver  and 
the  giblets.  Indeed,  by  watching  every  point,  you 
may  find  birds  almost  the  most  economical  food  you 
can  buy.  I  bought  a  brace  of  black  game  the  other 
day  for  three  shillings  and  threepence.  They  served 
six  persons  on  two  nights — first  as  a  roast  and  second 
as  a  salmis,  and  I  made  some  soup  from  them  the 
third  day. 


Under  the  ugly  name  of  the  greengrocer  there  is  in 
every  town  and  suburb  a  man  who  buys  and  sells  the 
most  beautiful  of  all  our  foodstuffs.  Nobody  will 
claim  that  a  butcher's  is  a  gallery  of  pictures  or  that 
fish  out  of  water  provoke  gaiety.  But  a  well-stocked 
greengrocer's  is  a  thing  of  beauty  and  a  joy  until 
closing  time.  Apples  as  rosy  as  the  cheek  of  a  country 
wench,  peaches  with  a  bloom  that  the  most  exquisite 
dame  must  envy,  grapes  like  great  beads  of  amber, 
and  oranges  and  lemons  like  a  windfall  of  tiny  suns 
and  moons  keep  company  with  scarlet  tomatoes. 


GOING  TO  MARKET  53 

with  yellow  bananas,  with  purple  beets  and  with 
every  shape  and  size  and  hue  of  leafage  and 
rootage. 

It  would  be  an  exaggeration  to  say  that  green- 
grocers without  exception  have  lived  up  to  the 
splendours  of  their  wares  ;  nor  does  it  often  transpire 
that  they  are  poets  and  painters  in  their  scanty 
leisure.  Until  the  twentieth  century  came  in,  the 
vegetable  shop  was  generally  an  unlovely  place.  At 
the  top  of  the  scale  there  were  a  few  vegetable  dealers 
whose  stocks  were  well  kept  and  well  shown  ;  but 
one  had  to  pay  what  might  be  called  florists'  prices, 
as  if  everything  had  been  grown  under  glass  or 
imported  in  tissue  paper  and  cotton-wool.  Things 
have  changed  for  the  better.  Many  greengrocers, 
whose  prices  are  almost  as  low  as  the  lowest,  make  a 
point  of  dressing  their  fronts  with  so  much  richness 
and  abundance  that  one  is  thrilled  as  by  the  sight  of 
a  huge  cornucopia  outpoured.  The  interior  of  the 
shop  cannot  be  as  spotless  as  a  high-class  dairy, 
because  earth  is  always  being  liberated  from  tubers 
and  soiled  leaves  are  constantly  being  torn  from 
greens.  Still,  a  well-managed  greengrocer's  ought 
to  be  pleasant  both  outside  and  inside.  When  it  is 
found  to  be  slovenly,  a  housekeeper  will  usually  be 
safe  in  leaving  it  alone.  She  should  beware,  however, 
of  expecting  the  standard  of  the  fruit  and  vegetable 
tents  at  a  big  flower  show.  Prize  exhibits  are  beauti- 
ful to  look  at,  but  they  are  often  second-rate  when 
one  tries  to  eat  them.  If  the  greengrocer  should 
cleanse  away  every  speck  of  Mother  Earth  from  his 
turnips  and  horse-radishes  and  potatoes,  he  would 
have  to  raise  his  prices,  and  at  the  same  time  he  would 


54      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

rob  the  stuff  of  a  coat  which  protects  it  from  the  many 
contaminations  of  street  air. 

Vegetables  need  and  will  repay  a  lifelong  course 
of  close  observation.  Some  cooks  will  calmly  ask 
for  so  many  carrots  and  so  many  turnips  to  compound 
a  certain  stew,  as  if  carrots  and  turnips  are  as  un- 
alterable as  half  bricks.  Yet  there  is  a  world  of 
difference  between  one  carrot  and  another  carrot,  one 
turnip  and  another  turnip.  Some  turnips  might 
almost  have  been  turned  by  a  lathe  out  of  white 
wood,  and  some  carrots  are  limp,  with  a  colour  more 
yellow  than  red.  And  these  remarks  apply  to  all 
other  vegetables  in  greater  or  less  degree.  It  follows 
that  the  recipes  in  cookery-books  are  often  no  more 
than  indications  of  an  ideal,  and  that  they  must  be 
modified  in  practice  according  to  the  stronger  or 
weaker  flavours,  the  more  tough  or  more  tender 
fibres  of  the  ingredients.  Again,  a  point  is  reached 
in  the  growth  of  most  vegetables  when  they  become 
unpleasant.  French  beans  and  scarlet  runners  are 
sometimes  sold  in  a  state  which  no  reasonable  amount 
of  boiling  can  correct,  and  radishes  are  still  marketed 
when  all  their  briskness  has  given  place  to  a  faded 
flabbiness.  The  less  honest  or  less  able  greengrocer 
stocks  his  shop  with  stuff  that  his  colleagues  will  not 
touch. 

In  some  parts  of  London  one  comes  upon  what 
looks  like  a  row  of  costers'  barrows  but  is  really  an 
open-air  fruit  market.  If  any  reader  of  this  book 
should  visit  Soho  to  buy  a  casserole,  as  already  ad- 
vised, it  would  not  be  a  waste  of  time  to  walk  along 
Little  Pulteney  Street,  which  runs  westward  from 
Wardour  Street.     On  Fridays  and  Saturdays  especi- 


GOING  TO  MARKET  55 

ally  the  fruit  and  vegetable  market  is  a  wonderful 
sight.  Those  who  are  willing  to  put  on  old  clothes, 
and  to  leave  all  airs  and  graces  at  home,  will  be 
recompensed  for  any  ungentle  little  bustlings  and 
jostlings.  One  must  be  a  bit  of  a  linguist,  a  working 
acquaintance  with  the  Cockney  language  being  almost 
essential.  And  one  must  muzzle  one's  sense  of  the 
ridiculous.  A  few  months  ago  I  used  to  buy  in  this 
street  enormous  grape-fruits,  of  a  ripeness  and  flavour 
unknown  to  me  elsewhere.  I  paid  on  an  average 
three-halfpence  each.  When  cut  in  half  and  properly 
prepared,  each  fruit  was  enough  for  two  persons. 
Unhappily,  however,  I  tried  to  do  the  proprietor  of 
the  barrow  a  good  turn  by  pointing  out  the  defects 
in  his  placard,  which  read : 


GRAIPE  FRUIT 

THE  ONLY  FRUIT  IN  THE  WORLD 
CONTANING 

150  PER  SENT  OF  QUININE 


Whether  the  scribe  thought  that  I  was  going  to  indict 
him  under  the  Food  and  Drugs'  Act  I  cannot  say,  but 
he  flew  into  a  hot  rage  and  challenged  me  to  produce 
the  man  or  woman  or  babe  unborn  that  had  ever 
known  him  acting  not  straight  or  fair.  I  have  also 
learnt,  as  soon  as  I  see  grand  globe  artichokes  in  Little 
Pulteney  Street  at  tenpence  a  dozen,  to  buy  them 
without  a  smile  when  the  proprietor  commends  them 
as  "These  'ere  chokes,"  and  to  be  equally  discreet 
when,  in  the  asparagus  season,  I  receive  sporting 
offers  of  "  Grass."    The  barrows  are  a  guide  to  the 


56      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

waxing  and  waning  of  seasons.  When  a  given  fruit 
or  vegetable  has  passed  its  hey-day,  it  disappears 
entirely.  And  yet  many  exotics  find  their  way  into 
this  unlovely  thoroughfare,  where  I  have  bought 
beautiful  boxes  of  fresh  purple  figs  and  mandarins 
for  sixpence  the  box  of  two  or  three  dozen.  Pine- 
apples are  also  to  be  found,  though  not  so  abundantly 
as  one  might  expect.  When  a  pine -apple  is  full-ripe 
and  even  shows  in  one  spot  an  over-maturity  which 
would  spoil  it  for  a  West  End  fruiterer's  window,  it  is 
at  its  best  for  immediate  eating.  I  shall  explain  in 
the  proper  place  a  way  of  serving  it.  Still,  we  ought 
to  trade  with  our  local  greengrocer  as  a  rule,  so  long 
as  he  behaves  himself.  The  man  with  the  barrow  pays 
no  rates  or  rent.  He  would  fall  dead  at  the  mere 
suggestion  of  paying  income  tax,  although  he  is  often 
rich  enough  to  buy  up  two  or  three  men  who  pay  it 
regularly.  Besides,  the  local  man  is  at  hand  for  our 
convenience  in  wet  weather  or  fine,  and  this  ought  not 
to  be  forgotten. 

One  of  the  greatest  mistakes  of  the  ordinary  house- 
keeper, from  the  point  of  view  of  the  gourmet,  and  one 
of  the  chief  reasons  for  the  expensiveness  of  her 
housekeeping,  is  the  habit  of  visiting  the  greengrocer 
last  when  marketing.  Nearly  every  English  cook 
chooses  the  meat  first  and  the  vegetables  afterwards — 
hardly  ever  the  vegetables  first  and  the  meat  to  suit 
it.  I  think  this  is  one  more  sound  explanation  of  the 
monotony  of  English  menus,  and  I  recommend  an 
occasional  reversal  of  the  order.  By  going  now  and 
then  to  the  greengrocer  first  one  will  start  a  new  train 
of  ideas. 

For  instance,  there  are  days  when  small  white  cab- 


GOING  TO  MARKET  57 

bages  are  at  their  best  and  cheapest,  and  the  sight  of 
them  might  well  suggest  cabbages  cunningly  stuffed, 
one  for  each  person.  Again,  one's  eye  sometimes 
encounters  a  new-dug  pile  of  Jerusalem  artichokes. 
[These  very  cheap  tubers  are  certainly  not  artichokes, 
and  they  have  no  connection  with  Jerusalem,  their 
English  name  being  corrupted  from  girasol  which 
means  that  the  plants  try  to  turn  themselves  towards 
the  sun.]  With  the  good  and  sound  Jerusalem  arti- 
chokes a  cook  makes  a  Crdme  Palestine  ;  and  a  dinner 
which  begins  with  Creme  Palestine  must  be  so  care- 
fully thought  out,  with  a  view  to  a  proper  sequence 
and  contrast  of  colours  and  textures  and  flavours,  that 
all  the  other  buying  for  the  day  may  turn  on  this  pivot. 
Occasionally  there  is  an  abundance  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms at  a  low  price,  and,  when  this  happens,  a  cook 
will  not  neglect  her  opportunity. 


Another  shopman  whom  we  must  visit  now  and 
then  calls  himself  rather  arrogantly  the  Provision 
Merchant.  He  sells  Cheshire  cheese  and  York  ham 
and  Irish  bacon  and  new-laid  eggs  ''  from  his  own 
farm,"  as  well  as  some  cheese  and  ham  and  bacon  and 
eggs  which  have  made  rather  longer  journeys.  In 
these  days  he  is  constantly  adding  other  "  lines,"  such 
as  poultry.  New  Zealand  lamb,  tinned  fish,  and  jam. 
He  is  also  adopting,  in  many  cases  when  he  ought  to 
know  better,  undignified  methods  of  pushing  the  sale 
of  "overweight  "  nut  butter  and  margarine,  a  pound 
and  a  half  being  sold  at  the  price  of  a  pound,  with 
perhaps  an  aluminium  butter-knife  thrown  in.  In  his 
Cheddar  cheese    department   there  are  often  clear 


58      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

proofs  that  he  is  an  Imperialist,  free  from  parish- 
pump  narrowness,  and  that  he  feels  bound  to  encour- 
age the  nascent  agriculture  of  Canada  and  our  other 
great  dominions  overseas.  Happily,  some  of  his  tribe 
carry  on  their  business  honourably,  and  when  these 
are  found  their  customers  will  naturally  stick  to  them. 
The  good  provision  merchant  generally  prefers  a 
quiet  window,  furnished  with  a  stack  of  flitches  of 
bacon  and  a  few  cheeses  ;  but  his  baser  rival  loves  a 
garish  front  and  is  usually  trumpeting  some  coupon- 
scheme  so  as  to  reconcile  you  to  his  coarse  sardines 
and  rank  tea. 


Of  the  twentieth-century  grocer  it  is  hard  to  speak 
with  brotherly  love.  At  one  time  the  epicier  (or 
"  spicer  "),  as  the  French  call  him,  was  something  of 
an  artist.  With  the  peculiarities  of  the  local  water 
supply  before  him,  he  blended  tea  so  sensitively  that 
no  packet  tea  would  have  had  a  chance  against  it. 
He  received  many  of  his  materials  in  the  rough  and 
in  the  unready.  Turning  a  great  wheel  adorned  with 
gilded  lions  or  dragons,  his  apprentices  cut  loaves  of 
sugar  in  cubes,  while  the  sons  of  bishops  and  the 
nephews  of  admirals  stared  in  through  the  window 
and  bitterly  cursed  the  hard  fate  which  had  caused 
them  to  be  born  too  high  in  the  social  scale.  The 
grocer  had  blue  and  white  jars,  and  lacquered  boxes, 
and  baby  drawers,  and  scoops  big  and  little.  As  you 
looked  at  his  stock  it  was  hard  to  believe  that  it  had 
not  been  brought  to  him  in  an  argosy  or  on  pack-mules. 
To-day's  grocer  is  not  out  of  the  same  batch.  All 
that  his  young  men  know  of  the  particular  packet  of 


GOING  TO  MARKET  59 

jar  or  tin  can  which  they  are  selling  is  that  it  is 
"  eleven  three  farthings "  ;  that  the  packers  are 
splendid  people  ;  that  they  are  selling  quite  a  lot  of  it ; 
and  that  they  have  another  kind  at  "  ten  and  a  half." 
This  sort  of  young  man  has  memorised  a  price-list  ; 
but  instead  of  having  all  the  seas  and  orchards  and 
spice  gardens  and  cornfields  of  the  world  before  his 
eyes,  his  mental  picture  gallery  is  furnished  with 
nothing  but  labels  and  show  cards. 

In  some  books  on  housekeeping  it  is  recommended 
that  one  ought  to  search  out  the  grocers  who  still 
do  their  work  in  the  old  way,  and  some  trustful  young 
matrons  therefore  patronise  none  but  shops  with  nice 
placards  concerning ' '  Our  own  blend. ' '  A  few  genuine 
old  grocers'  shops  survive  which  may  be  almost  in- 
fallibly distinguished  by  their  atmosphere  when  one 
is  not  guided  to  them  by  their  reputation.  But  most 
of  the  "  Own  blend  "  shops  are  delusions.  Most  of 
them.  Not  all.  The  exceptional  grocers  who  put 
skill  and  conscience  into  the  choice  of  their  own  brands 
(even  though  they  may  do  the  actual  bu3ang  and 
blending  and  packing  by  proxy)  give  the  best  value 
in  the  world.  The  proof  is  in  the  eating  and  drinking  ; 
and  when  a  tradesman  of  this  kind  has  convinced  you 
that  he  is  a  man  of  brains  and  character  you  ought, 
as  I  have  advised  in  the  foregoing  pages,  to  trust  him 
and  to  make  use  of  his  experience. 

There  is  one  kind  of  grocer  from  whom  I  have  never 
obtained,  and  never  expect  to  obtain,  any  satisfaction. 
I  refer  to  the  kind  of  man  who  seems  to  revel  in  ugli- 
ness. When  "a,  new  neighbourhood,"  as  he  would 
call  it,  is  opened  up  by  the  speculative  builder,  this 
kind  of  grocer-man  is  one  of  the  first  to  arrive  upon 


6o      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

the  scene.  His  chosen  pitch  may  be  close  to  an  old 
grey  bridge  or  a  timber  cottage  or  a  grand  grove  of 
elms  ;  but  this  makes  no  difference.  Up  go  his  yellow 
bricks  and  his  blue  slates,  and  in  goes  his  sheet  of 
plate  glass,  behind  which  he  is  yearning  to  show 
P5n:amids  of  orange-coloured  cartons,  tomato  tins 
labelled  in  flaming  scarlet,  and  show  cards  with  skim- 
milk-white  letters  on  backgrounds  of  the  most  odious 
royal  blue.  If  a  man  should  propose  to  preoccupy  the 
same  bit  of  ground  with  a  whitewashed  inn,  where 
nut-brown  ale  and  brown  bread  and  honest  cheese 
would  be  sold  to  the  pleasant  swinging  of  a  signboard 
with  a  running  horse  on  it,  he  would  not  be  allowed 
to  move  an  inch  without  the  permission  of  the  Bench. 
Surely  there  ought  to  be  some  sort  of  a  Bench  to 
license  the  grocer  and  to  see  that  he  neither  disfigures 
the  landscape  nor  poisons  the  inhabitants.  More 
often  than  not  these  shops — I  beg  their  pardon,  these 
"  stores  " — are  stocked  with  "  lines  "  chosen  merely 
as  "  sellers  "  at  the  very  lowest  prices.  When  there 
has  been  no  other  grocer  to  turn  to,  I  have  sometimes 
bought  stuff  at  these  places.  The  proprietors  gener- 
ally exhibit  a  certain  proportion  of  well-known  brands, 
partly  because  some  of  their  customers  insist  on  these 
and  partly  to  make  a  respectable  show,  but  they  are 
always  endeavouring  to  sell  the  just  as  good.  For- 
tunately the  "  just  as  good  "  has  to  conform  to  the 
law,  and  I  have  often  found  words  in  small  type  on 
the  labels  which  have  been  useful  as  clues  to  the  nature 
of  the  shop.  The  strawberry  jam  is  made  from  the 
choicest  Kent  strawberries  (large  type)  "  improved  " 
(small  type)  with  **  other  choice  fruits."  The  mustard 
turns  out  to  be  "blended  with  the  choicest  farine,'* 


GOING  TO  MARKET  6i 

and  so  on,  until  one  gets  the  impression  that  if  it 
were  not  for  the  Food  and  Drugs  Act  hardly  an  honest 
article  would  cross  the  counter.  The  poor  are  cruelly 
imposed  upon  at  this  kind  of  shop.  To  save  a  penny 
in  the  shilling  they  let  themselves  be  cheated  out  of 
threepence,  and,  in  some  cases,  they  get  deleterious 
ingredients  into  the  bargain.  Even  educated  house- 
wives often  fail  to  read  labels  and  to  use  common- 
sense.  I  have  seen  baking  powders  and  vinegars  which 
might  have  been  the  deadly  inventions  of  German 
spies  improving  on  the  slow  old  process  of  poisoning 
the  wells.  Fortunately,  however,  demand  governs 
supply,  and  there  are  so  many  sensible  women  who 
will  not  be  put  off  with  shams  and  rubbish  that  it  is 
possible  nearly  everywhere  to  find  a  grocery  stocked 
with  good  things.  Indeed  I  have  heard  a  grocer  say 
quite  cynically  that  he  had  tried  both  methods  and 
that  honesty  was  the  only  paying  policy  for  a  high- 
class  trade. 

A  housekeeper,  having  found  the  best  shop,  should 
often  visit  it  herself.  All  kinds  of  new  imports  keep 
coming  along,  as  well  as  all  kinds  of  new  sauces  and 
materials  for  sweets  and  savouries.  As  she  walks 
about  the  shop,  waiting  for  change  or  for  some  informa- 
tion, many  a  notion  will  strike  the  resourceful  cook. 
Forgotten  stores  in  her  own  pantry  come  back  to  her 
mind,  or  she  remembers  once  favourite  dishes  which 
she  has  somehow  ceased  to  serve.  It  is  for  some  such 
reason  as  this  that  I  have  never  myself  felt  quite 
happy  in  dealing  with  the  huge  Stores.  As  soon  as 
a  housekeeper  finally  loses  all  patience  with  small 
and  personally-managed  local  shops,  and  decides  to 
order  everything  by  telephone  or  post  card  from  the 


62      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Stores,  she  saves  herself  many  little  worries,  but  cuts 
herself  off  from  all-alive  housekeeping  and  drifts  nine 
times  out  of  ten  into  the  monotony  which  is  the  chief 
defect  of  our  English  cuisine. 


The  baker  follows  a  calling  of  exceeding  dignity. 
In  London  and  our  greater  towns  hardly  anybody 
kneads  and  bakes  in  her  own  house  to-day.  It  is 
through  the  baker  that  we  can  eat  each  day  our  daily 
bread,  and  it  would  be  ungenerous  to  deny  that  he 
often  does  his  best.  While  millers  and  bakers  are  not 
always  as  white  as  they  are  dusted,  I  think  their  inner 
blackness  has  been  exaggerated,  and  that  few  of  them 
spend  the  silent  night  in  adding  chalk  to  the  flour 
and  sand  to  the  household  bread.  But  while  there 
are  not  vast  numbers  of  knaves  among  them,  it  must 
be  admitted  that  they  do  not  all  bake  well.  Should 
any  reader  of  this  book  be  so  unlucky  as  to  live  in  a 
place  without  a  good  baker,  I  urge  her  not  to  sit  down 
too  meekly  under  the  loss.  Good  bread  is  of  such 
obvious  importance  that  I  must  almost  apologise  for 
saying  so.  Where  good  household  bread  is  not  to  be 
got,  let  the  housewife  try  to  get  into  touch  with  some- 
body who  supplies  yeast,  and  let  her  set  about  that 
hard  but  honourable  task  which  will  fill  her  soul  with 
just  pride  and  her  cupboard  with  honest  loaves. 
Failing  yeast,  one  can  fall  back  on  German  barm — 
which,  by  the  way,  is  not  all  made  in  Germany. 
Failing  the  barm,  the  chemist  must  be  asked  for  three 
ounces  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  two  ounces  of 
tartaric  acid,  which  must  be  well  mixed  in  three  ounces 
of   ordinary   arrowroot.     If   kept   dry   this    baking 


GOING  TO  MARKET  63 

powder  will  be  found  all  that  is  desirable,  and  it  will 
enable  any  careful  cook  to  turn  out  wholesome  bread. 
Such  bread  should  be  made  of  a  mixture  of  four  parts 
of  wheat  meal  (not  too  coarse)  to  one  part  of  fine  flour. 
Suppose  you  are  using  two  pounds  of  the  mixture. 
Along  with  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt  there  ought  to  be  about  two  ounces 
of  butter.  Use  either  milk  and  water  or  milk  alone 
to  make  an  almost  liquid  dough  which  should  be 
baked  in  very  shallow  round  tins  not  much  more  than 
an  inch  high.  The  baking  powder  (like  a  Seidlitz 
powder)  generates  innumerable  little  bubbles  which 
give  lightness  to  the  bread.  It  is  essential  therefore 
to  begin  the  baking  in  a  hot  oven,  so  that  the  outside 
of  the  fiat  loaf  or  cake  may  be  sealed  hard,  thus  im- 
prisoning the  bubbles.  [Although  it  is  nothing  to  do 
with  bakers  or  baking,  I  will  say  in  this  place  that  the 
principle  of  sealing  applies  to  grilling  also,  and  indeed 
to  many  actions  in  cookery.] 

The  foregoing  directions  are  borrowed  from  Sir 
Henry  Thompson,  with  one  addition.  The  otherwise 
admirable  Sir  Henry  does  not  appear  to  have  been  a 
practical  cook,  and  he  therefore  wrote :  "  Mix  with  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  baking  powder."  Such  vague 
expressions  as  "  a  sufficient  quantity  "  are  the  despair 
of  the  novice.  I  admit  that,  in  the  following  chapters, 
I  shall  often  use  vague  language  myself,  but  only  as 
regards  seasonings,  and  degrees  of  richness,  or  in 
connection  with  materials  which  (unlike  our  baking 
powder)  are  of  varying  strength. 

In  buying  flour  from  the  baker  it  is  a  good  thing  to 
tell  him  quite  candidly  what  you  do  and  do  not  want. 
The  much-despised  finest  white  flour  still  has  many 


64      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

uses  in  the  kitchen,  despite  its  low  nutritive  value ; 
but  for  your  bread  you  require  such  flour  as  used  to  be 
called  seconds  and  is  now  more  generally  spoken  of 
under  the  names  of  "  standard  "  and  "  household." 
The  finest  oatmeal,  and  other  flours  not  ground  from 
wheat,  are  important ;  but  they  can  only  be  used 
confidently  after  several  experiments. 

In  our  own  day  and  generation  bread  is  too  often 
wasted.  Years  ago  an  almost  religious  reverence 
surrounded  bread.  You  could  waste  other  things  ; 
but  never  bread.  My  own  childhood  was  embittered 
as  the  result  of  my  having  thrown  away  in  a  moment 
of  petulance  a  horrible  slice  of  bread,  with  crust  burnt 
almost  black  and  a  doughy  crumb.  My  brothers  and 
sisters  could  throw  away  apples  over  the  hedge  after 
sampling  them  with  a  single  bite  ;  or  they  could  leave 
half-a-slice  of  roast  sirloin  on  the  plate,  with  impunity ; 
but  my  sin  in  throwing  away  that  piece  of  bread  was 
never  allowed  to  die.  When  an  old  Welsh  nurse 
called  to  see  me  after  a  few  years  of  absence  one  of  her 
first  questions  was  directed  to  this  hateful  subject,  and 
she  did  not  go  away  without  telling  me  a  blood-chilling 
narrative  about  a  boy  who  threw  away  a  piece  of 
bread  and  perished  miserably  a  few  months  after- 
wards, on  a  raft  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  without  so  much 
as  a  ship's  biscuit.  Nevertheless  I  do  not  wholly 
succeed  in  despising  this  old  sentiment.  Bread,  quite 
apart  from  its  high  use  in  the  Christian  mysteries,  has 
a  human  sanctity  as  the  stoutest  staff  of  life.  To 
waste  it  at  any  time  is  not  good.  To  waste  it  in  war- 
time is  an  unspiritual  as  well  as  a  selfish  action. 
Frangois  Coppee  brought  out  this  feeling  very  beauti- 
fully in  his  httle  story  of  the  siege  of  Paris  called :  **  A 


GOING  TO  MARKET  65 

Morsel  of  Bread."  We  do  not  expect  a  siege  of 
London,  but  let  us  take  our  bread-pans  seriously  all 
the  same.  It  is  far  better  to  calculate  the  bread  con- 
sumption beforehand  than  to  find  the  bowl  littered 
with  fragments  which  have  to  be  worked  off  by  some 
of  the  worst  makeshifts  of  cookery.  In  many  houses 
the  surplus  bread  is  got  rid  of  in  the  form  of  bread-and- 
butter  pudding.  In  denouncing  bread-and-butter 
pudding  I  know  that  I  shall  fall  foul  of  many  people, 
including  those  who  have  lately  been  advertising  the 
currant  trade.  But  bread-and-butter  pudding,  and 
soups  in  which  there  is  a  whole  sli-ce  of  soddened 
bread,  present  a  serious  danger.  Those  who  eat 
them,  especially  children,  are  prone  to  bolt  such 
soft  food  without  proper  mastication.  Now  it  is  an 
established  fact  that  starchy  substances  like  bread 
must  be  well  worked  (salivated)  in  the  mouth  before 
they  are  swallowed.  From  some  points  of  view  it  is 
less  dangerous  to  bolt  small  lumps  of  beef  or  mutton 
than  equal  lumps  of  cake  or  bread.  A  bread-and- 
butter  pudding,  made  with  currants  that  are  not 
too  skinny  and  with  good  milk,  can  be  a  valuable  diet 
to  the  few  who  will  eat  it  properly  ;  but  it  is  generally 
better  to  avoid  the  need  for  making  it  by  a  more  jealous 
watch  over  the  buying  of  bread.  There  will  be  an 
overplus  sometimes ;  and  then  the  breadcrumb 
is  best  used  in  a  steamed  suet  pudding  where  it  is 
lighter  than  flour.  Flavoured  with  marmalade,  or 
ginger,  or  chocolate,  such  puddings  are  good. 


The  dairyman  is  hedged  about  with  legal  enact» 
ments  which  ought  to  keep  him  straight.    The  law, 

E 


66      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

however,  allows  him  a  certain  amount  of  elbow-room 
as  regards  the  minimum  of  solids  in  milk,  so  as  to 
protect  him  in  the  event  of  his  receiving  in  good  faith 
an  unusually  poor  milk  from  the  farmer.  The  baser 
sort  of  dair37man  always  waters  down  the  milk  to  this 
minimum,  while  the  better  sort  gives  his  customers 
a  far  purer  article,  with  more  cream,  at  the  same  price 
per  quart.  Milk,  like  bread,  is  often  bought  waste- 
fuUy.  Still,  some  waste  is  bound  to  occur  in  houses 
where  daily  habits  are  not  absolutely  regular.  As  the 
milkman  is  early  astir  with  a  fast  white  horse  and  great 
brass  milk-cans,  shining  in  the  early  sunshine  like 
burnished  helmets,  he  must  be  able  to  depend  upon  a 
certain  regular  round  of  customers.  Thus  it  would 
not  be  fair  to  thrust  one's  head  out  of  the  bathroom 
window  once  or  twice  a  week  and  to  countermand  the 
little  standing  order.  Even  when  the  mistress  of  a 
tiny  household  suddenly  decides  that  she  and  her 
consort  will  drink  China  tea  instead  of  cafe  au  lait, 
it  is  she  and  not  the  milkman  who  ought  to  find  a 
way  of  disposing  of  the  unwanted  pint  of  milk.  In 
too  many  houses  it  is  placed  aside,  and  when  the 
cream  has  been  skimmed  from  it  a  few  hours  later 
it  is  allowed  to  go  sour.  Sour  milk  can  be  used  for 
certain  kinds  of  hot  cakes  ;  but  this  disposes  of  very 
small  quantities  only.  It  is  therefore  far  better  to 
use  any  surplus  milk  while  it  is  sweet.  A  good  rice 
pudding  with  or  without  stewed  fruit  or  preserve  is 
excellent  home  food.  Milk  is  also  wanted  for  so  many 
soups  and  sauces  that  not  a  drop  of  it  need  be  lost. 


Happy  is  the  housewife  who  never  has  a  disappoint- 


GOING  TO  MARKET  67 

ment  with  her  butter  and  her  eggs.  I  shall  not  attempt 
to  offer  her  much  more  than  my  sympathy  and  good 
wishes.  But  perhaps  I  may  say  that  slightly  salted 
butter  is  often  better  value  than  any  other.  Some  of 
the  cooking  butters  at  about  a  shilling  a  pound  are  not 
cheap  in  the  long  run  ;  indeed  the  best  professional 
cooks  have  been  known  to  say  that  they  find  it  more 
economical  to  buy  cooking  butter  at  a  higher  price 
than  the  ordinary  fresh  dairy  butter,  which  they  make 
into  little  pats  for  the  table.  This  remark,  however, 
applies  more  to  classical  dishes  than  to  the  kind  of 
cookery  contemplated  throughout  this  book. 

Butter  should  be  bought  in  small  quantities.  I  have 
used  various  patent  contrivances  for  keeping  it  sweet 
in  hot  weather,  and  have  found  them  good  in  theory, 
especially  one  which  sucks  up  cold  water  into  a 
muslin  cover  ;  but  day-by-day  buying  is  the  best  plan. 
It  goes  without  saying  that,  even  when  it  is  kept  in  a 
larder  for  not  more  than  a  few  hours,  butter  should 
not  be  placed  near  any  foods  which  smell  strongly. 

Intelligent  and  well-reared  people  tell  me  that  the 
best  makes  of  margarine  are  so  much  better  than  their 
predecessors  that  they  can  be  used  for  nearly  all  the 
purposes  of  dairy  butter.  My  own  experience  has 
been  less  fortunate,  but,  if  the  North  Sea  should  have 
to  be  closed  to  Danish  and  Scandinavian  vessels  by 
reason  of  further  German  mine-laying,  it  might  be- 
come necessary  for  most  of  us  to  give  margarine 
another  trial.  I  am  referring  to  its  use  for  cut  bread 
and  butter  and  for  dishes  served  in  butter  newly 
melted,  where  margarine  may  fail  horribly.  Mean- 
while, however,  every  housewife  ought  to  be  using 
in  ordinary  cookery  the  vegetable  butters  which  are 


68      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

no  dearer  than  lard  and  are  less  objectionable  in 
several  respects.  I  used  to  buy  a  butter  of  this  kind 
from  Marseilles,  which  was  as  white  as  driven  snow. 
It  seems  to  be  no  longer  generally  sold  in  England  ; 
but  there  are  British  brands,  such  as  cocoanut  butters, 
which  any  first -class  grocer  can  supply. 

Eggs  are  eggs,  according  to  an  inscrutable  proverb. 
Why  the  egg  should  have  been  thus  chosen  to  express 
fixity  and  certainty  I  cannot  guess  :  because  eggs 
were  deceivers  ever.  "  New  laid  "  may  mean  laid 
this  morning  or  laid  last  Saturday  week.  "  Fresh  " 
means  in  most  shops  an  egg  not  fresh  enough  to  be 
basketed  with  the  oldest  of  the  "  new  laid."  And 
even  when  the  question  of  age  has  been  decided  it 
does  not  follow  that  two  lots  of  eggs,  both  laid  on  the 
same  day,  ought  to  be  sold  at  the  same  price.  Buy 
three  separate  dozens  of  new-laid  eggs  at  three  separate 
shops,  paying  the  same  money  at  each,  and  weigh 
your  purchases  at  home.  You  may  find  that  you  have 
obtained  three  or  four  pennyworth  more  egg-value 
at  the  best  shop  than  at  the  worst. 

The  many  substitutes  for  eggs  are  useful  when 
custards  have  to  be  provided  cheaply  in  large  quan- 
tities for  healthy  and  hungry  children.  But  if  you 
have  a  wounded  or  convalescent  soldier  in  the  house, 
of  course  you  will  not  use  these  things.  Speaking 
for  myself,  I  have  never  found  anything  else  to  do 
the  work  of  an  egg ;  and  when  eggs  are  too  dear  it 
is  better  to  abandon  all  dishes  in  which  they  have  to 
be  used  freely. 

In  thousands  of  houses  breakfast  eggs  are  still 
cooked  in  boiling  water.  They  are  easier  to  digest 
and  better  to  eat  if  they  are  laid  in  cold  water  and 


GOING  TO  MARKET  69 

brought  gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  One  or  two 
experiments  (which  will  need  modifying  according 
to  the  age  and  size  of  the  e§g)  will  soon  teach  you  how 
many  seconds  the  egg  should  be  left  in  the  water  after 
it  has  begun  to  boil  and  bubble. 


So  much  for  Going  to  Market.  The  chapter  would 
have  been  shorter  if  I  had  not  paused  here  and  there 
to  give  hints  for  cooking  rather  than  for  shopping  : 
but  I  have  noticed  that  remarks  made  in  passing  are 
remembered  when  formal  recipes  are  forgotten. 


CHAPTER    IV 

HORS    d'CEUVRE 

When  he  heard  that  there  was  to  be  a  chapter  in  it 
on  hors  d'ceuvre,  a  kind  friend  who  has  been  teUing 
me  how  not  to  write  this  book  completely  lost  his 
patience.  He  appeared  to  think  that  hors  d'ceuvre 
in  war-time  were  about  as  decent  as  nigger  minstrels 
at  a  funeral.  As  others  -v^dll  share  his  feeling,  I  take 
leave  to  relate  at  this  stage  a  Moral  Tale. 


About  twelve  years  ago  the  two  nephews  of  a 
worthy  couple  in  Shropshire  were  married  in  the  same 
month  to  the  two  maidens  of  their  choice.  Although 
these  were  not  their  names,  I  will  say  that  Reginald 
married  Janet  and  that  Wilfred  married  Dorothy. 
Both  young  couples  established  their  Earthly 
Paradises  in  London,  whither  the  Worthy  Couple 
came  to  visit  them  every  spring.  Janet's  house  was 
solidly  and  sombrely  furnished  with  "  everything 
good."  And  "  everything  good  "  was  the  governing 
motto  of  Janet's  table.  Her  soups  were  so  strongly 
prepared  from  gravy-beef  that  they  took  away  your 
appetite  for  the  rest  of  the  dinner  ;  which  was  a  serious 
matter,  as  the  dishes  which  followed  were  all  equally 
"  good,"  while  the  brown  sherry  and  almost  black 
Burgundy  were  chosen  to  match.  Dorothy's  house, 
on  the  other  hand,  was  light  and  bright.    When  she 

70 


HORS  D'CEUVRE  71 

was  trotting  about  the  town  furnishing  it,  this  lively 
damsel  shocked  more  than  one  tradesman  by  telling 
him  that  the  articles  which  would  "  last  a  lifetime  " 
v/ere  just  what  she  didn't  want.  Dorothy  spent  less 
than  half  as  much  as  Janet  at  the  outset,  and  kept 
a  tidy  sum  in  the  bank  against  the  day  when  she  would 
get  sick  of  some  of  her  chairs  and  tables. 

It  was  noticed  that  the  Worthy  Couple  invariably 
found  their  sojourn  with  Janet  something  of  a  trial, 
and  that  they  generally  produced  a  pretext  for  migrat- 
ing to  Dorothy's  about  the  middle  of  the  second  week. 
During  their  stay  at  Dorothy's  they  even  seemed  to 
become  a  little  younger.  Yet  somehow  the  Worthy 
Couple,  when  they  returned  to  Shropshire,  always 
expressed  satisfaction  with  Janet  and  some  uneasiness 
in  regard  to  Dorothy.  They  were  persuaded  that 
Janet  and  her  husband  would  never  give  them  a 
moment's  anxiety ;  but  they  seemed  to  be  inwardly 
convinced  that  Dorothy  and  Wilfrid  were  on  the 
paths  which  lead  slowly  to  the  two  disreputable  Courts 
of  Bankruptcy  and  Divorce.  I  once  made  bold  to 
ask  the  better  half  of  the  Worthy  Couple  (during  the 
absence  of  the  worse  half)  for  light  upon  this  curious 
situation.  I  learned  that  Janet  (who,  to  my  certain 
knowledge,  is  an  unpunctual  and  unhappy  and  dull 
and  useless  lady)  was  "  always  so  sensible  and  re- 
liable," while  Dorothy  (whom  I  know  to  be  a  woman 
who  gets  through  an  enormous  amount  of  her  own 
and  other  people's  work  without  fuss)  was  "  awfully 
nice  but  such  a  butterfly,"  W^hen  I  expressed  sur- 
prise, I  was  given  an  illustration  of  Dorothy's  flippancy 
and  extravagance.  It  appeared  that  the  Worthy 
Couple  had  lately  dined  at  Dorothy's  house  and  had 


72       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

enjoyed  themselves  as  usual.  They  had  protested, 
however,  against  so  much  kind  fuss  being  made  in 
honour  of  their  visit,  and  had  especially  deplored  the 
troublesome  though  delicious  hors  d'oeuvre  ;  where- 
upon Dorothy  had  instantly  retorted  :  "  We  have 
hors  d'oeuvre  every  night  except  Sunday." 

I  took  it  upon  myself  to  argue  that  Dorothy's  gay 
little  dinners,  so  full  of  pleasant  and  wholesome 
variety,  with  their  accompaniment  of  well-bought  and 
well-served  cheap  and  brisk  wines,  must  certainly  cost 
Dorothy  much  less  than  she  would  have  to  spend  on 
giving  such  dinners  as  Janet's.  But  my  words  were 
vain,  and  I  was  made  to  feel  that  it  was  not  quite  nice 
for  a  mere  man  to  pretend  to  understand  housekeeping 
and  cookery.  When  the  Worthy  Couple  died  (with 
faithful  unanimity)  a  year  or  two  later,  they  left 
£ii,ooo  to  the  Janet  household  and  £1000  to  Dorothy 
and  her  husband  ;  having  previously  explained  to 
their  solicitor  that  they  hated  to  make  such  a  dis- 
tinction, but  that  it  would  be  more  harmful  than  kind 
to  leave  money  where  it  would  only  be  frittered  away. 


To  the  shallow  and  unthinking  this  Moral  Tale  may 
seem  to  show  that  if  we  eschew  hors  d'oeuvre  we  may 
be  thousands  of  pounds  in  pocket.  The  true  moral, 
however,  will  be  plain  enough  to  ninety-nine  readers 
out  of  a  hundred.  What  shall  it  profit  a  Janet  or 
any  other  woman  to  inherit  a  lot  of  money  and  lead 
a  dismal  and  dyspeptic  Hfe  ?  And  what  shall  a 
Dorothy  or  any  other  woman  give  in  exchange  for 
her  soul  ? 

My  tale  about  hors  d'oeuvre  is  to  be  taken  as  itself 


HORS  D'CEUVRE  73 

a  kind  of  hors  d'oeuvre,  ushering  in  this  and  my  re- 
maining chapters.  The  point  is  that  Dorothy's  hors 
d'oeuvre  cost  her  practically  nothing.  If  she  had 
found  the  recipes  in  a  cookery-book  and  had  bought 
the  ingredients  expressly  they  would  have  cost  her 
perhaps  two  or  three  shillings  ;  but,  although  they 
were  good  and  looked  almost  extravagant,  they  added 
nothing  to  her  expenses  as  a  hostess.  Every  one  of 
them  was  what  might  be  called  a  by-product  of  the 
general  housekeeping.  Besides,  knowing  that  the 
hors  d'oeuvre  would  be  enjoyed,  this  clever  hostess 
provided  fish  and  meat  a  little  more  sparingly  and 
thus  saved  the  cost  of  the  condiments  and  butter  in 
the  hors  d'oeuvre.  In  short,  she  worked  upon  the 
principles  which  were  laid  down  in  an  earlier  chapter 
of  this  book  as  the  foundation  of  economical  house- 
keeping both  in  peace-time  and  in  war-time — the 
great  principles  of  using  what  you  have  rather  than 
what  you  haven't  and  of  working  from  the  market 
to  the  menu  rather  than  from  the  menu  to  the  market. 


Hors  d'oeuvre,  while  helping  a  housewife  to  save, 
will  also  take  the  sting  out  of  the  economies.  I  have 
noticed  scores  of  times  the  pleasure  and  eagerness 
with  which  English  people  fall  upon  the  hors  d'oeuvre 
when  they  go  to  lunch  or  dine  at  a  fixed-price  restaur- 
ant ;  yet  the  same  people  rarely  eat  such  things  in 
their  own  homes.  After  the  War  we  shall  be  more 
friendly  than  ever  with  the  Russians  and  the  French — 
two  peoples  who  understand  hors  d'oeuvre  thoroughly 
— and  we  might  as  well  begin  to  adopt  their  best 
practices  at  once. 


74      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

It  has  been  explained  in  earlier  passages  that  this 
book  is  not  a  substitute  for  the  ordinary  cookery- 
books  wherein  scores  of  hors  d'ceuvre  are  described. 
I  shall  therefore  give  about  half-a-dozen  recipes  only, 
every  one  of  which  presupposes  the  existence  of  small 
portions  of  left-over  food  in  the  larder.  The  first 
shall  be  Cucumber  Cups.  Perhaps  you  had  on  Friday 
some  salmon  and  cucumber.  You  did  not  cut  up  and 
serve  the  whole  of  the  cucumber  there  and  then,  but 
you  left  half  of  it — the  half  with  the  stalk  end — 
standing  point  downwards  in  a  jar  of  water.  On 
Saturday  you  could  take  this  remaining  half  and, 
having  peeled  it,  you  could  cut  it  into  a  few  sections, 
the  shape  of  drums.  That  is  to  say,  instead  of 
cutting  a  piece  of  cucumber  five  inches  long  into 
forty  or  fifty  thin  slices,  you  cut  it  into  four  or  five 
pieces  only.  By  standing  up  these  drum-shaped 
sections,  after  steaming  them  until  they  are  tender 
without  being  sloppy,  it  is  easy  to  scoop  out  the  seeds 
and  to  bevel  the  apertures  to  the  shape  of  a  cup  or 
a  funnel.  The  next  step  is  to  apply  our  great  prin- 
ciple of  using  what  you  have  rather  than  of  buying 
something  especially  to  complete  the  dish.  For 
example,  if  a  little  of  the  Friday  salmon  remains,  it 
can  be  mixed  with  some  mayonnaise  and  laid  inside 
the  cucumber.  Or  some  tiny  pieces  of  chicken,  too 
tiny  for  any  other  purpose,  can  be  similarly  mixed 
with  mayonnaise  and  put  in  the  cups.  Or  some  of 
the  potted  fish  already  recommended  will  do.  Set  the 
cups  aside  and  serve  them  quite  cold. 


As  you  will  not  want  to  turn  every  half-cucumber 


HORS  D  (EUVRE  75 

you  may  have  into  cucumber  cups,  or  as  you  may 
sometimes  lack  fish  or  chicken  to  put  inside,  you 
must  learn  how  to  serve  simple  slices  of  cucumber 
in  such  a  way  that  they  will  be  found  digestible  even 
by  people  who  are  generally  afraid  of  this  cooling 
vegetable. 

Having  peeled  and  sliced  your  cucumber,  lay  the 
slices  in  a  saucer  with  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  let 
them  stand  until  a  good  brine  has  formed.  Pour  away 
this  brine,  and  with  it  you  will  get  rid  of  the  elements 
that  are  injurious.  Pepper  the  slices.  Do  not  salt 
them  again.  Pour  over  them  some  pure  olive  oil 
and  turn  them  over  and  over  in  it.  Just  before 
serving,  add  a  little  good  vinegar  and  turn  them  over 
and  over  again. 

On  a  day  of  abstinence,  you  can  make  a  fine  show 
with  salads  in  this  manner.  Fully  ripe  but  still  firm 
tomatoes  can  be  neatly  sliced  with  a  sharp  knife 
and  served  with  pepper,  salt,  oil  and  vinegar  ;  but 
in  this  case  the  dressing  should  be  well  mixed  to- 
gether in  a  cup  and  poured  over  the  slices  of  tomato, 
which  would  break  up  into  an  unattractive  mess  if 
you  tried  to  turn  them  over  in  the  oil  and  vinegar. 
Cold  French  beans  are  excellent  in  this  style,  but  the 
proportion  of  vinegar  should  be  rather  greater  than 
in  most  other  salads.  Neat  sprigs  of  cold  boiled 
cauliflower  can  be  served  in  the  same  way,  though  it 
is  better  to  keep  a  fairly  large  piece  of  the  cauliflower 
unbroken  and  to  cover  it  with  mayonnaise.  To 
extend  your  colour  scheme,  you  can  make  also  a 
salad  of  beetroot.  To  do  this  you  cut  a  boiled  beet 
into  sn;  all  dice,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over 
it,  and  add  a  mixture  of  three  parts  of  oil  to  two  of 


76      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

vinegar.  Many  people  add  a  few  fragments  from 
fillets  of  herring  and  also  a  finely  chopped  onion  to 
this  salad,  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  raw  onion 
cannot  be  offered  to  everybody.  I  ought  to  add  that 
a  beetroot  salad  is  said  to  be  a  little  fattening  and 
gouty,  by  reason  of  the  sugar  in  the  beet  and  the  oil 
in  the  dressing,  but  there  are  no  bad  effects  unless  it  is 
devoured  excessively.  If  you  do  not  eat  all  these 
salad  hors  d'oeuvre  at  one  meal,  they  can  be  mixed  to- 
gether (adding  the  tomato  last)  with  any  large  pieces 
of  cold  steamed  fish,  or  with  little  squares  cut  from  a 
ham  or  a  sirloin  which  has  already  been  carved  down 
almost  to  the  bone,  or  with  pieces  (not  too  large)  from 
such  cheap  cold  meats  as  the  flank  and  brisket  men- 
tioned on  a  preceding  page.  A  few  slices  of  cold 
potato,  which  must  be  kept  in  shape  like  the  tomato, 
ought  to  be  added  to  the  salad  when  pieces  of  meat 
are  in  it.  This  combination  salad,  however,  although 
made  from  your  hors  d'oeuvre  (which  in  their  own 
turn  were  made  from  your  cold  vegetables)  is  not 
itself  to  be  served  as  hors  d'oeuvre,  because  it  will 
be  big  and  important  enough  for  the  central  dish 
in  a  famify  luncheon  on  any  warm  day. 


Although  I  have  bewailed  the  dearness  of  eggs,  I 
shall  not  be  deemed  extravagant  if  I  try  to  suggest 
two  simple  and  picturesque  hors  d'oeu^Te  which  will 
require  only  one  egg  for  the  pair.  Boil  the  egg  hard. 
Shell  it  carefully,  cut  it  open  lengthwise  and  pound 
up  the  yolk  with  good  butter  (softened  on  the  stove) 
und  with  a  little  good  essence  of  anchovies,  or 
anchovy  sauce,  which  I  assume  you  keep  in  the  house 


HORS  D'OEUVRE  77 

to  serve  with  the  more  insipid  kinds  of  fish.    This 

anchovy  paste  or  butter  can  be  made  so  mild  that 
it  will  do  for  afternoon-tea  sandwiches  and  will 
delight  the  many  ladies  who  hate  ordinary  anchovies 
and  look  upon  them  as  a  man's  taste.  For  use  as 
hors  d'oeuvre  the  paste  can  be  served  in  a  dozen 
ways  or  it  can  be  held  back  for  a  savoury.  And  now 
for  the  other  hors  d'oeuvre.  I  said  a  few  lines  back 
that  the  hard-boiled  egg  should  be  neatly  shelled 
and  cut  open  lengthwise,  so  that  when  the  yolk  has 
been  taken  out  the  two  halves  will  be  like  two  little 
boats.  The  boats  can  be  filled  with  any  tasty  tit- 
bits which  you  may  have  on  hand.  You  can  chop 
up  a  gherkin  from  the  pickle  bottle  and  combine 
it  with  potted  fish  or  potted  meat.  If  you  have 
in  the  house  some  of  the  cheap  sheets  of  rice-paper 
which  are  used  for  the  bottom  of  a  cake,  you  can 
place  a  little  mast  upright  in  the  middle  of  the  laden 
boat,  with  a  square  inch  of  rice-paper  for  a  sail. 
You  prick  sharply  two  tiny  holes  in  the  rice-paper 
and  thread  through  them  a  mast  cut  from  a  wooden 
match  or  broken  off  from  a  piece  of  spaghetti.  This 
hors  d'oeuvre  fascinates  children,  whom  it  is  our 
duty  to  amuse  occasionally  even  in  times  of  war 
when  we  may  feel  disinclined  to  do  so. 


Against  the  day  when  we  may  be  receiving  con- 
valescent soldiers  into  our  homes,  every  cook  ought 
to  know  how  to  make  old-fashioned  calf's-foot  jelly, 
and  when  it  is  about  to  be  made,  there  will  be  a  chance 
of  varying  her  hors  d'oeuvre  with  a  salade  de  pied  de 
veau.    In  the  same  category  I  may  mention  a  salade 


y^      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

de  museau  de  boeuf.  This  sounds  better  in  French 
than  in  EngUsh,  as  an  ox-cheek  was  thought  vulgar 
as  long  ago  as  the  day  when  Goldsmith's  incompara- 
able  Mr  Tibbs  invited  a  lord  to  dinner.  Ox-cheek, 
however,  after  being  cooked  tender,  will  furnish  a 
good  little  dish,  with  oil  and  vinegar.  I  ought  to  say 
at  this  stage  that  the  oft-despised  gelatinous  parts 
of  the  ox  and  the  calf  have  value  as  food. 


Should  a  cold  sausage  exist  in  your  pantry  you  may 
cut  it  into  small  drums  and  garnish  the  top  of  each 
drum  with  a  neat  little  dab  of  horse-radish  cream  or 
apple  chutney.  And  fragments  of  cold  boiled  ham 
can  be  rolled  into  the  shape  of  cornettes,  having  been 
first  lightly  touched  inside  with  a  smear  of  mustard 
into  which  you  have  put  a  few  drops  of  vinegar. 


So  much  for  hors  d'oeuvre  worked  up  from  odds 
and  ends.  In  war-time,  however,  it  may  often  suit  a 
housekeeper  to  amplify  the  hors  d'oeuvre  and  to  omit 
soup  and  fish,  so  as  to  go  straight  on  to  a  good  ragout 
or  navarin,  which,  when  followed  by  some  fresh  fruit 
and  a  little  cheese,  would  make  a  good  enough  meal 
for  anybody.  On  such  occasions  quite  a  large  quan- 
tity of  hors  d'oeuvre  can  be  provided  without  much 
expense.  I  sometimes  take  an  ordinary  dinner-plate 
(or,  better  still,  a  white  plaque  which  is  slightly  con- 
cave and  has  no  brim)  and  upon  it  I  arrange  a  dozen 
or  two  of  the  very  cheap  little  fish  known  as  Norwegian 
smoked  sardines.  I  arrange  them  after  the  pattern 
of  a  rimless  wheel,  with  the  tails  of  the  fish  meeting 


HORS  D'CEUVRE  79 

and  touching  in  a  ring  at  the  hub  and  with  the 
shoulders  pointing  towards  the  circumferance.  This 
wheel  of  fish  has  a  handsome  and  important  appearance. 
Should  some  of  the  sardines  be  left  uneaten,  they 
should  be  laid  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup-plate  and 
covered  with  their  own  or  any  other  good  oil. 


A  tin  of  filets  d'hareng  is  useful.  A  little  oil  will 
preserve  the  contents  a  long  time  after  it  has  been 
opened. 

Two  dishes  of  olives,  green  and  black,  are  worth 
more  than  the  money  they  cost.  I  have  often  been 
told  that  they  soon  dry  up,  but  this  difficulty  is  got 
over  by  keeping  them  in  salted  water  and  by  buying 
them  in  small  quantities  only.  Olives  are  not  only 
delightful  cleansers  of  the  palate  but  they  lend  them- 
selves to  many  uses.  Every  housekeeper  should 
learn  to  turn  an  olive — that  is  to  say,  how  to  remove 
the  stone.  You  cut  off  a  small  piece  from  the  stalk 
end,  so  that  the  olive  can  stand  upright.  Then, 
taking  a  penknife  with  a  narrow  blade  and  a  sharp 
point,  you  begin  to  peel  the  olive,  pretty  much  as  you 
would  peel  an  apple,  so  as  to  disengage  the  stone. 
You  should  learn  to  "  turn  "  the  olive  in  about  three 
folds  of  the  spiral.  If  you  have  done  the  job  pro- 
perly, the  olive  will  resume  its  shape  after  the  stone 
comes  away,  and  you  can  stuff  it  with  a  rolled  fillet 
of  anchovy  or  with  anything  else  that  is  suitable. 

Salted  nuts  are  nearly  always  popular  and,  when 
consumed  in  moderation,  they  are  a  valuable  addition 
to  a  prudent  dietary.     It  is  better  to  salt  your  own 


% 


8o       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

nuts  than  to  buy  them  ready-made  in  a  shop.  Blanch 
your  almonds,  or  whatever  the  nuts  may  be,  and  dry 
them  well.  Pour  about  a  dessertspoonful  of  fine 
olive  oil  into  a  perfectly  clean  baking-tin  and  see  that 
the  oil  spreads  itself  out  evenly.  Lay  the  blanched 
kernels  in  the  tin  and  put  them  in  a  fairly  hot  oven. 
Turn  them  over  several  times  until  they  take  a 
pleasant  brown  hue.  Turn  them  out  upon  a  sheet  of 
white  paper  (to  absorb  the  oil)  and  dust  them  over 
with  perfectly  dry  table-salt.  So  long  as  you  protect 
them  from  damp,  they  will  keep  a  long  time  in  a  tin 
box  or  a  stoppered  bottle.  When  Brazil  nuts  are  at 
their  best,  from  March  to  September,  I  prepare  them 
in  a  similar  manner.  With  a  little  practice,  Brazil 
nuts  can  be  cracked  without  breaking  the  kernel. 
After  the  blanching,  I  cut  fine  white  slices  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  submit  them  to  the  process  of  brown- 
ing and  salting  already  described.  Such  hors  d'oeuvre 
as  stuffed  olives  and  salted  Brazil  nuts  will  strike 
many  people  as  wickedly  extravagant  luxuries,  but 
they  are  really  cheaper  than  many  less  nutritious  and 
more  commonplace  foods. 


A  plate  of  radishes  looks  well  and  is  good  for  our 
health.  It  is  a  pity  to  trim  the  radishes  more  than  is 
necessary,  as  the  colours  of  their  roots  and  leaves 
are  large  parts  of  their  charm.  Tiny  pats  of  butter 
ought  to  accompany  them.  For  a  few  pence  one 
can  buy  a  plated  tool  which,  after  a  dip  in  hot  water, 
enables  even  a  child  to  make  pats  of  butter  in  the 
pretty  shell-shape  of  the  great  restaurants. 

Speaking  with  bated  breath,  I  must  record  the 


HORS  D'CEUVRE  8i 

indisputable  fact  that  a  dish  of  the  youngest  spring 
onions  goes  very  well  with  radishes.  At  the  same 
time  I  admit  that  there  are  still  polite  circles  where 
raw  onions  must  not  be  named.  So  here  is  a  way  of 
presenting  onions  in  such  a  manner  that  they  will  lose 
all  their  disadvantages  while  keeping  nearly  all  their 
attractions.  Take  a  fire-proof  dish  and  put  in  it  a 
mixture  of  oil  and  vinegar  with  such  herbs  as  you 
may  possess.  Bring  the  oil  and  vinegar  to  boiling 
point.  Then  lay  in  the  dish  some  fine  round  onions — 
the  small  kind,  such  as  one  uses  with  chickens  cooked 
in  a  casserole.  These  onions  ought  not  to  be  more 
than  an  inch  in  diameter.  Of  course  their  outside 
skins  are  removed  before  you  cook  them.  Maintain 
the  contents  of  the  dish  at  boiling  point  for  a  minute 
or  two  ;  then  draw  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire  or  put  it 
over  the  smallest  possible  jet  of  gas  and  keep  it  sim- 
mering. No  exact  time  for  the  whole  operation  can 
be  given,  as  some  onions  are  tougher  than  others. 
Indeed,  a  tough  onion  may  require  the  adding  of  a 
little  water  to  the  vinegar  and  oil.  As  soon  as  the 
onions  are  tender,  transfer  the  contents  of  the  fire- 
proof dish  to  a  glass  bowl,  oil  and  vinegar  and  all, 
and  let  the  onions  become  quite  cold.  The  next  day  p. 
they  will  be  delicious.  I  have  seen  a  woman  who  has 
a  horror  of  onions  take  three  helpings  from  this  dish 
of  hors  d'ceuvre.  Onions  thus  cooked  will  keep  three 
or  four  days  in  the  liquor. 


This  little  book  will  have  failed  of  its  object  if  it 
does  not  stimulate  readers  to  invent  hors  d'ceuvre 
and  other  dishes  of  their  own.     So  we  will  pass  on. 

F 


82      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

But  before  doing  so  I  must  point  out  that  the  hors 
d'oeuvre  in  this  chapter  would  displease  professional 
cooks  and  restaurateurs  for  a  very  simple  reason. 
In  the  regular  cookery-books  hors  d'oeuvre  are  defined 
as  dainty  little  snacks  to  whet  the  appetite.  They 
are,  in  the  world  of  solids,  what  aperitifs  are  in  the 
world  of  liquids.  But,  as  this  is  not  a  book  for  the 
pampering  of  great  people,  I  have  preferred  to  de- 
scribe those  hors  d'oeuvre  which  do  not  whet  appetites 
but  satisfy  them.  I  could  write  a  good  deal  about 
canapes,  and  smoked  salmon  from  the  Lurlei  rock, 
and  about  caviare,  and  plovers'  eggs  ;  but  these 
prescriptions  must  be  reserved  for  another  book  on 
"  Home  Cookery  in  the  Time  of  Victory." 


CHAPTER  V 

SOUPS 

Not  everyone  who  buys  this  book  will  read  it  through 
from  the  first  page  to  the  last.  Despite  the  v/arning  in 
the  preface,  some  will  take  it  from  the  shelf,  and  open 
it  at  this  chapter  or  that,  in  order  to  find  the  sum- 
total  of  human  wisdom  on  the  matter  to  which  the 
chapter-heading  refers.  I  am  therefore  compelled 
to  repeat  over  and  over  again  that  this  little  volume 
is  not  a  substitute  for  the  more  orderly  and  detailed 
cookery-book.  It  is  in  the  nature  of  a  tract,  recalling 
indifferent  cooks  who  have  lapsed  from  grace  to  the 
more  fervid  practice  of  their  high  calling,  and  stirring 
up  those  who  have  never  cooked  to  begin  cooking  now. 


My  most  important  paragraph  about  soups  will  not 
contain  a  recipe.  It  will  be,  and  hereby  is,  an  en- 
treaty to  take  down  a  good  cookery-book  and  to  run 
rapidly  through  the  chapter  on  soups.  Let  this 
quick  perusal  be  made  pencil  in  hand  and  let  the 
likely  soups  be  marked  with  a  cross.  By  the  likely 
I  mean  those  which  are  easily  prepared  from  acces- 
sible, fresh,  inexpensive,  nutritious  and  appetising 
materials.  For  example,  a  cook  who  reads  all  about 
soups  in  October  will  not  mark  as  a  matter  of  urgency 
a  soup  which  can  be  made  only  with  fresh  green  peas. 
Nor  will  a  wise  cook  grow  excited  over  a  plan  for  using 

83 


84      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

lentils  or  split  peas  or  dried  haricot  beans  at  a  time 
when  the  markets  are  overflowing  with  artichokes, 
carrots,  cauliflower,  sorrel,  cress,  leeks,  lettuce, 
celery  and  turnips.  Most  cookery-books  contain 
recipes  for  hundreds  of  concoctions  which  you  would 
never  dream  of  making,  just  as  most  bookshops  con- 
tain hundreds  of  books  which  you  would  never  dream 
of  reading.  Get  into  your  mind  the  comparatively 
small  number  of  timely  and  practicable  soups.  Then, 
instead  of  deciding  that  you  will  immediately  set 
about  making  a  particular  soup  irrespective  of  its 
convenience,  look  round  your  pantry  or  set  out  for 
the  market.  If  the  pantry,  for  instance,  should  con- 
tain the  remains  of  a  chicken,  your  way  is  plain.  If, 
however,  the  cupboard  is  bare  and  you  find  at  the 
greengrocer's  shop  that  fine  cauliflowers  are  unusually 
cheap,  there  will  flash  into  your  mind  the  recipe  for 
a  Creme  Dubarry.  Or  you  may  remember  that  you 
have  some  cream  to  spare,  skimmed  from  a  surplus 
of  the  morning's  milk,  in  which  event  it  wiU  be  easy 
to  make  a  very  healthy  and  satisfying  sorrel  soup 
or  a  Creme  de  Sante.  [At  a  house  near  Hampstead, 
where  the  garden  is  not  much  bigger  than  the  dining- 
room,  I  once  had  the  pleasure  of  finding  enough 
sorrel  to  make  a  Creme  de  Sante  which  was  more  than 
a  success.]  Perhaps  you  have  been  boiling  a  fish, 
and  you  have  some  fish  stock  which  you  do  not  know 
what  to  do  with.  By  shredding  up  about  half-a- 
pound  of  raw  white  fish  and  by  adding  the  shells  and 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  by  beating  the  mixture  of 
stock  and  fish  and  eggs  over  the  fire  until  a  froth  rises, 
you  wiU  have  gone  a  long  way  towards  making  an 
unconventional  consomme  of  fish.    This  soup  is  a 


SOUPS  85 

little  troublesome,  because  it  has  to  be  strained  through 
muslin  and  heated  up  again  afterwards  ;  but  if  your 
fish  stock  is  good  to  begin  with,  and  if  you  have  been 
so  fortunate  as  to  have  a  glass  of  Chablis  or  any  other 
good  dry  white  wine  to  throw  in,  you  will  not  be 
ashamed  of  the  result.  In  short,  we  are  back  for  the 
fourth  or  fifth  time  to  our  root  principle  of  the  market 
or  larder  first  and  the  choice  of  dishes  afterwards. 


Before  setting  down  some  hints  for  one  or  two  soups 
which  your  English  cookery-book  may  not  teach  you 
to  make  so  well,  I  must  try  to  explain  why  soup  has 
not  been  popular  in  England.  English  soups  are 
generally  either  too  poor  or  too  "  good.''  When  soup 
is  made  for  distribution  from  charitable  kitchens,  it 
is  too  often  a  crude  production  most  trying  to  the 
stomachs  of  the  poor  creatures  who  have  been  short 
of  their  usual  solid  food.  Far  too  reckless  a  use  is 
made  of  dry  pulse.  I  assisted  some  years  ago  at  the 
free  distribution  of  soup  in  a  London  parish,  and 
was  shocked  to  find  that  it  was  made  on  the  same 
formula  every  day,  until  the  recipients,  in  spite  of 
their  hunger,  began  to  hate  the  sight  of  it.  With  no 
greater  expenditure  for  materials,  it  would  have  been 
possible  to  have  avoided  this  disgust  while  enormously 
increasing  the  dietetic  value  of  the  gifts.  At  the  other 
extreme,  we  find  people  despising  every  soup  which  is 
not  the  quintessence  of  the  most  costly  materials. 
In  some  quarters  soup  must  be  made  from  real  turtle, 
or  from  the  pick  of  prime  beef,  or  from  fresh  lobsters, 
or  from  whole  chickens  before  they  will  look  at  it. 
I  know  men,  especially  city  men,  who  have  no  use 


86       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

at  all  for  a  perfect  little  French  soup  which  stimulates 
the  gastric  juices  and  launches  the  whole  dinner  on 
its  proper  voyage.  Yet  these  same  men  are  highly 
pleased  when  they  are  given  a  plateful  of  appetite- 
killing  meat-essence  in  which  some  leathery  oysters 
or  a  poached  egg  can  be  seen  floating  horribly,  like 
jelly-fish  in  the  tide.  By  a  *'  good  "  soup  our  English 
cooks  too  often  mean  a  soup  which  has  been  made 
as  if  no  other  dish  of  fish,  flesh  or  fowl  is  to  follow  it. 


Speaking  generally,  the  housekeeper  who  relies 
upon  large  reserves  of  soups  from  the  grocer's,  either 
dry  in  packets  or  wet  in  bottles,  is  in  a  pitiable  con- 
dition. I  grant  that  in  flats  or  cottages,  where  the 
staff  is  very  small,  one  may  do  worse  than  keep  in 
reserve  for  emergencies  a  bottle  or  two  of  soup  made 
by  a  first-class  English  house  or  a  tin  of  the  delicious 
tomato  soup  packed  by  an  American  house  whose 
name  everybody  knows.  There  are  also  some  squares 
of  soup  in  packets,  costing  about  sixpence  each,  which 
are  useful  to  meet  a  sudden  call.  But,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  tiny  gelatine  tubes  of  concentrated  con- 
somme, I  have  never  found  any  of  the  very  cheap 
ready-made  soups  worth  even  the  small  amount  of 
money  they  cost .  The  low-priced  dry  soups  in  packets 
yield  a  soup  with  a  deadly  defect  for  which  I  can  think 
of  no  better  name  than  "  stuffiness."  It  is  a  common 
idea  that  if  you  evaporate  moisture  from  meat  and 
vegetables  to  make  them  portable,  and  then  swell 
them  out  again  with  water  from  a  tap,  you  restore 
them  to  their  original  condition.  There  is  no  greater 
error.    The  moisture  in  a  fresh  pea  is  not  the  same 


SOUPS  ^7 

as  that  which  is  distributed  by  the   Metropolitan 
Water  Board. 


Your  cookery-book  will  tell  you  a  good  deal  about 
the  most  important  soup  in  all  France  and  therefore 
in  all  the  world — namely,  the  Pot-au-feu.  But  this 
is  the  best  moment  for  me  to  point  out  that  I  am 
assuming  your  cookery-book  to  be  a  good  one,  full 
of  saving  doctrine  and  undefiled  by  the  ranker  heresies 
of  English  cooking.  In  order  that  you  may  test  your 
book,  I  suggest  here  and  now  that  you  compare  its 
prescription  for  Pot-au-feu  with  what  immediately 
follows.  Do  not  expect  your  book  to  use  the  same 
words  as  mine  and  do  not  be  put  o££  by  trivial  or  even 
considerable  differences  of  procedure  ;  but,  if  your 
book  be  found,  so  to  speak,  to  belong  to  another  world 
so  far  as  Pot-au-feu  is  concerned,  you  had  better  go 
and  buy  a  new  one. 


Even  those  who  have  forgotten  most  of  their 
French  know  that  "  feu  "  means  "  fire  "  and  that 
"  pot  "  means  "  pot."  So  we  will  begin  with  a  few 
words  about  the  pot  and  a  few  more  about  the  fire. 
Our  pot,  or  marmite,  or  casserole,  must  be  of  fire-proof 
clay,  and  roomy  enough  to  hold  the  fowl  which  Henry 
IV.  wished  every  Frenchman  to  have  in  the  pot  on 
a  Sunday.  The  lid  must  fit  closely  :  because  the 
simmering  will  be  protracted  through  six  long  hours, 
and  not  more  than  a  teacupful  of  liquid  should  escape 
as  vapour  from  start  to  finish. 

The  fire  (or  gas-jets)  must  be  so  managed  that  the 


88      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

heat  will  be  both  gentle  and  even.  If  we  use  gas,  we 
should  choose  one  of  the  larger  rings,  with  the  flame 
turned  down  very  low,  thus  distributing  the  heat  aU 
over  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  On  some  gas-stoves  it  is 
necessary  to  raise  the  pot  a  little  above  the  usual  grid, 
by  supporting  it  on  two  bits  of  metal,  such  as  pokers. 
The  essential  point  is  that  the  pot-au-feu  must  never 
boil.     It  must  simmer  aU  the  time. 

Now  for  the  ingredients.  A  pot-au-feu  being  primi- 
tive fare,  water  is  the  next  element  to  mention  after  the 
pot  of  earth  and  the  slow  fire.  We  will  pour  into  the 
casserole  two  quarts  of  water,  and  we  will  immediately 
add  three  pounds  of  shin  (or  round)  of  beef,  tied 
neatly  with  white  tape  or  clean  string.  We  will  put 
on  the  lid  and  set  the  pot  over  gentle  heat. 

Now  we  will  prepare  two  large  carrots,  two  turnips 
of  medium  size,  and,  if  possible,  a  small  parsnip  and 
four  sticks  of  celery.  We  will  cut  all  these  into  discs 
or  cubes.  If  we  have  four  leeks,  we  will  trim  them 
and  cut  up  the  white  parts.  Failing  leeks,  we  will  use 
two  good  onions.  We  shall  also  want  two  dozen  black 
peppercorns,  three  or  four  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  and, 
if  we  are  French,  a  garlic  clove  as  well. 

At  the  end  of  about  an  hour  we  must  begin  watching 
the  liquor  which  drowns  the  bit  of  beef  in  the  pot.  As 
soon  as  a  white  scum  appears,  no  time  must  be  lost  in 
skimming  it  entirely  away.  When  the  skimming  is 
finished,  we  replace  the  lid  till  the  simmering  begins 
again.  We  can  now  add  our  vegetables  and  season- 
ings, not  forgetting  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
From  this  point  the  cooking  must  go  on,  very  slowly, 
for  four  hours  more.  Finally,  we  lift  out  the  piece  of 
meat,  we  remove  the  vegetables,  we  skim  off  any 


SOUPS  89 

additional  grease — and  there  is  our  pot-au-feu. 
[Some  cooks  facilitate  the  removal  of  the  vegetables 
by  tying  them  in  muslin  before  putting  them  in  the 
casserole.]  The  pot-au-feu  does  not  need  to  be  eaten 
the  same  day.  When  wanted  it  can  be  seasoned  and 
eaten  as  a  soup,  or  it  can  be  made  the  foundation  of  all 
kinds  of  important  dishes.  We  must  beware,  how- 
ever, of  cooking  a  cabbage  in  it,  if  we  want  the  pot-au- 
feu  to  remain  good  for  more  than  twenty-four  hours. 


Like  every  other  bright  light,  the  glory  of  Pot-au- 
feu  casts  a  shadow.  The  piece  of  boiled  beef  which 
is  left  over  has  to  be  eaten  in  thrifty  households,  and 
the  day  for  eating  it  is  regarded  by  French  papas  as  a 
kind  of  Black  Monday,  just  as  the  English  Monday's 
cold  beef  or  mutton  was  a  penance  to  the  London 
husband  when  he  still  lived  over  his  shop  and  took 
his  midday  meal  in  the  bosom  of  his  family  seven 
days  a  week.  The  French  boiled  beef  is  accompanied 
by  boiled  carrots  and  large  rough  grains  of  a  special 
salt,  but  neither  the  carrots  nor  the  gros  sel  can  re- 
concile the  Frenchman  to  his  hard  lot.  It  is  one  more 
proof  of  the  excessive  benevolence  of  Providence  to 
males  that  all  kinds  of  business  appointments  crop 
up  on  a  boiled-beef  day,  thus  enabling  the  French 
citizen  to  eat  at  a  restaurant  and  to  leave  Madame  and 
the  little  Jules  and  the  little  Madeleine  to  wrestle 
with  the  dish.  In  England  and  in  war-time,  if  we 
are  to  have  the  authentic  Pot-au-feu  we  must  face 
the  boiled  beef  as  well.  And  if  the  beef  was  good  to 
start  with  :  if  we  have  not  allowed  it  to  become  black 
and  dry  through  being  only  partially  submerged  in  the 


90       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

broth  :  and  if  we  will  eat  it  with  a  small  white  cabbage 
which  has  been  cut  in  half  and  cooked  tender  in  the 
pot-au-feu  itself  for  about  forty  minutes  :  then  our 
penance  will  not  be  too  hard  for  us  to  bear. 


In  the  introductory  chapter  I  advised  those  readers 
who  have  small  establishments  to  escape  from  the 
t5n:anny  of  the  all-the-year-round  stock-pot.  It  is 
taken  for  granted,  however,  that  stock  will  be  fre- 
quently made  and  that  nothing  suitable  for  its  pre- 
paration will  be  wasted.  In  practice,  nevertheless,  my 
advice  for  the  makingof  particular  lots  of  stock,  instead 
of  carrying  on  the  stock-pot  generally,  will  be  justified 
to  such  an  extent  that  even  the  occasional  throwing 
away  of  an  ounce  or  two  of  scraps  may  turn  out  to  be 
true  economy  in  the  end. 

As  soon  as  you  are  in  possession  of  stock  from  a  hare, 
or  a  partridge,  or  the  bone  of  a  boiled  ham,  or  any 
other  stock-yielding  substance,  you  must  proceed  to 
apply  the  oft-reiterated  rule  of  this  book  and  to  build 
upwards  and  onwards  therefrom.  Some  stocks  are 
practically  flavourless  and  to  these  you  may  add 
anything  you  like.  Others,  especially  those  made 
from  the  remains  of  roast  game,  are  often  so  flavoury 
that  they  require  nothing  more  than  a  thickening. 
With  the  leavings  of  a  hare  and  a  thickening  of  red 
haricots  you  can  make  a  wonderful  soup,  and  it  may 
be  worth  your  while  to  try  the  experiment  of  adding 
to  it  some  heated  (not  boiled)  milk  just  before  it  is 
served.  I  have  tasted  a  soup  of  this  kind  which 
sufficed  for  six  persons,  although  very  little  meat 
remained  on  the  bones  of  the  hare  before  they  were 


SOUPS  91 

taken  in  hand  for  soup.  The  milk  would  have  been 
wasted  if  this  use  had  not  been  found  for  it.  So  would 
the  hare's  bones.  This  meant  that  the  cost  to  the 
household  for  the  haricots  and  the  fuel  worked  out 
at  about  a  halfpenny  for  each  person,  the  tureenful 
of  fine  soup  therefore  costing  threepence. 


As  most  of  the  great  cookery-books  have  been 
written  in  countries  where  the  abstinence  days  are 
more  or  less  observed,  they  nearly  all  contain  elaborate 
directions  for  making  purely  vegetable  stocks.  My 
own  practice  is  to  prepare  vegetable  stocks  myself, 
when  vegetables  are  at  hand  ;  but  it  is  not  always 
worth  while  to  buy  the  materials  expressly  for  stock. 
In  an  earlier  chapter  I  referred  to  the  modern  vege- 
table extracts  such  as  "  Marmite."  [As  most  readers 
infer,  whenever  they  see  a  proprietary  article  men- 
tioned in  a  cookery-book  that  the  writer  has  received 
an  enormous  cheque  for  his  puff,  I  take  leave  to  state 
that  I  do  not  know  the  proprietor  of  "  Marmite  " 
from  Adam  ;  and  that  he  has  never  given  me  so  much 
as  the  smallest-sized  pot  of  his  preparation.]  Pos- 
sibly there  are  already  some  better  things  of  the  same 
sort,  but  I  have  still  to  meet  with  them.  With  this 
kind  of  extract  at  hand,  the  whole  art  or  mystery  of 
soup-making  is  opened  to  the  least  experienced.  I 
am  bound,  however,  to  recognise  the  fact  that  you 
will  sometimes  find  yourself  overburdened  with  vege- 
tables suitable  for  stock-making ;  so  here  are  brief 
directions  for  using  them. 

For  a  light-coloured  stock  use  white  haricot  beans, 
butter  beans,  or  peas  ;  for  a  dark  one  use  red  haricots 


92       HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

or  lentils.  Soak  the  cereals  for  some  hours,  put  them 
in  a  casserole  (in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked) 
along  with  carrots,  parsnips,  celery  and  onions,  pre- 
pared and  cut  up  into  little  squares,  and  a  bouquet 
of  herbs.  Simmer  them  for  many  hours.  Strain  the 
stock  into  a  jar,  and  reheat  it  from  time  to  time  if  you 
cannot  use  it  at  once.  A  less  cheap  method  is  to  slice 
up  some  celery  and  onions  and  carrots  and  turnips, 
and  to  fry  them  in  butter  with  some  sweet  herbs. 
When  they  are  nicely  fried  they  must  be  put  in  a 
saucepan  of  cold  water.  After  they  have  been  brought 
to  the  boil  they  must  be  simmered  down  for  an  hour 
or  two  until  one-third  of  the  water  is  gone.  As  in  the 
other  process,  the  stock  is  finally  strained  and  put 
away. 


As  this,  however,  is  a  book  in  praise  of  thrift,  it 
must  be  made  plain  that  we  do  not  always  need  such 
stocks  as  have  been  described.  There  is  a  rough-and- 
ready  rule  in  frugal  circles  which  declares  that  we 
ought  not  to  throw  away  the  water  in  which  any  food 
has  been  boiled,  with  the  exception  of  water  that  has 
been  used  for  boiling  eggs.  It  goes  without  saying 
that  the  rule  is  not  to  be  insisted  upon  when  any  dirt 
appears  in  the  water,  as  it  is  apt  to  do  sometimes — 
for  example,  in  the  cooking  of  certain  tubers.  StiU, 
speaking  broadly,  the  advice  is  good.  I  know  that 
some  readers  will  be  filled  with  horror  at  the  idea  of 
using  the  water  in  which  cauliflowers  have  been  boiled, 
so  it  will  be  well  to  give  plain  directions  whereby  this 
matter  may  be  brought  to  the  test. 

To-day,  being  a  Friday,  I  have  lunched  mainly  from 


SOUPS  93 

a  cauliflower,  served  whole  except  for  the  leaves,  with 
Hollandaise  sauce.  To-night,  if  I  can  spare  the  time, 
I  shall  take  the  cauliflower  water  as  the  beginning 
of  a  soup  which,  without  bragging,  I  should  not  feel 
ashamed  to  offer  to  the  first  gourmet  in  England.  Of 
coiu'se  my  cauliflower  was  stripped  of  greenery  and 
was  boiled  without  soda,  but  the  water  held  plenty 
of  salt. 

I  shall  melt  in  a  stewpan  over  a  very  gentle  heat 
about  two  ounces  of  butter  and  I  shall  add  three  or 
four  fairly  large  onions  cut  up  into  rings.  The  lid 
will  be  replaced  tightly  and  the  rings  of  onion  will 
simmer  as  slowly  as  possible  for  a  full  hour.  You  will 
understand  that  if  the  lid  fitted  too  loosely  the  vapours 
would  escape  and  the  onions  would  begin  to  fry,  which 
would  spoil  everything.  When  the  hour  is  fully  run 
out  I  shall  add  the  cauliflower  water,  having  first 
brought  it  exactly  to  the  boiling  point.  From  my 
bread-bowl  I  shall  take  what  fragments  I  can  find  of 
stale  bread  and  shall  break  them  up  small  and  throw 
them  into  the  stewpan.  The  lid  will  be  replaced  and 
the  simmering  will  go  on  for  at  least  another  hour. 
When  the  second  hour  has  passed  I  shall  examine 
a  spoonful  of  the  soup  in  a  cup  and  shall  make  up  my 
mind  whether  it  requires  any  more  salt,  which  will  be 
unlikely,  as  the  cauliflower  water  was  salted  already. 
With  a  wooden  spoon  I  shall  finally  rub  the  soup 
through  a  sieve,  thus  breaking  and  crushing  the  bread 
and  the  onions  and  keeping  back  everything  tough  or 
lumpy.  If  the  liquid  which  comes  through  the  sieve 
is  too  thin  I  shall  pour  it  back  into  the  stewpan  and 
let  it  go  on  simmering  until  it  becomes  smaller  in 
quantity  and  therefore  less  watery.    If,  on  the  other 


94      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

hand,  it  is  too  thick  I  shall  add  the  proper  quantity 
of  milk.  And,  when  it  is  served,  nobody  who  is  out 
of  the  secret  will  guess  that  a  cauliflower  or  an  onion 
or  pieces  of  stale  bread  have  had  anything  to  do 
with  it.  As  this  soup  is  practically  the  famous  Soubise 
of  the  French  cuisine,  it  can  be  made  part  of  a  formal 
menu  and  is  by  no  means  to  be  regarded  as  an 
amateur's  cheap  mess.  In  cold  print  it  looks  worse 
than  unpromising  ;  but  in  the  hot  soup-plate  it  tastes 
almost  too  good  to  be  true.  Frenchwomen  throw 
in  bacon  rinds  for  the  last  hour  of  simmering. 


When  the  Expeditionary  Force  returns  from  France, 
our  soldiers  will  probably  have  made  acquaintance  with 
Potage  Potiron,  because  pumpkins  are  in  season  while 
they  are  fighting  on  French  soil.  In  the  French 
quarter  of  London  you  can  buy  pieces  of  pumpkin  by 
the  pound,  as  you  buy  cheese.  As  soon  as  you  have 
acquired  a  pound  of  pumpkin,  peel  it  and  clean  it, 
and  put  it  for  a  little  while  in  boiling  water.  Mean- 
while you  ought  to  have  been  frying  in  butter  a  leek 
and  an  onion  cut  up  into  small  pieces.  You  place 
the  pumpkin  (which  must  also  be  cut  up  into  small 
pieces)  with  the  leek  and  onion  in  a  saucepan,  pepper 
and  salt  them  and  then  drown  them  in  warm  water. 
With  the  lid  on  the  pan,  they  must  cook  slowly 
throughout  a  long  hour.  Cut  up  three  or  four  medium- 
sized  potatoes  and  put  them  with  the  other  vegetables 
in  the  pan.  After  thirty  or  forty  minutes  more  of 
slow  cooking,  the  soup  will  be  ready  to  eat.  [Some 
people  fry  slices  of  carrot  with  the  onion  and  the  leek, 
but  I  am  shy  of  recommending  this  course  to  every- 


SOUPS  95 

one,  as  many  housewives  will  not  take  pains  to  see 
that  the  carrots  are  in  first-class  condition.  A 
poor  carrot  has  brought  many  a  good  dish  to  a 
bad  end.]  This  pumpkin  soup  ought  to  cost  about 
a  penny  a  portion,  allowing  nearly  half-a-pint  to 
each  person. 


With  these  models  in  view,  the  intelligent  cook 
will  be  able  to  make  use  of  the  vegetables  in  her  garden 
or  within  reach  of  her  purse,  without  the  expense  of 
conforming  exactly  to  the  proportions  laid  down  in 
cookery-books.  The  basis  of  an  onion  [or  of  the  white 
part  of  a  leek]  fried  in  butter  is  an  immensely  valu- 
able secret,  and  the  ignorance  or  neglect  of  it  largely 
accounts  for  the  unpopularity  of  soups  in  England. 
There  is  a  foolish  idea  that  the  onion  or  leek  will  con- 
tinue to  assert  itself  unpleasantly.  A  fair  trial  will 
dispose  of  this  error  at  once. 

In  my  directions  for  a  Soubise  I  spoke  of  simmering 
my  onions  in  butter  because  I  was  presupposing  the 
need  for  a  Friday  soup.  I  may  now  explain  that  good 
dripping  will  serve  the  same  purpose  and  that  the 
quantity  of  dripping  can  be  rather  less  than  the 
quantity  of  butrer. 


Mr  Peter  Gallina,  the  brilliant  young  restaurateur 
who  directs  the  "  Rendezvous  "  in  Soho,  pubHshed 
a  year  or  two  ago  a  thin  paper-covered  book  called 
"  Eighteen  Simple  Menus."  As  a  rule,  I  should  not 
go  to  Mr  GalHna  as  a  teacher  of  economical  cookery ; 
for  he  is  shockingly  open-handed  with  eggs  and  butter 


96      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

and  cream.  But  there  are  two  or  three  recipes  for 
soups  in  his  book  which  will  not  strain  the  resources 
of  the  most  careful  housewife,  and  I  will  transcribe 
them  here.  They  prove  once  more  that  everyone 
who  is  the  master  of  an  art  knows  how  to  be  simple 
when  simplicity  is  called  for. 


"  Creme  Parmentier. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  ;  let  it  cook 
for  a  few  minutes  and  moisten  it  with  a  tumbler  of 
milk.  Add  two  pints  of  water,  two  or  three  peeled 
potatoes,  two  leeks,  and  one  onion  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  the 
whole  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  take 
a  strainer  and  whisk  it  so  that  the  whole  goes  through. 
Put  in  a  tureen,  with  a  piece  of  butter  (a  little  cream 
can  be  added).     Stir  and  serve. 

"  Should  the  soup  get  too  thick,  add  a  little  more 
water,  or  milk.    This  soup  is  sufficient  for  four  persons. 


"  Creme  St  Germain. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  in  a  saucepan  ;  when  reduced,  add  one  onion 
and  one  carrot  cut  in  small  squares,  also  one  leek 
cut  small,  half  a  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  of  thyme  ;  cook 
for  about  one  minute  and  add  half-a-pound  of  green 
split  peas,  three  pints  of  stock  or  water,  salt,  pepper 
and  nutmeg  ;  one  potato,  thinly  cut  to  bind  the  soup, 
can  also  be  added.  Let  boil  steadily  for  about  one 
hour,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  finally  adding 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter. 


SOUPS  97 

"  Creme  Ambassadeur. — Proceed  as  for  the  Creme 
St  Germain.  Cook  separately  in  salted  water  one 
handful  of  rice  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  and  when 
the  soup  is  strained  and  ready  to  be  served  add  the 
rice. 


"  Crfeme  Sante. — Cut  one  onion  and  one  leek  finely, 
put  in  a  stewpan  with  butter,  cook  them  but  do  not 
let  them  brown,  add  six  medium  potatoes,  cut  finely, 
and  three  pints  of  water,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg,  boil  gently  for  half-an-hour  and  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Have  another  small  saucepan  with  a 
little  butter  ;  when  warm  put  a  little  fresh  sorrel  well 
washed  and  cut  "julienne"  shape,  let  it  cook  one 
minute  and  add  to  soup,  finally  adding  a  little  cream, 
a  piece  of  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  an  eg§  all  well 
mixed  together. 


"  Cr^me  Cressoniere. — Prepare  in  the  same  way  as 
for  Creme  Sante,  only  garnish  differently  ;  get  a  nice 
green  bunch  of  watercress,  pick  off  the  leaves  and 
wash  stalks  cleanly,  add  stalks  to  soup,  cook  for  half- 
an-hour  and  strain.  Boil  the  leaves  of  the  water- 
cress in  water  for  a  few  seconds  and  then  add  them 
to  the  soup.  Finally  add  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little 
cream,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 


"  Cr^me  Solferino. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  add  one  carrot  and  one  onion  cut  into  small  dice, 
also  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a  few  pepper- 

G 


98      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

corns  ;  cook  for  a  minute  and  add  a  pinch  of  flour. 
When  mixed  add  half-a-pint  of  tomato  puree,  also  two 
pints  of  stock  or  water  ;  let  simmer  for  an  hour.  A 
flavouring  bunch  consisting  of  one  leek,  one  stick  of 
celery,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  should  be  added, 
then  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  and  serve. 
A  few  peas  can  be  added  at  the  moment  of  serving. 
The  flavouring  bunch  should  be  removed  before 
sending  the  soup  to  table. 

"  Creme  Dubarry. — Cut  one  onion  finely,  also  the 
white  part  of  one  leek,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a 
piece  of  butter  and  fry  them,  without  letting  them 
colour,  for  two  minutes  ;  add  two  spoonfuls  of  flour, 
mix  and  let  cook  for  a  minute,  add  one  pint  of  boiling 
milk  and  three  pints  of  water,  mix  well  together  with 
a  whisk,  put  on  a  moderate  fire  to  boil,  taking  care  to 
stir  continually ;  take  a  cauliflower  and  remove  all 
leaves,  cut  it  in  pieces  and  add  to  soup  ;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  let  boil  steadily  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  strain,  and  finally  add  a  little 
cream. 

*'  Potage  Bonne  Femme. — Cut  two  onions  and  two 
leeks  finely,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of 
butter,  cook  for  a  minute,  add  five  pints  of  water, 
eight  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add  a  hand- 
ful of  vermicelli,  boil  for  three  minutes,  and  serve." 

All  the  soups  just  explained  have  familiar  names 
and  are  cheap,  tasty  and  wholesome. 


SOUPS  99 

Before  passing  on  from  Soup  to  Fish  I  had 
better  say  something  about  the  fish  stock  which  will 
be  mentioned  several  times  in  a  later  chapter.  A 
reason  will  be  given  against  having  too  much  fish 
stock  on  one's  hands,  but  there  will  often  be  plenty 
of  it  in  the  house.  Fish  soups  are  rarely  served  in 
England.  One  excuse  for  their  rarity  may  be  found 
in  the  foolishness  of  certain  enthusiasts  who  have 
tried  to  make  and  sell  the  famous  bouillabaisse  while 
lacking  the  Mediterranean  fishes  without  which  it  is 
bound  to  disappoint  the  eater.  I  shall  therefore 
write  only  a  few  lines  about  fish  soup,  and  shall 
describe  the  simplest  of  them  all. 

Your  fish  stock  being  well  strained,  put  a  quart  of 
it  in  a  clean  stewpan.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
flour carefully  in  half-a-pint  of  milk,  taking  care  that 
there  are  no  lumps.  Add  the  milk  and  cornflour  to 
the  stock  and  bring  the  contents  of  the  pan  to  the 
boiling-point,  stirring  all  the  time.  You  will  season 
the  mixture  with  pepper  and  salt  according  to  the 
saltiness  or  otherwise  of  the  stock.  After  the  boiling- 
point  is  attained,  simmer  the  soup  for  a  few  minutes, 
as  it  is  necessary  in  this  and  every  other  dish  to  be- 
ware of  eating  such  stuff  as  cornflour  until  it  is  pro- 
perly cooked.  Now  take  a  bowl  or  a  soup  tureen  and 
put  at  the  bottom  of  it  an  egg  well  beaten  up.  Pour 
the  soup  in  very  slowly,  never  ceasing  to  stir  and  stir 
and  stir. 

As  the  fish  stock  costs  you  nothing  and  the  corn- 
flour is  an  almost  negligible  expense,  you  will  get  this 
soup  for  practically  the  price  of  one  egg  and  a  tumbler- 
ful of  milk.  In  order  that  those  who  eat  it  may 
treat  it  as  a  food  and  not  swallow  it  as  a  liquid  (which 


100     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

is  dangerous  where  cornflour  and  all  other  starch  is 
concerned)  little  pieces  of  toast  should  be  thrown  in 
at  the  last  moment.  At  my  own  modest  table  I  do 
not  use  toast ;  but  as  my  little  innovations  would 
take  too  long  to  explain,  the  reader  must  be  left  to 
work  out  his  own  ideas,  always  remembering  to  make 
use  of  what  might  otherwise  be  wasted. 


CHAPTER  VI 

SAUCES 

Everybody  has  heard  of  Voltaire's  gibe  that  England 
is  the  country  of  a  hundred  religions  and  only  one 
sauce.  But  everybody  has  not  tried  to  analyse  the 
causes  of  our  national  shortcomings  so  far  as  sauces 
are  concerned.  As  I  point  out  in  other  chapters, 
the  English  prefer  to  confine  themselves  to  the  best 
materials,  and  it  follows  that  they  do  not  care  to  veil 
the  perfections  of  their  sirloins  and  saddles  under 
trimmings.  There  is,  however,  another  reason. 
During  the  years  when  the  great  sauces  were  being 
brought  to  perfection  in  France,  the  English  were 
entering  upon  an  epoch  of  neo-Puritanism.  I  am 
speaking  of  the  eighteenth  century  and  of  the  Evan- 
gelical Revival.  The  Evangelicals  certainly  did  not 
mortify  themselves  after  the  fashion  of  the  mediaeval 
saints.  Indeed,  they  ate  and  drank  amply  and 
choicely.  It  is  beyond  dispute,  however,  that  they 
disliked  a  show  of  extravagance  and  luxury,  and 
therefore  they  fell  out  of  the  running  so  far  as  the 
higher  cookery  is  concerned.  And  their  error  per- 
sists up  to  this  day.  When  an  enthusiast  for  good 
cookery  describes  some  happy  discovery  in  a  mixed 
company,  he  usually  finds  at  least  one  of  his  hearers 
looking  at  him  with  a  pained  smile  of  polite  reproach, 
as  if  to  say :  "  Thank  God  we  don't  all  worship  our 
luncheon  and  dinner  like  this." 

10 1 


102     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

It  is  quite  commonly  believed  that  wide  ranges  of 
sauces  are  demanded  by  the  glutton  alone.  Now, 
so  far  as  my  own  experience  goes,  sauces  have  an 
entirely  different  function  and  effect.  The  men  and 
women  in  England  who  eat  too  much  and  acquire 
gout  or  indigestion  or  liver  complaints  are  not  the 
lovers  of  a  varied  and  skilfully-sauced  diet.  They 
are  the  people  who  eat  their  way  through  the  fifty- 
two  weeks  of  the  year  on  a  narrow  programme  of 
bacon  and  eggs,  hot  joints,  occasional  game,  about 
a  dozen  different  vegetables  at  the  most  in  twelve 
months,  few  salads,  and  large  quantities  of  pastries 
and  sweets.  In  fifty  years  a  man  of  this  type  probably 
eats  at  least  a  ton  more  food  than  is  consumed  in  the 
same  period  by  a  reasonable  gourmet.  He  derives 
less  energy  and  pleasure  from  his  meals  ;  and  his  food 
costs  him  more. 


I  will  grant,  in  fairness,  that  there  are  many  sauces 
which  every  right-minded  man  must  pronounce  sin- 
ful luxuries.  A  sauce  which  requires  a  whole  day's 
labour  to  prepare  about  a  pint,  and  costs  as  much  as 
would  keep  a  labourer's  family  for  a  month,  ought  to 
stick  in  one's  throat  [except  when  it  is  made  to  main- 
tain culinary  standards  at  their  highest  and  as  an 
exercise  in  the  utmost  professional  skill].  These 
wildly  extravagant  sauces,  however,  are  more  talked 
about  than  made.  Most  of  the  restaurants  where  they 
flourished  have  shut  their  doors,  and  there  are  few 
people  left,  outside  the  new-rich  of  the  United  States, 
to  support  the  chefs  in  these  pretensions. 

In  old  cookery-books  one  sometimes  found  recipes 


SAUCES  103 

for  sauces  which  caused  the  earnest  reader  to  lift  up 
his  hands  in  horror.  For  example,  I  have  come 
across  one  which  required  six  bottles  of  good  wine, 
twelve  pounds  of  prime  beef,  four  capons  and  ten 
game  birds  for  the  extraction  of  just  enough  sauce  to 
fill  an  ordinary  sauce-boat.  But  it  is  probable  that 
such  directions  as  these  were  never  once  carried  out. 
They  were  intended  to  hoodwink  the  public.  We 
know  that  the  sauce-makers  in  old  Paris  were  banded 
together  in  a  guild  and  that  they  guarded  their 
mystery  with  the  most  jealous  care.  Sauce  Espagnole 
was  a  dead  secret.  Chefs  refused  to  prepare  it  until 
the  other  servants  had  gone  to  bed  ;  and,  when  they 
were  pressed  for  the  recipe  by  personages  who  could 
hardly  be  refused,  they  seem  to  have  invented 
monstrous  prescriptions  which  both  discouraged  the 
inquirer  and  helped  to  justify  the  cook's  lavish 
expenditure  in  his  pantry  and  kitchen.  It  is  to  be 
understood,  therefore,  that  we  have  to  do  in  this 
chapter  with  the  use  of  sauces,  not  their  abuse  ;  and 
that  we  can  put  all  freak  sauces  on  one  side. 


The  true  use  of  sauce  is  soundly  stated  by  Dr 
Thudichum,  who  says  :  "  Solid  varieties  of  food, 
soluble  only  by  digestion,  are  not  rarely  dry  in  sub- 
stance, or  unattractive  in  taste,  or  insufficiently  or 
too  strongly  flavoured.  To  make  such  dry  food 
moister,  to  lubricate  it,  and  thus  aid  in  its  use,  to 
increase  the  attractiveness  of  the  taste  by  additions 
of  flavours  and  juxtaposition  of  contrast,  to  hide  or 
mask  excessive  flavours,  certain  liquid  additions 
have   been    invented  which  pass    by  the   name   of 


104     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

sauces"  ["The  Spirit  of  Cookery,"  p.  223.    London, 

1895]. 


The  best  sauce  is  well  known  to  be  Hunger.  Those 
German  stragglers  who  were  captured  after  the  battle 
of  the  Mame  with  nothing  but  raw  beets  and  raw 
oats  in  their  poor  stomachs  had  got  down  the  stuff 
with  the  help  of  this  sauce  ;  and,  if  they  had  not 
bolted  the  beets  but  had  masticated  them  well,  they 
might  have  eaten  worse  food.  Next  to  Hunger  comes 
Salt.  Of  course,  most  of  us  would  call  salt  a  condi- 
ment, not  a  sauce.  It  is  instructive,  however,  to 
note  that  the  word  sauce  has  been  worn  down  from 
the  word  salsa.  Even  the  least  learned,  by  grouping 
together  the  words  "  salt,"  "  salsa  "  and  "  salivation," 
will  perceive  the  ancient  origins  of  the  true  philosophy 
of  sauce. 


All  this  may  seem  a  lengthy  preamble.  But  it  is 
of  the  utmost  importance  that  the  cook  who  wants 
to  get  out  of  narrow  ways,  and  to  keep  house  on 
cheaper  and  pleasanter  and  healthier  lines,  should 
disabuse  her  mind  entirely  of  the  belief  that  sauces 
are  merely  luxuries.  Having  grasped  their  true  place 
in  kitchen  economy,  she  will  find  a  vast  field  of  possi- 
bihties  opened  to  her.  The  cheaper  kinds  of  fish  and 
the  second  and  third  cuts  of  meat  can  be  brought  up 
to  the  level  of  the  best  fish  and  the  prime  cuts  as  soon 
as  the  cook  is  willing  to  spend  on  ingredients  for  sauce 
a  part  (not  all)  of  the  money  she  has  saved  at  the 
fishmonger's  and  the  butcher's. 


SAUCES  105 

To  some  extent,  sauces  are  already  recognised,  even 
in  the  most  humdrum  and  monotonous  kitchens. 
The  cook  who  simply  stews  down  a  large  cooking 
apple  to  take  away  the  richness  of  a  goose  or  a  duck 
or  a  piece  of  fresh  pork,  is  using  sauce  in  one  of  its 
most  necessary  applications.  Our  plain  cooks  have 
also  some  dim  perception  of  what  is  called  Melted 
Butter.  This  is  the  sauce  that  Voltaire  jeered  at, 
and  the  name  is  certainly  most  unfortunate.  Every 
writer  on  cookery  hates  it.  Over  and  over  again  in 
jotting  down  recipes,  where  one  would  naturally 
write  of  a  little  melted  butter  in  a  stewpan  (meaning 
some  butter  newly  melted  and  nothing  else),  one  has 
to  guard  against  some  reader  thinking  of  the  so- 
called  melted  butter  which  is  used  as  a  sauce.  And, 
too  often,  this  sauce  is  even  more  hateful  than  its 
name.  Cooks  think  that  it  is  easy  to  make  ;  yet 
the  truth  is  that  the  preparation  of  this  sort  of  sauce, 
or  of  its  sisters  Sauce  Blanche  and  Sauce  Blonde  is 
considered  a  test  of  skill  among  those  who  know  what 
they  are  talking  about.  Mustard  Sauce  and  Caper 
Sauce  and  Parsley  Sauce  are  frequently  found  to  be 
no  more  than  melted  butter  sauce  mixed  with  mustard 
or  capers  or  chopped  parsley. 

Bread  Sauce  is  often  good  in  England  and  is  used 
intelligently  in  relation  to  game.  Mint  Sauce  is  gener- 
ally well  made,  and  this  also  is  used  in  the  right  way. 
But  there  are  not  many  other  sauces  which  can  be 
safely  asked  for  in  ordinary  homes.  The  Hollandaise, 
in  two  cases  out  of  three,  is  a  debacle  of  good  eggs  and 
good  butter,  and  it  often  reminds  me  of  a  friend,  both 
a  cook  and  a  scholar,  who,  when  trying  to  consume 
with  me  an  infamous  Hollandaise  which  had  cost  a 


io6      HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

shilling  for  a  very  smaU  boatful,  moaned  :    "  Some- 
thing is  here  for  tears." 


We  must,  none  the  less,  be  reasonable  and  not 
attempt  to  imitate  in  small  kitchens  the  achievements 
of  the  sauce-cooks  in  great  houses  and  in  first-class 
restaurants.  Many  a  housewife  has  been  discouraged 
in  her  attempts  to  turn  over  a  new  leaf  by  being  told 
that  serious  cookery  is  impossible  unless  one  main- 
tains constant  supplies  of  the  famous  "  mother  sauces." 
Writers  on  cookery  tell  us  that  there  are  two  great 
foundation  sauces,  "the  Adam  and  Eve  of  cookery, 
whence  most  others  have  sprung."  These  sauces  are 
Espagnole,  which  is  a  brown  sauce,  and  Veloutee, 
which  is  white ;  and  nearly  all  other  sauces  are  sup- 
posed to  be  formed  by  additions  to  these  two.  Other 
writers  speak  of  three  foundations,  or  even  five.  I 
do  not  propose  to  reproduce  the  well-worn  arguments. 
Nor  will  it  be  possible  to  give  in  detail  instructions  for 
making  the  grand  sauces,  either  mothers  or  daughters. 
That  they  are  beyond  the  reach  of  ordinary  house- 
keepers became  plain  to  me  one  night  when  I  was 
watching  the  preparation  of  my  own  little  dinner  in 
the  kitchen  of  a  restaurant  where  the  proprietors  were 
well  known  to  me.  Rightly  or  wrongly,  the  chef  had 
been  dismissed  an  hour  before.  The  kitchen  staff  was 
cosmopolitan,  and,  as  it  was  a  time  of  International 
crisis,  there  was  a  good  deal  of  strong  feeling  all  round. 
I  noticed  that  the  manager  was  anxious  and  that  he 
was  spending  more  time  in  the  kitchen  than  was 
usual.  It  turned  out  that  he  had  fears  for  his 
"foundations,"   which    he    valued    at    nearly    £50; 


SAUCES  107 

because,  some  years  before,  a  sudden  change  of  staff 
had  been  attended  by  an  "  accident "  to  these 
mother  sauces. 

The  great  foundations  are  entitled  to  the  utmost 
honour  ;  and,  when  one  goes  to  a  good  restaurant, 
it  is  generally  a  pity  to  ask  for  plain  dishes  instead  of 
fish  and  entrees  with  which  the  famous  sauces  are 
served.  Let  home  be  home  ;  and  let  the  professional 
restaurateur  show  us  that  he  is  a  professional  who 
knows  his  work. 


Now  for  some  sauces.  We  will  begin  with  a  simple 
version  of  White  Sauce.  I  shall  take  it  for  granted 
that  you  have  a  good,  small,  enamelled  saucepan, 
with  the  enamel  entirely  unbroken,  and  that  you 
possess  a  wooden  spoon  which  is  not  too  clumsy. 
Melt  rather  less  than  an  ounce  of  butter  in  the  pan 
and  cook  therein  some  flour,  weighing  a  trifle  less  than 
the  butter.  It  goes  without  saying  that,  as  you  are 
aiming  at  a  white  sauce,  you  will  not  let  the  mixture 
become  brown.  When  the  flour  and  butter  are 
cooked,  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  stove 
and  add  two  gills  of  good  white  stock  made  from  the 
remains  of  a  chicken  or  from  some  veal.  Stir  it  up 
well  and  replace  it  over  the  fire,  continuing  to  stir 
until  it  boils.  After  the  boiling-point  is  reached,  go 
on  cooking  the  mixture  slowly  for  nearly  a  quarter  of 
an  hour.  Then  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  (varied 
according  to  the  saltiness  of  the  stock)  and  with  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Strain  the  sauce  through  a  hair 
sieve,  or  through  a  pointed  strainer.  I  take  it  for 
granted  that  you  possess  a  perforated  spoon  and  that 


io8     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

you  will  always  skim  sauces  and  all  other  preparations 
on  which  a  scum  rises.  If  you  wish  the  sauce  to  be 
beautifully  smooth,  you  wiU  wring  it  through  a 
cloth  instead  of  sieving  it.  You  are  to  understand 
that  this  is  not  a  complete  sauce,  but  a  very  simple 
foundation. 


I  am  tempted  to  give  you  directions  for  a  much  more 
satisfactory  white  foundation — a  true  Velout^e — but 
this  is  a  handbook  of  economical  cookery.  So  we 
will  go  on  to  a  simple  Sauce  Espagnole,  or  smooth 
brown  sauce.  You  will  make  it  on  a  day  when  you 
have  some  trimmings  of  ham  or  veal  in  the  house,  or 
some  good  scraps  of  birds  or  ground  game.  Cut  up 
three  sound  carrots,  as  well  as  an  onion  and  a  clove. 
Butter  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan  with  about  an  ounce 
of  butter  and  add  your  scraps  of  game  and  meat 
with  the  vegetables.  Put  the  lid  on  the  pan  and 
cook  the  contents  on  a  slow  fire.  When  they  have 
turned  a  light  brown,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  just  enough  hot  stock  to  moisten  the  mixture 
well.  As  I  do  not  know  how  much  game  and  meat 
you  will  be  using,  I  cannot  define  the  quantity  of 
stock  exactly,  but  it  must  be  enough  to  make  the 
stirring  of  the  mixture  quite  easy.  You  must  stir 
all  the  time  you  are  pouring  in  the  stock.  Introduce 
a  bouquet  as  described  on  page  145.  Replace  the 
lid  once  more,  and  simmer  the  sauce  as  gently  as 
possible  for  about  four  hours.  Finally,  skim  it  and 
sieve  it.  Pour  it  into  a  jar  and  let  it  get  cold. 
Then  cover  the  jar,  and  the  sauce  will  keep  for  some 
time. 


SAUCES  109 

A  Sauce  Bechamel  is  considered  a  mother  sauce  by 
many  authorities,  and,  as  I  prescribe  it  in  the  chapter 
on  vegetables  for  a  Choufleur  au  gratin,  I  will  give 
simple  directions  for  making  it.  Begin  as  before  by 
melting  an  ounce  of  butter  in  the  pan  and  cooking  in 
it  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  without  letting  it  begin 
to  turn  brown.  Add  salt,  mace  and  pepper — white 
pepper,  because  this  is  to  be  a  whitish  sauce.  Add 
two  gills  of  hot  milk,  stirring  it  all  the  time  as  you 
pour  it  in,  and  then  a  little  finely  minced  parsley.  Go 
on  stirring  until  the  mixture  boils.  After  the  boiling- 
point  is  reached,  the  further  boiling  must  proceed 
very  gently  indeed  and  for  not  more  than  two  or  three 
minutes.  You  can  improve  this  sauce  very  much  by 
putting  in  some  cream  as  well  as  hot  milk.  The  sauce 
requires  straining.  [This  is  a  poor  man's  Bechamel 
without  mushrooms.    Use  very  little  mace.] 


A  Sauce  Hollandaise  is  considered  rather  luxurious, 
but  it  will  often  be  found  cheap  in  the  end,  as  it 
carries  off  inexpensive  materials  in  the  grand  style. 
To  make  it  you  will  require  the  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
You  will  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  of 
butter,  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour,  a  dusting  of  nut- 
meg and  a  little  salt.  Mix  all  these  well  together. 
Add  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Bring  them  almost  to 
the  boiling-point — not  quite — stirring  all  the  time. 
It  is  of  great  importance  not  to  bring  the  mixture  to 
full  boihng.  As  soon  as  boiling  is  imminent,  draw 
the  saucepan  away  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  another 
ounce  of  butter.  You  must  stir  on  until  the  sauce 
is  beautifully  smooth.    Finally,  add  the  juice  of  a 


110     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

good  lemon  and  serve  the  Sauce  Hollandaise  as  hot 
as  possible. 

A  more  distinguished  Sauce  Hollandaise  may  some- 
times be  required.  If  you  are  a  beginner  in  cookery 
you  had  better  take  two  saucepans.  Pour  some  hot 
water  into  the  larger  pan  and  place  the  smaller  pan 
therein.  Assemble  your  ingredients.  You  require  two 
bare  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  some  salt,  some  pepper,  and  rather  less 
than  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  First  put  the 
vinegar  in  the  inner  pan  and  reduce  it  to  about  half 
its  bulk.  Take  the  pan  off  the  fire  and  let  the  vinegar 
cool  for  two  minutes,  then  mix  into  it  the  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs,  salted  and  peppered.  Put  it  back  over  a 
moderate  heat  and  cook  it  for  two  minutes,  never 
ceasing  to  stir  it.  Little  by  little,  introduce  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  butter,  which  you  ought  to  have  weighed 
beforehand.  You  may  take  the  pan  off  the  fire  to  put 
in  this  butter.  Return  it  to  the  fire,  still  stirring  it. 
As  soon  as  you  perceive  that  the  butter  is  thoroughly 
incorporated  with  the  other  ingredients,  again  lift 
the  pan  from  the  fire  and  work  in,  with  ceaseless 
stirring,  another  two  ounces  of  butter.  Put  it  back 
over  the  fire  and  cook  jt  very  gently  for  another  ten 
minutes,  when  it  will  be  found  smooth  and  creamy. 
In  this  recipe,  whenever  I  speak  of  putting  the  pan 
back  over  the  fire,  I  mean  (if  you  are  using  two  pans) 
the  inner  pan  only,  and  I  take  it  for  granted  that  the 
water  in  the  outer  pan  will  be  boiling,  though  not 
boiling  fiercely.  It  is  better  to  learn  to  dispense  with 
the  outer  pan  for  the  earlier  stages  of  the  operation, 
but  the  last  ten  minutes  of  cooking  are  always  safer 
with  the  outer  pan  of  boiling  water.     If  you  are 


SAUCES  III 

determined  to  follow  the  examples  of  many  cooks  and 
to  turn  out  a  disgraceful  Hollandaise,  let  the  sauce 
boil. 


Sauce  Mornay  enables  a  cook  to  make  use  of  cheap 
white  fish,  or  even  remains  of  fish  from  an  earlier 
meal,  without  appearing  to  be  parsimonious.  Heat 
thoroughly  in  a  small  saucepan  two  gills  of  good  white 
sauce.  Without  letting  it  come  to  the  boil,  work  in 
gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  an  ounce  of  butter,  not  in  one  lump  but^ 
little  bit  by  little  bit.  Cream  will  do  instead  of  butter, 
the  quantity  of  cream  to  be  the  same  as  the  quantity 
of  grated  cheese.  The  sauce  must  not  boil,  but  it 
must  be  very  hot. 


For  a  Sauce  Soubise,  one  wants  two  gills  of  the 
simpler  Bechamel  Sauce,  with  some  cream  and  three  or 
four  onions.  The  onions  are  cooked  in  salted  water, 
boiling  briskly,  until  they  are  quite  tender.  This  may 
mean  a  full  hour.  When  the  onions  are  cooked 
through,  they  are  to  be  thoroughly  drained,  chopped 
up  small,  and  put  through  a  hair  sieve.  The  puree 
which  comes  through  the  sieve  is  mixed  in  a  saucepan 
with  the  Bechamel  Sauce  and  is  brought  to  the  boil. 
It  is  then  seasoned  with  salt  and  white  pepper  ;  and 
some  people  dust  in  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  and  a 
thimbleful  of  powdered  sugar.  The  cream,  if  you  can 
spare  any,  is  added  last  of  all.  This  is  a  very  useful 
sauce  for  entrees.  For  example,  it  enables  a  house- 
keeper of  modest  resources  to  serve  Cotelettes  ^  la 


112     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Soubise,    which    many    professional    cooks   wrongly 
describe  as  Cotelettes  a  la  Maintenon. 


As  we  are  not  pretending  to  practise  la  haute 
cuisine,  I  shall  not  attempt  an  orderly  exposition  of 
the  famous  sauces  which  are  built  up  from  the  great 
foundations.  The  directions  just  given  can  be  applied 
by  anybody  with  ordinary  intelligence  to  the  con- 
ventional recipes  in  the  regular  cookery-books,  so  as 
to  simplify  and  cheapen  them  where  necessary.  The 
ordinary  books  will  tell  you  all  about  Egg  Sauce, 
Mushroom  Sauce,  Onion  Sauce,  Parsley  Sauce, 
Shrimp  Sauce,  Tomato  Sauce,  Sauce  Mousseline, 
Sauce  Normande,  Sauce  Poivrade,  Sauce  Ravigote, 
Sauce  Supreme,  Sauce  Venitienne,  Sauce  Remoulade, 
Sauce  Tartare,  and  the  various  sweet  sauces  for  use 
with  puddings.  I  shall  therefore  close  this  chapter 
with  one  or  two  prescriptions  which,  though  they  may 
be  found  in  other  books,  are  so  useful  in  good  and 
economical  cookery  that  it  will  do  no  harm  to  give 
them  prominence. 


No  man  or  woman  will  make  progress  in  cookery 
while  cherishing  the  idea  that  it  is  arbitrar}^  The 
best  recipes  are  the  best  recipes,  simply  because 
experience  proves  that  there  are  no  better  ways  of 
reaching  the  desired  results.  While  I  was  first 
fumbling  and  blundering  in  cookery,  I  found  myself 
one  day  groping  after  the  right  sauce  to  serve  with  the 
remains  of  a  goose.  With  the  materials  which  were 
at  hand,  I  produced  a  sauce  which  served  its  purpose 


SAUCES  113 

quite  well,  and  I  thought  I  had  made  a  discovery  until 
an  accomplished  cook  burst  out  laughing  and  told  me 
that  my  supposed  novelty  was  practically  the  same 
as  a  Sauce  Robert.  To  make  this  sauce,  chop  up  two 
or  three  big  EngHsh  or  French  onions  and  cook  them 
with  two  ounces  of  butter,  in  a  closed  pan,  for  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  the  lid  off  the  pan,  throw 
in  a  little  flour,  and  continue  the  cooking,  stirring 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  until  the  contents  of  the  pan  go 
down  to  a  brown  pulp.  Pour  in  about  a  gill  of  good 
stock,  previously  heated,  and  season  the  mixture  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  wine 
vinegar  and  some  salt  and  pepper.  Reduce  the  sauce 
by  further  boiling  without  ceasing  to  stir  it. 


Many  a  commonplace  entree  may  be  redeemed  by 
a  dish  of  potatoes  with  Sauce  Maitre  d'Hotel.  Melt 
an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  pan  and  add  to  it  almost  its 
own  bulk  of  chopped  parsley,  with  a  dessertspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  a  taste  of  nutmeg,  some  salt  and  some 
white  pepper.  The  lemon  juice  must  not  be  thrown 
in  all  at  once  but  must  be  mixed  gradually  with  the 
butter  and  the  parsley.  Add  some  cooked  potatoes 
cut  in  very  thin  slices,  put  on  the  lid  of  the  pan,  and 
shake  the  slices  of  potato  in  the  sauce  till  they  are 
warmed  through  and  well  mixed  with  the  other  in- 
gredients. It  is  obvious  that  the  potatoes  should  be  of 
the  firm  or  waxy  kind.  A  good  tablespoonful  of 
cream  or  white  stock,  put  in  at  the  same  time  as  the 
slices  of  potato,  will  be  a  great  improvement. 

I  have  given  the  formula  for  this  sauce  as  part  of  a 
recipe  for  potatoes,  but  it  can  be  applied  to  pieces  of 

H 


114     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

fish  or  game  or  meat,  as  well  as  to  potatoes,  with  good 
results. 


Mayonnaise  is  not  so  very  expensive,  and  it 
recoups  its  cost  in  many  ways.  Here  are  directions 
for  making  a  small  quantity.  Put  into  a  basin  the 
yolk  of  an  eg§.  In  hot  weather  you  may  require  two 
yolks,  unless  you  are  able  to  stand  the  basin  on  a  block 
of  ice.  Add  at  least  a  dessertspoonful  of  vinegar.  It 
is  best  to  mix  equal  quantities  of  Tarragon  vinegar 
and  French  white-wine  vinegar.  Mix  the  yolk  of  egg, 
the  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  and 
salt  and  pepper  well  together  in  the  basin.  Some 
people  sprinkle  in  a  few  grains  of  sugar.  The  mixing 
must  be  very  thoroughly  done  with  an  egg-whisk  or  a 
wooden  spoon.  Next  add,  drop  by  drop,  half-a-giU 
of  good  oHve  oil.     I  repeat,  drop  by  drop. 

The  working  in  of  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  is  trouble- 
some to  the  mayonnaise-maker,  and  certain  ingenious 
persons  have  tried  to  ease  his  burden.  A  few  years 
ago  I  bought  in  a  French  town  a  contrivance  for 
regulating  the  flow  of  the  oil,  but  I  wish  I  had  spent 
my  francs  and  centimes  on  a  good  old  French  dinner. 
The  best  trick  I  know  for  adding  the  oil  is  to  cut  a 
hole  in  the  cork  of  the  oil  bottle.  While  the  drops  of 
oil  are  falHng,  the  stirring  must  never  stop  until  the 
sauce  becomes  very  thick  and  smooth.  You  will 
taste  the  sauce  now  and  again,  and  you  may  find  that 
it  requires  a  few  more  drops  of  vinegar,  which  must 
be  stirred  in  as  diUgently  as  the  drops  of  oil. 

The  making  of  mayonnaise  is  a  dehcate  operation, 
contingent   upon  the  temperature,   upon  the   day's 


SAUCES  115 

humidity,  and  also  upon  the  nature  of  the  materials. 
Sometimes  you  will  fail  to  obtain  a  thick  mayonnaise 
on  the  lines  just  laid  down.  Should  this  misfortune 
befall,  melt  a  little  butter,  let  it  cool  again,  and  work 
it  into  the  sauce.  In  this  way  you  will  obtain  a 
mayonnaise  good  enough  to  use,  although  it  will  be 
below  the  professional  level. 


The  useful  Sauce  Italienne  requires  two  gills  of  brown 
sauce  as  a  foundation.  One  begins  by  chopping  up 
two  shalots  and  putting  them  into  a  pan  with  about 
a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil.  They  must  be  cooked 
but  not  browned.  Next,  one  must  add  half- a- gill  of 
Marsala,  the  two  gills  of  brown  sauce,  a  dessertspoon- 
ful of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
mushrooms,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  This 
mixture  must  be  simmered  very  slowly  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Should  scum  rise  to  the  surface,  of  course 
it  must  be  skimmed  away.  Some  people  mix  finely 
chopped  ham  with  the  parsley  and  mushrooms,  in 
which  case  the  skimming  will  become  still  more 
necessary.  Before  the  sauce  is  served,  the  thyme 
and  the  bay-leaf  must  be  withdrawn. 

Sauce  Italienne  is  poured  over  Macaroni  after  it 
has  been  boiled  tender  and  well  drained ;  over 
braised  liver  or  sUces  of  braised  meat,  and  over  many 
other  dishes  which  would  otherwise  be  unattractive. 


There  is  no  room  for  more  sauce  recipes.  But  a  few 
lines  must  be  spared  for  some  parting  advice.  Al- 
though sauces  have  been  studied  for  thousands  of 


ii6     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

years,  it  was  not  until  the  seventeenth  century  that 
cooks  began  to  prepare  the  great  sauces  as  we  now 
understand  them.  And,  just  as  those  cooks  improved 
upon  their  predecessors,  the  cooks  of  to-day  ought  not 
to  stand  still.  Our  ideas  of  a  good  dinner  are  not  the 
ideas  which  prevailed  in  the  reign  of  le  Grand 
Monarque,  and  our  sauces  should  not  be  the  same  as 
those  which  were  prepared  by  Vatel.  We  command 
a  greater  variety  of  materials  than  Vatel  ever  knew, 
while  our  notions  are  less  vulgar.  A  school  of 
brilliant  but  simple  sauce-making  will  arise  if  this 
generation  will  apply  itself  to  the  problem.  We 
ought  to  be  neither  irreverent  nor  servile  towards  the 
past ;  and  we  ought  to  be  neither  complicated  nor 
indolent  in  our  new  departures.  "  The  destiny  of 
nations,"  said  Brillat  Savarin,  "  depends  on  the 
manner  in  which  they  take  their  food  "  ;  and,  as  the 
basic  processes  of  cookery  are  everlasting,  it  is  in 
sauces  and  in  garnishes  that  reform  and  progress 
must  be  achieved.  I  saw  an  old  sauce-boat  the  other 
day  in  the  shape  of  an  unrigged  galleon  ;  and,  as  I 
looked,  I  thought  that  sauce-boats  were  barques  to 
carry  mankind  on  and  on. 


CHAPTER  VII 

FISH 

I  BEGIN  this  chapter  on  Fish  on  the  morrow  of  the 
Admiralty's  announcement  that  our  Grand  Fleet  has 
swept  the  whole  of  the  North  Sea  without  meeting  a 
single  German  ship.  While  it  may  be  too  much  to 
hope  that  the  enemy  will  be  completely  thwarted  in 
further  mine-laying  and  that  their  submarines  will 
never  be  heard  of  again,  it  is  safe  to  assume  that  fish 
wiU  still  be  caught  in  British  nets  and  brought  to 
British  markets.  Indeed,  there  are  well-informed 
people  who  believe  that  fish  will  be  landed  more 
plentifully  and  sold  more  cheaply  than  ever. 

A  great  quantity  of  fish  is  eaten  in  England  ;  but  it 
is  amazing  that  the  total  is  not  twice  as  great.  Fish 
is  the  only  important  food  that  can  be  had  for  the 
mere  taking.  If  the  present  expanse  of  the  North 
Sea  were  suddenly  upheaved  and  became  dry  land 
covered  with  pastures  and  orchards  in  which  one  could 
find  corn  without  having  to  plough  and  sow,  and  fruit 
without  having  to  plant  and  prune,  and  sheep  and 
oxen  without  having  to  breed  and  rear,  there  would 
be  great  public  satisfaction.  But  we  are  not  much 
impressed  by  the  familiar  knowledge  that  millions  of 
tons  of  fish  are  waiting  to  be  caught,  in  fine  and  plump 
condition,  without  our  having  had  to  spend  a  farthing 
in  hatching  and  feeding  them.  Bacon,  which  is  not 
a  fresh  meat  and  is  expensive  to  produce,  seems  to  be 
117 


ii8     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

regarded  in  almost  innumerable  English  homes  as  a 
daily  necessity.  If  fish  were  in  equal  demand,  the 
merchants,  who  have  been  criticised,  not  quite  justly, 
could  arrange  to  give  it  to  us  in  larger  quantities,  in 
better  condition,  and  at  lower  prices.  I  do  not  say 
that  the  fish  supply  could  be  organised  as  closely  as  the 
milk  supply  and  the  bread  supply;  because  storms 
and  fogs  and  the  vagaries  of  the  fish  themselves  are 
disturbing  factors  ;  but  I  do  say  that,  if  we  were 
steadfast  in  calling  for  cheaper  fish  and  more  of  it, 
we  should  certainly  get  it. 


Some  years  ago  I  tried  to  find  out  by  direct  obser- 
vation and  inquiry  the  truth  about  our  Enghsh 
attitude  towards  a  fish  diet.  I  gathered  that  the 
finer  fishes  are  highly  prized,  and  that  they  are  gener- 
ally well  cooked,  in  the  best  houses  and  clubs  and 
restaurants.  At  the  other  end  of  the  scale,  I  found 
among  the  lower  classes  an  apparent  enthusiasm  for 
fish  which  did  not,  however,  stand  closer  investigation. 
Our  poorer  quarters  abound  in  establishments  called 
fried-fish  shops  which  do  a  roaring  trade  ;  and  it  is 
not  uncommon  to  see  young  beauties,  who,  in  the 
uncertain  gaslight,  seem  fashionably  dressed,  walking 
along  London's  eastern  highways  consuming  dark 
brown  slabs  of  fish  and  wedges  of  fried  potatoes  to 
match,  these  delicacies  being  wrapped  in  a  back 
number  of  a  newspaper  whose  contents  are  read 
under  obvious  difficulties.  It  appears,  however, 
from  the  testimony  of  those  who  are  in  the  confidence 
of  these  lovely  creatures,  that  the  fish  is  much  less 
liked  than  the  "  fry."     Indeed  it  may  be  said  that 


FISH  119 

fried  fish  of  this  kind  is  more  of  an  animal  than  of  a 
fish  diet,  the  frying  vehicle  being  rarely  oil  and  nearly 
always  animal  fat.  Among  those  of  the  same  class 
who  have  homes  and  kitchens  of  their  own,  the 
popular  fish  are  kippers  and  bloaters,  which  give 
satisfaction  largely  because  of  the  slight  scorching  of 
the  surface  by  which  they  are  cooked.  The  smoked 
fish  which  used  to  be  best  prepared  at  Findhorn,  and 
is  now  known  to  the  Cockney  housewife  as  a  "  finny 
haddie,"  is  also  relished  largely  because  of  the  taste 
of  the  smoke  and  the  fire.  Omitting  working-class 
households  where  the  wife,  before  marriage,  was  in 
domestic  service,  I  have  rarely  found  in  this  social 
grade  the  habit  of  eating  fish  for  fish's  sake.  Where 
even  the  simplest  sauces  are  unattempted,  because  they 
are  thought  to  be  too  much  trouble,  a  delicate  fish 
has  no  chance  against  two  pork  sausages  or  a  slice  of 
meat  almost  blackened  in  a  frying-pan  with  rings  of 
raw  onion.  Among  the  middle  classes,  fish  is  patron- 
ised fitfully.  Owing  to  the  horror  of  washing-up, 
which  I  have  already  mentioned,  an  English  house- 
keeper prefers  to  give  two  helpings  from  one  dish 
rather  than  one  helping  from  each  of  two.  If  she  is 
intending  to  spend  three  shillings  on  the  principal 
materials  for  a  dinner,  she  would  rather  lay  out  half -a- 
crown  on  meat  than  spend  one-and-sixpence  at  the 
butcher's  and  eightpence  or  ninepence  at  the  fish- 
monger's. And  even  in  fairly  well  -  maintained 
middle-class  kitchens  there  is  an  unwillingness  to  take 
trouble  with  the  sauces  and  garnishes  so  essential  to 
good  fish  cookery. 

It  must  be  admitted,  however,  that  some  men  are 
grossly  unfair  in  their  expectations.     I  have  heard  a 


120     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

husband,  after  being  chided  for  objecting  to  fish  at 
home,  make  the  lofty  retort  that  he  would  consent  to 
eat  his  wife's  fish  dishes  if  she  would  bring  them  up  to 
the  standard  of  his  favourite  restaurant.  In  many 
departments  of  cookery,  even  a  modest  private 
kitchen  can  beat  the  utmost  efforts  of  a  hotel  kitchen, 
where  too  many  vapours  accumulate  and  combine. 
The  great  fish  dishes,  however,  would  be  so  wasteful 
if  made  privately  in  small  quantities  that  I  should 
hesitate  to  press  them  on  simple  cooks  at  any  time, 
while  in  war-time  they  are  unthinkable.  At  a 
restaurant,  for  example,  when  the  bill  of  fare  gives 
prominence  to  a  sole  in  a  sauce  of  white  wine  with  tips 
of  asparagus,  there  is  no  waste.  The  whole  tin  of 
asparagus  tips  is  used  and  the  whole  bottle  of  cheap 
white  wine  follows  it.  In  a  private  house  there  may 
be  very  good  reasons  why  neither  the  asparagus  nor 
the  wine  can  be  all  used  while  they  are  still  fresh. 
White  wine  does  not  suit  everybody ;  and  a  dinner 
with  asparagus  in  it  twice  over  would  be  an  offence 
against  good  design.  Let  nobody  therefore  insist  on 
the  restaurant  standard.  On  the  other  hand,  let  no 
housewife  imagine  that  she  has  done  the  whole  duty 
of  woman  towards  fish  by  simply  ringing  the  changes 
on  fillets  fried  in  breadcrumb,  middle  cuts  boiled, 
and  lobster  mayonnaise.  With  the  exception  of 
such  fish  as  salmon  and  mackerel,  many  items  of  fish 
diet  are  deficient  in  natural  fat,  and  sauce  is  therefore 
demanded  to  make  good  the  defect  as  well  as  to 
please  the  palate. 


Hints  have  already  been  thrown  out  here  and  there 


FISH  121 

in  this  book  that  steaming  is  better  than  boihng  for 
many  kinds  of  fish.  It  is  fair  to  say,  however,  that 
some  thoroughly  accomplished  cooks  prefer  boiling. 
They  argue  that  fishes,  although  they  live  in  weak 
brine,  often  need  salt.  This  is  true.  Indeed  it  will 
help  us  to  cook  them  more  successfully  if  we  will  get 
it  into  our  minds  that  fishes,  after  all,  are  not  so 
vastly  unlike  the  land  animals  which  we  cook  and  eat. 
Many  people  still  have  an  idea  that  a  fish  must  be 
watery,  forgetting  that  he  breathes  air  as  we  do. 
A  fish  contains  almost  as  high  a  percentage  of  solids 
as  an  ox,  and  he  no  more  tastes  of  sea-salt  than  a  calf 
tastes  of  cowslips.  The  process  of  boiling  admits 
of  the  convenient  salting  of  fish,  while  steaming 
presents  a  difficulty  in  this  respect.  Assuming,  as  I 
do  throughout  this  book,  that  only  small  quantities 
of  food  have  to  be  cooked  at  one  and  the  same  time,  I 
recommend  a  simple  process.  Butter  a  plate.  Lay 
your  cleaned  and  trimmed  fish  in  the  middle  of  it. 
Salt  and  otherwise  season  the  fish  to  your  taste. 
Squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  over  it,  if  you  wish 
to  do  so.  Butter  or  grease  a  sheet  of  clean  white 
paper.  Place  this  on  top  of  the  fish  and  keep  it  in 
position  by  putting  the  saucepan  lid  over  everything. 
Having  meanwhile  brought  some  water  to  the  boil  in 
the  saucepan,  place  the  plate  with  its  contents  on  top 
of  the  saucepan  and  let  the  boiling  continue  for  a 
little  more  or  less  than  half-an-hour,  according  to  the 
kind  and  size  of  fish.  This  is  not  exactly  what  is 
meant  by  steaming,  although  it  is  certainly  cooking 
by  steam  without  letting  the  water  touch  the  fish. 
Out-and-out  steaming  is  effected  m  an  open-work 
steamer  through  which  the  steam  plays  freely. 


122     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

In  Holland,  fish  is  boiled  in  sea-water.  This  is  an 
experiment  I  should  like  to  make  if  I  lived  on  a  rocky 
island  in  the  midst  of  an  absolutely  unpolluted  sea, 
but  I  have  never  screwed  up  my  courage  to  use  such 
sea- water  as  has  been  available. 


If  you  are  determined  to  boil  your  fish,  put  about 
an  ounce  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water — less  rather 
than  more.  A  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  may  also  be  added  to  each  quart  of  water,  to 
keep  the  flesh  firm  and  of  good  colour.  After  you 
have  boiled  your  fish,  you  will  have  a  chance  of  per- 
ceiving why  I  look  upon  boiling  as  wasteful.  Set 
the  liquor  on  one  side  and  you  will  often  find  that  it 
will  cool  into  a  jelly,  owing  to  the  large  amount  of 
natural  gelatine  which  has  been  boiled  out  of  the 
fish.  You  cannot  devise  uses  for  large  supplies  of 
fish  stock,  and  it  is  therefore  better,  on  the  whole,  to 
steam  the  fish,  thus  retaining  all  its  goodness. 

Ten  days  ago  I  came  across  a  bad  instance  of  waste- 
fulness in  the  cooking  of  fish.  Some  charitable  people 
were  engaged  in  feeding  a  large  number  of  the  poor 
and  destitute.  They  had  more  than  a  dozen  fine 
cod-fish  for  the  purpose,  and  their  first  action  after 
cleaning  the  fish  was  to  cut  off  the  twelve  heads  and 
throw  them  into  the  dustbin.  A  wise  cook,  even  if 
he  had  been  cooking  for  rich  people,  would  have  re- 
tained the  heads  (of  course,  taking  out  the  eyes)  and 
would  have  secured  a  much  better  result.  When  the 
dozen  of  fish  had  been  boiled,  the  water  was  poured 
down  a  drain,  although  it  was  so  gelatinous  that  you 
could  have  stood  a  wooden  spoon  in  it  when  it  was 


FISH  123 

cold.  All  this  took  place  during  the  first  month 
of  the  War,  when  the  Germans  were  still  having  it 
nearly  all  their  own  way  in  France  and  the  outlook 
was  sombre. 


To  those  who  still  have  open  fires,  I  can  suggest 
nothing  better  than  the  cooking  of  fish  in  an  old- 
fashioned  Dutch  oven.  The  fish  must  be  hghtly 
buttered  all  over  before  it  is  set  before  the  fire. 
Housekeepers  who  have  nothing  but  a  gas-stove,  or 
closed  range,  can  do  wonders  by  baking  fish  in  a 
moderate  oven.  I  find  a  fireproof  dish  best  and  I  use 
the  same  dish,  which  has  a  pleasant  old-fashioned 
look,  at  the  table  without  risking  the  breaking  up 
of  the  fish  by  transferring  it  to  another  vessel.  Of 
course,  the  dish  must  be  well  buttered  before  the  fish 
is  laid  in  it  and  it  should  be  covered  with  buttered 
paper.  If  you  like,  3/ou  can  poach  your  fish,  especi- 
ally fillets,  in  a  clean  baking-tin  well  buttered.  You 
will  pour  in  just  enough  fish  stock  to  cover  them. 
You  can  add  a  little  white  wine  to  the  stock,  and 
make  experiments  with  other  flavourings.  Like 
baked  fish,  a  poached  fish  is  covered  over  with  buttered 
paper.  Sometimes  you  will  not  wish  to  heat  the 
oven  just  for  one  or  two  fillets,  and  in  this  case  you 
can  poach  them  in  a  shallow  saucepan  at  the  top  of 
the  stove.  They  do  not  require  more  than  a  few 
minutes  to  cook.  When  you  have  lifted  them  out 
and  drained  them  well,  you  should  be  ready  to  use 
some  of  the  hot  stock  as  part  of  a  sauce  to  serve  with 
them.  Learn  to  reduce  fish  liquor  for  sauce.  As  for 
stewing,  frying,  grilling  and  other  ways  of  cooking 


124    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

fish,  you  will  find  out  the  best  ways  from  your  regular 
cookery-book,  or  you  will  infer  them  from  what  is 
said  in  other  chapters  of  this  manual. 


I  have  referred  to  the  cheapness  of  herrings.  It 
will  pay  you  well,  if  you  have  not  the  time  or  skill 
yourself,  to  talk  the  cleaning  and  filleting  over  with 
your  fishmonger  so  that  this  may  be  properly  done. 
Herrings  are  so  low  priced  that  it  would  not  be 
reasonable  to  expect  the  fishmonger,  at  the  busiest 
time  of  the  day,  to  occupy  himself  with  your  require- 
ments unless  you  are  a  fairly  regular  customer  for 
other  kinds  of  fish  on  which  he  can  recoup  himself. 
I  say  this  because  some  housewives  will  never  learn 
to  prepare  herrings  themselves,  and,  as  they  are  sensi- 
tive about  giving  trouble  to  shop  people,  they  prac- 
tically drop  this  fish  out  of  their  scheme  of  life. 

If  it  were  a  question  of  the  skate  or  the  eel,  I  could 
understand  a  certain  squeamishness.  Those  fish 
have  not  the  beauty  of  Venus  rising  from  the  sea. 
Speaking  for  myself,  I  have  never  quite  conquered 
my  horror  of  the  eel,  although  he  is  so  cooked  by  the 
villagers  on  the  banks  of  the  Lower  Seine  as  to  make 
one  of  the  most  delicate  dishes  I  have  ever  eaten. 
And  the  skate  is  an  ugly  brute.  But  the  herring  is 
a  sweet  creature  to  handle.  When  he  is  fresh,  his 
silver  armour  is  like  Lohengrin's  in  the  opera.  There 
is  nothing  loathsome  about  him,  inside  or  out.  I 
shaU  therefore  apologise  for  him  no  more  but  shall 
take  it  for  granted  that  my  readers  will  use  him  freely 
in  war-time,  and  try  to  learn  to  clean  him  themselves. 
Now  for  ways  of  cooking  him. 


FISH  125 

Having  stripped  two  long  fillets  from  a  fresh  her- 
ring, wipe  them  with  a  cloth.  Salt  them  and  pepper 
them,  and  squeeze  over  them  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Put  them  in  a  cold  place  until  the  next  day.  When 
you  want  to  eat  them,  coat  them  with  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs and  fry  them  in  a  deep  bath  of  boiling  oil 
or  fat  according  to  the  general  rule  about  frying 
already  laid  down.  Drain  the  grease  from  them, 
and  serve  them  very  hot  with  some  chopped  parsley 
and  some  more  lemon  juice. 


On  some  other  occasion,  cut  off  the  heads  and  tails 
and  fins  of  some  herrings,  split  the  fish  open  and  take 
out  as  many  bones  as  you  can,  big  and  little.  Close 
the  fishes  again,  as  you  would  close  a  book,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  lemon  juice  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Lemon  juice  is  mentioned  in  this  herring  cookery 
because  the  herring  is  an  oily  fish  and  its  oiliness 
needs  correcting.  After  they  have  lain  for  about  an 
hour,  dip  them  in  oatmeal  until  they  are  thickly 
mealed  on  both  sides.  Take  your  largest  frying-pan 
and  melt  in  it  an  ounce  or  two  of  the  best  dripping. 
As  the  dripping  begins  to  smoke,  transfer  the  herrings 
to  it,  opened,  with  the  flesh  downwards  and  the  oat- 
meal upwards.  As  soon  as  the  lower  side  is  browned, 
turn  the  herrings  over  and  brown  them  on  the  mealed 
side .  Drain  them  thoroughly  and  serve  them  very  hot . 
This  is  the  best  way  of  frying  herrings  ;  but  if  you  prefer 
a  simpler  way  you  need  not  split  them  open.  You  can 
merely  trim  and  wash  and  clean  them,  scrape  and  score 
the  skin  with  a  knife,  dip  them  into  flour  which  has 
been  touched  up  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them. 


126     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

A  grilled  or  broiled  herring  is  even  better  than  the 
same  fish  fried.  To  prepare  it,  you  cut  off  the  head 
and  fins  and  you  scrape  off  the  scales  ;  but  you  do 
not  split  the  fish  open.  You  score  it,  smear  it  over 
with  a  little  oil  or  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  it. 
Then  you  cook  the  fish  for  eight  or  nine  minutes  under 
the  deflecting  griller  of  a  gas-stove  or  before  a  hot, 
bright  fire,  if  you  have  no  gridiron.  Mustard  sauce 
and  a  plain  boiled  potato  go  well  with  a  grilled  herring. 

In  frying  or  grilling  herrings,  it  is  always  necessary 
to  score  diagonal  lines  in  the  skin,  so  that  the  fish 
shall  not  shrink  and  curl. 


For  herrings  to  be  eaten  cold,  wash,  clean  and  trim 
the  fish  and  scrape  the  skins.  Take  off,  from  each 
herring,  two  long  fillets.  Dip  these  fillets  in  flour, 
peppered  and  salted.  Butter  a  fireproof  dish.  Roll 
up  each  fillet  of  herring,  beginning  with  the  thick  end 
and  working  to  the  stump  of  the  tail.  Put  these  rolls 
rather  closely  in  the  fireproof  dish  and  half  fill  it  with 
a  mixture  of  water  and  brown  vinegar.  Add  a  little 
of  whatever  you  may  possess  in  the  way  of  pepper- 
corns and  mace.  Put  little  bits  of  butter  here  and 
there  on  the  fish,  and  bake  the  whole  thing  for  an  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  the  dish  as  soon  as  it  is 
cold. 


Steamed  cod  is  looked  upon  as  very  plain  feeding, 
but  it  can  be  made  highly  attractive  by  a  cook  who 
will  vary  the  sauces  from  time  to  time.  A  good  way 
of  using  this  fish  is  to  bake  it  in  slices.     Butter  a 


FISH  127 

baking-tin  and  scatter  tiny  choppings  of  raw^.onion 
all  over  the  bottom.  Lay  a  slice  of  cod  on  this  founda- 
tion. Pour  over  the  fish  a  yolk  of  egg,  beaten  up 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  some  lemon  juice.  The 
quantity  of  lemon  juice  will  be  according  to  taste, 
but  it  should  not  be  stinted.  Dab  tiny  pieces  of 
butter  over  the  egg  and  lemon  juice.  Bake  the  fish 
until  the  top  takes  a  pleasant  golden  hue.  A  moment 
or  two  before  serving,  transfer  the  fish  to  the  dish 
on  which  it  will  be  sent  to  table — taking  care  that  the 
dish  is  very  hot — and  pour  a  gill  of  brown  sauce  into 
the  tin.  Stir  the  brown  sauce  for  a  moment  or  two, 
so  as  to  mix  it  well  with  all  that  is  left  in  the  tin  ; 
bring  it  to  the  boiling-point  ;  and  then  pour  it  over 
the  slice  of  fish.  These  instructions  can  be  applied 
to  hake,  halibut,  and  to  small  thick  steaks  or  cutlets 
of  rock  salmon. 


Some  people  have  a  strong  objection  to  plaice,  and 
I  should  certainly  agree  with  them  if  I  were  doomed 
to  eat  nothing  but  a  daily  ration  of  this  fish,  plain 
boiled.  It  is,  however,  so  much  cheaper  than  soles 
that  we  ought  to  try  to  make  the  best  of  it.  Here  is 
a  method  which  is  certainly  not  the  worst.  Buy  a 
good  thick  plaice  with  plenty  of  flesh  on  its  bones. 
Clean  it.  Remove  the  dark  skin  if  you  can  :  if  you 
can't,  the  fishmonger  will  do  it  for  you.  Butter  a 
fireproof  dish,  and  sprinkle  plenty  of  fine  breadcrumbs 
and  some  parsley,  chopped  very  small,  all  over  the 
butter,  with  some  pepper  and  salt  and  a  chopped 
mushroom.  I  will  say,  in  passing,  that  if  you  are 
buying  regularly  from  the  same  greengrocer,  he  ought 


128     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

to  let  you  have  mushrooms  in  quite  small  quantities 
without  always  expecting  you  to  embarrass  yourself 
with  more  than  you  require.  Lay  the  plaice  in  the 
dish  and  cover  it  with  more  butter,  breadcrumbs,  salt, 
pepper  and  parsley  and,  if  possible,  mushroom. 
Bake  the  fish  for  twenty  minutes  and  serve  it  in  the 
same  dish. 


Fried  fillets  of  plaice  are  universally  known. 


In  giving  directions  to  prepare  a  plaice  after  the 
fashion  of  a  sole  au  gratin,  I  must  make  it  plain  that 
every  careless  cook  ought  to  skip  this  paragraph. 
The  dish  requires  close  attention.  As  cookery  is  still 
in  an  unscientific  stage,  culinary  writers  are  obliged 
to  use  certain  rough-and-ready  expressions.  For 
example,  I  shall  have  to  speak  merely  of  a  quick  oven  ; 
because,  if  I  should  try  to  give  the  exact  degree  of  heat 
required,  I  should  be  wasting  my  time,  as  oven  ther- 
mometers are  rarely  to  be  seen.  So  let  me  warn  the 
reader  who  is  going  to  cook  this  dish  that  it  will  be 
wise  to  keep  some  extra  stock  at  hand,  in  case  the 
fish  and  the  dressing  should  dry  up  at  the  critical 
moment. 

The  plaice  must  be  thick  and  plump.  And,  of 
course,  you  will  clean  it  properly,  taking  off  the  head 
and  the  fins  and  the  dark  skin.  Make  your  oven  hot. 
Chop  up  some  parsley,  a  small  shalot,  one  or  two 
mushrooms  according  to  size,  and  about  an  ounce  of 
bacon — the  fat  only.  Mix  all  these  with  some  very 
fine  breadcrumbs,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and 


FISH  129 

salt.  At  the  bottom  of  a  fireproof  dish,  dab  tiny 
pieces  of  butter.  Over  the  butter  spread  some  of  the 
seasoning,  and  on  the  seasoning  lay  the  fish.  On 
top  of  the  fish  spread  the  rest  of  the  seasoning. 
Add  about  half-a-gill  of  any  sound  white  wine  that 
is  not  very  sweet,  together  with  half-a-gill  of  good 
white  stock.  Grate  some  dry  bread  or  sprinkle 
some  fine  crumbs  over  everything  and  lay  one  or  two 
pellets  of  butter,  no  bigger  than  peas,  here  and  there 
on  the  top.  Bake  the  whole  combination  in  a  quick 
oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty  minutes. 
Use  your  best  judgment  as  to  the  suitable  heat.  On 
the  one  hand,  you  must  not  be  opening  the  oven  door 
repeatedly,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  you  must  not  risk 
either  too  slow  or  too  rapid  baking.  In  the  undesir- 
able and  unlikely  but  still  possible  event  of  the  sauce 
drying  up,  you  will  have  a  little  hot  stock  at  hand  to 
moisten  it. 

This  is  the  true  method  of  cooking  a  sole  or  plaice 
au  gratin.  For  some  reason,  or  none  at  all,  there  is  an 
idea  in  certain  kitchens  that  in  order  to  prepare  a 
dish  au  gratin  there  must  be  a  final  browning  under  a 
salamandre,  always  with  a  top  skin  of  grated  cheese  ; 
and  it  is  the  sober  truth  that  I  have  met  people  who 
think  that  the  word  gratin  equals  grated  cheese  in 
French.  Of  course  the  true  meaning  is  the  browning 
of  a  dish  until  it  takes  a  crispness,  above  and 
below. 


I  am  going  to  speak  of  one  more  way  of  using 
plaice  which  may  seem  to  be  a  little  foolish,  but  it  is 
worth  knowing.    When  devising  an  economical  menu, 


130     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

a  housekeeper  sometimes  wants,  at  the  stage  when 
fish  usually  appears,  an  interesting  and  tasty  but  not 
ample  item.  If  plaice  or  lemon  sole  happens  to  be 
cheap,  it  wiU  often  be  possible  to  buy  a  quite  small 
fillet  for  almost  nothing.  This  can  be  cut  to  the  shape 
and  size  of  line  whitebait.  The  pieces  must  be  floured 
aU  over  as  lightly  as  possible,  and  must  then  be  fried 
in  deep  fat.  To  fry  them  properly  a  cheap  wire  frying 
basket,  which  will  pay  for  itself  over  and  over  again, 
ought  to  be  at  hand.  To  make  a  good  job  of  it,  the 
little  pieces  of  fish  should  be  fried  twice.  After  a  first 
frying  for  about  two  minutes,  they  must  be  lifted  out 
before  they  have  turned  brown  and  must  be  drained 
on  paper.  The  fat  having  been  again  raised  to 
boiling-point,  the  strips  of  fish  can  be  fried  till 
they  are  crisp  and  golden.  They  must  be  drained 
again  and  salted.  [This,  of  course,  is  the  correct 
way  of  cooking  real  whitebait  also.]  If  the  sham 
whitebait  are  served  with  care,  slices  of  lemon  and 
brown  bread  and  butter  not  being  grudged,  the 
imitation  of  the  real  article  will  not  be  too  lament- 
able a  parody. 


I  know  that  some  housekeepers  wiU  feel  shy  about 
asking  the  fishmonger  for  very  small  portions  of  cheap 
fish,  and  that  they  wiU  be  unlikely  to  try  the  imita- 
tion whitebait  if  I  do  not  suggest  a  way  out.  Let  us 
therefore  suppose  that  some  more  fish  is  bought  at 
the  same  time  and  that  it  is  not  wanted  until  the  next 
day.  The  surplus  can  be  cooked  at  once  and  put  on 
one  side  to  be  treated  according  to  one  or  other  of  the 
methods  now  to  be  described. 


FISH  131 

For  hot  weather  a  good  salad  of  fish  is  more  pleasant 
than  a  friture.  I  take  from  a  little  book  called 
*'  Tasty  Ways  of  Cooldng  Fish  "  (which  seems  to  be 
given  away  at  Fislimongers'  Hall  by  the  National 
Sea  Fisheries  Protection  Association)  this  recipe  for 
Fish  Salad  by  Mr  C.  Herman  Senn : 


"Take  i  lb.  cold  fish,  one  potato  (mashed),  one 
lettuce,  two  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  one  tablespoonful 
vinegar,  one  hard-boiled  e^g,  one  teaspoonful  made 
mustard,  one  tablespoonful  milk,  one  piece  cooked 
beetroot,  two  pickled  gherkins,  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
a  pinch  of  castor  sugar.  Break  up  the  fish  into  small 
pieces,  removing  the  skin  and  bones.  Wash  the  salad 
(lettuce  or  endive),  tear  into  small  pieces,  and  dry 
in  a  cloth.  Mix  the  mashed  potato  with  the  milk,  stir 
into  it  the  oil  and  vinegar,  season  with  mustard,  pepper, 
salt  and  sugar.  Mix  v/ell,  to  produce  a  smooth  dress- 
ing. Mix  the  salad  v^ith  the  fish,  season  well  with 
the  prepared  dressing.  Pile  up  on  a  dish  or  salad 
bowl ;  garnish  Vvdth  slices  of  gherkins,  quarters  of 
hard-boiled  eg§  and  slices  of  beetroot,  and  serve." 


Housekeepers  who  are  likely  to  make  frequent  use 
of  fish  salads  may  simplify  the  work  by  keeping  on  hand 
some  salad  cream  or  mayonnaise.  In  a  cool  and  dark 
place  mayonnaise  wiU  remain  good  for  nearly  a  week. 


In  cold  weather,   fish  salads  would  annoy  many 
people.     But    nearly    everybody    enjoys    cold    fish 


132     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

.warmed  up  k  la  Russe.  Free  the  fish  from  skin  and 
bone,  and  fiake  it  with  two  fish  forks.  Chop  up  about 
a  dozen  capers  and  mix  them  with  tv/o  gills  of  white 
sauce  which  you  have  flavoured  with  some  essence  of 
anchovies.  I  am  assuming  that  you  are  using  up 
about  a  pound  of  cold  fish,  in  which  case  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  anchovy  essence  will  be  required.  While 
you  are  doing  these  things,  some  rice  should  be  boiling 
on  the  fire,  according  to  the  directions  given  in  the 
chapter  on  Entrees.  Butter  a  fireproof  dish  and 
spread  a  layer  of  fish  at  the  bottom  of  it.  Over  the 
fish  spread  rice  and  some  of  your  sauce.  Next  lay  on 
the  sauce  some  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg,  as  thin  as 
you  can  cut  them  without  breaking  them  up.  Repeat 
these  strata  of  fish,  rice,  sauce  and  shced  eggs  until 
the  dish  is  full.  You  must  take  care  to  plan  the 
matter  so  that  slices  of  egg  will  be  on  top,  as  it  would 
not  do  to  finish  with  rice  or  fish.  Here  and  there 
among  the  uppermost  shoes  of  egg  drop  some  good 
pellets  of  butter.  Bake  the  whole  for  about  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Including  the  prime 
cost  of  the  fish,  the  cost  ought  not  to  be  more  than 
about  eighteenpence  the  lot,  or  about  threepence 
for  each  good  portion. 


Recipes  for  steamed  fish  puddings,  for  Kromeskies, 
for  Kedgeree,  and  for  Fish  Rissoles  are  well  and  truly 
set  forth  in  the  ordinary  cookery-books.  It  is  pos- 
sible, however,  that  few  readers  have  made  little  fish 
puddings  after  the  fashion  of  custards.  To  make 
these  you  must  chop  up  half-a-pound  of  cold  fish, 
without  skin  or  bone.     You  will  want  about  a  dozen 


FISH  133 

little  moulds  or  basins,  but  if  your  family  is  small 
you  can  use  moulds  or  basins  for  four  or  five  custards 
only,  and  put  the  rest  of  your  fish  in  a  small  pie-dish. 
Half  fill  the  receptacles  with  the  chopped  fish.  Now 
make  a  custard  by  beating  up  five  yolks  of  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  three  of  the  eggs  in  a  basin,  adding 
about  three  gills  of  milk.  It  should  go  without  saying 
that  you  will  not  sweeten  this  custard.  You  will 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  ;  and  with  some 
essence  of  anchovies  if  your  cold  fish  was  of  some 
cheap  and  insipid  kind.  Pour  this  custard  on  the 
chopped  fish  till  the  moulds  are  nearly  full.  Place 
the  moulds  in  a  tin  containing  boiling  water  to  the 
depth  of  about  two  inches.  Lay  little  covers  of 
greased  paper  over  the  moulds  and  bake  them  until 
the  custards  are  set.  Of  course  you  will  have  greased 
your  moulds  at  the  outset  and  you  should  have  no 
difficulty  in  turning  out  the  custards  without  break- 
ing them.  I  do  not  recommend  this  dish  except  when 
eggs  are  cheap,  although  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that 
two  of  the  whites  are  available  for  other  purposes. 
In  the  month  of  April  I  made  fish  custards  like  these 
at  a  cost  of  about  a  shilling  for  ten,  and  was  able  to 
fry  the  whites  of  the  eggs  as  a  bed  for  some  hop-shoots, 
which  cost  me  nothing  at  all.  The  hop-shoots  were 
boiled  in  salted  water  until  they  were  tender,  and, 
after  being  tossed  in  butter,  were  served  like  lightning 
on  white  of  egg  fried  at  the  table, 

A  fish  pie  with  macaroni  or  with  potatoes  is  a  very 
cheap  dish  and  there  is  no  reason  why  it  should  be 
unattractive.  In  houses  where  the  habit  of  making 
good  though  simple  sauces  does  not  exist,  a  fish  pie 
is  often  a  trial  to  the  appetite  ;  but  when  a  house- 


134     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

keeper  finds  that  some  sauce  remains  over,  as  weU  as 
some  cold  fish,  her  pie  may  become  delightful.  A 
simple  procedure  is  to  butter  a  pie-dish  and  to  spread 
all  over  it  the  cold  fish  broken  into  morsels.  The 
remains  of  sauce  should  be  poured  over  the  fish  with 
some  lemon  juice  and  some  pepper  and  salt.  Some 
cooked  potatoes,  smoothly  mashed  with  milk  and 
seasonings  and  a  little  butter  or  even  good  dripping, 
must  be  laid  on  top  of  the  fish  and  pressed  well  down 
with  the  blade  of  a  broad  knife.  If  an  egg  can  be 
spared,  let  it  be  beaten  up  and  let  the  top  of  the 
mashed  potato  be  well  brushed  over  with  it.  The 
pie  must  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it  browns. 
Macaroni,  as  an  ingredient  in  a  fish  pie,  requires  a 
little  more  skill.  It  must  be  boiled  in  a  large  pan, 
with  plenty  of  room  to  move,  until  it  is  quite  tender. 
When  it  has  been  drained  and  cut  up  small  and  mixed 
with  whatever  sauce  may  be  on  hand,  it  is  to  be  laid 
over  the  pieces  of  fish.  The  best  plan  is  to  divide  all 
the  ingredients  for  this  kind  of  pie  into  two  parts,  so 
that  it  will  be  in  layers  twice  repeated.  Breadcrumbs 
are  sprinkled  over  the  top,  with  small  pieces  of  butter, 
and  the  pie  is  baked  a  nice  brown. 


Turning  back  from  these  devices  for  using  cold 
fish,  and  resuming  the  main  business,  I  must  refer  the 
reader  to  the  systematic  cook-books  for  a  hundred 
ways  of  handling  familiar  fish.  But  I  am  bound  to 
draw  attention  to  one  or  two  neglected  methods  which, 
even  when  they  are  mentioned  by  British  writers,  are 
rarely  practised  in  British  kitchens.  If  we  were  to 
spend  a  year  in  a  French  household  we  should  fre- 


FISH  135 

quently  hear  talk  about  fish  cooked  in  court  bouillon. 
"  Court  bouillon  "  may  be  literally  translated  "  Short 
Broth  " — that  is  to  say,  broth  made  in  a  very  short 
space  of  time.  Perhaps  the  simplest  form  of  it  is 
that  which  one  meets  with  in  some  parts  of  Brittany. 
You  mix  water  and  milk  in  equal  quantities,  add  a 
little  salt,  and  bring  the  liquid  to  the  boil.  Turbot 
cooked  in  this  broth  makes  a  good  invalid  diet.  After 
laying  the  fish  in  the  liquid,  bring  the  court  bouillon 
once  more  to  the  boil,  then  draw  the  fish-kettle  to  the 
side  of  the  fire  with  the  lid  on,  and  simmer  the  fish 
until  it  is  tender.  The  court  bouillon  should  cover  the 
fish  entirely,  but  should  not  drown  it  too  deeply. 

A  more  elaborate  but  still  cheap  court  bouillon  is 
made  by  measuring  out  enough  water  to  cover  the 
piece  of  fish  and  mixing  with  it  some  light  dry  white 
wine  (or  half  the  quantity  of  white  wine  vinegar), 
a  sliced  onion,  a  thinly  sliced  carrot,  some  cloves, 
some  peppercorns,  and  salt  according  to  the  kind  of 
fish.  You  must  boil  all  these  things  together  for  fifteen 
minutes,  putting  in  the  water  a  little  mushn  bag 
containing  a  bouquet  of  herbs.  Meanwhile  you 
sprinkle  a  little  lemon  juice  over  the  fish,  lay  it  on  the 
tray  of  the  fish-kettle,  and,  when  the  court  bouillon  is 
ready,  you  lower  it  into  the  liquid,  of  course  taking 
out  the  bouquet.  Put  the  lid  on  the  kettle  and  cook 
the  fish  gently  in  the  broth  till  it  is  done.  Should 
scum  rise  to  the  surface  of  the  broth,  you  must  either 
skim  it  oH  or  expect  it  to  spoil  the  look  of  your  fish 
when  you  raise  it  from  its  bath. 

French  cooks  sometimes  vary  the  foregoing  recipe 
by  using  red  wine  instead  of  white.  The  court 
bouillon  bleu  is  supposed  to  give  a  beautiful  tint  to 


136     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

certain  fish,  in  some  cases  blue  and  in  others  more 
like  mother-of-pearl.  The  eminent  Jules  Gouffe 
taught  that  this  red  (or  bleu)  court  bouillon  might  be 
strengthened  by  the  addition  of  some  bones  and 
trimmings  from  the  fish. 

Court  bouillon,  made  with  either  red  wine  or  white 
wine,  can  be  kept  in  a  jar  and  used  several  times  over. 
Like  frying  fat,  which  requires  to  be  clarified  and 
purged  of  any  little  fragments  of  batter  or  fish  which 
may  fall  into  it,  court  bouillon  gives  the  cook  a  little 
trouble ;  but  it  enables  first-class  results  to  be 
achieved  at  an  insignificant  cost. 

Fish  that  has  been  skinned,  and  soaked  in  salted 
milk,  and  coated  hghtly  with  flour,  can  be  laid  in 
butter  in  a  fireproof  dish  and  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  browned.  The  butter  should  be  cooked 
to  a  golden  colour  before  the  fish  is  put  in  it.  After 
the  fish  has  itself  taken  the  same  golden-brown  colour 
on  both  sides,  it  should  be  moistened  with  lemon 
juice,  and  afterwards  with  more  of  the  brown  butter. 
It  is  to  be  served  with  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley 
and  some  very  thin  slices  of  lemon.  A  sole  cooked  in 
this  way  is  a  Sole  k  la  Meuniere. 

Paper-bag  cookery  is  explained  in  the  chapter 
on  Entrees,  where  a  recipe  will  be  found  for  Red 
mullet. 

With  these  typical  prescriptions  in  her  mind,  and 
with  the  aid  of  the  chapters  on  sauces  and  vegetables, 
an  aspiring  cook  will  have  no  difficulty  in  giving  her 


FISH  137 

household  a  widely  varied  succession  of  fish  dishes 
throughout  the  year.  I  warn  her  once  more,  how- 
ever, against  putting  forward  a  large  and  plain  piece 
of  fish  as  practically  the  whole  of  a  meal.  It  is  because 
they  remember  some  dinner  in  boyhood,  consisting  of 
nothing  but  a  boiled  cod,  with  potatoes  and  parsley 
butter,  that  many  Englishmen  do  not  greatly  care  to 
taste  another  fish  so  long  as  they  live. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

ENTREES 

It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  greater  simphcity  of 
living  imposed  upon  us  by  the  War  will  lead  to  the 
simplifying  of  dinner-table  terms.  Cooks  have  never 
been  as  bad  as  gardeners,  who  give  the  ughest  names 
they  can  think  of  to  the  loveliest  flowers.  Still,  there 
is  room  for  improvement.  While  Soup  and  Fish 
and  Roast  are  good  enough  words  for  anybody,  it  is 
impossible  to  feel  grateful  for  such  terms  as  Hors 
d'oeuvre.  Entrees,  Releves  and  Entremets.  They 
are  far-fetched  names,  invented  to  express  extra- 
vagances and  elaborations  which  we  have  been 
steadily  outgrowing. 


I  am  not  going  to  waste  time  discussing  the  deriva- 
tion and  history  of  the  word  "  entree."  It  is  neces- 
sary, however,  to  have  an  understanding  with  the 
reader  as  to  the  sense  in  which  the  term  will  be  used 
in  this  chapter.  By  an  entree  I  mean  the  made 
dish,  complete  in  itself,  which,  on  modern  tables, 
follows  the  fish  and  precedes  the  roast.  In  the  older 
practice,  four  entrees  were  supposed  to  be  served,  one 
of  fish,  one  of  flesh-meat,  one  of  game  and  one  of 
pastry.  We  will  brush  all  this  kind  of  thing  on  one 
side  and  confine  ourselves  almost  entirely  to  entrees 
of  meat  and  game.     Before  most  of  us  were  born, 

13S 


ENTRIES 


139 


there  were  supposed  to  be  fully  a  thousand  different 
entries  known  to  professional  cooks  ;  and  some  hun- 
dreds have  been  invented  in  our  own  days.  We  have 
all  heard  that,  although  scores  of  so-called  comic 
papers  appear  every  week,  there  are  not  more  than  a 
dozen  or  twenty  distinct  jokes  in  existence  ;  and 
something  similar  might  be  said  about  entrees.  Under 
hundreds  of  different  names  they  are  found  to  be 
mostly  shght  variations  upon  the  same  culinary 
themes.  Patrons  and  cooks  in  their  vanity  have 
hungered  after  immortality  through  the  invention  of 
a  new  entree  ;  but,  like  untrained  explorers,  they 
have  too  often  given  their  names  to  territories  dis- 
covered long^before. 


In  this  chapter  I  shall  attempt  nothing  more  than 
the  making  good  of  one  or  two  defects  in  the  kitchen 
routine  of  ordinary  people.  That  is  to  say,  I  shall 
explain,  by  describing  a  few  typical  dishes,  the 
principles  on  which  innumerable  entrees  may  be 
achieved. 


It  has  just  been  stated  that  an  entree  is  a  dish 
complete  in  itself.  This  means  that  it  is  exceedingly 
handy  in  houses  where  only  modest  service  is  obtain- 
able. A  good  entree  may  call  for  the  taking  of  con- 
siderable pains  ;  but  the  pains  are  taken  when  there 
is  time  to  spare.  The  hot  lady  whom  we  call  a  plain 
cook  in  England  will  sometimes  tell  you  that  "  on- 
trays  "  are  beyond  her,  and  that  she  does  not  profess 
to  go  be37ond  roast  joints.     Now,  where  there  is  a 


140     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

single-handed  cook,  or,  worse  still,  a  cook-general, 
the  proper  finishing  off  and  serving  up  of  a  hot  joint 
with  gravy  and  vegetables  is  a  far  more  formidable 
business  than  the  making  of  a  good  entree.  Indeed, 
when  I  see  a  cook-general  engaged  in  the  operation 
of  serving  the  conventional  Sunday  dinner  of  the 
middle  classes,  I  feel  almost  ashamed  to  satisfy  my 
hunger  at  the  expense  of  so  great  a  trial  to  a  fellow- 
creature's  wits  and  strength  and  temper.  The  hot 
joint  is  an  institution  more  in  need  of  reform  than 
the  House  of  Lords.  For  a  very  large  family  or  house - 
party,  who  can  eat  it  down  to  the  bare  bone,  a  hot 
joint  is  fine  and  wholesome  feeding  ;  but  unfortun- 
ately it  enslaves  little  households  and  sentences  them 
to  a  weekly  misery  of  cold  meat,  and  more  cold  meat, 
and  finally  hash.  With  no  more  trouble,  and  at  much 
less  expense,  three  or  four  entries,  one  each  day,  can 
replace  a  single  joint  with  far  more  gains  than  losses 
to  the  general  health  and  happiness. 

Success  in  entree-making  will  often  require  the 
carrying  out  of  at  least  two  distinct  processes,  and 
this  is  where  the  English  cook  grows  impatient. 
Take,  for  example,  the  operation  of  frying  vegetables 
and  pieces  of  meat  before  putting  them  in  the  casserole 
or  stewpan.  By  this  action  the  cook  seals  the  out- 
sides  of  her  materials  so  that  their  juices  and  flavours 
are  not  lost,  or  mixed  with  everything  else.  In  many 
English  ragouts  this  practice  is  neglected,  with  the 
result  that  one  obtains  an  excellent  gravy  or  broth 
containing  meat  and  vegetables  like  tasteless  rags. 
I  must  warn  the  reader  that  any  indolent  skipping  of 
the  prehminary  frying  in  recipes  where  it  is  appointed 
will  invariably  result  in  failure.    The  cook  who  "  can't 


ENTREES  141 

be  bothered  "  to  make  an  entree  properly  had  better 
go  on  scorching  her  cheeks  on  Sunday  over  the  hot 
joint,  and  shivering  on  Monday  over  the  plateful  of 
cold  mutton. 


By  reason  of  a  defect  in  the  English  language,  I 
have  been  forced  to  speak  of  frying  in  the  foregoing 
paragraph,  although  the  process  in  question  differs 
from  the  true  frying  in  a  deep  bath  of  fat  so  often 
referred  to  in  other  chapters.  The  deep  bath  of  clear 
fat  at  a  high  temperature  is  not  what  is  wanted  when 
we  set  about  to  fry  (or,  as  the  French  say,  jaire 
revenir)  our  meat  and  vegetables  for  a  ragout.  With- 
out speculating  on  the  origin  of  the  curious  French 
phrase,  I  will  try  to  explain  it  practically.  When  a 
cook  melts  some  butter  or  good  dripping  in  a  pan  and, 
as  soon  as  the  fat  is  hot,  lightly  cooks  her  pieces  of 
meat  and  vegetable  therein,  just  long  enough  for 
them  to  take  a  nice  brown  colour,  she  is  said  to 
faire  revenir  the  ingredients.  Having  said  this,  I 
shall  rely  on  the  reader  to  know  what  I  mean 
whenever  I  refer  to  frying  as  a  preliminary  process, 
and  not  to  use  the  deep  bath  except  for  dishes  which 
are  fried  out-and-out,  such  as  fried  fillets  of  fish 
or  apple  fritters.^ 

Our  first  entrees  shall  be  of  the  order  of  stews, 
one  of  beef  and  one  of  mutton.     Both  of  them  will 

*  Some  writers  get  over  the  difficulty  by  speaking  of  "  dry 
frying  "  and  "  wet  frying,"  the  "  wet  "  frying  being  the  frying 
in  a  deep  bath.  I  think  "  wet  frying  "  is  a  dangerous  ex- 
pression, as  we  are  fighting  the  Enghsh  tendency  towards 
soddenness. 


142     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

be  far  better  made  in  an  earthenware  casserole  than 
in  an  enamelled  stewpan.  The  casserole  allows  slower 
cooking  and  the  meat  is  much  less  likely  to  stick  to  the 
bottom.  Besides,  the  casserole  can  be  carried  straight 
to  the  table,  thus  saving  the  trouble  of  dishing  up. 
A  steaming  casserole  on  a  cold  day  has  a  homely  look 
and  puts  everybody  into  the  right  mood. 

Buy  about  two  pounds  of  the  parts  of  beef  known 
as  stewing  beef  or  skirting.  Free  them  from  skin  and 
fat.  Cut  them  up,  salt  them,  pepper  them  and  dip 
them  in  flour.  Take  some  good  turnips  and  carrots  and 
onions,  prepare  them,  cut  them  up,  season  them,  and 
dip  these  also  in  flour.  Having  melted  some  good  beef 
dripping  in  a  pan,  you  must  now  proceed  to  fry  {faire 
revenir)  all  the  pieces  till  they  take  the  desired  brown 
colour.  Meanwhile,  a  small  kettleful  of  water  should 
have  been  rising  to  the  boiling-point.  Take  the  pieces 
of  meat  and  vegetables  out  of  the  pan  and  lay  them 
at  the  bottom  of  a  warmed  casserole.  There  will 
remain  in  the  pan  the  relics  of  the  dripping  and  the 
flour.  Pour  over  these  some  boiling  water  from  the 
kettle  and  work  them  up  into  a  gravy,  scraping  every- 
thing from  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  mixing  it  with 
the  water  as  much  as  possible.  Pour  this  gravy  into 
the  casserole  with  some  mace  and  cinnamon  and  a 
bouquet  of  herbs.  There  should  be  just  enough  of 
the  gravy  to  cover  the  vegetables  and  meat.  Let 
the  contents  of  the  casserole  come  for  a  bare  second 
to  the  boil,  then  draw  the  casserole  to  the  side  of  the 
fire  or  leave  it  over  the  feeblest  heat  of  which  your 
gas-stove  allows.  The  slower  the  cooking  the  better  ; 
indeed,  the  lucky  person  with  a  range  or  an  old- 
fashioned  hob  may  let  the  cooking  continue  for  four 


ENTREES  143 

or  five  hours.  From  time  to  time,  examine  the  mess 
with  a  wooden  spoon  and  make  sure  that  nothing  is 
sticking.  \Miile  the  cooking  must  never  cease,  the 
heat  must  be  much  lower  than  boihng-point,  in  accord- 
ance with  the  old  rule  :  "A  stew  boiled  is  a  stew 
spoiled."  When  you  sit  down  to  eat  this  entree,  you 
will  find  the  meat  and  vegetables  so  flavoury  that  you 
will  wish  never  again  to  eat  the  too  familiar  stew  in 
which  everything  has  gone  to  rags.  Probably  those 
who  eat  it  with  you  will  finish  the  meat  and  most  of 
the  vegetables,  but  some  of  the  liquid  may  remain. 
You  can  make  use  of  this  on  the  morrow  in  dozens  of 
ways,  according  to  the  materials  which  are  on  your 
hands.  For  example,  you  can  boil  some  macaroni 
for  not  more  than  five  minutes  in  plenty  of  boihng 
water,  and,  after  draining  it,  transfer  it  to  your  thick 
broth  and  let  it  cook  slowly,  until  it  is  impregnated 
with  fine  flavours  and  perfectly  tender.  Or,  having 
fried  more  pieces  of  vegetables  and  meat,  you  can 
add  them,  with  the  new  supply  of  gravy  which  results 
from  the  frying,  to  whatever  is  left  in  the  casserole, 
of  course  bringing  the  old  to  the  same  heat  as 
the  new  before  mixing  the  two.  As  you  will  not 
wish  to  have  similar  dishes  two  days  running,  you 
can  add  a  little  red  wine  on  the  second  day  ;  or  let 
the  contents  of  the  casserole  be  accompanied  by  a 
puree  of  potatoes,  or  Jerusalem  artichokes,  or  of 
turnips,  served  in  a  separate  dish. 

The  stew  of  beef  just  described  is  a  very  homely 
one  for  family  use,  and  it  can  be  made  cheaper  or 
dearer  by  varying  the  proportions  of  meat  and  vege- 
tables. I  have  known  a  clever  housewife  with  a 
large  family  who  kept  a  stew  of  this  kind  in  being  for 


144     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

five  days  without  anybody  beginning  to  feel  that  it 
was  monotonous.  On  the  last  day  it  contained 
practically  no  meat,  but  was  made  substantial  with 
some  dried  peas  and  haricot  beans  which  had  been 
soaked  and  swollen  for  twenty-four  hours.  Of  course 
she  dissembled  her  economy  by  serving  the  stew  in 
different  receptacles  on  three  days  and  in  the  casserole 
itself  on  the  other  two. 


We  will  turn  from  a  ragout  of  beef  to  a  ragout  of 
mutton.  I  do  not  doubt  that,  at  one  time  or  another, 
a  small  loin  of  mutton  finds  its  way  into  almost  every 
house.  At  one  end  of  the  loin  the  chops  are  nearly 
all  meat,  but  at  the  other  end  they  degenerate  into  a 
big  bone.  I  suggest  that  this  bone-end  of  the  loin  be 
cut  off  and  treated  as  follows  : — 

Peel  half-a-dozen  potatoes  of  middling  size.  Then 
make  a  roux  and  prepare  a  bouquet.  You  ought  to 
know  the  meaning  of  both  these  terms,  but,  in  case 
you  were  never  taught  or  have  forgotten  them,  I  will 
briefly  explain  them  both.  A  roux  is  made  of  flour 
fried  in  downright  good  dripping  or  in  butter.  I  am 
not  referring  to  the  method  of  frying  in  a  deep  bath  of 
fat  but  to  frying  in  a  pan.  While  the  frying  goes  on, 
the  cook  stirs  the  mixture  all  the  time  to  prevent  the 
forming  of  lumps.  You  must  use  a  wooden  spoon. 
For  a  brown  roux  you  put  an  ounce  of  butter  to  one 
dessertspoonful  of  flour.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan 
on  a  moderate  fire,  add  the  flour,  stir  briskly,  and  as 
soon  as  the  colour  shows  quite  brown,  pour  in  little 
by  little  half-a-pint  of  stock.  If  you  have  no  stock, 
water  will  do.     If  you  are  in  a  hurry,  cold  water  or 


ENTREES  145 

cold  stock  can  be  used,  though  I  think  it  is  better  hot. 
All  the  time  you  are  pouring  in  the  hot  or  cold  stock 
or  water  go  on  stirring,  stirring,  stirring,  until  the 
roux  is  quite  smooth.  To  make  a  white  roux  you 
ought  to  have  a  rather  gentler  heat  than  for  a  brown 
roux.  Do  not  let  the  flour  and  butter  become  dark. 
Avoid  browning,  avoid  lumpiness,  and  use  a  white 
stock  made  from  the  remains  of  a  fowl,  or  from  white 
dried  haricots.  For  what  is  called  by  professional 
cooks  a  roux  blond,  cook  the  flour  and  butter  not 
much  beyond  a  biscuit  colour  and  use  water  or  white 
stock. 

A  bouquet  consists  of  a  small  bay  leaf,  some  thyme, 
one  or  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  and,  if  possible,  some 
basil  and  some  marjoram.  You  tie  these  tightly 
together  with  white  cotton.  Some  people  add  a  strip 
of  lemon  peel.  I  admit  that  this  sounds  trouble- 
some, but,  when  a  housekeeper  has  once  got  into  the 
way  of  using  a  bouquet,  it  will  seem  as  natural  as 
using  salt  and  pepper.  Of  course  the  tying  of  the 
bouquet  with  cotton  is  intended  to  facilitate  its 
removal  after  it  has  done  its  work.  If  you  cannot  get 
a  bouquet  such  as  I  have  described,  you  can  use  dried 
herbs  tied  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin  ;  but  you  must 
take  care  that  your  dried  herbs  have  not  lost  their 
savour.  Many  housekeepers  buy  dried  herbs  in 
foolish  little  cardboard  boxes  which  seem  to  have 
been  invented  for  the  purpose  of  making  them  dryer 
than  ever.  It  will  be  far  cheaper  in  the  end  to 
buy  good  herbs  and  to  keep  them  in  little  air-tight 
tins. 

Having  reached  a  good  understanding  about  the 
roux  and  the  bouquet,  we  can  return  to  our  mutton. 

K 


146     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Put  half-a-pint  of  brown  roux  into  a  stewpan ;  or 
rather  make  the  roux  in  the  stewpan  there  and  then. 
Bring  it  to  the  boil.  Put  in  your  piece  of  mutton, 
with  an  onion  (not  too  large),  the  bouquet,  some 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  clove.  Boil  all  these  things 
gently  for  half-an-hour.  Then  add  your  peeled 
potatoes  and  let  the  boiling  go  on  for  half-an-hour 
longer.  For  everybody  who  likes  a  potato,  this 
homely  dish  is  delightful.  As  for  those  who  are 
satisfied  with  nothing  but  huge  helpings  of  the  best 
meat,  they  must  not  expect  to  lift  more  meat  out  of 
the  stewpan  than  was  put  in. 

The  directions  just  given  will  apply  to  a  knuckle  of 
ham,  with  one  exception.  The  ham  being  salt,  you 
must  omit  the  salt  which  was  prescribed  for  the 
mutton. 

For  this  stew,  whether  of  mutton  or  of  ham,  you 
do  not  "  faire  revenir  "  the  meat.  The  meat  is  too 
poor  to  seal  and  you  let  it  give  its  virtues  to  the 
potatoes. 


I  will  now  be  very  bold  indeed  and  will  recommend 
an  entree  which,  at  the  first  blush,  will  strike  you  as 
both  difficult  and  extravagant.  It  is  neither ;  and 
it  has  the  charm  of  antiquity.  Indeed  it  is  one  of  the 
oldest  dishes  in  the  French  cuisine  and  is  called  a 
Galimafree.  Historians  differ  as  to  the  true  Galima- 
free,  and  I  will  not  be  dogmatic  about  it.  Some  say 
that  it  was  a  ragout  of  sheep's  head  and  pluck  ;  others 
that  it  was  made  from  a  steak  of  ham,  about  an  inch 
thick,  served  with  a  great  number  of  tender  vegetables 
and  moistened  with  white  wine  ;   others  again,  that 


ENTREES  147 

fowls  were  the  principal  ingredients  I  am  going  to 
describe  an  entirely  different  Galimafree.  Buy  a 
small  shoulder  of  mutton  weighing  not  more  than 
about  three  pounds  and  a  half.  If  you  feel  that  the 
task  will  be  beyond  you,  ask  the  butcher  to  separate 
the  skin  from  the  flesh,  making  it  plain  to  him  that  the 
skin  is  to  be  lifted  all  in  one  piece,  so  that  it  can  be  put 
back  in  its  place.  As  his  knives  are  sharper  than 
yours,  ask  him  at  the  same  time  to  cut  off  the  meat 
from  the  bone  entirely.  At  this  stage  he  will  prob- 
ably wish  to  argue  with  you,  and  will  tell  you  that 
what  you  really  wish  him  to  do  is  to  bone  the  mutton. 
Now  the  boning  of  mutton — that  is  to  say,  the  clever 
separation  of  the  meat  from  the  principal  bone — is  a 
trick  worth  knowing,  because  it  enables  many  ex- 
cellent methods  to  be  foUowed,  especiaUy  with  the 
leg  of  mutton  ;  but  it  is  not  what  you  want  for  a 
Galimafree,  where  the  skin  is  detached  from  the  meat 
as  well  as  the  meat  from  the  bone,  and  where  it  is  not 
necessary  for  the  meat  to  come  away  in  one  piece. 
When  these  surgical  operations  are  finished,  you 
will  mince  the  meat  finely,  you  wilJ  mix  with  it  a  little 
chopped  bacon,  some  chopped  lemon  peel  and  some 
fine  herbs,  and  you  will  cook  the  mixture,  moistened 
with  a  little  stock  in  a  pan,  keeping  it  well  stirred. 
Of  course  you  will  take  care  that  it  is  not  in  the  least 
sloppy.  When,  by  taste  and  smell  and  sight,  you 
perceive  that  it  is  cooked,  you  wiU  build  it  into  what 

^  As  old-fasliioned  Frenchmen  still  express  their  contempt 
for  a  rambhng  sermon  or  speech  by  calling  it  a  "  galimafree,"  I 
suspect  that  the  word  could  be  applied  in  cookery  to  any  hotch- 
potch. In  my  recipe,  the  name  is  appropriate  because  the 
meat  is  cut  up  and  mixed  with  flavoury  morsels  and  herbs. 


148     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

I  may  call  the  empty  shell  of  your  shoulder  of  mutton, 
the  bone  forming  a  support.  You  wiU  very  carefully 
bring  back  the  skin  to  its  original  position  and  will 
tie  it  in  place  with  a  string.  Flour  it  all  over  and  bake 
it  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  for  the  floured  skin  to 
take  a  good  colour,  so  that  the  whole  appears  to  be  an 
ordinary  roasted  or  baked  joint.  This  last  stage  of 
the  process  will  be  quite  short,  as  the  meat  has  been 
separately  cooked.  It  would  appear  that  this  kind 
of  Galimafree  was  served  with  a  sauce  like  Ravigote. 
I  am  quite  prepared  to  hear  that  the  foregoing 
recipe  will  provoke  mirth,  and  that  most  readers  will 
flatly  dechne  to  spoil  a  good  shoulder  of  mutton  on 
such  lines.  But,  as  a  suitable  shoulder  can  be  bought 
for  half-a-crown,  and  sometimes  for  less,  the  dish  is 
surely  worth  trying  once  in  a  lifetime.  When  I  go  on 
to  say  that  it  is  economical,  the  scoffer  will  agree 
with  me  on  the  ground  that  a  very  little  of  it  wiU  go 
a  very  long  way.  In  a  sense,  he  is  right.  This  dish 
admits  of  being  eaten  along  with  an  exceptional 
proportion  of  vegetables ;  because  the  herbs  and 
lemon  juice  and  bacon,  and  the  retention  of  all  the 
gravy  in  the  meat  itself,  make  it  very  fiavoury.  In 
practice  I  find  it  both  distinguished  and  economical ; 
but  of  course  this  is  a  recipe  to  be  followed  only  once 
or  twice  in  the  year. 


I  should  have  found  it  easier  to  describe  the  Gahma- 
free  if  I  could  have  used  the  words  mince  or  hash  as 
the  French  understand  them  ;  but  unhappily  the 
mince  and  the  hash  are  terms  with  evil  associations 
in  English  households.     So  perhaps  this  will  be  a 


ENTREES  149 

good  place  for  some  short  notes  on  the  true  hash  and 
the  true  mince,  in  which  economy  is  practised  without 
causing  disgust.  Indeed  the  true  mince  is  thoroughly 
relevant  to  this  book,  because  it  lends  itself  remark- 
ably well  to  our  great  principle  of  economising  by 
making  intelligent  use  of  what  is  already  in  the  larder. 
Whatever  your  remains  of  meat  may  be,  flesh  or  fowl 
boiled  or  roasted,  grilled  or  stewed,  you  can  go 
ahead. 

My  first  advice  to  an  English  cook  who  wants  to 
make  a  good  mince  is  to  take  her  mincing  machine,  to 
clean  it  thoroughly,  and  then  to  lock  it  away  in  a  box 
or  a  drawer  for  the  rest  of  the  morning.     Old-fashioned 
cutting  and  chopping  and  mincing  with  a  knife  may 
seem  more  troublesome,  but  when  the  quantity  of 
material  is  small,  it  is  really  not  much  more  bother 
than  is  required  for  mounting  the  machine  and  work- 
ing it  and  finally  cleaning  it.     Without  the  machine, 
one  is  much  more  careful  to  reject  gristle  and  skin  ; 
and  the  disagreeable  mushiness  of  the  ordinary  mince 
is  avoided.     Chop  up  what  you  have.     Add  to  it 
some  pepper  and  salt  and  breadcrumbs,  using  one 
dessertspoonful    of    breadcrumbs    to    nine    of    your 
chopped   meat    and    varying   the    salt    and    pepper 
according  to  the  quantities  used  when  the  meat  or 
game  was  first  cooked.    Take  care  that  there  is  a 
little  fat  in  your  mixture.     If  you  should  have  in  the 
house  an  uncooked  sausage,  you  would  do  well  to 
draw  the  sausage  meat  out  of  the  skin  and  to  add  it 
to  your  mince,  taking  care  that  you  have  at  least  five 
or  six  times  as  much  mince  as  sausage  meat.    Chop 
up  some  parsley  and  a  shalot  if  you  have  one  ;   but 
do  not  mix  the  shalot  with  the  mince  at  first.     Melt 


150     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

a  piece  of  butter  in  a  stewpan  and  stir  the  minced 
shalot  in  it  until  it  begins  to  brown  ;  then  throw  in 
the  whole  of  the  mince,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
and  the  chopped  parsley,  and  go  on  stirring  for  fully 
five  minutes.  You  should  have  made  ready  a  little 
good  broth,  or  gravy,  or  the  best  stock  you  have 
managed  to  extract.  Pour  this  in  very  slowly,  using 
only  a  very  small  quantity — I  cannot  say  how  much, 
because  I  do  not  know  how  much  mince  you  will  be 
making,  but  not  enough  to  make  the  mince  look 
sodden.  Now  let  the  cooking  continue  for  half-an- 
hour  over  a  very  slow  fire  or  a  very  small  gas-jet, 
keeping  the  lid  on  the  pan. 

You  will  understand  that  no  mince  can  be  much 
better  than  the  meat  or  game  from  which  it  is  made. 
But  the  trouble  with  lazy  or  incompetent  cooks  is  that 
their  minces  nearly  always  turn  out  much  worse  than 
their  ingredients.  With  a  good  mince,  dozens  of  fine 
things  can  be  done.  For  example,  on  a  cold  day,  few 
things  are  more  comforting  than  a  mince  with  mashed 
potatoes.  A  good  old-fashioned  English  way  is  to 
prepare  some  mashed  potatoes,  varying  the  butter  and 
pepper  and  salt  according  to  the  fatness  or  leanness  of 
your  mince,  and  to  build  the  potatoes  up  in  a  high 
ring  in  a  round  fireproof  dish.  By  a  ring  I  mean 
something  like  the  circular  forts  of  sand  which  children 
make  on  the  seashore,  with  room  to  stand  inside. 
The  mashed  potatoes  are  carefully  raised  up  in  this 
fashion,  and  the  mince  is  neatly  packed  within  it. 
By  browning  the  whole  affair  in  the  oven,  one  pro- 
duces something  of  the  effect  of  a  raised  meat  pie,  but 
with  a  casing  of  potatoes  instead  of  more  expensive  and 
less  digestible  pie-crust. 


ENTREES  151 

I  come  to  braising.  The  cook  who  has  made  her- 
self mistress  of  braising  is  in  a  position  to  practise  the 
utmost  economies,  while  producing  some  of  the  most 
covetable  dishes.  Braising  is  one  of  the  most  ancient 
of  culinary  processes.  \\Tien  prehistoric  man  came 
home  to  his  cave  with  the  kid  which  he  had  stolen,  or 
with  the  wild  piglet  which  his  arrow  had  pierced, 
prehistoric  woman  soon  learned  to  braise  a  dinner 
with  herbs  in  a  clay  pot.  She  covered  the  pot  with  a 
rough  hd  of  clay  and  heaped  smouldering  embers 
above  it.  True  braising  must  always  maintain  the 
same  old  principles,  and  the  best  results  are  not  to  be 
obtained  without  the  beating  down  as  well  as  the 
rising  up  of  a  steady  heat.  The  lid  of  a  true  braising- 
vessel  is  so  made  that  it  will  contain  glowing  charcoal, 
which  causes  the  meat  and  vegetables  to  be  caught 
between  two  fires. 

I  recognise,  hov/ever,  the  uselessness  of  upholding 
standards  which  few  readers  will  follow.  I  must 
therefore  assume  that  a  true  braising-pan  is  absent 
from  most  English  kitchens  and  that  the  house- 
keepers who  buy  this  book  will  not  trot  off  to  the  iron- 
monger's to  make  good  the  defect.  We  must  do  the 
best  we  can  with  our  stev/pans  and  casseroles.  The 
Germans  speak  of  braising  by  a  name  equivalent  to 
our  word  "  smothering,"  by  which  they  mean  that 
braised  meats  are  smothered  in  an  aromatic  sauce 
and  in  an  atmosphere  of  steam  which  cannot  escape. 
It  follows  that  the  lid  of  the  vessel  must  fit  well. 
When  the  vessel  is  placed  in  an  oven,  a  great  deal  of 
heat  strikes  down  from  the  oven-top,  thus  doing  some 
of  the  work  performed  by  the  glowing  charcoal  in  a 
true  braising-pot.     There  are  times,  however,  when 


152     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

the  top  heat  may  be  dispensed  with,  and  when  it  will 
suffice  to  apply  bottom  heat  only  from  a  gas-jet  to 
a  well-covered  vessel. 


At  this  point  we  are  on  the  threshold  of  a  great 
principle  in  cookery  which  will  enable  the  novice  to 
escape  many  a  familiar  disaster.  I  will  try  to  express 
the  principle  by  roughly  stating  the  great  difference 
between  a  "  sealed  "  ragout  and  a  dish  of  braised  meat. 
In  a  sealed  ragout,  as  I  have  already  explained,  we 
fry  our  pieces  of  meat  and  vegetables  so  as  to  seal  up 
their  juices.  When  braising,  on  the  other  hand,  we 
endeavour  to  impregnate  our  slices  of  meat  with  the 
flavours  of  a  kind  of  sauce  which  is  called  a  braise 
or  a  mirepoix.  A  braise  or  mirepoix  is  a  strong  and 
important  blend  of  gravy,  both  animal  and  vegetable, 
while  the  liquid  in  a  ragout  is  generally  mere  water 
or  a  stock  of  no  marked  flavour.  In  a  ragout  we 
keep  the  surrounding  liquid  out  ^ ;  in  a  braised  dish 
the  meat  gently  draws  it  in. 


I  will  give  a  simple  illustration  of  braising.  One 
night  a  friend  asked  me  to  go  with  him  to  his  house, 
which  had  been  closed  for  a  week.  The  house  stood 
right  out  in  the  country,  and  there  was  no  inn  within 
two  or  three  miles.  Knowing  that,  after  making  his 
round  of  the  little  property,  we  should  have  an  hour 
or  two  to  kill  before  we  could  get  a  train  back  to  town 
and  to  a  decent  meal,  my  friend  took  with  him  from 

^  The  kind  of  ragout  called  an  Irish  stew  is  an  exception, 
as  it  aims  at  giving  flavour  to  the  potatoes. 


ENTREES  153 

London  a  neat  packet  of  ham  sandwiches.  We  un- 
locked the  cottage  and  opened  the  windows,  but  had 
hardly  finished  our  inspection  before  the  sky  darkened 
and  a  cold  rain  began  to  fall.  We  unpacked  our 
sandwiches.  They  had  been  cut  in  the  kitchen  of  a 
well-known  hotel  and  no  less  than  half-a-crown  had 
been  charged  for  them  ;  but  those  sandwiches  looked 
extremely  dreary  in  the  chilly  twihght.  A  happy 
thought  came  to  me.  In  the  kitchen  I  had  noticed 
a  small,  shallow  casserole.  While  my  accomplice 
broke  up  an  empty  packing-case  and  kindled  a  merry 
little  fire,  I  foraged  in  the  pantry  and  the  store 
cupboard.  The  shelves  were  almost  bare,  but  I 
stumbled  upon  a  bottle  of  Marsala.  The  cork  had 
evidently  been  first  drawn  nine  or  ten  days  before, 
but  this  was  a  powerful  Marsala  and  was  still  fit  to 
drink.  I  found  also  some  tomato  catsup — perhaps 
a  tablespoonful  and  a  half,  at  the  bottom  of  a  screw- 
stoppered  bottle.  We  washed  some  plates  and  dis- 
membered the  sandwiches,  putting  each  man's  bread- 
and-butter  in  a  little  pile,  and  forking  together  the 
slices  of  ham.  I  chopped  up  finely  a  little  of  the  fat 
of  the  ham  and  put  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  casserole 
to  melt.  The  melting  was  not  entirely  satisfactory, 
but  it  might  have  been  worse.  By  leaning  out  of  the 
kitchen  window  I  easily  gathered  three  or  four  nastur- 
tium seeds  which  were  still  young  and  tender.  These 
seeds  were  minced  up  finely  and  were  thrown  into  the 
casserole  with  a  mixture  of  Marsala  and  tomato 
catsup.  We  laid  in  the  liquid  a  slice  of  ham,  and 
covered  it  with  a  crisp  little  curling  leaf  from  a  lettuce 
which  was  growing  not  half-a-dozen  yards  from  the 
scullery  door.     Upon  the  lettuce  we  laid  more  ham 


154     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

and  more  lettuce  until  no  more  ham  remained.  By 
this  time  the  fire  had  been  coaxed  into  good  order  and 
was  burning,  or  rather  smouldering,  quietly.  The 
heat  needed  keeping  up  with  bits  of  less  dry  wood,  but 
we  managed  to  do  this  without  letting  it  blaze. 

Although  the  lid  of  the  casserole  fitted  well,  the 
kitchen  soon  grew  homely  with  goodly  vapours. 
When  the  pot  was  opened,  our  hearts  began  to  sing. 
The  escape  of  steam  had  been  small,  and  the  ham  had 
played  a  fine  game  of  give-and-take  with  the  sauce. 
The  sauce  had  cut  away  the  grossness  from  the  fat 
ham,  and  the  ham  had  softened  the  sharp  temper  of 
the  sauce.  Two  hours  later,  when  we  were  safely 
back  in  town,  we  made  the  experiment  of  ordering  for 
supper  some  jamhon  braise  au  Madere  ;  but  it  was  not 
to  be  compared  with  what  we  had  eaten  at  a  deal 
table,  with  the  rain  drumming  on  the  leaves  in  the 
windless  twihght. 

If  we  had  reversed  the  casserole  lid,  and  had  filled 
it  with  red-hot  embers,  our  dish  would  have  been  an 
example  of  the  truest  braising.  The  reason  why  we 
did  not  use  top  as  weU  as  bottom  heat  was  that  the 
result  would  not  have  repaid  the  extra  trouble.  The 
top  heat  is  wanted  for  fairly  large  pieces  of  meat,  or 
for  birds,  rather  than  for  meat  in  sHces.  Towards 
the  end  of  the  process  of  braising,  which  must  be  as 
long  and  slow  as  possible,  the  sauce  or  mirepoix  is 
reduced  in  volume  and  the  top  of  the  meat  appears 
above  the  surface,  like  the  summit  of  Mount  Ararat 
after  the  Deluge.  If,  at  this  stage,  the  top  heat  is 
applied,  it  browns  the  meat  and  gives  to  it  that  very 
slight  caramel-like  taste  of  fire  which  is  acceptable 
to  the  palate  of  every  woman  and  of  nearly  all  men. 


ENTREES  155 

In  my  own  practice,  I  use  the  simple  method  of 
braising  just  described  for  all  kinds  of  materials  and 
on  all  sorts  of  occasions.  It  turns  many  a  poor  and 
dry  little  slice  of  meat  into  a  dish  fit  for  a  queen,  or 
even  for  a  prima  donna.  Still,  I  know  that  braising 
is  conducted  on  rather  different  lines  by  cooks  far  more 
intelligent  and  accomplished  than  I  can  hope  to 
become.  These  cooks  give  directions  which  should 
often  be  followed,  especially  when  one  is  dealing  with 
larger  pieces  of  meat  or  game  which  cannot  be  sliced 
or  cut  small.  Melt  a  little  bacon  or  butter  or  good 
dripping  at  the  bottom  of  a  roomy  stewpan.  While 
it  is  slowly  liquefying,  mix  together  a  number  of  little 
dice  which  have  been  cut  from  a  turnip,  some  carrots, 
a  big  onion  and  a  stick  of  celery.  The  usual  advice 
is  to  have  equal  quantities  of  dice  from  all  four  vege- 
tables, but  I  have  often  varied  them  and  have  added 
dice  cut  from  Jerusalem  artichokes,  from  leeks,  from 
sea-kale,  from  salsify  and  from  tomatoes.  Lay  these 
dice  to  a  depth  of  nearly  two  inches  in  the  bottom  of 
the  stewpan,  tie  up  a  mixture  of  herbs  in  muslin  and 
throw  the  little  bag,  with  reasonable  pepper  and  salt, 
on  top  of  the  dice.  Before  putting  the  meat  to  rest 
in  this  fragrant  bed,  trim  it  carefully  and  give  it  a 
dusting  of  flour.  [Some  pieces  of  meat  will  require 
tying  round  neatly  with  tape,  in  which  case  you  will, 
of  course,  use  a  tape  that  has  not  been  injuriously 
coloured.]  Heap  more  dice  on  the  meat.  Put  the 
pan  on  a  fire  that  is  not  too  slow,  and  cook  the  con- 
tents for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes,  the  pan  being 
covered  with  the  lid.  Taking  a  wooden  spoon,  you 
must  occasionally  prevent  the  dice  of  vegetables  from 
sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  unless  you  have 


156     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

a  wrist  strong  and  skilful  enough  to  give  the  right  kind 
of  a  shake,  which  is  better  than  stirring  with  a  spoon. 
As  soon  as  the  meat  shows  by  its  brown  colour  that 
the  cooking  has  well  begun,  pour  in  some  broth,  or 
broth  and  wine,  or  plain  stock,  or  even  water,  using 
no  more  than  will  just  drown  the  bottom  layer  of 
vegetables. 

Replace  the  lid  and  let  the  cooking  go  on  for  three 
or  four  or  even  five  hours,  according  to  the  size  and 
kind  of  meat  you  are  using.  Remember  that  while 
on  the  one  hand  the  cooking  must  not  cease  for  a 
moment,  on  the  other  hand  it  must  never  go  beyond 
the  gentlest  possible  simmering.  A  range  with  a  coal 
fire  is  better  than  a  gas-stove  for  braising,  as  a  far 
gentler  simmering  can  be  effected  in  a  pan  drawn 
almost  away  from  the  fire.  Further,  I  find  a  casserole 
worlds  better  than  any  other  vessel.  If  you  conduct 
the  braising  in  an  oven,  so  as  to  benefit  by  the  top 
heat  from  the  oven  roof,  you  are  advised  by  the  best 
cooks  to  cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with  a  sheet  of 
greased  paper.  I  have  never  been  in  love  with  this 
device,  as  paper  is  not  always  all  one  would  like  it  to 
be.  I  use  a  rather  deeper  casserole  than  is  usual, 
with  plenty  of  head  room  for  the  vapours  and  I  do 
not  find  my  little  messes  any  the  worse.  Of  course 
I  take  care  to  glance  at  the  meat  now  and  then  and  to 
baste  it  with  the  liquid  whenever  it  shows  signs  of 
becoming  too  dry. 

When  the  braising  is  finished,  the  meat  must  be 
lifted  out  of  the  sauce.  In  a  clean  and  much  smaller 
pan,  the  sauce  must  be  brought  to  the  boil  and  kept 
at  boiling-point  for  a  few  minutes.  Some  hot  water 
or  stock  can  be  added  if  the  original  sauce  has  become 


ENTREES  157 

excessively  reduced.  The  boiling  will  bring  the  grease 
to  the  top.  As  soon  as  the  grease  has  been  skimmed 
away,  the  sauce  is  poured  over  the  meat,  which  is  at 
last  ready  for  eating. 


With  these  two  ways  of  braising  at  your  fingers' 
ends,  your  shopping  will  become  a  new  experience. 
Where  you  have  been  accustomed  to  confine  yourself 
to  a  narrow  range  of  materials,  you  will  find  yourself 
yearning  to  make  new  experiments.  The  cookery- 
books  will  tell  you  how  to  braise  the  cheaper  cuts  of 
mutton,  and  liver,  and  sheep's  tongues,  and  many 
another  neglected  cut  or  morsel.  But,  over  and  above 
the  books,  ideas  will  come  to  you. 

Of  course  you  will  not  braise  greasy  materials. 
Salmon,  for  example,  does  not  invite  braising.  Yet 
some  kinds  of  fish,  after  they  are  caught,  take  to  brais- 
ing as  they  took  to  water  when  they  were  alive.  One 
night  I  ate  with  some  friends  a  turbotin,  or  chicken 
turbot,  which  had  been  braised  in  Chambertin.  It 
was  served  with  a  cream  of  mushrooms  sharpened 
by  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  This  sounds  extra- 
vagant ;  but  an  almost  equally  good  result  could  be 
cheaply  obtained  with  a  shillingsworth  of  fish  and 
mushrooms  and  a  few  pennyworth  of  sound  Macon 
Ordinaire. 


The  housekeeper  who  will  take  the  trouble  to  under- 
stand the  use  of  curry  and  the  boiling  of  rice  will  have 
travelled  a  long  way  on  the  path  of  wisdom.  It  is 
important  to  go  to  a  good  shop  and  to  get  genuine 


158     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

curry  and  to  study  the  directions  which  the  shopman 
is  nearly  always  ready  to  give  you.  Some  years  ago 
an  Anglo- Indian  advised  me  always  to  cook  curry 
powder  in  a  pan  with  a  little  butter  and  flour  just 
before  using  it,  and  I  have  never  regi'etted  following 
his  advice.  Too  many  cookery-books  treat  curry  as 
if  it  is  to  be  merely  thrown  into  any  appropriate  con- 
coction, as  one  throws  in  a  small  handful  of  salt. 
And  not  less  important  than  the  curry  powder  is  the 
rice.  Colonel  Kenney-Herbert,  who  wrote  several 
valuable  books  about  cookery,  learned  in  India  the 
best  way  of  boiling  rice.  His  method  is  simple. 
Having  prepared  three  ounces  of  good  rice,  by  sifting 
it  and  washing  it  well,  put  it  into  a  pan  where  a  quart 
of  water  is  already  boiling.  If  you  add  to  the  water 
the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  you  will  get  a  whiter 
mess  of  rice  in  the  end.  Do  not  oversalt  the  water, 
as  is  usually  done  in  England.  A  teaspoonful  for 
the  quantity  we  are  discussing  should  be  the  maxi- 
mum. The  rice  must  be  boiled  with  the  lid  off  the 
pan.  Introduce  frequently  a  wooden  fork,  such  as  is 
used  for  salads,  and  stir  the  rice  so  that  it  wiU  move 
freely  in  the  water  and  will  not  stick  to  the  pan.  In 
rather  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour  the  rice  should 
be  cooked.  Test  it  by  taking  a  grain  and  squeezing 
it.  The  grain  should  be  tender  without  losing  its 
form.  The  moment  you  find  that  the  boihng  has  gone 
far  enough,  stop  it  by  throwing  in  a  cupful  of  water. 
Drain  away  all  the  water,  leaving  the  rice  in  the  pan. 
Put  the  pan  back  on  a  gentle  heat  and  cover  it  with 
a  napkin,  so  that  the  heat  will  be  retained  while  the 
moisture  is  absorbed.  Give  another  occasional  stir- 
ring, so  as  to  keep  the  grains  well  separated.    If  you 


ENTREES  159 

have  performed  this  simple  operation  properly,  and 
if  you  have  used  the  right  kind  of  rice — namely,  the 
Patna  rice,^  which  is  white  and  large-grained  and 
shapely — you  will  be  looking  at  a  beautiful  sight  as 
well  as  at  a  cheap  and  useful  food. 

Almost  every  kind  of  food  can  be  curried.  And 
curried  dishes  lend  themselves  to  economy  for  a 
further  reason.  When  a  curry  is  served,  there  ought 
to  be  plenty  of  it,  but  it  should  not  be  followed  by 
other  cooked  dishes.  I  have  been  present  at  a  long 
meal  in  which  the  curried  entree  was  followed  by  a 
delicate  roast  and  an  admirable  champagne  of  the 
1900  vintage,  both  the  food  and  the  drink  being  ruined 
by  the  curry.  We  can  quite  properly  lead  up  to  a 
curry,  through  hors  d'ceuvre  and  soup  ;  but  we  cannot 
follow  it  except  with  refreshing  fruit  or  with  a  savoury 
as  ardent  as  the  curry  itself.  A  housekeeper  with  a 
good  instinct  for  her  work  will  therefore  serve  curries 
not  too  often  but,  when  the  occasion  comes,  lavishly 
and  to  the  exclusion  of  almost  everything  else,  thus 
saving  both  labour  and  expense. 

I  have  found  the  following  materials  wonderfully 
good  when  they  are  curried: — aubergine,  beef,  cauli- 
flower, chicken,  crab,  eggs,  most  kinds  of  fish,  mutton, 
rabbits,  cold  turkey,  turnips,  and  veal. 


Although  a_  Salmis  of  game  often  figures  in  menus 
at  restaurants,  it  is  too  rarely  met  with  in  English 

1  In  1911-12  a  caterer,  who  wished  to  do  the  right  thing, 
was  found  by  a  friend  of  mine  to  be  buying  both  Patna  and 
CaroUna  rice;  but  he  used  the  "Patna  for  Puddings"  and 
"  CaroUna  for  Curries  "  with  lamentable  results. 


i6o     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

home  cookery.  It  is  essential  to  a  true  salmis  that 
it  should  be  made  of  game  which  has  been  roasted 
beforehand.  If  you  should  follow  the  directions  about 
to  be  given  without  having  first  roasted  your  game, 
you  might  produce  an  enjoyable  result,  but  it  would 
not  be  a  salmis.  By  visiting  the  poulterer  regularly 
you  will  often  be  able  to  buy  game  as  cheaply  as  meat, 
and  this  game,  when  worked  up  into  a  true  salmis,  will 
go  along  way,  besides  satisfying  your  reasonable  desire 
for  variety  and  distinction.  And  there  is  another 
respect  in  which  a  salmis  becomes  a  money -saver. 
Let  us  suppose  that  somebody  has  sent  you  a  brace  of 
birds  and  that,  after  being  served  roasted,  a  fair 
amount  of  meat  remains  on  the  bones  when  they  come 
back  from  the  table.  By  buying  and  roasting  one 
more  small  bird  (not  necessarily  of  the  same  species)  at 
the  cost  of  about  a  shilling,  you  can  make  a  salmis 
large  enough  for  four  persons.  Again,  if  you  happen 
to  have  a  httle  roast  mutton  you  may  cut  this  up 
into  rather  thick  pieces  and  it  will  so  take  the  flavour 
of  the  game  as  to  make  the  salmis  quite  good  enough 
for  six  persons. 

Here  is  the  method.  At  the  bottom  of  your  stew- 
pan  put  at  least  two  ounces  of  butter  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour.  Cook  them,  stirring  them  all 
the  time,  until  they  melt  together  and  take  a  good 
brown  colour.  Pour  in  very  gradually  a  gill  of  stock 
and  a  gill  of  good  wine.  [I  must  explain  that, 
if  you  are  able  to  do  it,  the  stock  should  be  well 
made  from  the  skeleton  of  another  bird.  The  wine 
must  be  red  wine  if  the  flesh  of  your  game  is  dark, 
and  white  if  the  flesh  be  light.]  Next,  add  pepper 
and  salt,  a  bouquet  of  herbs,  two  shalots  (not  cut 


ENTREES  i6i 

up)  and  the  carcass  of  your  game-bird,  from  which 
you  have  carefully  cut  the  limbs  and  all  the  meat, 
except  such  as  could  only  be  detached  in  pieces  of 
insignificant  size.  You  do  not  at  this  stage  put  in 
the  meat  and  limbs,  but  you  boil  everything  that  is  in 
the  stewpan  for  half-an-hour,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  boil  at  all  fiercely.  Then  you  pour  the  contents 
of  the  pot  or  pan  through  a  colander — not  a  sieve — 
so  that  the  shalots  and  bouquet  and  bones  remain 
behind.  Pour  the  liquid  back  into  the  pan,  and  bring 
it  once  more  to  boiUng-point.  At  the  first  bubbling, 
drop  in  all  the  good  pieces  of  game  and  withdraw  the 
stewpan  immediately  from  the  fire.  Squeeze  a  little 
lemon  juice  into  the  liquid,  replace  the  pan  lid  with- 
out delay,  and  stand  the  pan  where  it  will  keep  warm 
but  will  not  even  sinomer.  The  reason  why  simmering- 
point  must  not  be  reached  is  that  everything  by  this 
time  is  cooked,  because  your  game  had  been  roasted 
before  you  dropped  it  into  the  boiling  gravy.  It 
would  not  do,  however,  to  serve  the  salmis  immedi- 
ately. It  must  stand  on  the  warm  hob  or  in  a  tin  of 
hot  water  for  half-an-hour  longer,  so  that  the  pieces 
of  cold  roast  game  may  be  warmed  through  by  the 
surrounding  gravy  and  so  that  they  may  become 
impregnated  with  the  flavours  of  the  wine  and  the 
herbs  and  the  shalots  and  the  condiments.  The 
finished  salmis  is  often  served  with  a  good  decorative 
effect,  at  practically  no  extra  expense,  each  wing  or 
leg  or  other  good  piece  of  game  being  placed  on  a 
rather  thick  piece  of  toast.  The  toasts  are  arranged 
on  a  very  hot  dish  and  the  gravy,  which  is  smooth 
and  thick,  is  poured  over  them,  with  crimped  shces 
of  lemon  encircling  the  whole. 


i62     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

In  homely  and  unceremonious  circumstances  you 
can  apply  the  principles  of  a  salmis  to  roast  meat 
or  to  a  mixture  of  roast  meat  with  such  cheap  game 
as  rabbits.  A  week  before  I  began  to  write  this 
book,  I  helped  to  eat  a  salmis  of  rabbit  and  veal  which 
did  not  cost  more  than  fourpence  for  each  person, 
although  the  portions  were  ample  and  the  finish  of  the 
salmis  was  worthy  of  a  professional  cook. 


It  will  be  worth  while  to  glance  back  over  this 
chapter  and  to  note  the  resemblances  and  differences  in 
the  directions  for  the  various  stews,  braises  and  similar 
preparations.  I  have  told  you  of  a  stew  in  which 
the  solid  ingredients  are  sealed  by  frying  ;  about 
another  stew  in  which  the  meat  is  not  sealed  but  yields 
its  juices  and  flavours  to  some  potatoes  ;  about  some 
braised  meats  which  absorb  the  sauce  in  which  they 
are  cooked  ;  and  about  a  salmis  of  unsealed  but  roasted 
meat  warmed  up  in  a  gravy  and  flavoured  by  it .  After 
reflecting  on  these  points,  an  intelligent  cook  will 
discern  the  why  and  wherefore  of  some  of  the  most 
important  processes  and  she  will  become  more  and 
more  independent  of  those  closely  detailed  recipes 
which  have  discouraged  so  many  beginners. 


While  I  cannot  include  paper-bag  cookery  among  the 
great  processes,  I  recommend  it  to  ladies  who  wish  to 
do  their  own  cooking  in  flats  or  in  very  small  houses. 
The  odours  proceeding  from  a  good  kitchen  are  de- 
lightful at  the  right  time  and  in  the  right  place,  but 
nobody  wants  the  smell  of  cooking,  however  good  it 


ENTREES  163 

may  be,  to  invade  a  drawing-room  or  a  bedroom. 
Paper  bags  certainly  score  so  far  as  smells  are  con- 
cerned. It  is  also  fairly  claimed  for  them  that  they 
involve  less  labom*,  and  that  the  food  cooked  in  them 
loses  little  of  its  weight.  All  the  same,  I  am  sorry 
when  I  find  anybody  making  a  fetich  of  the  paper  bag. 
As  Mr  Soyer  himself  admits,  cooking  in  paper  is  no 
novelty.  The  first  act  of  cookery  which  I  committed 
in  my  green  youth  was  simply  the  \vrapping  up  of  a 
newly  caught  and  cleaned  fish  in  a  sheet  of  buttered 
paper  and  the  cooking  thereof  in  a  kind  of  oven 
roughly  formed  of  slabs  of  stone  by  the  side  of  a  lake. 
From  that  day  onwards  I  have  loved  fish  cooked  in 
paper,  and  I  think  Mr  Soyer  did  a  good  work  when  he 
introduced  his  special  bags  made  of  a  paper  which  is 
tasteless  and  odourless  and  harmless. 


A  few  red  mullet  will  lend  themselves  admirably  to 
paper-bag  cookery,  because  this  fish  may  be  said  to 
provide  its  own  sauce  when  it  is  baked.  From  the 
liver  of  a  red  mullet  there  comes  a  gravy  which  no 
sauce  cook  could  excel.  Into  a  buttered  bag  you 
simply  put  the  mullet  with  an  additional  large  pellet 
of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  You  cook  the  fish  for 
about  twenty  minutes.  The  other  kinds  of  fish  may 
require  more  seasoning,  such  as  chopped  parsley, 
mushrooms,  tomatoes  and  the  like.  A  good  paper 
bag  will  hold  liquids  also,  and  this  means  that  you 
can  use  it  even  when  you  wish  to  cook  a  fish  in 
sauce  or  stock  or  white  wine. 

Directions  for  paper-bag  cookery  are  usually  given 
with  the  bags  and  there  is  no  need  to  repeat  them 


i64     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

here.  I  must,  however,  remind  the  reader  emphatic- 
ally that  the  use  of  a  grid  is  absolutely  essential  and 
that  disaster  will  follow  the  placing  of  a  bag  on  a 
solid  oven-shelf. 

If  you  have  no  bags  in  the  house,  you  can  fall  back 
on  the  method  which  good  cooks  used  before  we  were 
born.  Cut  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  of  good  quality, 
into  the  shape  of  a  heart.  Place  the  paper  with  the 
point  of  the  heart  pointing  towards  you.  Having 
trimmed  and  seasoned,  say,  a  loin  chop,  lay  it  on  the 
right-hand  side  of  the  heart.  Of  course  you  will  have 
greased  the  paper  all  over.  Fold  the  left-hand  side 
over  the  chop  and  twist  the  edges  of  the  paper  to- 
gether where  they  meet.  Bake  the  bag  and  its 
contents  on  a  grid,  in  a  hot  oven,  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  You  can  apply  the  same  method  to  steaks,  to 
veal  cutlets,  to  kidneys,  to  liver  and  bacon  and  to  all 
sorts  of  cuts  of  meat  and  fish  and  game.  But  get  it 
out  of  your  mind  that  paper  bags  can  take  the  place 
of  all  pots  and  pans.  You  must  not,  for  example, 
use  them  for  cauliflowers  or  cabbages  or  beans  or 
artichokes  or  macaroni. 


With  the  great  processes  well  rooted  in  your  mind, 
and  with  the  paper  bag  for  a  change,  you  will  soon  be 
able  to  contrive  a  markedly  different  entree  for  every 
day  in  the  month.  And  if  you  \vill  master  the  rudi- 
ments of  good  sauce-making,  and  will  grasp  the 
principles  of  garnishing  entrees,  I  make  bold  to  say 
that  you  will  be  able  to  achieve  a  different  entree  for 
every  day  in  the  year.  This  would  be  too  great  a 
variety,  as  it  would  rob  you  of  the  pleasure  of  repeat- 


ENTREES  165 

ing  a  favourite  dish  ;   but  you  might  do  worse  than 
keep  it  before  you  as  an  ideal. 


Having  referred  to  garnishes,  I  will  try  very  briefly 
to  guide  your  studies.  When  you  open  a  serious 
cookery-book  by  one  of  the  great  masters,  you  may  be 
inclined  to  smile  at  the  almost  endless  lists  of  dishes. 
On  examining  the  recipes  you  will  find  that  the  variety 
is  worked  out  from  three  opportunities.  The  culinary 
inventor's  first  opportunity  lies  in  the  great  variety 
of  materials,  animal  and  vegetable  ;  the  second  comes 
through  the  variety  of  methods  of  cooking  them ; 
the  third  (and  this  is  the  biggest  of  all)  flows  from  the 
possibility  of  accompanying  the  cooked  food  with 
garnishes  or  sauces  or  a  combination  of  both. 

When  a  housekeeper  whose  ignorance  of  cooking  is 
almost  complete  decorates  a  plate  of  cold  ham  from 
a  shop  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  she  has  made  a 
true  garnish.  When  she  goes  further,  and  arranges 
squares  or  lozenges  of  toast  around  a  hash,  she  is 
garnishing  again  ;  and  when  a  millionaire's  French 
chef  surrounds  a  Poularde  Wellington  with  twenty 
little  pyramids  of  vegetables  all  different,  or  presents 
a  fish  in  a  sauce  made  of  wine  and  mushrooms  and 
mussels  and  prawns  and  asparagus  tips,  he  too  is 
garnishing.  As  soon  as  we  call  to  mind  the  enormous 
number  of  greenstuffs,  and  gherkins,  and  shell-fish, 
and  small  roots  (such  as  radishes),  and  vegetables,  big 
and  little,  and  tit-bits  (such  as  the  livers  of  fowls),  and 
mint  and  horse-radish,  and  literally  hundreds  of  other 
things,  we  must  cease  to  marvel  at  the  thousands  of 
combinations  which  are  defined  in  the  great  manuals 


i66     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

of  cookery,  and  we  shall  cease  to  smile  incredulously 
when  we  hear  that  new  dishes  are  always  being  devised. 
Of  course  I  am  now  alluding  to  genuine  practice,  and 
not  to  the  sham  novelties  of  advertising  restaurateurs. 


We  shall  best  reach  this  book's  goal  of  economy 
without  stodginess  if  we  continue  to  invoke  our  prin- 
ciple of  using  only  those  materials  which  we  possess 
already  in  the  larder,  or  can  most  easily  obtain.  Let 
the  chapter  on  Sauces  be  read,  and,  as  it  is  necessarily 
slight  in  a  volume  of  this  kind,  let  it  be  regarded  as 
merely  the  beginning  of  study.  Let  the  much  fuller 
chapter  on  Vegetables  be  glanced  through  from  time  to 
time.  Let  the  shelves  of  the  pantry  be  scanned  for 
pickles  or  capers  or  bottled  sauces  or  Italian  pastes, 
or  remainders  of  the  day's  milk  or  breadcrumbs  that 
would  otherwise  be  wasted.  And  then,  with  stewed  or 
braised  or  baked  or  roasted  or  boiled  or  steamed  meat 
or  fish  or  game  for  the  centre,  it  will  be  easy  to  vary 
one's  entrees  cheaply,  pleasantly,  healthfully  and 
almost  without  end. 


CHAPTER  IX 

VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  were  defined  by  a  pert  child  at  an 
examination  as  "  The  food  eaten  by  Vegetarians." 
If  the  pert  child  meant  to  use  the  word  "  vegetables  " 
in  its  widest  sense,  so  as  to  include  nuts  and  grains, 
he  was  right  ;  but  if  his  thoughts  ran  only  on  vege- 
tables as  commonly  understood,  the  definition  had 
precious  little  in  it .  My  experience  is  that  vegetarians 
do  not  eat  ordinary  vegetables  much  more  largel}^ 
than  do  we  who  prefer  a  mixed  dietary.  I  have  tried 
vegetarianism,  as  a  young  man,  with  a  predisposition 
in  its  favour,  and  have  eaten  at  least  a  hundred 
vegetarian  meals  under  the  auspices  of  true  believers. 
On  the  whole,  I  believe  that  vegetables  are  better 
cooked  in  a  meat-eater's  than  in  a  vegetarian's 
kitchen.  Should  this  book  happen  to  fall  into  the 
hands  of  any  reasonable  vegetarian,  I  hope  he  will 
glance  without  prejudice  through  the  pages  next 
following,  and  give  my  recipes  a  trial  as  I  have  given 
his. 


English  methods  of  vegetable  cookery  have  been 
denounced  rather  more  warmly  than  they  deserve. 
In  so  far  as  we  have  a  national  "high  cookery"  in 
rivalry  with  la  haute  cuisine  Frangaise,  it  is  based 
upon  our  preference  for  the  finest  materials  simply 
167 


i68     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

presented.  This  preference  connotes  a  dislike  for 
sauces  and  garnishes  which  might  distract  the  palate 
from  the  prime  joint  or  fine  sole  or  freshly  taken 
salmon  which  is  being  eaten.  I  do  not  intend,  there- 
fore, to  blame  our  cooks  for  serving,  with  the  best 
meats,  plain  water-boiled  vegetables,  provided  they 
prepare  them  carefully.  This  book,  however,  is 
written  in  the  hope  that  the  most  costly  meats  and 
fishes  and  birds  will  be  bought  less  frequently,  and  it 
follows  that  a  different  touch  must  play  upon  the 
vegetables. 


Unfortunately,  as  soon  as  they  perceive  our  national 
defects,  most  young  housewives  fly  too  decidedly  to 
the  French  extreme,  and  they  cease  serving  plain 
vegetables  almost  entirely.  Every  pea  or  French 
bean  must  be  saute  ;  every  inch  of  celery  must  be  au 
jus.  Every  cabbage  must  be  enriched  with  butter, 
and  every  cauliflower  must  be  hidden  under  yellow 
sauce.  This  is  a  grand  error.  When  they  are  at  their 
youngest  and  tenderest,  peas  and  French  beans  are 
best  in  the  English  way,  by  which  I  mean  gentle 
cooking  in  not  much  more  vapour  than  that  which 
they  themselves  will  supply.  [I  do  not  mean  the 
stupid  and  lazy  practice  of  throwing  every  vegetable 
into  about  the  same  quantity  of  boiling  water,  with- 
out regard  to  its  age  and  condition.]  Celery  too  can 
sometimes  improve  a  dinner  much  more  decidedly  in 
its  natural  state,  with  the  cheese,  than  when  it  is 
braised  in  gravy,  although  both  ways  have  their 
merits.  A  perfectly  grown  cauliflower  is  better  plain 
than  dressed,  when  it  accompanies  an  entree  or  joint 


VEGETABLES  169 

which  boasts  a  good  sauce  or  gravy.  And  as  for 
potatoes,  if  I  were  asked  to  recall  the  occasions  on 
which  I  have  enjoyed  them  most,  I  should  pick  out 
two  without  hesitation.  The  first  was  at  a  tiny 
cottage  where  small  new  potatoes  were  taken  straight 
out  of  the  ground,  plainly  boiled,  and  served  with 
nothing  but  a  little  butter.  The  second  occasion 
was  when  I  lunched  one  day  from  four  older  but 
sound  potatoes  baked  not  too  quickly  in  the  oven. 
With  these  I  did  not  even  eat  butter.  Salt  was  the 
only  extra,  although  it  would  be  uncandid  to  conceal 
the  fact  that  half-a-bottle  of  good  St  EmiHon  was 
emptied  at  the  same  time. 


I  do  not  propose  in  this  chapter,  any  more  than  in 
the  other  chapters,  to  repeat  what  every  cook  knows 
or  can  easily  learn  from  the  books  already  in  her 
possession.  So  I  will  lead  out  with  instructions  for 
preparing  a  vegetable  which  is  too  much  neglected  in 
England,  although  it  is  tasty  and  cheap.  I  speak  of 
the  red  cabbage.  This  vegetable  is  seldom  found  in 
England  except  as  a  pickle  ;  and,  even  as  a  pickle,  it 
is  more  often  than  not  eaten  in  a  tough  and  indigestible 
state.  Having  bought  a  sound  and  fresh  red  cabbage, 
I  tear  off  and  throw  away  the  soiled  and  untidy  out- 
side leaves,  exposing  a  firm  and  purple  orb.  With  a 
sharp  long  knife  I  cut  this  orb  into  two  equal  halves. 
These  halves  when  laid  open  are  a  pretty  sight,  the 
white  hearts  and  the  purple  crinklings  of  the  close- 
set  leaves  contrasting  bravely.  It  is  safer  to  purify 
the  halves  in  salted  water  in  the  ordinary  way,  al- 
though the  close  growth  of  the  outside  leaves  usually 


170     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

protects  the  cabbage  from  vermin.  The  next  stage 
is  to  cut  out  the  tougher  parts  of  the  heart,  where  the 
stalk  was  growing  into  the  cabbage.  Then,  with  the 
same  sharp  knife,  one  cuts  the  cabbage  into  large  thin 
slices.  Two  large  Spanish  onions  are  freed  from  their 
outside  skins  and  are  sliced  up  in  the  same  way. 
Next,  some  cooking  apples,  of  the  same  total  bulk 
as  the  onions,  must  be  peeled  and  cored  and  cut  up  into 
thin  pieces.  Meanwhile  a  casserole  or  stewpan  should 
have  been  placed  over  a  very  gentle  heat,  with  a  lump 
of  butter  in  it.  Over  the  melted  butter  one  gently 
piles  up  the  slices  of  cabbage  and  onion  and  apple, 
moistening  the  whole  with  a  good  spoonful  of  vinegar 
and  a  small  tumblerful  of  cheap  red  wine.  If  there 
is  claret  or  Burgundy  in  the  house  which  has  been  open 
a  day  too  long,  it  can  be  used  with  the  cabbage,  and  if 
it  has  begun  to  go  slightly  sour  the  quantity  of 
vinegar  will  be  lessened.  A  little  brown  sugar,  some 
pepper  and  a  little  salt  are  to  be  added.  The  lid  is 
placed  tightly  on  the  vessel  and  the  cooking  goes  on 
for  four  or  five  hours,  as  slowly  as  possible.  Now 
and  again  the  contents  of  the  pan  should  be  turned 
over  with  a  wooden  spoon  so  that  the  butter  is  equally 
distributed.  When  the  dish  is  ready,  the  onions  and 
apples  and  cabbage  will  be  found  blended  together 
in  such  a  way  that  the  apple  and  onion  will  hardly  be 
recognised,  while  the  cabbage  will  taste  mild  and 
refined.  I  serve  this  dish  with  very  thin  slices  from 
a  hot  ham  or  from  a  baked  piece  of  bacon,  or  with 
sausages  on  a  cold  day.  When  one  can  get  into  touch 
with  a  butcher  who  makes  beef  sausages  really  well, 
they  go  finely  with  this  dish  of  red  cabbage,  although 
they  are  much  cheaper  than  good  pork  sausages.     If 


VEGETABLES  171 

the  cabbage  is  not  all  eaten  at  one  meal — and  I  ought 
to  say  that  the  recipe  just  given  will  yield  several 
pounds'  weight — it  can  be  kept  until  the  next  day,  as 
it  is  greatly  improved  by  being  warmed  up  once  or 
twice.  Indeed  I  have  warmed  up  red  cabbage  five 
days  running,  and  it  got  better  every  day.  Some 
people  dislike  this  dish  of  red  cabbage  at  first,  and  a 
few  dishke  it  to  the  end  ;  but  those  who  acquire  a 
taste  for  it  sometimes  become  slaves  to  it  and  eat  it 
too  often,  thus  running  the  risk  of  getting  tired  of  a 
dish  which  is  delightful  as  a  change  though  unsuitable 
as  daily  fare. 

By  using  a  firm  white  cabbage  and  white  wine, 
instead  of  a  red  cabbage  and  red  wine,  the  foregoing 
recipe  can  be  used  for  a  less  tasty  but  more  soberly 
coloured  dish.  In  Denmark  one  often  meets  with 
something  between  the  two,  the  principal  ingredient 
being  the  darker  coloured  greens  stewed  in  red  wine. 


Cabbages  of  the  pale  varieties  lend  themselves  to 
many  uses  over  and  above  plain  boiling.  You  should 
study,  in  your  bigger  books,  the  famous  dish  called 
Perdrix  aux  Choux  and  apply  it  to  such  game-birds 
as  are  cheap  and  suitable.  And  you  should  take  a 
pride  in  making  good  cabbage  soup.  And  do  not 
forget  the  cold  slaw  mentioned  in  my  chapter  on 
Salads. 

Cabbages,  boiled  and  salted,  were  prescribed  by 
Hippocrates  to  cure  colic  ;  and  many  ancient  physi- 
cians regarded  it  as  a  remedy  against  all  kinds  of  ills, 


172     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

from  paralysis  to  the  drink  habit.    I  believe  they  used 
red  cabbage  more  than  the  other  kinds. 


Onions  are  mentioned  over  and  over  again  in  these 
pages.  Indeed,  if  Divine  Providence  should  be 
pleased  to  grant  me  a  long  enough  life,  I  shall  hope 
to  write  the  Book  of  the  Onion.  It  requires  courage 
to  make  such  an  announcement,  because  many  gross 
and  selfish  persons  have  failed  to  restrain  themselves 
from  munching  raw  or  pickled  onions  until,  in  the 
language  of  Dr  Thudichum,  they  become  "  bearers 
of  exhalations  objectionable  to  polite  society."  The 
grossness  of  low  persons  is  not,  however,  a  valid  argu- 
ment against  the  right  employment  of  the  foods  which 
they  abuse.  It  would  disgust  an  Englishman  to  see 
an  Eskimo  greedily  devouring  raw  fat  meat,  but  it 
does  not  follow  that  the  disgusted  Englishman  ought 
to  turn  vegetarian  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  A  drunken 
navvy  is  an  ugly  and  pitiable  sight,  but  a  temperate 
man  is  still  justified  in  drinking  a  glass  of  young 
Moselle.  I  shall  therefore  make  no  more  apologies 
for  the  onion.  On  the  contrary,  I  should  like  to 
trumpet  its  virtues.  One  of  the  most  exalted  ladies  in 
the  United  Kingdom,  whose  youthful  bloom  is  envied 
by  professional  beauties  twenty  years  her  junior, 
makes  a  point  of  eating  a  boiled  onion  every  night  just 
before  going  to  bed.  I  know  a  high  dignitary  of  the 
Church  whose  face  after  a  long  life  of  worries  is  as 
fresh  as  a  yeoman's  because  no  day  of  his  life  passes 
without  a  dish  of  onions.  Not  that  onions  are  re- 
markably nutritious.  But  nutrition  is  not  every- 
thing.   Onions  contribute  to  the  system  certain  salts 


VEGETABLES  173 

and  other  elements  of  inestimable  value.  It  used  to 
be  said  that  these  elements  dispelled  fatigue  after  long 
marching  or  hard  riding.  It  was  also  believed  that 
onion  soup  would  soon  restore  the  equilibrium  of  a 
man  who  had  drunk  too  much.  I  have  no  direct 
experience  on  these  points,  but  I  am  persuaded  that 
an  onion  is  a  good  gift  from  heaven. 

The  large  onions  from  Spain  and  Portugal  are  best 
for  use  as  an  out-and-out  vegetable,  while  the  small 
round  onions  should  be  used  in  such  entrees  as  a 
Poulet  en  Casserole.  To  prepare  an  ordinary  dish  of 
boiled  onions,  cut  off  the  roots  and  tops  of  some 
Portuguese  or  Spanish  specimens,  remove  the  dark 
skin,  and  blanch  them.  Blanching  is  effected  by 
putting  the  onions  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and 
bringing  the  water  to  the  boil.  This  water  is  thrown 
away,  and  the  onions,  after  being  rinsed,  are  laid  in  a 
panful  of  salted  water  which  has  just  reached  boiling- 
point.  If  they  are  very  large  they  ought  to  be  cut  in 
halves  before  blanching.  They  must  be  boiled  in  the 
second  water  for  two  hours,  or  a  little  less  if  they  are 
small.  By  pricking  them  with  a  fork  it  is  easy  to 
know  when  they  are  tender.  It  is  necessary  to  drain 
them  well  and  sometimes  even  to  put  them  back  in 
the  empty  saucepan  and  let  them  dry  by  the  side  of 
the  fire.  They  can  be  eaten  with  a  lump  of  butter 
and  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt,  or  with  white  or  brown 
sauce,  or  with  hot  finely  minced  meat. 

Onions  stewed  in  good  stock  make  a  vegetable 
entree  worth  eating.  The  cook  boils  them  quickly 
in  salted  water  for  about  five  minutes,  then  drains  them 
in  cold  water.  They  are  next  laid  in  the  pan  with  a 
pint  or  so  of  dark  stock  and  about  an  ounce  of  beef 


174     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

dripping  or  butter.  Like  plain  boiled  onions,  they 
must  cook  for  about  two  hours,  stewing  slowly  by  the 
side  of  the  fire.  Some  cooks  take  a  little  cornflour 
and  make  it  into  a  smooth  paste  with  some  tomato 
sauce,  stirring  the  paste  into  the  stock  a  few  minutes 
before  the  onions  are  to  be  put  on  the  table.  Of 
course  the  stock  is  poured  over  the  onions  and  served 
with  them. 

I  have  often  stewed  onions  in  one  water  only  and 
have  found  that,  while  retaining  their  goodness,  they 
lose  their  strong  smell  as  much  as  if  they  had  been 
blanched.  For  example,  I  have  broken  up  good 
onions  and  have  gradually  reduced  them  in  good 
white  sauce  almost  to  a  cream.  By  rubbing  the 
puree  through  a  sieve  I  have  made  it  perfectly  smooth 
and  have  completed  the  illusion  by  adding  a  table - 
spoonful  or  two  of  fresh  cream  from  the  dairy.  When 
this  puree  of  onions  is  carefully  made  (either  blanched 
or  unblanched)  it  will  be  fairly  stiff  and  has  a  hand- 
some appearance.  In  the  company  of  a  French 
gourmet  I  have  eaten  it  spread  on  toast,  but  most 
people  would  prefer  it  along  with  a  well-grilled  chump 
chop  or  a  small  tender  steak. 


Although — or  because — potatoes  are  eaten  nearly 
every  day  in  the  year  by  British  people,  I  shall  not 
say  much  about  them.  Housekeepers  should  be 
reminded  not  to  peel  them  too  deeply,  as  careless 
peeling  wastes  not  only  the  body  of  the  potato  but  the 
best  of  its  soul.  In  performing  the  very  common 
action  of  boiling  potatoes,  we  should  be  careful  to 
see  that  the  boiling  is  fast .     I  have  known  many  a  poor 


VEGETABLES  175 

Irish  charwoman  beat  a  highly  paid  English  cook  at 
boiling  potatoes,  simply  because  she  knows  this  secret 
by  instinct.  We  must  also  try  to  learn  the  gauging 
of  salt  for  varying  quantities  and  qualities  of  potatoes. 
A  little  boy  defined  salt  as  "  the  stuff  that  makes  the 
potatoes  taste  nasty  when  your  mother  forgets  to  put 
any  in."  Salt  omitted  in  the  boiling  cannot  be  re- 
placed by  simply  sprinkling  dry  salt  on  the  potato  after 
serving.  On  the  other  hand,  an  excess  of  salt  cannot 
possibly  be  taken  out.  These  are  obvious  truths  but 
they  are  too  often  ignored. 

Steamed  potatoes  retain  the  nutriment  better  than 
boiled  potatoes.  They  should  be  sprinkled  with  salt 
and  steamed  in  an  ordinary  steamer  placed  at  the  top 
of  a  saucepan  and  covered  with  the  saucepan  lid. 
The  water  must  boil  fast,  so  as  to  generate  plenty  of 
steam. 

When  you  have  an  excess  of  good  dripping  in  the 
house,  wash  and  brush  and  peel  some  potatoes  and 
boil  them  for  about  ten  minutes  in  enough  slightly 
salted  boihng  water  to  cover  them.  Drain  them, 
powder  them  all  over  with  fine  flour,  and  lay  them 
carefully  on  some  melted  dripping  in  a  baking-tin. 
In  an  oven  that  is  not  too  hot,  bake  them  till  they 
show  a  handsome  brown  colour.  To  ensure  their 
being  cooked  right  through,  turn  them  over  once  or 
twice  during  the  half-hour  or  so  of  their  stay  in  the 
oven.     Do  not  let  them  come  to  the  table  greasy. 

Everybody  likes  a  potato  in  the  jacket — or,  as  the 
French  say,  en  robe  de  ckamhre.  I  have  cooked 
potatoes  of  all  ages  and  sizes  in  this  way,  from  the 
tiny  new  potato  no  bigger  than  a  marble  to  the  giant 
which  is  just  passing  out  of  its  prime.    Of  course  the 


176     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

coats  must  be  well  cleaned  and  all  specks  and  eyes 
must  be  nipped  out.  One  method  is  to  put  them  in 
a  pan  with  enough  salted  boiling  water  to  cover  them, 
to  replace  the  pan  lid,  to  bring  the  potatoes  to  the 
boil  and  then  to  let  them  simmer  for  nearly  half- 
an-hour,  until  the  pushing  in  of  a  skewer  shows  that 
they  are  cooked.  The  water  is  poured  away,  and  the 
potatoes  are  drained  through  a  hot  colander.  They 
are  placed  once  more  in  the  pan,  with  a  folded  towel 
over  them  instead  of  the  lid,  and  are  set  beside  the 
fire  so  that  the  towel  can  absorb  any  remaining  mois- 
ture. Another  way  (which  I  prefer)  is  to  clean  the 
skins  and  then  make  the  potatoes  perfectly  dry. 
Next,  the  skins  are  pricked  and  the  potatoes  are  put 
into  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  cooked  right 
through.  This  sounds  so  simple  that  a  novice  will 
wonder  how  any  cook  could  carry  out  the  process 
wrongly.  Yet  I  have  seen  more  failures  than  suc- 
cesses. For  some  reason,  many  cooks  lay  the  potatoes 
on  the  lowest  sheet  or  grid  of  the  gas-oven,  and  they 
sometimes  leave  the  potatoes  baking  as  long  as  the 
big  joint  which  they  are  to  accompany.  The  result 
is  that  the  potatoes  come  out  with  toughened  skins 
and  sodden  insides.  It  is  best  to  place  the  potatoes 
on  an  upper  shelf  and  to  cook  them  for  not  much 
more  than  an  hour.  The  skin  ought  to  be  thinner 
than  the  shell  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  and  ought  to  come 
off  quite  as  easily,  while  the  potato  itself  should  be 
delightfully  mealy  right  through. 

Fried  potatoes  must  be  fried  in  the  true  way — that 
is,  in  the  bath  of  fat.  Some  people  fail  with  them 
because  they  do  not  dry  them  thoroughly  before  im- 
mersing them  and  do  not  drain  them  when  they  come 


VEGETABLES  177 

out  of  the  bath.  It  costs  no  more  to  cut  them  up, 
before  frying  them,  into  ribbons  or  straws  or  little 
rods  like  matches.  Many  cooks,  after  frying  potatoes 
in  these  pretty  forms,  put  them  into  an  air-tight  box 
and  keep  them  for  warming  up  when  they  are  required  ; 
but  I  have  never  been  able  to  congratulate  them  upon 
their  achievement. 

When  you  have  some  cooked  potatoes  left  over,  you 
may  cut  them  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and 
brown  them  on  both  sides  in  hot  butter  or  good  hot 
dripping.  By  shaking  the  pan  and  tossing  them  until 
they  jrmip  you  obtain  the  true  pommes  sautees  (of 
course,  from  the  French  sauter,  meaning  "  to  jiunp  ") 
which  are  one  of  the  chief  dehghts  of  home  cookery 
and  one  of  the  chief  terrors  of  the  cheap  little  restaur- 
ant. By  the  way,  the  process  in  this  paragraph 
should  be  contrasted  with  that  described  in  the  para- 
graph preceding  it  as  illustrating  the  difference  be- 
tween true  frying  and  mere  browning. 

I  shall  pass  over  the  forty  or  fifty  more  famihar 
ways  of  treating  potatoes  as  explained  in  the  ordinary 
cookery-books,  and  shall  give  only  one  more  potato 
hint  which  can  be  applied  economically  in.  all  kinds 
of  different  circumstances.  In  the  best  restaurants 
of  all  countries  there  is  a  dish,  unknown  to  the  nine- 
teenth century,  called  a  Filet  de  Sole  Otero.  To  make 
it  properly  one  must  have  a  Dover  sole,  and  shrimps 
and  truffles,  and  Parmesan  cheese  and  butter  on  a 
rather  expensive  scale  ;  so  I  will  give  the  recipe  only 
in  so  far  as  it  can  be  used  with  cheaper  fillings.  Pick 
out  four  large  and  handsome  potatoes  which  will  lie 
on  their  sides  without  wobbhng.  Bake  them  as 
.  directed  in  the  last  paragraph  but  three,  but  let  the 

M 


178     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

skins  become  a  little  tougher  than  I  have  recom- 
mended for  an  ordinary  baked  potato.  Cut  a  neat 
oval  in  the  topmost  side  of  each  potato  and  carefully 
scoop  out  as  much  of  the  inside  as  you  can  take  away 
without  allowing  the  skin  to  break  or  collapse.  Mash 
up  the  insides  which  you  have  removed  and  give  them 
a  good  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt  and  butter.  Now 
begin  to  refill  the  skins  with  the  broken  potato.  After 
putting  in  a  small  layer,  add  any  suitable  morsels  of 
hot  fish,  or  well-stewed  kidneys  cut  up  small,  or  any- 
thing else  that  will  not  be  difficult  to  get  out  again 
when  the  dish  is  eaten.  Put  in  more  of  the  seasoned 
potato.  If  you  have  some  good  and  suitable  sauce — 
Sauce  Mornay,  for  instance — pour  it  in.  When  the 
potato  is  full,  it  is  a  good  thing  to  sprinkle  a  little 
grated  cheese  on  the  top  and  to  brown  it  under  a 
salamandre  or  under  the  deflecting  griller  of  the  gas- 
stove.  This  "  Otero  "  potato  can  be  quite  a  cheap 
little  luxury,  and  it  gives  great  pleasure  to  those  who 
have  never  seen  it  before.  I  once  made  it  for  some 
children  and  delighted  them  greatly  by  sending  the 
potatoes  to  the  table  with  a  sprig  of  holly  upright  in 
the  first,  a  cutting  from  a  fir-tree  in  the  second,  a 
tiny  spray  of  bramble  leaves  of  magnificent  autumnal 
hues  in  the  third,  and  a  chrysanthemum  in  the  fourth. 
The  children  had  been  in  delicate  health  and  were 
known  to  have  wretched  appetites,  but  they  ate  their 
potatoes  down  to  the  skins. 


Sea-kale  is  dearer  than  potatoes,  but  you  buy  it  in 
smaller  quantities,  and  you  ought,  when  it  is  at  its 
best,  to  include  it  in  your  menus.    A  famous  cook 


VEGETABLES  179 

serves  it  with  Sauce  Mornay,  but  it  is  better  plain 
(not  over-boiled)  with  hot  butter. 


Salsify,  either  fried  or  saute  or  a  la  creme,  makes  a 
dish  good  enough  to  be  eaten  by  itself.  As  there  are 
still  many  men  and  women  in  England  who  have 
never  tasted  this  racy  vegetable,  its  appearance  on 
the  table  arouses  interest  and  gives  you  a  chance  of 
greater  simplicity  in  the  rest  of  the  dinner. 


That  very  ancient  vegetable,  the  leek,  ought  to  be 
cultivated  more  abundantly  in  England  now  that  we 
are  determined  to  raise  more  of  our  own  food  supplies. 
It  is  in  season  throughout  the  months  when  the  kitchen 
most  needs  this  kind  of  thing.  The  Egyptians  wor- 
shiped the  leek  as  a  divinity.  Some  people  say  that 
it  is  a  fine  plant  for  the  liver,  and  that  it  is  also  valu- 
able in  diseases  of  the  chest.  As  the  leek  is  milder 
than  the  onion,  nobody  can  reasonably  object  to  it 
when  it  is  properly  cooked.  The  oldest  recipe  I  can 
find  directs  us  to  take  the  mildest  leeks  we  can  get, 
to  cover  them  with  young  cabbage  leaves,  and  to 
cook  them  under  the  hot  embers,  serving  them  in  a 
dish  with  gravy,  oil  and  ^vine.  I  do  not  expect  every 
reader  of  this  book  to  rise  straight  up  and  hunt  for 
cabbage  leaves  ;  indeed  I  am  not  sanguine  that  many 
people  will  be  willing  to  make  experiments  with  leek 
cookery  in  any  direction.  Here,  however,  are  some 
instructions  for  the  treatment  of  leeks  in  a  manner 
which  seems  unknown  in  England.  I  have  the  recipe 
from  a  Frenchman  who  told  me  that  the  dish  was 


i8o     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

called  a  Flamiche.  He  said  that  it  was  a  special  dish 
of  the  north,  but  I  could  not  find  out  whether  he  meant 
the  north  of  France  or  the  north  of  Europe,  and  it  is 
only  since  beginning  to  write  this  book  that  I  have 
traced  it  in  the  old  cuisine  of  Picardy. 

Take  four  or  five  good  leeks  and  cut  them  into 
dice  the  night  before  you  want  the  Flamiche.  Lay 
them  in  salted  water,  throw  in  a  few  drops  of  vinegar, 
and  leave  them  to  blanch.  Next  day,  prepare  a 
paste  as  for  "  short  crust."  Put  into  a  casserole  a 
good  ounce  of  butter  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  flour. 
Let  the  flour  take  a  good  colour  ;  add  less  than  a 
third  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Chop  up  the  blanched 
dice  of  leeks  finely,  put  them  in  the  casserole  and  let 
them  cook  with  the  milk  and  butter  and  flour  for 
about  thirty  minutes.  You  will  find  that  the  cooking 
reduces  the  liquid,  but  you  must  have  ready  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  with  which  to  bind  the  mixture.  Roll  out 
the  paste  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  lay 
it  in  a  shallow  tin,  leaving  plenty  of  overlap,  pour  the 
cooked  leeks  in  the  midst,  and  fold  the  paste  over, 
pinching  the  sides  together.  Bake  it  in  the  oven  as 
you  would  an  apple  turnover.  This  Flamiche  is  a 
boon  to  housekeepers  in  families  where  Friday  is 
religiously  observed.     It  is  best  hot. 

Trimmed  leeks,  which  have  been  split  down  the 
middle  and  soaked  in  cold  water  and  a  little  vinegar 
for  about  half-an-hour,  are  drained  and  cut  up  and 
washed  in  cold  water  and  transferred  to  a  glazed 
casserole  in  which  there  is  enough  stock  to  cover  them. 
With  the  lid  on,  a  gentle  stewing  continues  until  the 
stock  has  almost  all  disappeared.  The  result  is  a 
dish  of  stewed  leeks  needing  nothing  more  than  salt 


VEGETABLES  i8i 

and  pepper,  with  a  piece  of  butter  almost  at  the 
moment  of  serving. 


Young  French  beans,  when  served  with  cutlets  or 
roast  meat,  are  best  in  the  plain  old  English  way. 
This  vegetable,  however,  is  so  good  that  it  should  not 
always  be  considered  a  mere  accompaniment  to  some- 
thing else.  Boiled  and  drained  and  then  returned  to 
the  saucepan,  in  which  some  butter  has  been  melted, 
French  beans  need  only  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and 
salt,  with  perhaps  a  little  lemon  juice  and  chopped 
parsley,  to  become  a  vegetable  entree  of  the  best  kind. 
For  a  change,  this  recipe  may  be  modified  by  taking 
the  beans  out  of  the  water  while  they  are  still  not 
quite  tender.  They  are  then  to  be  drained  and  put 
into  a  pan  containing  some  melted  butter.  Flour  is 
sprinkled  over  them — a  dessertspoonful  of  flour  to  a 
pound  of  beans — and  the  pan  is  moved  briskly  about 
over  the  fire  so  as  to  toss  the  contents.  About  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk  is  poured  in  and  the  beans 
are  gently  simmered  until  they  are  quite  tender. 
Some  people  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  little 
water  and  lemon  juice  and  mix  it  well  with  the  beans 
at  the  last  moment. 


While  I  do  not  wish  to  scold  Englishwomen  unreason- 
ably, I  cannot  help  telling  a  little  story  about  the  tasty 
and  interesting  dish  known  in  French  as  Haricots 
verts  panaches  aux  flageolets.  I  know  a  lady  who  met 
with  this  delicacy  in  tins  at  the  shop  of  a  French 
grocer  in  Soho,  named  Barron.     She  was  delighted 


i82     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

with  it  and,  although  the  price  was  high,  it  was  to  be 
seen  on  her  table,  even  when  fresh  beans  were  in  full 
season.  Suddenly  it  disappeared  from  her  menus. 
On  my  asking  for  the  explanation  I  was  told  that 
Madam  Barron  had  given  up  business  and  closed  her 
shop,  and  that  no  other  French  grocer  in  London 
kept  the  same  brand.  This  story  is  characteristic 
of  the  want  of  analytical  faculty  and  resourcefulness 
which  partly  account  for  the  monotony  of  English 
diet.  Such  haricots  verts  panaches  make  a  delightful 
dish,  but  they  are  nothing  more  than  French  beans 
cooked  with  flageolets.  I  admit  that  fresh  flageolets 
are  rather  difficult  to  meet  with  in  England,  but  the 
dried  kind  can  be  bought  in  hundreds  of  shops  at 
from  sevenpence  to  ninepence  a  pound.  In  its  native 
state,  the  flageolet  is  simply  a  little  green  kidney  bean 
taken  out  of  its  pod  in  early  childhood.  Of  course 
the  dried  ones  must  be  soaked  in  water  overnight. 
As  the  lady  I  have  mentioned  was  in  love  with  the 
tinned  delicacy,  I  will  base  my  recipe  on  the  assump- 
tion that  only  tinned  and  dry  materials  are  available. 
Having  soaked  some  dried  flageolets  overnight,  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them  and  bring  the  water  to  boiling-point.  Some 
herbs  and  an  onion  will  improve  them.  Let  them 
cook  until  they  are  quite  soft  and  then  drain  them, 
at  the  same  time  clearing  away  all  traces  of  the  herbs 
and  the  onion.  While  they  are  cooking,  open  a  tin 
of  good  haricots  verts,  rinse  them,  and  finally  mix  them 
with  the  finished  flageolets.  Put  the  mixture  in  a 
pan  containing  melted  butter  and  complete  the  cook- 
ing on  the  lines  of  the  two  foregoing  recipes,  either 
with  or  without  milk  and  flour  and  yolk  of  e^^,  accord- 


VEGETABLES  183 

ing  to  your  taste.  Working  along  these  lines,  a  dish 
of  haricots  verts  panaches  aux  flageolets  will  cost  much 
less  than  the  proprietary  packings  and  will  taste  far 
better. 


Some  earnest  persons,  who  have  heard  that  this 
book  is  being  written,  are  anxious  that  great  pro- 
minence shall  be  given  to  dried  peas.  They  are  mostly 
men  without  palates,  who  believe  every  word  of  the 
advertisements  which  state  that  Messrs  Growem  and 
Sellem's  dried  peas  are  in  every  respect  equal  to  young 
peas  in  June.  I  should  rejoice  with  great  joy  if  this 
were  true.  Unhappily,  dried  peas  in  January  are 
certainly  not  as  good  as  new  peas  in  May.  I  will 
give  the  best  directions  I  can  for  the  use  of  dried  peas, 
but  the  reader  must  not  expect  a  superfine  result. 
Soak  a  pint  of  peas  overnight.  Drain  them,  and 
rinse  them  in  a  colander  under  the  cold-water  tap. 
Pour  them  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  bring  them  to  the  boil.  Add  to  the 
water  some  herbs  and  an  onion  cut  into  pieces.  Cook 
the  peas  till  they  are  tender.  Should  the  water  boil 
away  too  soon,  add  some  more  from  a  kettle.  Drain 
the  peas  when  they  are  tender,  taking  away  the  onion 
and  herbs.  Replace  them  in  the  saucepan  with 
about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt.  If  you  have 
some  really  good  stock,  add  about  half-a-teacupful. 
Leave  them  on  the  fire  just  long  enough  for 
the  extra  ingredients  to  come  well  together  and 
then  serve  the  peas  very  hot.  Eat  them  in  a 
thankful  spirit,  remembering  that  better  Christians 


i84     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

than  yourself  have  sustained  life  on  worse  food 
than  this. 

Fresh  peas  are  so  good  that  the  simpler  the 
cooking  the  better.  As  they  grow  older,  they 
can  be  prepared  with  shreds  of  lettuce,  with 
spring  onions,  and  even  with  thin  slices  of  tender 
carrots. 

Half-way  between  fresh  peas  and  dried  peas  we  have 
peas  preserved  in  tins.  The  very  cheap  brands, 
especially  those  sold  by  oilmen  and  cut-price  grocers, 
should  not  be  touched  with  a  long  pole.  Some  of  the 
cheap  Belgian  marrowfat  peas  in  tins  are  much  more 
satisfactory  than  smaller  and  finer-looking  peas  at 
higher  prices.  But,  whatever  kind  you  buy,  never 
warm  them  in  the  tin.  As  certain  tinned  foods  bear 
labels  instructing  you  to  stand  the  tin  in  hot  water 
before  opening  it,  some  housewives  follow  this  course 
with  tinned  peas.  They  must  not  do  so  any  more. 
The  peas  must  be  poured  into  a  strainer  and  thor- 
oughly rinsed  with  boiling  water.  It  follows  that, 
after  such  treatment,  they  cannot  make  supremely 
fine  eating,  but  it  is  better  to  lose  a  little  flavour  than 
to  take  some  poison  into  your  system.  When  I  find 
myself  obliged  to  use  tinned  peas,  I  cleanse  them  and 
then  warm  them  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double  pan, 
with  a  sprig  of  mint  if  I  can  get  it,  and  some  sugar 
atnd  butter  and  salt.  I  cook  them  only  until  they 
are  quite  hot — that  is  to  say,  for  two  or  three 
minutes. 

Finding  herself  with  a  few  scraps  won  from  the 
remains  of  a  cold  chicken,  and  having  in  the  house 
enough  "  short  crust  "  paste  to  line  a  few  pat  tie-pans, 
a  clever  cook  could  make  novel  tartlets  of  peas  and 


VEGETABLES  185 

chicken  to  take  the  place  of  a  more  expensive  vol-au- 
vent. 


When  we  come  to  the  carrot  we  are  on  shaky  ground. 
According  to  a  cookery-book  published  only  a  few 
months  ago  by  a  writer  of  repute,  Miss  Florence  B. 
Jack,  the  carrot  is  one  of  the  most  useful  and  most 
nourishing  of  vegetables,  although  it  is  not  one  which 
is  particularly  easy  of  digestion.  It  is  valuable  both 
for  flavouring  purposes  in  soups  and  stews,  and  also 
for  serving  as  a  separate  vegetable.  It  is  more  nour- 
ishing than  the  turnip,  is  rich  in  both  starch  and 
sugar,  and  contains  many  valuable  mineral  salts. 
On  the  other  hand  Dr  Thudichum,  who  was  a  learned 
man  in  spite  of  his  pedantry,  wrote  :  "  The  most 
singular  feature  in  the  history  of  carrots  is  that,  al- 
though they  are  eaten  by  man  in  various  forms, 
stewed,  boiled,  as  puree  in  soups  and  in  ragouts,  and 
introduced  into  most  bouillons,  consommes,  braises, 
mirepoix,  etc.,  yet  they  are  perfectly  indigestible,  and 
pass  through  the  alimentary  canal  almost  in  the  same 
shape  as  that  in  which  they  have  left  the  mouth  after 
having  been  chewed.  Notwithstanding  their  in- 
digestibility,  they  are  not  known  to  cause  any  digestive 
derangement.  The  great  affection  which  cooks  and 
diners  have  for  carrots  can  only  be  explained  by  their 
colour,  which  makes  an  impression  on  the  eye,  and 
their  flavour  and  sweetness,  which  speak  to  the 
palate." 

I  think  that  Dr  Thudichum  was  wrong.  And  I  do 
not  agree  with  another  writer  who  holds  that  the 
principal  use  of  a  carrot  is  to  be  grated  fine  and  used 


i86    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

as  a  dressing  for  burns  or  chapped  skin.  All  the  same, 
a  diet  of  carrots  and  nothing  else  would  not  produce  a 
race  of  heroes. 

Carottes  h  la  crfeme  may  be  considered  carrots  at 
their  best.  A  famous  French  cook  prescribes  large 
and  tender  carrots  to  this  end,  but  it  is  better  to  use 
small  new  carrots  if  possible.  Blanch  them  for  a 
few  minutes  in  salted  water,  smUez  them  in  butter  on 
a  slow  fire,  season  them,  moisten  them  with  some  stock, 
and,  when  they  are  half  cooked,  add  some  parsley  and 
a  little  sugar  if  the  carrots  when  raw  seemed  to  have 
less  than  their  proper  sweetness.  Give  them  finally 
a  binding  of  yolk  of  egg  mixed  with  a  little  cream,  or 
with  butter  and  flour  well  worked  together,  and  serve 
them  at  once. 

Carrots  in  the  Flemish  fashion  should  also  be  new. 
If  they  are  large  they  should  be  cut  in  slices,  but  before 
this  is  done  they  must  be  blanched  in  boihng  water 
for  about  five  minutes  and  rinsed  in  cold  water.  The 
skin  can  easily  be  rubbed  off  with  a  cloth.  English 
servants  too  often  remove  the  best  part  of  the  carrot 
by  peeling  it  with  a  knife.  Of  course  the  top  and  the 
tail  are  cut  off  and  thrown  away.  For  a  pound  of 
carrots  you  will  require  just  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover  them,  along  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  half-a-tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  the  same  quantity  of  salt.  The 
carrots  must  be  simmered,  with  the  Hd  on  the  casserole, 
until  they  are  quite  tender.  If  you  have  not  made 
the  mistake  of  giving  them  more  than  the  minimum 
of  water,  you  will  be  well  on  the  way  towards  success. 
Work  together  some  chopped  parsley  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  as  much  cream  as  you  can  spare  and 
add  it  to  the  carrots.     Stir  the  mixture  until  it 


VEGETABLES  187 

thickens.    The  heat  must  be   very  gentle  and  the 
carrots  must  not  come  to  the  boil  on  any  account. 


What  has  been  said  about  carrots  can  easily  be 
modified  by  the  intelligent  reader  to  meet  the  case  of 
turnips,  so  long  as  it  is  remembered  that  the  addition 
of  salt  toughens  turnips  and  takes  away  their  colour. 
The  ordinary  English  cookery-books  give  directions 
for  making  mashed  turnips  or  purees  of  turnips,  of 
both  colours.  At  their  best  the  yellow  turnips  can 
yield  a  most  useful  mash.  Great  care  should  be 
taken  to  get  rid  of  the  water.  Draining  through  the 
colander  is  not  sufficient  and  the  vegetable  should  be 
dried  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  pan. 

Turnip  tops  are  useful  while  they  are  young.  At 
their  very  youngest  they  are  dehcate  enough  to  use 
in  salads. 


Although  I  have  set  out  to  preach  economy,  I  hope 
that  no  reader  will  go  too  far  in  trying  to  use  nearly 
every  leaf  of  her  Brussels  sprouts.  Some  cooks  merely 
remove  those  leaves  which  are  actually  diseased,  and, 
after  cleansing  the  sprouts  in  salted  water,  proceed  to 
boil  them  to  death  and  to  serve  them  discoloured  and 
sodden  like  baby  cabbages  that  have  been  racketing 
about  all  night.  The  proper  way  is  to  trim  them  until 
only  the  firm  and  hard  part  remains,  which  should  be 
like  a  handsome,  closely  grown  miniature  cabbage, 
about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  They  must  be  put  into 
salted  boihng  water,  or,  better  still,  in  a  perforated 
steamer  over  boiling  water,  and  cooked  until,  without 


i88     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

losing  their  firmness,  they  have  become  tender.  Half- 
an-hour  of  boiling  or  steaming  will  generally  be 
enough.  If  they  are  to  be  eaten  with  meat  and  gravy, 
they  will  be  simply  drained  dry  and  served  hot.  If, 
however,  they  are  required  to  accompany  some 
rather  dry  meat,  or  to  be  eaten  as  a  separate  dish,  you 
must  put  them  back  into  the  saucepan,  having  first 
melted  therein  one  ounce  of  butter  to  every  pound  of 
sprouts.  The  butter  must  be  very  hot.  The  pan  is 
kept  by  the  side  of  the  fire  or  over  the  smallest  gas-jet 
and  is  shaken  now  and  then  during  six  or  seven 
minutes.  The  saucepan  remains  uncovered  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  of  these  operations,  even  during 
the  first  boihng.  If  you  should  boil  the  sprouts  in  a 
closed  saucepan  they  would  not  keep  their  pleasant 
colour. 

If  Brussels  sprouts  are  lifted  out  of  the  pan  or 
steamer  before  they  are  quite  tender,  and  are  dried 
with  a  cloth  and  dusted  over  with  salted  and  peppered 
flour,  they  can  be  fried.  Each  sprout  must  be  dipped 
in  a  mixture  of  egg  and  breadcrumb  till  it  is  coated 
all  over,  and  the  frying  must  be  true  frying  in  boiling 
fat  at  least  two  inches  deep.  As  always  with  fried 
tit-bits,  the  sprouts  must  be  drained  on  paper  and  not 
a  moment  must  be  wasted  in  piling  them  on  a  very  hot 
dish  and  sending  them  straight  to  the  table. 


One  of  the  most  remarkable  of  vegetables  is  the 
cauliflower.  It  was  probably  unknown  in  England 
until  after  the  death  of  Oliver  Cromwell.  When  I 
see  some  of  the  overboiled  messes  into  which  many 
cooks  transform  it,  I  wish  that  they  had  lived  in  the 


VEGETABLES  189 

Commonwealth's  dour  and  cauliflowerless  days.  A 
cauliflower  can  be  digested  by  invalids  and  yet  it  is 
full  of  points  for  the  most  enterprising  gourmet. 
White  and  compact  heads  should  be  looked  out  for,  as 
the  yellowy  or  greeny  specimens  are  much  inferior. 

Cut  away  the  thick  part  of  the  stalk,  taking  care, 
however,  that  you  do  not  risk  the  falling  asunder  of 
the  branches.  Strip  away  all  the  green  leaves  except 
the  innermost  and  very  delicate-looking  curls  of  green. 
Let  the  cauliflower  lie  for  at  least  half-an-hour  in  cold 
water  in  which  you  have  mixed  a  little  vinegar.  This 
is  to  bring  out  the  insects  and  other  vermin.  [You 
cannot  be  too  careful  on  this  point.  In  a  French 
restaurant  which  was  reputed  to  be  good,  I  once 
passed  through  an  experience  which  turned  me 
against  cauliflowers  for  many  years.]  Take  the 
cauliflower  out  of  its  bath  and  rinse  it  well.  Lay  it  in 
a  steamer  over  a  good  volume  of  steam  and  cook  it 
until  it  is  tender.  Or  you  can  boil  the  cauliflower,  in 
which  case  you  will  keep  the  water  to  make  a  soup — 
for  example,  the  Soubise  described  in  the  chapter  on 
Soups.  Take  great  pains  to  guard  against  over- 
cooking. A  cauliflower  must  never  become  a  mush. 
It  is  hard  to  find  a  word  in  English  to  describe  the 
ideal  in  this  respect.  The  French  use  the  word 
croquant,  which  suggests  that  the  teeth  encounter  a 
pleasant  little  resistance,  so  that  the  cauliflower  is 
crunched  rather  than  bolted. 

Some  people  pour  their  sauces  over  the  cauliflower. 
This  should  only  be  done  when  the  cauliflower  is  of 
bad  colour  or  shape.  It  looks  best  served  naturally, 
with  the  Hollandaise  or  other  sauce  in  a  separate 
vessel. 


igo     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Your  cookery-book  ought  to  give  you  at  least  a 
dozen  ways  of  dressing  cauliflowers.  They  can  be 
done  as  fritters,  or  curried,  or  baked,  or  souffl6,  or 
saut6  in  little  sprigs.  One  good  and  unfamiliar 
French  method,  although  it  sacrifices  the  desirable 
firmness  and  prettiness  of  the  sprigs,  is  to  work  a  well- 
steamed  cauliflower  through  a  sieve  so  as  to  get  a 
puree,  and  to  add  to  this  two  eggs,  some  thick  cream, 
about  an  ounce  of  butter  melted  in  a  cup,  and  some 
pepper  and  salt.  The  mixture  is  turned  into  a 
buttered  mould  and  is  cooked  in  a  bain-marie.  Or 
breadcrumbs  and  stock  may  be  thickened  in  a  pan 
over  the  fire,  butter  and  well-broken  cauliflower  being 
afterwards  mixed  well  with  them.  After  the  mixing, 
the  pan  must  be  taken  away  from  the  fire  and  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  stirred  in,  with  pepper  and  salt.  A 
plain  cake-tin,  greased  and  coated  nicely  with  bread- 
crumbs, should  be  standing  ready.  Froth  up  the 
white  of  the  egg  and  add  it  to  the  mixture.  Pour 
everything  into  the  mould  and  bake  it  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  This  kind  of  baking  is  best  done  by  stand- 
ing the  cake-tin  in  a  larger  tin  containing  hot  water. 
After  about  half-an-hour's  baking  you  will  have  what 
the  French  call  a  cauliflower  loaf.  The  egg  will  make 
it  very  light  and  tempting  to  an  invalid.  It  can  be 
served  with  or  without  sauce. 

For  days  of  abstinence,  or  as  a  comfortable  extra 
dish  on  a  day  when  you  are  serving  very  little  meat,  it 
is  hard  to  improve  upon  a  good  Choufleur  au  Gratin. 
Ha\ang  boiled  a  good  cauliflower,  drain  it  well,  break 
it  into  a  number  of  sprigs,  arrange  these  in  a  fireproof 
dish,  sprinkle  over  them  some  grated  cheese — it  is 
better  to  use  half  Parmesan  and  half  Gruy^re — and 


VEGETABLES  191 

some  Sauce  Bechamel.  Powder  again  with  grated 
cheese  and  some  grated  dry  bread,  pour  some  newly 
melted  butter  over  the  whole  and  make  haste  to 
gratiner  the  mixture  under  a  deflector.  This  is  a  good 
method.  Perhaps,  however,  it  is  more  likely  to  suc- 
ceed in  a  French  than  in  an  English  kitchen,  so  I  will 
give  an  alternative.  Put  the  cauliflower  (not  over- 
boiled) in  a  buttered  fireproof  dish  and  pour  newly 
melted  butter  over  the  pieces.  Sprinkle  the  mixed 
grated  cheese,  taking  care  that  it  is  evenly  distributed. 
Pour  on  more  of  the  butter.  Sprinkle  the  finest 
raspings  or  crumbs  of  bread  that  you  can  get,  all  over, 
again  taking  care  that  the  distribution  is  even.  Again 
moisten  with  a  little  butter  all  over.  Put  the  dish  in 
the  oven  until  the  contents  begin  to  show  a  shght 
browning  and  serve  in  the  same  fireproof  dish.  Cer- 
tain Enghsh  cooks  proceed  on  almost  entirely  different 
lines,  using  water  and  flour  and  cream,  but  I  think  my 
two  ways  are  better. 


Crosnes,  or  Japanese  artichokes,  are  getting  cheaper 
in  England  every  year,  as  we  have  learned  that  we  can 
grow  them  easily  and  well.  In  my  own  tiny  garden 
I  once  planted  a  handful  in  an  idle  moment,  and  was 
rewarded  by  getting  a  dishful  of  poetical  little  crosnes, 
with  all  the  lustre  of  mother-of-pearl.  Taken  straight 
out  of  the  ground,  they  have  a  better  taste  and  a  more 
delicate  appearance  than  when  they  are  bought  in 
shops.  As  this  is  not  exactly  an  economical  vegetable, 
I  never  use  it  with  a  lavish  hand.  A  few  crosnes  a  la 
crime  will  give  distinction  to  otherwise  commonplace 
grillades.    Or  they  can  be  served  ^auVes  au  beurre. 


192     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

They  should  be  well  washed  in  warm  water  to  free 
them  from  any  traces  of  soil  and  plunged  into  boiling 
water.  Here  the  handy  word  croquant  which  I  had  to 
use  in  speaking  of  cauliflowers  will  come  to  our  help. 
The  boiling  of  crosnes  must  not  go  so  far  as  to  take 
away  their  croquant  quality.  After  they  are  well 
drained,  they  can  be  laid  in  white  sauce  made  with 
cream  or  milk  and  butter,  warmed  thoroughly  and 
served  as  a  separate  dish. 


Spinach  is  easier  to  digest  than  Brussels  sprouts  and 
cabbages,  except  when  it  is  old.  Most  people  prefer 
to  eat  it  only  when  it  has  been  rubbed  down  into  a 
puree  and  enriched  with  butter  or  cream.  A  fair  trial 
will  convince  most  palates  that  spinach  is  better  "en 
branches."  Gouffe  and  other  French  writers  prefer 
to  speak  of  this  style  as  Epinards  ^  I'Anglaise,  by 
which  they  intend  a  rap  at  our  Enghsh  inelegance. 
To  cook  it  in  this  way,  we  must  wash  our  spinach  well 
in  order  to  get  rid  of  the  grits,  and  we  must  free  it 
from  the  coarser  stalks  and  ribs.  We  ought  to  boil 
it  in  a  very  small  quantity  of  salted  water  until  it  is 
tender,  and  serve  it  very  hot,  without  mincing  or 
sieving,  with  a  piece  of  butter  on  top.  I  have  tasted 
spinach  made  up  into  a  kind  of  loaf  or  cake,  but  the 
recipe  was  an  extravagant  one,  requiring  four  eggs  as 
well  as  butter  and  creajn,  and  the  result  was  only 
moderately  good. 


Sorrel  may  be  cooked  on  the  lines  of  spinach,  or, 
better  still,  you  can  gather  it  in  the  course  of  your 


VEGETABLES  193 

country  walks  and  mix  it  with  the  spinach,  letting  the 
spinach  predominate  if  possible.  A  good  way  is  to 
wash  both  vegetables  thoroughly  ;  to  cook  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  quite  a  small  quantity  of  salted  water  ; 
to  drain  the  cooked  leaves  and  dry  them  well ;  to 
chop  them  up  fine  ;  to  put  them  into  a  pan  with  some 
melting  butter  and  stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  till 
they  seem  to  have  become  perfectly  free  from  moisture ; 
to  work  in  a  dusting  of  nutmeg,  a  dusting  of  salt,  an 
eggspoonful  of  sugar,  a  dusting  of  flour  and,  if  you  can 
spare  it,  some  cream,  and  to  let  this  final  mixture 
simmer  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  This  cream  of 
sorrel  and  spinach  should  be  eaten  with  little  fingers 
of  toast,  like  almost  all  soft  preparations. 


Cucumbers  have  been  discussed  in  the  chapter  on 
hors  d'oeuvre.  I  should  like  to  point  out,  however, 
that  they  are  sometimes  to  be  bought  large  and  cheap. 
When  this  happens,  it  is  a  good  thing  to  try  them 
fried,  or  as  a  soup,  or  k  la  cr^me,  or  stuffed.  A  cooked 
cucumber  is  much  more  easily  digested  than  a  cu- 
cumber eaten  raw.  The  seeds  must  always  be  scooped 
out  :  and  if  this  can  be  done  before  the  vegetable  is 
cooked  so  much  the  better.  To  fry  them  you  will  boil 
drums  of  cucumber,  having  added  a  little  salt  and 
vinegar  to  the  water  ;  you  will  take  them  out  after 
about  ten  minutes  and  rinse  them  in  cold  water  ;  you 
will  dry  them  in  a  napkin  and  give  them  a  thin  under 
garment  of  flour  and  salt  and  pepper  and  an  overcoat 
of  egg  and  breadcrumb.  The  frying  must  be  done 
in  the  deep  bath  of  boiling  fat. 

Or,  having  boiled  and  drained  them,  you  can  stew 

N 


194     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

the  pieces  of  cucumber  in  stock  or  gravy.     As  for  the 
stuffed  cucumbers,  these  should  not  be  the  scraggy 
kind,  curved  Hke  a  bow,  but  should  be  short  and 
thick.     You  take  off  the  skin  and  boil  the  whole  of  the 
flayed  cucumber  in  a  fish-kettle  or  other  long  vessel  for 
ten  minutes.    Then  you  lay  it  open  lengthways  and 
clear  out  the  seeds.    This  being  a  watery  vegetable, 
you  dry  it  in  a  warm  napkin.     In  the  long  trough 
which  formerly  held  the  seeds,  you  press  a  stuffing 
made  according  to  what  you  have  found  in  your 
pantry.    The  stuffing  is  better  made  of  dark  than  of 
light  coloured  meats  and  should  be  as  flavoury  as 
possible.    The  first  time  I  stuffed  a  cucumber  there 
was  nothing  at  hand  but  some  potted  beef  and  some 
tomato  catsup  and  some  breadcrumbs,  but  the  out- 
come was  not  a  disgrace.    After  filling  the  troughs, 
there  is  a  choice  of  two  methods.     Some  people  do  not 
rejoin  the  two  halves  but  lay  them  in  a  fireproof  dish 
well  buttered  and  bake  the  two  long  pieces  side  by  side, 
first  putting  breadcrumbs  and  a  little  butter  all  along 
the  upper  surfaces.     Others   press  the  two  halves 
together  and  tie  them  with  a  tape  in  two  places. 
Then  they  lay  the  cucumbers  in   a  tin  containing 
some  stock.    They  cover  the   tin  and  put  it  in  a 
moderate  oven,  occasionally  taking  it  out  and  basting 
the  cucumber  with  the  stock.    They  cut  and  remove 
the  tapes  at  the  last  minute  and  pour  a  good  brown 
sauce  over  the  cucumber. 

If  you  have  the  right  tool  for  worming  out  the  seeds 
without  cutting  the  cucumber  open,  you  can  intro- 
duce the  stuffing  after  the  fashion  of  larding  ;  but 
in  small  kitchens  it  is  better  not  to  attempt  too 
much. 


VEGETABLES  195 

Tomatoes  have  established  themselves  so  firmly  in 
all  Enghsh  households  that  there  is  no  need  to  say 
much  about  them.  When  you  possess  some  beauti- 
fully ripe  and  sound  and  well-shaped  tomatoes,  it  is 
best  to  put  them  on  the  table  in  all  their  handsomeness 
of  form  and  colour.  They  can  be  eaten  raw,  like 
pieces  of  fruit,  or  they  can  be  peeled  at  the  table  and 
sliced  up  with  oil  and  vinegar  and  pepper  and  salt. 
Tomatoes  which  are  not  fully  ripe  can  be  sliced  and 
fried,  the  slices  having  been  coated  with  batter,  or 
with  flour,  pepper  and  salt  first,  and  egg  and  bread- 
crumb afterwards.  A  handsome  little  entree  is 
made  by  cutting  the  tops  very  neatly  off  some  large 
and  firm  tomatoes  and  scooping  out  the  pulp,  after- 
wards filling  them  up  with  a  meat  stuffing.  The 
pulp,  freed  from  seeds,  is  worked  into  the  stufiing  so 
that  nothing  is  lost.  Care  must  be  taken  at  all  stages 
to  avoid  breaking  the  tomatoes.  They  are  to  be 
baked,  in  a  buttered  fireproof  dish,  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Some  cooks  sprinkle 
breadcrumbs  on  the  tops  of  the  tomatoes,  adding  a 
little  butter  and  some  grated  cheese  almost  at  the  last 
moment,  and  finish  off  this  entree  under  a  deflector 
or  salamandre. 

Although  we  ought  to  keep  away  from  tinned  vege- 
tables as  much  as  possible,  I  must  admit  that  tinned 
tomatoes  from  a  good  shop  are  an  enormous  help 
to  a  cook  in  a  small  house.  The  peeled  tomatoes 
are  wonderful  value  for  the  small  sum  they  cost.  I 
have  often,  in  an  emergency,  thanked  heaven  and 
the  Italian  people  for  this  boon.  A  tin  of  tomatoes 
lends  itself  to  the  making  of  tomato  soup  in  at  least 
half-a-dozen  good  ways,  and  any  resourceful  person 


196     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

can  improvise  a  sauce  for  fish  or  entrees  when  a 
tin  of  tomatoes  is  at  hand.  Of  course  nothing  should 
be  left  in  the  tin  after  it  is  opened.  Any  surplus 
should  be  kept  in  an  earthenware  vessel. 

Tinned  tomatoes,  merely  peppered  and  salted  and 
warmed  up  with  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  a  fireproof 
dish,  are  not  to  be  despised. 


Speaking  broadly  and  generally,  cold  remnants  of 
vegetables  are  to  be  treated  with  respect.  A  tidy 
housewife,  with  a  passion  for  clearing  up,  may  be 
inclined  to  throw  away  the  single  sprig  of  cauli- 
flower, the  half-ounce  of  mashed  potato,  the  dozen 
or  so  of  French  beans  which  come  back  from  the 
table.  She  must  do  nothing  of  the  kind.  Let  her 
once  form  the  habit  of  modifying  her  cookery  accord- 
ing to  the  oddments  in  her  pantry  and  she  will  find 
herself  saving  money  and  gaining  efficiency  every 
day.  What  will  not  do  for  hors  d'ceuvre  may  do  for 
soup,  and  what  will  not  do  for  soup  may  add  not 
only  to  the  bulk  but  to  the  charm  of  a  stew  or  a 
salad  or  a  savoury.  And  let  it  be  remembered 
that  potatoes  are  not  the  only  cold  vegetables  which 
can  be  fried. 


I  know  a  housewife  who  is  honestly  bent  on  thrift. 
Yet  her  kitchen  costs  her  far  too  much,  simply  because 
she  lacks  the  right  point  of  view  towards  vegetables. 
At  her  house,  one  will  find  a  delicious  leg  of  lamb  cost- 
ing a  shilling  a  pound.  It  is  served  with  about  half 
the  due  proportion  of  vegetables.    The  result  is  that, 


VEGETABLES  197 

on  a  hungry  day,  appetites  are  satisfied  with  meat 
and  vegetables  averaging  about  tenpence  a  pound 
instead  of  with  meat  and  vegetables  working  out 
at  sixpence  or  sevenpence  all  round.  Let  vegetables 
therefore  abound  both  in  War-time  and  in  Peace- 
time. They  are  natural,  they  are  refined,  they  are 
healthful,  and  they  are  cheap. 


CHAPTER  X 

ROASTING  AND   GRILLING 

Roasting  and  grilling  have  been  twin  glories  of  the 
English  kitchen.  Grilling  is  still  understood  and  well 
practised  among  us  ;  but  roasting  is  almost  a  lost 
art  in  town  households.  When  we  speak  of  roast 
beef  we  generally  mean  beef  baked  in  an  oven. 
The  Baked  Beef  of  New  England  eats  well :  but  it 
is  not  a  roast. 


Brillat  Savarin  said  that  while  one  can  learn  to  be  a 
cook,  one  must  be  born  a  roaster.  And  even  when 
roasting  has  degenerated  into  baking,  an  innate  in- 
stinct for  the  process  will  go  nearly  all  the  way.  In 
old-fashioned  roasting  it  was  customary  to  begin  by 
keeping  the  joint  thirteen  or  fourteen  inches  from  the 
fire  so  as  to  draw  out  enough  fat  and  gravy  to  form, 
a  little  later  on,  when  the  meat  was  brought  nearer  to 
the  heat,  a  brown  coat.  In  baking  a  joint  the  same 
principle  should  be  followed.  Modern  cookery  books 
generally  advise  the  immediate  introduction  of  the 
meat  into  a  high  temperature  for  the  purpose  of 
"  sealing  "  in  the  juices.  This  is  a  good  counsel,  but 
it  would  be  still  better  if  it  were  prefaced  by  instruc- 
tions to  provoke  a  very  slight  preliminary  cooking 
in  order  that  the  sealing  may  be  done  with  what  I 
may  call  the  right  kind  of  wax  rather  than  by  a 

198 


ROASTING  AND  GRILLING  199 

scorching  of  the  outside  of  the  meat,  or  with  fat  from 
another  source. 


Everybody  knows  that  basting  is  essential  to  good 
roasting.  But,  when  the  sealing  has  been  improperly 
done,  the  basting  is  almost  useless,  because  the  surface 
of  the  meat  does  not  take  it. 


Joints  which  are  about  to  be  baked  should  not 
rest  upon  the  floor  of  the  baking-tin  but  upon 
an  ordinary  trivet,  such  as  one  always  receives  with 
a  gas-stove.  Without  the  trivet,  the  lower  part  of 
the  meat  would  be  standing  in  grease  and  would 
become  sodden. 


Novices  sometimes  dust  their  joints  over  with  salt 
before  putting  them  into  the  oven.  This  is  wrong, 
because  it  hardens  the  fibres  of  the  meat.  The  salting 
should  be  done  when  the  baking  is  nearly  finished. 


With  these  few  hints  and  warnings  in  your  mind, 
you  cannot  do  better  than  continue  to  roast  or  bake 
in  the  established  English  way.  Do  not  believe  all 
you  hear  in  praise  of  certain  patent  roasting-machines 
or  baking-boxes.  I  have  tried  most  of  them  and 
have  given  them  away  to  curates  for  jumble  sales. 
It  is  true  that  tough  meat  can  be  made  tender  in  some 
of  these  contrivances,  but  they  are  stuffy.  The  ideal 
roast  is  a  beast  or  bird  roasted  before  a  wood  fire  in 


200     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR  TIME 

the  open  air.  This  is  not  a  fancy ;  and  any  ill- 
ventilated  cooking-box  or  oven  works  dead  against 
the  best  principles  of  roasting. 


Grilling  or  broiling  is  performed  in  most  houses 
nowadays  by  using  the  deflector  on  a  gas-stove.  An 
old-world  gridiron  is  better  but  it  requires  skill, 
especially  in  the  management  of  the  fire.  Although 
very  few  readers  of  this  book  are  likely  to  have  a  grid- 
iron and  a  suitable  fireplace,  I  must  try  to  raise  the 
banner  of  the  ideal  once  more.  Rough-and-ready 
teachers  of  cookery  do  not  attempt  to  expound  the 
inmost  secret  of  grilling.  They  tell  you  to  seal  both 
sides  of  your  chop  or  steak  by  exposure  to  a  rather 
fierce  gas-heat  at  the  outset,  and  then  to  reduce  the 
temperature  and  allow  the  meat  to  remain  between 
the  trivet  and  the  deflector  until  it  is  cooked  through. 
This  process  certainly  turns  out  a  very  tasty  little 
piece  of  meat,  but  it  is  more  like  a  miniature  roast 
than  a  true  grillade.  The  proper  way  is  to  coat  the 
meat  lightly  on  both  sides  with  good  olive  oil  or 
freshly  melted  butter,  and  to  grill  it  under  a  strong 
but  not  unruly  heat,  turning  it  with  a  small  pair  of 
tongs  four  or  five  times  each  minute.  The  object  of 
this  turning  is  to  prevent  the  browning  of  the  surfaces. 
Tongs  must  be  used  instead  of  a  fork,  because,  in  the 
absence  of  a  firm  sealing,  a  pair  of  tongs  is  the  only 
tool  with  which  one  can  avoid  wounding  the  meat  and 
allowing  gravy  to  escape. 

We  must,  however,  be  practical,  and  I  do  not  press 
this  best  way  of  grilling  upon  those  who  are  perfectly 
satisfied  with  the  method  usually  taught  :    because 


ROASTING  AND  GRILLING         201 

I  know  that  the  best  way  could  hardly  be  followed 
on  a  smaU  gas-stove. 

We  are  giving  less  space  to  roasting  and  grilling  than 
to  steaming  and  braising  and  stewing,  simply  because 
roasts  and  griUades  are  rarely  successful  except  when 
they  consist  of  expensive  cuts  of  meat,  and  this  book 
is  against  such  extravagances.  An  exception  some- 
times occurs  as  regards  roasting,  because  it  is  possible 
now  and  then  to  buy  good  game-birds  at  low  prices. 
Much  of  the  cheap  frozen  game  is  not  worth  cooking  or 
eating  ;  but  bargains  in  fresh  game  are  to  be  picked 
up  occasionally.  When  they  present  themselves, 
they  should  not  be  neglected  ;  because  roasted  birds 
furnish  materials  for  the  cheap  but  distinguished 
salmis  so  fully  described  in  the  chapter  on  Entrees. 

Grillades  represent  a  heavy  initial  cost  for  prime 
meat,  but  they  become  cheap  food  provided  that  the 
consumers  are  content  to  flavour  a  large  quantity  of 
vegetables  with  quite  a  small  piece  of  prime  and 
succulent  beef  or  mutton.  Take,  for  example,  the 
dish  known  as  an  Entrecote  h  la  Bordelaise.  This  is 
a  grilled  steak  on  which  one  spreads  slices  of  blanched 
beef-marrow  and  some  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  chopped  shalots  and  parsley  and  a  little  lemon 
juice.  Some  of  the  chopped  vegetables  and  herbs  are 
mixed  with  a  glass  of  red  Bordeaux  wine  and  the 
whole  plat  is  put  to  finish  in  a  fireproof  dish  in  a  good 
oven.  Of  course  you  must  not  over-grill  the  steak  in 
the  first  instance,  but  let  it  be  underdone.  [I  am 
stating  the  rapid  and  homely  recipe  rather  than  the 


202    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

directions  which  would  be  given  by  a  chef.]  For  a 
total  expenditure  of  about  two  shillings  on  the  steak 
and  wine  and  sundries  and  a  large  cauliflower,  four 
persons  can  be  sufficiently  though  not  lavishly  served. 
By  using  potatoes  and  French  beans  or  scarlet  runners 
or  mashed  turnips  or  Jerusalem  artichokes,  the  dish 
may  be  made  to  go  even  further,  as  the  gravy  and 
sauce  will  sufBce  to  make  a  liberal  helping  of  vege- 
tables quite  tempting. 

Grilled  kidneys,  grilled  mushrooms,  and  the  various 
grillades  associated  with  the  conventional  EngHsh 
breakfast,  do  not  need  describing  here.  Besides,  I 
hope  that  the  War  may  lead  to  the  simplification  of 
our  English  breakfast,  and  that  Englishmen  will  drop 
the  habit  of  requiring  cooks  to  work  for  them  elabor- 
ately at  the  beginning  of  the  day.  Devilled  meats 
for  luncheon  or  as  dinner  savouries  are  on  a  different 
footing,  and,  when  the  Allies  enter  Berlin,  I  shall  be 
happy  to  give  to  every  reader  who  will  ask  for  it  a 
copy  of  my  very  own  recipe  for  a  dish  called  Seven 
Devils. 

This  short  section  shall  be  closed  with  some  direc- 
tions for  cooking  a  steak  in  a  manner  which  partakes 
of  both  baking  and  braising.  In  my  own  kitchen  this 
method  is  frequently  adopted  and,  nine  times  out  of 
ten,  visitors  say  that  they  have  never  enjoyed  a  steak 
so  much  before.    This  way  is  not  for  hot  weather. 

Melt  in  an  oval  fireproof  dish,  two  inches  deep,  a 
bare  ounce  of  butter.  [We  sometimes  use  a  cocoanut 
butter — a  special  kind  in  which  the  taste  of  the  nut 


ROASTING  AND  GRILLING  203 

is  not  suppressed.  Cocoanut  butter  goes  a  long 
way,  and  half-an-ounce  is  enough.]  Trim  about  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  rump  steak,  but  do  not  remove 
the  good  fat.  Flour  the  steak  on  both  sides  and  fry 
it,  also  on  both  sides,  in  the  fireproof  dish,  on  the  top 
of  the  stove,  until  it  browns  nicely.  Then  simply 
cover  the  dish  closely  and  put  it  in  a  good  oven. 
Reduce  the  heat  of  the  oven  (if  it  is  warmed  by  gas) 
as  soon  as  you  close  the  oven  door.  At  the  end  of 
half-an-hour  take  out  and  uncover  the  dish.  The 
upper  side  of  the  steak  will  have  become  darker. 
Turn  the  meat  over.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  hot 
water,  mixing  the  water  well  with  the  butter  and 
gravy  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Cover  the  dish 
closely  again  and  put  it  back  into  a  slow  oven  for 
another  hour  at  least,  taking  it  out  once  or  twice  more 
to  baste  and  turn  it.  At  the  last  turning,  salt  and 
pepper  both  sides.  Should  the  gravy  be  finally 
found  scanty  and  sticky,  it  can  be  extended  with  more 
hot  water. 

This  is  one  more  of  the  dishes  which,  although 
made  from  a  prime  and  dear  cut,  may  subserve 
economy.  The  cook  who  prepares  it  for  the  first  time 
will  be  inclined  to  throw  away  a  kind  of  liquid  fat 
which  will  have  formed  in  the  cooking  :  yet  this  fat 
is  delicious  and  it  makes  the  vegetables  taste  so  good 
that  not  much  meat  is  needed  for  each  person. 
Mashed  potatoes,  or  a  puree  (not  sloppy)  of  turnips 
or  Jerusalem  artichokes,  or  a  cabbage,  or  a  cauliflower, 
each  and  aU  lend  themselves  to  moistening  with  the 
liquid.  One  does  not  throw  away  the  liquor  from 
good  bacon,  and  it  is  just  as  wrong  to  throw  away  the 
liquor  from  good  beef, 


CHAPTER  XI 

SALADS 

A  FULL-DRESS  dinner,  more  than  any  other  function 
exhibits  the  complexity  of  civihsation.  In  order  to 
bring  together  the  hundreds  of  items  essential  to  the 
meal  itself  and  to  the  service  and  surroundings,  thou- 
sands of  men  and  women  have  worked  hard  and 
skilfully.  Peasants  have  flogged  olive-trees  ;  fisher- 
men have  braved  the  storm  ;  gardeners  have  stooped 
and  delved  under  broiling  suns  ;  shepherds  have 
watched  their  flocks  under  driving  rain  ;  hunters 
have  waited  wearily  for  the  whir  of  wings ;  dairy- 
maids have  risen  with  the  lark  ;  vignerons  have  fought 
the  thousand  enemies  of  the  vine.  To  bring  the 
dainties  of  the  world  to  our  shores,  dock  labourers 
have  strained  their  backs,  and  stokers  have  almost 
melted  away  before  ships'  furnaces.  Merchants  have 
knitted  their  brows,  shopmen  have  stood  through 
long  days  amidst  delicacies  they  will  never  taste,  and 
boys  whose  hearts  are  on  the  battlefield  or  the  high 
seas  have  trudged  hither  and  thither  bent  under  heavy 
loads.  Bees  have  hummed  in  the  hearts  of  flowers 
to  build  up  the  candles,  or  dynamos  have  buzzed  still 
more  loudly  to  give  floods  of  light.  In  Ulster,  men 
and  women  have  spun  fine  linen  ;  in  Staffordshire  and 
in  many  a  German  or  Austrian  town  they  have  shaped 
and  cut  frail  porcelain  and  thin  glass.  And  these  do 
not  exhaust  the  great  army  which  has  toiled  and 

204 


SALADS  205 

moiled  in  order  that  half-a-dozen  people  may  eat  and 
drink  supremely  well. 


In  the  midst  of  all  this  artificiality  the  salad,  usually 
served  with  the  roast,  has  the  charm  of  a  return  to 
nature.  It  is  like  a  picnic  on  the  fourth  or  fifth  day 
of  a  house-party  which  has  been  feasting  too  royally, 
or  it  is  like  Marie  Antoinette's  Petit  Trianon  amidst 
the  pomps  of  Versailles.  Or,  rather,  this  is  what  a 
salad  ought  to  be.  Unfortunately,  English  house- 
keepers often  repeat  with  their  salads  the  grand  mis- 
take which  they  make  with  their  soups.  That  is  to 
say,  they  try  to  work  up  a  salad  into  a  dish  rich  and 
elaborate  enough  for  a  complete  meal,  forgetting  that 
it  is  almost  always  better  as  an  accompaniment  to 
something  else.  I  have  seen  English  salads  which 
could  not  be  explained  on  any  other  theory. 


While  a  salad,  in  the  middle  of  a  long  dinner,  is  a 
cool  oasis  of  escape  from  the  richness  of  cooked  foods, 
this  is  not  its  only  attraction.  A  salad  will  help 
down  many  a  dry  slice  of  cold  meat  which  would 
otherwise  offend  the  palate.  And,  while  pleasing 
both  palate  and  eye,  it  may  be  also  a  valuable  food. 
We  know  that  nearly  two  thousand  years  ago  one  of 
the  most  famous  of  physicians  used  to  eat  the  plant 
which  we  call  a  cabbage-lettuce  nearly  every  evening 
to  induce  sleep.  I  often  carry  out  his  prescription, 
and  find  a  cabbage-lettuce  to  be  a  much  more  effective 
and  less  objectionable  nightcap  than  a  whisky-and- 
soda.     As  for   watercress,   its   value   is   enormous. 


2o6     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Salad  plants  of  one  kind  or  another  are  obtainable  in 
England  all  the  year  round  at  low  prices  and  nobody 
has  any  excuse  for  neglecting  them.  If  some  of  our 
commercial  men  would  eat  a  little  less  meat  and 
potatoes,  and  much  more  salad,  they  would  come  and 
go  with  clearer  skins  and  brighter  eyes  and  quicker 
steps. 


A  few  weeks  before  the  War  broke  out,  I  wrote  some 
notes  on  salad-making  and  they  were  published  in  a 
little  periodical  called  Downman  s  Bulletin,  which  is 
circulated  privately.  These  notes  were  reproduced 
by  many  newspapers  in  an  abridged  form  and  I  have 
been  asked  to  print  them  over  again  in  the  present 
volume.    Here  they  are  : 

L;  Wine  and  Oil 

In  ancient  writings,  both  sacred  and  profane,  oil  and 
wine  are  linked  over  and  over  again.  And  in  Italy, 
even  in  this  twentieth  century,  the  wine  merchant 
is  still  an  oil  merchant  as  weU.  In  England,  culinary 
and  edible  oils  have  fallen  among  grocers  ;  and  grocers 
in  these  days  are  more  often  concerned  with  "  cheap 
lines ' '  than  with  hoary  traditions  of  fine  eating.  Their 
salad  oils  are  generally  blends  of  inferior  oil  with 
the  oil  from  cotton  seed  and  various  nuts. 

Now  the  housewife  who  saves  sixpence  on  a  large 
bottle  of  salad  oil  is  as  foolish  as  her  sister  who  saves 
sixpence  on  a  pound  of  tea.  If  a  bottle  of  oil  or  a  pound 
of  tea  were  wholly  consumed  at  a  single  meal,  one  could 
understand  the  housewife's  wish  to  economise ;   be- 


SALADS  207 

cause  sixpence  a  day  is  nearly  ten  pounds  a  year.  But 
a  bottle  of  oil  serves  for  many  salads,  just  as  a  pound 
of  tea  suffices  for  dozens  of  pots  and  scores  of  cups  : 
and  it  follows  that,  for  the  sake  of  a  farthing,  a  meal 
is  being  spoilt.  To  be  exact,  the  farthing  is  not  truly 
saved  ;  because  one  must  use  more  of  poor  oil  or  poor 
tea  than  of  the  better  quality. 

The  best  oil — better  than  the  famous  oil  of  Lucca  or 
of  San  Remo — is  the  oil  of  Provence  ;  and  the  best  oil  of 
Provence  is  that  which  finds  its  way  to  the  markets 
of  Bordeaux.  Bordeaux  is  a  city  of  epicures  ;  because 
Bordeaux  flourishes  by  reason  of  the  finely  educated 
palates  of  the  merchants  who  are  always  tasting, 
tasting,  tasting  the  almost  innumerable  growths  and 
vintages  of  the  Medoc  and  of  the  other  wine-growing 
regions  of  the  Gironde.  This  oil  is  pure  and  unmixed 
olive  oil  of  the  old  kind,  and  there  is  nothing  to  beat 
it  as  food  or  as  medicine.  The  doctors,  who  are 
.prescribing  olive  oil  more  and  more,  should  see  to  it 
that  their  patients  do  not  swallow  a  coarse  blend  of 
oils  made  from  nuts  and  seeds. 

A  good  salad  means  good  oil.  It  means  also  good 
vinegar,  or  a  fresh  and  juicy  lime  or  lemon.  Wine 
vinegar  is  better  than  malt  vinegar  ;  but  it  must  be 
remembered  that  wine  vinegar  is  strong  and  that  the 
quantity  used  must  be  smaller  than  when  malt  vinegar 
is  chosen. 


I  am  often  asked  to  give  my  prescription  for  a 
salad.  This,  however,  is  an  art  and  a  science  which 
cannot  be  reduced  to  writing.  Salad  vegetables  vary 
enormously  in  succulency  and  briskness ;    and  the 


2o8    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

born  salad-maker  is  always  changing  his  procedure. 
But,  although  nothing  can  take  the  place  of  an  incom- 
municable skill  and  judgment,  some  rough-and-ready 
hints  may  be  set  down. 

In  every  house  there  ought  to  be  a  punier  a  salade.^ 
In  France  every  peasant's  wife  knows  how  to  wield  one. 
A  punier  d  salade  is  a  wire  basket,  with  a  rather  narrow 
mouth  like  that  of  an  old  Chinese  ginger  jar.  After 
washing  your  cress  and  lettuce  and  other  greenery, 
you  drop  the  leaves  into  this  wire  basket  and  whirl  it 
smartly  round  by  the  wire  handle,  thus  causing  every 
drop  of  water  to  fly  out.  It  is  because  of  the  wetness 
of  their  materials  that  most  makers  of  salads  in 
England  fail ;  for  oil  and  water  will  never  agree. 

Nowadays  almost  everybody  knows  that  the  leaves 
of  a  salad  must  be  torn  and  not  cut.  I  should  hesitate 
to  print  so  trite  a  precept  if  I  had  not  had  recent 
evidence  that  it  is  still  disregarded  here  and  there. 
In  punishment  for  my  sins  (which  are  many  and  black, 
but  neither  many  nor  black  enough  for  such  reprisals) 
I  was  invited  to  the  house  of  a  lady  with  a  local  reputa- 
tion for  her  salads.  In  a  large  and  costly  bowl  I 
found  a  number  of  lettuces  which  had  been  cut  up 
finely  with  a  knife  some  hours  before.  To  these  there 
had  been  added  hard-boiled  eggs  and  tomatoes  in 
quarters,  and  a  drench  of  a  strange  cream.  The 
mixture  had  a  certain  tastiness  which  was  seductive, 
but  the  night  watches  brought  insight  and  penitence. 
Not  until  he  has  tasted  his  salad  plants  can  a  salad- 
maker  compound  his  dressing.     Some  plants  require 

^  In  speaking  to  Frenchmen,  one  should  be  caxeful  to  re- 
member that  a  panier  d  salade  means  also  a  prison  van,  or 
"  Black  Maria." 


SALADS  209 

more  salt  than  others,  and  this  is  not  the  only  opening 
for  tact.  It  may  be  said,  however,  that  there  is  much 
truth  in  the  old  counsel :  "  Let  a  miser  put  in  the 
vinegar,  a  spendthrift  the  oil,  and  a  wise  man  the 
salt."  The  wisdom  of  the  wise  man  will  be  shown,  for 
example,  in  giving  much  more  salt  to  a  tomato  than 
to  a  lettuce.  As  for  the  oil  and  the  vinegar,  English- 
women nearly  always  make  the  mistake  of  pouring 
out  far  too  much  vinegar  and  far  too  little  oil.  They 
are  afraid  that  the  oil  will  taste  gross,  but  the  truth  is 
that  the  oil  may  greatly  exceed  the  vinegar  and  still 
not  assert  itself.  In  some  salads,  pepper  and  even 
made  mustard  and  a  drop  or  so  of  Worcester  sauce 
should  be  added.  Experiment  alone  will  teach  how 
and  when  and  why  these  things  should  be  done. 

To  the  old  proverb  just  quoted,  it  is  often  added 
that  a  madman  should  stir  up  the  whole.  Madmen, 
however,  are  better  out  of  the  way.  When  the  salad 
plants  are  in  the  bowl,  the  dressing  should  be  mixed  in 
a  large  wooden  spoon  or  in  a  cup,  and  after  it  has  been 
beaten  smooth  it  should  be  quickly  poured  over  the 
leaves  and  then  there  should  be  a  bold  and  strong  and 
rapid  turning  of  the  greenery  over  and  over  until  every 
leaf  has  taken  its  share  of  the  dressing.  This  operation 
must  be  postponed  until  a  moment  or  two  before  the 
salad  is  wanted.  Otherwise  the  plants  will  come 
sodden  to  the  table. 

At  this  point  my  voice  sinks  to  a  whisper,  and  it  is 
to  be  understood  that  I  am  speaking  privately  and 
confidentially  and  with  bated  breath  to  the  gourmet 
only.  The  Almighty  has  given  tis  better  tools  for  salad- 
mixing  than  any  wooden  fork  and  spoon.  In  conditions 
of  homely  intimacy,  a  salad-maker,  when  all  is  ready, 
o 


210     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

will  wash  his  hands  well  and  long  as  the  moment 
approaches  for  serving  the  bowl.  He  will  shun 
common  or  perfmned  soaps  and  will  use  nothing  but 
a  soap  made  from  olive  oil.  Having  dried  his  hands 
perfectly  on  a  warm,  clean  towel,  he  will  finally  whisk 
the  cup  of  dressing  into  homogeneity,  will  pour  its 
contents  over  the  salad,  and  will  immediately  proceed 
to  wring  the  leaves  in  the  liquid  as  a  washerwoman 
wrings  clothes  in  soapy  water.  (How  horrid  !)  In 
doing  this,  he  will  spoil  the  appearance  of  some  of  the 
leaves,  but  he  will  have  a  salad  fit  for  the  gods. 

When  tomato  is  wanted,  thin  slices  should  be  lightly 
sprinkled  with  dressing  and  added  to  a  salad  after  the 
mixing  with  fork  and  spoon  or  with  the  hands.  If  they 
are  added  before,  they  will  break  and  make  the  salad 
look  messy.  The  young  leaves  of  nasturtiums  and 
the  unopened  flowers  greatly  improve  an  ordinary 
salad  of  lettuce  and  watercress.  A  few  fully  opened 
flowers  of  nasturtium  may  be  added  at  the  last 
moment  for  their  appearance,  and  some  of  the  seeds 
may  be  thrown  in  as  well.     [End  of  "  Wine  and  Oil."] 


To  the  foregoing  paragraphs  I  should  add  one  or 
two  remarks.  A  spoonful  of  cream  added  to  a  salad 
of  cabbage-lettuce  is  an  improvement  when  the  salad 
is  served  with  lean  beef  or  any  other  food  which  re- 
quires a  little  fat.  [The  cream  would  be  a  mistake 
in  a  salad  served  with  roast  duck.] 


Many  earnest  students  of  table  matters  would  not 
agree   with  my  advice   for   dressing  salads.    Their 


SALADS  211 

method  is  to  accumulate  their  washed  and  dried 
ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  then  to  dust  in  the  pepper 
and  salt.  Afterwards  they  take  an  oil-bottle  in  the 
left  hand  and  a  wooden  fork  in  the  right.  They  pour 
in  the  oil  drop  by  drop,  turning  the  salad  plants  so 
that  all  may  be  oiled.  Finally,  they  add  a  spoonful  of 
vinegar  and  proceed  to  "  fatigue  "  the  salad  by  turning 
it  over  and  over. 


When  a  little  pool  of  fine  salad-dressing  remains  at 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  it  need  not  be  wasted.  Every 
scrap  of  greenery  should  be  lifted  out  of  it  and  the 
dressing  can  then  be  added  to  a  soup.  On  hot  days  I 
use  it  after  a  fashion  which  I  learned  from  a  muleteer 
in  Spain.  I  chop  up  a  good  piece  of  cucumber  and  mix 
it  in  the  dressing  with  the  crumb  of  a  slice  of  household 
bread.  This  makes  a  wonderfully  refreshing  com- 
pound, like  meat  and  drink  in  one.  But  it  does  not 
suit  all  tastes,  and  most  of  us  are  so  placed  that  we 
should  not  find  an  opportunity  of  eating  it. 


A  Cold  Slaw  is  popular  in  Kentucky.  Having 
blanched  a  firm  white  cabbage,  the  Kentucky  cook 
cuts  it  up  into  long  narrow  strips,  longer  than  matches 
but  no  thicker.  Sometimes  he  mixes  in  some  strips 
of  blanched  celery,  equally  thin.  He  adds  (though 
this  is  not  indispensable)  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
melted  fat  which  is  jdelded  by  the  grilling  or  frjdng  of 
the  breakfast  bacon.  Finally  he  smothers  the  strips 
in  thinned  mayonnaise  and  serves  the  "Slaw" 
cold. 


212     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

When  salad  plants  are  bought,  the  minimum 
quantities  which  can  be  purchased  to  advantage  will 
often  make  too  large  a  heap  to  be  eaten  on  one  day. 
Instead  of  wasting  what  is  not  required,  the  surplus 
should  be  used  for  soup  or  in  some  entree.  A  recipe 
has  already  been  given  for  watercress  soup.  Braised 
lettuce  is  excellent. 


CHAPTER  XII 

SWEETS   AND   OMELETTES 

An  earnest  person  who  has  seen  the  plan  of  this  book 
is  grieved  to  know  that  sweets  are  not  to  be  dis- 
couraged in  it.  [The  earnest  person  happens  to  be  a 
man  who  hates  sweets  with  his  whole  soul,  but  one 
must  charitably  acquit  him  of  selfishness  and  in- 
sincerity.] To  some  extent  he  is  right.  It  is  beyond 
doubt  that  most  grown-up  Britons  would  be  better  in 
health  and  temper  if  puddings  and  pies  and  tarts  and 
cakes  and  meringues  were  more  rarely  seen  on  their 
plates.  For  children  it  is  a  prudent  as  well  as  a  kindly 
course  to  provide  sweetstuff ;  but  older  people  are  the 
worse,  in  nine  cases  out  of  ten,  for  consuming  them 
largely  and  frequently. 


Sweets,  in  spite  of  this  warning,  cannot  be  omitted 
from  a  cookery-book.  As,  however,  they  belong  to 
that  branch  of  cookery  in  which  the  English  are 
strong,  I  do  not  doubt  that  most  of  my  readers  could 
teach  me  more  than  I  can  teach  them  under  this 
head.  I  shall  therefore  recognise  my  limitations  and 
describe  only  a  few  sweets  which  experience  has 
vindicated  at  little  homely  dinners  for  both  men  and 
women,  and  I  shall  prefer  to  speak  of  those  which  can 
be  served  either  as  sweets  or  savouries  according  to  the 
flavouring  and  seasoning. 
213 


214     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Pancakes  are  nearly  always  popular.  I  have  some- 
times treated  them  as  savouries  rather  than  as  sweets 
by  introducing  piquant  little  choppings  of  meat  or 
fish  or  vegetables  instead  of  preserves  or  powdered 
sugar.  Such  garnishes  should  be  very  sparing  in 
quantity  and  should  be  separately  heated  so  that  there 
shall  not  be  an  instant's  delay.  They  must  not  be 
too  moist.  A  pancake  costs  less  than  an  omelette, 
but  can  be  nicer  as  a  vehicle  for  savoury  morsels. 


Although  omelettes,  owing  to  the  well-known 
difficulty  of  making  them  without  breaking  eggs,  will 
be  out  of  the  programme  of  the  thrifty  as  a  rule, 
occasions  may  arise  when  they  are  justified.  A 
present  of  eggs  may  arrive  from  a  country  friend,  or 
eggs  may  be  cheap  for  a  little  while  in  the  shops,  or 
an  invalid  may  have  to  be  coaxed  regardless  of  ex- 
pense. I  cannot  do  better  than  transcribe  the  direc- 
tions for  omelette-making  from  the  little  book  by  Mr 
Peter  Gallina,  already  referred  to.  Mr  Gallina  owes 
part  of  his  success  to  his  practice  of  inviting  his 
customers  to  make  their  way  down  into  his  kitchens 
any  morning,  just  before  the  busiest  moments  of 
lunch,  to  see  omelettes  made  by  professional  cooks. 
His  advice  is  as  follows  : — 

"  English  people  nearly  always  fail  to  make  a  good 
omelette.  Yet  this  is  a  dish  which  anybody  can  pre- 
pare, once  the  right  way  is  known. 

"  Have  a  pan  of  hammered  steel.  After  making 
an  omelette,  never  wash  the  pan  with  water,  but  wipe 
it  immediately  with  a  clean  cloth. 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  215 

"  Plain  omelette.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in 
the  pan,  on  a  hot  stove  or  fire.  While  the  butter  is 
coming  to  a  froth,  whisk  two  eggs  (whites  and  yolks 
together)  in  a  basin  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
When  they  are  well  mixed,  pour  them  into  the  pan. 
As  soon  as  the  bottom  of  the  omelette  begins  to  set, 
shake  the  pan  vigorously.  Then  let  the  contents 
settle  flat  again  (which  will  require  only  a  few  moments) 
and  the  omelette  will  be  ready.  A  hot  plate  must  be 
at  hand  to  receive  it.  With  practice  you  can  learn 
to  give  the  pan  a  last  shake  in  such  a  way  that  the 
omelette  will  fold  itself  neatly  over  without  your 
touching  it. 

"  Omelette  au  Fromage.  This  is  made  like  a  plain 
omelette,  with  two  differences.  First,  you  must  mix 
some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  with  the  eggs  before 
cooking  them  ;  and  secondly,  you  must  sprinkle  some 
more  Parmesan  on  the  finished  omelette. 

"  Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes.  Mix  your  fines 
herbes  (or  chopped  parsley)  with  the  eggs,  then 
proceed  exactly  as  if  you  were  making  a  plain 
omelette. 

"  Omelette  Lyonnaise.  Chop  an  onion  finely  and 
cook  it  in  the  butter  till  soft.  Pour  the  beaten  eggs 
on  top,  and  complete  as  usual. 

"  Omelette  Portugaise.  Cook  apart  some  tomato 
in  butter.  Spread  it,  hot,  on  top  of  a  plain 
omelette. 

"  Omelette  aux  Rognons.  Cut  a  nice  veal  (or  one 
sheep's)  kidney  into  small  dice.  Cook  the  dice,  in 
butter,  in  a  separate  pan.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of 
Madeira.  Then  prepare  a  plain  omelette,  open  it, 
and  put  the  kidney  inside." 


2i6     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

We  have  wandered  away  from  sweets  into  savouries, 
as  I  said  we  should.  So  let  us  return  to  sweets  by 
way  of  Omelettes  aux  Confitures,  au  Rhum  and  au 
Kirsch.  For  the  first,  warm  the  jam,  and  proceed  as 
for  a  kidney  or  for  a  tomato  omelette.  For  "  flaming  " 
omelettes,  mix  a  small  teaspoonful  of  castor  sugar 
with  the  beaten  eggs  in  the  first  instance  and 
proceed  as  for  a  plain  omelette.  When  it  is  made, 
fold  the  omelette,  pour  over  it  a  tablespoonful  of 
rum,  dust  some  more  castor  sugar  over  the  top, 
and  apply  the  match.  The  plate  must  be  very 
hot.  Should  your  rum  be  too  much  "below  proof" 
warm  it  a  little  beforehand  and  it  will  take  fire 
more  readily. 


Fritters  are  easy  to  make,  provided  that  there  is  no 
weakening  from  the  standard  for  frying  in  a  deep 
bath  of  fat — that  is  to  say,  a  bath  nearly  three  inches 
deep.  This  fat  must  be  very  hot  at  the  moment  of 
dropping  in  the  fritter.  To  make  sure  that  the  fat  is 
boihng,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  test  it  with  a  tiny  portion 
of  batter.  If  the  fat  be  hot  enough,  the  batter  will 
rise  instantly  to  the  surface,  with  a  brisk  frizzling. 
As  to  the  composition  of  the  fritters,  you  can  apply 
to  them  the  principle  which  has  just  been  stated  for 
pancakes  and  omelettes — ^that  is  to  say,  they  can  be 
either  sweet  or  savoury.  Fritters  of  banana  and 
apple  and  apricot  and  orange  are  known  to  everybody, 
but  these  do  not  exhaust  the  possibihties.  I  have 
made  fritters  with  almost  every  kind  of  edible. 
Pieces  of  chicken,  of  smoked  haddock,  of  cold  fish,  of 
cauliflower  and  even  of  young  and  dehcate  turnips  are 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  217 

worth  eating  in  fritter  form.  Indeed  one  can  take 
a  collection  of  choice  odds  and  ends  and  decide  which 
shall  be  hers  d'oeuvre  and  which  shall  be  savouries 
according  to  the  general  complexion  of  the  dinner. 
Some  menus  would  be  well  introduced,  for  example, 
by  a  hors  d'oeuvre  of  sprigs  of  cauliflower  and  oil  and 
vinegar.  Other  menus  would  be  more  satisfactory 
with  no  hors  d'oeuvre  at  all,  but  with  the  same  cauli- 
flower worked  up  into  fritters.  It  goes  without  saying 
that  the  fritters  must  not  be  greasy.  To  prevent  this, 
a  cook  must  beware  of  putting  too  many  fritters  into 
the  fat  at  the  same  time.  I  have  already  pointed  out 
the  importance  of  absolutely  boiling  fat,  and  it  is 
obvious  that,  if  too  many  raw  cold  fritters  are  suddenly 
introduced,  the  temperature  of  the  fat  will  fall  to 
such  a  point  that  the  batter  and  frying-fat  will  com- 
mingle and  the  result  will  be  a  heavy  and  greasy  little 
cannon-ball  instead  of  a  golden-brown  bubble.  I  have 
sometimes  made  very  smaU  fritters  containing  sections 
of  a  juicy  lemon,  altogether  unsweetened.  A  pinch 
of  salt  is  sprinkled  on  them  at  the  moment  of  serving 
and  they  are  used  as  a  garnish  to  fish  or  entrees.  I 
ought  to  add,  however,  that  everybody  cannot  be 
depended  on  to  like  them. 


A  really  wholesome  sweet,  suitable  for  young  and 
old,  is  the  boiled  or  steamed  pudding  made  in  a  basin 
with  flour,  breadcrumbs  and  chopped  suet  and  an  eg§, 
with  a  httle  milk  and  some  flavourings.  Lemon 
pudding,  marmalade  pudding  and  ginger  pudding 
are  excellent,  and  the  recipes  for  making  them  are  so 
well  known  to  everybody  that  I  need  add  no  more 


2i8     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

than  point  out  the  superiority  of  flour  and  breadcrumb 
to  unmixed  flour. 

The  other  kind  of  steamed  pudding,  made  by  lining 
a  basin  with  a  thin  sheet  of  dough  and  covering  it, 
after  it  has  been  filled  with  sections  of  apple  or  other 
fruit,  by  means  of  a  dough  lid  (or  with  the  margins 
of  the  dough-sheet  folded  over),  is  another  valuable 
addition  to  a  cheap  and  wholesome  dietary.  This 
method  can  be  used  for  meats  as  well  as  fruits,  al- 
though it  would  then  become  a  homely  entree  rather 
than  a  savoury,  as  it  is  a  dish  substantial  enough  for 
the  whole  meal  of  a  hungr}^  man. 


I  do  not  recommend  the  frequent  use  of  jellies, 
custards  and  blanc-manges,  made  from  the  contents 
of  low-priced  packets.  Towards  the  end  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  such  things  began  to  be  bought  much 
too  freely,  with  the  result  that  many  of  the  housewives 
of  to-day  do  not  know  how  to  make  jelly  from  a  calf's 
foot  or  to  prepare  an  old-fashioned  custard.  There 
is  no  royal  road  in  either  of  these  matters  ;  and  the 
truthful  spirit  of  the  little  George  Washington  does 
not  inspire  the  advertisements  which  assert  that 
custards  and  jellies  made  from  the  cheap  materials 
in  packets  are  as  good  as  those  with  which  the  fatted 
calf  and  the  clucking  hen  can  provide  us.  When  I 
see  a  jelly  or  a  custard  in  an  ordinary  house  or  at  a 
seaside  hotel  my  heart  sinks.  And  yet  jellies  and 
custards  ought  to  rank  high  among  our  sweets.  JeUies 
flavoured  with  wine,  and  custards  with  or  without 
stewed  fruits,  are  too  honourable  to  be  parodied  from 
the  wholesale  grocer's  laboratory. 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  219 

When  the  art  of  making  light  pastry  has  been  ac- 
quired, the  door  is  opened  to  a  multitude  of  good 
things.  Pastry  need  not  be  expensive.  The  sub- 
stitutes for  butter  which  are  made  nowadays  from 
cocoanuts  and  other  nuts  should  be  tried  for  pastry. 
A  few  experiments  will  be  necessary,  and  a  failure 
or  two  must  not  cause  discouragement.  These  are 
no  days  for  the  most  expensive  pastes,  such  as  the 
puff  paste,  which  requires  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  pound 
of  flour.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  a  mistake  to  starve 
the  pastry  too  much.  I  am  persuaded  that  a  certain 
style  of  English  pie  crust  has  done  almost  as  much 
harm  as  drink.  Indeed  it  is  a  cause  of  drink.  It 
provokes  indigestion  and  bad  temper,  and  brings  so 
much  discord  into  the  home  as  to  drive  out  of  it  those 
who  have  the  means  to  go  elsewhere.  I  have  seen 
on  a  working  man's  table  a  meat  pie  which  was  to  be 
followed  by  an  apple  pie.  His  wife's  excuse  was 
that,  having  the  pastry  and  having  the  oven  hot,  it 
was  only  natural  to  make  the  two  kinds  of  pies  at  the 
same  time.  Both  were  served  hot.  Good  materials 
had  been  used,  but  with  so  little  skill  that  the  pastry 
made  one  wish  for  plenty  of  elbow-room  and  a  coal- 
hammer.  The  husband  was  a  builder's  foreman, 
with  a  little  clerical  work  to  do  in  the  afternoons 
which  was  a  trial  to  him.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at 
that  he  left  his  wooden  hut  three  times  that  afternoon 
for  a  soothing  dram  at  the  "  Three  Jolly  Bricklayers." 


With  good  pastry,  every  stage  of  a  dinner  can  be 
improved,  from  the  hors  d'oeuvre  to  the  sweets.  [I  do 
not  mean  pastry  at  more  than  one  stage  each  day.] 


220     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

When  there  is  a  tiny  remainder  of  paste,  one  can  make 
tiny  tartlets,  filled  with  potted  meat  or  any  other  tasty 
filling,  to  serve  cold  among  the  hors  d'oeuvre  or  hot 
as  a  savoury.  Little  crescents  of  light  pastry  may  be 
thrown  at  the  last  moment  into  suitable  soups.  Fish 
can  be  cooked  in  pastry.  As  for  entrees,  there  are 
dozens  of  ways  of  presenting  meats  in  light  pastry- 
shells,  which  should  be  less  stodgy  than  the  meat 
turnovers  sometimes  given  to  schoolboys  when  they 
go  out  for  a  day's  ramble.  Pies,  filled  with  meat  or 
birds,  or  ground-game,  or  a  mixture  of  these  with 
vegetables  ;  with  fresh  fruit,  or  with  fruit  preserved 
according  to  the  directions  in  the  introductory  chapter 
— all  these  are  known  to  everybody  and  are  worth 
learning  to  make  really  well. 


Open  tarts  can  be  made  in  the  English  fashion  and 
filled  with  inexpensive  preserves.  The  jam  should 
not  be  dried  up  by  too  much  heat  and  should  be 
spread  over  the  paste  only  a  few  minutes  before  the 
baking  is  concluded. 


An  apple  tart  in  the  French  style  is  a  pleasant  change. 
To  make  it  you  must  have  what  is  called  a  tart  ring, 
about  one  inch  deep.  Having  buttered  the  inside  of 
the  ring,  you  roll  out  a  sheet  of  pastry  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick.  You  should  prepare  the  pastry 
as  for  "  short  crust,"  using  less  than  half-a-pound  of 
butter,  or  butter  substitute,  to  the  pound  of  flour. 
Lay  the  sheet  of  pastry  over  the  ring  and  press  it 
neatly  home  all  round  so  that  it  makes  a  shallow 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  221 

circular  receptacle  with  perpendicular  sides.  Trim 
the  top  edges,  not  quite  close.  Of  course  you  will 
not  be  doing  all  these  things  without  having  placed 
the  ring  on  a  baking-tin.  A  round  case  of  this  kind 
is  called  a  flan.  A  flan  admits  of  many  uses.  For 
some  things  it  is  best  to  bake  it  empty,  so  that  the 
filling  will  not  be  dried  in  the  oven.  [In  suggesting 
that  you  should  bake  it  empty,  I  ought  to  warn  you 
that  the  flan  might  lose  its  shape  if  you  did  not  pack 
it  loosely  with  some  dry  objects,  such  as  haricot  beans, 
which  can  be  taken  out  after  the  flan  has  set.]  For 
the  French  apple  tart  you  will  not  bake  the  flan  before 
filling  it.  You  will  take  some  pulp  of  apples  which 
the  French  call  apple-marmalade.  This  is  made  by 
cooking  some  apples  with  butter  and  sugar  in  a  small 
pan  until  they  subside  into  a  pulp.  You  must  not 
use  the  pulp  until  it  is  cold.  Prick  all  over  the  bottom 
of  the  flan,  sprinkle  in  it  a  good  handful  of  biscuit 
crumbs,  and  then  add  the  pulp  until  it  is  filled  to 
within  about  a  third  of  an  inch  of  the  brim.  Next, 
pick  out  a  fine  and  sound  apple,  peel  it,  core  it,  and 
cut  it  into  about  sixteen  crescent -shaped  pieces,  like 
the  thinnest  sections  of  an  orange.  Arrange  these 
sections  so  as  to  overlap  one  another  in  a  long  waving 
curve  over  the  whole  surface  of  the  pulp.  The  flan 
and  its  contents  must  now  be  baked  at  a  good  heat 
until  the  pastry  is  seen  to  be  properly  baked.  On 
taking  it  from  the  oven,  carefully  remove  the  ring 
and  the  apple  tart  is  ready.  Many  French  cooks 
add  a  little  pulp  of  apricots  a  few  minutes  before  the 
baking  is  finished,  the  pulp  being  smeared  over 
the  apples.  I  do  not  recommend  this  course.  If  the 
apples  lack  flavour,  I  should  add  grated  lemon  rind 


222     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

to  the  apples  and  butter  and  sugar  when  making  the 
pulp.  [An  ingenious  cook  can  play  many  variations 
on  this  recipe.  I  have  used  a  pulp  of  plums,  cutting 
neat  sections  from  large  Victoria  plums  for  the  top 
layer,  and,  although  I  have  not  yet  made  the  experi- 
ments, no  doubt  use  could  be  made  of  some  of  the 
very  cheap  fruits  which  have  been  sun-dried  or 
evaporated.] 


Junkets  are  interesting  and  easy  to  make.  They 
have  the  advantage  of  setting  more  quickly  than  jelly 
when  one  cannot  command  the  use  of  a  very  cold 
larder.  A  good  junket  should  be  smooth  and  firm. 
Less  popular  than  junkets,  but  better,  in  my  opinion, 
are  the  jellies  and  creams  which  can  be  made  cheaply 
with  the  aid  of  Irish  moss.  This  strange  sea-moss 
comes  from  the  most  savage  spots  on  the  coasts  of 
Connaught.  I  have  used  it  in  Connemara  scores  of 
times,  and  have  only  failed  when  I  have  used  too 
much.  Irish  moss  as  received  from  the  gatherers 
requires  careful  cleaning,  because  tiny  shells  and  sea- 
creatures  lodge  in  it.  Even  when  it  is  obtained  at  a 
shop  it  should  be  well  washed  before  it  is  used. 
Containing  as  it  does  sulphur  and  iodine  in  a  kind  of 
natural  gum,  it  is  supposed  to  be  a  health-giving  plant, 
especially  to  those  persons  whose  chests  are  not 
strong.  Whenever  I  see  some  of  the  wretched  sheets 
of  gelatine  which  are  used  in  invalid  cookery,  I  wish 
that  Irish  moss  might  come  into  its  own.  The  blanc- 
mange and  beef-tea  jelly  prepared  for  the  sick  with 
the  aid  of  gelatine  would  often  be  far  better  with  Irish 
moss,  which  is  used  like  gelatine  or  isinglass.    The 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  223 

various  gelatines,  whether  natural  or  prepared,  are 
overrated  except  as  vehicles  for  better  nourishment. 


Stewed  fruits  are  useful,  but  it  is  a  pity  to  make 
them  out  of  fruits  which  are  good  enough  to  eat  in 
the  natural  state.  I  have  eaten  wretched  stews  of 
cherries  with  imitation  custards  when  at  less  expense 
my  hostess  could  have  given  her  guests  a  pretty 
basket  of  cherries  beautiful  to  behold  and  far  better 
to  eat.  The  art  of  cookery  lifts  mankind  above  the 
level  of  the  savage  ;  but  it  does  not  follow  that  we 
are  obliged  to  cook  everything  we  can  lay  our  hands 
on.  Millions  of  fine  plums  and  pears  and  apples  and 
blackberries  and  raspberries  find  a  sugary  grave  every 
year.  As  a  general  rule,  let  no  fruit  be  stewed  unless 
it  is  not  quite  good  enough  to  eat. 


As  for  rice  and  sago  and  semolina  and  tapioca  pud- 
dings, I  repeat  the  warning  that  these  soft  foods  are 
dangerous  because  children  are  inclined  to  bolt  them 
without  the  salivation  which  they  demand.  If  they 
can  be  served  with  stewed  rhubarb  which  has  not 
been  stewed  to  death  or  with  stewed  apples  or  pears 
which  retain  some  firmness,  they  will  be  swallowed 
less  hurriedly  and  may  be  less  objectionable.  Eaten 
properly,  they  are  immensely  valuable  to  nearly  all 
children  and  to  many  grown-up  persons. 


The  apple  lends  itself  admirably  to  the  making  of 
sweets  and  savouries.    When  the  core  is  taken  out 


224     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

and  its  place  filled  with  a  little  butter  and  sugar,  a 
baked  apple  is  excellent.  Instead  of  butter  and  sugar 
you  can  use  a  mixture  of  butter  and  apple  chutney, 
thus  turning  out  a  savoury  apple,  which  is  not  unhke 
the  curried  apples  familiar  to  some  Russian  house- 
wives. Jam  also  replaces  the  butter  and  sugar 
successfully,  where  children  are  concerned. 


Stewed  prunes  are  good  when  the  prunes  are  not 
too  skinny.  They  may  be  eaten  with  a  rather  stiff 
and  creamy  rice  pudding,  or  the  stones  can  be  taken 
out  and  the  stewed  prune  stuffed  with  cream  or  cream 
cheese. 


Cheese-cakes  must  not  be  encouraged  in  War-time, 
as  the  lemon  cheese  or  curd  used  for  filling  them  re- 
quires good  eggs  and  plenty  of  them. 


Tinned  fruits  of  good  brands  are  not  to  be  despised 
by  thrifty  persons.  Tinned  pears  of  the  best  packings 
cannot  easily  be  beaten  by  the  fresh  fruit.  They  are 
good  enough  to  be  consumed  just  as  they  are.  On 
occasions  of  ceremony,  however,  a  piece  of  a  pear  can 
be  laid  at  the  bottom  of  a  champagne  glass  and  en- 
livened with  a  teaspoonful  of  good  raspberry  jam,  a 
few  drops  of  Kirsch,  a  drench  of  thick  cream,  some 
frothed  white  of  egg  and  a  crystaUised  cherry.  Some- 
thing similar  can  be  done  with  tinned  peaches  and 
apricots.  Preserved  pine-apples  are  useful  for  fritters  ; 
and   I  have   also  fallen    back  upon   them  for  the 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  225 

fruit    salad    or    macedoine    which   I    am    about  to 
describe. 

Open  a  tin  of  cheap  pine-apple  chunks  from  a  good 
shop  and  cut  them  into  thin  sUces  with  a  silver  knife 
and  fork.  If  oranges  happen  to  be  cheap  and  sweet 
and  juicy,  peel  two  of  them  and  break  them  into  the 
smallest  sections,  taking  care  to  free  them  entirely 
from  the  white  skin  and  pith.  In  taking  the  pips 
out  of  these  bits  of  orange  you  will  have  to  break  the 
sections,  but  this  is  an  advantage,  as  it  enables  the 
orange  juice  to  run  out  and  the  other  juices  to  run  in. 
If  your  party  is  to  be  large,  buy  also  one  of  the  in- 
expensive little  tins  of  peeled  Muscat  grapes.  Lay 
the  grapes  open  with  a  silver  knife  and  lift  out  the 
stones.  If  you  have  a  sound  and  very  ripe  and  juicy 
pear,  peel  and  core  and  slice  it.  Put  all  these  in- 
gredients in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  over  them  the  juice 
from  the  pine-apple  chunks  and  the  peeled  grapes, 
mixed  with  a  glass  of  sherry  or,  better  still,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  Kirsch  or  Cura9ao  or  Maraschino.  A  few 
minutes  before  the  salad  is  to  be  eaten,  add  two 
bananas  sliced  into  thin  discs.  With  a  silver  spoon 
drench  the  discs  of  banana  with  the  juice,  but  do  not 
break  them  by  too  much  tinrning  over.  Serve  the 
salad  as  it  is,  or  with  a  little  cream.  This  macedoine 
wiU  cost  between  twopence  and  threepence  a  portion, 
but  it  is  a  distinguished  as  well  as  a  refreshing  con- 
clusion to  a  dinner. 


In  the  chapter  called  '''  Going  to  Market  "  I  pro- 
mised to  explain  a  good  way  of  serving  a  cheap  ripe 
pine-apple.    Take  a  long  narrow  cake-knife  with  a 


226    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

"  saw  "  back.  Lay  the  pine-apple  sideways  on  a  large 
meat -plate  and  cut  off  the  bottom  at  the  point  where 
the  sides  begin  to  narrow  downwards.  Then  cut  off 
the  top,  tuft  and  all,  at  the  point  where  the  sides 
begin  to  narrow  upwards.  You  must  perform  both 
these  amputations  as  cleanly  and  straightly  as  pos- 
sible. Put  the  top  and  bottom  on  one  side.  You 
will  now  be  looking  at  what  I  may  call  the  trunk  of 
the  pine -apple,  or  the  central  cylinder.  Thrust  in  the 
sharp  point  of  the  cake-knife  between  the  flesh  and 
the  skin  and  work  it  gently  up  until  it  comes  out  at 
the  other  end.  Now  begin  to  saw  backwards  just 
inside  the  circumference  of  the  fruit  so  that  you 
separate  the  flesh  from  the  skin.  Take  care  that 
you  do  not  break  through  the  skin  at  an}^  point.  If 
you  have  done  the  work  properly,  you  will  be  able 
to  lift  the  whole  of  the  peel  in  one  piece  clear  of  the 
flesh,  like  lifting  up  a  tube  four  or  five  inches  in 
diameter.  The  flesh  will  appear  as  a  cylindrical  mass 
exuding  a  great  deal  of  juice  which  you  must  not  lose. 
Turn  this  mass  on  its  side  and  cut  it  briskly  into  thin 
slices  without  allowing  them  to  fall  apart .  Then  stand 
the  mass  upright  and  carefully  encase  it  again  in  the 
tube  of  skin.  Let  it  go  on  draining  for  some  time  and 
finally  collect  all  the  juice  in  a  clear  glass  or  silver 
jug.  A  few  minutes  before  dinner,  place  the  pine- 
apple in  the  middle  of  an  epergne  or  any  other  raised- 
up  stand  and  carefully  restore  the  tufted  top  so  as  to 
fit  exactly  in  its  original  position.  Bank  round  the 
foot  of  the  pine-apple  with  any  dessert  apples  and 
pears  and  oranges  which  you  may  have  in  the  house. 
If  you  have  guests,  they  will  look  at  the  pine-apple 
throughout  dinner  with  the  usual  conviction  that  it 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  227 

is  not  intended  to  be  cut  and  yet,  although  you  may 
have  paid  for  it  no  more  than  some  conventional 
sweets  would  cost  you,  they  will  be  filled  with  rever- 
ence for  your  royal  hospitality.  At  the  proper  moment 
lift  off  the  top  and  the  tubular  skin  and  you  will  be 
able  to  serve  slices  of  pine-apple  with  no  mess  or  fuss. 
The  juice,  which  can  be  touched  up  with  a  little 
liqueur  if  you  like,  will  be  handed  round  in  the  glass 
jug  or  silver  boat. 

I  remember  explaining  the  buying  and  preparing 
and  serving  of  a  pine-apple,  on  these  lines,  to  a  lady 
who  had  a  weakness  for  giving  ceremonious  little 
dinners  out  of  a  slender  income.  After  listening  to  me 
suspiciously  she  replied,  to  our  mutual  discomfort,  that 
my  idea  was  beyond  her  means.  A  few  weeks  later  I 
heard  of  one  of  her  dinners  and  it  turned  out  that  her 
principal  sweet  had  consisted  of  a  very  tastefully 
arranged  assortment  of  eclairs  and  hahas  and  mille 
feuilles  and  petits  fours  from  a  well-known  confec- 
tioner's, which  had  certainly  cost  her  more  than  my 
pine-apple  cost  me.  To  round  off  a  dinner  with 
ready-made  wares  from  a  pastrycook's  is  a  hauling 
down  of  the  flag  which  no  housewife  should  come  to 
without  shame.  Besides,  a  plateful  of  pastries  recalls 
too  vividly  to  the  mind  the  rude  remark  of  Thackeray, 
who,  on  being  asked  by  his  hostess  which  tart  he 
would  have,  replied  :  "  I  think,  ma'am,  I  should  like 
a  tuppenny  one." 

In  French  families,  at  vintage-time,  it  is  usual  to 
boil  some  chestnuts  and  to  eat  them  with  a  glassful  of 
the  cloudy  new  juice.  About  the  end  of  September 
the   little    wine    shops   and    cafes   exhibit    placards 


228     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

announcing  "  Sweet  New  White  Wine."  We  do  not 
make  wine  in  England,  although  our  forefathers  did 
it  pretty  well  ;  but  it  is  possible,  none  the  less,  to 
celebrate  the  wine  harvest  somewhat  after  the  French 
fashion.  When,  in  the  course  of  your  marketing,  you 
notice  that  large  white  grapes  are  cheap,  buy  a  pound 
or  two  of  them.  They  will  not  cost  you  more  than 
a  few  pence.  [On  the  day  of  my  writing  this  they  are 
threepence  a  pound.]  Throw  out  any  shrivelled  or 
rotten  berries  and  wring  the  juice  out  of  those  which 
remain.  There  are  many  ways  of  doing  this.  One 
good  plan  is  to  break  them  with  a  wooden  pestle  and 
afterwards  put  the  whole  of  the  pulp  in  a  piece  of 
muslin,  screwing  it  tighter  until  every  drop  of  juice 
has  come  out.  The  juice,  in  spite  of  its  cloudiness, 
should  appear  on  the  table  in  a  glass  jug  or  decanter. 
As  for  the  chestnuts,  try  to  get  the  Italian  kind  with 
only  one  inside  skin.  Wash  the  nuts,  and,  if  you 
decide  on  boiling  them,  do  so  in  any  old  saucepan. 
[It  is  a  pity  to  use  a  new  one,  as  the  chestnuts  would 
soil  it.]  Or  you  can  cook  the  chestnuts  on  an  old 
shovel  over  a  good  fire.  Or  you  can  roast  them,  as 
in  the  Cat  and  Monkey  fable,  which  was  evidently 
written  by  a  man  who  knew  more  of  monkeys  than 
of  cats.  In  some  houses  the  peeling  of  the  nuts  is 
done  at  the  table,  each  person  doing  his  own  work. 
Many  Frenchmen  crumble  the  chestnuts  into  the 
bottom  of  a  glass,  bedew  them  well  with  the  grape 
juice  and  eat  the  mess  with  a  spoon.  This  idea  of 
grape  juice  and  chestnuts  is  well  worth  carrying  out ; 
for,  while  a  chestnut  is  not  so  nutritious  as  a  Brazil 
nut,  it  is  still  a  valuable  food  when  mixed  with  the 
juice  of  grapes. 


SWEETS  AND  OMELETTES  229 

It  may  not  always  be  convenient  to  buy  grapes  and 
press  them.  At  such  times  chestnuts  can  be  made 
into  a  puree  and  flavoured  with  a  little  cream  and 
vanilla.  But  I  think  they  are  nicest  simply  boiled 
or  roasted.  I  shall  always  remember  one  bitterly 
cold  evening  in  the  Portuguese  highlands.  It  was 
All  Hallows'  Eve.  The  whole  dinner  at  my  inn  was 
excellent  ;  but  it  reached  its  climax  when  a  Gallego 
brought  me  a  tureen  filled  with  magnificent  chestnuts 
in  their  skins,  piping  hot.  A  bottle  of  old  Bucellas 
wine  was  at  my  elbow  and  I  had  little  difficulty  in 
keeping  alive. 


Nuts  at  the  end  of  a  meal  must  be  sparingly  con- 
sumed. From  the  standpoint  of  the  theorist,  we 
ought  to  expect  the  worst  results  from  the  nut-eating 
of  some  greedy  people  at  Christmas.  Nuts  and  dried 
fruit  and  a  glass  of  port  are  a  meal  in  themselves,  so 
that  the  man  who  indulges  in  them  after  eating 
turkey  and  sausages  and  plum  pudding  is  really 
beginning  his  meal  over  again.  Fortunately,  Brazil 
nuts  are  not  at  their  best  at  Christmas,  or  the  worst 
might  happen. 


CHAPTER  XIII 

ITALIAN   PASTES 

Eighteen  years  ago  it  was  my  misfortune  to  be 
linked  with  a  friend  who  held  stoutly  to  the  doctrine 
of  "  cutlet  for  cutlet."  We  were  transacting  some 
literary  business  together.  I  believe  that  when  we 
dined  at  my  house — say  a  dozen  times — I  "  did  him 
well."  And  I  do  not  doubt  that  his  reminiscences  of 
the  hospitality  which  he  extended  to  me — say  a  dozen 
times — in  a  cheap  Italian  restaurant  are,  to  him, 
equally  satisfactory.  He  used  to  take  me  to  a 
trattoria  called  "  The  Flora,"  which  has  disappeared. 
Dinners  at  "  The  Flora  "  were  cheap  and  ample  and 
bad.  Nevertheless,  as  I  sat  on  a  velvet  seat  and 
looked  at  the  worst  mural  paintings  that  even  a 
modern  Italian  could  conceive,  and  drank  pasteurised 
wines,  I  learnt  a  great  deal  about  cookery  and  dinners. 
The  hors  d'oeuvre  always  made  a  good  show,  though 
they  were  too  oily  to  eat.  The  soup,  though  poor,  was 
hot.  The  fish,  though  common,  was  fresh  and  clean. 
The  entree,  of  frozen  mutton  with  the  cheapest  tinned 
peas  or  French  beans,  would  have  made  a  convict 
weep  ;  and  the  leg  of  chicken,  with  barely  half-an- 
ounce  of  meat  between  the  skin  and  the  bone,  and  the 
salad  dressed  with  cotton-seed  oil,  were  even  worse 
than  the  entree.  Yet  I  was  able  to  endure  these 
dinners  because  of  an  interlude  described  on  the  menu 
as   farinage.    Sometimes   the    farinage   was    simply 

230 


ITALIAN   PASTES  231 

macaroni  with  grated  cheese.  At  other  times  the 
white  pipes  were  served  in  the  manner  of  Naples 
or  of  Milan.  On  other  evenings  we  had  spaghetti,  or 
nouilles,  with  grated  cheese.  And  when  the  dinner 
was  finished  off  with  sleepy  apples  and  unripe  bananas 
and  thick-skinned  grapes  and  sugary  raisins,  I  always 
managed  to  walk  home  with  the  goodly  memory  of 
the  farinage  triumphing  over  my  horrid  souvenirs  of 
the  coarser  food. 

Farinage  ought  not  to  be  served  seven  times  a  week 
at  English  tables.  On  the  other  hand,  it  ought  not  to 
be  ignored.  In  the  cathedral  city  where  I  was  brought 
up  there  was  an  admirable  grocer  named  Dutton. 
He  was  an  out-and-out  Englishman  :  but  he  preferred 
to  call  himself  an  Italian  warehouseman,  and  among  the 
exotic  wonders  of  his  window  was  a  box  of  macaroni. 
The  neighbouring  duke,  and  the  travelled  ladies  who 
were  married  to  the  bishop  and  the  dean  and  the 
canons,  bought  macaroni  now  and  then  ;  but  they 
seemed  to  have  an  imperfect  knowledge  of  its  possi- 
bilities. They  used  to  make  macaroni  puddings  and 
nasty  messes  of  macaroni  and  butter  and  cheese .  Also 
they  were  accustomed  to  serve  a  soup  made  of  vermi- 
celli and  meat-stained  hot  water,  which  was  supposed 
to  demonstrate  the  inferiority  of  Continental  to 
English  cookery.  But  the  citizens'  wives  in  general 
left  such  things  alone. 


Macaroni  and  the  kindred  Italian  pastes  are  entitled 
to  respect.  It  is  important  to  buy  good  qualities  only. 
At  the  Continental  Stores  in  Dean  Street,  Soho,  there 
is  a  man  who  seems  to  know  a  good  deal  about 


232     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

macaroni.  He  sells  pastes  in  all  kinds  of  shapes. 
For  example,  he  has — I  will  translate  the  Italian — 
angels'  tresses,  bulls'  eyes,  shells,  stars,  and  many 
other  shapes  of  macaroni.  These  are  cheap.  At  a 
higher  price  he  has  tubes  of  macaroni  nearly  an  inch 
in  diameter,  into  which  one  can  push  a  small  sausage 
or  a  stuffing  so  as  to  make  the  delicacy  beloved  of  all 
Italians  on  Easter  Sunday.  He  keeps  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  tomato  pur6e  as  well.  If  you  ask  this 
excellent  person  for  some  recipes  he  will  give  them  to 
you.  I  must,  however,  recognise  the  fact  that  all 
my  readers  do  not  live  in  London  and  I  will  therefore 
give  them  a  few  hints  about  macaroni.  Buy  it  at  a 
good  shop.  Boil  it  quickly  in  plenty  of  fast -boiling 
salted  water,  with  the  lid  off  the  pan.  [Wipe  it  with 
a  dry  cloth  before  you  throw  it  into  the  boiling  water, 
but  do  not  soak  it  or  wash  it.]  While  it  is  boiling, 
stir  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  so  that  it  shall  not  stick  to 
the  pan.  Test  it  by  squeezing  a  piece  between  the 
finger  and  thumb  or  by  eating  a  scrap.  As  the  various 
makes  of  macaroni  differ  one  from  another,  the  exact 
time  for  boiling  cannot  be  stated,  but  the  rule  is  that 
macaroni  must  not  be  cooked  to  the  point  of  sloppiness. 
As  soon  as  it  is  cooked  it  must  be  well  shaken  and 
drained  through  a  colander  or  a  sieve.  When  it  is  dry 
it  can  be  served  with  butter  and  grated  cheese,  or  it 
may  be  worked  with  a  puree  of  tomatoes,  or  it  may  be 
served  au  gratin,  or  it  may  be  used  as  a  plain  garnish 
with  meat,  or  it  will  do  as  one  of  the  ingredients  in  a 
vegetable  soup. 


Nearly  related  to  macaroni  is  the  delicacy  known 


ITALIAN  PASTES  233 

as  gniocchi.  To  make  gniocchi  you  will  need  half-a- 
teacupful  of  semolina.  Mix  the  semolina  to  a  paste 
with  cold  milk.  Then  put  about  a  pint  of  milk  on  the 
fire  in  a  pan  and,  as  soon  as  it  boils,  gradually  work 
in  the  semolina.  Let  it  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time, 
until  the  milk  and  the  semolina  have  come  thoroughly 
together.  Take  it  off  the  fire  and  place  the  pan  in  a 
cold  place.  When  the  mixture  is  cool,  spread  it  on  a 
pasteboard  to  a  thickness  of  rather  less  than  half-an- 
inch,  and  cut  it  into  squares.  Lay  these  squares  at 
the  bottom  of  a  fireproof  dish  and  sprinkle  flakes  of 
butter  and  Parmesan  cheese  over  them.  Add  another 
layer  of  the  paste  with  more  butter  and  cheese,  and 
build  on  layer  after  layer  till  you  have  nothing  left. 
Pour  some  gravy  or  really  good  stock  into  the  dish 
and  put  it  into  a  rather  quick  oven.  Gniocchi  with 
braised  or  stewed  beef  will  go  down  extremely  well. 


Although  it  is  the  rule  to  cook  macaroni  in  plenty 
of  fast-boiling  water,  I  often  throw  a  large  handful 
of  it  (not  previously  boiled)  into  my  homely  soups 
and  let  it  cook  for  an  hour  or  two.  It  seems  to  become 
beautifully  tender  and  to  show  its  best  flavour  when 
treated  in  this  way. 


Macaroni  and  spaghetti  make  useful  and  cheap 
extensions  for  most  grilled  and  braised  meats  ;  and, 
after  packing  potted  meat  or  some  other  stuffing  into 
boiled  shells  or  tubes  of  macaroni,  you  can  produce  a 
charming  dish  by  finishing  off  the  shells  or  tubes  in 
good  stock,  in  a  moderate  oven. 


234    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

Some  of  the  most  worthless  grocers  sell  a  macaroni 
of  a  dull  grey  colour,  or  of  an  unholy  yellow  of  chemical 
origin.  As  I  have  been  asked  for  the  best  way  of 
treating  these  kinds  of  macaroni,  I  have  pleasure  in 
giving  two  alternative  methods.  You  must  either 
return  them  to  the  grocer  and  ask  for  your  money 
back  ;  or  throw  them  into  the  dustbin  and  make  up 
your  mind  to  go  to  good  shops  only  in  future. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

SAVOURIES 

Nineteen  hundred  years  ago  the  whole  course  of  a 
Roman  dinner  was  expressed  by  the  phrase  :  "  Fiam 
the  eggs  to  the  apples."  My  memory  is  bad,  but  I 
believe  that  some  modern  playwright  or  novelist  has 
given  us  a  new  version  in  the  words:  "  'Twixt  the 
Soup  and  the  Savoury."  The  Roman  gourmets 
probably  began  their  banquets  with  some  kind  of 
hors  d'oeuvre,  made  from  eggs,  and  wound  up  with 
fruit.  The  eggs  were  often  the  eggs  of  peahens,  or 
they  were  commoner  eggs  formed  into  sausages  on 
a  foundation  of  minced  and  spiced  meats. 


In  these  days  many  men  have  formed  the  habit  of 
neglecting  the  fruit  and  of  finishing  dinner  with  a 
savoury.  As  most  savouries  are  like  hot  hors  d'oeuvre, 
the  dinner  of  a  twentieth-century  gourmet  may  be 
compared  with  a  musical  composition,  which  satisfies 
the  ear  by  beginning  and  ending  in  the  same  key. 
But,  in  a  book  devoted  to  the  simplifying  of  our 
habits,  I  shall  not  expand  upon  merely  toothsome 
savouries.  I  remember  hearing  a  man  say  that, 
towards  the  end  of  a  dinner,  he  usually  felt  that  there 
was  an  odd  corner  of  his  interior  still  empty  and  that  a 
savoury  filled  it  very  snugly.  I  have  no  sympathy 
with  such  a  feeling.    The  idea  that  one  must  not  rise 

235 

ERRATUM 

Page  235,  last  word  of  line  2, 
for     "Fiam"     read     "From" 


236     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

from  the  table  until  one  cannot  eat  a  scrap  more  is 
hateful  in  itself  and  deadly  in  practice.  I  shall  there- 
fore mention  only  those  reasonable  and  useful  savouries 
which  a  housekeeper  would  be  entitled  to  regard  as 
part  of  the  solid  food  with  which  to  satisfy  the  reason- 
able hunger  of  those  who  sit  at  her  table. 


This  chapter  can  be  short,  because  hints  have 
already  been  given  in  the  discursive  chapter  on 
sweets  for  the  adapting  of  many  entremets  as 
savouries.  And  in  the  chapter  on  Hors  d'OEuvre 
suggestions  were  made  which  apply  to  savouries. 


Of  all  savouries  which  are  entitled  to  be  regarded  as 
substantial  parts  of  a  nourishing  meal,  a  Welsh  rare- 
bit comes  first.  To  make  a  good  Welsh  rarebit,  I 
prefer  a  Cheshire  cheese  with  a  good  crumb.  The 
extremely  smooth  cheeses  which  many  provision 
merchants  sell  as  Cheddar  are  much  less  suitable .  Let 
the  cheese  be  finely  grated.  Then  let  it  be  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoonful  of  beer  to  two 
ounces  of  cheese.  A  little  pepper  and  some  made 
mustard  should  be  stirred  into  the  cheese  and  beer 
over  the  fire  or  stove.  The  stirring  must  never  cease 
until  the  cheese  becomes  quite  smooth  and  begins  to 
thicken  in  the  pan.  A  yolk  of  an  egg,  worked  in  at 
the  last  moment,  is  a  great  improvement.  The  cheese 
ought  to  be  spread  on  strips  of  buttered  toast,  toasted 
at  the  last  minute. 

The  beer  does  not  taste  like  itself  after  being  cooked 
in  this  way.    I  may  say,  however,  for  those  who 


SAVOURIES  237 

object  to  beer  on  conscientious  grounds,  that  milk  can 
be  used  instead,  although  the  Welsh  rarebit  will  not  be 
so  satisfactory. 

For  a  change,  but  rarely,  I  have  used  the  white  of 
egg  (which  was  left  on  my  hands  after  mixing  in  the 
yolk)  b}^  poaching  it  and  spreading  it  on  the  buttered 
toast,  just  below  the  cheese.  I  call  this  a  Chester 
Rarebit,  not  because  it  is  known  in  Chester  but  in 
memory  of  many  a  grand  cheese  which  I  have  helped 
to  eat  on  the  banks  of  the  Dee.  Of  course  a  poached 
egg  on  top  of  the  cheese  is  a  well-known  addition  to  a 
Welsh  Rarebit  which  thereby  becomes  a  Buck  Rarebit. 


A  Souffle  au  Parmesan  is  served  with  pride  at  many 
a  highly  ceremonious  dinner.  Yet  it  is  neither  costly 
nor  very  difficult  to  make.  When  eggs  are  at  their 
cheapest,  I  have  provided  a  Souffle  au  Parmesan  at  a 
cost  of  about  twopence  the  portion.  As  it  took  the 
place  of  sweets  and  cheese,  it  could  not  be  called  a  wild 
extravagance. 

A  buttered  souffle  dish  must  first  be  prepared. 
Many  cooks  use  small  souffle  dishes  according  to  the 
number  of  guests,  but  this  is  a  wasteful  plan,  as  some 
persons  barely  taste  the  souffle  while  others  want  a 
second  helping.  If  you  do  not  possess  a  regular 
souffle  dish,  use  the  thinnest  of  your  fireproof  basins 
or  even  a  cake-tin. 

Grate  up  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  Cheddar  or  Cheshire 
cheese  with  the  same  quantity  of  Parmesan.  Many 
amateurs  use  Parmesan  only,  with  displeasing  results. 
Take  a  small  saucepan  and  melt  in  it  an  ounce  of 
butter  with  half-an-ounce  of  flour.    Stir  them  well 


238     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

together  and  pour  in  a  gill  of  milk,  stirring  vigorously 
until  the  mixture,  so  to  speak,  comes  together  and 
almost  shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  Lift  the  pan 
off  the  fire,  and  put  in  the  grated  cheese,  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Next,  beat  in  thoroughly  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
As  soon  as  this  first  yolk  is  thoroughly  incorporated 
v^ath  the  mixture,  repeat  the  process  with  a  second 
yolk.  Somebody  should  be  at  hand,  if  possible, 
whisking  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  you  have  used 
and  also  the  white  of  a  third  egg  as  stiffly  as  possible. 
Add  the  froth  of  egg-whites  to  the  mixture  and  give 
it  a  light  and  rapid  stirring,  but  do  not  waste  time  or 
allow  the  frothing  to  subside.  Pour  the  mixture  into 
the  souffle  dish,  which  should  not  be  more  than  half 
filled,  and  put  the  dish  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  The 
souffle  will  rise  up  splendidly  above  the  rim  of  the 
dish,  and,  while  remaining  ethereally  dehcate  within, 
will  show  a  handsome  brown  crusting  on  the  outside. 
It  must  be  served  instantly  on  very  hot  plates. 


A  great  group  of  savouries  is  comprised  under  the 
name  of  canapes.  Many  of  these  require  special 
purchases  of  material  and  I  shall  therefore  pass  them 
over,  with  the  exception  of  one  which  I  have  often 
made  cheaply  but  to  the  great  satisfaction  of  those  who 
have  eaten  it  on  cold  nights.  I  buy  a  large  tin  of 
cheap  Portuguese  sardines.  With  an  ordinary  fish 
knife  and  fork  I  open  the  fish  lengthwise  and  lift  out 
the  bones,  aU  in  one  operation.  Of  course  I  cut  off 
the  tail.  Should  the  skin  be  coarse,  it  is  easy  to  re- 
move this  also.  With  a  wooden  pestle  I  pound  the 
flesh  of  the  sardines  in  a  bowl  and  then  season  the  mass 


SAVOURIES  239 

with  salt,  grey  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  little 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  perhaps  some  drops  of  any 
other  suitable  sauce  which  I  may  have  at  hand. 
Finally  I  pour  the  oil  from  the  tin  into  the  bowl,  with 
some  lemon  juice,  and  work  everything  together  by 
means  of  two  fish  forks.  I  make  some  rather  large 
and  thick  squares  of  toast,  using  a  loaf  of  light  and 
open  crumb  and  taking  care  not  to  overdo  the  toasting. 
After  spreading  each  square  liberally  with  the  paste,  to 
a  thickness  of  about  a  third  of  an  inch  or  even  more, 
I  swiftly  finish  off  the  savoury  under  a  salamandre 
or  deflector.  Sometimes  I  chop  finely  a  little  mango 
chutney  and  work  it  into  the  mixture.  Indeed  this 
savoury  is  flexible  in  design,  and  all  kinds  of  things 
can  be  used  up  in  it,  including  tiny  choppings  of 
cooked  vegetables  and  flakes  of  cold  fish. 

Since  the  War  began,  a  lady  to  whom  I  gave  the  fore- 
going recipe  has  applied  it  intelligently  and  success- 
fully to  herrings.  At  a  decent  grocery  she  bought  for 
fivepence  halfpenny  a  tin  of  herrings  in  tomato  sauce. 
The  brand  was  a  reputable  one  and  yet  the  tin  was 
quite  large.  After  the  bones  had  been  removed,  the 
herrings  were  pounded  in  their  own  sauce  and  a  small 
quantity  of  newly  melted  butter  was  added,  with 
proper  seasonings.  I  did  not  taste  the  savoury  my- 
self, but  those  who  ate  it  were  persons  of  ordinary 
fastidiousness  and  they  are  said  to  have  been  delighted. 
The  squares  were  large  and  the  quantity  of  fish  on 
each  was  lavish,  but  the  cost  worked  out  at  not  much 
more  than  a  penny  a  head. 


Herring  roes  on  toast  are  cheap  and  good  savouries, 


240     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

but  they  are  not  liked  by  everybody,  and  are  only  safe 
when  you  know  the  tastes  of  those  for  whom  you  are 
providing. 


Potted  meat  and  potted  fish  on  toast  go  well.  A 
cook  with  a  good  palate  and  with  a  knowledge, 
instinctive  or  acquired,  for  combinations,  may  vary 
the  potted  meat  and  the  potted  fish  in  scores  of  ways, 
sometimes  moistening  them  with  remains  of  sauces, 
sometimes  pounding  in  vegetables  with  them,  some- 
times chopping  up  and  adding  pickles,  sometimes 
finishing  off  the  whole  savoury  au  gratin  with  a  top 
dressing  of  breadcrumb  and  butter  and  grated 
cheese. 


I  repeat  in  this  place  the  suggestion  that  little  tart- 
cases  of  short  crust  can  be  filled  with  many  things 
besides  the  familiar  jam  and  lemon-cheese.  Pastes  of 
fish  or  meat  or  vegetables  suit  the  short  crust  admir- 
ably, as  everybody  knows  who  has  eaten  a  good  home- 
made sausage-roll.  I  had  occasion  not  long  ago  to 
buy  a  bottle  of  fonds  d'artichauts  and  could  use  only 
a  few  of  them  with  my  tournedos.  I  disposed  of  the 
rest  in  little  tart  crusts  which  almost  exactly  fitted 
the  fonds  d'artichauts.  Each  fond  rested  on  a  little 
bed  of  potted  meat  and  cooked  cauliflower.  The  meat 
and  cauliflower  were  well  pounded  together,  but  the 
fond,  of  course,  was  left  entire.  Hardly  anybody  will 
need  telling  that  I  did  not  serve  these  tartlets  at  the 
meal  in  which  the  tournedos  and  artichokes  figured 
prominently.    [The  fonds  were  not  flabby.] 


SAVOURIES  241 

Some  men  are  selfish  enough  to  expect  savouries 
which  force  the  cook  to  begin  very  delicate  operations 
when  she  has  already  served  a  troublesome  dinner. 
They  ought  not  to  be  encouraged.  Nor  should 
regular  indulgence  be  shown  towards  those  who  are 
bent  upon  ruining  their  palates  with  snack  savouries 
all  on  fire  with  curry  or  cayenne  and  anchovy.  True 
hospitality  is  shown  more  in  giving  people  what  they 
ought  to  have  than  in  pampering  them  with  what  they 
think  they  want. 


CHAPTER  XV 

THE   TABLE 

No  dish  is  completely  successful  until  it  has  been 
found  so  by  the  man  who  eats  it.  Many  a  cook 
achieves  a  triumph  of  cookery  in  the  kitchen,  only  to 
be  speedily  and  bitterly  disappointed  by  the  news 
that  nobody  at  the  table  thought  much  of  her  per- 
formance. In  great  houses  this  disaster  is  often  due 
to  the  stupidity  or  laziness  or  spite  of  the  butler  or  of 
the  maids  who  wait  at  table  ;  but  in  small  estabhsh- 
ments  it  should  never  occur.  A  housekeeper,  when 
designing  a  meal,  should  count  the  cost,  not  only  in 
money  but  in  labour.  I  have  seen  very  clever  little 
menus  planned  out,  which  have  broken  down  through 
some  shortage  of  utensils  or  through  insufficient 
hands  to  serve  the  food  smartly.  The  model  house- 
wife will  take  care  that  she  has  not  only  the  fish  and 
vegetables  and  meat  demanded  by  her  menu,  but 
the  glass  and  china  and  silver  as  well  ;  and  she  will  be 
equally  prudent  concerning  the  strain  on  herself  and 
on  her  servants. 


Throughout  this  book  I  have  kept  in  mind  the  case 
of  the  housekeeper  who  may  be  sometimes  single- 
handed,  except  for  unskilled  help  in  the  rougher  work 
of  the  kitchen.  I  will  continue  to  deal  with  such  cases. 
First,  I  recommend  that  no  luncheon  or  dinner  should 

242 


THE  TABLE  243 

include  more  than  one  dish  of  the  kind  which  requires 
a  good  deal  of  attention  at  the  last  minute.  It  would 
be  great  folly,  for  instance,  to  arrange  for  a  soup 
which  requires  sippets  of  toast,  and  a  fish  which 
demands  a  sauce  reduced  from  its  own  liquor,  and  a 
roast  bird  with  the  full  accompaniment  of  sauce  and 
breadcrumb  and  gravy,  and  a  salad,  and  a  sweet 
covered  with  a  newly  frothed  white  of  egg,  all  in  the 
same  meal.  With  ordinary  foresight,  even  a  rather 
long  dinner  can  be  so  chosen  as  to  run  quite  smoothly. 
An  electrical  hot-plate  does  not  cost  much  and  it 
enables  wonders  to  be  performed  ;  indeed,  with  a 
hot-plate  the  hostess  who  is  a  single-handed  cook 
will  not  need  to  leave  the  room  from  the  hors  d'oeuvre 
to  the  almonds  and  raisins.  But  prudence  will  make 
up  for  the  hot-plate  till  you  can  buy  it. 


You  will  never  regi'et  a  few  modest  purchases  of 
special  pottery  and  china,  such  as  little  white  dishes 
for  poached  or  scrambled  eggs,  crescent-shaped  salad 
plates,  and  tiny  casseroles,  with  lids,  in  which  each 
person  can  have  his  own  portion  of  petits  pois  a  la 
Frangaise  or  any  similar  dainty.  At  a  total  expense 
of  not  more  than  half-a-sovereign  I  have  gradually 
brought  together  two  or  three  dozen  quaint  little 
jugs  for  custards  and  oddly  shaped  plates  and  bowls 
and  jars  which  make  all  the  difference  at  table. 
Most  of  these  I  have  bought  from  costers'  barrows, 
and  some  of  them  were  picked  up  at  a  copper  or  two 
apiece  in  Portugal  and  in  Spain  and  at  village  fairs  in 
France  and  Italy.  When  these  things  are  not  in  use, 
they  make  a  handsome  show  on  shelves  in  the  dining- 


244     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

room  where  they  reflect  the  firehght  and  the  candle- 
light bravely. 


The  finest  table-linen  is  not  necessary  every  day 
in  the  year.  A  good  plan  is  to  have  a  rather  long 
dining-room  table,  not  quite  three  feet  wide,  and  to 
cover  it  with  a  long  strip  of  coarse  washable  material 
in  golden-brown  or  blue,  with  hemmed  napkins  made 
from  the  same  stuff.  I  am  out  of  my  depth  in  speaking 
of  textile  fabrics,  but  I  think  I  mean  a  sort  of  soft 
"  crash."  Instead  of  having  half-a-dozen  sets  of 
cloths  and  napldns  aU  alike,  the  colours  can  be  varied 
to  suit  the  flowers  and  foliage  and  special  crockery 
which  will  be  displayed  upon  them.  Candlesticks, 
with  a  safe  mechanism  against  the  guttering  of  the 
candles  and  the  burning  of  the  shades,  are  also  well 
worth  the  smaU  sum  they  cost.  Last  winter  I  fitted 
the  right  mechanism  into  some  empty  Benedictine 
bottles  and  used  them  repeatedly  at  table.  The 
bottles  were  twined  with  vine  leaves,  or  ivy,  or  sprays 
of  autmnn  leaves,  and  had  a  fine  sturdy  look  in  con- 
trast with  the  white  candles.  Under  soft  lights  many 
a  very  cheap  fish  or  entree  on  its  piece  of  homely 
pottery  looks  more  tempting  than  food  costing  ten 
times  as  much  served  in  a  broad  glare  on  expensive 
china. 


The  writing  of  a  simple  menu  means  very  little 
trouble,  and,  when  the  meal  is  over,  the  menu  may 
be  kept  for  reference  and  will  often  be  found  useful. 
When  a  hostess  does  not  like  the  idea  of  a  menu 


THE  TABLE  245 

because  it  seems  too  formal,  she  ought  to  tell  her  guests 
or  her  family  in  a  simple  and  matter-of-course  way 
what  dishes  are  about  to  be  served.  Now  that  dinners 
are  becoming  less  stereotyped,  these  written  or  spoken 
announcements  are  more  necessary  than  ever.  It  is 
unpleasant  for  everybody  when  sweets  suddenly  greet 
the  hungry  gaze  of  a  man  who  has  eaten  the  entree 
sparingly  because  he  expected  a  roast  to  follow  ;  and 
it  is  no  less  unpleasant  to  find  that  you  have  eaten 
heartily  of  what  you  thought  was  the  principal  dish 
when  all  the  time  something  still  more  important 
has  been  provided.  The  best  hostess  of  my  acquaint- 
ance always  begins  dinner  by  some  such  speech  as 
this  :  "  There  is  nothing  for  you  but  a  vegetable  soup 
made  from  sixteen  different  vegetables  out  of  my  own 
garden  ;  a  sole  in  white  wine  ;  two  chickens  in  the 
Kentucky  way,  with  a  hot  corn  pudding  ;  a  bit  of  old 
Cheshire  cheese  ;  and  the  fruit  which  you  see  in  the 
middle  of  the  table.  We  are  going  to  drink  some 
Brauneberger,  191 1,  and  some  Red  Graves,  1907, 
and  a  glass  of  Tawny  Port  with  the  cheese."  The 
guests  know  that  each  item  in  this  short  menu  will 
be  brought  to  the  table  in  liberal  quantities  and  that 
they  may  pass  by  anything  that  does  not  suit  them 
and  freely  take  a  second  large  helping  of  what  they 
like  best. 


These  frequent  references  to  hostesses  and  guests 
may  seem  out  of  place  in  a  book  about  homely  meals. 
They  apply,  however,  to  purely  family  life  as  well  as 
to  formal  dinners  and  luncheons.  A  man  who  never 
shaves  except  when  he  is  going  to  meet   strangers 


246     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

ought  to  be  poorly  thought  of  by  his  wife  ;  and  the 
wife  who  makes  an  enormous  difference  between 
passing  guests  and  her  own  family  is  equally  deserving 
of  censure.  "  Feed  the  Brute  "  is  supposed  to  be 
merely  a  jocularity  ;  but  there  are  too  many  houses 
where  the  ordinary  meals  must  be  called  feeding-times 
rather  than  dinners.  This  is  a  sin  not  only  against 
civilisation  but  against  economy.  When  the  pleasures 
of  the  table  are  concentrated  in  the  single  pleasure 
of  sating  a  good  appetite  with  succulent  and  tooth- 
some food,  the  eater  naturally  eats  as  much  as  he  can 
put  away.  The  true  pleasures  of  the  table,  however, 
include  delights  for  the  eyes  and  the  mind.  Refine- 
ment is  the  enemy  of  gluttony.  Housekeepers  who 
grudge  a  few  shillings  for  candlesticks,  and  a  few 
pence  for  flowers,  must  often  disburse  many  times  the 
total  of  these  savings  to  buy  extra  ounces  of  fish  and 
meat  and  sweet  things.  Take  cheese,  for  example. 
At  a  rough  family  dinner,  the  men  cut  and  eat  the 
cheese  as  one  cuts  and  eats  it  at  a  wayside  inn  after 
three  or  four  hours  of  tramping  ;  but  at  a  delicately 
served  dinner  one-fourth  the  quantity  is  sufficient. 


I  must  not  shirk  the  question  of  Wine.  Speaking 
for  myself,  I  hate  alcoholic  excess  with  all  the  heat 
and  force  of  my  soul,  and  I  should  be  glad  to  see  the 
consumption  of  ardent  spirits  cut  down  to  one-twelfth 
its  present  volume.  At  the  same  time  I  am  convinced 
that  the  moderate  use  of  cheap,  light,  pure  wines  at 
luncheon  and  dinner  is  desirable  in  the  highest  degree. 
When  all  is  said  and  done,  the  everyday  cuisine  of 
France  is  the  best  in  the  world,  and  this  cuisine  pre- 


THE  TABLE  247 

supposes  an  accompaniment  of  simple  table  wines. 
In  a  Yorkshire  town  I  was  once  invited  to  the  evening 
meal  in  the  house  of  a  wealthy  manufacturer.  At  one 
end  of  the  table  there  was  a  whole  salmon  ;  at  the 
other,  two  boiled  chickens  smothered  with  white  sauce. 
I  have  rarely  met  a  finer  salmon  or  more  flavoury 
chickens  ;  but,  instead  of  well-chilled  Chablis  or 
Hock  or  Moselle,  we  drank  tea  and  cream  with  the 
fish,  and,  instead  of  Medoc  or  St  Emilion  or  Beaujolais 
with  the  birds,  we  drank  the  second  brew  of  tea  and 
more  cream.  Later  in  the  evening,  the  men  warded 
off  trouble  by  helping  themselves  liberally  to  whisky- 
and-soda,  while  the  ladies  turned  over  the  pages  of  a 
religious  weekly  and  lingered  fondly  upon  an  illus- 
trated advertisement  of  a  cure  for  indigestion.  Such 
habits  are  very  wrong. 

Wine  is  barred  in  many  households  through  incorrect 
estimates  of  the  expense.  Now  it  is  quite  true  that 
wine  is  much  dearer  than  tea  ;  and  if  any  reader 
of  this  book  prefers  "  high  tea  "  to  a  civilised  dinner, 
I  can  only  bow  my  head  in  wonder  and  let  that  reader 
pass  me  by.  But  I  have  a  word  to  say  to  those  of 
sounder  tastes.  Wine  is  not  so  very  dear  after  all. 
I  have  noticed  that  where  wine  is  omitted  all  kinds 
of  little  extra  solaces  are  forthcoming,  and  these  often 
cost  as  much  as  the  wine.  By  the  time  one  has  paid 
for  lime  juice  and  soda,  or  for  ginger  ale,  and  for  the 
sweet  biscuits  or  tiny  cakes  or  chocolates  that  are 
produced  to  atone  for  the  austerity  of  the  beverages, 
no  money  has  really  been  saved. 

Sound  red  and  white  wines  from  France  and  Spain 
and  Portugal  and  Italy  and  Algiers  can  be  bought  at 
prices  ranging  upwards  from  elevenpence  a  bottle, 


248     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

A  bottle  of  wine  looks  dearer  than  a  bottle  of  beer,  but 
it  goes  much  further.  Again,  beer  is  usually  gulped 
more  than  wine,  and  is  often  the  ally  of  practices 
which  lead  to  indigestion.  When  a  liberal  supply  of 
a  cheap  drink  is  at  his  elbow,  many  a  man  is  tempted 
to  "  wash  down,"  as  the  ugly  phrase  goes,  his  food 
therewith,  instead  of  masticating  it  thoroughly.  As 
wine  is  served  in  smaller  and  more  significant  glasses, 
it  is  treated  more  respectfully,  while  its  greater  variety 
of  flavours  and  colours  and  aromas  as  compared  with 
those  in  malt  liquors  causes  wine  to  be  more  deliber- 
ately and  attentively  consumed.  So  I  say  once  more 
that  wine  is  not  so  very  dear  after  all. 

I  do  not  recommend  the  strong  wines  which  grocers 
sell  in  screw-stoppered  flagons.  These  powerful  juices 
are  said  to  have  the  merit  of  remaining  good  for  many 
days  after  the  stopper  is  first  unscrewed  ;  but  their 
durability  is  too  often  attributable  to  some  artificiality, 
such  as  fortifying  or  sterilising.  All  the  same,  I  must 
recognise  the  fact  that  a  bottle,  or  even  half-a-bottle 
of  wine,  is  not  entirely  consumed  at  one  meal  in  every 
household,  and  I  therefore  recommend  a  simple  way 
of  getting  out  of  the  difficulty.  Keep  in  the  house  a 
few  clean  bottles  in  half  or  quarter  sizes.  When  you 
draw  a  cork  before  dinner,  fill  a  half  or  quarter  bottle 
with  the  wine  which  you  do  not  propose  to  drink  that 
day.  Push  in  a  good  soft  cork  and  put  the  surplus 
wine  in  a  cold  place  if  it  be  white,  or  in  a  warmer  spot 
if  it  be  red.  On  the  morrow,  or  even  some  days  later, 
the  second  portion  will  be  nearly  as  good  as  the  first. 
This  advice  does  not  apply  fully  to  the  more  highly  bred 
French  and  German  table  wines,  but  it  is  true  of  cheap 
Burgundy,  Claret,  Graves,  Sauternes  and  Chablis. 


THE  TABLE  249 

A  bottle  of  some  cheap  but  authentic  dessert  wine, 
such  as  a  Marsala,  at  about  eighteenpence  a  bottle, 
shows  full  value  for  the  money  it  costs.  A  quite 
small  glass  of  Marsala  with  the  nuts  will  round  off  a 
simple  dinner  admirably,  and  this  wine  is  also  useful 
in  cookery.  I  have  referred  once  or  twice,  in  earlier 
chapters,  to  the  use  I  have  made  of  Marsala  when 
improvising  tasty  dishes  out  of  chance  materials. 

Rum  for  omelettes,  and  Kirsch  and  Cura9ao  and 
Maraschino  for  macedoines  of  fruit,  have  their  place 
in  good  housekeeping.  We  should  be  slow,  however, 
to  make  much  use  of  brandy  except  for  the  firing  and 
saucing  of  the  Christmas  pudding.  I  used  to  know  a 
mischievous  matron  who  invariably  included  terribly 
drunken  trifles  and  tipsy  cakes  in  her  menus  when 
teetotallers  came  to  dine.  The  teetotallers  almost 
always  took  a  large  second  helping,  but,  as  they  were 
mostly  lifelong  abstainers,  of  course  they  had  no  means 
of  knowing  why  the  stuff  tasted  so  nice.  Still,  it  was 
not  right  to  give  them  a  pleasure  which  they  would 
have  refused  if  they  had  known  its  origin.  And,  as  a 
hostess  cannot  be  sure  that  there  will  be  no  pledged 
abstainers  at  her  table,  she  ought  not  to  serve  sweets 
like  these.  Further,  they  are  not  good  in  themselves. 
They  enable  a  bad  cook  to  take  a  short  cut  to  favour, 
and  they  often  combine  badly  with  the  rest  of  the 
dinner. 


^Next  to  wine,  the  best  table  drink  is  good  Cider. 
I  do  not  mean  the  aerated  and  sweetened  cider,  which 
is  one  of  the  most  deadly  beverages  in  the  world, 


250     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

but  the  much  cheaper  and  absolutely  natural  juice 
of  the  apple,  weU  fermented  and  bottled  without  the 
addition  of  water  or  sugar  or  gas.  , 


Good,  cold,  fresh  water  is  a  drink  which  every  reader 
ought  to  try,  if  he  has  not  done  so  already.  It  pours 
well  out  of  the  rough  jugs  which  the  quarrymen  of 
the  Isle  of  Purbeck  make  in  winter,  and  is  worthy 
of  good  tumblers  or  thin  glasses.  This  drink  is  less 
popular  than  it  ought  to  be,  largely  because  one  gets 
it  for  practically  nothing,  and  very  little  trouble  is 
taken  to  serve  it  in  perfection.  Added  to  cheap  and 
undistinguished  wine,  it  goes  down  well  and  seems 
to  take  the  coarseness  of  the  wine  away  ;  but  it  is 
the  enemy  of  fine  wines  and  must  never  be  mixed  with 
them.  As  for  ice,  one  should  be  shy  of  putting  it  in 
drinking  water.  When  very  cold  water  is  wanted, 
let  the  water-jug  stand  in  a  pail  of  ice  until  it  is 
thoroughly  chilled. 

Lemonade  freshly  prepared  from  fresh  lemons  and 
not  excessively  sweetened  is  a  good  drink.  So  is 
barley  water.  As  for  the  very  cheap  large  bottles  of 
so-called  mineral  waters  which  are  hawked  round  the 
suburbs,  it  is  obvious  that  they  can  rarely  be  satis- 
factory. Natural  mineral  waters  are  often  good,  but 
rarely  so  good  as  the  vendors  would  have  us  believe, 
considering  that  they  are  almost  as  dear  as  cheap  wine. 

Although  many  people  refuse  it  at  night,  because  it 
keeps  them  awake,  good  coffee  should  be  available 


THE  TABLE  251 

at  the  end  of  most  dinners  and  all  luncheons.     I  say 
good    coffee.     Although  the   English  amaze  French 
housewives  by  their  open-handedness  with  butter  and 
cream  and  prime  cuts  of  meat,  they  are  niggardly  in 
comparison  with  the  French  when  it  is  a  question  of 
black   coffee.      For  half-a-pint  of   black  coffee  it  is 
necessary  to  use  not  less  than  three  heaped-up  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  coffee,  freshly  ground.     Several  experi- 
mental purchases  may  be  necessary  before  you  hit 
upon  the  blend  that  suits  you  best,  but  I  may  say  that 
there  is  no  need  to  pay  a  very  high  price.     I  think 
you  can  do  as  well  for  a  florin  as  for  half-a-crown, 
if  you  will  persevere  in  the  search.     The  blend  should 
be  bought  in  berries.     A  small  coffee-mill  and  a  French 
coffee-pot  are  best  bought  where  you  buy  the  coffee 
itself,  and  when  you  go  to  buy  them,  you  should  ask 
the  coffee  merchant  for  the  best  advice  he  can  give 
you.     Always  remember  that  you  ought  to  use  twice 
as  much  coffee  for  the  morning  coffee  as  for  coffee 
at  luncheon  or  dinner,  because  you  will  dilute  the 
morning  coffee  with  milk  ;   a  little  chicory  improves 
caf6  au  lait. 

If  you  find  that  you  have  made  too  much  coffee, 
you  can  pour  the  surplus  into  a  bottle,  cork  it  well, 
and  use  it  next  day  ;  but  do  not  let  anybody  persuade 
you  into  the  false  economy  of  trying  to  use  the  coffee- 
grounds  over  again. 

Frown  upon  liqueurs. 

One  more  economy.  If  any  muffish  and  self- 
indulgent  young  bachelor  has  formed  the  habit   of 


252     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

dropping  in  to  dine  with  you,  do  not  hesitate  to  say 
that  you  suppose  he  will  soon  be  coming  round  to  bid 
you  good-bye  and  that  he  must  be  sure  to  look  you 
up  the  moment  the  War  is  over.  In  this  way  you  will 
save  money,  while  Lord  Kitchener  will  gain  a  creature 
who  may,  some  day,  be  turned  into  a  man. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

SOME   BOOKS  :    AND   A   BOOK 

I  THINK  it  was  Sir  Thomas  Browne  who  said  that 
the  man  who  will  do  the  most  with  books  is  the  man 
who  would  have  done  the  most  without  them.  This 
is  emphatically  true  of  cooks  and  cookery-books.  The 
men  and  women  who  turn  cookery-books  to  the  most 
profitable  account  are  those  who  would  make  a  fairly 
good  show,  simply  through  their  common-sense  and 
carefulness,  even  if  every  cookery-book  in  the  world 
were  burnt  and  scattered  to  the  winds. 


I  am  about  to  mention  a  few  works  on  cookery ;  but 
it  is  to  be  understood  that  I  do  not  put  forward  my 
short  list  with  any  thought  of  disparaging  the  scores 
of  excellent  manuals  which  are  not  named  in  it. 
I  shall  confine  myself  to  half-a-dozen  of  the  books 
in  my  own  culinary  library,  which  is  very  small, 
except  on  the  antiquarian  and  literary  side.  Some 
people  are  always  buying  cookery-books,  especially 
such  books  as  are  merely  written  to  sell.  I  find  it 
best  to  use  a  few  books  only,  each  book  expounding 
the  doctrines  and  practices  of  a  distinct  school.  When 
I  am  in  doubt,  I  compare  all  the  recipes  for  cooking 
the  given  materials,  from  the  simplest  to  the  most 
elaborate.  One  soon  forms  the  habit  of  reading 
recipes  as  musicians  read  printed  scores.    A  trained 

253 


254     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

musician  does  not  need  to  sit  down  at  the  piano,  but 
can  inwardly  hear  the  melodies  and  harmonies  and 
rhythms  of  a  composition  which  is  put  into  his  hands 
for  the  first  time  ;  and,  similarly,  an  intelligent  and 
experienced  cook  can  enjoy  many  a  banquet  of 
unfamihar  dishes  by  simply  giving  his  mind  to  the 
printed  page. 


The  cookery-book,  or  rather  the  work  on  cookery, 
which  I  prize  most  is  "The  Spirit  of  Cookery,"  by 
the  late  Dr  Thudichum  (London,  1895).  This  is  not 
a  book  of  recipes,  but  is  a  kind  of  grammar  of  the  art. 
Unfortunately  the  learned  and  laborious  author  used 
too  copiously  terms  and  phrases  which  most  readers 
will  not  easily  interpret.  Those  who  have  not  al- 
lowed their  early  Greek  and  Latin  to  fade  from  their 
minds  will  find  delight  in  Dr  Thudichum's  admirably 
precise  expressions.  But  everybody  has  not  kept 
up  his  classical  studies,  and  I  fear  that  my  mention  of 
"The  Spirit  of  Cookery  "  must  be  regarded  more  as 
a  tribute  to  the  memory  of  an  underrated  man  than 
as  a  recommendation  of  his  book  to  practising  cooks. 


Passing  over  a  bundle  of  ill-printed  little  books 
which  I  have  bought  in  small  towns  abroad,  I  must 
name  the  big  tome  of  Jules  Gouff^  called  ''  Le  Livre 
de  Cuisine."  The  first  edition  of  this  work  is  now 
nearly  fifty  years  old,  and  I  am  therefore  glad  to 
possess  a  revision  published  early  in  the  twentieth 
century.  Gouffe  divides  his  book  into  "  Cookery 
for  the   Household "   and    ''  Grand    Cookery."    He 


SOME  BOOKS:  AND  A  BOOK   255 

expects  the  reader  to  take  the  work  of  the  kitchen 
seriously,  and  many  of  his  recipes  would  be  useless 
to  the  cook  who  has  not  thoroughly  mastered  the 
first  principles.  Indeed  I  cannot  advise  the  ordinary 
housekeeper  to  spend  money  and  time  on  French 
works  of  this  class,  as  it  is  necessary  to  learn  almost  a 
new  kind  of  French — and  a  very  ugly  kind — in  order 
to  read  them  with  profit.  The  fat  volumes  of  Urbain- 
Dubois  are  easier  for  an  Englishwoman  to  use.  One 
may  leave  on  one  side  the  expensive  work,  "  La  Cuisine 
Classique,"  but  "  La  Cuisine  d'aujourd'hui "  and  "  La 
Cuisine  de  tous  les  Pays  "  are  well  worth  having. 


About  twenty-five  years  ago  a  French  lady  living 
in  England  lectured  and  wrote  under  the  name  of 
"  Cordon  Bleu."  Her  book,  called  "  French  Cookery 
for  Ladies,"  is  unfortunately  composed  upon  an 
inconvenient  plan,  but  its  practical  value  is  high. 
The  little  volume  abounds  in  hints  which  the  more 
solemn  French  writers  do  not  give,  because  they  think 
nobody  needs  them.  "Cordon  Bleu"  perceived 
that  the  common  kitchen-lore  of  France  was  little 
known  in  England,  and  her  writings  are  valuable 
chiefly  because  she  bridges  the  gap. 


Colonel  Kenney-Herbert,  whose  earlier  books  were 
sent  out  under  the  pseudonym  of  "  Wyvern,"  began 
his  important  contributions  to  the  literature  of  the 
kitchen  with  a  book  called  "  Culinary  Jottings  for 
Madras."  On  his  return  to  England  he  followed  up 
his  Anglo-Indian  cookery-book  by  a  series  of  small 


256     HOME  COOKERY  IN, WAR-TIME 

publications  and  finished  his  work  with  "  Common- 
sense  Cookery  for  EngUsh  Households "  (London, 
1894,  and  later  editions).  "  Common-sense  Cookery  " 
costs  six  shillings,  and  I  recommend  it  strongly  to  the 
student  who  is  independent  enough  to  pick  and  choose 
among  its  generally  excellent  contents.  In  my  own 
little  practice  I  differ,  however,  from  "  Wyvern  " 
in  one  important  respect.  He  attempts  to  state  the 
proportions  of  all  the  ingredients  in  his  recipes  with 
an  exactitude  which  a  medical  man  could  hardly 
surpass  in  writing  a  prescription  for  a  dying  patient. 
When  he  was  himself  learning  to  cook,  "  Wyvern  " 
was  often  maddened  by  instructions  to  "  add  a 
little  "  of  this  or  that,  and  he  made  up  his  mind  that 
his  own  pages  should  be  free  from  such  tantalising 
vagueness.  Up  to  a  certain  point  he  was  right. 
Whenever  it  is  possible  to  write  a  recipe  precisely,  an 
author  is  bound  to  see  that  precision  is  achieved. 
I  have  myself,  in  an  earlier  chapter,  reproached 
Sir  Henry  Thompson  for  speaking  of  "  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  baking  powder  "  in  an  otherwise  exact 
recipe.  [Sir  Henry  Thompson,  whose  book  I  have 
already  commended,  was  a  medical  man  as  well  as  a 
surgeon,  and  he  knew  that  the  baking  powder  which 
he  recommended  had  a  fixed  composition.]  Speaking 
broadly,  however,  it  is  impossible  to  set  down  in  cold 
print  the  exact  weight  or  measure  of  every  solid  or 
liquid  constituent  of  a  dish.  Salt,  pepper,  herbs, 
vinegar,  sugar  and  nearly  all  other  common  ingredients 
are  of  widely  varying  savour,  warmth,  piquancy, 
sharpness,  sweetness.  An  ounce  of  butter  and  a  gill 
of  milk  from  one  dairy  will  be  rarely  be  found  to  have 
just  the  same  richness  as  equal  quantities  of  the  same 


SOME  BOOKS :  AND  A  BOOK   257 

products  from  another.  Even  common  white  flour 
varies  considerably  in  its  characteristics.  When  we 
come  to  stocks  and  sauces  we  perceive  at  once  that, 
until  such  preparations  are  standardised,  it  is  worse 
than  idle  to  measure  them  out  like  liquid  drugs  as 
regulated  by  the  pharmacopoeia.  Vegetables,  eggs, 
meat,  fish  are  equally  variable.  One  mushroom 
differs  from  another  mushroom  in  glory.  One  cooking 
apple  from  the  tree  in  the  middle  may  be  worth  two 
apples  from  the  tree  on  the  right  or  only  half-an-apple 
from  the  tree  on  the  left.  And  not  only  are  the 
materials  erratic,  but  their  carrying  power  often  varies 
with  the  weather,  as  everybody  knows  who  makes  his 
own  mayonnaise. 

"  Wyvern  "  gave  one  reason  for  his  meticulous 
recipes  which  I  am  bound  to  discuss.  He  held  that 
cooks  must  be  furnished  with  exact  directions  so  that 
they  could  have  no  excuse  for  the  unclean  practice 
of  tasting  a  mixture  and  then  stirring  it  with  the  same 
spoon.  In  unison  with  all  my  readers,  I  abhor  such  a 
dirty  habit  and,  if  I  had  not  been  assured  by  house- 
keepers that  it  prevails  in  many  kitchens,  I  should  be 
disposed  to  treat  it  as  almost  non-existent.  There  is, 
however,  a  remedy  much  simpler  than  "  Wyvern's." 
Every  clean  and  decent  cook  keeps  at  hand  a  jug  or 
a  basin  or  a  large  cup  that  is  not  easily  overturned, 
and,  having  filled  the  vessel  with  hot  water,  she 
places  her  spoon  therein.  When  the  time  comes  for 
tasting,  she  transfers  a  half-spoonful  of  soup  to  a  tea- 
cup, or  a  dab  of  sauce  to  a  saucer,  or  a  morsel  from 
a  ragout  to  a  small  plate.  The  spoon  goes  back 
immediately  into  the  hot  water,  while  the  cold  cup  or 
plate  quickly  chills  the  liquid  or  solid  enough  for  it 


258    HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

to  be  tasted,  I  maintain  that  every  good  cook  is 
bound  to  taste  the  larger  number  of  dishes  which  she 
prepares,  there  being  few  exceptions  outside  roasts 
and  grills  and  pastry  and  puddings. 

There  is  another  reason  why  tasting  is  necessary 
in  home  cookery.  Home,  Sweet  Home,  is  trying  to 
the  temper,  and  one  is  often  thankful  for  the  truth 
expressed  in  the  beautiful  song  which  declares  that 
there  is  no  place  like  it.  Still,  the  Home  is  better 
than  the  Hotel,  because  its  inhabitants  can  attain  in  it 
a  closer  adjustment  of  their  little  fads  and  weaknesses, 
and  aches  and  pains.  When  a  French  chef  in  a 
restaurant  kitchen  sends  upstairs  a  classical  dish,  he 
deserves  no  great  credit  for  having  produced  it  with 
hardly  any  tasting  during  the  act  of  cooking  ;  simply 
because  a  classical  dish  is  of  fixed  constitution  and 
the  customer  who  does  not  feel  in  the  mood  for  it  can 
choose  something  else  instead.  In  Home  Cookery, 
however,  a  good  housekeeper  bears  in  mind  the 
peculiarities  of  those  for  whom  she  is  providing. 
There  are  many  people,  for  instance,  who  would 
enjoy  certain  wholesome  sweets  if  the  sweetening 
were  less  lavishly  introduced  than  is  usual.  A  little 
while  ago  I  ordered  a  Pouding  Soufil^  aux  Marrons 
for  a  small  dinner  where  only  men  were  present.  It 
looked  so  much  like  a  vanilla  soufil6  that  almost 
everybody  refused  it ;  but,  after  an  explanation  had 
been  made,  the  men  ventured  upon  tiny  portions 
and  were  delighted  with  the  result.  The  pudding 
had  been  made  with  hardly  any  sweetening  and 
it  would  have  been  better  still  with  none  at  all. 
This  was  at  home.  A  week  later  I  gave  similar 
directions  at  a  restaurant    and   the    result    was  a 


SOME  BOOKS:  AND  A  BOOK   259 

failure,  because  the  entremetier  did  not  know  our 
palates. 

Again,  the  perfect  housekeeper  will  remember  the 
state  of  health  of  her  charge  or  charges.  I  have  in 
mind  the  case  of  a  man  who  has  been  accustomed  for 
nearly  thirty  years  to  eat  in  restaurants  of  the  first 
class.  After  a  serious  illness  he  finds  himself  unable 
to  stomach  dishes  into  which  cooked  butter  enters  ; 
yet  he  has  a  detestation  of  invalid  diet  and  plain 
cookery.  His  case  is  not  a  rare  one  and  it  should  not 
be  beyond  the  skill  of  a  resourceful  cook  to  deal  with 
it.  But,  in  such  circumstances,  one  must  begin  by 
breaking  away  from  the  exact  prescriptions  in  printed 
manuals,  and  must  correct  one's  subsequent  innova- 
tions by  tasting. 

Tasting  is  not  as  simple  as  it  sounds.  A  good  cook 
must  learn  to  rise  above  her  personal  likes  and  dislikes, 
just  as  a  tea-taster  or  a  wine-taster  learns  to  judge 
tea  or  wine  for  the  suiting  of  palates  other  than  his  own. 
Many  a  conscientious  cook  in  an  English  kitchen, 
who  has  worked  her  way  up  from  the  position  of  a 
scullery-maid,  wonders  why  her  best  efforts  fail  to 
please  certain  guests.  Through  her  tears  she  will 
sometimes  protest  to  the  parlourmaid  that  she  "  had 
some  of  it  "  herself  and  that  "  it  was  beautiful." 
The  trouble  is  that  she  has  tested  her  work  by  the 
palate  of  a  woman  and  of  a  peasant,  making  no 
allowance  for  enormous  differences  of  physique  and 
education.  I  am  not  alluding  to  the  cruder  faults,  but 
to  the  innimierable  little  touches  and  fine  shades  which 
accumulate  into  all  the  difference  between  good  and 
bad  cookery.  Where  the  art  of  tasting  has  not  been 
acquired,  I  prefer  the  methods  of  "Wyvern"  after  all. 


26o     HOME  COOKERY  IN  WAR-TIME 

After  beginning  to  write  this  book,  I  met  with  a  very 
fat  volume  caUed  "Cookery  for  Every  Household," 
by  Florence  B.  Jack.  I  took  a  slight  dislike  to  it,  as  it 
had  the  appearance  of  having  been  bulked  out  on 
artful  paper  so  as  to  seem  marvellous  value  for  three 
and  sixpence.  I  found,  however,  that  it  was  an 
excellent  book;  indeed  it  would  be  difficult  to  name 
a  more  suitable  volume  for  daily  use.  The  recipes 
are  neither  extravagant  and  complicated  on  the  one 
hand,  nor  bald  and  rudimentary  on  the  other. 

Space  allows  of  my  discussing  only  two  more 
cookery-books.  The  first  of  them  is  "  The  Cookery- 
book  of  Lady  Clark  of  Tillypronie."  Lady  Clark  dis- 
pensed and  received  a  great  deal  of  hospitality  in 
her  long  life,  and  she  made  it  a  rule  to  possess  herself 
of  the  recipe  for  every  dish  which  struck  her  fancy, 
either  for  its  novelty  or  for  its  excellent  rendering  of 
familiar  ideas.  She  filled  sixteen  books  with  directions 
which  she  had  jotted  down  on  envelopes  or  the  backs 
of  menus  or  any  other  scraps  of  paper  that  were  at 
hand.  After  Lady  Clark's  death  the  recipes  were 
carefully  classified  and  printed  in  a  six-shilling  volume 
which  nobody  will  regret  bu3dng.  At  a  first  glance, 
it  may  seem  that  the  book  is  even  better  than  it  is. 
One  opens  it  with  bright  hopes  of  finding  in  it  the 
masterpieces  of  all  schools,  but  one  gradually  perceives 
that  the  tastes  of  Lady  Clark  and  her  husband 
largely  dominated  the  choice  of  dishes  to  be  described. 
Still,  it  is  a  book  to  buy. 

The  second  of  my  last  two  books  has  not  yet 


SOME  BOOKS:  AND  A  BOOK   261 

been  printed.  Perhaps  it  has  not  even  begun  to  be 
written.  I  am  thinking  of  the  book  which  I  want  every 
reader  of  my  own  wretched  little  essay  to  set  about 
compiling.  These  pages,  in  spite  of  their  poverty,  may 
at  least  stir  up  the  disappointed  reader  to  serious 
studies  and  experiments  in  the  kitchen.  If  such 
should  be  my  too  rich  reward,  I  beg  each  newly  fired 
enthusiast  to  buy  without  delay  a  strongly  bound 
book  containing  about  five  hundred  blank  leaves  of 
good  and  durable  writing-paper,  with  an  aiphabetical 
index  at  the  beginning  or  the  end.  And  in  this  book 
let  there  be  written  down,  one  by  one,  every  worthy 
recipe  which  has  been  successfully  applied  in  the  owner's 
own  kitchen.  Let  notes  abound,  correcting  my  gross 
errors  and  the  httle  slips  of  better  writers.  Let  a 
thousand  odds  and  ends  of  market  and  kitchen  and 
pantry  and  table  wisdom  be  treasiured  up  and  written 
down.  Let  any  notable  menu  be  transcribed  into 
the  book,  with  any  quaint  domestic  happening,  or 
episode  of  hospitality.  And  when  this  young  century 
is  old,  and  the  War  now  raging  is  no  more  to  our 
grandchildren  than  the  campaigns  of  Wellington  are 
to  us  ;  when  new  men  and  new  women  have  begun 
to  eat  new  plants  and  new  fruits  with  our  familiar 
birds  and  beasts  and  fishes  in  new  ways ;  then  who 
can  say  that  the  stout  book  with  the  five  hundred 
leaves  will  not  be  counted  more  precious  than  any 
romance  or  poem  of  this  generation  ?  So  let  the  tome 
be  bought  to-day  and  let  the  writing  begin  to-morrow. 
This  I  crave  in  my  vanity ;  because  thus,  although 
I  cannot  myself  write  an  endming  book  on  cookery, 
I  may  at  least  have  caused  one  to  be  written. 


INDEX 


INDEX 


Abstinence  days,  91 
Ambassadeur  Creme,  97 
Anchovy  butter,  76 
Apples,  223 
Apple    tart,     French    style, 

220 
Apricots,  tinned,  224 
Artichokes,  55 
Asparagus,  55 


Bread  -  crumb     in     steamed 

puddings,    65 
Bread  sauce,  105 
Broiling,  200 
Brussels  sprouts,  187 
Buck  rarebit,  237 
Butcher,  40,  41,  44-46 
Butter,  67 
Butter,  cocoanut,  68,  219 

pats  of,  80 

Butters,  vegetable,  6^,  219 


"  Baked     Beef     of     New 

England,"  198 
Baker,  62 
Baking  powder,  62 
Barley  water,  250 
Barm,  German,  62 
Basting,  199 
Beaux  restes,  17,  20 
Bechamel  sauce,  109 
Beef,  boiled,  89 
Beef,  ragout  of,  142 
Beetroot,  salad  of,  75 
Beurre  noir,  49 
Blanc-manges,  218 
Bones,  17 

Bonne  femme,  potage,  98 
Bouillabaisse,  99 
Bouquet,  145 
Braising,  151-157 
Brandy  in  cooking,  249 
Bread,  63-65 
Bread-and-butter   puddings, 

65 

265 


Cabbage,  57 

as  in  Denmark,  171 

pottage,    extemporised 

dish  of,  26-28 
Cabbage,  red,   169,   170 
Calf's-foot,   77,  218 
Canapes,   238 
Candlesticks,  244 
Caper  sauce,  105 
Carrots,  54,  185,  186 
Casseroles,  33 
Cat-fish,  48 
Cauliflower,  168,  188-191 

cold,  75 

Celery,  168 

Cheese,  246 

Cheese-cakes,  224 

Chester  rarebit,  237 

Chestnuts,  227 

Choufleur  au  gratin,  109 

Cider,  249 

Clark,  Lady,  of  Tillypronie, 

260 


266 


INDEX 


Cod,  47 

baked,    126 

head  often  wasted,  122 

steamed,   126 

Coffee,  250 

Cold  meat,  140 

Cold  slaw,  211 

"  Cordon  bleu,"  255 

Costers,   54 

Cotelettes    a    la    Maintenon, 

122 
Cotelettes  a  la  Soubise,   11 1 
Court  bouillon,   135 

bleu,  135 

Creme  de  Sante,  84,  97 
Cressoniere,  Creme,  97 
Crosnes,   191 
Cucumber,  171,  211 

cups,  74 

fried,  193 

stuffed,  194 

to  render  digestible,  75 

Curry,  157-159 
Custards,  218 


D 


Dairyman,  65,  66 
Double-cooker,  35 
Dripping,  36,  93,  94 
Dubarry,  creme  (cauliflower), 

84,  96,  98 
Dutch  oven,  123 


"  Economy  without  Stodgi- 

NESS,"  166 

Eggs,  68 

Egg-boats      (hors     d'oeuvre), 

77 
Eggs,  substitutes  for,  68 

to  boil,  68,  69 

Enamelled  utensils,  34 

English  "  high  cookery,"  167 

Entrecote  a  la  Bordelaise,  201 


Entrees,  138-166 

definition  of,  138 

variety    of,     139,    165, 

166 
Espagnole,  Sauce,   103,  106, 

108 


"  Faire  revenir,"  141 
Farinage,  230 
Figs,  56 
Fish,  117-137 

baked,  123 

boiled  in  sea- water,  122 

consomme  of,  84 

custards,  133 

neglect  of,  11 7- 120 

pie,  133 

poached,  123 

potted,  50,  240 

salad  of,   131 

sauces  for,  123 

signs  of  fresh,  47 

soup,  99 

steamed,   121 

warmed  up  a  la  Russe, 

132 
Fishmonger,  46 
Flageolets,   182 
Flamiche  (leek  turnover) ,  180 
Flan,  221 
Flour,  63,  64 
Fonds  d'artichauts,  240 
Food  fads,  21 

reformers,  24 

values,  19 

Foundation  sauces,  106 
French  beans,  54,  168,  181 

cold,   75 

French  methods  not   always 

best,  15,  168 
Fried  fish  shops,  118 
Fritters,  216 
Fruits,  bottled,  32 

stewed,  223 

tinned,  224 

Frying,  35 


INDEX 


267 


Frying,  preliminary,  for  en- 
trees, 140 

Frying,  so-called  "  dry  "  and 
"  wet,"   141 


Italian  pastes,  230-234 
Italienne  sauce,  115 


Galimafree,  146 
Game,   51 
Garnishes,  165 
Gelatine,  222 
Gniocchi,  233 
Gouffe,  Jules,  254 
Grape-fruit,  55 
Grape  juice,  228 
Gratin  explained,   129 
Greengrocer,  52 
Grilling,  198,  200 
Grocer,  58-61 


Jack,  Miss  Florence  B.,  185, 

260 
Japanese      artichokes      (see 

Crosnes),  191 
Jellies,  218 

Jerusalem  artichokes,  57 
Junkets,  222 
"  Just  as  Good,"  60 


K 


Kenney-Herbert,    Colonel, 
158.  255 


H 


Haddock,  49 

Halibut,  49 

Ham  braised  in  Marsala,  154 

cold,  boiled,  78 

Hare  soup,  90 
Hareng,  filets  de,  79 
Haricots   verts   panaches   aux 

flageolets,  181 
Hash,  140,  148 
Herbs,  dried,  145 
Herrings,  47,  124 

roes,  239 

broiled,  126 

fried  fillets  of,  125 

on  toast,  239 

Hollandaise  sauce,    105,    109 
Hors  d'oeuvre,    71-82 
Hot  joints,  140 
Hypochondria,  24 


Invalid  cookery,  9,  10 
Irish  moss,  222 


Lamb,  "  Canterbury,"  45 
Leeks,  179,  180 
Lemonade,  250 
Lemon  soles,  49 
Lettuce,  205,  212 
Liver,  braised,  115 


M 


Macaroni,  115,  231 

Macedoine  of  fruits,  225 

Mackerel,  49 

Maitre  d'Hotel,  Sauce,  113 

Margarine,  67 

"  Marmite,"  27,  91 

Mayonnaise,  114 

Meat,  potted,  on  toast,  240 

Melted  butter,  105 

Menus,  244 

Milk,  sour,  66 

Mince  of  flesh-meat,  148,  149, 

150 
Mineral  waters,  250 
Mint  sauce,  105 


268 


INDEX 


Mirepoix,   152 

Monotonous   diet,    costliness 

of.  25 
Mornay  sauce,  1 1 1 
Mother  sauces,   106 
Mullet,  red,  163 
Mussels,  50 
Mustard  sauce,   105 
Mutton,  ragout  of,  144 


N 


Nasturtiums,  33,  210 
Nomenclature  in  cookery,  138 
Nouilles,  231 

Nutrition  not  everything,  172 
Nuts,  22,  229 

Brazil,  24 

salted,  79,  80 


O 


Oil,  32,  36,  206 
Olives,  79 
Omelettes,  214-216 

au  Fromage,  215 

aux  Fines  Herbes,  215 

aux  Rognons,  215 

Lyonnaise,  215 

plain,  215 

Portugaise,  215 

sweet,  216 

Onion  soup,  173 
Onions,  81,  172 

boiled,  173 

cream  of,  174 

stewed  in  stock,  173 

Otero,  filet  de  sole,  177 
Over-eating,  25 
Ox-cheek,  78 


Paper,  old  methods  of  using 
in  cookery,  163,  164 

Parmentier  (potato)  soup,  96 

Parmesan  cheese,  232 

Parsley  sauce,  105 

Pastry,  219 

Peaches,  tinned,  224 

Pears,  tinned,  224 

Peas,  168,  184 

dried,  183 

tinned,  184 

Pepper,  32 

Perdrix  au  Choux,  171 

Pickles,  33 

Pine-apple,  56,  225-227 

tinned,    224 

Plaice,  49,  127 

au  gratin,  129 

Potatoes,  169,  174 

fried,    176,    177 

"  in  the  jackets,"  175, 

176 

Potatoes  sautes.  177 

steamed,  35,  175 

Pot-au-feu,  87 

Potiron  (pumpkin)  soup,  94 

Predigested  foods,  22 

Provision  merchant,   57 

Prunes,  224 

Pudding,  steamed,  217 

Pumpkin  (Potiron)  soup,  94 


R 


Radishes,  54,  80 
Ragouts,  140,  144,  152,  162 
Red   cabbage,    169,    170 
Red  mullet,  136 
Rice,  157,  158 

pudding,  223 

Roasting,   198 
Rock  salmon,  48 
Roux,   144 


Palestine  Creme,  57 
Pancakes,    214 
Paper-bag  cookery,  22,   162- 
164 


Sago  pudding,  223 
Salads,    204-212 
Salmis,  52,  159-162 


INDEX 


269 


Salsify,    1 79 

Salt,  on  hot  joints,   199 

Sardines,  78 

on  toast,  238 

smoked,  78 

Sauces,    110-116 

English  neglect  of,  10 1 

Sauce,  Bechamel,   109 

Blanche,  105 

Blonde,   105 

Espagnole,  103,  106,  loS 

HoUandaise,   105 

Italienne,  115 

Maitre  d'Hotel,    113 

Mayonnaise,  114 

Mornay,  iii 

Robert,  113 

Soubise,   iii 

Veloutee,  106,  108 

White,  107 

Sausage,  cold,  78 
Savouries,  235-241 
Scallops,  50 
Scarlet  runners,  54 
Sea-kale,  178 
Seahng,  63,  140 
Semolina  pudding,  223 
Seven  devils,  202 
Shellfish,  50 
Skate,  48 
Sole  k  la  Meunidre,  136 

au  gratin,  128 

Solferino,  creme,  97 
Sorrel,  192 

soup,  84 

Soubise  soup,  93,  94 
Souffle  au  Parmesan,  237 
Soup-kitchens,    85 
Soups,  83-98 
Soup,   Ambassadeur,   97 

Bonne  Femme,  98 

Cressoniere,  97 

Dubarry,  84,  98 

fish,  99 

hare,  90 

onion,  173 

Parmentier,  96 

pumpkin,  94 

Sante,  84,  97 


Soup,  solferino,  97 

soubise,   93,   94 

St  Germain,  96 

bottled,   86 

concentrated,    86 

sometimes  too  "  good," 

85 
Soup,  tinned,  86 
Spaghetti,  231 
Spinach,   192 
Steak,  baked,  202 
Steaming.  35 
Stews,  141 

St  Germain,  creme,  96 
Stock,  17,  18,  88 
Stock,  vegetable,   18,  91,  92 
Stock-pot,   16,  90 
Sunday  dinner,  140 
Sweets,  213-229 


Table,  the,  242-252 

linen,  244 

Tapioca  pudding,  223 

Tarts,  220 

Tasting,   257 

Thompson,    Sir    Henry,    24, 

256,  257 
Thudichum,    Dr,     103,     172, 

185,    254 
Tinned  foods,  31 
Tomatoes,  75,  195 
Turbot,  49 

Turbot  braised  in  wine,   157 
Turnips,  187 

U 
Urbain-Dubois,  255 


V 


Variety  of  diet,  25 
Vegetables,    167-197 

cold  remnants  of,  196 

tinned,   195 

Vegetarianism,  21 


270 


INDEX 


Vegetarians,  167 
Veloutee  Sauce,  106,  108 
Venison,  51 
Vermicelli,  231 
Vinegar,  32,  207 

W 

Washing-up,  21 


Water,  250 
Watercress,  205 
Welsh  rarebit,  236 
Whitebait,  imitation,  130 
White  sauce,  107 
Whiting,  48 
Wine,  246-249 
Wine  and  oil,  206 
"  Wyvern,"    255-257 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  712  4 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


1 

1 

I 

■1 

1 

1 

!] 

i 
7. 

■ 

il 

yMiit 

IIIIHMIIIII 

i 

m 

^^IT^TTTt^^^^^^^^^^^H 

i.i 


