'-Ami*,    %• 


'%  ^  : 


*+ 


»f  n 


A*°V 


:XXN 


\x 


<X 


K  ^  ■,    x  ' 


>  ^CK 


% 


*  ,v> 


7 


%-** 


,v»        v  •»    '  «*^       r  -     f 


'  o  *  x  "*      A°  N  ,       ^ 

W 


V. 


lie  Home  Guide 


or 


A  Book  by  500  Ladies. 


The  Home  Guide; 

ok, 

A  Book  by   500  Ladies, 


EMBRACING 


ABOUT  1,000  RECIPES  AND  HINTS, 

Pertaining  to  Cookery,  The  Household,  The  Sick 
Room,  The  Toilet,  Etc. 

.rl1. 


COMPILED  CHIEFLY  FROM 

"The  Home"  Department  of  the  Chicago  Daily  Tribune. 


■ 


HWV. 


PUBLISHED  BY 

S.  L.  TAYLOR,  ELGIN,  ILL. 

1877. 


7) 


V1* 


Entered  according  to  an  Act  of  Congress,  by 

S.  L.  Taylor,  Elgin,  III., 

In  the  office  of  the  Congressional  Librarian,  at 

"Washington,  1877. 


CONTENTS. 


Introductory 5-6 

Cookery 7-139 

Soups 7-11 

Fish 12-18 

Poultry 18-23 

Meats 23-31 

Game 31-32 

Shell  Fish,  Oysters,  etc 33-36 

Salads 37-38 

Vegetables 39-46 

Eggs 47-49 

Coffee 50-53 

Bread 53-66 

Cakes,  Cookies,,  etc 66-89 

Frosting,  Icing,  etc 90-91 

Pies 92-101 

Puddings 101-117 

Sauces  for  Puddings,  etc 117-118 

Pancakes,  Fritters,  etc 119-121 

Custard,  Blanc  Mange,  etc 121-126 

Fruits,  Jellies,  etc 126-130 

Pickles,  Sauces,  Catsups,  etc 131-134 

Confectionery .' 135-136 

Yeasts,  Baking  Powders,  etc 137-138 

Miscellaneous 138-139 

Household  Hints 140-150 

The  Toilet  151-157 

The  Sick  Room,  etc 158-160 


TO  THE  LADIES, 

Whose  Skill  and  Practical  Good  Sense 

Have  Contributed  so  much  to  the  Success  and  Popu- 
larity of  "The  Home,"  and  who  are 

The  Real  Authors  Hereof, 

This  Volume  is  Respectfully 

DEDICATED, 

By  the  Publisher. 


INTRODUCTORY. 

This  little  volume  is  sent  forth  in  the  confident  belief 
that  it  is  the  Ne  Plus  Ultra  of  Cook  Books,  or  Guides 
to  Housekeepers.  Unlike  the  trashy  cook  and  recipe 
books  vended  about  the  country  for  $1.50  or  $2.00  a 
copy,  "  hashed  "  up  from  irresponsible  sources,  more 
with  a  view  to  size  and  show  than  to  practical  utility, 
the  Home  Guide  is  a "  collection  of  the  actual  and 
practical  experiences,  and  in  the  language  of  500  lady 
"  Home  "keepers.  It  is  a  compilation  and  condens-. 
ation  of  the  thousands  of  recipes  and  hints  contributed 
by  the  lady  readers  of  the  Chicago  Tribune,  and  pub- 
lished in  the  popular  "  Home  "  department  of  that 
paper  during  the  past  two  years. 

The  contents  embrace  a  very  wide  range  of  subjects 
pertaining  to  Cookery,  which  is,  of  course,  the  chief 
feature  of  the  book.  Every  branch  of  the  "  culin- 
ary art"  is  treated  by  practical,  successful  house- 
keepers, and  in  a  common  sense  manner,  such  as  will, 
upon  examination,  be  appreciated  and  understood  by 
every  lady  who  looks  well  to  the  health  and  happiness 
of  her  family. 

The  "art"  of  good  cooking  is  a  most  valuable 
acquirement  to  every  household.    It  not  only  contrib- 


6  INTRODUCTORY. 

utes  to  health,  good  temper  and  domestic  peace,  but  it 
saves  many  dollars  in  grocers'  bills.  Great  quantities 
of  good  food  is  wasted  in  American  kitchens,  for  the 
sole  reason  that  housekeepers  lack  the  valuable  accom- 
plishment of  knowing  how  to  prepare  it  in  various  and 
inviting  forms. 

In  the  other  Departments  of  the  book  will  be  found 
many  valuable  Recipes  and  Hints  upon  various  sub- 
jects pertaining  to  the  Household,  the  Toilet,  and  the 
Sick  Room.  And,  finally,  although  unpretentious  in 
size,  the  reader  will  find  upon  due  examination  that 
"  The  Home  Guide  "  is  rich  and  voluminous  in  prac- 
tical and  useful  information. 


COOKERY. 


SOUP. 

S  an  introductory  to  the  soup  department,  the 
following  letter  from  "the  best  unprofessional 
cook  in  Chicago,"  is  given : 

Mrs.  Sarah,  L.,  of  Chicago. 

I  believe  it  was  nearly  a  year  ago  that  I  wrote  my  first 
letter  to  the  Tribune,  the  burden  of  which  was  soup.  If 
I  have  a  hobby,  this  is  it.  A  Frenchman  once  said, 
"Vat  a  peoples  are  ze  Americans.  Zesty  kind  of  re- 
ligions and  but  one  kinds  of  soup.  Mon  dieu!"  And, 
I  have  often  thought,  if  we  had  one  kind  of  religion, 
perhaps,  and  30  kinds  of  soup,  we  should  be  a  healthier 
people. 

Now,  knowing  that  the  circles  of  readers  has  in- 
creased marvelously  since  I  first  talked  about  soups,  I 
must  beg  of  you,  Mr.  Editor,  to  let  me  return  to  my  old 
subject,  for  it  lays  very  near  my  heart,  and  urge  upon 
mothers  of  young  children  to  adopt  this  method  of  pre- 
paring soup  for  their  principal  meal  in  the  middle  of 
the  day. 

If  dinner  is  to  be  served  at  12  o'clock,  the  piece  of 
meat,  costing  20  cents,  must  be  put  on  the  fire  at  8,  in 
about  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  After  it  has  boiled 
up,  skim  off  everything  that  may  rise,  as  well  as  the 
grease,  if  it  should  be  a  fatish  piece  of  meat.  Then 
peel  and  cut  an  onion  in  pieces,  and  salt,  about  a  great 
spoonful.  Let  it  boil  slowly  all  the  time.  In  an  hour 
or  so  peel  and  cut  in  slices  2  potatoes,  i  a  small  turnip, 
and  a  piece  of  carrot.  They  must  all  boil  up  fine; 
about  2  quarts  of  water  must  always  be  kept  over  the 
meat.  At  the  same  time  the  meat  is  put  on  the  range, 
another  kettle,  holding  about  2  or  3  quarts,  containing 
2i  cups  of  split  peas,  with  just  enough  water  to  keep 


8  COOKERY— SOUP. 

them  from  burning,  must  be  set  in  a  place  where  they 
will  just  boil.  When  more  water  is  needed  add  the 
soup  or  bouillons— always  boiling.  About  20  minutes 
before  dinner  is  to  be  served,  pour  all  the  liquor  from 
the  meat  into  the  peas,  which  will  make  a  soup  about 
as  thick  as  flour  porridge.  If  not  salt  enough  add 
more,  and  a  little  pepper.  When  the  family  is  seated 
around  the  table,  let  the  girl  dish  the  soup  hot  from  the 
kettle  into  each  soup-plate.  This  soup  must  be  hot  or 
it  is  not  good. 

Bean  and  tomato  soup  I  make  in  the  same  way,  only 
the  tomatoes  will  cook  in  an  hour  all  that  they  need. 
These  3  kinds  are  good  and  nourishing  in  the  spring, 
and  every  child  coming  home  from  school  should  have 
a  plate  to  set  his  or  her  hungry  stomach  to  work  upon. 
The  rest  of  the  dinner  the  stomach  is  then  prepared  for. 

In  my  family  I  have  some  kind  of  soup  almost  every 
day  in  the  week,  and  I  believe  it  has  made  me  a  new 
stomach  in  the  last  6  years.  I  was  brought  up  on 
mince  pies,  roast  beef,  cocoanut  cake  and  preserves. 
Now  I  eat  my  soup,  a  piece  of  the  soup  meat,  with 
mustard,  horse  radish,  or  a  little  catsup,  some  good 
mashed  potatoes,  a  puree,  or  some  well-cooked  vege- 
table, a  pudding  for  dessert,  and  I  have  no  more  dys- 
pepsia, and  my  children  are  the  pictures  of  health.  I 
don't  mean  that  the  above  is  always  our  dinner,  but 
sometimes.  Ladies,  try  it.  We  have  all  been  brought 
up  on  too  rich  food.  The  nearer  we  live  to  nature  the 
better  bodies  and  minds  we  shall  have. 

I  was  reading  a  book  the  other  day,  and  came  across 
this  old  English  proverb :  "Eggs  of  an  hour,  fish  of 
ten,  bread  of  a  day,  wine  of  a  year,  a  woman  of  15,  and 
a  friend  of  30."  I  might  agree  with  the  proverb  in 
some  respects,  but  a  woman  and  friend  are  good  for 
nothing  until  40.    So  says  "my  man." 

Turkey  Soup. 

Bertha  Carlyle,  Hyde  Park. 
Save  all  the  bones  and  break  the  backbone  into  2  or  3 
pieces ;  boil  these  in  a  little  more  water  than  you  want 
soup,  for  an  hour  ;  then  skim  out  the  bone,  and  put  in 
the  meat,  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  and  boil  a  few  mo- 
ments more ;  then  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 


~- 


COOKERY— SOUP.  9 

Mock  Turtle. 

'■'■Cook,'"  Rocltford,  lUa. 
Take  i  a  calf's  head,  fresh  and  unstripped  of  skin : 
remove  the  brains,  and  clean  the  head  carefully  in  hot 
water,  leaving  it  in  cold  water  for  an  hour ;  then  put 
into  6  quarts  of  warm  water,  with  2  pounds  of  veal, 
ditto  pork,  a  roasted  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  rind  of 
lemon,  2  sliced  carrots,  a  bunch  of  herbs  and  a  head  of 
celery ;  let  it  boil  slowly  2  hours ;  then  take  out  the 
head  and  pork ;  make  forcemeat  balls  of  the  brains  and 
tongue;  break  the  bones  of  the  head;  put  all  into 
the  soup,  and  boil  two  hours  more.  Put  into  a  small 
stewpan  a  piece  of  butter,  onions  sliced  thin,  with 
parsley,  mace  and  allspice ;  add  flour  to  thicken,  and 
stir  in  soup  slowly.  Boil  gently  1  hour  more;  pass 
through  a  sieve;  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  lemon 
juice  and  a  pint  of  Maderia  wine.  Add  mushrooms,  if 
desired,  and  serve  with  lemons  cut  in  quarters. 

Cheat  Oyster. 

M .  A.  £>.,  Cliicago. 

Take  of  tomatoes  1  pint,  canned  or  fresh;  take  a 
large  teacup  of  nice  white  codfish,  picked  up  fine  ;  add 
to  this  3  pints  water ;  a  small  tablespoonf ul  good  sweet 
butter ;  when  these  have  boiled  20  minutes,  add  1  pint 
fresh  milk — having  ready  £  teaspoonful  baking  soda. 
Use  immediately.  The  taste  is  similar  to  oysters  or 
lobsters ;  all  taste  of  tomatoes  and  fish  are  gone. 

Tomato  Soup. 
Mrs.  M.  J.  T.,  Chicago. 
To  1  pint  canned  tomatoes,  or  4  large  raw  ones,  cut 
up  fine,  add  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil. 
Then  add  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  when  it  will  foam ; 
immediately  add  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  plenty  of  butter.  When  this  boils,  add  8  small 
crackers,  and  serve.  It  tastes  very  much  like  oyster 
soup. 

Turkey  Soup. 
E.  A.  E.,  Chicago. 
Put  all  the  bones,  the  scraps  of  meat,  and  the  dress- 
ing of  the  turkey  in  a  kettle,  with  enough  water  to 
cover  them.    Let  it  boil  for  2  hours.    When  nearly 


10  COOKERY— SOUP. 

done  add  the  tops  of  some  celery  chopped  fine,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  currie  powder.  When  it  is  done,  strain 
and  set  on  the  table  hot.  It  makes  a  very  rich,  nice 
dish. 

White  Soup. 

Amie  M.  Hale,  M.  D.,  Chicago. 
Boil  a  veal  bone  3  hours  with  turnip,  celery,  onion, 
carrots,  and  whatever  suitable  thing  else  you  have 
which  will  not  turn  it  dark.  Strain  and  boil  again ; 
just  before  you  serve  it  add  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk, 
with  3  eggs  well  beaten ;  remove  from  the  stove  and 
stir  rapidly. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 
Scrape  2  carrots,  an  onion,  i  of  a  cabbage,  and  2 
turnips.  Cut  them  in  pieces  a  little  larger  than  dice. 
Put  the  pieces  in  a  large  sauce-pan  with  a  little  butter 
and  water ;  let  it  cook  \  hour ;  then  cut  your  potatoes 
in  the  same  way.  Take  your  meat  out  of  the  soup- 
kettle,  skim  off  the  grease  and  put  all  into  your  broth, 
and  let  cook  another  \  hour.  In  tne  language  of  the 
average  school-girl,  "it's  perfectly  lovely." 

Beef  Soup. 

Myrtle,  Dundee,  Ills. 
Cut  the  meat  off  the  bone,  and  place  it,  with  some 
suet,  in  the  kettle  to  fry  until  brown.  Then  put  the 
bone  in  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Add  £  cup  of  bar- 
ley, 1  onion  and  a  turnip,  put  in  the  barley  at  once,  and 
cook  slowly  until  about  1  an  hour  before  dinner,  then 
cut  the  vegetables  very  fine,  and  cook  them  the  I  hour. 

"Soup  Medley." 

'■'■Mrs.  Emily, "  Eau  Claire,  Wis. 

No.  1—1  pint  of  good  gravy,  3  cups  boiling  water,  a 
slice  of  turnip  and  i  an  onion  cut  in  small  bits,  2  grated 
crackers.    Simmer  half  an  hour. 

No.  2— Cut  off  the  narrow  ends  from  2  or  3  sirloin 
steaks,  chop  them  into  morsels  and  put  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  rice  and  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Let  it  come  slowly  to  a  simmer,  and  simmei 
slowly  for  3  hours.    Then  acid  water  enough  to  make 


COOKERY— SOTJP.  11 

quart  of  soup,  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  and  a 
little  browned  flour  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

jSo.  3 — Pare  and  slice  very  thin  4  good-sized  potatoes, 
pour  over  them  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  simmer 

ffently  until  the  potatoes  are  dissolved.  Add  salt,  a 
ump  of  nice  butter  and  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  with  a 
dust  of  pepper.    Boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

Ko.  4—1  pint  meat  broth,  1  pint  boiling  water,  slice 
in  an  onion,  or  a  parsnip,  or  half  a  turnip — or  all  3  if 
liked— boil  until  the  vegetables  are  soft,  add  a  little 
salt  if  needed,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Halford  sauce. 

Xo.  5 — Let  green  corn — in  the  time  of  green  corn — be 
grated,  and  to  a  pint  of  it  put  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  a 
pint  of  water,  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  i$oil 
gently  for  15  or  20  minutes. 

doodle  Soup. 
"Mrs.  C.  G.  M."  Chicago. 
Break  2  eggs  into  a  bowl ;  beat  until  light,  adding  a 
pinch  of  salt;  then  work  in  flour  (with  your  hand) 
until  you  have  a  very  stiff  dough;  turn  it  on  yoiu- 
molding  board,  and  work  until  it  is  as  smooth  as  glass; 
pinch  off  a  piece  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  roll  it  as 
thin  as  paper ;  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  very 
narrow  strips ;  proceed  in  the  same  way  until  all  your 
dough  is  cut.  Have  prepared  some  good  veal,  chicken, 
or  any  other  kind  of  broth,  well  seasoned,  i  an  hour 
before  you  serve  dinner ;  drop  in  the  noodles.  Be  sure 
the  soup  is  boiling.  Add  a  little  parsley.  If  the 
noodles  are  made  according  to  directions,  they  will  be 
found  far  superior  to  maccaroni. 

Tomato  Soup. 
"Mrs.  E.  S.  P.,"  Burlington,  Iowa. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  drippings  or  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan  ;  cut  an  onion  flue  and  fry  in  the  butter ;  then  add 
one  pint  of  tomatoes,  pepper,  salt  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  allspice ;  cut  a  round  steak  in  two  and  lay  on  the 
tomatoes;  cover  closely  and  let  it  simmer  for  three 
hours. 


FISH. 


Boiled  Fish. 

Delmonico's  Method. 
[ROM  a  reliable  source,  the  following  is  presented 
as  Delmonico's  method  for  boiling  fish  : 


Fish  should  be  washed  as  little  as  possible,  and 
whitelish,  after  being  cleaned  and  wiped  with  a  damp 
cloth,  should  have  the  stomach  stuffed  with  salt  for  an 
hour  or  two  before  cooking.  Fish  should  be  put  on  in 
colu  water,  so  that  the  inner  part  may  be  sufficiently 
done,  and  it  is  also  less  liable  to  break.  This  rule  holds 
good,  except  for  very  small  fish,  or  for  salmon  boiled  in 
slices,  when  boiling  water  should  be  used.  The  time 
may  be  easily  known  when  it  is  ready  by  drawing  up 
the  fish-plate  and  trying  if  it  will  separate  from  the 
bone.  A  little  salt  and  vinegar  should  always  be  put 
into  the  water.  Some  prefer  their  fish  boiled  in  what 
is  called  a  court  bouillon,  and  this  is  how  it  is  done : 
Lay  the  fish  in  the  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  it,  add  a  glass  of  wine  or  vinegar,  some  sliced 
carrot  and  onions,  pepper,  salt  and  a  laurel  leaf,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  a  fagot  of  sweet  herbs,  or  some  of 
the  same  tied  up  in  a  muslin  bag.  These  seasonings 
impart  a  fine  flavor  to  most  boiled  fish,  excepting  sal- 
mon, and  for  fresh-water  fish  it  is  considered  very  use- 
ful for  getting  rid  of  the  muddy  taste  they  often  have. 

Boiled  Fish. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  D.,  Chicago. 
After  well  cleansing  a  good-sized  fish,  put  into  a  fish- 
kettle,  and  set  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  well  salted ; 
let  it  boil  for  20  minutes ;  take  of  vinegar  sufficient  to 
cover ;  put  into  the  vinegar  1  ounce  of  cloves,  1  of  all- 
spice and  1  of  pepper  whole ;  boil  all  together  for  15 
minutes ;  when  nearly  cold  pour  over  the  fish ;  let  it 
stand  for  2  or  3  hours  before  using. 


COOKERY— FISH.  13 

Baked  Fish. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  G.,  Baraboo,  Wis. 
Scale,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  inside  and  out,  a  2  or  3 
pound  fish.  Make  a  stuffing  as  follows :  One  pint 
grated  bread ;  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter ;  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste ;  1  raw  egg :  a  little  celery  salt ;  1 
onion,  chopped  fine,  is,  to  my  taste,  an  improvement, 
but  can  be  omitted  if  not  liked.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  to  wet  the  bread-crumbs ;  the  egg  and  melted  bu- 
ter  will  moisten  sufficiently.  Tie  over  the  fish  thin 
slices  of  salt  pork ;  fill  a  dripping  pan  i  full  hot  water ; 
then,  if  you  have  not  a  wire  grate,  place  the  gridiron  on 
the  pan,  and  after  laying  the  fish  on  the  gridiron  cover 
all  with  another  pan ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till  the  pork 
is  well  shrivelled ;  then  remove  the  upper  tin,  allowing 
your  fish  to  brown.  1|  hours  will  cook  thoroughly,  if  a 
steady  fire  is  kept. 

Mrs.  E,  G.,  Geneva. 
First,  dip  the  fish  quickly  in  boiling  water;  then 
wipe  the  scales  off ;  rinse  in  cold  water ;  wipe  it  dry ; 
sprinkle  salt  both  inside  and  out,  about  as  much  as  you 
would  for  steaks.  Then  dip  it  in  flour :  place  the  pan 
that  you  are  going  to  bake  it  in  in  the  stove  with  a 
piece  of  butter  in  it  the  size  of  an  egg.  Let  it  melt  so 
that  it  covers  the  pan.  Your  pan  should  be  about  the 
length  of  your  fish ;  if  larger,  the  butter  will  be  apt  to 
burn.  Place  your  fish  in  it,  the  inside  of  it  next  to  the 
pan.  Put  it  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  1  hour,  if  it  is  a 
large  fish,  less  time  if  smaller.  It  should  be  well  done 
and  of  a  nice  brown  color. 

Mrs.  S.  D.  L.,  Chicago. 
Skin  and  bone  the  fish,  by  running  a  sharp  knife 
along  the  back.  Spread  over  dripping-pan  a  thin 
layer  of  butter,  i  an  onion  in  fine  pieces.  Lay  the  fish 
upon  it,  and  pour  over  the  fish  1  tablespoonful  of  vine- 
gar or  Catawba  wine.  For  the  sauce,  rub  butter,  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  and  flour  together,  add  a  cup  of  the 
broth  or  hot  water,  the  juice  of  the  fish,  2  or  3  mush- 
rooms, if  you  have  them.  Turn  this  mixture  over  the 
fish,  dust  with  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake 
a  few  minutes  or  until  a  little  brown.  Garnish  with 
pieces  of  bread  cut  heart-shape. 


14  COOKERY— FISH. 

Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 

Dry  with  a  towel,  and  put  belly  to  back  in  dripping- 
pan,  into  which  you  have  previously  cut  up  2  slices  of 
salt  pork  in  inch  pieces.  Make  a  stuffing  as  for  veal. 
Stuff,  putting  only  a  little  in.  Now  pour  over  the  fish 
a  spoonful  of  lemon-juice  or  good  vinegar.  After  a 
little,  baste  with  a  little  soup-broth.  Don't  let  the  fish 
dry  all  up,  and  don't  put  a  drop  of  water  on  it.  Make 
your  sauce  as  for  veal  cutlets,  omitting  the  lemon 
juice,  but  add  £  cup  of  milk  and  cut  up  2  hard-boiled 
eggs  into  it.  When  done,  also  add  the  fish-juice.  A 
little  parsley  chopped  fine  in  the  sauce,  we  like.  Gar- 
nish with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  sprigs  of  parsley, 
mounted  by  little  carpels  of  lemon. 
M.  A.  D..  Chicago. 

Take  bread  crumbs  sufficient  for  the  size  of  the  fish ; 
beat  2  or  3  eggs ;  pepper  and  salt ;  add  1  bunch  of  pars- 
ley, fresh,  and  chopped  fine ;  mix  all  together  well ;  add 
a  small  piece  of  butter ;  put  all  into  the  fish  and  sew  up. 
If  any  of  the  dressing  is  left,  put  into  the  bake-pan ; 
add  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  put  into  a  hot  oven ;  baste 
every  10  or  15  minutes  for  an  hour,  when  it  will  be  well 
cooked  and  nicely  flavored. 

E.  L.  M.,  Chicago. 
Buy  a  2-pound  white  fish.  If  the  gills  are  red,  eyes 
full,  body  firm  and  stiff,  the  fish  is  good.  Scale  it,  cut 
off  the  head,  and  split  the  fish  nearly  down  to  the  tail, 
make  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  a  little  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  slightly  moistened  with  water.  Stuff  the 
tish  with  this ;  then  bind  it  together  with  fine  cotton 
cord  or  tape,  3  inches  apart.  Lay  the  fish  on  a  wire 
gridiron  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  pour  around  it  a  little 
water  and  melted  butter.  With  a  spoon  dip  this  up 
and  pour  over  the  fish  frequently.  Bake  1  hour.  Serve 
with  the  gravy  of  the  fish  or  drawn  butter. 

Fried  Fish. 

M.  A.  D.,  Chicago. 

When  the  fish  is  properly  cleansed,  instead  of  putting 

it  into  a  small  quantity  of  fat  or  grease,  wipe  dry ;  then 

rub  with  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper ;  let  it  lay  an  hour 

or  two  before  using ;  roll  in  corn-meal  or  flour ;  have 


COOKERY— FISH.  15 

ready  int  sufficient  for  it  to  swim  in  ;  the  fat  m7::t  be 
boiLu.g-hot ;  put  the  fish  in  whole,  or  cut  in  piec:  \  It 
will  come  out  nicely  browned,  and  not  filled  with  fat, 
as  in  the  ordinary  way  of  frying. 

Frying  Fish. 
N.M.G,  New  York. 

The  artistic  mode  of  frying  fish  is  what  is  called  the 
wet  process,  which  is  simply  boiling  it  in  fat.  Butter 
should  never  be  used,  as  the  color  never  is  good.  Lard 
is  considered  by  many  to  be  the  best  frying  medium, 
but  Careme.  the  great  Trench  cook,  gives  the  prefer- 
ence to  beer  fat — not,  however,  the  dripping  from  the 
roast,  but  lard  made  by  melting  beef  zuet.  We  recom- 
mend as  best  and  most  economical  drippings  from  the 
joints  while  roasting,  poured  into  boiling  water,  and 
removed  in  a  cake  when  cold.  The  great  point  is  to 
have  the  fat  at  a  proper  temperature  before  the  article 
to  be  fried  is  put  m.  The  skillful  cook  can  see  the  blue 
smoke  rising  just  at  the  boiling  point,  and  then  she 
knows  it  is  time  to  put  in  her  fish ;  but  for  those  who 
are  only  acquiring  experience  it  is  safer  to  throw  in  a 
bit  of  bread,  and  if  it  takes  a  fine  color  in  a  minute  or 
so,  then  the  fat  is  hot  enough,  and  the  fish  may  be  put 
in.  This  is  the  cardinal  point  of  successful  frying,  as 
otherwise  the  fish  will  be  flabby  and  greasy  instead  of 
crisp  and  appetizing.  Another  point  to  be  attended  to 
is  that  the  fat  be  deep  enough  in  the  pan  to  cover  the 
fish,  which  should  be  put  in  a  wire  basket  that  will  fit 
easily  into  the  pan  of  fat,  and  then  no  turning  is  re- 
quired. When  done  strain  it  into  boiling  water ;  when 
cold  take  it  off  in  a  cake,  and  put  it  by  to  fry  fish  again. 
Sauces  for  Fish. 
Georgia  H.,  Chicago. 

To  serve  with  fish :  1  cup  vinegar ;  1  cup  water ; 
yolks  2  eggs ;  1  large  spoon  butter ;  1  spoonful  mustard 
and  corn-starch  blended ;  sugar,  salt  and  pepper ;  mix 
all  cold ;  heat  it  gradually  and  boil  for  a  minute.  This 
dressing  is  also  nice,  when  cold,  with  salmon,  lobster, 
lettuce,  etc. 

Fish  Sauce. 
Mrs.  M.  G.  L.,  Chicago. 

Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  the  fish  drippings  mixed ;  a 


16  COOKERY— FISH. 

little  salt  and  pepper ;  mix  until  smooth,  2  ounces  of 
butter  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  into  the 
liquor  when  boiling;  have  ready  a  hard-boiled  egg, 
chopped  fine,  to  add  when  ready  for  the  table. 
Stewed  Codfish. 
Mrs.  C.  E.,  Minonk,  Ills. 
First,  be  sure  and  pick  the  meat  off  from  the  bones : 
then  let  it  stand  in  water  for  15  minutes ;  then  take  it 
out  of  the  water  and  put  in  milk.    To  make  the  quan- 
tity you  may  need,  beat  3  eggs  and  put  into  it  a  pint  of 
milk,  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg ;  thicken 
this  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  up  with  a  very 
little  water.    As  soon  as  it  boils  it  is  done. 

Codfish  Balls. 

E.  B.,  Coldwatcr,  Mich. 

Cut  up  the  fish  into  small  oits,  enough  to  make  2  even 
pints  •  remove  every  bone  ;  pour  cold  water  over  it  to 
rinse  it  off,  and  soak  in  cold  water  about  H  hours ;  then 
drain  the  water  off ;  put  it  cooking  with  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  it;  let  it  simmer,  not  boil,  for  20 
minutes ;  then  drain  the  water  all  off ;  pour  in  H  pints 
of  new  milk ;  add  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  hen's  egg. 
Take  i  pint  of  milk ;  rub  into  it  three  tablespoons  of 
flour— every  lump  must  be  dissolved ;  stir  in  two  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  a  little  black  pepper.  When  the  milk 
boils  up,  stir  in  this  mixture  ;  cook  5  minutes  longer, 
stirring  the  most  of  the  time.  Serve  immediately  in  a ' 
warmed  vegetable-dish.  This  quantity  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  a  family  of  six,  and  enough  left  for  codfish 
balls. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 

Pick  up  fine  a  teacupful  nice  white  codfish,  freshen 
over  night  in  water,  pour  away  this  in  the  morning,  add 
i  teacup  of  fresh  water,  1  large  spoonful  of  butter,  2 
eggs,  beat  all  well  together  and  heat  till  hot,  but  do 
not  boil ;  mash  and  season  nicely  some  potatoes,  stir 
into  the  codfish  mixture  till  stiff  enough  to  put  in  flat 
cakes,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  a  nice  brown ,  should  be 
turned  once. 

E.  D.,  Chicago. 

After  dinner,  take  the  mashed  potatoes  (of  which 


COOKERY— FISH.  17 

there  should  be  a  double  quantity  prepared  for  dinner), 
and  fish  that  is  left,  using  i  fish  and  §■  potatoes.  Stir 
and  beat  them  together  while  warm,  till  evenly  mixed. 
When  cold — for  the  mixture  will  be  so  soft  it  cannot  be 
handled  while  warm — make  them  into  cakes  t  inch 
thick  and  as  large  around  as  a  teacup  ;  put  them  in  a 
cool  place  for  breakfast.  In  the  morning,  roll  them  in 
flour ;  have  plenty  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan  just  hot 
enough  not  to  burn ;  fry  quickly  to  a  nice  brown  on 
both  sides.  Tarn  carefully  that  they  may  keep  their 
shape.    Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

Mrs.  S.  W.  L.,  Tuscola,  Ills. 
Take  of  nice  white  codfish  about  2  pounds ;  put  into 
a  kettle  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the  fish,  and 
let  it  boil  till  perfectly  tender ;  then  remove  to  a  pan  of 
cold  water ;  the  fish  can  then  be  easily  separated  from 
bones,  skin,  etc.  Place  in  an  earthen  or  bright  tin  mix- 
ing-pan, and  mash  fine,  with  about  double  the  quantity 
of  nicely  steamed  potatoes,  and  3  or  4  slices  of  light 
bread  crammed,  or  previously  soaked  in  milk ;  add  2 
eggs  and  a  tea  cup  of  butter,  with  black  pepper  to  suit 
taste.  Mash  and  mix  thoroughly,  and  make  as  moist 
.as  is  wished  with  sweet  milk.  It  is  sometimes  neces- 
sary to  add  a  little  salt.  Make  into-  flat  balls,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard,  as  you  would  mush.  This  mixture  will 
keep  in  cool  weather  a  number  of  days. 

Anna  Bell,  S'pringfiela'. 

Take  1  a  codfish,  put  in  a  pot,  fill  with  cold  water  at 
night,  in  the  morning  pour  off  the  water,  fill  up  with 
f res  h  water,  stand  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  3  hours 
let  it  come  to  a  scalding  heat,  not  boiling.  Takeoff 
the  skin  and  pick  out  the  bones,  put  in  a  tray  and  chop 
fine,  have  potatoes  boiled  and  chop  with  the  fish,  double 
the  quantity  of  potatoes  to  the  fish,  mix  well  together, 
make  -  in  balls,  with  the  hands  flattening  them  a  little, 
have  your  frying  pan  hot,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lard ; 
fry  to  a  nice  brown. 

Bechamel  Sauce. 
Mrs.  Sarah  L„  Chicago. 

This  sauce  is  good  for  almost  everything,  such  as  car- 
rots, turnips,  asparagus,  fish,  and,  with  sugar  and  wine 


18  COOKERY— POULTRY. 

or  brandy  added,  is  good  for  steamed  puddings,  cake 
pudding,  rice,  etc.,  etc.  Mix  cold,  and  well  together,  in 
a  tin  saucepan,  2  ounces  of  butter,  a  tablespoon ful  of 
flour ;  then  acid  a  pint  of  milk ;  stir  continually,  and, 
when  thickened,  take  off:  the  fire.  Beat  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  in  a  cup,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  water.  Turn  into 
the  sauce  and  mix  well ;  salt  a  little  and  pepper  for 
vegetables;  but  for  puddings,  nutmeg  and  brandy  or 
wine. 


POULTRY. 


Selecting  Fowls. 

8.  H.  M.,  Chicago. 

In  selecting  a  goose  or  duck,  take  hold  of  the  toes 
and  pull  them  apart ;  if  the  web  separates  easily  it  is 
young,  but  if  it  requires  any  very  great  amount  of  phy- 
sical force  to  separate,  lay  it  one  side — 'tis  an  old  fowl, 
and  you  will  reap  no  profit  from  its  purchase,  unless 
you  are  keeping  boarders.  Turkeys  may  be  selected  by 
pressing  the  end  of  the  breast  bone.  If  they  are  young 
tnere  is  a  gristle  at  the  end  which  will  readily  yield  to 
the  pressure — if  old,  the  end  will  be  found  hard  and 
sharp,  and  you  cannot  bend  it.  By  strictly  following 
these  instructions  no  one  need  ever  buy  an  old  fowl. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

F.,  Chicago. 
Split  down  the  back ;  pound  lightly  ;  put  on  the  grid- 
iron ;  lay  a  tin  baking-pan  over  the  chicken ;  set  on  the 
pan  a  flatiron — the  weight  will  hold  the  bird  in  place 
and  keep  in  the  juices.  Chicken  cooked  in  this  way 
will  be  tender  and  eat  well  warm  or  cold.  Serve  with 
with  hot  apple-sauce. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Cut  your  chicken  to  pieces  according  to  the  size ;  if 
very  young,  just  in  half;  if  good  size,  divide  at  the 


COOKERY— POULTRY.  19 

joints ;  see  that  it  is  thoroughly  cleaned.  Wipe  it  with 
a  clean  bit  of  muslin.  Beat  up  2  eggs,  have  a  plate  of 
flour,  dip  each  piece  first  in  the  flour,  then  in  the  egg, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  here  pour  lard  hissing  hot 
in  your  skillet,  put  your  chicken  in ;  when  brown  on 
one  side  turn  it,  brown  the  other,  place  upon  the  plat- 
ter, mix  a  tablespoon  of  flour  smoothly  into  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  pour  into  the  fat,  stir,  boil  a  few  minutes, 
pour  it  over  the  chicken,  and  I  guess  anybody's  hus- 
band will  think  it  pretty  good.  I  fry  veal  cutlets  the 
same  way. 

Boned  Turkey. 
Mrs.  M.,  Chicago. 
First,  make  the  stuffing  to  suit  the  family  taste.  I 
took  tenderloin — not  too  lean — chopped  it  fine ;  a  tea- 
cup of  cracker  crumbs  ;  2  eggs ;  a  pint  of  oysters ;  some 
summer  savory ;  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  all  well ;  had 
my  large  needle  and  stout  thread  handy,  with  some 
two-inch- wide  soft  bleached  old  cotton  cloth.  Now  for 
your  turkey.  It  being  well  cleaned  and  singed,  be 
careful  not  to  Break  the  outside  skin.  Cut  off  the  legs 
so  as  to  cut  all  the  tendons  where  they  join  the  drum- 
stick. Cut  the  first  joint  from  the  wing  ;  leave  a  good 
length  of  skin  for  the  neck.  Every  bone  must  be  taken 
out  from  the  inside.  Beginning  with  the  legs,  cut  each 
ligament  at  the  side  bone  joint,  strip  the  knife  close 
along  the  bone,  so  as  to  cut  the  flesh  clean  off,  and  draw 
the  bone  out ;  when  both  legs  are  boneless,  follow  along 
the  back,  breast  and  wings.  The  neck  is  more  difficult, 
but  get  it  out  nicely  as  you  can.  Now  your  turkey  is 
one  shapeless  slump;  but  begin  stuffing  at  the  neck, 
from  the  inside  ;  having  tied  securely  the  skin  to  pre- 
vent escape,  fill  out  the  wings,  breast,  body  and  legs. 
Now  sew  up  the  skin ;  bandage  it  in  a,  shapely  manner 
with  your  strips,  not  too  tig  lit,  for  fear  of  the  stuffing 
swelling  so  as  to  burst  the  skin :  salt  and  pepper  the 
outside  and  steam  until  perfectly  tender.  If  it's  an  old 
chap  steam  4  or  5  hours.  When  done,  put  a  tin  plate 
and  a  couple  of  flat-irons  on  top  of  it  to  press  until  cold. 
Then  cut  in  nice  thin  slices. 

Mrs.  S„  Fon  du  Lac,  Wis. 
Buy  a  turkey,  one  that  has  not  been  drawn,  so  as  to 


20  COOKERY— POULTRY. 

have  no  openings  in  it  if  possible ;  if  drawn,  sewing  up 
openings  firmly  before  boning;  2  chickens,  1  beef 
tongue,  1  can  oysters,  1  pound  fresh,  lean  side  pork. 
Have  the  turkey  frozen  and  thawed,  the  tongue  boiled 
and  skinned,  the  pork  roasted,  the  oysters  taken  out  of 
the  liquor,  the  chickens  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  on 
to  boil  with  just  water  enough  to  cover.  Lay  the  tur- 
key on  its  breast ;  cut  off  the  legs  and  wings  at  first 
joint ;  cut  down  the  whole  length  of  the  back,  and  with 
a  sharp  knife  scrape  the  meat  at  each  side  from  the 
bones;  throw  the  bones  in  with  the  chickens  to  boii. 
now  for  the  filling :  First,  lay  the  whole  tongue  to  form 
the  breast ;  clear  all  the  chicken  meat  from  the  bones ; 
cut  the  pork  in  small  pieces ;  fill  up  your  turkey,  legs, 
wings  and  all  (first  tying  ends  of  legs  and  wings  tight), 
with  chicken,  pork  and  oysters,  and  a  little  dressing, 
have  the  chicken  liquor  well  boiled  and  seasoned,  and 
strain  it  into  the  turkey,  which  will  form  a  jelly.  Sew 
up  the  turkey  firmly ;  turn  it  over  and  shape  it  nicely 
with  the  hands.  Tie  a  cord  tightly  to  the  neck,  and 
draw  it  round  and  tie  it  to  the  right  wing  close  to  the 
body.  Tie  down  legs  and  wings,  inserting  skewers  if 
you  have  them.  Sew  around  it  a  piece  of  strong  cloth, 
and  steam  or  roast,  and  leave  the  cloth  on  till  cold. 
Carve  cold  in  round,  thin  slices,  commencing  at  the 
neck. 

Boiled  Goose. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  H.,  Chicago. 
Dress  and  singe,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with 
boiling  milk  and  leave  over  night.  In  the  morning 
wash  off  the  milk,  and  put  the  goose  into  cold  water  on 
the  fire ;  when  boiling  hot  take  it  off,  wash  it  in  warm 
water  and  dry  wich  a  cloth.  This  process  takes  out  the 
oil.  Fill  the  body  with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  two  chopped  onions, 
if  relished,  and  a  little  sage.  Put  the  goose  into  cold 
water  and  boil  gently  until  tender.  Serve  with  giblet 
sauce,  and  with  pickles,  or  acid  jellies. 

Cousin  German,  Chicago. 
Cook  fo*ur  calf's  feet  in  3  quarts  of  water  slowly  until 
done ;  strain  it.    Now  put  goose  in  a  pot,  pour  over  it 
the  broth  of  the  calf's  feet  and  so  much  water  that  the 


COOKERY— POULTRY.  21 

goose  is  well  covered  by  it ;  add  some  vinegar,  spices, 
salt  and  onion,  and  the  half  neel  of  a  lemon ;  cover  it 
and  boil  slow  until  the  goose  is  soft.  Let  it  cool  off  in 
the  broth,  take  out  the  goose  after  it  is  cold,  cut  all  the 
meat  off  the  bones  and  lay  it  iicely  in  a  deep  earthen 
dish.  Take  all  the  fat  of  the  broth,  taste  it,  add  more 
vinegar  and  salt  if  necessary ;  let  it  run  through  a  cloth, 
and  pour  it  over  the  meat.  It  will  be  nice  and  stiff 
after  24  hours,  and  you  eat  it  cold  with  bread  or  cracker. 
If  you  can  get  gelatine  it  will  be  so  much  simpler  to 
prepare  it.  Boil  the  goose  in  water,  vinegar  and  spices 
as  above ;  after  the  goose  is  soft  add  3  ounces  of  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  proceed  just  as  before. 
The  toughest  meat  will  get  tender,  if  boiled  with  vine- 
gar. American  cooks  always  steam  the  goose  before 
roasting.  Try  it  once  without  steaming.  Rub  it  with 
salt  in  and  outside ;  put  a  little  water  in  your  frying 
pan,  and  roast  it  in  a  hot  oven  2  or  3  hours,  according 
to  the  size,  and  if  it  is  a  young  goose  you  will  find  it 
superb. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Gypsy,  Ionia,  Mich. 

Boil  1  chicken  until  tendei ;  cnop  fine ;  season  well 
with  pepper,  salt  and  butter ,  put  into  a  cloth ;  put  a 
weight  upon  it  and  press  like  head  cheese. 

Beatrice,  Iowa. 

Boil  fowls  until  tender.  Remove  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  chop  very  fine,  keeping  the  dark  and  white 
meat  separate.  Boil  the  liquor  down  until  it  will  jelly ; 
place  in  a  deep  buttered  dish  a  layer  of  the  dark  meat ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  liquor; 
then  a  layer  of  white  meat  seasoned,  and  cover  with 
the  liquor.  Use  the  liquor  when  full,  put  a  weight  on 
it,  and  it  will  mold  firmly. 

Maud  H.,  Milwaukee. 

Boil  a  chicken  thoroughly;  skin  it  and  pick  it  to 
pieces ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  in  a  bag,  and 
place  it  under  a  press ;  let  it  remain  over  night,  and 
next  day  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 


2?  COOKERY— POULTRY. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Isadora,  Monroe,  Mich. 
Make  the  crust  like  baking-powder  biscuit,  only  a 
trifle  shorter.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick  and  line  a  4 
quart  tin-pan  with  it.  Have  ready  2  small  chickens, 
boiled  till  tender.  Place  the  pieces  of  chicken  smoothly 
in  the  pan ;  sprinkle  salt,  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
flour  over  them ;  add  a  few  pieces  of  butter,  size  of  a 
hazelnut,  about  a  large  tablespoonf ul  in  all ;  pour  on  a 
little  of  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in ;  then  roll  the  top 
crust  rather  more  than  half -inch  thick ;  cut  large  stars 
or  air-holes  in  it.    Bake  till  crust  is  thoroughly  done. 

Fried  Chicken  with  Oysters. 

Take  a  nice  tender  chicken,  open  it  down  the  back, 
and  after  cleaning  it  well  pound  all  the  bones  flat; 
wash,  and  wipe  it  dry  on  a  clean  towel ;  then  season 
with  peppei  and  salt,  and  fry  slowly  in  sweet  lard  until 
tender,  and  a  flue  brown  on  both  sides.  Then  put  it  on 
a  dish  where  it  will  keep  warm.  Pour  off  the  lard  in 
the  pan  and  any  brown  particles  that  may  remain ;  then 
add  i  pint  of  hot  water  and  flour  enough  to  make  the 
gravy  of  the  proper  consistency.  Have  ready  about  25 
large  oysters,  which  remove  from  their  liquor  and  put 
into  the  pan  with  the  gravy ;  let  them  simmer  until 
their  gills  begin  to  shrivel,  observing  to  stir  them  all  of 
the  time.  When  done,  pour  them  over  the  chicken  and 
send  to  the  table  hot. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  up  the  chickens  by  unjointing  them;  soak 
thoroughly  in  weak  salt  water ;  wash  thoroughly  ;  put 
3  chickens  into  a  kettle  with  2  quarts  of  water  and  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Boil  *  an  hour.  Make  a  crust  by 
rubbing  $  a  pound  of  lard  into  ,l>  quarts  of  flour.  Take 
two  teacupfuls  of  sour  cream  and  7.  teaspoonful  and  a 
half  of  soda;  knead  quite  harl,  and  roll  out  half  an 
inch  thick.  A  4-quart  pudding  dish  will  answer  to 
bake  in ;  bring  the  edge  of  the  crust  a  little  above  the 
rim  of  the  dish ;  arrange  the  chicken  by  packing  closely 
around  the  dish ;  if  you  are  fond  of  pepper,  sprinkle 
some  over  each  layer  of  chicken ;  i  a  pound  of  butter, 
cut  up  in  lumps  and  scattered  among  the  meat,  is  a 
great  improvement  when  the  chicken  is  all  in  the  dish ; 


COOKERY— MEATS.  23 

stir  some  flour  into  the  gravy  and  turn  over  the  chick- 
en* then  roll  out  the  upper  crust  and  put  over  the 
whole,  ;unching  it  closely  with  th~  under  crust  that 
comes  over  the  rim*  prick  le  top  crust  for  the  steam 
to  escape.  Bake  slowly  for  1|  hours  and  serve  hot.  It 
is  delicious. 


MEATS. 


Beefsteak  Fried. 

Theo.  C.  C,  Chicago. 
fAKE  either  porterhouse,  tenderloin  or  sirloin 
^tea!:,  no j  more  than  1  inch  thick;  remove  the 
bonev  cut  it  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  the 
oaliii  oi  your  hand ;  have  your  pan  perfectly  clean; 
over  the  lire  with  a  very  little  lard,  or  what  is 
the  fat  of  the  steak — on  no  account  use  butter, 
pan  [uite  hot,  but  not  smoking ;  if  the  pan 
the  grease  is  burning,  which  will  spoil  the 
your  steak  ;  remove  the  pan  and  wait  a  little ; 
have  it  just  hot  enough  to  "siss,"  but  not  to  smoke; 
now  p  it  in  your  steak,  and  turn  just  as  soon  as  it 
-jhows  1  :ovn — once  only  !  never  turn  a  steak  more  than 
nice,  and  do  most  of  the  cooking  on  the  second  side, 
leaving  it  in  a  very  few  minutes  for  those  who  like  it 
rare,  loi.ger  for  those  who  like  it  better  done ;  but  don't 
allow  it  to  stay  in  the  pan  one  second  after  it  is  done 
enough;  remove  it  to  the  platter,  spread  a  little  nice 
butter  on  it,  and  pepper  and  salt  it.  Pour  the  gravy  in 
the  pan  into  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  meat.  The 
rules  to  be  observed  ^  cooking  are  ese :  uy  the  best 
steak ;  never  pound  i  ;  pounding  brui:  -  z  the  nbrss  an: 
lets  the  juice  of  the  meat  escape,  ™  1  steak  wiaic  .:; 
juice  is  like  a  woman  without  a  J—  no  accoi  nt. 
Have  the  pan  just  hot  enough  to  oicr&rizv,  ■.  ie  outslaa, 
which  will  pre  "\e  juice    jo:      escaping;     ,oiyi 

allow  rj  to  lay  in  ot         letter  it      dcwto  this 

ders  it  to"gii-  and  fma        o  nou  cook  it  till  the 
thin  o°—  standing  spoils  it.    To  be  good     must  "be  eaJei?. 
as  soon  as  cooke  1 ;  if  it  must  stand  a  little  while,  put  it 
in  a  warm  place. 


24  COOKERY— 31  EATS. 

A.  E.  D.,  Chicago. 

Have  your  skillet  very  hot,  and  fry  your  steak  with 
very  little  butter,  just  long  enough  to  brown  each  side. 
Fill  up  with  boiling  water,  cover,  and  let  it  stew  two 
hours.  Take  up  the  steak,  thicken  the  gravy,  season 
to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  meat. 

Mock  Buck. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  T.,  Chicago. 
Take  the  round  of  beefsteak,  salt  and  pepper  either 
side  ,  prepare  bread  or  crackers  with  oysters  or  without, 
as  for  stuffing  a  turkey ;  lay  your  stuffing  on  the  meat ; 
sew  up  and  roast  about  an  hour ;  and  if  yon  do  not  see 
the  wings  and  legs  you  will  think  you  have  roast  duck. 

To  Cook  Briett  Beef. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  P.,  LaSalle,  Els. 
"\  Cut  in  thin  slices,  place  it  in  the  spider  and  pour  hot 
water  on  it,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  water  stirred 
smoothly  in.  Then  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per, boil  about  5  minutes,  and  while  boiling  break  in  1 
or  2  eggs  and  stir  all  together.  Halve  and  butter  some 
warm  biscuit,  place  in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the  mix- 
ture upon  them. 

Cold  Meats. 
Mrs.  Emily  G.,  Eau  Claire,  Wis. 
Remains  of  boiled  ham,  mutton,  roast  beef,  etc.,  are 
good  chopped  finely  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  2  heads  let- 
tuce, a  bit  of  onion,  and  seasoned  with  mustard,  oil, 
vinegar,  and,  if  needed,  more  salt.  Fix  it  smoothly  in 
a  salad  dish,  and  adorn  the  edges  with  sprigs  of  parseley 
or  leaves  of  curled  lettuce.  Keep  by  the  ice  or  in  a 
cool  place  until  wanted. 

Sweet  Breads. 
Barry  Grey,  Chicago. 
Wash  clean  and  let  drip ;  broil  on  a  gridiron,  or  fry 
in  a  little  butter  and  pepper  salt  and  butter  just  before 
they  are  brought  in.  If  you  place  them  a  moment  in 
the  oven,  the  seasoning  seems  to  go  through  them 
better. 

Beef  Spiced. 
"Old  Housekeeper,"  Chicago. 
Spiced  round:  For  a  small  round— say 25  pounds— 


COOKERY— MEATS.  25 

mix  m  a  jar  or  bowl  that  can  be  covered  2  pounds  com- 
mon salt ;  1  pound  dark  brown  sugar ;  i  pound  ground 
allspice :  1  ounce  ground  cloves ;  two  ounces  black 
pepper ;  one  teaspoonful  cayenne.  A  wooden  bowl  or 
unpainted  tub,  that  will  just  hold  the  round,  will  be  re- 
quired. Fill  the  hole  from  which  the  marrow  bone  was 
taken  with  marrow  or  nice  fat.  Bind  into  nice  shape 
with  strips  of  cotton  and  skewers.  First  rub  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  saltpetre  on  both  sides  and 
in  all  crevices ;  leave  for  24  hours  (it  should  be  in  a  cool, 
dry  place,  that  will  not  freeze).  Then  rub  daily  with 
some  of  the  above  mixture  for  2  or  3  weeks,  turning 
every  2  days  and  ladling  its  own  liquor  over  it.  When 
ready  to  cook  the  round,  provide  a  tin  dish  that  will 
just  hold  it.  Place  small  pieces  of  hard  wood  to  keep 
the  meat  from  sticking  to  the  tin  underneath;  also 
chopped  vegetables,  carrots,  onions,  celery-tops,  and 
suet  or  drippings.  Some  of  these  should  also  be  thickly 
strewed  on  the  top.  Cover  all  with  a  coarse  paste 
rolled  to  keep  moist  and  retain  their  flavor,  and  bake  6 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  take  off  the 
paste  cover;  remove  the  vegetables,  etc.,  and  put  on 
the  round  heavy  weights  until  quite  cold.    Slice  thinly. 

Pot  Pie. 

Mrs.  G.  B.  K.,  Chicago. 

Boil  2  or  3  pounds  of  nice  fat  beef.  When  nearly 
done  add  some  potatoes,  turnips  and  a  head  of  cabbage, 
cut  in  8  or  10  pieces.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt 
while  cooking.    Serve  very  hot  with  apple  sauce. 

Jelly  Cheese. 

Aunt  Fanny,  Denver. 

Two  sets  of  pigs'  feet  pui  into  hot,  salted  water,  suf- 
ficient to  cover  them;  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  falls 
from  the  bone.  Then  put  the  feet  on  a  dish  and  take 
out  all  the  bones ;  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and 
return  to  the  kettle  in  which  they  were  boiled,  with  the 
liquor;  then  season  witli  salt,  pepper,  sage,  savory  and 
sweet  marjoram  ;  stir  all  well  together,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer slowly  20  minutes;  then  put  into  deep  dishes. 
When  cold,  cut  into  slices,  eat  cold  or  hot,  with  vinegar. 


26  COOKERY— MEATS. 

Head  Cheese. 

.  Aunt  Fanny,  Denver. 
Clean  the  legs  nicely  and  boil  by  themselves,  so  that 
when  done  there  will  be  plenty  of  the  liquor.  Boil  the 
upper  head,  minus  ears,  eyes  and  nose,  with  consider- 
able lean  meat,  tenderloin  is  best,  and  when  done  re- 
move bones  and  skin  from  head  and  legs;  chop  the 
lean ;  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste ;  add  the  liquor 
the  legs  were  boiled  in,  and  last,  but  not  least,  a  tea- 
cupful  of  vinegar  and  a  teacupful  of  catsup  to  every 
gallon.  When  thoroughly  cold  it  can  be  cut  out  in 
slices. 

Pudding  Chop. 

Mrs.  F  B.  P.,  Chicago. 
One  pound  salt  pork,  skin  off  the  rind,  chop  fine  with 
2  pounds  of  bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  water  until 
thin  enough  to  stir  like  cake  dough ;  add  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  pepper,  1  teaspoon ful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
water ;  add  a  little  flour ;  turn  this  mixture  into  a  pud- 
ding-dish and  bake  one  hour,  with  slow  fire.  Serve  hot 
or  cold. 

To  Make  Sausage. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  S.,  Bloomington,  Ills. 
"For  every  12  pounds  of  meat  use  6  ounces  of  salt,  1 
ounce  of  black  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
saltpeter,  half  a  teaspoonf ul  of  red  pepDer,  and  4  ounces 
of  sage.  The  sage  and  red  pepper  are  not  essential, 
and  may  be  omitted  by  those  who  do  not  fancy  them. 
These  proportions  should  be  tried  on  a  small  scale  first, 
before  seasoning  the  whole  batch,  to  see  whether  it 
suits. 

To  Cook  Tongue. 

Georgia  H.,  Chicago. 

French  receipt  for  cooking  tongue :  After  boiling  it 

as  usual,  until  tender,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  brown 

with  flour  and  butter.    Then  add  some  of  the  stock  ; 

season  highly ;  let  it  boil  a  few  moments  and  serve  hot. 

Croquettes. 

'■'■Sojourner, ' '  Minneapolis. 
Cold  bits  of  meat  can  be  finely  chopped,  and  with 


COOKERY— MEATS.  27 

bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  added,  mixed  with  gravy 
or  milk,  and  made  mto  balls  or  croquettes,  and  deli- 
cately browned  in  a  skillet  for  tea.  This  same  pre- 
pared meat  need  not  be  recooked,  but  put  into  a  bowl, 
pressed  with  a  heavy  weight  for  a  few  hours,  and  then 
sliced  down  like  "head-cneese"  for  tea,  called  "pressed 
meat." 

Veal  Loaf. 
Mrs.  H.  JR.,  Galesburg,  IUs. 
Two  pounds  veal,  chopped  fine ;  2  coffee-cups  bread 
crumbs ;  2  eggs ;  1  even  tablespoon  of  salt  and  pepper 
mixed;  sage  to  taste;  a  little  butter;  bake  about  1 
hour ;  slice  quite  thin.  The  secret  of  having  it  slice  off 
thin,  without  breaking,  is  pressing  it  down  very  firmly 
in  the  dish  before  baking. 

Baked  Veal-Ham. 

&.  C,  Dubuque,  Iowa. 
Bone  a  breast  of  veal.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine. 
Chop  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and  boil  6 
eggs  and  chop  line.  Butter  a  deep  pan.  Put  in  a 
layer  of  veal,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  thyme,  and 
anchovy  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  then  a  layer  of 
ham  sprinkled  with  the  egg.  Fill  the  dish  with  al- 
ternate layers.  Use  both  fat  and  lean  of  the  ham. 
Cover  and  bake  slowly  4  hours.  When  done,  lay  on  it 
a  heavy  weight.    Serve  in  thin  slices. 

Veal  Collops. 

Mrs.  A.  M.,  Milwaukee. 
Cut  part  of  a  leg  of  veal  into  pieces  3  or  4  inches 
broad,  sprinkle  flour  on  them,  fry  in  butter  until  brown, 
and  then  turn  in  water  enough  to  cover  the    veal. 
When  it  boils  take  off  the  scum,  put  in  2  or  3  onions,  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  ana  stew  until 
tender ;  then  take  up  the  meat,  thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour  and  water  mixed  smoothly  together,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon — or  a  very  good  ^bstitute  is  a 
teaspoonful  of  catsup — and  turn  the  mixture  over  the 
brown  collops.    Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 
Irish  Stew. 
Mrs.  Frank  G.,  Marquette. 
Take  lean  mutton,  potatoes  and  onions ;  first  put  in 


28  COOKERY— MEATS. 

a  deep  kettle  a  layer  of  potatoes  cut  in  slices,  then  a 
layer  of  onions,  then  mutton,  and  be  sure  all  the  fat  is 
cut  off;  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  onions  and 
mutton ;  and  finish  by  potatoes  on  top.  Between  each 
layer  sprinkle  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  flour.  Then  put 
in  enough  water  to  cook  without  burning;  cook  4 
hours,  and  do  not  stir  it  up,  but  let  it  cook  slowly  on 
the  top  of  the  stove,  with  a  hot  fire,  and  it  won't  burn. 

Mutton  Dinner. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  ilf.,  Evanston. 
Take  3  pounds  of  mutton,  cut  in  small  pieces,(if  you 
skin  mutton  it  loses  the  strong  flavor),  put  it  on  the 
stove  in  cold  water ;  when  half  done  put  in  a  teacup  of 
rice.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  water  enough 
for  soup.  Make  a  nice  biscuit  crust,  cut  in  diamonds, 
and  20  minutes  before  dinner  drop  them  around  on  the 
top  of  the  soup,  and  cover  very  closely ;  or  steam  if  you 
prefer  This,  with  a  dish  of  nice  potato  salad  and  an 
apple  pie,  makes  a  very  good  though  not  a  stylish  din- 
ner. 

Pork  Tenderloin. 

Barry  Grey,  Chicago. 
Cut  the  tenderloin  open ;  stew  in  water  till  nearly 
done,  then,  with  a  little  butter  hissing  in  a  spider,  fry 
to  a  light  brown— not  too  hard ;  have  a  small  piece  of 
toast  buttered  for  each  piece  of  meat ;  place  the  meat 
on  the  toast,  pepper  and  salt,  and  then  throw  a  thin 
milk  gravy  over  all.  We  call  it  "quail  on  toast,"  and 
think  it  a  very  good  substitute. 

Baked  Ham. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 
Make  a  crust  of  water  and  flour ;  roll  half  an  inch 
thick ;  soak  your  ham  over  night  and  scrape  well ;  then 
cover  nice  and  tight  with  the  crust,  so  the  juice  cannot 
escape,  and  bake  it  till  done.  Then  remove  all  the 
crust  and  serve. 

Boiled  Ham. 
Mrs.  J.  P.  H.,  Chicago. 
Clean  thoroughly  before  cutting  for  any  purpose.    To 
boil,  put  in  kettle  of  cold  water,  boil  slowly  till  tender, 


COOKERY— MEATS.  29 

and  if  intended  to  be  eaten  when  cold,  let  it  remain  in 
the  kettle  jnst  as  it  was  cooked  until  cold. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 
Buy  a  good  roast — the  tenderloin.  Have  the  butcher 
put  in  a  good  piece  of  fat  before  he  skewers  it.  Put  in 
your  ham  boiler,  or  a  kettle  that  can  be  hermetically 
(air  tight)  closed,  an  inch-thick  slice  of  salt  pork  cut  in 
small  pieces,  a  pound  of  veal,  a  piece  of  butter,  some 
salt,  2  or  3  cloves,  some  whole  pepper,  one  onion  cut  in 
quarters,  and  one  carrot  quartered  lengthwise.  Lay 
the  roast  in,  pour  over  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  close  and 
set  over  the  fire ;  not  too  hot.  In  about  10  minutes  add 
a  cup  of  water,  and  turn  the  meat.  In  15  another  cup, 
and  in  20  more  another.  Turn  occasionally,  but  keep 
closed.  Simmer  slowly  4  hours.  When  done,  carefully 
place  upon  a  platter,  putting  a  piece  of  carrot  on  each 
side,  top  and  bottom.  Turn  all  the  grease  out  of  the 
kettle,  pour  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  into  the  kettle, 
give  another  boil,  and  turn  over  the  meat. 

Beef  Stew. 

G.  M.,  Tiffin,  Ohio. 
In  a  stew-pan  place  a  large  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter, 
in  which  fry  until  quite  brown  2  sliced  onions,  adding 
while  cooking  12  whole  cloves ;  ditto  allspice ;  i  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  i  that  quantity  of  black  pepper. 
Take  from  fire,  pour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  wherein 
lay  2  or  3  pounds  of  tender ,  lean  beef  cut  in  small,  thick 
pieces.  Cover  closely,  and  let  all  stew  gently  2  hours, 
adding  just  before  serving  a  little  flour  thickening.  A 
few  sprigs  of  sweet  basil  is  an  improvement. 

Beef  Loaf. 

X.  Y.  Z.,  Hudson,  Mich. 
31  pounds  of  round  steak  chopped  fine,  1  cup  rolled 
crackers,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  pepper,l  table- 
spoon salt,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.    Bake  3£ 
hours. 

Meat  Pie. 
Mary  Moore,  Chicago. 
In  a  3-pint  basin  place  a  thick  layer  of  stale  bread, 
broken  or  chopped  fine ;  on  this  a  layer  of  boiled  beef. 


30  COOKERY— MEATS. 

sliced  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  powd- 
ered sage  and  parseley  (the  meat  was  salted  enough 
when  boiling) ;  next  a  thick  layer  of  bread  again  ;  then 
thoroughly  moisten  the  whole  with  the  broth  of  the 
beef,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  The 
bottom  of  the  pan  should  first  be  greased.  3  layers  fill 
the  pan  full. 

Veal  Pot  Pie. 
Rizpah,  Fon  du  Lac,  Wis. 
Cut  in  pieces  2  pounds  of  veal  and  boil  in  water  until 
tender;  season  and  add  6  potatoes  sliced;  boil  until 
done  and  pour  in  a  deep  pan.  Stir  in  a  spoonful  of 
flour  and  cover  with  a  crust  made  like  biscuit.  Bake  a 
light  brown,  but  be  sure  to  have  plenty  of  gravy  in  the 
pie. 

Veal  Pie. 

Sympathizer,  Peoria,  Ills. 
Into  2  quarts  of  flour  put  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder ;  sift,  and  add  1  teacupfnl  of  lard,  wet  up  with 
i  pint  of  milk  and  f  of  a  pint  of  water ;  knead  but 
little,  roll  out  fc  of  the  dough  £  of  an  inch  in  thickness, 
and  cut  out  the  upper  crust  a  little  larger  than  the  pan 
you  bake  in.  { I  use  a  pressed-tin  milk-pan  12i  inches 
in  diameter  and  3J  deep,  and  this  quantity  for  crust  is 
just  enough).  With  the  rest  of  the  dough  line  the  pan, 
pressing  it  well  up  around  the  edge;  bake  10  or  15 
minutes.  -'  hours  before  you  make  the  crust,  cut  3  or 
4  pounds  of  veal  into  pieces  less  than  2  inches  in  thick- 
ness ;  those  with  bone  (if  any)  should  first  be  placed  in 
the  kettle,  then  the  others,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  As  soon  as  the  crust  is  the  oven,  season  the 
veal,  after  removing  the  largest  bones,  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  butter  size  of  an  egg ;  chicken  with  flour  and 
milk,  allowing  gravy  enough  to  cover  the  meat.  When 
the  undercrust  is  done,  fill  it  with  all  of  the  meat,  and 
all  the  gravy  it  will  hold  without  running  over,  while 
you  add  the  top  crust ;  cut  an  opening  in  the  center  of 
this,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  15  or  minutes,  or 
until  the  upper  crust  is  baked  through  and  browned 
slightly.  Send  to  the  table  in  the  pan  to  be  carved 
there.  An  earthen  dish  is  nicer,  but  they  bake  slower 
The  rest  of  the  gravy  will  be  needed  at  the  table. 


COOKERY— GAME.  31 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 
The  way  I  cook  cutlets  and  chops  is  to  bake  them. 
The  great  object  is  to  have  veal  and  mutton  thoroughly 
cooked,  and  by  baking  you  best  accomplish  that  object. 
Take  your  dripping-pan,  rub  a  little  butter  over  each 
cutlet,  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  Mat  in  pans ;  place  in 
hot  oven,  and  cover  with  another  pan  of  same  size. 
When  done,  if  you  like,  make  a  sauce  called  butter 
maitre  d-'hotel.  Rub  to  a  soft  paste  a  small  piece  of 
butter  with  flour ;  pour  over  i  cup  boiling  hot  water. 
It  will  then  thicken ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon- 
juice  ;  pour  over  cutlets  and  serve.  It's  good  for 
dinner. 

Pork  Chops. 

Remove  the  skin,  trim  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  cracker-crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  onion 
and  sage.    Fry  in  hot  lard  20  minutes,  turning  often. 


GAME 


Broiled  quail. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  P.,  Peabody,  Kansas. 

ACH  quail  should  be  carefully  picked,  cut  open 
down  the  back,  and  pounded  slightly  with  the 
steak-pounder,  to  break  the  bones,  so  they  will 
lie  flat  on  the  gridiron ;  salt  and  pepper  them, 
and  broil  to  a  nice  brown  ;  have  a  pan  of  melted  butter 
ready  to  dip  each  piece  in  as  soon  as  cooked.  Have 
ready  slices  of  bread,  toasted  to  a  light  brown,  and  well 
buttered.  Lay  a  quail  on  each  slice  of  the  toast,  then 
pour  the  butter  which  they  were  dipped  in  over  the 
whole.    Serve  hot. 

Wild.  Pigeons  Stewed. 

Emily  W.,  Carondalet. 

Clean  and  wash,  then  lay  in  salt  water  for  an  hour. 


32  COOKERY— GAME. 

Rinse  the  inside  with  a  solution  of  soda  and  water. 
Wash  out  with  clear  water,  and  stuff  with  bread  and 
pork,  chopped  fine  and  seasoned.  Sew  up  birds,  and 
put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water  sufficient  to  cover  them, 
adding  a  slice  of  pork  to  each  bird.  Season  to  taste. 
Cook  till  tender ;  when  done,  place  in  a  covered  dish ; 
strain  the  gravy,  add  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful 
currant  jelly,  and  thicken  with  flour ;  boil  up,  and  pour 
over  birds. 

Roast  Wild  Duels. 
Emily  TF.,  Carondal&t. 

Parboil  10  minutes,  putting  a  carrot  or  onion  in  each; 
remove  carrot  or  onion ;  lay  in  fresh  water  i  hour ; 
stuff  with  usual  dressing ;  roast  till  brown  and  tender, 
"basting  with  butter- water  and  drippings ;  to  the  gravy 
add  tablespoon  currant  jell,  and  thicken  with  browned 
flour. 

To  Cook  Venison. 
Observer,  Bock  Springs,  Wis. 

Boil  till  tender,  with  sufficient  water  to  keep  from 
burning ;  when  done  put  in  some  butter,  pepper  and 
salt ;  let  it  brown  in  the  kettle  ,  it  retains  all  the  flavor 
of  the  meat.  That  is  the  best  way  to  cook  roasts  of 
beef ;  you  then  have  juicy,  tender  meat. 

Turkey  Gravy. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  W.,  Chicago. 
Heart,  liver,  gizzard  and  neck  slashed  and  dredged 
thickly  with  flour.  Put  in  a  sauce  pan  with  a  little 
salt,  a  few  peppercorns  and  allspice,  and  a  little  mace ; 
outside  skin  of  3  onions,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  When  well  browned,  add  boiling  water  till  of 
proper  thinness ;  let  it  cook  slowly  on  the  back  part  of 
the  stove  all  the  morning.  After  removing  the  turkey 
from  the  dripping-pan  and  pouring  off  any  greese.  put 
the  prepared  gravy  into  the  dripping-pan.  and  proceed 
to  make  gravy  same  as  any  gravy.    . 

Dressing  for  Poultry. 
J.  I.  A.,  Dubuque. 

Rub  fine  the  soft  part  of  a  loaf  of  bread ,  add  ~±  a 
pound  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  teacup  full  of 
thyme  or  sweet  marjoram ',  1  tablespoonful  black  pep- 
per ;  same  of  salt. 


COOKERY— SHELL  FISH.  33 


SHELL  FISH. 


Stewed   Oysters. 

Mrs.  John  B.  D.,  Chicago. 

jUT  1  quart  of  oysters  into  3  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste. 
Leave  the  oysters  in  long  enough  to  become 
heated  through  (as  oysters  should  never  be  boiled). 
Then  skim  into  the  tureen.  Now  put  in  1  pint  of  sweet 
cream,  12  crackers,  and  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter, 
liquid.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  pour  into  the 
tureen  and  send  to  the  table. 

Mrs.  G.  S.,  Rock  River  Falls. 
To  1  can  of  oysters  I  allow  3  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
I  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  oysters,  and  let  the 
scum  raise,  and  skim  it  off  before  seasoning.  I  then 
add  £  tea  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Ousters  take  a  great  deal  of  salt.  Let  come 
to  boil  as  quick  as  possible,  but  do  not  boil. 

I>elnionico's  Stews. 

The  following  is  the  formula  used  at  the  celebrated 
restaurants  of  Delmonico  in  New  York,  where,  it  is 
said,  the  finest  oyster  stews  in  the  world  are  obtainable: 

"Take  1  quart  of  liquid  oysters,  put  the  liquor  (a  tea- 
cupful  for  3  persons)  in  a  stew-pan,  and  add  i  as  much 
more  water ;  salt,  a  good  bit  of  pepper,  a  teaspoonful 
of  butter  for  each  person,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  rolled 
cracker  for  each.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  it  boil ;  have 
the  oysters  ready  in  a  bowl.  The  moment  the  liquor 
begins  to  boil  pour  in  all  the  oysters,  say  10  for  each 
person.  Now  watch  carefully,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins 
to  boil,  count  just  30  seconds,  and  take  the  oysters 
from  the  stove.  Have  a  big  dish  ready  with  H  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  milk  for  each  person.  Pour  the  stew 
on  this  milk  and  serve  immediately.  Never  boil  an 
oyster  if  you  wish  it  to  be  good." 


34  COOKERY— SHELL,  FISH. 

Invalids'  Oyster  Soup. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  H.,  Chicago. 

Procure  the  largest  oysters ;  remove  6  from  the  can, 
1  at  a  time,  to  a  plate.  Insert  a  fork  into  the  solid 
flesh,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  make  a  slit  up  and  down 
and  across  the  abdominal  cavity ;  slip  the  point  of  the 
knife  under  the  dark  mass  thus  exposed  and  thorough- 
ly remove  it,  being  as  nice  about  it  as  you  would  in 
dressing  any  other  fish,  for  the  abdominal  foulness  of 
one  is  as  unsuited  to  the  stomach  as  the  other.  Put 
into  stew-pan ;  pour  out  proper  share  of  liquor,  a  pint 
of  water  and  £  gill  of  cream ;  add  salt ;  pepper,  if  there 
be  no  fever ;  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  or  2  of  pure 
cider  vinegar.  Bring  just  to  the  boil  and  pour  into  a 
dish.  Break  in  cracker  or  nicely  toasted  thin  slice  of 
light  bread.    A  little  fresh  butter  makes  it  richer. 

Escolloped  Oysters. 

Ivoline,  Baltimore,  Md. 
To  2  quarts  of  fine  oysters,  12  fresh  crackers  powder- 
ed fine,  1  cupful  of  oyster  juice,  1  cupful  of  milk,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt.  Place  alternate  layers  of  oysters  and  crackers  in 
a  deep  earthen  dish,  seasoning  each  layer  of  oysters 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  when  the  dish  is  full,  put  the 
butter  on  top  of  the  cracker  crumbs,  and  pour  the 
oyster  juice  and  milk  over  all ;  set  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  bake  50  minutes. 

Jessie,  Joliet,  1U. 
First,  lift  your  oysters  from  the  liquor  ;  then  put  in  a 
deep  dish,  alternate  layers  o.  rolled  crackers  and  oysters, 
putting  on  each  layer  of  oysters  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  butter.  Be  sure  and  have  your  first  and  last 
layer  consist  of  crackers.  After  you  have  the  desired 
quantity  in  your  dish,  pour  a  sufficient  amount  of  the 
liquor  over  the  top  to  thoroughly  moisten  the  crackers ; 
put  into  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  about  20  minutes. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 
Make  nice  short  biscuit  crust ;  put  a  can  of  oysters, 
liquor  and  all,  into  a  bright  basin  or  yellow  pudding 
pan ;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  water  if  not 


COOKERY— SHELL  FISH.  35 

a  considerable  quantity  of  liquor,  for  the  crust  soaks 
the  liquor  up;  cover  with  a  top  crust — no  bottom: 
bake  quick,  and  serve  hot.  Cold  sliced  meats  prepared 
the  same  way  are  very  good. 

Escolloped  Oysters. 

Shirley  Dare,  Bryan,  Ohio. 
Crush  the  desired  quantity  of  crackers  ;  put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  dish  -,  wet  this  with  a  mix- 
ture of  the  oyster-liquor  and  milk  slightly  warm  ;  next 
a  layer  of  oysters ;  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  lay  bits  of  butter  upon  them ;  then  another  layer 
of  moistened  crumbs,  and  so  on.  Let  the  top  layer  be 
of  crumbs  thicker  than  the  rest,  and  beat  an  egg  in  the 
milk  poured  over  them.  Stick  bits  of  butter  thickly 
over  it ;  cover  the  dish,  and  bake  40  minutes  ;  remove 
the  cover  and  brown  by  setting  it  on  the  upper  grate  of 
the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Cream  Oysters.  On  the  Halt-Shell. 

Pour  into  a  pan  1  cup  of  hot  water,  1  cup  milk,  and  1 
of  cream  (or  3  cupfuls  of  milk).  Set  it  in  a  kettle  of 
hot  water  until  it  boils ;  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, and  pepper  and  salt  to  suit ;  take  from  the  tire  and 
stir  in  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  wet  up 
in  cold  milk.  Have  the  shells  cleaned  and  buttered 
and  laid  in  a  baking-pan  ;  place  an  oyster  in  each  shell ; 
stir  the  cream  hard  and  till  carefully  ;  bake  5  or  6  min- 
utes after  the  shells  are  warm.  If  shells  are  not  easily 
obtained,  patty-pans  or  small  sauce-dishes  answer 
every  purpose.    Serve  in  the  shell  or  dishes. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Dip  each  oyster  in  beaten  egg ;  then  in  rolled  cracker 
or  corn-meal,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  butter. 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Louise,  Chicago. 
Take  12  good  oysters,  6  ounces  good  melted  butter,  a 
little  red    pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  cream.     Stir  all 
together  over  a  slow  lire,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  then  serve. 

Chowder. 

dttle  Rhody,  Aurora,  III. 

Take  4  or  5  slices  of  salt  pork,  fry  in  the  spider  a 


36  COOKERY— SHELL  FISH. 

delicate  brown  ;  remove,  and  cut  in  pieces ;  then  in  the 
pork  fat  fry  3  or  4  good-sized  onions  sliced  thin ;  have 
ready  12  potatoes,  pared  and  sliced,  also  4  or  5  cakes  of 
hard  bread;  put  the  hard  bread  to  soak  (whole)  in 
some  cold  water;  then  take  the  soup-kettle  and  put 
first  a  layer  of  pork,  then  of  onions,  next  of  potatoes, 
and  finally  of  clams  or  fish,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  so 
on  alternately,  seasoning  highly  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
and  lastly,  putting  a  layer  of  the  soaked  hard  bread  on 
top  ;  first  cover  with  water  and  boil  20  minutes. 

Octavia,  Amboy,  III. 
For  a  can  of  clams,  pare  and  cut  in  thin  slices  pota- 
toes to  nearly  fill  a  quart  measure ;  put  3  or  4  thin 
slices  of  nice  salt  pork  in  the  kettle  in  which  the 
chowder  is  to  be  cooked  ;  when  the  pork  is  about  half 
fried,  put  a  layer  of  the  sliced  potatoes  over  the  pork, 
then  a  layer  of  clams,  then  a  layer  of  Boston  crackers 
which  have  been  split  open  and  slightly  buttered  and 
dipped  quickly  in  cold  water ;  then  potatoes,  clams, 
and  crackers  again,  until  all  is  in  the  kettle.  Now 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  afterwards 
pour  on  milk,  or,  if  milk  is  not  plenty,  milk  and  water, 
to  just  cover  the  whole.  Let  boil  very  gently,  closely 
covered,  without  stirring,  for  about  half  an  hour,  or 
until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Then  remove  carefully 
to  a  tureen  for  the  table.  The  pork  prevents  the  mass 
from  sticking  to  the  kettle,  and  helps  to  season  the 
chowder.  Fresh  fish  chowder  made  in  this  way,  with 
milk,  is  delicious. 

Myrtle,  Chicago. 
Clam  or  fish  :  1  quart  water ;  2  slices  pork  ;  2  ordin- 
ary-sized onions,  sliced  thin.  Boil  20  minutes  ;  add  6 
quartered  potatoes  ;  1  pound  halibut  laid  on  the  top ; 
put  in  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste — the  higher 
seasoned  the  better  ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour ;  stew 
$  an  hour.  Just  before  taking  up  put  in  a  pint  of  oys- 
ter crackers,  and  you  have  a  genuine  chowder,  a  la 
seaside. 


COOKERY— SALADS.  37 


SALADS. 


Chicken  Salad. 

Ella,  Chicago. 

f  AKE  the  breasts  of  2  chickens ;  2  large  bunches 
of  celery  and  4  hard-boiled  eggs;  chop  these 
separately  and  fine;  put  together  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Then  make  a  gravy  of  1  table- 
spoonful  of  mustard ;  2  tablespoonf  ills  of  sugar ;  1  cup 
of  vinegar;  and  \  cup  of  butter;  pour  hot  over  the 
salad. 

Mary,  Chicago, 
Boil  a  chicken,  seasoned  in  cooking,  until  it  parts 
readily  from  the  bone  ;  pour  off  the  liquor.  When  the 
fowl  is  cold,  pick  it  from  the  bones  and  chop  line  in  a 
wooden  bowl.  Use  the  same  quantity  of  celery  or 
cabbage  cut  with  a  knife  and  the  chopped  whites  of  2 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Mix,  and  put  away  until  with- 
in an  hour  of  using,  when  the  following  previously- 
prepared  dressing  must  be  mixed  with  it:  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  2  eggs  separately ;  into  that  stir 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  or  table  oil ;  1£  tea- 
spoons of  salt ;  2  teaspoons  of  celery  salt  or  seed ;  1 
tablespoon  of  hard  butter,  and  f  of  a  teacup  of  vine- 
gar. Cook  in  an  earthen  or  new  tin  dish  until  as  thick 
as  pound-cake.  When  cold,  add  £  of  a  teacup  of  sweet 
milk  or  cream. 

Potato  Salad. 

C.  L.  D.  B.,  Chicago. 
Take  medium-sized  potatoes;  boil;  let  them  get 
cold ;  then  slice  them ;  put  in  a  medium-sized  onion, 
chopped  fine ;  take  a  teacup  £  full  of  best  cider-vine- 
gar, into  which  put  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil ;  heat 
the  vinegar  and  oil  very  hot ;  pour  over  the  potatoes 
and  onions,  and  stir  all  together  with  a  salad  spoon ; 
then  let  it  get  cold,  and  you  have  a  fine  potato  salad. 


38  COOKERY— SALADS. 

Bean  Salad. 

M.  L.  H.,  Elgin,  III. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  your  salad-dish  with  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  sliced  thin ;  over  this  spread  a  layer  of  cold 
baked  (or  boiled)  beans,  and  above  this  a  layer  of 
onions,  sliced  very  thin ;  salt  and  pepper  each  layer ; 
heat  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  sufficient 
vinegar  to  cover  the  salad,  and  pour  over  it  while  hot. 
Cabbage  Salad. 
Mrs.  Gen.  W.,  Chicago. 

Take  1  head  of  nice  cabbage  and  chop  very  fine  with 
salt,  after  which  set  it  away  for  a  few  days.  Then 
drain  off  all  the  water,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  mus- 
tard seed,  and  enough  vinegar  to  cover,  and  boil  it  i 
hour.    This  is  to  be  eaten  cold. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Winnie,  Charleston. 

Boil  a  hen  lobster;  when  done  remove  the  meat 
from  the  shell ;  mince  it ;  rub  the  coral  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  a  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter ; 
add  the  grated  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs ;  1  teaspoon 
of  mustard  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  a  wine-glass  of 
good  cider  vinegar ;  mix  the  sauce  with  the  meat ;  add 
a  third  as  much  with  lettuce  or  celery,  cut  fine,  just 
before  serving.  Salmon  salad  may  be  made  the  same 
way,  garnished  with  lemon,  sliced  thin,  and  parseley 
or  celery. 

Cream    Salad. 
\Marion,  Racine,  Wis, 

Chop  fine  I  a  head  of  cabbage ;  into  it  stir  a  little 
salt  and  \  a  cup  of  thick  cream ;  heat  i  a  cup  of  vine- 
gar, stirring  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  i  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard; 
pour  this  over  the  cabbage  just  as  it  goes  to  the  table. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa.  Iowa. 
Two  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  of  butter,  i 
cup  sweet  milk  well  beaten,  with  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  vinegar,  and  keep 
stirring  till  it  boils  again;  then  cool  and  pour  over 
very  fine  sliced  cabbage. 


COOKERY— VEGETABLES.  39 


VEGETABLES. 


Potato  Puff. 

Eloise  Howe,  Rockford,  111. 

WO  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes ;  bits  of  some 
kind  of  cold  meat  hashed  ;  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter ;  2  well-beaten  eggs ;  1  cup  milk ;  pour 
into  a  deep  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  if 
rightly  done,  will  merit  its  name. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 
Take  cold  beef  or  lean  meat  of  any  kind ;  cut  in 
small  bits ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  boil  and 
mash  some  potatoes  ;  make  into  paste  with  1  or  2  eggs ; 
roll  out  with  a  dust  of  flour ;  cut  with  a  saucer  ;  put 
the  cut-meat  on  i  of  crust ;  fold  the  other  over,  and 
pinch  together ;  fry  brown  in  butter. 

Potatoes  a  la  Crenie. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  G,  H.,  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  2  ounces  butter,  a  dessertspoon- 
ful of  flour,  some  parseley  and  scallions  (both  chopped 
small),  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  them  together ;  add  a 
wineglass  of  cream,  and  set  on  the  stove,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  boils.  Cut  some  boiled  potatoes  into 
slices  and  put  into  the  pan  with  the  mixture,  and  boil 
all  together,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Steamed  Potatoes. 

Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 
Steam  or  boil  dry  a  quart  of  sound  potatoes  ;  then 
peel  and  mash  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  mix  an  ounce  of 
butter  ;  set  over  the  tire,  pouring  in  slowly  nearly  i  a 
pint  of  milk  ;  stir  to  prevent  scorching ;  dish  into  a 
common  earthen  dish,  scollop  and  put  in  quick  oven 
to  brown  ;  set  on  table  in  same  dish.  This  is  the  most 
palatable  way  of  cooking  potatoes,  especially  in  the 
spring. 


40  COOKERY— VEGETABLES. 

Fancy  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Mrs.  H.  Frank  B.,  Chicago. 

Peel  2  quarts  potatoes,  and  when  they  are  cooked, 
turn  off  every  drop  of  water,  put  in  a  little  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter ;  then  take  a  carving-fork  and  break 
them  up  a  little  ;  next  add  a  little  more  butter,  say,  in 
the  whole,  a  piece  as  large  as  an  egg,  and  nearly  a  cup 
of  nice  milk  or  cream.  Now  take  a  silver  fork,  or 
3-pronged  one,  and  beat  them  briskly  5  minutes,  or 
until  light  and  creamy.  They  must  be  carried  imme- 
diately to  the  table,  or  they  will  become  heavy  and 
clammy.  If  once  tried  this  way  you  will  never  again 
resort  to  the  old  "  masher."  Remember,  they  must 
be  served  immediately. 

To  Boil. 

Marian  Warren,  Chicago. 
In  boiling  potatoes,  when  they  are  not  previously ' 
pared,  always  have  a  ring  of  the  skin  a  I  of  an  inch 
peeled  from  end  to  end.  This  is  not  a  "  notion,"  but 
the  escape  of  the  water,  and  consequently  the  meali- 
ness of  the  potato,  is  very  much  promoted  by  it.  It 
does  no  harm  to  cut  large  potatoes  in  halves  or  quar- 
ters before  boiling. 

Fried  Potatoes. 

Mrs.  D.  S.  F.,  Rockford. 

Peel,  then  slice  rather  thin  into  cold  water.  If  very 
thin,  they  may  be  too  crisp.  Let  them  stand  in  the 
water  a  short  time,  and  then  drain  through  a  colander ; 
have  ready  on  the  stove  a  kettle  of  hot  lard,  as  for 
fried  cakes ;  put  in  part  of  the  potatoes  and  cover  the 
kettle  ;  stir  them  occasionally  ;  when  done  they  should 
be  a  delicate  brown ;  skim  out  into  any  dish,  and 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them.  When  the  second 
batch  of  potatoes  is  partly  cooked,  let  me  advise  you 
to  ring  your  bell,  as  they  will  be  cooked  by  the  time 
the  first  lot  is  disposed  of,  and  are  much  better  hot. 
Boiled- Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Nannie  C,  Lake  View. 

Boil  your  potatoes  until  tender ;  then  slice  several 
times  the  long  way  of  the  potato  ;  place  a  layer  of  the 
slices  on  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish ;  sprinkle 


COOKERY— VEGETABLES.  41 

lightly  with  white  sugar,  and  heavily  with  lumps  of 
butter  (it  is  the  butter  that  makes  it  nice) ;  then  an- 
other layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on,  until  you  have  the 
sugar  and  butter  for  a  top  layer ;  then  bake  30  or  40 
minutes. 

Egg  Plant. 
Mrs.  EnoSy  Evansville,  Ind. 
To  cook  egg-plant,  slice  the  plant  i  inch  thick ; 
sprinkle  with  salt ;  place  layer  upon  layer,  and  let 
stand  15  minutes ;  dip  in  a  batter  and  fry  in  butter 
and  lard.  Another  good  way  is  to  dip  in  egg  and  roll 
in  crushed  cracker  and  fry  same  way. 

Corn  Oysters. 
M.  H.,  Chicago. 
Six  ears  of  sweet  corn  (those  which  are  not  too  old) ; 
with  a  sharp  knife  split  each  row  of  the  corn  in  the 
center  of  the  kernel  lengthwise ;  scrape  out  all  the 
pulp ;  add  1  egg,  well  beaten,  a  little  salt,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  milk  ;  flour  enough  to  make  a  pretty 
stiff  batter ;  drop  in  hot  lard,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 
If  the  corn  is  quite  young,  omit  the  milk,  using  as 
little  flour  as  possible. 

Asparagus. 

Mrs.  Sarah  I/.,  Chicago. 
Scrape.  Put  in  water  and  salt,  and  at  first  boil ; 
drop  in  the  asparagus  ;  boil  till  tender.  Sauce  :  1  yolk 
of  egg  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  water  ;  a  piece  of 
butter  added,  and  when  hot,  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk  ;  pour  over  the  drained  asparagus. 

Baked  Beans. 
Mrs.  J57-,  Kalamazoo. 
Take  as  many  beans  as  you  think  you  want ;  wash, 
boil  till  tender,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  and  molasses  to 
taste.  If  you  like  them  greasy,  put  in  tw  right  smart " 
of  pork  ;  a  small  piece  will  answer.  Bake  in  covered 
dish  of  any  sort. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Mrs.  H.  V.  JR.,  Chicago. 
Wash  ;  then  par-boiLl  an  hour ;  then  bake  all  day  or 
night.    As  to  the  seasoning,  it  is  much  a  matter  of 


42  COOKERY— VEGETABLES. 

taste.  Some  like  them  with  a  good  deal  of  fat,  and 
into  a  pot  that  would  hold  a  quart  of  beans,  would  put 
£  a  pound  of  pork  (salt),  cutting  through  the  rind  as  if 
to  slice,  then  laying  it  at  the  top,  so  that  the  rind  may 
become  nicely  brown.  Then  some  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  molasses.  We  do  not  believe  much  in  pork,  so 
only  put  in  a  very  thin  slice  of  it,  adding  a  little  salt 
and  omitting  the  sweetening. 

D.  £>.,  Belvidcre,  III. 

Take  1  pint  of  beans  and  let  them  soak  over  night 
in  a  quart  of  cold  water ;  in  the  morning  pour  the 
water  off,  and  let  them  stand  about  an  hour  in  fresh 
water  on  top  of  the  stove,  and  then  remove  to  a  regu- 
lar "  Boston  bean-pot,11  not  a  common  yellow  dish,  as 
half  of  the  western  people  do,  and  lay  i  a  pound  of 
salt  pork  (not  too  fat)  across  the  top  of  them  and  2 
tablespoon!' uls  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  and  cover  all 
with  water,  and  put  in  the  oven,  and  let  them  bake 
until  the  middle  of  the  afternoon,  during  the  day 
adding  water  as  it  cooks  away  ;  and  for  Sunday  morn- 
ing's (breakfast  set  the  bean-pot  in  the  oveii  again 
(with  your  beans  undisturbed  from  the  night  before), 
and  add  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and  let  them  remain  about 
an  hour,  and  you  will  find  them  delicious.  Serve  with 
a  loaf  of  brown  bread,  and  you  can  imagine  yourself 
eating  a  Boston  breakfast.  I  make  a  sweet  sauce 
from  ripe  tomatoes,  which  eaten  upon  beans,  gives 
them  a  great  relish.  I  advise  those  who  never  tried 
it,  for  meats  or  beans,  to  immediately  make  a  large 
jar  full  for  winter. 

Baked  Beans. 
Mrs.  H.  Frank  B.,  Chicago. 

For  a  family  of  4  or  5,  take  1  quart  of  beans,  the 
smaller  the  better,  and  soak  them  10  or  12  hours  ;  then 
put  in  1  pound  of  salt  pork,  not  too  lean  ;  put  them  in 
a  deep  jar  or  "  crock,"  and  sink  the  pork  in  the  beans 
all  but  the  rind,  which  must  be  scored,  or  gashed, 
about  I  an  inch  apart ;  cover  the  whole  with  the  water 
the  beans  were  soaked  in ;  if  not  enough,  add  more 
cold  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  10  or  12 
hours.  I  put  mine  in  the  oven  at  6  p.m.,  and  cook 
them  all  night  with  a  slow  fire.    Some  put  in  a  table- 


COOKERY— VEGETABLES.  43 

spoonful  of  molasses.  This  will  make  2  good  meals, 
and  the  more  they  are  warmed  over  the  better  they 
are. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Take  large  green  tomatoes  ;  cut  off  both  ends,  and 
then  cut  up  1  in  3  slices.  Have  some  butter  in  the 
frying-pan  ;  let  it  get  hot ;  then  roll  the  tomatoes  in 
flour  and  lay  them  in  the  pan  ;  salt,  pepper,  and 
sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  while  frying ;  cook  till  they 
are  done  nice  and  brown,  and  you  will  have  a  most 
delicious  article  for  breakfast. 

Egg  Plant. 
Mrs.  T.  G.  E.,  Chicago. 

Cut  slices  {-  an  inch  thick,  and  pare,  when  first 
starting  breakfast.  Rub  salt  lightly  over  the  top  of 
each  slice  and  let  stand  in  a  pile  till  the  brine  starts  ; 
then  shake  off  the  salt  and  dip  each  slice,  both  sides, 
into  flour  well ,  stand  in  a  pile  till  the  flour  is  moist, 
then  fry  in  a  little  lard  in  the  frying-pan,  like  one 
would  griddle-cakes.  When  brown,  take  up  and  spread 
a  little  butter  on  top  of  each  slice. 

Cooking  Egg  Plant. 

Mrs.  C.  G.  S.,  Chicago. 
To  cook  egg  plant — Slice  and  leave  in  salt  water  a 
short  time  before  using  ;  dip  in  beaten  e^g ;  after,  in 
corn-meal  or  cracker  crumbs  ;  fry  brown  in  butter  and 
lard. 

To  Cook  r  -3'  Peas. 

Kit,  Crete,  Neb. 
Choose  the  green,  wrinkled  peas;  soak  a  pint  of 
them  over  night ;  set  them  on  the  stove  early  in  the 
morning  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  them  well ; 
simmer  very  gently,  adding  cold  water  as  they  evapo- 
rate. Do  not  let  them  boil,  and  they  will  come  to  the 
table  whole  and  sound.  Do  not  salt  until  they  are 
done,  and  they  will  be  as  tender  as  June  peas.  A  little 
butter  is  all  the  dressing  they  will  need. 

Hominy  Fritters. 

E.  L.  M.,  Chicago. 
Two  teacupf  uls  of  cold  boiled  hominy  ;  stir  in  1  tea- 
cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt,  4  tablespoonfuls 


44  COOKERY— VEGETABLES. 

of  sifted  flour  and  1  egg.  Beat  the  white  separately 
and  add  last.  Have  over  the  fire  a  pan  of  hot  lard ; 
drop  the  batter  in  by  spoonfuls,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 
This  is  especially  designed  for  a  breakfast  side  dish, 
and  rice  is  good  used  in  place  of  the  hominy. 
Boiled  Hominy. 
E.  L.  M.,  Chicago. 

Boiled :  Soak  1  cup  of  fine  hominy  in  3  cups  of 
water,  with  salt  to  taste.  In  the  morning  turn  it  into 
a  quart  pail,  then  put  the  pail  into  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  1  hour ;  then  add  1 
teacup  of  sweet  milk,  and  boil  15  minutes  after  stir- 
ring the  milk  in. 

Hulled  Corn. 
F.  S.  P.,  Moline. 

Take  3  quarts  corn,  3  quarts  unleeched  wood 
ashes  (or  i  pound  potash) ;  to  ashes  or  potash  add  6 
quarts  water,  which  boil  and  skim ;  strain  lye  into 
kettle ;  put  in  the  corn ;  boil  until  skins  break 
from  kernels  easily,  stirring  frequently ;  skim  out  the 
corn,  rinse  it  several  times,  rubbing  thoroughly  last 
time  ;  leave  it  to  soak  in  clear  water  10  minutes,  when 
rub  off  black  chits  ;  rinse  again  ;  put  back  into  kettle, 
cover  with  water,  boil  slowly  till  soft ;  keep  hot  water 
to  add  until  boiled  tender  ;  salt.  Eat  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

"  Domin  Nopinee.*' 

Take  a  i  pint  of  yellow  corn  ;  roast  it  like  coffee  over 
a  slow  fire  ;  clean  out  the  coffee-mill ;  grind  1  coarse, 
1  fine  ;  eat  with  milk  and  a  little  salt,  after  it  has  stood 
5  or  10  minutes  to  swell. 

Succotash. 

Aunt  Eliza,  Andover,  Ct. 
Take  1  quart  Lima  beans,  i  pound  pork,  1£  dozen 
ears  sweet  corn  (green) ;  boil  the  pork  1£  hours  in  3 
quarts  of  water,  putting  in  the  beans  when  the  pork 
has  boiled  I  an  hour.  Cut  the  corn  off,  putting  it  in 
1  dish ;  into  another  scrape  the  milk  from  the  cobs. 
When  the  beans  are  nearly  done,  put  in  the  corn,  and 
boil  15  minutes ;  then  add  the  milk  from  the  cobs, 
boiling  all  10  minutes  longer.    It  should  be  a  little 


COOKERY— VEGETABLES.  45 

thicker  than  gruel.  Stir  all  the  time  after  adding  the 
milk,  or  it  will  burn.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add 
sugar. 

Scolloped  Tomatoes. 
Peel,  slice  and  pack  in  a  pudding  dish  in  alternate 
layers,  with  a  thick  layer  of  bread  crumbs  mixed  with 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  white  sugar.  When 
the  dish  is  nearly  full,  put  tomatoes  uppermost ;  lay  a 
piece  of  butter  on  each  slice  ;  dust  with  pepper,  salt 
and  sugar  ;  cover  lightly  with  crumbs  and  bake  cov- 
ered i  an  hour  ;  remove  lid  and  bake  brown. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Jennie  June. 
Strip  off  the  outside  leaves ;  cut  in  quarters,  and  lay 
for  an  hour  in  cold  water ;  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  cook  15  minutes ;  turn  off  the  water  and  cover 
with  fresh  boiling  water ;  cook  until  tender,  perhaps 
an  hour ;  drain  well ;  chop  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot.  Some  prefer 
to  boil  a  piece  of  pork  with  the  cabbage.  It  will  give 
a  delicious  flavor. 

Baked  Cabbage. 

Cook  as  for  boiled  cabbage,  after  which  drain  and 
set  aside  until  cold.  Chop  line,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  3  tablespoons  rich 
cream ;  stir  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until 
brown.    Eat  hot. 

<jireen  Peas. 

Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour ;  put  into 
salted  boiling  water  and  cook  i  an  hour.  Drain  well, 
and  season  with  butter  and  pepper. 

Baked  Onions. 

Wash,  but  do  not  peel  the  onions ;  boil  1  hour  in 
boiling  water,  slightly  salt,  changing  the  water  twice 
in  the  time.  When  tender,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  roll 
each  in  buttered  tissue  paper,  twisted  at  the  top,  and 
bake  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Peel  and  brown  them. 
Serve  with  melted  butter. 

Browned  Potatoes. 

Boil :  and  £  of   an  hour  before  a  roast  of  beef   is 


46  COOKERY— VEGETABLES. 

taken  from  the  oven,  put  them  in  the  dripping-pan, 
after  skimming  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy  ;  baste  them 
frequently,  and  when  quite  brown  drain  on  a  sieve. 

Mashed  Turnips. 

Pare  and  lay  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  10  min- 
utes; cook  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  very 
tender ;  drain  and  wash  in  a  collander ;  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.    Serve  hot. 
Escolloped  Onions. 
Miss  Lee  Any,  Alton,  111. 

Boil  till  tender  6  large  onions.  Afterwards  sepa- 
rate them  with  a  large  spoon ;  then  place  a  layer  of 
onions  and  a  layer  of  grated  bread  crumbs  alternately 
in  a  pudding  dish.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste  ;  moisten  with  milk ;  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Small  Housekeeper,  at  Home. 
Stir  5  large  heaping  spoonfuls  of  the  crushed  white 
wheat  sold  by  grocers  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  set  the  tin  pail  holding  it  into  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  to  cook  20  minutes.  This  prevents  its  burning, 
and  is  a  cheap  and  easy  substitute  for  a  farina  kettle. 
Salt  well,  and  when  the  kernels  have  swelled  and  burst 
like  popcorn  it  is  done.  Serve  it  plain  to  eat  with 
meat  and  gravy  like  rice,  or  add  i  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  ground  cloves,  a  handful  of 
raisins  or  currants,  and  a  £  cup  of  sugar  while  boiling, 
and  you  have  a  savory  breakfast  dish.  Sometimes  we 
serve  it  plain  in  saucers,  with  a  dust  of  cinnamon  on 
the  top,  and  sugar  and  butter  or  cream,  as  German 
pancake  is  eaten. 


COOKERY— EGGS.  47 


EGGS. 

Boiling  Eggs. 
Jennie  Lee,  Chicago. 

JJT  the  eggs  in  some  vessel  which  can  be  closely 
covered,  and  when  the  tea-kettle  boils  pour  in 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  close  the  vessel 
and  place  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  and 
let  it  remain  10  minutes.  If  you  wish  to  be  very  exact, 
use  a  thermometer  and  keep  the  water  10  minutes  at 
exactly  the  heat  which  is  indicated  after  the  water  is 
poured  in. 

Bv  the  ordinary  method  of  letting  the  eggs  boil  from 
2  to  A  minutes  the  white  part  is  hardened  and  the  yolk 
left  uncooked,  or  if  the  yolk  is  cooked  the  white  is  too 
hard.  By  this  method  the  heat  penetrates  so  gradu- 
ally that  the  yolk  is  nicely  cooked,  while  the  white  is 
soft  and  tender  and  only  just  done  enough  to  be 
opaque. 

Poached  Eggs. 
Mrs.  W.  S.  D.,  Lowell. 
Place  a  frying-pan  of  salted  boiling  water  on  the 
fire  filled  with  as  many  small  muffin-rings  as  it  will 
hold ;  break  the  eggs  singly  in  a  cup  and  pour  into  the 
rings ;  boil  them  2i  or  3  minutes ;  remove  the  rings 
and  take  up  the  eggs  singly  in  a  strainer ;  serve  on  £ 
slices  of  nicely  browned  and  buttered  toast;  put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  on  each  egg;  pepper  slightly, 
and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parseley.    Serve  hot. 

Omelet. 

Gypsy,  Ionia,  Mich. 
Take  six  eggs  and  beat  separately ;  allow  one  table- 
spoonful  of  milk  to  each  egg ;  stir  in  flour  to  make  a 
batter ;  take  a  cupful  of  milk,  put  on  the  stove,  and 
stir  in  the  batter  until  it  is  like  starch ;  add  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  take 


48  COOKERY— EGGS. 

this  from  the  stove ;  pour  into  the  dish  in  which  you 
would  serve ;  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  which 
have  been  beaten ;  beat  the  whites  until  you  can  turn 
the  platter  bottom  side  up ;  then  add  them,  mixing 
thoroughly ;  put  in  a  quick  oven  and  bake  10  minutes. 
Should  be  eaten  immediately. 

Annie  M.  Hale,  M.  D.,  Chicago. 

Break  6  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Skim  out  the  yolks  into  a 
large  coffee-cup.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Now  beat  the  yolks  enough  to  make  them  smooth,  fill 
up  the  cup  with  milk  and  pour  this  into  the  bowl  con- 
taining the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  little  salt  and 
stir  enough  to  mix  the  whole — that  is,  as  little  as  pos- 
sible. Have  the  spider  warmed  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter as  large  as  an  egg  already  melted  therein.  Now 
pour  in  your  eggs  and  milk,  let  it  cook  slowly ;  be  sure 
and  not  burn.  If  there  is  danger  of  this  lift  it  up  from 
the  bottom  with  a  knife.  When  the  froth  sets  on  the 
top  it  is  done.  Put  a  large  plate  over  the  spider  and 
deftly  turn  the  whole  upside  down.  Lift  off  the 
spider  and  you  will  have  an  elegant  and  delicious 
omelet. 

JaneB.,  Waukegan. 

Take  1  egg  for  each  person,  beat  2  minutes,  add 
salt  the  size  of  a  pea  and  1  tablespoonful  of  milk  for 
each  egg ;  beat  1  minute  and  turn  into  a  hot,  well-but- 
tered frying-pan ;  cover  it  and  cook  slowly  till  nearly 
as  thick ;  raise  the  edges  and  put  under  a  little  butter 
or  lard  to  prevent  sticking,  and  turn  1  half  over  on 
the  other  half,  and  serve  immediately. 

French   Eggs. 
Roxey,  No.  2,  Chicago. 
Boil  hard,  remove  the  shells,  and  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  ;  fry  in  butter  until  brown.    Make  a  gravy  of 
butter,  crumbs  and  cream,  and  pour  over  them. 

Pickled  Eggs. 

Algebra,  Cliicago. 
Select  nine  fresh  ones,  boil  them  hard,  lift  them  di- 
rectly from  the  hot  water  into  cold.    When  cool,  re- 
move the  shell,  stick  cloves  into  them,  and  drop  in 
cold  vinegar. 


COOKERY— EGGS.  49 

Agnes,  Chicago. 
Put  the  eggs  on  the  stove  in  cold  water,  let  stand 
and  boil  for  1  hour— the  heart  is  then  mealy ;  remove 
the  shells,  stick  4  or  5  cloves  in  each  egg,  pour  hot 
vinegar  over  (add  other  spices  if  you  like) ;  let  stand  a 
few  days ;  they  are  very  nice. 

To  Keep  Eggs. 

Mrs.  C.  O.  S.,  Rock  River  Valley. 
Pour  one  gallon  of  boiling  water  on  one  quart  of 
quicklime.    When  cold,  add  one  ounce  cream  tartar. 
The  eggs  must  be  covered  with  the  pickle. 

Fancier,  Chicago. 
Take  any  tight  package  and  place  a  layer  of  fine  salt 
over  the  bottom;  into  this  set  the  eggs,  large  end 
down,  as  closely  as  possible  without  touching  each 
other ;  fill  with  salt  until  the  layer  is  covered,  and  then 
proceed  as  before.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the  salt 
is  dry,  and  that  it  be  kept  so,  else  it  will  cake  and 
make  it  very  troublesome  to  get  the  eggs  out  without 
breaking. 

French  Toast. 

Belle,  Chicago. 
For  dessert :  f  of  a  pint  of  milk ;  1  egg,  well  beaten ; 
a  little  salt.  Take  6  slices  of  bread ;  dip  into  the  cus- 
tard (uncooked)  1  by  1 ;  then  fry  in  a  little  butter  till  a 
delicate  brown.  For  sauce,  melted  sugar  with  a  little 
cinnamon  added.  This  is  very  nice,  and  is  a  good  way 
to  use  up  stale  bread. 

P.  P.  C,  Chicago. 

Beat  3  or  4  eggs ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  have 
ready  some  thin  slices  of  bread;  dip  them  into  the 
eggs,  and  fry  them  in  lard  (or  after  frying  ham)  until 
of  a  light  brown. 

Another  method  of  cooking  eggs  and  bread  together 
is  to  crumb  the  bread  some,  as  for  dressing ;  mix  it 
with  3  or  4  beaten  eggs;  season,  and  fry  until 
thoroughly  done  ;  or  mold  with  the  hands  into  cakes, 
and  fry  until  of  a  light  brown.  Either  of  the  above 
dishes  form  a  pleasant  addition  to  the  morning's  re- 
past. 


50  COOKERY— COFFEE. 


COFFEE. 

A  Woman,  New  Boston,  III. 
[AKE  the  best  green  coffee,  roast  to  a  dark- 
brown,  beat  the  white  of  1  egg  (so  it  won't  hang 
together  nrnch),  stir  it  through  the  coffee  while 
hot.  When  sufficiently  browned,  put  away  in  a 
close  can  while  hot.  Grind  when  you  want  to  make 
your  coffee  enough  for  a  tablespoon  heaping  full  to 
each  person;  add  as  many  cups  cold  water  as  you 
think  your  family  will  drink  ;  put  in  a  hot  place  ;  let 
it  just  come  to  a  boil ;  put  it  back  where  it  will  keep 
hot  till  your  meal  is  ready ;  then  put  it  off  the  stove  2 
or  3  minutes  before  pouring  out.  If  not  strong 
enough,  put  in  more  coffee  next  time. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  E.,  Burlington,  Iowa. 
A  recipe  for  making  coffee  which  has  been  used  in 
my  family  for  75  years  :  Buy  the  green  berry  ;  brown 
and  grind  it  at  home  ;  grind  as  fine  as  mill  will  grind 
it.  Buy  a  French  biggin — dimensions  of  top  portion 
to  make  coffee  for  1  person— If  inches  in  diameter,  5 
inches  high ;  for  2  or  3  persons,  2i  inches  diameter,  4 
to  5  inches  high.  Quantity  of  unground  coffee  for  1 
person,  contents  of  a  tin  cup  If  inches  in  diameter,  1£ 
inches  deep ;  for  two  persons,  If  inches  in  diameter,  2 
inches  deep.  Put  the  coffee  into  the  top  of  the  pot, 
with  nothing  between  it  and  the  perforated  bottom ; 
press  it  tight ;  put  in  the  strainer.  (This  is  to  prevent 
the  water  from  striking  the  coffee  in  a  body,  thus 
boring  a  hole  in  it,  and  running  through  without 
extracting  its  strength).  Pour  in  boiling  water  I  of 
a  pint  at  a  time,  allowing  I  of  a  pint  for  each  person, 
and  I  of  a  pint  for  absorption.  (Where  there  are 
more  than  3  persons,  allow  more  for  absorption; 
where  fewer,  less).  While  water  is  running  through, 
the  bottom  pot  or  receiver  should  stand  in  hot  water. 
(This  prevents  boiling  or  getting  cold).    This  coffee 


COOKERY— COFFEE.  51 

should  always  be  used  with  hot  milk— proportion,  1 
part  coffee,  3  parts  milk. 

Lillie  W.,  Englewood,  Ills. 
Take  2  or  more  egg-shells,  crush  them  with  the  requi- 
site amount  of  ground  Java,  add  1  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
beat  it  well  together,  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  allow 
it  to  boil  up  once.  Always  wash  eggs  before  breaking 
them,  and  save  the  shells  for  coffee,  which  will  be, 
when  so  treated,  as  clear  as  when  the  white  of  an  egg 
is  used. 

Aunt  Sally,  Springfield,  O. 

Take  a  piece  of  Shaker  flannel,  and  make  a  bag  that 
will  fit  in  your  coffee-pot,  only  make  it  about  an  inch 
shorter.  Hem  in  a  piece  of  wire  or  hoop-skirt  steel, 
just  below  the  hem  at  the  top  (something  to  hold  the 
bag  up),  and  put  a  loop  on.  Hang  this  bag  in  the 
coffee-pot,  and  put  the  coffee  in  the  bag,  pour  in  the 
boiling  water,  a  pint  to  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
coffee,  and  boil.  You  will  have  nice  clear  coffee,  with- 
out using  eggs  or  anything  else  to  clear  it. 

Mrs.  Lillian  D.  Bollam,  Chicago. 
Boast  to  a  brown  color  (don"t  burn  to  a  black)  genuine 
Mocha  or  old  Government  Java;  grind  while  yet 
warm;  place  the  quantity  required  for  breakfast, 
loose  (not  packed),  in  a  thin  muslin  sack ;  drop  this 
sack  to  the  bottom  of  the  coffee-pot ;  fill  the  pot  with 
cold  water;  place  it  on  the  stove  until  it  gradually 
reaches  the  boiling  heat,  but  don't  let  it  boil  for  an  in- 
stant; keep  the  pot  on  the  stove  10  minutes  longer,  and 
the  strength  will  be  drawn  from  the  ground  coffee. 
Pour  the  coffee  into  warm  cups  directly  from  the  pot. 
Add  warm  cream  or  hot  milk,  and  sugar,  and  you  will 
have  an  exquisite  draught,  all  things  having  been 
properly  conducted,  equal  to  the  fabled  nectar  we  read 
of  in  mythology.  Eoast  coffee  every  morning— use  as 
soon  as  roasted. 

D.  D.  Chicago. 

One-half  egg  to  1  cup  ground  coffee;  stir  well  in  a  bowl, 
so  that  every  ground  is  covered;  then  place  in  the 
coffee-pot  and  pour  on  cold  water— shaking  constantly 
till  the  lump  of  egg  and  coffee  settles  to  a  smooth  mass. 
Add  your  boiling  water. 


52  COOKERY— COFFEE. 

Mrs.  Evergreen  City,  Bloomington. 
For  each  person  allow  1  tablespoonful  of  coffee; 
pour  on  boiling  water  sufficient  for  use  ;  boil  from  '6  to 
5  minutes,  after  which  pour  out  \  a  cupful  and  replace 
it  in  the  pot,  allowing  it  to  stand  about  a  minute— this 
settles  the  coffee  nicely — when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Buelah,  Ottawa,  111. 
Boil  a  dessert-spoonful  of  ground  coffee  in  a  pint  of 
milk  for  a  i  of  an  hour ;  then  clear  it  with  white  of  egg 
or  isinglass ;  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  set  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  fine.  Sweeten  according  to  taste. 
This  is  a  suitable  breakfast  for  those  of  spare  habit 
and  disposed  to  affections  of  the  lungs. 

Queechy,  DesPlaines,  Ills. 
You  can  make  coffee  perfectly  clear  by  putting  in  a 
small  piece  of  codfish-skin,  about  5  minutes  before  it  is 
taken  from  the  stove.  A  piece  an  inch  square  will  be 
sufficient  for  a  good  sized  family.  The  outside  should 
be  scraped,  then  rinse  it  and  drop  it  in. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Townsend,  Chicago, 

In  the  first  place  get  the  green  coffee,  roast  it,  take 
the  quantity  required,  put  in  coffee-pot,  pour  boiling 
water  on  it ;  have  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  set  in  this  the 
coffee-pot,  with  a  small  piece  of  wood  for  the  coif  ee-pot 
to  rest  on,  so  it  will  not  touch  the  bottom  of  the  pot ; 
let  it  boil  a  half-hour,  or,  for  that  matter,  it  might  boil 
all  day,  and  be  all  the  better  for  it.  Your  coffee  will 
be  as  clear  as  crystal.  You  will  need  no  egg,  and  will 
also  find  you  will  not  require  as  much  coffee  as  boiling. 
This  way  does  not  boil  but  steeps  it.  Be  careful  to  use 
boiling  water  for  both. 

B.  Frank,  Peoria. 

Get  the  best  of  green  coffee,  and  brown  nicely,  but 
be  sure  and  not  burn  it ;  and  while  it  is  cooling,  take 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  beat  them  until  they  are 
slightly  frothy,  and  while  the  coffee  is  warm  pour  them 
over  and  stir  well  together,  and  when  well  mixed,  if  it 
should  not  be  dry,  set  the  pan  under  the  stove  to  dry. 
Grind  a  cupful  of  the  coffee,  and  to  every  person  put  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  the  coffee  in  a  coffee-pot. 
Then  pour  a  cup  of  cold  water  over  it  and  shake  well; 


COOKERY— BREAD.  53 

set  it  on  the  stove ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  put  in  as 
many  cups  of  boiling  water  as  you  have  spoonfuls 
of  coffee ;  stir  down  the  grounds  from  the  sides  of 
the  coffee-pot ;  pour  in  a  little  cold  water ;  let  it  stand 
a  little  while  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


BREAD. 


Puffett. 

R.,  Dubuque,  Iowa. 
1  quart  sifted  flour,  in  which  rub  2  teaspoons  cream 
tartar ;  butter,  size  of  an  egg ;  2  teaspoons  powdered 
sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  ;  mix  very  smooth  and  add  1  pint 
milk  and  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling 
water.    Bake  immediately. 

muffins. 

Critic,  Chicago. 
1  quart  flour ;  three  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  or 
2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar  (which  I  prefer), 
and  one  rounding  full  of  soda,  both  stirred  in  the  flour ; 
f  of  a  cup  of  butter,  or  lard,  or  half  and  half ;  put  on 
the  stove  to  melt  without  getting  hot ;  beat  2  eggs  in  a 
bowl ;  add  a  little  less  than  a  pint  of  milk ;  stir  into  the 
flour  a  little  salt ;  add  the  butter  last ;  have  irons  quite 
hot  and  rill  even  full ;  then  bake. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  T.  H„  Grand  Rapid*,  Mich. 
1  quart  of  rich  milk,  or,  1  cream  and  i  milk ;  1  quart 
of  flour— heaping ;  (5  eggs;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  1  of  lard,  softened  together.  Beat  whites  and 
yolks  separately,  very  light.  Then  add  flour  and 
shortening,  and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  stir  in 
the  flour  the  last  thing,  lightly  as  possible,  and  have 
the  butter  free  from  lumps.  Heat  your  muffin  rings, 
butter  well,  and  half  fill  them,  and  bake  immediately  in 
hot  oven .  Send  them  to  the  table  the  moment  they  are 
done. 


54  COOKERY— BREAD. 

R.,  Dubuque,  Iowa, 
1  pint  sweet  milk ;  3  eggs ;  2  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter ;  1  teaspoon  soda ;  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar  ;  bat- 
ter as  stiff:  as  for  buckwheat  cakes. 

Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 
1  cup  milk ;  2  eggs ;  •§-  cup  lard ;  salt ;  1  teaspoonf ul 
baking  powder.    Make  a  batter  not  too  stiff,  and  bake 
in  gem- tins ;  15  or  20  minutes  will  do. 

Quick  Muffins, 

Henrietta,  Warsaw,  lnd. 
1  cup  milk;  1  cup  flour;  1  egg,  well  beaten,  salt. 
Have  your  gem-irons  very  hot;  fill  \  full  and  bake 
quickly.    These  are  delicious  with  good  butter  and 
maple  sirup. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

Cousin  Nell,  Chicago. 
li  cups  of  corn-meal ;  the  same  of  flour ;  2  teaspoons 
of  baking-powder ;  i  cup  of  sugar ;  I  teaspoon  of  salt ; 
small   tablespoon   of   melted    butter ;    2   eggs ;    milk 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Drop  Biscuits. 

Aunt  Sally,  Springfield,  O. 

1  quart  of  flour ;  3  teaspoonsf ul  of  baking  powder ;  1 
small  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  rubbed  thoroughly  in  the  flour ;  1  pint  of  milk ; 
dropped  from  a  spoon  in  buttered  pans ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Soda  Biscuits. 

Mrs.  Beal,  Dixon. 

3  pints  of  flour,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  do.  lard, 
a  teaspoon  of  salt,  do.  even  full  cream  of  tartar,  1  of 
soda ;  sift  the  cream  tartar  with  the  flour  dry,  rub  the 
butter  and  lard  very  thoroughly  through  it ;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  mix  all  together.  Eoll 
out,  adding  as  little  flour  as  possible  ;  cut  with  a  bis- 
cuit-cutter, and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Yeast  Biscuit. 

Gwendolen,  Monzomania,  Wis. 

2  quarts  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  3  table- 


COOKERY— BREAD.  55 

spoonsful  of  sugar;  i  cup  yeast;  a  little  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  1  pint  of  scalded  milk  when  it  is 
almost  cold.  This  will  seem  hard,  but  when  raised 
will  mold  easily.  Mix  at  night  and  mold  in  the  morn- 
ing. Cut  out  and  let  them  stand  until  raised  again ; 
then  bake. 

Baking- Powder  Biscuit. 
Mrs.  O.  H.  H.,  Chicago. 
One  important  point  is  in  having  a  hot  oven ;  another 
is,  have  flour  sifted,  and  roll  dough  as  soft  as  you  can 
handle ;  then  more  baking-powder  is  needed.  For 
each  teacup  of  flour  take  a  teaspoon  of  powder ;  butter, 
the  size  of  a  small  hen's  egg,  is  sufficient  for  a  quart  of 
flour.  After  rubbing  butter  and  powder  into  the 
amount  of  flour  needed,  I  turn  in  cold  water  (milk  will 
do),  stirring  all  of  the  time,  till  the  right  consistency  is 
reached ;  salt ;  then  roll  lightly,  and  bake  at  once.  I 
warrant  these  will  prove  flakey,  feathery,  delicious,  and 
more  nutritious  than  biscuit  raised  with  yeast. 

Mrs.  G.  Clinton  Smith,  Springfield,  Ills. 

Use  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Rub  this 
with  your  hands — not  a  spoon — into  a  quart  of  flour 
thoroughly.  Then  rub  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  or  lard  in  the  same  manner  you  did  the  baking- 
powder  until  well  mixed.  After  adding  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  if  lard  is  used,  add  milk  or  water  sufficient  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  and  cut  out  quickly,  placing 
them  at  once  in  a  very  hot  oven.  This  latter  is  import- 
ant. Unless  the  oven  is  very  hot  they  will  not  be  a 
success. 

Quick  Biscuits. 
Mrs.  Emily,  Eau  Claire,  Wis. 

Mix  a  quart  of  sweet  milk  with  i  a  cup  melted  but- 
ter; stir  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking- 
powder,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Have  the 
oven  at  a  brisk  heat.  Drop  the  batter,  a  spoonful  in  a 
place,  on  buttered  pans.    They  will  bake  in  15  minutes. 

Graham  Biscuits. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  H„  Moline. 
Take  1  quart  water  or  milk,  butter  the  size  of  1  egg, 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2  of  baker's  yeast,  and  a  pinch 


So  COOKERY— BREAD. 

of  salt.  Take  enough  white  flour  to  use  up  the  water, 
making  it  the  consistency  of  batter  cakes.  Add  the 
rest  of  the  ingredients,  and  as  much  Graham  flour  as 
can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon.  Set  it  away  till  morn- 
ing. In  the  morning  grease  pan,  flour  hands.  Take  a 
lump  dough  the  size  ot  a  large  egg ;  roll  lightly  between 
the  palms.  Let  them  rise  20  minutes,  and  bake  in  a 
tolerably  hot  oven. 

Rusks. 

Mrs.  W.  F.,  Tuscola,  Ills. 
Take  enough  of  light  dough  and  work  in  a  teacup  of 
sugar  and  nearly  as  much  shortening,  mould  out  same 
as  for  light  biscuit.  Or,  take  a  teacupful  of  yeast,  i  a 
cup  of  lard  or  butter,  a  little  soda ;  knead  together,  and 
when  it  rises  mold  out,  and  raise  again  before  baking. 

May  Ely,  Rochester. 
Rusks  require  a  longer  time  for  rising  than  ordinary 
rolls  or  biscuits.  If  wished  for  tea  one  evening,  begin 
them  the  day  before.  In  cold  weather,  to  make  up  2£ 
quarts  of  flour,  mix  into  a  paste  with  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  of  flour,  and  2 
large  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  smooth.  In  the 
evening  make  up  dough  with  this  sponge,  adding  3  well 
beaten  eggs,  £  of  a  pound  sugar,  and  i  a  pint  fresh 
milk.  Set  it  away  in  a  covered  vessel,  leaving  plenty 
of  room  for  it  to  swell.  Next  morning  work  into  the 
risen  dough,  which  should  not  be  stiff,  a  i  pound  of 
butter  and  lard  mixed.  Make  into  rolls  or  biscuits, 
and  let  the  dough  rise  for  the  second  time.  Flavor  with 
2  grated  nutmegs  or  i  an  ounce  of  pounded  stick  cin- 
namon. When  very  light,  bake  in  a  quick,  steady  oven 
till  of  a  pretty  brown  color ;  glaze  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  powdered  white  sugar. 

Spanish  Buns. 

H.  A.  H.,  Oslikosh,  Wis. 
One  pint  of  flour ;  1  pint  sugar ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ; 
1  cup  of  butter ;  4  eggs,  beat  separate  ;  1  tablespoon  of 
cinnamon;  1  teaspoon  cloves;  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  2 
teaspoons  cream  tartar,  or  3  spoons  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  on  tins,  an  inch  thick,  and  when  taken  from  the 
oven,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  while  hot. 


COOKERY— BREAD.  57 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  H.,  Chicago. 

One  pint  scalded  milk.  Let  it  cool  and  add  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  2  of  lard,  2  of  yeast,  a  little  salt.  In  win- 
ter mix  in  batter  overnight ;  in  morning  knead ;  set  to 
rise  again,  and  at  noon  roll  out  very  thin ;  cut  in  large 
rounds ;  put  on  a  piece  of  butter,  and  lay  the  dough 
over.  Let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  for  tea.  In  summer 
mix  early  in  the  morning,  instead  of  at  night. 

Rolls. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Two  quarts  sifted  flour ;  a  little  more  than  a  pint 
milk ;  1  tablespoon  of  lard  ;  a  little  salt ;  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  white  sugar,  and  £  cup  of  yeast.  Scald  the  milk ; 
let  stand  to  cool ;  put  the  sugar  into  the  milk ;  rub  the 
lard  into  the  flour ;  make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the 
flour;  pour  in  the  milk  and  yeast;  add  the  salt; 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  hole ;  set  to  rise ;  when 
very  light  mix  in  the  rest  of  the  flour ;  let  rise  again ; 
about  an  hour  before  tea  roll  out  very  lightly; 
cut  with  the  cover  of  a  large  baking-powder  box ;  fold 
even  (like  a  turn-over) ;  let  rise  till  very  light,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes. 

French  Rolls. 

May  Barnes,  Cedar  Rapids. 
Into  1  pound  of  flour  rub  2  ounces  of  butter  and  the 
whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
good  yeast,  a  little  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough;  cover  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  till  light, 
which  will  be  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  the 
strength  of  the  yeast.  Cut  into  rolls,  dip  the  eclges  into 
melted  butter  to  keep  them  from  sticking  together,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cinnamon  Rolls. 

Ethel,  Iowa. 
Take  a  piece  of  pie  crust ;  roll  it  out ;  cut  it  in  nar- 
row strips ;  sprinkle  cinnamon  over  it ;  roll  it  up  tight ; 
put  it  in  a  clean  tin  pan,  which  has  been  well  oiled  with 
butter ;  brown  nicely,  and  bake.  Then  serve  on  the 
table. 


58  COOKERY— BREAD. 

Breakfast  Bolls. 

Stella,  Beloit,  Wis. 
Flour,  2  quarts;  sugar,  1  tablespoonf  ul ;  butter,  1 
tablespoonful ;  i  cup  of  yeast ;  1  pint  scalded  milk,  or 
water,  if  milk  is  scarce,  and  a  little  salt.  Set  to  rise 
until  light ;  then  knead  until  hard,  and  set  to  rise,  and 
when  wanted,  make  in  rolls.  Place  a  piece  of  butter 
between  the  folds,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Graham  Breakfast  Bolls. 

Jeanette,  Danville,  Ills. 
Two  pounds  potatoes,  boiled  and  pressed,  through  a 
colander ;  1  pint  of  water ;  i  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  i  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt;  I  a  cup  of  yeast.  Mix  into  a  stiff 
dough,  with  Graham  flour,  and  let  rise  over  night.  In 
the  morning  mold  into  small  cakes,  and  when  light 
bake. 

Brown  Bread. 

Mrs.  E.  K.,  Blue  Island  avenue. 
Three  handf  uls  of  corn-meal ;  2  of  flour  or  Graham ; 
i  cup  sour  milk ;  i  cup  molasses ;  i  teaspoonful  soda. 
Steam  2  hours.    To  be  eaten  warm,  but  is  good  cold. 

J.  A.  S.,  Menasha,  Wis. 
Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  cups 
of  Indian  meal,  2  cups  of  rye-meal,  i  cup  of  good  mo- 
lasses, 1  teaspoon  of  soda  or  saleratus.    Boil  3  hours 
hard  in  a  pail  or  a  tin  pudding-dish. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  H.,  Chicago. 
Three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  2  cups 
of  flour,  1  egg,  i  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  1  measure  of  Horsford's  baking  powder.  Steam  8 
hours ;  bake  i  an  hour ;  let  it  stand  i  an  hour  before 
eating. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Mrs.  H.  V.  R.,  Chicago. 
One  quart  of  rye-meal  (not  flour),  2  quarts  of  corn- 
meal,  I  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  into  which  beat  a  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  mix 
quite  soft  with  boiling  water,  and  bake. 

Lou,  Chicago. 
Two  cups  of  Indian  meal,  3  of  Graham  flour,  1  table- 


COOKERY— BREAD.  59 

spoonful  soda,  i  cup  Orleans  molasses,  a  little  salt; 
sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  steam  3i 
hours  in  a  pudding  bucket ;  then  put  in  oven  to  brown. 

Corn  fake. 
F.  G,  Chicago. 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  or 
brown  sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  salt,  I 
teaspoonful  of  ginger,  H  cups  of  corn-meal,  and  H  cups 
of  sifted  flour.    Bake  in  quick  oven. 

With  fruit. — Pour  1  quart  boiling  water  on  1  quart 
corn-meal,  and  stir  quickly;  salt  to  taste.  Wet  the 
hands,  and  form  the  dough  into  small  round  cakes  I 
an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The  addition  of  a 
few  raspberries,  or  any  sub-acid  fruit,  is  a  decided  im- 
provement. Sweet  apples,  chopped  line,  are  also  ex- 
cellent. 

Rye  Tea  Cakes. 

Mrs.  B.  H.,  Galva,  IU. 
One  pint  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  I  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stk 
into  this  sufficient  rye  flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  com- 
mon griddle-cake  batter.  Bake  in  gem  pans  I  an  hour. 
Serve  hot. 

Graham  Puffs. 
Inkstand,  Chicago. 
One  egg,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  1  pint  Graham  flour  and 
a  pinch  of  salt ;  beat  the  egg  thoroughly  ;  add  the  milk, 
then  the  flour  gradually;  beat  the  whole  mixture 
briskly  with  an  egg  beater  ■  pour  into  cast-iron  gem 
pans,  well  greased  and  piping  hot;  bake  in  very  hot 
oven.    This  mixture  is  just  sufficient  for  12  gems. 

Oat  Meal  Cakes. 

Mrs.  M.,  Coldwater,  Mich. 
One  cup  rather  fine  oat-meal ;  3  cups  water,  stirred 
together,  and  allowed  to  swell.    Butter  a  pie-tin,  and 
turn  the  batter  in,  and  bake  a  i  hour,  or  until  a  rich 
brown.    Salt,  of  course. 

Graham  Cakes. 

Mrs.  Emily,  Eau  Claire,  Wis. 

Two  cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sweet  cream,  the  white 
of  1  egg  beaten  to  froth,  i  a  spoonful  of  salt,  dessert- 


60  COOKERY— BREAD. 

spoonful  baking  powder;  stir  in  sifted  Graham  flour 
until  quite  thick ;  bake  in  muffin-rings  or  gem-tins  un- 
til well  browned  on  top. 

Oat  Meal  Gems. 

Souella  M.,  Eagle,  Wis. 
Take  1  cup  of  oat-meal  and  soak  it  over  night  in  1 
cup  of  water ;  in  the  morning  add  1  cup  of  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoon  of  saleratus,  1  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt. 
They  are  baked  in  irons  as  other  gems  and  muffins.  If 
on  hrst  trial  you  find  them  moist  and  sticky,  add  a 
little  more  flour,  as  some  flour  thickens  more  than 
others. 

Graham  Gems. 
Mrs.  M.,  Coldwater,  Mich. 

Take  3  teacups  of  soft  water  or  boiled  well  water, 
and  4i  teacups  best  Graham  flour ;  beat  together  about 
10  minutes.  Have  cast-iron  gem  pans  on  the  stove 
sissing  hot ;  put  in  each  pan  a  tiny  piece  of  butter,  and 
fill  even  full  with  the  batter ;  have  the  oven  very  hot 
when  you  put  them  in,  and  then  gradually  allow  the 
heat  to  decrease.  This  makes  the  pans  twice  full ;  bake 
20  minutes.  We  have  to  vary  the  flour  a  little  at  every 
fresh  bagful,  or  it  does  not  swell  alike. 

Aunt  Emma,  Chicago. 
To  1  quart  of  Graham  flour  add  1  pint  fine  white 
flour,  and  enough  milk  or  water,  a  little  warm,  to  make 
a  thick  batter ;  no  salt  or  baking  powder.  Have  your 
oven  hotter  than  for  biscuit,  and  your  gem-pans  stand- 
ing in  the  oven  till  you  get  ready.  Beat  batter  thor- 
oughly, grease  your  pans,  and  drop  in  while  the  irons 
are  smoking  hot.    Bake  quickly  a  nice  brown. 

Graham  or  Rye  Gems. 

Mrs.  B.  J.  G.,  Onslow,  Iowa, 
One  egg,  1  pint  sour  milk,  with  a  few  spoonfuls  cream 
added,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt,  and  enough 
Graham  or  rye  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  bake  in 
gem-pans  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Cookies. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  G.,  Onslow,  Iowa. 
Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  i  teaspoonful 


COOKERY— BREAD.  61 

soda ;  mix  quickly,  roll  and  bake.  These  require  less 
heat  and  more  time  in  baking  than  when  white  flour  is 
used. 

Graham  Crackers. 
Mrs.  R.  J.  G.,  Onslow,  Iowa. 

Seven  cups  Graham,  1  cup  thick  sweet  cream  (or 
butter),  1  pint  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der. Rub  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour.  Add  the 
cream  with  a  little  salt,  then  the  milk ;  mix  well,  and 
roll  as  thin  as  soda-crackers ;  cut  in  any  shape ;  bake 
quickly ;  then  leave  about  the  stove  for  a  few  hours  to 
dry  thoroughly. 

Rich  Waffles. 
Mary,  Lee  Center,  111. 

Make  a  thin  paste  with  8  ounces  of  flour,  6  ounces  of 
pulverized  sugar,  2  eggs,  a  few  drops  of  essence  to 
flavor,  i  a  liquor-glass  of  brandy  or  rum,  and  milk. 
Warm  and  butter  both  sides  of  the  mold,  put  some  of 
the  paste  into  it ;  close  it  gently,  set  it  on  the  fire,  turn 
it  over  to  heat  both  sides  equally,  dust  them  with 
sugar  when  done,  and  serve  either  warm  or  cold.  It 
takes  hardly  a  minute  for  each  with  a  good  fire. 

Rye  Drops  Fried. 

Julia  Rive,  Tolono. 
One  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  3  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  1  of  butter  if  buttermilk  is  not  used,  1  egg,  scant 
teaspoonf  ul  soda,  and  one  of  cinnamon ;  add  rye  flour 
sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Take  it  up  by  the 
tablespoonful  and  drop  into  boiling  hot  lard,  first  dip- 
ping the  spoon  into  the  hot  lard  to  prevent  the  dough 
sticking  to  the  spoon. 

Graham  or  Rye  Mush. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  G.,  Onslow,  Iowa. 
Stir.  Graham  or  rye  meal  into  boiling  water,  with  a 
little  salt,  till  quite  thick  ;  cook  a  few  minutes.    This  is 
very  nice  either  with  poached  eggs  or  butter  and  sugar. 

Oatmeal  Hush. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  G.,  Onslow,  Iowa. 
Soak  the  oatmeal  over  night  in  enough  water  to  wet 
it,  in  the  morning  stir  into  boiling  water.    Cook  a  few 
minutes. 


62  COOKERY— BREAD. 

Mrs.  S.  M.  B.,  Chicago. 

Three  cups  of  meal  will  make  a  generous  dish  for  a 
party  of  4  or  5  persons.  When  it  has  cooked  about  2 
hours  in  a  double  boiler,  salt  it  thoroughly,  and  at  the 
end  of  three  hours  it  should  be  found  very  stiff  and  dry 
as  possible,  turned  out  to  cool  and  mold ;  cut  in  slices 
thin  as  can  be  handled  without  breaking,  fry  in  butter 
and  lard,  equal  parts,  or  I  butter.  The  rich  brown  of 
these  crisp  bits  will  prove  tempting  to  the  veriest 
epicure. 

Whole  Wheat. 
Mrs.  Louise,  Chicago. 

Either  boil  it  slowly  until  quite  soft,  or  bake  6  or  8 
hours,  the  same  as  beans,  omitting  the  pork ;  or  as  a 
pudding,  with  milk  sufficient  to  allow  it  to  swell,  or 
about  2  quarts  of  milk  to  a  pint  of  wheat.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  or  lemon  fla- 
voring, if  desired. 

Corn  Bread. 

Mima  C.  Morer,  Cleveland. 
Two  cups  sour  milk ;  £  of  a  cup  molasses ;  2  cups 
of  corn  meal ;  H  cups  of  white  flour ;  small  tablespoon 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  sour  milk.  Salt.  Steam  3  hours. 
To  be  eaten  hot.  Slice  and  steam  when  you  wish  to 
warm  it  up. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  F.,  Highland  Park,  Ills. 
Two  cups  meal,  1  cup  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons 
baking-powder,  a  little  salt,  moisten  with  sweet  milk 
until  like  cup-cake.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  or  it  will 
not  be  nice. 

Rye   Bread. 

Mrs.  C.  G.  S.,  BocTi  River  Falls,  IUs. 
First  scald  2  coffee-cups  of  corn  meal  with  boiling 
water  to  a  thick  batter.  When  this  is  cool,  add  i  of  a 
bowl  of  light  sponge— taken  from  bread-sponge  pre- 
pared with  potatoes  that  has  raised  over  night — £  tea- 
cup of  sugar,  3  teaspoons  of  soda  and  salt.  This  stir  as 
stiff  with  rye  flour  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  Let 
this  raise  very  light,  and  then  add  as  much  rye  again  as 
can  be  worked  in  with  the  hands  without  kneading. 
Drop  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  slowly  for  H  hours. 


COOKERY— BREAD.  63 

Graham  Bread. 

Blanche,  Chicago. 
One  pint  yeast,  same  as  used  for  white  bread ;  stir  in 
a  pint  of  warm  water  and  a  little  salt,  then  add  Graham 
flour  until  you  have  a  thick  batter.  Bake  15  minutes 
longer  than" the  same  size  loaf  of  white  bread.  It  will 
not  rise  as  much  as  other  bread. 

Mis  B.  J.  G.,  Onslow,  Iowa. 
Graham  3  quarts,  2  quarts  warm  water,  i  pint  yeast, 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  i  pint  sugar.  Mix  with  a  spoon. 
Pour  into  deep  tins,  well  greased,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  till  quite  light.  Bake  with  a  steady,  moderate 
heat  two  hours.    This  recipe  makes  3  good  loaves. 

Mrs.  E.  E.,  Wisconsin. 
Take  the '' sponge'1  of  white  bread  when  light,  enough 
for  1  loaf  or  2,  as  yon  wish,  and  mix  in  enough  Graham 
flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  loaf ;  place  in  a  pan, 
and,  when  light,  bake.  You  can  add  a  little  sugar  or 
molasses  if  you  like.  Can  also  make  very  nice  rye 
bread  in  the  same  way. 

Bread  for  Dyspeptics. 

C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 
For  1  loaf,  1  pint  of  attrition  flour;  1  pint  wheat 
flour ;  prepare  with  Horsford's  Bread  Preparation  ac- 
cording to  directions  which  come  with  it,  adding  salt, 
mixing  soft,  with  sweet  milk,  with  the  hands,  and  bake 
quickly.    To  be  used  when  a  day  old. 

Oatmeal  Gruel. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  B.,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 
Take  2  ounces  of  oatmeal  and  H  pints  of  water.  Rub 
the  meal  in  a  basin  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  pouring  off  the  fluid  after  the 
coarser  particles  are  settled,  but  while  the  milkiness 
continues,  repeat  the  operation  until  the  milkiness  dis- 
appears. Xext  put  the  washings  into  a  pan,  stir  until 
they  boil,  and  a  soft,  thick  mucilage  is  formed. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Milk.  Sponge  Bread. 

Adelaide,  Negaunee. 
Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in  a  pitcher,  with  a  tea- 


64  COOKERY— BREAD. 

spoonful  of  sugar,  I  teaspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of 
soda ;  let  it  stand  till  you  can  bear  your  linger  in  it ; 
then  add  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  beat  it  hard  f  or 
2  minutes.  Now  place  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water — not  hot  enough  to  scald  the  mixture ;  keep  the 
water  at  the  same  temperature  till  the  emptyings  are 
light.  If  set  early  in  the  morning  they  will  be  ready,  if 
watched  carefully,  at  11  o'clock  to  make  a  sponge,  the 
same  as  for  other  bread,  with  a  quart  of  very  warm 
milk.  Let  this  sponge  get  very  light ;  then  make  into 
loaves  and  set  to  rise  again,  taking  care  they  do  not  get 
too  light  this  time  before  putting  in  the  oven,  or  the 
bread  will  be  dry  and  tasteless. 

Yeast  Bread. 
R.  C.  F.,  Chicago. 

At  about  4  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  take  3  quarts  of 
good  flour  and  H  quarts  lukewarm  water — or  milk  will 
make  whiter  bread— and  a  little  salt.  Place  a  cake  of 
strictly  fresh  yeast  in  a  small  dish  of  the  water.  Stir 
your  flour  and  water  into  a  thick  batter,  mixing  in  the 
yeast  as  soon  as  it  is  soft,  leaving  dry  flour  around  the 
edge  to  keep  it  warm.  Then  cover  and  set  away  in  a 
warm  place  in  the  summer,  or  by  the  stove  in  the  win- 
ter, until  it  begins  to  rise  nicely— say  9  or  10  o'clock  in 
the  evening.  Then  mix  thick,  and  knead  about  half  as 
much  as  to  bake.  Then  cover  and  set  away  again  until 
morning.  By  6  o'clock  you  will  find  your  dish  more 
than  full,  unless  it  is  large.  Then  knead  well  and  put 
in  'baking-tins,  and  set  by  the  stove  to  rise.  When 
light  enough  put  in  the  oven  and  keep  it  evenly  heated 
until  done.  This  will  make  3  good  loaves. 
Salt-Rising  Bread. 
C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 

Take  newly-ground  middlings,  put  6  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  it  in  a  coffee-cup  ;  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar ; 
1  saltspoon  of  salt;  i  saltspoon  of  soda  ,  mix  thoroughly; 
pour  boiling  water  in  the  mixture,  stirring  it  well  to- 
gether until  it  will  nearly  fill  the  cup;  remove  the 
spoon;  cover  the  cup  of  dough;  set  it  where  it  will 
keep  warm,  not  scald.  Set  it  Friday  morning,  and  it 
will  be  light  for  Saturday's  baking.  If  in  a  hurry,  set 
in  a  dish  of  warm  water.    Now  put  in  bread-pan  flour 


COOKERY — BREAD.  65 

enough  for  bread;  acid  salt;  take  1  quart  of  boiling 
water  for  three  loaves,  and  turn  into  the  middle  of 
your  flour,  stirring  in  slowly ;  put  enough  cold  water 
(or  milk)  to  cool  sufficiently  to  bear  your  finger  in  it ; 
then  add  middlings— stir  in  well ;  cover  with  some  of 
the  flour,  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  When  light  enough, 
mix  soft  into  loaves;  grease  bread-pans;  also  top  of 
the  loaves,  which  makes  a  tender  upper  crust ;  cut 
gashes  quite  deep  across  the  loaves,  and  it  will  rise 
evenly ;  set  near  the  stove,  and  when  light  enough, 
bake  I  of  an  hour. 

B.  C.  F.,  Chicago. 
Take  i  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoon  fill  sugar,  1 
pint  lukewarm  water,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  good 
batter.  Cover  closely  and  set  the  receptacle  in  a  jar  of 
warm  water  and  cover  that  also.  Let  i  t  remain  until 
it  rises,  then  use  as  any  other  rising.  Flour  mixed  up 
with  milk  will  make  wl liter  bread  than  when  mixed 
with  water. 

Housekeeper  iO  years,  Virginia,  111*. 
In  early  morning  take  a  teacupf  ul  of  new  milk ;  pour 
boiling  water  in  until  it  is  blood  warm  ;  put  in  a  small 
quarter  teaspoon  of  salt ;  the  same  of  sugar  ;  then  stir 
in  1  large  tablespoonful  of  Graham  flour,  or  corn-meal, 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  line  flour,  or  until  it  is  as  thick 
as  pancake  batter ;  mix  it  all  in  a  quart  cup,  and  set  it 
to  rise.  Keep  it  of  an  equal  heat  by  setting  the  cup  in 
warm  water  ;  if  water  gathers  on  top  dust  a  little  flour 
and  stir ;  it  will  rise  by  noon.  Mix  as  other  bread  ; 
mold  and  put  in  pans  at  once  ;  let  stand  until  light, 
when  it  is  ready  for  the  oven.  If  you  have  no  milk, 
water  will  do  for  the  rising. 

Betsy,  Inavale,  Neb. 
The  recipe :  In  the  morning  take  a  quart  dish  and 
scald  it  out ;  then  put  in  a  pint  of  warm  water ;  put  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  flour  enough  in  to  make  a 
thick  batter ;  set  the  dish  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water, 
and  where  it  will  keep  of  the  same  temperature — just 
warm  enough  to  bear  your  hand  in.  If  the  flour  is 
good  it  will  be  at  the  top  of  the  dish  in  2  hours  ;  then 
take  flour  enough  in  a  pan  to  make  8  loaves  of  bread ; 


66  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

make  a  hole  in  the  middle ;  put  in  the  yeast,  and  the 
same  dish  full  of  warm  water  ;  stir  it  up  thick  with  a 
spoon,  and  cover  it  with  some  of  the  flour,  and  set  it 
to  rise.  When  light,  mold  it  into  loaves,  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  again.  When  light  enough,  bake  t 
of  an  hour. 


CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


Doughnuts. 

Cousin  Nell,  Chicago. 

a IX  cups  of  flour ;  H  cups  of  sugar  ;  3  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder ;  1  teaspoon  of  salt ;  butter  the 
size  ot  £  an  egg ;  mix  thoroughly ;  then  add  4 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  moisten  with  sweet  milk 
until  a  soft  dough.    Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

Aunt  Nellie  Ely,  St.  Joseph,  Mich. 
Break  2  eggs  in  a  bowl,  with  1  large  cup  of  sugar,  1 
cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  spices  to  suit  the  taste. 
Mix  very  soft.  That  is  the  secret  of  good  fried  cakes. 
Have  your  fat  hot ;  drop  in  5  or  6 ;  they  will  almost 
turn  over  themselves  they  are  so  light;  keep  some 
going  in  and  some  coming  out  all  the  time  ;  the  last 
ones  cool  the  fat,  so  the  first  ones  do  not  get  so  brown ; 
but  cook  through. 

Mrs.  W.,  Green  Bay. 
I  set  my  sponge  for  them  about  2  or  3  o'clock,  so  I 
can  fry  them  the  next  forenoon.  Make  a  sponge,  using 
1  quart  water  and  1  cake  yeast.  Let  it  rise  until  very 
light  (about  5  hours  is  usually  sufficient).  Then  add  1 
coffee-cup  full  of  lard,  2  of  white  sugar,  3  large  mash- 
ed potatoes  or  2  eggs  (the  potatoes  are  nicer),  and  a 
small  nutmeg.  Let  rise  again  until  very  light.  Roll 
and  cut,  or  pull  off  bits  of  dough  and  shape  as  you  like. 
Lay  enough  to  fry  at  one  time  on  a  floured  plate,  and 
set  im  .the  oven  to  warm.  Drop  in  boiling  lard,' and 
fry  longer  than  cakes  made  with  baking  powder.  If 
the  dough  is  light  enough,  and  you  heat  it  before 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  67 

dropping  in  the  lard,  I  am  sure  your  doughnuts  will  be 
delicious. 

Mrs.  N.  N.,  Chicago. 

Mix  your  dough  with  sour  milk  and  saleratus,  as  for 
biscuits,  with  a  small  quantity  of  sugar  and  spice ;  fry 
in  lard,  of  course  ;  if  you  are  dyspeptic  omit  the  sugar. 

Mrs.  Emily,  Eau  Claire,  Wis. 
Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  pint  of  new  milk,  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  flour  enough  to  permit  the  spoon  to  stand 
upright  in  the  mixture ;  add  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder  and  beat  until  very  light.  Drop  by  the  dessert- 
spoonful into  boiling  lard.  These  will  not  absorb  a 
bit  of  fat,  and  are  the  least  pernicious  of  the  doughnut 
family. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  H.,  Chicago. 
One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  lard ;  add  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and 
flour  enough  to  roll  well.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
lard  in  which  to  fry  them. 

Mrs.  L.  J.  C,  Chicago. 
Whole  wheat  flour :  One  heaping  teacupful  sugar ; 
3  tablespoonfuls  melted  shortening  (£  butter  and  i  lard), 
2  eggs,  1  quart  of  cold-ground  whole-wheat  flour,  a 
little  nutmeg,  1  cup  sweet  milk  with  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it,  2  spoonfuls  of  cream  tartar 
mixed  and  sifted  with  the  flour.  Fry  in  part  suet  and 
part  lard. 

Cookies. 

J.  A.  S.,  Menasha,  Wis. 
Two  cups  of  white  sugar 2 1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  2  spoons  of  baking  powder,  nutmeg  ;  flour 
enough  to  roll  out ;  better  if  rolled  out  thin,  and  a  hot 
oven  to 'bake  in. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 

Two  teacups  sugar,  1  of  butter,  1  of  sour  milk,  and 
soda  to  sweeten  it,  i  nutmeg  ;  roll  thin ;  cut  with  cut- 
ter with  ring  in  center ;  bake  a  pretty  brown. 


68  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

Fanchon,  LaFayette,  Ind. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  not  quite 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  into  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  water ;  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  flour  enough  to  roll 
out  soft.  Cut  into  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. 

Mrs.  Emily,  Eau  Claire,  Wis. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  1  large  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
£  cup  of  butter,  2  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  rose  or  nutmeg ;  flour  enough  for  thick 
batter  ;  beat  thoroughly  ;  drop  in  buttered  pans  ;  dust 
granulated  sugar  on  top,  and  bake  with  dispatch. 

C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 
Ginger  Cookies  of  Attrition  Flour — 1  cup  New  Or- 
leans molasses;  1  cup  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  i  cup 
water;  1  egg ;  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  stirred  into 
the  molasses ;  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  ginger.  Mix 
till  smooth ;  roll  thin,  and  bake  quick. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  G.,  Bamboo,  Wis. 
One  cup  butter ;  2  cups  sugar ;  4  eggs ;  4  cups  flour ; 
3  tablespoons  milk ;  3  teaspoons  baking-powder.  Rub 
the  flour  and  butter  thoroughly  together ;  cream  the 
butter  and  sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  separately  ;  add  to  the 
above,  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  or  any  sea- 
soning preferred.  Sift  in  the  flour  and  baking-powder, 
and  add  enough  flour  to  mold  and  roll  out.  These 
cookies  will  keep  fresh  2  weeks,  and  if  the  milk  is  left 
out  a  month. 

Mrs.  M.,  Mendota,  Ills. 

One  cup  butter  and  4  of  flour ;  rub  well  together ; 
add  1  teaspoon  of  soda ;  beat  together  i  cup  sugar  and 
2  eggs  ;  mix  all  together ;  roll  thin  and  bake. 

A  plainer  kind :  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  I 
cup  sweet  milk,  \  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar ;  flour  to  mix  soft. 

%  Mrs.  E.  K.,  Blue  Island. 

One  cup  sugar;  \  cup  lard  or  butter;  \  cup  sour  milk; 
\  teaspoonful  soda  ;  just  flour  enough  to  roll,  baking 
quickly.    Add  any  flavoring  you  wish.    No  eggs  are 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  69 

required,  so  don't  imagine  I  left  them  out.    These  are 
very  nice  if  grated  or  prepared  cocoauut  is  added. 

Georgia  H.,  Chicago. 
One  cup  sour  cream ;   1  cup  butter ;  2  cups  sugar ; 
2  eggs;   1  teaspoon  soda ;    flour,  and  flavoring  to  suit, 

Mrs.  C.  E.,  Minorik. 
Cream  1£  cups  j  2  cups  sugar ;  2  eggs ;  \  teaspoonful 
soda.    Knead  soft.    They  will  keep  moist. 

Gingersnaps. 

L.  B.  C,  Fon  du  Lac,  Wis. 

One  coffee-cup  New  Orleans  molasses ;  1  cup  butter ; 
1  cup  sugar ;  place  them  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil.  Then  take  off  immediately,  and  add  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  and  a  tablespoon  of  ginger.  Roll  thin 
and  bake  quickly. 

Georgia  H.,  Chicago. 

One  cup  molasses  ;  1  cup  brown  sugar  ;  1  cup  melted 
lard  ;  2  large  spoons  of  ginger ;  2  spoons  of  alum,  dis- 
solved in  hot  water ;  1  teaspoon  salt ;  5  teaspoons  soda ; 
mix  with  flour  into  a  stiff  paste. 

Mrs.  C.  E.,  Minonli,  Ills. 
Two  cups  molasses ;  1  of  butter ;  1  teaspoon  ginger ; 
I  teaspoonful  soda.    Put  all  into  a  pan,  and  set  on  the 
stove  until  it  boils  up ;  then  take  off,  and  put  in  the 
soda.    Roll  thin  ;  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  G.,  Bamboo,  Wis. 
One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar ;  \  cup  lard  and 
butter  melted  together,  3  tablespoonfuls  ginger,  1  tea- 
spoonful cinnamon ;  \  teaspoonful  cloves ;  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  \  a  cup  of  boiling  water ;  thicken  with 
flour;  roll  and  bake. 

Aunt  Betsy,  Chicago. 
Take  1  pint  of  Xew  Orleans  molasses ;  2  tablespoons 
of  lard,  and  1  tablespoon  of  ginger ;  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  when  cool  add  one  teaspoon  of  soda  (dissolved 
in  a  little  water)  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Leona,  Canton,  Ills. 

1  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses ;  1  cup  of  butter ;  1 


70  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

teaspoon  soda;   one  or  more  spoons  of  ginger.     Let 
them  boil  up  together,  and  when  cool  add  flour  to  roll. 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies. 

Jennie,  Chicago. 
Two  teacups  New  Orleans  molasses;  1  teacup  of 
melted  lard ;  1  teacup  of  boiling  water ;  4  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda  bought  in  bulk  ;  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Pour 
the  boiling  water  on  the  soda ;  do  not  knead  too  stiff . 
Bake  with  steady  heat. 

Cheap  Ginger  Cookies. 

Mary  Jones,  Delavan. 
One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  warm 
water,   1  cup  lard,   2  tablespoons  ginger,   1  tablespoon 
soda  (dissolved  in  water),  1  teaspoon  powdered  alum, 
put  in  last.    Mix  soft.    Bake  quickly. 

Ginger  Bread. 

Jennie,  Chicago. 
Two  teacups  New  Orleans  molasses ;  2  cups  boiling 
water ;  f  cup  of  melted  butter ;  1  tablespoonf  ill  of  gin- 
ger; two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda.    Add  flour  enough  to 
make  a  smooth  batter.    Beat  well. 

Mrs.  M.,  Mendota. 
Butter,  li  cups  (or  lard),  1  cup  boiling  water  poured 
over  it,  2  cups  baking  molasses,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  tea- 
spoons ginger ;  flour  to  make  about  like  cake-batter. 
Spread  molasses  over  the  top  while  hot,  after  it  is 
baked.  This  is  not  rich,  but  very  good  if  eaten  fresh. 
It  is  not  so  good  when  old. 

H.  V.  B.,  Chicago. 

One  egg  well  beaten,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  cold  tea,  2  even  teaspoons  of 
soda,  flour  enough  to  mix  about  the  consistency  of  cake. 

Better  baked  in  2  sheets  than  1,  as  when  too  thick 
the  outside  will  be  burned  or  too  hard,  before  it  is  done 
through. 

'  P.  P.  C,  Chicago. 

One  teacup  sugar ;  1  cup  butter ;  1  cup  molasses ; 
3  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately  until  very 
light) ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ;  4  teacups  flour ;  3  teaspoons 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  71 

baking-powder ;  1  tablespoon  ginger ;  1  grated  nutmeg. 
Bake  m  a  rather  large  bread-pan,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

J.  S.,  Chicago. 
New  Orleans  molasses  H  cups;  brown  sugar  |  cup  ; 
£  cup  butter ;  1  egg  well  beaten  ;  1  tablespoon  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  nearly  a  table- 
spoon each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon ;  mix  like  cake  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mary,  Chicago. 

Melt  I  a  cup  of  butter  in  1  cup  of  molasses  and  1  of 
sugar,  allowing  the  mixture  to  become  hot ;  then  add  1 
tablespoon  of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  ground 
cinnamon,  1  clip  of  sweet  milk,  5  cups  of  four  stirred 
in  with  a  full  i  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bake  in  two  flat  tin 
pans,  or  gem-irons.  Teacup  I  measure  with  holds  i  a 
pint. 

Coffee  Calces. 
Qamet,  Delavan,  Wis. 

Three  eggs,  well  beaten ;  2  cups  brown  sugar ;  1  cup 
butter;  1  cup  of  milk;  1  teaspoonful  of  soda;  2  teo- 
spoons  of  cream-of-tartar.  Work  this  to  a  stiff  dough, 
and  roll  out  to  about  a  I  inch  in  thickness.  Sift  ground 
cinnamon  over  evenly ;  then  roll  up  like  roll  jelly  cake. 
Cut  slices  about  a  i  inch  thick  from  the  roll ;  drop  into 
granulated  sugar,  and  bake  thoroughly  with  sugared 
side  up. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  H.,  Chicago. 

Coffee  li  cups  ,  usual  strength ;  H  cups  sugar ;  I  cup 
molasses ;  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins ;  one  of  currants ; 
nearly  1  cup  butter ;  1  teaspoon  soda ;  1  nutmeg ;  a 
little  citron,  cinnamon,  cloves,  spices  of  any  kind  you 
have.  First  stir  together  sugar,  molasses,  spices,  fruit 
and  butter,  and  pour  on  the  coffee  hot.  Add  flour  to 
make  stiff:  as  fruit  cake.    It  improves  with  age. 

Breakfast  Coffee  Cakes. 

DicMe,  Aurora. 

Three  cups  bread  sponge  •,  i  cup  butter ;  little  sugar ; 

egg.  Boll  thin  as  baking-powder  biscuit.  Cut  out 
with  tumbler  or  cake-cutter;  sprinkle  over  a  littk 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  little  bits  of  butter.  As  our 
family  is  small,  I  only  use  £  the  recipe. 


72  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

Jumbles. 

Agnes,  Chicago. 
One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  $  a  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  of  cream-of -tartar  (dissolved  in  a  little 
sweet  milk),  flour  enough  to  make  like  pie-crust.  Bake 
in  waffle-irons.  Fill  the  little  holes  with  light  and  dark 
jelly,  alternately. 

Jennie  R.,  Marion. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  of  butter,  1  of  milk,  4  eggs.  1  tea- 
spoonful  of   baking-powder,  flour   to    make   it   stiff 
enough  to  roll  out,  cut  into  shape  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Crullers. 
Mrs.  E.K.,  Blue  Island. 

Three  eggs ;  1  cup  sugar ;  4  tablespoonf uls  melted 
lard,  6  sweet  milk,  2  taolespoonfuls  baking  powder; 
any  flavoring  you  wish,  and  flour  to  roll  nicely.  I  beat 
the  eggs  and  sugar  together  first ;  then  add  the  lard, 
beating  well ;  then  the  milk  ;  put  my  baking-powder  in 
the  flour,  and  sift  it  in,  stirring  it  with  a  spoon  as  long 
as  I  can,  as  I  dislike  using  my  hands. 

Three  fourths  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar,  i  pound 
butter,  1  cupful  milk,  5  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  teaspoonful 
vanilla  extract,  nutmeg  to  taste, :;  pounds  sifted  flour; 
mix  butter,  sugar,  and  part  of  the  milk  to  a  very  creamy 
batter;  then  the  eggs,  rest  of  milk  and  flavoring,  then 
some  of  the  flour,  and  beat  till  very  light,  adding  the  flour 
till  very  stiff;  then  with  the  hands  knead  in  nearly  all  the 
flour,  reserving  a  little  for  flouring  the  pastry  board ; 
cut  off  a  lump,  roll  out  j  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  pieces 
8  inches  long  and  2  wide,  twist  in  fancy  shapes,  drop 
few  at  a  time  in  boiling  hot  lard,  sift  powdered  sugar 
over  them,  when  cool  slip  on  a  large  meat-dish,  and 
carefully,  as  they  are  crisp  and  break  easily.  This 
quantity  requires'nearly  4  pounds  of  lard  to  cook  them; 
keep  the  fat  boiling ;  slices  of  peeled  white  potato  drop- 
ped in  the  fat  absorbs  the  sediment  from  the  dough 
that  darkens  the  fat ;  take  the  potato  out  when  black 
and  put  in  another  pie<  e. 

Indian  Meal  Crullers. 

One  and  a  half  teacupfuls  boiling  milk  poured  over  2 
teacupf uls  Indian-meal;  wlw»n  it  cools  add  2  cupfuls 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  73 

wheat  flour,  1  of  butter,  H  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  nutmeg  or  cinnamon ,  if  not  stiff  enough,  add 
equal  portions  of  wheat  and  meal ;  let  it  rise  till  very 
light ;  roll  it  about  |  an  inch  thick ;  cut  it  into  small  dia- 
mond-shaped cakes,  and  boil  them  in  hot  lard. 
Pumpkin  L-oaf. 
C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 

For  2  loaves,  take  2  cups  buttermilk ;  3  cups  each  of 
wheat  flour  and  corn  meal,  1  cup  stewed  pumpkin,  1 
cup  molasses,  i  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  soda. 
Steam  H  hours,  then  bake  i  hour. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake. 
Theo.  C.  C,  Chicago. 

First  prepare  the  berries  by  picking ;  after  they  have 
been  well  washed— the  best  way  to  wash  them  is  to 
hold  the  boxes  under  the  faucet  and  let  a  gentle  stream 
of  water  run  over  them  into  an  earthen  bowl — then 
drain,  and  pick  them  into  an  earthen  bowl ;  now  take 
the  potato-masher  and  bruise  them  and  cover  with  a 
thick  layer  of  white  sugar ;  now  set  them  aside  till  the 
cake  is  made.  Take  a  quart  of  sifted  flour ;  £  a  cup  of 
sweet  butter ;  1  egg,  well  beaten  ;  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  rather  stiff 
dough ;  knead  well,  and  roll  with  the  rolling-pin  till 
about  1  inch  thick  ;  bake  till  a  nice  brown,  and  when 
done,  remove  it  to  the  table  ;  turn  it  out  of  the  pan; 
with  a  light,  sharp  knife,  cut  it  down  lengthwise  and 
crossways ;  now  run  the  knife  through  it,  and  lay  it 
open  for  a  few  moments,  just  to  let  the  steam  escape 
(the  steam  ruins  the  color  of  the  berries) ;  then  set  the 
bottom  crust  on  the  platter ;  cover  thickly  with  the 
berries,  an  inch  and  a  half  deep  ;  lay  the  top  crust  on 
the  fruit ;  dust  thickly  with  powdered  sugar,  and  if 
any  berry  juice  is  left  in  the  bowl,  pour  it  round  the 
cake,  not  over  it,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  short 
cake. 

Seoteh  Short  Cake. 
Mrs,  W.  B.  Fyfe,  Pontiac,  IB. 

Take  i  a  pound  of  slightly  salted  butter,  and  1  pound 
of  flour  ;  then  mix  flour  and  butter  with  hands  ;  then 
add  4  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  work  all  into  a  smooth 
ball;  then  roll  out,  until  it  is  an  inch  thick;  prick 


74  COOKERY— CAKES.  COOKIES,  ETC. 

over  with  a  fork,  and  pinch  round  the  edges,  and  bake 
for  i  an  hour  in  oven,  with  a  moderate  fire,  in  a  round 
or  square  pan,  according  to  taste. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Mrs.  Angle  Mackey,  Rome,  N.  Y. 

Two  eggs  thoroughly  beaten  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  i 
cup  of  boiling  water,  sift  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder  through  an  even  teacup  sifted  flour,  season 
with  lemon  or  vanilla,  1  more  egg  for  layer  cake,  used 
as  follows ;  Save  two  whites  for  frosting,  using  the  2 
yolks  and  another  egg  for  the  cake  part.  Bake  in 
jelly-cake  tins ;  whip  the  whites  up,  stir  in  sugar,  not 
enough  to  make  hard  frosting. 

If  you  wish  cocoanut  cake,  spread  the  frosting  on 
each  layer  and  sprinkle  over  the  cocoanut.  On  the 
top  layer  of  frosting  sprinkle  the  cocoanut  thick. 
.  If  you  desire  chocolate  cake  grate  a  1  teactipful  and 
stir  in  with  the  frosting;  then  spread  between  the 
layers  of  cake  and  on  top.  Be  careful  not  to  get  too 
much  water,  and  to  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Edna,  Chicago. 
Twelve  eggs;  the  weight  of  10  eggs  in  powdered 
sugar ;  the  weight  of  6  eggs  in  sifted  flour ;  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon ;  beat  the  yolk  of  egg*  and 
sugar  together  to  a  light  froth.  This  is  essential.  Add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  the  lemon, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  stir  in  the  flour  gradually  until 
well  mixed ;  bake  in  long,  narrow  pans  three  inches 
deep,  on  buttered  paper;  fill  the  pans;  &  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  The  shape  and  depth  of  the  pans  have  a 
great  deal  to  do  with  the  quality  of  the  cake. 

C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  'Mich. 
Take  3  eggs ;  beat  3  minutes ;  then  add  11  cups 
sugar,  and  beat  5  minutes ;  add  1  teacup  flour,  and  1 
teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  beat  3  minutes ;  add  £  tea- 
spoon soda,  dissolved  in  £  cup  cold  water,  and  another 
cup  of  flour ;  beat  enough  to  mix  well.  Flavor  and 
bake  in  a  deep  pan  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  S.  E.,  Chicago. 
One  cup  of  sugar  and  5  eggs,  beaten  together  £  an 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  75 

hour ;  add  1  cup  of  flour  and  a  little  salt ;  beat  well 
and  bake  immediately. 

A  Farmer's  Wife,  31eiidota. 
Three  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  even  off  1  tablespoonful 
of  cold  water,  1  heaping  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder.    Bake  15  or  20  minutes— not  longer. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

Daily  Reader,  Hillsdale,  Mich. 

Four  eggs — whites  only  ;  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar ; 
I  cup  of  butter ;  f-  cup  corn-starch  ;  I  cup  sweet  milk ; 
1  cup  flour ;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  lemon  or 
rosewater  flavoring.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly  either  with  the  hand  or  a  silver  spoon ;  mix 
the  corn-starch  with  the  milk,  and  add.  Then  add  the 
eggs,  beaten  stiff;  next  the  sifted  flour,  into  which 
the  baking-powder  has  been  stirred.  Mix  all  well; 
bake  nicely,  and  call  in  your  friends  to  help  eat  it,  as 
this,  like  all  corn-starch  cake,  is  not  fit  to  eat  after  the 
second  day,  and  is  much  the  best  the  same  day  it  is 
baked. 

Cream  Puffs. 
Mrs.  Eve,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 

Onerhalf  pint  cold  water,  in  which  rub  smooth  6 
ounces  of  flour ;  put  it  into  a  spider  with  4  ounces  of 
butter,  and  stir  it  continually  over  a  fire  not  too  hot, 
till  it  is  thoroughly  cooked.  It  will  resemble  a  lump 
of  putty  and  cleave  off  the  spider  like  a  pancake.  Cool 
this  lump,  and  add  4  eggs.  Beat  well,  and  then  drop 
on  a  buttered  tin  in  neat,  compact  little  " dabs,"  far 
enough  apart  not  to  touch  when  they  rise.  Have  the 
oven  about  as  hot  as  for  cookies,  and  in  turning  them 
lift  up  the  tin.  If  you  shove  them  before  they  are  set 
you  will  have  pancakes.  They  should  be  hollow  balls. 
Bake  them  long  enough  so  they  will  not  fall  when  re- 
moved, and  cool  them  on  brown  paper  as  quickly  as 
possible,  so  they  won't  sweat.  To  fill  them  take  {-  pint 
milk ;  2  beaten  eggs  ;  i  cup  of  flour  or  corn-starch  wet 
smoothly  ;  1  cup  sugar ;  lemon  or  vanilla  flavor ;  cook 
it  in  a  tin  pail  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  and  stir  it  so  it 
will  be  smooth.  When  both  are  cold,  open  the  puff 
with  a  sharp  knife  ;  just  a  little  slit  on  the  side,  and 
fill  in  one  tablespoonful  of  custard. 


76  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

Almond  Drops. 

German,  Chicago. 
Take  9  ounces  of  flour ;  six  ounces  of  sugar  ;  $  pound 
of  butter  ;  four  eggs  ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  first ;  rub  the  powder  into  the 
flour,  and  add  the  rest.  Pour  into  square  tin  pans, 
iilling  them  about  i  an  inch,  and  strew  cinnamon, 
sugar,  and  sliced  almonds  over  it.  The  almonds  must 
be  previously  scalded.  Bake  a  light  brown,  and,  when 
done,  cut  into  squares. 

Anise  I>rops. 

German,  Chicago. 
Two  cupf uls  of  granulated  sugar ;  3  eggs ;  3  cupfuls 
of  flour,  and  1  teaspoon  of  anise-seed.  Beat  sugar  and 
eggs  well  for  1  an  hour ;  then  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents ;  drop  on  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  The  secret  here  lies  in  beating  rapidly  and 
thoroughly.  These  will  make  small  cakes,  and  each 
teaspoonful  is  to  be  dropped  separately. 

Lady  Fingers. 

Mrs.  Sarah  B.,  Chicago. 

Four  ounces  of  sugar;  4  yolks  of  eggs,  mix  well;  3 
ounces  of  flour ;  a  little  salt.  Beat  the  4  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  stir  the  whites  into  th"  mixture  a  little  at  a  time 
until  all  is  in.  Butter  a  sis  illow  pan.  Squirt  through 
a  confectioner's  syringe  or  a  little  piece  of  paper 
rolled  up.  Dust  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  not  too  hot 
oven. 

Indian  Meal  Pound  Cake. 

Fannie  Sands,  Wis. 

Sift  1  pint  of  yellow  corn-meal  and  |  pint  wheat 
flour,  into  which  first  p  it  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
and  a  small  spoonful  salt ;  1  grated  nutmeg  ;  1  table- 
spoonf  al  ground  cinnamon  ;  put  I  of  a  pound  granu- 
lated sugar  and  $  a  pound  butter  together.  Beat  8 
eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar, 
alternately,  with  the  meal— little  at  a  time — and  a  -£• 
cup  milk,  and  have  dish  or  pan  well  buttered  ;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Takes  a  long  time  to  bake. 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  77 

Bread  Cake. 

Lizzie  Bacon,  Iowa. 
Four  cups  dough,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup 
cream,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon   saleratus.    Mix  with  the 
hands,  and  add  a  little  flour,  also  fruit  and  spices  to 
suit  the  taste,  and  let  it  rise  well  before  baking. 

a iincolii  Cake. 

Fannie  T.,  Springfield,  111. 
Rub  1  pound  sugar  and  f pound  butter  together; 
add  the  yolk  6  well-beaten  eggs,  2  cupfuls  sour  cream, 
with  1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling 
water  and  stirred  into  it  just  before  adding  to  the 
cake ;  1  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon, 
and  1  pound  sifted  flour  ;  1  tablespoonful  rose  water; 
£  a  pound  citron  cut  and  dredged  with  flour,  and  last- 
ly, the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  must  be  beaten  very 
stiff  before  being  added  ;  then  beat  all  thoroughly  and 
bake  in  square  shallow  pans. 

White  and  Yellow  Mountain  Cake. 

Marion,  Davenport,  Iowa. 

Two  cups  sugar,  -f  cup  butter,  whites  of  7  eggs,  well 
beaten,  i  cup  sweet  milk.  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  corn- 
starch, 2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly  cake 
tins.  Frosting:  Whites  of  3  eggs  and  some  sugar, 
beaten  together— not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  frosting ; 
spread  over  the  cake ;  add  some  grated  cocoanut ; 
then  put  your  cakes  together;  put  cocoanut  or  frost- 
ing for  the  top. 

Yellow  mountain  :  Yolks  of  10  eggs,  1  cup  butter, 
2  of  sugar,  1  of  milk,  3  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  or 
cream  tartar. 

Jelly  Cake. 

Jessie,  Joliet,Ill. 
One  cup  milk,  $  cup  chocolate,  i  cup  sugar,  yolk  1 
egg,  teaspoonful  corn-starch.  Mix  well  together,  and 
boil  until  quite  thick.  When  cold,  put  between  the 
layers  as  for  jelly  cake,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
butter.  Water  can  be  used  instead  of  milk.  Also  by 
taking  ••}  of  the  cake,  putting  chocolate  in  to  make  it  a 
dark  brown  ;  this,  with  alternate  layers  of  the  remain- 
ing white,  makes  a  very  nice  cake.    Frosting  can  be 


78  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

made  brown  by  adding  chocolate,  after  the  sugar  has 
been  mixed  with  the  eggs. 

Fruit  Cake  from  Dough. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  B.,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa. 
Two  cups  sugar,  ]  cup  butter,  1  pint  of  dough,  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda ;  as  much  fruit  as  you  wish ; 
FDices  to  suit  taste  ;  use  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff 
as  common  fruit  cake  ;  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise 
for  1  hour.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Marble  Cake. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  B.,  Ccaar  Rapids,  Iowa. 
Light  part :  White  sugar,  1£  cups ;  butter,  i  cup ; 
sweet  milk,  i  cup  ;  soda,  £  teaspoon ;  cream  of  tartar, 

1  teaspoon ;  whites  of  4  eggs ;  flour,  2i  cups ;  beat  the 
eggs  and  sugar  together ;  mix  the  cream  of  tartar  with 
the  flour,  and  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.  Dark 
part :  Brown  sugar,  1  cup ;  molasses,  i  cup ;  sour  milk, 
i  cup ;  soda,  i  teaspoon ;  flour,  browned,  2£  cups ; 
yolks  of  4  eggs ;  cloves  and  cinnamon,  ground,  each  \ 
teaspoon  ;  ingredients  mixed  the  same  as  light  part. 
When  both  are  prepared,  put  in  the  cake-pan  alter- 
nate layers  of  each,  or  put  them  in  spots  on  each  other, 
making  what  is  called  leopard  cake,  until  all  is  used, 
then  bake  as  usual. 

Fruit  Cake  Without  Eggs. 
Hattie,  Aurora,  III. 
One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  of  sour  milk,  1  of  raisins, 

2  of  flour,  4  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  soda. 

Molasses  Fruit  Cake. 
Dew  Rose,  Chicago. 
One  cup  molasses ,  If  cups  light  brown  sugar ;  1  cup 
cold  water.  Boil  the  molasses,  sugar  and  butter  to- 
gether, and  set  aside  to  cool ;  flour  as  thi^k  as  a 
pound-cake  ;  then  add  eggs ;  beat  this  well ;  1 1  rii  add 
1  pound  raisins,  1  of  currants,  and  i  of  citron,  with  2 
heaping  teaspoons  of  flour  mixed  through  the  fruit ; 
bake  nearly  2  hours. 

Fruit  Cake. 
Sky-Blue  Cardinal,  Chicago. 
Put  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  coffee  cup  ;  add  5  tea- 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC  79 

spoons  of  hot  water,  4  of  melted  butter,  and  fill  with 
molasses.  Make  pretty  stiff  with  flour ;  then  stir  in 
this  all  it  will  hold  of  chopped  raisins,  Zante  currants, 
citron,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and 
a  pinch  of  cloves.  Bake  from  3  to  4  hours  in  a  very 
slow  oven.  (Put  buttered  paper  in  bottom  of  pan.) 
The  longer  this  cake  is  kept  the  better  it  is. 
Mrs.  C.  A.  L.,  LaCrossc,  Win. 

One  pound  each  of  sugar,  butter  and  flour  ;  2  pounds 
of  raisins  and  currants  ;  1  pound  of  citron ;  9  eggs  ;  \ 
pint  brandy  ;  i  an  ounce  each  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon, 
ground  cloves  and  mace  ;  beat  the  eggs  separate  ;  stir 
the  white  and  the  flour  in  last. 

Lou,  Joliet,  III. 

Eight  eggs  beaten  separate ;  1  pound  of  butter ;  2 
pounds  of  sugar ;  2  pounds  of  raisins ;  H  pounds  of 
tigs  ;  1  pound  Zante  currants  ;  i  pound  citron  ;  1  pint 
of  brandy  ;  If  pounds  of  flour ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda ; 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  each  1|  teaspoonfuls. 

Farmers'  Fruit  Cake. 

S.,  Aurora,  1U. 
Soak  3  cups  of  dried  apples  over  night ;  chop  slight- 
ly in  the  morning ;  then  simmer  2  hours  in  2  cups  of 
molasses  ;  add  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
t  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  soda,  flour  to  make  stiff  bat- 
ter ;  spice  to  suit  the  taste ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Black  Cake. 

Anna  JR.,  Pittsfield,  111. 

One  pint  molasses  ;  1  pint  brown  sugar ;  1  pint  of 
butter  ;  1  pint  sour  milk ;  3  eggs ;  2  teaspoons  soda ; 
cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  raisins.  Make  it  very 
stiff,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  This  will  make  2  large 
cakes. 

Mary  E.,  Mattoon,  III. 

One  pound  browned  flour  ;  1  pound  brown  sugar  ;  1 
pound  citron ;  2  pounds  currants ;  3  pounds  stoned 
raisins  ;  f  pound  of  butter ;  1  teacup  of  molasses  ;  2 
teaspoonfuls  mace  ;  2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  ;  1  tea- 
spoonful  cloves  ;  1  teaspoonful  soda  ;  12  eggs.  This 
is  an.  excellent  recipe,  and  will  make  2  large  loaves. 
It  will  keep  a  year  (if  locked  up). 


80  COOKERY — CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

Delicate  Cake. 

Cousin  Anna,  Grand  Rajrids,  Mich. 

Whites  of  4  eggs  ;  1  cup  of  milk — running  over ;  ■& 
cup  butter ;  2  cups  sugar ;  2i  cups  flour  ;  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder.  This  makes  2  loaves.  If 
you  want  it  very  nice,  use  1  cup  of  corn-starch  in  place 
of  one  of  flour. 

Caramel  Cake. 
Lillie  W.,  Engelwood,  111. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  H  cups  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk, 
4£  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.    Bake  in  layers. 

Caramel  for  filling  :  H  cups  brown  sugar ;  i  cup  of 
milk;  1  cup  molasses;  1  teaspoonful  of  butter;  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 
Boil  this  mixture  5  minutes ;  acid  j  a  cake  of  Baker's 
chocolate  (grated);  boil  until  it  is  the  consistency  of 
custard ;  add  a  pinch  of  soda ;  stir  well,  and  remove 
from  the  fire.  When  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla ;  spread 
between  the  layers  and  on  the  top  of  the  cake,  and  set 
it  in  a  sunny  window  to  dry. 

Orange  Cake. 

Mrs.  J.  C.,Aledo,Ill. 
Grated  rind  of  1  orange  ;  two  cups  sugar ;  whites  of 
4  eggs  and  yolks  of  5  ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  cup  butter ; 
2  large  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  to  be  sifted 
through  with  the  flour ;  bake  quick  in  jelly-tins. 
Filling:  Take  the  white  of  the  1  egg  that  was  left; 
beat  to  a  frost ;  add  a  little  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  the 
orange  ;  beat  together  and  spread  between  the  lasers. 
If  oranges  are  not  to  be  had,  lemons  will  do  instead. 

Anxious  Mother,  Kentland,  Ind. 
Two-thirds  cup  of  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  £  cup 
sweet  milk ;  3  cups  flour ;  whites  10  eggs ;  3  tables- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder.  Grate  the  rind  of  2  ordi- 
nary-sized oranges  into  the  cake.  Press  out  the  juice 
into  the  icing.  Bake  in  layers  like  jelly  cake  ;  put  the 
icing  between. 

\  Mrs.  G.  C.  S.,  Rock  River  Valley. 

Two  coffee  cups  white  sugar,  2  coffee  cups  flour,  \ 
cup  cold  water,  whites  of  4  eggs,  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  2 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  81 

teaspoonfuls  baking-powder;  beat  yolks  and  sugar 
well  together,  add  lionr,  baking-powder  and  water, 
putting  in  whites  of  eggs  last— beaten  well— then  take 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  sweet  oranges,  which, 
with  the  exceptions  of  1  tablespoon  of  the  juice,  I  stir 
in  the  batter ;  bake  in  layers ;  make  frosting  of  whites 
of  2  eggs,  sugar,  and  the  tablespoon  of  orange-juice, 
which  place  between  the  layers. 

Distress,  Cortland,  111. 
Peel  the  oranges,  and  chop  very  fine ;  to  2  oranges 
take  i  of  a  lemon  ;  squeeze  the  juice  and  chop  the 
rest;  1  teacup  of  sugar.  Bake  a  crust  as  for  short- 
cake ;  cut  open,  butter  well,  and  lay  the  orange  be- 
tween. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  T.,  Chicago. 
Three-fourths  cup  butter ;  H  cups  sugar ;  four  eggs 
— beaten  seperately  *  'Si  cups  of  flour,  and  2  heaping 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  1  cup  milk.  For  the 
frosting  .  One  orange  ;  grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the 
juice  and  pulp;  add  f  cup  of  sugar,  and  then  the 
orange  juice.     I  make  2  cakes  of  three  layers. 

Citron  Cake. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  E.,  Burlington,  Iowa. 
Six  eggs ;  4  cups  of  flour ;  2|  cups  of  sugar ;  2  cups 
of  citron — cut  in  little  slips ;  2  teaspoons  baking-pow- 
der ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  cup  butter. 

Ice   Cream  Cake. 

C.  A.  B.,  LaCrosse,  Wis. 
Two  cups  white  sugar ,  1  cup  butter ;  1  cup  sweet 
milk ;  whites  of  8  eggs ;  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar ;  1 
teaspoonf  ul  soda ;  3i  cups  winter  wheat  flour— if  spring 
wheat  flour  is  used,  4  cups.  Bake  in  jelly-pans.  Make 
an  icing  as  follows  :  3  cups  sugar ;  1  of  water ;  boil  to 
a  thick  clear  sirup,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the 
whites  of  3  eggs;  stir  the  mixture  while  pouring  in; 
add  1  teaspoonful  citric  acid;  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla,  and  spread  each  layer  and  top. 

School  Cake. 

E.  L.  M.,  Chicago. 
One  egg,  1  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  a  piece 


82  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  pint  flour,  into  which 
has  been  well-sifted  2  teaspoons  baking-powder.  This 
cake  is  good  enough  for  any  occasion  if  made  by  rule. 
Work  together  with  butter,  sugar,  and  yolk  of  the  egg 
till  it  is  light  and  foamy ;  add  next  the  milk  and  floui , 
then  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg;  butter  a  piece  of 
white  paper,  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  baking-tin  ; 
pour  in  the  cake,  and  bake  in  a  pretty  hot  oven.  It  is 
done  when  a  broom  splinter  can  be  inserted  and  with- 
drawn clean. 

Carlotta's  Cup  Cake. 
Belle,  Chicago. 
One  and  a  quarter  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  butter ;  £  cup 
milk ;  1£  teaspoons  baking-powder ;  3  eggs ;  2  cups  of 
flour;  nutmeg. 

Cottage  Cake. 
Little  Sally,  Jefferson,  Wis. 
Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter;  a  cup  of  white 
sugar ;  li  cups  flour ;  4  eggs — yolks  and  whites  beaten 
seperately;  a  tablespoonful  of   sweet  milk;  H  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  lemon  and  little  salt. 
Kub  the  baking-powder  into  the  flour. 
Scotch  Cake. 
Leah  B.,  Chicago. 
One  pound  of  flour;   1  pound  of  sugar;  3  eggs;  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon ;  £  of  a  pound  of 
butter.    Mix  the  butter  with  the  flour ;  then  add  the 
other  ingredients.    If  not  sufficiently  stiff  to  roll,  add 
more  flour. 

Agnes,  Chicago. 

Two  pounds  flour,  1  pound  butter,  I  pound  powdered 
sugar;  chop  flour  and  butter  together,  having  made 
butter  quite  soft  by  setting  near  lire.  Knead  in  the 
sugar.  Boll  into  a  sheet  not  quite  i  inch  thick ;  cut  in 
2-inch  squares.  When  you  want  them  to  look  nice  put 
few  sugar  comfits  in  center ;  they  will  stick  by  press- 
ing them  on  with  your  finger.  Bake  light  brown. 
Put  in  stone  crock  for  a  few  days.  They  will  get  soft 
—just  melt  in  your  mouth. 

Scotch  Currant  Bun. 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Fyfe,  Pontiac,  III. 

Take  1  pint  soft  yeast ;  1  quart  lukewarm  water ;  1 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  83 

teacupful  of  shortening,  lard  and  butter ;  2  teacup  • 
r'uls  of  brown  sugar ;  1  pound  dry  currants  ;  1  pound 
raisins— cut  in  two  ;  i  pound  of  citron.  Take  6  eggs, 
beat  them  and  put  in  allspice,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  ac- 
cording to  taste.  Mix  sugar  and  butter  first ;  then 
add  eggs  and  fruit*,  then  yeast,  water  and  flour,  and 
mold  out  into  3  long  loaves,  as  you  would  do  in  baking 
ordinary  loaves  of  bread,  taking  about  the  same 
quantity  of  flour ;  then  set  to  rise,  which  will  take 
about  4  hours  ;  then  bake  in  an  ordinary  heated  oven 
about  1  hour. 

Chocolate  and  Vanilla  Cake. 

fi'riisy,  Ionia,  Mich. 

One  and  \  cups  of  sugar ;  If  cups  of  flour ;  \  cup  of 
butter ;  H  cups  of  milk  ;  i  cup  of  corn-starch  ;  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder ;  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth ;  3  teaspoons  of  vanilla  extract ;  bake  in 
layers,  either  2  or  3,  and  spread  frosting  between  and 
on  the  top.  Frosting  :  The  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten 
till  you  can  turn  the  plate  bottom  side  up,  and  \  pound 
pulverized  sugar. 

Take  the  yolks  of  the  8  eggs  you  have  just  broken, 
and  make  chocolate  cake  :  li  cups  sugar  (white) ;  £ 
cups  butter ;  2i  cups  flour  ;  \  cup  milk  ;  the  yolks  of  8 
eggs;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla ;  bake  in  round  pie-tins,  in  5  layers ; 
put  chocolate  frosting  between,  made  in  this  way  :  the 
whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  very  light ;  \  pound  powder- 
ed sugar ;  I  cake  of  German  sweet  chocolate ;  or  the 
same  quantity  of  the  bitter. 

Cream  Putt's. 

Gypsy,  Ionia,  Mich. 
Take  2  whole  eggs,  writh  1  cup  sugar,  I  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2i  cups 
flour ;  flavor  with  lemon.  Split  the  cakes  while  hot, 
and  fill  with  cream  ;  f  cup  flour  ;  1  pint  milk,  2  eggs  ; 
heat  the  milk  ;  mix  sugar,  eggs  and  flour  together,  and 
add  to  the  milk  ;  flavor,  and  cook  till  like  cream. 

Cinnamon  Cake. 

Harmonie,  DeKalb,  111. 
One  cup  sour  cream ;  1  cup  sugar ;  i  cup   melted 


84  COOKERY -CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

butter ;  1  egg  •,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  as  for  cookies ; 
roll  out  and  spread  ground  cinnamon  over  the  top ; 
then  roll  up  as  a  roll  jelly  cake,  and  slice  off  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  bake.    Any  good  cookey  recipe  will  do. 

Jelly  Rolls. 

Mrs.  Ward,  Detroit. 
Three  eggs,  £  a  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  H  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  $■  of 
a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  i  a  cup  of  flour,  \  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

Mrs.  J.  N.,  Molinc,  III. 

One  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  ;  3  cups  sugar ; 
3  cups  flour ;  3  teaspoon!' uls  of  baking  powder ;  i  cup 
sweet  milk  -,  the  whites  of  10  eggs ;  to  be  baked  in 
layers  as  jelly  cake.  Instead  of  jelly,  make  a  pastry 
of  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
1  box  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  soaked  in  milk,  and  put 
between  the  layers. 

Ethel,  Chicago. 

Make  a  cake  as  you  would  for  jelly  cake,  using  jelly 
between  the  layers — 7  or  8  of  them.  One  good,  fresh 
cocoanut ;  break  it,  and  having  peeled  it,  grate  care- 
fully and  sprinkle  over  the  top  and  over  the  sides 
thickly.  Be  sure  and  make  it  stick.  Also,  mix  it 
with  sugar  before  putting  it  on. 

Mrs.  Manson,  Terre  Haute. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  i  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  i  of  a  cup  of  butter,  H  cups  of  flour,  11  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in 
pans  1  inch  deep. 

To  prepare  the  desiccated  cocoanut,  beat  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  1  cup  of  puverized 
sugar  and  the  cocoanut,  after  soaking  it  in  boiling 
milk.  Spread  the  mixture  between  the  layers  of  cake 
and  over  the  top. 

Betsey  Trotwood,  We&tviUe,  Ind. 

Whites  of  12  eggs ;  H  pounds  of  butter ;  2  cups  of 
pulverized  sugar.  Bake  as  for  jelly  cake.  Then  take 
the  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  pound  cocoanut,  1  cup  sugar ; 


COOKERY — CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.         8-5 

for  the  upper  cake  add  cocoanut  before  baking.  For 
frosting,  take  2  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Do  not  beat 
the  eggs  for  frost. 

Citron  Cake, 

Agnes,  Chicago. 
Four  eggs  well  beaten ;  li  pounds  sugar  ;  f  pound 
butter ;  1  pint  sweet  milk ;  1|  pounds  flour ;  |  pound 
citron.    Cut  in  thin  pieces,  well  floured ;  baking  pow- 
der as  visual. 

Cream  Cake. 

P.  P.  C,  Chicago. 
Two  tablespoons  butter  ;  2  teacups  sugar ;  3  eggs ; 
i  teacup  sweet  milk ;  2  tablespoons  cold  water ;  2  tea- 
cups flour ;  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder ;  bake 
quickly  on  3  or  4  round  tins.  The  tk  cream  "  for  same 
is  i  pint  milk  ;  i  teacup  sugar ;  small  piece  of  butter ; 

I  egg ;  1  tablespoon  of  corn-starch.  Boil  until  very 
thick ;  when  nearly  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla ;  when 
the  cakes  are  cool,  "put  them  together  with  it. 

Gold  and  Silver   Cake. 

P.  P.  C.,  Chicago. 

One  teacup  white  sugar ;  I  teacup  butter ;  whites  of 
4  eggs  ;  I  teacup  sweet  milk  ;  2  teacups  flour ;  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder ;  flavor. 

Gold  cake  :  Same  as  above,  using  the  yolks  of  the  4 
eggs,  and  adding  1  whole  egg. 

Currant  Cake. 

P.  P.  C.  Chicago. 
One-half  cup  butter ;  1  of  sugar ;  2  eggs ;  i  cup  milk ; 

II  cups  flour ;  11  teaspoons  baking  powder ;  1  cup  well 
washed  currants,  stirred  in  the  last  thing. 

Buffalo  Cream  Cake. 

J.  V.  C,  Elgin,  111. 

One  egg  ;  1  cup  sugar  ;  1  tablespoon!' ul  butter  ;  f  cup 
milk ;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder ;  1  teaspoonful 
vanilla  ;  If  cup  flour ;  p  It,  and  bake  as  for  jelly  cake, 
in  3  layers. 

Cream  for  above  "eat  1  pint  of  milk,  and  add  to  it 
1  tablespoonful  of  ^urn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk;  2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar,  all  beaten  together;  boil 


86  COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

it  until  it  thickens.    Split  the  cake  when  cold  aad  fill 
with  cream. 

Cream  Cake, 

Mrs.  Geo.  C,  Chicago. 
One  cnp  white  sugar ;  H  cups  flour ;  3  eggs  beaten 
separate  and  very  light '  2  tablespoons  water ;  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  fsake  in  2  cakes.  Cream  :  One 
pint  milk  ;  1  cup  sugar ;  \  cup  butter ;  3  eggs ;  2  table- 
spoons flour;  lemon  extract.  Cut  each  cake  and  fill 
with  the  cream. 

Marble  Spice  Cake. 

Birdie  K.,  Chicago. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  well  dried ;  1 
pound  of  white  sugar ;  i  pound  of  butter ;  whites  of 
14  eggs  ;  1  tablespoonful  or  cream  of  tartar  mixed  with 
the  flour.  When  the  cake  is  mixed,  take  out  about,  a 
teacup  of  batter  and  stir  into  it  1  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, 1  of  mace,  1  of  cloves,  2  of  spice  and  1  of 
nutmeg.  Fill  your  mold  about  an  inch  deep  with  the 
white  better,  and  drop  into  this,  in  several  places,  a 
spoonful  of  the  dark  mixture.  Then  put  in  another 
layer  of  white,  and  add  the  dark  as  before.  Repeat 
this  until  your  batter  is  used  up.  This  makes  1  large 
cake. 

Lemon  Cake. 
Evaline,  Ooodland,  hid. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  1  of  butter,  1  of  milk,  4  of  flour. 
5  eggs  ;  stir  the  butter  and  eggs  to  a  cream ;  beat  the 
eggs  separately,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  dissolve  a 
little  soda  in  the  milk ;  mix  altogether ;  sift  the  flour 
and  put  in  by  degrees,  and  add  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  a  fresh  lemon. 

Florence,  Valparaiso,  Ind. 
Twelve  eggs ;  1£  pounds  sugar ;  I  pound  flour ;  grate 
the  outside  of  2  lemons  with  the  inside  of  1 ;  or  add  1 
glass  of  wine,  with  3  teaspoonfuls  of  essence  of  lemon. 

Leinou  Jelly  Cake. 

Hattie,  Aurora,  III. 
Two  cups  of  sugar ;  £  of  a  cup  of  butter ;  1  cup  of 
milk ;  3  cups  of  flour ;  2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder ; 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  87 

4  eggs.  Bake  in  layers.  Jelly :  Take  two  lemons ; 
pulp  and  peel ;  1  coffee  cup  of  sugar ;  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  ^gg\  and  2  eggs.    Mix  and  boil  till  clear. 

Lemon  Layer  Cake. 

E.  O.  G.,  Chicago. 
Two  cups  sugar ;  i  cup  butter ;  1  cup  milk ;  3  cups 
flour,  3  eggs;  two  teaspoons  baking-powder.    Jelly: 
1  cup  sugar ;  1  egg ;  1  tablespoon  butter ;  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  all  boiled  till  thick. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

Mrs.  Lofty,  Chicago. 
One  cup  of  sugar ;  2  eggs :  \  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  \\ 
cups  of  flour  ;  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  3  tea- 
spoons baking-powder.  Cream  for  cake:  i  cup  of 
sweet  milk ;  3  teaspoons  of  powdered  sugar ;  1  table- 
spoon of  corn-starch;  boil  until  thick-,  flavor  with 
vanilla. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Mrs.  U.  O.,  Oiampaign,  111. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  5 
eggs,  3|  cups  flour,  3^  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 
Save  out  the  white  of  1  egg  for  frosting;  flavor  with 
vanilla  ;  bake  in  4  tL*ck  layers. 

Frosting  :  1  cup  of  sugar ;  water  enough  to  dissolve  ; 
boil  till  very  thick;  while  hot,  pour  over  the  beaten 
white  of  or>e  t/  >•,  and  at  the  same  time  stir  briskly  till 
thick;  a<  £  slicks  ui  German  sweet  chocolate  prated 
flue,  and  spread  over  cake  immediately.  Have  uil  the 
cakes  baked  so  the  frosting  can  be  used  as  soon  as 
made,  for  it  hardens  very  quickly. 

A  Mother,  Illinois. 

Two  cups  sugar ;  f  cup  of  butter ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ; 
3  cups  flour;  3  eggs;  two  teaspoons  baking-powder; 
lemon  extract.    Bake  as  jelly-cake. 

Caramel :  The  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  very  stiff ;  2 
cups  sugar  boiled  until  almost  candy ;  pour  very 
slowly  on  the  whites,  beating  them  quite  fast;  \  cake 
Baker's  chocolate  grated;  vanilla  extract;  stir  until 
cool,  then  put  between  each  cake  and  over  the  top  and 
sides. 


88  COOKERY—  CAKES,   COOKIES,  ETC. 

Mrs.  H.,  Odell,  Itt. 
One  cup  of  sugar ;  f  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  1  egg ;  If 
cups  of  flour;  1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  2  teaspoons 
of  baking-powder.  Make  this  in  four  cakes.  Mixture 
to  put  between :  To  the  white  of  1  egg  add  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  2  of  grated  chocolate.  I  use  the 
sweet  chocolate.  Put  this  quantity  between  each 
layer,  and  also  on  the  top.    You  will  find  it  very  nice. 

Fig  Cake. 

Evalinc,  Goodland,  Ind. 
For  the  cake  take  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  Si 
cups  of  flour,  i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  7  eggs,  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers.  For  the 
filling,  take  a  pound  of  figs ;  chop  fine,  and  put  in  a 
stewpan  on  the  stove  ;  pour  over  it  a  teacup  of  water, 
and  add  i  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  soft 
and  smooth.  Let  it  cook,  and  spread  between  the 
layers. 

Marble  Cake. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Light :  White  sugar,  H  cups  ;  butter,  |-  cup  ;  sweet 
milk,  ^  cup;  flour,  2i  cups;  whites  of  4  eggs;  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  lemons  or  al- 
mons.  Dark  part :  Brown  sugar,  1  cup  ;  molasses,  i 
cup  ;  butter,  i  cup  ;  sweet  milk,  \  cup  ;  yolks  of  4  eggs ; 
2£  cups  of  flour  ;  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  ;  mix 
in  separate  pans  ;  flavor  with  spices. 

Pork  Fruit  Cake. 

Evaline,  Goodland,  Ind. 
One  pound  pork  chopped  fine  ;  1  pint  boiling  water ; 
1  cup  sugar,  2  of  molasses  ;  1  pound  raisins  ;  i  pound 
of  citron  ;  1  nutmeg  ;  2  tablespoons  of  cloves,  3  of  cin- 
namon, 1  of  soda ;  1  teaspoon  of  ginger ;  and  4  cups  of 
Hour. 

Pork  Cake. 

Grctchen,  Rockford,  111. 

Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  chopped  as 

fine  as  lard ;  then  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling,  strong 

coffee  ;  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  of  molasses ;  2  teaspoon- 

fuls  cloves,  1  of  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg ;  2  teaspoonfuls 


COOKERY— CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC.  89 

of  soda;  H  pounds  raisins ;  also  citron  and  currants ; 
bake  slowly.    This  will  make  3  cakes. 

Xut  Cake. 

Agnes,  Chicatjo. 
Two  cups  sugar ;  1  of  butter ;  3  of  flour ;  1  of  cold 
water ;  4  eggs ;  baking  powder ;  1£  cups    kernels  of 
hickory  or  white  walnuts. 

Ethel,  Amboy. 
One   cup  butter  ;  2  of  white  sugar  ;  4  of  flour  ;  1  of 
sweet    milk ;  8  eggs,  the  whites ;  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder;  2  cups  hickory  nuts,  picked  out  of 
the  shells,  and  cut  up  with  a  clean  knife. 

Tea  Cake. 
Agnes,  Chicago. 

One  cup  sugar ;  H  cups  butter  ;  1  cup  flour ;  ,  eggs ; 
beaten  separately;  H  teaspoons  of  baking  powder; 
add  raisins  if  you  like.  Is  almost  as  good  as  pound- 
cake. 

Bertha  Corlyle,  Hyde  Park. 
One  cup  of  sugar ;  1  tablespoon!" ul  of  butter  ;  3  eggs ; 
beat  well  together ;  then  add  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  (you 
may  use  part  water),  and  a  quart  of  sifted  flour,  into 
which  you  have  mixed  a  spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  i  a  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
It  is  improved  by  sprinkling  sugar  over  the  top  (be- 
fore baking).  This  will  make  2  cakes,  which  are  best 
when  eaten  warm 


: 


90  COOKERY— FROSTING,  ICING,  ETC. 


FROSTING,  ICING,  ETC. 


Frosting. 

German  American.  Chicago . 

EAT  \  pound  pulverized  sugar  with  the  juice  of 
1  large  lemon ;  add  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth ;  and  1  tablespoon  of  rum  or 
arrak.  Beat  till  a  snowy  white,  put  over  your 
cake  and  dry  in  a  warm  oven. 

C'hocolate  Frosting. 

Sarah  E.,  Chicayo. 

One  cake  (or  i  pound)  JMaillard's  French  vanilla 
sweet  chocolate,  grated;  i  cup  granulated  sugar;  f  cup 
sweet  milk ;  1  tablespoon  butter ;  a  little  salt.  Boil  20 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
pour  into  a  dish.  When  near  cool,  add  1  tablespoon  of 
vanilla  ;  spread  on  the  cake.  If  the  mixture  is  thicker 
than  jelly,  thin  it  with  milk.  This  quantity  will  ice  2 
cakes,  3  layers  each.  The  best  cake  is  gold  cake  baked 
in  jelly-tins.  This  will  prove  a  success  if  the  experi- 
menter can  catch  that  "twist  of  the  wrist"  that  forms 
an  essential  but  indefinable  part  of  every  woman's 
recipe. 

Aunt  Polly,  Chicago. 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  very  light ;  9  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  6  tablespoons  of  grated 
chocolate. 

Mrs.  Knowlton,  Rockford. 

First  make  a  cream  or  custard  pie,  reserving  for 
frosting  the  whites  of  8  eggs,  using  the  yolks  and  1  or 
2  whole  eggs  for  the  pie.  While  your  pie  is  baking 
scrape  very  line  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
and  place  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  to  melt. 
Now  beat  the  whites  of  your  eggs  well ;  add  6  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar.     When  the  chocolate  is 


COOKERY— FROSTING,  ICING,  ETC.  91 

melted,  stir  a  little  of  the  frosting  into  it,  beating  very 
hard;  add  a  little  more,  until  all  is  added.  Do  not 
make  the  mistake  of  stirring  the  chocolate  into  the 
egg,  as  it  will  remain  clouded.  When  the  pie  is  done, 
pour  the  frosting  on  top,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  5 
minutes.  I  find  in  using  chocolate  it  is  much  better 
to  warm  it  until  it  is  soft  enough  to  mix  in  frosting  or 
Charlotte  Russe,  than  to  dissolve  it  with  water. 

Icing. 

Yankee  Hoosier,  Lafayette,  hid. 
Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  |  cup  water;  boil  to- 
gether until  it  candies ;  then  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs, 
slightly  beaten,  stirring  briskly  for  15  minutes,  or  until 
it  seems  perfectly  smooth  and  white;  then  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon.  This  is  sufficient  for  one  large  white 
mountain  cake,  of  8  or  9  layers,  covering  also  top  and 
sides. 

Mrs.  Rose  B„  Addison. 
Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  with  1  pound  of  powdered 
sugar  sifted,  with  i  a  tablespoon  starch,  and  i  of  an 
ounce  of  fine  gum-arabic.    Stir  it  well. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Evaline,  Goodland,  Ind. 
Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  1£  cups  powdered  sugar 
and  6  large  tablespoons  of  chocolate. 

Chocolate  Filling. 

Heatherhell,  Detroit. 
Whites  of  3  eggs  ;  1*  teacups  of  sugar  :  3  tablespoon- 
mis  grated  chocolate;  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  well,  and  then  add  the  other 
ingredients ;  then  beat  all  together  and  spread  between 
the  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 


92  COOKERY— PLES. 


PIES, 


Hock  Mince  Pie. 

Sky-Blue  Cardinal,  Chicago. 

a IX  soda  crackers  rolled  fine ;  1  cup  hot  water ;  1 
cup  molasses ;  £  cup  brown  sugar ;  |  cup  vinegar ; 
I  cup  melted  butter ;  1  cup  raisins  chopped ;  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  nut- 
meg.   Measure  in  a  coffee-cup. 

Mrs.  M.  Coldwater,  Mich. 
Three  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  cup  of  cold  water, 

1  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  ol  brown  sugar,  i  cup  of  sour 
cider  or  vinegar,  I  cup  of  melteu  butter,  i  cup  of  raisins, 
i  cup  of  currants,  1  egg  beaten  light,  1  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, I  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg, 
5  apples  chopped  fine. 

English  Mince  Pie. 

Mrs.  Louisa  T.,  Chicago. 
Three  and  a  half  pound?  each  of  beef  and  suet  chop- 
ped fine;  3i  pounds  each    >f  raisins  and  currants;  7 
pounds  of  apples  chopped ;  1  pound  of  candied  citron ; 

2  pounds  of  sugar;  1  ounce  of  nutmeg;  4  quarts  of 
good  cider ;  1  pint  of  best  vinegar  ;  salt ;  and  a  pint  of 
golden  sirup.  Half  the  raisins  should  be  stoned  and 
chopped,  the  other  1  left  whole. 

Pic  Crust. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Take  3  cups  of  sifted  Hour,  1  cup  of  lard,  a  little  salt, 
and  i  a  cup  of  cold  water.    Handle  as  little  as  possible. 
Never  butter  or  grease  your  pie  pans — it  will  make  the 
under  crust  stick  and  the  pie  hard  to  slip  out. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Aunt  Sally,  Springfield,  O. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  \  1  cup  of  sugar ;  the  juice  and  grated 


COOKERY— PIES.  93 

rind  of  1  lemon;  1£  cups  of  cold  water;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  5  of  water  mixed  for  thickening. 
Bake  until  done,  but  not  watery.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  I  cup  of  sugar. 
Spread  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Pansy,  St.  Joseph,  Mich. 
Two  lemons ;  grate  off  the  outer  peel ;  chop  the  rest 
very  fine ;  put  2  tablespoons  of  corn-starch  in  1  teacup 
of  hot  water,  and  boil;  when  cool  add  2  teacups  of 
white  sugar ;  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  then  add  the 
chopped  peel  and  the  juice ;  stir  well  together ;  bake 
till  the  crust  is  done — only  1  crust ;  beat  the  whites  of 
the  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  5  spoons  (table)  of  sugar, 
stirring  m  well ;  pour  over  the  pie  while  hot ;  set  in  the 
oven  to  brown. 

Jennie  Dean,  St.  Paid. 
Two  large  fresh  lemons ;  grate  off  the  rind ;  if  not 
bitter,  reserve  it  for  the  filling  of  the  pie;  pare  off 
every  bit  of  the  white  skin  of  the  lemon  (as  it  toughens 
while  cooking) ;  then  cut  the  lemon  into  very  thin 
slices  with  sharp  knife,  and  take  out  the  seeds ;  2  cup- 
f uls  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  2  of  sifted 
flour.  Put  into  the  pie  a  layer  of  lemon,  then  1  of 
sugar,  then  1  of  the  grated  rind,  and,  lastly,  of  flour, 
and  so  on  till  the  ingredients  are  used ;  sprinkle  the 
water  over  all,  and  cover  with  upper  crust.  Be  sure  to 
have  the  under  crust  lap  over  the  upper,  and  pinch  it 
well,  as  the  sirup  will  cook  all  out  if  care  is  not  taken 
when  finishing  the  edge  of  crust.  This  quantity  makes 
1  medium-sized  pie. 

Orange  Pie. 

Martha,  Galva,  111. 
Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange ;  1  small 
cup  of  sugar ;  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  1  tablespoon  of  corn- 
starch, made  smooth  with  milk ;  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  chestnut,  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  3  eggs  with  sugar,  and  place  on  the  top  after  the 
pie  is  baked — leaving  in  the  oven  until  browned. 
*  Another—  Grate  the  rind  of  a  large,  sweet  orange ; 
squeeze  the  juice  and  press  off  the  pulp,  picking  out  the 
seeds.    Cream,  i  of  a  cup  (or  butter),  i  cup  of  sugar,  1 


94  COOKERY— PIES. 

egg  beaten  light,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  i  cup  of  water.  Stir  in  the  orange,  and  bake  with  2 
crusts.  In  this,  as  indeed  in  all  cooking,  judgment 
must  be  used,  as  oranges  vary  in  size  and  sweetness ; 
but  these  are  the  usual  proportions,  and  are  sufficient 
for  an  ordinary-sized  pie. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  H.,  Chicago. 

Take  4  good-sized  oranges,  peel,  seed,  and  cut  in  very 

small  pieces.    Add  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  let  stand.    Into 

a  quart  of  nearly  boiling  milk  stir  2  tablespoonfuls  of 

corn-starch  mixed  with  a  little  water,  and  the  yolks  of 

3  eggs.  When  this  is  done,  let  it  cool,  then  mix  with 
the  oranges.  Put  it  in  simply  a  lower  crust.  Make  a 
frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  i  cup  sugar. 
Spread  it  over  top  of  pies,  and  place  for  a  few  seconds 
in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Mother's  Lemon  Pie. 

Lillic  W.,  Englewood,  111. 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon ;  1  cup  white  sugar; 
1  tablespoonf ul  of  butter  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk ; 

4  eggs.  Mix  it  all  as  carefully  and  thoroughly  as  for  a 
cake.  If  the  mixture  is  not  sufficient  to  All  your  pie- 
plate,  add  more  milk.  If  you  want  it  superexcellent, 
beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  for  a  miringue ;  spread  it  on  smoothly  after 
the  pie  is  baked,  and  set  back  into  the  oven  to  brown 
slightly. 

Two-  Crust  Lemon  Pie. 

C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 
Line  your  pie-dish  with  a  good  crust ;  roll  your  lemons 
to  soften  them ;  grate  the  rind  of  one  large,  or  two 
small  lemons  ;  cut  the  lemons  in  thin  slices :  pick  out 
the  seeds;  spread  evenly  one  layer  over  the  crust; 
spread  1  cup  of  sugar  over  the  lemon ;  then  add  1  cup 
of  paste,  made  by  taking  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  wetting 
it  with  cold  water  the  same  as  you  would  to  make 
starch ;  turn  boiling  water  on  it,  stirring  while  cooking 
on  the  stove  a  few  moments,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt 
with  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemons.  When  thickened 
enough  pour  it  over  the  sugar  and  lemon ;  cover  with 
a  crust,  cutting  slits  in  to  let  out  the  air ;  bake  slowly. 


COOKERY— PIES.  95 

Squash  Pie. 

Germdnia,  South  Evanston. 
Obtain  a  good  Hubbard  squash,  saw  into  quarters,  and 
bake  2  of  these  until  dry  and  thoroughly  done.  Scoop  out 
the  dry  mealy  part,  and  while  warm  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  and  rub  it  well,  wetting  as  you  go  with  a 
little  milk.  This  should  be  heated,  and  to  this  quan- 
tity of  squash  you  will  want  3  pints  of  milk.  Now 
come  the  eggs ;  2  for  a  pie  will  do  ;  3  won't  hurt.  Use 
a  small  teacup  of  sugar  for  each  pie.  To  this  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  a  long  time,  adding  for 
each  pie  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  one  of  cinna- 
mon. Line  your  tins  with  a  nice  paste,  in  which  you 
have  sifted  a  little  baking-powder.  Beat  up  your 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  stir  the  yolks  in  first,  then  the 
whites ;  fill  your  shell  and  place  in  oven,  which  must 
not  be  too  hot,  as  they  will  brown  too  fast  and  spoil  the 
golden  foam  that  comes  to  the  top. 

EloUe  Howe,  Rockford,  111. 
Boil  enough  squash  with  a  little  salt  in  the  water  to 
make  a  quart  of  pulp ;  1  quart  of  milk ;  2  cups  of  sugar ; 
1  tablespoon  ginger ;  i  a  nutmeg  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon ;  four  eggs,  or  2  with  corn-starch ;  bake  in  deep 
pie-plates. 

R.,  Dubuque,  Iowa. 

Steam  a  fine  Hubbard  squash  ;  when  done  beat  per- 
fectly smooth ;  add  2  eggs,  i  cup  butter,  1  quart  rich 
cream ;  sugar  to  taste ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  grated 
lemon.    This  makes  three  pies. 

Polly  Snooks,  Chicago. 
Steam  the  squash  over  a  pot  of  corn-beef  until  it  is 
well  done  ;  then  inash  fine,  adding  2  eggs  well  beaten 
to  each  pie.  It  requires  a  good  deal  of  sugar  to  make 
them  nice,  some  salt,  very  little  pepper,  and  enough 
ginger  to  make  it  quite  strong.  Thin  with  milk  and 
cream  mixed  together,  or  milk  alone,  will  make  good 
pies.    Bake  without  top  crust,  quite  brown. 

Squash  Without  Crust. 

Mary  Moore,  Chicago. 
Pare  the  stewed  squash  in  the  ordinary  way.    Then 
grease  the  plates  (I  use  earthen  ones)  and  sift  corn- 


96  COOKERY— PIES. 

meal  over  them  until  evenly  covered  with  a  thin  layer. 
It  must  not  be  too  thick,  and  must  have  no  breaks  in 
it.  Pour  the  prepared  squash  into  the  piates  genHy,  so 
;ir  not  to  disturb  the  meal-,  baive  thoroughly,  and  cut 
when  cold.  Use  pumpkin  in  the  same  way.  It  is 
quickly  prepared,  economical,  healthy  and  palatable. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Pare  and  cut  in  small  bits,  and  boil  the  day  before 
pies  are  made :  when  tender  rub  through  the  collander ; 
then  add  to  about  3  pints  of  the  strained  pumpkin  5 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  sweeten  to 
taste  ;  a  little  ginger  and  lemon  extract  for  flavoring ; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  With  this,  use  "Aunt  Lucy's" 
crust,  above  given. 

Mrs.  John  T.  J3.,  Quincy. 
Take  equal  parts  stewed  pumpkin  and  rich  sweet 
milk.  To  a  quart  of  the  mixture  add  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  a  teacup  of  sugar,  and  i  a  nutmeg  grated.  Line 
a  deep  pan  with  crust,  set  in  the  oven  and  fill  full  ; 
some  like  a  pinch  of  salt  added  to  each  pie. 

Fruit  Pie. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  M„  Green  Bay,  Wis. 
Line  a  soup  plate  with  a  rich  paste,  and  spread  with 
a  layer  of  strawberry  or  raspberry  preserves;  over 
which  sprinkle  2  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  al- 
monds (blanched  of  course)  and  i  ounce  of  candied 
lemon  peel  cut  into  shreds.  Then  mix  the  following 
ingredients :  i  pound  white  sugar ;  i  pound  butter, 
melted ;  4  yolks  and  2  whites  of  eggs,  and  a  few  drops 
of  almond  essence.  Beat  well  together  and  pour  the 
mixture  into  the  soup  plate  over  the  preserves,  etc. 
Bake  in  a  moderately- warm  oven.  When  cold  sprinkle 
or  sift  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  the  top.  A  little 
cream  eaten  with  ii  is  a  great  addition. 

Washing-ton  Pie. 

Mrs.  George  M.,  Adrian,  Mich. 
For  the  crust  use  2  cup;;  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  cups 
sifted  flour,  4  eggs,  i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar.    For 
the  filling :  1  tablespoonful  corn-starch,  boiled  in  i 


COOKERY— PIES.  97 

pint  milk ;  beat  the  yolk  1  egg  very  light,  and  stir  into 
the  milk,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  when  cold  add  the 
other  half  of  the  milk  and  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  stirred  in  quickly  :  spread  this  be- 
tween the  cakes,  and  ice  it  with  the  white  of  1  egg  and 
8  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sifted  sugar  flavored  with 
lemon. 

Marlborough  Pie. 

Roxey,  Maywood,  111.     • 

Six  tart  apples ;  6  ounces  of  sugar;  6  ounces  of  but- 
ter or  thick  cream ;  6  eggs ;  the  grated  peel  of  1  lemon, 
and  i  the  juice.  Grate  the  apples,  after  paring  and 
coreing  them ;  stir  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  as 
for  cake.    Then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake  in 

rich  under-paste  only. 

Potato  Pie. 

Cora  Lee,  Bloomington. 
Potato  pie  is  made  the  same  as  pumpkin  pie  :  Cook 
and  mash  the  potatoes ;  then  put  in  an  egg  to  a  pie ; 
thin  out  with  milk,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  H.,  Chicago. 

Pare  and  grate  1  large  white  potato  into  a  deep  dish ; 
add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon ;  the  white  of 
1  egg  well  beaten  ;  1  teacup  of  cold  water ;  1  teacup  of 
white  sugar.  Pour  this  into  a  plate  lined  with  a  nice 
crust  and  bake.  When  done  have  ready  the  whites  of 
3  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  i  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  extract.  Pour  this  over  the  pie 
and  return  to  the  oven  till  of  a  rich  brown  color. 
When  cool  enough  a  small  spoonful  of  jelly  may  be  put 
over  the  pie. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 
Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 

Scrape  clean  2  good-sized  sweet  potatoes  ;  boil ;  when 
tender  rub  through  the  collander ;  beat  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  light ;  stir  with  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  into  the  po- 
tato; add  a  small  teacup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt; 
flavor  with  a  little  fresh  lemon,  or  extract  will  do; 
bake  as  you  do  your  pumpkin  pies ;  when  done  make  a 
meringue  top  with  the  whites  of  eggs  and  powdered 
sugar ;  brown  a  moment  in  the  oven. 


98  COOKERY— PIES 

Mince  Pie. 

Lena  Gray,  Chicago. 
Seven  pounds  beef,  after  it  is  boiled  and  chopped ;  7 
pounds  apples ;  6  pounds  raisins ;  4  pounds  currants ; 
61  pounds  sugar;  1  pint  molasses;  1  pound  suet;  a 
little  salt ;  four  large  oranges ;  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace, 
allspice  and  nutmeg  to  your  taste ;  2  pounds  citron ;  3 
gallons  cider.  Boil  the  orange-peel  in  some  of  the 
cider  to  make  it  soft ;  use  the  cider  the  peel  was  boiled 
in  also.  If  I  dared,  I'd  say  put  in  a  teacup  of  brandy 
when  you  are  ready  to  bake. 

Mincemeat. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Four  pounds  meat,  3  pounds  suet,  3  pounds  raisins,  3 
pounds  currants,  1  pound  citron,  3  pounds  brown 
sugar,  1  pint  sirup  or  molasses,  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  8  lemons,  2  ounces  ground  cinnamon,  1  ounce  of 
cloves,  1  ounce  of  nutmeg.  Boil  meat  very  tender; 
pick  out  all  bits  of  fat  and  gristle.  Chop  the  suet  fine, 
removing  all  strings  and  threads ;  then  mix  thoroughly 
together;  season  with  salt  and  black  pepper ;  wash 
m; my  times  the  currants ;  let  them  well  dry,  and  then 
add  to  the  mixture  ;  seed  the  raisins,  and  chop  not  fine ; 
add  the  sirup  and  spices ;  slice  the  citron  thin.  To  a 
quart  of  the  above  add  a  pint  of  chopped  apples.  It  is 
best  only  to  add  the  apples  at  each  baking.  Wet  with 
sweet  cider  till  the  mixture  is  juicy.  When  ready  to 
bake,  take  mincemeat,  just  enough  for  the  number  of 
pies  wanted ;  place  it  on  the  stove  in  a  crock  or  jar  and 
let  it  get  heated  through ;  taste  and  add  whatever  you 
think  it  needs — it  may  be  a  little  salt  or  spice,  or  per- 
haps it  is  not  sweet  enough.  Make  pastry  rich ;  place 
the  mincemeat  in  the  pie,  not  too  full ;  and  some  little 
bits  of  butter,  a  few  whole  raisins,  and  a  few  slices  of 
citron.  Keep  mincemeat  well  covered  and  in  a  cool 
place. 

Maggie  M.  W.,  Chicago. 
Three  bowls  of  meat ;  5  bowls  of  apples ;  1  bowl  of 
molasses ;  1  of  vinegar ;  1  of  cider ;  1  or  suet  or  butter ; 
2  of  raisins ;  5  of  sugar ;  1  bottle  of  brandy,  or,  if  you 
prefer,  leave  out  the  brandy  and  add  more  cider ;  2 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves; 


COOKERY— PIES.  99 

1  tablespoonf  ul  each  of  salt  and  black  pepper ;  3  lemons 
—grate  in  the  outside  and  squeeze  in  the  juice.  Add 
all  but  the  meat  and  spices ;  boil  until .  the  raisins  are 
tender,  and  pour  on  to  the  meat  and  spices;  add 
brandy  after  it  is  cold.  If  suet  is  used,  scald  it.  This 
makes  a  large  quantity,  but  it  is  very  nice  and  keeps 
well. 

Aunt  D.,  Chicago 
Boil  1  pound  ox  tougue  or  fresh  beef  tender ;  then 
add  2  pounds  beef  suet,  chopped  fine ;  2  pounds  stoned 
raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  2  pounds  good  apples,  2i 
pounds  fine  sugar,  i  or  f  pound  candied  orange,  lemon, 
and  citron  ;  the  grated  rind  2  large  lemons,  2  nutmegs, 
dessert  spoonful  salt,  teaspoonful  powdered  mace, 
same  powdered  ginger,  and  i  pint  best  sirup.  Press 
closely  into  jars,  and  keep  well  covered.  In  a  few  days 
it  wili  be  fit  to  use. 

Custard  Pie. 

A.  B.  C,  Chicago. 
Take  about  I  pint  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  lard  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  rub  together  with  the  hands,  not  too 
fine  if  you  want  it  flaky ;  use  just  enough  cold  water  to 
stick  together.  Do  not  knead  or  work  it  much.  Line 
a  pie-tin  with  crust,  and  bake.  If  it  rises  up  while 
baking,  press  it  down  with  your  hand  before  it  gets 
hard.  Heat  1  pint  of  milk  boiling  hot;  then  take  i 
cup  of  flour  i  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Beat  them  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  and 
cook  about  5  minutes,  (I  cook  in  a  3-pint  basin,  set  in 
another  dish  containing  water,  to  prevent  burning). 
After  the  crust  is  baked,  put  in  the  mixture ;  then  put 
upon  the  top  a  frosting  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Flavor  with  lemon.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

Cinnamon  Pie. 

Mrs.  Fernando,  Chicago. 
One  pound  brown  sugar,  2  ounces  cinnamon,  1  cup- 
ful butter ;  divide  in  3  parts  ;  mix  2  eggs  and  ll  cup- 
fuls  milk  together  ;  for  the  crust  take  4  cupfuls  flour, 
li  cupfuls  lard  or  butter,  2  heaping  teaspoonf uls  baking 
powder,  salt  to  taste ;  mix  with  milk  sufficient  to  make 


100  COOKERY—PIES. 

soft  dough ;  divide  in  three  parts  and  roll  thin.    Put 

1  layer  of  crust  in  a  deep  pie-dish  and  cover  it  with 
sugar,  then  cinnamon,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter; 
then  wet  with  the  mixture  of  milk  and  egg,  saving 
enough  for  the  other  two  parts ;  lay  the  2d  and  3d  crusts 
on  and  do  the  same  as  with  the  first ;  there  should  be 
no  crust  on  top.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  Pie. 

Cricket,  Chicago. 
Bake  a  crust  in  a  large  pie-pan ;  lift  it  out  on  a  plate ; 
for  filling,  take  1  pint  of  very  rich  milk ;  boil  £  of  it ; 
with  the  remaining  I  stir  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch :  add  to  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time ; 
then  add  I  tea-cup  of  sugar ;  then  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
well  beaten  and  thinned  with  a  little  milk.  Remove 
from  the  fire ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  nutmeg,  and 
pour  into  the  crust.  Whip  the  whites ;  add  I  teacup 
sugar ;  frost  the  pie,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown 
slightly.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  T.,  Chicago. 
One  large  tablespoon  of  butter ;  3  of  sugar ;  2  of  flour; 

2  eggs,  and  a  little  more  than  $  pint  of  milk.  Beat  the 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  and 
mix  them  with  the  milk,  then  stir  in  the  flour,  etc. 
Flavor  with  whatever  you  like— if  with  lemon,  grate 
the  rind  and  use  some  essence.    This  is  for  1  pie. 

Constant  Reader,  North  Point,  Mel. 
Place  1  pint  of  milk  in  tea-kettle  boiler  until  hot  (not 
boiling) ;  add  one  cup  white  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  and  2 
eggs,  well  beaten ;  stir  rapidly  until  thoroughly  cooked; 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla ;  pour  over  crust,  which 
should  be  previously  baked.  Beat  the  white  of  2  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  3  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar ; 
pour  over  the  custard ;  set  in  oven,  and  allow  to  come 
to  light  brown.    To  be  eaten  cold.   . 

Millie  Millett,  Canton,  111. 
Roll  the  crust  to  a  medium  thickness ;  take  a  good- 
sized  tablespoonf  ul  ol  flour ;  mix  with  a  I  cup  of  sugar;  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut ;  £  teaspoonf ul 
extract  of  lemon  ;  coffeecup  of  good  rich  cream.    Bake 


COOKERY— PIES.  101 

as  you  would  a  custard.    This  is  to  be  eaten  the  day  it 
is  baked. 

Cocoannt  Pie. 

Mrs.  E.  K.,  Blue  Island,  111. 
I  put  a  cup  of  cocoanut  to  soak  in  sweet  milk  as  early 
in  the  morning  as  I  can.  I  take  a  teacup  of  the  cocoa- 
nut  and  put  it  into  a  coffeecup,  and  rill  up  with  milk. 
When  ready  to  bake  I  take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
mix  with  milk,  and  stir  in  £  of  a  cup  of  milk  (or  water), 
place  on  the  stove,  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Add  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut  while  warm.  When  cool  add  a 
little  salt,  2  eggs,  saving  out  the  white  of  one  for  the 
top.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  the  cocoanut,  beating  well. 
Fill  the  crust  and  bake.  When  done,  have  the  extra 
white  beaten  ready  to  spread  over  the  top.  Return  to 
the  oven  and  brown  lightly. 

Winnifred,  Warsaw,  III. 
Open  tiie  eyes  of  a  cocoanut  with  a  pointed  knife  or 
a  gimlet,  and  pour  out  the  milk  into  a  cup ;  then  break 
the  shell  and  take  out  the  meat  and  grate  it  fine.  Take 
the  same  weight  of  sugar  and  the  grated  nut  and  stir 
together ;  beat  4  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately 
to  a  stiff  foam  ;  mix  1  cup  of  cream,  and  the  milk  of  the 
cocoanut  with  the  sugar  and  nut,  then  add  the  eggs 
and  a  few  drops  of  orange  or  lemon  extract.  Line  deep 
pie-tins  with  a  nice  crust,  fill  them  with  the  custard, 
and  bake  carefully  £  an  hour. 


102  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 


PUDDINGS. 


Suet  Pudding. 

Schoolmarm  Marseilles,  111. 

NE  cup  of  suet,  chopped  tint ;  1  teacup  of  mo- 
lasses ;  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk ;  3i  teacups  of 
flour ;  1  cup  of  raisins ;  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Steam  2  hours.  Sauce  for  the  same :  1  cup  of 
sugar ;  I  cup  of  butter ;  1  egg  ;  1  tablespoon  of  vine- 
gar ;  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract.  Beat  well,  and  bring 
to  a  boil.    Serve  hot. 

Gypsy,  Chicago. 
One  cup  of  suet,  2|  of  flour,  1  of  raisins,  1  of  cur- 
rants ;  a  small  cup  of  molasses ;  spice  to  taste  ;  1  des- 
sert-spoonful of  baking  powder.    Bake  f  of  an  hour. 

Dallas,  Chicago. 

One  pint  of  bread  sponge ;  1  cup  chopped  suet  ■  1 
cup  brown  sugar;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  large  cup  i...- 
sins;  H  teaspoons  cinnamon;  1  of  cloves;  1  of  salt; 
li  teaspoons  soda  ;  flour  to  make  very  stiff.  Put  in  a 
2-quart  pan,  and  steam  2i  hours.  Do  not  lift  the  cover 
until  done.  Make  any  kind  of  sauce  you  like  best,  and 
serve  hot. 

Bread  Pudding. 
Susan,  Princeton. 

One  coffee  cup  bread  crumbs,  dried  and  rolled  fine. 
1  teacup  of  sugar  ;  1  quart  of  milk  ;  1  teaspoonful  gin- 
ger; a  little  salt ;  3  eggs  (saving  out  the  whites  of  2); 
When  baked,  spread  jelly  over  the  top  ;  then  a  frost- 
ing made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  Beturn  to  the  oven  until  slightly 
browned. 

Theo.  C.  C,  Chicago. 

Soak  your  bread  in  as  little  cold  water  as  will  soak 
it *  thoroughly  •  then  beat  it  un.  water  and  all,  anc1  add 


COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 


103 


flour  enough  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  apple  sauce ; 
add  sugar,  cinnamon,  a  little  nutmeg,  allspice,  which 
must  predominate,  and  some  well-washed  currants; 
also  a  little  butter  melted  and  stirred  in.  If  it  is 
baker's  bread,  scald  a  little  saleratus,  and  stir  in  thor- 
oughly, but,  if  it  is  house-made  bread,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder  to  your  Horn,  at  the  rate  of  2 
teaspoonfuls  to  a  quart  of  pudding.  Bake  in  shallow 
pans ;  cut  in  squares  when  serving  ;  turn  over,  and 
put  on  each  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  dust  plenti- 
fully with  powdered  sugar.  This  requires  a  little  care 
in  making,  but  is  universally  liked  and  very  whole- 
some and  economical,  as  no  eggs  or  cream  are  re- 
quired. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  S.,  Arlington,  Hh 

Of  clean,  broken  pieces,  a  quart  when  crumbed — I 
put  sweet  milk  to  them  right  after  breakfast,  and  set 
them  on  the  open  top  of  the  boiling  teakettle.  They 
will  swell  and  soften  so  as  to  nearly  soak  up  the  milk 
by  the  middle  of  the  forenoon.  Then  beat  up  3  eggs 
and  add  them,  also  1  teacup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon,  and  a  i  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, and  I  of  a  pint  of  raisins,  the  latter  picked  over 
carefully  and  washed  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them.  The  boiling  water  softens  them  and  causes 
them  to  swell.  Mix  all  ingredients  together  thorough- 
ly, and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderately-heated 
oven.  It  can  be  sliced  and  eaten  cold  with  a  relish,  or 
eaten  while  warm  with  sweet  sauce. 

Rena's  Pudding. 

Agnes,  Chicago. 
Take  stale  bread ;  place  in  a  pan  ;  cover  with  cold 
water ;  set  on  back  of  stove — not  too  hot  a  place.  If 
bread  is  sour,  put  a  little  soda  in  water  ;  let  soak  until 
soft.  If  you  have  more  water  on  the  bread  than  it 
takes  up,  pour  it  off  until  dry ;  then  beat  line  with  a 
spoon;  if  it  is  very  watery,  press  water  out  and  throw 
away.  To  1  quart  of  bread,  after  soaked,  add  1  cup 
(large)  of  currants  or  raisins ;  1  large  tablespoon  of 
sugar.    Bake  in  hot  oven  for  40  minutes,  if  not  too 


104  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 

large.    Eat  with  cream  or  milk,  flavored  and  sweeten- 
ed, thin  boiled  custard,  or, sugar  and  butter. 

Imitation  Plum  Pudding. 

J.  C.  S.,  Chicago. 
Soak  some  dried  apples  all  night;  in  the  morning 
chop  very  tine  ;  put  a  teacupful  ot  them  into  a  pint  of 
molasses,  and  keep  slightly  warm  for  an  hour  or  2 ; 
after  that  add  1  cup  of  chopped  suet,  1  of  water,  1  of 
chopped  raisins,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, 3  pints  of  flour,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Put  the  flour  in  last,  and  stir  all  together 
thoroughly.  Boil  2|  hours  in  a  bowl  or  tin  pudding 
mold.  This  may  be  eaten  with  wine  sauce,  and  is  a 
good  imitation  of  genuine  plum  pudding. 

Bread  and  Apple  Pudding. 

S.  A.  T.,  Champaign. 
Butter  a  pudding  dish  ;  place  in  it  alternate  layers 
of  bread  crumbs  and  thinly  sliced  apples ,  sprinkle 
sugar  over  each  layer  of  apples  ;  when  the  dish  is  filled, 
let  the  top  layer  be  of  bread  crumbs,  over  which  2  or  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  should  be  poured. 
Bake- in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and  place  2  or  3  nails 
under  the  pudding  dish  to  keep  from  burning  in  the 
bottom  ;  let  it  bake  from  f  to  a  whole  hour,  according 
to  the  quality  of  the  cooking  apples. 

Rice   Pudding. 

Jennie,  LaPorte,  lnd. 

Soak  1  cupful  of  best  rice ;  after  soaking  4  hours, 
drain  it  off;  place  the  rice  in  pudding  dish;  add  1 
cupful  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  11  cupfuls 
milk  and  spice ;  put  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake 
from  2  to  3  hours,  stirring  occasionally  at  first  if  the  rice 
settles. 

Mrs.  E.,  Kalamazoo. 

Take  a  cup  of  rice,  place  in  an  earthen  dish,  pour 
over  it  1  pint  of  fresh  milk  ;  allow  it  to  cook  slowly  un- 
til the  rice  is  soft  enough  to  eat ;  then  pour  over  a  pint 
of  cold  milk  ;  add  pinch  of  salt.  Take  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  and  beat  in  smooth  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  su- 

far,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  ;  stir  well  into  the  rice, 
'lace  in  a  brisk  oven.    After  allowing  it  to  come  to  a 


COOKERY—PUDDINGS.  105 

light  brown,  place  on  the  top  the  whites  of  the  4  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  4  tablespoons  of  powdered 
sugar.  Allow  this  also  to  come  to  a  delicate  brown ; 
set  in  a  cool  place,  the  colder  the  better.  It  is  very  nice 
eaten  with  oranges  cut  in  slices. 

Susan,  Princeton. 
One  teacup  of  rice ;  1  teacup  of  sugar;  1  quart  milk , 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon  ;  raisins  if  you  please.    Bake 
slowly  H  hours. 

Twenty-six  Summers,  Coldwater,  Mich. 

(To  be  eaten  cold).  One  and  a  i  teacups  of  rice 
(boiled  until  soft) ;  stir  in  i  pint  of  milk,  sugar,  salt, 
and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Boil  up  or  bake  just  enough 
to  warm  through.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  for  frost- 
ing, seasoned  with  vanilla,  or  lemon  if  preferred,  and 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  when  done.  Re- 
turn it  to  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  bake  the  frost- 
ing. 

Apple  Pudding. 
Mrs.  Henry  C.  Port  Huron. 

Make  a  good  paste  ;  roll  it  out  and  place  in  a  basin 
rubbed  with  dripping ;  press  out  the  plaits  so  that  the 
crust  may  be  of  an  equal  thickness  all  round  ;  peel  and 
cut  up  4  large  apples,  put  i  of  them  in,  then  add  1 
tablespoonful  moist  sugar  and  1  of  cloves  ;  put  in  the 
rest  of  the  apples ;  cover  the  top  well  over  with  paste , 
press  it  down,  that  the  water  may  not  get  in ;  tie  a 


cloth  over:  put  it  into  boiling  water  and  boil  fast  for 
2^  hours,  if  the  crust  be  made  of  dripping,  and  an  hour 
longer  if  it  be  made  of  suet ;  take  off  the  cloth,  pass  a 


knife  around  the  edge  of  the  basin.    Turn  out  the 
pudding  carefully  when  sending  it  to  table. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Teutonia,  Wis. 
No.  1— Soak  8  tablespoonf  uls  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of 
warm  milk  till  soft ;  then  add  2  tablespoonf  uls  of 
melted  butter ;  5  eggs  well  beaten  ;  cinnamon  and  su- 
gar to  your  taste  ;  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  without  any 
lining.  \  No.  2 — Put  a  teacup  of  tapioca  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  into  a  pint  and  a  i  of  water,  and  leathern 
stand  5  hours  where  they  will  be  kept  warm.    Two 


106  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 

hours  before  dinner  pare  and  core  6  apples ;  place  in  a 
pudding  dish,  and  fill  the  holes  with  sugar,  over  which 
sprinkle  cinnamon  ;  add  a  teacup  of  water,  and  bake  1 
hour,  turning  the  apples  to  prevent  drying.  When  the 
apples  are  soft,  pour  over  them  the  tapioca  and  bake 
an  hour.    Serve  with  hard  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar. 

E.  L.  M.,  Chicago. 

Boil  i  a  teacup  of  tapioca  in  I  a  pint  of  water  till  it 
melts.  By  degrees  stir  in  i  a  pint  of  milk  and  boil  till 
the  tapioca  is  very  thick.  Acid  a  well  beaten  egg,  su- 
gar, and  flavoring  to  taste.  Turn  into  your  pudding 
dish  and  cook  gently  in  the  oven  I  of  an  hour.  This 
dish  is  excellent  for  delicate  children. 

Mrs.  T.  W..  Fairbury,  III 
Four  tablespoon!'  uls  of  tapioca;  1  quart  of  milk;  4 
eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  2  for  frosting ;  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Soak  the  tapioca  over  night,  or 
for  several  hours,  in  a  little  water.  Boil  the  milk  and 
turn  over  the  tapioca.  Add,  when  it  is  blood  warm, 
the  sugar  and  eggs  well  beaten  ;  bake  about  an  hour, 
and  after  it  has  cooled  a  little,  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  I  pound  sugar  for  frosting.  It  answers  well  for 
a  sauce,  and  looks  quite  ornamental. 

Gelatine  Pudding. 

Fannie  W.,  Aurora,  III. 
One  ounce  gelatine  ;  1  pint  cold  milk  ;  set  on  range, 
and  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  stirring  occasionally ; 
separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  6  fresh  eggs ;  beat  the 
yolks  well  and  stir  slowly  into  hot  milk  ;  add  £  a  pound 
of  granulated  sugar ;  when  quite  cold  stir  in  a  quart  of 
whipped  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla  and  lemon  ex- 
tract mixed  ;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff,  and  stir  in  the  last  thing  ;  pack  on  ice. 

Macaroni  Pudding. 

Jennie  D.,  JolieU  III. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  broken  into  pieces 
an  inch  long  ;  1  pint  of  water ;  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter ;  1  large  cup  of  milk ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar  ;  grated  peel  of  £  a  lemon  ;  a  little  cinnamon  and 
salt.    Boil  the  macaroni  slowly  in  the  pint  of  water 


COOKERY— PUDDINGS.  107 

(in  a  dish  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water)  until  it  is 
tender.  Then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Stir  all  to- 
gether, taking  care  not  to  break  the  macaroni ;  sim- 
mer 10  minutes.  Turn  it  out  on  a  deep  dish,  and  serve 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

Plain  Boiled  Pudding. 

Mrs.  J.  Y.  S.,  Belvidere. 
One  cup  sour  cream  ;  \  cup  molasses ;  \  cup  melted 
butter ;  2$  cups  flour  ,  1  teaspoonful  soda ;  a  little  salt. 
Mix  molasses  and  butter  together  and  beat  until  very 
light ;  stir  in  the  cream  and  salt,  and  then  the  flour 
gradually,  until  it  is  a  smooth  batter  •,  beat  in  the  dis- 
solved soda  thoroughly,  and  boil  in  a  buttered  mold 
an  hour  and  a  h  To  be  eaten  hot  with  sweet  liquid 
sauce. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 
Mary  N..  Elgin,  III 
To  2  coffee  cupfuls  mashed  sweet  potato  (boiled)  add 

1  teacupful  sugar,  1  teacupful  butter,  4  eggs,  1  teacup- 
ful  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  grated  nut- 
meg, 1  teaspoonful  lemon  (extract),  and  a  pinch  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful  of  water.  Beat  the  eggs 
light,  add  sugar  and  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream ;  stir 
all  together  into  the  mashed  potato  while  hot.  Cover 
a  deep  plate  with  puff-paste,  and  pour  in  the  mixture. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  when  done,  cover  the  top 
with  slices  of  fruit  marmalade,  and  sprinkle  thickly 
with  granulated  sugar. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 

For  a  2-quart  pudding  use  2  teacups  meal ;  moisten 
the  meal  with  cold  water ;  then  pour  over  it  1  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  2  tea- 
cups of  sugar ;  1  cup  of  raisins ;  3  eggs  well  beaten  be- 
fore adding,  and  till  up  with  sweet  milk ;  season  with 
whatever  spice  is  preferred ;  bake  slowly  1  an  hour  or 
more. 

Carrot  Pudding. 
Mrs.  M.,  Coldwater,  Mich. 

One  cup  of  chopped  carrot ;  1  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes ;  1  cup  of  chopped  suet ;  1  cup  of  sirup  ;  2  eggs; 

2  cups  of  flour  •,  spice  to  suit  the  taste.    The  carrots 


108  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 

and  potatoes  are  to  be  boiled  first,  of  course— if  the 
day  before  it  will  answer  just  as  well. 

Plum  Pudding. 

Q.  M.,  Tiffin,  Ohio. 
Two  pounds  of  stoned  raisins ;  2  pounds  well  wash- 
ed Zante  currants  ;  1  pound  sliced  citron  ;  2  pounds 
finely  chopped  beef  suet ;  1  pound  flour ;  1  pound  bread 
crumbs ;  1  pound  sugar  ;  1  nutmeg ;  1  teaspoonf  ul  each 
of  powdered  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon ;  the  grated 
peel  of  a  lemon,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
these  ingredients  thoroughly.  Add  10  eggs  and  suffi- 
cient milk  to  moisten  to  about  the  stiffness  of  fruit 
cake.  Tie  in  a  well-floured  pudding  cloth,  and  boil  at 
least  8  hours.    Serve  with  rich  sauce. 

Spiced  Pudding. 

Mrs.  C.  C,  Warren,  III. 
Take  1  small  square  loaf  of  baked  bread,  peel  off  the 
crust,  cut  in  pieces,  and  pour  upon  it  1  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Take  1  pint  of 
flour ;  add  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ; 
2  coffee  cups  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped ;  mix  all 
well  with  the  flour,  first  powders  and  next  raisins ; 
then  tidd  soaked  bread  and  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
allspice,  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves.  Then  add  by 
degrees  1  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  beat  the  mass 
well  together.  Scald  pudding  bag,  and  put  in  the  pud- 
ding, which  should  be  pretty  stiff,  and  boil  3  hours. 
The  whole  secret  lies  in  plunging  puddings  in  boiling 
water,  immediately  after  they  are  mixed,  and  never 
letting  them  cease  boiling.  Be  sure  and  turn  them 
over,  and  always  leave  room  in  the  bag  for  swelling. 
I  have  a  wire  basket  made  for  holding  puddings  while 
boiling,  made  with  legs,  to  keep  them  from  the  bottom 
of  the  kettle,  so  as  to  prevent  burning. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

Hattie,  Aurora,  111. 
One  cup  sugar ;  2  cups  flour ;  nearly  1  cup  of  cold 
water  ;  1  egg ;  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg ;  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder ;  salt.  Sauce  :  One  cup  su- 
gar ;  i  cup  of  butter ;  mix  thoroughly ;  add  2  cups 
boiling   water ;   tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  beaten 


COOKERY— PUDDINGS.  109 

with  the  butter  and  sugar.  After  taking  from  the 
stove,  add  1  well  beaten  egg,  and  £  lemon  sliced. 
Cheap  and  good.  A  hot  oven  is  necessary  for  the  pud- 
ding. 

Batter  Pudding. 

Mrs.  C.  C,  Warren,  III. 
Four  eggs— whites  and  yolks  ;  2  even  cups  flour ;  1 
pint  of  sweet  milk ;  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  baking 
powder  and  the  salt  with  the  flour ;  beat  the  eggs,  and 
stir  in  the  milk,  gradually  at  first,  until  the  whole  is 
one  smooth  mass.  Scald  a  pudding  bag  in  boiling 
water,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  plunge  the  whole  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  2  hours.  To  be  eaten 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  flour ;  1  coffee  cup  chopped  raisins  ;  1 
teacupf  ul  of  currants ;  1  teacupful  chopped  suet ;  i  cup 
candied  lemon  finely  shred  ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  2  of  baking  powder,  and  2  cups  of 
sweet  milk.  Sift  the  flour ;  put  in  the  baking  powder 
and  salt,  mixing  thoroughly.  Next  add  the  raisins, 
currants  and  candied  lemon,  and  incorporate  well  with 
the  flour,  so  they  will  not  sink  to  the  bottom,  as  they 
will  always  do  unless  mixed  first  with  the  flour.  Then 
put  in  suet  and  sugar,  and  lastly  the  milk,  and,  after 
stirring  well,  put  in  a  bag  which  has  been  dipped  in 
boiling  water,  and  boil  3  hours.  Do  not  let  the  fire 
get  low  so  the  pudding  will  stop  boiling,  and  replenish 
always  from  a  boiling  teakettle.  When  done,  put  on 
a  large  platter,  remove  the  strings,  and  turn  the  bag 
wrong  side  out — that  is,  pull  it  gently  back  and  it  win 
come  off  smoothly,  if  the  bag  is  well  scalded.  Omit 
the  lemon  if  you  do  not  care  for  it  so  rich.  Sauce  :  One 
cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  1 
egg ;  melt  the  butter  in  the  sauce-pan  and  stir  in  the 
flour  until  the  whole  is  smooth  ;  then  stir  in  the  egg, 
and  pour  upon  this  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  By  adding 
3  tablespoons  of  brandy,  it  becomes  brandy  sauce,  or 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  it  is  called  lemon 
sauce. 


110  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 

Hotel  Pudding, 

Hattic,  Aurora,  111. 
Boil  1  quart  of  milk ;  add  i  cup  of  butter ;  1  cup  of 
corn-meal,  mixed  with  cold  milk ;  1  cup  each  of  sugar 
and  molasses ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon :  1  of  ginger ;  2 
eggs  ;  salt ;  i  cup  of  raisins.    Sauce,  if  you  like. 

Bannock.  Pudding. 

One  cup  corn-meal ;  1  of  flour,  well  mixed ;  1  cup 
sour  milk  ;  1  egg ;  1  tablespoon  of  lard ;  small  tea- 
spoon of  soda. 

Batter  Pudding. 
D.  M.  W.,  Jacksonville. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  1  tea  (or  coffee)  cup  of  flour, 
and  2  eggs,  beaten  separately,  the  whites  stirred  in  the 
last  thing.  And  here  is  a  sauce  suitable  for  the  same  : 
One  teacup  of  sugar ;  £  a  cup  of  butter— these  rubbed 
together ;  1  egg,  separated— the  yolk  beaten  with  the 
butter  and  sugar  ;  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  thickened 
with  a  teaspoonf ul  of  flour  or  corn-starch ;  add  to 
these  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg,  and  let  it  come  to 
the  boil ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Egg   Pudding. 

Fannie,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 
Four  eggs  well  beaten ;  4  tablespoons  of  flour ;  add 
to  the  eggs  until  a  smooth  mass ;  then  add  a  pint  of 
milk  slowly;  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  p11  smooth  to- 
gether. Put  in  a  well-buttered  dish,  a  bake  about 
20  minntes.  Eat  with  sauce  made  of  butter  and  sugar 
beaten  together  to  a  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  E.  O.,  Geneva,  111. 
First  boil  soft  1  pound  of  raisins  ;  then  put  2  quarts 
of  new  milk  over  the  tire  •,  when  nearly  boiling,  add  \ 
pint  of  corn-meal,  wet  up  in  \  pint  of  cold  milk  ;  stir 
it  till  it  boils ;  then  turn  it  in  your  pudding  dish,  which 
must  be  large  enough  to  hold  4  quarts.  Then  add  1 
quart  of  dark  sirup,  \  pound  of  butter,  5  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  tablespoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspooniul  all- 
spice, i  of  a  nutmeg,  and  i  of  a  teaspoonf  ul  ginger. 
Then  add  the  raisins ,  stir  it  up  well ;  bake  it  in  a  slow 
oven  for  3  hours.  Let  it  cool  1  hour  before  eating. 
A  smaller  quantity  than  this  will  not  be  good,  as  it 


COOKERY— PUDDINGS.  1 1 1 

would  dry  out  too  much  in  baking.  It  is  just  as  good 
cold  as  when  warm,  and  it  will  keep  sweet  several 
days. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

B.  Read,  Belvidere,  111. 
One  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk ;  2  eggs,  well  beaten ; 
1  small  teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  milk; 
then  sift  in  dry  corn-meal  until  of  the  consistency  as  if 
for  griddle-cakes  (perhaps  a  little  thicker).  Stir  in  a 
teacup  of  dried  fruit— cherries  are  the  best.  Put  in  a 
bag  and  boil  1  hour.  For  sauce,  sweetened  cream  na-< 
vored  with  nutmeg. 

Graham  Pudding. 

Blanche,  Chicago. 
Take  a  pint  of  water  and  allow  it  to  boil  thoroughly 
—not  simmer— then  salt,  and  stir  in  very  slowly 
Graham  flour — which  must  be  fresh  and  sweet — until 
quite  thick ;  after  doing  so,  remove  to  the  back  part  of 
the  stove,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  for  15  minutes  or  more ; 
it  must  be  stirred  at  intervals  to  prevent  burning. 
Served  nearly  cold  with  sirup  or  sugar  and  cream. 

Delicate  Pudding. 

Aunt  Mary  S.,  Chicago. 
One  cup  granulated  sugar ;  1  cup  sweet  milk ;  1  esg ; 
butter  size  of  an  egg ;  1  cup  raisins ;  2  teaspoonruls 
baking-powder;  flour  to  make  consistency  of  cake; 
steam  in  greased  basin  1  hour. 

Indian  Pudding. 

Mrs.  Louisa  T.,  Chicago. 
Into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  stir  Indian  meal  enough 
to  make  a  thick  batter,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
When  cool  add  4  eggs  well  beaten,  a  tablespoon  of  gin- 
ger, a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  \  a  cup  of  sirup.  Mix  well, 
and  bake  3  hours  in  a  brown  earthen  dish,  buttered. 

T.  M.,  KendaUvillc. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  on  the  stove  to  scaid ;  beat  up  3 

eggs,  3  taDlespoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  of  corn-meal,  and 

a  little  salt.    If  it  needs  wetting  more,  add  a  little  cold 

milk.    When  the  milk  nearly  boils,  pour  in  the  mixture, 


112  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 

and  stir  till  it  boils.    Then  set  it  in  the  oven  and  hake 
about  an  hour.    Eat  with  butter  and  a  little  more  si  igi  i  r. 

N.  E.  E.,  DePere,  Wis.  '  ■ 

One  pint  corn  meal ;  1  pint  flour ;  1  pint  sweet  milk ; 
$  cup  molasses ;  1  teaspoon  saleratus  ;  1  teaspoon  salt ; 
steam  3  hours ;  pour  it  into  a  3-quart  pail  and  put  the 
cover  on ;  then  set  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
keep  it  boiling— though  the  ordinary  way  of  steaming 
would  do. 

JLemon  Pudding. 

B.  Dubuque,  Iowa. 
One  small  cup  butter  2  full  cups  sugar;  mix  very 
smooth,  adding  the  grated  rind  of  2  lemons  ;  yolks  of 
6  eggs;  juice  of  the  lemons,  6  small  Boston  crackers 
dissolved  in  1  pint  milk ;  bake.  Make  meringue  of  the 
6  whites  beaten  stiff  and  6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 
Spread  on  pudding  and  brown  in  oven.  This  needs  no 
sauce. 

Mrs.  Mac,  Kansas. 
Two  lemons  grated  ;  2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  of  cream ;  2 
tablespoons  butter ;  5  eggs  ;  3  tablespoons  arrow  root. 
Line  a  deep  dish  with  paste,  and  bake  i  an  hour. 

Anna  R.,  PittsfieM,  HI. 
One  large  lemon,  or  3  small  ones ;  I  a  pound  of 
sugar ;  £  a  pound  of  butter ;  1  coff ecup  of  cream  or 
milk,  and  I  pound  of  butter ;  6  eggs  ;  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cracker,  or  bread  crumbs ;  beat  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  grate  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  add 
juice,  and  yolks  of  eggs,  and  crackers ;  then  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  lemon.  Sauce  for  the  above  :  Mix 
well  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter ;  add  H  cups  white 
sugar ;  then  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and  1  gill  of  milk ; 
put  in  a  small  bucket  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  and  let 
it  thicken.    Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Delmonico  Pudding. 

Grade  Mayhue,  Hyde  Park,  M- 

One  quart  milk ;   3  teaspoons  corn-starch,  mixed 

with  a  little  cold  milk ;  5  eggs — separate  them,  put  the 

yolks  with  the  corn-starch ;  add  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar; 

put  this  into  the  corn-starch  with  the  milk  when  boil- 


COOKERY— PUDDINGS.  113 

ing.  Boil  3  minutes,  or  till  cooked.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  3  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
sugar.    Bake  sufficient  to  hold  the  icing. 

Florentine  Pudding?. 

Aunt  Lucy,  Chicago. 
Put  1  quart  of  milk  into  your  pan  :  let  it  come  to  a 
boil ;  mix  smoothly  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch 
and  a  little  cold  milk;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
beaten ;  i  a  teacup  of  sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon, 
or  anything  your  fancy  suggests ;  stir  into  the  scalding 
milk ;  continue  stirring  till  the  consistency  of  starch 
(ready  for  use) ;  then  put  into  the  pan  or  dish  you  wish 
to  serve  in ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  teacup 
of  pulverized  sugar ;  spread  over  the  top ;  place  in  the 
oven  a  few  minutes,  till  the  frosting  is  a  pretty  brown. ' 
Can  be  eaten  with  cream,  or,  is  good  enough  without. 
For  a  change,  you  can  bake  in  cups. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Mary  D.  S.,  Elgin. 
One  quart  milk,  14  even  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
bread-crumbs,  12  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  6 
eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla ;  sugar  to  make  very 
sweet.  .  Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  4  eggs ;  beat 
up  the  4  yolks  and  2  whole  eggs  together  very  light, 
with  the  sugar.  Put  the  milk  on  the  range,  and  when 
it  comes  to  a  perfect  boil  pour  it  over  the  bread  and 
chocolate ;  add  the  beaten  eg  gs  and  sugar  and  vanilla ; 
be  sure  it  is  sweet  enough ;  pour  into  a  buttered  dish ; 
bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold,  and  just 
before  it  is  served,  have  the  4  whites  beaten  with  a 
little  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  use 
as  a  meringue. 

Vermicelli    Pudding. 

Into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  milk  drop  4  ounces 
of  fresh  vermicelli,  and  keep  it  simmering  and  stirred 
up  gently  10  minutes,  when  it  will  have  become  very 
thick ;  then  mix  with  it  3£  ounces  sugar,  2  ounces  of 
butter,  and  a  little  salt.  When  the  whole  is  well 
blended  pour  it  out,  beat  it  for  a  few  minutes  to  cool 
it,  then  add  by  degrees  4  well-beaten  eggs,  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  just  before  it  goes  into  the  oven  a 


114  COOKEKY— PUDDINGS. 

glass  of  brandy ;  pour  a  little  clarified  butter  over  the 
top ;  bake  it  from  i  to  f  of  an  hour. 

Sponge  Pudding. 

One-fourth  pound  each  of  flour,  butter  and  sugar,  1 
quart  of  milk,  12  eggs ;  mix  butter,  flour  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  to  the  milk,  and  boil  until  it  thickens; 
when  cool  add  flrst  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the 
whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  the  pudding  dish 
in  a  pan  partly  filled  with  water  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
nearly  an  hour.  For  the  sauce,  t  cupful  butter,  2  cup- 
fuls  sugar,  and  1  of  wine ;  mix  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  the  wine,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  and  put  the 
dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  dissolve.  This  makes  a 
light,  delicious  pudding. 

Boiled  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Contributor,  Chicago. 
Soak  till  quite  soft  1  cup  of  tapioca ;  then  boil  in 
milk  enough  to  make  it  like  jelly — perhaps  15  minutes 
will  suffice  of  steady  boiling,  constantly  stirring  ;  salt 
when  put  to  soak.  Pour  out  in  molds,  and  eat  with 
cream,  and  sugar  and  currant  jelly. 

Baked  Tapioca  Budding, 

Contributor,  Chicago. 

Soak  8  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of  warm 
water  or  milk  till  soft;  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  5  eggs  well  beaten,  spice,  sugar  and 
wine  to  taste.  Bake  in  buttered  dish  and  without 
lining. 

Centennial  Prune  Pudding. 
P.  P.  C,  Chicago. 

Heat  a  little  more  than  1  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  when 
boiling,  stir  in  gradually  the  following  :  1  large  spoon- 
ful corn-starch  (or  2  of  flour,  if  more  convenient), 
mixed  smoothly  with  a  small  quantity  of  cold  milk; 
add  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs ;  enough  sugar  to  sweeten ; 
1  teaspoon  butter,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Let 
this  come  to  a  boil.  Then  pour  it  into  a  well-buttered 
dish,  adding  1  teacup  seeded  prunes  just  before  plac- 
ing in  the  oven ;  bake  about  20  minutes.  The  prunes 
must  be  previously  stewed  until  tender.  Serve  with 
or  without  sauce  as  is  preferred. 


COOKERY— PUDDINGS.  115 

Bread  Pudding. 

Mary,  Chicago. 
Pour  boiling  water  on  a  pint  of  dry  bread-crumbs ; 
melt  with  it  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  soft, 
mix  in  two  beaten  eggs,  1  pint  or  more  of  fruit,  stewed 
or  fresh  ;  sweeten  to  taste.  It  is  better  without  spices. 
Bake  20  minutes,  and  eat  with  or  without  cream. 

Steamed  Dumpling. 

Susan,  Princeton. 
Pare  and  quarter  ripe,  tart  apples;  place  them  in  a 
deep  dish,  adding  a  little  water ;  make  a  crust  as  you 
would  tea-biscuit,  of  sour  cream  or  rich  buttermilk,  if 
you  have  it*  if  not,  any  of  the  nice  baking-powder 
recipes  will  do ;  roll  about  an  inch  thick ;  place  over 
the  apples,  and  steam  i  an  hour.  Serve  with  sauce 
made  of  &  butter  to  f  sugar,  stirred  to  a  cream.  This 
dumpling  may  be  made  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  fresh  or 
canned. 

Delmonico's  Pudding;. 

Mi's.  Mac,  Kansas. 

Heat  a  quar*-  of  milk  to  nearly  boiling ;  reserve  a 
little  to  wet  J  tablespoons  corn-starch ;  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  with  6  tablespoons  sugar ;  stir  these 
into  the  corn-starch,  after  being  dissolved  in  the  milk ; 
then  add  to  the  hot  milk,  and  boil  3  minutes ;  then  add 
1  teaspoon  milk.  Turn  this  into  a  buttered  dish,  and 
bake  10  minutes.  Beat  up  whites,  add  three  table- 
spoons white  sugar  and  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Spread  on 
pudding  and  brown.    Eat  cold  with  cream  sauce. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

Lizzie  B.,  Marietta. 

Nine  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth ;  add  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  thick  batter  free  from  lumps ;  add  1  pint  new 
milk  and  beat  well ;  add  2  pounds  of  raisins  stoned, 
and  2  pounds  currants  washed  and  dried,  1  pound  of 
citron  sliced,  i  pound  bitter  almonds  divided,  £  of  a 
pound  brown  sugar,  1  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  of  allspice, 
mace  and  cinnamon,  f  of  a  pound  beef  suet,  chopped 
fine ;  mix  3  days  before  cooking,  and  beat  well  again ; 
add  more  milk,  if  required.  If  made  into  2  puddings, 
boil  4  hours. 


116  COOKERY— PUDDINGS. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

J.  A.  S.,  Menasha.  Wis. 

One  cup  of  tapioca ;  1  quart  of  milk ;  soak  3  hours 
on  the  back  side  of  the  stove ;  when  soft,  and  if  too 
thick,  add  more  milk  ;  then  i  cup  of  white  sugar ;  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs ;  small  spoonful  of  butter ;  a  little  salt 
and  nutmeg.  Bake  slowly  for  an  hour.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  as  frosting,  and  serve  with  pudding 
when  done ;  or  to  be  eaten  as  sauce,  which  I  think  is 
nicer  than  putting  it  on  top  of  the  pudding. 
Sago  Pudding. 
J.  A.  S.,  Menasha,  Wis. 

Soak  1  cup  of  sago  in  warm  water  until  it  is  all 
swelled  alike ;  add  water  as  it  thickens,  keeping  it 
warm  on  the  back  side  of  the  stove ;  when  all  swelled, 
peel  6  sour  apples,  core  them,  put  them  in  the  sago  ; 
sprinkle  some  sugar  on  top ;  bake  until  the  apples  are 
soft— say  £  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding. 
Mrs.  M.  B.  C,  Manteno,  III. 

One  cup  molasses,  1  of  sour  milk,  i  cup  butter  or 
beef  drippings,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  make  as  stiff 
as  can  be  easily  stirred.  Use  raisins  as  taste  or  purse 
dictate.  Put  in  a  spouted  cake-tin  and  steam  3  hours. 
Eat  with  sweetened  cream,  or  any  sauce  preferred. 

Malagan  Pudding. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  TM  Chicago. 
One-third  cup  of  rice  ;  1  cup  sugar ;  2  eggs  ;  1  pint 
of  milk ;  i  a  lemon  and  salt.  Soak  the  rice  over  night. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  one  tablespoon  of  the 
sugar,  and  grate  in  the  lemon  rind ;  add  the  rice  and 
milk.  Bake  1  hour.  Take  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  then  add 
the  lemon  juice.  Pour  it  over  the  pudding  after  it  is 
baked,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven  2  or  3  minutes.  To 
be  eaten  cold. 

Apple  Pudding. 

Frank,  Chicago. 
Make  a  plain  crust  with  a  little  shortening  in  it,  and 
cut  in  squares.    Cut  good  sour  apples  in  quarters,  and 


COOKERY— SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS,  ETC.         117 

put  3  of  them  in  each  square,  after  taking  out  the  seeds. 
Then  pinch  the  dough  together,  and  put  each  one  in  a 
clean  white  muslin  bag,  and  boil  until  they  are  done. 
Put  on  the  table  quite  hot  as  a  dessert.  For  sauce, 
boil  good  molasses  with  just  enough  butter.  Pour 
into  the  gravy-boat  and  use. 

"Amber's  "  Apple  Pudding. 

Amber,  Highivood,  111. 
Take  of  apples  that  outblush  the  cheek  of  Hebe — 6. 
Slice  them  thin  as  the  shimmer  of  ice  that  flashes  upon 
the  bosom  of  your  water  pail  in  chill  November. 
Grate  a  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  flue  as  the  drift  of 
Sahara  sands.  Spread  unto  yourself  within  an  eart  hen 
pudding  dish  alternate  layers  of  apples  and  crumbs, 
sweetened  with  sugar  and  savory  with  nutmeg,  yea, 
even  moistened  with  water.  And  when  the  gentle 
heat  of  a  moderate  oven  hath  held  your  pudding  one 
hour,  or  until  the  apple  is  soft  as  the  cheek  of  happy 
infancy,  eat  ye  of  it,  garnished  with  sweetened  cream ! 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Janet  B.,  Racine,  Wis. 

HE  juice  of  a  nice  soft  lemon,  some  water,  sugar 
till  sweet  enough,  and  a  little  whole  cinnamon. 
Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  a  little  in  a 
cup,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  with  the 
ueye"  of  the  egg  removed,  and  when  you  have  the 
cup  filled  with  the  boiling  sauce  (be  sure  and  stir  with 
1  hand  while  pouring  a  little  at  a  time  in  the  cup  till 
full),  pour  back  in  the  pot,  set  on  the  stove,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil  again,  stirring  all  the  while;  then  re- 
move immediately  and  put  in  your  sauce-dish  to  get 
cold.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  put  right  on  top  of  the  sauce.  Do 
not  pour  the  sauce  over  the  pudding  till  just  ready  to 
eat  it. 


118  COOKERY— SAUCES  FOR   PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

Orange  Sauce. 

Mary  B.,  Toledo,  Iowa. 
Place  on  the  fire  in  porcelain  saucepan  i  of  a  pound 
of  white  sugar,  i  a  pint  of  water,  juice  of  1  large 
orange,  and  the  rind,  cut  off  exceedingly  thin ;  boil  5 
ninutes,  strain,  and  add  1  glass  of  white  wine. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  S.,  Arlington,  111. 

One  coffeecup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  butter,  and  1  egg. 
Mix  the  3  to  a  cream,  and  pour  boiling  water — H  pints 
— over  them,  mixing  well,  after  flavoring,  with  lemon 
or  vanilla. 

Another :  1  cup  of  sugar,  an  even  tablespoonful 
flour  and  the  same  of  butter.  Mix  to  a  cream.  Put 
boiling  water  to  them,  and  mix  thoroughly,  and  put  on 
the  stove  to  cook,  letting  it  boil  15  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Flavor  with  grated  nutmeg  after  taking 
it  off  the  stove,  and  put  in  a  little  molasses,  if  you  like 
it  a  nice  brown  color. 

M.  S.  B.,  Kenosha,  Wis. 

Two  cups  coffee-sugar ;  H  of  water,  put  over  to  boil ; 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  rubbed  to  a  paste  with 
butter  as  large  as  an  egg ;  thin  with  the  sirup  while  it 
is  boiling,  till  it  pours  easily ;  then  turn  into  sauce :  let 
it  boil  a  Tittle ;  flavor  with  nutmeg,  or  brandy,  if  your 
conscience  allows. 

A  nice  cold  sauce  :  Squeeze  the  juice  of  two  oranges ; 
add  i  a  cup  of  sugar  (more  or  less  to  taste) ;  add  a  pint 
of  cream  or  rich  milk.  This  is  nice,  with  cottage  pud- 
ding, blanc  mange,  corn-starch,  or  any  requiring  cold 
sauce. 

Biddy  McBruiser,  El  Paso,  111. 

Yolks  5  eggs :  1  cup  sugar ;  £  cup  butter ;  beat  all 
together  till  light,  and  add  slowly  1  pint  of  boiling 


COOKERY— PANCAKES,  FRITTERS,  ETC.  119 


PANCAKES,  FRITTERS,  ETC. 


Oat-meal  Cakes. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  G..  Onslow,  la. 
KE  cup  oat-meal,  wet  with  1  cup  sweet  milk ; 
soak  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  a  little 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1  egg,  and 
enough  sweet  milk  and  a  little  cream  to  make 
as  other  gems ;  bake  in  gem-pans  in  a  quick  oven. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 
It  will  soon  be  time  for  buckwheat  cakes.    For  the 
very  best,  make  them  i  Graham ;  set  them  with  yeast 
over  night,  adding  a  little  sugar  and  salt.    Use  milk 
or  water. 

Breakfast  Cakes. 
J.  A.  S.,  Menasha,  Wis. 
One  egg  beaten  very  light ;  1  cup  of  Graham  flour ; 
1  cup  of  wheat  flour ;  a  little  salt ;  sweet  milk  enough 
to  thin  them  like  griddle  cakes.  To  be  baked  in  irons 
heated  hot  before  putting  them  in.  This  will  make 
just  12.    Be  particular  and  beat  the  eggs  very  light. 

Corn-meal  Cakes. 

Belle  M.  D.,  Chicago. 
Take  2  cups  of  corn-meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt. 
Mix  well  together.    Two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  1  pint  of 
thick  sour  milk,  in  a  little  of  which  stir  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.    Mix  well  together  in  a  batter,  and 
fry  on  a  well-greased  griddle.    The  ladies  need  not  be 
afraid  to  let  their  children  eat  them. 
Apple   Fritters. 
Mrs.  B.  S.  B.,  Areola. 
Pare,  core  and  parboil  some  juicy  tart  apples  in  a 
very  little  water ;  chop  fine  ;  beat  7  eggs  very  light : 
add  to  them  slowly  f  of  a  pound  of  sifted  prepared 


120  COOKERY— PANCAKES,  FRITTERS,  ETC. 

flour ;  beat  very  light ;  put  in  apple  enough  to  thicken 
the  batter,  and  the  grated  yellow  rind  and  juice  of  a 
lemon ;  have  the  very  best  lard  at  a  perfectly  boiling 
point ;  put  in  it  a  thick  slice  of  raw  apple  ;  put  a  large 
spoonful  of  the  batter  in  at  a  time,  and  as  many  spoon- 
fuls as  the  pan  will  hold ;  they  take  but  a  few  mo- 
ments to  do  and  need  not  be  turned  over ;  must  be 
made  at  the  moment  you  wish  to  use  them  and  sent  to 
the  table  at  once,  each  panful  sent  in  as  quickly  as 
baked ;  powdered  sugar  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
in  it,  is  nice  for  them. 

Crushed  Wheat  Fritters* 

Pansy,  St.  Joseph,  Mich. 
Take  cold  crushed  wheat;  1  large  tablespoon  of 
flour;  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Mix  all  together  with  1 
egg  well  beaten  ;  drop  with  n,  large  spoon  into  good 
hot  lard,  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  The  best  way  to  cook 
crushed  wheat  is  to  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  with 
water,  boiling  hot,  enough  to  cover  it.  When  well 
soaked,  which  will  be  in  about  i  an  hour,  mix  up  with 
milk  and  let  it  simmer  f  of  an  hour. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  C,  Elgin. 
Three  ears  of  green  corn ;  1  egg ;  a  little  salt  and 
pepper ;  flour  enough  to  keep  from  separating  in  the 
fat.  Fry  as  you  do  the  rice  fritters.  Shave  the  corn 
thin,  and  scrape  out  the  pulp.  I  used  to  grate  it,  but 
this  is  not  so  tedious  and  does  as  well. 

Buckwheat  Short-cake. 

Ruby,  Washington  Heights. 
.  Three  cups  sour  milk  ;  1  teaspoon  saleratus  dissolv- 
ed in  the  milk,  with  a  little  salt ;  mix  up  a  dough  with 
buckwheat  flour  thicker  than  you  would  for  batter 
cakes  (say,  quite  stiff).  Put  into  a  buttered  tin,  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes. 

Oat  Meal  Cakes. 

Young  Grandma,  Marshall  Co.,  III. 
Oat-meal  can  be  made  into  mush,  porridge,  or  set 
with  rising,  like  buckwheat  cakes,  and  baked  on  the 
griddle,  only  they  will  require  much  longer  time  in 


COOKERY— CUSTARD,  BLANC  MANGE,  ETC.        121 

baking  than  buckwheat.    It  can  also  be  used  in  mak- 
ing stir-cake,  by  using  about  £  wheat  flour. 

S.  8.  B.,  Chicago, 
Put  2  or  3  handfuls  of  meal  into  a  bowl,  and  moisten 
it  with  water  merely  sufficient  to  form  it  into  a  cake  ; 
knead  it  out  round  and  round  with  the  hands  upon  the 
board,  strewing  meal  under  and  over  it  until  it  is  as 
thin  as  desired,  and  put  it  on  a  hot  griddle,  bake  it  till 
it  is  slightly  brown  on  the  under  side,  then  take  it  off 
and  toast  that  side  before  the  fire  which  was  upper- 
most on  the  griddle. 

<■  rail  am  Griddle  Cakes. 

Cousin  Sarahs  Canton,  III. 
Use  the  white  wheat  Graham,  if  possible.    Equal 

Earts  of  Graham  flour  and  corn-meal  stirred  into  sour 
uttermilk,  or  other  sour  milk,  with  a  little  butter 
added,  soda  and  salt,  and  1  or  more  spoons  of  sugar. 
Try  them,  and  if  sticky,  the  milk  is  too  sour  ;  add  1  or 
2  eggs,  or  a  little  water.  This  is  not  a  precise  recipe, 
but  I  think  no  one  will  have  trouble  with  it,  especial- 
ly as  it  can  be  varied  considerably  and  still  be  good. 
I  sometimes  use  all  Graham  flour :  try  it  both  ways, 
and  I  think  you'll  like  them. 


CUSTARD,  BLANC  MANGOS,  ETC. 

Apple  Meringue. 

E.  L.  M„  Chicago. 
,AKE,  slice,  stew  and  sweeten  6  tart  juicy  apples. 
Mash  very  smooth  or  rub  through  a  sieve.  Sea- 
son with  nutmeg  or  lemon-peel.  Line  a  gener- 
ous-sized plate  with  an  under  crust,  and  bake 
first.  Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs— with  3  tablesnoon- 
fuls  of  pulverized  sugar — till  it  stands  alone.  Fill  the 
crust  with  apple,  then  spread  the  eggs  smoothly  over 
the  top:  Return  to  the  oven  and  brown  nicely.  If 
you  put  your  eggs  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  a  while  be- 
fore breaking  them,  they  will  beat  up  nicer. 


122       COOKERY— CUSTARD,  BLANC  MANGE,  ETC. 

Italian  Cream. 

Elma,  Milwaukee. 
Put  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  the  rind  of  2  to  1  quart 
of  thick  cream.  Sweeten  with  £  pound  sugar,  and  let 
it  stand  for  £  an  hour.  Add  1  ounce  of  isinglass  dis- 
solved in  i  pint  of  water  till  perfectly  smooth  and  free 
from  lumps.  Strain  the  whole  mixture  through  a  fine 
sieve  and  then  beat  together  for  several  minutes.  Put 
into  a  mold,  and,  when  cold  and  perfectly  set,  turn 
upon  a  dessert  dish. 

Chocolate  Cream. 

Elma,  Milwaukee. 
One  small  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  milk,  1  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  soaked  m  i 
pint  of  water  1  hour.  Boil  all  together  4  minutes ;  then 
add  1  pint  of  rich  cream  and  boil  1  minute.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  pour  into  molds.    This  makes  nearly 

2  quarts  of  cream. 

Snow  Cream. 
M.,  La  Crosse,  Wis. 
Sweeten  a  pint  of  cream  very  sweet;  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  lemon  as  you  prefer ;  let  it  stand  where  it 
will  get  very  cold ;  when  nearly  ready  for  dessert  beat 
new-fallen  snow  into  the  cream  till  stiff  enough  to 
stand  alone  ;  serve  immediately. 

Apple  Snow. 

Dorothea,  Bloomington,  111. 
Prepare  8  medium-sized  apples  as  for  sauce ;  after  it 
is  cold,  break  the  white  of  1  egg  in  a  dish ;  turn  your 
apple-sauce  over  it,  and  whip  with  a  fork  30  minutes. 
Care  should  be  taken  that  each  blemish  be  carefully 
cut  away  in  preparing  the  apples,  as  the  whiteness  of 
the  snow  depends  mainly  on  this. 

Apple  Puffetts. 

Kenn  Tucky,  Macomb,  111. 
Two  eggs ;  1  pint  of  milk  ;  sufficient  flour  to  thicken, 
as  waffle  batter;  H  teaspoons  of  baking-powder;  fill 
teacup  alternately  with  a  layer  of  batter  and  then  of 
apples  chopped  fine,  steam  1  hour;  serve  hot,  with 
flavored  cream  and  sugar.  You  can  substitute  any 
fresh  fruit  or  jams  you  like. 


COOKERY — CUSTARD,  BLAjSC  MANGJS,  ETC.         123 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Dryad,  Chicago. 
One  pint  of  cream ;  &  of  a  box  of  gelatine  ;  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Flavor  to  taste.  Tut  the  sugar  in 
the  cream  before  whipping  it,  then  whip  it  until  it  is 
quite  stiff  and  light.  Pour  cold  water  over  the  gela- 
tine, and  let  it  stand  until  all  is  dissolved.  Then  add 
the  cream,  and  pour  into  a  mold  lined  with  slices  of 
sponge  cake.  Stand  in  a  cool  place  for  a  few  hours. 
This  recipe  I  use  to  line  my  mold  with :  4  eggs  ;  2  cups 
of  sugar;  3  cups  of  flour ;  3  teaspoons  of  baking-pow- 
der; 1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs 
together  for  15  minutes.  Stir  in  the  sifted  flour  with 
the  baking-powder.    Add  the  milk,  and  bake. 

Velvet  Blanc  Mange. 

Bella,  Kankakee,  III. 
Two  cups  sweet  cream,  i  ounce  Cooper's  gelatine, 
soaked  in  a  very  little  cold  water  1  hour ;  i  a  cup  white 
powdered  sugar.  1  teaspoonful  extract  of  bitter  al- 
monds, 1  glass  of  white  wine.  Heat  the  cream  to  boil- 
ing, stir  in  the  gelatine  and  sugar,  and  as  soon  as  they 
are  dissolved  take  from  the  fire,  beat  10  minutes  until 
very  light,  flavor  and  add  the  wine  by  degrees,  mixing 
it  well.    Put  into  molds  wet  with  clear  water. 

Irish  moss. 

Mary,  Peoria. 
Soak  a  scant  handful  of  Irish  moss  in  strong  soda- 
water  until  it  swells ;  then  squeeze  the  moss  until  it  is 
free  from  water,  and  put  it  in  a  tin  bucket  which  con- 
tains 6  pints  of  sweet  milk.  Set  the  bucket  in  a  large 
iron  pot  which  holds  several  pints  of  hot  water ;  stir 
seldom,  and  let  it  remain  until  it  will  jell  slightly  by 
dropping  on  a  cold  plate.  Strain  through  a  sieve, 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Kinse  a  mold  or  a  crock 
with  tepid  water ;  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  set  it  away 
to  cool.  In  a  few  hours  it  will  be  palatable.  Eat  with 
cream  and  sugar— some  add  jelly. 

Velvet  Cream. 

Mrs.  E.  H..  Chicago. 
Take  a  package  of  gelatine  and  soak  it  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water  till  nearly  dissolved;  then  place  on  the 


124       COOKERY— CUSTARD,  BLANC  MANGE,  ETC. 

stove  till  heated  through  and  thoroughly  smooth  (hav- 
ing added  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  a  quart  of  cream). 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  the  cream  when 
nearly  cold,  stirring  until  well  mixed.  Flavor  of 
course— almond  is  very  delicate— turn  into  a  mold,  and 
it  will  harden  in  a  short  time  in  cold  weather.  Some 
people  use  a  cup  of  white  wine  instead  of  water,  but  it 
will  be  more  apt  to  curdle. 

Floating  Island. 

Lou,  Tuscola,  1U, 
Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  until  very  light ;  sweeten  and 
flavor  to  taste  ;  stir  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  cook 
till  it  thickens ;  when  cool,  pour  into  a  low  glass  dish ; 
whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  sweeten, 
and  pour  over  a  dish  of  boiling  water  to  cook.  Take 
a  tablespoon  and  drop  the  whites  on  top  of  the  cream, 
far  enough  apart  so  that  the  "little  white  islands'' 
will  not  touch  each  other.  By  dropping  little  specks 
of  bright  jelly  on  each  island  will  be  produced  a  pleas- 
ing effect.  Also  by  tilling  wine  glasses  and  arranging 
around  the  stand  adds  to  the  appearance  of  the  table. 

Russia  Cream. 

Mrs.  H.,  Odell,  111. 
Four  eggs  ;  1  cup  sugar ;  1  quart  of  milk  ;  i  box  of 
Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  i  pint  of  warm  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and 
cook  with  the  milk  (like  custard).  Take  this  off  the 
stove;  and  add  the  (well  beaten)  whites  of  the  eggs, 
stirring  rapidly  for  a  few  moments.  Now  add  the 
gelatine,  and  then  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon.  Pour  it 
into  a  pretty  shaped  dish  to  harden,  and  turn  it  out  on 
a  platter,  and  cut  oft  in  blocks  (as  ice  cream).  Make 
this  cream  the  day  before  you  want  to  use  it. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 

Mrs.  H.,  Odell,  III. 
One-half  box  gelatine,  well  soaked.  Let  1  pint  of 
milk  come  to  the  boiling  point ;  1  cup  grated  choco- 
late (not  the  sweetened) ;  12  tablespoons  sugar.  Add 
the  gelatine  just  before  turning  into  the  molds.  To 
be  eaten  when  cold,  with  sugar  and  cream. 


COOKERY— CUSTARD,  BLANC  MANGE,  ETC.        125 

Apple  Custard. 

Aunt  Sally,  Springfield,  O. 

One  pint  sweet  milk  ;  1  pint  of  smooth  apple  sauce 
well  sweetened  ;  3  eggs ;  flavor  with  lemon  and  bake 
without  top  crust. 

Apple  Butter. 
Aunt  Sally,  Springfield,  O. 

Take  tart  cooking  apples,  such  as  will  make  good 
sauce.  To  3  pecks,  after  they  are  peeled  and  quarter- 
ed, allow  9  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  2  gallons,  or 
perhaps  a  little  more,  of  water.  Put  the  sugar  and 
water  in  your  kettle,  and  let  it  boil ;  then  add  the  ap- 
ples. After  they  begin  to  cook  stir  constantly  till  the 
butter  ie  done.  Try  it  by  putting  a  little  in  a  saucer, 
and  if  no  water  appears  around  it  the  marmalade  is 
ready  for  the  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  "  to  your  taste." 

Preserved  Apples. 

E.  L.  M.,  Chicago. 
Pare  and  core  12  large  apples ;  cut  each  into  eights ; 
make  a  sirup  of  1  pound  of  sugar  and  i  a  pint  of  water, 
and  boil ;  put  in  as  much  apple  as  can  be  cooked  with- 
out breaking ;  remove  them  carefully  when  tender ; 
after  all  are  done,  add  to  the  liquid  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
boil  10  minutes  slowly ;  flavor  with  lemon,  and  pour 
over  the  apples,  or  grate  nutmeg  on  them  instead. 

Orange  Dessert. 

Algebra,  Chicago. 
Pare  5  or  6  oranges ;  cut  into  thin  slices ;  pour  over 
them  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  1  pint  of  milk  ;  add 
while  boiling  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  i  tablespoon  of  corn- 
starch (made  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk) ;  stir  all 
the  time ;  as  soon  as  thickened,  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Beat  tne  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth ;  acid  2  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar  •,  pour  over  the  custard,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.    Serve  cold. 

Pennsylvania  Apnle  Sass. 

Maud,   Urbana,  III. 
Take  to  3  gallons  of  cider,  5  pounds  of  white  sugar ; 
H  bushels  of  apples.    First  boil  and  skim  your  cider. 
Let  it  boil  £  an  hour.    Stew  your  apples  in  a  portion  of 


126  COOKERY— FRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

the  cider.    When  your  sauce  is  thick  and  glossy,  add 
the  cider  and  sugar.    Season  with  cloves,  etc. 

Lemon  Butter. 

Lizzie  S.  E.,  Decatur,  111. 
For  tarts  :    One  pound  pulverized  sugar ;  whites  of 
6  eggs ;  and  yolks  of  2 ;  3  lemons,  including  grated 
rind  and  juice  ;  cook  20  minutes  over  a  slow  lire,  stir- 
ring all  the  while. 

Ice  Cream. 

Palmer  House,  Chicago. 
One  quart  rich  milk ;  3  eggs— whites  and  yolks  beat- 
en separately  and  very  light ;  4  cups  sugar ;  3  pints 
rich  sweet  cream  ;  4  teaspoons  vanilla.  Heat  the  milk 
to  the  boiling  point ;  add  the  yolks  and  sugar,' stirring 
well.  Now  add  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing the  whole  time.  Now  set  the  dish  inside  another 
containing  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  thick  as  boil- 
ed custard,  when  pour  into  another  dish  to  cool,  after 
which  beat  in  the  cream,  and  flavor.  It  is  now  ready 
for  freezing.  Always  use  rock  salt  for  freezing,  as 
common  will  not  do. 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC, 


Lemon  Jelly. 

Belle,  Chicago. 
LSSOLVE  $  box  of  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold  water; 
grate  2  lemons ;  take  off  the  thick  skin  and  grate 
the  pulp  •  put  3  teacups  of  water  into  a  porcelain 
kettle ;  add  3  even  cups  of  sugar ;  let  it  boil  a 
few  minutes,  and  then  add  the  pulp  and  grated  rind  of 
the  lemons,  also  the  dissolved  gelatine.  Put  into  a 
mold  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Wine  Jelly. 

Bella,  Kankakee,  111. 
Two  pounds  white  sugar  *  1  pint  sherry  wine ;  1  pint 


COOKERY— FRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC.  127 

cold  water;  1  package  of  Cox's  gelatine;  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  grated  rind  of  1 ;  1  quart  of  boiling  water ; 
1  good  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the 
cold  water  1  hour ;  add  to  this  the  sugar,  lemons  and 
cinnamon ;  pour  over  all  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and 
stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Put  in 
the  wine ;  strain  through  a  double  flannel  bag  without 
squeezing;  wet  your  molds  with  cold  water,  and  set 
the  jelly  away  in  them  to  cool. 

Cider  jelly  is  made  the  same  way  by  substituting  a 
pint  of  pure  sweet  cider  for  the  wine.  If  you  wish 
them  colored,  use  the  colored  sugar,  or  a  very  little 
prepared  cochineal. 

Quince   Jelly. 

Mrs.  E.  H.,  Chicago. 
Cover  the  fruit  with  water  and  boil  until  the  good- 
ness is  all  out  (it  will  require  i  or  f  of  an  hour).  Then 
strain  through  llannel  or  crash,  without  much  squeez- 
ing. Strain  twice  if  not  clear ;  add  equal  quantities  of 
juice  and  sugar  and  boil  steadily  about  twenty  min- 
utes. It  is  better  to  leave  the  glasses  several  days  be- 
fore sealing,  even  if  not  quite  hard,  as  yeur  jelly  will 
be  much  more  delicate  than  if  boiled  too  long. 

Hmsekeepzr,  Chicago. 

Wash  the  fruit ;  save  all  the  nice  parings  and  seeds ; 
cook  for  an  hour  or  more  in  more  water  than  will  cover 
them ;  then  run  them  through  the  colander  and  let 
them  sit  until  next  day,  or  until  the  fruit  substance 
has  settled ;  now  throw  off  the  clear  juice  through  a 
thin  muslin  bag,  and  sit  on  the  fire  ;  when  boiling  well 
add  1  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  until 
it  rolls  oft  the  spoon ;  fill  the  jelly-cups,  and  let  them 
sit  by  the  stove  or  any'  warm  place  a  couple  of  days 
without  covers,  so  as  to  evaporate  any  water  if  the 
jelly  is  not  stiff  enough. 

Any  jelly  is  better  to  be  taken  from  the  fire  before 
quite  done,  as  it  will  finish  by  sitting  on  the  heater  or 
near  a  warm  stove,  and  if  it  boils  1  minute  too  long  it 
will  never  be  anything  but  a  sticky,  good-for-nothing 
kind  of  sirup. 

Apple  or  any  fruit  jelly  can  be  made  by  boiling  the 
fruit  (not  skins  and  seeds)  and  treated  in  the  same  way. 


128  COOKERY— FRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

We  have  40  glasses  of  different  kinds,  all  clear  as  water, 
and  so  delicious! 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

Amethyst,  Chicago. 
Two  ounces  isinglass ;  1  pound  double  refined  sugar ; 
3  pints  well  strained  cranberry  juice.    Make  a  strong 
jelly  of  the  isinglass ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  cranberry 
juice ;  boil  up ;  strain  it  into  shape. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. 

Little  Sally,  Jefferson,  Wis. 
Wash  the  apples,  halve  them,  and  cut  out  the  blos- 
som. Then  put  them  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  and 
turn  boiling  water  on  them,  but  not  enough  to  cover 
them  (as  some  say),  and  cook  them  until  very  soft, 
stirring  them  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  (Here 
let  me  say,  that  you  need  not  be  at  all  careful  for  fear 
of  mixing  the  pulp  with  the  sirup,  as  it  makes  no  dif- 
ference' whatever.)  Next  remove  them  from  the  fire 
and  let  them  cool  od  some,  and  then  put  them  into  a 
bag  made  double  from  a  piece  of  an  old  table  cloth 
coarse  and  soft,  and  then  put  them  into  a  large  milk- 
pan  and  squeeze  them.  After  squeezing  out  a  little, 
empty  them  into  the  kettle,  and  so  on  doincr,  uu.t  they 
might  not  soak  into  the  bag  again.  Now  comes  an 
important  little  item  which  I  found  out  at  the  time, 
and  did  not  know  before.  In  consequence  of  having 
the  bag  double,  I  found  that  I  could  squeeze  them  very 
hard  without  any  of  the  pulp  getting  throu^n.  You 
can  easily  tell  when  this  part  of  the  work  is  lone. 
Then  I  put  the  juice  into  the  kettle  and  boil  i :,  re- 
moving the  scum  as  it  rises,  until  perfectly  clear,  and 
continue  to  boil  it  a  few  minutes  longer.  I  then 
measure  it,  and  there  is  H  quarts,  and  add  just  the 
same  amount  of  sugar  (granulated),  and  boil  it  a  little 
over  i  an  hour.  You  must  "  try  "  it  before  that  time 
— put  a  little  into  a  tin  dish  and  set  it  into  cold  water. 
Make  just  a  little  allowance,  for,  after  standing  a  day 
or  two,  it  will  be  a  little  thicker  than  when  you  try  it. 
If  you  find  that  your  jelly  is  not  thick  enough  the  next 
day  after  it  is  made,  you  can  turn  it  all  back  into  the 
kettle  and  bo^l  it  over.  Five  minutes  will  make  a  great 
difference. 


COOKERY— FRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC.  129 

Wine  Jelly. 

Mrs.  E.  H.,  Chicago. 

Wine  jelly  requires  no  eggs  for  clarifying  if  made 
from  Cox's  gelatine.  Take  1  25-cent  packet,  juice  of  3 
lemons,  rind  of  1,  and  1  pint  of  cold  water ;  let  stand  1 
hour ;  then  add  2  pints  boiling  water,  H  pounds  white 
sugar,  and  a  pint  of  sherry  wine  ;  turn  into  molds  to 
cool,  after  straining.  If  you  like  cinnamon  flavor,  add 
a  few  drops  of  that  extract.  If  you  wish  to  make  any 
other  kind  of  jelly,  omit  the  sherry  and  add  orange 
juice,  or  anything  you  like.  An  elegant-looking  jelly 
for  company  can  be  made  in  two  colors  by  dividing 
when  all  ready  for  molding  and  coloring  \  with  a  few 
drops  of  cochineal  (better  procure  it  prepared  at  the 
druggist's).  A  third  stripe  can  be  made  by  dissolving 
a  little  gelatine  in  milk,  but  put  no  wine  in,  or  it  will 
curdle. 

Each  color  must  harden  before  adding  the  next,  or 

they  will  run.    The  result  is  delightful,  but  it  is  rather 

slow  work.    The  top  ornament  of  blanc  mange  is  much 

handsomer  if  colored  with  cochineal. 

Stewed  Cranberries. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  G.,  Baraboo,  Wis. 

One  pound  cranberries  washed  and  picked  over  one 
by  one,  so  as  not  to  put  in  any  soft  or  decayed  ones ;  1 
pound  granulated  sugar;  i  pint  water.  Place  the 
water  and  sugar  on  the  range  to  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly ;  when  boiling  hot,  throw  in  the  berries— they 
will  soon  heat  through  and  begin  to  burst ;  stir  contin- 
ually till  well  cooked ;  it  will  take  about  10  minutes 
after  all  begins  to  boil ;  throw  in  a  mold,  previously 
dipped  in  cold  water  and  not  dried,  and  set  till  the  fol- 
lowing day.  The  above  recipe  makes  the  cranberries 
neither  too  acid  nor  too  sweet — will  invariably  turn 
out  like  jelly — but  is  far  nicer  to  eat  with  turkey,  game, 
or  poultry,  as  you  have  the  full  berry.  I  often  prepare 
10  pounds  at  a  time,  and  it  keeps  perfectly,  by  pasting 
paper  over  the  molds  or  bowls,  6  or  8  weeks.  Always 
use  porcelain  kettles  for  cooking  fruits  in. 
Spiced  Citron. 
Jane  Eyre,  Michigan  City. 

Prepare  the  fruit,  cover  with  vinegar  and  let  it  stand 


130  COOKERY— FRUITS,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

over  night ;  in  the  morning  pour  off,  and  to  every  7 
pounds  fruit  allow  3£  pounds  of  white  sugar  and  a  pint 
of  vinegar ;  tie  in  a  muslin  bag  a  tablespoonful  of  each 
of  the  different  spices ;  make  a  sirup  of  the  sugar,  put 
in  the  fruit  and  cook  for  £  hour ;  when  all  the  fruit  is 
done  add  the  vinegar  and  let  the  sirup  boil  thick ;  pour 
it  over  the  fruit  not,  and  let  it  get  cold  before  sealing 
up  the  jars. 

Preserved  Citron. 
Mrs.  L.  M.  G.,  Lawrence,  Kansas. 
Pare  and  remove  the  seeds,  rejecting  all  but  the  solid 
part  of  the  melon ,  cut  in  such  pieces  as  you  choose  ; 
weigh  the  pieces,  and  boil  in  water  until  you  can  easily 
cut  them ;  remove  the  fruit,  and  add  sugar  to  make 
the  sirup,  allowing  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit.  When  it  boils,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  slowly 
1  hour.  When  cold,  add  sliced  lemon,  allowing  1 
lemon  for  2  pounds  of  citron.  1  large  teacup  of  water 
is  the  general  rule  for  one  pound  of  fruit. 

Mrs.  T.  G.  E.,  Chicago. 
Pare  and  cut  citron  into  £  inch  cubes,  picking  out  all 
seeds.  To  1  pound  of  citron  2  fresh  lemons,  and  sugar 
equal  to  weight  of  lemons  and  melon.  Boil  the  melon 
in  clear  water  till  very  tender,  skim  out,  and  to  same 
water  add  sugar ;  then  boil  till  thick  sirup.  Cut  the 
lemons  in  halves  and  boil  in  a  very  little  water  20  min- 
utes, then  squeeze  and  strain  the  juice  and  water.  Add 
the  citron  to  the  sirup  and  only  let  boil  15  minutes ; 
also  add  the  lemon- water  10  minutes  before  taking  off. 
The  citron  toughens  if  cooked  longer 


COOKERY— PICKLES.  131 


PICKLES. 


Mixed. 

X.  T.  Z.,  Hudson,  Mich. 

STE  colander  of  sliced  green  tomatoes,  1  quart 
sliced  onions,  1  colander  of  cucumbers  pared  and 
sliced,  2  good  handfuls  of  salt.  Let  all  stand 
over  night ;  then  drain  through  sieve,  and  scald 
$  cup  celery  seed,  i  ounce  allspice,  1  teacup  white  mus- 
tard seed,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper,  1  pound  brown 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  mustard,  1  gallon  vinegar,  poured 
over  hot. 

Grape. 
K.,  Galesburg,  HI. 
Take  ripe  grapes ;  remove  all  imperfect  and  broken 
ones :  divide  the  large  bunches,  as  they  will  pack  more 
closely ;  put  in  an  earthen  jar  a  layer  of  grapes  and 
then  one  of  grape  leaves  (the  tannin  in  the  leaves  helps 
to  preserve  the  firmness  of  the  grapes).  To  4  quarts  of 
vinegar  take  2  pints  of  white  sugar,  1  oz.  of  cinnamon, 
i  oz.  each  of  cassia  and  cloves.  Let  the  vinegar,  sugar 
and  spices  all  boil  together  a  few  minutes,  and,  when 
quite  cold,  pour  over  the  grapes.  By  pouring  the  vine- 
gar over  the  grapes  cold  you  avoid  cracking  the  grapes, 
and  they  retain  their  natural  form  and  color  as  long  as 
they  last. 

Cucumbers. 
C.  M.  W.,  Hudson,  Mich. 

To  1  gallon  of  soft  water  add  1  teacup  of  rock  salt ; 
heat  it  Doiling  hot ;  pour  it  over  your  cucumbers  j  let 
them  remain  in  the  brine  24  hours ;  turn  off  the  brme  ; 
heat  it  again,  and  turn  on  the  cucumbers  the  second 
time,  and  let  them  remain  another  24  hours  ;  and  again 
the  third  time,  when  they  will  be  ready  for  the  cider 
vinegar,  which  must  be  poured  over  them  cold ;  cover 
them  with  horse  radish  leaves  to  prevent  mold  rising 
on  them ;  press  them  under  the  vinegar  with  a  heavy 


132  COOKERY— PICKLES. 

plate,  and  in  a  few  days  they  will  be  ready  for  use,  and 
will  keep  green  and  bright  all  winter. 
Sweet  Cucumber. 
C.  M.  W.,  Hudson.  Mich. 
Take  small  crock  of  pickled  cucumbers  and  make  a 
good  rich  sirup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  and  cider 
vinegar,  and  whole  cloves ;  heat  together,  and  turn 
over  them,  and  in  2  day  you  will  have  a  most  delicious, 
brittle,  hard,  sweet  pickle. 

Ripe  Cucumber. 
F.  C,  Chicago. 

Remove  the  seeds  and  rinds;  slice  them  an  inch 
thick  soak  them  in  cold  vinegar  over  night ;  drain  off 
the  vinegar  and  throw  it  away.  Take  1  gallon  of  vine- 
gar, 4  pounds  of  sugar  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon  bark, 
and  in  this  mixture  boil  the  pieces  of  cucumbers,  re- 
moving each  piece  as  it  becomes  clear,  without  being 
broken— some  pieces  will  be  done  before  others,  and 
place  them  in  a  jar,  when  all  are  removed  to  the  jar, 
pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  them,  and  keep  them 
under  the  surface. 

Sweet  tJrape. 
Mrs.  J.  P.  H.,  Chicago. 

To  8  pounds  fruit  use  4  pounds  sugar  and  1  quart  of 
vinegar.  Place  the  fruit  in  jars.  Boil  and  skim  the 
sirup,  and  pour  over  the  grapes  boiling  hot.  Repeat 
this  process  3  or  4  days.  Then  seal  up  and  set  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  Boil  any  kind  of  spices  in  the  sirup 
that  suits  the  taste. 

Peaches. 
Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 

Take  to  1  gallon  of  good  cider  vinegar  8  pounds  of 
cut  sugar.  Let  it  dissolve  in  a  large  jar.  Stick  a  clove 
into  each  peach.  Put  over  the  tire  about  a  quart  of 
the  vinegar  with  the  sugar  dissolved,  and  drop  in  while 
cold  16  peaches,  that  will  just  fill  a  Mason's  quart  jar. 
Allow  the  peaches  to  boil  slowly  until  a  fork  will  stick 
easily  through  them.  Oh,  I  forgot.  You  must  put  in 
a  stick  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  allspice  and  cloves 
tied  up  in  a  rag.  Not  too  much.  It  makes  them  black. 
Take  out  and  carefully  place  in  a  jar,  1  by  1,  fill  with 
the  liquid  and  screw  on  the  top. 


COOKERY— PICKLES.  133 

Piealilli. 

Subscriber's  Wife,  Beloit. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  seeded ;  2  large  heads 
of  cabbage  ;  3  green  peppers  ;  a  small  teacup  of  salt. 
Chop  and  mix  well,  and  put  in  a  colander  to  drain  over 
night.  In  the  morning  cover  it  with  good  cider  vine- 
gar, and  let  it  boil  until  soft.  Then  drain  off  that 
vinegar  and  put  in  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  1  of  all- 
spice, 1  of  cloves  ground,  2  pounds  of  sugar,  and  about 
i  a  teacup  of  horse  radish,  and  3  onions  if  you  like. 
Cover  nicely  with  cider  vinegar,  and  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Put  into  a  stone  jar  and  lay  on  the  top  a 
thin  white  cloth.  Put  an  old  plate  on  to  keep  it  under 
the  vinegar. 

Home-Made  Vinegar. 
Mrs.  Sarah  _L„  Chicago. 

Take  6  gallons  good  cider;  put  this  into  a  wine 
cask,  and  in  the  spring  add  4  gallons  of  rain  water,  1 
gallon  of  molasses,  and  4  pounds  of  sugar.  Tear  in 
small  pieces  a  i  sheet  of  brown  wrapping  paper  to 
make  "  mother  "  ;  set  the  cask  in  the  sun,  and  stick  a 
glass  bottle  in  the  bung.  In  making  currant  jelly,  I 
took  the  rinsings  of  the  currants  and  poured  that  in, 
and  a  few  peach-parings  and  stones,  and  cherries  and 
blackberries,  I  poured  in  after  soaking  a  day  or  so. 
This  was  the  foundation  of  my  vinegar,  and  that  vine- 
gar barrel  has  been  kept  working  night  and  day  ever 
since  by  adding  more  cider,  more  water,  molasses  and 
sugar. 

Picltled  Cabbage. 
Mrs.  Mac,  Kansas. 

Select  a  nice,  firm  head  of  cabbage ;  take  off  all  the 
outside  leaves  and  shave  it  exceedingly  fine  (not  chop 
it,  remember) ;  place  it  in  the  jar  you  intend  to  keep 
it  in,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  it  to  your  taste ;  then 
cut.  a  couple  of  red  peppers  very  fine ;  add  2  table- 
spoons celery  seed  (or  it  is  a  great  improvement,  if 
you  can  get  it,  to  chop  up  fine  2  heads  of  nice  celery), 
2  tablespoons  white  mustard  seed;  pour  over  cold 
vinegar  enough  to  cover. 

Chow  Chow. 
Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 

Two  auarts  of  small  white  onions ;  2  quarts  of  gher- 


134  COOKERY— PICKLES. 

kins ;  2  quarts  of  string  beans ;  2  small  cauliflowers  : 
£  a  dozen  ripe  red  peppers  ;  i  pound  mustard  seed ;  £ 
pound  whole  pepper  ;  1  pound  ground  mustard,  and, 
as  there  is  nothing  so  adulterated  as  ground  mustard, 
its  better  to  get  it  at  the  druggist's ;  20  or  30  bay 
leaves,  and  2  quarts  of  good  .cider  or  wine  vinegar. 
Peel  the  onions,  halve  the  cucumbers,  string  the  beans, 
and  cut  in  pieces  the  cauliflower.  Put  all  in  a  wooden 
tray,  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt.  In  the  morning  wash 
and  drain  thoroughly,  and  put  all  into  the  cold  vine- 
gar, except  the  red  peppers.  Let  boil  20  minutes  slow 
ly,  frequently  turning  over.  Have  wax  melted  in  a 
deepish  dish,  and,  as  you  till  and  cork  up,  dip  into  the 
wax.  The  peppers  you  can  put  in  to  show  to  the  best 
advantage. 

Chili  Sauce. 

'    Mrs.  Louisa  T.,  Chicago. 

Take  2  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  4  large  onions,  and  4 
red  peppers.  Chop  them  together ;  then  add  4  cups  of 
vinegar,  3  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
of  salt,  2  teaspoons  each  of  cloves,  ground  cinnamon, 
ginger,  allspice,  and  nutmeg.  Boil  all  together  for  1 
hour,  and  bottle  for  use  after  straining  through  a  sieve 
or  coarse  netting.  Is  equal  to  famous  Worcestershire. 
Tomato  Catsup. 
Mrs.  Sarah  L.,  Chicago. 

Boil  1  bushel  of  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Then  add  to  the  liquid  a  i  gallon  of 
vinegar,  H  pints  salt,  2  ounces  of  cloves,  £  pound  all- 
spice, 3  ounces  good  cayenne  pepper,  5  heads  of  garlic, 
skinned  and  separated,  1  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  slowly 
until  reduced  $.  It  takes  about  1  day.  Set  away  for  a 
week  :  boil  over  once,  and,  if  too  thick,  thin  with  vine- 
gar ;  bottle  and  seal. 

Green  Tomato  Catsup. 
Mrs.  H.  L.  B.,  Chicago. 

One  peck  tomatoes,  6  pods  red  peppers,  or  1  tea- 
spoonful  pulverized,  4  tablespoonfuls  salt,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  black  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  mustard,  1  table- 
spooful  ground  cloves,  1  tablespoonful  allspice,  2  quarts 
white  wine  vinegar ;  cook  tomatoes  and  peppers  in 
vinegar  until  soft ;  then  strain,  adding  all  the  spices, 
and  boil  slowly  5  hours;whencold,putinbottles  and  seal. 


COOKEIiY— CONFECTIONERY.  135 


CONFECTIONERY. 


Vinegar  Candy. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  H.,  Chicaijo. 
HREE  cups  sugar  ;  1  cup  vinegar  ;  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg.    Boil  20  minutes  ;  pour 
over  plates  to  cool.    Elavor,  but  do  not  stir. 

Sugar  Drops. 

Helen  Blazes,  Chicago. 
One  pound  of  flour  ;  f  of  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  £  pound 
of  butter ;  4  eggs  ;  a  gill  of  rose  water ;  hake  on  but- 
tered paper  in  a  quick  oven.    This  makes  60  drops. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

Busy  Bee,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 
Peel  a  cocoanut ;  cut  in  thin  slices  ;  cut  these  again 
crossways  into  threads  about  \  an  inch  long :  add  H 
pounds  moist  brown  sugar ;■  1  teacup  of  cold  water, 
and  the  sliced  nut ;  put  into  basin  and  boil  £  an  hour 
over  slow  hre,  stirring  frequently  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing ;  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  onto  a  coarse  wet  linen 
towel  to  cool. 

Chocolate  Drops. 

Kitten,  Warsaw,  111. 
I  take  2  cups  of  sugar  (white)  to  1  cup  of  water ; 
after  it  has  boiled  5  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
place  in  plate  or  dish  and  stir  briskly  till  cool  enough 
to  shape  into  balls,  after  which  place  out  to  get  cold 
and  hard.  In  the  meantime  grate  }  a  cake  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  which  you  place  in  a  plate  and  put  over  the 
teakettle  to  melt,  after  which  process  you  roll  the  balls 
in  the  chocolate,  and  then  place  out  to  harden ;  and 
for  butter  scotch,  take  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  of  sugar, 
and  a  £  cup  of  butter ;  boil  all  together  till  to  a  candy. 


136  COOKERY— CONFECTIONERY. 

Candying  Orange. 

Mrs.  H.,  Ft.  Wayne,  lnd. 

Peel  and  quarter  them.  Make  a  sirup  of  1  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  it*  comes 
to  the  candying  point.  Dip  the  oranges  into  this  can- 
died sirup  and  place  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Put 
this  sieve  over  a  long,  flat  dish,  which  will  catch  the 
dripping  sirup,  and  let  the  oranges  remain  so  in  a  warm 
place  until  the  candied  sirup  upon  them  is  dry  and 
crystalized. 

Molasses  Candy. 
Agnes  H.,  Aurora,  111. 

Boil  some  molasses  in  a  spider  until  it  hardens  on 
snow  or  cold  water.  When  done,  stir  in  soda  until 
there  is  about  twice  as  much  of  the  candy  as  there  was 
of  the  molasses,  and  a  little  lemon  extract  for  flavor- 
ing. Care  must  be  taken  that  the  candy  does  not  burn, 
or  it  will  have  a  bitter  taste.  The  soda  makes  it  light 
and  gives  it  a  grain.    Pour  on  buttered  plates  to  cool. 

[Note — The  following  recipe,  if  carefully  followed, 
will  prove  perfectly  satisfactory.  It  alone  is  worth  $5 
to  any  lover  of  candy  ] : 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
Candy  Maker,  Chicago. 

Take  4  ounces  confectioners'  chocolate ;  put  it  in  a 
copper  or  iron  kettle  ;  put  in  a  i  dipper  of  water  and 
stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  dissolves  ;  add  more  water 
if  needed;  then  add  3  pounds  of  A  sugar;  £  pint 
cream  and  \  teaspoon  of  cream-tartar ;  put  them  in 
with  the  chocolate  and  stir  slow  until  it  comes  to  a  soft 
crack.  To  try  it,  dip  a  spoon  in  the  kettle  and  then  in 
the  water.  When  done,  pour  in  a  small  dripping  pan  ; 
grease  the  pan  before  putting  in.  When  cool,  cut  in 
squares  to  suit  yourself. 


COOKERY— YEAST,  BAKING  POWDEK,  ETC.        137 


YEAST,  BAKING  POWDER,  ETC. 


Baking  Powder. 
Mrs.  J.  B.  J".,  Chicago, 

IX  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  8  of  the  best  baking 
soda,  and  1  quart  of  flour ;  sift  5  or  6  times 
through  a  fine  sieve  so  as  to  thoroughly  mix  the 
ingredients;  always  procure  the  materials  from 

a  good  druggist ;  by  so  doing  you  have  for  50  cents 

what  would  cost  you  $1  if  you  bought  it  from  a  grocer. 

Keep  it  well  corked  in  a  jar ;  use  the  same  quantity  as 

you  would  of  any  other  powder. 

Beer  or  Hop  Yeast. 

K.,  Galesburg,  HI. 
Put  1  large  handful  of  hops  into  your  yeast- jar,  and  1 
large  tablespoonful  each  of  dark  brown  sugar,  white 
flour  and  salt.  Pour  over  these  1  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Stir,  and  when  luke-warm,  put  in  £  teacup  of 
yeast.  One-half  teacup  of  this  yeast,  strained,  will 
make  4  ordinary  loaves  of  bread. 

Hop  Yeast. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  GM  Chicago. 
Grate  10  large  potatoes  raw ;  have  ready  6  quarts  of 
strong  hop  tea  boiling ;  pour  over  the  potatoes,  stir- 
ring constantly,  and  let  it  boil  a  moment  or  two  ;  add 
1  coffee  cup  of  salt  and  sugar  each.  When  milk- warm 
rise  with  a  pint  of  baker's  or  home-made  yeast.  Set  in 
a  warm  place  until  done  working.  It  will  take  a  day 
or  two  to  finish,  but  it  stops  after  awhile. 

Potato  Yeast. 

Take  12  common-sized  potatoes,  boil  soft  and  mash 
hot ;  pour  over  1  pint  boiling  water ;  add  1  pint  cold 
water ;  strain  through  a  colender ;  add  1  teacup  su- 
gar, 1  tablespoon  salt.    When  cool  add  1  teacup  bakers 


138  COOKERY— MISCELLANEOUS. 

yeast.  Set  in  a  warm  place  (not  hot),  allow  it  to  rise 
light  seveial  times  (say  4  or  5),  and  beat  down.  After 
which  place  in  a  glass  jar,  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.  Half  a  teacupful  of  this  is  sufficient  for  2 
ordinary-sized  loaves  of  bread.  This  yeast  will  not 
sour. 

Potato  Sponge. 
Mrs.  M.  E.  M.,  Evanston,  1U 
Six  potatoes  boiled ;  mash  in  a  pint  of  flour ;  then 
pour  on  the  boiling  potato  water  to  scald  it.  Stir,  and 
let  it  stand  until  cool.  Then  add  more  water  and  flour 
to  make  the  quantity  you  wish ;  add  a  cake  of  yeast 
soaked.  Let  it  rise  until  bed-time.  Give  it  a  good 
stirring,  and  let  it  stand  until  morning,  when  it  is  very 
light  and  ready— 3.  cups  for  coffee-cake,  1  cup  and  a 
little  water  for  a  rye  and  Indian  loaf,  the  rest  for  white 
bread  and  a  pan  of  delicious  biscuit.  All  but  the 
coffee-cake  are  baked  before  dinner,  and  only  1  cake  of 
yeast  used.  I  use  cans  which  have  had  tomatoes  in 
them  to  bake  the  brown  bread  in.  The  loaf  does  not 
have  as  much  crust,  and  cuts  in  pretty  slices  for  the 
table. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Imitation  Wax  Candles. 

Candle  Maker,  Chicago. 
!N"E  pound  of  alum  dissolved  in  warm  water  to 
each  5  pounds  of  tallow  Melt  tallow ;  add  the 
alum  water;  let  water  pass  off  in  steam;  run 
into  molds.  This  will  make  the  candles  hard 
and  look  like  wax. 

To  Sweeten  Kancid  Butter. 

Butter  Maker,  Elgin. 
Work  the  butter  thoroughly,  in  sweet  milk.    If  done 
as  it  should  be,  every  particle  of  rancidity  will  be 
washed  out. 

Lemon  and  Orange  Extract. 

As  the  peel  is  removed  from  the  fruit,  cut  it  into 


COOKERY— MISCELLANEOUS.  139 

slices,  put  it  into  a  large-necked  bottle,  and  cover  it 
with  brandy  or  wine.  As  the  liquor  is  used  up  fill  the 
bottle,  as  the  strength  is  diminished  add  more  peel. 

To  Prevent  Jars  Breaking. 

Mary  Moore,  Chicago. 
When  putting  in  the  fruit  I  set  the  cold  jar  on  a 
folded  cloth  wet  with  cold  water ;  then  fill  with  the 
boiling-hot  fruit.    I  have  never  known  a  jar  to  break 
when  thus  treated. 

Canning  Corn. 

Aunt  Nancy,  Joliet. 
Make  a  salt  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg ; 
put  it  in  a  i  barrel  or  large  crock ;  then  put  in  the 
whole  ears  of  corn  without  cooking,  just  as  you  husk 
them.  When  the  barrel  is  full,  put  a  clean  white  cloth 
next  to  the  corn,  then  a  piece  of  board  fitted  to  the 
barrel  inside,  with  a  stone  on  it  for  a  weight,  just  as 
for  pickles.  When  you  wish  to  cook  the  corn  you 
must  freshen  it  some,  as  you  do  salted  pickles.  Then 
either  shave  it  off  or  boil  it  in  the  cob,  a  la  summer- 
time. 

Canned  Berries. 

Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  in  a  large  kettle,  after  adding 
1  tablespoon  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit,  and  a  little 
water  to  prevent  burning  on.  Let  all  come  to  a  good 
boil  and  can  quickly.  This  is  a  good  rule  for  all  kinds 
of  fruit. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Hen  Huzzy,  Elgin. 
We  make  a  Welsh  rarebit  by  melting  good  old  cheese 
with  a  little  vinegar,  butter  and  milk,  and  pouring  it 
over   bread,  toasted  or  untoasted,  as  we  happen  to 
fancy. 


HOUSEHOLD   HINTS. 


To  Fasten  Colors. 

Matilda,  Chicago. 
'SE  sugar  of  lead— about  2  tablespoonfuls  to  a 
pail  of  water— to  wash  all  kinds  of  goods,  from 
cotton  to  silk  to  prevent  fading. 

To  Clean  Painted  TV  alls. 

Jeanette,  Danville,  111. 
Mix  common  whiting  with  water  till  about  as  thick 
as  paste ;  apply  with  a  flannel  rag,  and  wash  off  with 
warm  water  and  a  cloth. 

To  Sweep  Carpets. 
Marian,  Racine,  Wis. 
Wash,  dry  and  chop  potatoes,  spread  them  on  one 
side  of  the  room,  and  sweep  across  the  carpet. 
To  Remove  Iron  Rust. 
Pickles,  Ravenswood. 
The  juice  of  lemon  and  salt  placed  on  the  spot,  and 
the  fabric  placed  in  the  sun,  will  remove  rust.    Shin- 
ing through  glass  its  rays  are  stronger.    I  hang  min» 
in  a  window. 

To  Clean  Zinc. 
Mrs.  Kate  G„  Bryan,  O. 
Wet  the  zinc  over  with  muriatic  acid,  sprinkle  over 
it  very  fine  sand  or  ashes,  then  scour,  wash  and  dry. 
Or,  rub  with  kerosene. 


HOUSEHOLD    HINTS.  141 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains. 

Mrs.  Kate  G.,  Bryan,  0. 
Place  your  muslin  over  a  tub,  hold  it  firmly,  and 
pour  hot  water  through  the  spot  stained  and  it  will 
soon  disappear.    This  must  be  done  before  putting  the 
muslin  in  soapsuds. 

To  Polish  Furniture. 

Edna,  Chicago. 
Mix  sufficient  vinegar  in  linseed  oil  to  cut  it ;  with 
this,  saturate  raw  cotton,  over  which  place  soft  muslin; 
rub  lightly  over  the  article. 

To  Polish  Metal. 

Aunt  Nancy,  Joiiet. 
To   polish  copperware,  tea-kettles,  reservoirs,  etc., 
use  a  teacup  of  vinegar  and  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  heat 
it  hot  and  apply  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  till  dry. 

To  Remove  Mildew. 

S.  B.,  Chicago 
Wet  in  rainwater ;  rub  the  spots  with  soap  and  chalk  , 
lay  in  the  sun  and  dew  2  or  3  days  and  nights.  The 
spot  should  be  thoroughly  rubbed  with  the  soap  and 
chalk  once  or  twice  each  day.  I  have  tried  this  and 
found  it  effectual. 

Shells. 
Can  be  thoroughly  cleaned  by  boiling  in  milk. 

To  Mill  Mice. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  M.,  Niles,  Mich. 
Spread  gas  tar  around  the  mice-holes,  and  you  will 
have  no  further  use  for  cats  or  traps. 

I.N.P.,  Peoria. 
Mix  equal  parts  of  fine  corn-meal  and  plaster  of  Paris, 
and  set  it  in  dishes  on  the  floor  of  the  harness-room, 
and  the  mice  will  leave  the  harness  and  premises  at 
once. 

To  Destroy  Cockroaches. 
D.  W.  M.,  Jacksonville,  111. 
I  have  been  successful  in  driving  away,  if  not  ex- 
terminating, cockroaches  by  scattering  powdered  borax 
in  their  haunts. 


142  HOUSEHOLD    HINTS. 

To  Remove  Marble  Stains. 

Mrs.  Will  Killem,  Chicago. 

Take  2  parts  of  common  soda,  1  part  pumice  stone, 
and  1  of  finely-powdered  chalk ;  sift  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  mix  it  with  water  to  the  consistency  of 
paste  ;  then  rub  it  well  over  the  marble,  and  the  stains 
will  be  removed.  Wash  the  marble  afterwards  with 
soap. 

To  Clean  Silver. 
Kate  Somers,  Chicago. 

In  cleaning  silver,  do  not  rub  it  away  with  scouring 
materials,  but  wash  in  hot  water  containing  a  good 
quantity  of  concentrated  lye  ,  or,  if  very  black,  boil 
for  some  time  in  soft  water  with  a  considerable  amount 
of  washing-soda  added  ;  then  wash  in  a  good  suds, 
rinse  in  clear  water,  and  rub  with  flannel  cloth,  or 
better,  chamois-skin,  and  your  silver  will  not  often  re- 
quire cleaning,  but  will  shine  like  new  for  a  long  time. 

To  Clean  Gloves. 

Polly  Perkins,  Chicago. 
Buy  1  quart  of  gasoline  at  a  lamp  store,  for  5  cents— 
a  druggist  would  ask  20  cents  for  the  same  quantity. 
It  will  clean  4  pairs  beautifully.  Four  a  small  part, 
say  an  i,  into  a  dry  wash-bowl,  put  in  1  glove  and  wash 
immediately,  just  as  though  it  were  a  soiled  handker- 
chief, being  careful  to  rub  harder  on  the  most  soiled 
spots ;  rinse  in  clean  gasoline ;  squeeze  out  (not  wring), 
and  in  10  minutes  they  will  be  dry.  To  remove  the 
offensive  odor,  hang  them  up  to  air. 

To  Color  Kid  Gloves. 

May  Pearce,  Chicago. 
India  ink,  dissolved  in  water  and  applied  evenly  with 
a  camel's  hair  brush,  will  give  a  jet  black  color.  A 
i  of  an  ounce  of  extract  of  logwood  in  2  ounces  of 
brandy,  will  give  a  lilac ;  increase  the  proportion  of 
logwood  and  a  darker  color  is  produced,  even  nearly 
black.    Strong  tea  gives  a  handsome  brown. 

To  Clean  Oil  Cloths. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  F.y  Chicago. 
Wash  with  warm  water ;  150  deg.  hot  cracks  the  var- 


HOUSEHOLD    HINTS.  143 

nish.  Soap  is  necessary  in  smoky  districts,  though  it 
can  not  be  used  without  dulling  the  colors  somewhat. 
If  a  sponge  is  used,  examine  thoroughly  for  shells; 
they  scratch  the  varnish.  The  dirt  thus  removed,  re- 
wash  the  whole  with  sweet  milk  and  water ;  then  wipe 
dry.  The  milk  makes  the  surface  smooth ;  dirt  does 
not  catch  readily  to  it ;  the  oil  in  the  milk  tends  to 
restore  the  colors.  Gentle  friction  with  an  old  silk 
handkerchief  will  give  a  polish. 

Renovating  Fur. 

Reader,  Fon  du  Lac,  Wis. 
Take  a  large  tin  pan ;  put  a  pint  of  wheat  flour  in  it ; 
put  the  cloak  in  it ;  rub  it  thoroughly  with  the  hands 
until  the  flour  looks  dark  ;  tnen  if  the  fur  is  not  white 
enough,  rub  it  again  with  more  clean  flour;  then  rub 
it  with  pulverized  chalk— 5  cents  worth  is  enough. 
This  gives  it  a  pearly-white  look.  It  is  also  good  to 
clean  knit  nubias. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains. 

D.  M.  W.,  Jacksonville. 

As  soon  as  possible  after  the  ink  is  spilled  on  the  car- 
pet, dip  a  clean  sponge  in  milk,  and  sponge  the  ink 
spot,  cleansing  the  sponge  again  in  clean  water  before 
putting  it  again  in  the  milk,  so  as  to  avoid  smearing 
it;  continue  the  operation  until  all  the  ink  is  out; 
then,  of  course,  the  milk  can  be  washed  out  after- 
wards. 

Perhaps  every  one  does  not  know  that  the  color  taken 
out  of  black  goods  with  acid  may  be  restored  by  the 
application  of  liquid  ammonia. 

To  Retain  Colors. 

H.  Y.  Z.,  Guttenburg,  Iowa. 
To  keep  the  colors  of  muslins,  calicoes,  and  ging- 
hams bright  for  a  long  time,  dissolve  a  piece  of  alum 
(the  size  of  a  shellbark),  for  every  pint  of  starch,  and 
add  to  it.    This  will  keep  the  color  bright  a  long  time. 

Cleansing  Fluid. 

Mother,  Chicago. 
Used  to  wash  alpaca,  camel's  hair,  and  other  woolen 
goods,  and  invaluable  for  removing  marks  on  furni- 


144  HOUSEHOLD    HINTS. 

ture,  carpets,  rugs,  etc.:  Four  oz.  ammonia;  4  oz. 
white  castile  soap  ;  2  oz.  alcohol ;  2  oz.  glycerine  ;  2  oz. 
ether.  Cut  the  soap  fine ;  dissolve  in  1  quart  water 
over  the  fire  ;  add  4  quarts  water.  When  nearly  cold, 
add  the  other  ingredients.  This  will  make  nearly  8 
quarts,  and  will  cost  about  75  cents  to  make  it.  It 
must  be  put  in  a  bottle  and  stoppered  tight.  It  will 
keep  good  any  length  of  time.  Take  a  pail  of  luke- 
warm water,  and  put  in  about  a  teacupful  of  the  fluid, 
shake  around  well  in  this,  and  then  rinse  in  plenty  ot 
clean  water,  and  iron  on  wrong  side  while  damp,.  For 
washing  grease  from  coat-collars,  etc.,  take  a  little  of 
the  fluid  in  a  cup  of  water,  apply  with  a  clean  rag,  and 
wipe  well  with  a  second  clean  rag.  It  will  make  wool- 
en look  bright  and  fresh. 

Excellent  Paste. 

Hugo,  Hillsdale,  Mich. 
One  ounce  of  gum  tragacanth — select  the  white 
flakes ;  moisten  a  part  of  this  (as  the  whole  ounce  will 
probably  be  more  than  you  will  want  at  once)  with 
warm  water ;  then  reduce  its  consistency  to  suit  your 
liking ;  if  too  thin,  it  will  strike  through  unsized  pa- 
per, and,  when  dry,  will  give  the  reading  matter  a 
dark  and  illegible  appearance.  {Should  your  paste  ever 
become  dry  from  exposure,  or,  as  it  will  in  warm 
weather,  become  sour  or  moldy,  moisten  it  as  from 
time  to  time  it  may  require  with  a  little  good  vinegar. 

Glue  for  Mounting  Ferns,  Etc. 

Bella,  Kankakee,  111. 
Five  parts  gum  arabic  ;  3  parts  white  sugar  ;  2  parts 
starch ;  add  very  little  water,  and  boil,  stirring  until 
thick  and  white. 

To  Make  an  Aeolian  Marp. 

Tom  Cat,  Spi^ingfield,  111. 
Of  very  thin  pine  make  a  box  5  inches  deep,  and  7 
inches  wide,  and  a  length  just  equal  to  the  width  oi 
the  window  in  which  it  is  to  be  placed.  Across  the 
top,  near  each  end,  give  a  strip  of  wood  ■£  inch  high 
and  i  inch  thick,  for  bridges.  Into  the  ends  of  the  box 
insert  wooden  pins  to  wind  strings  around — 2  or  4  pins 
in  each  end.    Make  a  sounding  hole  in  the  middle  of 


HOUSEHOLD    HINTS. 

the  top,  and  string  the  box  with  blue  violin  strings. 
The  ends  of  the  box  should  be  increased  in  thickness 
where  the  pins  are  inserted  by  a  piece  of  pine  glued 
upon  the  inside.    It  is  better  to  have  4  strings,  out  a 
single  string  produces  a  very  sweet  melody  of  notes. 
To  Make  Black  Ink. 
Chemist,  Chicago. 
Dissolve  in  an  open  vessel  42  ounces  of  coarsely- 
powdered  nut-galls,  15   ounces  of    gum   Senegal,  18 
ounces  sulphate  of  iron  (free  from  copper),  3  drachms 
aqua  ammonia,  24  ounces  of  alcohol,  and  18  quarts  of 
rain  water.    Mix  and  let  it  stand  until  the  fluid  has 
assumed  a  deep  black  color,  then  bottle. 

To  Wash  Flannel. 

Harris  &  Cobb,  Chicago. 
After  preparing  suds  of  hot  water  and  soap,  wash 
the  garment  thoroughly  with  the  hands  (avoiding  a 
wash-board  or  washing  machine  of  any  kind).  When 
this  is  done,  rinse  in  warm  water  containing  a  slight 
quantity  of  soap.  Slightly  wring  the  article  thus  clean- 
ed and  hang  it  up.  Take  it  down  while  yet  a  little 
damp,  and  iron  till  perfectly  soft  and  dry.  Caution  ! 
Flannels  or  woolens  of  any  description  should  never 
go  into  water  too  hot  for  the  hands,  or  into  cold  water. 

Washing  Iiinen. 

Louise  N.,  Kenwood,  111. 
To  wash  fine  linen  so  that  it  will  retain  its  color, 
take  as  much  hay  as  will  color  well  the  amount  of 
water  you  wish  to  use  ;  boil  and  rinse  the  goods  in  it, 
using  a  little  soap.  Be  sure  and  use  this  preparation 
for  both  washing  and  rinsing. 

To  Clean  Infants'  Socks,  Wrorsted  Goods,  Furs,  Etc- 
M.,  Cleveland,  O. 
Take  a  pan  with  a  pint  of  white  flour  ;  rub  the  arti- 
cle in  the  flour  well ;  shake  the  flour  off  out  of  doors ; 
if  there  are  soiled  places  still,  put  it  m  the  flour  again. 
It  takes  a  good  deal  ot  rubbing  with  the  flour.  This 
will  clean  almost  any  knitted  worsted  article  in  white 
goods ;  also  white  lace  ties,  and  it  will  clean  white  furs 
till  they  look  like  new. 


146  HOUSEHOLD.  HINTS. 

TV  ashing  Black  Goods,  JLinens,  Etc. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  P.,  Chicago. 
The  best  method  of  washing  black  (mourning)  cali- 
coes and  dark  brown  cambrics,  is  to  put  a  pint  of 
wheat  bran  into  4  quarts  of  cold  water ;  boil  for  §  an 
hour  ;  strain  into  a  tub,  and  add  sufficient  warm  water 
to  wash  1  dress.  Do  not  use  soap.  Rinse,  and  add 
blueing  to  your  starch  to  prevent  the  white  appearance 
starch  leaves  on  dark  colors.  The  bran  softens  the 
water.  Wash  brown  linen  in  this  way,  adding  a  little 
hay  to  the  bran-water  while  boiling.  If  there  are 
grease  spots  on  the  linen  use  a  little  soap  on  them. 
JBrown  linen  should  not  be  dried  in  the  sun. 

TV  ashing  Clothes. 

Old  Housekeeper,  Chicago. 
Red-border  napkins  will  bear  boiling  with  other 
clothing,  but  scalding  is  all  that  is  necessary,  as,  in- 
deed, it  is  for  all  of  the  washing.  For  the  last  12  years 
I  have  scalded  my  clothes  instead  of  boiling  them. 
Have,  the  clothes  washed  as  cleanly  as  possible,  and 
add  no  soap  for  the  scald.  That  in  the  clothes  from 
the  suds  is  all  that  is  necessary.  In  an  ordinary-sized 
wash-boiler  of  water  add  1  tablespoonful  of  ammonia," 
and  blueing  as  desired.  Put  the  clothes  in  when  cold, 
and  let  them  just  come  to  the  boil  and  remove.  Rinse 
and  dry.  The  blue  put  in  the  scald  gives  a  much 
clearer  look  than  in  the  rinse,  without  looking  blue. 

To  Iron  Easily. 

Aunt  Nancy,  Joliet. 
Put  a  teaspoonful  of  kerosene  into  your  cold  starch, 
say  to  a  pint,  and  your  iron  will  not  stick.    The  smell 
will  soon  pass  on0 ;  rub  your  iron  on  soap  or  wax  if  it  is 
rough. 

To  Clean  l«ace  Curtains. 
Aunt  Nancy,  Joliet. 
To  clean  lace  curtains  without  washing  them :  Shake 
the  lace  gently  to  remove  the  loose  dust ;  then  spread 
a  clean  sheet  on  a  table,  and  lay  the  curtains  1  above 
the  other  with  a  plentiful  sprinkling  of  unsifted  corn- 
meal  or  bran  between  them.  Then  roll  them  up  snug- 
ly, and  put  away  in  a  safe,  dry  place  for  a  week  or  10 


HOUSEHOLD    HINTS.  147 

days ;  then  shake  the  bran  out,  and  with  a  moderately 
hot  iron  press  out  the  wrinkles,  and  your  curtains  are 
as  nice  as  new. 

To  Color  Brown,  Etc. 

Marsh  Mallow,  Michigan. 

To  color  brown  :  For  4  pounds  of  cloth  or  yarn,  use 
1  pound  of  cutch  and  4  of  bichromate  potash.  Dissolve 
the  cutch  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  goods,  and 
boil  them  for  %  an  hour ;  then  dissolve  the  potash  and 
dip  the  goods  into  the  potash  solution  until  the  desir- 
ed shade  is  obtained. 

Scarlet :  For  cheap  bright  red  suitable  for  rag  car- 
pets, 1  pound  of  Nicaragua  wood  ;  boil  2  or  3  hours ; 
then  add  i  a  pound  of  alum  ;  this  will  color  3  pounds 
of  old  flannel,  or  2  of  new.  Let  it  remain  in  the  dye  24 
hours. 

Green  for  woolen  :  To  1  pound  of  yarn  or  cloth,  2i 
ounces  of  alum  and  1  pound  of  fustic.  Steep  to  get 
the  strength,  but  not  boil ;  soak  the  goods  until  it  ac- 
quires a  good  yellow  color ;  then  throw  out  the  chips 
and  add  Indigo  compound  slowly  until  you  have  the 
desired  shade.    Rinse  in  cold  water. 

Polish  for  Linen  Cuffs,  Etc. 

Aunt  Jerusha,  Valparaiso,  Ind. 
White  wax,  3  ounces ;  spermaceti,  3  drachms ;  borax, 
6  ounces;  gum  tragacanth,  H  ounces.  Melt  together 
with  gentle  heat.  When  you  have  prepared  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  starch  in  the  usual  manner  for  a  dozen 
pieces,  put  into  it  a  piece  of  the  polish  the  size  of  a 
large  walnut — more  or  less,  according  to  the  amount 
of  washing.  This  will  make  a  beautiful  polish,  and 
also  make  the  goods  very  stiff. 

Washing  Fluid. 

Housewife,  Oconomowoc,  Wis. 
Here  is  a  washing  fluid  I  have  used  6  years,  and 
would  not  be  without  it :  Take  2  pounds  salsoda  ;  dis- 
solve ;  take  1  pound  unslacked  lime ;  boil  it  awhile ; 
then  set  aside  to  settle ;  drain  off,  and  add  water  to 
the  amount  of  2  gallons ;  add  your  salsoda  ;  set  aside 
for  use.  The  night  before  wash-day,  put  your  clothes 
to  soak  in  warm  soap-suds.    In  the  morning  put  over 


148  HOUSEHOLD    HINTS. 

your  boiler,  and  to  the  boiler  f  full  of  water  add  1  cup 
of  fluid ;  wring  your  clothes  from  the  tub :  boil  15 
minutes;  then  rub  through  1  suds,  and  rinse.  It 
bleaches,  but  does  not  rot  the  clothes. 

Soft  Soap. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Pirie,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 
Try  out  14  pounds  of  grease  ;  to  this  add  10  pounds 
of  potash,  dissolved  in  just  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  the  lumps.  In  2  or  3  days  pour  over  the  mix- 
ture several  pailfuls  of  boiling  water.  (Be  careful  to 
use  boiling  water,  as  that  cooks  it).  Keep  on  adding 
the  water  as  fast  as  the  soap  thickens  until  your  bar- 
rel is  full  of  nice,  sweet,  clean  soap.  It  must  be  stir- 
red hard  every  time  the  water  is  put  into  the  barrel, 
until  it  is  entirely  mixed. 

Hard  Soap. 

Soap  Maker,  Chicago. 
Take  H  pounds  of  clean,  melted  grease  and  1  gallon 
of  ley  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg.  Mix  them  to- 
gether in  a  barrel  and  stir  until  a  good  soft  soap  is  the 
result.  Then  take  6  quarts  of  this  soft  soap,  1  pint  of 
salt,  and  a  i  of  a  pound  of  resin  ;  melt  and  scald  the 
ingredients  together,  and  put  it  aside  to  cool.  When 
hard  cut  it,  tnrow  away  the  ley  that  has  settled  to  the 
bottom  and  melt  the  soap  again  to  refine  it.  Pour  it 
into  a  small  tub  and  when  hard  cut  into  cakes. 

liice  on  Canaries. 

Mary,  Vincennes. 
To  exterminate  lice  from  canary  birds,  use  hollow 
canes  for  perches  ;  shake  out  well  mornings  into  a  cup 
of  water,  and  you  will  catch  them  all.  Two  parts 
canary,  1  part  rape,  and  1  part  hemp  seed  is  the  best 
food.    The  canes  used  are  pipe  stems. 

To  Kill  Plant  L.iee. 

Etta,  Chicago. 

Cigar  ashes  will  kill  lice  on  rose  bushes  without  in- 
juring the  plants.  I  have  tried  it  in  many  instances 
with  great  success. 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS.  149 

Destroying  Red  Spiders. 

Mrs.  W,  C.  A.,  Lewiston,  111. 
Wash  the  plants  once  or  twice  a  week  in  good  strong 
soap  suds — wash  thoroughly  every  leaf  on  the  under 
side  with  a  sponge.  Set  the  pot  in  a  tub  of  washing- 
suds  moderately  warm,  and  throw  the  suds  over  them 
then. 

Plant  JLioe  Exterminator. 

Dabbler,  Green  Bay,  Wis. 
Steep  some  quassia  in  water,  and  then  pour  over 
the  plant,  first  washing  the  leaves  with  it.    It  is  cer- 
tain death  to  the  lodgers,  whether  lice  or  worms. 

Raising  Canary  Rirds. 

Bird  Defender,  Hillsdale,  Mich. 
Place  the  cage  so  that  no  draft  of  air  can  strike  the 
bird.  Give  nothing  to  healthy  birds  but  rape  and 
canary  seed,  water,  cuttle-fish  bone,  and  gravel-paper 
or  sand  on  the  floor  of  the  cage.  No  hemp  seed.  A 
bath  3  times  a  week.  The  room  should  not  be  over- 
heated— never  above  70  degrees.  When  shedding 
feathers  keep  warm,  avoid  all  drafts  of  air.  Give 
plenty  of  German  rape  seed  ;  a  little  hard-boiled  egg, 
mixed  with  crackers  grated  fine,  is  excellent.  Feed  at 
a  certain  hour  in  the  morning.  For  birds  that  are 
sick,  or  have  lost  their  song,  procure  bird  tonic  at  a 
bird  store.  Very  many  are  guilty  of  great  cruelty  in 
regard  to  perches.  The  perches  in  a  cage  should  be 
each  one  of  a  different  size,  and  the  smallest  as  large 
as  a  pipe-stem.  If  perches  are  of  the  right  sort,  no 
trouble  is  ever  had  about  the  bird's  toe-nails  growing 
too  long.  Keep  the  perches  clean.  The  14th  of  Feb- 
ruary is  the  proper  time  to  place  the  male  and  female 
in  the  same  cage. 

Everlasting;  Whitewash. 

Some  years  ago  the  following  whitewash  was  used 
on  the  east  end  of  the  White  House,  and  is  as  good 
to-day  as  when  first  applied  :  Take  i  bushel  of  nice 
unslaked  lime  ;  slake  it  with  boiling  water ;  cover  it 
during  the  process  to  keep  in  the  steam.  Strain  the 
liquid  through  a  fine  sieve  or  strainer,  and  add  to  it  a 
peck  of  salt,  previously  well  dissolved  in  warm  water 


150  HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 

3  pounds  of  ground  rice,  boiled  to  a  thin  paste ;  i 
pound  of  powdered  Spanish  whiting,  and  1  pound  of 
clean  glue  which  has  been  previously  dissolved  by 
soaking  it  well,  and  then  hang  it  over  a  slow  fire  in  a 
small  kettle  within  a  larger  one  filled  with  water.  Add 
5  gallons  of  hot  water  to  the  mixture,  stir  it  well,  and 
let  it  stand  for  a  few  days  covered  from  dust.  It  should 
be  put  on  hot,  and  for  this  purpose  it  can  be  kept  in  a 
kettle  on  a  portable  furnace.  It  is  said  that  about  a 
pint  of  this  mixture  will  cover  a  square  yard  upon  the 
outside  of  a  house  if  properly  applied.  Fine  or  coarse 
brushes  may  be  used,  according  to  the  neatness  of  the 
job  required.  It  answers  as  well  as  oil  paint  for  wood, 
brick,  or  stone,  and  is  cheaper.  It  retains  its  brillian- 
cy for  many  years.  There  is  nothing  of  the  kind  that 
will  compare  with  it,  either  for  inside  or  outside  walls. 
Buildings  or  fences  covered  with  it  will  take  a  much 
longer  time  to  burn  than  if  they  were  painted  with  oil 
paint.  Coloring  matter  may  be  put  in  and  made  of 
any  shade  desired.  Spanish  brown  will  make  a  reddish 
pink,  when  stirred  in,  more  or  less  deep,  according  to 
the  quantity.  A  delicate  tinge  of  this  is  very  pretty 
for  inside  walls.  Finely  pulverized  common  clay,  well 
mixed  with  Spanish  brown,  makes  a  reddish  stone 
color ;  yellow  ochre  stirred  in  makes  yellow  wash,  but 
chrome  goes  further,  and  makes  a  color  generally  es- 
teemed prettier.  It  is  difficult  to  make  rules,  because 
tastes  differ.  It  would  be  best  to  try  experiments  on  a 
shingle  and  let  it  dry.  Green  must  not  be  mixed  with 
lime  ;  it  destroys  the  color,  and  the  color  has  an  effect 
on  the  whitewash  which  makes  it  crack  and  peel. 


THE    TOILET. 


Tooth  Powder. 

Dentist,  Chicago. 

IX  equal  portions  of  powdered  chalk  and  char- 
coal, adding  a  small  quantity  of  curd  soap. 
This  simple  recipe  not  only  cleanses  the  teeth, 
but  is  a  preserva-tive  against  decay. 
To  Whiten  and  Soften  the  Hands. 
Mary  B.,  Terre  Haute. 
One-half  pound  of  mutton  tallow,  1  ounce  of  cam- 
phor gum,  and  1  ounce  of  glycerine.    Melt,  and  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  set  away  to  cool.    Rub  the  hands 
with  this  every  night. 

To  Remove  Freckles. 

Uncle  Ben's  Niece,  Kentland,  Ind. 
A  very  simple  and  harmless  remedy  for  freckles  is 
equal  parts  of  pure  glycerine  and  rosewater,  applied 
every  night  and  allowed  to  dry. 

To  Remove  Hair. 

Paul  H.  B.,  Madison. 
Quicklime,  30  parts ;  orpiment,  4  parts ,  powdered 
gum  arabic,  60  parts.  Mix  and  keep  in  a  tightly- 
corked  bottle.  When  used  mix  with  water,  so  as  to 
form  a  paste.  Apply,  and  let  it  remain  for  5  or  10 
minutes,  when  the  superfluous  hair  can  be  removed 
with  the  back  of  a  knife.  The  following  is  a  rather 
safe  depilatory,  and  in  some  respects  equal  to  the  for- 
mer :    Take  a  strong  solution  of  sulphuret  of  barium, 


152  THE  TOILET. 

made  into  a  paste  with  powdered  starch.  Use  as  in 
the  preceding  one.  This  latter  recipe,  however,  must 
be  used  immediately  after  being  mixed,  as  it  loses  its 
efficiency  if  kept  long. 

To  Prevent  Hair  Turning  Gray. 

Paul  H.  B.,  Madison. 
Take  the  hulls  of  butternuts,  say  about  4  ounces, 
and  infuse  in  a  quart  of  water  for  an  hour.  Then  add 
£  an  ounce  of  copperas.  Apply  with  a  soft  brush  every 
second  or  third  day.  This  preparation  is  harmless, 
and  is  far  better  than  those  dyes  made  of  nitrate  of 
silver. 

To  Cure  Dandruff. 
Paul  H.  B.,  Madison,  Wis. 
Dandruff  generally  comes  from  an  overheated  or 
feverish  state  of  the  scalp.  The  cure  is  simple.  Brush 
it  well  every  day ;  apply  a  mixture  of  bay  rum  and 
brandy  ;  avoid  much  oiling,  and  wash  quite  often  with 
an  egg  and  soft,  tepid  water. 

French  Curlique. 

Paul  H.  B.,  Madison,  TTis. 
Oil  of  sweet  almonds,  1  ounce ;  spermacetti,  1 
drachm  ;  tincture  of  mastich,  3  drachms.  Dissolve  the 
spermacetti  (white  wax  is  as  good)  in  the  oil  with  a 
slow  heat,  and  then  add  the  tincture.  Apply  a  small 
quantity  when  the  hair  is  to  be  dressed.  This  prepa- 
ration is  entirely  innocent. 

Hints  About  tlie  Hair. 

Paul  H.  B.,  Madison,  Wis. 

The  yolk  of  an  egg  will  thoroughly  cleanse  the  scalp 
and  make  the  hair  soft  and  glossy — that  is,  if  soft 
water  be  used.  Beware  of  soap,  for  the  potash  it  con- 
tains is  very  objectionable. 

At  least  20  minutes  each  day  should  be  used  by  those 
who  suffer  from  thin  and  weak  hair  in  brushing  it 
with  a  stiff  brush.  Before  beginning  this,  apply  every 
day  a  small  quantity  of  the  following  :  Tincture  of  can- 
tharides,  i  ounce  ;  bay  rum  and  cologne,  of  each  2 
ounces  ;  and  1  drachm  of  oil  of  rosemary.  Do  this  for 
a  month,  and  the  hair  will  be  found  to  have  improved 
wonderfully.    Ladies  who  have,  and  do  not  like,  red 


THE  TOILET.  153 

or  blonde  hair,  will  find  their  hair  has  grown  much 
darker.  The  weak  hairs,  by  this  process,  grow  strong- 
er, and  the  coarse  ones  fall  out,  causing  the  hair  to 
become  healthy  and  curly.  The  following  method  will 
cause  bright  red  hair  to  become  dark  brown,  or  chest- 
nut-hued  :  Take  oils  of  nutmeg  and  rosemary,  1  drachm 
each ;  castor  oil,  1  ounce  ;  tincture  of  cantharides,  2 
drachms;  strong  brandy,  7  ounces.  Mix.  Wet  the 
hair  with  a  small  portion  of  this  once  a  day,  and  brush 
the  hair  well  with  a  stiff  brush  for  \  an  hour  by  the 
clock,  and  ask  your  lover  at  the  end  of  5  or  6  weeks  if 
he  does  not  want  a  fresh  lock  of  your  new  hair.  This 
everyday  brushing  of  the  hair  is  worth  more  than  all 
the  "  curling  fluids  "  and  other  like  humbugs  ever  in- 
vented. 

Care  of  the  Hair. 

When  the  hair  grows  scantily,  naturally,  the  follow- 
ing lotion  may  be  used  3  or  4  times  a  week,  in  the 
morning  :  Eau-de-Colonge,  2  ounces  ;  tincture  of  can- 
tharides, 2  ounces  ;  oil  of  rosemary  and  oil  of  lavender, 
of  each  10  drops.  When  the  hair  becomes  thin  from 
illness,  or  other  causes,  use  the  following  recipe  :  Mix 
equal  parts  of  olive  oil  and  spirits  of  rosemary  ;  add  a 
few  dfops  of  oil  of  nutmeg,  and  anoint  the  head  very 
sparingly  before  going  to  bed.  When  actual  baldness 
is  commencing,  use  the  following  pomade  :  Macerate 
a  drachm  of  powdered  cantharides  in  an  ounce  of 
spirits  of  wine.  Shake  it  wed  during  a  fortnight  and 
then  filter.  Take  10  parts  of  this  tincture  and  rub  it 
with  90  parts  of  cold  lard.  Add  a  little  essence  of 
bergamot,  or  any  other  scent.  Kub  this  pomade  well 
into  the  head  night  and  morning.  In  99  cases  out  of  a 
100  this  application,  if  continued,  will  restore  the  hair. 
When  the  hair,  after  being  naturally  luxuriant,  be- 
gins to  grow  thin,  use  the  following  recipe  :  Take  of 
extract  of  yellow  Peruvian  bark,  15  grains  ;  extract  of 
rhatany  root,  8  grains ;  extract  of  burdock  root,  and 
oil  of  nutmegs  (mixed),  of  each  2  drachms;  camphor 
dissolved  with  spirits  of  wine,  15  grains  ;  beef  marrow, 
2  ounces;  best  olive  oil,  1  ounce;  citron  juice,  i  a 
drachm  ;  aromatic  essential  oil,  as  much  as  sufficient 
to  render  it  fragrant ;  mix ;  shake  into  an  ointment. 
Two  drachms  of  bergamot,  and  a  few  drops  of  otto 


154  THE  TOILET. 

of  roses  would  suffice.     This    is  to   be  used  every 
morning. 

To  Make  the  Hair  Grow. 

Mrs.  Will  Killem,  Chicago. 
Salt  and  water  will  not  only  prevent  the  hair  from 
falling  out,  but  if  applied  every  day  will  bring  out  a 
fine  growth  of  soft  new  hair.  Should  not  be  made  so 
strong  as  to  leave  white  particles  upon  the  hair  when 
dry. 

For  Itching  Scalp. 

Mrs.  Eve,  Kalamazoo. 
One  teaspoonful  of  ammonia,  1  of  tincture  of  arnica, 
and  1  tablespoonf ul  of  soft  water.  Use  this  amount 
for  1  thorough  sponging  and  rubbing  of  your  head, 
and  brush  till  dry.  If  badly  diseased,  use  twice  a 
week.  Prepare  just  what  you  want  for  one  applica- 
tion each  time. 

For  IMseased  Scalp. 

Aunt  Nelly  Ely,  St.  Joe,  Mich. 
Buy  25  cents'  worth  of  pine-tar  ;  take  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  and  put  in  an  old  quart  bowl ,  pour  on  this  1  pint 
of  boiling  soft  water ;  let  stand  till  cool ;  remove  the 
scum,  and  pour  off  in  a  bottle  and  cork,  and  use  thor- 
oughly every  morning  to  wet  the  hair  and  scalp.  It 
will  surely  cure  you.  My  husband  has  used  this  for 
2  years,  and  now  his  hair  is  thick  and  soft,  and  has 
hardly  a  gray  hair;  besides,  the  scalp  is  clean  and 
healthy.  Keep  your  tar-bowl  always  filled  with  water, 
and  pour  off  when  needed ;  put  in  a  little  more  tar 
every  2  months  or  so. 

All  Ahout  Preserving  and  Improving  the  Com- 
plexion. 

Paul  H.  B.,  Madison,  Wis. 
All  the  so-called  "  Balms,"  "  Blooms  of  Youth," 
etc.,  are  composed  of  white  lead,  glycerine  and  rose- 
water.  For  a  time  such  preparations  do  seem  to 
whiten  the  skin,  but  in  a  short  time  it  loses  its  elastic- 
ity from  paralysis  of  the  small  nerves,  and  becomes  of 
a  dirty,  yellowish  color.  This  invariably  is  the  result 
of  the  application  of  all  the  cosmetics  containing  lead. 


THE  TOILET.  155 

Still,  there  are  a  number  of  harmless  articles  which 
can  be  used  as  cosmetics,  such  as  milk  of  roses,  lac 
sulphur,  glycerine,  bay  rum,  bitter  almonds,  oatmeal 
water,  and,  if  a  mineral  must  be  used,  let  it  be  sub- 
nitrate  of  bismuth.  A  few  years  ago  the  following 
sold  in  Paris  for  $5  a  bottle :  Pure  glycerine  and  water, 
of  each  an  ounce  ;  vinegar  of  cantharides,  40  drops. 
The  cantharides  slowly  destroys  the  rough,  outer  skin, 
and  leaves  the  under  soft  and  velvety.  Madame  Ves- 
tris  used  to  sleep  with  her  face  done  up  in  a  mixture 
of  the  whites  of  eggs,  sweet  almond  oil,  and  alum. 
This  keeps  the  skin  soft,  but  firm,  and  retards  wrink- 
les. Gowland's  Lotion  is  an  excellent  preservative  of 
the  complexion,  and  is  made  of  1  ounce  of  emulsion  of 
bitter  almonds,  and  H  grains  of  bi-chloride  of  mercury. 
If  this  be  applied  once  a  day,  on  retiring,  and  the  face 
washed  in  tepid  water,  on  rising,  with  the  following 
soap,  no  lady  need  have  a  poor  complexion  long.  The 
soap  is  made  as  follows  :  A  pound  of  bleached  castile 
soap,  4  ounces  of  fresh,  sweet  almond  oil,  6  ounces  of 
oatmeal.  Place  on  the  stove  in  a  kettle,  and  keep 
stirring  until  all  the  ingredients  are  well  incorporated. 
Then  let  it  cool,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  high- 
born ladies  of  England  are  noted  for  the  beauty  and 
whiteness  of  their  hands.    They  use  the  soap  above 

fiven.  Glycerine  is  capable  of  making  the  skin  soft, 
lit  it  will  not  whiten  it  any.  The  following  is  the 
recipe  for  "  Sultana,"  a  deservedly-popular  cosmetic 
with  the  titled  ladies  of  London  :  Take  2  ounces  of 
bitter  almonds,  blanche,  and  beat  into  a  paste  with  1 
ounce  of  rosewater;  then  add  honey,  fine  oatmeal, 
and  glycerine,  1  ounce  each,  and  when  well  mixed,  2 
drachms  of  tincture  of  benzoin.  Apply  before  a  fire  a 
short  time  before  retiring.  For  rendering  the  com- 
plexion soft,  smooth,  and  brilliant,  this  preparation 
has  no  superior.  The  following  is  good,  and  has  the 
merit  of  being  more  easily  prepared  than  the  "  Sul- 
tana." It  is  the  French  pate  au  miel,  or  honey  paste : 
Take  glycerine,  honey,  and  rosewater,  2  ounces ;  sub- 
nitrate  of  bismuth,  4  drachms,  and  tincture  of  benzoin, 
2  drachms.  This  is  to  be  applied  at  night,  and  can 
also  be  used  in  the  morning  instead  of  soap. 
And  now  for  that  torment  of  so  many  fair  females— 


156  THE  TOILET. 

freckles.  In  many  females  of  a  sanguine  tempera- 
ment, freckles,  even  if  removed  for  a  time,  will  be 
sure  to  return,  and,  therefore,  may  be  said  to  be  in- 
curable. But  in  9  out  of  every  10  cases  the  following 
will  effect  a  cure  :  In  the  morning  on  rising,  take  a 
teaspoonful  of  lac-sulphur  in  a  few  teaspoonfuls  of 
milk.  Then,  for  external  use,  apply  the  following : 
Corrosive  sublimate,  4  grains  ;  alcohol,  1  ounce.  Mix. 
Remember,  ladies,  that  this  latter  mixture  ought  not 
to  come  in  contact  with  the  lips.  After  a  few  days' 
using,  the  skin  will  begin  to  very  slowly  peel  off,  and 
the  freckles  disappear.  Twice  daily  is  sufficient  to 
apply  it.  A  French  dermatologist  recommends  the 
following  for  the  same  purpose  :  Take  muriatic  acid, 
i  ounce  :  alcohol,  1  ounce  ;  rain  water,  7  ounces.  Mix 
and  apply  well  with  a  sponge  3  times  daily.  When  in 
England,  a  Gypsy  woman  informed  me  that  she  used 
horseradish,  boiled  in  milk,  for  removing  freckles. 
She  cured  a  number  of  young  girls,  but  whether  or 
not  she  told  me  the  real  secret  of  the  means  employed, 
I  am  unable  to  say,  having  never  given  the  preparation 
a  trial. 

Coltl  Cream. 

Helen  Blazes,  Chicago. 

Take  an  ounce  of  rosewater ;  2  ounces  of  oil  of  sweet 
almonds ;  i  an  ounce  of  spermacetti ;  1  drachm  of 
white  wax  ;  melt  together  in  a  bowl  placed  in  a  pan  of 
water,  boiling.  Then  remove  from  the  lire,  and  stir 
until  cold. 

For  those  who  prefer  "  something  easier  "  :  One 
ounce  glycerine  ;  1  ounce  rosewater  ;  10  drops  carbolic 
acid.  This  is  a  healing  lotion,  excellent  for  sore  gtims 
as  well  as  "  chaps  " — and  other  excoriations. 

Black-heads,  Flesh-worms,  Etc. 

Pug,  Mattoon,  111. 
They  are  permanently  removed  by  washing  with 
warm  water,  and  severe  friction  with  a- towel,  and 
then  applying  a  little  of  the  following  preparation  : 
Liquor  of  potassa,  1  ounce  ;  cologne,  2  ounces  ;  white 
brandy,  4  ounces.  The  warm  water  and  friction  are 
sometimes  sufficient. 


THE  TOILET.  157 

Care  of  the  Hands. 

Paul  H.  B.,  Madison,  Wis. 

What  is  called  cream  of  roses  is  also  an  excellent 
preparation  for  the  hands,  either  in  winter  or  summer. 
It  is  made  as  follows,  unless  you  prefer  to  purchase  it 
at  a  $1  a  bottle  :  Take  compound  tincture  of  benzoin, 
i  an  ounce  ;  almond  and  Malaga  oil,  of  each  an  ounce ; 
ottar  of  roses,  5  drops  ;  honey,  2  ounces  ;  and  enough 
rose  water  to  make  the  mixture  measure  6  ounces.  Ap- 
ply as  often  as  you  like. 

A  mixture  of  lemon-juice  and  powdered  borax  is  also 
another  fine  whitener  of  the  skin,  but  should  only  be 
used  in  warm  weather.  This  is  admirably  suited  to 
those  ladies  whose  general  health  is  not  good  and  who 
have,  consequently,  bluish  hands,  in  which  the  blue 
veins  show  too  strongly. 

Ladies  who  do  their  own  housework  are  apt,  if  they 
do  not  wear  gloves,  to  havp  coarse  hands.  If  they 
happen  to  dip  them  into  waitr,  they  do  not  take  time 
enough  to  dry  them  well  before  going  on  with  their 
work.  To  wipe  the  hands  perfectly  dry  after  their  be- 
ing immersed  in  water,  is  imperatively  necessary,  if 
they  wish  their  hands  to  look  white.  To  keep  the 
hands  from  chapping  in  cold  weather,  use  a  mixture 
of  glycerine,  1  ounce ;  spermacetti,  2  drachms ;  olive 
oil,  2  ounces.  Mix  together  with  the  aid  of  heat.  Ap- 
ply this  every  night,  and,  if  time  will  admit  of  it, 
every  morning.  In  winter,  do  not  wash  them  in  cold 
or  hot  water.  It  should  be  just  blood  warm,  and  no 
more  or  less.  Do  not  go  out  of  doors  with  them  un- 
covered. In  summer,  use  cold  water,  unless  the  hands 
perspire  very  much,  as  the  hands  of  some  people  do. 
These  latter  should  use  tepid  water.  In  warm  weather, 
a  good  preparation  for  the  hands  is  this  :  Take  £  an 
ounce  of  powdered  alum,  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  mix 
together.  Then  add  enough  bran  to  make  into  a  thick 
paste.  Apply  this  once  a  day,  after  washing,  and  after 
rubbing  the  hands  together  well  for  a  few  minutes, 
wipe  off  with  a  soft  towel.  This  will  give  them  a  soft, 
brilliant  hue,  and  check  any  undue  amount  of  pers- 
piration. 


THE  SICK  ROOM,  ETC. 


Catarrh  Remedy. 

Medico,  Chicago. 

QUAL  parts  of  gum  arabic,  gum  myrrh,  and 
bloodroot,  made  into  a  powder,  and  used  as  a 
snuff,  is  an  unfailing  remedy  for  catarrh. 

Chilblain  .Lotion. 

Dr.  Foot,  Chicago. 
Dissolve  1  ounce  of  muriate  of  ammonia  m  £  a  pint 
of  cider  vinegar,  and  apply  frequently.    One-half  pint 
of  alcohol  may  be  added  to  this  lotion  with  good  effect. 

Removing  Warts. 

Ella  Hosraer,  Danville. 
Get  at  the  drug  store  5  or  10  cents'  worth  of  oil  of 
cinnamon  ;  wet  the  warts  thoroughly  three  times  a  day 
till  they  disappear. 

Hot  Water  for  Bruises. 

Bruises  and  injuries  do  much  better  when  treated 
with  hot  than  cold  water.  The  temperature  should  be 
about  103  o  pah. 

Bands  for  Children. 

S.,  Chicago. 
If  the  bowel  complaint  should  become  troublesome, 
keep  a  flannel  band  bound  snugly  around  through  all 
the  hot  weather.  It  supports  the  bowels,  keeps  them 
warm?  and  will  often  cure  the  trouble  when  medicine 
and  diet  have  been  of  no  avail. 


THE  SICK  KOOM,  ETC. 

Care  of  Sick  Children. 

Mary  Moore,  Chicago. 

I  find  that  diet,  bathing  and  quiet  are  the  most 
effective  remedies  I  can  use.  I  took  a  child  safely 
through  measles,  whooping-cough  and  teething  with 
only  common  sense  and  general  knowledge  of  the  laws 
of  health  to  guide  me. 

This  time  the  children  had  a  remittent  fever — cold 
chills  alternating  with  fever,  When  their  feet  were 
cold  and  heads  hot,  I  applied  hot  water  to  the  feet  and 
cold  water  to  the  head.  When  the  fever  came  on  I 
sponged  off  the  whole  body  with  cool  water,  wiping 
lightly  with  a  soft  towel.  I  kept  them  on  a  light  diet 
ot  such  articles  as  would  keep  the  bowels  open— oat- 
meal, Graham  crackers,  etc.  If  this  was  not  sufficient, 
I  gave  warm  water  injections.  I  kept  them  quiet  as 
possible  in  mind  and  body,  making  them  sleep  all  they 
could.  And  this  treatment,  with  the  blessing  of  God, 
brought  them  through  all  right. 

Croup. 

Isadora,  Monroe,  Mich. 
As  soon  as  my  little  ones  begin  to  choke  up  and 
cough  like  croup,  I  bind  a  napkin  wet  with  cold  water, 
and  a  dry  one  over  it,  around  the  throat,  and  give  a 
good  dose  of  sirup  of  ipecac.  The  cloths  must  be 
changed  every  few  minutes  till  the  choking  is  over. 
If  necessary,  give  the  ipecac  or  hive  sirup  till  the  child 
begins  to  vomit. 

Cough  Medicine. 
Anna  B.,  Pittsficld,  111. 
One-half  ounce  essence  of  peppermint ;  \  ounce  es- 
sence of  cinnamon  ;  $  ounce  of  laudanum ;  2  ounces  of 
paregoric— mixed  with  the  same  quantity  of  molasses. 
Dose  :  A  teaspoonf  ul  to  a  tablespoon  3  or  4  times  a 
day,  or  oftener  if  the  cough  is  very  bad. 
Dyspepsia  Remedy. 
Sympathizer,  Peoria. 
On  2  tablespoonfuls  of  unslacked  lime  pour  1  quart 
of  cold  water ;  let  stand  a  few  minutes ;  bottle  and 
cork,  and  when  clear,  it  is  ready  for  use  ;  put  3  table- 
spoonfuls  in  a  cup  of  milk,  and  drink  any  time,  usual- 


160  THE  SICK  ROOM,  ETC. 

ly  before  meals,  but  between  if  the  food  sours  or  stom- 
ach pains. 

Drinks  for  Invalids. 

Annie  M.  Hale,  Chicago. 
Take  crusts  of  genuine  brown  bread  (rye  and  Indian). 
These  should  be  slowly  toasted  before  an  open  tire  un- 
til thoroughly  dried  and  of  a  rich,  dark  brown.  Break 
them  into  small  bits  ;  put  them  into  the  coffee  pot ; 
pour  on  boiling  water,  and  let  the  infusion  steep  from 
i  an  hour  to  an  hour.  Let  the  pot  stand  a  few  min- 
utes after  being  removed  from  the  fire.  The  coffee 
will  be  clear  and  of  a  tine  color,  and  if  served  with 
rich  milk  or  cream,  can  hardly  fail  to  please  an  un- 
spoiled palate.  It  is  nutritious  and  innocent.  A 
tablespoonful  of  ground  Mocha  or  Java  put  in  the 
coffee  pot  10  minutes  before  it  is  taken  from  the  tire 
will  give  it  both  flavor  and  aroma.  The  crusts  of 
whatever  bread  may  be  used  in  a  similar  manner. 

Corns,  Bunions,  and  Ingrowing  Nails. 

A  Friend,  Normal,  111. 
Acetic  acid  is  a  safe  and  painless  remedy  for  corns 
and  bunions.  A  few  applications  night  and  morning 
will  dispel  all  soreness.  A  continued  application  will 
remove  them.  Inverted  toe-nails  can  be  cured  with- 
out causing  any  pain,  by  simply  making  a  notch  in  the 
center  of  the  end  of  the  toe-nail  in  shape  of  the  letter 
V.  It  causes  the  sides  of  the  nail  to  come  above  and 
over  the  flesh.  Continue  this  as  fast  as  the  nail  grows 
out,  and  it  will  always  keep  its  proper  shape  and 
position. 

How  to  Get  Fat. 

Mrs.  Sophia  F.,  Chicago, 
If  you  will  try  my  recipe  I  think  you  will  succeed  in 
getting  fat.  I  drink  every  day  at  10  a.  m.  and  at  bed- 
time a  glass  of  lager  beer  with  eggs.  It  is  prepared  in 
the  following  manner  :  Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  4 
teaspoontuls  ot  white  granulated  sugar ;  beat  well  and 
till  the  glass  with  beer.  It  is  an  agreeable  drink,  and 
will  make  any  one  what  I  am  now  getting  to  be— fat. 


, 


> 


^  ^  cv 


\°°c. 


X 


^v% 


*' 


A 


% 


f> 


,V 


W 


r   /  "^ 
.^'        <**,. 


<w 


V 


1  \ 


#% 


>o^ 


W 


