M.J.1YERSk*'C0., 

••86  nassau  street  :• ' 

•^c^  N  EWYORK. 


STANDARD    RECITATIONS    BY    BEST    AUTHORS. 


A  Choice  Collection  of 
DB  E  J^TJ  T I F  XJ  I-i     O  O  Is/L  I>0SITI03SrS, 

Carefally  Compiled  for 

School,  Lyceum,  Parlor,  and  other  Entertainments, 

By  FRANCES  P.  SULLIVAN. 


CONTENTS    OF    NO.  3. 


PAGE. 

The  Factory  Girl's  Last  Day 3 

The  Bridge  of  Sighs.     By  Thomas  Hood  4 

The  Sisters.     By  John  G.  Whittier 5 

Smiting  theRock 5 

The  Euined  Merchant.  By  Cora  M.  Eager  6 

Knocked  About.  By  Daniel  CounoUy...  6 
The  Burial  of  the  Dane.  By  H.  H.  Brow- 

nell 8 

Heroes  of  Greece.     By  Byron 8 

The  Moneyless  Man.     By  H.  T.  Stanton  9 

The  Dnammer  Boy 10 

Catiline's  Defiance.     By  George  Croly...  10 

The  Picket  Guard.     By  Mrs.  Howland  .  11 

The  Dying  Street  Arab.  By  Matthias  Barr  1 1 
No  Mortgage  on  the  Farm.     By  John 

H   Yates 12 

The  Old  Canoe.     By  Albert  Pike 13 

Casabianca 13 

Next  Door.     Charles  B.  Howell 14 

Rieuzi's  Address.     By  M.  K.  Mitford....  14 

The  Black  Regiment.  By  George  H.Boker  15 

Charles  XII.     By  Johnson  15 

Camma's  Love  for  Sinnatus.  By  Tennyson  16 

Washington.     By  Bryant  1(5 

The  Hand  that  Rocks  the  World.     By 

Wm.  Ross  Wallace  16 

Lenore.     By  Edgar  A.  Poe 16 

One  Night  with  Gin 17 

Life's  CoDflict.     By  VV.  Whitehead 18 

Coeur  de  Lion  at  the  Bier  of  his  Father. 

By  Felicia  Hemans 18 

Never  Give  up 19 

The  Unfinisbed  Letter 20 

The  Miser's  Will.  By  George  Birdseye.  20 
The  Lights  of  London.  By  George  R.  Sims  21 

Sample  Rooms 21 

TheRose.     By  James  R.  Lowell 21 

Song  of  the  Battle  Flag 22 

The  Brave  at  Home.     By  T.  Buchanan 

Read 23 

Annabel  Lee.     By  Edgar  A.  Poe 23 

The  Cumberland.    By  H.  W.  Longfellow  23 

He  and  She 24 

Othello's  Apology.     By  Shakspeare 25 


The  Blue  and  the  Gray.  By  M.  F.  Finch  25 

Bill  and  I.     By  G.  H.  Miles 26 

Mill  River  Ride.     By  J.  W.  Donovan  ...  2« 

In  Memoriam.     By  Geo.  D.  Prentice 27 

Horatius  at  the  Bridge.  By  T.B.Macaulay  28 

There  is  No  Death.   By  Lord  Lytton 29 

The  Engineer's  Story 30 

Only  Sixteen 31 

I'Utake  What  Father  Takes.  By  W.Hoyle  31 
The  Light  House.  By  Thomas  Moore...  32 
Lochiel's  Warning.  By  Thomas  Campbell  32 
My  Friend's  Secret.  By  B.  P.  Shillaber  34 
The  Maniac.   By  Matthew  Gregory  Lewis  34 

Bernardo's  Revenue,  Part  III S5 

Bernardo  and  Alphonso,  Part  II.  By  John 

Gibson  Lockhardt 36 

The  Knight's  Toast 36 

The  Child  Violinist.  By  Austin  Dobson.  37 
Tom.  By  Constance  Fennimore  Woolson  37 
Cleopatra  Dying.  By  Thomas  S.  Collier.  38 
Hotspur's  Defence.  By  Shakspeare  ....  39 
General  Joseph  Reed  ;  or,  the  Incorrupt- 
ible Patriot.  By  Edward  C.  Jones.  39 
William  the  Conqueror.  By  Chas.Mackay  40 

Keeping  his  Word 40 

Soliloquy  of  King  Richard  III.  By  Shak- 
speare   41 

The  Little  Grave 41 

The  Wounded  Soldier 42 

Clarence's  Dream.     By  Shakspeare 43 

The  Battle  of  the  Baltic.     By  Thomas 

Campbell 44 

The   Bells    of    the    Atlantic.     By  Mrs. 

Sigoumey 4a 

The  Stormy  Petrel.  By  Bryan  W.  Proctor 

(Barry  Cornwall) 45 

The  Amen  of  the  Rocks.  By  Gellert.,..  46 
Battle  Flag  at  Shenandoah.    By  Joaquin 

Miller 46 

Black-eyed  Susan.  By  Thomas  Gay  ....  47 
Landing  of  the   Pilgrim    Fathers.     By 

Mrs.  Hemans 47 

The  Three  Fishers.  By  Chas.  Kingsley  48 
The  Sands  of  Dee.     By  Chas.  Kingsley.  48 


Price  12  Cents  by  Mail.     1  and  2  Cent  Stamps  taken. 
Address     M.  J.  IVBRS   &  CO., 

86  J^ASSAU  STREET,  Jf:  Y,  City, 


THE  HOME-MADE 

COOK  BOOK 


COMPLETE     MANUAL 


OP 


PRACTICAL,  ECONOMICAL,  PALATABLE,  HEALTHFUL, 
AND  USEFUL 

COOKERY. 


^.^JS^v^. 


'55"^«V'V>s3i^lSIJU. 


NEW     Y  O  R  K  : 
M.  J.  IVERS  &  CO.,  86  Nassau  Street. 

Copyrighted,  1885,  by  M.  J.  Ivers  &  Co. 


II 


A^" 


^ 


■^ 


A 


The  Homemade  Cook  Book. 


SOUPS. 


Bean  Soup. — Soak  one  and  a  half  pints  of  beans 
in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  di'ain 
off  the  water,  wash  the  beans  in  fresh  water  and 

Cut  into  soup  kettle,  with  four  quarts  of  good 
eef  stock,  from  which  all  the  fat  has  been  re- 
moved. Set  it  where  it  will  boil  slowly  but  steadily 
till  dinner,  or  three  hours  at  the  least.  Two  hours 
before  dinner  slice  in  an  onion  and  a  carrot. 
Some  think  it  improved  by  adding  a  little  tomato. 
If  the  beans  are  not  liked  whole,  strain  through 
a  colander  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Beef  Soup. — Boil  a  soup  bone  about  four  hours, 
then  t-ike  out  meat  into  a  chopping-bowl ;  put  the 
bones  back  into  the  kettle.  Slice  very  thin  one 
small  onion,  six  potatoes  and  three  turnips  into  the 
soup.  Boil  until  all  are  tender.  Have  at  least  one 
gallon  of  soup  when  done.  It  is  improved  by  add- 
ing crackers  rolled,  or  noodles,  just  before  taking 
off.  Take  the  meat  that  has  been  cut  from  the 
bones,  chop  fine  while  warm,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  one  teacup  of  soup  saved  out  before 
putting  in  the  vegetables.  Pack  in  a  dish,  and  slice 
dovra  for  tea  or  lunch  when  cold. 

Celery  Soup. — One  shank  of  beef,  one  large 
bunch  of  celery,  one  cup  of  rich  cream.  Make  a 
good  broth  of  a  shank  of  beef,  skim  off  the  fat 
and  thicken  the  broth  with  a  little  flour  mixed 
with  water.  Cut  into  small  pieces  one  large 
bunch  of  celery,  or  two  small  ones,  boiling  them 
in  the  soup  till  tender.  Add  a  cup  of  rich  cream 
with  pepper  and  salt. 

Chicken  Soup. — Boil  a  pair  of  chickens  with 
great  care,  skimming  constantly  and  keeping  them 
covered  with  water.  When  tender,  take  out  the 
chicken  and  remove  the  bone.  Put  a  large  lump 
<jf  butter  into  a  spider,  dredge  the  chicken-meat 
well  with  flour,  and  lay  in  the  hot  pan ;  fry  a  nice 
brown,  and  keep  hot  and  dry.  Take  a  pint  of  the 
chicken  water,  and  stir  in  two  large  spoonfuls 
of  curry  powder,  two  of  butter  and  one  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  cayenne  ;  stir 
until  smooth,  then  mix  it  with  the  broth  in  the 
pot.  When  well  mixed,  simmer  five  minutes,  then 
add  the  browned  chicken.     Serve  with  rice. 

Clam  Soup. — Select  five  large,  plump  clams, 
and  after  chopping  them  finely  add  the  liquor  to 
the  meat.  To  every  dozen  allow  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  and  putting  meat,  liquor  and  water  into  a 
clean  vessel  allow  them  to  simmer  gently,  but  not 
boil,  about  one  and  one-half  hours.  Every  particle 
of  meat  should  be  so  well  cooked  that  yon  seem  to 


have  only  a  thick  broth.  Season  to  taste  and  pout 
into  a  tureen  in  which  a  few  slices  of  well- 
browned  toast  have  been  placed.  If  desired,  to 
every  two  dozen  of  clams  allow  a  teacupful  of  new 
milk  and  one  egg.  Beat  the  latter  very  light,  add 
slowly  the  milk,  beat  hard  a  minute  or  so,  and 
when  the  soup  is  removed  from  the  fire  stir  the 
egg  and  milk  into  it.       * 

Corn  Soup. — Twelve  ears  of  corn  scraped  and 
the  cobs  boiled  twenty  minutes  in  one  quart  of 
water.  Remove  the  cobs  and  put  in  the  corn  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  quarts  of  rich 
milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and 
thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Boil 
the  whole  ten  minutes  and  turn  into  a  tureen  in 
which  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  have  been  >veli 
beaten. 

Ego  Balls. — Two  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs ; 
mix  wth  the  raw  yolk  of  one  egg  a  little  flour ; 
roll  the  size  of  a  hazel-nut. 

Ego  Soup. — Boil  a  leg  of  lamb  about  two  hours 
in  water  enough  to  cover  it.  After  it  has  boiled 
about  an  hour  and  when  carefully  skimmed,  add 
one-half  cup  of  rice,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Have  ready  in  your  tureen  two  eggs  well-beaten ; 
add  the  boiling  soup,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Serve  the  lamb  with  drawn  butter,  gar- 
nished with  parsley  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into 
slices. 

Fish  Chowder. — Take  a  fresh  haddock,  of  three 
or  four  pounds,  clean  it  well,  and  cut  in  pieces  of 
three  inches  square.  Place  in  the  bottom  of  your 
dinner-pot  five  or  six  slices  of  salt  pork ;  fry  brown, 
then  add  three  onions  sliced  thin,  and  fry  those 
brown.  Remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  and 
place  on  the  onions  and  pork  a  layer  of  fish ; 
sprinkle  over  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  then  a  layer 
of  pared  and  sliced  x>otatocs,  a  layer  of  fish  and 
potatoes,  till  the  fish  is  used  up.  Cover  with  wa- 
ter, and  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Pound  six 
biscuits  or  crackers  fine  as  meal,  and  pour  into  the 
pot ;  and,  lastly,  add  a  quart  or  pint  of  milk  ;  let 
it  scald  well,  and  serve. 

Fish  Chowder. — Take  a  email  piece  of  pork, 
cut  into  squares,  and  put  it  into  the  bottom  of  a 
kettle.  Then  take  your  fish  (about  three  pounds 
will  make  a  good-sized  chowder),  cut  it  into  pieces 
(larger  squares  than  the  pork),  lay  enough  of 
this  on  the  pork  to  cover  well,  then  a  layer  of 
potatoes,  next  a  layer  of  Boston  crackers  split,  on 
this  pepper  and  salt.  Above  this  put  a  layer  of 
pork,  and  repeat  the  order  given  above  until  the 
materials  are  all  exhausted  ;  let  the  top  layer  be 
buttered  crackers.    Pour  on  boiUng  water  unSfl 


Copyright,  1878,  by  Donni:i.i.t,  Lotd  &  Co.,  Chicago. 


SOUPS^BROTH. 


covered,  and  cover  the  kettle  ;  keep  boiling  half  an 
hour.  Five  minutes  before  dinner,  dredge  well 
with  flour,  and  pour  on  a  pint  of  milk.  This  will 
make  the  genuine  Kye-beach  fish  chowder. 

Tomato  Chowder.— Slice  a  peck  of  green  toma- 
toes, six  green  peppers,  and  four  onions  ;  strew  a 
teacup  of  salt  over  them.  In  the  morning  turn 
off  the  water,  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  -with  vine- 
gar enough  to  cover  them,  a  teacup  of  sugar,  one 
of  grated  horseradish,  a  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 
allspice,  and  cinnamon,  each.    Boil  until  soft. 

French  Vegetable  Soup. — To  a  leg  of  lamb  of 
moderate  size  take  four  quarts  of  water.  Of 
carrots,  potatoes,  onions,  tomatoes,  cabbage,  and 
turnips,  take  a  teacup  each,  chopped  fine  ;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  lamb  be  boiled  in  this 
water.  Let  it  cool ;  skim  off  all  fat  that  rises 
to  the  top.  The  next  day  boil  again,  addmg  the 
chopped  vegetables.  Let  it  boil  three  hours  the 
second  day. 

Green  Pea  Soup.— One  peck  of  green  peas, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  heated  in  the  kettle  ; 
put  in  the  peas  and  stir  them  until  perfectly  green  ; 
add  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  in  as  much  water 
as  you  want  soup  ;  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  add  one  teacupful  of  milk,  thickened  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  ;  put  into  the  soup  two 
or  three  young  onions  cut  fine  and  fried  a  light 
brown  in  butter.  Just  as  you  take  it  up,  add 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  in  a  little  cream. 

Gumbo  Soup. — Cut  up  a  pair  of  good  sized  chick- 
ens, as  for  a  fricassee ;  flour  them  well,  and  put 
iTito  a  pan  with  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter,  and 
fry  a  nice  brown ;  then  lay  them  in  a  soup-pot, 
pour  on  three  quarts  of  hot  water,  and  let  them 
simmer  slowly  for  two  hours.  Braid  a  little  flour 
and  butter  tpgether  for  a  thickening,  and  stir  in 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Strain  a  quart  or  three 
pints  of  oysters,  and  add  the  juice  to  the  soup. 
Next  add  four  or  five  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  and 
let  all  boil  slowly  together  for  ten  minutes.  Just 
before  you  take  up  the  soup,  stir  in  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  finely  powdered  sassafras  leaves,  and 
let  it  simmer  five  minutes,  then  add  your  oysters. 
If  you  have  no  ham,  it  is  very  nice  without  it. 
Serve  in  a  deep  dish,  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
rice. 

Plain  Gumho  Soup.— Take  a  piece  of  ham  half 
tbe  size  of  your  hand,  and  a  kiuickle  of  veal ;  put 
them  in  a  pot  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water  ;  sim- 
mer slowly  two  or  tliree  hours,  then  add  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water.  Twenty  minutes  before 
serving,  put  in  one  small  can  of  okra  and  as  many 
oysters  as  you  please.    Season  to  taste. 

Lobster  Soup. — One  large  lobster ;  pick  all  the 
meat  from  the  .shell  and  chop  fine  ;  take  one  quart 
of  milk  and  one  pint  of  water,  and,  when  boiling, 
add  the  lobster,  nearly  a  pound  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Boil 
ten  minutes. 

Macaroni  Soup. — Six  pounds  of  beef  put  into 
four  quarts  of  water,  with  one  large  onion,  one 
carrot,  one;  turnip,  and  a  head  of  celery,  and 
boiled  three  or  four  hours  slowly.  Next  day  take 
off  the  grease  and  pour  into  the  soup-kettle, 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  add  a  pint  of  mac- 
aroni broken  into  small  pieces,  and  two  table- 


spoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup.  Half  to  three-quar^ 
ters  of  an  hour  will  be  long  enough  to  boil  thes 
second  day. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup.— Boil  a  calf's  head  with  a 
slice  of  ham  till  it  falls  to  pieces ;  strain,  and 
set  away  to  cool.  The  next  day  ski'm  well,  take  a 
soup-bunch  of  vegetables  well  boiled  ;  strain  and 
mix  ^vith  the  calf 's-head  liquor,  with  a  little  of  the 
meat  from  the  head.  Boil  an  hour  before  iising. 
Take  two  tablespoonftils  of  browned  flour,  mois- 
ten and  sth"  into  the  soup  before  putting  in  the 
force-meat  and  egg  balls.  After  putting  in  the 
force-meat  balls,  let  it  boil  up,  and  dish  right 
away,  ha\ang  in  the  tureen  two  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  in  thin  slices,  and  two  lemons,  also  cut  in  thin 
slices. 

Mutton  Soup. — Boil  a  leg  of  mutton  from  two 
to  three  hours,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
about  a  tablespoonful  of  summer  savory  rubbed 
fine  ;  add  rice  or  noodles  as  desired. 

To  Make  Mutton  Broth  Quickly. — One  or  two 
chops  from  a  neck  of  mutton,  one  pint  of  cold 
water,  a  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  one-quarter 
of  an  onion,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  the 
meat  into  small  pieces  ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
bones  in  cold  water,  but  no  skin  or  fat ;  add  the 
other  ingredients ;  cover  the  saucepan  and  bring 
the  water  quickly  to  boil ;  take  the  lid  off  and  con- 
tinue the  rai")id  boiling  for  twenty  minutes,  skim- 
ming it  well  during  the  process  ;  strain  the  broth 
into  a  laasin  ;  if  there  should  be  any  fat  left  on  the 
surface,  remove  it  by  laying  a  piece  of  thin  paper 
on  top ;  the  greasy  particles  will  adhere  to  the 
paper,  and  so  free  the  preparation  from  them. 

Noodles  for  Soup. — Beat  one  egg  light ;  add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  Stiff 
dough  ;  roll  out  in  a  very  thin  sheet,  dredge  with 
flour  to  keep  from  sticking,  then  roll  up  lightly. 
Begin  at  one  end  and  shave  down  fine,  like  cab- 
bage for  slaw. 

Okra  Gumbo. — Cut  one  chicken ;  wash,  dry 
and  flour  it  thoroughly  ;  salt  and  pepper ;  fry  very 
brown  in  a  skillet  with  a  lump  of  lard  large  as  an 
egg.  Put  it  into  your  soup-kettle  with  five  quarts 
of  water  ;  add  one  onion  cut  up,  and  let  it  boil  two 
hours  ;  add  two  dozen  okra  pods,  and  let  it  boil 
another  hour.   Season  to  taste  and  serve  mth  rice. 

Ox-Tail  Soup.— Take  two  tails,  wash,  and  put 
into  a  kettle  with  about  one  gallon  of  cold  water 
and  a  little  salt.  Skim  off  the  broth.  When  the 
meat  is  well  cooked,  take  out  the  bones,  and  add 
a  little  onion,  carrot  and  tomatoes.  It  is  better 
made  the  day  before  using,  so  that  the  fat  can  be 
taken  from  the  top.  Add  vegetables  next  day,  and 
boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer. 

Tomato  Soup. — One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  water  ;  boil  water  and 
tomatoes  together  twenty  minutes,  then  add  th« 
milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Let  it  boil  up 
after  adding  milk  and  soda.  Season  as  you  dO' 
oyster  soup,  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour 
through  a  colander  into  a  tureen. 

Tomato  Soup. — One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one 
onion,  two  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  of  salt,  one-thira 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  three  pints  o£ 


SOUPS— FISH. 


water,  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Boil  the  tomatoes 
and  onion  in  watei-  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  butter  and  flour  ;  rub 
smoothly  together  like  thin  cream.  Boil  ten 
minutes.  Boil  milk  separately.  When  both  are 
boiling,  pour  the  milk  into  the  tomatoes,  to  pre- 
vent curdling.  Serve  with  square  of  toasted  bread. 

Turkey  Soup. — Take  the  turkey  bones  and  boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  water  enough  to 
cover  them  ;  add  a  little  summer  savory  and  celery 
chopped  fine.  Just  before  serving,  thicken  with 
a  little  flour  (browned),  and  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter. 

Veal  Broth. — Pick  and  wash  a  teacup  of  rice, 
and  put  into  your  dinner-pot ;  cut  up  three  or  four 
small  onions  and  add  to  the  rice  ;  next,  add  j'our 
meat,  which  should  be  cut  in  pieces  of  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  each  ;  let  the  whole  be  covered 
with  water  from  two  to  three  inches  above  the 
meat.  V/hen  it  has  boiled  an  hour,  add  a  few 
small  turnips  and  carrots,  sliced,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  a  little  before  it  is  served  add 
some  parsley.  This  is  a  favorite  broth  with  many 
people.  It  is  very  nice  without  the  carrots.  Some 
prefer  it  thickened  with  flour  instead  of  rice. 

Vegetable  Soup  No.  1. — Scrape  clean  and  slice 
thi'ee  carrots  and  three  turnips  ;  peel  three  onions  ; 
fry  the  whole  Avith  a  little  butter  till  it  turns  rather 
yellow ;  then  add  also  two  heads  of  celery  cut  in 
pieces,  three  or  four  leeks,  also  cut  in  pieces  ;  stir 
and  fry  the  whole  for  about  six  minutes ;  when 
fried,  add  also  one  clove  of  garlic,  salt,  pepper, 
two  cloves,  and  two  stalks  of  parsley  ;  cover  with 
three  quarts  of  water  ;  keep  on  rather  a  slow  fu-e, 
skim  off  the  scum  carefully,  and  simmer  for  about 
three  hours  ;  then  strain  and  use. 

Vegetable  Soup  No.  2. — Seven  ounces  of  carrot, 
ten  ounces  of  parsnip,  ten  ounces  of  potatoes  cut 
in  thin  slices,  one  and  one  quarter  ounces  of  but- 
ter, five  teaspoonfuls  of  tlovu',  a  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  rather  more  than  two  quarts  of  water ; 
boil  the  vegetables  in  the  water  two  and  one-half 
hours ;  stir  them  often,  and,  if  the  water  boils 
away  too  quickly,  add  more,  as  there  should  be 
two  quarts  of  soup  when  done.  Mix  up  in  a  basin 
the  butter  and  flour,  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper, 
with  a  teacupful  of  cold  water  ;  stir  in  the  soup, 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  in  a  tureen  ;  pour  on,  stir  well,  and  serve. 
Time,  three  hours  ;  sufficient  for  eight  pei'sons. 

Vermicelli  Soup. — Boil  a  shin  of  veal  in  three 
quarts  of  water.  Put  in  a  turnip,  an  onion  and 
one  carrot,  whole.  Boil  about  three  hours.  Add 
£alt  and  a  small  teacup  of  vermicelli,  and  boil  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Before  adding  ver- 
miceUi,  strain  through  a  colander.  Keep  adding 
water,  if  it  boils  away. 

Stock  for  Soup.— Have  a  large  pot  on  the  back 
of  the  stove.  Put  in  lean  beef,  either  after  having 
been  cooked  or  before,  in  the  proportion  of  one 
pound  of  beef  to  one  quart  of  water.  Add  pork 
rinds  with  all  the  fat  taken  off.  This  mav  cook 
slowly  two  or  three  days.  When  cold,  skirri  off  all 
the  fat  and  put  into  another  vessel.  This  stock 
may  be  used  for  all  soups  in  which  meat-broth  is 
Jequired.  By  adding  fwr  thickening  either  barley, 
rice,  sago,  macaroni  or  vermicelli,  it  will  niake 
.any  of  these  soups.  i 


FISH. 


Fish  when  fresh  are  hard  when  pressed  by  the 
finger — the  gills  red— the  eyes  full.  If  the  flesh 
is  flabby  and  the  eyes  sunken,  the  fish  are  stale. 
They  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  washed,  and 
sprinkled  vrith  salt. 

Before  broiling  fish,  rub  the  gridiron  with  a 
piece  of  fat,  to  prevent  its  sticking.  Lay  the  skin 
side  down  fn-st. 

The  earthy  taste  often  found  in  fresh-water  fish 
can  be  removed  by  soaking  in  salt  and  water. 

Most  kinds  of  salt  fish  should  be  soaked  in  cold 
water  for  twenty -four  hours  —  the  fleshy  side 
tui'ned  down  in  the  water. 

Baked  Fish. — Stuff  it  with  plain  dressing ;  put 
in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  ;  salt,  pepper,  and  but- 
ter. Baste  while  baking.  A  fish  weighing  four 
pounds  will  bake  in  an  hour.  Garnish  vrith  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  parsley,  and  serve  with  drawn 
butter  or  egg  sauce. 

To  Boil  Fisn.— Sew  them  in  a  cloth,  and  put 
in  cold  water,  with  plenty  of  salt.  Most  fish  will 
boil  in  thirty  minutes. 

Boileb  Fish. — For  four  or  five  pounds  of  fish, 
nearly  cover  with  water,  and  add  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Boil  thirty  minutes,  and 
serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Pickling  Fish. — Spice  the  vinegar  as  for  cu- 
cumbers, put  your  fish  in  and  let  them  boil  slowly 
for  a  few  minutes,  until  done,  vrithout  breaking  ; 
then  set  them  away  for  several  weeks,  and  the 
bones  will  be  entirely  destroyed. 

Baked  Black  Fish. — Rub  a  handful  of  salt  over 
the  surface,  to  remove  the  slime  peculiar  to  the 
fish.  For  the  stuffing,  two  ounces  of  beef  drip- 
pings, two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
one  ounce  of  salt  pork ;  put  in  a  saucepan  and  fry 
brown ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  capers, 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  five  ounces  of  bread,  and  on© 
gill  of  broth ;  then  stir  until  scalding  hot ;  place 
inside  the  fish  ;  cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pork 
in  thin  slices  and  lay  on  either  side  of  the  fish, 
holding  in  place  by  twine  wound  around  it — a 
generous  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper  completing 
it  for  the  baking-pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  one- 
half  hour,  and  serve  on  slices  of  fried  bread  with 
a  sauce  made  of  stock  seasoned  with  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  walnut  and  Worcestershire 
sauce,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  capers,  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  parsley. 

Brook  Trout. ^If  small,  fry  them  with  salt 
pork  ;  if  large,  boiU  and  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Codfish  on  Toast. — Take  a  bowl  full  of 
shredded  codfish,  put  this  in  cold  water  in  a 
skillet.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  turn  into  a 
colander  to  drain.  Turn  into  the  skillet  again 
with  a  little  cold  milk ;  season  with  butter  and 
pepper ;  stir  sm.ooth  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with 
a  little  cold  milk ;  add,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  mo- 
ment ;  turn  this  on  to  buttered  toast  on  a  platter. 

Codfish  Balls. — Pick  fine  one  quart  bowl  of 
codfish  ;  let  it  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  a 
little  while  ;  then  boil  six  good-sized  potatoes, 


FISH— SHELL  FISH 


mash  fine,  and  mix  -while  hot  with  the  fish  thor- 
oughly ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter ;  add 
three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  di'op  in  hot  lard  ; 
swve  in  a  napkin.  Lay  the  napkin  on  a  platter, 
and  the  balls  on  the  napkin,  to  absorb  the  grease. 

Baked  Codfish. — Soak  the  fish  over  night ; 
clean  thoroughly,  then  put  it  into  a  stone  crock 
and  cover  with  water  ;  simmer  until  tender,  then 
pick  over  and  mash  fine.  Take  two-thirds  mashed 
potatoes,  seasoned,  and  one-third  fish  ;  mix  well 
together,  and  bake  until  brown ;  then  make  a  sauce 
of  drawn  butter,  into  which  cut  up  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

Fried  Halibut. — Place  in  your  spider  half  a 
dozen  slices  of  fat  pork  ;  fry  to  a  brown  and  place 
in  a  deep  dish  ;  add  to  the  fat  three  tablespoon- 
f qIs  of  fresh  lard  ;  when  boiling  hot  put  in  the 
halibut,  which  should  be  cut  in  pieces  about  three 
inches  square  and  dipped  in  sifted  meal ;  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  fry  a  good  brown.  After  the  flsh 
is  all  fried  put  it  into  the  dish  with  the  pork,  pour 
over  it  the  boiling  fat,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
hot  water,  cover  tightly  and  stand  in  the  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

Boiled  Salmon. — A  piece  of  six  pounds  should 
be  rubbed  with  salt,  tied  carefully  in  a  clotli,  and 
boiled  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  It 
should  be  eaten  with  egg  or  caper  sauce.  If  any 
remains  after  dinner,  it  may  be  placed  in  a  deep 
dish,  a  little  salt  sprinkled  over,  and  a  teacup  of 
boiling  vinegar  poured  upon  it.  Cover  it  closely, 
and  it  will  make  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 

To  Broil  Salmon. — The  steaks  from  the  center 
of  the  fish  are  best.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, spread  on  a  little  butter,  and  broil  over  a 
clear  but  slow  fire. 

Pickled  Salmon. — Soak  salt  salmon  twenty- 
four  hours,  changing  the  water  frequently  ;  after- 
wards pour  boiling  water  around  it,  and  let  it 
stand  fifteen  minutes  ;  drain  off  and  then  pour  on 
boiling  vinegar  with  cloves  and  mace  added. 

To  Fry  Shad. — Clean,  wa.sh,  wipe  dry,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard. 

To  Fry  Smelts. — Wash,  cut  off  the  fins,  and 
dry  with  a  clotli ;  melt  a  spoonful  of  butter  and 
into  it  stir  the  beaten  ycjlks  of  two  eggs  ;  salt  and 
flour  the  smelts  a  little,  dip  into  the  egg  and  but- 
ter, roll  in  grated  liread-crumbs,  and  plunge  into 
boiling  fat ;  fry  until  a  bright  yellow-brown. 
Serve  upon  a  napkin,  garnished  with  fried  parsley. 

Cream  Baked  Trout. — Clean  the  trout,  put  in 
pepper  and  salt,  and  close  them.  Place  the  fish 
in  the  pan,  with  just  cream  enough  to  cover  the 
fins,  and  bake  fil^cen  minutes. 

TURHOT  A  LA  Creme. — Boil  a  nice  fresh  fish,  pick 
out  the  bones  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
mix  one-quarter  pound  of  flour  with  one  quart 
of  milk,  put  in  four  small  onions,  small  liunch  of 
parsley  and  a  sprig  or  two  of  thyme,  salt,  and  one- 
half  teaspoon ful  white  pepper.  Put  over  the  fire 
and  stir  until  it  forms  a  paste  ;  take  off  and  add 
one-half  pound  butter  and  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  pass  through  a  sieve  ;  pour 
some  of  the  sauce  into  a  baking  dish  and  add  a 
laye»  of  fish  and  sauce  alternately  until  it  is  all 


used.    Have  sauce  on  the  top,  to  which  add  bread' 
crumbs  and  gi'ated  cheese.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

Baked  White  Fish. — Prepare  a  stuffing  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  a  little  salt  pork  chopped  very  fine  ; 
season  with  sage,  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fill 
the  fish  with  the  stuffing,  sew  it  up,  sprinkle  the 
outside  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter ; 
dredge  with  flour,  and  bake  one  hour.  Baste 
often.    Serve  with  egg  sauce  or  parsley  sauce. 


SHELL  FISH. 

Lobster  Croquettes.— Chop  the  lobster  very 
fine  ;  mix  with  pepper,  salt,  bread  ciiimbs  and  a 
little  parsley  ;  moisten  with  cream  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter ;  shape  with  your  hands  ;  dip  in 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry. 

Lobster  Cutlets. — Mince  the  flesh  of  lobsters 
flne  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  spice  ;  melt  a 
piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  mix  with  it  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour ;  add  lobster,  finely-chop- 
ped parsley  ;  mix  with  some  good  stock  ;  remove 
from  the  "fire,  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  ;  spread  out  the  mixture,  and,  when  cold, 
cut  into  cutlets,  dip  carefully  into  beaten  egg. 
then  into  fine  baked  bread  crumbs  ;  let  them  stand 
an  hour,  and  repeat,  and  fry  a  rich  brown.  Serve 
with  fried  parsley. 

Lobster  Rissoles. — Boil  the  lobster,  take  out 
the  meat,  mince  it  fine,  pound  the  coral  smooth, 
and  grate  for  one  lobster  the  yolks  of  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs  ;  season  with  cayenne  and  a  little  salt : 
make  a  batter  of  milR,  flour  and  well-beaten  eggs — 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one  of  flour  to 
each  egg  ;  beat  the  batter  well ;  mix  the  lobster 
^\^th  it  gradually  until  stiff  enough  to  roll  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  fry  in  fresh  butter,  or 
best  salad  oil,  and  serve. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Drain  select  oysters  in  a 
colander.  Dip  them  one  by  one  into  melted  but- 
ter, to  prevent  sticking  to  the  gridiron,  and  place 
them  on  a  wire,  gridiron.  Broil  over  a  clear  lu-e. 
When  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter,  and  lay  them 
on  hot  buttered  toast,  moistened  with  a  little  hot- 
water.  Serve  very  hot,  or  they  will  not  be  nice. 
Oysters  cooked  in' this  way  and  served  on  broilec. 
beefsteak  are  nice. 

Oyster  Chowder. — Fry  out  three  rashers  of 
pickled  pork  in  the  pot  you  make  the  chowder : 
add  to  it  three  potatoes  and  two  onions,  both 
sliced  ;  boil  until  they  are  nearly  cooked  ,•  soak  two 
or  three  dozen  crackers  in  cold  water  a  few  min- 
utes, then  put  into  the  pot  a  half  can  of  oysters. , 
one  quart  of  milk  and  the  soaked  crackers.  Boil 
all  together  a  few  minutes  ;  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per aiid  butter.  Fish  chowder  can  be  made  the 
same  way  by  using  fresh  fish  instead  of  oysters.      , 

Oyster  Croquettes.— Take  the  hard  end  of  the 
ovster,  leaving  the  other  end  in  nice  shape  for  a 
soup  or  stew  f  scald  them,  then  chop  fine  and  add : 
an  equal  weight  of  potatoes  rubbed  through  a 
colander ;  to  one  pound  of  this  add  two  ounces  of! 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonfuij 


SHELL  FLSH—MEAT. 


1 


of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace,  and  one-half 
gill  of  cream  ;  make  in  small  rolls,  dip  in  egg  and 
grated  bread,  fry  in  deep  lard. 

Fried  Otstebs. — Take  large  oysters,  wash  and 
drain.  Dip  them  into  flour ;  put  in  a  hot  frjing- 
pan  with  plenty  of  lard  and  butter ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  ;  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Fried 
in  this  way,  are  similar  to  broiled  oysters. 

Fried  Oysters. — Drain  the  oysters,  and  cover 
well  with  finest  of  cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Let  them  stand  half  an  hour, 
then  dip  and  roll  again  in  the  meal ;  fry  brown 
in  a  good  quantity  of  lard  and  butter. 

Oyster  Pie. — Allow  one  can  of  oysters  for  two 
pies  ;  roll  out  your  paste  and  put  in  your  pie-pan 
or  dish  ;  then  put  in  oysters  and  cut  up  into  small 
pieces  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  for  each 
pie ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  sprinkle  a 
tablespoonful  in  each,  and  roll  out  a  top  crust ; 
bake  from  three-fourths  of  an  hour  to  an  hour. 

Otster  Pot-Pie. — Have  read}'  nice  light-raised 
biscuit  dough,  cut  into  small  squares.  Season 
the  oysters  well  mth  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
thicken  them  with  a  little  flour  ;  drop  in  the  pieces 
of  dough  and  boil  till  done.  This  may  be  baked 
in  the  oven  in  a  pudding-dish,  allowing  the  dough 
to  brown  on  the  top. 

PiOKLED  Oysters. — Take  two  quarts  of  oysters, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan,  and,  if  they  are  fresh,  salt 
them  ;  let  them  simmer  on  the  flre,  but  not  boil ; 
take  out  the  oysters,  and  add  to  the  liquor  in  the 
saucepan  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  small  handful  of 
whole  cloves,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  and 
two  dozen  pepper-corns  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and, 
when  the  oysters  are  cold  in  the  jar,  pour  the 
liquor  on  them. 

Spiced  or  Pickled  Oysters. — Put  into  a  porce- 
lain kettle  one  hundred  and  fifty  large  oysters  with 
the  liquor  ;  add  salt,  and  simmer  till  the  edges  roll 
or  curl ;  skim  them  out ;  add  to  the  liquor  one  pint 
of  white  wine  vinegar,  one  dozen  blades  mace, 
three  dozen  cloves,  and  three  dozen  peppercorns  ; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  oysters. 
Prepared  in  this  way,  they  will  keep  several  weeks 
in  cold  weather. 

Roasted  Oysters. — Take  oysters  in  the  shell, 
wash  the  shells  clean,  and  lay  them  on  hot  coals  ; 
when  they  are  done  they  will  begin  to  open.  Re- 
move the  upper  shell,  and  serve  the  oysters  in 
the  lower  shell,  with  a  little  melted  butter  poiu-ed 
over  each. 

Oysters,  Fancy  Roast.— Toast  a  few  slices  of 
broad,  and  butter  them ;  lay  them  in  a  shallow 
dish  ;  put  on  the  Uquor  of  the  oysters  to  heat ;  add 
salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  it  boils  add  the 
oysters  ;  let  them  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the 
bread. 

Stewed  Oysters. — Take  one  quart  of  liquor 
oysters  ;  put  the  liquor  (a  teacupful  for  three)  in  a 
stew  pan,  and  add  half  as  much  more  water,  salt, 
a  good  bit  of  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  rolled 
cracker  for  each.  Put  on  the  stove,  and  let  it 
boil.  Have  your  oysters  ready  in  a  bowl,  and  the 
moment  the  liquor  boils,  pour  in  all  your  oysters, 
say  ten  for  each  person,  or  six  will  do.  Now 
watch  carefully,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil 


take  out  your  watch,  count  just  thirty  seconds,  and 
take  your  oysters  from  the  stove.  You  will  have 
your  big  dish  ready,  with  one  and  a  half  table 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  for  each  person.  Pour 
your  stew  on  this,  and  serve  immediately.  Never 
boil  an  oyster  in  milk,  if  you  wish  it  to  be  good. 

Maryland  Stewed  Oysters. — Put  the  juice 
into  a  saucepan  and  let  it  simmer,  skimming  it 
carefully  ;  then  nib  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  one  large  spoonful  of  flour  well  together, 
and  stir  into  the  juice.  Cut  in  small  pieces  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  whole 
allspice,  a  little  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  and  the  juice 
of  a  fresh  lemon  ;  let  all  simmer  ten  minutes,  and 
just  before  dishing  add  the  oysters.  This  is  for 
two  quarts  of  oysters. 

Oysters  with  Toast. — Broil  or  fry  as  many 
oysters  as  you  wish,  and  lay  them  on  buttered 
toast ;  salt  and  pepper  ;  pour  over  them  a  cup  of 
hot,  rich  cream ;  keep  them  perfectly  hot  until 
eaten. 


MEATS. 


In  selecting  beef,  choose  that  of  a  fine,  smooth 
grain,  of  a  bright  red  color  and  white  fat. 

The  sixth,  seventh,  and  eighth  ribs,  are  the 
choicest  cuts  for  a  roast.  Have  the  bones  removed 
and  the  meat  rolled,  but  have  the  butcher  send 
the  bones  for  soup. 

The  flesh  of  good  veal  is  firm  and  dry,  and  the 
joints  stiff. 

The  flesh  of  good  mutton,  or  lamb  is  a  bright 
red,  with  the  fat  firm  and  white. 

If  the  meat  of  pork  is  young,  the  lean  wiH 
break  on  being  pinched  ;  the  fat  will  be  white, 
soft  and  pulpy. 

Rules  for  Boiling  Meat. — All  fresh  meat 
should  be  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water ;  then  the 
outer  part  contracts,  and  the  internal  juices  are 
preserved.  For  making  soup  put  on  in  cold 
water.  All  salt  meat  should  be  put  on  in  cold 
water,  that  the  salt  may  be  extracted  in  cooking. 
In  boiling  meats,  it  is  important  to  keep  the  water 
constantly  boiling  ;  otherwise  the  meat  will  absorb 
the  water.  Be  careful  to  add  boiling  water,  if 
more  is  needed.  Remove  the  scum  when  it  first 
begins  to  boil.  Allow  about  twenty  minutes  for 
boiling  for  each  pound  of  fresh  meat.  The  more 
gently  meat  boils  the  more  tender  it  will  be. 

To  Broil  Meat  well,  have  your  gridiron  hot 
before  you  put  the  meat  on. 

In  Roasting  Beef,  it  is  necessary  to  have  a 
brisk  fire.  Baste  often.  Twelve  minutes  is  re- 
quired for  every  pound  of  beef.  Season  when 
nearly  done. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — Take  a  round  of  beef,  re- 
move the  bone  from  the  middle,  also  all  the  gristle 
and  tough  parts  about  the  edges.  Have  ready  half 
a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips  as  thick 
and  long  as  your  finger.  Prepare  a  nice  dressing 
the  same  as  for  stuffing  a  turkey.  With  a  thin 
sharp  knife  make  perpendicular  incisions  in  the 
meat  about  half  an  inch  apart,  thrust  into  them 
the  pork,  and  work  in  with  them  some  of  the 
dressing.    Proceed  thus  until  the  meat  is  thor- 


8 


BEEF— BEEFS  TEAK. 


ougbly  plugged.  Put  it  into  a  baking  pan  with  a 
little  water  at  the  bottom  ;  cover  tightly  and  bake 
slowly  four  hours ;  then  uncover,  and  spread  the 
rest  of  the  dressing  over  the  top,  and  bake  until  a 
nice  brown.  After  taking  up,  thicken  the  gravy 
and  pour  over  the  beef.  It  should  be  sliced  hori- 
zontally.   Is  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

BoiLEAF.— Take  a  piece  of  beef  weighing  six  or 
eight  pounds  ;  have  the  bone  taken  out,  then  rub 
it  well  with  a  mixture  composed  of  ground  cloves, 
allspice,  black  pepper,  sweet  marjoram,  and  salt, 
one  spoonful  of  each  rubbed  fine.  After  the  mix- 
ture is  well  rubbed  in,  roll  it  up  tightly  and  tie  it ; 
put  it  into  a  pot  half  full  of  water,  with  three  or 
four  potatoes,  a  carrot,  two  turnips  (if  small),  and 
two  onions,  and  let  it  stew  six  hours. 

Breakfast  Dish. — Chop  fine  as  much  cold  beef 
or  mutton  as  is  required ;  add  a  pint,  more  or 
l&ss,  of  good  soup  stock  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  ground  cloves  ;  thicken  with  browned  flour, 
and  pour  boiling-hot  over  little  bits  of  nicely- 
toasted  bread.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Deviled  Beef. — Take  slices  of  cold  roast  beef, 
lay  them  on  hot  coals,  and  broil ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  serve  while  hot,  with  a  small 
lump  of  butter  on  each  piece. 

Dried  Beef  in  Cream. — Shave  your  beef  very 
fine  ;  pour  over  it  boiling  water  ;  let  it  stand  for  a 
few  minutes  ;  pour  this  off,  and  pour  on  good  rich 
cream  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  If  you  have  not 
cream,  use  milk  and  butter,  and  thicken  with  a 
very  little  flour ;  season  with  pepper,  and  serve 
on  toast  or  not,  as  you  like. 

Frizzled  Beef. — Shave  beef  very  fine  ;  put  into 
a  frying-pan  when  good  and  hot ;  put  in  the  beef, 
and  sliake  and  stir  until  heated  through  ;  season 
with  pepper ;  serve  in  this  way,  or  just  before 
serving  beat  one  egg  light  and  stir  in. 

Beef  Heart. — Wa.sh  it  carefully  and  stuff  it 
nicely,  witli  dressing  as  for  turkey ;  roast  it  about 
one  and  a  half  hours,  and  serve  wth  the  gravy, 
which  should  be  thickened  with  some  of  the  stuf- 
fing.   It  is  very  nice  hashed. 

Meat  Crouqettes.— Use  cold  roast  beef ;  chop 
it  fine  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  add  one-third 
the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  a 
little  milk.  Have  your  hands  floured  ;  rub  the  meat 
into  balls,  dip  it  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  fine 
pulverized  cracker,  and  fry  in  butler  ;  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Beef  Omelet.— Three  pounds  of  beefsteak, 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  suet,  chopped  line  • 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage,  three  eggs,  six  Bos- 
ton crackers,  rolled  ;  make  into  roll  and  bake. 

Pounded  Beef.— Boil  a  shin  of  twelve  pounds 
of  meat  until  it  falls  readily  from  the  bone  •  pick 
\\.  to  pieces  ;  mash  gristle  and  all  very  fine  ;  pick 
out  all  the  liard  bits.  Set  the  liquor  away  ;  when 
cool  take  off  all  the  fat ;  boil  the  liquor  down  to  a 
pint  and  a  half.  Then  return  the  meat  to  it  while 
hot ;  add  pepper  and  salt  and  any  spice  you  choose 
Let  it  boil  a  few  times,  stirring  all  the  while.  Put 
into  a  mould  or  deep  dish  to  cool.  Use  cold  and 
cut  in  thin  slices  for  tea,  or  warm  it  for  breakfast. 


Pressed  Beef.— Cure  a  piece  of  brisket  with 
salt  and  pulverized  saltpetre  for  five  days ;  boil 
gently  until  tender ;  press  until  perfectly  cold. 

Beef  Tongtte. — If  it  is  corned,  it  should  be 
soaked  for  twenty-four  hours  before  boiling.  It 
will  require  from  three  to  four  hours,  according 
to  size.  The  skin  should  always  be  removed  as 
soon  as  it  is  taken  from  the  pot.  An  economical 
method  is  to  lay  the  tongue,  as  soon  as  the  skin  is 
removed,  in  a  jar,  coiled  up,  with  the  tip  outside 
the  root,  and  a  weight  upon  it.  When  it  is  cold, 
loosen  the  sides  with  a  knife,  and  turn  it  out. 
The  slices  being  cut  horizontally  all  round,  the  fat 
and  lean  will  go  together. 

Savory  Beef. — Take  a  shin  of  beef  from  the 
hind  quarter,  saw  it  into  four  pieces,  put  it  into  a 
pot,  and  boil  it  until  the  meat  and  gristle  drop 
from  the  bones  ;  chop  the  meat  very  fine,  put  it  in 
a  dish,  and  season  it  with  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
clove,  and  sage,  to  your  taste  ;  pour  in  tlie  liquor 
in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  and  place  it  away 
to  harden.     Cut  in  slices  and  eat  cold. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Beef. — Dried  beef 
chipped  very  fine  ;  put  butter  and  lard  into  a  skil- 
let, and,  when  hot,  put  in  the  beef ;  heat  for  a  few 
minutes,  stirring,  to  prevent  burning ;  break  up 
some  eggs  into  a  bowl ;  season  and  stir  in,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes. 

Yorkshire  Pudding  to  Serve  with  Roast 
Beef. — Three  eggs  well  beaten,  to  which  add  nine 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  beat  up  with  milk  until  about  the  consistency 
of  thick  cream.  This  batter  pour  into  a  pan  in 
which  the  beef  has  been  roasted,  having  enougk 
gi-ease  (which  must  be  hot)  to  bake  it.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  with  Onions. — Put  va. 
the  skillet  a  little  lard  and  the  steak ;  peel  and 
slice  the  onions,  and  lay  them  over  the  meat  till 
the  skillet  is  full ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
cover  tightly  and  place  over  the  fire.  After  the 
juice  of  the  onions  has  boiled  away  and  the  meat 
begins  to  fry,  remove  the  onions,  turn  the  meat  to 
brown  on  the  other  side,  then  replace  the  onions 
as  before,  being  careful  that  they  do  not  burn. 

Chopped  Steak. — Take  a  sirloin  steak  raw,  re- 
move the  bone  and  all  gristle  or  stringy  pieces, 
and  chop  until  a  perfect  mince  ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  make  into  large  flat  cake  about  one- 
half  of  an  inch  thick ;  put  into  a  skillet  a  good- 
sized  piece  of  butter,  and  when  quite  hot  put  in 
the  steak,  and  fry  brown  on  botli  sides.  Make 
a  little  gravy  in  the  skillet,  and  pour  over  the  meat. 
This  is  a  nice  way  to  use  the  ends  from  tenderloin 
steaks.    The  meat  can  not  be  chopped  too  fine. 

Stuffed  Beefsteak. — Take  a  rump  steak  about 
an  inch  thick ;  make  a  stulBng  of  bread,  herbs, 
etc.,  and  spread  it  over  the  steak.  Roll  it  up,  and 
with  a  needle  and  coarse  thread  sew  it  together. 
Lay  it  in  an  iron  pot  on  one  or  two  wooden  skew- 
ers, and  jnit  in  water  just  sufiicient  to  cover  it. 
Let  it  stew  slowly  for  two  hours — longer  if  the 
beef  is  tough ;  serve  it  in  a  dish  with  the  gravy 
turned  over  it.  To  be  carved  crosswise,  in  sliced 
through  beef  and  stuflSng. 

Beefsteak  with  Ovsters. — Broil  a  sirloin  or 
tenderloin  steak  .•  season ;  take  one  quart  of  oy»- 


BEEFSTEAK—  VEAL. 


ters ;  drain  off  all  the  liquor,  put  them  into  the 
stew-pan  with  half  of  a  small  cupful  of  butter,  or 
less  butter  and  a  little  sweet  cream,  salt  and 
pepper  enough  to  season  ;  let  them  boil,  and  turn 
them  over  the  steak  on  the  platter.  Oysters 
broiled  and  laid  on  the  steak  are  very  nice. 

Steak  and  Oysters. — Take  one  pound  best 
rump  steak  without  any  fat ;  put  in  an  oval  dish  a 
dozen  and  a  half  oysters  (taking  care  to  remove 
the  hard  part  and  beard),  with  the  liquor  from 
the  oysters  to  cover  them ;  put  the  steak  on  them, 
cover  the  top  of  the  steak  with  two  onions  cut  in 
the  thinnest  possible  manner ;  put  another  dish 
Inverted  over  the  steak,  then  put  a  paste  round  the 
edge  of  both  dishes,  and  put  this  into  a  gentle 
oven  for  an  hour.  Reverse  the  dishes  for  five 
minutes,  then  take  off  the  dish  which  was  orig- 
inally at  the  top,  and  serve. 

Broiled  Beefsteak. — Have  the  choice  steaks 
cut  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick ;  gi-ease  the 
gridiron  and  have  it  quite  hot.  Put  the  steak  over 
a  hot  clear  tire,  and  cover.  When  the  steak  is 
colored,  turn  it  over,  which  must  be  done  without 
sticking  a  fork  into  it  and  thus  letting  out  the 
juice.  It  should  be  quite  rare  or  pink  in  the  cen- 
ter, but  not  raw.  When  cooked  sufficiently,  lay 
on  a  hot  platter  and  season  ■with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  spread  over  the  top  some  small  bits  of  butter, 
and  serve  immediately. 

Mock  Duck. — Take  a  round  steak ;  make  stuff- 
ing as  for  turkey  ;  spread  the  stuffing  on  the  steak. 
Toll  it  up  and  tie  it ;  roast  from  half  to  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour. 

Roast  Veal. — Take  a  loin  of  veal ;  make  a  stuff- 
ing the  same  as  for  roast  turkey ;  fill  the  flat  with 
the  stuffing,  and  secure  it  firmly  on  to  the  loin ; 
rub  the  veal  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter  ; 
put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  little  water.  While 
roasting  baste  frequently,  letting  it  cook  until 
thoroughly  done,  allowing  two  hours  for  a  roast 
weighing  irom  six  to  eight  pounds.  When  done 
remove  tlie  threads  before  sending  to  the  table ; 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour. 

Fillet  of  Veal,  Roasted  in  the  Pot. — Re- 
move the  bone  and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  force- 
meat made  of  bread  crumbs,  a  very  little  salt  pork 
chopped  fine,  sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  ground 
cloves.  Lay  in  the  pot  a  laj^er  of  slices  of  salt 
pork ;  put  in  the  fillet,  fastened  with  skewers, 
cover  in  the  same  manner,  pour  over  a  pint  of 
good  stock,  cover  down  close  and  let  it  cook  slow- 
ly two  or  three  hours  .  then  take  off  the  cover,  let 
it  brown,  and  serve. 

Veal  Cutlets.— Take  one  egg  and  beat  it  a  lit- 
tle, roll  the  cutlet  in  it,  then  cover  with  rolled 
crackers.  Have  a  lump  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
hot  in  the  skillet,  put  in  the  meat  and  cook  slow- 
ly. When  nicely  browned  on  both  sides  stir  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  for  gravy;  add  half 
pint  of  sweet  milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Sea- 
son to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  meat  or  serve  in  a 
separate  dish  as  preferred. 

Veal  Cutlets. — Cut  in  nice  pieces,  season,  dip 
in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little  lemon 
and  parsley  chopped  fine.  Have  plenty  of  grease 
in  your  pan,  hot ;  fry  brown  on  one  side,  then  turn 


over.    Make  a  rich  brown  gravy  in  another  vessel, 
and  serve.    Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Broiled. — Broil  them  on  a 
moderate  fire,  basting  them  occasionally  with  but- 
ter and  turning  them  often.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Veal  Cutlets. — Pound  and  season,  cut  the 
outer  edges  and  beat  into  good  shape ;  take  one 
egg,  beat  it  a  little,  roll  the  cutlet  in  it,  then  cover 
thoroughly  with  rolled  crackers.  Have  a  lump  of 
butter  and  lard  mixed  hot  in  your  skillet ;  put  in 
the  meat  and  cook  slowly.  Vv'hen  nicely  browned 
on  both  sides,  stir  in  one  spoonful  of  flour  for  the 
gra^T ;  add  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil ;  salt  and  pepper. 

Pate  de  Veau. — Of  veal  three  and  one-half 
pounds  of  fat  and  lean,  a  slice  of  salt  pork  aboir, 
one-half  pound,  six  small  crackers  powdered  very 
flne,  two  eggs,  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one  of  black  or  white  pepper,  one  grated  nutmeg. 
Chop  the  meat  all  very  fine  and  mix  the  ingredienta 
thoroughly  ;  put  it  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  littlo 
water  ;  make  it  into  a  loaf,  pyramidical  or  round, 
from  a  bowl.  Bake  about  two  hours,  basting  it 
constantly.  Leave  it  to  get  cold,  and  slice  as  head- 
cheese. A  very  palatable  and  convenient  lunch  or 
tea  relish. 

Veal  Scallop. — Chop  some  cold  roast  or 
stewed  veal  very  fine  ;  put  a  layer  on  the  bottom  of 
a  pudding-dish  well  buttered.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Next  have  a  layer  of  finely-powdered 
crackers ;  wet  with  a  little  milk  or  some  of  the 
gravy  from  the  meat  Proceed  until  the  dish  is 
full.  Spread  over  all  a  thick  layer  of  cracker- 
crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  wet  into  a  paste 
with  milk  and  two  beaten  eggs.  Stick  bits  of 
butter  all  over  it,  cover  closely,  and  bake  half  an 
hour ;  then  remove  the  cover  and  bake  long 
enough  to  brown  nicely.    Do  not  get  it  too  dry. 

Veal  Steaks. — Beat  them  until  tender,  then 
broil  over  clear  hot  coals  until  a  nice  brown  on 
both  sides  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 
Send  to  the  table  while  hot.  A  gravy  made  by 
stewing  in  a  little  hot  water  some  bits  of  veal, 
with  a  few  oysters  or  mushrooms,  seasoned,  ana 
poured  over  the  steak,  is  very  nice. 

Stewed  Veal.— Break  the  shank  bone,  wash  It 
clean,  and  put  into  two  quarts  of  water  an  onion 
peeled,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  and  a  little  salt ;  set 
it  over  a  quick  fire,  and  remove  the  scum  as  it 
rises.  Wash  carefully  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
rice,  and  when  the  veal  has  cooked  for  about  an 
hour  skim  it  well  and  throw  in  the  rice.  Simmer 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  slowly.  When  done 
put  the  meat  in  a  deep  dish,  and  the  rice  around 
it.  Mix  a  little  drawn  butter,  stir  in  some  chopped 
parsley,  and  pour  over  the  veal. 

ISlARBLED  Veal. — Take  some  cold  roasted  veal, 
season  ^vith  spice,  beat  in  a  mortar ;  skin  a  cold 
boiled  tongue,  cut  up  and  pound  it  to  a  paste, 
adding  to  it  nearly  its  weight  of  butter ;  put  some 
of  the  veal  into  a  pot,  then  strew  in  lumps  of  the 
pounded  tongue ;  put  in  another  layer  of  veal  and 
again  more  tongue ;  press  it  dovra  and  pour  clari- 
fied butter  on  the  top.    This  cuts  very  prettily,  like 


lO 


VEAL— SWEET-BREAD, 


veined  mai-ble.    White  meat  of  fowls  may  be  used 
instead  of  veal. 

VEAi  Croquettes. — Mince  veal  fine  ;  mix  one- 
half  cup  of  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  cook  until  it 
thickens  ;  stii*  into  the  meat ;  roll  into  balls  ;  dip 
in  egg,  with  a  little  milk  stirred  in ;  roll  in 
browned  bread-crumbs ;  fiy  in  hot  lard. 

Yeal  Cheese. — Take  equal  quantities  of  sliced 
boiled  veal  and  sliced  boiled  tongue.  Pound  each 
separately  in  a  mortar,  adding  butter  as  you  do 
80.  Mix  them  in  a  stone  jar,  press  it  hard,  and 
pour  on  melted  butter.  Keep  it  covered  in  a  dry 
place.  When  cold  cut  in  thin  slices  for  tea  or  lunch. 

Veal  Hash. — Take  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water 
in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  into  it  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
flour  M'et  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  let 
It  boil  five  minutes ;  add  one-half  teaspoon  of 
black  pepper,  as  much  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  "and  let  it  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Chop 
the  veal  fine  and  mix  with  half  as  much  stale 
bread-crumbs.  Put  into  a  pan  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it,  then  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Serve 
this  on  buttered  toast. 

Caef's  Liver,  Stewed. — Cut  the  liver  into  small 
slices,  about  thi-ee  inches  square.  Into  your 
eaucepan  place  two  onions,  sliced  fine,  a  table- 
Bpoouful  of  sage,  one  of  summer  savory,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt ;  then  add  your  liver,  and  cover 
witli  water,  and  let  it  stew  for  two  hours.  Just 
before  you  serve  it,  dredge  on  a  little  flour,  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

To  Dress  Calves'  Heads  Like  Turtle. — Let 
them  boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  with  salt  in  the 
water ;  tie  the  brains  in  a  cloth  bag,  and  boil  half 
an  hour  ;  when  all  is  done,  take  out  the  bones  and 
cut  up  in  pieces.  Add  to  your  liquor  a  little  sweet 
marjoram,  a  nutmeg  grated,  clove,  mace,  and  pep- 
per, to  taste,  half  a  pint  of  catsup,  half  a  pound 
of  butter ;  then  put  in  the  meat,  and  boil  a  few 
minutes,  and  it  is  done. 

Mock  Terrapin. — Half  a  calf's  liver ;  season  and 
fry  brown,  hash  it,  but  not  very  fine  ;  floui'  it  thick- 
ly, then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  a 
little  cayenne  pepper,  two  hard  eggs  chopped  fine, 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  teacup  of 
water.  Let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two.  Cold  veal 
will  do  as  well  as  liver. 

Broiled  Calves'  Liver  with  Bacon. — Procure 
a  nice  calf's  liver,  wash  and  cut  in  thin  slices, 
broil  over  a  clear  fire,  vrith  thin  slices  of  breakfast 
bacon.    Season  wth  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms.  —  Parboil 
Bweet-breads,  allowing  eight  medium-sized  ones 
to  a  can  of  mushrooms ;  cut  the  sweetbreads 
about  half  an  inch  square,  stew  until  tender ;  slice 
mushrooms  and  stew  in  the  liquor  for  one  hour, 
then  add  to  the  sweetbreads  a  coffee  cup  of  cream, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Sweetbreads  boiled  and  served  with  green  peas 
make  a  very  nice  dish. 

Sweet-Breads  with  Tomatoes.— Take  sweet- 
breads and  parboil  them,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste-; 
place  over  a  slow  fire  ;  mix  one  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  browned  flour  with  a  small  piece  of  butter. 


add  a  leaf  of  mace  ;  stir  butter  and  gravy  well  to. 
gether  and  let  all  stew  for  half  an  hour  ;  then  set 
the  stew-pan  in  the  oven,  and,  when  the  sweet- 
breads are  nicely  browned,  place  them  on  a  dish ; 
pour  the  gra\'y  into  a  half  pint  of  stewed  tomar 
toes  thickened  ^\^th  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  seasoned.  Strain  it 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  the  stew-pan,  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  and  stir  until  done  ;  then  pour  over  the 
sweet-breads  and  send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Fried  Tripe. — Scrape  the  tripe  well ;  cut  into 
squares  the  size  of  your  hand ;  boil  in  salt  and 
water  (a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  one  quart  of  water) 
till  very  tender.  The  next  day  cut  into  smaller 
pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  ^ith 
flour,  fry  brown  on  both  sides  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard. 
^Vhen  done  take  it  out,  pour  nearly  all  the  lard 
out,  add  a  good  gill  of  boiling  water,  thicken  with 
flour,  mixed  smooth  with  a  tablespoonful  of  vine- 
gar ;  season  to  taste,  and  pom*  hot  over  the  tripe. 
A  nice  breakfast  disn. 

Spiced  Tripe. — Take  fresh  tripe,  cut  it  into 
pieces  four  or  five  inches  square,  put  a  layer  of  the 
tripe  in  an  earthen  jar,  then  sprinkle  a  few  cloves, 
allspice,  and  whole  pepper  over  it :  then  another 
lay«r  of  tripe,  then  spice,  and  so  on,  until  the  jar 
is  full ;  cover  it  up  and  let  it  stand  away  in  a  cold 
place  for  a  few  days,  until  it  tastes  of  the  spice. 
Serve  up  cold. 

Baltimore  Meat  Pie. — Pare  two  pounds  of 
potatoes,  cover  them  with  hot  water,  and  let  them 
simmer  till  done ;  mash  them,  and  add  a  little 
cream  and  salt ;  lay  them  in  the  style  of  paste  in  a 
dish ;  place  on  thin  slices  of  underdone  meat, 
either  mutton,  beef,  or  veal ;  lay  them  in  thickly  \ 
pour  over  them  some  gravy,  a  wine  glass  of  catsup, 
then  cover  thick  with  mashed  potatoes,  and  bake 
moderately  for  about  forty  minutes. 

Croquette. — Take  cold  veal,  chicken,  or  sweet- 
breads, a  little  of  each,  or  separately  ;  cut  very  fine 
a  little  fat  and  lean  of  ham,  half  the  quantity  of 
the  whole  of  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  mustard. 
Knead  like  sausage  meat,  adding  a  little  cream : 
form  in  any  shape,  dip  in  egg,  and  then  roll  in 
cracker  cnmibs  ;  fry  in  lard  until  a  light  brown. 
Dry  them  in  the  oven.  Celery  or  mushrooms  are 
an  improvement. 

Meat  Rissoles. — Chop  fine  the  cold  meat, 
carefully  excluding  every  particle  of  fat,  skin  and 
outside  ;  pound  in  a  mortar  with  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  fine 
herbs  ;  moisten  with  stock  ;  put  this  into  a  pan  on 
the  fire  and  take  off  as  soon  as  hot ;  stir  in  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  up  with  a  little  lemon  juice, 
and  put  the  mixture  by  to  cool ;  make  a  paste  of 
six  ounces  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little  water ; 
roll  it  out  and  cut  it  into  small  squares  ;  put  the 
meat  in  the  center  and  paste  the  corners  over, 
pressing  them  well  down  ;  fry  in  hot  lai'd  and 
serve  with  parsley. 

A  Ragout  of  Cold  Veal. — Cut  the  veal  into 
slices ;  put  a  large  piece  of  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  dredge  the  meat  well 
with  flour,  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Remove  tLt 
meat,  and  put  into  the  pan  as  much  of  your  ccl4 
gravy  as  you  think  proper ;  season  witii  pepp,* 


LAMB— MUTTON— PORK. 


II 


and  salt,  and  a  wine  glass  of  tomato  catsup ; 
then  cut  a  few  slices  of  cold  ham,  lay  into  the 
gravy,  and  add  your  slices  of  veal.  It  must  be 
sent  to  the  table  hot. 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops. — Grate  plenty  of  stale 
bread,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  have  ready 
some  well-beaten  egg,  have  a  spider  with  hot  lard 
ready,  take  the  chops  one  by  one,  dip  into  the  egg, 
then  into  the  bread  crumbs ;  repeat  it,  as  it  will  be 
found  an  improvement ;  then  lay  separately  into 
the  boiling  lard,  fry  brown,  and  then  turn.  To 
be  eaten  with  currant  jelly  or  grape  catsup. 

Cutlets  a  la  Duchesse. — Cut  the  neck  of 
lamb  (about  two  pounds)  into  cutlets,  trim  them 
and  scrape  the  top  of  the  bone  clean,  fry  in  but- 
ter and  set  away  to  cool.  Put  a  piece  of  butter 
into  a  stewpan  with  three  mushrooms  and  a  sprig 
of  parsley,  chop  fine  ;  stir  over  the  tire  until  very 
hot,  then  pour  over  a  cupful  of  white  sauce — the 
yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  as  thick  as  cream,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil.  Dip  each  cutlet  into  it,  covering  thickly 
with  the  sauce,  again  set  away  to  cool.  Then  egg 
and  bread-crumb  them.    Fry  lightly. 

To  Fky  Lajib  Steaks. — Dip  each  piece  into 
well-beaten  egg,  cover  ^\^th  bread  crumbs  or  corn 
meal,  and  fry  in  butter  or  new  lard.  Mashed  po- 
tatoes and  boiled  rice  are  a  necessary  accompani- 
ment. It  is  very  nice  to  thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour  and  butter,  adding  a  little  lemon  juice,  and 
pour  it  hot  upon  the  steaks,  and  place  the  rice  in 
spoonfuls  around  the  dish  to  garnish  it. 

Spiced  Lamb  (Cold). — Boil  a  leg  of  lamb,  add- 
ing to  the  water  a  handful  of  cloves  and  two  or 
three  sticks  of  cinnamon  broken  up.  Boil  four 
hours. 

Stewed  Lamb  Chops. — Cut  a  loin  of  mutton 
into  chops,  cover  with  water  and  stew  them  until 
tender,  keeping  well  covered  except  when  skim- 
ming. When  done  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour,  stirred 
until  smooth,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Have  pieces  of  bread  previously  toasted, 
and  pour  the  stew  over  them. 

Mutton  Chops. — Trim  neatly,  season,  and  dip 
each  chop  into  a  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  cracker- 
crumbs  ;  put  into  the  oven  in  a  dripping-pan 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  water ; 
baste  frequently  and  bake  until  well  browned. 

Mutton  Chops. — Have  them  trimmed  from  fat 
and  skin ;  dip  each  one  into  beaten  egg,  then  in 
pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  dripping. 
It  is  still  better  to  bake  them  very  slowly  in  the 
oven. 

Haricot  Mutton.  —  Loin  chop  fried  until 
brown,  dredge  with  flour,  put  into  boiling  water, 
or  if  you  have  it,  weak  soup  ;  cut  carrots  into  small 
pieces,  then  simmer  for  two  hours.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Steak  cooked  in  the  same  way 
is  very  nice. 

Capt.  Chiraz  Ragout.  —  Brown  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  pot,  then  add  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  with  as  much  water 
as  will  make  it  the  consistency  of  cream,  and  stir 
V/elL     Cut  up  the  meat — two  pounds  of  lamb  or 


mutton— not  fine,  but  into  pieces  an  inch  or  more 
in  thickness  and  length,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  with  salt  to 
taste  ;  then  add  one  and  a  half  pints  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  stii'  well.  Then  one  dozen  and  a  half  of 
large  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  up,  four  car- 
rots sliced  lengthwise,  three  onions,  and  one  dozen 
potatoes.    Boil  slowly  for  three  hours. 

Irish  Stew. — Take  mutton  chops,  cover  well 
with  water,  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil ;  pom'  this 
off  and  add  more  water ;  then  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour,  one 
teacupful  of  milk,  season,  potatoes,  and  two  small 
onions.    Boil  until  the  potatoes  are  done. 

Ragout. — Take  pieces  of  mutton,  veal,  beef,  or 
rabbit,  cut  into  any  size  or  shape  desired ;  heat  a 
tablespoonful  of  drippings  or  lard  in  a  saucepan, 
and  when  hot,  fry  the  meat  until  almost  done. 
Take  out  the  meat  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  brown  it,  add  a  little  lukewarm  water,  mix 
it  well  and  then  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water ; 
season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  add  the 
meat,  three  or  four  onions,  and  six  or  seven  potar 
toes,  partially  boiled  before  being  put  into  the 
ragout ;  cover  closely  and  stew  until  the  vegetables 
are  done.  Take  out  the  meat  and  vegetables  and 
skim  off  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  season  mor« 
if  necessary  and  pour  over  the  ragout  and  serve. 

Baked  Ham.— A  ham  of  16  pounds  to  be  boiled 
three  hours,  then  skin  and  rub  in  half  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  cover  with  bread-crumbs  and  baks 
two  hours. 

Pork  Steaks,  Broiled.— Trim,  season  and  roll 
them  in  melted  butter  and  bread-crumbs ;  broil 
them  over  a  moderate  fire  until  thoroughly  done. 
Make  a  sauce  of  five  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
and  half  a  teacupful  of  stock ;  let  it  boil,  and 
thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Strain,  and  then  add 
pepper  and  some  pickles  chopped  fine. 

Roast  Pork. — Select  either  the  leg,  loin,  fillet, 
or  shoulder  for  roasting.  Make  a  stuffing  as  for 
turkey,  or  a  stuffing  seasoned  with  onion  and  sage. 
If  the  skin  is  left  on,  it  should  be  cut  into  small 
squares ;  otherwise,  sprinkle  it  with  powdered 
sage.  Baste  frequently ;  and  allow  twenty  min- 
utes for  each  pound. 

Ham  and  Eggs. — Cut  the  ham  into  thin  slices 
and  broil,  and  spread  over  it  a  little  butter.  Poach 
the  eggs  in  salted  water,  and  lay  neatly  upon  the 
ham. 

Boiled  Ham. — Soak  twenty-four  hours ;  put 
into  a  pot  mth  cold  water  and  boil  gently  for  five 
or  six  hours  ;  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let  it  remain 
in  the  water  until  cold.  Peel  off  the  skin  and 
sprinkle  with  bread  or  cracker-crumbs,  and  brown 
in  the  oven.     Slice  very  thin  for  the  table. 

Ham  Balls. — Take  one-half  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs  and  mix  with  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  chop 
fine  some  bits  of  cold  boiled  ham  and  mix  with 
them.    Make  into  balls  and  fry. 

Ham  Toast. — Boil  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of 
lean  ham,  chop  fine,  mix  with  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten  one  ounce  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 


12 


PORK— MUTTONS  WEE  T-BREADS. 


stir  over  the  tire  until  it  thickens.    Spread  on 
hot  toast. 

Pigs'  Feet  Hash. — Singe  and  scrape  the  feet, 
then  wash  clean  and  put  them  into  salt  and  water 
to  soak  over  night,  or  for  several  hours ;  then 
scrape  again  until  thej'  are  perfectly  clean,  and 
boil  them  till  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones  ;  chop 
•with  a  knife,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  pack 
in  a  crock,  and  if  the  weather  be  cool  it  will  keep 
some  time.  It  can  be  sliced  and  eaten  cold,  or 
put  into  a  skillet  and  fried  until  brown. 

Pig's  Head. — Have  the  head  nicely  cleaned, 
and  boil  it  till  very  tender.  Chop  it  very  fine,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  a  little  clove, 
while  hot.  Put  in  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  with  a 
plate  that  is  smaller  than  the  dish,  that  it  may  rest 
on  the  meat.  Place  on  the  plate  a  very  heavy 
weight,  and  let  it  stand  for  twenty-four  hours. 
This  makes  the  famous  "  Pig's  Head  Cheebe." 

Pork  and  Beans. — Take  two  pounds  of  side 
pork,  not  too  fat  nor  too  lean,  to  two  quarts  of 
marrowfat  beans  ;  put  the  beans  to  soak  the  night 
before  you  boil  them  i^  a  gallon  of  milk-warm 
water.  After  breakfast,  scald  and  scrape  the  rind 
of  the  pork,  and  put  on  to  boil  an  hour  before 
putting  in  the  beans ;  as  soon  as  the  beans  boil 
up,  pour  off  the  water  and  put  on  one  gallon  of 
fresh  water ;  boil  until  quite  tender,  adding  more 
water  if  necessary ;  great  care  must  be  taken  that 
they  do  not  scorch.  When  nearly  as  stiff  as 
mashed  potatoes,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  score  the 
pork  and  put  in  the  center ;  broNvn  in  the  oven 
one  hour.  If  preferred  use  corned  beef  instead  of 
pork. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. — Put  a  quart  of  beans 
to  soak  over  night ;  in  the  morning  pour  off  the 
water  and  add  fresh  water  enough  to  cover,  to 
which  add  about  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 
Put  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  in  the  center,  almost 
covering  it  with  the  beans,  and  bake  slowly  from 
six  to  eight  hours,  adding  hot  water  as  needed 
until  nearly  done,  when  they  can  be  allowed  to 
cook  nearly  dry,  or  according  to  taste. 

To  Fry  Apples  and  Pork  Chops. — Season  the 
chops  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  powdered 
sage  and  sweet  marjoram ;  dip  them  into  beaten 
egg  and  then  into  beaten  bread-crumbs.  Fry 
about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  they  are  done. 
Put  them  on  a  hot  dish  ;  pour  off  part  of  the  gravy 
into  another  pan,  to  make  a  gravy  to  serve  with 
them,  if  you  choose.  Then  fry  apples  which  you 
have  sliced  about  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  cut- 
ting them  around  the  apple  so  that  the  core  is  in 
the  center  of  each  piece.  When  they  arc  browned 
on  one  side  and  partly  ceokcd,  turn  them  carefully 
with  a  pancake  turner,  and  let  them  linish  cook- 
ing ;  dish  around  the  cliops  or  on  a  separate  dish. 

Spare  Rms  Broiled. — Crack  the  bones  and  broil 
over  a  clt^ar  fire,  taking  care  that  the  lire  is  not 
hot  enough  to  scorch  them. 

Roast  Lamb. — Choose  a  hind  quarter  of  lamb, 
stuff  it  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  but- 
ter, and  a  little  sage.  Sew  the  flap  firmly  to  keep 
iti  place,  rub  the  outside  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
a  little  of  the  stuflang,  and  roast  two  hours.  Eat 
■with  mint  sauce. 


Mutton  a  la  Venison. — Take  a  fat  loin,  remove 
the  kidney,  and  let  it  hang  a  week,  if  the  weather 
permits.  Two  days  before  dressing  it  for  cooking, 
take  ground  allspice,  clove,  and  pepper,  mix  them, 
and  rub  into  the  meat  a  tablespoonful  of  each 
twice  a  day  for  two  days.  Before  cooking,  wash 
it  off,  and  roast  as  a  leg.  To  preserve  the  fat  and 
keep  it  in,  make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  and 
spread  thickly  over  the  meat.  Over  this  tie  a 
double  sheet  of  coarse  paper,  well  buttered. 
About  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done  re- 
move the  paper  and  paste,  return  to  the  oven  and 
baste,  and  dredge  with  fiour.  It  is  equal  to  ven- 
ison. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. — Put  on  in  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt,  boil  two  hours  and  a  half,  make 
a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  stir  well  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
then  stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  with  a  table- 
spoonful of  capers.  Put  into  sauce-tureen  on 
the  table,  and  garnish  the  dish  vrith  boiled  cauli- 
flower and  parsley. 

Breast  of  Mutton  and  Green  Peas. — Select  a 
breast  of  mutton  not  too  fat,  cut  it  into  small, 
square  pieces,  dredge  it  with  flour  and  fry  it  a 
fine  brown  in  butter ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  cover 
it  with  water  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  stew, 
until  the  meat  is  perfectly  tender.  Take  out  the 
meat,  skim  off  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  just 
before  ser\'ing  add  a  quart  of  young  peas,  pre- 
viously boiled  with  the  strained  gravy,  and  let  the 
whole  boil  gently  until  the  peas  are  done. 

Sweet-Breads.  —  Take  two  large  parboiled 
sweet-breads,  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  one  and 
one-half  gills  of  water,  season  with  salt,  black  and 
cayenne  pepper,  put  over  a  slow  fire.  Mix  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  bro-v\Tied  flour,  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  stir  butter  and  gravy  well  to- 
gether. After  stewing  slowly  for  half  an  hour, 
set  the  pan  in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  nicely 
browned  place  in  a  dish,  pour  the  gravy  into  one- 
half  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  thicken  with  one 
dessertspoonful  of  flour  ;  butter,  salt  and  pepper ; 
strain  through  a  sieve  into  stevqian,  let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  stir  till  done,  pour  over  the  sweet-bread 
and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Sweet-Breads  Broiled. — Parboil  after  soaking 
in  salt  and  water,  then  rub  well  with  butter,  and 
broil.  Turn  often  and  dip  into  melted  butter  to 
prevent  tliem  from  becoming  hard  and  dry. 

Sweet-Breads  Fried. — Wash  in  salt  and  water, 
parboil,  cut  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  large  oyster, 
season,  dip  in  rolled-cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  a 
light  brown  in  lard  and  butter. 

Sweet-Breads  Stewed. — Wash,  remove  all  the 
bits  of  skin,  soak  in  salt  and  water  one  hour,  then 
parboil ;  when  half  cooked  take  from  the  fire,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  stew  in  a  little  water  till  tender, 
add  a  piece  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  boil  up  once.  Serve  on 
toast  very  hot.  Another  way  is  to  prepare  as 
above  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Tra-s-elino  Lunch. — Sardines  chopped  fine,  also 
a  little  ham,  a  small  quantity  of  chopped  pickles, 
mix  with  mustard,  pepper,  catsup,  salt,  and  vine- 
gar ;  spread  between  bread  nicely  buttered.  To 
be  like  jelly  cake,  cut  in  slices  crossways. 


TURKE  Y^CHICKEN. 


15 


POULTRY. 


How  TO  Choose  Poultry. — Young,  plump,  and 
well  fed,  but  not  too  fat  poultry  are  the  best.  The 
skin  should  be  fine  grained,  clear,  and  white  ;  the 
breast  full,  fleshed,  and  broad  ;  the  legs  smooth. 
The  birds  must  be  heavy  in  proportion  to  their 
size.  As  regards  ducks  and  geese,  their  breasts 
must  also  be  plump  ;  the  feet  flexible  and  yellow. 
For  boiling,  white-legged  poultry  must  be  chosen, 
because  when  dressed  their  appearance  is  by  far 
the  more  delicate.  But  darker-legged  ones  are 
juicy  and  of  a  better  flavor  when  roasted.  The  great- 
est precaution  ought  to  be  taken  to  prevent  poul- 
try from  getting  at  all  tainted  before  it  is  cooked. 
It  should  be  killed  and  dressed  from  eight  to  ten 
hours  before  cooking.  Pigeons  are  far  better  for 
being  cooked  the  day  they  are  killed,  as  they  lose 
their  flavor  by  hanging.  Care  must  be  taken  to 
cook  poultry  thoroughly,  for  nothing  is  more 
revolting  to  the  palate  than  underdone  poultry. 

Plain  Stuffing. — Take  stale  bread,  cut  off  all 
the  crust,  rub  very  fine  and  pour  over  it  as  much 
melted  butter  as  will  make  it  crumble  in  your 
hands  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

PoTATAO  Stuffing. — Take  two-thirds  bread  and 
one-third  boiled  potatoes  grated,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  pepper,  salt,  one  egg,  and  a  little  ground 
sage ;  mix  thoroughly. 

Apple  STUFFiNG.^Take  half  a  pound  of  the 
pulp  of  tart  apples  which  have  been  baked  or 
scalded ;  add  two  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  some 
powdered  sage,  a  finely  shred  onion  ;  season  well 
with  cayenne  pepper.    For  roast  goose,  duck,  &c. 

Chestnut  Stuffing.— Boil  the  chestnuts  and 
shell  them,  then  blanch  them  and  boil  until  soft : 
mash  them  fine  and  mix  -with  a  little  sweet  cream, 
some  bread-crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.   For  turkey. 

Roast  Turkey. — A  turkey  weighing  not  more 
than  eight  or  nine  pounds  (young)  is  the  best. 
Wash  and  clean  thoroughly,  wiping  dry,  as  moist- 
ure will  spoil  the  stuffing.  Take  one  small  loaf  of 
bread  gi-ated  fine,  rub  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one  small  teaspoon  of  pepper  and 
one  of  salt ;  sage,  if  liked.  Rub  all  together,  and 
fill  only  the  breast  of  the  turkey,  sewing  up  so 
that  the  stuffing  can  not  cook  out.  Always  put 
the  giblets  under  the  side  of  the  fowl,  so  they  will 
not  dry  up.  Rub  salt  and  pepper  on  the  outside  ; 
put  into  dripping-pan  with  one  teacupful  of  wa- 
ter, basting  often,  turning  it  till  brown  all  over. 
Bake  about  three  hours.  Have  left  in  the  chop- 
ping-bowl  a  little  stuffing ;  take  out  the  giblets 
and  chop  fine,  After  taking  out  the  turkey,  put 
in  a  large  tablespoon  of  flour  ;  stir  until  brown. 
Put  the  giblets  into  a  gravy-boat,  and  pour  over 
them  the  gravy. 

Boiled  Turkey. — Soak  it  in  salt  and  water  for 
an  hour  and  a  half,  to  make  it  white.  Make  the 
stuffing  of  bread  ci-umbs  and  about  half  the 
quantity  of  suet,  a  little  parsley  and  a  little 
lemon  peel,  chopped  fine.  Scald  the  parsley,  in 
order  to  have  it  green.  Put  all  these  in  the 
breast.  Tie  lightly  in  a  cloth,  and  boil.  A  young 
turkey  will  boil  in  two  hours ;  an  older  one  will  o"f 


course    require    a   longer   time.      Garnish    with, 
parsley  and  lemon  cut  in  slices. 

Boiled  Turkey. — Stuff  the  turkey  as  for  roast- 
ing. A  very  nice  dressing  is  made  by  chopping^ 
half  a  pint  of  oysters  and  mixing  them  with  bread- 
crumbs, butter,  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  and  wet  with 
milk  or  water.  Baste  about  the  turkey  a  thin 
cloth,  the  inside  of  which  has  been  dredged  with 
flour,  and  put  it  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  in  it.  Let  a  large  turkey  simmer 
for  three  hours.  Skim  while  boiling.  Serve  with 
oyster  sauce,  made  by  adding  to  a  cupful  of  the 
liquor  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled  the  same 
quantity  of  milk  and  eight  oysters  chopped  fine ; 
season  with  minced  parsley,  stu'  in  a  spoonful  of 
rice  or  wheat  flour  wet  with  cold  milk ;  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  into  a 
tureen. 

Turkey  Dressed  with  Oysters. — For  a  ten- 
pound  tm'key  take  two  pints  of  bread-crumbs,  half 
a  teacupful  of  butter  cut  in  bits  (not  melted),  one 
teasi)oonful  of  powdered  thyme  or  summer  savory, 
pepper,  salt,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Rub  the  turkey- 
well  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  fill 
with  first  a  spoonful  of  crumbs,  then  a  few  well- 
drained  oysters,  using  half  a  can  for  a  turkey. 
Strain  the  oyster  liquor  and  use  to  baste  the  tur- 
key. Cook  the  giblets  in  the  pan,  and  chop  fine 
for  the  gravy.  A  fowl  of  this  size  will  require 
three  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Turkey  Scallop. — Pick  the  meat  from  the 
bones  of  cold  turkey,  and  chop  it  fine.  Put  a 
layer  of  bread-crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
dish,  moisten  them  with  a  little  milk,  then  put  in 
a  layer  of  turkey  with  some  of  the  filling,  and  cut 
small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top  ;  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  then  another  layer  of  bread- 
crumbs, and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full ;  add 
a  little  hot  water  to  the  gravy  left  from  the  turkey, 
and  pour  over  it.  Then  take  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  one  of  melted  butter,  a  little 
salt,  and  cracker  crumbs  as  much  as  will  make  it 
thick  enough  to  spread  on  with  a  knife,  put  bits 
of  butter  over  it,  and  cover  with  a  plate.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  About  ten  minutes 
before  serving,  remove  the  plate  and  let  it  brown. 

Curried  Chicken. — Fry  out  in  the  pot  you 
make  the  curry  three  large  rashers  of  pickled 
pork  and  three  onions  sliced ;  fry  until  the  onions- 
are  brown  ;  cut  the  chicken  into  small  pieces,  and 
slice  three  potatoes  thin ;  add  them  to  the  pork 
and  onions,  cover  well  with  water,  cook  until  the 
chicken  is  done  and  the  potatoes  have  thickened 
the  water  ;  salt  to  taste.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  curry  powder  in  a  tumbler,  and  mix  with  water. 
Slice  two  or  three  more  potatoes  very  thin  ;  add 
the  potatoes  and  mixed  powder  to  the  stew  and 
boil  until  the  potatoes  are  cooked  but  not  broken. 
Serve  with  rice.  The  above  is  for  one  extra  large 
chicken  or  two  small  ones.  Green  peas  and  corn 
are  a  valuable  addition. 

Stewed  Chicken  with  Oysters. — Season  and 
stew  a  chicken  in  a  quart  of  water  until  veiy 
tender;  take  it  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  it 
warm  ;  then  put  into  the  liquor  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg ;  mix  a  little  flour  and  water 
smooth  and  make  thick  gravy,  season  well  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.    Have 


14 


CHICKEN  PIE— FRICASSEED    CHICKEN. 


ready  a  quart  of  oysters  picked  over,  and  put  them 
in  witliout  any  liquor ;  stir  tliem  round,  and  as 
soon  as  they  are  cooked,  pour  all  over  the  chicken. 

Chicken  Pie. — Stew  chicken  till  tender,  season 
with  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper;  line  the  sides  of  a  pie-dish  with  a  rich 
orust,  pour  in  the  stewed  chicken,  and  cover 
loosely  with  a  crust,  first  cutting  a  hole  in  the 
center.  Have  ready  a  can  of  oysters ;  heat  the 
liquor,  thicken  with  a  little  Hour  and  water,  and 
aeason  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  it  over  the 
Oysters,  and,  about  twenty  minutes  before  the  pie 
ib  done,  lift  the  top  crust  and  put  them  in. 

Fried  Chicken. — Joint  young,  tender  chickens  ; 
if  old,  put  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  water,  and 
simmer  gently  till  tender ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  into  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and 
butter  until  nicely  browned.  Lay  on  a  hot  platter 
and  take  the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was 
stewed,  turn  into  the  ft-ying-pan  -with  the  browned 
gravy,  stir  in  a  little  flour  ;  when  it  has  boiled,  stir 
in  a  teacup  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  and  pour  over 
the  chicken. 

Pressed  Chicken  (or  Veal). — Boil  three  chick- 
ens until  the  meat  comes  off  the  bones  ;  then, 
removing  all  bones,  etc.,  chop,  not  very  fine  ;  add 
a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  season  well.  Have  about  a  pint  of  the 
broth,  into  which  put  one-half  box  gelatine  until 
dissolved  ;  then  put  back  the  chopped  chicken  and 
cook  until  the  broth  is  evenly  absorbed.  Press 
lindcr  a  weight  in  a  pan  until  cold. 

Jellied  Chicken  oh  Veal. — Boil  a  chicken  in 
as  little  water  as  possible,  until  the  meat  falls  from 
the  bones  ;  chop  rather  fine,  and  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt ;  put  in  a  mould  a  layer  of  the  chop- 
ped meat  and  then  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut 
m  slices  ;  then  layers  of  meat  and  egg  alternately 
until  the  mould  is  nearly  full ;  boil  dowTi  the  liquor 
left  in  the  pot  one-half ;  while  warm,  add  one- 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  and  when  dis- 
solved pour  into  the  mould  over  the  meat.  Set  in 
;i  cool  place  over  night,  to  jelly. 

Chicken  PoT-PiE. — Cut  and  joint  a  large  chicken. 
Cover  with  water,  and  let  it  boil  gently  until 
tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken 
the  gravy  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed 
smooth  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Have  ready  nice  light  bread  dough  ;  cut  with  a 
biscuit-cutter  about  an  inch  thick  ;  drop  this  into 
the  boiling  gravy,  having  previously  removed  the 
chicken  to  a  hot  platter,  cover,  and  let  it  boil  from 
one-half  to  three-cjuartcrs  of  an  hour.  To  ascer- 
tain whi;ther  they  are  done  or  not,  stick  into  one 
of  them  a  fork,  and  if  it  comes  out  clean,  they  are 
done.  Lay  on  the  platter  with  the  chicken,  pour 
over  the  gravy,  and  serve. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Only  young,  tender  chickens 
are  nice  broiled.  After  cleaning  and  washing 
them,  split  down  the  bacik,  wipe  dry,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  them  inside  down  on  a 
hot  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  bright  coals.  Broil  until 
nicely  l^rowned  and  well  cooked  through,  watch- 
ing and  turning  to  prevent  burning.  Broil  with 
them  a  little  salt  pork,  cut  in  thin  slices.  After 
taking  them  from  the  gridiron,  work  into  them 


plenty  of  butter,  and  serve,  garnished  with  tb« 
pork,  slices  of  lemon,  and  parsley. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — One  cold,  boiled  chicken 
chopped  fine  ;  then  take  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and 
when  the  milk  is  boiled,  stir  into  it  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  made  thin  in  a  little  cold 
milk ;  after  the  flour  is  well  cooked  with  the  milk, 
put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add 
salt  and  cayenrie  pepper ;  stir  all  well  into  the 
chicken  ;  roll  up  with  your  hand,  and  dip  first  into 
an  egg  laeaten  up,  then  into  crackers  rolled  fine, 
and  fry  in  hot  tallow  (fresh  tallow,  half  and  half 
lard,  is  very  nice). 

Baked  Chicken. — Split  open  in  the  back,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter.  Pour 
a  little  water  into  the  pan,  and,  while  baking, 
baste  often,  turning  the  chicken  so  as  to  nicely 
brown  all  over.  When  done,  take  up  the  chicken  ; 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  floLir,  and  serve  in 
a  gravy  boat.  Chickens  are  nice  stuffed  and  baked 
in  the  same  manner  as  turkey. 

A  Nice  Way  to  Cook  Chicken. — Cut  the  cEick- 
en  up,  put  into  a  pan,  and  cover  with  water.  Let 
it  stew  as  usual.  When  done,  make  a  thickening 
of  cream  and  flour.  Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Have  ready  a  nice  shortcake,  baked  and  cut  in 
squares,  rolled  thin  as  for  crust.  Lay  the  cakes 
on  the  dish,  and  pour  the  chicken  and  gravy  over 
them  while  hot. 

Chicken  Pudding. — Cut  up  the  chickens  and 
stew  until  tender.  Then  take  them  from  the 
gravy,  and  spread  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool,  having 
first  well  seasoned  them  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  of  milk,  three 
cups  of  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar,  a  little  salt.  Butter  a  pudding  dish 
and  put  a  layer  of  the  chicken  at  the  bottom,  and 
then  a  cupful  of  the  batter  over  it.  Proceed  till  the 
dish  is  full.  The  batter  must  form  the  crust. 
Bake  an  hour,  and  serve  the  thickened  gravy  in  a 
gravy  boat. 

Scalloped  Chicken. — Mince  cold  chicken  and 
a  little  lean  ham  quite  fine,  season  with  pepper 
and  a  little  salt ;  stir  all  together,  add  some  sweet 
cream,  enough  to  make  it  quite  moist,  cover  with 
crumbs,  put  it  into  scallop  shells  or  a  flat  dish,  put 
a  little  butter  on  top,  and  brown  before  the  fire  or 
front  of  a  range. 

Boiled  Chicken. — The  same  as  boiled  turkey. 
They  can  be  stuffed  or  not,  as  desired. 

Croquettes. — Chop  fine  any  cold  pieces  of 
cooked  meat  or  cliicken,  or  whatever  you  may 
wish  to  use,  first  removing  all  fat,  bone,  etc.  ;  add 
half  the  quantity  of  fine  bread-crumbs,  one  egg, 
pepper  and  salt ;  make  into  balls  and  cook  in  a 
buttered  spider  ;  serve  hot. 

Fricasseed  Chicken. — Stuff  two  chickens  as  if 
to  boil,  put  in  a  pot,  do  not  quite  cover  with  water, 
put  them  on  two  hours  before  dinner ;  chop  an 
onion,  some  parsley,  and  a  little  mace,  rub  a  piece 
of  butter  twice  as  large  as  an  egg  with  flour  and 
stir  it  all  in.  Before  dishing,  beat  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  and  stir  in  carefully  ;  cook  five  minutes. 

Poultry  Croquette. — Melt  a  bit  of  butter  in  a 
stew-pan  ;  put  into  it  chopped  parsley,  mushrooms. 


PO  UL  TR  Y—GAME. 


15 


two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Fry  it,  and  pour  in  stock  and  a  little  cream.  This 
sauce  ought  to  have  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Cut  up  any  poultry  which  has  been  cooked  the 
day  before  into  dice.  Put  into  a  saucepan,  and 
let  get  cold.  Form  into  balls  and  cover  them  with 
bread-crumbs.  Wash  in  eggs  which  have  been 
beaten  up,  and  roll  in  bread-crumbs  a  second 
time.  Drop  in  boiling  lard,  and  fry  to  a  good 
color.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Croquette  made  of 
veal  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Minced  Fowls. — Remove  from  the  bones  all  the 
flesh  of  either  cold,  roast,  or  boiled  fowls.  Clean 
it  from  the  skin,  and  keep  covered  from  the  air 
until  ready  for  use.  Boil  the  bones  and  skin 
with  three-foui'ths  of  a  pint  of  water  until  re- 
duced quite  half.  Strain  the  gi'avy  and  let  cool. 
Next,  having  first  skimmed  off  the  fat,  put  it  into 
a  clean  saucepan  with  a  half  cup  of  cream,  three 
ounces  of  butter,  well  mixed  with  one  tablespoon 
of  flour.  Keep  these  stirred  until  they  boil.  Then 
put  in  the  fowl,  finely  minced  with  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped,  and  sufiBcient  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Shake  the  mince  over  the  fire 
until  just  ready  to  boil.  Dish  it  on  hot  toast,  and 
serve. 

Roast  Duck. — Prepare  the  same  as  for  turkey, 
adding  to  the  dressing  two  or  three  finely-chopped 
onions.     Serve  with  apple  saAice  or  cranberries. 

Roast  Goose. — Two  ounces  of  onions  and  half 
as  much  green  sage,  chopped  fine,  and  one  coffee- 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Do  not  quite  fill  the  goose, 
but  leave  room  to  swell.  Roast  from  one  hour 
and  a  half  to  two  hours,  and  serve  with  gravy  and 
apple  sauce. 


GAME. 


Broiled  Venison  Steak. — Broil  quickly  over  a 
clear  fire,  and  when  sufiSciently  done  pour  over 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  melted  with  a 
piece  of  butter.  Pepper  and  salt  to  season.  Eat 
while  hot,  on  hot  plates. 

To  CooK  Venison. — Broil  as  you  would  a  beef- 
steak, rare.  Have  ready  a  gravy  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  very  little  water.  Heat  the  gravy 
without  boiling  it.  Score  the  steak  all  over,  put 
it  in  the  gravy  and  cover  tight ;  keep  hot  enough 
to  steam  the  meat,  and  send  in  a  covered  dish  to 
table. 

Pigeon  Compote. — Truss  six  pigeons  as  for 
boihng.  Grate  the  crumbs  of  a  small  loaf  of 
bread,  scrape  one  pound  of  fat  bacon,  chop  thyme, 
parsley,  an  onion  and  lemon — peel  fine — and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  mix  it  up  with 
two  eggs ;  put  this  force-meat  into  the  craws 
of  the  pigeons,  lard  the  breasts  and  fry  brown ; 
place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  some  beef  stock 
and  stew  them  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  thicken 
with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour.  Serve  with 
force-meat  balls  around  the  dish  and  strain  the 
gravy  on  to  the  pigeons. 

To  Roast  Wild  Fowl.— The  flavor  is  best  pre- 
served without  stuffing.    Put  pepper,  salt  and  a 


piece  of  butter  into  ea«h.  Wild  fowl  require 
much  less  dressing  than  tame.  They  should  be 
served  of  a  fine  color  with  a  rich  brown  gravy. 
To  take  off  the  fishy  taste  which  wild  fowl  some- 
times have,  put  an  onion,  salt  and  hot  water  into 
the  dripping  pan,  and  baste  them  for  the  first  ten 
minutes  wth  this,  then  take  away  the  pan  and 
baste  constantly  with  butter. 

To  Roast  Partridges,  Pheasants  or  Quails. — 
Pluck,  singe,  draw  and  truss  them,  season  -with 
salt  and  pepper,  roast  for  about"  half  an  hour  in  a 
brisk  oven,  basting  often  with  butter.  When  done 
place  on  a  dish  together  with  bread  crumbs  fried 
brown  and  arranged  in  small  heaps.  Gravy 
should  be  served  in  a  tureen  apart. 

To  Broil  Quail  or  Woodcock. — After  dressing, 
split  do-wTi  the  back,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron,  the  inside  down. 
Broil  slowly  at  first.    Serve  with  cream  gravy. 

To  Roast  Wild  Duck  or  Teal. — After  dressing, 
soak  them  over  night  in  salt  and  water,  to  draw 
out  the  fishy  taste.  Then  in  the  morning  put  them 
into  fresh  water,  changing  several  times  before 
roasting.  Stuff  or  not,  as  desired.  Serve  with 
currant  jelly. 

Pigeon  Pie. — Dress  and  wash  clean,  split  down 
the  back,  and  then  proceed  as  for  chicken  pie. 

Roast  Pigeons. — When  cleaned  and  ready  for 
roasting,  fill  the  bird  with  a  stuffing  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  nut- 
meg, an(J  three  oysters  to  each  bird  (some  prefer 
chopped  apple).  They  must  be  well  basted  with 
melted  butter,  and  require  thirty  minutes'  careful 
cooking.  In  the  autumn  they  are  best,  and  should 
be  full  grown. 

To  Roast  Pigeons. — They  should  be  dressed 
while  fresh.  If  young,  they  will  be  ready  for 
roasting  in  twelve  hours.  Dress  carefully,  and 
after  making  clean,  wipe  dry  and  put  into  each 
bird  a  small  piece  of  butter  dipped  in  cayenne. 
Truss  the  wings  over  the  back  and  roast  in  a  quick 
oven,  keeping  them  constantly  basted  with  butter. 
Serve  with  brown  gravy.  Dish  them  with  young 
water-cresses. 

Fried  Rabbit.  —  After  the  rabbit  has  been 
thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed,  put  it  into  boiling 
water  and  let  boil  for  about  ten  minutes  ;  drain, 
and  when  cold,  cut  it  into  joints,  dip  into  beaten 
egg,  and  then  into  fine  bread-crumbs,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  When  all  are  ready  fry 
them  in  butter  over  a  moderate  fire  fifteen  min- 
utes, thicken  the  gravy  with  an  ounce  of  butter 
and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  flour,  give  it  a  miiv- 
iite's  boil,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
dish  the  rabbit,  pour  the  sauce  under  it,  and  serve 
quickly. 

Stewed  Rabbit. — Skin  and  clean  the  rabbit, 
cut  into  pieces,  put  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter into  a  stewjian  and  turn  the  pieces  of  rabbit 
about  in  it  until  nicely  browned ;  take  out  the 
meat,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water  to  the  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  to  a  paste  in 
cold  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little 
grated  onion  if  liked ;  let  this  boil  up,  add  the 
meat,  stew  slowly  till  the  rabbit  is  tender.  Serye 
hot. 


i6 


CHICKEN  SALAD—POTATO  SALAD. 


SALADS. 


Mayonn  vise  S.\xai>  DkessinCt.— The  yolk  of  one 
egg,  raw ;  stir  into  this  all  the  olive  oil  it  will 
hold,  in  as  fine  a  stream  as  possible.  Season  wth 
cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  mustard. 

Simple  Dressing  for  Salads. — Mix  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
scraped  onion  with  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  saltspoonful  of  pepper  (mixed),  and  then  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  i^our  over  the  salad. 

Chicken  Salad  Dressing. — Take  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  lay  them  into  water  till  quite  cold, 
put  the  yolks  into  a  small  bowl  and  mash  them 
very  fine,  adding  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  o  salt,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  dry 
mustard,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper ;  stir  this 
well,  always  one  way  ;  when  well  mixed,  add  a 
very  little  sweet  oil,  stirring  all  the  time.  After 
this  is  mixed,  put  in  more,  a  very  little  at  a  time, 
until  you  have  used  a  third  of  a  bottle  ;  then  add  a 
large  spoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice ;  then 
more  oil  as  before — using  in  all  two-thirds  of  a 
bottle — then  another  spoonful  of  vinegar ;  when 
well  mixed  it  must  be  very  light,  and  a  nice 
color.  Set  ojx  the  ice  for  two  or  three  hours.  Not 
more  than  twenty  minutes  before  using  the  salad, 
mix  it  and  prepare  for  the  table  by  putting  with 
the  meat  about  half  the  dressing  ;  stir  it  up  well, 
and  then  pour  on  to  the  meat  one  mne  glass  of 
best  vinegar ;  stir  this  up  well — it  will  turn  the 
chicken  very  white  ;  if  it  requires  a  little  more  salt 
add  it  now.  Place  the  chicken  in  the  center  of  a 
flat  dish,  large  enough  to  lay  lettuce  or  celery 
around  the  meat ;  wipe  the  lettuce  as  dry  as  you 
can,  and  lay  around  the  meat,  then  with  a  spoon 
put  the  rest  of  the  dressing  on  the  lettuce. 

Chicken  Salad.— To  two  large  boiled  fowls 
(cold)  take  two  large  heads  of  celery  or  four  small 
ones  ;  having  removed  all  the  skin  and  the  fat,  cut 
the  meat  from  the  bones  into  very  small  pieces. 
It  is  best  not  to  mix  the  dressing  with  salad 
until  just  before  it  is  to  be  eaten.  Put  into  a  por- 
celain kettle  the  gravy  from  the  chicken,  one-half 
pint  of  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of  sweet  oil  or 
melted  butter,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  Colman's 
mustard,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs  beaten  and  stirred  in  just  before  taken  off, 
one  teacup  of  cream  stu-red  into  the  dressing  when 
cold  ;  mix  together  with  a  silver  fork  and  garnish 
with  celery  tops. 

LoiJSTER  Salad. —  To  a  three-pound  lobster 
take  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  beat  very  lightly ; 
then  take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs 
(cold),  and  add  to  the  raw  yolk,  beating  all  the 
time  ;  add,  gradually,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  one- 
half  bottle  of  the  finest  olive  oil,  still  stirring  all 
the  time  ;  then  add  one  and  a  half  tablc^poonfuls 
of  the  best  English  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste ;  beat  the  mixture  until  light,  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  strong  vinegar.  Cut  the  lobster  into 
small  pieces  and  mix  with  it  salt  and  pepper ;  pour 
over  it  the  dressing  just  before  sending  to  the 
table  ;  garnish  with  the  white  of  egg  (boiled),  cel- 
ery tops,  and  the  small  claws. 


Lobster  Salad. — Pick  the  meat  from  the  shell, 
chop  and  season  the  same  as  for  chicken  salad ; 
garnish  mth  the  claws  and  parsley. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Two  heads  of  lettuce,  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  white 
sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  one 
teaspoonful  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar ;  rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  powder,  add 
sugar,  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  mustard ;  let  it 
stand  five  minutes,  then  beat  in  the  vinegar.  Cut 
the  lettuce  with  a  knife  and  fork,  put  into  a  bowl, 
and  mix  in  the  dressing  by  tossing  with  a  fork. 

Lettuce  Salads. — Serve  with  simple  dressing, 
and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Lettuce,  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  cold  boiled 
beets ;  potatoes  in  the  center,  beets  next,  and 
lettuce  around  the  edge  of  the  dish.  Simple 
dressing. 

Potato  Salad. — Potatoes  boiled  in  the"  jacket," 
and  peeled  while  warm,  cut  evenly  into  fine  slices, 
and  when  cold  mixed  with  fine  olive  oil.  After 
having  drawn  with  this  for  a  little  while,  add  salt, 
pepper,  chopped  onion,  and  mix  all  this  by  shaking 
it  up,  as  using  a  spoon  would  break  the  potatoes, 
and  make  them  unsightly.    Add  good  vinegar. 

Potato  Salad. — Small  onions  sliced  and  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  over  which  pour  the  simple  dres- 
sing. 

Potato  Salad. — Cut  a  dozen  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes into  fancy  shapes,  one-quarter  of  an  inch 
thick ;  mix  with  some  flakes  of  cold  boiled  fish 
(halibut,  cod  or  salmon),  and  pour  over  them  a 
salad  dressing,  made  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  or  salad  oil,  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  or  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  half 
that  quantity  of  pepper,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  mustard.  Into  this  mix  one  cupful  of  vine- 
gar. Boil  well,  then  add  three  raw  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  foam ;  remove  directly  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
for  five  minutes ;  when  thoroughly  cold  turn  over 
the  salad.  Garnish  with  slices  of  pickled  cucum- 
ber, cold  beet,  hard-boiled  egg,  and  fresh  parsley. 

Celery  Salad. — One  head  of  cabbage,  three 
bunches  of  celery,  chopped  very  fine.  Take  one 
teacupful  of  vinegar,  lump  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  one  teaspoonful  mustard, 
one  of  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  two  tear 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Mix  these  well ;  put  the  mix- 
ture on  the  stove  and  heat  until  it  thickens,  stir- 
ring all  the  time  ;  when  cold,  add  two  tablespoott- 
fuls  of  rich  sweet  cream.  Pour  over  the  salad ;  if 
not  moist  enough,  add  cold  vinegar. 

Chicken  Celery. — Chop  the  remains  of  chicken 
or  turkey,  and  mix  with  an  equal  proportion  of 
celery ;  a  little  salt  and  vinegar  only,  although 
some  like  a  dressing  as  for  slaw ;  but  this  takes 
away  too  much  of  celery  taste.  It  may  be  pre- 
pared with  lettuce  instead  of  celery. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine, 
and  put  into  a  dish  in  layers,  with  salt  and  pepper 
between.  Then  take  two  teas{Doonfuls  of  butter, 
two  of  sugar,  two  of  flour,  two  of  mustard,  one 
cup  of  vinegar,  and  one  egg.  Stir  all  together, 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  on  the  stove.  Pour  it  hot 
over,  and  mix  well  with  the  cabbage  ;  cover  up. 


SALADS—SA  UCES. 


17 


Cold  Slaw. — Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  vinegar, 
one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,"half  teaspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  and  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg ;  stir  until  it  boils.  When  cold, 
pour  over  the  shaved  cabbage. 

Tomato  Salad. — One  dozen  medium-sized  toma- 
toes peeled  and  sliced,  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled 
eggs,  one  raw  egg  well  beaten,  teaspoon  sugar, 
salt  to  taste,  and  one-half  saltspoon  of  cayenne 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  tea- 
cup of  vinegar. 

Or,  slice  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Sweet-Bread  Salad. — Boil  the  sweet-breads 
twenty  minutes,  then  drop  them  into  cold  milk, 
split  them  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  break  in  small 
pieces  with  lettuce  and  mix  with  the  dressing. 
Make  a  dressing  with  the  yolk  of  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
mixed  mustard,  the  least  bit  of  sugar,  one  bottle 
of  olive  oil  poured  into  this  with  a  thread-sized 
stream,  stirring  all  the  time.  The  dressing  for 
Balmon  salad  is  also  nice  for  this. 

Salmon  Salad. — For  a  pound  can  of  Calfornip. 
salmon,  garnished  with  lettuce,  make  a  dressing 
of  one  small  teacup  of  vinegar,  butter  half  t'le 
size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  Colman's  musta/d, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two 
eggs ;  when  cold,  add  one-half  teacup  of  cream 
and  pour  over  the  salmon. 


SAUCES. 


Drawn  Buttbr  Sauce. — One  quarter  pound  of 
butter ;  rub  with  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour. 
"Wlien  well  mixed,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  one- 
haK  pint  of  water  or  stock  ;  cover  it,  and  set  the 
saucepan  into  a  larger  one  of  boiling  water.  Shake 
it  constantly  till  completely  melted  and  beginning 
to  boil ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Caper  Sauce. — Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  and 
then  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  French 
capers  ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Boiled  Egg  Sauce. — Add  to  half  a  pint  of  drawn 
butter  sauce  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  chop- 
ped. 

Pickle  Sauce. — Add  to  half  a  pint  of  drawn  but- 
ter sauce  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pickled  cucum- 
bers, minced  fine. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Stew  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one 
small  onion,  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  strain 
through  a  sieve.  Put  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  but- 
ter into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  boils,  dredge  in 
an  ounce  and  a  half  of  flour.  When  thoroughly 
oooked,  pour  in  the  tomatoes. 

Tomato  Sauce. — One  can  of  tomatoes  boiled 
down  and  strained  ;  nib  together  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
a  little  salt,  with  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  and 
•tir  into  the  tomatoes  ;  then  let  all  come  to  a  boil. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Prepare  the  mushrooms  by 
eutting  off  the  stalks,  and  throw  them  into  boiling 


water ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Boil 
until  tender,  and  then  thicken  the  gravy  with  a 
little  butter  and  flour ;  add  a  little  lemon  juice, 
and  pour  over  the  meat. 

Parsley  Sauce. — Wash  a  bunch  of  parsley  in 
cold  water,  then  boil  it  about  six  or  seven  minutes 
in  salt  and  water.  Drain  it ;  cut  the  leaves  from 
the  stalks,  and  chop  them  fine.  Have  ready  some 
melted  butter,  and  stir  in  the  parsley  ;  allow  two 
small  tablespoonfuls  of  leaves  to  one-half  pint  of 
butter.    Serve  with  boiled  fowls  and  fish. 

Melted  or  Drawn  Butter. — Cut  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  butter  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  large  spoonful  of  flour,  and 
ten  of  new  milk.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
six  large  spoonfuls  of  water.  Shake  it  over  the 
fire  until  it  begins  to  simmer,  shaking  it  always 
tl".e  same  way ;  then  let  it  stand  quietly  and  boil 
v.p.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  rich  cream, 
and  not  thicker. 

Apple  Sauce. — Pare,  core,  and  slice  some 
apples  ;  stew  them  with  sufficient  water  to  prevent 
burning ;  when  done,  mash  them  through  a  colan- 
der, sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
a  little  nutmeg  or  lemon. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — One  quart  of  cranberries, 
one  quart  of  water,  and  one  pound  of  white  sugar ; 
make  a  sirup  of  the  water  and  sugar.  After 
washing  the  berries  clean,  and  picking  out  al] 
poor  ones,  drop  them  into  the  boiling  sirup,  let 
them  cook  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  They 
are  very  nice  strained. 

Egg  Sauce. — Three  ounces  of  butter,  beaten 
with  one  ounce  of  flour ;  stir  into  it  one  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes  ;  pour  into  sauce-boat,  having  hard-boiled 
eggs,  sliced  or  chopped,  in  it. 

W^niTE  Sauce. — Take  one  cup  of  butter,  and 
melt  it,  and  while  in  the  saucepan,  shake  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  until  well  mixed.  Then 
add  one  quart  of  milk,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it 
boils. 

Oyster  Sauce. — One  pint  of  oysters  cut  small, 
boiled  for  five  minutes  in  their  own  liquor ;  a 
cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbe(f 
smooth  into  a  tablespoon  of  flour ;  salt  and  pep 
per ;  let  it  boil.    Serve  with  turkey. 

Mint  Sauce. — Wash  the  mint  very  clean  ;  pick 
the  leaves  from  the  stalk,  and  chop  them  fine ; 
pour  on  to  them  vinegar  enough  to  moisten  the 
mint  well ;  add  fine  sugar  to  sweeten. 

Celery  Sauce. — Pick  and  wash  two  heads  of 
celery ;  cut  them  into  pieces  one  inch  long,  and 
stew  them  in  a  pint  of  water  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  until  the  celery  is  tender.  Rub  a 
large  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  spoonful  of  flom' 
well  together ;  stir  this  into  a  pint  of  cream  ;  put 
in  the  celery,  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  Scve  hot 
with  boiled  poultry. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Stew  one-half  dozen  iA.r!atoe8 
with  a  little  chopped  parsley  ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste  ;  strain,  and  when  it  commences  to  boil  add 
a  spoonful  of  flour,  stirred  smooth  with  a  tabte- 
spoonful  of  butter.    When  it  boils  take  up. 


i8 


VEGETABLES. 


VEGETABLES. 

Have  your  vegetcables  fresh  as  possible.  Wash 
them  thoroughly.  Lay  them  in  cold  water  until 
ready  to  use  them. 

Vegetables  should  be  put  to  cook  in  boiling 
water  and  salt.  Never  let  them  stand  after  com- 
ing off  the  fire ;  put  them  instantly  into  a  colan- 
der over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  if  you  have  to 
keep  them  back  from  dinner. 

Peas,  beans  and  asparagus,  if  young,  will  cook 
in  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  They  should  be 
boiled  in  a  good  deal  of  salt  water. 

Cauliflower  should  be  wrapped  in  a  cloth  when 
boiled,  and  served  with  drawn  butter.  Potato 
water  is  thought  to  be  unhealthy ;  therefore  do 
not  boil  potatoes  in  soup,  but  in  another  vessel, 
and  add  them  to  it  when  cooked. 

Lima  Beans. — Shell,  wash,  and  put  into  boiling 
water  with  a  little  salt ;  when  boiled  tender,  drain 
and  season  them,  and  either  dress  with  cream,  or 
large  lump  of  butter,  and  let  simmer  for  a  few 
moments. 

Cabbage  a  la  Caltliflower. — Cut  the  cabbage 
fine  as  for  slaw ;  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  cover  with 
water  and  keep  closely  covered ;  when  tender, 
drain  off  tlie  water  ;  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter 
with  a  little  salt,  one-half  a  cup  of  cream,  or  one 
cup  of  milk.  Leave  on  the  stove  a  few  minutes 
before  serving. 

Cheam  Cabbage. — Beat  together  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar ;  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  stir  until  it  boils  ;  then  stir  tn  one  cup  of 
cream.  Let  it  boil.  Pour  over  the  cabbage  while 
hot. 

Stttwbd  Celery. — Clean  the  heads  thoroughly. 
Take  off  the  coarse,  green,  outer  leaves.  Cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  etfew  in  a  little  broth.  When 
tender,  add  some  rich  cream,  a  little  flour,  and 
butter  enough  to  thicken  the  cream.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg  if  that  is  agree- 
able. 

Green  Corn  on  the  Cob. — Take  off  the  outside 
leaves  and  thi;  silk,  letting  the  innermost  leaves 
remain  on  until  after  the  corn  is  boiled,  which 
renders  the  corn  much  sweeter.  Boil  for  half  an 
hour  in  plenty  of  water,  drain,  and,  after  remov- 
ing the  leaves,  serve. 

Corn  Fritters. — To  a  can  of  corn  add  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper ; 
mix  thoroughly ;  have  the  pan  hot ;  put  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  (jf  lard,  and  di"op  in  the  corn  in 
large  spoonfuls.     Cook  brown. 

Corn  Fritters. — One  pint  of  corn  meal,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
egg,  one  pint  of  wheat  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  five 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  dozen  large 
ears  of  com ;  grate  the  corn  from  the  cob ;  beat 
the  whites  anji  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately ;  put 
the  corn  and  yolks  together,  stir  hard,  and  add 


the  melted  butter,  then  the  milk  gradually,  stir- 
ring hard  all  the  time ;  next,  the  sugar,  and  then 
the  whites  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  slowly,  covering 
the  dish  at  first.    It  vnll  bake  in  about  an  hour. 

French  Mushrooms  Canned. — Pour  off  the 
liquid,  pour  over  them  a  little  cream,  season,  and 
let  them  simmer  for  a  short  time.  To  be  served 
on  broiled  beefsteak. 

Mushrooms  Broiled. — Gather  them  fresh,  pare, 
and  cut  off  the  stcns,  dip  them  in  melted  butter, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  broil  them  on  both 
sides  over  a  clear  fire  ;  serve  on  toast. 

Macaroni,  as  a  Vegetable. — Simmer  one-half 
pound  of  macaroni  in  plenty  of  water  till  tender, 
but  not  broken ;  strain  oft'  the  water.  Take  the 
yolks  of  five  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one- 
half  pint  of  cream  ;  white  meat  and  ham  chopped 
very  fine,  three  spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  heat  all  together,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Mix  with  the  macaroni,  put  into 
a  buttered  mold  and  steam  one  hom*. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. — Throw  into  boiling 
water  some  macaroni,  with  salt  according  to 
quantity  used ;  let  it  boil  one-fourth  of  an  hour, 
when  it  will  be  a  little  more  than  half  cooked, , 
drain  off  the  water,  place  the  macaroni  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  milk  to  cover,  boil  till  done.  Butter  a 
pudding  dish,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  plenty  of 
grated  cheese,  put  in  the  macaroni  a  little  white 
pepper,  plenty  of  butter,  spi'inkle  on  more  cheese, 
cover  that  with  bread-crumbs,  set  in  a  quick  oven 
to  brown  ;  serve  hot. 

Macaroni  with  Oysters. — Boil  macaroni  in 
salt  water,  after  which  draw  through  a  colander ; 
take  a  deep  earthen  dish  or  tin  ;  put  in  alternate 
layers  of  macaroni  and  oysters ;  sprinkle  the 
layers  of  macaroni  with  grated  cheese  ;  bake  un- 
til brown. 

Stewed  Macaroni. — Boil  two  ounces  of  mac- 
aroni in  water,  drain  •^ell,  put  into  a  sauce-pan 
one  ounce  of  butter,  mix  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  moisten  with  four  tablespoons  of  veal  or 
beef  stock,  one  gill  of  cream  ;  salt  and  white  '_;>ep- 
per  to  taste  ;  put  in  the  macaroni,  let  it  boil'up, 
and  serve  while  hot. 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes.  —  Boil  one-half 
pound  of  macaroni  till  tender,  pour  off  all  the 
water,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one- 
third  of  a  cup  of  butter ;  pepper  and  salt ;  let 
simmer  for  a  short  time,  but  be  careful  that  it  does 
not  become  much  broken,  turn  into  vegetable 
dish ;  have  ready  one  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes, 
season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  tha 
macaroni. 

Boiled  Onions. — Skin  them  thoroughly.  Put 
them  to  boil ;  when  they  have  boiled  a  few  min- 
utes, pour  off  the  water  and  add  clean  cold  water, 
and  then  set  them  to  boil  again.  Pour  this  away, 
and  add  more  cold  water,  when  they  may  boil  till 
done.  This  will  make  them  white  and  clear,  and 
very  mild  in  flavor.  After  they  are  done,  pour  off 
all  the  water,  and  dress  with  a  little  cream,  salt, 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

EscoLLOPED  Onions. — Boil  till  tender  six  large 
onions ;  afterward  separate  them  with  a  large 
spoon  ;  then  place  a  layer  of  onions  and  a  layer  of 


VEGETABLES. 


19 


grated  bread  cri:mbs  alternately  in  a  pudding 
•dish  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  mois- 
ten with  milk  ;  put  into  the  oven  to  brown. 

Baked  Onions. — Wash,  but  do  not  peel  the 
onions ;  boil  one  hour  in  boiling  water  slightly 
salt,  changing  the  water  twice  in  the  time  ;  when 
tender,  drain  on  a  cloth,  and  roll  each  in  buttered 
tissue  paper,  twisted  at  the  top,  and  bake  an  horn- 
in  a  slow  oven.  Peel  and  brown  them ;  serve 
with  melted  butter. 

Succotash. — Use  double  the  quantity  of  corn 
that  you  do  beans.  Cook  the  beans  for  three  or 
four  hours.  Put  in  the  corn  one  hour  before  din- 
ner. Have  just  water  enough  to  cook  them  in. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  stick.  Season 
"With  salt,  pepper  and  lump  of  butter. 

Succotash. — Boil  lima  beans  and  sweet  corn  in 
separate  pots  ;  when  done,  cut  the  corn  from  the 
cob,  allowing  twice  as  much  corn  as  beans ;  put 
them  together  and  let  them  boil.  Just  before 
serving,  add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Tomatoes  a  la  Ckeme. — Pare  and  slice  ripe 
tomatoes — one  quart  of  fresh  ones  or  a  pound 
can ;  stew  until  perfectly  smooth,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg ;  just  before  taking  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  one  cup  of  cream,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  stirred  smooth  in  a  part  of  it ;  do  not  let  it 
boil  after  the  flour  is  put  in.  Have  ready  in  a  dish 
pieces  of  toast ;  pour  the  tomatoes  over  this  and 
serve. 

Browned  Tomatoes. — Take  large  round  toma- 
toes and  halve  them,  place  them  the  skin  side 
down  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  a  very  small  quan- 
tity of  butter  and  lard  have  been  previously  melt- 
ed, sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  di-edge 
well  with  flour.  Place  the  pan  on  a  hot  part  of  the 
fire,  and  let  them  brown  thoroughly ;  then  stir, 
and  let  them  brown  again,  and  so  on  until  they 
are  quite  don  ;.  They  lose  their  acidity,  and  their 
flavor  is  superior  to  stewed  tomatoes. 

To  Broil  Tomatoes. — Take  large  round  toma- 
toes, wash  and  wipe,  and  put  them  in  a  gridiron 
over  lively  coals,  the  stem  side  down.  When 
brown,  turn  them  and  let  them  cook  till  quite  hot 
through.  Place  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  send 
quickly  to  the  table,  when  each  one  may  season 
for  himself  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Fill  a  deep  pan  (as  many 
as  will  cover  the  bottom)  with  ripe  tomatoes ; 
round  out  a  hole  in  the  center  of  each ;  fill  up 
with  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  put  a 
teacup  of  water  in  the  pan.  Bake  till  brown ; 
send  to  the  table  hot. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. — Butter  an  earthen  dish, 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  fi-esh  tomatoes,  sliced  and 
peeled,  and  a  few  rinds  of  onion  (one  large  onion 
for  the  whole  dish),  then  cover  with  a  layer  of 
■bread-crumbs,  with  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Repeat  this  process  until  the  dish  is  full.  Bake  for 
an  hour  in  a  pretty  hot  oven. 

Baked  Tomatoes. — Cut  in  slices  good  fresh 
tomatoes  (not  too  ripe) ;  put  a  layer  of  them  in  a 
dish  suitable  for  baking ;  then  a  layer  of  bread- 
crumbs over  them,  salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of 


butter,  another  layer  of  tomatoes,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full.    Bake  one  hour. 

Saveet  Potatoes. — Sweet  potatoes  require  more 
time  to  cook  than  common  potatoes.  To  Boil — 
Take  large,  fine  potatoes,  wash  clean,  boU  with 
the  skins  on  in  plenty  of  water,  but  without  salt. 
They  will  take  at  least  one  hour.  Drain  off  the 
water,  and  set  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  tin 
pan  before  the  fire,  or  in  the  stove,  that  they  may 
be  well  dried.  Peel  them  before  sent  to  the  table. 
To  Fry. — Choose  large  potatoes,  half  boil  them, 
and  then,  having  taken  off  the  skins,  cut  the 
potatoes  in  slices  and  fry  in  butter,  or  in  nice 
drippings.  To  Bake— Bake  as  the  common  po- 
tato, except  give  them  a  longer  time. 

Mash  Potatoes. — Steam,  or  boil  potatoes  until 
soft,  in  salted  water ;  pour  off  the  water  and  let 
them  drain  perfectly  dry ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
mash  ;  have  ready  some  hot  milk  or  cream  in  which 
has  been  melted  a  piece  of  butter  ;  pour  this  on  to 
the  potatoes,  and  stir  until  white  and  very  light. 

Browned  Potatoes. — Boil ;  and  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  before  a  roast  of  beef  is  taken  from 
the  oven,  put  them  in  the  dripping-pan,  after 
skimming  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy  ;  baste  them 
frequently,  and  when  quite  brown,  drain  on  a 
sieve. 

Quirled  Potatoes. — Peel,boil,  mash,and  season 
a  few  mashed  potatoes,  then  put  them  into  a  col- 
ander, pressing  them  through  into  the  dish  you 
wish  to  serve  them  in  ;  set  in  the  oven  and  browru 

Potato  Puff. — Take  two  large  cups  of  cold 
mashed  potatoes,  and  stir  into  it  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  beating  to  a  white  cream 
before  adding  anything  else ;  then  put  with  this 
two  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  and  a  teacupful  of 
cream  or  milk,  salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well,  pour 
into  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  until 
nicely  browned. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. — Peel,  and  slice  on  a  slaw- 
cutter  into  cold  water,  wash  thoroughly,  and 
drain  ;  spread  between  the  folds  of  a  clean  cloth, 
rub  and  pat  until  dry.  Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  boil- 
ing lard,  salt  as  you  take  them  out.  Saratoga 
potatoes  are  often  eaten  cold.  They  can  be  pre- 
pared three  or  four  hours  before  needed,  and  if 
kept  in  a  warm  place  they  will  be  crisp  and  nice. 
They  are  used  for  garnishing  game  and  steaks. 

Potato  Cakes. — Two  pounds  of  mashed  pota- 
toes, two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  salt, 
two  pounds  of  flour,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a 
batter,  one-half  cup  of  yeast ;  set  it  to  rise,  and 
when  light  bake  in  cakes  size  of  a  mufBn. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Wash  and  cut  in  halves  or 
quarters,  put  into  boiling  water,  boil  one-half  hour ; 
when  done,  pour  off  all  the  water,  adding  salt ; 
mash  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  cream  if  you 
have  it — if  not,  milk — and  beat  well  with  fork  or 
spoon.    The  beating  makes  them  light. 

Broiled  Potatoes. — Take  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
peel  and  slice  them  in  slices  one-third  of  an  inch 
thick,  dip  them  into  dissolved  butter,  place  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  very  clear  fire,  grill  them  until 
nicely  brovmed  underneath  ;  then  turn  them,  and 
when  a  nice  color,  put  them  into  a  heated  dish ; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 


20 


VEGETABLES. 


Potato  Balls,  or  Croquettes.— Four  large 
mealy  potatoes,  cold ;  mash  them  in  a  pan  with 
two  tablespoonluls  of  fresh  melted  butter,  a  pineh 
of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  cream, 
and  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg ;  rub  it  together 
for  about  five  minutes,  or  until  very  smooth ; 
shape  the  mixture  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut  or  small  rolls  ;  dip  them  into  an  egg  well 
beaten,  and  then  into  the  finest  sifted  bread- 
rumbs  ;  fry  them  in  boiling  lard. 

Ste-wed  Potatoes. — Put  into  a  frying-pan  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  half  a  cup  of  cream,  set  on 
the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Cut  cold  boiled 
potatoes  into  small  pieces  and  turn  into  the  cream, 
let  the  cream  boil  up  well  around  the  potatoes, 
add  another  small  piece  of  butter  and  serve. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. — Into  a  sauce-pan  put  a 
large  lump  of  butter  and  a  small  onion,  finely 
chopped,  and  when  the  onion  is  fried  to  an  amber 
color,  throw  in  slices  of  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
which  must  be  thoroughly  stirred  until  they  are 
turning  brown  ;  at  this  moment  put  in  a  .spoonful 
of  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  as  soon  as  it  is 
cooked  drain  through  a  colander,  so  the  potatoes 
retain  the  moisture  of  the  butter  and  many  par- 
ticles of  the  parsley.  Thus  j^ou  may  have  Lyon- 
naise potatoes. 

Fried  Oyster  Plant. — Parboil  oyster  plant ; 
scrape  off  the  outside  ;  cut  in  slices  ;  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oysters. — Wash  and 
scrape  them  thoroughly,  and  as  you  wash  throw 
them  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Cut  into  pieces 
about  half  an  inch  long,  boil  three-fourths  of  an 
hour ;  when  tender,  pour  off  all  the  water,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  a  small  lump  of  butter, 
and  enough  of  cream  to  almost  cover  them  ;  if  no 
cream,  use  milk,  with  more  butter,  and  thicken 
like  gravy  with  a  little  flour.  They  are  nice  served 
on  toast. 

Baked  Egg  Plant.— Cut  in  halves  a  nice  smooth 
egg  plant ;  scoop  out  the  center,  leaving  with  the 
skin  about  one-third  of  an  inch  ;  chop  the  inside 
of  the  egg  plant  very  fine,  two  ripe  tomatoes,  one 
onion,  some  bread-crumbs,  a  little  parsley,  and 
green  pepper — onion  and  pepper  to  be  chopped 
separately  very  fine — salt,  butter,  and  very  little 
pepper ;  mix  very  smooth,  put  in  the  shell,  butter 
on  top,  and  bake  about  one-half  hour. 

Fried  Egg  Plant.— Pare  and  slice  them,  then 
sprinkle  each  slice  with  salt  and  let  them  stand  for 
about  one  hour  with  a  weight  on  them,  then  dip 
into  egg  well  beaten,  then  flour  and  fry  light  brown 
in  lard  and  butter. 

To  Fry  Parsley.— This,  when  done  as  it  should 
be,  is  one  of  the  nicest  as  well  as  cheapest  of  gar- 
nishings.  The  parsley  should  be  washed  and 
dried  in  a  cloth  ;  then  if  one  is  tlie  happy  posses- 
sor of  a  wire  basket,  put  in  the  parsley  and  hold 
from  two  to  three  minutes  in  boiling  drippings  ; 
take  from  the  basket  and  dry  until  cri.sp  before  the 
kitchen  fire.  It  may  be  fried  without  a  basket, 
but  requires  more  care  in  so  doing. 

Scotch  Escallops.— Peel  potatoes  and  slice, 
not  quite  as  thin  as  for  Saratoga  chips,  and  cover 


the  bottom  of  a  dripping  pan  with  them  ;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  small  pieces  of  butter  or 
butter  and  lard  mixed  ;  continue  this  until  the  pan 
is  full ;  lay  a  slice  or  two  of  salt  pork  on  the  top ; 
cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  good  hot  oven.  Very 
nice  sweet  potatoes  can  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way.    They  are  very  nice  without  the  pork. 

Turnips. — Pare  and  cut  into  pieces ;  put  them 
into  boiling  water  well  salted,  and  boil  until  ten- 
der ;  drain  thoroughly  and  then  mash  and  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a 
small  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  until  they  are 
thoroughly  mixed,  and  serve  hot. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Scrape,  cut  into  strips,  and 
boil  until  tender  in  salted  Avater ;  drain  and  dip 
into  batter,  made  with  one  egg  beaten  light,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter 
and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  lard. 

Asparagus. — Cook  only  the  tender  green  stalks ; 
cut  them  of  equal  lengths,  and  boil  in  water  with 
a  little  salt  till  tender.  While  the  aspai-agus  is 
cooking,  prepare  some  nicely-toasted  bread,  lay 
the  asparagus  on  the  toast,  and  season  with  but- 
ter, salt,  and  pepper,  or  pour  over  it  a  little  cream 
previously  scalded. 

Spinach. — Spinach  requires  good  washing  and 
close  picking.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  boiling 
water,  drain,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Fresh  Corn  Mush. — Take  several  ears  of  green 
corn,  grate  it  down ;  stir  some  milk  into  the 
corn  briskly  with  a  little  salt ;  strain  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  and  put  in  a  hot  cooking-pot  with  a 
spoonful  of  lard.  Keep  it  well  stirred  for  at  least 
twenty  minute.?,  without  stopping  while  cooking. 
When  thickened,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  slice,  and 
fry. 

Parsnip  Fritters. — Four  parsnips,  boiled  and 
mashed  fine ;  add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  one  teacup  of  milk,  and  salt  to  taste.  Upon 
a  hot-buttered  griddle  drop  the  mixture,  and  bake' 
after  the  style  of  flannel-cakes.     Serve  quite  hot. 

Parsnip  Stew. — Three  slices  of  salt  pork,  boil 
one  hour  and  a  half ;  scrape  five  large  parsnips, 
cut  in  quarters  lengthwse,  add  to  the  pork  and 
let  boil,  one-half  hour,  then  add  a  few  potatoes, 
and  let  all  boil  together  until  the  potatoes  are 
soft ;  the  fluid  in  the  kettle  should  be  about  a  cup- 
ful when  ready  to  take  off. 

Green  Peas. — Put  the  pods  into  a  pot,  cover 
and  boil  thoroughly  ;  then  strain,  and  put  the  peas 
into  the  same  water  and  boil  tender.  Season  >vith 
butter,  pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  the  least  bit  of 
sugar. 

Boiled  Hominy. — Soak  one  cup  of  fine  hominy 
in  three  cups  of  water  and  salt  to  taste ;  in  the 
morning  turn  it  into  a  quart  pail ;  then  put  the 
pail  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cover  tightly 
and  steam  one  hour ;  then  add  one  teacupful  of 
sweet  milk,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Cauliflower. — Trim  off  all  the  outside  leaves, 
and  put  into  boiling  water  well  salted  ;  boil  until 
tender,  and  then  serve  with  a  while  sauce  or  witb 
cream. 


EGGS  AND    OMELETTES. 


21 


HoMrNY  Fritters. — Two  teacupfuls  of  cold 
boiled  ^>ominy ;  stir  in  one  teacupful  of  sweet 
milk  and  a  little  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted 
flour  and  one  eg^ ;  beat  the  white  separately  and 
add  last ;  drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  into  hot 
lard,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

Baked  Cabbage. — Cook  as  for  boiled  cabbage, 
after  which  drain  and  set  aside  until  cold.  Chop 
fine,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, pepper,  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  rich  cream  ; 
stir  well  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  brown. 
Eat  hot. 

Beets. — Wash  thoroughly,  being  careful  not  to 
prick  the  skin,  as  that  will  destroy  the  color  ;  put 
into  boiling  water,  and  boil  five  or  six  hours ;  if 
served  hot,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  if 
cold,  cover  with  vinegar. 


EGGS  AND  OMELETTES. 

IIow  TO  Bake  Eggs,  etc. — Butter  a  clean, 
smooth  saucepan,  break  as  many  eggs  as  will  be 
needed  into  a  saucer,  one  by  one.  If  found  good, 
slip  it  into  the  dish.  No  broken  yolk  allowed,  nor 
must  they  crowd  so  as  to  risk  breaking  the  yolk 
after  put  in.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each, 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Set  into  a 
well-heated  oven,  and  bake  till  the  whites  ai-e  set. 
If  the  oven  is  rightly  heated,  it  will  take  but  a  few 
minutes,  and  is  far  more  delicate  than  fified  eggs. 

Eggs  a  la  Mode. — Remove  the  skin  from  a 
■dozen  tomatoes,  medium  size,  cut  them  up  in  a 
saucepan,  add  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
when  sufficiently  boiled,  beat  up  five  or  six  eggs, 
and  just  before  you  serve,  turn  them  into  the 
saucepan  with  the  tomato,  and  stir  one  way  for 
two  minutes,  allowing  them  time  to  be  well  done. 

Egg  Baskets. — Boil  quite  hard  as  many  eggs  as 
■will  be  neec'ed.  Put  into  cold  water  till  cold, 
then  cut  neatly  into  halves  with  a  thin,  sharp 
knife  ;  remove  the  yolk  and  rub  to  a  paste  with 
some  melted  butter,  adding  pepper  and  salt. 
Cover  up  this  paste  and  set  aside  till  the  filling  is 
ready.  Take  cold  roast  duck,  chicken,  or  turkey 
■which  may  be  on  hand,  chop  fine  and  pound 
smooth,  and  while  pounding  mix  in  the  paste  pre- 
pared from  the  yolks.  As  you  pound  moisten  with 
melted  butter  and  some  gravy  which  may  have 
been  left  over  fi'om  the  fowls  ;  set  this  paste  when 
done  over  hot  water  till  well  heated.  Cut  off  a 
small  slice  from  the  end  of  the  empty  halves  of  the 
whites,  so  they  will  stand  Arm,  then  fill  them  with 
this  paste ;  place  them  close  together  on  a  flat 
round  dish,  and  pour  over  the  rest  of  the  gravy,  if 
any  remains,  or  make  a  little  fresh.  A  few  spoon- 
fuls of  cream  or  rich  milk  improves  this  dressing. 

French  Egg  Cake.— Beat  up  thoroughly  ?:x 
eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk,  and 
little  salt.  Fry  in  a  pan  in  which  there  is  one-haa 
ounce  of  melted  butter,  over  a  quick  Are.  In  order 
that  the  omelette  may  remain  soft  and  juicy,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  pan  should  be  hot  before  the 
eggs  are  poured  in.  During  the  frying  move  the 
pan  continually  to  and  fro  ;  continue  this  until  a 
cake  is  formed,  then  let  it  remain  still  a  moment  to 
brown.     Turn  out  and  serve  immediately. 


Egg  Toast. — Beat  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
together,  thoroughly ;  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  into  a  saucepan  and  melt  slowly ;  then 
pour  in  the  eggs  and  heat,  without  boiling,  over  a 
slow  fire,  stirring  constantly  ;  add  a  little  salt,  and 
when  hot  spread  on  slices  of  nicely-browned  toast, 
and  serve  at  once. 

Omelette. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eight 
eggs  separately  until  light,  then  beat  together ;  add 
a  little  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cream.  Have 
in  the  omelette  pan  a  piece  of  butter ;  when  the 
butter  is  boiling-hot,  pour  in  the  omelette,  and 
shake  until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  and  then  let  it 
brown.    Fold  double  and  serve  hot. 

Apple  Omelette. — Eight  large  apples,  four 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  taste.  Stew  the 
apples  and  mash  fine,  add  butter  and  sugar ;  when 
cold,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Bake  until 
brown,  and  eat  while  warm. 

Baked  Omelette. — Set  one-half  pint  of  milk  on 
the  fire  and  stir  in  one-half  cup  of  flour  mixed 
with  a  little  cold  milk  and  salt ;  when  scalding- 
hot,  beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  add  them,  stir 
in  whites  and  set  immediately  in  the  oven ;  bake 
twenty  minutes,  and  serve  as  soon  as  done. 

Oyster  Omelette. — Allow  for  every  six  large 
oysters  or  twelve  small  ones,  one  egg ;  remove  the 
hard  part  and  mince  the  rest  very  fine  ;  take  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  whites  of  four,  beat  till 
very  light,  then  mix  in  the  oysters,  season  and 
beat  all  up  thoroughly  ;  put  into  a  skillet  a  gill  of 
butter,  let  it  melt ;  when  the  butter  boils,  skim  it 
and  turn  in  the  omelette  ;  stir  until  it  stiffens,' fry 
light  brown  ;  when  the  under  side  is  brown,  turn 
on  to  a  hot  platter.  If  wanted  the  upper  side 
brown,  hold  a  red-hot  shovel  over  it. 

Omelette  Soufflee.— Stir  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  sifted  flour  into  three  pints  of  milk,  strain 
through  a  sieve ;  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  and,  just  as  it  goes  into  the 
oven,  the  whites  beaten  stiff.     Bake  quickly. 

French  Omelette. — One  quart  of  milk,  one 
pint  of  bread-criimbs,  five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  chopped  parsley, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  butter  melted 
in  a  spider ;  when  the  omelette  is  brown,  turn  it 
over.    Double  when  served. 

Omelette  with  Ham. — Make  a  plain  omelette, 
and  just  before  turning  one  half  over  the  other, 
sprinkle  over  it  some  finely-chopped  ham.  Gar- 
nish with  small  slices  of  ham.  Jelly  or  marmalade 
may  be  added  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Poach  Eggs.— Have  the  water  well  salted, 
and  not  let  it  boil  hard.  Break  the  eggs  separately 
into  a  saucer,  and  slip  gently  into  the  water ;  when 
nicely  done,  remove  with  a  skimmer,  trim  neatly, 
and  lay  each  egg  upon  a  small  thin  square  of  but- 
tered toast,  then  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Some  persons  prefer  them  poached,  rather  than 
fried,  with  ham  ;  in  which  case  substitute  the  ham 
for  toast. 

Sttipfed  Eggs. — Boil  the  eggs  hard,  remove  the 
shells,  and  then  cut  in  two,  either  way  as  preferred. 
Remove  the  yolks,  and  mix  with  them  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  dry  mustard — some  like  cold  chicken. 


22 


BREAD,   BISCUITS,   ETC. 


ham,  or  tongue  chopped  very  fine — and  then  stuff 
the  cavities,  smooth  them,  and  put  the  halves 
together  again.  For  picnics  they  can  simply  be 
\vrapped  in  tissue  paper  to  keep  them  together. 
If  for  home  use,  they  can  be  egged,  and  bread- 
crumbed,  and  browned  in  boihng  lard  ;  drain  and 
garnish  ^vith  parsley. 

Tomato  Omelet. — One  quart  of  tomatoes,  chop- 
ped iinely  (after  the  skin  is  removed),  and  put  into 
a  saucepan  vrith  two  finely-chopped  onions,  a  little 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  one  cracker  pounded  fine- 
ly, cover  tight,  and  let  it  simmer  about  an  hour  ; 
beat  five  eggs  to  a  froth  ;  have  your  griddle  hot ; 
grease  it  well ;  stir  your  eggs  into  the  tomato,  beat 
together,  and  pom"  into  the  griddle ;  brown  on  one 
side,  fold,  and  brown  on  the  other.  To  be  served 
hot. 

Bread  Omelet. — One  cup  of  bread-crumbs  wet 
with  a  little  milk,  salt  and  pepper ;  let  stand  un- 
til soft ;  beat  eight  eggs  light,  heat  the  skillet,  add- 
ing a  large  lump  of  butter,  mix  the  bread  and 
eggs,  pour  into  the*  skillet,  and  after  eggs  harden 
divide  in  the  middle. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 

Teast. — Take  two  good-sized  potatoes,  grate 
them  raw.  Add  one-half  teacup  of  white  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  ginger.  Pour  over 
the  mixture  one-half  pint  of"  boiling  water,  in 
which  one  tablespoonful  of  hops  has  been  boiled. 
Save  half  a  cup  each  time  to  start  anew. 

Teast. — To  one  cup  of  grated  raw  potato  add 
half  cup  salt  and  half  cup  sugar  ;  pour  over  all  one 
quart  boiling  water,  stirring  well ;  it  will  thicken 
like  starch ;  when  nearly  cold,  add  one  cup  of 
good  yeast.  In  about  twelve  hours  it  should  be 
light ;  put  in  jug  or  bottle,  and  cork  tightly. 

Teast. — A  double  handful  of  hops,  one-half 
dozen  large  potatoes ;  boil  together  in  one-half 
gallon  of  water  till  done  ;  strain  and  mash  on  to 
one-half  cupful  of  ginger,  small  cup  of  flour,  and 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  half  cup  of  salt. 
Let  stand  until  cool,  then  add  one  cupful  of  good 
yeast.    Next  day  cork  up  tight  in  a  jug. 

Teast  and  Bread.— Take  ten  large  potatoes, 
pare  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  \\ith  three  quarts  of 
water ;  put  a  pint  of  hops  in  a  thin  nuislin  ])ag  in 
the  same  kettle  wit"  potatoes  ;  boil  until  iiotatoes 
are  .soft,  then  pour  che  water  from  this  kettle  boil- 
ing hot  over  a  pi.it  of  flour  in  a  crock.  Squeeze 
all  tho  strength  from  the  hops  ;  mash  the  potatoes, 
add  a  quart  of  co.d  water  to  them,  and  put  tlirough 
a  colander  into  tho  crock,  and  add  one-half  tea- 
cup of  salt,  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  gin- 
ger. Let  this  stand  for  two  days  until  it  stops 
fermenting  and  settles  ;  then  put  into  a  jug,  cork 
tight,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

For  the  Bread.— Pare  and  boil  six  good-sized 
potatoes,  drain  off  the  water,  mash  fine,  and  pour 
over  them  about  three  pints  of  cold  water  and  run 
through  a  colander.  Add  flour  uutii  this  is  a  thin 
batter,  then  put  in  a  coffeecup  of  yeast  from  the 
jug.    Let  stand  until  it  rises,  then  stir  into  flour  as 


much  as  you  can  with  a  spoon,  and  let  rise  again. 
Work  in  enough  more  flour  to  make  as  stilf  a» 
bread,  and  let  rise  the  third  time.  When  light, 
this  time  work  out  into  loaves,  and  let  rise.  All 
the  flour  must  be  sifted. 

To  Freshen  Stale  Bread. — Pump  on  or  pour 
water  over  the  loaf  until  moistened  through,  put 
in  a  pan,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  moist- 
ure is  all  absorbed. 

Milk  Sponge  Bread.— Put  a  pint  of  boihng 
water  in  a  pitcher,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar ; 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  soda ; 
let  it  stand  till  you  can  bear  your  finger  in  it ;  then 
add  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  ;  beat  it  hard  for 
two  minutes.  Now  place  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of 
hot  water — not  hot  enough  to  scald,  the  mixture  ; 
keep  the  water  at  the  same  temperature  till  the 
emptyings  are  light.  If  set  early  in  the  morning 
they  will  be  ready,  if  watched  carefully,  at  eleven 
o'clock  to  make  a  sponge,  the  same  as  for  other 
bread,  with  a  quart  of  very  warm  milk.  Let  this 
sponge  get  very  light ;  then  make  into  loaves,  and 
set  to  rise  again,  taking  care  they  do  not  get  too 
light  this  time  before  putting  in  the  oven,  or  the 
bread  will  be  dry  and  tasteless. 

Salt-Rising  Bread. — Take  newly-ground  mid- 
dlings ;  put  six  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  it  in  a 
coffee  cup  ;  add  one  t-easpoon  of  sugar,  one  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  of  soda  ;  mix 
thoroughly ;  pour  boiling  water  in  the  mixture, 
stirring  it  well  together  until  it  will  nearly  fill  the 
cup  ;  remove  the  spoon  ;  cover  the  cup  of  dough  \ 
set  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  not  scald ;  set  it 
Friday  morning,  and  it  will  be  light  for  Satui'day's 
baking ;  if  in  a  hurry,  set  in  a  dish  of  warm  water. 
Now  put  in  bread-pan  flour  enough  for  bread  ;  add 
salt ;  take  one  quart  of  boiling  water  for  thi'ee 
loaves,  and  turn  into  the  middle  of  your  flour, 
Stirling  in  slowly ;  put  enough  cold  water  (or 
milk)  to  cool  .sufficiently  to  bear  your  linger  in  it ;. 
then  add  middlings — stir  in  well ;  cover  with  some 
of  the  flour,  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  When  light 
enough,  mix  soft  into  loaves  ;  grease  bread-pans  ; 
also  top  of  the  loaves,  which  makes  tender  upper 
crust ;  cut  gashes  quite  deep  across  the  loaves,  and 
it  will  rise  evenly ;  set  near  the  stove,  and  when 
light  enough,  bake  thi-ee-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Salt-Rising  Bread. — In  the  morning  take  a 
quart  dish  and  scald  it  out ;  then  put  in  a  pint  of 
warm  water ;  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir 
flour  enough  in  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  set  the 
dish  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  and  where  it  will 
keep  of  the  same  temperature — just  warm  enough 
to  bear  your  hand  in.  If  the  flour  is  good  it  will 
be  at  the  top  of  the  dish  in  two  hours  ;  then  take 
flour  enough  in  a  pan  to  make  three  loaves  of 
bread ;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle ;  put  in  the 
yeast,  and  the  same  dish  full  of  warm  water ;  stir 
it  up  thick  with  a  spoon,  and  cover  it  with  some 
of  the  flour,  and  set  it  to  rise.  When  light,  mold 
it  into  loaves,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise 
again.  When  light  enough,  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit. — One  important  point 
is  in  having  a  hot  oven ;  another  is,  have  flour 
sifted,  and  roll  dough  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  ; 
then  more  baking  powder  is  needed.  For  each 
teacup  of  flour  take  a  teaspoon  of  powder  ;  butter. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 


23 


the  size  of  a  small  hen's  eggs,  Is  sufficient  for  a 
quart  of  flour.  After  rubbing  butter  and  powder 
Into  the  amount  of  flour  needed,  turn  in  cold 
water  (milk  will  do),  stirring  all  the  time,  till 
the  right  consistency  is  reached  ;  salt ;  then  roll 
lightly,  and  bake  at  once.  They  will  prove  flakey, 
feathery,  delicious  and  more  nutricious  than  bis- 
cuit raised  with  yeast. 

Soda  Biscuits.— Three  pints  of  flour,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  lard,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  a  teaspoon  even  full  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  ;  sift  the  cream  tartar 
with  the  flour  dry ;  rub  the  butter  and  lard  very 
thorouglily  through  it ;  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  pint 
of  milk  and  mix  all  together.  Roll  out,  adding  as 
little  flour  as  possible  ;  cut  with  a  buiscuit-cutter, 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Tremont  House  Rolls. — Take  two  quarts  of 
flour,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle  and  put  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  of 
boiled  milk,  and  one  teacupful  of  yeast.  Do  not 
stir,  but  put  them  together  at  night,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  until  morning.  Then  mix  all  together 
and  knead  fifteen  minutes.  Set  in  a  cool  place 
again  for  six  hours,  and  roll  out  about  one-half  an 
inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  tiiscuit  cutter.  Moisten 
one  edge  with  butter,  and  fold  together  like  rolls. 
Lay  in  the  pan  so  that  they  will  not  touch,  set  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Light  Biscuit. — Take  about  as  much  dough, 
after  it  is  light,  as  would  make  a  good-sized  loaf 
of  bread  ;  put  it  in  a  pie-pan  ;  mix  in  a  small 
cup  of  lard  and  butter  (more  lard  than  butter),  one 
tablespoon  of  flne  sugar  ;  do  not  put  in  any  more 
flour  ;  never  mind  if  sticky  ;  then  let  rise  very  light, 
keeping  in  warm  place  ;  roll  out  about  one-half 
'nch  thick  without  moulding.  Bake  in  rather  quick 
0\  ^n.    Will  bake  in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

LiCt.^t  Bj,  cuit. — In  kneading  bread  set  aside  a 
small  I\i,f  for  biscuits.  Into  this  work  a  heaping 
tablespoV  nful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  Vig-ar.  The  more  it  is  worked  the  whiter 
it  will  be.  \  As  it  rises,  mold  it  down  twice  before 
making  vaXk  biscuit.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  a  bis- 
cuit-cutter. \  The  dough  should  be  quite  soft. 

French  RAlls. — One  pint  of  milk  come  to  a 
boil,  one-half  \up  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  yeast,  1  tirred  into  a  sponge ;  when  light 
knead  up  stiff.ladd  one  cup  of  milk,  put  in  just 
when  light,  roll  out,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  but- 
ter one-half  si^  e,  and  lay  the  other  over.  Bake 
fifteen  minutes. 

Rolls. — Take  one  quart  of  flour  and  mix  quite 
soft  with  warm  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  yeast ; 
mix  in  the  morning  and  set  to  rise  until  noon  ; 
then  break  into  it  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  tea-. 
spoonful  of  salt ;  mix  up  well  together  with  hands, 
and  set  to  rise  again  until  about  an  hour  before 
tea.  Then  knead  a  little,  and  cutting  off  a  piece 
about  the  size  of  a  common  biscuit,  roll  out  to 
about  the  size  of  a  saucer,  spread  thinly  with  but- 
ler and  turn  over.  After  they  are  molded  let  them 
stand  until  light  enough,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick 
oven. 


English  Rolls. — Two  pounds  of  flour,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast, 
one  pint  of  warm  milk  ;  mix  well  together,  and  set 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise ;  knead,  and  make  into 
rolls.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

How  to  Make  Rolls. — When  mashing  potatoes 
for  dinner,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  it  into  one  pint 
of  the  water  they  were  boiled  in,  and  set  aside  till 
bed-time  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  colander,  add 
one  pint  of  milk,  one  large  spoonful  nice  lard, 
one  large  spoonful  white  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  penny-worth  of  yeast,  and  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Leave  it  in  a  moderately-warm 
place.  In  the  morning  add  flour  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough,  working  it  well.  Let  it  rise  again, 
roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes, 
fold  together,  drawing  a  buttered  knife  through 
as  you  fold  them.  Let  them  rise  again  for  half 
an  hour,  or  till  light ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  In  cold  weather  the 
milk  should  be  luke-warm ;  in  hot  weather  the 
milk  should  be  scalded  and  cooled.  The  potatoes 
must  be  pared  before  boiling,  and  the  kettle  in 
which  they  are  boiled  must«be  perfectly  clean. 

Rusks. — In  one  large  coffeecup  of  warm  milk 
dissolve  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  then  add 
three  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  beat  all 
together ;  use  only  flour  enough  to  roll  out,  to 
which  add  two  ounces  of  butter ;  let  it  raise. 
When  very  light,  knead,  mold  into  shape,  and  set 
in  a  warm  place.  When  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven ; 
when  done,  cover  the  top  with  sugar  dissolved  in 
milk. 

Sweet  Rusk. — One  pint  of  warm  milk — new  is 
best — one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  yeast ;  make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  let 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  the  sugar, 
butter,  eggs,  and  salt,  well  beaten  up  together, 
with  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  it 
rise  again,  then  make  out  into  round  balls,  and 
rise  a  third  time.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

French  Rolls. — Into  one  pound  of  flour  rub 
two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
well  beaten  :  add  a  tablespoonful  of  good  yeast,  a 
little  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  d(jugh  , 
cover  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  till  light,  which 
will  be  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  the  strength 
of  the  yeast ;  cut  into  rolls,  dip  the  edges  into 
melted  butter  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to- 
gether, and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cinnamon  Rolls. — Take  a  piece  of  pie-crust ; 
roll  it  out ;  cut  it  in  narrow  strips  ;  sprinkle  cin- 
namon over  it ;  roll  it  up  tight ;  put  it  in  a  clean 
tin  pan,  which  has  been  well  oiled  with  butter; 
brown  nicely,  and  bake  ;  then  serve  on  the  table. 

Breakfast  Rolls. — Two  quarts  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  yeast,  one  pint  scalded  milk,  or  water,  if 
milk  is  scarce,  and  a  little  salt ;  set  to  rise  until 
light ;  then  knead  until  hard  and  set  to  rise,  and 
when  wanted,  make  in  rolls  ;  place  a  piece  of  but- 
ter between  the  folds,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Potato  Rolls. — Boil  four  good  sized  potatoes, 
with  their  skins  on  ;  squeeze  them  in  a  towel,  to 
make  them  dry  and  mealy,  then  remove  the  skin, 


24 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 


smd  mash  them  perfectly  smooth,  with  a  spoonful 
of  butter  and  a  little  salt ;  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  stir  into  the  potatoes,  then 
add  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  yeast ;  beat  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough  ;  set  it  to  rise,  and  when  risen  make  it  into 
cakes  the  size  of  an  egg  ,  let  them  rise  again,  and 
bake  a  light  brown. 

ViENHA  Rolls. — One  quart  of  milk,  one-half 
teaspoonful  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der, one  tablespoon  lard,  one  pint  of  milk.  Mix 
into  a  dough  easily  to  be  handled  without  sticking 
to  the  hands  ;  turn  on  the  board  and  roll  out  to 
the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  cut  it  out  with  a 
large  cake  cutter,  spread  very  lightly  with  butter, 
fold  one  half  over  the  other  and  lay  them  in  a 
greased  pan  without  touching.  Wash  them  over 
With  a  little  milk,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

English  Tea  Cake. — Take  a  li2:ht  bread  dough, 
enough  for  a  small  loaf,  mix  ■with  it  one  table- 
epoonful  of  lard,  one  of  sugar,  one  large  spoonful 
of  currants ;  let  rise  again  until  very  light,  then 
bake  ;  cut  into  round  slices  and  toast  them  ;  but- 
ter while  hot. 

Brown  Loaf. — One  coffeeeup  of  molasses,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one-half  teacup- 
ful  of  boiling  water,  stir  into  the  molasses  until  it 
foams,  then  mix  into  it  graham  flour  and  corn 
meal  (in  the  proportion  of  three  to  one)  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter,  and  then  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard.  Pour  into  a  mould  and  steam  foivr 
hours.  To  be  eaten  hot.  Very  nice  as  a  pudding 
with  sauce. 

Steamed  Gkadam  Bread. — Two  cups  of  graham 
flour,  one  i^gg,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter, 
three-quarters  cf  a  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
xnolasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Steam  one  and  a  half  hours. 

Mrs.  M.  Brown  Bread. — Scald  one  pint  of 
brown  flour,  make  it  thick  as  stiff  mush  ;  then  put 
in  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  and  let  this  sponge  stand 
over  niglit ;  in  the  morning  mix  it  up  with  white 
flour,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  This  quantity  makes 
two  small  loaves.  It  requires  longer  to  bake  than 
white  bread. 

Graham  McrFriNs. — One  quart  of  graham  flour 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  for 
griddle-cakes. 

Graham  Breakfast  Rolls. — Two  pounds  of 
potatoes,  boiled  and  pressed  through  a  colander, 
one  pint  of  water,  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  a  cup  of  yeast ; 
mix  into  a  stiff  dough,  with  graham  flour,  and 
let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  mold  into 
small  cakes,  and  when  light  bake. 

Graham  Biscuit.— One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one- 
half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sunar,  two 
eggs,  flour  enougli  to  make  stiff,  and  a  spoonful 
baking  powder ;  drop  on  buttered  tins. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — One  quart  of  rye  meal 
(not  flour),  two  quarts  of  corn  meal,  two-thinls  of 
a  cup  of  molasses,  into  which  beat  a  teaspoonful 


of  soda,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sa.t,  and  mix  quite 
soft  with  boiling  water,  and  bake. 

Graham  Puffs. — One  egg,  one  pint  sweet  milk, 
one  pint  graham  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  beat 
the  egg  thoroughly  ;  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour 
gradually  ;  beat  the  whole  mixture  briskly  with  an 
egg-beater ;  pour  into  cast-iron  gem  pans,  well 
greased  and  piping  hot ;  bake  in  very  hot  oveu  •, 
this  mixture  is  just  sufiScient  for  twelve  gems. 

Graham  Muffins. — Two  cups  of  graham  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one 
egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder  ;  bake  in  rings  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Graham  Crackers. — Seven  cups  graham,  one 
cup  thick  sweet  cream  (or  butter),  one  pint  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ;  rub  the 
baking-powder  into  the  flour  ;  add  the  cream  with 
a  little  salt,  then  the  milk  ;  mix  well,  and  roll  as 
thin  as  soda  crackers ;  cut  in  any  shape ;  bake 
quickly  ;  then  leave  about  the  stove  for  a  few  hours 
to  dry  thoroughly. 

Graham  Biscuits. — Take  one  quart  water  or 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar,  two  of  baker's  yeast,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  take  enough  white  flour  to  use  up  the  water, 
making  it  the  consistency  of  batter  cakes  ;  add  the 
rest  of  the  ingredients,  and  as  much  graham  flour 
as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon  ;  set  it  away  till 
morning ;  in  the  morning  grease  pan,  flour  hands  ; 
take  a  lump  dough  the  size  of  a  large  egg ;  roll 
lightly  between  the  palms ;  let  them  rise  twenty 
minutes,  and  bake  in  a  tolei-ably  hot  oven. 

German  Puffs. — Two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour,  three  eggs  and  a  little  salt. 

Graham  Gems. — One  quart  of  graham  flour, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two  eggs 
beaten  light,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  (melted), 
one  tablespoonful  brown  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and 
milk  enough  to  make  a  batter. 

Brown  Bread. — One  cup  of  corn  meal,  one  cup 
of  graham  flour,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of 
warm  water,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  a  little  salt ;  steam  two  hours. 
Serve  at  table  hot. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Take  three  teacups  of 
corn  meal,  stir  into  it  two  cups  of  boiling  sweet 
milk  ;  when  cold,  add  one  teacup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  wheat  flour,  and  one  cup  of  sour  milk : 
into  the  sour  milk  stir  well  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda ;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  steam 
three  hours. 

Corn  Bread. — Three  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder, a  little  sugar. 

Corn  Bread. — One  cup  of  corn  meal,  two  cups 
of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Boiled  Indian  Bread. — Two  cups  meal,  one 
quart  sour  milk,  one  cup  flour,  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
sirup,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  egg ;  put  in  pud- 
ding bag,  set  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  three 
hours. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,   ETC. 


25 


Corn  Cake  (Delicious). — One  quart  of  corn 
meal,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 

Corn  Bread  without  Eggs. — Two  cups  of  corn 
meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. — Three  pints  of  corn 
meal,  one  pint  of  flour,  two  eggs,  five  tablespoon- 
fuls of  baking-powder. 

Corn  Meal  Mctfeins. — One  and  one-half  cups 
■of  corn  meal,  the  same  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of 
"biking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  small  tablespoon  of  melted  but- 
ter, two  eggs,  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Corn  Bread. — Two  cups  sour  milk,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  cup  molasses,  two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one 
«nd  one-half  cups  of  white  flour,  small  tablespoon 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  sour  milk  ;  salt ;  steam  three 
hours  ;  to  be  eaten  hot.  Slice  and  steam  when 
you  wish  to  warm  it  up. 

Corn  Griddle  Cakes. — One  dozen  ears  of  corn 
grated,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  salt,  pep- 
per, flour  enough  to  make  batter  ;  then  bake  on 
buttered  griddle. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread.— Scald  two  cups  of  corn 
meal  with  boiling  water,  then  add  one  cup  of  cold 
meal  and  one  cup  of  flour,  two  cups  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  molasses  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.    Steam  three  hours. 

Miss  Plater's  Corn  Mush. — Put  a  quart  of 
water  on  to  boil.  Stir  a  pint  of  cold  milk  with  one 
pint  of  corn  meal  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
When  the  water  boils,  pour  in  the  mixture  grad- 
ually, stirring  well ;  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring 
often. 

Drop  Biscuits. — One  quart  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking-powder,  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
tutter  the  size  of  an  egg  rubbed  into  the  flour,  one 
pint  of  milk ;  drop  from  a  spoon  in  buttered  pan  ; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Soda  Biscuit. — One  quart  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  tartar,  one  of  soda,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
sweet  milk  ;  mix  very  thoroughly  the  flour,  cream 
tartar,  butter,  salt ;  then  add  the  milk  and  soda. 
Roll  out  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  minutes. 

Newport  Breakfast  Cakes. — Six  eggs,  six 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  milk,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  six  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  soda ;  stir  stiff ;  makes  six 
loaves. 

Crumpets. — Take  one  quart  of  dough  from  the 
bread  at  an  early  hour  in  the  morning ;  break 
three  eggs,  separating  yolks  and  whites,  both  to 
be  whipped  to  a  light  froth ;  mix  them  into  the 
dough  and  gradually  add  milk-warm  water,  until 
it  is  a  batter  the  consistency  of  buckwheat  cakes  ; 
beat  it  well  and  let  it  rise  till  breakfast  time. 
Have  the  griddle  hot  and  nicely  greased  ;  pour  on 
the  batter  in  small  round  cakes,  and  bake  a  light 
brown. 


"Wheat  Muffins. — One  quart  of  flour,  five  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking-powder,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  five  eggs,  milk  enough  to  make  a  thick 
batter. 

"White  Muffins. — One  teacup  of  milk,  three 
cups  of  flom-,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  baking-powder. 

PoPOVERS. — One  cup  rich  milk,  one  egg,  one 
cup  flour,  a  little  salt ;  beat  together  thoroughly, 
fli'st  the  milk  and  flour,  then  egg  and  salt ;  fill  but- 
tered cups  half  full ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cream  Puffs. — Boil  one  pint  of  water,  rub  to- 
gether one-half  pound  of  butter  with  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour ;  stir  into  the  water 
while  boiling.  "When  it  thickens  like  starch  re- 
move from  the  fire.  "When  cool  stir  into  it  ten 
well-beaten  eggs  and  one  small  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Drop  the  mixture  on  to  the  buttered  tins  with  a 
large  spoon.  Bake  until  a  light  brown,  in  a  quick 
oven.  "When  done,  open  on  side  and  fill  with 
mock  cream,  made  as  follows :  One  cup  of  fine 
sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  quart  of 
milk  ;  beat  eggs  to  a  froth  ;  stir  in  the  sugar,  then 
flour ;  stir  them  into  the  milk  while  boiling ;  stir 
till  it  thickens  ;  then  remove  from  the  fire  and 
fiavor  wijh  lemon  or  vanilla.  It  should  not  be 
put  into  the  puffs  until  cold. 

PuFFETS. — One  quart  flour,  one  pint  milk,  tw* 
eggs,  beaten  light,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  three 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking- 
powder  ;  bake  quick. 

Rosettes. — To  three  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  very 
light,  add  one  quart  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg 'cut  in  little  pieces  into  the  milk  and 
eggs,  three  coffeecups  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  light  and  stirred 
quickly  into  the  mixture.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sally  Lunn. — One  quart  of  flour,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  two  eggs,  two  teacups  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  tartar,  one  of  soda,  and  a  little 
salt.  Scatter  the  cream  of  tartar  the  sugar  and 
the  salt  into  the  flour ;  add  the  eggs — the  butter 
melted — and  one  cup  of  milk  ;  dissolve  the  soda  in 
the  remaining  cup,  and  stir  all  together  steadily  a 
few  moments.     Bake  in  two  round  pans. 

Strawberry  Short-Cake. — Make  a  good  bis- 
cuit crust  and  roll  out  about  one-quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  cut  into  two  cakes  the  same  size 
and  shape  ;  spread  one  over  lightly  with  melted 
butter,  and  lay  the  other  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  When  done,  they  will  fall  apart.  Butter 
them  well,  as  usual.  Mix  the  berries  with  plenty 
of  sugar,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  needed. 
Spread  the  berries  in  alternate  layers,  having  ber- 
ries on  the  top,  and  over  all  spread  whipped  cream 
or  charlotte  russe.  The  juice  that  has  run  from 
the  fruit  can  be  sent  to  the  table  in  a  tureen  and 
served  as  cut. 

Lemon  Shortcake. — Make  a  nice  rich  short- 
cake, split  and  butter  ;  then  take  the  rind  the  Juico 
and  pulp  of  two  lemons,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  ono 
cup  of  cream  ;  mix  thoroughly  and  spread. 

Teast  Waffles. — Take  three  pints  of  milk,  on 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  them  into  a  pan  o  • 


26 


BREAD,   BISCUITS,  ETC. 


the  stove  until  the  butter  melts,  add  five  eggs,  well 
beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoonf  uls  of  yeast,  and  about  three  pints 
of  flour.  Make  up  and  let  them  rise  three  or  four 
hours  before  baking. 

Waffles. — Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one 
quart  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
melted  ;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  a 
little  salt,  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  thick 
batter. 

Cream  Waffles. — One  pint  of  rich  sour  cream  ; 
stir  into  it  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus,  then  add 
flour  to  make  rather  a  stiff  batter.  To  be  split 
and  buttered. 

Waffles. — Sift  together  one  quart  of  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder ;  then 
add  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  milk.  When  done,  sift  sugar  over  them, 
and  serve  hot. 

Lemon  Turnovers. — Four  dessert  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  of  powdered  sugar,  the  rind  of  one 
lemon,  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs  and 
a  little  milk.  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  lemon  with  the 
milk  to  the  consistency  of  batter  ;  add  the  butter 
and  eggs  well  beaten.    Fry  and  turn  over. 

Varieties. — Two  eggs  beat  light,  teaspoon  of 
salt,  the  egg  thickened  with  flour  to  roll  out  thin 
as  a  wafer ;  cut  in  strips  one  inch  wide  and  four 
inches  long,  wind  it  round  your  finger,  and  fry 
them  as  you  do  doughnuts. 

Drop  Biscuit. — Rub  into  one  quart  of  flour  one- 
half  teacup  of  butter,  one  small  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  enough 
sweet  milk  to  mix  with  a  spoon.  Drop  on  but- 
tered pans. 

Milk  Toast. — Place  the  milk  to  heat,  mix  a  tea- 
spoonful of  flour  smootlily  with  a  little  milk,  stir 
it  in,  and  let  it  come  just  to  a  boil,  with  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  to  a  quart  of  milk,  and 
some  salt.  Place  your  toast  on  a  deep  dish  and 
pour  your  gravy  over  it. 

Mock  Cream  Toast. — Melt  in  one  quart  of 
morning's  milk  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  flour,  freed  from  lumps,  and 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  light.  Beat  these 
ingredients  together  for  several  minutes,  strain 
the  cream  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and  when 
wanted  beat  it  constantly  with  a  brisk  movement. 

Oatmeal  Porridge. — Allow  one  cupful  of  oat- 
meal to  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Sift  the  meal  in  the  boiling 
water  with  one  hand,  stirring  witli  the  other.  Boil 
from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Oat  Meal  Gems. — Take  one  cup  of  oat  meal 
and  soak  it  over  night  in  one  cup  of  water  ;  in  the 
morning  add  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 
of  saleratus,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt ;  tliey  are 
baked  in  irons  as  other  gems  and  muffins ;  if  on 
first  trial  you  find  them  moist  and  sticky,  add  a 
little  more  flour,  as  some  flour  thickens  more  than 
other.     Or  use  sweet  milk  and  baking-powder. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel. — Take  two  ounces  of  oat 
meal  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water;  rub 


the  meal  in  a  basin  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water,  pouring  off  the  fluid  after 
the  coarser  particles  are  settled,  but  while  the 
milkiness  continues,  repeat  the  operation  until  the 
milkiness  disappears  ;  next  put  the  washings  into 
a  pan,  stir  until  they  boil,  and  a  soft,  thick  muci- 
lage is  formed  ;  sweeten  to  taste. 

Savoy  Biscuits. — Take  twelve  eggs,  their  weight 
in  powdered  sugar,  and  half  theu*  weight  in  fine 
flour  ;  beat  up  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  adding  a 
little  grated  lemon  peel  and  orange-flower  water ; 
whip  the  whites  separately  into  a  stifl'  froth,  mix 
Avith  the  other,  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  beat  the 
whole  together  ;  butter  a  mold  and  put  in  your 
mixture  ;  bake  in  a  moderately-warm  oven.  These 
biscuits  are  very  light  and  delicate. 

Dyspepsia  Bread. — One  pint  bowl  of  Graham 
flour,  dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  home-made  yeast,  and  add  to 
the  mixture  one  teacup  of  molasses  ;  pour  in  suflS- 
cient  warm  water  to  make  it  somewhat  thinner 
than  flour  bread. 

PuFFETS. — One  quart  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  and 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Rub  but^ 
ter  into  tlie  flour,  beat  the  eggs  separately,  add- 
ing the  whites  last.  Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Rice  Muffins. — One  pint  of  boiled  rice,  one 
pint  of  milk,  flve  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  one  pint  of  sponge,  and  a  little  salt. 
Beat  the  rice,  butter,  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  to- 
gether, then  add  sponge  and  milk,  flour  enough  to- 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise  very  light,  beat  thft 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  stir  in  just  before  putting 
them  into  the  oven. 

Rice  Bread. — Take  a  plate  of  boiled  rice  warm 
enough  to  melt  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, beat  two  eggs  separately,  mix  with  them  one 
an'd  one-half  cups  of  flour,  and  milk  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Grease  the  pans  and  bake 
like  bread  or  muffins. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Take  cold  boiled  rice,  add 
three  eggs  with  sugar  and  lemon  peel  to  your 
taste ;  make  into  oval  balls ;  rub  with  bread 
crumbs,  dip  in  egg :  fry  in  butter ;  when  done, 
sprinkle  sugar  over  them. 

Apple  Pancakes  (very  nice).— Three  pints  of 
milk,  eight  eggs,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick 
baiter,  teaspoon  of  salt ;  add  six  or  eight  apples 
chopi^ed  fine,  and  fry  in  lard. 

Spanish  Puffs. — Put  into  a  saucepan  a  teacup- 
ful  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter ;  while  it  is  boiling  add  sufQcient  fiour  for  it  to 
leave  the  sauce-pan  ;  stir  in  one  by  one  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs ;  drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  into 
boiling  lard ;  fry  them  a  light  brown.  Eat  with 
maple  sirup. 

Corn-Starch  Puffs. — Four  eggs  beaten  scpar 
rately  ;  one  cup  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  corn-starch; 
one-half  cup  of  butter ;  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon; 
in  the  butter  and  sugar ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder mixed  in  the  corn-starch. 


PUDDINGS. 


27 


Breakfast  Puffs. — One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint 
of  flour,  two  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  put  the  flour  after  sifting 
in  a  pan,  and  the  butter  in  the  middle  of  the  flour, 
break  in  the  eggs,  and  work  the  butter  and  eggs 
thoroughly  into  the  floiu",  then  gradually  add  the 
milk  until  you  have  a  smooth  batter.  Bake  them 
in  French  roll  pans.  They  take  but  a  few  minutes 
to  bake. 

Flannel  Cakes.— Three  eggs,  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk,  about  one  quart  of  flour,  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Craig's 
baking-powder ;  Ijeat  the  yolks,  and  half  of  the 
milk,  salt  and  flour  together ;  then  the  remainder 
of  the  milk ;  and  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well 
beaten.  A  teacup  of  boiled  rice  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

Oysters  Fritters. — One  and  one-half  pints  of 
sweet  milk,  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  flour, 
four  eggs — the  yolks  must  be  beaten  very  tliick — 
to  which  add  milk  and  flour  ;  stir  the  whole  well 
together,  then  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir 
them  gradually  into  the  batter  ;  take  a  spoonful  of 
the  mixture,  drop  an  oyster  into  it,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  ;  let  them  be  a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 

Fritters. — One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour, 
and  three  eggs. 

Apple  Fritters. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  of  milk ;  bake  on  a  griddle,  a  little  thicker 
than  flour  cakes.  Pare  the  apples,  cut  in  thick 
slices,  and  bake  in  the  oven  ;  while  hot,  lay  a  piece 
of  apple  on  each  fritter ;  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
over  the  top  of  each  apple  ;  serve. 

Apple  Fritters.— Four  eggs,  to  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoon- 
f uls  of  cream-tartar,  flour ;  pare  and  cut  apple  in 
thin  slices,  and  mix  into  the  batter. 

Cream  Fritters.— One  and  one-half  pints  of 
flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder,, shortening  of  lard  and  butter  to- 
gether the  Size  of  a  hickory-nut,  milk  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter ;  drop  in  hot  lard,  and  fry. 
Eat  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  dip  pieces  of  apple 
into  the  batter  before  frying. 

Fritters. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  a  little 
ealt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter  ;  drop 
into  boiling  lard,  and  eat  hot  with  sirup  or  sweet- 
ened cream. 


PUDDINGS. 

In  boiling  pudding,  have  plenty  of  water  in  the 
pot  boiling  when  the  pudding  is  put  in,  and  do 
not  let  it  stop ;  add  more  as  it  is  needed.  Turn 
the  pudding  frequently.  If  a  cloth  is  used,  dip 
the  pudding  (when  done)  into  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
so  that  it  can  be  removed  easily. 

In  using  molds,  grease  well  with  butter,  tie  the 
lid  closely,  and  set  in  a  pot  with  very  little  water, 
aaid  add  more  as  needed. 

Fruit  sauces  are  nice  for  blanc-mange  and  corn- 
starch puddings. 

Fresh  red  cherries,  stewed,  sweetened  and 
passed  through  a  sieve,  and  slightly  thickened 
With  corn-starch,  make  a  good  sauce. 


Pudding  Sauce. — Rub  well  together  until  light, 
four  large  tablespoonfuls  of  light  brown  sugar, 
two  ounces  of  butter  ;  stir  into  a  teacup  of  boiling 
water,  quickly  and  well,  until  it  has  dissolved  ;  on 
no  account  omit  stirring  constantly  till  well  dis- 
solved, or  it  will  lose  its  lightness.  Add  grated 
nutmeg  to  taste.    Serve  hot. 

Pudding  Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one 
egg  well  beaten  with  the  sugar,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  boiling  milk  ;  add  the  whites  well  beaten. 

Pudding  Sauce. — Eub  to  a  cream  two  cups  of 
sugar  with  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter ;  flavor 
to  taste  ;  float  the  dish  in  boiling  water  until  well 
heated  ;  pour  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  on  it 
just  before  serving. 

Lemon  Sauce.— One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tcaspoonful  of 
corn-starch.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  until  light ; 
add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Stir 
the  whole  into  three  gills  of  boiling  water  until  it 
thickens  sufficiently  for  the  table. 

Lemon  Sauce. — One  large  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  small  ta,blespoonful  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Strawberry  Sauce. — Rub  half  a  cup  of  butter 
and  one  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  beaten 
white  of  an  q^^^  and  one  cup  of  strawberries  thor- 
oughly mashed. 

Hard  Sauce  for  Puddings. — One  cup  butter, 
three  cups  sugar,  beat  very  hard,  flavoring  with 
lemon  juice,  smooth  into  shape  with  a  knife  dip- 
ped into  cold  water. 

English  Plum  Pudding. — Nine  eggs  beaten  ta 
a  froth  ;  add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter free  from  lumps  ;  add  one  pint  new  milk  and 
beat  well ;  add  two  pounds  of  raisins  stoned,  and 
two  pounds  currants  washed  and  dried,  one  pound 
of  citron  .sliced,  one-quarter  pound  bitter  almonds 
divided,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  brown  sugar, 
one  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  allspice,  mace  and 
cinnamon,  three-fourths  or  a  pound  beef  suet, 
chopped  fine  ;  mix  three  days  before  cooking,  and 
beat  well  again ;  add  more  milk,  if  required.  If 
made  into  two  puddings,  boil  four  hours. 

Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  raisins  stoned, 
one  pound  of  currants  washed  and  dried,  one 
pound  of  rich  beef  suet  minced,  one  pound  of 
stale  bread-crumbs,  one  pound  of  flour.  Mix  the 
bread-crumbs,  flour  and  suet  together.  Beat  six 
eggs  well,  and  add  to  them  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  milk  with  the  suet  and  flour  for  some  time, 
then  stir  in  the  currants  and  raisins,  mixing  well 
as  you  proceed.  Mix  in  also  one-fourth  of  a 
pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  one  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon, 
one-half  ounce  of  powdered  ginger,  one  grated 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt ;  either  bake  or  boil  ac- 
cording to  taste.  Bake  nearly  two  hours.  If 
boiled,  pour  into  a  cloth,  tie  the  cloth,  allowing  a 
little  room  to  swell,  and  boil  for  six  hours.  It  is- 
better  boiled.    Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. 

English  Plum  Pudding. — One  pound  of  cur- 
rants and  one  pound  of  raisins  dredged  with  flour, 
one-half  pound  of  beef  suet  and  one  pound  of 


28 


PUDDINGS. 


bread-crumbs,  one-fonrth  of  a  pound  of  citron, 
eight  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  a  large  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  and  one  of  molasses,  mace  and  nut- 
meg to  your  taste.  It  requires  six  or  seven  hours 
to  boil ;  turn  it  several  times.  Beat  the  whites  of 
six  eggs,  and  put  in  the  last  thing.  Use  currants 
if  you  like  them. 

Imitation  Plum  Pudding. — Soak  some  dried 
apples  all  night ;  in  the  morning  chop  very  line, 
put  a  teacupful  of  them  into  a  pint  of  molasses, 
anikeep  slightly  warm  for  an  hour  or  two  ;  after 
that  add  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  of  water, 
one  of  chopped  raisins,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  three  pints  of  flour,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Put  the  flour  in 
last,  and  stir  all  together  thoroughly.  Boil  two 
hours  and  a  half  in  a  bowl  or  tin  pudding-mold. 
This  may  be  eaten  with  lemon  sauce,  and  is  a  good 
imitation  of  a  genuine  plum  pudding. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding. — Six  apples  well  stewed, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  of  it  stirred  into 
the  apple  while  hot,  and  sugar  to  your  taste ; 
when  cold,  add  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  to  the  apple. 
Pound  and  sift  six  ci-ackers,  butter  your  dish,  and 
put  in  a  layer  of  cracker  and  a  layer  of  j'our  pre- 
pared apple,  and  tlms  until  you  have  lillcd  your 
dish  ;  let  the  cracker  be  the  upper  layer,  and  put 
the  remainder  of  your  butter  in  small  bits  upon  it. 
Bake  half  an  hour. 

Excellent  Baked  Apples. — Take  ten  or  twelve 
good-sized,  juicy  apples,  pare  and  core.  Butter  a 
baking-dish,  and  put  in  it  the  apples  ;  fill  the  cavi- 
ties with  sugar.  Take  a  half  teacup  of  butter  and 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  rub  together  until  smooth  ; 
to  this  put  enough  boiling  water  to  make  it  thin 
enough  to  cover  each  apple  ;  grate  over  them  nut- 
meg ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour  or  more.  Can 
be  eaten  with  meat  or  used  as  a  dessert  with  cream. 

Apple  or  Peach  Pudding. — Pare  and  quarter 
fine  sour  apples,  and  half  fill  a  gallon  crock  with 
them ;  take  light  bread  dough,  roll  half  an  inch 
thick,  cut  small  places  for  the  air  to  escape,  and 
spread  over  the  apples,  as  you  would  an  upper 
crust  for  pie,  cover  and  set  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  for  a  short  time,  then 
move  it  forward,  cooking  in  all  about  one-half 
hour.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  Peaches  can 
be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

Apple  or  Peach  Dumpllngs. — Pare  and  core 
fine  juicy  apples ;  then  take  light  bread  dough, 
cut  into  round  pieces  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fold 
around  each  apple  until  well  covered ;  put  them 
into  a  steamer,  let  them  rise,  then  set  the  steamer 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  steam.  Eat  with 
butter  and  sugar,  or  cream.  Use  peaches  in  the 
same  way. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. — Cook  apples  almost 
entirely  whole,  coring  or  not,  as  you  may  prefer  ; 
melt  butter  and  sugar  in  a  baking-pan,  and,  hav- 
ing inclosed  them  in  good  paste,  bake  ;  baste  them 
constantly. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding. — Three  eggs,  one  cof- 
feecup  of  sour  milk,  one  large  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  batter  as  stiflE  as  cake.  Add  quartered 
apples  as  desired. 


Apple  Coddle.— Pare  and  quarter  tart  apples, 
and  mix  them  gently  with  one  lemon  for  every  six 
apples,  and  cook  till  a  straw  will  pass  through 
them.  Make  a  sirup  of  half  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  apples  ;  put  the  apples 
and  lemons  (sliced)  into  the  sirup,  and  boil  gently 
until  the  apples  look  clear  ;  then  take  them  up 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and  add  an 
ounce  or  more  of  gelatine  to  the  sirup,  and  let  it 
boil  up.  Then  lay  a  slice  of  lemon  on  each  apple, 
and  strain  the  sii-up  over  them. 

Steamed  Dumpling. — Pare  and  quarter  ripe, 
tart  apples  ;  place  them  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  a 
little  water  ;  make  a  crust  as  you  would  tea  bis- 
cuit, of  sour  cream  or  rich  buttermilk,  if  you  have 
it,  if  not,  any  of  the  nice  baking-powder  recipes 
will  do  ;  roll  about  an  inch  thick  ;  place  over  the 
apples,  and  steam  one-half  an  hour.  Serve  mth 
sauce  made  of  one-third  butter  to  two-thirds 
sugar,  stirred  to  a  cream.  This  dumpling  may  be 
made  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  fresh  or  canned. 

Apple  Pudding.— Pare  eight  or  nine  juicy 
apples  and  core  them  whole.  Put  them  into  a 
pudding-dish  half  filled  with  water,  cover  closely 
and  set  into  the  oven  until  tender.  Drain  off  the 
water,  fill  each  apple  with  jelly,  and  season  with 
any  spice  pi'cferred.  Let  them  stand  until  cool. 
Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  into  which  stir  one-half 
pound  of  macaroons  pounded  fine,  a  little  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar.  Boil  all  together  a  minute  or  two,  and 
when  cool  beat  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  over  the  apples  and  bake 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes.    Eat  with  cream. 

Almond  Pudding. — Turn  boiling  water  on  to 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  ;  let  it 
remain  until  the  skin  comes  off  easily ;  rub  with  a 
dry  cloth  ;  when  dry,  pound  fine  with  one  large 
spoonful  of  rose  water ;  beat  six  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar: 
mix  with  one  quart  of  milk,  three  spoonfuls  of 
pounded  crackers,  four  ounces  of  melted  butter, 
and  the  same  of  citron  cut  into  bits  ;  add  almonds, 
stir  all  together,  and  bake  in  a  small  pudding  dish 
TOth  a  lining  and  rim  of  pastry.  This  pudding  is 
best  when  cold.  It  will  bake  in  half  an  hour  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Brown  Betty.— Grease  a  pudding-dish,  put  into 
this  a  layer  of  nice  cooking  apples  (sliced),  then  a 
layer  of  "bread-crumbs,  v.'ith  sugar  sprinkled  over, 
and  small  bits  of  butter.  For  three  apples  use  one 
cup  of  bread-crumljs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Put  a  layer  of 
bread-crumbs  on  top  ;  bake.  It  is  nice  either  with 
or  without  cream. 

Blackberry  Pudding. — Butter  and  lard  to- 
gether the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
egg  (beat  sugar,  butter,  lard  and  egg  together), 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder ;  stir  thick  with  berries. 

Batter  Fruit  Pudding. — Butter  thickly  a  pud- 
ding-dish that  will  hold  a  pint  and  one-half  ;  fill  it 
nearly  full  of  good  baking  apples,  cut  up  fine; 
pour  over  them  a  batter  made  mth  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour,  three  eggs,  and  one-half  pint 
of  milk  ;  tie  a  buttered  and  floured  cloth  over  the 
dish,  which  ought  to  be  quite  full,  and  boil  the 


PUDDINGS. 


29 


pudding  one  and  a  quarter  hour  ;  turn  it  out  into 
a  hot  dish,  and  strew  sugar  thiekly  over  it. 

Bread  Pudding. — One  coffeecup  bread-crumbs, 
di'ied  and  rolled  tine ;  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  teaspoonf  ul  ginger,  a  little  salt, 
three  eggs  (saving  out  the  whites  of  two).  When 
baked,  spread  jelly  over  the  top,  then  a  frosting 
made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  until 
slightly  browned. 

Bread  and  Apple  Pudding. — Butter  a  pudding- 
dish  ;  place  in  it  alternate  layers  of  bread-crumbs 
and  thinly-sliced  apples  ;  sprinkle  sugar  over  each 
layer  of  apples  ;  when  the  dish  is  filled,  let  the  top 
layer  be  of  bread-crumbs,  over  which  two  or  three 
^blespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  should  be  poured. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and  place  two  or 
three  nails  under  the  pudding-dish  to  keep  from 
burning  in  the  bottom ;  let  it  bake  from  three- 
quarters  to  a  whole  hour,  according  to  the  quality 
of  the  cooking  apples. 

Cabinet  Pudding.— The  remains  of  any  kind  of 
cake  broken  up,  two  cups  ;  half  cup  raisins  ;  half 
can  of  peaches,  four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pint 
milk.  Butter  a  plain  pudding  mold  and  lay  in 
some  of  the  broken  cake,  one-third  of  the  raisins, 
stoned,  one-third  of  the  peaches  ;  make  two  layers 
of  the  remainder  of  the  cake,  raisins  and  peaches. 
Cover  with  a  very  thin  slice  of  bread,  then  pour 
over  the  milk  beaten  with  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Set 
in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water  to  reach  two-thirds 
up  the  side  of  the  mold,  and  steam  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Turn  out  carefully  on  a  dish,  and 
serve  with  peach  sauce,  made  as  follows :  Place 
the  peach  juice  from  the  can  into  a  small  sauce- 
pan ;  add  an  equal  volume  of  water,  a  little  more 
sugar,  and  eight  or  ten  raisins  ;  boil  ten  minutes, 
strain,  and,  jus(  before  serving,  add  six  drops  of 
bitter  almond. 

Cracker  Pudding. — Mix  ten  ounces  of  finely- 
powdered  crackers  with  a  little  salt,  half  a  nut- 
meg, three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
three  of  butter ;  beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth ;  mix 
with  three  pints  of  milk  ;  pour  over  the  crackers, 
and  let  it  stand  till  soft ;  then  bake. 

Sauce  for  Cracker  PuDDrNG. — One  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  one  lemon,  inside 
grated,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 

Cocoa-nut  Pudding. — One  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  beat  butter  and  sugar  together  ; 
add  a  little  of  the  cocoa-nut  at  a  time,  and  one- 
half  teacupful  of  cream.  Do  not  bake  too  long, 
or  it  will  destroy  the  flavor.  Use  one  cocoa-nut. 
After  it  is  baked,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Spread  over 
the  pudding  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — Scrape  very  line  two 
ounces  of  vanilla  chocolate ;  put  it  into  a  pan, 
pouring  over  it  one  quart  of  new  milk,  stirring  it 
until  it  boils,  and  adding  by  degrees  four  ounces 
of  sugar,  milling  the  chocolate  until  it  is  smooth 
and  light ;  then  pour  out  to  cool ;  beat  eight  eggs 
to  a  froth,  and  mix  v?ith  the  chocolate  ;  pour  into 
a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.    Serve  cold,  with  sifted  sugar  over  it. 


Chocolate  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  four- 
teen even  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread-crumbs, 
twelve  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  six  eggs, 
one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  ;  sugar  to  make  very 
sweet.  Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four 
eggs  ;  beat  up  the  four  yolks  and  two  whole  eggs 
together  very  light,  with  the  sugar.  Put  the  milk 
on  the  range,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  perfect  boil 
pour  it  over  the  bread  and  chocolate ;  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  sugar  and  vanilla ;  be  sure  it  is 
sweet  enough ;  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  ;  bake 
one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold,  and 
just  before  it  is  served,  have  the  four  whites  beaten 
with  a  little  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  use  as  a  meringue. 

Chocolate  Pudding.  —  One  quart  of  milk, 
twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  eight 
tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Put  the  milk  and  bread-crumbs  on  the  fire ;  let 
them  get  moderately  warm  ;  beat  sugar,  yolks,  and 
chocolate,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk  ;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch ;  let  it  get  boiling  hot,, 
then  turn  in  a  dish  with  the  whites  beaten  with, 
sugar  on  top,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — Make  a  corn  starch  pud- 
ding with  a  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
When  done,  remove  about  half  and  flavor  to  taste, 
and  then  to  that  remaining  in  the  kettle  add  an 
egg  beaten  very  light  and  two  ounces  of  vanilla 
chocolate.  Put  in  a  mold,  alternating  the  dark  and 
light,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  boiled  cus- 
tard. 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sugar,  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two 
eggs  beaten  separately,  one  and  one-half  cup  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Cherry  Pudding. — Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and  as  many 
cherries  as  can  be  stirred  in.  Serve  with  cherry 
sauce. 

Cabinet  Pudding. — Butter  a  mold  well,  slice 
some  citron,  and  cut  it  in  any  fancy  shape  and 
place  it  tastefully  on  the  bottom ;  place  some 
raisins  to  imitate  flowers,  stars,  etc.  ;  put  over 
them  a  layer  of  sponge  cake,  cut  in  strips  of  any 
length  and  about  half  an  inch  thick  ;  on  the  cake 
place  a  layer  of  citron,  candied  fruits  of  several 
kinds,  also  some  raisins  ;  then  another  layer  of 
cake,  some  more  fruits,  and  so  on,  till  the  mold  is 
nearly  full.  Set  about  a  pint  of  milk  on  the  fire 
and  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  rises.  Mix  well  in  a 
bowl  three  ounces  of  sugar  with  three  yolks  of 
eggs,  then  turn  the  milk  into  the  bowl  little  by  lit- 
tle, stirring  and  mixing  the  while,  and  pour  over 
the  cake  and  fruits  in  the  mold.  The  mixture 
must  be  poured  over  in  sprinkling,  and  it  must 
nearly  cover  the  whole,  or  within  half  an  inch.  It 
must  not  be  poured  over  slowly,  for,  as  the  cake 
absorbs  the  liquor  pretty  fast,  you  would  have  too 
much  of  it.  Place  the  mold  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  so  that  the  mold  is  about  one-third  covered 
by  it ;  set  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  place 
the  whole  (pan  and  mold)  in  an  oven  at  about  380 
degrees  Fahrenheit,  and  bake.  It  takes  one  hour 
to  bake.    When  done,  place  a  dish  over  the  mold>. 


;o 


PUDDINGS. 


turn  xipside  down,  remove  the  mold,  and  serve 
with  a  sauce  for  pudding. 

Delicious  Pudding. — Bake  a  common  sponge 
cake  in  flat-bottomed  pudding-dish  ;  when  ready 
for  use,  cut  in  six  or  eight  pieces  ;  split  and  spread 
with  butter,  and  return  them  to  the  dish.  Make  a 
custard  with  four  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk,  flavor 
and  sweeten  to  taste  ;  pour  over  the  cake  and  bake 
one-half  hour.  The  cake  will  swell  and  till  the 
custard. 

Delmonico  Pudding. — Stu-  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn  starch  into  one  quai't  of  boiling  milk,  and 
let  it  boil  two  minutes  ;  beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs 
with  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  flavor  and  stir 
in  the  corn  starch.  Put  the  whole  in  a  dish  and 
bake  it.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  stir  into 
them  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  when 
nicely  done,  spread  on  the  top  and  bake  a  light 
brown. 

Fig  Pudding. — One-fourth  pound  of  figs  chop- 
ped fine,  one-fourth  pound  bread-crumbs,  one- 
fourth  pound  sugar  (brown),  one-fourth  pound 
suet,  one-fourth  pound  candied  lemon  peel  and 
citron,  one  nutmeg,  and  five  eggs ;  mix  thor- 
oughly, put  into  a  mold,  and  boil  or  steam  four 
hours. 

Florentine  Pudding. — Put  a  quart  of  milk  into 
your  pan,  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  mix  smoothly 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  and  a  little 
cold  milk  ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten, 
half  a  teacup  of  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon, 
or  anything  your  fancy  suggests ;  stir  into  the 
scalding  milk,  continue  stirring  till  the  consistency 
of  starch  (ready  for  use),  then  put  into  the  pan  or 
dish  you  wish  to  serve  in  ;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  a  teacup  of  pul.verized  sugar,  spread 
over  the  top  ;  place  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  till 
the  frosting  is  a  pretty  brown.  Can  be  eaten  with 
cream,  or  is  good  enough  without.  For  a  change, 
you  can  bake  in  cups. 

Gelatine  Pudding. — One  ounce  gelatine,  one 
pint  cold  milk  ;  set  on  range,  and  let  come  slowly 
to  a  boil,  stirring  occasionally  ;  separate  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  six  fresh  eggs  ;  beat  the  yolks  well 
and  stir  slowly  into  hot  milk  ;  add  half  a  poimd  of 
granulated  sugar  ;  when  quite  cold  stir  in  a  quart 
of  whipped  cream  ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon 
extract  mixed  ;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
very  stiff,  and  stir  in  the  last  thing  ;  pack  on  ice. 

Lemon  Pudding.— Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
light,  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar ;  dissolve  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water, 
stir  into  it  two  teacupfuls  of  boiling  water ;  put  in 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  with  some  of  the  grated 
peel.  Mix  all  together  with  a  teaspoon  of  butter. 
Bake  about  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  spread 
over  the  top  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
brown. 

Lemon  Pudding.— One  lemon,  grated,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  four 
eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half 
cup  of  flour,  two  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking-powder.  Soak  the  bread-crumbs 
in  the  milk,  add  eggs  and  sugar,  then  suet,  and 
beat  thoroughly  together ;  then  add  lemon  and 
flour.  Steam  or  boil  in  -^  mold  two  and  one-half 
hours.    Eat  with  sauce. 


Lemon  Pudding. — One  large  lemon  or  tfiree 
small  ones,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  one  cofi'eecup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  one- 
fourth  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  grated  cracker  or  bread-crumbs.  Beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  grate  the  rind  of  a 
lemon,  add  juice,  aijd  yolks  of  eggs,  and  crackers, 
then  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  lemon.  Sauce 
for  the  above :  Mix  well  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  ;  add  one  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar, 
then  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  gill  of  milk ; 
put  in  a  small  bucket  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  and 
let  it  thicken.    Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Lemon  Pudding.  —  Four  eggs,  four  lemons, 
bread-crumbs  to  thicken,  one  cup  of  suet,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  sugar  to  sweeten.    Steam  three  hours. 

Macaroni  Pudding. — A  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
macaroni  broken  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  one 
pint  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
large  cup  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  grated  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  a  little  cinna- 
mon and  salt.  Boil  the  macaroni  slowly  in  a  pint 
of  water  (in  a  dish  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water) 
until  it  is  tender  ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Stir  all  together,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
macaroni ;  simmer  ten  minutes.  Turn  it  out  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Molasses  Pudding. — One  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one 
cup  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little 
cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  enough  flour  to  stiffen. 
Steam  one  and  a  half  hour. 

Orange  Pudding. — Cut  up  oranges  in  small 
pieces  to  make  a  thick  layer  on  the  bottom  of  a 
pudding-dish.  Make  a  thick  boiled  custard,  and 
when  cool  pour  over  the  oranges.  Use  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  (two  or  three),  make  a  meringue  of  the 
whites,  spread  over  the  top  and  slightly  brown  in 
the  oven. 

Orange  Pudding. — Take  one  pint  of  milk  and 
put  on  the  stove  to  scald ;  while  it  is  doing  so, 
pare  and  separate  three  or  four  oranges,  and  place 
them  in  a  two-quart  dish  and  put  one  teacup 
sugar  over  them.  Take  the  jolks  of  two  eggs, 
half  a  teacup  of  sugar,  one-third  corn  starch  ;  beat 
together  and  add  to  milk  ;  let  it  scald  up,  then 
pour  over  the  oranges ;  beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  stiff,  and  a  little  pulverized  sugar,  and  pour 
over  the  whole  ;  bake  until  the  whites  are  of  a 
fight  brown. 

Batter  Pudding. — One  egg,  oqe  cup  milk,  one 
cup  sugar,  two  and  one-half  flour,  three  teaspoons 
baking-powder,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
few  dried  currants  ;  steam  three-quarters  of  an 
hour ;  to  be  eaten  with  sauce.  One-half  meal  is 
better,  we  think. 

Orange  Pudding.— One  quart  of  milk,  three 
eggs,  two  dessertspoonfuls  of  corn  starch  ;  u.se  the 
yolks,  corn  starch  and  milk,  and  make  a  boiled 
custard,  let  it  stand  until  cold,  pare  and  slice  four 
oranges  in  a  dish,  with  two  cups  of  sugar,  pour 
tlie  custard  over  the  oranges,  stir  all  together, 
then  put  the  whites,  well  beaten  with  a  little 
sugar,  on  the  top  of  the  whole,  set  in  the  oven  for 
a  few  moments  to  brown  ;  let  it  get  very  cold  be- 
fore serving. 


PUDDINGS. 


31 


Peach  Meringue. — Put  on  to  boil  a  scant  quart 
of  new  milk,  omitting  half  a  teacupful,  with  which 
moisten  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch.  When 
the  milk  boils,  add  corn  starch,  stir  constantly, 
and  when  it  commences  to  thicken,  remove  from 
the  fire  ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  perfectly  sweet 
butter,  let  cool,  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  until  the  custard  seems  light  and  creamy, 
add  one-half  teacup  of  fine  sugar ;  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  well-buttered  baking-dish  with  ripe,  juicy 
peaches,  that  have  been  pared,  stoned  and  halved  ; 
sprinkle  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  the 
fruit,  pour  the  custard  over  gently,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  twenty  minutes ;  draw  it  out,  and 
cover  with  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  three 
eggs  ;  sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  over  the  top,  and 
set  in  the  oven  until  brown,  Eat  warm  with 
sauce,  or  cold  with  cream. 

Peach  Puddfng. — Set  eight  or  ten  peaches  into 
a  pudding-dish,  half  fill  with  cold  water,  cover 
closely  and  bake  until  almost  done.  Drain  off  the 
water  and  set  to  cool.  When  cold  pour  over  them 
a  batter  made  of  one  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,  well 
beaten,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  melted  ; 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (if  preferred  sweetened), 
and  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-pow- 
der.   To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

Palace  Pudding. — Two  eggs,  their  weight  in 
butter,  flour,  and  white  sugar  :  put  the  batter  in  a 
pan  before  the  fire  till  half  melted :  then  beat  to  a 
cream  ;  beat  the  eggs  (yolks  and  whites)  together 
for  ten  minutes  ;  mix  gently  with  the  butter,  add 
the  sugar,  and  then  the  flour  by  degrees  ;  add  a 
very  little  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel ;  half  fill  cups 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  half  an  hour. 

Printers'  Pudding. — One  cup  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  cur- 
rants, one  nutmeg,  or  lemon  extract,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and  flour  enough  to 
to  make  a  batter.     Boil  or  steam  two  hours. 

A  Good  Plain  Pudding. — Cover  the  bottom  of 
a  buttered  pudding-dish  with  pieces  of  bread 
soaked  in  milk,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  apples  or 
berries,  add  sugar  and  spice  if  liked.  Proceed  till 
the  dish  is  full,  having  bread  at  the  top.  Moisten 
all  well  with  milk,  and  bake  three  hours,  closely 
covered. 

Jellied  Rice. — To  three  pints  of  milk  put  a 
teacup  of  rice,  and  a  little  salt ;  cover  it  close,  and 
put  it  into  molds  and  eat  as  blanc-mange. 

Royal  Pudding. — Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
sago,  washed  and  put  into  one  quart  of  milk  ;  put 
into  a  saucepan,  and  stand  in  boiling  water  on  the 
range  until  the  sago  has  well  swelled.  While  hot 
put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  one  cup 
of  white  sugar.  When  cool  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  put  in  a  pudding-dish,  and 
bake  from  a  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  remove  it  from  the  oven  and  place  it  to  cool. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  till  they  are  a  mass 
of  froth :  spread  your  pudding  with  either  rasp- 
berry or  strawberry  jam,  and  then  put  on  the 
frosting ;  put  in  the  oven  for  two  minutes  to 
slightly  brown.     If  made  in  summer,  be  sure  and 


keep  the  whites  of  the  eggs  on  ice  till  you  are 
ready  to  use  them,  and  beat  them  in  the  coldest 
place  you  can  find,  as  it  will  make  a  much  richer 
frosting. 

Rice  Pudding. — Soak  one  cupful  of  best  rice  ; 
after  soaking  four  hours,  drain  it  off ;  place  the 
rice  in  pudding-dish ;  add  one  cupful  sugar,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  eleven  cupfuls  milk 
and  spice  ;  put  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  from 
two  to  three  hours,  stii-ring  occasionally  at  first, 
if  the  rice  settles. 

Rice  Pudding  without  Eggs. — One-half  cup 
of  rice,  nearly  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  raisins, 
and  two  quarts  of  milk.  Stir  fi-equently  while 
baking,  but  do  not  let  it  get  too  stiff. 

Cream  Rice. — Wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rico 
and  add  to  it  half  a  cup  of  white  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  same  of  salt,  and  one 
quart  of  milk.  Set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake,  stirring 
often.  When  the  rice  is  dissolved,  or  very  soft, 
remove  any  brown  crust  that  may  be  on  top,  and 
stir  in  quickly  half  a  teacup  of  corn-starch,  dis- 
solved in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water.  It  will  thicken 
instantly.  It  can  be  made  the  consistency  of 
custard  by  placing  it  back  in  the  oven  for  one 
moment.    Serve  with  jelly,  if  for  dessert. 

Sago  Pudding.— Two  large  spoonfuls  of  sago 
boiled  in  one  quart  of  water,  the  peel  of  one 
lemon,  a  little  nutmeg ;  when  cold  add  four  eggs, 
and  a  little  salt.  Bake  about  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Sago  Jelly. — To  one  quart  of  water  put  six 
large  spoonfuls  of  sago,  the  same  of  sugar,  boil  to 
a  jelly,  stir  it  all  the  time  while  boiling,  fiavor  to 
your  taste,  put  into  molds,  and  eat  with  cream. 

SuTiT  Pudding. — One  teacup  of  molasses,  one 
of  suet,  one  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  raisins, 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  one  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
allsx)ice,  one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda.  Boil  or  steam.  Make  sauce 
same  as  for  plum  pudding. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  chopped  beef  suet, 
one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups 
of  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and 
tliree-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  mix  well, 
and  steam  two  houi's  ;  one  cup  of  raisins.  Serve 
with  liquid  sauce,  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

Steamed  Suet  Pudding. — One  cup  of  stoned 
and  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  finely-chopped 
suet,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  and  flour  to 
stir  it  quite  stiff  like  bread.  Steam  three  hours. 
Berries  or  currants  may  be  used  instead  of  raisins. 

Suet  Pudding. — One  pint  of  bread  sponge,  ono 
cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  large  cup  raisins,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of 
salt,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda,  flour  to 
make  very  stiff.  Put  in  a  two-quart  pan,  and 
steam  two  hours  and  a  half.  Do  not  lift  the  oover 
until  done.  Make  any  kind  of  sauce  you  like  best, 
and  serve  hot. 

Snow  Pudding.— Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelsi- 
tine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water ;  when  soft,  add  one 


PUDDINGS. 


pint  of  boiling  water,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
two  lemons,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
whites  of  live  eggs  (well  beaten).  Let  it  stand  un- 
til cold  and  commences  to  jell ;  then  beat  in  the 
whites  of  eggs. 

Sauce  for  Snow  Pudding. — One  quart  of  rich 
milk,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  with  two  extra  eggs 
added  ;  add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla,  as  for  stirred  sugar. 

Ckeam  Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  water  over  night ;  put  the 
tapioca  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour ;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
into  a  cup  of  sugar ;  add  tliree  tablespoonfuls  of 
prepared  cocoa-nut,  stir  in  and  boil  ten  minutes 
longer ;  pour  into  a  pudding-dish  ;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar ;  put  this  over  the  top,  and 
sprinkle  with  cocoa-nut  and  brown  for  tive 
minutes. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — One  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked 
two  hours  on  the  back  of  the  stove  in  one  quart  of 
water.  Butter  a  pudding-dish  well,  and  line  the 
bottom  with  pared  and  cored  apples ;  season  the 
tapioca  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  a  very  little  cin- 
namon or  nutmeg,  and  salt ;  pour  it  over  the 
apples,  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  thoroughly 
done.    Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Take  ten  tablespoonfuls  of 
tapioca,  wash  it  in  warm  water,  drain  off  the 
water,  and  put  the  tapioca  in  a  pan  with  a  quart 
of  rich  milk  ;  set  the  pan  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  and  stir  it  till  it  thickens  ;  then  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  six  of  white  sugar,  one 
lemon,  grated  (or  flavor  to  suit  the  taste  with  good 
lemon  or  vanilla  extract),  remove  the  pan  from 
the  fire,  and  having  beaten  four  eggs  very  Lght, 
etir  them  gradually  into  the  mixture.  Pour  it  into 
a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an 
hour.     Serve  "with  rich  cream  or  custard  sauce. 

Tapioca  Pudding.  —  Boil  one-half  teacup  of 
tapioca  in  half  a  pint  of  water  till  it  melts.  By 
degrees  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  boil  till  the 
tapioca  is  very  thick.  Add  a  well-beaten  egg, 
sugar,  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Turn  into  your 
pudding-dish  and  cook  gently  in  the  oven  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  This  dish  is  excellent  for 
delicate  children. 

Tapioca  Pudding.  —  Four  tablespoonfuls  of 
tapioca,  one  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  leaving  out 
the  whites  of  two  for  frosting  ;  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar.  Soak  the  tapioca  over  night,  or  for 
several  hours,  in  a  little  water.  Boil  the  milk  and 
turn  over  the  tapioca.  Add,  when  it  is  blood 
warm,  the  sugar  and  eggs  well  beaten ;  bake 
about  an  hour,  and  after  it  has  cooled  a  little,  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  one-half  pound  sugar  for 
frosting.  It  answers  well  for  a  sauce,  and  looks 
quite  ornamental. 

Transparent  Pudding. — Whites  of  six  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  melted,  two  cups  of  flour,  and  three 
cups  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  eat  with 
sauce. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — One  cup  tapioca  soaked  all 
night  in  water ;  rub  fine ;  one  quart  of  milk  and 


a  pinch  of  salt ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  then  add 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  one  cup  of 
sugar,  and  let  it  boil  to  the  consistency  of  cus- 
tard ;  add  the  tapioca  and  boil  ten  minutes ; 
flavor  ;  when  cold  cover  the  top  with  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  with  a  cupful  of  white  sugar. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk  • 
while  boiling  stir  in  one  large  tablespoonful  of 
Indian  meal,  cool  a  little  and  add  three  eggs,  well 
beaten,  one  pint  of  cold  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
of  floui',  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  of  cin- 
namon, a  little  salt.     Bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — For  a  two-quart  pud- 
ding use  two  teacups  meal ;  moisten  the  meal  with 
cold  water,  then  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tea- 
cups of  sugar,  one  cup  of  raisins,  three  eggs  well 
beaten  before  adding,  and  All  up  with  sweet  milk  ; 
season  with  whatever  spice  is  preferred  ;  bake 
slowly  half  an  hour  or  more. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. — One  and  one-half 
cups  sour  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  small 
teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  milk  ;  then 
sift  in  dry  corn  meal  until  of  the  consistency  as 
if  for  griddle-cakes  (perhaps  a  little  thicker).  Stir 
in  a  teacup  of  dried  fruit — cherries  are  the  best. 
Put  in  a  iDag  and  boil  one  hour.  For  sauce, 
sweetened  cream  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

Plain  Boiled  Pudding. — One  cup  sour  cream, 
one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  melted  butter, 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda, 
a  little  salt.  Mix  molasses  and  butter  together  and 
beat  until  very  light ;  stir  in  the  cream  and  salt, 
and  then  the  flour  gradually,  until  it  is  a  smooth 
batter  ;  beat  in  the  dissolved  soda  thoroughlj',  and 
boil  in  a  buttered  mold  an  hour  and  a  half.  To  be 
eaten  hot  with  sweet  liquid  sauce. 

Velvet  Pudding. — Five  eggs,  beaten  separate- 
ly, one  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
stai'ch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  added 
to  the  yolks  and  sugar  ;  boil  three  pints  of  milk 
and  add  the  other  ingredients  while  boiling ;  re- 
move from  the  Are  when  it  becomes  quite  thick  ; 
flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into  a  baking-dish: 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  turn  over  the  pudding,  and 
place  in  the  oven  and  let  brown  slightly.  To  be 
eaten  with  sauce  made  of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar,  tablespoonful  of  butter;  beat  well, 
add  one  cup  of  l)oillng  milk,  set  on  flie  stove  until 
it  comes  to  boiling  heat,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Vermicelli  Pudding. — Into  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  boiling  milk  drop  four  ounces  of  fresh  vermi- 
celli, and  keep  it  simmering  and  stirred  up  gently 
ten  minutes,  when  it  will  have  become  very  thick  ; 
then  mix  with  it  three  and  one-half  ounces  of 
sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt. 
When  the  whole  is  well  blended,  pour  it  out,  beat 
it  for  a  few  minutes  to  cool  it,  then  add  by  de- 
grees four  well-beaten  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon  ;  pour  a  little  claritied  butter  over  the  top  ; 
bake  it  from  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

Vermicelli  Pudding. — Boil  in  a  quart  of  milk 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  for  quarter  of  an  houi-. 


PUFF  PASTE— FRUIT  PIE. 


ZZ 


strain  the  milk,  set  again  on  the  fire,  adding  four 
ounces  of  vermicelli.  Stir  it,  and  let  it  boil  twenty 
minutes.  Then  pour  it  out,  and  stir  in  two 
ooinces  of  butter,  and  two  tablespoons  of  cream. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six,  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
and  mix  quickly.  Pour  at  once  into  a  buttered 
dish.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  sift  sugar  over  it,  and  serve  hot  with  any 
riice  pudding  sauce.  Flavor  the  sauce  with 
fsauilla. 


PIES. 


In  making  good  pastry  it  is  necessary  to  have 
the  butter  sweet,  the  lard  fresh  ;  the  flour  should 
be  of  the  best  quality,  and  sifted ;  the  water  for 
wetting  as  cold  as  possible — ice  water  preferable. 
In  rolling  the  crust,  roll  always  one  way,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Puff  Paste. — One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
butter,  one  egg ;  mix  the  flour  with  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  the  egg  to  a  very 
stiff  paste  with  cold  water  ;  divide  the  butter  into 
six  equal  parts,  roll  the  paste,  and  spread  on  one 
part  of  the  butter,  dredging  it  with  flour.  Repeat 
until  all  the  butter  is  rolled  in. 

Pastry. — To  one  cup  of  water  take  one-half  cup 
of  lard,  a  little  salt  and  some  flour ;  mix  together 
with  a  knife.  When  stiff  enough  roll  out  on  a 
board,  spread  on  with  a  knife  a  layer  of  lard,  and 
sift  over  a  little  flour  ;  roll  all  together,  and  then 
roll  out  on  the  board  again,  repeating  this  for  three 
or  four  times.  The  entire  amount  of  lard  used  for 
one  cup  of  water  should  be  about  two  cups.  This 
will  make  three  pies. 

Apple  Pie. — Fill  the  pie  crust  with  sour,  juicy 
apples  pared  and  sliced  thin,  put  on  the  upper 
crust  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  soft,  then  re- 
move the  upper  crust,  adding  sugar  to  taste,  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg  ; 
stir  this  well  through  the  apple  and  replace  the 
crust. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. — Two  eggs,  four  or  five 
apples  grated,  a  little  nutmeg,  sweeten  to  taste, 
oaie-half  pint  of  new  milk  or  cream,  pour  into 
pastry. 

Apples.  —  Two  pounds  of  apples  pared  and 
cored,  sliced  into  a  pan ;  add  one  pound  sugar, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
Let  boil  about  two  hours,  turn  into  a  mold.  When 
Cold,  serve  with  thick  cream. 

Washington  Pie. — For  the  crust  use  two  cups 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  cups  -sifted  flour, 
four  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  cream  tartar.  For 
the  filling,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  boiled 
in  one-half  pint  milk.  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
very  light,  and  stir  into  the  milk,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  when  cold  add  the  other  half  of  the 
milk  and  the  white  of  the  ^^^  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stirred  in  quickly  ;  spread  this  between 
the  cakes,  and  ice  it  with  the  white  of  one  egg  and 
eiglit  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sifted  sugar  flavored 
with  lemon. 

Cream  Pie. — Place  one  pint  of  milk  in  teakettle 
boiler  until  hot  (not  boiling) ;  add  one  cup  white 


sugar,  one-half  cup  flour,  and  two  eggs,  well 
beaten;  stir  rapidly  until  thoroughly"  cooked ; 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  ;  pour  over  crust, 
which  should  be  previously  baked.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  three 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar ;  pour  over  the 
custard ;  set  in  oven,  and  allow  to  come  to  light 
brown.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

Cocoa-nut  Pie. — Open  the  eyes  of  a  cocoa-nut 
with  a  pointed  knife  or  gimlet,  and  pour  out  the 
milk  into  a  cup  ;  then  break  the  shell  and  take  out 
the  meat  and  grate  it  flue.  Take  the  same  weight 
of  sugar  and  the  grated  nut  and  stir  together ; 
beat  four  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  to 
a  stiff  foam  ;  mix  one  cup  of  cream,  and  the  milk 
of  the  cocoa-nut  with  the  sugar  and  nut,  then  add 
the  eggs  and  a  few  drops  of  orange  or  lemon  ex- 
tract. Line  deep  pie-tins  with  a  nice  crust,  fill 
them  with  the  custard,  and  bake  carefully  one-half 
an  hour. 

Cream  Puffs. — Melt  one-half  cup  of  butter  in 
one  cup  of  hot  water  and,  while  boiling,  beat  in 
one  cup  of  flour,  then  take  off  the  stove  and  cool ; 
when  cool,  stir  in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  with- 
out beating ;  cb'op  on  tins  quickly,  and  bake  about 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  For  the 
cream  :  half  pint  milk,  one  egg,  three  tablespoons 
sugar,  two  large  tablespoons  flour  ;  boil  same  as 
any  mock  cream,  and  flavor  with  lemon.  When 
baked,  open  the  side  of  each  puff  and  fill  with 
cream. 

French  Puffs. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  six 
ounces  of  flour,  four  eggs,  half  a  saltspoon  of  salt ; 
scald  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  flour,  beat  until 
smooth,  whisk  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add  to  the 
flour  and  milk  when  sufficiently  cool.  Have  ready 
a  kettle  of  boiling  lard,  and  drop  one  teaspoonful 
of  the  batter  at  a  time  into  the  lard,  and  fry  a 
light  brown ;  sift  white  sugar  over  them,  or  eat 
with  sirup. 

Cream  Tartlets. — Make  a  paste  with  the  white 
of  one  and  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  ounce  of  sugar, 
one  ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  suf- 
ficient to  make  into  a  paste  ;  work  it  ligntly  ;  roll 
out  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  line 
some  patty-pans  with  it,  fill  with  uncooked  rice, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  done  ;  remove 
the  rice  and  fill  with  jam  or  preserves,  and  at  the 
top  place  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream. 

Cream  Pie. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  stigar,  one  and 
one-half  cup  flour,  tablespoonful  *of  sweet  milk, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder ;  bake  in  a 
shallow  pan.  Cream :  three  eggs,  one  pint  of 
milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  five  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar ;  a  little  salt,  flavor  to  taste,  and 
boil  until  thick. 

Delicate  Pie. — Tc  stewed  apples  suflficient  for 
four  pies,  one-hal.(  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs 
beaten  separatelr,  one  pound  of  sugar ;  flavor 
vrith  lemon,  the  apples  being  quite  cold  before 
adding  the  eggb.    Bake  as  a  tart  pie. 

Fruit  PrE. — Line  a  soup  plate  with  a  rich  paste, 
and  spread  with  a  layer  of  strawberry  or  rasp- 
berry preserves :  over  which  sprinkle  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  finely-chopped  almonds  (blanched  of 
course)  and  one-half  ounce  of  candied  \  ,*mon  peel 


34 


LEMON  PIE— PUMPKIN  PIE. 


cut  into  shreds.  Then  mix  the  following  ingred- 
ients :  one-half  pound  white  sugar,  one-quarter 
pound  butter,  melted,  four  j'olks  and  two  whites 
of  eggs,  and  a  few  drops  of  almond  essence.  Beat 
well  together  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  soup 
plate  over  the  preserves,  etc.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ately-warm oven.  When  cold  sprinkle  or  sift  a 
little  powdered  sugar  over  the  top.  A  little  cream 
eaten  with  it  is  a  great  addition. 

Lemon  Pie. — Three  eggs,  one  grated  lemon,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one-half  "cup  of  water,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  flour  ;  bake ;  beat  the  whites  separatelj^ 
and  add  sugar,  not  quite  as  much  as  for  frosting  ; 
put  into  the  oven  and  brown  a  little. 

Lemon  Pie.  —  Two  lemons — juice  and  rind 
grated — two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of 
cream  or  rich  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  mixed  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs ; 
bake  in  a  rich  crust ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized 
sugar  ;  spread  on  the  top  of  the  pies,  and  brown. 
This  will  make  two  pies. 

Lemon  Pie. — Grate  two  lemons,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  water,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  one  of  flour.  This  will  make  half  a 
dozen  pies. 

Lemon  Custard  Pie. — Grate  the  rind  of  one 
lemon,  squeeze  the  juice  into  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stir 
all  together  as  for  cake,  and  pour  over  it  one  pint 
of  boiling  milk  ;  beat  the  whites  separately  and 
stir  in  after  it  has  cooled  a  little,  then  bake  in  a 
crust  as  you  would  a  custard  pie. 

Two-CuusT  Lemon  Pie. — Line  your  pie  dish 
with  a  good  crust ;  roll  your  lemons  to  soften 
them  ;  grate  the  rind  of  one  large  or  two  small 
lemons ;  cut  the  lemons  in  thin  slices  ;  pick  out 
the  seeds  ;  spread  evenly  one  layer  over  the  crust ; 
spread  one  cup  of  sugar  over  the  lemon  ;  then  add 
one  cup  of  paste,  made  by  taking  four  tablespoons 
of  flour,  wetting  it  with  cold  water  the  same  as 
you  M'ould  do  to  make  starch  ;  turn  boiling  water 
on  it,  stirring  while  cooking  on  the  stove  a  few 
moments,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  with  the  grated 
rind  of  the  lemons.  When  thickened  enough, 
pour  it  over  the  sugar  and  lemon ;  cover  with  a 
crust,  cutting  slits  in  to  let  out  the  air ;  bake 
slowly. 

Lemon  Pie. — One  teacupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  teacup  of  boiling 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  mixed  in 
a  little  cold  water,  cream,  butter,  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  pour  the  hot  mixture  over  them. 
When  cold,  add  the  lemon  and  beaten  egg.    Bake. 

Lemon  Pie. — One  cup  of  .sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  corn-stai'ch,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
butter  half  the  size  of  an  eg!?,  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  a  lemon ;  cook  together  till  clear,  and 
when  cold  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Line  the  plate 
with  paste  and  bake,  then  fill,  putting  on  the  white 
of  an  egg  with  a  little  sugar  for  icing,  then  put  in 
the  oven  and  brown. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. — Three  soda  crackers  rolled 
fine,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sour 


cider  or  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter, 
one-half  cup  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants, 
one  egg  beaten  light,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and 
nutmeg,  five  apples  chopped  fine. 

Mince  Meat. — Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  boiled ; 
when  cold  chop  fine  ;  one  pound  of  suet  minced  to 
a  powder,  five  pounds  of  juicy  apples,  pared  and 
chopped,  two  pounds  of  raisins  seeded,  two 
pounds  of  sultanas  or  seedless  raisins,  two  pounds 
of  currants,  one-half  pound  of  citron  chopped, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice, 
one  tablespoonful  of  fine  salt,  one  grated  nutmeg, 
three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  gallon  of 
sweet  cider.  Mince  meat  made  by  this  recipe  will 
keep  till  spring. 

Mince  Meat. — Three  pounds  of  beef  chopped 
fine,  six  pounds  of  apples,  one  pound  of  suet 
chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  the  meat,  four 
pounds  of  raisins,  six  pounds  of  citrrants,  one 
pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  candied  lemon,  and 
two  pounds  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  two 
oranges,  grated,  and  powdered  cinnamon,  mace. 
cloves,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Add  three  pints  oi 
boiled  cider  and  set  on  the  stove,  stirring  to  pre- 
vent burning,  until  thoroughly  scalded.  Add 
enough  sweet  cider  when  using  to  make  it  moist. 

Orange  Pie. — Take  four  good-sized  oranges, 
peel,  seed,  and  cut  in  very  small  pieces.  Add  a 
cup  of  sugar,  and  let  stand.  Into  a  quait  of 
nearly  boiling  milk  stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  mixed  with  a  little  water,  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs.  When  this  is  done,  let  it  cool,  then 
mix  with  the  oranges.  Put  it  in  simply  a  lower 
crust.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Spread  it  over  top  of 
pies,  and  place  for  a  few  seconds  in  the  oven  to 
brown. 

Orange  Pie.— The  juice  and  part  of  the  rind  of 
one  orange,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  one 
teacupful  of  hot  water  with  one-quarter  box  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  it.  Mix  and  bake  in  one  or 
two  pies.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Oyster  Patties. — Line  small  patty-pans  with 
puff  paste,  into  each  pan  put  six  oysters,  bits  o'f 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour 
and  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  (allowing  about 
two  eggs  for  six  patties),  cover  with  an  upper 
crust,  notch  the  edges  and  bake  ;  serve  either  in 
the  pans  or  remove  them  to  a  large  platter. 

Malborough  Pie.— Six  tart  apples,  six  ounces 
of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  butter  or  thick  cream,  six 
eggs,  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon,  and  one-half 
the  juice.  Grate  the  apples,  after  paring  and 
coring  them  ;  stir  together  the  butter  and  sugar, 
as  for  cake- ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and 
bake  in  a  rich  under-paste  only. 

PEAcn  Pie. — Line  a  deep  dish  with  soda  biscuit 
dough  or  pie  crust  rolled  one-fourth  of  an  inch 
thick,  fill  with  peaches  pared,  sprinkled  with 
sugar  and  a  little  flour,  and  if  not  too  juicy,  add 
about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  put  on  the 
upper  crust,  secure  the  edges,  and  bake.  Eat 
with  cream. 

Pumpkin  Pie.— Cut  the  pumpkin  into  large 
pieces  and  with  the  skins  on  ;  when  done,  scoop 


CUSTARDS  AND   CREAMS. 


35 


out  the  pulp ;  then  add  two  quarts  of  milk,  four 
«ggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  giugcr,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  sugar  to  taste. 

Pine-Apple  Pie. — One  grated  pine-apple,  its 
Weight  in  sugar,  half  its  weight  in  butter,  five 
eggs,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cupful 
of  cream  ;  cream  the  butter  and  beat  it  with  the 
sugar  and  yolks  until  very  light ;  add  the  ci-eam, 
the  pine-apple  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake 
with  an  under  crust.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Pie-Plant  Charlotte. — Wash  and  cut  the  pie- 
plant into  small  pieces,  cover  the  bottom  of  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  a  layer  of  pie-plant  and  sugar,  then 
a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  or  thin 
slices  of  bread  nicely  buttered,  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  If  preferred,  turn  over  the  char- 
lotte a  boiled  custard  when  ready  for  the  table. 

A  Prettt  Tea  Dish. — Make  a  short,  sweetened 
piecrust,  roll  thin,  and  partly  bake  in  sheets  ;  be- 
fore it  is  quite  done  take  from  the  oven,  cut  in 
squares  of  four  inches  or  so,  take  up  two  diagonal 
corners  and  pinch  together,  which  makes  them 
basket-shaped  ;  now  fill  with  whipped  cream,  or 
white  of  Q^^^  or  both,  well-sweetened  and  flavored, 
and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Raisin  Pie. — One  lemon — juice  and  yellow  rind 
one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of 
rolled  crackers ;  stone  the  raisins,  and  boil  in 
water  to  soften  them. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. — Scrape  clean  two  good- 
sized  sweet  potatoes ;  boil ;  when  tender,  rub 
through  the  colander ;  beat  the  yolks  of  three 
€ggs  light ;  stir  with  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  into  the 
potato;  add  a  small  teacup  of  sugar,  a  pin  h  of 
salt ;  flavor  with  a  little  fresh  lemon,  or  exuact 
will  do ;  bake  as  you  do  your  pumpkin  pies ; 
when  done  make  a  meringue  top  with  the  whites 
of  eggs  and  powdered  sugar  ;  brown  a  moment  in 
the  oven. 

Strawberry  Short-Cake. — Make  a  nice  soda 
biscuit  dough ;  bake  in  deep  jelly-cake  or  pie 
pans  ;  split  the  cakes,  and  between  the  layers 
spread  the  strawberries  sprinkled  with  sugar.  Eat 
-with  cream.  Other  berries  or  peaches  sliced  and 
put  between  the  layers  are  nice. 

Tarts.— Use  the  best  of  puff  paste  ;  roll  it  out  a 
little  thicker  than  the  pie  crust,  and  cut  with  a 
large  biscuit-cutter  twice  as  many  as  you  intend 
to  have  of  tarts.  Then  cut  out  of  half  of  them  a 
small  round,  in  the  center  of  which  will  leave  a 
circular  rim  of  crust ;  lift  this  up  carefully,  and 
lay  on  the  large  pieces.  Bake  in  pans,  and  fill 
•with  any  kind  of  preserves,  jam,  or  jelly. 


CUSTARDS  AND   CREAMS. 

Apple  Meringue.  —  Pare,  slice,  stew,  and 
sweeten  six  tart  juicy  apples.  JNIash  very  smooth 
or  rub  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  nutmeg  or 
lemon-peel.  Line  a  generous-sized  plate  with  an 
under  drust,  and  bake  first.  Wliip  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized 


sugar,  till  it  stands  alone.  Fill  the  crust  with 
apple,  then  spread  the  eggs  smoothly  over  the  top. 
Return  to  the  oven  and  brown  nicely.  If  you  put 
your  eggs  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  a  while  before 
breaking  them,  they  will  beat  up  nicer. 

Apple  Snow.  —  Prepare  eight  medium-sized 
apples  as  for  sauce  ;  after  it  is  cold,  break  the 
white  of  one  egg  in  a  dish  ;  turn  your  apple  sauce 
over  it,  and  whip  with  a  fork  thirty  minutes.  Care 
should  be  taken  that  each  blemish  be  carefully 
cut  away  in  preparing  the  apples,  as  the  whiteness 
of  the  snow  depends  mainly  on  this. 

Apple  Puppets. — Two  eggs  ;  one  pint  of  milk  ; 
sufficient  flour  to  thicken,  as  waffle  batter ;  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking-powder  ;  fill  tea- 
cup alternately  with  a  layer  of  batter  and  then  of 
apples  chopped  fine  ;  steam  one  hour.  Serve  hot, 
with  flavored  cream  and  sugar.  You  can  substi- 
tute any  fresh  fruit  or  jams  you  like. 

Velvet  Blanc-Mange.  —  Two  cups  of  sweet 
cream,  one-half  ounce  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  very 
little  cold  water  one  hour,  one-half  cuj)  white  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  bitter 
almonds.  Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  stir  in  the 
gelatine  and  sugar,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  dis- 
solved take  from  the  fire,  beat  ten  minutes  until 
very  light,  flavor  by  degrees,  mixing  it  well.  Put 
into  molds  wet  with  clear  water. 

Chocolate  Blanc-Mange. — One-half  box  gela- 
tine, well  soaked.  Let  one  pint  of  milk  come  to 
the  boiling  point ;  one  cup  grated  chocolate  (not 
the  sweetened) ;  twelve  tablespoons  sugar.  Add 
the  gelatine  just  before  turning  into  the  molds. 
To  be  eaten  when  cold,  with  sugai-  and  cream. 

Fruit  Blanc-Mange.  —  Stew  nice  fresh  fruit 
(cherries  and  raspberries  being  the  best) ;  strain 
off  the  juice,  and  sweeten  to  taste  ;  place  it  over 
the  fire  in  a  double  kettle  until  it  boils  ;  while  boil- 
ing stir  in  corn  starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  water, 
allowing  two  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  for  each  pint 
of  juice  ;  continue  stirring  until  sufflcientlycooked ; 
then  pour  into  molds  wet  in  cold  water,  and  set 
away  to  cool.     To  be  eaten  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Chocolate  Blanc-Mange. — One  ounce  of  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it, 
four  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  one  quart  of  milk, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Boil  eggs,  milk  and  chocolate  together  five 
minutes,  then  put  in  the  gelatine,  and  let  the  whole 
boil  five  minutes  longer,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  and  put  in 
molds  to  cool. 

Chocolate  Blanc-Mange. — Soak  a  half  box  of 
gelatine  in  one  quart  of  milk.  Heat  the  milk,  and 
when  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  strain ;  then  add 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoons  of  grated 
chocolate,  and  boil  eight  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Wlien  nearly  cold,  beat  with  the  egg-beater 
for  five  minutes.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  put 
into  a  mold  to  cool. 

Rice  Bl.vnc-Mange. — One  quart  of  new  milk 
six  tablespoonfuls  of  coarsely  ground  rice.  Was! 
the  rice  and  drain  the  water  off.  Just  as  the  milk 
begins  to  boil,  add  the  rice,  a  tablespoonful  at  a 
time,  stirring  constantly.     Boil  for  twenty  minr 


36 


CUSTARDS  AND    CREAMS. 


utes,  or  until  it  becomes  quite  thick.  Sweeten  to 
taste ;  add  two  tablespooufuls  of  water  and  one 
teaspoon! ul  of  rose  water. 

Lemon  Ice.— One  quart  of  water,  juice  of  four 
lemons,  one  pound  of  sugar ;  strain  the  mixture, 
and  just  before  freezing,  add  the  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs. 

Lemon  Ice. — One-half  pint  lemon  juice,  one-half 
pint  of  water,  one  pint  of  strong  sirup.  The  rind 
of  the  lemon  should  be  rasped  off  before  squeez- 
ing, with  lump  sugar,  which  is  to  be  added  to  the 
juice.  Mix  the  whole  together,  strain  after  stand- 
ing an  hour,  and  freeze.  Beat  up  with  a  little 
sugar  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs,  and,  as  the 
ice  is  beginning  to  set,  work  this  in  with  the 
S'patula,  which  will  much  improve  the  consistency 
and  taste.    Orange  ice  the  same. 

Ice  Cream. — Two  quarts  of  good  cream,  one- 
half  pint  of  milk,  fourteen  ounces  of  white  sugar, 
two  eggs  ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  as  for 
cake,  before  mixing  with  the  cream  ;  flavor  to  suit 
tlie  taste.  Place  the  can  in  the  freezer,  and  put  in 
alternately  layers  of  pounded  ice  and  salt ;  use 
plenty  of  salt  to  make  the  ci-eam  freeze  quickly  ; 
stir  immediately  and  constantly,  stirring  rapidly  as 
it  begins  to  freeze,  to  make  it  perfectly  smooth,  and 
slower  as  it  gets  pretty  stiff.  As  the  ice  melts 
di'aw  off  the  water,  and  fill  up  with  fresh  layers. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — For  one  gallon  of  ice 
cream  grate  fine  about  one-half  cake  of  chocolate  ; 
make  ice  cream  as  for  the  recipe  above ;  flavor 
with  vanilla  and  stir  in  the  chocolate. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — One  quart  of  cream, 
one  pint  of  strained  strawberry  juice,  one  pint  of 
sugar  ;  mix  the  sugar  and  juice  together,  then  stir 
in  the  cream. 

Floating  Island. — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
imtil  very  light ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  ;  stir 
into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  cook  till  it  thickens  ; 
when  cool,  pour  into  a  low  glass  dish ;  whip  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  fi'oth ;  sweeten,  and 
pour  over  a  dish  of  boiling  water  to  cook.  Take 
a  tablespoon  and  drop  the  whites  on  top  of  the 
cream,  far  enough  apart  so  that  the  "little  white 
islands"  will  not  touch  each  other.  By  dropping 
little  specks  of  bright  jelly  on  each  island  a  pleas- 
ing effect  will  be  produced.  Also  by  filling  wine 
glasses  and  arranging  around  the  stand  adds  to 
the  appearance  of  the  table. 

Velvet  Cream. — Two  tablespooufuls  of  straw- 
berry jelly,  two  tablespooufuls  of  currant  jelly, 
two  tablespooufuls  of  pulverized  sugar,  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  .stiff,  then  whip  the  cream,  fill  a 
wineglass  one-half  full  of  the  whipped  cream  and 
fill  the  glass  with  the  above  mixture  beaten  to  a 
cream. 

Chocolate  Custard. — Make  a  boiled  custard 
with  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  six 
tablespooufuls  of  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of  grated 
vanilla  chocolate.  Boil  until  thick  enough,  stirring 
all  the  time.  When  nearly  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Pour  into  cups,  and  put  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  with  some  powdered  sugar  on  the  top. 

Chocolatb  Cream  Custard. — Scrape  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  the  best  chocolate  ;  pour  over  it  a 
teacup  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  by  the 


fire  until  dissolved.  Beat  eight  eggs  light,  leaving 
out  the  whites  of  two,  and  stir  by  degrees  into  a 
quart  of  rich  milk  alternately  with  the  chocolate 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Put  the  mix- 
ture into  cups  and  bake  immediately. 

Boiled  Custard. — Allow  five  eggs  to  one  quart 
of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  set 
the  milk  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  until  it  scalds  ; 
then,  after  dipping  a  little  of  the  milk  on  to  the 
eggs  and  beating  up,  turn  into  the  scalded  milk, 
and  stir  until  it  thickens.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Baked  Custard. — One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs,    , 
a  pinch  of  salt,  sugar  and  fiavor  to  taste,  boil  the   jj 
milk ;    when    cool,  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs   and   \ 
sugar,  pour  into  cups,  set  them  in  pans  of  water, 
and  bake  ;  if  baked  too  long,  will  become  watery. 

Lemon  Custard. — Four  eggs,  (leave  out  the 
white  of  one),  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  one  grated  lemon,  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  ;  bake  as  cus-  : 
tard ;  after  it  is  baked,  cover  it  with  the  beaten  j 
white  and  pulverized  sugar  ;  return  to  the  oven  ; 
bake  a  light  brown. 

Coffee  Custard. — One-half  pint  of  rich  cream, 
one-half  cup  cold  coffee,  four  eggs,  sugar  to  taste. 

Floating  Island. — One  quart  of  milk,  five  eggs 
and  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  scald  the  milk, 
then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fii'st  stirring  into  them 
a  little  of  the  scalded  milk,  to  prevent  curdling  ; 
stir  constantly  until  of  the  right  consistency ; 
when  cool,  flavor  ;  let  it  get  very  cold,  and  before 
serving  beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  stir  into  them  a  little  fine  sugar  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  ;  dip  this  on  to 
the  custard. 

Almond  Custard. — One  pint  of  new  milk,  one 
cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of 
almonds  (blanched  and  pounded),  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  rose  watei-,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  stir  this  . 
over  a  slow  fire  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of 
cream,  then  remove  it  quickly  and  put  into  a  dish. 
Beat  tlie  whites  with  a  little  sugar  added  to  the 
froth,  and  lay  on  top. 

Indian  Custard. — Heat  two  quarts  of  milk, 
then  stir  in  one  cup  of  molasses,  a  small  cup  of 
fine  corn  meal,  two  beaten  eggs  and  a  little  salt, 
Cook  slowly  one  hour.  If  it  seems  too  thick,  thirs 
it  with  a  little  cold  water. 

Irish  Moss. — Soak  a  scant  handful  of  Irish 
moss  in  strong  soda  water  until  it  [swells ;  then 
squeeze  the  moss  until  it  is  free  from  water,  and 
put  it  in  a  tin  bucket  which  contains  six  pints  of 
sweet  milk.  Set  the  bucket  in  a  large  iron  pot 
which  holds  several  pints  of  hot  water ;  stir  sel- 
dom, and  let  it  remain  until  it  will  jell  slightly  by 
dropping  on  a  cold  plate.  Strain  through  a  sieve, 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Rinse  a  mold  or  a 
crock  with  tepid  water ;  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
set  it  away  to  cool.  In  a  few  hours  it  will  be 
palatable.  Eat  with  cream  and  sugar — some  add 
jelly. 

Lemon  Jellt. — One  box  gelatine;  pare  five 
lemons  thin,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  ;  break  up 
one  small  stick  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  orange 
peel,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  sugar ;  then  pour 
on  one  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  for  tiire« 


CUSTARDS  AND   CREAMS. 


n 


hours.  Put  in  the  kettle  with  three  pints  of  boil- 
ing wi'cer,  stiiTing  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved. 
Then  let  it  siinmer  tor  about  half  an  hour.  Strain 
through  a  bag  into  jelly-molds,  and  let  it  cool. 

Lemon  Jelly. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one-fourth 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  juice  of  two  lem- 
ons and  rind  of  three  lemons.  Beat  thoroughly 
together  ;  cook  until  as  thick  as  boiled  custard. 

Lemon  Butter. — For  tarts  :  One  pound  pulver- 
ized sugar ;  whites  of  sis  eggs,  and  yolks  of  two  ; 
three  lemons,  including  grated  rind  and  juice  ; 
cook  twenty  minutes  over  a  slow  iii'e,  stirring  all 
the  while. 

Apple  Butter. — Take  tart  cooking  apples,  such 
as  will  make  good  sauce.  To  three  pecks,  after 
they  are  peeled  and  quartered,  allow  nine  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  and  two  gallons,  or  perhaps  a  lit- 
tle more,  of  water.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  in 
your  kettle,  and  let  it  boil ;  then  add  the  apples. 
After  they  begin  to  cook  stu'  constantly  till  the 
butter  is  done.  Try  it  by  putting  a  little  in  a 
saucer,  and  if  no  water  appears  around  it  the 
marmalade  is  ready  for  the  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
*' to  your  taste." 

Orange  Dessert. — Pare  five  or  six  oranges ; 
cut  into  thin  slices  ;  pour  over  them  a  coffeecup  of 
sugar.  Boil  one  pint  of  milk  ;  add,  while  boiling, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  corn 
starch  (made  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk) ;  stir 
all  the  time  ;  as  soon  as.  thickened,  pour  over  the 
fruit.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  ;  add 
two  tablespoons  of  powdei-ed  sugar ;  pour  over 
the  custard,  and  brown  in  the  oven.     Serve  cold. 

Frozen  Peaches  and  Gream. — Choose  nice 
ripe  peaches,  but  perfectly  sound ;  peel  and  slice 
them  ;  mix  them  with  sugar  and  cream  to  taste. 
Freeze. 

Ambrosia. — A  layer  of  oranges  sliced,  then 
sugar,  then  a  layer  of  cocoa-nut,  grated  ;  then 
another  of  oranges,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full. 

Frozen  Peaches. — Take  two  quarts  of  rich 
milk,  and  two  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  mix  well  to- 
gether and  put  into  a  freezer  with  ice  and  salt 
packed  around  it.  Have  ready  one  quart  of 
peaches,  mashed  and  sweetened.  When  the  milk 
is  very  cold,  stir  them  in  and  freeze  all  together. 
Strawberries  can  be  used  in  the  same  way,  but 
■will  require  more  sugar. 

Frozen  Strawberries. — Take  nice  ripe  straw- 
■berries,  put  them  into  a  bowl  and  mash  them. 
Make  them  rather  sweeter  than  for  the  table.  Let 
them  stand  until  the  juice  is  drawn  out,  then 
freeze.    Serve  with  cream  or  ice  cream. 

Chartreuse  D'Oranges.— Make  a  very  clear 
orange  jelly,  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water, 
six  oranges,  sugar  to  taste,  one  and  one-half 
ounces  oif  gelatine  ;  divide  three  or  four  oranges 
into  quarters,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  remove 
€very  vestige  of  skin  of  any  sort— also  the  seeds  ; 
hav:  two  plain  molds,  one  about  one  and  a  fourth 
dncjes  more  in  diameter  than  the  oth^r ;  pour  a 
very  little  of  the  jelly  at  the  bottom  of  the  large 
moid,  place  in  this  a  layer  of  orange  quarters  (if 
too  thick  split  in  two  lengthways),  cover  with 
more  jelly,  but  only  just  enough  to  get  a  smooth 


surface  ;  set  on  ice  to  set ;  when  it  is  quite  firm, 
put  in  the  large  mold  inside  of  the  larger  one, 
taking  care  to  place  exactly  in  the  middle,  so  that 
the  vacant  place  between  the  two  molds  be  ex- 
actly of  the  same  width  ;  in  the  vacant  place  put 
more  orange  quarters,  filling  up  with  the  jelly  un- 
til the  whole  space  is  filled  up  ;  place  the  mold  on 
ice,  find  proceed  to  whip  one  pint  of  cream  with 
one-half  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine  and  some 
sweetened  orange  juice,  which  must  be  added  to 
it  a  very  little  at  a  time,  else  the  cream  will  not 
rise  in  a  froth  ;  when  the  cream  is  ready  and  the 
jelly  set,  remove  the  inner  mold  by  pouring  warm 
water  into  it,  and  fill  up  the  space  of  the  chart- 
reuse with  the  whipped  cream.  Set  on  ice  for  an 
hour,  turn  out  and  serve. 

A  Dish  of  Snow. — Grate  a  cocoa-nut,  leaving 
out  the  brown  part.  Heap  it  up  in  the  center  of  a 
handsome  dish  and  ornament  with  fine  green 
leaves,  such  as  peach  or  honey-suckle.  Serve  it  up 
with  snow  cream,  made  as  follows :  Beat  the 
whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar,  a  large  spoonful  of 
rose  water  or  pine-apple.  Beat  the  whole  well  to- 
gether and  add  a  pint  of  thick  cieam.  Put  several 
spoonfuls  over  each  dish  of  cocoa-nut. 

Apple  Float. — One  cup  of  pulverized  sugar, 
one  cup  of  cream  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  five  eggs 
beaten  light,  one  lemon,  four  large  apples  grated, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  warm 
water.    Fills  one  quart  bowl. 

Strawberry  Charlotte. — Make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard with  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  flavored  to  taste. 
Line  a  glass  dish  with  slices  of  sponge  cake  dipped 
in  sweet  cream,  lay  upon  ripe  strawberries  sweet- 
ened to  taste,  then  a  layer  of  cake  and  strawber- 
ries as  before.  When  the  custard  is  cold,  pour 
over  the  whole.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  little  sugar  and  put  over  the 
top.    Decorate  with  some  ripe  berries. 

BaivEd  Pears. — Place  in  a  stone  jar  first  a  layer 
of  pea»8  (without  paring),  then  a  layer  of  sugar, 
then  pears,  and  so  on  imtil  the  jar  is  full.  Then 
put  in  as  much  water  as  it  will  hold.  Bake  three 
hours. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
and  stir  them  into  one  pint  of  scalding  milk.  Boil 
like  custard  and  set  away  to  cool.  Pour  a  large 
cup  of  warm  water  over  a  half  box  of  gelatine,  set 
it  in  the  stove,  but  do  not  let  it  get  hot ;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  very  light  and  add  enough  pul- 
verized sugar  to  make  stiff  ;  then  whip  one  pint  of 
good  cream  and  stir  into  the  custard ;  then  the 
whites  flavored  with  vanilla ;  then  the  gelatine 
well  dissolved.  Mix  thoroughly  and  set  away  to 
cool  (about  two  hours).  Line  your  dish  with  either 
sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers,  and  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture.    Let  it  stand  five  or  six  hours. 

TuTTi  Frutti. — One  quart  of  rich  cream,  one 
and  one-half  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  chopped 
fine ;  one-half  pound  of  sugar ;  freeze,  and,  when 
sufficiently  congealed,  add  one-half  pound  of  pre- 
served fruits,  with  a  few  whit«  raisins  chopped, 
and  finely-sliced  citron.  *Cut  the  fruit  small,  and 
mix  well  with  the  cream.  Freeze  like  ice  cream ; 
keep  on  ice  until  required. 


38 


CAKES— SPICE    CAKE. 


Russian  Cream. — One  and  one-half  quarts  rich 
milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  box  gelatine,  four 
eggs,  vanilla  to  taste.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the 
milk ;  add  the  yolks  and  sugar ;  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  then  remove  from  the  tii'e.  When  cool,  add 
whites  of  the  eggs,  etc.  Pour  into  mold.  To  be 
eaten  vrith  cream,  if  preferred. 

Pink  Cream. — Three  gills  of  strawberry  or  cur- 
rant juice,  mix  with  one-half  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  one-half  pint  of  thick  cream  ;  whisk  until 
well  mixed  ;  serve  in  a  glass  dish. 

Persian  Cream. — Dissolve  gently  one  ounce  of 
gelatine  in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  and  strain.  Then 
put  it  in  a  clean  saucepan  with  three  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  one-half  pint  of 
good  cream  ;  add  this  liquid,  at  fu'st  by  spoonfuls 
only,  to  eight  ounces  of  jam  or  rich  preserved 
fruit ;  mix  them  very  smooth,  and  stir  the  whole 
until  it  is  nearly  cold,  that  the  fruit  may  not  sink 
to  the  bottom  of  the  mold  ;  when  the  liquid  is  put 
to  the  fruit  and  stirred  until  nearly  cold,  whisk 
them  briskly  together,  and  last  of  all  throw  in,  by 
very  small  portions  at  a  time,  the  strained  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Put  into  a  mold  and  let  it  stand  at 
least  twelve  hours  in  a  cold  place  before  serving. 

Lemon  Cream. — Take  one  lemon  and  grate  it 
up  fine,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  water,  one  cup  of  butter,  and  three  eggs.  Take 
the  lemon,  sugar,  butter,  and  water,  and  put  them 
in  a  pan  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Have  the  eggs 
well-beaten,  and  stir  in  while  boiling ;  let  it  thicken, 
then  take  off  and  cool.  Nice  for  traveling  lunch 
and  picnics. 

SouFLEE  De  Russe. — Three  pints  of  milk,  four 
eggs,  one  half  box  of  gelatine,  sweeten  and  flavor 
to  taste.  Boil  as  custard.  As  it  is  taken  from  the 
fire  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour 
into  molds,  and  when  cold,  eat  with  cream. 

Spanish  Charlotte. — Place  crumbs  of  stale 
cake  or  rolled  crackers  on  the  bottom  of  a  pud- 
ding-dish, and  put  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  jelly  or 
fi'uit  over  them.  Continue  them  alternately  until 
the  dish  is  nearly  full,  making  the  crumbs  form 
the  tip.  Pour  a  custard  over  it  and  bake.  8erve 
with  sauce. 


CAKES. 


Use  the  best  of  materials  for  cake.  The  pulver- 
ized sugar  should  always  be  sifted.  Sift  the  tiour. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately. 
When  fruit  is  used,  sprinkle  with  flour.  Stir  but- 
ter and  sugar  to  a  cream.  If  baking-powder  is 
used,  sift  it  well  through  the  flour.  While  the 
cake  is  baking,  no  air  must  be  permitted  to  get 
into  the  oven,  unless  when  neoessary  to  look  at 
the  cake,  as  it  is  apt  to  make  it  fall.  The  heat  of 
the  oven  should  be  even  and  regular.  When  cake 
is  done,  it  can  be  tested  by  sticking  a  clean  straw 
into  it.  If  nothing  adheres  to  the  straw,  the  cake 
is  done. 

Soft  Frosting. — Ten  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  sugar 
to  one  egg :  beat  one-half  hour. 

SuTTi  Frutti  Frosting. — One-half  teacupful 
of  water,  thiee  eups  ol  aagar,  vytutee  of  tv^o  eggs  ; 


boil  sugar  and  water  until  very  thick  and  waxy; 
beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour 
the  sirup  over  them,  beating  all  till  cool.  Then 
add  one-half  pound  of  almonds,  chopped  fine  ;  one 
small  half  teacup  of  large  white  raisins,  and  a  lit- 
tle citron,  sliced  thin.    Very  nice  for  sponge  cake. 

Boiled  Icing. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar ; 
put  to  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Let  it 
boil  on  back  of  stove  until  it  is  waxy,  or  stringy ; 
then  add  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Boiled  Icing. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
stiff  ;  one  pint  of  sugar,  melted  in  water,  and  then 
boiled ;  add  to  it  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  cold. 

Chocolate  Icing. — One-half  cake  of  chocolate 
grated  fine,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  milk  or  cream ;  boiled  and  stirred  to  a 
paste. 

Icing. — Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  water  ;  boil  together  until  it  candies  ; 
then  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  slightly  beaten, 
stirring  briskly  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it 
seems  perfectly  smooth  and  white ;  then  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon.  This  is  sufficient  for  one  large 
white  mountain  cake,  of  eight  or  nine  layers,  cov- 
ering also  top  and  sides. 

Icing. — Beat  the  whites  of  foui-  eggs  with  one 
poimd  of  powdered  sugar  sifted,  with  one-half  a 
tablespoon  starch,  and  one-fourth  of  an  oimce  of 
fine  gum-arabic.     Stir  it  well. 

Chocolate  Icing. — Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
one  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  and  six 
large  tablespoons  of  chocolate. 

Icing  for  Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
with  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  corn  starch  and  sifted  white  gum- 
arabic,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Icing  for  Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
with  one  pound  each  of  powdered  sugar  and 
blanched  and  pounded  almonds ;  a  little  rose- 
water  should  be  added  to  the  almonds  during  the 
process  of  pounding ;  lay  on  with  a  knife,  and 
harden  in  a  cool  oven.  The  eggs  must  be  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth. 

Black  Cake. — One jpound  of  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter, 
twelve  eggs,  or  leave  out  part  of  the  eggs ;  use  the 
same  qimntity  of  molasses.  One  teaspoon  of 
soda,  three  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of 
seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  nutmegs, 
one  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves  and  cinnamon  each. 
Bake  in  a  large  loaf  three  or  four  hours. 

Bread  Cake.— Two  cups  of  light  dougli,  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  half 
cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  soda  or  baking-powder, 
nutmeg.     If  too  thin,  stir  in  a  little  flour. 

Spice  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  butter^ 
three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  five  cups 
flour,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda ;  cinnamon, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  allspice,  each  one  teaspoon ;  one 
pound  raisins.  This  will  make  the  cakes  of  usual 
size,  and  will  keep  for  two  months. 

Spice  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  one  ^^z,  one-half 
c\ip  cream^  cue- half  cup  buttermilk,  one  smali 


BLACK   CAKE— HONEY  CAKE. 


39 


teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  ginger,  the  same 
of  cinnamon,  and  salt. 

Black  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  one  pound 
butter,  one  pound  flour,  three  pounds  raisins, 
three  pounds  currants,  one-half  pound  citron,  ten 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful 
cloves,  two  teaspoonf uls  nutmeg ;  brown  the  flour 
to  darken  the  cake. 

Imperial  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  one  pound 
flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  butter,  one  pound 
almonds  blanched  and  cut  tine,  one-half  pound 
citron,  one-half  pound  raisins,  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  nutmeg,  ten  eggs. 

Fruit  Caice  from  Dough. — Two  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  butter,  one  pint  of  dough,  two  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  as  much  fruit  as  you  wish,  spices 
to  suit  taste  ;  use  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as 
common  fruit  cake  ;  set  in  anvarm  place  to  raise 
for  one  hour.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Molasses  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  molasses,  one 
and  three-quarters  cup  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
cold  water.  Boil  the  molasses,  sugar  and  butter 
together,  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  flour  as  thick  as  a 
pound  cake,  then  add  eggs ;  beat  this  well,  then 
add  one  pound  raisins,  one  of  currants,  and  one- 
half  of  citron,  with  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour 
mixed  through  the  fruit ;  bake  nearly  two  hours. 

Black  Cake. — One  pound  browned  flour,  one 
pound  brown  sugar,  one  pound  citron,  two 
pounds  currants,  three  pounds  stoned  raisins, 
three-quarters  pound  of  butter,  one  teacup  of 
molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  mace,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  twelve  eggs. 

Marble  Spice  Cake. — Three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour,  well  dried ;  one  pound  white 
sugar,  one-half  pound  butter,  whites  of  fourteen 
eggs,  one  tablespoonful  cream  of  tartar  mixed 
with  the  flour.  When  the  cake  is  mixed,  take  out 
about  a  teacup  of  batter  and  stir  into  it  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  one  of  cloves, 
two  of  spice  and  one  of  nutmeg.  Fill  your  mold 
about  an  inch  deep  with  the  white  batter,  and 
drop  into  this,  in  several  places,  a  spoonful  of  the 
dark  mixture.  Then  put  in  another  layer  of 
white,  and  add  the  dark  as  before.  Repeat  this 
until  this  batter  is  used  up.  This  makes  one  large 
cake. 

Nut  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter, 
three  of  flour,  one  of  cold  water,  four  eggs,  baking- 
powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  kernels  of  hickory 
or  white  walnuts. 

Nut  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  two  of  white  sugar, 
four  of  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk,  eight  eggs  (the 
whites),  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  two 
cups  hickory  nuts  picked  out  of  the  shells  and  cut 
up  with  a  clean  knife. 

Bread  Cake. — Four  cups  dough,  two  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  cream,  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  saleratus.  Mix  with  the  hands,  and 
add  a  little  flour,  also  fruit  and  spices  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  let  it  rise  well  before  baking. 

Citron  Cake. — Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  two  cups 
of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  "and  one-half 


cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls baking-powder,  and  one  pound  of  citron. 

Dolly  Varden  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar.  Flavor  with 
lemon.  Bake  one  half  of  this  in  two  pans.  To 
the  remainder  add  one  tablespoon  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  cur- 
rants, piece  of  citron  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  two 
pans  and  put  in  sheets  alternately  vdth  a  little 
jelly  or  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  corn 
starch,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  tartar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  lemon 
to  flavor.  After  all  is  well  mixed,  add  one-half 
cup  cold  water. 

Gold  Cake. — The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  whole 
egg,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  sugar,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  soda. 

HiCKORT  Nut  Cake. — Two  teacups  of  sugar, 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  thin  cream, 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking-powder  sifted  through  flour,  six 
eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pint  of  chopped  hick- 
ory nuts. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour, 
whites  of  five  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder — bake  in  thin  layers  ;  three  small  cups  of 
sugar  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  boiled  until 
done  for  candy ;  cool  a  little,  and  pour  over  the 
unbeaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  heat  together  a  half 
an  hour. 

MarIjle  Cake. — For  white  part :  One  cup  of 
butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  five  cups  of  flour,  one- 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  whites  of  eight  eggs ;  flavor  with  lemon. 
Dark  part :  One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  spices  of  all 
kinds.  Put  in  pan,  first  a  layer  of  dark,  then  a 
layer  of  light,  and  finish  with  a  dark  layer. 

Silver  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda. 

Snow  Cake. — Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  corn 
starch,  two  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking-powder  ;  mix  corn  starch,  flour  and 
baking-powder  together:  add.  the  butter  and 
sugar  alternately  with  the  milk ;  lastly  add  the 
whites  of  seven  eggs.    Flavor  to  taste. 

Honey  Cakes. — Mix  a  quart  of  strained  honey 
with  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a 
pound  fresh  butter,  and  the  juice  of  two  oranges 
or  lemons ;  warm  slightly,  just  enough  to  soften 
the  butter  ;  beat  the  mixture  very  hard,  adding  a 


40 


CUP  CAKE— ALMOND    COOKIES 


grated  nutmeg :  mix  in  gradually  two  pounds  or 
less  of  flour,  make  into  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll 
out  easilj^ ;  beat  it  well  all  over  with  rolling-pin  ; 
roll  half  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  with  a  tumbler  dipped 
frequently  into  flour ;  lay  them  on  shallow  tins 
slightly,  buttered,  and  bake  well. 

Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  four  cups  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  saleratus,  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon.  You  may  add  a  cup  of  raisins  and 
a  cup  of  currants  if  you  like  ;  either  is  good. 

Delicate  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three 
small  teaspoouf ula  oi  baking-powder,  sliced  citron. 

White  and  Yellow  Mountain  Cake. — Two 
cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  whites  of  seven 
eggs,  well-beaten,  two-thirds  cup  of  sweet  milk, two 
cups  flour,  one  cup  corn  starch,  two  teaspoons 
baking-powder.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins.  Frost- 
ing :  Whites  of  three  eggs  and  some  sugar,  beaten 
together — not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  frosting  ;  spread 
over  the  cake,  add  some  grated  cocoa-nut,  then  put 
your  cakes  together  ;  put  cocoa-nut  or  frosting  for 
the  top.  Yellow  mountain  :  Yolks  of  ten  eggs, 
one  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  three  of 
flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar. 

Marble  Cake. — Light  part :  One  and  one-half 
cups  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  and 
one-half  cups  flour ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether, mix  tiie  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour,  and 
dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.  Dark  part :  One 
cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half 
cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  two  and 
one-half  cups  browned  flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoon  each  of  ground  cloves  and  cin- 
namon ;  ingredients  mixed  the  same  as  light  part. 
When  both  are  prepared,  put  in  the  cake-pan 
alternate  layers  of  each,  or  put  them  in  spots  on 
each  other,  making  what  is  called  leopard  cake, 
until  all  is  used,  then  bake  as  usual. 

Delicate  Cake. — vVhites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup 
of  milk,  running  over ;  one-half  cup  butter,  two 
cups  sugar,  two  and  one-lialf  cups  flour,  heaping 
teaspoonful  baking-powder.  This  makes  two 
loaves.  If  you  want  it  very  nice,  use  one  cup  of 
com  starch  in  place  of  one  of  flour. 

Citron  Cake. — Six  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  citron, 
cut  in  little  slips  ;  two  teaspoons  baking-powder, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter. 

Cottage  Cake.— Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, a  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  four  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  si^parate- 
ly),  a  tablespoonful  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  lemon  and  little  salt. 
Rub  the  baking-powder  into  the  flour. 

Cinnamon  Cake. — One  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  one  egg,  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  as  for  cookies,  roll  out 
and  spread  ground  cinnamon  over  the  top  :  then 
roll  up  as  a  roll  jelly  cake,  and  .slice  off  with  a 
sharp  knife  and  bake.  Any  good  cookie  recipe 
will  do. 


Gold  and  Silver  Cake. — One  teacup  white 
sugar,  one-half  teacup  butter,  whites  of  four  eggs, 
two-thii-ds  teacup  sweet  milk,  two  teacups  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking-powder ;  flavor.  Gold 
Cake  :  Same  as  above,  using  the  yolks  of  the  four 
eggs,  and  adding  one  whole  egg. 

Coffee-Cakes. — Three  eggs  well  beaten,  two 
cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Work  this  to  a  stiff  dough,  and 
roll  out  to  about  a  half  inch  in  thickness.  Sift 
gi'ound  cinnamon  over  evenly,  then  roll  up  like 
roll  jelly  cake.  Cut  slices  about  a  half  inch  thick 
from  the  roll,  drop  into  granulated  sugar,  and 
bake  thoroughly  with  sugared  side  up. 

Breakfast  Coffee-Cakes. — Three  cups  bread 
sponge,  one-half  cup  butter,  little  sugar,  one  egg. 
Roll  thin  as  baking-powder  biscuit.  Cut  out  with 
tumbler  or  cake-cutter,  sprinkle  over  a  little  sugar, 
cinnamon,  and  little  bits  of  butter. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. — Four  eggs,  whites  only ; 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, two-thirds  cup  of  corn  starch,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing-powder, lemon  or  rose  water  flavoring.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  either  with  the 
hand  or  a  silver  spoon  ;  mix  the  corn  starch  with 
the  milk,  and  add.  Then  add  the  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  next  the  sifted  flour  into  which  the  baking- 
powder  has  been  stirred. 

Cream  Puffs. — One-half  pint  cold  water,  into 
which  rub  smooth  six  ounces  of  flour  ;  put  it  into 
a  spider  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  stir  it 
continually  over  a  fii'e  not  too  hot,  till  it  is  thor- 
oughly cooked.  It  ^^^ll  resemble  a  lump  of  putty 
and  cleave  off  the  spider  like  a  pancake.  Cool 
this  lump  and  add  four  eggs.  Beat  well,  and  then 
drop  on  a  butterecl  tin  in  neat,  compact  little 
"  dabs,"  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  when  they 
rise,  llave  the  oven  about  as  hot  as  for  cookies, 
and  in  turning  them  lift  up  the  tin.  If  you  shove 
them  before  they  are  set  you  will  have  pan-cakes. 
They  should  be  hollow  balls.  Bake  them  long 
enough  so  they  will  not  fall  when  removed,  and 
cool  them  on  brown  paper  as  quickly  as  possible, 
so  they  won't  sweat.  To  fill  them  take  one-half 
pint  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  one-quarter  cup  of 
flour  or  corn  starch  wet  smoothly,  one  cup  sugar, 
lemon  or  vanilla  flavor  ;  cook  it  in  a  tin  pail  in  a 
kettle  of  hot  water,  and  stir  it  so  it  will  be 
smooth.  When  both  are  cold,  open  the  puff  with 
a  sharp  knife — just  a  little  slit  on  the  side — and 
fill  in  one  tablespoonful  of  custard. 

Lady  Fingers. — Four  ounces  of  sugar,  four 
yolks  of  eggs,  mix  well ;  three  ounces  of  flour,  a 
little  salt.  Beat  tlie  four  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
stir  the  whites  into  the  mixture  a  little  at  a  time 
until  all  is  in.  Butter  a  shallow  pan.  Squirt 
through  a  confectioner's  sj-ringe  or  a  little  piece 
of  paper  rolled  up.  Dust  with  sugar,  and  bake 
in  a  not  too  hot  oven. 

Almond  Cookies. — Two  pounds  of  butter,  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  shelled  almonds, 
one  dozen  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  one  lemon  grated ;  mix  butter,  sugar, 
yolks  of  eggs,  lemon,  cinnamon,  and  hot  water ; 
beat  the  whites,  take  three  parts,  mix  also  one- 


COCOA-NUT  COOKIES— GINGER-SNAPS. 


41 


ihalf  of  the  almonds,  and  as  much  flour  as  it  will 
hold ;  roll  them,  and  brush  with  the  whites  of 
eggs.  Before  putting  in  the  almonds  and  sugar, 
almonds  must  be  scalded,  dried  and  cut  fine. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CocoA-NuT  Cookies. — One  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  one  cup  butter  (nearly),  two  eggs,  one  cup 
grated  cocoa-nut,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla ;  cut  out 
and  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar. 

GiNGEK  Cookies. — One  cup  molasses,  one  egg, 
one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  teaspoon  soda, tablespoon  ginger  ;  floiu-  to  roll. 

Ginger-Snaps. — One  full  cup  of  shortening, 
two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  of  molasses ;  boil 
together  a  short  time,  and  then  let  cool.  Sift  four 
cups  of  flour  with  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  two  of  ginger, 
one  nutmeg,  last  of  all,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  hot  water  ;  then  let  cool.  It  is  better 
to  use  one  part  butter.  Make  in  small  rolls  with 
the  hand,  then  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut,  giving  them  plenty  of  room  in  the  pans  to 
spread.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Let  them 
cool  before  taking  out  the  pans. 

Jumbles. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, four  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
soda :  knead  with  flour  just  stiff  enough  to  roll. 
After  they  are  cut,  dip  one  side  in  line  sugar ; 
three  eggs. 

Jumbles. — One  pound  of  white  sugar,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  five  eggs,  leaving 
out  the  yolks  of  two,  and  nearly  two  pounds  of 
flour ;  spice,  if  you  like.  Roll  tliin,  and  sprinkle 
granulated  sugar  over  them  before  baking. 

CocoA-NuT  Jumbles. — One  pound  of  cocoa-nut 
grated,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  large  ironspoonful  of  flour;  drop  on  but- 
tered bans. 

Maccakoons.  —  One-half  pound  of  almonds 
blanched,  one-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  whites  of 
■eggs,  one  by  one.  Pound  the  almonds  in  a  mor- 
tar, occasionally  putting  in  a  little  rose  water  to 
moisten  ;  add  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  until  they  are 
very  stiff,  then  add  enough  of  the  mixture  to  make 
a  paste.  Take  a  little  flour  in  your  hands  and 
mold  them  into  small  cakes.  Bake  a  few  minutes 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  The  top  of  the  oven 
.should  be  the  hottest. 

Cookies. — Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of 
Tjutter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two'spoons  of  bak- 
ing-powder, nutmeg ;  flour  enough  to  roll  out ; 
better  if  rolled  out  thin,  and  a  hot  oven  to  bake  in. 

Cookies. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  one  large  cup 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
two  tea.spoonfuls  baking-powder,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  rose  or  nutmeg ;  flour  enough  for  thick 
batter ;  beat  thoroughly ;  drop  in  buttered  pans, 
dust  granulated  sugar  on  top,  and  bake  with  dis- 
patch. 

GiNGEK  Cookies  op  Attrition  Flour. — One 
•cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
'One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  water,  one  egg, 


one  heaping  teaspoon  soda  stirred  into  the  mo- 
lasses, and  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  ginger.  Mix 
till  smooth,  roll  thin,  and  bake  quick. 

Cookies. — One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
four  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  three  tablespoons  milk, 
three  teaspoons  baking-powder.  Rub  the  flour 
and  butter  thoroughly  together,  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  beat  the  eggs  separately ;  add  to  the 
above,  with  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  or  any 
seasoning  preferred.  Sift  in  the  flour  and  baking- 
powder,  and  add  enough  flour  to  mold  and  roll 
out.  These  cookies  will  keep  fresh  two  weeks, 
and  if  the  milk  is  left  out,  a  month. 

Cookies. — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lard  or 
butter,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  just  flour  enough  to  roll,  baking  quickly. 
Add  any  flavoring  you  wish.  No  eggs  are  re- 
quired. These  are  very  nice  if  grated  or  pre- 
pared cocoa-nut  is  added. 

Cookies. — One  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  butter, 
two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda ; 
flour,  and  flavoring  to  suit. 

Ginger-Snaps. — One  coffeecup  New  Orleans 
molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar ;  place 
them  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then 
take  off  immediately,  and  add  teaspoon  of  soda, 
and  a  tablespoon  of  ginger.  Roll  thin  and  bake 
quickly. 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies. — Two  teacups  New 
Orleans  molasses,  one  teacup  of  melted  lard,  one 
teacup  of  boiling  water,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  soda 
bought  in  bulk,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Pour 
the  boiling  water  on  the  soda ;  do  not  knead  too 
stiff.    Bake  with  steady  heat. 

Cheap  Glnger  Cookies.— One  cup  of  molasses, 
one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  warm  water,  one 
cup  lard,  two  tablespoons  ginger,  one  tablespoon 
soda  (dissolved  in  water),  one  teaspoon  powdered 
alum,  put  in  last.    Mix  soft,  bake  quickly. 

Jumbles. — One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one-half 
a  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  soda, 
one  of  cream  of  tartar  (dissolved  in  a  little  sweet 
milk),  flour  enough  to  make  like  pie-crust.  Bake 
in  waflie-irons.  Fill  the  little  holes  with  light  and 
dark  jelly,  alternately. 

Cookies. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  cup 
of  milk  or  water,  a  grated  nutmeg,  sufiftcient  flour 
to  make  stiff  to  roll  out. 

Coco.i-NuT  Biscuits. — Ten  of  sifted  sugar, 
three  eggs,  six  of  grated  cocoa-nut ;  whisk  the 
eggs  until  very  light,  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
cocoa-nut ;  put  a  tablespoonful  on  wafer-paper  in 
form  of  p}Tamid  ;  put  the  paper  on  tins,  and  bake 
in  rather  cool  oven.     Keep  in  tin  canisters. 

Graham  Cookies. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  mix 
quickly,  roll  and  bake.  These  require  less  heat 
and  more  time  in  baking  than  when  white  flour 
is  used. 

Ginger-Snaps. — One-half  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt,  soda  and  ginger,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water,  tiiree  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard ; 
put  in  a  teacup  and  fill  up  with  New  Orleans  mo- 


42     HICKORY  NUT  COOKIES— ORANGE    CAKE, 


lasses.    Roll  very  thin  and  as  soft  as  you  can. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.    They  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Hickory  Nut  Cookies. — One  cup  of  butter,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of 
sour  milk,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  and  one 
small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  eggs ;  dip  in 
sugar. 

Plain  Doughnuts.— One  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter  (scant),  two 
cups  milk,  two  spoonfuls  baking-powder,  flour 
enough  to  roll  out. 

Doughnuts. — Six  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  three  teaspoons  of  baking- 
powder,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,butter  the  size  of  one- 
half  an  egg ;  mix  thoroughly,  then  add  four  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  moisten  with  sweet  milk  until  a 
soft  dough.    Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

Doughnuts. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
pint  of  new  milk,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  flour  enough 
to  permit  the  spoon  to  stand  upright  in  the  mix- 
ture ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder  and 
beat  until  very  light.  Drop  by  the  dessertspoon- 
ful into  boiling  iard.  These  will  not  absorb  a  bit 
of  fat,  and  are  the  least  pernicious  of  the  dough- 
nut family. 

Doughnuts. — Set  sponge  for  them  about  2  or  3 
o'clock ;  fry  them  the  next  forenoon.  Make  a 
sponge,  using  one  quart  water  and  one  cake  of 
yeast.  Let  it  rise  until  very  light  (about  five  hours 
is  usually  sulBcient) ;  then  add  one  cofCeecupful 
of  lard,  two  of  white  sugar,  three  large  mashed 
potatoes,  or  two  eggs  (the  potatoes  are  nicer),  and 
a  small  nutmeg.  Let  rise  again  until  very  light. 
Roll  and  cut,  or  pull  off  bits  of  dough  and  shape 
as  you  like.  Lay  enougli  to  fry  at  one  time  on  a 
floured  plate,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  warm.  Drop 
in  boiling  lard,  and  fry  longer  than  cakes  made 
with  baking-powder.  If  the  dough  is  light  enough, 
and  you  heat  it  before  dropping  in  the  lard,  your 
doughnuts  will  be  delicious. 

Gingek-Bread. — One  pint  of  molasses,  one 
glass  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of 
soda,  one-half  pint  of  melted  lard ;  put  the  soda 
into  the  milk  and  molasses  and  beat  to  a  foam. 
Make  the  dough  very  soft. 

Soft  Ginger-Bread. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  cup  of 
New  Orleans  molasses,  four  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  soda,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  three  eggs, 
well  beaten ;  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  together, 
then  add  eggs,  milk  and  flour. 

Ginger-Bread. — One  egg  well  beaten,  one  cup 
molasses,  one  cup  .sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  cold  tea,  two  even  teaspoons  of  soda,  flour 
enough  to  mix  about  the  consistency  of  cake. 
Better  baked  in  two  sheets  than  one,  as  when  too 
thick  the  outside  will  be  burned  or  too  hard,  be- 
fore it  is  done  through. 

Ginger-Bread. — Melt  one-half  a  cup  of  butter 
in  one  cup  of  molasses  and  one  of  sugar,  allowing 
the  mixture  to  become  hot ;  then  add  one  table- 
spoon of  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  ground 
cinnamon,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  five  cups  of 
flour  stirred  in  with  a  full  half  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Bake  in  two  flat  tin  pans,  or  gem-irons. 


Sponge  Ginger-Bread. — In  two  cups  of  mo- 
lasses sift  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  ginger,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
cinnamon.  Stir  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  four  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  and  one-half 
cup  of  lard,  melted ;  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  in 
which  is  dissolved  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Mix  all  together ;  then  add  flour  to  the 
consistency  of  pound  cake. 

Spanish  Buns. — Four  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar — beat  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  and  eggs  separately ;  one  cup  of 
milk,  one  tablespocmful  of  cinnamon,  two  cups  of 
flour.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan,  like  soft  ginger- 
bread, and  when  done  spread  over  the  top  a  thin 
icing  made  of  the  white  of  one  egg,  a  little  sugax, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Spanish  Bun§. — One  pint  of  flour,  one  pint 
sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter,  four 
eggs  (beaten  separate),  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two- 
teaspoons  cream  tartar,  or  thi-ee  spoons  of  bak- 
ing-powder ;  bake  on  tins,  an  inch  thick,  and 
when  taken  from  the  oven,  sprinkle  with  white 
sugar  while  hot. 

Lemon  Cream  Cake. — Take  three  eggs,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
one  and  one-fourtli  cups  of  milk,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking-powder,  enough  flower  to  thicken ; 
bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

Lemon  Cream  for  Cake. — Two  lemons  grated, 
rind  and  all,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs  ;  beat  the  eggs  very 
light ;  heat  the  butter,  sugar  and  lemon,  stir  in 
eggs  slowly  ;  let  the  mixture  boil  a  few  minutes, 
stirring  constantly ;  when  cold,  spread  on  the 
cakes,  as  you  would  jelly. 

Orange  Cake. — Make  a  silver  cake,  and  bake  in 
jelly-cake  pans ;  one  large  orange,  grated  ;  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  egg  (one  large,  or  two  small 
ones) ;  cook  all  until  a  jelly,  and  spread  between 
the  layers. 

Pine-Apple  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of 
flour,  whites  of  six  eggs  and  yolks  of  four,  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  well  mixed  through 
flour  ;  bake  in  jelly-cake  pans  ;  grate  a  pine-apple ; 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  spread  between  the  layers  ;. 
pine-apple  jam  may  be  substituted  ;  frost  the  out- 
side ;  beat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  pine-appte 
into  the  frosting. 

Orange  Cake. — Grated  rind  of  one  orange  ; 
two  cups  sugar,  whites  of  four  eggs  and  yolks  of 
five,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter,  two 
large  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder,  to  be  sifted 
through  with  the  flour ;  bake  quick  in  jelly  tins. 
Filling :  Take  the  white  of  the  one  egg  that  was 
left,  beat  to  a  frost,  add  a  little  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  the  orange  ;  beat  together  and  spread  be- 
tween the  iayers.  If  oranges  are  not  to  be  had, 
lemons  will  do  instead. 

Orange  Cake. — Peel  the  oranges,  and  chop 
very  fine  ;  to  two  oranges  take  one-half  of  a  lemon 
— squeeze  the  juice  and  chop  the  rest ;  one  teacup 
of  sugar.  Bake  a  crust  as  for  short-cake,  cut 
open,  butter  well,  and  lay  the  orange  between. 


COCOA-NUT  CAKE— SPONGE    CAKE. 


43 


CocoA-NuT  Cake. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  white 
sugar,  one-half  a  cup  sweeet  milk,  one-quarter  cup 
of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  in  pans  one  inch  deep.  To  pre- 
pare the  desiccated  cocoa-nut,  beat  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one  cup  of  pulver- 
ized sugar  and  the  cocoa-nut,  after  soaking  it  in 
boiling  milk.  Spread  the  mixture  between  the 
layers  of  cake  and  over  the  top. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — Two  cups  white  sugar,  one 
cup  butter,  one  cui)  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  three  and  one-quarter  cups  winter  wheat 
flour — if  spring  wheat  flour  is  used,  four  cups. 
Bake  in  jelly-pans.  Make  an  icing  as  follows : 
Three  cups  sugar,  one  of  water ;  boil  to  a  thick 
clear  sirup,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  ;  stir  the  mixture  while  pouring  in  ; 
add  one  teaspoonful  citric  acid ;  flavor  \^^th 
lemon  or  vanilla,  and  spread  each  layer  and  top. 

Cream  Cake. — One  cup  white  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  tlu-ee  eggs  beaten  separate 
and  very  light,  two  tablespoons  water,  one  tea- 
spoon baking-powder.  Bake  in  two  cakes.  Cream  : 
One  pint  milk,,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  flour  ;  lemon  ex- 
tract.    Cut  each  cake  and  fill  with  the  cream. 

Chocqlate  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking-powder ; 
lemon  extract.  Bake  as  jelly-cake.  Caramel :  The 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  ;  two  cups 
sugar  boiled  until  almost  candy  ;  pour  over  slow- 
ly on  the  whites,  beating  them  quite  fast ;  one- 
half  cake  chocolate,  grated  ;  vanilla  extract ;  stir 
until  cool,  then  put  between  each  cake  and  over 
the  top  and  sides. 

Fig  Cake. — For  the  cake  take  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  seven 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in 
layers.  For  the  filling,  take  a  pound  of  figs,  chop 
fine,  and  put  in  a  stew-pan  on  the  stove  ;  pour 
over  it  a  teacup  of  water,  and  add  one-half  cup  of 
sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  soft  and  smooth. 
Let  it  cook,  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Chocolate  Frosting. — One  cake  (or  one-half 
pound;  French  vanilla  sweet  chocolate,  grated ; 
one-half  cup  granulated  sugar,  three-fourtlis  of  a 
cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  one  tablespoon  butter,  a  little 
salt.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  stii-ring  constantly ; 
take  from  the  lire  and  pour  into  a  dish.  When 
near  cool,  add  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla  ;  spread 
on  the  cake.  If  the  mixture  is  thicker  than  jelly, 
thin  it  with  milk.  This  quantity  ^^ill  ice  two 
cakes,  three  layers  each.  The  best  cake  is  gold 
cake,  baked  in  jelly-tins. 

Lemon  Jellt-Cake. — Cake  ;  One  cup  sugar,  one 
egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  milk,  three 
cups  flour.  Jelly  :  Eind  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 
one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  corn 
starch,  one  cup  hot  water  ;  mix,  and  let  it  boil  up 
once. 

Gentlemen's  Favorite. — One-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, two  cups  of  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream,  seven 


eggs  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-i30wder.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans  in  a  quick 
oven.  Jelly :  One  egg,  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
grated  apples  and  one  lemon.  Stir  until  it  boils, 
and  becomes  thick.  Let  it  cool  before  putting  on 
the  cake. 

CocoA-NuT  Cake. — After  using  the  whites  of  ten 
eggs  for  snow  cake,  take  the  yolks,  one  and  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  two  thirds  butter,  two-thii'ds 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one 
cream  tartar,  whites  of  four  or  five  eggs  for  frost- 
ing ;  sprinkle  cocoa-nut  upon  each  layer  of  frost- 
ing. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Make  as  for  nice  cup  cake, 
bake  in  jelly-cake  tins.  Icing  :  Boil  together  for  a 
few  minutes  three  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  boil- 
ing water ;  pour  this  sirup  into  half  a  cake  of 
chocolate,  grated  ;  add  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Put  this  icing  between  layers  of  cake  and  on 
top. 

CocoA-Nrrr  Cake.— Two  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls butter,  one  cup  sugar,  half  cnp  mDk,  two  cups 
flour,  two  cups  cocoa-nut  soaked  in  milk,  two  tea- 
spoons baking-powder. 

Sponge  Cake. — Take  three  eggs,  beat  three 
minutes,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cup  sugar, 
and  beat  five  minutes  ;  add  one  teacup  flour,  and 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  beat  three  min- 
utes ;  add  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  one- 
half  cup  cold  water,  and  another  cup  of  flour ; 
beat  enough  to  mix  well.  Flavor  and  bake  in  a 
deep  pan  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sponge  Cake. — Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar 
(yolks  and  sugar  beaten  until  very  light,  and  whites 
beaten  separately),  one  cup  of  flour,  into  which 
has  been  sifted  one  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Flavor  to  taste. 

Easy  Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs  beaten  one 
minute  ;  add  one  and  one-hrJf  cups  of  sugar  beat- 
ten  five  minutes,  one  cup  of  flour  beaten  one  min- 
ute :  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  and  another  cup 
of  flour,  in  which  has  been  mixed  two  teaspoons 
of  baking-powder,  beaten  one  minute.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Sea  Foam. — Whites  of  ten  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  sugar,  one 
cup  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar ; 
put  into  rings  and  bake  quick. 

Sponge  Cake. — Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  four 
eggs,  beat  separately ;  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  in 
which  put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  hot  water  ;  be  sure  and 
pour  water  in  last,  and  drop  in  little  at  a  time. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

Mart's  Sponge  Cake.^ — Ten  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately  ;  two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
grated  i"ind  and  juice  of  one  lemou  ;  the  flour 
sifted  and  stu'red  in  as  lightly  as  possible. 

White  Sponge  Cake. — Whites  of  eleven  eggs, 
one  even  tumblerful  of  flour,  one  and  one-half 
tumblerfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  sift, 
the  flour  three  or  four  times  before  measuring.. 


44 


TEA,    COFFEE— FRESH  FRUITS. 


Beat  the  eggs  on  a  large  platter  very  stiff,  then 
add  the  sugar  aud  flour  very  lightly.  This  fills  a 
three-quart  pau,  which  must  have  a  tube  in  it. 
I3ake  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
■oven,  then  try  mth  a  broom  straw.  When  done, 
remove  from  the  oven,  and  let  stand  on  the  tube 
to  cool.  Success  depends  upon  having  the  eggs 
very  stiff,  and  adding  the  sugar  and  flour  lightly. 

Strawberry  Short-Cake. — First  prepare  the 
berries  by  picliing  ;  after  they  have  been  well 
"washed — the  best  way  to  wash  them  is  to  hold  the 
boxes  under  the  faucet  and  let  a  gentle  stream  of 
water  run  over  them  into  an  earthen  bowl — then 
drain  and  pick  them  into  an  earthen  bowl ;  now 
take  the  potato-masher  and  bruise  them  and  cover 
?vith  a  thick  layer  of  white  sugar ;  now  set  them 
'.side  until  the  cake  is  made.  Take  a  quart  of 
sifted  flour,  one-half  a  cup  of  sweet  butter,  one 
egg  well  beaten,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  and  milk  enougli  to  make  a  ratlier  stiif 
dough  ;  knead  well,  and  roll  with  the  roliing-pin 
till  about  one  inch  thick  ;  bake  till  a  nice  brown, 
and  when  done  remove  it  to  the  table,  turn  it  out 
of  the  pan,  and  with  a  light  sharp  knife  cut  it 
down  lengthwise  and  crossways  ;  now  run  the 
knife  through  it,  and  lay  it  open  for  a  few  mo- 
ments, just  to  let  the  steam  escape  (th-e  steam 
ruins  the  color  of  the  berries) ;  then  set  the  bot- 
tom crust  on  the  platter,  cover  quickly  with  the 
berries,  an  inch  and  a  half  deep  ;  lay  the  top  crust 
on  the  fruit,  dust  thickly  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  if  any  berry  juice  is  left  in  the  bowl,  pour  it 
round  the  cake,  not  over  it,  and  you  will  have  a 
delicious  short-cake. 

Scotch  Short-Cakk. — Take  one-half  a  pound  of 
slightly  salted  butter,  and  one  pound  of  flour ; 
then  mix  flour  and  butter  with  hands  ;  tlien  add 
four  ounces  of  loaf  siigar,  and  work  all  into  a 
smooth  ball ;  then  roll  out  imtil  it  is  an  inch  thick  ; 
prick  over  with  a  fork,  and  pinch  round  the  edges, 
and  bake  for  one-half  an  hour  in  oven,  with  a 
moderate  fire,  in  a  round  or  square  pan,  accord- 
ing to  taste. 

Corn  Gems. — Two  ciips  of  corn  meal,  two  cups 
•of  flour,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  three 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  one-half 
cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Bake  in 
gem-pans. 

TEA,  COFFEE,  CHOCOLATE. 

Tea. — People  nmst  consult  tlicir  own  tastes  as 
to  kind  of  tea.  Mixed  is  the  best  to  use  with  ice. 
Allow  one  tcaspoonful  for  each  person.  Use  boil- 
ing water,  but  do  not  boil  the  tea,  and  use  while 
fresh.  Tea  is  best  made  in  an  earthen  tea  pot — 
never  in  tin.  Iced  tea  should  l)c  made  several 
hours  before  it  is  needed,  and  then  set  upon  ice. 
Wlien  ready  to  use  it,  sweeten  and  drink  without 
milk  or  cream.  Use  cracked  ice  to  put  into  the 
glass. 

Vienna  Coffee. — Leach  or  filter  the  coffee 
through  a  Frencli  filterer,  or  any  of  the  many 
coffee-pots  that  filter  instead  of  l)oiling  the  cof- 
fee ;  allow  one  tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  to 
■each  person,  and  one  extra  for  the  pot.    Put  one 


quart  of  cream  into  a  milk-boiler,  or,  if  you  have 
none,  into  a  pitcher  in  a  pail  of  boiling  water  ;  put 
it  where  the  water  will  keep  boiling,  beat  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth,  then  add  to  the  egg 
tliree  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk ;  mix  the  egg 
and  cold  milk  thoroughly  together  ;  when  hot,  re- 
move the  cream  from  the  fire  and  add  the  egg  and 
cold  milk ;  stir  it  all  together  briskly  for  a  min- 
ute or  two,  and  then  serve. 

Coffee. — Make  a  flannel  bag ;  hem  the  top  and 
run  through  it  a  small  wire  by  which  the  bag  may 
be  suspended  in  the  pot,  so  that  the  bottom  of  the 
bag  comes  witlain  two  inches  of  the  bottom  ot  the 
pot.  Grind  the  coffee  fine  and  put  into  the  bag, 
then  pour  the  proper  quantity  of  water  through 
the  bag  into  the  pot ;  let  the  water  be  boiling 
when  poured  in  ;  then  set  the  pot  back  Where  it 
can  simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes,  and  you  have 
good  coffee,  without  egg-shells  or  cold  water  to 
settle  it.  Coffee  that  needs  settling  is  not  pi'opep- 
ly  made.  The  flannel  bag  should  be  made  of  flan- 
nel so  fine  that  the  coffee  will  not  sift  through. 

CnocoLATE. — Take  one  and  one-half  quarts  of 
good  milk,  and  one-half  pint  of  cream,  to  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  grated  chocolate  ;  let  the 
milk  and  cream  come  to  a  scald.  After  mixing 
the  chocolate  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  it  into 
the  scalding  milk  and  let  it  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes,  adding  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and 
stirring  occasionally. 

Mock  Cream  for  Tea  or  Coffee. — To  a  pint 
of  milk  take  the  yolk  of  one  fi%^  ;  put  on  the  fire 
and  let  it  come  to  a  scald.  It  is  improved  by  add- 
ing a  little  cream  Avhen  it  is  cool. 

Chocolate. — Scrape  two  sticks  of  chocolate  and 
boil  it  in  half  a  cup  of  water.  Stir  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Sweeten  a  pint  of  milk  with  loaf  sugar, 
and,  when  boiling,  pour  on  to  the  chocolate  and 
let  boil  together  a  few  seconds,  stirring  it  well. 
Serve  immediately.  Some  persons  prefer  a  little 
water  instead  of  all  milk.  Sweeten  a  little  cream 
and  whip  to  a  froth  and  place  on  the  top  of  each 
cup. 


FRESH  FRUITS. 

To  Crystalize  Fruit. — Pick  out  the  finest  of 
any  kind  of  fruit — leave  in  the  stones ;  beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  lay  the  fruit 
in  the  beaten  egg,  with  the  stems  upward ;  drain 
them,  and  beat  tlie  part  that  drips  off  again  ;  se- 
lect them  out,  one  by  one,  and  dip  them  into  a 
cup  of  finely-powdered  sugar  ;  cover  a  pan  with  a 
sheet  of  fine  paper,  place  the  fruit  on  it,  and  set 
it  in  a  cool  oven  ;  wlien  the  icing  on  the  fruit  be- 
comes firm,  pile  them  on  a  di.sh,  and  set  them  in 
a  cold  place. 

Pine-Apples. — Slice  on  a  slaw-cutter,  or  very 
thin  with  a  knife ;  mix  with  finely-powdered 
sugar.    Set  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 

Oranges. — Slice,  mix  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
strew  grated  cocoa-nut  over  the  top.  Are  also 
nice  served  whole,  the  skins  quartered  and  turned 
down.  Form  in  a  pyramid  with  bananas  and 
white  grapes. 


COOKERY  FOR    THE   SICK. 


45 


Meloxs. — Melons  are  much  nicer  if  kept  on  ice 
UQtil  time  for  serving.  Cut  off  a  slice  at  each  end 
of  the  water-melon,  then  cut  through  the  center : 
stand  on  end  on  platter.  Cantaloupe  melons 
should  have  the  seeds  removed  before  sending  to 
the  table.  Eat  with  a  spoonful  of  strained  honey 
in  each  half  of  melon. 

Baxaxas  axd  Cream. — Peel,  slice,  and  heap  up 
in  a  glass  dessertndish,  and  serve  raw,  with  fine 

susar  and  cream. 


COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Beef  Tea. — Very  nice  beef  tea  is  made  by  cut- 
ting up  tender,  juicy  beef  into  pieces  about  one 
inch  square  ;  put  into  a  strong  bottle,  cork  tightly 
and  set  in  a  kettle. of  cold  water.  Boil  it  about 
two  hours ;  the  fluid  then  obtained  will  be  the 
pure  nutriment  of  the  meat,  and  the  tonic  effects 
are  powerful. 

Beef  Tea. — Cut  raw  beef  into  small  pieces, 
cover  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  where  it  will  not  boU,  tmtil  all  the  juice  is 
extracted  from  the  beef.  "V^Tien  wanted  for  use 
skim  off  all  the  fat,  strain,  season,  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil. 

Veal  or  Mrixo-  Broth. — To  each  pound  of 
meat  add  one  quart  of  cold  water,  bring  it  gently 
to  a  boil :  skim  it  and  add  salt ;  simmer  thebroth 
about  three  hours.  A  little  rice  may  be  boiled 
with  the  meat.    "\Mien  cold  skim  off  tlie  fat. 

Chickex  Broth. — Take  part  of  a  chicken,  joint 
it,  and  cover  with  water ;  let  it  boU  closely  cov- 
ered until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones ;  then 
skim  off  the  fat.  strain,  and  season  with  a  little 
salt,  and  if  liked  add  a  teaspoonftd  of  rice,  and  let 
boil  until  the  rice  is  cooked. 

Scraped  Beef. — Take  a  good  piece  of  raw 
steak,  lay  it  on  a  meat  board,  and  with  a  knife 
scrape  into  fine  bits  :  after  removing  all  hard  and 
gristly  parts  put  it  into  a  pan  over  the  fire  and  let 
it  remain  just  long  enough  to  become  thoroughly 
heated  through,  stirring  it  up  from  the  bottom 
occasionally  ;,  season  with  a  little  salt.  This  is 
very  nutritious  and  quite  palatable. 

To  Prepare  ax  Egg. — Beat  an  egg  until  very 
light,  add  seasoning  to  the  taste,  and  then  steaiii 
until  thoroughly  warmed  through,  but  not  hard- 
ened. This  will  take  about  two  mintites.  An  e%^ 
prepared  in  this  way  will  not  distress  a  sensitive 
stomach. 

iliLK  Porridge.— Make  a  thin  batter  of  white 
<lour  and  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  into  bothng  milk, 
with  a  little  salt.  Let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time. 

Paxada. — Shave  very  thin  soft  parts  of  light 
bread  into  a  bowl,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  large  hickory  nut ;  grate  over  this  some 
nutmeg,  pour  on  boiling  water,  cover  and  let 
stand  a  few  minutes. 

Paxada.— Break  the  soft  part  of  a  stale  loaf  in 
pieces,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  then 
mash :  put  it  on  the  fire,  with  a  little  salt,  butter 
and  sugar  to  taste,  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour ; 


add  two  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  with  two  table- 
spoonfulsof  milk. 

Oat-Meal  GRt:T:L. — Put  two  large  spoonftils  of 
oat-meal,  wet  in  cold  water,  into  one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  boil  it  gently  oue-half  hotu",  skim,  and 
add  a  Uttle  salt,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

Port  Wixe  Jellt. — Melt  in  a  little  warm  water 
one  otmce  of  isinglass,  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  port 
wine,  adding  two  ounces  of  sugar,  an  ounce  of 
gum  arable  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  mix  all 
well  and  boil  ten  minutes,  or  until  every  thing  is 
thoroughly  dissolved ;  then  strain  and  set  away  to 
get  cold. 

Barlet  Water. — Soak  one  pint  of  barley  in 
lukewarm  water  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  drain  off 
the  water.  Put  the  barley  in  three  quarts  of.  cold 
water,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  barley  is  quite 
soft,  skimming  occasionally.  This  barley  water, 
when  cold,  flavor  with  a  little  jelly  or  lemonade. 

Rice  Milk. — Pick  and  wash  the  rice  carefully ; 
boil  it  In  water  until  it  swells  and  softens  ;  when, 
the  water  is  partly  boiled  away,  add  some  milk. 
It  may  be  boiled  entirely  in  milk,  by  setting  th& 
vessel  in  which  the  rice  is  in  boiling  water; 
sweeten  with  white  sugar,  and  season  with  nut- 
meg. It  also  may  be  thickened  with  a  little  flour 
or  beaten  q^%. 

Flaxseed  Tea. — One-half  pound  of  flaxseed, 
one-half  pound  of  rock  candy,  and  three  lemons 
pared  and  sliced :  pour  over  this  two  quarts  of 
boiling  water ;  let  it  stand  untU  very  cold  ;  strain 
before  drinking.    This  is  good  for  a  cough. 

Appleade. — Cut  two  large  apples  in  slices,  and 
pour  on  them  one  pint  of  boUing  water ;  strain 
well  and  sweeten.    Ice  it  before  dnnking. 

Blackberry  Sircp. — One  quart  of  blackberry 
juice,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  nut- 
meg, one-half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-fourth  of 
an  ounce  of  cloves,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  all- 
spice. 

Toast  Water. — Toast  stale  bread  until  quite 
brown,  but  do  not  burn  it ;  put  it  into  a  large 
bowl,  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water ;  let  it  stand 
for  an  hour  or  sc,  strain,  and  pat  in  a  piece  of  ice 
before  drinking. 

Toast. — Toast  bread  until  a  nice  brown  all  over, 
taking  great  care  not  to  btu-n ;  butter  each  sUce, 
dip  into  hot  water,  or  pour  over  each  piece  enough 
sweet  cream  to  moisten  it. 

Blackberry  Wixe. — To  one  gallon  of  mashed 
berries  add  one  quart  of  boihng  water,  and  let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours ;  then  strain  them,  and 
to  every  gallon  of  juice  add  three  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Put  in  a  jug  or  demijohn,  and 
cover  with  a  thin  piece  of  muslin  until  October, 
then  bottle  it  off. 

Wixe  Whey. — Sweeten  one  pint  of  milk  t« 
taste,  and  when  boiling  throw  in  two  wineglasses 
of  sherry ;  when  the  curd  forms,  strain  the  whey 
through  a  muslin  bag  into  tumblers. 

Arrowroot  Custards. — BoU  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  while  boiling  stir  into  it  one  large  spoonful  of 
arrowroot  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk ; 
add  a  Uttle  salt ;  let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes^ 


46 


COOKERY  FOR    THE  SICK— CANDIES. 


then  Jet  it  cool,  and  add  a  couple  of  beaten  eggs, 
sugar,  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste,  and  set  it  where 
it  will  get  scalding  hot,  stirring  all  the  time.  As 
«oon  as  it  boils  up  turn  it  into  custard  cups. 

Cracked  Wheat. — To  one  quart  of  hot  water 
take  one  small  teacup  of  cracked  wheat  and  a  lit- 
tle salt ;  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  oc- 
casionally to  prevent  burning.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream  or  new  milk. 

Raw  Egg. — Break  a  fresh  egg  into  a  glass,  beat 
until  very  light,  sweeten  to  taste  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  port  wine,  then  beat  again. 

Fine  Hominy. — Put  to  soak  one  pint  of  hominy 
In  two  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  water  over 
night  in  a  tin  vessel  with  a  tight  cover ;  in  the 
morning  add  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  a 
little  salt.  Place  on  a  brisk  fire  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water ;  let  boil  one-half  hour. 

Oat-Meal  Mush. — Sift  into  boiling  water,  with 
a  little  salt,  oat-meal  until  about  the  consistency 
of  common  mush  ;  let  it  boil  one-half  hour. 

Blackberry  Cordial. — Warm  and  squeeze  the 
berries ;  add  to  one  pint  of  juice  one  pound  of 
white  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  cinna- 
mon, one-fourth  ounce  of  mace,  two  teaspoonf uls 
of  cloves.  Boil  all  together  for  one- fourth  of  an 
hour ;  strain  the  sirup,  and  to  each  pint  add  a 
glass  of  French  brancty.  Two  or  thi'ee  doses  of 
a  tablespoonful  or  less  will  check  any  slight 
diarrhea.  When  the  attack  is  violent,  give  a 
tablespoonful  after  each  discharge  until  the  com- 
plaint is  in  subjection.  It  T\ill  arrest  dysentery  if 
given  in  season,  and  is  a  pleasant  and  safe  remedy. 

Dried  Flour  for  Infants. — Take  one  tea- 
cupful  of  flour,  tic  it  up  tightly  in  a  close  muslin 
bag,  and  put  it  in  a  pot  of  cold  water  and  boil 
three  hours  ;  then  take  it  out  and  dry  the  outside. 
When  used,  grate  it.  One  tablespoonful  is  enough 
for  one  teacupful  of  milk  (which  would  be  better 
with  a  little  water) ;  wet  the  flour  with  a  little 
cold  water  and  stir  into  the  milk ;  add  a  very  lit- 
tle salt  and  boil  five  minutes. 

Oyster  Toast. — Make  a  nice  slice  of  toast  and 
butter  it,  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish  ;  put  six  oysters  and 
a  teacupful  of  their  own  liquor  into  a  tin  cup,  and 
boil  one  minute.  Use  half  milk  if  preferred. 
Season  vrith  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
pour  over  the  toast. 

Egg  Gruel. — Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  pour  one  teacupful  of 
boiling  water  on  it ;  add  the  white  of  the  g^^ 
beaten  to  a  froth,  with  any  seasoning  or  spice 
desired.    To  be  taken  warm. 

Mulled  Jelly.— Take  one  tablespoonful  of 
currant  or  grape  jelly ;  beat  with  it  the  white  of 
one  egg  and  a  little  loaf  sugar ;  pour  on  it  one- 
half  pint  of  boiling  water  and  break  in  a  slice  of 
dry  toast,  or  two  crackers. 

Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange. — Pick  over  carefully 
one  teacupful  of  Irish  moss ;  wash  it  first  in  saler- 
atus  water ;  then  rinse  it  several  times  in  fresh 
water.  Put  it  in  a  tin  pail  with  one  quart  of 
milk  ;  cover  closely  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  sweeten  with 


powdered  sugar  ;  flavor  and  pour  into  a  mold  and 
set  in  a  cool  place.  When  quite  firm  turn  out  in 
a  dish.    Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Chicken  Jelly. — Cut  up  a  chicken  and  put  into 
a  quart  of  cold  water ;  let  it  simmer  until  reduced 
to  a  little  less  than  a  pint ;  remove  from  the  tire, 
and  strain  as  for  jelly ;  season  with  a  little  salt. 
Chop  the  breast  meat  into  small  pieces  and  mix 
with  liquor,  and  then  pour  the  whole  into  a  mold 
and  set  away  to  cool. 


CANDIES. 


Cocoa-Nut  Candy. — Grate  very  fine  a  sound 
cocoa-nut,  spread  it  on  a  dish,  and  let  it  dry 
natm'ally  for  three  days,  as  it  will  not  bear  the 
heat  of  an  oven,  and  is  too  oily  for  use  when 
freshly  broken.  Four  ounces  will  be  sufiicient 
for  a  pound  of  sugar  for  most  tastes,  but  more 
can  be  used  at  pleasure.  To  one  pound  of  sugar, 
take  one-half  pint  of  water,  a  very  little  white  of 
egg,  and  then  pour  over  the  sugar ;  let  it  stand 
for  a  short  time,  then  place  over  a  very  clear  fire, 
and  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  set  it  one 
side  until  the  scum  is  subsided,  clear  it  off,  and 
boil  the  sugar  until  very  thick  ;  then  strew  in  the 
nut,  stir  and  mix  it  well,  and  do  not  quit  for  an 
instant  until  it  is  finished.  The  pan  should  not 
be  placed  on  the  fire,  but  over  it,  as  the  nut  is  lia- 
ble to  tam"n  with  too  fierce  a  heat. 

Almond  Candy. — Proceed  in  the  same  way  as 
for  cocoa-nut  candy.  Let  the  almonds  be  per- 
fectly dry,  and  do  not  throw  them  into  the  sugar 
until  they  approach  the  candying  point. 

To  Candy  Nuts. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  water ;  boil  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in 
water,  then  flavor  with  lemon.  It  must  not  bofl 
after  the  lemon  is  put  in.  Put  a  nut  on  the  end 
of  a  fine  knitting-needle,  take  out  and  turn  on  the 
needle  until  it  is  cool.  If  the  candy  gets  coid,  set 
on  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes.  Malaga  grapes 
and  oranges,  quartered,  maj^  be  candied  in  the 
same  way. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  warm  water,  one-half  cup  of  grated  choco- 
late, three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter.  Let  boil, 
without  stii'ring,  until  it  snaps  in  water. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — One-half  pound  of 
grated  chocolate,  two  teacups  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  milk  and  water,  a  lump  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon of  alum. 

Sugar  Candy*. — Six  cups  of  white  sugar,  one 
cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  water,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  at  the  last,  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Boil  without  stir- 
ring one-half  hour.     Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

Cream  Candy. — Four  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups 
of  water,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one 
cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  a 
pinch  of  soda.  Let  it  boil  until  it  cracks  in  water, 
then  work  very  white. 

Maple  Candy. — Four  cups  of  maple  sirup  ;  boil 
until  it  cracks  in  water,  and  just  befora  taking 


ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONS. 


47 


irom  the  fire,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  If  preferred  waxy,  do  not  let  it  cook  so 
long. 

Butter  Scotch. — One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter.    Boil  until  done. 


ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONS. 

The  following  list  gives  some  of  the  more  com- 
mon poisons  and  the  remedies  most  likely  to  be 
on  hand  in  case  of  need  : — 

Acids. — These  cause  great  heat  and  sensation  of 
burning  pain  from  the  mouth  down  to  the 
stomach.  Remedies  :  Magnesia,  soda,  pearl  ash, 
•or  soap  dissolved  in  water ;  then  use  stomach- 
pump,  or  emetic. 

AxKALi. — Best  remedy  is  vinegar. 

Ammonia. — Remedy :  Lemon  juice,  or  vinegar. 

Alcohol. — First  cleanse  out  the  stomach  by  an 
emetic,  then  dash  cold  water  ou  the  head,  and 
give  ammonia  (spirits  of  hartshorn). 

Arsenic. — Remedies  :  In  the  first  place,  evacu- 
ate the  stomach,  then  give  the  white  of  eggs,  lime 
water,  or  chSlk  and  water,  charcoal,  and  the 
preparation  of  u-ou,  particularly  hydrate. 

Laudanum. — Same  as  opium. 

Belladonna. — Give  emetics,  and  then  plenty  of 
vinegar  and  water,  or  lemonade. 
Morphine. — Same  as  opium. 

Charcoal. — In  poison  by  carbonic  gas,  remove 
the  patient  to  the  open  air,  dash  cold  water  on  the 
head  and  body,  and  stimulate  the  nostrils  and 
limgs  with  hartshorn,  at  the  same  time  rubbing 
the  chest  briskly. 

Corrosive  Sublimate. — Give  white  of  egg 
freshly  mixed  with  water,  or  give  wheat  flour  and 
water,  or  soap  and  water  freely,  or  salt  and  water. 

Creosote. — White  of  eggs  and  emetics. 

Lead. — White  lead  and  sugar  of  lead.  Reme- 
dies :  Alum,  cathartics — such  as  castor  oil  and 
epsom  salts,  especially. 

Mushrooms  when  Poisonous. — Give  emetics 
and  then  plenty  of  vinegar  and  water,  with  doses 
of  ether,  if  handy. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (Lunar  Caustic).— Give  a 
strong  solution  of  common  salt  and  then  emetics. 

Opium. — First  give  a  strong  emetic  of  mustard 
and  water,  then  strong  coffee  and  acid  drinks  ; 
dash  cold  water  on  the  head. 

Nux  Vomica.— Fu-st  emetics  and  then  brandy. 

Oxalic  Acid  (frequently  mistaken  for  epsom 
salts). — Remedies :  Chalk,  magnesia,  or  soap  and 
water,  and  other  soothing  drinks. 

Prussic  Acid. — When  there  is  time,  administer 
chlorine  in  the  shape  of  soda  and  lime.  '  Hot 
brandy  and  water ;  hartshorn  and  turpentine  are 
also  useful. 


Snake  Bite,  etc. — Apply  immediately  strong 
hartshorn,  and  take  it  internally  ;  also  give  sweet 
oil  and  stimulants  freely  ;  apply  a  ligature  tightly 
over  the  part  bitten,  and  then  apply  a  cupping- 
glass. 

Tartar  Emetic. — Take  large  doses  of  tea  made 
of  galls,  Peruvian  bark,  or  white-oak  bark. 

Verdigris. — Plenty  of  white  of  eggs  and  water. 

White  Vitriol. — Give  the  patient  plenty  of 
milk  and  water. 

A  Cure  for  Whisky  Drinkers. — Sulphate  of 
iron  five  grains,  magnesia  ten  grains,  peppermint 
water  eleven  drachms,  spu'it  of  nutmeg  one 
drachm  ;  twice  a  day. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

To  Clean  Paint. — Tea  leaves  may  be  saved 
from  the  table  for  a  few  days,  and  when  sufficient 
are  collected,  steep  (not  boil)  them  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  tin  pan.  Strain  the  water  off  through  a 
sieve,  and  use  this  tea  to  wash  all  varnished  paint. 
It  removes  spots,  and  gives  a  fresher,  newer 
appearance  than  when  soap  and  water  is  used. 
For  white  paint,  take  up  a  small  quantity  of 
whiting  on  a  damp  piece  of  old  white  flannel,  and 
rub  over  the  surface  lightly,  and  it  wiU  leave  the 
paint  remai'kably  bright  and  new. 

To  Raise  the  Pile  op  Velvet. — Cover  a  hot 
smoothing-iron  with  a  wet  cloth,  hold  the  velvet 
firmly  over  it ;  the  vapor  rising  will  raise  the  pile 
of  the  velvet  with  the  assistance  of  a  light  whisk. 

To  take  Mildew  from  Linen. — Rub  the  spots 
with  soap  ;  scrape  chalk  over  it  and  rub  it  well ; 
lay  it  on  the  grass,  in  the  sun  ;  as  it  dries,  wet  it  a 
little  ;  it  will  come  out  with  two  applications. 

To  Clean  Marble. — Take  two  parts  of  com- 
mon soda,  one  part  of  pumice  stone,  and  one  part 
of  finely-powdered  chalk ;  sift  it  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  mix  it  with  water  ;  then  rub  it  well  all 
over  the  marble,  and  the  stains  will  be  removed ; 
rub  the  marble  over  mth  salt  and  water. 

To  Clean  Tinware. — The  best  thing  for  clean- 
ing tinware  is  common  soda.  Dampen  a  cloth, 
dip  it  in  soda,  rub  the  ware  briskly,  after  which, 
wipe  di-y. 

To  Clean  Cut-Glass. — Having  washed  cut- 
glass  articles,  let  them  dry,  and  afterwards  rub 
them  with  prepared  chalk  and  a  soft  brush,  care- 
fully going  into  all  the  cavities. 

Indelible  Ink. — To  one  tablespoonful  of  rain 
water,  one-half  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  and  a  piece 
of  lunar  caustic,  three  inches  long ;  shake  well 
together ;  put  on  to  your  cloth  a  little  milk  and 
soda  (to  a  tablespoon  of  milk,  a  piece  of  baking 
soda  as  large  as  a  grain  of  corn) ;  ii'on  smooth, 
and  write  immediately. 

Iron  Rust. — This  may  be  removed  by  salt 
mixed  with  a  little  lemon  juice  ;  put  in  the  sun ; 
if  necessary  use  two  applications. 

Mildew. — Dip  the  stained  cloth  in  buttermilk, 
and  lay  in  the  sun. 


THE   ROBERT   EMMET 

SONG  AND  RECITATION  BOOK. 

A  SPLEKDID  COLLECTION   OF  LYRIC  GEMS, 

By    Banim,   Brougham,   Balfe,    Callanan,    Halpine,   Keegan,    Lover,    Meagher, 
Thomas  Moore,  Fathers  Prout  and  Ryan,  and  other  well-known 

IRISH      B^A^RDS. 

PRICE,    TEN    CENTS. 

PUBLISHED     AND     FOR     SALE     BY 

M.  J.  IVERS  &.  CO.,  86  ITASSAU  ST.,  HEW  YORK. 


1^  They  also  publish  many  very  popular 

DROLL  AND  GOMIGAL  BOOKS 

FOU      LEISXJRE      HOXJUS, 

which  those  who  are  fond  of  a  good  joke  and  a  jolly  story  well  told,  know  how  to 
appreciate  ;  among  which  are 

FUN    LET    LOOSE, 

BY  A    OALAXY    OF    FUNNY  "WRITERS, 

Such  as  Artemus  Ward,  Josh  Billings,  Max  Adeler,  Carl  Pretzel,  Bret  Harte, 

Doesticks,  etc. 

PRICE,    TEN    CENTS. 

ALSO, 

FLi|SHE8  i|ND  SPARKS  OF  WIT  ^ND  pi|OR, 

'        BY    OUR    AMERICAN    HUMORISTS, 

C^-n.taiiiin£  choice  selections   from    the  above   mentioned    and 

other  funny  men. 

PRICE,    TEN    CENTS. 

IJ^  All  books  mailed  free  on  receipt  of  price.  ^^^ 

M.  J.  IVEES  &  CO.,  86  NASSAU  ST.,  HEW  YORK. 


STANDARD    REOITATIONS^Y    BEST    AUTHORS. 
A  Choice  Collection  of 

Carefully  Compiled  for 

School,  Lyceum,  Parlor,  and  other  Entertainments, 

By  FRANCES  P.  SULLIVAN. 


PAGE. 

Resignation.  By  H.  W.  Longfellow  ....  3 
At  the  Morgue.  By  Edmund  C.  Stedman  4 
John   Burns   of   Gettysburg.      By   Bret 

Harte ••••••     ^ 

The  Pledge  at  Spuuky  Point.     By  John 

Hay ■'^ 

The  Ivy  Green.  By  Charles  Dickens  ...  b 
Conductor  Bradley.  By  John  G.Whittier  6 
King  Down  The  Drop— I  Cannot  Play. 

By  J.  W.  Watson 7 

The  Battle-Song  of  Labor 8 

The  Haunted  Palace.     By  Edgar  Allan 

Poe ••••••     ^ 

Mary,    the   Maid   of   the   Inn.      Robert 

Southey 

The  Clown's  Story.  Vandyke  Browne...  11 
The  Execution  of  Montrose.     By  W.  E. 

Aytoun ••••  ^^ 

The    Old   Forsaken   School-House.      By 

John  H.Yates ^t 

The  Two  Bfggars •••••••  ]^_ 

The  Young  Tramp.  By  Charles  F.  Adam  lo 

Song  of  the  Mystic.     Father  Ryan 16 

Truth— Freedom— Viitue.      An  Address 

to  a  Child  Ij. 

The  little  Cnp-Bearer 


Leaving  the  Homestead 18 

In  the  Floods.     By  Isabella  Fyvie  Mayo  18 

Alabama.     By  Mrs.  Hemans •••    19 

"If  Things  was  only  Sich."     By  B.  P. 

Shillaber  ••   2f> 

The  Mountains  of  Life.     By  J.  G.  Clark  20 
Give  me  the  Hand.  By  Goodman  Barnaby  20 

The  King's  Temple .••• 21 

The  Portrait.     By  Owen  Meredith ^-■ 

The  Guard's  Story ••  •• 23 

The  Red  Jacket.     George  M.  Baker 23 

Minot's  Ledge.    By  Fitz-James  O'Brien.  24 

The  Bondage  of  Drink ^o 

The  King's  Picture.     By  Helen  B.  Bost- 

wick :;•! 

Night.     By  James  Montgomery -^o 

Custer's  Last  Charge.  By  Frederick  Whit- 
taker '-6 


CONTENTS    OF    No.  4- 

FA  OB. 

Four  Lives.     By  Garnet  B.  Freeman....  28 
Eternal  Justice.     By  Charles  Mackay ....  29 
The  Fatal  Glass.     By  Laura  U.  Case  ....  30 
Though  Lost  to  Sight,  to  Memory  Dear. 
Bv  Ruthven  Jenkyns 30 

If  .... 31 

Our  Ships  at  Sea.  By  George  W .  Bungay  .51 

Scatter  the  Germs  of  the  Beautiful 32 

The  Pride  of  Battery  B.  By  E.  H.  Gassa- 

way 32 

Pm  with  You  once  again.    By  George  P. 

Morris 33 

Incident  of  the  French  Camp.  By  Robert 

Browning  33 

Marion's  Dinner.  By  Edward  C.  Jones.  34 
Tale  of  a  Temptation.  By  Alice  Horton  34 
The   Sailor-Boy's    Dream.     By  William 

Diiuond 36 

A  Sailor's    Story.     By   Mrs.    C.   H.   N. 

Thomas 37 

Xerxes  at  the   Hellespont.      By   R.  C. 

Trench 38 

The  Flight  of  Xerxes.     By  Maria  Jane 

Jewsbury   38 

Hero  and  Leander.     By  Leigh  Hunt  ....  39 

The  Avalanche 40 

The  Surgeon's  Tale.  By  Barry  Cornwall  40 
Clear  the  Way.     By  Charles  Mackay  ....  41 

The  Toast    By  Mary  Kyle  Dallas 41 

Baby.     By  George  Macdonald 42 

The  Lips  that  Touch  Liquor  Must  Never 

Touch  Mine.  By  George  W.  Young.  42 
The  Ideal  and  the  Real.     By  I.  Edgar 

Jones  43 

The  Bricklayers.     By  G.  H.  Barnes 44 

The  Charge  by  the  Ford.     By  Thomas 

Dunn  English 4.5 

Music  in  Camp.    By  John  R.  Thompson  45 
Matumus'  Address  to  His  Band.    By  Ed- 
ward Spencer ....  46 

Jo,  the  Tramp.  By  Edgar  M.  Chipman  47 
The  Death  of  Hofer.    By  James  C.  Man- 

, 47 

By  James  A.  Garfield 48 


17 


gan. 
Memory. 


Price  12  Cents  by  Mail.  -  1  and  2  Cent  Stamps  taken. 
Address     W.   J.    ITERS   &  CO., 

S6  JfASSAU  STREET,  .TV.  Y.  City. 


0  014  486  884  5 


STANDARD    RECITATIONS    B 

A  Choice  Collect 
BE^^XJTIFXJX^     0  0  3V1 

Carefully  Compiled  for 

School,  Lyceum,  Parlor,  Jiiid  other  Entertainments, 

By  FRANCES  P.  SULLIVAN. 


CONTENTS 

PAGE. 

Hate  of  Ibe  Bowl ^ 

Bo  Jni-t,  find  F.ar  Not.     Alford 4 

The  Labor,  r.    W.  D.  Gallagher 4 

Masonic  Emblems 

Awake  !  Awaku  !  (18G1.)  Elmer  K.  Coates     5 
The  Amerieau  Flag      Joseph  K.  Drake  .     (> 

Wounded.     William  E.  Miller " 

Cardinal  Wolsey  on   Being    Caht  ofif  by 

Kiug  Henry  VIIL     Shak-peare 8 

Nam  ng  the  Baby ^ 

The  Hornet's  Nest lf> 

Let  it  Pass 1*^ 

A  Diunkard's  Dream ^0 

Drift  d  out  to  Sea H 

The  Field  of  Waterloo.     Byron 12 

Mizp  di  1'^ 

TLe  Falls  of  the  Sioux 1-' 

In  Fetters  of  Gold 14 

"Bock  of  Ages." 14 

The  Sister  of  Charity.     Gerald  Griffin...   ir> 

The  Two  Glasses 16 

True  Heroism 1" 

Some  Mother's  Child.    Francis  L.  Keeler  17 

Columbia.     Thimothy  Dwight 18 

JenuyMalone  I'J 

CrppleBen.     George  L.  Catlin 20 

Earth's  Noblemen 20 

The  Triple  Tie.     Henry  G.  Perry 20 

The  Bo>ary  of  My  Years.     Father  Ryan  21 
The  Hero  of  the  Commune.     Margaret 

J.  Preston 22 

Antonio  Oriboni.     Margaret  J.  Preston.   23 

My  Love.     W.  F.  Fox 24 

The  Drummer's  Bride  24 

True  Source  of  Contentment  25 

The  Maiden's  Prayer.     N.  P.  Willis 2G 


OF    No.  5. 

PAGE. 

A  Boy.     N.  P.  Willis 26 

True  Faith.     B.  P.  Shillaber 27 

Better  Thau  Gold.     Mrs.  J.  M.  Winton.   26 

After  the  Battle 28 

How  a  Man  Should  be  Judged 29 

The  Last  Redoubt.     Alfred  Austin 30 

My  Wife  and  Child.     Henry  R.  Jackson  31 

After  the  Ball.    Nora  Perry 32 

Come  Back.     Thomas  Dunn  English  ...  32 

Death  of  Gaudentis.     Harriet  Annie 34 

Platonic.     William  B.  Terrett 34 

The  Silver  Wedding.    Mrs.  C.  M.  Stowe  35 

The  Wants  of  Man.     J.  Q.  Adams 36 

The  Diamond  Wedding 37 

I  Have  Drank  My  Last  Glass 38 

The  Sailor's  Funeral.  LydiaH.  Sigourney  39 
Two  Loves  and  a  Life.     William  Sawyer  40 

Beginning  Again 40 

The  SVine-Cup 41 

Godiva.     Alfred  Tennyson  ....1 42 

The  Regiment's  Return.     E.  J.  Cutler...  43 

The  Lover's  Sacrifice 44 

A  Georgia  Volunteer.  Mary  A.  Townsend  45 

By  Different  Paths  46 

The   Prodigals.     Ernst  M'Affey  in  the 

"CuiTent"    46 

No  Such  Thing  as  Chance 46 

The  Bridge  of  Prayer 46 

A  Breath  of  Summer.     William  CuUen 

Bryant 47 

The  Boys  who  Wore  Blue  are  Turning 

Gray.     U.A.Barrett 47 

The  Lost  Child 48 

Our  Kiud  of  a  Man.     James  Whitcomb 

Riley 48 

The  Baby.     J.  W.  Riley 48 


Price  12  Cents  by  Mail.     1  and  2  Cent  Stamps  taken. 

Address     WL.  J.   ITERS   &  CO., 

86  NASSAU  STREET,  Jf.  Y.  City. 


