glue  Rook 


Compliments  o; 
PARMELEE,  DOHRMANN  CO. 

436- 4  <M-  S.  BROADWAY 


THE  LIBRARY 
OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


EX  LIBRIS 

Olive  Peircival 


HOUSEWIFE'S 
BLUEBOOK 


7 

E  have  gathered  into  this  book  a  few  items  which  we 
believe  lovers  of  art  ceramics  and  those  who  entertain 
will  consider  worth  perusing  and  possible  preserving  for 
future  reference,  and  in  offering  it  to  our  friends  we  take  advan- 
tage of  the  opportunity  to  express  our  thanks  for  the  sub- 
stantial appreciation  which  our  efforts  to  please  have  always 
met  at  their  hands.  We  have  been  the  pioneers  in  the  importa- 
tion and  introduction  of  many  lines  of  fine  goods,  which  others 
thought  would  not  be  appreciated  in  a  comparatively  new  country 
like  the  Southwest,  but  we  have  found  in  every  case  that  we  did 
not  err  in  our  judgment  of  your  taste.  In  ceramics,  as  well  as  in 
men,  true  merit  is  not  always  discerned  at  first  glance — it  is  in 
constant  association  for  many  years  that  worth  counts — and  it  is 
gratifying  to  know  that  those  who  allowed  themselves  to  be 
guided  by  our  experience  have  been  more  than  satisfied  with  the 
results. 

Over  a  quarter  of  a  century  of  study  of  these  wares 
has  qualified  us  to  advise,  and  in  the  light  of  past  ex- 
perience we  feel  justified  in  saying  that  those  in  need 
of  China,  Glassware,  Pottery  or  Ornaments  will  find 
it  to  their  advantage  to  consult  us  before  making  their 
purchases  in  these  lines. 

Very  Respectfully, 

Parmelee-Pohrmann  Co. 


FOREWORD 


ERVICE  at  table  demands  absolutely  spotless  linen,  care- 

fully  laundered  and  plainly  folded.  There  are  of  course 
fashions  in  linen  as  in  other  things  but  the  laws  governing 
them  are  sufficiently  flexible  to  accomodate  themselves  to 
the  purse  of  people  of  moderate  means.  Do  not  place  the 
table  cloth  on  the  bare  wooden  top;  lay  first  a  covering  of 
Asbestos  made  for  this  purpose.  It  deadens  the  sound  and 
gives  the  linen  a  firm,  and  better  appearance. 

Do  not  starch  either  table  cloth  or  napkins,  they  must 
fall  in  soft  smooth  folds  from  the  edge  of  the  table. 

Knives  and  forks  to  be  handsome  must  be  of  medium 
size,  and  if  the  purse  permits,  have  a  set  for  each  course. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  have  two,  better  three,  carving  sets, 
two  large  and  one  small.  The  large  one  will  be  used  for 
roasts  and  turkey;  the  second  size  for  fowls;  the  smallest  for 
steaks  and  birds. 

We  have  in  these  days  many  special  pieces  of  silver, 
dainty  and  convenient,  as  butter  forks,  cheese-knives,  as- 
paragus tongs,  cake  knives,  pie  and  ice  cream  spoons,  cold 
meat  forks,  jelly  spoons,  et  cetera. 

It  is  generally  acknowledged  that  we  are  showing  the 
largest  assortment  of  popular  patterns  in  plated  ware  to  be 
found  in  the  Southwest. 

We  also  are  showing  the  latest  patterns  in  Sterling 
Silver.  The  designs  are  extremely  rich  and  deep,  both  in  the 
French  gray  and  bright  finish. 


TABLB*  SBRMCEr' 


'T^HE    following    very  complete  de- 
scription of  the  correct  use  of  China 
and  Glass  for    Breakfast,    Luncheon, 
Dinner  and  Tea  is  from  a  booklet  on 
the  subject  by  an    Eastern    authority, 
and  is  reproduced  here  for  the  benefit 
of  those  to  whom  a  little  authentic  ad- 
vice on  the  subject  may  be  acceptable.     Before  taking  up  the 
arrangement  of  the  tables  for  the  different  meals  we  would 
like  to  say  that  the  first  thing  to  be  considered  in  equipping 
your  China    Closet   is   the   question   of  where   to   buy.     So 
many  nondescript  wares,  possessing    no    degree    of    artistic 
merit,  are  offered  for  sale  in  every  city,  that  the   purchaser 
is    beset    with    many    difficulties    in  making  his  selections. 
To  obviate  these  he  should  patronize  an  establishment  that 
has     absorbed    generations    of    ceramic    knowledge,    whose 
managers    personally    conduct    its    foreign    purchases    and 
have  acquired  by  long  years  of  experience  the  ability  to  dis- 
cern at  a   glance   what    is    and    what    is    not    true    art    in 
ceramics.     In  this  article   the    aim   has   been   to   give   such 
information    as    will    intelligently    guide    the    purchaser    in 
selecting   a    complete   table    service    of   China   and    Glass- 
information  obtained  by  years  of  practical  study  and  much 
travel    in  those  countries  where  Ceramic  Art  is  dignified    by   the 
same   rank  accorded  music,  sculpture  and  painting  and  justly  so, 
for  is  it  not  an  association  of  the  latter  two? 


BREAKFAST 


'Y4$-PC'T/ 

i^W*.«.    ^ 


"Small  cheer  and  great  welcome 
makes  a  merry  feast."^     _n_ 

VHE  breakfast  table  should  be  bright    and    cheerful, 

with  a  beautiful  china  breakfast  service  in  strong 
colors  of  blue,  pink,  green  or  brown,  with  gold  treat- 
ment, which  need  not  entail  a  great  expense.  Those 
who  have  tried  the  experiment  of  using  an  appropriate 
breakfast  set  will  bear  witness  that  it  is  a  great  mistake 
to  think  that  "anything  will  do  for  breakfast."  In  many 
cases  the  family  is  brought  together  at  only  the  morning 
and  evening  meals,  and  it  is  therefore  important  that  the 
day  should  be  inaugurated  in  a  pleasant  manner.  The  set 
selected  should  be  bright,  fresh  and  dainty.  With  many 
people  the  "Indian  Tree"  or  Japan  Bombay  is  very  popu- 
lar, with  its  inviting  blue  and  red  effect.  The  following  con- 
stitutes the  complete  breakfast  service,  portions  of  which 
are,  of  course,  used  only  at  proper  seasons  of  the  year: 

Fruit  Sets,  consisting  of  a  fruit  dish  or  basket  and 
individual  plates.  The  plates  may  or  may  not  be  of  the 
same  design  as  the  fruit  dish,  though  the  colors  of  both 
should  harmonize. 

Porridge  Sets,  consisting  of  porridge  dish  and  smaller 
individual  saucers  may  be  of  blue  underglazed  effects  or 
broad  floral  or  geometrical  designs. 

Breakfast  Cups  and  Saucers  should  be  of  medium 
size,  and  as  they  are  usually  part  of  the  uniform  set, 
should  be  of  the  same  color. 

The  Individual  Breakfast  Plates  should  be  seven  and 
one-half  inches  in  diameter. 

The  Chop  Tray  or  Round  Platter,  forming  part  of  the  set, 
which  should  be  ten  or  twelve  inches  in  diameter,  according  to  the 
number  of  persons  at  the  table,  is  of  a  very  graceful  shape,  and  its 


BREAKFAST 


N 


size  permits  greater  scope  in  decorating  than  is    possible 
with  many  articles  in  the  service. 

The  Gravy  or  Well  Dish  is  an  oval  or  square  shaped 
platter  for  steaks.  It  is  called  a  "well  dish"  because  in 
one  end  there  is  an  indentation  or  "well"  into  which  the 
gravy  is  drained  through  several  grooves  leading  from 
the  center  of  the  dish.  It  is  a  very  practical  idea,  in 
that  it  is  more  convenient  to  serve  the  gravy  from  the  well. 

The  Cassarole  or  Covered  Round  Dish  gets  its  name 
from  the  Italian  word  "casserola,"  meaning  stew-pan 
or  sauce-pan.  It  is  used  for  chopped  beef,  creamed 
potatoes,  codfish  and  cream  and  other  articles  of  food 
which  should  be  kept  warm  while  on  the  table. 

Open  Vegetable  Dishes  are  made  in  round,  oval 
or  square  shapes  and  of  various  sizes. 

Egg  Cups  are  of  two  shapes,  both  of  which  are  shown 
in  beautiful  designs.  One  kind  holds  the  egg  so  that  it 
may  be  eaten  from  the  shell,  and  the  other  is  larger  with 
a  stand,  and  is  used  by  those  who  prefer  to  break  their 
eggs  into  a  cup. 

Toast  Racks  are  used  properly  only  at  the  morn- 
ing meal.  All  lovers  of  dry  toast  appreciate  these  be- 
cause there  is  no  other  way  that  the  toast  can  be  served 
in  such  perfection  as  with  the  toast  rack,  which  keeps 
the  pieces  separated  and  preserves  their  brittleness. 
Those  made  of  hard  metal  heavily  plated  with  silver 
have  been  most  practical. 

Wheat  Cake  Sets  consist  of  a  covered    muffin    dish, 
individual  plates,  syrup   jug,   lemon  tray   and  powdered 
sugar  bowl,  all  of  which  harmonize  in  their  decorations. 
Roll  Trays  are  shown  in  various  pretty  designs.     Their  proper 
use  is  suggested  by  the  name. 

The  Covered  Butter  dish  may  be  an  odd  piece  either  of  china 
or  of  glass. 


Bread  and  Butter  Plates  form  a  practical  addition  to 
the  breakfast  set. 

In  Coffee  Pots  the  advantages  of  China  or  Earthenware 
vessels  over  metal  are  well  known,  and  even  if  the  taste  were 
not  affected  their  perfect  cleanliness  should  commend  their 
use. 

Cocoa  Pots  may  he" had  in  all  sizes  for  the  table  and  in- 
dividual service,  beautifully  decorated  in  flowers  or  rich 
solid  tones  with  heavy  gold  treatment.  Being  odd  pieces 
they  may  also  be  highly  decorative. 

Sugar  and  Cream  Sets  and  Spoon  Trays  are  made  in 
scores  of  beautiful  and  quaint  shapes  of  exquisite  colors 
and  designs.  They  vie  in  beauty  with  the  other  decorative 
pieces  of  the  breakfast  set. 

Water  Jugs  are  of  earthenware,  china  or  glass,  and 
may  be  a  feature  of  the  set.  Those  of  china  are  treated 
in  figures  and  colors  and  those  of  earthenware  display 
novel  coloring  effects  in  magnificent  relief  modeling. 

The  Water  Carafe  idea  is  of  French  origin  as  the  name  in- 
dicates.    They  are  beautiful  pieces  of  glass,  mostly    in    rich 
cuttings,  though  some  are  prettily  etched. 

Appollinaris  Glasses  are  fairly  large,  beautifully  light  and  very 
transparent,  and  straight_in  shape. 

Mineral  Water  Glasses  differ  from  Appollinaris 
Water  glasses  only  in  size,  being  smaller. 

Table  Tumblers,  shown  hi  rich  cuttings,  also  in 
fluted,  etched  and  plain  styles,  should  be  large  enough 
to  hold  crushed  ice. 

Finger  bowls  are  seen  in  gilded  and  enameled  glass 
or  in  rich  cut  glass.  They  should  be  placed  on  the  table 
at  the  end  of  each  repast  as  well  as  after  fruit  and  other 
articles  of  food  which  require  the  touch  of  one's  fingers. 
Ice  Tubs  for  crushed  ice  are  usually  of  china  or 
cut  glass.  They  may  be  used  with  or  without  stands. 


LUNCHEON 

\<Mi 

5E 


T    UNCHEON  being  usually  a  light  repast,  principally    of 
cold  or  hot  bouillon,  cold  meats,  chops,  steaks  or  other 
meats,  salad  and  vegetables  of  one  or  two  kinds,    it    follows 
that  the  character  of  the  china  should  be  daintier  than  that 
used  for  breakfast  or  dinner.     There  are  to  be  seen  many  beau- 
tiful and  delicate  tints. 

The  following  is  a  complete  list  of  the  china  and  glassware 
used  at  luncheon: 


Bouillon  Cups 
Chop  Tray 
Well  Dish 
Cold  Meat  Dish 

Casserole  or  Covered  Round  Dish 
Open  Vegetable  Dish 
Sandwich  Tray 
Chocolate,  Coffee  or  Tea  Pot 
Plates,  Cups  and  Saucers 
Salad  Bowl  and  Individual  Salad  Plates 
Celery  Tray 

Bread  and  Butter  Plates 
Fruit  Basket  or  Comport,  and  Individ- 
ual Fruit  Plates 
Ice  Cream  Dish  and  Individual  Plates 

Chafing 
Flower    Holders    or    Fern 


Cake  Plate 
Olive  Tray 

Salted  Almond  Dishes 
Vinegar  and  Oil  Cruets 
Salts  and  Peppers 
Water  Carafe  or  Pitcher 
Water  Tumblers 
Roman  Punch  Glasses 
Cruched  Ice  Tub 
Appollinaris  Glasses 
Iced  Tea  Glasess 
Claret  Decanter  and  Glasses 
Rhine  Wine  Decanter  and  Glasses 
Ale  Jug  and  Tumblers 
Beer  Tankard,  Tumblers  or  Steins 
Dish 
Stands    for    decorating. 


,-,*-    DECORATIONS^bl7 

^THR  DINNER  TABLE; 


, 


"That  all-softening,  overpowering  knell, 
The  tocsin  of  the  soul — the  dinner  bell." 


AT  dinner,  the  principal  event  of  the    daily 
routine  of  home  life,  all  the    members   of 
the  family  gather  about  the    board    with     ap- 
petites stimulated  by  the  day's  exertions,    and    greater    prepara- 
1  tions  are  made  than  for  any  other  repast.     It  is  therefore  fitting 
that  there  should  be  a  generous  welcome  for  each  member  of  the 
family  as  well  as  for  guests. 

Beautiful  flowers  make  the  most  appropriate  decorations  on 
the  ground  work  of  immaculate  linen  and  under  the  soft  rays  of 
the  candelabra  or  banquet  lamps;  and  all  of  these  have  an  influence 
and  significance.  There  is  an  unspeakable  purity  in  the  linen's 
whiteness,  and  glorious  cheer  in  the  mellow  light  and  a  balm  in  the 
blossom's  fragrance.  The  flowers  may  be  arranged  in  a  center 
group  of  beautiful  vases,  a  cluster  of  roses  or  other  flowers  in  a 
single  vase,  or  growing  ferns  in  fern  stands  may  be  used.  For 
formal  dinners  a  single  bud  or  boutonriiere  in  a  flower  tube  is 
placed  at  each  service  plate. 

After  the  arrangement  of  the  flower  decorations  comes  the 
placing  of  the  napkins,  cutlery,  silver  and  glass  according  to  the 
courses  and  wines  to  be  served.  The  wines  should  be  graded  up 
from  the  mild  to  the  better  vintages  as  the  dinner  progresses,  until 
the  game  and  roast  courses  are  reached,  when  the  wines  should  be 
of  the  highest  grade. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  indispensable  and  necessary  pieces 
of  china  and  glass  for  correct  dinner  service,  together  with  those 
pieces  solely  employed  for  decorative  effects.  They  are  given 
in  the  order  in  which  they  are  placed  on  the  table  during  dinner. 


DINNBR, 


DECORATIONS  FOR  THE  DINNER  TABLE.  , 

Banquet  Lamps  or  Candelabra,  Flower  vases,  tubes  or  stands 
containing  the  proper  floral  pieces. 

THE  DINNER  CHINA  AND  GLASS. 

(Pieces  intended  only  for  a  specific  course  are  to  be  removed 
from,  the  table  at  the  end  of  that  course. ) 


Celery  Dips 

Salted  Almond  Dishes 

The  Silver 

The  Cutlery 

The  Glass,  for  water  and  wine. 


Service  Plates 

Bread  and  Butter  Plates 

Olive  Dish 

Radish  Dish 

Celery  Dish 

THE  OYSTER,  OR  FIRST  COURSE. 

Oyster  Plates  Tabasco  Sauce  Bottle 

Worcestershire  Sauce  Bottle  Horseradish  Pot 

Mustard  Pot  Lemon  Tray 

Salts  and  Peppers  Vinegar  Cruets 

Sauterne  Decanter  and  Glasses 

THE  SOUP,  OR  SECOND  COURSE. 

Soup  Tureen  Individual  Soup  Plates 

Wafer  Tray  or  Cracker  Jar  Madeira  or  Sherry  Decanter    and 

Glasses 

THE  FISH,  OR  THIRD  COURSE. 

Fish  Dish  Sauce  Boat 

Ramekins  Individual  Fish  Plales 

Rhine  Wine  Decanter  and  Glasses. 

THE  ENTREE,  OR  FOURTH  COURSE. 

Entree  Dish  Individual  Entree  Plates 

Bordeaux  or  Claret  Decanter  Glasses 

THE  ROAST,  OR  FIFTH  COURSE. 

Roast  Platter  Gravy  Tureen 

Two  Vegetable  Dishes  Individual  Plates 

Champagne  Glasses,  or  Decanter  and  Glasses  for  Bor- 
deaux, Hock,  Burgundy  or  Claret. 
Sherbet  or  Punch  Glasses. 

THE  ASPARAGUS,  OR  SIXTH  COURSE. 

Platter  Sauce  Boat  Individual  Plates 

THE  GAME,  OR  SEVENTH  COURSE. 

Salad  Dish  Individual  Salad  Plates 

Game  Dish  Mayonnaise  Bowl 

Two  Jelly  Dishes  Individual  Game  Plates 

Same  Wine  as  for  Roast  Course 


C~->i  "DINNER. 


S 


Salad  Dish 


c 


THE  SALAD,  OR  EIGHTH  COURSE. 

Individual  Salad  Plates 
Mayonnaise  Bowl 
Wine  served  with  roast  course  remains  or  not,  at  pleasure  of  the  host 

THE  PUDDING,  OR  NINTH  COURSE. 

Pudding  Dish  Individual  Pudding  Plates 

Sauce  Boat 
Wine  served  with  roast  course  remains  or  not,  at  pleasure  of  the  host 

THE  ICE  CREAM,  OR  TENTH  COURSE. 

Ice  Cream  Tray  Individual  Ice  Cream  Plates 

Cake  Plates 
Wine   is    not    served   with    this    course. 

THE  CHEESE,  OR  ELEVENTH  COURSE. 

Cheese  Dish  Cabarets   having    three   or    four 

Individual  Cheese  Plates.  parts    for    Radishes,    Water 

Dessert  Knives,  with  silver  blades  Cress,  Lettuce  or    Crackers 

THE  FRUIT,  OR  TWELFTH  COURSE. 

Fruit  Comports  or  Basket  for  Fruit,         Individual  Dessert  Plates 
Nuts,  Raisins,  etc.  Silver  Knives 

Port  or  Madeira  Wine  Decanter  and  Glasses. 

THE  CAFE  NOIR,  OR  THIRTEENTH  COURSE. 

Coffee  Maker  or  Pot  Cups  and  Saucers 

Sugar  Bowl  Cognac  Decanter  and  Glasses 

Spoon  Tray 

FINAL  COURSE. 

Liqueur  Decanter  and  Glasses  Cordial  Decanter  and  Glasses,  or  Creme 

Punch  Bowl  and  Cups  (  for  Banquets      de  Menthe  Decanter  and  Glasses 
and  Weddings  )  Candlesticks  and  Ash  Trays  for  Cigars 

Having  briefly  outlined  the  requirements  in  the  way  of  china 
and  glass  used  in  the  correct  service  of  dinner,  \ve  will  now  go  a 
little  deeper  into  details,  as  there  are  many  minor  points  on  which 
the  reader  may  still  desire  information. 

In  considering  the  decoration  of  the  table  there  are  hardly 
any  separate  articles  which  alone  add  such  a  wealth  of  brilliancy 
and  comfort  to  the  dinner  as  the  artistic  electric  lamp,  or  the  candel- 
abra. Their  soft  light  on  china  and  linen  combines  with  the  floral 
pieces  in  adding  lustre  to  the  occasion. 


DINNBTL 


i  The  flower  vases,  tubes  and    fern    stands 

may  be  of  various  sizes  and  shapes  in  rich  deep 
cuttings,  simple  chaste  patterns,  or  plain  crystal 
blown,  as  well  as  in  rich  gold  effects  of  crystal 
or  colored  glass.  It  is  well  to  select  vases  either 
low  or  very  tall,  so  that  they  do  not  obstruct  the 
view  across  the  table. 

The  service  or  place  plates  are  purely  dec- 
orative, and  should  be  in  strong  colors  and  rich  gold  effects.  They 
often  bear  a  distinct  design. 

Since  the  Americans  serve  bread  and  butter  at  every  meal, 
the  bread  and  butter  plates  should  not  be  omitted.  People  who 
think  they  are  out  of  fashion  are  misinformed.  On  these  plates 
one  has  ample  space  for  both  bread  and  butter.  Their  convenience 
commends  them  to  permanent  use.  In  decoration  they  may  match 
the  roast  set,  or  be  of  a  color  harmonizing  with  all  the  china,  pre- 
ferably in  white  and  gold. 

Olives,  radishes  and  celery  are  most  palatable  when  served 
cold,  consequently  the  dish  for  each  should  be  deep  enough  to  hold 
sufficient  cracked  ice  to  bed  them  in.  The  mistake  of  serving  celery 
in  high  glass  stands  is  sometimes  made,  but  when  served  in  this  way 
it  soon  wilts  and  loses  its  flavor.  It  should  properly  be  served 
in  a  tray  for  that  purpose,  which,  being  an  odd  piece,  may  be  a 
decorative  feature  of  the  table. 

Individual  Celery  Dips  for  salt  are  smaller  than  an  ordinary 
salt,  and  especially  adapted  to  individual  use. 

The  silver,  sterling  always  preferred,  should  be  neatly  de- 
signed. Unplated,  steel  blade  knives,  kept  sharp,  should  be  used 
for  all  meats  and  game.  Those  with  pearl  handles  are  durable  and 
in  good  taste.  A  special  fish  knife  and  fork  are  made  for  the  fish 
course.  The  carving  knife  should  always  have  a  keen  edge  if  the 
good  nature  of  the  carver  is  to  be  preserved. 


DINN 


In  can-ing  poultry  or  game  a  .  very  practical 
addition  to  the  carving  set  is  the  poultry  shears, 
for  severing  joints,  etc.  They  are  made  of  the  best 
nickel  steel,  nickel-plated,  are  shaped  especially  for 
the  purpose,  and  their  use  prevents  the  dulling  or 
nicking  of  the  carving  knife  on  the  bones  of  the  fowl. 

The  water  goblets  and  wine-glasses  for  the  different  courses 
from  oysters  to  dessert  should  be  placed  on  the  table  with  the 
silver  and  the  napkins. 

The  oyster  course  needs  no  lengthy  comment  by  reason  of 
its  simplicity.  Oysters  and  clams  should  always  be  served  in 
their  natural  shells,  otherwise  much  of  the  flavor  is  lost.  There 
are  new  deep  oyster  plates  in  which  to  imbed  shell  oysters  in 
crushed  ice.  They  are  preferable  to  the  plates  heretofore  made 
for  the  serving  of  oysters.  The  proper  wines  to  serve  with  the 
oyster  course  are  white  wines,  either  White  Bordeaux,  White 
Burgundies,  Moselle,  or  Rhine  Wines. 

Following  the  oyster  course  at  American  dinners,  although 
some  famous  diners  and  epicures  hold  that  this  order  should  be 
reversed,  comes  the  soup  course.     The  kind  of  soup  one    should 
serve  depends  on  the  sumptuousness  of  the  courses  that  follow  it. 
When  the  dinner  courses  are  light  a  thick  soup  should  be  served 
in  goodly  portions,  but  in  heavy  course  dinners  a  clear    soup 
is  preferable  and  should  be  served  in  smaller  portions.     The  proper 
way  to  serve  hot  or  cold  bouillon  or  chicken  broth  is  in  a  two-han- 
dled cup  with  saucer,  the  cup  being  about  the  size  of  an  ordinary 
tea  cup.     Soup  plates  of  the  old  rim    shape    are    proper    for    all 
kinds  of  soups,  but  some  prefer  a  coupe  shape  (without  the  hori- 
zontal rim),  and  for  cream  soups  two-handled,  low-shaped    bowls 
with  plates  are  used.     The   Soup  Tureen    is  an   important    piece 
and  maybe  highly  decorated.     Tureens  are  made  in  various  shapes 
and  sizes. 

Cracker  Jars  for  the  oyster  or  small  biscuit  are  odd  pieces,  of 
different  shapes  with  wide  mouths.     Where  salted  wafers  are  pre- 


DINNBR 


ferred,  very  handsome  trays  may  be  obtained  for  them. 
Whichever  dish  is  used  should  harmonize  with  the  articles  of 
the  dinner  china.  With  the  soup  course  is  served  the  Sherry 
or  Madeira  wines. 

The  fish  set,  which  next  comes  into  use  consists  of  a 
large  fish  dish,  a  sauce  boat  and  individual  plates,  all  usu- 
ally elaborately  decorated  with  scenes  from  fishdom  deftly 
executed. 

When  scollop  oysters    or    fish     are     served,     ramekins 
should  be  used.     They  are  of  fire  proof  china  and  the  scol- 
lop may  be  baked  in  them.     They  are  made  with    saucers 
to  match,  and  are  very  practical  and  satisfactory.     Choice 
Rhine    Wines  are  properly  served  with  the  fish  course,  they 
being  considered  by  wine  authorities  as  essentially  fish  wines. 
The  entree  set  consists  of  individual  plates  and  a  round 
dish    suitable     for    serving     breaded     chops,     fricassee     of 
chicken,  sweetbreads,  calves'  brains  or  whatever    else    the 
entree  may  be.     The  individual  plates  should  harmonize  in  color 
and  design  with  the  dish.     Red    Bordeaux   wines   may   be  prop- 
erly  served   with   this   course. 

Next  follows  the  roast  or  heavy  course,  for  which  there  is  a 
special  set  consisting  of  a  large  sized  platter,  two  covered  vege- 
table dishes,  a  gravy  tureen  and  plates  to  match.  The  roast  course 
is  the  main  feature  of  the  dinner  and  the  china  for  it  should  be  more 
elaborately  decorated  than  that  used  for  the  other  courses.  A 
very  effective  dinner  service  is  that  in  which  the  decorations  of  the 
china  increase  in  color  and  design  with  the  progress  of  the  dinner 
from  oysters  to  roast,  the  roast  set  being  a  fitting  climax  to  the 
preceeding  sets  in  richness  of  design.  The  appropriate  wines  for 
this  course  are  dry  Champagnes  or  rich  Red  wines,  such  as  Bor- 
deaux, sparkling  Burgundies  or  Clarets,  and  the  glasses  used  should 
be  the  most  exquisite  obtainable. 


i 


DINNER 


When  game  or  fowl    follows    the    roast 
the  colors  of  the  service  may  be  as  strong  as 
those  of  the  roast  set,  but  naturally  of  a  dif- 
ferent character.     The  game  dish  and  plates 
comprising  this  set  are  capable  of  the  finest' decorations  on 
china.     They  usually  bear   paintings    of   birds    or    hunting 
scenes  by  high-glass  artists,  no  two  pieces  having  the  same 
picture.      When    partridge,   quail,    chicken    or    turkey     are 
served,  Champagnes  are  proper,  and  rich  Red  wines  should 
go  with  Canvas-backs,  Mallard  and  Teal  ducks,  Wild    Boar, 
or  Roebuck. 

If  cold  asparagus  is  served  before  the  salad,  White 
Bordeaux  wines  may  go  with  it.  The  set  for  asparagus  con- 
sists of  a  platter  with  a  drainer,  a  boat  for  dressing  and 
individual  compartment  platter,  all  beautifully  decorated 
in  rich  colors. 

The  salad  should  be  served  after  the    roast    or    game 
courses,  but  it  may  be  served  with   roast  or  fowl  when    the 
asparagus   is  r:ot   made    a  separate  course.      It    should  be 
dressed    at   the     t  ble    and    never    until  guests  are  ready  to  be 
served,  as  the  lettuce  loses  its  brittleness  and  becomes  less  palat- 
able if  allowed  to  remain  in  the  vinegar  and  oil.     The  salad  may 
be  served  from  a  cut  glass  bowl,  or  fine  porcelain    bowl    modeled 
for  the  purpose.     Besides  the  bowl  the  set  consists    of    individual 
salad  plates,  mayonnaise  bowl,  and  vinegar  and  oil  cruets  of  cut 
glass,  and  servers  of  ivory,  silver  or  wood. 

On  occasions  where  there  are  to  be  toasts  and  speech-making 
the  Champagne  is  often  served  with  the  dessert  instead  of  during  the 
roast  course. 

For  the  pudding  course,  a  special  dish,  sauce  boat  and  in- 
dividual plates  are  necessary.  The  pudding  dish  has  been  very 
much  improved  in  recent  years  and  is  now  made  with  a  separate 
fireproof  lining  in  which  the  baking  may  be  done,  in  consequence 
of  which  the  dish  itself  may  be  beautifully  decorated,  and  run  no 
risk  of  being  cracked  or  stained  by  the  heat  of  the  oven.  Rame- 


DINNER 


kins,  which  are  now  to  be  had  in  the  finest  dec- 
orations with  little  plates  to  match,  are  often 
used  for  individual  puddings  as  well  as  for  scol- 
loped oysters,  sweetbreads,  etc. 

After  this  course  the  china  and  glass  are  removed,  leaving  only 
champagne  glasses,  floral  decorations  and  candelabra  or  lamp. 

The  ice  cream  set,  consisting  of  a  tray,  individual  plates  and 
cake  plates  may  show  pleasing  contrasts  in  gold  and  color. 

Cake  plates  are  very  necessaiy  adjuncts  to  the  proper  serving 
of  ice  cream.  They  should  blend  fittingly  with  the  ice  cream  set. 

The  cheese  course  is  served  with  a  set  consisting  of  a  cheese 
dish,  individual  plates,  and  cabarets,  the  latter  having  three  or 
four  compartments  for  radishes,  lettuce,  celery,  water  cress  or  young 
onions.  Some  kinds  of  cheese  need  to  be  kept  moist  and  should  be 
dispensed  from  a  wedge-shaped  or  round  glass  stand  with  a  cover, 
made  for  the  purpose.  Brie,  Camembert,  and  other  like  cheese  are 
served  from  a  small  plate.  The  custom  of  serving  with  the 
cheese,  lettuce,  radishes,  and  other  vegetables  of  the  same  family 
in  cabarets,  which  is  popular  in  England,  might  well  be  adopted  in 
America,  for  the  combinations  of  the  flavors  is  quite  palatable. 
Dessert  knives  with  silver  blades  should  be  used  with  the  course. 

The  proper  service  for  the  fruit  course  consists  of  footed  fruit 
comports  and  footed  dishes  with  plates  to  match,  decorated  in  rich 
tones  in  flowers  or  fruit  effects  or  embellished  in  encrusted  gold. 
Silver  dessert  knives  are  to  be  used  with  the  dessert  course. 

The  Cafe  Noir  course  is  served  writh  a  special  set  consisting  of 
a  coffee  maker  or  coffee  pot,  cups,  saucers,  sugar  bowl,  and  spoon 
tray.  Cups  of  moderate  size,  admitting  of  fantastic  decorations 
in  high  colors  are  most  satisfactory.  Cognac  of  fine  flavor  is  fre- 
quently mixed  in  small  portions  with  the  coffee,  after  the  French 
custom. 

The  last  course  is  usually  a  light  indulgence  in  either  Liqueurs, 
cordials  or  Creme  de  Menthe.  At  weddings,  banquets  or  state 
dinners,  punch  is  dispensed. 


DINNER, 


•*K,sZZ\i 


After  this  the  ladies  withdraw,  leaving  the  gen- 
tlemen to  enjoy  their  cigars.  Candlesticks  and  ash 
trays,  the  later  of  various  shapes  and  decorations, 
should  be  placed  before  each  smoker. 

In  concluding  the  description  of  the  correct  ser- 
vice of  the  dinner,  a  few  words  in  relation  to  the 
glassware  are  necessary.  For  water,  goblets,  and  not  tumblers, 
are  proper.  Tumblers  may  be  used  at  breakfast  and  luncheon, 
but  the  handsome  and  convenient  goblet  should  be  in  evidence  at 
dinner.  American  dinners  are  now  usually  prefaced  with  a  cock- 
tail, and  glasses  for  this  are  to  be  had  plain,  fancy  gilt,  or  richly  cut. 
Saute  me,  which  is  served  with  the  oyster  course,  should  be  dis- 
pensed from  a  handless  decanter  heavily  cut  or  engraved,  and  the 
glasses  used  are  either  with  green  bowls  and  crystal  stems,  or  with 
gilt  decorations.  The  decanter  for  Madeira  is  finely  cut,  has  no 
handle,  and  is  about  the  size  of  those  used  for  claret.  The  glasses 
are  in  cut  crystal  or  treated  with  gold. 

Sherry  decanters  and  glasses  are  seen  in  a  variety  of  graceful 
shapes.  The  popular  glass  for  sherry  is  the  taper  shape,  slightly 
flared  at  the  top.  For  Rhine  wine,  decanter  and  glasses  are  shown 
in  various  colors  and  the  stems  and  bowls  are  of  quaint  shapes, 
sometimes  cut  and  sometimes  richly  gilded.  It  is  one  of  the  laws 
of  the  Medes  and  Persians  that  the  finer  the  quality  of  the  wines 
the  finer  and  richer  the  glass  in  which  it  is  served.  Sherbert  Cups 
are  to  be  seen  in  a  great  variety  of  decorations  in  Bohemian  gilt, 
and  crystal  cut  effects. 

Although  there  are  pitchers  made  for  serving  champagne  it 
is  most  effectively  served  from  the  original  bottle  to  the  especially 
designed  glasses  which  have  a  saucer-shaped  bowl.  Burgundy 
glasses  are  qf  a  capacity  between  those  of  sherry  and  claret,  and  are 
in  cut  crystal  or  richly  decorated.  In  serving  port  wine  no  colored 
glasses  are  ever  used,  the  proper  glasses  being  simple  crystal  or 
adorned  with  gold.  The  decanter  for  this  wine  is  smaller  than  that 


DINNER 


for  claret,  and  has  no  handle.     Claret    decanters 
are  beautifully  handled  and  with  brilliant  lapidary 
stoppers.     With  this  wine,  as  well  as   with    port, 
colored  glasses  are  not  proper,  the  correct  ones  being 
either  of  a  dainty  goblet   shape   or  with  a  round 
shaped    bowl    of    simple    crystal.       Although    it    is    customary 
for  the  French  to  drink  their  claret,  much   diluted    with    water, 
from  goblets,  the  best  claret  should  not  be  diluted.      It  is   only 
ordinary  table  claret  that  is  treated  in  this  manner.     Cognac  is 
served  in  a  very  small  plain  or  simple  cut-glass  of  special  de- 
sign, and  from  a  small    handless  'decanter.     A    special   glass   is 
made  for  Creme  'de  Menthe,  which  is  properly  served  in  glasses 
filled  with  shave'd  ice.     The  Creme  de  Menthe  'decanter  is    of    a 
small  size  without  handle  and  may  be  of  plain  or  colored  glass 
highly  decorated. 

For  Liqueurs  and  cordials  the  decanter  may  be  fancy-shaped 
but  small,  in  rich  cut  effects,  or  in  showy  gold  treatments  on 
plain  or  colored  glass.  The  glasses  are  small  and  of  numerous 
beautiful  designs.  They  are  used  for  Benedictine,  Chartreuse, 
Annisette,  Kummel,  etc. 

Punch  bowls  are  to  be  seen  in  both  cut  and  gilded  glass 

and    china    of  rich  designs  and  ornamentation,  and  the  glasses 

are  in  a  variety  of  fine  decorations  of    crystal    and    Bohemian 

gilded  effects.     Iced  tea  glasses  are  thin  and  tall  and  may  be  either 

straight  or  bell-top,  holding  about  a  pint,  including  ice. 

Flemish  beer  steins  are  displayed  in  a  great  variety  as  to  size, 
color  and  decoration,  and  holding  from  one  half  pint  to  a  quart. 
They  make  very  attractive  dining  room  ornaments  at  all  times, 
as  do  also  the  beer  tankards,  which  are  handsome  earthen  vessels 
sometimes  fully  thirty  inches  in  height.  Beer  and  ale  tumblers 
are  light  and  perfectly  straight,  those  intended  for  ale  being  the 
smaller  of  the  two.  There  are  also  in  use  many  kinds  of  mugs  made 
of  odd  Faience,  decorated  wood,  pewter  and  cut  glass.  In  ale 
jugs  many  unique  and  pretty  designs  are  shown.  They  are  small 
and  generally  of  the  tankard  shape. 


n: 


f 

i 


*• 


<N 


A  WINE  service  from  our  most  complete  line  of 
**  Cut  Glass  enhances  the  beauty  of  the  table  dec- 
oration and  also  makes  the  most  pleasing  setting  for 
the  wine  itself. 

The  most  important  consideration  in  the  serving 
of  wines  is  to  see  that  they  are  exactly  the  right  tem- 
perature when  they  come  to  the  table. 

The  different  wines  generally  in  use  should  be 
served  at  the  following  temperatures:  Champagne, 
35°;  Dry  White  Wines,  Rhines,  Moselles  or  Sauternes, 
45°;  Sherry,  50°;  Port,  Madeira,  Claret  or  Burgundy 
should  be  brought  into  the  room  where  they  are  to 
be  served  an  hour  previous  to  serving,  that  they  may 
acquire  the  temperature  of  the  room  itself. 

Where  it  is  desired  to  serve  wine  with  every  course 
at  a  dinner,  the  most  acceptable  arrangement  of  the 
wine  is  to  serve  Sauterne  with  the  oysters,  Sherry 
with  the  Soup,  Rhine,  Moselle,  or  Dry  White  Wine 
with  fish,  Champagne  with  the  Roast,  Claret  with  the 
entree,  Burgundy  with  the  game,  Port  or  Madeira  with 
the  Cheese  or  Nuts,  Brandy  or  Cognac  with  the 
Coffee,  while  the  cordial  is  served  last  of  all.  Should 
a  less  elaborate  service  of  wines  be  desired,  it  is  per- 
fectly proper  to  serve  Sherry  with  the  soup,  Rhine 
wines  with  the  fish,  Champagne  with  the  Roast,  and 
Brandy  with  the  Coffee. 

A  still  less  formal  service  consists  of  Sherry  with 
the  Soup,  Claret  with  the  Roast,  and  Brandy  with  the 
Coffee.  In  a  simple  dinner  where  only  one  wine  is 
used,  it  should  be  served  with  the  roast  of  fowl. 


TN  Colonial  days,  when  gas  and  electricity    were    nu- 
•  known    the  candlestick    was   a  necessity,  while    today 
odd  as  it  may  seem,  it  is  a  luxury.     From  a  daily  need 
to  a  daily  use  it  has  taken  its   place    in   the    twentieth    cen- 
tury as  a  very  pretty  bit  of  home  decoration. 

There  is,  of  course,  a  reason  for  all  this, — the  reason 
that  the  soft  glow  of  the  candle  is  incomparable ;  it  suggests  as  can 
no  other  artificial  light,  atmosphere  of  peace  and  ease  and  comfort, 
and  beautiful  shades  have  increased  the  charm  of  the  candle 
light's  natural  mellowness  quite  materially. 

As  you  know,  candles  and  shades  have  come  very  much  into 
fashion  of  late  and  for  decorating  the  little  touch  of  color  they  give, 
has  made  them  decidedly  popular. 

Simply  the  price  alone  sort  of  tempts  one  to  buy,  but  should 
you  ever  start  to  speculate,  where  in  this  room,  or  that,  a  candle- 
stick with  its  candle  and  shade  could  be  effectively  used,  you  would 
be  lost;  we  are  confident  you  would  find  the  temptation  too  hard  to 
resist. 

Take  the  Drawing  Room  for  example,  when  strong  lights  are 
not  needed,  what  could  you  find  to  better  set  off  the  beauty  of  a 
handsome  mantel  than  a  pair  of  quaintly  designed  candlesticks  and 
soft  toned  shades,  or  what  can  you  imagine  would  make  a  prettier 
ornament  for  a  fine  center-table? 

Then  in  bed-room,  boudoir  or  dressing  room  what  could  better 
give  an  atmosphere  of  refinement  or  repose? 

Take  the  dining  room,  where  it  is  said,  "If  a  woman  has  any 
talent  it  will  out  on  her  table."   Is  there  anything,  absolutely 
anything,  in  the  way  of  table  decoration  you  can  think  of 
that  adds  so  effective  a  touch.     There  is  an  irresistable  charm 
the  candle-light  throws  over  pure   damask   or  dull   polished 
mahogany — a  charm  that  transforms  and  goes  forward,  inspiring 
hostess  and   guests   gathered   around   the  festive  board  with  that 
delightful  spirit  of  jolity  and  good  cheer. 


O'CLOCK 
TEA 


TX  serving  refreshments  at    home    at  a  late   Luncheon   or 
after  the  Theatre,  a    Five    O'clock  Tea   Kettle  will   be 
found  a  necessary  adjunct  to  the  Chafing  Dish  in    preparing 
a  hasty  Luncheon. 

The  requisites  for  a  Five  O'clock  Tea    Table  are  the 
brass,  copper  or  silver   Tea   Kettle,   the   Tea  Pot  and  Tea 
Ball,  Sugar   Bowl  and  Cream  Pitcher,  Cups  and  Saucers  of 
odd  shapes   and    designs,  Small   Plates,  Cake   Plates 
Rum  Decanter,  Lemon  Tray,  Spoon  Tray  and  Bon- 
bonniere  or  Candy  Dish. 

For  ornamentation,  a  delicate  vase  of  flowers,  or 
a  rose  bowl  and  candlesticks  of  dainty  patterns  are 
always  appropriate. 


,  MKIOTfti 

'(      Q 


I 


TKe 


CHAFING  DISH 


}^»i!Y     T^HE  use  of  the  chafing  dish  is  said  to  date  from 
<1§^5v       •••     the  time  of  Homer,  but  never  has  it  been    so 
popular  or  in  such  general  use  as  at  the  present  day. 
Its  popularity  is  well  deserved,  however,  for  those 
who  have    used    it    in    regular    housekeeping,    in 
bachelor   apartments,   in    the   artists'    quarters  in 
modern   Bohemia,   in    the    house-boat,    or    in    the 
camp,  have  found  it  a  very  useful  article  either  for  a 
regular  meal  or  for  an  impromptu  dish  in  an  emergency. 

A  complete  chafing  dish  consists  of  a  stand  and  lamp, 
dish  proper,  cutlet  dish,  and  hot  water  pan,  and  is  most 
frequently  of  brass  or  copper,  nickel-plated;  or  of  German 
silver  with  a  silver  plating.  When  wood  alcohol  is  used, 
fuel  is  not  an  expensive  item,  as  it  is  said  that  a  pint  is  more 
than  sufficient  for  ten  receipts. 

Any  light  breakfast  or  luncheon  can  be  prepared  on  a 
chafing  dish,  using  another  spirit  lamp  for  coffee  or  tea,  and 
for  late  supper  for  a  few,  no  other  way  of  preparing  them  is  as 
practicable.  An  entree  at  dinner  may  also  be  attractively  served 
in  a  chafing  dish,  and  any  ordinary  cooking  done  in  a  saucepan  on 
the  range  can  be  done  in  one  of  these.  Chops  and  steaks  can  be 
daintily  done  by  using  a  scant  amount  of  butter,  and  chicken, 
trout,  frogs  legs,  crab,  chops,  liver  and  bacon  can  be  done  equally 
well. 

For  a  quick  meal  on  a  chafing  dish  nothing  equals  one  of  the 
many  preparations  of  eggs,  boiled,  poached,  fried  with  bacon, 
scrambled  or  in  one  of  the  many  omelettes.  Most  receipts  for  the 
chafing  dish  are  best  served  on  fresh  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 

Care  should  be  taken  to  prevent  scratching  the  dish  with  a 
metal  spoon.  A  wooden  one  is  better. 

We  append  a  few  receipes  gathered  from  various  competent 
authorities: 


THE;  CHAFING  DISH 


MEATS  COOKED  IN  THE  CHAFING  DISH. 

More  skill  and  care  are  needed,  of  course,  to  cook 
meats  than  eggs,  oysters  or  rabbits;  still  the  great  prac- 
tical difficulty  has  been  removed  by  the  help  of  the 
Chafing  Dish. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

Two  cups  cold  chicken  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  cup 
chicken  stock,  one  cup  milk  or  cream,  two  tablespoons 
of  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

Cook  the  butter  and  flour  together  in  the  chafing 
dish,  add  the  stock  and  milk  and  stir  until  smooth;  put 
in  the  chicken,  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  three  minutes 
longer. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Four  cups  mixed  chicken,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  three  eggs,  drawn  but- 
ter, roll  chicken,  bread  crumbs,  eggs,  seasoning  (and  enough  drawn  but- 
ter to  moisten)  into  pear  shaped  balls;  dip  into  beaten  eggs  and  bread 
crumbs;  put  in  chafing  dish  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  soft  American  Cheese,  cut  and  chop  into 
small  dice;  take  a  toaster  and  toast  one  piece  of  bread  for  each  portion  of  rarebit 
you  desire  to  serve.  Now  put  into  your  chafing  dish  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  beer  or  ale;  if  milk  is  preferred  use  that  instead 
of  the  beer  or  ale;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  dry  mustard,  one  quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne,  and  blend  thor- 
oughly; add  the  cheese  constantly  stirring,  and  if  necessary  to  produce  an  even 
smooth  liquid  consistency,  add  more  beer  or  milk.  When  the  mixture  is  creamy, 
pour  over  the  toast  and  serve. 

BEEFSTEAK  A  LA  MODE. 

Pound  of  beefsteak  cut  about  an  inch  thick. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Sliced  lemon 

Gill  of  stock  or  gill  of  port  wine. 

Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish,  with  two  or  three  slices  of  lemon;  when 
melted  add  steak,  and  cook  slowly  five  or  ten  minutes;  pour  over  it  the  stock 
or  port  if  preferred. 

ROAST  BEEF  CHAUFFE. 

Cold  roast  beef 

Tablespoonful  of  butter 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  current  jelly 

Cayenne,  salt 

Glass  of  Sherry  or  Madeira 

Cut  beef  in  small  slices,  half  an  inch  thick;  put  butter  in  the  chafing  dish, 
and  when  melted  add  the  jelly,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  little  salt  and  the  Sherry 
or  Madeira;  add  beef  and  serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  OR  VEAL  FRITTERS. 

Cold  chicken  or  veal 

One  cup  of  flour 

One  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder 

Half  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  salt,  pepper. 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  add  the  milk  and  pour  on  to  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  sifted  together;  beat  thoroughly;  cut  chicken  or  veal  into  thin  slices, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  them  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  the  chafing  dish. 


CHAFING  DISH 


CLAMS. 

25  clams  (chopped  fine) 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
Gill  of  cream 
Salt,  pepper 

Put  the  butter  in  chafing  dish;  when  melted,  add  the  flour;  add  the 
clams  with  a  half  pint  of  juice;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  them 
simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  just  before  serving  add  the  cream  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil. 

FRIED  HALIBUT. 

One  slice  halibut 

Four  slices  of  salt  pork 

One  tablespoonful  lard 

Salt,  flour 

Sprinkle  the  halibut  with  salt  and  dredge  with  flour;  put  pork  in  chafing 
dish  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  then  remove  the  pork  and  add  the  lard;  when  very 
hot  put  in  the  fish,  fry  brown  on  both  sides;  serve  with  slices  of  pork  and  lemon. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBERQ. 

One  large  lobster 

One  tablespoonful  butter 

One  gill  wine 

Three  eggs 

One-half  pint  cream 

Take  the  nicest  part  of  the  lobster,  cut  in  small  pieces,  put  in  chafing  dish 
with  butter,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  the  wine  over  it,  cook  ten 
minutes;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  cream,  let  all  come  to  a  boil 
and  serve  immediately 

OYSTER  PAN  ROAST. 

Dozen  large  oysters 

Tablespoon  of  butter 

Half-pint  oyster  juice 

Two  slices  toast 

Salt,  pepper 

Put  butter  in  the  chafing  dish;  as  it  creams  add  oysters  and  juice,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  and  cook  two  minutes;  serve  on  hot  toast  moistened 
with  juice. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

Dozen  large  oysters 
Half-pint  milk 
Small  piece  butter 
Salt,  pepper 

Put  the  milk  in  chafing  dish,  and  when  boiling  add  oysters  and  butter; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

SWEET  BREADS. 

Sweet  breads 

Tablespoonful  butter 

Salt 

Salt  pork  (strips ) 

Sweet  breads  should  be  well  washed  and  dried;  run  the  pork  in  with  a 
needle;  put  the  butter  in%he  chafing  dish,  and  when  hot  lay  in  sweet  breads; 
salt  and  cook;  turn  often  to  crisp  the  pork. 


•f-y*~ 


T^er 


THE  CHAFING  DISH 


SHRIMPS. 

Half-pint  of  shrimps   (fresh  or  canned ) 

Tablespoonful  tomato  sauce 

Two  tablespoons  butter  j 

Half  an  onion  (grated ) 

Half  cup  boiled  rice 

Gill  of  cream 

Put  the  butter  into  the  chafing  dish;  when  hot  stir  in  onion 
and  rice,  add  cream,  shrimp,  tomato  sauce;  stir  until  it  boils,  then 
let  it  simmer  for  five  minutes. 


SPANISH  CREAM  PUDDING. 

One-third  box  of  gelatine 

One  quart  milk 

Four  eggs 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar 

Teaspoonful  vanilla 

Pinch  of  salt 

Soak  gelatine  one  hour  in  milk;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  together, 
add  to  the  milk  and  pour  into  chafing  dish;  cook  twenty  minutes,  take  off  and 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  after  it  has 
cooled  a  little  add  vanilla  and  salt,  and  beat  five  minutes;  pour  into  a  mould 
and  set  it  on  ice. 

BE1QNETS  DE  POMMES.  _ . 

Soft,  tart  apples 

Brandy 

Lemon  juice 

Powdered  sugar 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 

Flour 

Cinnamon 

Peel  the  apples  and  remove  the  cores,  cut  the  apples  into  round  thin 
slices;  plunge  them  into  the  mixture  of  brandy,  lemon  juice  and  sugar  until 
they  have  acquired  the  taste;  drain  them  and  dust  with  flour.  Put  but- 
ter into  chafing  dish;  when  VERY  hot,  fry  the  slices  on  both  sides; 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  serve  very  hot. 

FRESH  MUSHROOMS. 

Peel  one  dozen  medium-sized  mushrooms,  remove    the  ^sterns,     melt 
one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  the  cutlet  dish,  and  before  it  gets  hot 
lift  the  dish  off  and  put  it  on  a  plate;  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  dish  with  mushrooms;  on  top  of  each    mushroom 
put  a  bit  of  butter  the  size    of    a    marble;    season  |  each 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.       Return   the   dish   to    the 
flame,  and  cook  from  two  to  three  minutes  according  to 
the  size  of  the  mushrooms. 


/ 


SILVERWARE? 


'TpABLE  Silver  in  Sets  or  separate  pieces  is  al- 
•*•  ways  appreciated  by  the  housewife. 

We  carry  an  exceptionally  fine  assortment  in- 
cluding the  best  productions  of  Reed  &  Barton, 
Oneida  Community,  Rogers  Bros.  (1847),  all  of 
whom  have  a  national  reputation  for  quality  of 
wares  and  elegance  of  designs. 

For  weddings,  silverware  is  essential,  noth- 
ing is  more  appropriate  or  more  appreciated. 
Next  to  the  ring  itself,  it  dominates  all  other  gifts. 
It  becomes  the  heirloom  of  the  family. 

CLEANING    SILVERWARE 

keep  the  bright  service  of    silverware     free 
from  scratches  eternal  vigilance  is  necessary. 
Even  the  fine  soft  chamois  should  be  kept    care- 
fully away  from  the  dust  and  never  used  on  any- 
thing but  the  silver.     There  are  many    polishing 
powders  and  silver  cleaning  compounds    on    sale, 
the  use  of  which  will  destroy  the  bright  surface.      It  is  economy 
in  the  end  to  consult  a  silversmith  or  a  dealer  in  silver  who  un- 
derstands the  care  of  his  wares  when  purchasing  a  polishing  outfit. 
"Argentala  Polish"  prepared  by  Reed  &  Barton,  the  well  known 
silversmiths  of  New  York  is  one  of  the    most    satisfactory    com- 
pounds for  this  purpose  in  the  market  as  it  produces  a  brilliant 
polish  and  is  not  injurious  to  the  surface. 


PAINTBD 


l*^> 


'TpHERE  is  scarcely  a  home  of  the  better 
class  without  some  pieces  of  hand 
painted  china;  many  families  would  as  soon 
think  of  being  without  solid  silver  spoons.  Homes  other- 
wise tasteful  and  elegant  sometimes  lack  color.  A  few 
touches  of  color,  a  beautiful  hand  painted  tankard  on  the 
buffet,  a  brilliant  vase  on  the  mantel,  a  few  choice  pieces 
on  the  plate  rail  or  the  stein  rack, — these  lend  color  and 
add  warmth  and  life  to  the  home.  They  go  far  toward 
making  the  home  beautiful.  These  pieces  will  be  found 
in  the  Pickard  Hand  Painted  China. 

A  selection  of  Picard  China  is  one  of  the  most  satisfying  gifts. 
It  is  a  permanent  and  always  pleasing  remembrance.  Its  intrinsic 
worth  makes  it  a  prized  gift  and  its  artistic  excellence  renders  it  a 
mark  of  taste  and  discernment  on  the  part  of  the  giver.  It  is  an 
ideal  wedding,  birthday  and  holiday  present. 


tr, 


CLOCKS 

1      ^i"> 

1  ^> 


. 

V 


FN   our  clock  department  will  be' found  the  best  selected 
stock  of  clocks  to  be  found  in  the  Southwest,  including 
office  clocks,  Mantel  Clocks,  Desk  Clocks,  Boudoir  Clocks, 
Alarm  Clocks,  Cuckoo  Clocks,  and  Hall  Clocks. 

The  demand  for  Hall  Clocks  has  greatly  increased 
during  the  past  decade  partly  due  to  the  spacious  mod- 
ern Reception  Hall,  which  suggest  a  "Grand  Father 
Clock."  In  our  assortment  of  Hall  Clocks  will  be 
found  most  every  finish,  Oak  or  Mohagany,  the  former 
in  natural,  Flemish  or  Antique.  The  chimes  of  these 
clocks  are  rung  on  tubes,  gongs  or  bells,  the  tubular  bells  are  of 
recent  invention  and  the  most  melodious,  all  of  which  are  tuned  to 
concert  pitch  and  have  a  deep  rich  tone. 


^^^vx 

^^Co/'CLBAN 

CUT  GLASS 


A  RTICLES  of  Cut  Glass  should   be   thoroughly 
washed  with   luke  warm   soapsuds,    using    a 
stiff   brush    in   order   to   reach  into   all  the    cuts. 
Then  rinse  in  warm  water, — hot  water   is  apt   to    crack 
the  glass, — and  set  in  box  of  clean  pine  sawdust,  rubbing 
the  sawdust  well  into  the  glass. 

After  the  moisture  has  been  absorbed  and  the  article 
is  prefectly  dry,  brush  out  the  sawdust  with  a  soft  brush 
and  polish  the  glass  with  tissue  paper,  slightly  moistening 
the  paper  with  alcohol,  which  will  heighten  the  brilliancy 
of  the  glass. 


DING 


FIFTH  YEAR WOODEN  WEDDING 

TENTH  YEAR .  .  TIN  WEDDING 

v          ^=--s 

FIFTEENTH  YEAR CRYSTAL  WEDDING 

5toy 

$/         TWENTIETH  YEAR .CHINA  WEDDING 

'  TWENTY-FIFTH  YEAR SILVER  WEDDING 

THIRTIETH  YEAR PEARL  WEDDING 

FORTIETH  YEAR RUBY  WEDDING 

FIFTIETH  YEAR. GOLDEN  WEDDING 

SEVENTY-FIFTH  YEAR.  .  DIAMOND  WEDDING 


BSEKVING  GILT 
QN  CHINA 


\. 

f    *  • 


/CONSIDERABLE   care  must  be  exercised  in  the  cleaning 
V^i 

of  china  on  which  gilt  forms  a  portion  or    all   of    the 

decoration.  Strong  soaps,  soap  powder  and  other  washing 
compounds  should  never  be  used,  and  only  a  minimum 
amount  of  home  made  or  pure  old  fashioned  soap  i.s  allow- 
able if  any,  is  used  at  all.  In  fact,  for  the  finest  pieces  it  is 
better  to  use  none  at  all,  which  is  quite  possible  if  the  water 
is  moderately  hot  and  the  china  is  washed  and  dried  quickly. 
The  gilt  on  china  which  has  been  washed  without  soap 
will  last  for  years  and  will  always  be  as  bright  as  new. 


GEO.  RICE  A  SONS,  L.  A. 


