TX  813 
.C7  U6 

Copy  l  UNITED  STATES  FOOD  ADMINISTRATION 

DIVISION  OF  HOME  CONSERVATION 


WASHINGTON,  D.  C.  ^^=^.  OCTOBER,  1918 


How  to  Sweeten  Cranberries 

Cranberries  are  now  in  the  markets.  They  find  a  ready  place  on 
the  table.  They  always  are  associated  with  Thanksgiving  and 
Christmas  dinners.  This  year  the  scarcity  of  sugar  may  cause  many 
to  hesitate  to  use  them.  Cranberries  may  be  served  without  empty- 
ing your  sugar  bowl. 

Because  of  the  acid  content  of  cranberries,  sweeteners  such  as  sor- 
ghum, cane  or  corn  sirup  may  be  used  even  more  successfully  than 
with  other  fruits.  Cranberries  may  be  combined  with  other  fruits 
which  are  sweet,  such  as  apples,  figs,  and  raisins,  either  to  extend  or 
modify  the  cranberry  flavor  or  to  add  sweetness  to  it. 

Cranberries  are  a  valuable  food  because  of  the  iron  and  acid  they 
contain.  Many  like  the  acid  flavor  while  others  acquire  a  taste  for  it. 
The  recipes  suggested  use  sugar  savers. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Cranberries 1  quart.  I  Water 3  cups. 

Raisins  or  figs  or  coconut 1  cup.      |   Sorghum  or  cane  sirup \  cup. 

Inspect  and  wash  cranberries.  Prepare  raisins,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  add  to  cranberries  and  other  ingredients,  and  cook  until  tender. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Cranberries 1  quart.  I   Sorghum  or  cane  sirup \  cup. 

Water 3  cups.    | 

Cook  cranberries  with  water  and  sweetening  until  soft,  about  20 
minutes. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Cranberries 2  quarts. 

Water 1  quart. 

Light  sirup 1  to  1£  cups. 

Cook  cranberries  in  the  water  20  minutes.  Put  through  a  sieve. 
This  amount  should  make  about  1  quart  of  juice  and  pulp.  Add 
sweetening  and  cook  about  10  minutes,  or  until  it  will  give  a  jelly. 
Turn  into  molds. 

CRANBERRY-APPLE  JELLY. 

Apple  juice.. 1  pint.  I  Sugar fcup. 

Cranberry  juice 1  pint.  |   Sorghum  or  sirup If  cups. 

Prepare  apple  juice  as  for  apple  jelly.  Add  prepared  cranberry 
juice  and  boil  5  minutes.  Add  sweetening;  boil  until  it  gives  the 
jelly  test.  Turn  into  glasses.  A  large  proportion  of  cranberry  may 
be  used  if  desired. 

CRANBERRY  GELATIN. 


Gelatin 2\  tablespoons. 

Boiling  water \  cup. 

Cold  water \  cup. 

Cranberry  juice \\  cups. 

87008°— 18 


Sugar \  cup. 

Sorghum  or  sirup \  cup. 

Lemon  juice 1  tablespoon. 


CT 


HOW    TO    SWEETEN    CRANBERRIES. 


Soak  gelatin  in   3   tablespoons   of  cold   water.     When  soft   add 

boiling  water  and  other  ingredients.  Strain  and  turn  into  a  mold 

and  chill.     Serve  with  whip  cream.  Whip  cream  may  be  beaten 
into  jelly  as  it  begins  to  set. 


CRANBERRY  SNOW  PUDDING. 


Use  plain  cranberry  gelatin  given  above.  When  it  begins  to 
stiffen  beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  until  frothy.  Add  2  or  3  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites  and  continue  whipping  until  mixture  holds  its 
shape.     Turn  into  molds  and  chill.     Serve  with  custard  sauce. 


CRANBERRY  PUDDING  SAUCE. 


Flour 2  tablespoons. 

Lemon  juice Ik  tablespoons. 


Cranberry  juk-e 1  cup. 

Sirup I  cup. 

Water \  cup. 

Mix  flour  with  cold  water.  Add  to  juice  and  sweetening  and  bring 
to  a  boil;  cook  5  minutes;  stir  constantly.  Add  lemon  juice  and 
serve  hot.     Use  on  vanilla  cornstarch  or  steamed  puddings. 

CRANBERRY  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 


Cranberries  chopped \  cup. 

Coconut  or  nuts \  cup. 


Milk 1  pint. 

Cornstarch :;  tal >lespoons. 

Sorghum  or  sirup \  cup. 

Moisten  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  to  remainder 
heated  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  sweetening,  chopped  cranberries, 
and  coconut.     Cook  until  thickened  and  turn  into  molds. 

CRANBERRY  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 


Rice \  cup. 

Water 3  cups. 

Apples 3  large. 


Cranberries 1  cup. 

Sorghum  or  sirup \  cup. 

Raisins  (if  desired) 2  tablespoons. 


Steam  the  rice  until  soft  in  a  double  boiler.  Grease  a  pan  and  line 
it  with  cooked  rice,  reserving  some  for  the  top.  Peel  and  core  the 
apples  and  cut  the  cranberries  in  halves.  Cut  the  apples  into  thin 
slices.  Mix  the  two  fruits  together  and  fill  the  pan,  putting  a  layer 
of  fruit  and  then  a  layer  of  sweetening.  Cover  the  top  with  a  layer 
of  rice.  Put  on  a  greased  paper  and  steam  for  one-half  to  three- 
fourths  hour  until  the  fruit  is  quite  cooked.  Turn  out  onto  a  hot 
dish  and  serve  with  custard  sauce. 


DRIED  CRANBERRIES. 

Cranberries  may  be  dried  to  extend  their  season.  They  are 
valuable  in  giving  color  to  sauces  and  desserts.  Add  a  few  to  pud- 
dings and  sauces  to  improve  flavor  and  color. 

CANDIED  CRANBERRIES. 

Cranberries 1  cup. 

Sirup \  cup. 

Choose  large  red  cranberries  and  prick  each  one  three  or  four 
times.  Drop  them  carefully  into  the  boiling  sirup  and  allow  them  to 
cook  slowly  for  5  or  6  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  allow  to 
stand  overnight.  Reheat  and  allow  them  to  stand  another  night, 
if  possible.  Then  while  hot,  remove  the  berries  from  the  sirup  and 
drop  on  well  oiled  paper  or  plate  to  dry.  These  may  be  used  in  the 
place  of  candied  cherries  for  decoration0 

LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


Index  No.  Ub697. 


WASHINGTON:   C 


9«    " 

nov    19  m$ 


0  014  336  994  8      * 


,07  %S 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  336  994  8 


