McCowat- Mercer  Printing  Co. 

===  STATIONERS  == 
Printers  and  Blank  Book  Makers, 

Corner  Church  and  College  Streets, 
Both  Phones  332.  Jackson.  Tenn. 

WE  INVITE  YOUR  PATRONAGE. 


The 

Reason 


/ 


t 


In  the  ordinary  heater  the  draft  enters  the  front,  passes 
up  through  the  fire  and  out  the  flue  at  the  top.  In 
this  way  only  about  60  per  cent  of  the  burnable  proper- 
ties of  your  fuel  are  consumed,  the  rest  passes  up  the 
flue  unburned  in  the  form  of  gases  and  smoke.    In  the 

WILSON  HEATER 

the  Hot  Blast  Down-Draft  enters  from  the  top, 
circulates  throughout  and  over  the  fire  and  produces 
perfect  combustion,  which  consumes  all  of  the 
burnable  elements  in  your  fuel ;  thus  the  Wilson  will 
give  you  40  per  cent  more  heat  with  a  given  amount 
of  soft  coal  than  any  other  heater,  or  in  other  words, 
your  fuel  bill  will  be  reduced  40  per  cent. 

Is  this  worth  considering? 
SOLD  BY 


G.  C.  Anderson 

JACKSON,  TENN. 


How  tVe  Cook  in  Tennessee, 


"What  does  cookery  mean?" 

It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits  and  herbs  and  balms  and  spices — 
it  means  carefulness,  and  inventiveness,  and  watchfulness,  and  willing- 
ness, and  readiness  of  appliance.  It  means  the  economy  of  your  great 
grandmothers  and  the  science  of  modern  chemists — it  means  much  tast- 
ing and  no  wasting. — Buskin. 


Copyrighted,  August,  1906. 


COMPILED  BY 

THE  SILVER  THIMBLE  SOCIETY 

of  the 

FIRST  BAPTIST  CHURCH 


JACKSON,  TENN. 


To  Follow  Directions  In  This  Book,  Always  Use 

QUICK  MEAL  RANGE 


and  you  will  have  excellent  food  to  eat. 


It  Bakes,  Boils,  Fries  and  Steams 
BETTER  THAN  THE  BEST 

FOR  SALE  BY 

COCKRILL  BROTHERS 

PLUMBERS 


You  are  Cordially  Invited  to  Visit  our  New  Show  Rooms, 
100  East  Baltimore,  Elks'  Building. 


SOUPS. 


"Soup  rejoices  the  stomach  and  disposes  it  to  receive  other 
food."— Sel. 

Consomme. — Into  a  frying  pan  put  two  tablespoons  butter  and 
add  four  spoons  minced  onion,  two  tablespoons  each  of  minced 
carrot  and  minced  celery;  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes,  draw 
over  to  a  hotter  part  of  the  stove,  and  stir  till  a  light  brown. 
Add  to  this  two  and  one-half  quarts  hot  water  in  which  a  fowl 
has  been  boiled.  Tie  in  a  netting  bag  half  teaspoon  of  whole 
black  pepper,  one  bay  leaf,  one  leaf  of  sage,  one  sprig  of 
parsley,  two  whole  cloves,  one  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  tiny 
bit  of  mace,  and  put  it  in  the  boiling  soup.  Boil  slowly  for 
one  hour,  then  add  tablespoon  of  salt,  strain  through  a  cloth  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  skim  off  all  fat  and  the  soup 
will  be  ready  to  be  heated  to  the  boiling  iDoint  and  served  as 
a  simple  consomme,  or  it  may  have  any  kind  of  garnish  added 
to  it. 

White  Soup. — Three  pounds  chicken,  three  quarts  cold  water, 
or  one  quart  to  one  pound;  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoon chopped  onion,  two  tablespoons  chopped  celery,  or  one 
of  seed;  cut  chicken  into  joints  and  put  into  three  quarts 
of  cold  water  and  boil  for  one-half  hour;  add  seasoning 
and  simmer  gently  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bone;  strain, 
and  when  cold  remove  the  fat;  this  jelly  that  is  left  is 
the  stock.  For  this  stock  allow  one  heavy  pint  of  milk;  put 
stock  on  to  boil  and  milk  to  heat;  melt  one  tablespoon  butter, 
add  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  till  smooth;  pour  on  this  slowly 
the  stock,  then  add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  till  smooth,  and 
cook  till  slightly  thickened;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  into 
the  tureen  beat  up  an  egg  light  and  pour  the  soup  on  to  this 


4 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


slowly,  stirring  gently  all  the  time.  A  delicious  soup,  and  very 
nice  for  invalids. 

Bouillon  for  Twelve. — Five  pounds  round  of  beef,  three  soup 
bones;  put  on  with  six  quarts  cold  water  in  a  large  kettle. 
Cut  beef  small  and  boil  all  day;  strain  and  stand  all  night, 
when  the  fat  should  be  skimmed  off ;  pepper  and  salt,  three  bay 
leaves,  and  just  before  serving  one-half  glass  of  sherry  wine. — 
Carrolton  (Mo.)  Cook  Book. 

Celery  Bouillon. — Use  one  pt.  of  chopped  celery.  Boil  celery 
in  one  qt.  water  until  it  is  reduced  to  one  pt.  Strain  out 
celery,  add  to  the  water  one  qt.  of  sweet  milk.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs. 
J.  L.  Nelson. 

Tomato  Bouillon  with  Oysters. — One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  and 
one-half  quarts  of  bouillon,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
one  bay  leaf,  six  cloves,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  celery- 
seed,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  peppercorns,  one  pint  of  oysters. 
Mix  the  ingredients  except  the  oysters,  bring  to  the  boiling- 
point,  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Strain,  cool,  and  clear. 
Add  the  parboiled  oysters,  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups,  with 
small  croutons. 

Bouillon. — Five  pounds  of  lean  beef  from  the  middle  of  the 
round,  two  pounds  of  marrow-bone,  three  quarts  of  cold  water, 
one  teaspoonful  of  peppercorns,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one- 
third  of  a  cupful  each  of  carrot,  turnip,  onion  and  celery,  all 
cut  in  dice.  Wipe  the  meat  with  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water,  and  cut  in  inch  cubes.  Put  two-thirds  of  the 
meat  cubes  in  a  soup  kettle,  add  cold-water,  cover,  and  let  soak 
thirty  minutes.  Brown  the  remaining  meat  cubes  in  a  hot 
frying-pan  with  the  marrow  from  the  marrow-bone.  Put 
the  browned  meat  and  the  bone  in  the  kettle.  Heat  to  the 
boiling  point,  skim  thoroughly,  and  cook  at  a  temperature 
below  the  boiling  point  for  five  hours.  Add  the  seasonings  and 
vegetables,  cook  one  hour,  strain,  cool,  and  remove  the  fat, 
then  clear. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


5 


Clear  Tomato  Soup. — One  can  of  tomatoes  or  one  quart  of 
fresh  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  two  onions;  boil 
one  hour;  rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour  to- 
gether and  stir  in  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Strain  and  serve. — Tested  by  Mrs.  P.  R. 
Bray. 

To  Make  Clear  Tomato  Soup. — Put  one  can  of  tomatoes,  a 
pint  of  water,  a  slice  of  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  saltspoonful  of  mace  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  and  add  two  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  four  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stir  until  boiling;  strain  through  a 
sieve,  reheat  and  serve  with  croutons.  To  make  croutons,  but- 
ter slices  of  bread  and  cut  them  into  dice.  Put  these  in  a  pan 
in  the  oven;  watch  them  carefully  until  they  are  a  golden 
brown. 

Tomato  Bisque. — One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  milk; 
cook  the  tomatoes  some;  run  through  a  sifter;  put  back  on 
stove ;  add  a  pinch  of  soda ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  pour 
up  into  the  tureen.  In  a  sauce  pan  put  a  large  tablespoon  of 
butter;  when  melted  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  beat 
smooth ;  add  quart  of  milk  and  one-half  dozen  stalks  of  celery ; 
cut  in  squares;  when  thick  pour  into  the  tureen,  stirring  the 
tomatoes  until  well  mixed;  serve  immediately. 

Tomato  Bisque. — One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  one  quart  new 
milk,  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  butter 
rubbed  together.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Rub  tomatoes 
through  a  fine  colander  and  put  in  a  porcelain  sauce  pan  with 
a  pinch  of  soda.  Stew  for  half-hour.  Scald  milk  in  another 
vessel;  add  flour  and  butter  and  stir  together  until  well  thick- 
ened. When  ready  to  serve,  mix  with  the  tomatoes,  bring  to  a 
sharp  boil  and  serve  immediately,  adding  one  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream  to  each  bowl. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 


6 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


For  Men's  Clothes 
and  Shoes 


J.  J.  CHRISTIE 
Artistic  Hardwood  Mantels 


The  G.  H,  Robertson  Co. 


Cor.  Market  and  Main. 


Tiles  and  Fire-Place  Furniture. 
Interior  Wall  Hangings 
and  Decorations, 
No.  214  Market  Street. 


Cream  Tomato  Soup. — Use  one  two-pound  can  of  tomatoes; 
acid  to  the  tomatoes  one-half  cup  of  water;  pnt  on  stove  and 
boil  until  tomatoes  are  all  to  pieces,  adding  a  pinch  of  soda. 
Pour  tomatoes  into  a  quart  of  boiling  sweet  milk.  Take  out  a 
little  milk  and  dissolve  in  it  one  teaspoon  flour  and  one  tea- 
spoon sugar,  which  stir  into  soup  and  let  boil  ten  minutes. 
Add  butter,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Strain  through 
cheesecloth. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. — To  the  heated  juice  of  one  can 
of  tomatoes  strained  through  a  seive  add  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk.  Thicken  the  mixture  with  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  season  to  taste  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. — A.  T.  Nance. 

Tomato  Puree. — Juice  of  three  cans  of  tomatoes;  put  in 
saucepan  with  scant  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Let  come  to  a  boil 
and  pour  in  full  quart  of  rich  milk.  When  ready  to  serve 
sprinkle  over  a  little  cayenne  pepper ;  a  little  whipped  cream  to 
each  bowl,  added  just  as  you  serve,  adds  to  it. — Mrs.  Maud 
King. 

Veal  Soup. — Cook  a  knuckle  of  veal  covered  with  cold  water, 
let  it  simmer  two  hours,  remove  the  veal,  add  rice  to  the  broth, 
when  rice  is  soft  add  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley ;  season  to  taste. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. — Wash  six  green  stalks  of  celery,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  using  the  leaves  as  well,  cover  with  one  quart 
of  boiling  water  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Pass  through  a  col- 
ander, do  not  drain,  but  allow  the  water  to  go  through  with 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


7 


the  celery.  Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the 
celery  and  water,  one  tablespoon  of  onion  juice ;  rub  one  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  three  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  a  little 
of  the  soup  until  a  liquid  is  formed,  turn  into  the  boiler.  Stir 
continually  until  it  thickens,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Serve  immediately. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup. — To  one  can  of  cooked  corn  add  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk  (mash  the  corn  as  best  you  can)  let  it  al- 
most come  to  a  boil  and  strain. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Hirt. 
'  Corn-Cob  Soup. — Cut  corn  off  of  ten  or  twelve  ears  of  corn, 
do  not  cut  close.  Then  put  cobs  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  to 
cover ;  boil  one  hour.  Take  out  cobs,  allow  them  to  cool  a  little 
and  then  put  scrapings  back  into  the  boiling  water.  There 
should  be  about  one  quart.  Add  as  much  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  salt,  and  let  boil;  then  add  broken  crackers.  It  is 
very  good. — Miss  Guy  Leeper. 

Asparagus  Soup. — Parboil  the  asparagus  with  as  much  water 
as  will  cover  it;  then  add  a  quart  of  milk,  butter,  salt  and 
thicken  with  a  little  flour.  It  is  best  to  cut  the  asparagus  in 
small  pieces. 

Asparagus  Soup. — Boil  chicken  in  one  quart  of  water,  cut 
into  this  tender  stalks  of  asparagus,  let  boil  until  all  substance 
is  out  of  chicken,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  your 
tureen  ready  with  pint  of  rich,  fresh  cream  and  a  small  piece 
of  butter.  Strain  the  boiling  liquid  into  this  and  season  with 
celery  salt.  Cut  fresh  crisp  celery  in  small  pieces  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup. — Heat  one  can  of  asparagus,  then 
mash  it  through  a  colander.  Add  to  that  one  quart  sweet  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Butter  size  of  egg.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  and  let  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Crook. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup. — Take  two  quarts  of  fresh  sweet 
milk,  two  bunches  of  fresh  asparagus ;  cut  the  asparagus  in  one 
inch  lengths  and  thoroughly  cook  in  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt ; 


8 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


let  the  milk  just  come  to  a  boil,  and  add  asparagus  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
smoothly  in ;  salt  to  taste,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Serve 
hot  with  toasted  crackers. 

Potato  Soup. — Seven  potatoes  cooked  in  boiling  water.  Mash 
the  potatoes  well  and  return  them  to  the  same  water,  add  pep- 
per and  salt,  one  spoonful  of  butter  and  one  quart  of  milk  and 
let  come  to  a  boil. 

Potato  Soup. — It  is  delightful,  but  must  be  very  carefully 
prepared.  One  pound  of  potatoes,  one  onion,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  celery  seeds  or  half  a  stick  of  celery,  one  ounce  of  dripping, 
one  pint  of  milk,  half  pint  of  water,  salt  and  pepper,  one  ounce 
of  macaroni.  Wash,  peel  and  slice  the  potatoes;  lay  them  in 
cold  water,  to  keep  them  a  good  color.  Peel  and  slice  the  onion. 
If  you  are  using  celery  seeds,  tie  them  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin. 
If  celery,  wash  and  clean  it.  Melt  the  dripping  in  a  pan;  when 
hot,  put  in  the  onion  and  potato.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  five 
minutes.  Do  not  let  the  potatoes  brown  in  the  least.  Next 
pour  in  the  water  and  half  the  milk,  add  the  celery  or  seeds, 
put  on  the  lid  and  boil  gently  till  the  potatoes  are  quite  soft. 
If  you  boil  the  soup  very  fast  the  milk  and  water  will  boil 
away,  and  more  will  have  to  be  added.  Stir  the  soup  fre- 
quently. Then  take  off:  the  soup  and  rub  all  through  a  wire 
sieve.  Rinse  out  the  pan,  put  back  the  soup,  and  add  to  it  half 
a  pint  of  milk  and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  well 
and  serve  in  a  hot  tureen  with  the  macaroni,  which  should 
have  been  cut  into  neat,  short  pieces  and  boiled  in  fast-boiling 
salted  water  till  quite  tender. — Mrs.  Ida  Hall. 

Cream  Barley  Soup. — Wash  a  cup  of  pearl  barley,  drain  and 
simmer  slowly  in  two  quarts  water  for  three  or  four  hours, 
adding  boiling  water  from  time  to  time  as  needed.  When 
barley  is  tender  drain  off  liquor,  of  which  there  should  be 
about  three  pints.  Add  to  it  a  portion  of  the  cooked  barley 
grains,  salt  and  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. — Battle  Creek. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Barley  Soup. — Cover  between  two  and  three  pounds  of  beef 
with  cold  water  and  put  on  to  boil.  When  boiling,  skim  it  well, 
then  allow  it  to  simmer  for  three  hours.  An  hour  before  serving 
add  a  cupful  of  barley,  a  sliced  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  a  slice  of 
carrot,  a  stalk  of  celery,  two  cloves  and  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter. Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  a  paste  with  cold  water 
and  stir  into  the  soup  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

Cream  of  Cheese  Soup. — One  quart  of  milk,  one  small  onion, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  three  heaping 
tablespoons  cheese,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
the  milk  to  boil  in  a  double  boiler  with  onion.  Rub  the  butter 
and  flour  together  and  add  to  milk.  Strain  and  add  the  cheese 
and  let  it  just  boil,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  serve  at  once 
with  croutons. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Keller. 

Oyster  Soup. — Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  bring 
it  to  a  sharp  boil,  then  skim  it.  Add  one  quart  of  milk  to  this, 
a  generous  lump  of  butter  and  two  spoons  of  flour  rubbed  to  a 
paste,  when  the  milk  begins  to  boil.  Put  oysters  in  and  let  them 
stay  only  till  the  edges  begin  to  curl  up.  Add  salt,  and  serve  at 
once  with  oyster  crackers. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Oyster  Soup. — One  quart  milk,  three  dozen  oysters,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  milk 
come  to  a  boil ;  work  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  to  milk. 
Drop  the  oysters  in  just  a  moment,  then  pour  in  tureen  on 
broken  up  crackers,  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Simmons. 

Oyster  Soup. — One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  water  two  hancl- 
fuls  cracker  dust,  juice  of  two  cans  oysters;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and 
add  oysters.  The  canned  oysters  should  be  washed  and  picked. 
— Columbian  (Tenn.)  Cook  Book. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup. — One  can  of  corn  chopped  as  fine  as 
possible.  Put  in  two  cups  boiling  water  and  cook  half  hour. 
Rub  through  wire  strainer.  Pnt  two  cups  milk  in  double  boiler 
with  two  slices  of  onion  and  allow  to  scald.   Add  corn.   Put  in 


10 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


saucepan  two  tablespoonfnls  butter ;  when  melted  add  two  level 
tablespoons  flour.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  a  little  of  the  soup, 
and  as  it  thickens  a  little  more,  turn  all  into  boiler.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Then  cook  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Keller. 

Pea  Soup. — Press  one  pint  of  peas  through  a  colander.  Put 
one  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil.  Take  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
two  of  flour,  rub  together  and  when  milk  begins  to  boil  add 
peas  and  butter.  Stir  constantly  till  it  thickens.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.    Serve. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Keller. 

Split  Pea  Soup. — Soak  one  pint  split  peas  in  water  for  twelve 
hours,  drain  off  water,  put  peas  in  saucepan  with  three  pints 
cold  water,  two  slices  bacon,  two  sprigs  of  dried  mint,  a  bay 
leaf,  some  parsely,  an  onion  stuck  with  one  or  two  cloves,  some 
whole  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  the  whole  boil  three 
hours,  then  pass  the  puree  through  a  sieve;  make  it  hot  again 
and  serve  with  dice  of  bread  fried  in  butter. — Gulf  City  Cook 
Book. 

Green  Pea  Soup. — Boil  one  quart  peas  in  two  quarts  water, 
add  two  slices  thin  bacon.  When  done  mash  through  a  colan- 
der ;  then  put  back  in  same  water,  throwing  away  bacon.  Sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt  and  spoonful  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Boil 
well  again.  Toast  some  bread  cut  in  slices,  put  in  tureen  when 
soup  is  served.  Two  hours  will  be  enough  to  boil  green  pea 
soup. 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  Stew. — After  they  are  well  cleaned,  par- 
boil the  meat,  then  pick  it  to  pieces.  Season  highly  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cayenne  pepper,  hard  boiled  egg,  spices,  lemon  and 
champagne  or  other  wine.    Stew  till  well  done. 

Chicken  Stew. — Cut  up  a  hen,  put  into  a  pot  of  hot  water, 
add  one  quart  fresh  okra  cut  up,  six  ears  of  fresh  corn  (cut  off), 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


11 


one  can  tomatoes  or  eight  or  ten  fresh  ones,  fonr  Irish  potatoes, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  three  hours  or  longer.  Before 
serving  bone  the  chicken  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  returning 
it  to  the  stew.  A  few  strips  of  breakfast  bacon  cut  very  thin 
adds  to  the  taste.  Add  the  corn  one-half  hour  before  the  stew 
is  done,  as  it  will  grow  tough  if  cooked  longer.  This  stew 
should  be  very  thick  when  done.  Squirrel  stew  may  be  made 
the  same  way. — Mrs.  S.  W.  Tucker. 

Squirrel  Stew. — Make  the  same  as  chicken  stew,  using  four 
squirrels  to  a  pot  of  stew. 

Squirrel  Stew  for  Twenty  Gallons. — Twenty  squirrels,  five 
pounds  pork,  half  bushel  tomatoes,  half  bushel  potatoes,  three 
quarts  okra,  six  large  onions,  eight  red  peppers,  three  pack- 
ages corn  starch,  ten  dozen  ears  corn,  three  pounds  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  four  or  five  hours,  stirring  often. — 
Mrs.  Keavis. 

Vegetable  Soup. — Small  soup  bone.  Start  the  soup  bone  to 
boil  in  a  gallon  of  water.  Crumb  two  or  three  biscuits  (owing 
to  size)  into  this  water.  Take  four  medium  sized  Irish  potatoes 
cut  in  pieces,  one  pound  can  of  tomatoes,  half  cup  of  macaroni 
broken  fine,  half  cup  of  okra  cut  in  thin  slices,  one  pint  of  corn. 
Put  vegetables  in  a  pan  and  cook  until  soup  water  has  been 
reduced  by  boiling  to  about  one-half  gallon,  then  put  in  the 
vegetables  and  cook  until  thoroughly  done,  stirring  often.  Just 
before  taking  up  soup  put  in  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  stirring 
in  well.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  T.  H. 
Temple. 

Gumbo. — One  quart  tomatoes,  one  chicken,  or  two  pounds  of 
beef,  one  onion,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  ham,  lump  of 
butter,  one  and  one-half  pints  chopped  okra,  two  tablespoons 
rice,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  chicken  in  small 
pieces  and  roll  in  flour  and  brown  it  well  in  butter.  Put  it  into 
a  soup  kettle  with  the  ham,  onion  and  three  pints  of  water  and 
let  cook  slowly  for  one-half  hour,  then  add  okra,  tomatoes  and 


12  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


rice.  Boil  one  and  one-half  hours.  Season  to  taste  and  serve. 
—Mrs.  W.  S.  Keller. 

Gumbo. — Cut  and  joint  into  small  pieces  a  large,  prefer- 
ably, a  full  grown  chicken  and  generally  use  two  or  three  sets 
of  giblets.  Wash  and  drain  dry  in  a  tea  towel  and  set  aside 
till  ready  for  it.  Put  in  a  deep  iron  skillet  a  large  spoon  of 
lard ;  when  very  hot  add  two  tablespoonf uls  of  flour.  Stir  con- 
stantly till  of  a  rich  brown,  then  put  in  a  medium  sized  onion, 
sliced  and  cut  fine.  When  that  is  brown,  put  in  the  chicken 
which  you  let  fry  with  an  occasional  stir,  so  that  it  neither 
sticks  or  burns,  for  ten  minutes,  add  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes, 
or  a  dozen  fresh  ones,  skinned  and  cut  into  pieces.  Let  the 
whole  stew  three  or  four  minutes,  then  transfer  to  an  iron 
soup  pot.  Put  to  this  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  After  boiling  hard  set  back  on  the  stove  and  let  it 
boil  slowly  for  four  hours.  About  one  hour  before  serving  put 
in  two  quarts  of  okra.  Served  with  boiled  rice. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Keller. 

Crab  Gumbo. — Take  one  dozen  large  crabs,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, and  two  or  three  onions.  Wash  the  crabs,  taking  care  to 
get  them  free  from  sand ;  take  off  the  feelers  and  gills  and  divide 
the  crabs  into  quarters ;  brown  the  onions  in  the  butter  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Put  in  the  crabs  with  about  a  handful 
of  chopped  ham.  Fill  up  the  pot  with  three  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Just  before  serving  sift  in  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
file.   Do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  file  is  put  in.   Serve  with  rice. 

Gumbo. — Fry  two  fowls,  old  ones  are  best,  with  parsley, 
onions,  pepper,  salt,  and  lard  or  bacon.  Put  these  into  the  pot 
with  water  sufficient  for  the  soup,  and  boil  until  the  flesh  drops 
off  the  bone.  Just  before  taking  off  the  fire,  add  your  oysters, 
and  a  few  minutes  after  a  tablespoonful  of  gumbo  powder,  or 
file ;  scraps  of  ham  or  fried  sausage  are  an  improvement.  The 
gumbo  does  not  require  boiling  after  the  file  is  put  in. 

Okra  Gumbo. — Cut  up  one  chicken,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


13 


fry  till  brown;  then  add  one  onion  and  one  quart  of  okra, 
both  chopped  fine,  and  fry  with  the  chicken.  Pour  on  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  one  pint  of  prepared  tomatoes, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  -  Boil  three  hours  and  serve  with 
rice.  The  chicken,  okra,  and  onion  should  be  fried  in  the  vessel 
in  which  the  soup  is  made,  and  in  a  porcelain  or  tin-lined  vessel, 
as  iron  discolors  the  okra. 

To  Prepare  File  for  Gumbo. — Gather  sassafras  leaves  as  late 
as  possible  in  the  season,  before  they  turn  red.  Put  them  in  the 
shade  and  open  air  to  dry.  When  perfectly  dry  pound  them, 
sift  the  powder,  bottle  it,  and  keep  tightly  corked. 

Gumbo  File. —  (Mrs.  Jefferson  Davis'  Receipt.) — One  old 
chicken  cut  into  joints  and  bits;  the  bones  broken,  the  head 
and  legs  omitted;  one  dozen  large  oysters  with  their  liquor; 
three  slices  of  unboiled  ham;  half  an  onion  cut  into  slices;  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs  tied  in  muslin,  a  carrot  sliced  small,  four 
cloves,  half-dozen  allspice,  three  pinches  of  mace,  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg,  two-thirds  teaspoon  salt  (more  if  the  ham  has  been 
boiled),  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  little  more  white  pepper, 
one  tablespoon  of  file.  Fry  the  chicken  a  light  brown.  Put  in 
twice  as  much  water  as  the  soup  requires ;  add  the  seasoning,  the 
ham,  the  herbs  and  simmer  for  several  hours.  For  a  6  o'clock 
dinner  put  the  gumbo  over  the  fire  at  1  o'clock.  When  the 
chicken  is  cooked  to  shreds,  take  out  the  bags  of  herbs  and 
spice.  Put  in  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  just  long  enough  to 
plump  them.  An  even  tablespoon  of  file  should  be  stirred  in  just 
as  the  pot  is  taken  from  the  stove.  The  file  should  not  boil. 
This  course  must  be  eaten  with  rice,  a  tablespoonful  being  first 
put  in  the  soup  plate  and  the  gumbo  poured  over  it. 

File  for  Soup. — File  is  composed  of  young  leaves  of  sassa- 
fras, just  as  they  have  attained  their  maturity,  but  before  they 
have  reached  their  darkest  shade  of  green.  They  are  dried  in 
the  shade  by  the  Indians  and  finely  pulverized.  File  may  be 
obtained  from  the  New  Orleans  French  Market. 


14  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


The  Way  to  Make  Croutons. — There  is  quite  an  art  in  making 
good  croutons.  Do  not  fry  them ;  they  are  greasy  and  indigest- 
ible. Nor  must  you  spread  them  heavily  with  butter.  Cut  stale 
bread  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick.  Trim  off  the  crusts,  cut 
the  slices  into  cubes  of  half  an  inch,  put  them  in  a  pan  and 
toast  slowly  in  the  oven  until  crisp  to  the  very  center.  Shake 
frequently. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Marrow  Balls. — (To  Serve  with  Soup.) — Take  marrow  from 
bone  (half  cup)  and  work  in  water  until  like  butter,  salt,  one 
or  two  eggs,  parsley  cut  fine,  bread  crumbs  to  stiffen  to  dough, 
roll  in  balls,  dip  in  flour.  Put  in  soup  and  when  they  rise  they 
are  done. 

Noodles. — One  egg  for  each  person,  stiffen  with  as  much  flour 
as  egg  will  take  and  knead  well.  Roll  thin  and  allow  to  dry, 
flour  it  and  cut  in  narrow  strips.   Boil  in  broth  fifteen  minutes. 

Noodles  for  Soup. — One  tablespoonful  of  water,  one  pinch  of 
salt  and  one  egg.  Roll  as  thin  as  you  can.  When  nearly  dry 
roll  up  like  a  jelly  cake  and  slice  off  as  thin  as  possible.  About 
twenty  minutes  before  serving  soup  put  in  as  many  noodles  as 
you  like. 

Force  Meat  Balls  for  Soup. — Put  one  cupful  of  cooked  meat 
through  a  food  or  meat  cutter,  fine  plate,  add  to  it  one  salt- 
spoonful  each  of  salt  and  thyme,  a  little  cayenne,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Add  enough  of  the  yolk  of  one  egg 
to  moisten,  shape  into  little  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  roll  in 
flour  and  brown  in  hot  butter.  The  best  way  to  brown  the  balls 
is  to  put  a  little  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  and  when  hot  put  in 
the  balls,  shaking  them  until  a  nice  brown. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


15 


FISH. 

"Do  not  bring  disagreeable  things  to  the  table  in  your  con- 
versation any  more  than  you  would  in  your  dishes." — Sel. 

Fish. — In  selecting  fish,  notice  if  the  flesh  is  firm  and  hard, 
the  eyes  full  and  prominent,  the  fins  stiff,  and  the  gills  red,  as 
all  these  indications  denote  their  being  fresh. 

In  boiling  fish,  put  it  in  boiling  water,  and  simmer  slowly. 
It  will  require  one  hour  for  a  large  one  and  about  twenty 
minutes  for  a  small  one.  Be  careful  to  have  boiling  hot  lard 
when  you  fry  fish.  First  rub  in  salt  and  pepper  and  meal, 
then  keep  covered  while  frying,  as  you  should  do  everything 
that  is  being  fried. 

Steamed  Fish. — Put  the  fish  in  a  steamer,  with  its  tail  in  its 
mouth,  the  body  in  a  circle ;  put  over  a  vessel  of  boiling  water, 
and  steam  from  twenty  minutes  to  half -hour,  according  to  size. 
When  the  meat  easily  separates  from  the  bone  it  is  done. 
Serve  with  drawn  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Broiled  Fish. — Having  cleaned  the  fish  thoroughly,  wipe  dry, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  on  a  gridiron,  over 
hot  coals.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  the  fish  melted 
butter  into  which  the  juice  of  a  lemon  has  been  squeezed.  Gar- 
nish the  dish  with  sliced  lemon.  Fish  to  be  broiled  must  be 
opened  down  the  back. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Broiled  Fish. — Clean  fish  nicely,  split  it  wide  open.  Put  a 
lump  of  butter  or  lard  on  the  stove  in  a  pan  to  get  hot.  Lay  the 
fish  in  the  pan,  skin  side  down,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
bits  of  butter.  Put  the  pan  in  the  upper  part  of  the  stove  and  cook 
it  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Large  white  perch,  trout  or 
flounders  are  nice  this  way,  or  Spanish  mackerel.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 


16 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Fried  Red  Snapper. — Cut  in  thin  slices  from  the  bone.  Brown 
four  or  five  crackers  and  roll  them  very  fine.  Beat  well  three 
or  four  eggs,  and  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  your 
lard  ready,  very  hot.  Dip  the  slices  in  the  egg  first,  and  then 
in  the  cracker.  Have  ready  some  parsley  and  butter,  to  make 
the  gravy  after  the  fish  is  taken  out. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Baked  Fish. — Clean  thoroughly,  sprinkle  with  salt  an  hour 
before  cooking,  fill  with  dressing  and  sew  securely,  sprinkle 
flour  over  it,  baste  with  butter,  place  in  pan  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven;  allow  one  and  one-half  hours  for  good  sized  fish. 
Serve  with  drawn  butter  sauce.   Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

Baked  Fish. — Slice  three  or  four  lemons  and  a  large  onion 
together.  Fill  the  fish  with  it,  adding  about  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter  and  enough  salt  to  season.  Strain  the  juice  from 
one  can  of  tomatoes  over  the  fish  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Hirt. 

Baked  Fish — No.  4. — Make  a  dressing  of  light  bread,  sea- 
soned with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  onion  chopped  fine.  Fill 
the  fish  with  this ;  then  put  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and 
put  on  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  tomatoes, 
and  bake  slowly.  Pour  half  a  pint  of  water  into  the  pan,  and 
baste  occasionally. 

Baked  Red  Snapper. — Make  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs  sea- 
soned with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  an  onion  chopped  fine. 
Fill  the  fish  with  this,  then  put  it  in  a  pan,  on  a  piece  of  tin, 
that  it  may  be  lifted  out  easily.  Put  on  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
cover  with  half  can  tomatoes,  and  bake  slowly.  Pour  half  pint 
of  water  into  pan  and  baste  occasionally.  When  the  fish  is  done 
slice  over  it  three  hard  boiled  eggs.  Stir  into  the  gravy  one 
tablespoon  tomato  catsup  and  one  tablespoon  Worcester  sauce. 
Serve  the  gravy  in  a  bowl.  Bake  from  half  hour  to  one  hour, 
according  to  the  size  of  fish. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Lancaster. 

Fish  a  la  Creme. — Take  any  kind  of  fish  boiled.  Pick  the  fish 
to  pieces,  removing  the  bones.  Mix  one  pint  rich  milk  with  two 
tablespoons  flour,  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt.   Set  on  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


17 


fire  and  cook  to  the  thickness  of  custard.  Fill  a  greased  baking 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  fish,  powdered  crackers  and  cream, 
using  four  crackers.  Bake  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lan- 
caster. 

Fish  Pudding. — Four  pounds  red  snapper.  Boil  fish  in  salt 
water  until  thoroughly  done.  Then  pull  to  pieces,  removing 
the  bones.  Mix  with  a  white  sauce  like  in  croquettes,  and  sea- 
son highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  tin  pan  the  shape  of  a  loaf 
of  bread  is  best  for  cooking  this  pudding.  Have  the  pan  well 
buttered,  fill  with  the  fish  and  put  on  top  of  stove  another 
pan  with  boiling  water;  let  steam  for  thirty  minutes,  having 
all  the  time  a  buttered  paper  over  the  fish.  When  ready  to 
serve,  turn  out  on  a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley.  Also  sur- 
round the  pudding  with  small  Irish  potatoes.  Slice  and  serve 
with  a  Tartar  sauce. — Mrs.  Ed.  Mercer. 

Tartar  Sauce. — Yolks  of  two  eggs,  half  tea  cup  olive  oil  (or 
butter),  three  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  of  dry  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  quarter  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  of  chopped  pickle,  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  olives. 
Put  together  the  same  as  mayonnaise,  adding  the  chopped  in- 
gredients after  the  mixture  is  cooked. — Mrs.  Ed.  Mercer. 

Canned  Salmon  Loaf. — Drain  off  the  liquid  from  a  can  of 
salmon,  and  with  a  silver  fork  pick  the  fish  fine,  discarding 
skin  and  bones.  To  the  fish  add  half  a  cup  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  (beaten  light),  half  a  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  four  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter,  one  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  lastly,  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  but- 
tered bakingpan,  shaping  it  into  a  loaf.  Bake  half  an  hour. 
Remove  to  a  platter  and  pour  over  it  the  following  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Canned  Salmon. — Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  quarter 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook  until  frothy,  then  stir  in  one  cup  of 
milk  and  the  fish  liquor  from  the  can.    Stir  until  the  sauce 


is 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


boils.  Let  simmer  three  or  four  minutes,  then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  a  beaten  egg. — The  Boston  Cooking  School. 

Salmon  Draft. — One  can  salmon,  pour  off  oil  and  pick  out 
bones,  one  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  two  small  eggs  beaten,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  lemon 
.juice.  Mix  well  together.  Put  in  a  mold  or  small  granite  pan 
■and  steam  one  hour,  turn  out  on  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings.  Made  a  drawn  butter  gravy  with 
lemon  juice  and  pour  over  salmon. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Wise. 

Salmon  Bake. — Use  one  can  salmon  with  bones  and  skins 
taken  out ;  grease  a  bowl,  put  a  layer  of  salmon,  salt  and  pepper, 
cracker  crumbs,  cream  dressing,  then  another  layer  of  salmon, 
etc.,  till  dish  is  full,  using  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  a  few  minutes. 
— Mrs.  T.  Lee  Agnew. 

Deviled  Crabs. — One  can  crabs,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  pep- 
per, salt,  mustard,  butter.  Add  to  the  crabs  one-third  as  much 
cracker  crumbs,  two  spoons  of  butter ;  pepper,  salt  and  mustard, 
and  eggs  chopped  fine.  Either  put  back  in  the  top  shell  and 
bake,  or  bake  in  a  greased  bowl.  A  bit  of  onion  is  an  improve- 
ment.  Garnish  with  parsley.   Grated  ham  adds  to  it. 

Stewed  Crabs — No.  3. — Take  one  dozen  crabs  well  picked 
from  the  shell,  after  being  boiled.  Boil  one  pint  of  fresh  milk, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  salt,  red  and  black  pepper  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  mace, 
allspice,  and  one  nutmeg  grated,  the  whites  of  four  hard-boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine,  the  yolks  of  the  same  rubbed  smooth  with  a 
little  milk.  When  this  boils,  add  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  crackers,  and  cook  until  the  onions  are  quite  done. 
Then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  fresh  cream  and  the  crabs.  Let  all 
boil  together  a  few  minutes  only.  Serve  with  lemon  juice  and 
sherry  wine  to  your  taste.  It  is  necessary  to  stew  quickly  all 
the  time.  If  too  thick,  add  either  milk  or  cream,  whichever  is 
most  convenient. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Buttered  Shrimp. — Take  one  pint  of  shrimp  picked  clean 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  19 

Moore's 

Dabney 

Furniture  do 

Phone  338. 

127-129  E.  College  St. 

Ladies'  Skirts 

Jackson,  Tenn. 

50c  to  75c. 

We  Will  Save  You 

Hal  R.  Moore. 

Money. 

from  their  shells ;  put  them  iu  oue  aucl  cue-half  cups  of  cream 
sauce  aud  simmer  for  two  minutes ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Shrimp  Salad. — Boil  the  shrimp  in  salt  water,  and  remove 
the  shells.  Then  make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  creamed  until  smooth,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard,  and  one  of'  salt,  one  teacup  of 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  pour  over  the  shrimp.  This  dressing  will  do  for  crabs 
also. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Crab  or  Shrimp  Patties. — Take  the  meat  of  the  crab  or 
shrimp,  cut  up,  season  with  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
make  patties  of  puff  paste,  run  into  stove  and  let  brown.  While 
hot  fill  with  meat  and  dressing. 

Codfish  a  la  Creme. — Bone  carefully  required  amount  of 
shredded  codfish;  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Heat  a  cupful  of  milk,  stir  in  butter  size  of  an  egg,  teaspoon 
flour,  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper,  two  well  beaten  eggs. 
Remove  fish  from  water,  drop  into  the  cream,  shake  over  fire 
until  well  mixed,  serve  in  deep,  covered  dish. 

Creamed  Codfish. — Make  a  cream  dressing  of  one  pint  milk, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter  rubbed  into  flour;  into  this  put  one- 
half  can  Beardsley's  Shredded  Codfish.  As  soon  as  it  boils  up, 
serve  on  toast.   A  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Codfish  on  Toast.— Soak  a  cupful  of  shredded  codfish  in  cold 


20 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


water  for  an  hour;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  drain  through  a  col- 
ander ;  turn  into  the  skillet  again  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  season 
with  butter  and  pepper,  stir  smooth  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
with  a  little  cold  milk ;  add,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  moment ;  pour 
over  buttered  toast  on  a  platter. 

Codfish  Balls — No.  1. — Soak  the  cod  in  cold  water  in  the 
morning,  or  over  night.  Change  the  water,  and  let  it  scald  for 
an  hour.  Then  boil  five  or  six  minutes.  Chop  very  fine,  and 
mix  well  with  potatoes,  using  equal  quantities  of  fish  and  po- 
tatoes, and  adding  butter,  pepper,  and  milk,  to  soften.  Make 
in  small  cakes  and  fry  in  lard. 

Shredded  Codfish  Balls. — A  delightful  breakfast  dish.  Use 
shredded  codfish,  which  is  already  cooked  and  can  be  ready  at 
a  half  hour's  notice,  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potatoes,  work 
into  a  stiff  batter  by  adding  a  lump  of  butter,  and  sweet  milk, 
and  if  you  want  them  very  nice,  a  beaten  egg.  Flour  your 
hands  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls.  Drop  into  boiling  lard 
or  good  dripping  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Plainer  fish  cakes 
may  be  made  of  the  codfish  and  potatoes  alone. — Marion  Har- 
land. 

Codfish  Balls. — One-quarter  pound  fish  to  three-quarter 
pounds  potatoes,  one  egg  to  moisten.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Clams. — Never  boil  clams  long,  as  it  makes  them  indigestible ; 
pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  set  them  over  a  hot  fire  until 
the  shells  open,  then  empty  the  juice  in  a  sauce  pan;  add  the 
clams,  pepper  and  very  little  salt.  Serve  on  shells  with  drawn 
butter. 

Clam  Chowder. — Wash  the  clams,  put  them  into  a  pan,  turn 
boiling  water  over  them,  cover  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes; 
take  out  and  cut  off  the  black  heads,  flour  them  and  season 
with  a  little  nutmeg,  mace,  pepper  and  salt.  Take  three  quarts 
of  the  liquor,  put  into  a  saucepan  to  boil.  To  one-half  pound 
of  butter  rub  well  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  it  into 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


21 


the  liquor.  Put  in  the  clams  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  If 
you  like  add  one  pint  of  cream  or  milk. 

Frogs. — The  hind  legs  are  the  only  part  used ;  skin  and  wash 
them,  roll  them  in  cracker  dust,  then  in  beaten  eggs,  then 
again  in  cracker  dust.  Have  in  frying  pan  some  hot  butter,  lay 
them  in  and  fry  a  golden  brown;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Baked  Mackerel. — Cut  the  neatly  dressed  mackerel  in  halves 
and  dip  each  half  in  flour.  Put  these  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  add  a  few  bits  of  butter  here  and  there.  Bake  for 
about  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  surface  is  delicately  browned. 
Cream  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter.  Work  into  it  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice.  Put  this  in  small  bits  over  the  fish  and  serve 
at  once. — The  Boston  Cooking  School. 

To  Cook  Salt  Mackerel. — Soak  the  fish  over  night  in  plenty  of 
fresh  water.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water;  put  in  a 
skillet  of  cold  water  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  it  will  be 
done ;  dress  with  melted  butter. 

How  Salt  Fish  Should  be  Freshened. — Mackerel,  or  any 
other  salt  fish,  should  be  soaked  in  fresh  water,  with  the  flesh 
side  down,  as  the  salt  falls  to  the  bottom.  If  the  skin  is  down, 
the  fish  comes  out  nearly  as  salty  as  when  put  in. 


22 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


OYSTERS. 

Fried  Oysters — No.  1. — Select  large  oysters,  drain  and  spread 
on  a  cloth  to  absorb  all  moisture.  Beat  well  two  or  three  eggs, 
and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt.  Eoll  some  crackers, 
and  dip  the  oysters  in  the  egg  and  then  in  the  crumbs,  then 
again  in  the  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Drop  into  boiling  lard, 
sufficient  to  cover  them,  and  cook  till  of  a  light  brown. 

Fried  Oysters — No.  2. — Drain  large  oysters  and  lay  on  a  nap- 
kin. Beat  well  two  eggs,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Dip  one  oyster  at  a  time  first  in  the  egg  and  then  in  cornmeal. 
Drop  in  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Fried  Oysters — No.  3.— A  certain  Boston  hotel  is  famous  for 
its  fried  oysters.  Instead  of  rolling  the  shellfish  in  egg  and 
crumbs  the  chef  washes  them,  dries  them  thoroughly  and  dips 
them  in  a  thin,  highly  seasoned  oil  mayonnaise,  then  in  crumbs. 
This  process  gives  oysters  a  flavor  which  is  indescribably  pi- 
quant. 

Fried  Oysters. — Drain  through  a  sieve ;  beat  up  two  or  three 

eggs ;  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  oysters ;  then  dip  each  oys- 
ter into  the  egg  and  then  bread  crumbs.  Have  a  hot  skillet 
or  pot ;  put  equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard,  or  all  lard,  into  the 
pan,  take  out  when  brown  on  a  wire  spoon  or  egg  beater.  They 
are  equally  as  good  dipped  in  meal  and  fried,  but  will  not  look 
as  large. 

Fried  Oysters. — Select  fine,  large  oysters  for  this;  lay  them 
on  a  clean  cloth  to  drain,  then  dip  each  first  in  salted  and  pep- 
pered cracker-dust,  next  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  up  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  then  again  in  the  crumbs. 
Let  them  stand  on  ice  or  in  a  cold  place  for  thirty  minutes, 
arranging  them  on  a  platter  so  that  they  shall  not  crowd  one 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


another.  Fry  them  to  a  good  brown  in  boiling  lard,  cooking 
only  a  few  at  a  time,  and  draining  them  on  soft  paper  before 
putting  them  in  the  dish. 

Oyster  Loaf. — Very  good  for  supper  or  luncheon.  Buy  a  stale 
loaf  of  Vienna  bread,  and  after  cutting  off  a  slice  from  the  top, 
scoop  out  the  crumbs,  or  most  of  them.  There  should  be  a  good 
half -inch  of  bread  left  inside  the  crusty  shell.  Drain  a  quart  of 
oysters,  season  with  salt,  a  little  Tabasco  or  red  pepper,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  catsup.  Pill  the  loaf  with  the  oysters,  and 
dot  well  with  bits  of  butter.  Replace  the  slice  cut  from  the  top. 
Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  basting 
frequently  with  the  oyster  liquor.  Better  moisten  the  loaf  with 
the  oyster  liquor  before  placing  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  a 
cream  sauce. 

Oyster  Loaves. — Cut  off  carefully  the  end  of  a  loaf  of  baker's 
bread,  reserving  the  end;  scoop  out  the  crumb  inside  the  loaf, 
leaving  the  crust  entire.  Fill  the  loaf  with  hot  oysters,  fried 
as  in  No.  1,  leaving  room  for  slices  of  pickle.  Carefully  replace 
the  end  cut  off.  If  the  oysters  are  hot,  and  the  loaf  well  cov- 
ered, they  can  be  carried  quite  a  distance,  or  eaten  some  time 
after  being  prepared,  without  getting  cold.  This  is  nice  for  a 
hasty  lunch  or  a  late  supper.  One  dozen  oysters  will  fill  an 
ordinary  sized  loaf. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Oyster  Stew. — Take  one  quart  of  oysters,  put  the  liquor  in  a 
stew  pan,  let  it  boil  up  and  skim  carefully ;  put  in  two  quarts  of 
milk,  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the  oysters;  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  curl  up,  take  off  the  fire ;  put  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  salt  to  taste. 

Stewed  Oysters— No.  2. — Take  one  hundred  oysters  and  strain 
the  liquor  to  remove  any  fragments  of  shell.  Measure  the 
liquor,  and  take  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet  milk ;  boil  them  in 
separate  vessels.  To  the  oyster  liquor  add  a  teacupful  of 
cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  large  table- 
spoonful of  butter.  When  this  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  add  the 


24  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


oysters,  which  require  about  five  minutes  to  cook.  Pour  in  a 
dish,  and  add  the  boiling  milk  last. 

Oyster  Bisque. — Heat  the  liquor  from  one  quart  of  oysters, 
and  cook  in  it  the  oysters  chopped  to  a  medium  fineness.  Three 
minutes  should  cook  them.  Have  ready  in  another  vessel  one 
cupful  of  milk  which  has  been  thickened  with  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  butter,  and  stir  the  oysters  and 
liquor  into  this.  Add  one-half  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs,  boil 
up  once,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Do  not  drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters 
but  fork  them  out  as  you  use  them ;  in  that  way  as  much  liquor 
as  you  require  adheres  to  them.  Oysters  part  with  a  good  deal 
of  moisture  in  cooking,  and  if  the  mixture  is  too  wet  it  is  not 
good.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  well  buttered  dish  with  cracker 
crumbs,  dust  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  bits  of  but- 
ter over  the  crumbs;  next  put  a  layer  of  oysters,  alternating 
with  cracker  crumbs  till  the  dish  is  filled,  putting  crumbs  on 
top  at  last.   Bake  till  brown. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Grilled  Oysters. — Drain  oysters  in  a  colander  and  drop  them 
with  a  little  butter  into  a  hot  pan  on  the  range.  They  will 
ruffle  in  a  few  moments ;  then  toss  them  lightly  about  that  they 
may  ruffle  and  plump  on  both  sides.  On  a  platter  arrange  toast 
which  has  been  browned  and  nicely  buttered.  On  each  slice 
of  toast  place  a  small  heap  of  oysters  which  have  been  kept 
hot ;  then  pour  over  all  the  liquid  and  melted  butter,  seasoned 
with  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Dip  fresh  oysters  into  half  bread  and  half 
cracker  dust,  broil  in  butter  for  nearly  two  and  one-half 
minutes  on  each  side.   Season  to  taste  and  serve  on  toast. 

Steamed  Oysters. — Put  nice  oysters  in  round  dish,  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper;  set  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water, 
steam  until  they  begin  to  curl. 

Steamed  Oysters. — Turn  the  oysters  into  a  steamer  over  a  pot 
of  boiling  water;  let  them  steam  for  half  an  hour,  stirring 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


25 


occasionally.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  with  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty 
of  butter.— Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Steamed  Oysters. — Place  a  sieve  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water. 
Place  in  sieve  the  oysters.  Cover  top  closely.  Let  steam  until 
plump.  Use  liquor  from  oysters  for  dressing,  adding  to  it 
butter,  a  little  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil. 
Arrange  oysters  on  pieces  of  toast  on  platter  and  pour  dressing 
over  them.   Serve  very  hot.   Very  fine. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Deviled  Oysters. — Wipe  the  oysters  dry  and  lay  in  a  dish 
with  a  mixture  of  melted  butter  and  cayenne  pepper,  or  pepper 
sauce  and  lemon  juice.  Let  them  lie  in  this  ten  minutes, 
turning  them  frequently.  Lay  out  and  roll  with  cracker 
crumbs,  then  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  the  crumbs  and  fry  in 
hot  butter  and  lard,  half  and  half. — Miss  Bruce  Harris. 

Fine  Oyster  Pie. — Make  a  rich  puff  paste,  grease  a  baking  dish 
and  line  with  paste,  season  one  quart  oysters  with  salt,  pepper, 
half  pound  of  butter  and  half  teacup  bread  crumbs.  Put  this 
in  the  oysters  (without  the  liquor)  and  cover  with  paste  (in 
strips),  bake  half  hour.  If  in  baking,  the  crust  browns  too  fast, 
put  over  it  a  paper  doubled.  If  too  dry  pour  over  it  some  of 
the  liquor,  which  must  be  boiled.  Serve  immediately,  as  paste 
is  better  when  just  from  the  oven. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Adkisson. 

Oyster  Patties. — Cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of  patty  pans 
with  dough,  the  same  as  for  pie  crust;  then  put  the  crust  over 
the  top  and  pinch  the  edges  together.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
Take  as  many  oysters  as  you  have  patties,  stew  them;  add 
a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour  rubbed  with  a  little 
salt,  two  tablespoons  of  cream,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  pounded 
mace.  Mix  well  and  open  the  patties  and  fill  with  mixture; 
serve  hot. 

Oyster  Pates. — For  the  filling  of  these,  make  a  sauce  by  cook- 
ing together  in  a  fryingpan  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.   When  they  begin  to  bubble 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


pour  upon  them  one  gill  of  oyster  liquor  and  one  gill  of  cream 
— making  one-half  pint  of  fluid  in  all.  Stir  until  the  sauce  is 
thick  and  boiling,  then  drop  in  the  oysters,  and  cook  until  they 
ruffle.  Season  with  salt,  white  pepper  and  just  a  suspicion  of 
mace,  add  a  well-beaten  egg  a  drop  at  a  time,  cook  just  a  minute 
longer,  take  from  the  fire,  and  put  into  the  pate  cases,  which 
should  be  hot.  This  is  enough  sauce  for  a  solid  pint  of  oysters. 
Choose  rather  small  oysters  for  this.   If  large,  cut  them  in  half. 

Oyster  Pates. — Stew  some  large  oysters  with  a  few  cloves, 
some  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard  and  grated,  a  little  butter,  and 
as  much  liquor  from  the  oysters  as  will  cover  them.  When 
stewed  a  few  minutes  take  out  of  the  pan  to  cool.  Have  shells 
of  puff  paste,  baked  in  patty  tins  and  lay  two  or  three  oysters 
in  each. 

Oyster  Cocktail. — Two  quarts  oysters  well  chilled,  four 
tablespoons  horse-radish,  four  tablespoons  vinegar,  four  table- 
spoons Worcester  sauce,  eight  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  four 
tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  two  teaspoons  Tabasco  sauce,  two 
teaspoons  salt. — Mrs.  C.  P.  Black. 

Oyster  Cocktail. — Bury  small  oysters  in  ice  until  needed. 
Have  the  tall  slender  glasses  in  which  they  are  to  be  served 
laid  in  ice  also,  that  they  may  be  thoroughly  chilled.  Make  a 
sauce  of  two  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup,  one  dozen  drops  of 
Tabasco  sauce,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  saltspoon  of  grated  horse- 
radish and  a  dash  each  of  salt  and  pepper.  Add  two  table- 
spoons of  oyster  liquor,  mix  thoroughly  and  set  on  the  ice  until 
cold.  Put  five  oysters  in  the  bottom  of  each  chilled  glass,  pour 
the  sauce  upon  them.  Serve.  Used  crushed  ice  on  top. — Miss 
Katherine  Bray, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


27 


FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES. 

SAUCES  ONE  OF  THE  FINE  ARTS  OF  COOKERY. 

An  untrained  cook  with  an  untrained  palate  cannot  make  a 
perfect  sauce.  Sauces  and  soups  are  the  fine  arts  of  cookery, 
and  the  person  who  undertakes  them  must  understand  tastes 
and  flavors,  as  well  as  chemistry.  Cold  butter  put  into  a  hot 
saucepan  spoils  the  sauce ;  saucepan  and  butter  must  heat 
slowly  together,  and  the  butter  must  not  be  left  to  boil,  or  both 
flavor  and  digestibility  are  spoiled.  An  iron  saucepan  will  not 
produce  a  delicate  sauce.  Keep  a  dainty  white  granite  pan 
especially  for  sauces. 

Each  sauce  should  be  fitted  or  adapted  to  the  vegetable  or 
meat  or  fish  with  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Fish  requires  a 
slightly  acid  sauce ;  for  it  either  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  may  be 
used.  Roots  used  as  vegetables,  such  as  turnips,  carrots,  etc., 
not  containing  much  nourishment,  may  be  covered  with  a  cream 
or  an  egg  sauce.  Asparagus,  summer  squash,  cooked  radishes, 
artichokes  are  better  with  sauce  Hollandaise. 

The  chief  causes  of  failure  in  even  the  more  simple  sauces 
are  the  use  of  inferior  materials,  and  the  lack  of  constant  stir- 
ring, and  careful  attention  while  the  sauce  is  heating.  Lard  or 
suet  cannot  be  substituted  for  good,  sweet  butter.  Corn  starch 
or  coarse  flour  will  not  take  the  place  of  fine  flour.  Ingredi- 
ents must  be  carefully  measured. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Lamb. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
mint,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  half  pint  of  vinegar 
and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  well  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved.  Do  not  heat. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Mint  Jelly. — Let  one  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine 
stand  for  some  time  in  cold  water  to  cover.    Boil  one  cup  of 


28 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


FRANK  BEST 

Church  and  LaFayette. 
Bicycles  and  Bicycle  Supplies, 

Graphophones  and  Records, 
Guns,  Locks,  Keys,  Cutlery,  &c. 

Umbrellas  and  Canes. 
We  Repair  Any  of  Above  Line, 
and  give  prompt  attention. 


We  Are  Headquarters 
for  First-Class 
Footwear. 

Welts  for  Walking  Shoes. 
Turns  for  Dress  Shoes. 

Beautiful  in  Style. 
Easy  to  Wear. 
Let  us  fit  you.  It  will  please  you. 

The  Heck-Fox  Shoe  Co. 


granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  of  vinegar  until  thickened 
slightly  (about  five  minutes  after  boiling  begins).  Add  the 
softened  gelatine  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
pepper,  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Then  add  three- 
quarters  cup  of  mint  leaves,  chopped  fine.  Set  the  dish  into 
another  of  ice  water  and  stir  occasionally  until  the  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  then  turn  into  a  mold  or  jelly  glass  and  set 
aside  to  become  firm.  When  turned  from  the  mold  garnish  the 
dish  with  the  tips  from  two  or  three  stalks  of  mint. — The 
Boston  Cooking  School. 

Mint  Jelly  (for  Cold  Lamb.) — Half  a  box  of  Knox's 
gelatine;  half  a  cup  of  cold  water;  two  bunches  of  mint;  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  boiling  water;  juice  of  two  lemons;  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Soak  the  gelatine  five  minutes  in  the  cold  water ; 
wash  and  dry  the  mint  and  let  it  stand  in  the  boiling  water 
half  an  hour  on  the  back  of  the  range.  Add  the  sugar  to  the 
gelatine  and  pour  the  water  from  the  mint  over  the  whole; 
let  it  dissolve,  then  strain  and  when  cool  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  pour  into  a  mold. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Remove  all  soft  berries  and  wash  thor- 
oughly. To  one  and  one-half  pounds  fruit  stew  in  one  pint 
water  for  fifteen  minutes  or  until  quite  soft.  Strain  through  wire 
sieve,  add  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar,  stirred  into  the  pulp. 
Serve  after  it  cools.  It  may  be  served  without  straining,  but 
is  considered  nicer  if  strained. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


29 


Cranberry  Sauce. — Put  one  quart  of  cranberries  over  the  fire 
in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  One  half  pint  should  be 
sufficient.  Let  them  cook  slowly  until  broken  to  pieces.  Then 
add  one  pound  of  sugar  •  stir  until  this  melts,  then  take  from  the 
fire,  put  into  a  mold,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  This  is  the  real  old- 
fashioned  cranberry  sauce  preferred  by  many  to  the  jelly  from 
which  the  berries  have  been  removed. 

Caper  Sauce. — Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  let  it  come  to 
a  boil;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  a  teacup  of 
capers,  and  four  eggs  boiled  hard  and  minced  fine.  Cucumber 
pickles,  well  minced,  make  a  nice  substitute.  This  is  a  nice 
sauce  for  boiled  meats. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Caper  Sauce. — Make  one  cupful  of  drawn  butter,  or  mayon- 
naise if  preferred,  chop  up  some  capers  and  add  to  it.  Nastur- 
tium or  pickle  may  be  used  instead  of  capers. — Lebanon  (Tenn.) 
Cook  Book. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Rub  together  one  tablespoon  flour  and  two 
tablespoons  butter,  and  add  one  cup  cream;  heat  not  quite  to 
boiling;  take  off  and  add  one  cup  chopped  mushrooms,  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Melt  two  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  one  tablespoon  flour ;  cook  and  stir  three  minutes ;  add  one 
pint  boiling  water  and  one  teaspoon  beef  extract,  stir  well  and 
add  one  can  mushrooms;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
fifteen  minutes.   Add  last  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

Nut  Conserve. — This  is  a  novel  and  delicious  conserve  and 
should  be  in  every  storeroom.  Thinly  slice  twelve  large  or- 
anges, add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  four  lemons,  six  pounds 
of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  three  pounds  of  English  walnuts 
and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  blanched  chopped  almonds.  Dis- 
solve seven  pounds  of  sugar  in  two  pints  of  grape  juice,  add 
the  above  mentioned  ingredients  and  simmer  very  slowly  until 


30 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


reduced  to  a  thick  marmalade.  Put  in  glasses  and  seal.  Serve 
with  game  or  the  roast. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Take  a  pint  of  mushrooms ;  remove  the 
outside  skins  if  fresh,  if  canned  they  are  ready  for  use;  stew 
them  slowly  in  milk  or  cream,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  stew  them  until  they  are 
tender,  stirring  them  with  a  silver  spoon.  This  sauce  served 
with  beefsteak  or  chicken  boiled  is  very  good. — Gulf  City  Cook 
Book. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Wash  a  pint  of  small  button  mushrooms, 
remove  the  stems  and  outside  skins,  stew  them  slowly  in  veal 
gravy  or  milk  or  cream,  adding  an  onion,  and  seasoning  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Their  flavor  will 
be  heightened  by  salting  a  few  the  night  before,  to  extract  the 
juice.  In  dressing  mushrooms,  only  those  of  a  dull  pearl  color 
on  the  outside  and  the  under  part  tinged  with  pale  pink  should 
be  selected.  If  there  is  a  poisonous  one  among  them,  the  onion 
in  the  sauce  will  turn  black.  In  such  a  case  throw  the  whole 
away.  Used  for  poultry,  beef  or  fish. — White  House  Cook  Book. 

Tartar  Sauce  for  Fish. — One  tablespoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  Worcester  sauce.  Put  together  in  a 
bowl  over  hot  water.  One-fourth  cup  of  browned  butter, 
strained  into  the  liquid. — Columbia  (Tenn.)  Cook  Book. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. — Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  yolks 
two  eggs  and  beat  well,  then  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one 
saltspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Just  before  serving 
add  slowly  one-third  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  over  hot 
water  slightly  thick.  This  sauce,  if  well  made,  is  particularly 
nice  to  serve  with  fish. 

Onion  Sauce. — Put  six  sliced  onions  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  same  of  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  ground  pepper;  cook  slowly  till  it  thickens  to  a 
pulp,  stirring  constantly.  Then  add  one  pint  of  milk,  thick- 
ened with  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Boil  till  thick,  strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve  and  serve. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


31 


Horseradish  Sauce. — Mix  together  one  teaspoon  mustard, 
half  cup  vinegar,  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  cup  grated 
horseradish  and  a  little  salt. 

Brown  Sauce  for  Meats. — Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
fryingpan  and  slice  an  onion  into  it.  When  it  browns,  add 
teacup  hot  water,  tablespoon  Worcester  sauce  and  juice  of  a 
lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Serve  with  croquettes. 

Brown  Sauce. — Slice  a  large  onion  and  fry  in  butter  till 
brown,  then  cover  the  onion  with  rich  brown  gravy  which  is 
left  from  roast  beef,  add  mustard,  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  you 
like,  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcester  sauce;  let  this  boil  up,  and 
if  too  thick,  thin  it  with  a  little  stock  or  gravy,  or  even  a  little 
hot  water  with  butter.  Pour  this  when  done  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Of  course  a  larger  quantity  can  be  prepared  at  once  than  is 
mentioned  here. — White  House  Cook  Book. 

Lemon  Pecan  Sauce  for  Meat. — Boil  eight  cloves  in  one  cup 
of  stock  ten  minutes.  Remove  cloves  and  cool  stock.  Mix  part 
of  stock  with  two  level  tablespoons  of  flour  until  smooth.  Put 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  small  pan  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Add  all  the  stock,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  and  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  of  the  consistency  of  custard;  or  a  double  boiler 
may  be  used.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  one-quarter  cup 
of  pecans. 

Bechamel  Sauce. — Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  ten  pepper-corns,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
beat  all  well  together;  then  add  to  this  three  slices  of  onion, 
two  slices  of  carrot,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  two  of  thyme,  a  bay 
leaf  and  half  a  dozen  mushrooms  cut  up.  Moisten  the  whole 
with  a  pint  of  stock  or  water  and  a  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Set  it 
on  the  stove  and  cook  slowly  for  half  of  an  hour,  watching 
closely  that  it  does  not  burn;  then  strain  through  a  sieve. 
Most  excellent  with  roast  veal,  meats  and  fish. — St.  Charles 
Hotel,  New  Orleans. 


32 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


MEATS. 

"I  pray  you,  0  excellent  wife !  cumber  not  yourself  and  me  to 
get  a  curiously  rich  dinner  for  this  man  and  woman  who  have 
just  alighted  at  our  gate  *  *  *  These  things,  if  they  are 
desirous  of  them,  they  can  get  for  a  few  shillings  at  any  vil- 
lage inn;  but  rather  let  that  stranger  see,  if  he  will,  in  your 
looks,  accents,  and  behavior,  your  heart  and  earnestness,  your 
thought  and  will,  that  which  he  cannot  buy  at  any  price  in 
any  city,  and  which  he  may  travel  miles  and  dine  sparely  and 
sleep  hardly  to  behold. ' ' — Emerson. 

Meats  should  be  put  in  boiling  water  to  set  the  juices.  Cold 
water  should  only  be  used  for  corned  meats  and  soups.  Ham 
should  boil  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  corned  beef  twenty 
minutes,  mutton  about  fifteen  minutes.  Should  the  meat  be 
tough  add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  water. 

CARVING  MEATS. 

Meats,  as  a  rule,  should  be  carved  in  thin  slices  so  as  to  in- 
clude lean  and  fat,  and  always,  when  practicable,  across  the 
grain. 

GARNISHES. 

These  are  very  necessary  in  ornamenting  all  dishes,  as  they 
make  them  more  appetizing  and  more  attractive. 

For  sardines,  raw  oysters,  boiled  fowl,  turkey,  fish,  roast  veal, 
steaks,  salads,  use  lemon  slices  cut  very.  thin. 

For  cold  meats,  salads,  poultry,  steaks,  fish,  chops  and  cut- 
lets, use  parsley  and  celery  tops,  or  lettuce  can  be  used  with  a 
very  pleasing  effect. 

For  cold  corned  beef  sliced,  gherkins  or  large  pickles  cut 
crosswise. 


nOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


33 


Watercresses  may  be  used  for  fowls. 

For  scalloped  oysters  use  parsley,  celery  tops  or  lettuce. 

Cold  ham  sliced  thin,  cold  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced;  cut  in 
fancy  shapes,  different  colored  vegetables  are  used  around 
almost  any  dish  of  meat  or  fish. 

Balls  made  of  boiled  rice,  with  a  little  jelly  on  each,  are  very 
attractive  around  a  plate  of  cold  meat. 

On  a  roast  of  sirloin  of  beef  use  potato  croquettes  or  Saratoga 
chips. 

To  Boil  a  Ham. — Put  on  ham  boiler  half  full  water,  put  the 
ham  in,  skin  side  up.  Time  the  ham  when  the  water  begins  to 
boil;  keep  the  pot  boiling  constantly  for  four  hours  if  it  is  a 
ten  or  twelve  pound  ham.  If  water  boils  out,  add  more  boiling 
water  from  tea  kettle.  Skin  the  ham  while  hot,  cover  it  over 
with  brown  sugar  and  bake  till  a  light  brown — about  half  hour. 
Never  cut  ham  until  it  is  cold. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Boiled  Ham. — While  ham  is  boiling  add  one  cup  molasses 
and  one  tablespoon  black  pepper.  When  it  is  done,  remove  the 
skin,  and  spread  on  a  paste  made  of  one  egg,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  half  teaspoon  mustard,  salt  and  pepper;  stick  a 
few  cloves  about  in  it,  put  in  oven  and  bake  brown,  about  half 
hour. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Ham  Balls. — Chop  cold  ham  very  fine,  add  an  egg  for  each 
person  and  a  little  flour;  beat  well  together  and  make  in  balls 
and  fry  in  butter. — Mrs.  Eebecca  Tucker. 

Fried  Ham. — Take  slices  of  ham,  throw  them  in  boiling  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  wipe  them  off ;  put  in  a  hot  frying  pan,  and 
let  brown  nicely ;  lay  the  slices  on  a  dish ;  pour  into  the  gravy 
half  teacup  new  milk  and  some  pepper ;  boil  up  and  serve. 

Ham  Toast. — Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham  chopped 
fine,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  little  red  pepper; 
stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  and  then  spread  on  hot 
toast. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 


34 


HOAY  "WE  COOK  IX  TEXXESSEE. 


Ham  Toast. — Grind  ham,  add  one  or  two  well  beaten  eggs, 
a  little  mustard  and  butter,  two  tablespoons  cream;  mix  and 
heat  it  ;  serve  thick  on  buttered  toast  which  has  been  lightly 
dipped  in  hot  water. — Mrs.  H.  K.  Lancaster. 

Roast  Pork. — Score  the  skin  in  strips  quarter  inch  apart, 
salt  and  pepper,  place  in  roastingpan.  with  sufficient  water  to 
keep  from  burning:  a  four  pound  roast  should  cook  in  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Make  a  gravy  of  drippings  (skimming  off  the 
heavy  grease)  by  adding  a  little  flour  and  water.  Sweet  pota- 
toes are  nice  baked  with  pork  roast. 

To  Boii  Fresh  Pork  Ham. — Take  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
cover  the  ham.  Put  in  this  two  quarts  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of 
dark  molasses  or  brown  sugar,  a  handful  of  whole  black  pepper, 
saltpeter  the  size  of  a  large  pea.  Put  the  ham  in  this  boiling 
mixture,  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done,  which  will  probably  be 
when  the  meat  leaves  the  knuckle-bone.  Let  this  cool  in  the 
water  in  which  it  is  boiled,  as  all  corned  meats  should. — Gulf 
City  Cook  Book. 

Barbecue. — Buy  a  four  pound  pig  roast.  Boil  until  tender, 
adding  three  pods  of  pepper  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Have  on  stove  one-half  cup  boiling  vinegar,  to  which  has  been 
added  pepper,  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Place  meat 
in  pan.  bake  until  brown,  basting  constantly  with  gravy. — Mrs. 
B.  0.  Snider. 

Barbecued  Pork. — Have  a  nice  ham  of  fresh  pork,  parboil 
it  well,  season  with  red  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  the  roasting 
pan,  score  the  skin  in  checks.  Have  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  cup 
of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  to  baste  it  with  frequently. 
Allow  it  to  brown  nicely. 

Pork  Tenderloins. — Tenderloins  should  be  fried:  salt,  pepper 
and  roll  in  flour;  fry  in  hot  lard  and  serve  with  a  nice  brown 
gravy  of  what  remains  in  the  skillet,  either  with  fresh  milk  or 
water,  and  serve  with  them. 

Pork  Steak. — Pepper  and  salt  and  flour  the  steak:  have 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


35 


grease  hot  in  fryingpan.  Put  steak  in  and  cover  fryingpan  with 
a  lid  till  the  steak  is  a  nice  brown;  turn  it  over  and  cook  for 
a  few  minutes  over  a  moderate  fire,  till  the  other  side  is  brown. 
Pork  steak  does  not  require  pounding. 

To  Cook  a  Pig's  Head. — Parboil  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  take 
it  out,  wash  and  scrape  off  the  scum;  then  put  on  again  and 
cover  with  fresh  water  and  boil  till  perfectly  done  and  the 
water  reduced  by  boiling  till  just  enough  for  gravy.  Dress  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  sliced;  decorate  with  parsley.  It  takes  from 
breakfast  till  dinner,  say  four  or  five  hours,  to  cook  it  enough; 
add  water  when  needed.  Clean  the  head  well  at  first,  soak  it 
in  salt  and  water  over  night  so  it  will  be  white  and  gravy  light 
color. — Mrs.  Dr.  Jackson. 

Pig's  Head  Pudding. — Boil  one  small  pig's  head  until  thor- 
oughly done,  then  remove  bones  and  cut  fine  with  a  meat  chop- 
per. Mix  with  four  hard-boiled  eggs  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
cracker  crumbs  and  a  little  sweet  milk.  Season  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt  and  celery  seed.  Put  in  pan  and  bake  until  done 
and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Ross  Witherspoon. 

Pig  Head  Pudding. — Boil  the  face  of  hoghead,  or  a  small  pig 
head,  till  bones  drop  out,  cut  meat  up  very  fine,  add  three  eggs, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  bread  crumbs,  one  ounce  water 
head  was  boiled  in,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  bake  to  a  light 
brown,  about  half  hour. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Deupree. 

Scrapple. — Boil  a  pig's  head  two  hours  in  four  quarts  water, 
with  a  little  sage,  salt  and  pepper ;  cut  the  flesh  from  the  bones, 
mince  it  fine  and  return  it  to  the  liquor ;  add  enough  sifted  corn- 
meal  to  thicken;  simmer  two  hours,  when  it  should  be  like 
soft  mush,  not  too  thick  to  pour;  put  in  pans;  when  cold  and 
stiff  it  is  sliced  and  fried  for  breakfast. — Lebanon  (Tenn.)  Cook 
Book. 

Souse. — Clean  and  soak  for  twelve  hours  a  pig's  head  and 
feet;  boil  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  fall  from  the  bones;  take 
the  meat  and  put  in  a  chopping  bowl,  chop  all  together,  adding 


36 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


salt,  black  and  red  pepper  and  sage ;  put  into  a  larg'e  flat  bowl 
and  press  with  weights.  This  makes  a  nice  breakfast  dish,  cut 
into  slices,  dipped  in  meal  or  batter  and  fried  in  hot  fat. — Leba- 
non (Tenn.)  Cook  Book. 

Sausage  Meat. — For  sixty  pounds  of  sausage.  Grind  the  meat 
twice;  season  with  one  and  one-half  pounds  salt,  one  cup  pul- 
verized sage,  three  tablespoons  cayenne  pepper,  two  table- 
spoons black  pepper  and  work  well.  Add  more  seasoning  if 
preferred.  Make  a  number  of  sacks  eighteen  inches  long  and 
four  or  five  inches  wide  and  stuff  the  sausage  into  them  very 
tight  and  tie  them  securely  at  the  top.  Eoll  the  bags  in  meal 
while  they  are  moist  and  hang  them  up.  They  will  keep  all 
winter  just  as  fresh  as  when  first  rrfade. — Mrs.  Albert  Johnson. 

Proportions  for  Sausage  Meat. — Twenty-two  pounds  meat 
should  have  half  pound  of  salt,  three  heaped  tablespoonfuls  of 
sage,  three  of  pepper  and  two  of  thyme. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Lancaster. 

Sausage. — In  making  sausage,  allow  one-third  fat  to  two- 
thirds  lean.  Grind  through  a  sausage-grinder,  and  season  to 
taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  sage  leaves.  Make  in 
small  cakes,  and  fry  without  lard. 

Spare-Rib. — Crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle ;  rub  them 
over  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper;  place  them  in  a  drip- 
ping pan,  with  a  little  water;  place  them  inside  the  oven,  and 
baste  a  few  times.  Let  cook  on  both  sides,  and  brown  a  little. 
- — Lebanon  (Tenn.)  Cook  Book. 

Back-Bone  Stew. — Cut  the  bone  in  pieces  and  boil  in  a  deep 
vessel  with  water  to  cover  it  well;  when  done,  season  it  with 
salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  and  make  a  nice  gravy  thickened 
with  flour. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Edenton. 

Round  Roll  Steaks. — Take  thin  cut  of  round  steak,  cut  into 
strips  three  inches  wide  and  eight  inches  long,  salt  and  pepper 
well,  cut  bacon  in  small  blocks  and  chop  one  onion ;  place  some 
of  the  bacon  and  onion  in  each  strip  of  meat,  roll  and  tie  with 
strong  thread;  place  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  in  good- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  37 


Robert  A.  Moore 

Art  Portraits  by 
PHOTOGRAPHY 

Studio, 
101  South  Market  Street 

Jackson,  Term. 


f .  J.  ANDERSON  4  CO, 

$boe$  and  Rats 

113  East  Main  Street, 
Jackson,  Tenn. 


size  boiler ;  when  browned  put  in  meat ;  keep  turning  meat  till 
brown;  then  add  a  little  water.  Let  cook  three  hours.  Care 
must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  burn. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Yandenbrook. 

Broiled  Steak. — Have  frying  pan  very  hot  (but  not  a  particle 
of  grease),  and  lay  the  steak  in,  and  when  well  seared  over, 
turn  the  other  side.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  put  it  on  a  warm 
platter ;  season  both  sides  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  garnish 
with  lemon,  parsley,  lettuce  or  watercress. — Tennessee  Cook 
Book. 

To  Broil  Steak. — Select  a  good  porter  house  or  sirloin  about 
an  inch  thick.  Trim  off  the  fat  and  throw  it  into  a  hot  skil- 
let. Put  steak  on  and  let  remain  on  one  side  only  long  enough 
to  sear  it  and  turn.  Turn  every  few  seconds  till  done  to  taste. 
Have  platter  hot  with  lump  of  butter  in  it.  When  steak  is  done 
dip  in  this  butter  and  turn  over.  Pour  over  the  steak  what 
gravy  there  may  be  in  the  skillet  and  send  at  once  to  table. — 
Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Beefsteak. — Have  frying  pan  very  hot,  rub  over  the  bottom 
with  butter,  then  place  steak  or  chops  in  it,  turning  often  until 
cooked  through.  Take  up  on  a  warm  platter  and  season  both 
sides  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.    Serve  hot. 

Beefsteak  and  Onions. — Broil  steak  in  the  usual  way;  have 
ready  in  a  frying  pan  a  dozen  onions  cut  in  slices  and  fried 
brown.  Dish  your  steak  and  lay  onions  thickly  over  the  top. 
Cover  and  let  stand  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 


38  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Fried  Steak. — Pound  steak,  pepper  and  salt  it,  then  lightly 
dip  it  in  flour,  both  sides,  fry  in  hot  lard,  browning  both  sides. 
When  done  take  out  steak,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  then 
sprinkle  dry  flour  in  it,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over  the 
steak  and  serve  hot. 

Fried  Beefsteak — No.  2. — Sirloin  steaks  are  much  the  best  for 
frying  or  broiling.  Lay  the  steak  in  a  frying  pan  of  hot  lard 
or  butter,  after  it  has  been  dredged  with  flour  and  well  sprin- 
kled with  pepper.  Turn  it  frequently,  until  both  sides  are 
brown.  When  nearly  done,  sprinkle  with  salt.  If  onions  are 
desired,  slice  enough  of  them  to  cover  the  steak  and  fry  with 
the  meat.  After  taking  the  meat  out,  add  a  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  thicken  with  brown  flour  for  gravy. 

Mock  Duck. — Take  a  good  round  steak.  Make  a  stuffing  of 
mashed  potatoes  and  onions,  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Place  in  the  center  of  the  steak,  fold  over  and  sew 
or  tie.  Place  in  a  pan  with  some  water  and  several  lumps  of 
butter.  Place  upon  the  top  of  the  meat  several  slices  of  break- 
fast bacon.   Baste  often  and  roast  a  rich  brown. 

Hamburger  Steak. — Take  one  pound  of  round  steak  without 
flat  or  stringy  pieces ;  grind  it  up  fine ;  season  with  pepper,  salt 
and  a  little  onion.  Make  into  cakes  as  large  as  a  biscuit,  but 
flat.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  with  hot  lard,  or  butter  is  bet- 
ter. Fry  the  steak  brown.  Garnish  with  celery  and  two  or 
three  slices  of  lemon  on  the  meat. 

Creole  Steak. — Make  a  sauce  of  half  can  of  tomatoes  seasoned 
highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  run  through  a  colander  after 
it  is  cooked,  to  remove  seed;  pour  over  nice  broiled  steak  and 
let  cook  a  moment;  garnish  with  sliced  lemon. — Mrs.  James 
Pope. 

Frizzled  Beef. — Cold  roast  beef  may  be  sliced  very  thin. 
Have  ready  hot  frying  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter  in  it.  Put  the 
sliced  beef  in  it,  allowing  to  remain  a  moment,  then  turn  and 
brown  the  other  side.    This  is  very  appetizing. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  39 


Boiled  Beef  Tongue. — Wash  a  fresh  tongue,  and  just  cover  it 
with  water  in  a  pot ;  a  cupful  of  salt  will  do  for  three  tongues 
if  you  have  that  number  to  boil;  add  a  small  red  pepper  and 
cloves;  as  water  evaporates  add  more  water  so  as  to  keep 
tongue  nearly  covered  till  done — when  it  can  easily  be  pierced 
with  a  fork.  Skin  it  and  set  away  to  cool.  Slice  very  thin. — 
Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

To  Cure  a  Dozen  Tongues. — Soak  the  tongues  one  hour  in 
cold  water  to  extract  the  blood.  Cut  off  most  of  the  root.  Mix 
one-quarter  of  pound  brown  sugar,  one  pint  salt.  Put  the 
tongue  with  this  and  put  them  in  a  tight  barrel.  Make  a 
pickle  that  will  bear  an  egg;  when  cold  pour  over  them;  turn 
them  every  three  days ;  then  smoke  them  two  days  and  hang  up 
in  a  dry  place,  boil  and  skim  the  brine  and  it  will  do  for  a  round 
of  beef. 

Roast  Beef. — The  sirloin  is  the  best  piece  of  beef  for  roasting. 
Rub  over  the  meat  a  little  lard  and  put  in  a  covered  baking  pan 
with  some  water  in  the  pan.  When  half  done  sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour;  see  that  the  water  does  not  all  boil  out, 
and  add  more  if  necessary.  To  make  gravy,  take  out  the  meat, 
thicken  the  juice  in  the  pan,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.    Serve  gravy  iu  a  gravy  dish. 

Roast  Beef. — The  sirloin  is  the  best  piece  of  beef  for  roast- 
ing. Rub  over  the  meat  a  little  lard,  and  put  in  a  baking  pan 
with  the  bone  side  down.  When  half  done,  sprinkle  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  flour,  and  baste  frequently  with  the  drippings.  To 
make  the  gravy,  remoA'e  the  meat,  and  if  there  is  not  sufficient 
juice,  add  a  little  water  and  thicken  with  flour;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Serve  the  gravy  iu  a  gravy  dish. — 
Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Scalloped  Beef. — One  pint  cooked  beef  chopped  fine,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  stir  in  three  eggs  lightly  beaten,  two 
tablespoons  of  stock  or  milk,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  muffin  rings  for  twenty  minutes. 


40 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Cold  Roast  Warmed  with  Tomatoes. — Cut  up  an  onion  and  fry 

in  a  pot  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  when  it  begins  to 
brown  pour  in  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  (mash  them)  and  one 
pint  water,  cut  up  one  and  one-half  pounds  cold  meat  in  slices 
and  drop  them  in.  Season  with  salt,  black  pepper  and  a  pod 
of  red  pepper.   If  necessary  thicken  the  gravy. 

Beef  Cakes. — Cut  enough  meat  from  your  cold  roast  of  beef 
to  make  on  pint  when  put  through  a  meat  cutter,  with  two 
small  onions.  Add  to  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup, 
one  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  one-half  cup  of  gravy.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  mold  into  cakes:  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  When  cold,  arrange  on  a  large 
platter,  pour  a  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  over  each  and  stick 
a  spring  of  parsley  in  the  center  of  every  cake. 

Corned  Beef  Hash. — When  you  have  tired  of  having  corned 
beef  sliced  thin  and  served  cold,  try  this  method  of  preparing 
the  scraps  for  serving  hot :  Put  the  cold  meat  through  a  meat 
cutter,  and  to  one  cupful  of  meat  add  two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  also  chopped  fine.  Mix  in  one  teaspoonful  of  dry 
mustard  and  a  little  pepper.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut  in  the  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  put  in  the  hash, 
pressing  it  down  smoothly  all  over  the  pan.  Pour  in  hot  water 
enough  to  moisten  it  slightly  and  let  it  cook  slowly  without 
boiling  until  nicely  browned  on  the  bottom.  Turn  it  out  on  a 
platter,  garnish  with  slices  of  pickled  cucumber  and  serve  hot. 

German  Hash. — One  can  salmon,  three  large  Irish  potatoes, 
mash  well  together  the  salmon  and  potatoes,  mix  in  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Shape  into  a  loaf  and  bake.  Use  with  a 
sauce  made  as  follows :  One  cup  milk,  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine.   Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Creole  Roast. — Use  a  rump  roast  of  not  less  than  four  or  five 
pounds.  Boil  as  a  pot  roast  with  two  teacups  water.  Add  half 
can  of  tomatoes,  seasoned  highly  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


41 


onion.  Acid  slices  of  lemon  just  before  taking  it  up. — Mrs. 
James  E.  Pope. 

Beef  Loaf. — Two  pounds  steak  ground,  one  teaspoon  black 
pepper,  half  teaspoon  red  pepper,  one  dessert  spoon  of  salt,  half 
teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  enough  chopped  onion  to  season.  Mix 
together  with  cracker  crumbs.  Roll  in  a  long  loaf.  Bake  in  a 
pan  with  a  little  water  and  butter  size  of  egg.  Baste  well  when 
cooking.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  a  tomato  sauce. 
— Miss  Pattie  Crook. 

Meat  Loaf. — Grind  one  pound  round  steak,  chop  half  of  an 
onion  fine,  butter  the  size  of  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  season  and 
make  a  loaf  with  your  hands,  put  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  and  pour  in  it  one  egg  that  has  been  beaten  enough  to 
mix  it.  Pour  a  cup  of  water  around  the  loaf  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erately warm  oven  till  brown  and  well  done. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Beef  Loaf. — Three  pounds  lean  beef  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fat  bulk  meat  ground  together,  three  or  four  soda  crackers,  or 
one  teacup  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  small  piece  of  butter,  a  bit 
of  onion,  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and  a  little  black 
pepper.  Mix  all  together,  shape  into  a  loaf.  Use  bread  crumbs 
over  it  and  put  half  pint  of  water  in  baking  pan.  Cook  one 
and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

A  Nice  Breakfast  Dish. — Slice  cold  roast  beef,  dip  in  a  nice 
batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Fried  Beef  Liver. — Liver  is  usually  cut  in  thin  slices ;  trim  off 
the  skin  around  it,  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water,  which  closes 
the  pores  of  the  meat  and  seals  up  the  rich  juice  of  the  meat. 
Salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  If  a  few  slices  of 
breakfast  bacon  are  first  fried,  the  grease  may  be  used  to  fry 
the  liver  in,  and  the  bacon  used  to  garnish  the  platter.  Do  not 
fry  over  too  hot  a  fire,  or  it  will  be  hard.   Keep  covered. 

Liver  Fritters. — One  pound  calf's  liver  and  two  slices  of  salt 
pork  or  bacon;  also  one  slice  of  onion.  Cut  all  with  fine  plate 
of  food  cutter.  Add  salt,  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 


42 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


one  egg.  Mix  thoroughly.  Fry  slowly  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  Isaac 
Tigrett. 

Pot  Roast. — Take  piece  of  beef  weighing  five  or  six  pounds, 
not  too  fat.  Wash  it  and  put  in  a  pot  with  just  enough  water  to 
cover  it.  Set  over  a  slow  fire  and  after  it  has  stewed  one  hour, 
salt  and  pepper  it.  Stew  until  tender,  adding  a  little  onion. 
Take  meat  from  the  pot  and  pour  the  gravy  in  a  bowl.  Put  a 
large  lump  of  butter  in  the  bottom  of  pot,  dredge  the  meat  with 
flour  and  return  it  to  the  pot  to  brown,  turning  it  often  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy.  Pour  the  gravy  in 
with  the  meat,  thicken  with  flour  wet  with  water,  and  pour 
gravy  into  a  gravy  dish.    Serve  the  meat  on  a  platter. 

Beef  Heart. — Open  the  heart  sufficiently  to  remove  the  ven- 
tricles, then  soak  it  in  water  until  the  blood  is  discharged.  Par- 
boil the  heart  until  nearly  tender.  Prepare  a  dressing  of 
bread  crumbs  and  salt  fat  pork  chopped  fine;  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  chopped  onion ;  stuff  the  heart  with  the 
dressing  and  secure  the  opening  with  small  skewers;  cut  thin 
slices  of  fat  ham  or  bacon  and  lay  in  the  pan  with  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Place  the  heart  in  the  pan  and 
baste  with  the  gravy  until  done ;  serve  hot. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Vanden- 
brook. 

Beef  Steak  Rolls. — Prepare  a  good  dressing  as  for  chicken; 
take  a  round  steak,  pound  it,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  bits  of 
butter ;  roll  the  steak  up  tightly  and  tie  closely ;  spread  two  big 
spoons  of  butter  over  the  steak  after  rolling,  then  wash  it  with 
a  well  beaten  egg ;  put  water  in  a  bakepan,  lay  in  the  steak  so 
as  not  to  touch  the  water  and  bake,  basting  often.  If  you  have 
no  rack  to  your  bakingpan,  you  may  easily  make  one  by  cutting 
a  tin  can  up  the  side  and  laying  it  out  flat ;  then  the  roll  may  be 
taken  out  of  the  pan  easily.  A  half-hour  in  a  brisk  oven  will 
bake.   Make  a  brown  gravy  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Veal  Cutlets. — Salt  and  pepper,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs ;  fry  in  hot  lard. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  43 


Veal  Roast. — Select  a  thick  roast ;  salt  and  pepper  it,  sprinkle 
flour  on  top,  put  it  in  the  bakingpan  with  sufficient  water  to 
roast  it.  Be  careful  not  to  put  it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and  baste 
frequently ;  make  gravy  to  serve  with  it. 

Veal  Stew. — Wash  and  cut  up  two  pounds  of  veal;  cut  in 
pieces  about  three  inches  long;  boil,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  cut  in  quarters  six  Irish  potatoes, 
but  do  not  add  them  until  the  veal  is  almost  done,  as  they 
must  not  cook  mealy;  add  a  heaping  table  spoon  of  butter,  with 
a  little  flour  rubbed  in. 

Veal  Loaf. — Three  pounds  raw  veal  chopped  or  ground  very 
fine,  butter  size  of  egg  (or  more),  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
of  milk,  four  pounded  crackers,  one  teaspoon  black  pepper, 
tablespoon  salt,  mix  well  together  and  form  into  a  loaf.  Put  in 
baking  pan  on  a  rack,  add  warm  water ;  bake  two  and  one-half 
hours,  basting  frequently.   Serve  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Veal  Loaf. — Cover  a  knuckle  of  veal  with  cold  water,  boil 
quickly,  skim  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  onion  and 
a  little  cayenne.  Let  simmer  until  very  tender,  and  the  liquor 
reduced  to  one-half  pint.  Eemove  the  meat,  strain  the  liquor 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  thyme.  Put  the  meat  through 
a  meat  cutter,  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  meal 
and  the  meat  liquor ;  mix  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  meat  pan. 
Stand  in  a  cool  place,  serving  it  sliced  cold,  garnished  with 
parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Pressed  Veal. — Chop  veal  fine,  while  hot,  in  meat  cutter,  re- 
moving bones;  retain  the  gelatinous  matter,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  curry  powder,  place  in  mold,  press  with  weight. 
Cut  in  thin  slices  for  lunch  or  tea. 

Veal  or  Meat  Pie. — Cut  veal  into  three  inch  pieces,  put  in 
saucepan  with  water  to  cover,  and  when  tender,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  flour  and  a  generous  amount  of  butter. 
Line  a  baking  dish  with  good  pastry;  pour  the  stew  in,  cover 
with  pastry,  make  an  incision  in  the  center;  bake  until  the  crust 


44 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


is  brown ;  two  or  three  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  improve  the 
flavor.   Cold  pork  makes  a  nice  pie  of  this  kind. 

Roast  Mutton. — A  roast  of  mutton  or  lamb  should  be  rubbed 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  sprinkled  with  flour.  Put  in  a  cov- 
ered pan  on  a  rack,  adding  a  pint  of  water,  and  when  neces- 
sary add  more  water.  Let  cook  till  a  nice  brown.  Cut  Irish 
potatoes  in  quarters  and  cook  them  half  hour  in  the  same  pan 
with  the  mutton,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  them.  Serve  the 
gravy  in  a  bowl. 

Hashed  Mutton. — Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  mutton,  fat  and 
lean,  flour  these,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  small  onion,  sliced, 
and  some  of  the  mutton  gravy.  Cook  until  the  onion  is  done. 
Serve  in  covered  dish. 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops. — Carefully  trim  the  chops,  and  after 
sprinkling  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  dip  them  in  melted  but- 
ter, and  let  it  cool  on  them.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
well  beaten;  dip  the  chops  in  this,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
finely  grated  bread  crumbs.  Let  them  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 
Add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  the  gravy,  and  garnish 
with  lemon  sliced  very  thin,  and  curled  parsley. 

Lamb  Stew. — Cut  cold  lamb  into  two  or  three  inch  squares, 
add  some  of  the  broth;  cut  up  a  few  Irish  potatoes  and  mince 
a  little  onion;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  add  warm 
water,  if  necessary,  for  the  gravy,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

Baked  Chicken. — Wash  well  with  cold  water,  then  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  it,  and  into  the  cavity.  Rub  the  latter  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs  or 
toasted  bread  rolled  fine,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  and 
butter.  Rub  the  chicken  well  with  butter  or  lard,  sprinkle 
pepper  and  salt  over  it;  bake  in  a  covered  bakingpan  about 
three  hours,  with  water  enough  to  steam  it  well.   Brown  nicely. 

Fried  Chicken. — Cut  off  the  wings  and  legs,  cut  breast  in  two 
and  also  back.  Wash  well  and  throw  into  weak  salt  water,  to 
extract  the  blood.    Let  it  remain  half  hour  or  more.  Drain 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


45 


off  water  and  dry  with  clean  towel;  half  hour  before  dinner  lay 
on  a  dish,  sprinkle  salt  over  it  and  dip  in  flonr  on  both  sides. 
Have  ready  in  frying  pan  some  hot  lard,  in  which  lay  each  piece. 
Cover  closely  and  fry  brown  on  one  side,  then  turn  each  piece. 
Do  not  put  on  the  hottest  part  of  the  stove  as  you  want  it  to 
cook  all  the  way  through  and  not  scorch.  After  taking  out 
pieces  as  they  are  brown,  make  the  gravy  by  sprinkling  sifted 
flour  in  the  frying  pan,  allowing  it  to  brown  before  hot  water 
is  added ;  stir  quickly ;  half  cup  milk  may  be  added.  Pour  into 
the  dish,  but  not  over  the  chicken.  The  dish  may  be  garnished 
with  small  squares  of  pastry  fried  in  hot  grease,  three  inches 
long  and  two  inches  wide. 

Boiled  Chicken. — For  boiling,  choose  a  fat  fowl.  Fill  the 
breast  with  forcemeat,  or  stuffing,  and  tie  carefully  round  the 
body,  or  secure  by  sewing,  which  should  not  be  removed  before 
sending  to  the  table.  Put  it  in  hot  water,  and  boil  gently  till 
done.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  sauce,  in  which  three  or  four 
hard  boiled  eggs  have  been  chopped.  This  sauce  can  be  made 
ornamental  by  chopping  one  boiled  beet  fine,  and  mixing  with 
it.  Pour  part  of  the  sauce  over  the  chicken,  to  garnish  it,  and 
put  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  boat,  to  be  served  out  as  dished. 

To  Boil  a  Hen. — Never  cook  chicken  the  same  day  it  is  killed. 
Put  the  hen  in  a  domestic  bag  in  a  pot  of  hot  water, 
adding  salt  to  the  water.  Have  a  saucer  in  bottom  of  pot  to 
keep  it  from  scorching.  Add  more  hot  water  as  it  boils  down, 
keep  covered.  Cook  about  three  hours.  Take  out  the  hen  and 
skim  off  the  richest  of  the  liquor.  Add  this  to  one  pint  or  less 
of  thickened  milk.  Carve  the  chicken  and  pour  over  it  this 
gravy,  to  which  has  been  added  three  hard  boiled  eggs  nicely 
sliced.  The  water  in  which  chicken  was  boiled  may  be  used  as 
soup  stock  next  day. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Prepare  chickens  by  cutting  open  the  back, 
soak  half  hour  in  cold  water,  then  rub  with  salt,  and  place 
them  with  skin  down,  in  a  skillet  greased  with  hot  lard  or  but- 


46 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


ter.  A  weight  (a  flatiron  will  do)  should  be  placed  on  them  to 
make  them  flat.  Turn  often,  replacing  the  weight.  Cook  about 
half  hour,  if  chickens  are  large;  when  done  pour  melted  but- 
ter and  pepper  over  them  and  serve  hot. 

Broiled  Chicken. — Cut  the  chicken  open  through  the  back- 
bone ;  have  an  iron  skillet  pretty  hot,  and  a  teaspoon  of  lard  to 
prevent  chicken  from  sticking;  place  a  tin  plate  on  top  and  an 
iron  on  top  of  that ;  set  back  on  a  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and 
let  it  broil  slowly,  turning  when  brown ;  take  up  when  done  and 
put  on  hot  platter  with  salt  and  pepper  sprinkled  over  and 
melted  butter  poured  over;  garnish  with  small  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 

Broiled  Chicken  on  Toast. — Broil  the  usual  way,  until  well 
done.  Lay  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  platter  and  take  the 
chicken  up  over  it.  Add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  part  of  a  cup 
of  cream,  or  milk ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  pour  over  the 
chicken.    This  is  considered  excellent. 

Smothered  Chicken. — Split  chicken  down  the  back  and  break 
breast  bone  to  make  it  lie  flat.  Put  a  piece  of  lard  size  of  egg 
in  a  skillet;  let  it  get  very  hot,  then  put  the  chicken  in,  inside 
down;  cover  closely  and  let  remain  a  minute  or  two,  then  pour 
in  boiling  water.  Do  not  fill  the  vessel  more  than  half  full, 
and  if  the  water  boils  out  replenish  till  the  chicken  is  tender. 
Then  dredge  with  flour  and  add  butter,  baste  thoroughly  with 
the  gravy  after  butter  is  melted;  put  in  hot  oven  and  bake 
quickly,  basting  several  times. 

Escaloped  Chicken. — Make  a  cream  sauce.  Put  a  layer  of 
the  sauce  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  canned  chicken, 
cut  fine,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  sauce,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  till  brown,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  chop- 
ped parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

Minced  Chicken  a  la  Creme. — Make  the  cream  sauce  and  sea- 
son to  taste.    Add  a  can  of  cold  chicken,  but  not  chopped. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  47 


Serve  on  toast  or  in  a  deep  platter.   A  favorite  breakfast  dish. 

Chicken  Saute. — Cut  up  a  can  of  chicken  and  pound  the 
pieces  with  the  potato  masher  till  they  are  flat.  Dust  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry,  very  slowly,  in  plenty  of 
butter.  Serve  around  a  mound  of  mashed  potatoes  or  green 
peas. 

Chicken  Stew. — Cut  up  chicken  as  for  frying,  and  put  in  a 
deep  vessel  covered  with  cold  water;  let  boil,  adding  salt  when 
partially  done;  when  it  is  sufficiently  boiled,  add  a  generous 
amount  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  mix  flour  with 
the  butter  to  thicken  the  right  consistency;  a  little  chopped 
onion  (about  one  teaspoonful)  is  quite  an  addition.  If  dump- 
lings are  wanted,  add  them  about  half  hour  before  taking  up 
the  stew.  Take  biscuit  dough,  roll  very  thin,  cut  three  inches 
long  and  two  inches  wide  and  drop  them  in. — Tennessee  Cook 
Book. 

Creamed  Chicken. — Cut  up  fowl  in  dice.  Make  a  cream 
dressing  of  one  pint  milk,  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  in  with 
teaspoon  flour ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  let  dressing  come  to  a 
boil,  thicken,  add  chicken ;  if  necessary  add  more  cream  to  thin 
the  dressing.  Creamed  chicken  on  toast  is  a  nice  breakfast 
dish. 

Creamed  Chicken. — Boil  the  fowl  and  bone  it;  cut  the  meat 
into  cubes;  make  a  cream  dressing  of  one  pint  of  nice  cream, 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  flour ;  beat  two  eggs  into  the  cream  and 
cook.  Stir  in  the  chicken  and  half  pint  of  the  water  in  which 
it  was  boiled;  add  one  can  mushrooms  and  let  cook  a  few 
minutes.  Just  before  serving  add  a  wineglass  of  sherry. — 
Eleanor  Freeman  Lancaster. 

Chicken  Timbals. — Chop  chicken  and  a  few  mushrooms,  and 
cover  with  cream  dressing.    Break  two  eggs;  beat  yellows  in 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


48 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


with  chicken  and  dressing,  and  then  add  beaten  whites  very 
lightly,  and  put  on  in  timbal  shells  to  steam.  Serve  with 
cream  dressing. 

To  Make  Fish  Timbals. — Use  fish  instead  of  chicken  and  serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  To  make  this  sauce  take  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg;  put  on  fire  in  skillet  with  a  half  of  an  onion 
chopped  fine ;  let  brown  and  then  pour  a  can  of  tomatoes  in  and 
let  simmer.  Add  chopped  olives  and  season  very  highly. — 
Mrs.  C.  N.  Harris. 

Jellied  Chicken. — Boil  a  fowl  or  large  roasting  chicken  until 
tender,  putting  it  over  in  cold  water  and  letting  it  cook  very 
slowly.  Eemove  the  skin,  and  cut  the  meat  into  neat  pieces  of 
nearly  uniform  size.  Strain  and  clear  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled,  season  it  well,  and  add  to  it  gelatine  in  the 
proportion  of  one  tablespoonful  of  this  to  one  pint  of  the 
liquid.  The  gelatine  must  first  be  soaked  in  cold  water.  Put  a 
layer  of  chicken  into  the  mold,  arranging  between  the  pieces 
of  chicken  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg,  stoned  olives  and  capers. 
Pour  a  little  of  the  partially  formed  jelly  you  have  made  from 
the  liquor  over  this,  put  in  another  layer  of  chicken,  more  jelly, 
and  continue  until  the  mold  is  filled.  Set  on  ice  until  cold  and 
hard,  then  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish. — Cooking  Club. 

Jellied  Chicken. — Boil  until  tender  in  enough  water  to  cover 
one  chicken.  Eemove  when  done  and  let  water  boil  down  to 
one  quart.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  To  the  water  add 
three-fourths  of  a  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water, 
one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Slice  one  hard  boiled  egg,  add  to  the  chicken  and  pour 
over  the  strained  liquor.  Mix  well  and  put  into  a  square  mold. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. — Miss  Flournoy. 

Chicken  Terrapin. — One  cold  chicken,  one  sweetbread,  one  cup- 
ful cream  sauce,  two  eggs,  wine  glass  of  sherry.  Chop  chicken 
and  sweetbread  moderately  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


49 


taste.  Add  the  cream  sauce,  eggs  and  wine.  Bake  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes. — Miss  Guy  Leeper. 

Chicken  Patties. — Mince  fine  cold  chicken.  Season  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  a  little  onion.  Moisten  with  chicken  gravy  or 
cream  sauce,  fill  scalloped  shells  lined  with  pastry  and  sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  on  top.  Put  tiny  pieces  of  butter  over  each  one, 
and  bake  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Chicken  Pie. — Cut  up  chicken,  stew  till  tender,  season,  and 
thicken  the  gravy.  Line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  pan  with  rich 
biscuit  dough;  put  in  the  chicken,  add  a  few  lumps  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  if  needed.  Pour  over  the  gravy  and  cover  with 
crust. 

Chicken  Pie. — Divide  the  chicken  into  pieces  at  the  joints, 
boil  until  partly  done,  or  about  twenty  minutes,  then  take  it 
out,  fry  two  or  three  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  and  put  in  the  bot- 
tom, then  place  the  chicken  on  with  one  cup  of  water,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste  and  cover 
the  top  with  a  light  crust,  the  same  as  for  rich  biscuit,  making 
an  incision  in  the  center  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in 
an  oven  that  is  hotter  at  the  top  than  at  the  bottom  and  when 
well  risen  and  brown  cover  with  a  paper  or  the  crust  will  burn 
before  the  pie  is  baked  through.  Remove  fat  from  the  water  in 
which  the  chicken  was  boiled,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  season 
to  taste,  add  one  cup  good  cream  and  when  the  pie  is  done  pour 
this  gravy  through  the  holes  of  the  crust. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie. — Cut  up  a  chicken  at  the  joints — -as  for  fry- 
ing. Make  a  rich  dough  or  crust ;  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot, 
or  large  saucepan,  a  layer  of  the  chicken,  pepper,  salt,  bits  of 
butter,  and  strips  or  squares  of  the  dough;  then  place  another 
layer  of  chicken,  and  put  over  all  a  crust  of  the  dough  in  which 
an  opening  is  left  to  pour  a  little  water  as  the  pie  becomes  too 
dry.  Cover  the  pot  closely,  and  cook  about  an  hour  and  three- 
quarters. 

Turkey  Scallop. — Make  a  good  gravy  of  the  turkey  carcass 


50 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


and  bits  of  skin,  covering  it  with  cold  water  and  cooking  down 
slowly  until  the  liquid  is  reduced  one  half.  If  the  remains  of 
the  stuffing  go  into  it  no  other  seasoning  will  be  needed,  prob- 
ably. Strain  the  liquor,  and  put  with  it  the  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs.  Turn  into  this  your  turkey  meat  cut  into  small  bits, 
put  all  in  a  pudding  dish,  cover  with  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter, 
and  bake. 

Baked  Turkey. — Choose  a  plump  turkey  of  nine  or  ten 
pounds.  Pick  it  without  scalding,  removing  each  feather  care- 
fully; then  pour  over  it  boiling  water  to  plump  it,  after  which 
singe  with  a  piece  of  lighted  writing  paper,  so  that  no  particle 
of  down  remains.  Wash  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  wipe  dry, 
rub  with  salt,  and  let  remain  over  night,  or  longer.  When 
ready  to  cook,  rinse  thoroughly  and  rub  inside  and  out  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  on  the  rack  in  a  covered  baking  pan, 
and  add  some  hot  water.  Rub  the  outsides  of  the  turkey  with 
lard  to  prevent  blistering. 

Turkey  Dressing. — Equal  parts  of  biscuit  crumbs  and  egg 
bread  mixed,  using  a  little  lard,  pepper,  salt  and  onion  to 
taste,  with  just  enough  water  to  moisten. 

Oyster  Dressing  for  Turkey. — One  pound  bread  crumbs,  two 
stalks  of  celery  chopped,  half  pound  melted  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Add  two  quarts  oysters  strained  from  liquor, 
and  enough  liquor  to  moisten  crumbs. 

Dressing  for  Fowls. — Boil  a  quantity  of  rice  until  the  grains 
stand.  Let  it  cool,  chop  a  large  stalk  of  celery  into  this,  add  a 
cup  full  of  nuts  and  two  eggs.  Mix  well  and  use. — Mrs.  J.  F. 
Hirt. 

Dressing  for  Fowls. — Make  half  and  half  of  meal  egg  bread 
and  stale  light  bread,  a  little  onion,  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Moisten  well  with  cream  or  hot  water. 

Mince  Meat— One  cup  of  cooked  meat,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  raisins,  three  cups  of  apples,  all  chopped  in  food  cutter.  One 
and  one-half  cups  of  currants,  one  and  one-half  of  brown  sugar, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


51 


half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  meat  liquor,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  salt,  two  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mace,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice), 
one  cup  of  citron  cut  in  slices,  two  cups  of  best  cider  and  half  a 
cup  of  suet  chopped  fine  in  food  cutter.  Mix  well  together  and 
cook  in  porcelain  kettle  until  the  apples  and  raisins  are  soft. 
If  desired  add  half  a  cup  of  best  brandy  after  the  mince  meat 
is  cooked. 

Mince  Meat. — Six  pounds  raisins,  three  pounds  currants,  six 
pounds  apples  chopped  fine,  three  pounds  suet,  two  tablespoons 
powdered  cinnamon,  four  lemons,  ten  pounds  sugar,  one  pound 
citron,  three  tongues,  three  pints  brandy,  four  pints  wine. 
This  makes  a  large  quantity. 

Mince  Meat. — Four  pounds  tender  beef  well  done,  three 
pounds  suet,  eight  pounds  chopped  apple,  three  each  of  raisins 
and  currants,  six  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  pounds  citron,  the 
grated  yellow  rind,  juice  and  pulp  of  two  large  oranges,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  four  lemons,  one  ounce  cinnamon, 
quarter  ounce  each  of  cloves,  mace  and  allspice,  four  nutmegs 
grated,  one  quart  madeira  wine,  one  pint  good  brandy,  one  cup 
each  of  strawberry,  raspberry  and  quince  preserves.  Chop 
suet  and  beef  fine,  mix  with  plenty  of  salt  to  remove  fresh 
taste.  To  this  add  apples,  sugar,  fruit,  then  the  liquor  in  which 
the  spices  have  been  steeped.  When  ready  to  use  more  liquor 
may  be  added  to  taste. 

Mince  Meat. — Two  quarts  boiled  beef,  two  pounds  suet 
chopped  fine,  six  pounds  apples,  four  pounds  raisins,  five 
pounds  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds  citron,  one  quart  mo- 
lasses, wine  and  whiskey  to  taste,  two  spoons  each  of  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice,. ginger. — Mrs.  Lucy  Hosford. 

Brains. — First  throw  in  cold  salt  water  to  rid  them  of  blood. 
Take  off  the  outer  membrane  carefully.  Put  in  stewpan  with 
water  enough  to  cover,  adding  one  teaspoon  salt,  boil  one- 
quarter  hour  or  less.   Pour  brains  through  a  colander  to  drain 


52 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


off  water.  Now  put  a  small  spoon  of  lard  in  frying  pan  and 
when  hot  put  in  the  brains,  mash  thoroughly  and  when  they 
begin  to  cook  dry,  add  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and 
three  eggs  or  more  if  preferred.  Scramble  very  dry  and  serve 
hot. 

Fried  Brains. — After  brains  are  cleaned  and  boiled  cut  them 

into  pieces,  dip  in  meal  and  fry  in  hot  grease.   Very  fine. 

Brain  Fritters. — After  washing  and  ridding  the  brains  of 
fibres  and  skin,  drop  them  into  boiling  water  and  cook  gently 
for  fifteen  minutes,  then  throw  into  ice  cold  water.  When  they 
are  stiff  and  white,  wipe  and  mash  them  to  a  batter,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  into  this  one  egg,  half  cup  milk  and 
two  or  three  tablespoons  of  prepared  flour.  Fry  a  little  in  the 
boiling  fat,  before  venturing  more:  drop  in  by  tablespoon,  fry 
quickly;  shake  in  a  heated  colander  to  free  them  of  fat  and 
serve  very  hot.   They  are  nice. — Marion  Harland. 

Baked  Hash. — Chop  or  grind  cold  meat  very  fine,  have  one- 
third  as  much  bread  crumbs  or  cold  creamed  Irish  potatoes, 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  onion, 
tablespoon  butter,  mix  all  together,  and  if  too  dry,  add  hot 
water  or  milk,  put  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  bake  in  a  greased 
bowl. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Baked  Hash. — To  one  teacup  of  ground  meat,  use  one  beaten 
egg,  butter  size  of  walnut,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  salt  and  season 
highly  with  pepper.  Bake  in  greased  pan  until  brown.  Serve 
from  pan. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Xelson. 

Dry  Hash. — Take  cold  fresh  meat  of  any  kind  that  has  been 
previously  cooked;  cut  very,  very  fine;  mix  with  two  boiled 
Irish  potatoes  well  mashed,  one  egg,  one  onion  minced  fine. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.   Put  into  a  dish  and  bake. 

Hash  with  Gravy. — Cut  up  your  cold  meat  in  pieces  half  an 
inch  thick ;  put  it  to  stew  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  onion, 
one  Irish  potato  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  but- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


53 


ter.  Cook  until  the  potato  and  onion  are  done.  Serve  with  the 
gravy. 

Sweetbreads. — Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  remove 
skin;  parboil  and  cut  into  dice;  make  a  dressing  of  rich  milk 
and  butter,  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  in ;  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per; when  it  thickens,  add  the  sweetbreads  and  spread  over 
slices  of  toast. 

Rissoles  of  Sweetbreads. — Boil  and  blanch  three  fine  sweet- 
breads, mince  fine  with  food  cutter,  fine  plate;  also  pulverize 
crumbs  until  you  have  one-third  as  much  as  you  have  meat. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  two  beaten  eggs ; 
work  and  beat  smooth,  roll  into  long  balls;  flour  these  well. 
Have  a  little  gravy  in  a  saucepan,  well  seasoned,  add  as  much 
drawn  butter.  When  it  boils  put  in  the  rissoles,  a  few  at  a 
time,  cook  ten  minutes.  Drain  off  the  gravy,  put  rissoles  care- 
fully on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  gravy  upon  a  beaten  egg,  heat  to 
thickening,  pour  over  the  rissoles. 

Stuffed  Peppers. — First  take  the  seed  out  of  peppers  and 
allow  them  to  soak  in  salt  water ;  prepare  a  stuffing,  using  any 
cold  meat  ground  fine,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  bit 
of  onion.  If  too  dry,  add  a  little  warm  water;  use  bread 
crumbs  and  one  or  two  eggs  in  stuffing,  putting  dry  crumbs  on 
top.  Set  in  a  pan,  adding  a  little  water,  and  cook  in  the  oven 
half  hour.  If  ham  is  used,  add  some  other  kind  of  meat  with 
it,  as  it  makes  it  better.  Peppers  are  very  nice  stuffed  with 
stewed  brains,  nicely  seasoned  with  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  a 
little  bread  crumbs,  if  too  wet. — Mrs.  John  Freeman. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. — Cut  the  stem  ends  from  six  peppers, 
remove  the  insides  with  a  sharp  knife,  scald  for  five  minutes 
and  drain.  Mix  thoroughly  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  cooked  meat  or  fish,  a 
little  salt  and  milk  or  stock  to  moisten  slightly.  Fill  the  pep- 
pers, place  in  a  buttered  pan  with  half  a  cup  of  hot  water  and 


54 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


bake  slowly  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  a  cream  sauce  poured 
around,  and  garnish  with  triangles  of  buttered  toast. 

Chili-Con-Carne. — Three  dozen  large  chili  peppers,  carefully 
washed  and  the  stems  removed;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  and 
pour  over  them  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  until 
thoroughly  soft;  then  mash  through  a  wire  sieve.  Chop  one 
large  onion  and  six  cloves  of  garlic  very  fine  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  three  pounds  of  nice  tender  beefsteak  chopped 
fine,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard;  let  these  ingredients  fry 
until  well  done,  then  add  salt  to  taste  and  stir  in  the  chili 
peppers  and  let  the  whole  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour, 
stirring  occasionally.  Several  bay  leaves  were  boiled  with  the 
peppers  before  straining. 

To  Prepare  Frog  Legs. — The  hind  legs  of  large  frogs  are  the 
only  parts  used.  The  bodies  are  separated  in  the  middle,  and 
the  legs  are  skinned.  The  flesh  of  the  legs  is  white,  very  ten- 
der, and  somewhat  resembles  that  of  poultry.  After  the  frog's 
legs  are  skinned,  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  put  them  over 
the  fire  in  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for  five  minutes; 
then  throw  them  into  cold  water  to  cool.  This  process  is  called 
blanching,  and  must  always  be  done  if  the  flavor  is  to  be  con- 
sidered. After  the  legs  are  blanched  they  may  be  fried  or 
broiled  according  to  any  recipes  for  frying  or  broiling  fish. 

Fricassee  Rabbit. — Cut  into  joints,  soak  in  salt  water  half 
an  hour.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  cold  water,  piece 
of  onion,  half  a  nutmeg,  piece  of  red  pepper,  quarter  pound 
salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cover  and  stew  till  tender.  Take 
out  rabbits  and  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  cup  of  milk,  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  a  thickening  made  of  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  milk.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  over  rabbits.  Juice  of 
lemon  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Fried  Rabbit. — Put  in  boiling  water  and  let  boil  ten  minutes, 
drain  it  and  when  cool  cut  into  joints,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour,  or  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  over  a 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


55 


moderate  fire.  Add  milk  to  gravy,  thicken  with  flour,  pour 
over  rabbit.    Garnish  with  lemon. 

Broiled  Squirrel. — Wash  nicely,  and  put  in  a  meat  pan, 
salt  and  pepper  and  place  a  lump  of  butter  over  and  a  little 
water  in  the  pan.  Cook  it  inside  the  oven,  on  the  upper  rack, 
until  tender,  basting  often.  If  they  are  not  very  tender  parboil 
first. 

Stewed  Squirrel. — After  the  squirrels  are  washed  nicely,  cut 
them  up  and  put  them  on  with  water  enough  to  cover  them. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  thicken  with  flour  before 
serving. 

Roast  Goose. — The  goose  is  best  if  four  months  old.  It  should 
be  killed  twenty-four  hours  before  cooking. 

Dressing". — Three  pints  bread  crumbs,  six  ounces  butter, 
chopped  onion,  teaspoon  each  of  pepper,  salt  and  sage.  If  not 
fat  put  a  slice  of  fat  meat  on  breast,  Place  in  baking  pan  with 
water  and  baste  frequenty.  When  nearly  done  baste  with  but- 
ter and  a  little  flour.  When  done  take  from  pan,  pour  off  the 
fat  and  to  the  brown  gravy  add  chopped  giblets  and  thicken 
with  flour.  Apple  sauce  and  onion  sauce  accompany  roast 
goose. 

To  Roast  a  Goose. — Make  a  stuffing  of  bread,  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  sage,  thyme  and  onions  :  it  will  require  but  little  but- 
ter, as  geese  are  generally  fat ;  wash  it  well  in  salt  and  water, 
wipe  it,  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  common 
sized  goose  will  roast  in  an  hour,  and  a  small  one  in  less  time ; 
pour  off  nearly  all  the  fat  that  drips  from  the  goose,  as  it  will 
make  the  gravy  too  rich.  Make  hash  gravy  of  the  giblets  the 
same  as  for  turkey. 

Ducks. — Wild  ducks  are  generally  cooked  without  stuffing; 
and  for  those  that  like  them  rare,  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  will 
be  long  enough;  for  common  ducks,  a  stuffing  should  be  made 
the  same  as  for  a  goose,  they  will  roast  in  half  an  hour.  Cur- 
rant jelly  and  apple  sauce  should  be  eaten  with  ducks  and 
geese. 


50 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


W.  M.  Luter  &  Co. 
Ttoe  Points  Druggists. 

Have  everything  to 
be  found  in  a  first- 
class  Drug  Store. 

Delicious  Tee  Cream  ana  Sherbets 

Tel.  140. 


C.  N.  Whitlow  &  Co. 

Agents  for 

The  Ladies  Home 
Journal  Patterns. 

A  Guide  Chart  Free  with  each  Pattern. 

New  Patterns  Received 
Twice  a  Week. 

Prices  10c  and  15c  Each. 


Roast  Duck. — Prepare  duck  for  roasting.  Use  the  following 
stuffing.  Chop  fine  and  throw  into  cold  water  three  good  sized 
onions ;  large  spoon  sage,  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  butter 
size  of  walnut,  salt,  pepper  and  onions  drained.  Mix  well  to- 
gether and  stuff  the  duck.   Bake  one  hour. 

Canvasback  Duck. — After  dressing  the  duck  in  the  usual 
way  by  plucking,  singeing,  drawing,  wipe  it  with  a  wet  towel, 
truss  the  head  under  the  wing;  place  it  in  a  drippingpan,  put 
it  in  the  oven,  basting  often,  and  roast  half  hour,  or  more,  if 
preferred  real  done.  Place  it  when  done  on  a  hot  dish,  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  it  the  gravy  it  has 
yielded  in  baking,  and  serve  hot. 

To  Broil  Birds. — Broiling  is  the  favorite  way  for  cooking 
game,  for  which  allow  from  ten  to  forty  minutes,  according  to 
size;  butter  well  and  serve  hot  on  hot  dishes.  Serve  with  jelly. 
Garnish  with  lemon  slices,  Saratoga  potatoes  or  watercresses. 

Parboil  till  tender,  using  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  have 
only  enough  in  the  vessel  after  the  birds  are  tender  to  make 
gravy.  Then  add  butter,  a  little  vinegar  and  pepper,  put  in- 
side a  hot  stove  and  baste  frequently  till  brown. 

Broiled  Quail. — Broil  quails  exactly  as  a  chicken  (see  page 
45),  or  place  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  hot  coals;  watch  care- 
fully or  they  will  burn  before  they  are  done  through.  Serve 
with  drawn  butter,  each  bird  on  toast. 

Roast  Quail.— Wash  in  soda  water,  then  in  clear  water;  put 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


57 


into  a  dripping  pan,  with  a  little  water ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  dredge  them  with  flour ;  lnmps  of  bntter  on  top  and 
around  them;  make  brown  gravy. 

Stewed  Pigeons. — Carefully  pluck  half  dozen  pigeons;  singe 
them,  wipe  with  a  wet  towel  and  cut  off  the  heads  and  feet; 
in  drawing  them  take  care  not  to  break  the  entrails ;  save  the 
hearts,  liver  and  gizzards.  Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  let  it  get  smoking  hot,  then  put  in  the  pigeons  and 
brown  them;  when  they  are  brown,  dust  over  them  a  table- 
spoon of  dry  flour  and  move  them  about  until  the  flour  is 
brown;  then  cover  them  with  boiling  water.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  simmer  them  gently  until  tender.  Meantime, 
shell  enough  young  peas  to  fill  a  pint  measure;  if  the  pods  of 
peas  are  not  clean,  wash  them  before  shelling,  but  do  not  wash 
the  shelled  peas.  When  the  pigeons  are  tender,  put  the  peas 
with  them,  and  continue  to  cook  until  the  peas  are  just  tender, 
then  serve  the  pigeons  in  deep  platter  with  the  peas  under  them. 

Opossum. — Clean  thoroughly  and  scrape  it.  Mix  together 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  onions,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the 
liver  chopped  fine  and  a  beaten  egg.  Stuff  the  body  with  this 
mixture.  Sew  it  up  and  roast  it.  Baste  often  with  salt  and 
water  to  have  it  crisp.  Dip  a  cloth  in  its  own  grease  and  rub 
it  well.  When  done  take  up  on  platter  and  garnish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  sliced  lemon,  and  put  a  baked  apple  in 
its  mouth. 

Hot  Tamales. — To  one  pint  of  finely  ground  boiled  beef,  add 
four  tablespoons  cayenne  pepper;  mix  thoroughly.  Put  a 
tablespoon  of  this  mixture  into  a  shuck  thickly  sprinkled  with 
corn  meal  and  tie  securely.  When  a  number  have  been  filled, 
drop  them  into  the  broth  in  which  the  beef  was  boiled,  and  add 
half  dozen  pepper  corns.  Boil  until  the  meal  is  cooked.  Serve 
in  thin  cases,  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  fire. 


58 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


EGGS. 

Eggs  take  the  place  of  meat  and  are  easily  digested.  They 
contain  all  the  elements  of  the  body  and  are  capable  of  sup- 
porting life,  which  makes  them  quite  a  perfect  food  for  lunch- 
eon, breakfast  or  supper. 

To  Test  Eggs. — Put  them  in  water ;  if  the  large  end  turns  up 
they  are  not  fresh.  You  can  depend  on  any  egg  that  will  lay 
on  the  side  in  water  and  not  float. 

Soft-Boiled  Eggs. — Put  the  eggs  in  a  large  tin  cup  or  any 
tin  vessel.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  them  remain 
near  the  fire  ten  minutes.  Do  not  let  them  boil.  Eggs  cooked 
this  way  are  jellied  throughout. 

Boiled  Eggs. — Put  eggs  into  boiling  water.  If  you  wish  the 
whites  set,  boil  two  minutes;  if  you  wish  the  yolks  set,  boil 
three  minutes;  if  for  a  salad  it  will  require  ten  minutes. 

Steamed  Eggs. — Break  an  egg  into  an  egg  saucer,  saucedish, 
or  patty  pan,  salt  very  slightly,  and  steam  until  the  white  has 
just  set.  In  this  way,  it  will  retain  its  shape  perfectly,  and  not 
be  mixed  wih  the  few  drops  of  water  so  annoying  to  invalids, 
and -so  hard  to  avoid  in  dishing  a  poached  egg  from  water. — 
Battle  Creek. 

To  Poach  Eggs. — Break  into  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  as 
many  eggs  as  will  cover  the  bottom;  best  not  to  touch.  Let 
them  cook  until  the  whites  are  set.  Take  up  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  pour  melted  butter  over  them,  and  dust  with  pepper 
and  salt.    They  are  nice  served  on  toast. 

Poached  Eggs. — Have  one  quart  boiling  water  and  one  table- 
spoon salt  in  frying  pan.  Break  eggs,  one  by  one,  into  a 
saucer,  and  slide  carefully  into  the  water.  Dash  with  a  spoon 
a  little  water  over  the  egg  to  keep  the  top  white.    Cook  until 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


59 


the  white  is  firm  and  lift  out  with  a  perforated  skimmer ;  place 
on  toasted  bread.  A  tablespoon  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water 
keeps  the  egg  from  spreading. 

Fried  Eggs. — Break  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  in  a  saucer,  slide 
carefully  into  a  frying  pan  of  hot  lard.  As  soon  as  the  white 
has  set  turn  over  with  griddle  cake  turner  and  take  up  at  once. 
Sprinkle  with  salt. 

Scrambled  Eggs. — Put  tablespoon  of  butter  in  hot  frying  pan, 
tip  around  so  that  it  will  touch  all  sides  of  the  pan.  Have 
ready  half  a  dozen  eggs  broken  in  a  dish,  salted  and  peppered, 
turn  them  (without  beating)  into  hot  butter;  stir  them  briskly 
for  five  or  six  minutes  until  they  are  mixed.  Be  careful  that 
they  do  not  get  too  hard. 

To  Scramble  Eggs. — Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl,  and  stir  in 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
and  when  it  is  hot  pour  in  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time ;  a  few 
minutes  will  be  sufficient.    Grated  ham  is  an  improvement. 

Egg  Scramble. — Put  one  cup  sweet  milk  in  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  add  two  tablespoons  butter,  with  one  tablespoon  flour 
rubbed  into  it,  and  gradually  stir  till  it  thickens;  then  put  in 
seven  eggs  and  cook  until  done;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  hot  or  on  toast. 

Scalloped  Eggs. — Hard  boil  twelve  eggs  or  less.  In  the 
bottom  of  a  well  buttered  dish  place  layer  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  then  one  of  eggs,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Con- 
tinue thus  until  the  dish  is  full,  using  crumbs  on  top.  Over 
the  whole  pour  one  cup  milk;  set  in  oven  and  brown  nicely. — 
Mrs.  C.  C.  McCall. 

Egg  Toast. — Boil  one  teacup  of  milk,  thickened  with  a  little 
flour  or  corn  starch,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  stir  in 
your  eggs  that  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook 
until  the  whites  are  set.   Pour  over  buttered  toast  while  hot. 

Eggs  on  Toast. — Dip  well  toasted  bread  quickly  in  hot  salted 
water,  then  turn  over  it  a  poached  egg. 


60  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Omelets. — Put  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  in 
hot  frying  pan ;  just  as  it  begins  to  simmer  pour  in  the  omelet 
made  as  follows :  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  pinch  of 
-salt  added.  Beat  yolks  very  little  in  another  bowl;  add  the 
whites,  and  lightly  beat  together,  adding  nearly  a  cup  of  milk 
last.  Set  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  and  allow  to  remain  a  very 
few  minutes.  It  will  be  tough  if  it  remains  too  long.  Should 
be  served  at  once.  Grated  ham  may  be  added  to  the  omelet 
for  a  change. 

Mexican  Omelet. — Take  about  eight  good-sized  tomatoes,  two 
red  and  two  green  peppers,  four  large  onions;  peppers  and 
onions  to  be  well  chopped;  season  with  one  tablespoon  butter, 
a  little  salt  and  red  pepper;  cook  all  together.  About  ten 
minutes  before  serving  stir  in  four  well  beaten  eggs.  Whole  to 
be  cooked  one  and  one-half  hours  in  an  iron  skillet  over  a  slow 
fire.    Very  fine. — Mrs.  Alf.  Ryley. 

Ham  Omelet. — Beat  six  eggs  light,  white  and  yolks  sepa- 
rately, then  stir  lightly  together.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter in  a  frying  pan,  season  the  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
turn  into  the  hot  pan.  Cook  the  omelet,  shaking  gently,  that 
it  may  not  stick,  until  "set."  Spread  with  minced  ham,  fold 
over  upon  itself  and  transfer  to  a  hot  platter. 

Shirred  Eggs. — Set  in  the  stove  till  quite  hot  a  baking  dish. 
Melt  in  dish  enough  butter  to  cover  the  bottom.  Break  eggs 
in  dish  carefully,  one  at  a  time,  sprinkle  over  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  tablespoon  of  cream  for  every  two  eggs. 
Cook  five  minutes.   A  very  dainty  dish. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Shirred  Eggs. — Warm  and  butter  well  the  muffin  rings.  Drop 
an  egg  into  each  cell,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  on  each,  and  cook  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Deviled  Eggs. — Chop  sufficient  cold  cooked  chicken  to  make 
half  a  pint;  put  it  in  a  bowl,  rub  with  a  spoon  and  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  of  chopped  parsley,  a  level 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


61 


teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  one  raw  egg 
well  beaten.  Hard  boil  twelve  eggs;  remove  the  yolks,  rub 
them  to  a  paste,  and  mix  them  with  the  chicken.  Make  this  in 
balls  the  size  of  the  yolks  and  fill  each  white.  This  will  give 
you  twenty-four  halves  of  eggs  with  full  sized  yolks.  Arrange 
these  neatly  on  lettuce  leaves  on  a  platter  and  serve  as  a  cold 
dish  at  luncheon.  If  you  prefer  the  yolks  may  be  flattened  and 
two  whites  put  together  and  rolled  in  tissue  paper.  These  may 
also  be  served  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Rumbled  Eggs. — One  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  pinch 
of  salt.  Put  in  a  pan.  When  it  boils  add  eight  eggs,  all  at 
once,  and  stir  till  done,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  get  too 
stiff. 

Stuffed  Eggs. — Boil  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  shells 
and  cut  carefully  lengthwise;  remove  yolks  and  put  whites  of 
each  egg  together  that  they  may  not  become  mixed.  Make  a 
force  meat  of  one  cup  cold  meat  chopped  fine.  If  chicken  be 
used,  season  with  celery  or  parsley;  if  ham,  with  mustard  and 
cayenne ;  if  veal,  with  lemon  juice  or  horseradish  catsup.  Add 
salt,  pepper,  melted  butter.  Fill  in  the  cavities  level.  Put 
halves  together. — Mrs.  Isaac  Tigrett. 

Dressing  for  Stuffed  Eggs. — One  teaspoon  of  pulverized 
sugar,  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  must- 
ard, two  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  yolks  of  two  eggs;  cook  until 
stiff,  and  just  before  using  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cream. — 
Mrs.  Lizzie  Howard. 

A  Delicious  Breakfast  Dish. — You  will  need  the  following  ma- 
terials :  One  heaping  pint  bowl  full  of  chopped  cold  boiled  ham 
and  four  eggs.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl,  but  do  not  beat 
them.  Have  the  frying  pan  hot,  and  grease  with  a  small  lump 
of  butter.  Pour  in  the  eggs  and  add  the  ham,  with  a  little 
pepper,  and  stir  constantly  until  done,  which  will  be  when  each 
individual  particle  of  the  minced  ham  is  coated  with  egg.  The 


62 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


eggs,  not  being  beaten,  bits  of  the  white  and  yolk  are  seen  when 
cooked. — Ladies'  World. 

Cupped  Eggs. — Put  a  spoonful  of  highly  seasoned  brown 
gravy  into  each  cup;  set  the  cups  in  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  when  the  gravy  heats,  drop  a  fresh  egg  into  each 
cup ;  take  off  the  same  pan  and  cover  it  closely  till  the  eggs  are 
nicely  and  tenderly  cooked,  dredge  them  with  nutmeg  and  salt. 
Serve  them  in  a  plate  covered  with  a  napkin. 

Eggs  for  Breakfast. — Select  a  graniteware  stewpan  holding 
one  quart.  In  it  heat  one  pint  of  water  to  the  boiling  point, 
turn  off  the  source  of  heat  and  lower  into  the  water  one  egg 
taken  from  a  refrigerator.  Cover  closely  and  let  stand  six 
minutes,  when  the  egg  will  be  soft  cooked.  By  remaining  in 
the  water  eight  minutes  the  egg  will  be  medium  cooked.  In 
order  to  insure  uniform  results,  the  conditions  must  not  vary. 
The  kind  of  kettle,  the  quantity  of  water,  the  number  of  eggs, 
and  the  temperature  of  the  eggs  and  the  water  must  be  ob- 
served.— Dept.  of  Agriculture,  United  States. 

Eggs  en  Surprise. — Drain  the  syrup  from  a  can  of  choice 
apricots.  To  two  cups  of  syrup  add  the  juice  of  two  oranges 
and  one  lemon,  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar;  set  over  the  fire  to 
become  hot.  Soften  two  level  tablespoons  of  granulated  gela- 
tine in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  turn  into  the  hot  liquid. 
Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  strain  through  a  cheese- 
cloth. Reserve  half  a  cup  and  set  the  rest  to  cool  in  ice-water. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  dry.  When  the  liquid  mix- 
ture becomes  cold  and  begius  to  thicken,  add  to  it  the  beaten 
whites,  and  continue  to  beat  (with  the  egg-beater)  until  the 
whole  will  hold  its  shape.  Then  with  it  form  rounds  on  serving- 
dishes,  and  set  half  an  apricot  on  each,  to  simulate  a  poached 
egg.  Pour  a  little  of  the  reserved  syrup  over  the  apricots,  to 
glaze  them  slightly  and  exclude  the  air.  and  set  aside  in  a 
cool  place  until  ready  to  serve.  This  recipe  will  serve  ten  or 
twelve. — The  Boston  Cooking  School. 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


63 


CHEESE,  . 

The  value  of  cheese  as  an  article  of  diet,  and  more  especially 
as  a  substitute  for  meat,  is  too  little  known  and  appreciated. 
Indeed,  it  is  claimed  that  when  fully  ripe  and  in  moderation  it 
furnishes  even  more  nutrition  to  the  system  than  meat,  and  at 
one-fourth  the  cost.  Being  highly  concentrated,  cheese  should 
not  be  eaten  in  undue  quantities,  and  should  always  accompany 
some  carbonaceous  food.  Bread  or  some  form  of  wheat  or 
similar  grain  is  an  excellent  complement  to  cheese.  Fresh,  new 
cheese  is  more  digestible  if  cooked. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  cheese  cut  in 
bits,  one  heaping  teaspoon  butter,  half  teaspoonful  dry  mustard, 
two  eggs,  three  crackers  rolled ;  put  the  cheese  and  milk  in  the 
skillet,  stirring  till  it  is  thoroughly  melted.  Then  add  butter, 
mustard  and  eggs,  and  last  the  cracker  crumbs.  Serve  imme- 
diately.— Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Cheese  Souffle. — Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese,  three  tablespoons  of  flour, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut.  Put  cheese  and  milk  on  together 
stirring  until  the  cheese  is  well  melted;  then  add  the  butter 
and  flour,  mixed  well  with  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  pan  or  baking- 
dish;  add  lastly  the  well  beaten  whites.  Bake  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  immediately.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cheese  Souffle. — Boil  one  pint  milk  and  four  tablespoons  of 
sifted  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  one  spoon- 
ful butter,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Add  to  this 
two  cups  grated  cheese,  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Beat 
yolks  of  three  eggs  well,  add  them  and  stir  in  lightly  the  beaten 
whites.   Turn  the  whole  into  a  well  greased  baking  dish;  bake 


64 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


in  a  moderate  oven  half  hour.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  John  H. 
Gary. 

Cottage  Cheese. — Early  in  the  morning  take  half  gallon  fresh 
buttermilk,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  in  a  few  minutes  the  whey 
will  rise  ;  pour  into  akbag  and  let  drip  most  of  the  day.  The 
cheese  will  be  solid,  but  break  it  up  well  with  a  fork.  Serve 
with  cream,  and  pepper  and  salt,  if  desired. 

Cheese  Ramakin. — Take  one  loaf  of  light  bread,  cut  length- 
wise and  place  in  a  pan.  Over  the  bread  pour  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  boiling  sweet  milk,  well  seasoned  with  salt,  butter  and 
pepper.  Place  in  stove  until  thoroughly  hot.  Have  the  yolks 
and  whites  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  to  that  add  two  cups  of 
grated  cheese  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  cheese  and 
eggs  are  thoroughly  mixed;  pour  this  souffle  over  the  bread 
and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Cut  in  blocks  and  serve  while 
hot. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Mercer. 

Scalloped  Cheese. — Take  three  slices  of  bread,  trim  off  the 
crust,  and  lay  in  a  greased  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  on  it  one- 
quarter  pound  grated  cheese  and  a  little  salt.  Take  four  eggs 
and  beat  them  well  (not  separately)  and  add  to  them  one  pint 
sweet  milk.  Pour  this  over  the  bread;  put  in  the  oven  and 
bake  a  few  minutes.   A  delicious  dish. — Mrs.  C.  P.  Black. 

Cheese  Salad  in  Egg  Cases. — Grate  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
cheese  and  mix  with  enough  salad  dressing  to  make  smooth  and 
creamy.  Shell  and  halve,  cutting  lengthwise,  half  a  dozen 
hard  boiled  eggs,  then  remove  the  yolks.  Fill  the  cavities  with 
the  cheese  mixture.  Put  the  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer  and 
sprinkle  on  to~p  the  cheese,  then  dust  lightly  with  salt.  Serve 
on  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce. 

Cheese  Toast. — Pulverize  some  dry  cheese  in  food  cutter; 
make  some  sliced  toast,  spread  with  butter  while  hot  and  then 
thickly  with  grated  cheese.  Place  the  slices  in  a  hot  oven;  heat 
and  serve  immediately. 

Cheese  Fondu. — One  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  one  cup  of  milk, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


65 


one  cup  of  chopped  cheese,  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  beaten 
separately,  very  light,  stir  all  together  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven.   Serve  hot. 

Toasted  Cheese. — Two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  large  cup  of  grated  cheese,  half  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Beat 
all  well  together.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  and 
serve  from  same  pan.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  cracker  crumbs, 
and  cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Cheese  Straws. — Two  tablespoonsful  grated  cheese,  one  table- 
spoonful  flour,  butter  half  size  of  an  egg.  A  little  each  of  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Blend  all  well  together,  and  mix  with 
enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  strips 
and  bake  in  rather  quick  oven. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Cheese  Straws. — Mix  one  cupful  of  flour  with  a  half  cupful 
of  grated  cheese  (Parmesan  is  best),  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  the 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Then  add  enough  water  to  make  a  paste  stiff 
enough  to  roll.  Place  it  on  a  board  and  roll  to  one-quarter  inch 
thick,  cut  into  narrow  strips  and  roll  so  each  piece  will  be  the 
size  and  length  of  a  lead  pencil.  Place  them  in  a  baking  tin 
and  press  each  end  so  that  they  will  not  contract.  Bake  to  a 
light  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  salad.  These 
straws  will  keep  for  several  days  and  should  be  heated  just  be- 
fore serving. 

Cheese  Straws. — Roll  out  nice  pastry,  sprinkle  over  it  grated 
cheese  with  a  bit  of  cayenne  pepper,  fold  it  oven  and  roll  out, 
cover  with  cheese  again  and  roll  as  before,  then  cut  in  strips. — 
Mrs.  H,  R.  Lancaster. 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


66 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


CROQUETTES. 

"The  best  possible  recipe  for  any  combination,  is  an  ounce 
of  common  sense." 

To  Make  Croquettes. — Take  cold  chicken  or  veal,  with  slices 
of  ham,  fat  and  lean;  chop  them  together  very  fine,  and  add  a 
set  of  brains,  mashed  very  fine  also.  Mix  with  stale  bread, 
grated  and  seasoned  to  your  taste;  knead  all  well  together, 
until  it  resembles  sausage-meat.  Make  up  in  little  balls;  dip 
them  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten;  cover  them  quickly  with 
grated  bread,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown. 

Croquettes — Two  and  one-half  pints  grated  meat  of  any 
kind,  one  pint  cracker  crumbs  or  biscuit,  one  cup  milk,  two 
eggs  beaten  separately,  lump  butter  size  of  egg,  one  small 
onion  chopped  fine,  celery  seed,  season  to  taste.  Make  cro- 
quettes, roll  in  cracker  crust,  then  in  beaten  yolks,  drop  in  hot 
lard  and  cook  till  a  delicate  brown.  Take  out  with  a  wire  egg- 
beater. 

To  Fry  Croquettes. — Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  bowl.  Boll 

enough  crackers  till  you  have  a  cupful  of  crumbs.  Spread  the 
crumbs  on  a  large  plate.  Have  over  the  fire  a  kettle  containing 
two  or  three  inches  of  boiling  lard.  Form  the  croquettes,  roll 
them  in  crumbs,  dip  them  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again;  drop 
then  in  smoking  lard  and  fry  a  light  golden  brown. 

Banana  Croquettes. — Peel  half  dozen  bananas,  then  cut  into 
three  parts,  roll  first  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  then  in  cracker 
crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard,  then  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Witherspoon. 

Brain  Croquettes. — Cook  brains,  and  after  they  are  well  done 
add  four  eggs  beaten  to  set  of  brains.  After  eggs  and  brains 
are  mixed  and  cooked  together  set  aside  to  cool.   Make  a  white 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


67 


sauce  of  three-quarters  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  make  thick  with  flour  and  after  brains  and  sauce  are 
cold  mix  together;  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  make 
into  a  shape  of  a  pear  any  size  you  like,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Mercer. 

Salmon  Croquettes. — Remove  bones,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, chop  fine  with  celery  or  lettuce,  add  half  teaspoonful  of 
celery  seed  and  two  raw  eggs.  Mold  into  shape,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  light  brown. 

Chicken  and  Brain  Croquettes. — Boil  one  hen,  grind  it  up  in 
a  meat  grinder;  parboil  two  sets  of  brains,  and  mash  fine;  mix 
this  with  the  chicken.  Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  and  mix  with 
chicken  and  brains.  Season  to  taste,  and  mix  with  the  follow- 
ing cream  dressing :  One  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  one  tablespoon- 
ful butter  with  one  teaspoon  of  flour ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then 
add  the  butter  and  flour  creamed  together.  Mix  the  cream 
dressing,  chicken  and  brains  with  one-third  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs.  Let  it  cool,  then  shape  as  desired  and  roll  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  then  in  cracker  crumbs.  Have  a  deep 
vessel  of  lard  boiling  hot,  into  which  drop  the  croquettes  and 
let  remain  until  they  are  a  light  brown. — Miss  Pattie  Crook. 

Ham  Croquettes. — Run  cold  boiled  ham  through  meat  chop- 
per, also  one  hard  boiled  egg.  To  every  cup  ground  meat  put 
one  cup  rolled  bread  crumbs  and  one  hard  boiled  egg.  Add 
pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  When  ready  to  use,  wet  up  with 
sweet  cream,  make  out  in  croquettes  and  fry. 

Chicken  Croquettes. — Boil  one  large  chicken,  before  it  is  done 
drop  in  two  sets  of  calf  brains,  and  cook  until  done,  chop  to- 
gether very  fine.  Add  to  it  one  cup  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine, 
one-half  cup  of  rich  cream,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  nutmeg, 
grated,  red  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  parsley.  Roll  into  any 
shape  desired  and  dip  in  yolk  of  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and 
cook  in  a  sufficiency  of  boiling  lard. 

Chicken  Croquettes, — To  one  large  hen  boiled  tender  and 


68 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


choppen  very  fine,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  four 
eggs  beaten  well,  pepper  and  salt,  celery  seed  and  onion  juice 
to  taste,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  rolled  crack- 
.ers  until  it  is  very  stiff,  taking  care  not  to  burn.  Mix  with  the 
chicken  while  warm  and  then  make  into  shapes  and  set  aside 
to  harden.  When  cold  dip  it  in  beaten  white  of  egg,  then  in 
cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Use  a  little  cayenne  pep- 
per. Put  the  seasoning  well  into  the  chicken. — Miss  Lizzie 
Treadwell. 

Ham  Croquettes. — One  cup  grated  ham,  two  cups  mashed 
Irish  potatoes,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a 
dash  of  red  pepper.  Mix  hot  mashed  potatoes,  butter  and  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  beat  until  cool,  and  put  other  yolk  with  the  ham  in 
frying  pan,  and  stir  over  fire  one  minute.  Take  off  and  when 
cool,  form  balls  of  mashed  potatoes,  pressing  into  each  ball  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  ham;  fold  the  potato  over  it,  roll  in  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Brain  Croquettes. — Two  sets  hog  brains,  two  eggs,  cracker 
crumbs.  Parboil  the  brains,  allow  them  to  cool,  chop  fine, 
beating  in  the  eggs  and  a  few  crumbs  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Make  into  shapes,  roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — 
Miss  Guy  Leeper. 

Salmon  Croquettes. — One  pound  cooked  salmon,  one  cupful 
sweet  cream,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
three  eggs,  one  pint  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt.  Mix  flour  and 
butter  together,  scald  cream,  stir  in  flour  and  butter,  salmon  and 
seasoning,  let  boil  for  one  minute.  Stir  into  this  three  well 
beaten  eggs  and  remove  from  fire.  When  cold  proceed  as  with 
other  croquettes,  or  it  can  be  put  in  a  can  and  steamed  and 
sliced.  When  cold  is  very  nice  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  J.  E. 
Ryley. 

Ham  Croquettes. — One  cup  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  ham  cut 
with  fine  plate,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  of  cold  boiled 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  69 


potatoes  cut  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg.  Make 
into  balls,  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  in. hot  fat. 

Canned  Chicken  Croquettes. — Bind  can  of  chicken  with  a  raw 
egg,  or  more,  if  needed,  and  season  to  taste.  Shape  into  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  serve  with 
any  preferred  sauce.  This  is  a  favorite  dish  for  luncheons, 
when  either  sweetbreads  or  mushrooms  are  added  to  the  chick- 
en.  French  peas  are  used  for  a  garnish. 


Southwestern  Baptist  University 

JACKSON,  TENN. 

Offers  thorough  instructions  to  both  young  men  and  young  ladies 
in  the  following  courses: 

COLLEGE     MUSIC     THEOLOGICAL  EXPRESSION 


ART        MILITARY  PREPARATORY 


Has  one  of  the  Strongest  Faculties  in  the  South. 
Increasing  Endowment.  Expenses  Moderate. 

Special  attention  given  to  Health  and  Character. 
For  Catalogue  address, 
P.  T.  HALE,  LL.D.,  President. 


70 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


THE  CHAFING  DISH. 

When  Alice  wields  the  chafing  dish, 

I  am  a  happy  man, 
Although  I  marvel  at  the  things 

She  pnts  within  that  pan — 
But  every  earthly  condiment 

Is  mentioned  in  the  book, 
She  tells  me  with  a  sidelong  glance — 

From  which  she  learned  to  cook. 

I  watch  her  rounded,  dimpled  arms, 

And  her  sweet  seriousness, 
When  she  consults  the  book,  and  puts, 

More  things  in  that  queer  mess — 
But  when  she  takes  a  silver  spoon, 

And  laughing  bids  me  stir; 
Ah,  earth  is  full  of  pretty  girls, 

But  there  is  none  like  her. 

When  Alice  wields  the  chafing  dish, 

Ye  Gods !   That  night  I  see, 
The  feathered  hippopotamus 

That  used  to  bother  me, 
But  in  the  morning  I  forget, 

The  long  night's  dreaming  pain, 
And  in  the  evening,  grab  my  hat 

And  chase  up  there  again.         — Myrtle  Reed. 

Pan  Roast. — Put  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  the  chafing 
dish;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  when  melted  put 
in  one  quart  of  oysters,  cover  with  lid  of  chafing  dish,  and  when 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


71 


too  warm  to  bear  the  hand,  oysters  are  ready  to  serve.  Serve 
with  buttered  toast.  A  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine  adds  much  to 
the  flavor  if  preferred. 

Stewed  Oysters. — One  dozen  large  oysters,  half  pint  milk, 
small  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  milk  in  the 
chafing  dish  and  when  boiling  add  butter  and  oysters;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt. 

Rice  Croquettes. — One-half  cup  of  rice,  two  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  of  salt.  Boil  rice  until  very  soft;  when 
cold  beat  in  eggs,  sugar  and  salt.  Form  into  balls,  dust  a  little 
flour  over  them,  roll  in  egg  and  fry  in  chafing  dish. 

Chicken  Croquettes  (chafing  dish). — Four  cups  minced  chick- 
en, one  cup  bread  crumbs,  three  eggs,  a  little  drawn  butter. 
Roll  chicken,  bread  crumbs,  eggs,  seasoning  and  enough  drawn 
butter  to  moisten  into  pear  shaped  balls.  Dip  these  into  beaten 
egg  and  then  bread  crumbs.  Put  into  chafing  dish  and  fry  a 
nice  brown. 

Crab  Toast. — Put  a  spoonful  of  butter  in  the  chafing  dish, 
and  when  hot  add  a  small  cup  full  of  canned  crab,  cut  fine.  Add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  cream 
with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Simmer  until  the  mois- 
ture is  almost  evaporated,  and  then  -place  between  very  thin 
slices  of  hot  buttered  toast.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  jirice  is  a 
great  improvement. 

Quail  (chafing  dish). — Cover  bottom  of  chafing  dish  with 
slices  of  bacon,  put  in  quail ;  over  these  another  layer  of  bacon, 
cook  about  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.    These  are  fine. 

Petit  Pois. — Can  of  French  peas,  pepper  and  salt,  two  table 
spoonfuls  of  butter.    Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish ;  when 
melted,  add  the  peas;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.    Cook  for 
ten  minutes. 

Students'  Wafers. — Take  five  tablespoons  water,  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  six  tablespoons  chocolate  and  half  cup 
sugar.   Let  this  boil  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Add 


12  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 

one-half  cup  chopped  almonds.  Eemove  from  fire,  add  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  When  cool,  but  not  cold, 
spread  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  on  any  kind  of  dainty 
wafers.   Can  be  made  on  chafing  dish. 

Sweetbreads. — Sweetbreads,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  salt, 
salt  pork  strips.  Sweetbreads  should  be  well  washed  and  dried. 
Run  the  pork  in  with  a  needle.  Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing 
dish  and  when  hot  lay  in  the  sweetbreads,  salt  and  cook.  Turn 
often  to  crisp  the  pork. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — One  pound  of  cheese,  half  glass  of  ale,  yolk 
of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
Worcester  sauce,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  Tabasco 
sauce.  If  the  cheese  is  fresh  salt  the  above.  Into  the  chafing 
dish  put  a  few  small  lumps  of  butter,  and  after  it  has  simmered 
a  bit  put  in  the  cheese.  Stir  continually  and  gradually  add  the 
ale.  When  the  cheese  and  the  ale  are  well  blended  stir  in  the 
above  condiments,  prepared  as  follows:  To  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
broken  into  a  cup  add  the  dry  mustard,  Worcester  sauce,  pep- 
per and  Tabasco.  Let  it  have  one  more  heating  and  pour  over 
crackers,  or  toasted  bread. — Miss  Katherine  Bray. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — Put  into  the  chafing  dish  or  pan  a  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  melt  it;  then  put  in  one  pound  of  cheese 
that  has  been  cut  into  dice;  when  this  begins  to  melt,  add 
slowly  half  bottle  of  beer  and  cook  till  it  is  all  mixed ;  then  put 
in  an  egg  into  which  half  teaspoonful  of  mustard  has  been 
beaten.  Cook  another  minute,  then  serve  hot  on  crackers  or 
toasted  bread. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg  (for  chafing  dish). — Take  nicest  part 
of  the  lobster;  cut  in  small  pieces;  put  in  chafing  dish  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  season  to  taste.  Also  pour  enough 
sherry  wine  over  it  to  season.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  sufficient  cream — not  enough  to 
make  it  "sloppy".  Let  it  all  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  imme- 
diately.— Mrs.  Chas.  King. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


7:^ 


SANDWICHES. 

"And  the  ravens  brought  him  bread  and  flesh  in  the  morning 
and  bread  and  flesh  in  the  evening." — Bible. 

Sandwiches  can  be  made  eight  or  ten  hours  before  they  are 
eaten,  if  they  are  covered  with  a  damp  cloth  meanwhile.  Pile 
them  closely  and  compactly  upon  a  dish,  and  cover  them  with  a 
towel  which  has  been  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Tuck  this 
closely  over  them  and  put  them  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  J.  A. 
Crook, 

Club  Sandwiches. — Three  slices  of  bread,  thinly  cut  in  any 
desirable  shape,  toasted  and  buttered,  are  the  basis  of  a  club 
sandwich.  Place  a  lettuce  leaf  on  the  lower  slice,  and  on  its 
top  put  slices  of  chicken  breast,  then  put  another  slice  of  toast 
on  top  of  that  with  another  leaf  of  lettuce,  followed  by  thin 
slices  of  broiled  breakfast  bacon,  topped  with  a  third  slice  of 
toasted  bread.  Finish  the  sandwich  with  thin  slices  (length- 
wise) of  small  pickles,  on  top  of  the  last  slice  of  toast.  The 
toasted  bread  and  the  breakfast  bacon  should  be  hot. 

Club  Sandwich. — Toast  four  triangular  pieces  of  bread  and 
spread  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  lay  next,  two  lettuce  leaves 
taken  from  the  heart,  then  thin  slices  of  cold  canned  chicken 
upon  the  lettuce  over  this;  arrange  some  crisp  slices  of  boiled 
breakfast  bacon  and  a  slice  of  tomato,  and  cover  with  the 
other  triangles  of  toast. 

Ham  Sandwiches. — Take  cold  boiled  ham  and  run  through  a 
food  chopper;  season  with  mustard,  cream,  or  salad  oil,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper ;  pour  into  it  some  melted  butter ;  mix 
all  smoothly  together  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Chicken  Sandwiches. — Take  cold  chicken  or  turkey  and  chop 


74 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


very  fine ;  mix  with  it  melted  butter,  cream,  salt,  cayenne  and 
white  pepper  and  celery  salt  or  mashed  celery  seed;  spread  be- 
tween slices  of  bread. 

Chicken  Salad  Sandwiches. — Between  two  thin,  oblong  slices 
of  bread,  buttered,  place  a  layer  of  chicken  salad  on  a  lettuce 
leaf.  In  making  chicken  salad  for  sandwiches,  chop  the  chicken 
and  celery  much  finer  than  for  ordinary  purposes. 

Apple  Sandwiches. — Two  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Be- 
tween them  place  a  thin  slice  of  a  tart  apple,  which  has  been 
steeped  for  an  hour  in  a  mixture  of  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches. — Thin,  oblong  slices  of  buttered  bread, 
with  a  filling  of  lettuce  leaf,  dipped  in  mayonnaise  and  sprinkled 
with  Parmesan  cheese. 

Salmon  Sandwiches. — Two  thin  slices  of  bread,  cut  triangular 
and  buttered.  Between  them  put  canned  salmon,  dressed  with 
lemon  juice  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

Sardine  Canapes. — Cut  bread  in  circular  pieces,  toast  and 
spread  with  sardines,  from  which  bones  have  been  taken  and 
the  meat  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  melted  butter;  add  a  few 
drops  of  Worcester  and  Tobasco  sauce  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper;  in  the  center  place  an  olive;  around  the  edge,  finely  ( 
chopped  white  of  egg. 

Caviar  Canapes. — Slice  bread  one  day  old  in  half-inch  slices. 
With  a  biscuit  cutter  stamp  it  into  rounds,  spread  with  butter, 
and  toast  in  the  oven.  Mix  some  caviar  with  lemon  juice  to 
taste.  Put  a  shrimp  in  the  center  of  each  round  of  bread, 
surround  with  a  thin  ring  of  caviar,  and  sprinkle  the  caviar 
with  the  yolk  of  hard  boiled  egg  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Serve 
on  lettuce. 

Sardine  Sandwiches. — One  box  French  sardines,  one  lemon, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  a  pinch  of  red  pepper;  free  the 
sardines  from  skin  and  bones;  chop  into  a  fine  paste;  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  seasoning  and  lastly  melted  butter.  Spread 
between  wafers  or  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


75 


Brown  Bread  Sandwich. — Cut  very  thin  slices  of  Boston 
brown  bread  in  any  shape  desired.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream 
very  stiff.  Stir  in  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  half  pound  of 
chopped  nuts.  Spread  on  the  thin  slices  of  bread. — Miss  Pattie 
Crook. 

Chocolate  Sandwiches. — Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate 
and  half  cup  sugar,  mix  with  a  little  water,  heat  to  a  thick  paste. 
Chop  fine  a  half-pint  of  nut  kernels,  walnuts,  hiekorynuts, 
almonds,  chestnuts,  or  any  desired  variety  will  do,  and  they 
may  be  mixed  if  one  chooses.  Stir  in  chocolate  paste  when 
cooling,  and  spread  thinly  between  narrow  reception  wafers. 
Let  harden. 

Sweetbread  Sandwiches. — Sweetbreads  can  be  prepared  in 
the  following  way  and  used  as  a  filling  for  sandwiches:  Take 
the  sweetbreads,  pulling  apart  into  small  bits,  cut  up  lettuce 
and  a  few  blanched  almonds,  the  latter  in  fine  pieces.  Prepare 
a  mayonnaise  dressing,  made  rather  dry;  mix  this  with  the 
sweetbread  salad,  which  of  course  consists  of  the  lettuce, 
almonds  and  sweetbreads.  Spread  on  slices  of  bread  in  the 
usual  way.  This  is  a  most  excellent  relish  and  will  repay  one 
for  the  trouble. 

Mint  Sandwiches. — Cut  square  slices  of  light  bread  very  thin, 
then  cut  them  diagonally  across,  making  triangles;  spread  on 
the  slices  enough  mayonnaise  to  hold  them  together,  and  in 
each  sandwich  place  two  or  three  fresh  mint  leaves.  Very 
delightful  to  serve  with  iced  tea  or  for  a  light  sandwich. 

Olive  Sandwiches — Is  a  unique  way  of  serving  olives  at  teas 
and  receptions.  Cut  the  flesh  from  the  stones  of  half  a  dozen 
queen  olives;  chop  it  fine,  add  to  it  a  scant  tablespoonful  of 
salad  dressing.  Mix  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread ;  form  the  sandwiches,  and  cut  into  small  squares.  Stuffed 
olives  are  very  appetizing  served  in  this  way. — Household 
Journal. 

Olive  Sandwiches. — Thin  slices  of  bread  cut  hexagon  shape. 


76 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Between  each  two  slices  place  a  layer  of  Neufchatel  cheese 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  equal  quantities  of  cream  and  salad 
dressing  and  covered  thickly  with  chopped  olives. 

Cheese  Sandwiches. — Equal  parts  grated  cheese  and  English 
walnut  meat  mixed  and  seasoned  with  a  little  salt  and  cay- 
enne. Mix  with  mayonnaise.  Use  on  buttered  bread.  Always 
butter  bread  before* you  slice  it  in  making  sandwiches,  and  be 
careful  to  slice  it  very  thin.  It  will  add  much  to  the  taste  as 
well  as  appearance  if  daintily  made. 

Cheese  Sandwiches. — One  hard  boiled  egg,  quarter  pound 
cheese  (grated),  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  one  tablespoon  vinegar  or  cold  water.  Take  the  yolk 
of  egg,  put  into  a  small  bowl  and  crumble  it  down;  put  into  it 
the  butter  and  mix  it  smooth  with  a  spoon.  Then  add  salt, 
pepper,  mustard  and  cheese,  mixing  well;  then  put  in  the  vine- 
gar, which  will  make  it  the  proper  thickness.  If  vinegar  is 
not  relished  use  cold  water  instead. 

Peanut  Sandwiches. — Half  cup  of  vinegar,  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
five  or  six  teaspoons  of  sugar,  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
one  small  cup  of  mashed  peanuts. 

Peanut  Sandwiches. — Use  freshly  parched  peanuts;  grind  in 
meat  chopper.  To  one  cup  of  ground  nuts  use  a  dessert  spoon- 
ful of  butter.  Melt  butter  and  rub  with  peanuts  until  a  paste 
is  formed.    Spread  on  bread. 

Peanut  Sandwiches. — Have  one  quart  of  roasted  peanuts  and 
grind  them  in  a  food  chopper ;  take  one  pint  new  milk  and  put 
with  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  tablespoon  flour  rubbed 
in ;  put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  it  thickens ;  add  salt  and 
cayenne  and  black  pepper  to  taste,  and  half  teaspoon  sugar ;  let 
it  cool  and  add  the  peanuts;  spread  between  slices  of  bread  and 
cut  in  any  shape  you  prefer. 

Sweet  Peanut  Sandwiches. — Half  cupful  grated  maple  sugar, 
quarter  cupful  chopped  roasted  peanuts,  one  tablespoonful  rich 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


77 


cream.  Stir  all  the  ingredients  together  well.  Use  between 
thin  buttered  slices  of  white  or  graham  bread.  Halves  of  the 
roasted  kernels  may  be  used  on  top  as  a  garnish. 

A  Good  Sandwich. — Get  the  French  rolls  that  are  so  delic- 
iously  crusty;  cut  out  from  the  top  a  circular  piece  of  crust, 
then  scoop  all  the  soft  part,  and  fill  with  either  creamed  chick- 
en, lobster,  sardine  salad,  or  any  of  those  appetizing  concoc- 
tions. It  is  very  necessary  that  the  mixture  be  well  seasoned 
and  moist  with  cream  sauce  of  mayonnaise. 

Nut  and  Chicken  Sandwich. — Chop  the  white  meat  of  a 
chicken  and  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  oil  and  lemon  juice.  Spread  thin  bits  of  bread  with 
butter,  and  press  into  the  butter  either  English  walnuts  or 
almonds,  sliced  very  thin.  Spread  the  corresponding  bits  of 
bread  with  the  chicken  and  press  the  pieces  together. 

Nut  Sandwiches. — Thin  slices  of  bread  cut  circular  and  but- 
tered. The  filling  should  be  made  of  chopped,  roasted  and 
salted  peanuts,  mixed  with  sufficient  mayonnaise  to  spread 
easily. 

Nut-Ginger  Sandwiches. — Take  three  long  thin  slices  of 
bread,  buttered.  Between  the  first  and  second  place  a  layer  of 
chopped,  preserved  ginger,  mixed  with  cream,  and  between  the 
second  and  third  slices  place  a  layer  of  chopped  English  wal- 
nuts. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Sandwiches. — Mash  to  a  paste  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  figs,  dates  or  raisins  and  nut  meats.  Moisten  with 
enough  whipped  cream  to  hold  together;  spread  on  thin,  but- 
tered bread.  If  boiling  water  is  poured  over  dates,  figs  or 
raisins  they  will  mash  easily. 

Maple  Sandwiches. — Take  an  equal  number  of  thin  slices  of 
white  bread  stamped  out  circular.  Butter  and  fill  with  maple- 
cream  and  place  together  in  pairs,  one  of  each  kind  of  bread. 

Maple  cream  is  prepared  is  follows:  Take  half  a  pound  of 
maple  sugar,  half  pound  of  brown  sugar,  half  cup  of  water 


78  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


and  half  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  these  together 
nntil  they  form  a  soft  ball  when  dipped  into  cold  water.  Pour 
out  into  a  shallow  platter  and  when  nearly  cold  beat  with  a 
fork  until  thick  and  creamy. 

Nasturtium  Sandwiches. — Wash  the  leaves;  spread  with  a 
layer  of  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  finely  ground 
English  walnut  meat.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  white 
bread.    Watercress  may  be  substituted. 

Tartare  Sandwiches. — Chop  three  sardines,  cup  of  boiled 
ham,  three  small  pickles  fine,  with  a  teaspoon  each  of  mustard, 
catsup,  vinegar;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Spread  on 
bread  cut  diagonally  across. 

Tartare  Sandwiches. — Chop  three  sardines,  one  cupful  of 
boiled  ham  and  three  small  cucumber  pickles  very  fine  and  mix 
them  with  a  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  catsup,  vinegar  and  a 
seasoning  of  salt  and  cayenne.  Spread  upon  buttered  bread, 
cut  diagonally  across. 

Divided  Crackers. — Two  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  twelve 
tablespoons  cream,  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per each  a  pinch ;  melt  together ;  spread  on  toasted  crackers. — 
Mrs.  John  H.  Gary. 


The  Jackson  Daily  Sun. 

Gives  the  News  the 
Same  Day  it  Happens 

BEST  ADVERTISING  MEDIUM 

Because  it  Reaches  More  Jackson 
Homes  than  Any  Other  Paper. 

Subscription  Price,  Forty  Cents  Per  Month. 

TRUSSEL  &  SIMMONS,  Proprietors. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


7!) 


SALADS. 

A  SALAD. 

It  looks  so  dainty — so  tempting, 

So  fit  for  the  taste  of  a  queen, 
Such  epicurean  colors, 

Such  garnishings  of  green. 
Such  art !   But  I  turn  from  it  bravely. 

I  dare  not  do  more  than  look. 
For  I  know,  were  I  but  to  taste  it, 

I  should  fall  in  love — with  the  cook. 

— Phila.  Butler  Bowman. 

Chicken  Salad. — Take  a  nice  large  hen  boiled  with  a  pod  of 
red  pepper  in  the  pot  (clip  it  carefully),  one  dozen  eggs  boiled 
hard,  drop  in  cold  water,  mash  the  yolks  carefully  and  one- 
third  as  much  mustard;  mix  them  together,  smooth  with  some 
good  vinegar ;  chop  the  whites  fine  and  add  to  the  chicken  and 
egg  combined,  half  cup  butter  creamed  well,  add  the  butter 
to  the  yolks  and  mustard ;  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt ; 
mix  all  carefully  and  add  vinegar  to  taste.  If  you  cannot  get 
celery  use  cabbage  with  celery  seed — one  teacup  soaked  in 
vinegar  over  night. — Mrs.  John  W.  Buford,  Sr. 

Chicken  Salad. — Boil  a  chicken  till  tender,  cut  into  small 
squares,  then  cut  into  squares  one  and  one-half  stalks  of  celery, 
and  add  one  pound  of  English  walnuts,  or  any  other  kind  you 
may  like,  and  mix  it  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  This  will  serve 
about  fifteen. — Mrs.  Tigrett. 

Chicken  Salad. — Choose  a  medium  sized  fowl,  boil  until 
tender,  then  remove  all  skins,  bones  and  gristles;  cut  up  the 
meat,  then  add  a  little  salt  and  the  white  part  of  a  bunch  of 


80  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


celery.  Toss  up  the  ingredients  until  light,  then  set  away  in  a 
cool  place  until  the  dressing  is  made.  Use  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing.—Mrs.  J.  N.  Fite. 

Chicken  Salad. — Two  large  cold  fowls  boiled  until  the  flesh 
slips  from  the  bones,  yolks  nine  hard  boiled  eggs,  half  pint 
salad  oil  or  melted  butter,  half  pint  vinegar,  one  gill  of  ground 
mustard,  a  small  spoonful  black  pepper,  same  of  salt,  six 
heads  of  celery.  Cut  or  grind  the  chicken  fine,  cut  the  celery 
in  squares,  mix  chicken  and  celery  together,  cover  and  set 
away.  Mash  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste.  Mix  them  with 
vinegar,  mustard,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly.  When 
the  dressing  is  sufficiently  mixed  cover  and  set  away.  Five 
minutes  before  serving  pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken  and 
celery  and  mix  well  together.  This  salad  is  excellent  made  of 
turkey.  Add  sugar  to  taste,  and  nuts,  and  the  whites  of  nine 
eggs  chopped  fine. 

Chicken  Salad. — Boil  chicken  till  tender,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Add  nearly  as  much  cut  celery,  six  hard  boiled  eggs  with  whites 
well  chopped,  and  the  yolks  mashed  and  mixed  with  two  table- 
spoons of  French  mustard.  Put  in  pickle,  salt  and  red  pepper 
to  taste,  and  mix  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  This  is  for  one 
chicken.   Nuts  may  be  added  if  preferred. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Mercer. 

Chicken  Salad  for  150. — A  fowl  weighing  three  and  one-half 
pounds  yields  one  pint  of  meat.  Rather  less  than  the  same 
measure  of  celery  is  called  for.  A  bunch  would  give  this  quan- 
tity, and  sometimes  more.  About  half  the  measure,  more  rather 
than  less,  of  the  combined  chicken  and  celery,  of  mayonnaise  is 
needed,  say  a  cup  and  a  half.  This  quantity  will  serve  from 
8  to  10  people.  To  serve  150,  multiply  by  15  and  the  quantity 
will  not  be  far  out  of  the  way — that  is,  52%  pounds  chicken, 
12  or  15  bunches  of  celery  and  6  quarts  mayonnaise. — Boston 
Cooking  School. 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Salad. — The  white  meat  of  a  boiled 
chicken  or  turkey  j  cut  fine  three-quarters  of  the  quantity  of 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


81 


chopped  celery.  One  teacup  of  pecan  meats,  four  hard  boiled 
eggs  cut  fine;  take  two  raw  eggs,  beat  well,  add  a  teaspoon 
each  of  salt,  pepper  and  made  mustard,  three  teaspoons  of 
melted  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  white  sugar  and  half  teacup 
of  vinegar.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cool  add  teacup  of  whipped  cream  and  mix  this  with  cut 
chicken,  celery  and  pecan,  meats. — Mary  E.  Timberlake. 

Canned  Chicken  Salad. — Open  can  of  chicken  and  shred  the 
meat  with  the  fingers.  Mix  with  half  the  quantity  of  finely  cut 
celery,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  a  bed  of 
lettuce.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg. 
Sweetbreads  or  mushrooms  or  both  are  sometimes  added  to 
chicken  salad.   A  few  capers  may  be  used  with  pleasing  effect. 

Chicken  Pilaff. — Clean  and  cut  up  one  can  of  chicken.  Cover 
with  boiling  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  till 
nearly  done.  Add  half  a  cup  of  well  washed  rice  to  the  chicken 
and  cook  till  the  rice  is  done.  Make  a  tomato  sauce  and  pour 
over  the  rice  and  chicken  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Knoxall  Salad — Chicken  Cream. — The  author  of  this  recipe 
won  second  prize — $200 — in  the  prize  recipe  contest  of  1904. — 
One  tablespoon  Knox's  gelatine,  quarter  cup  cold  chicken 
stock,  three-quarters  cup  hot  chicken  stock,  highly  seasoned, 
one  cup  heavy  cream,  one  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  dice, 
salt  and  pepper.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  stock,  dissolve  in 
hot  stock  and  strain.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  beat, 
using  an  egg  beater,  until  frothy;  then  add  cream  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  chicken  dice.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn 
into  quarter  pound  baking  powder  tins,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill. 

Salad  Dressing. — One  and  one-half  teaspoons  Knox's  gela- 
tine, two  tablespoons  cold  water,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  sugar,  quarter  teaspoon 
pepper,  few  grains  cayenne,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  quarter  cup 
lemon  juice,  half  cup  hot  cream,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 


82 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


butter,  whites  of  two  eggs,  half  cup  heavy  cream.  Soak  gela- 
tine in  cold  water  until  soft,  dissolve  by  standing  in  hot  water, 
then  strain.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and  add  salt,  sugar,  pepper, 
cayenne,  mustard,  lemon  juice  and  cream.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly,  then  add 
butter  and  gelatine.  Add  mixture  gradually  to  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff  and  when  cold  fold  in  cream  beaten  until  stiff. 
Mold  and  chill.  Turn  chicken  cream  from  molds,  cut  in  one 
inch  slices  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.  Put  a  spoonful  of 
salad  dressing  on  each  slice  and  garnish  with  one-half  English 
walnut  meat.  Cut  celery  in  small  pieces — there  should  be 
three  cupfuls.  Break  into  pieces  one  cup  pecan  or  English  wal- 
nut meats,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mix  celery  and  nut 
meats,  sprinkle  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  add  to  one- 
half  the  salad  dressing.  Surround  each  slice  of  chicken  cream 
with  celery  and  nut  mixture.  If  a  simpler  dish  is  required,  the 
celery  and  nuts  may  be  omitted. 

Oyster  Salad. — Two  dozen  fresh  oysters  or  two  cans  cove, 
one  can  salmon,  one  box  sardines,  one  tablespoon  each  of  mus- 
tard, sugar  and  butter,  one  cup  vinegar,  half  cup  milk;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed.  The  oysters  should  be  wiped 
dry  and  chopped  very  fine.    Slice  one  lemon  and  lay  on  top. 

Neapolitan  Salad. — Four  pounds  of  boiled  lean  pork,  two 
stalks  of  celery,  two  apples,  two  pickles,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
mince  meat,  half  pound  shelled  pecans.  This  all  chopped  to- 
gether with  cream  dressing  makes  a  delightful  salad.  Will 
serve  twenty-five  people. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Hirt. 

Tongue  Salad. — One  tongue  chopped  finely,  one  cup  mixed 
nuts,  two  apples  chopped  fine,  half  cup  celery,  one  teaspoonful 
celery  seed,  half  cup  seedless  raisins,  two  or  three  chopped 
pickles,  salt  and  pepper.  Dress  with  boiled  salad  dressing. — 
Mrs.  Madison. 

Tongue  Salad. — Boil  one  beef  tongue  in  salted  water  till 
thoroughly  done.   Eemove  the  skin  when  it  gets  cold.   Cut  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


83 


thick  part  in  thin  slices  for  lnnch.  Grind  the  rest  of  the  tongue 
in  a  meat  chopper,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add 
one  pound  of  English  walnuts  chopped.  Pour  over  all  mayon- 
naise dressing  and  mix  thoroughly.  This  is  fine  for  Sunday 
night  supper. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Savage. 

Shrimp  Salad. — One  can  shrimp,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chop- 
ped fine,  one  cup  chopped  celery,  half  cup  cucumber  pickle 
chopped  fine.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Season  highly 
with  white  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  of  prepared  must- 
ard (French  mustard).    Mix  well. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 

Salmon  Salad. — One  can  of  salmon,  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine,  a  pinch  of  salt,  add  cracker  crumbs  and  pickle  to 
suit  taste.   Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Salmon  Salad. — One  cup  of  vinegar,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  black  pepper  and  mustard,  a  little  salt ;  let  it  boil  until 
it  begins  to  thicken  and  stir  in  one  can  of  salmon. — Mrs.  G.  M. 
Savage. 

Celery  and  Sardine  Salad. — Cut  celery  into  one  inch  lengths, 
season  lightly  with  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar ;  serve  on  a  lettuce 
leaf  with  sardines  around  it.   Pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  it. 

Sardine  and  Celery  Salad. — Scrape  and  wash  the  celery; 
crisp  in  ice  water  to  which  has  been  added  the  juice  of  a 
lemon ;  then  cut  into  half  inch  lengths  and  heap  in  lettuce  cups 
for  individual  serving.  Rub  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  one  tablespoon  olive  oil  to  a  paste ;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  powdered  sugar ;  acid  vinegar  enough  to  make  the  mixture 
of  the  proper  consistency  and  pour  over  the  celery.  Garnish 
with  whole  sardines  and  serve  with  cheese  wafers. 

Sweetbread  Salad. — Boil  one  set  sweetbreads  tender,  then 
skin  and  cut  into  pieces  half  inch  square.  Cut  an  equal  amount 
of  celery.  Add  one  can  of  English  peas,  from  which  the  water 
has  been  strained,  " Richelieu"  brand  is  the  best.  Mix  with 
mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Isaac  Tigrett. 


84 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Good  Recipe  for  Waldorf  Salad. — Cut  enough  tender  celery 
to  make  a  cupful.  Cut  off  the  tops  of  six  pretty  red  apples 
and  with  a  spoon  scoop  out  the  inside ;  chop  fine  and  mix  it 
with  the  celery;  wrap  both  in  a  damp  cloth  and  put  them  in 
the  refrigerator  to  make  the  celery  crisp  and  to  prevent  dis- 
coloration of  the  apples.  Throw  the  shells  of  the  apples  into 
cold  water.  Put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  clean,  cold  soup- 
dish;  beat  them  a  little  with  a  fork;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  not 
more  than  half  a  saltspoonful,  and  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  olive- 
oil,  half  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time.  Stir  carefully  all  the  while 
until  you  have  a  thick,  custard-like  dressing.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  mix  it  with  the  apple  and  celery. 
Fill  into  apple  shells.  Stand  each  on  a  pretty  little  mat  in  the 
center  of  the  plate  and  put  them  in  the  refrigerator  until 
wanted  for  use. 

Waldorf  Salad. — Make  a  dressing  of  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  flour,  half  teaspoon  mustard,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  one  egg,  three  tablespoons  milk,  three  of  vinegar,  butter 
size  of  walnut — boil  till  thickens.  When  cool  pour  over  the 
meat  of  two  apples  chopped  fine,  two  stalks  of  celery  cut  fine 
and  two  cups  of  nut  kernels.  Serve  with  a  little  whipped  cream 
on  top.  Decorate  with  celery  leaves  and  English  walnut  ker- 
nels Very  fine.  If  apples  are  very  acid  the  dressing  may  re- 
quire a  little  more  sugar. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Adams. 

Deviled  Egg  Salad. — Boil  eggs  carefully  for  twenty  minutes, 
cut  into  halves  and  remove  yolks.  Put  yolks  through  sieve  and 
rub  to  a  paste  with  mayonnaise  dressing  sufficient  to  make  them 
smooth,  adding  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Beet  Salad. — One  quart  chopped  boiled  beets,  one  quart 
chopped  cabbage,  two  cups  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  black  pepper,  quarter  teaspoonful  red  pepper,  one 
cup  grated  horseradish,  vinegar  to  cover.  Put  in  stone  jar  to 
keep. 

Cucumber  Salad. — Slice  cucumbers  thin,  sprinkle  with  salt 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  85 


and  stand  half  hour.  Slice  onions  fine  and  lay  in  salted  water 
same  length  of  time.  Add  vinegar  and  pepper  and  cover  all 
with  sour  cream. 

Frozen  Cucumber  Salad. — Take  large  cucumbers  and  cut  in 
oblong  halves,  scrape  out  inside  into  a  pulp,  take  out  as  many 
seeds  as  possible,  then  chop  very  fine  celery,  onions  and  green 
pepper.  Make  mayonnaise  (and  use  lavishly)  with  equal  parts 
of  hard  boiled  and  raw  yolks.  Proportions — About  four  large 
cucumbers,  one  stalk  of  celery,  one  green  pepper,  one  large 
onion. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Harris. 

French  Salad. — Use  very  large  cucumber  pickle.  Take  out 
the  center  of  pickle,  cut  pickle  in  rings  of  about  quarter  inch 
thickness.  Stick  through  these  rings  asparagus  tips — the  blos- 
som ends  (which  have  been  cooked).  French  peas  are  put 
around  the  rings,  and  all  served  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Potato  Salad. — Four  hard  boiled  eggs,  four  large  sized  pota- 
toes, one  large  teacup  of  chopped  celery  or  cabbage,  one  tea- 
cup vinegar,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  salt  to 
taste.  Boil  vinegar,  mustard  and  sugar  together.  Beat  up  one 
egg  and  put  in  vinegar  while  boiling  on  stove,  also  stir  into 
vinegar  one  dessert  spoon  of  butter.  Let  boil  until  thick  like 
custard.  Let  cool.  Mix  the  potatoes,  celery  and  chopped  eggs. 
Pour  over  it  the  vinegar.  If  cabbage  is  used,  use  one  teaspoon 
mashed  celery  seed.  Excellent. 

Potato  Salad. — Boil  and  mash  four  potatoes,  add  minced 
onions  and  a  dressing  composed  of  the  yolks  of  three  hard 
boiled  eggs  mashed  and  mixed  with  three-quarters  teacup ful 
of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard  and  melted  butter, 
two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  mix  well  and  garnish 
with  the  whites  cut  in  rings,  and  lettuce. 

Irish  Potato  Salad.- — For  eight  persons  take  four  large  pota- 
toes and  two  large  onions.  Boil  potatoes  till  done,  then  beat 
until  very  light,  season  with  saltspoon  of  salt  and  black  pepper. 
Take  the  yolks  two  hard  boiled  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  one  raw 


86 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


one,  stir  till  perfectly  smooth,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  large 
tablespoon  butter.  Mix  the  mustard  with  the  eggs,  adding 
butter  slowly,  half  teacup  vinegar,  a  teaspoon  salt.  Chop  the 
hard  boiled  whites  fine  and  add  also.  Mix  well  with  potatoes. 
Garnish  with  tomatoes  and  parsley. 

Tomato  Salad. — Peel  as  many  medium  size  tomatoes  as  there 
are  persons  to  be  served.  Use  a  sharp  knife,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  stem  end  of  the  tomato,  about  as  large  as  a  fifty  cent  piece. 
Scoop  out  half  the  pulp,  leaving  enough  to  hold  the  toiSfto  in 
shape.  Mix  the  pulp  that  has  been  removed  with  twice  as  much 
celery  cut  fine,  and  half  its  bulk  in  finely  shredded  green  pep- 
pers. Fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture;  set  in  ice  box  one 
hour  to  chill.  Serve  each  tomato  on  lettuce  leaf  and  cover  the 
top  with  spoonful  of  stiff  mayonnaise. 

Green  Pepper  and  Tomato  Salad. — Crisp  lettuce  leaves  by 
laying  in  cold  water  half  hour.  Then  shake  dry  and  lay  on  ice. 
Take  the  sweet  green,  or  red  peppers,  with  scissors  cut  them  in 
ribbons,  lengthwise;  slice  tomatoes  on  the  lettuce  leaves  and 
sprinkle  the  pepper  ribbons  over  all.  Use  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Celery  may  be  used  in  this  salad  also. 

Tomato  Aspic. — Take  half  box  gelatine,  soak  in  cold  water; 
one  quart  can  tomatoes,  run  through  colander,  season  with 
salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  celery  salt,  then  add  to  gelatine.  Put 
on  fire  and  let  come  to  boiling  point ;  add  one  large  tablespoon 
Worcester  sauce.  Take  off  the  fire,  and  when  the  jelly  is  cold, 
and  beginning  to  form,  pour  into  molds.  Turn  out  and  serve 
with  a  garnish  of  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Keller. 

Tomato  Aspic. — Take  the  contents  of  a  quart  can  of  toma- 
toes or  its  equivalent  of  fresh  ones,  add  small  sliced  onion,  six 
cloves  and  half  cup  of  finely  chopped  celery.  Boil  all  together 
for  half  an  hour ;  strain ;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
then  add  one-third  of  a  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  previously  dis- 
solved in  a  little  boiling  liquid;  pour  into  small  cups  and  set 
away  to  congeal.    When  ready  to  use  turn  out  of  cup  on  let- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


87 


tuce  leaf  to  serve  with  thick  mayonnaise. — Mary  E.  Timber! ake-. 

Celery  Salad. — Four  large  stalks  celery,  four  oranges,  half 
cup  vinegar,  half  cup  water,  one  tablespoon  butter,  four  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  made  mustard,  one  teaspoon  white  pepper,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar  (or  more  if  desired).  Put 
the  vinegar  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove  until  it  boils. 
Have  the  eggs  well  beaten  with  the  mustard,  pepper,  salt  and 
sugar ;  then,  still  beating,  pour  the  hot  vinegar  on  it  and  return 
to  the  stove  in  a  double  boiler  and  let  it  cook  to  the  consis- 
tency of  cream.  Mix  with  celery  and  oranges — which  haA'e  been 
chopped  fine — first  adding  four  teaspoonfuls  of  whipped  cream. 
When  dressing  is  cold  pour  over  fruit  an  hour  before  using. 
If  acid  fruits  are  used  add  a  little  more  sugar. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Mer- 
cer. 

Tomato  and  Pineapple  Salad. — Arrange  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
on  platter  and  place  in  the  center  of  each  leaf  sliced  tomato,  al- 
ternating with  a  slice  of  canned  pineapple,  with  a  preserved 
cherry  in  the  middle  of  each  slice.  Marinate  with  French 
dressing.  This  salad  should  be  served  in  summer  as  cold  as 
possible. 

Banana  Salad. — Six  large  bananas,  half  pound  malaga 
grapes  (seeded),  quarter  pound  English  walnuts  (shelled). 
Use  cream  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Apple  Salad. — Three  teacups  of  apple  pared  and  cut  in 
small  blocks,  one  teacup  of  chopped  celery,  and  one  of  English 
walnuts  broken  in  bits.  Use  mayonnaise  dressing,  serve  on 
lettuce  leaf  and-  garnish  with  celery  tops.  If  you  like  apples, 
allow  an  apple  to  each  person  to  be  served. 

Apple  Salad. — Six  apples,  very  firm  ones,  one  can  sliced  pine- 
apple, quarter  pound  shelled  pecan  nuts;  slice  all  the  fruits 
thin,  removing  hard  parts  of  the  pineapple.  Break  nuts  in 
small  pieces,  and  add  dressing  (given  with  celery  salad)  from 
one  to  two  hours  before  using. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Apple  Salad. — Peel  and  grate  half  dozen  apples,  chop  fine  ' 


88  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


quarter  pound  of  celery,  quarter  pound  of  English  walnuts, 
three  bananas.  Mix  all  together.  Add  pinch  of  salt  and  sugar 
to  taste.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Gr.  M.  Savage. 

Pear  and  Nut  Salad. — Mix  quarter  pound  of  shelled  pecans 
with  quarter  pound  of  shelled  walnuts.  Mix  with  oil  salad 
dressing.  Serve  on  half  a  canned  pear  on  lettuce  leaf.  Put 
a  little  of  the  dressing  on  the  top. — Miss  Patty  Crook. 

French  Fruit  Salad. — One  head  lettuce,  one  dozen  English 
walnuts,  two  dozen  large  white  grapes,  three  bananas,  two  or- 
anges, half  pint  mayonnaise.  Peel  the  oranges,  divide  the  lobes 
and  cut  each  lobe  into  three  pieces,  removing  the  seed.  Skin 
the  white  grapes  with  a  very  sharp  knife  and  remove  the  seed. 
Shell  and  halve  the  walnuts.  Slice  bananas  with  a  silver  knife. 
Arrange  the  fruit  on  the  lettuce,  rejecting  all  leaves  but  the 
most  crisp  and  delicate.  Cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
serve  ice  cold. 

American  Beauty  Salad. — Cut  in  small  pieces  equal  parts  of 
tart  apples,  oranges,  fresh  pineapple  and  celery.  Put  in  after 
dinner  coffee  cups.  Pour  over  some  lemon  jelly,  colored  with 
the  red  coloring  found  in  gelatine  boxes,  also  add  a  little  of 
Price's  fruit  color,  to  give  the  desired  red.  When  firm,  turn 
out  on  lettuce  leaves.  Press  half  an  English  walnut  on  top  and 
serve  with  stiff  mayonnaise  made  with  plenty  of  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Gov.  Folk. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad. — Cut  three  grape  fruits  in  half,  crosswise. 
With  a  sharp  knife  cut  out  the  meat  so  that  it  can  be  cut  in 
blocks  if  possible.  Pare  and  cut  in  blocks  two  or  three  apples, 
quarter  pound  of  nuts,  either  pecans  or  walnuts,  quarter  pound 
of  white  grapes,  about  half  a  bunch  of  celery.  Take  the  small- 
est, curliest  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  line  the  six  half  grape 
fruits  with  it.  Mix  the  salad  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  serve  in  the  lettuce  lined  cases. — Miss  Pattie  Crook. 

Fruit  Salad. — One  can  sliced  pineapple  (drain  juice  off), 
cut  in  dice  and  put  in  bottom  of  salad  dish,  half  pound  English 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


80 


Dabney 
Furniture  Co. 

127-129  E.  College  St. 
Jackson,  Tenn. 

$30,000  of  Furniture, 
Carpets,  Curtains,  Stoves. 


DILLINGHAM'S 
Meat  Market, 

Dealer  in 

Fresh  and  Smoked  Meats 
of  All  Kinds, 

Produce  and  Fruits. 
542  E.  Chester  St.        Phone  53. 


walnuts  (break  in  bits),  quarter  pound  of  malaga  grapes  (cut 
in  two  and  remove  seed).  Over  this  put  one  cup  of  salad 
dressing.  Just  before  serving  put  over  this  one  or  one  and  one- 
half  cups  whipped  cream.  Pick  one  large  orange  to  pieces  and 
stick  about  in  the  cream,  and  quarter  pound  candied  cherries. 
Serve  with  Long  Branch  wafers. — Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Cream  Dressing  for  Fruit  Salad. — Half  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt,  mustard,  flour,  three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg 
slightly  beaten,  two  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
three-quarters  cup  of  cream,  and  slowly  add  quarter  cup  of 
vinegar.  Cook  over  boiling  water  until  mixture  thickens,  stir- 
ring constantly. — Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Salad  Dressing. — Two  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
one  small  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly.  When  thick  add  half  cup  cream  if 
possible.   It  is  all  right  without. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Madison. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing. — One  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  cream, 
one  tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  mustard,  a  speck  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  four  eggs.  Beat  eggs.  Beat  butter,  salt,  mustard 
and  sugar  together  and  add  to  the  eggs,  then  the  vinegar,  then 
the  cream.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  and  steam  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  If  you  have  not  cream,  use  milk  and  add 
the  yolk  of  another  egg. 

Olive  Oil  Salad  Dressing.— Yolk  of  one  egg,  half  teaspoon 


90 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


mustard,  half  salt  spoon  of  red  pepper,  one  of  black  pepper, 
half  spoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt.  Stir  till  mixed;  pour  in 
oil  drop  by  drop  till  thick  so  you  can  cut,  then  about  half  tea- 
spoon of  vinegar  to  thin  it,  then  oil  again  drop  by  drop  till 
thick,  then  half  spoon  of  vinegar.  After  having  used  vinegar 
twice,  alternate  the  olive  oil  with  lemon  juice,  thinning  with 
lemon  juice  and  thickening  it  with  the  olive  oil,  each  several 
times. — Miss  Patty  Crook. 

Shrimp  Salad  Dressing. — Two  eggs,  one  wineglass  oil  to 
each  egg,  quarter  teacup  cream,  half  saltspoon  salt  to  each  egg,, 
half  teaspoon  mustard,  half  lemon  to  each  egg,  capers  to  taste. 
In  mixing,  beat  oil  into  eggs,  a  drop  at  a  time;  then  lemon, 
cream  and  salt  ;  lastly  the  capers.  Pour  over  salad,  using  salt. 
Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  whole  shrimp. 

Dressing  for  Slaw. — Two-thirds  cup  vinegar,  two-thirds  cup 
cream,  butter  size  walnut,  one  tablespoon  mixed  mustard,  one 
tablespoon  celery  seed,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  until 
thick  and  when  cold  pour  over  chopped  cabbage. 

Dressing  for  Slaw. — One  teacup  vinegar,  one  egg,  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  one  teaspoon  each  of  mustard  and  salt,  butter 
size  of  egg.    Mix  well  and  boil. 

Dressing  for  Lettuce. — Half  glass  vinegar,  tablespoon  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  mustard.  Put  on  the  fire  and 
let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  on  to  two  eggs  beaten  separately;  take 
off  at  once. 

Dressing  for  Lettuce. — Half  cup  good  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  yolks  two  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed  to  a  paste 
with  one  teaspoon  butter  and  half  teaspoon  mustard,  two-thirds 
teaspoon  salt.  Mix  together  and  pour  over  shredded  lettuce 
just  before  it  is  to  be  served. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  teacup  of 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  mix  salt  and  mustard  in  a  half  cup  of  vinegar,  three- 
quarters  of  cup  of  cream,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar.    Beat  eggs 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


91 


first,  then  put  in  butter  and  beat  till  smooth ;  add  mustard  and 
salt  and  vinegar  and  then  cream.  Set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  cook  till  it  thickens.  Pour  off  and  set  in  a  cool  place. — 
Mary  E.  Timberlake. 

Mayonnaise. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  cup  vinegar,  half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  mustard  and  salt  to  taste,  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  whipped  cream.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick,  and  when  cold  stir  in  cream. — Mrs.  Thos. 
Polk. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Yolks  of  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  three  cups  of  butter- 
milk. Mix  cold,  then  put  over  the  fire.  When  boiling  add  one 
more  cup  of  buttermilk,  to  which  has  been  added  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour.    Cook  till  thick. — Mrs.  P.  C.  Callahan. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Put  in  saucepan  a  lump  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg.  When  melted  add  one  tablespoonful  flour,  and 
when  smooth  add  one  teacup  milk  or  water ;  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Have  ready  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teacupful  vinegar,  one 
teaspoonful  sugar,  half  salt  and  one  scant  teaspoonful  Cole- 
man's mustard.  Stir  in  with  other  ingredients  in  saucepan, 
and  when  it  thickens  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  strain  and 
set  aside  to  cool. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — One  teacup  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  mustard,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar,  or  more  if  desired.  Mix  these  ingredients,  adding  a  cup 
of  sweet  milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Boil  in  double  boiler 
until  thick,  then  add  half  cup  of  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Edenton. 

Prepared  Mustard. — Take  three  teaspoons  mustard,  one  of 
flour,  half  teaspoon  sugar.  Pour  boiling  water  on  these  and 
mix  into  a  smooth  thick  paste ;  when  cold  add  vinegar  enough 
to  make  ready  for  use,  and  serve  with  salt. 

Mustard  Dressing. — Half  box  mustard,  yolks  three  eggs,  one 


92  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  pod  of  red 
pepper,  one  pint  good  vinegar;  mix  all  smoothly  together,  put 
into  a  saucepan  and  set  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  on  hot  fire ; 
cook  till  it  thickens.  This  will  keep  for  months  in  a  cool 
place.   It  is  nice  for  cold  meats  and  for  mixing  quick  salads. 

Cucumber  Aspic. — Peel  and  grate  two  large  cucumbers,  salt 
and  let  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  strain.  One  box 
of  gelatine,  soak  in  pint  of  cold  water,  pour  in  pint  of  boiling 
water;  mix  with  cucumber,  season  with  juice  of  one  lemon; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  strain  through  cloth. — Mrs.  T.  H. 
Temple. 

Tomato  Jelly. — One  cup  of  tomatoes,  one  bay  leaf,  six  cloves, 
three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper  and  a  pinch 
of  white  pepper,  three-quarters  box  of  gelatine  (soak  in  water). 
Put  in  tomatoes  while  hot  and  strain  through  sieve  and  set 
away  to  congeal.  For  a  salad  put  in  chopped  chicken  and 
pecans.   Serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Harris. 

Drawn  Butter. — Rub  together  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  half 
cup  butter;  put  into  a  saucepan  and  add  one  cup  cold  water. 
Cover  and  set  in  a  large  vessel  of  boiling  water;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  keep  moving  the  dish  and  when  thoroughly 
mixed  take  it  off.  Do  not  let  boil.  Using  milk  instead  of  water 
makes  it  a  cream  sauce. 

Salted  Almonds. — To  each  half  pint  blanched  almonds  add 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  one  teaspoon  fine  salt.  Spread 
in  a  pan,  bake  twenty  minutes  in  rather  cool  oven.  Spread  on 
plates  to  cool. 


HO  AY  AVE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


93 


VEGETABLES. 

"Study  simplicity  in  the  number  of  dishes,  and  variety  in 
the  character  of  the  meals." — Sel. 

MEDICINAL  PROPERTIES  IN  FOODS. 

Lettuce  and  cucumbers  assist  in  cooling  the  blood. 

Raw  onions  are  good  for  insomnia,  and  cooked  onions  or 
onion  soup  is  an  excellent  remedy  in  debility  of  the  digestive 
organs. 

Tomatoes  are  good  for  torpid  liver. 

Spinach  and  dandelion  are  considered  excellent  for  the 
kidneys. 

Celery  is  a  good  tonic  for  the  nerves. 

Beans  are  considered  one  of  the  most  nutritious  and  strength- 
ening of  vegetables. 

Beets,  turnips  and  potatoes  are  fattening. 

TIME  REQUIRED  FOR  COOKING  SOME  OF  MORE  COM- 
MONLY USED  VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  baked,  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Potatoes,  steamed,  twenty  to  forty  minutes. 

Potatoes,  boiled  in  jackets,  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes 
after  water  is  fairly  boiling. 

Potatoes,  pared,  about  twenty  minutes  if  of  medium  size ; 
if  very  large,  twenty-five  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Green  corn,  young,  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 

Peas,  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

Asparagus,  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes  if  young;  if  old,  thirty 
to  fifty  minutes. 

String  beans,  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes,  or  longer. 


94 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Beets,  boiled,  one  hour  if  young;  if  old,  two  to  three  hours. 

Parsnips,  young,  forty-five  minutes. 

Turnips,  one  to  two  hours. 

Cabbage,  young,  one  hour;  old,  two  hours. 

Celery,  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Squash,  sixty  minutes. 

Turnips. — Wash,  peel,  cut  in  thin  slices  across  the  grain,  and 
put  in  kettle  with  a  piece  of  fresh  pork.  When  the  water  has 
stewed  down  low,  mash  the  turnips  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Set  back  on  the  range  and  stir  frequently  until  the 
water  is  all  dried  out.  Do  not  boil  too  long,  as  they  are  much 
sweeter  when  cooked  quickly.  They  will  require  from  forty 
minutes  to  one  hour  to  cook. 

Turnip  Salad. — First  boil  a  piece  of  bacon  or  jowl  one-half 
hour,  then  add  salad;  boil  one  hour  or  more,  till  tender.  Dip 
out  with  perforated  skimmer,  lay  in  deep  dish,  cover  with- 
nicely  poached  eggs,  or  serve  eggs  on  another  dish  if  preferred'. 

Cornfield  Peas. — Boil  a  piece  of  meat  one  hour.  Put  in  the 
peas,  boil  one  hour  or  more,  adding  salt  just  before  they  are 
done.    Drain  and  serve. 

To  Boil  Green  Peas. — Shell  and  lay  your  peas  in  cold  water 
till  half  hour  before  dinner.  Then  put  in  boiling  water  and 
boil  half  hour  steadily.  Add  a  little  salt  just  before  taking 
them  from  the  fire.  Drain,  add  tablespoon  fresh  butter  and 
put  in  covered  dish. 

Creamed  Peas. — Put  two  level  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  two 
of  flour  in  a  saucepan ;  warm  just  a  little ;  mix  until  smooth ; 
add  one  cupful  of  milk ;  stir  until  boiling.  Open  a  can  of  peas ; 
turn  them  into  the  colander  and  pour  over  a  little  cold  water; 
drain,  turn  them  into  the  cream  sauce ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  stand  them  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  heat. 

Green  Peas. — Shell  peas  and  wash  in  cold  water;  cook  in 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  keep  them  from  burning;  boil 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


1)5 


one-half  hour  and  do  not  put  salt  in  till  they  are  tender,  as  it 
tends  to  harden  them,  Season  with  a  good  allowance  of  but- 
ter. A  little  milk  may  be  added  if  desired. 

To  Dress  Cucumbers  Raw. — They  should  be  as  fresh  from 
the  vine  as  possible,  few  vegetables  being  more  unwholesome 
when  long  gathered.  As  soon  as  they  are  brought  in,  lay 
them  in  cold  water.  Just  before  they  are  to  go  to  the  table 
take  them  out,  pare  them  and  slice  them  into  a  pan  of  fresh 
cold  water.  When  they  are  all  sliced,  transfer  them  to  a  deep 
dish;  season  them  with  a  little  salt  and  black  pepper,  and 
pour  over  them  some  of  the  best  vinegar.  You  may  mix  with 
them  a  small  quantity  of  sliced  onions,  not  to  be  eaten,  but  to 
communicate  a  slight  flavor  of  onion  to  the  vinegar. — White 
House  Cook  Book. 

Fried  Cucumbers. — Pare  them  and  cut  lengthwise  in  very 
thick  slices,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  in  lard  and  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  each  mixed; 
brown  both  sides  and  serve  warm. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. — Cut  cabbage  in  four  parts  and  tie  up  in  a 
cloth.  Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender  and  white.  Make  a 
dressing  as  for  a  fowl,  using  one  beaten  egg,  one  small  lump  of 
butter,  equal  parts  of  flour  and  meal,  soda  and  sour  milk  as 
required.  Cook  this  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  little  butter. 
When  cabbage  is  done,  put  dressing  in  between  the  leaves  of 
cabbage,  tie  up  again  and  let  cook  ten  minutes.  Take  out,  lay 
on  strainer  over  pot  and  let  all  water  drain  off.  Serve  with 
drawn  (melted)  butter,  or  a  cream  sauce  made  of  sweet  milk, 
little  flour  and  butter,  seasoned  to  taste.  Small  bits  of  ham 
grated  and  added  to  the  dressing  is  an  improvement. — Mrs.  T. 
H.  Temple. 

Escaloped  Cabbage. — Put  on  stove  in  a  vessel  with  little  cold 
water,  about  half  small  head  of  cabbage,  cut  in  slices.  Let 
boil  until  entirely  tender,  then  chop  fine.  Beat  in  a  porcelain 
pan  one  egg,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  teaspoon  of  sugar, 


96 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


butter  size  of  walnut  (melted),  half  cup  sweet  milk.  Stir 
cabbage  into  this,  also  a  large  teaspoon  of  flour  made  to  a 
paste  with  milk.  Season  with  black  or  cayenne  pepper.  Bake 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  until  slightly  brown.  Serve  from  dish. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Cabbage  Boiled. — Great  care  is  requisite  in  cleaning  a  cab- 
bage for  boiling,  as  it  frequently  harbors  insects.  Large  drum- 
head cabbage  requires  an  hour  to  boil;  the  green  cabbage  will 
boil  in  twenty  minutes.   Add  considerable  water  when  boiling. 

Fried  Cabbage. — Select  a  nice  cabbage;  chop  it  very  fine; 
put  into  a  frying  pan  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork;  fry 
until  done,  then  turn  in  the  chopped  cabbage,  sprinkle  with  a 
little  salt  and  fry  slowly  until  done. — Mrs.  P.  R.  Bray. 
Do  not  let  a  cabbage  boil  too  long. 

Cauliflower. — When  washed  drop  them  into  boiling  water, 
into  which  you  have  put  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  or  a  slice 
of  bread ;  boil  till  tender ;  take  off,  drain  and  dish  them.  Serve 
with  a  sauce  spread  over  and  made  with  melted  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  grated  nutmeg  and  vinegar.  Before  cooking  loosen 
the  leaves  of  a  head  of  cauliflower  and  let  lie  top  downward  in 
a  pan  of  cold  salt  water  to  remove  any  insects  hidden  between 
them. 

Brown  Hashed  Potatoes. — Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  melt  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  a  fryingpan;  when  hot  turn  in  potatoes,  pat 
down  with  a  spoon,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes; 
turn  out  in  omelet  shapes  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve. 

Potatoes. — The  best  way  to  cook  Irish  potatoes  is  to  put  them 
in  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  leaving  the  skins 
on.  Let  them  boil  steadily  till  done.  When  nearly  done,  put 
in  a  little  salt ;  remove  the  skins  while  hot,  and  just  as  you  are 
going  to  send  to  the  table,  pour  over  melted  butter.  A  very 
poor  potato  cooked  in  this  way,  and  pressed,  while  hot,  in  a 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


97 


coarse  cloth,  will  be  mealy;  and  if  mashed  with  a  little  butter, 
cream,  or  milk,  you  can  not  tell  it  from  the  best.  Potatoes 
should  not.be  served  in  a  covered  dish,  as  the  condensing  of 
the  steam  makes  them  clammy. 

Another  Way. — Pare  the  potatoes  very  thin,  as  the  best  of 
the  potato  is  near  the  skin ;  put  in  sufficient  boiling  water, 
salted,  to  cover  them.  When  done,  pour  off  the  water,  allow- 
ing them  a  little  hard,  and  set  back  on  the  stove  to  dry,  with 
the  cover  of  the  vessel  removed  to  aid  evaporation,  or  a 
towel  over  the  top  to  absorb  vapor.   Boil  half  an  hour. 

New  Potatoes. — Rub  off  the  skins  with  a  coarse  towel  in  cold 
water;  put  them  in  boiling  water;  cook  twenty  minutes;  drain 
off  the  water,  sprinkle  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour 
over  melted  butter  or  cream. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. — Pare  and  cut  Irish  potatoes  very  thin; 
put  them  in  cold  water  to  soak.  When  ready,  take  them  out 
of  the  water  and  wipe  them  dry,  as  they  will  not  brown  if 
they  are  not  well  dried.  Have  your  lard  about  as  you  would 
for  frying  doughnuts,  dropping  in  about  two  handfuls  at  a 
time,  stirring  all  the  time,  so  that  they  will  brown  evenly. 
The  quicker  they  are  cooked — so  that  they  do  not  burn — the 
better  they  are.  Add  a  little  salt  when  you  take  them  out  of 
the  fat.    Take  out  with  a  wire  egg  beater. 

Texas  Potatoes. — Boil  Irish  potatoes,  mash,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Mince  a  large  onion  fine  and  mix  through 
the  potatoes.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  smooth  over  the  top,  dot 
with  bits  of  butter  and  put  in  the  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  J. 
L.  Newsom. 

Potato  Croquettes. — One  quart  Irish  potatoes,  mashed  hot; 
small  onion  grated;  four  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  two 
teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley;  white  Singapore;  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Mix,  form  into  balls,  roll  in  egg,  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  egg  again  and  crumbs  again.  Pry  in  hot  lard  a  deli- 
cate brown.   Menu  for  five  persons. 


98  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Scalloped  Potatoes. — Slice  raw  potatoes  thin;  place  in  a  pud- 
ding dish,  after  each  layer  pepper  and  salt  and  butter;  when 
the  dish  is  fnll  pour  in  a  cup  of  milk  and  bake  nearly  one 
hour.  Dredge  flour  over  each  layer  except  the  top  one.  But- 
ter the  dish  well  before  using. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Vandenbrook. 

Riced  Potatoes. — Cream  and  season  potatoes,  then  run  them 
through  a  three-cornered  Irish  potato  masher,  and  serve  with 
a  lump  of  butter  in  the  center.  A  very  pretty  way  to  serve 
them  on  special  occasions. 

Deviled  Potatoes. — Wash  some  large,  smooth  Irish  potatoes. 
Cut  off  one  end  and  bake  well  done  with  the  jackets  on.  After 
cooked,  take  out  the  inside  and  cream,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter  and  a  little  mustard.  Then  stuff  this  back  in  jackets, 
put  back  in  the  oven  and  let  stay  long  enough  to  get  real  hot. 
Serve  while  hot. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Newsom. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. — Fill  a  pan  with  thinly  sliced  sweet  po- 
tatoes, cover  with  new  milk  and  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter, 
season  to  taste  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  half  an  hour. — Mrs.  J. 
L.  Newsom. 

Boiled  Potatoes  (in  jackets). — Choose  potatoes  of  uniform 
size;  wash  and  scrub  them  with  a  brush,  dig  out  all  eyes  and 
rinse  in  cold  water;  cook  in  just  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning  till  easily  pierced  with  a  fork,  not  till  they  have  burst 
the  skin  and  fallen  to  pieces.  Drain,  take  out  potatoes  and 
place  them  in  oven  for  five  minutes  and  they  will  be  dry  and 
mealy. — Battle  Creek. 

Roasted  Potatoes. — Potatoes  are  much  more  rich  and  mealy 
roasted  than  cooked  any  other  way;  wash  carefully  and  dry 
them,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  a  fork  will  easily  pierce 
them;  turn  them  about  occasionally.  When  done,  press  each 
one  till  it  bursts  slightly,  as  that  will  allow  the  steam  to  escape 
and  prevent  potatoes  from  becoming  soggy.  Serve  at  once  in 
a  folded  napkin  placed  in  a  hot  dish. — Battle  Creek. 

Potato  Rissoles. — Mash  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


!)!) 


if  desired  add  a  little  parsley.  Roll  potatoes  into  small  balls, 
cover  them  with  an  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
for  about  two  minutes.  Finely  minced  ham  or  tongue  may  be 
added  with  good  effect. 

Potato  Balls. — Work  into  a  cupful  of  cold  mashed  potato  a 
teaspoonful  melted  butter;  when  the  mixture  is  white  and 
light  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  season  to  taste.  Make 
into  balls  between  your  floured  palms,  roll  thickly  in  flour,  and 
fry  in  plenty  of  hot  dripping.  Take  up  with  a  split  spoon, 
shake  off  the  fat,  and  pile  on  a  hot  dish. 

Creamed  Potatoes. — Peel  and  boil  white  mealy  potatoes  in 
salt  water  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  mash  thoroughly, 
add  salt,  butter,  a  little  cream  and  beat  till  very  light. 

Potato  Snowballs. — If  the  potatoes  are  large,  cut  them  into 
quarters;  if  small,  leave  them  whole;  drop  them  into  just 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  When  tender,  drain  and  dry 
in  the  usual  way.  Take  up  two  or  three  pieces  at  a  time  in  a 
strong  clean  cloth  and  with  the  hands  squeeze  them  tightly 
together  in  the  shape  of  balls.  Serve  hot  with  melted  butter. 
In  having  good  Irish  potatoes,  everything  depends  on  having 
all  the  things  used  in  their  preparation  hot,  and  in  their  being 
served  immediately. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. — Bake  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  cut  in 
halves  and  without  breaking  the  skin,  scoop  out  the  potato  in 
a  hot  bowl.  Mash,  add  a  little  butter,  half  cup  hot  milk,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff  and  mix 
it  with  the  potato.  Fill  the  skins  with  the  potato  mixture, 
heaping  it  slightly  on  the  top.  Add  grated  cheese,  return  to 
oven  and  brown  slightly. 

Baked  Irish  Potatoes. — Bake  Irish  potatoes  till  done ;  care- 
fully remove  potato  from  jacket  by  cutting  a  small  piece  off  of 
each  end.  Cream  thoroughly,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  add  cream,  and  a  little  prepared  mustard.  Stuff  the 
potato  in  jacket  with  a  small  bit  of  butter  on  each  end;  put  in 
stove  and  brown  quickly. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

LOf  C. 


100 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Baked  Irish  Potatoes. — Cream  potatoes  nicely,  put  the  po- 
tatoes in  a  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  return  to  the  oven  just 
long  enough  to  brown  nicely,  and  serve  at  once. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — Boil  three  potatoes,  peel  and  run  through 
a  colander — add  a  lump  of  butter,  a  little  rich  cream  and  half 
cup  of  nuts  chopped  fine.  Round  up  on  a  plate  and  bake  a 
few  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Keller. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. — Wash,  and  bake  in  the  oven  with 
the  skins  on.  When  done,  serve  without  peeling.  When  roast- 
ing beef  or  pork,  peeled  sweet  potatoes  laid  in  the  same  pan 
around  the  meat,  and  allowed  to  cook  in  the  gravy,  are  very 
nice.  When  cooked  in  this  way,  the  potatoes,  if  large,  should 
be  cut  through  the  length,  so  as  to  get  thoroughly  done. 

Sweet  Potato  Cakes. — Take  the  inside  of  cold  sweet  potatoes, 
form  into  small  round  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in 
butter. 

To  Fry  Sweet  Potatoes. — Parboil  the  potatoes,  peel,  cut  in 
slices  and  fry  brown  in  boiling  lard.    Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. — Boil  potatoes  nearly  done,  peel 
and  cut  in  slices;  put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  bits  of  butter  dotted 
over  them  and  sprinkle  them  well  with  sugar.  Add  another 
layer  of  potatoes,  butter  and  sugar,  until  the.  dish  is  full.  Add 
very  little  water  and  bake. 

Corn  Fritters. — Four  ears  of  corn  grated,  one  egg,  table- 
spoon flour,  a  little  sweet  milk.  Have  a  saucepan  with  smoking 
hot  grease  and  drop  from  a  spoon  just  enough  at  one  time  for 
a  fritter. 

Stewed  Corn. — Take  one  dozen  ears  of  green,  sweet  corn, 
very  tender,  cut  off  the  kernels,  cutting  with  a  sharp  knife 
from  the  top  of  the  cob  down;  then  scrape  the  cob.  Put  the 
corn  into  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  just  enough  water  to 
make  it  cook  without  burning;  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  add 
cup  of  milk  or  cream,  tablespoon  of  cold  butter,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.    Boil  ten  minutes  longer  and  dish  up  hot. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


101 


Corn  Pudding. — Twelve  ears  of  corn  grated,  add  whites  and 
yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  the 
same  of  flour  mixed  up  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  salt, 
one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs. 
Sam  Lancaster. 

Green  Corn  Boiled. — Strip  off  the  husks,  pick  out  all  the 
silk,  and  put  in  boiling  water,  but  no  salt ;  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Fried  Squash. — Use  the  crook-neck  squash;  slice  crosswise, 
very  thin,  lay  in  salt  water,  wipe  them  on  a  towel,  dip  in  meal 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  As  you  take  them  out  lay  them  on  wrap- 
ping paper  just  a  moment  to  absorb  the  grease. — Very  fine. 

Squash. — Peel,  cut  and  boil  the  squash  in  salted  water  till 
tender;  drain  and  mash  smoothly,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter. 

Parsnips. — Boil  for  one  hour  or  until  tender.  Throw  into 
cold  water  and  remove  the  skins.  Cut  into  slices  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  melted  butter;  then  roll  in  flour 
and  fry  in  butter  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Or  the  parsnips 
may  be  mashed,  seasoned  and  served  with  butter. 

Parsnip  Fritters. — Boil  four  or  five  parsnips.  When  tender 
take  off  the  skin  and  mash  them,  then  add  half  teacup  sweet 
milk  and  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  lard  in  frying  pan  over  the  fire, 
and  drop  from  a  spoon ;  fry  brown. 

Oyster  Plant. — Wash  the  roots,  scrape  them,  throw  them  in 
cold  water;  then  cut  crosswise  in  thin  slices,  throw  into  fresh 
water  enough  to  cover,  add  a  little  salt  and  stew  one  hour  in 
covered  vessel.  Pour  off  water,  add  a  little  milk,  butter  and 
pepper.   Boil  up  and  serve  hot. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. — Place  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  peeled  tomatoes  sliced,  with  bits 
of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  then  bread  crumbs,  tomato, 
and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  bread  crumbs  on 
top.   Place  in  the  oven  and  bake. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Vandenbrook. 


102  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Spanish  Way  to  Cook  Tomatoes. — Peel  a  dozen  ripe  toma- 
toes and  fry  in  bntter  with  two  or  three  sliced  green  peppers; 
sprinkle  on  a  little  salt;  add  an  onion  and  cook  well  together. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each,  and 
scoop  out  pulp.  Mince  one  small  onion,  fry  slightly,  add  one 
gill  hot  water,  tomato  pulp,  two  ounces  cold  veal  or  chicken 
chopped  fine,  simmer  slowly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
stir  in  enough  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs  to  absorb  mois- 
ture; take  off  fire  and  let  cool,  stuff  the  tomatoes,  small  piece 
of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  bake  until  sligthly  browned. — Mrs. 
A.  H.  Ellington. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Pour  boiling  water  over  one  dozen  ripe 
tomatoes;  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Peel  off  skins,  slice  and 
cook  about  twenty  minutes  in  saucepan;  then  add  tablespoon 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Stew  fifteen  minutes  longer  and  serve 
hot.  Or  if  desired  turn  them  into  a  baking  dish  and  put  bits  of 
light  bread,  cut  in  squares,  in  the  tomatoes,  adding  a  tiny  bit 
of  butter  and  sugar  to  each  piece.  Set  in  the  oven  just  long 
enough  to  toast  the  bread. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Cut  the  tops  from  six  choice  tomatoes 
and  scoop  the  meat  out  with  a  spoon.  Mix  with  meat  and 
juice  of  tomato  one-quarter  pound  of  chopped  nuts,  half  cup 
of  chopped  nuts,  quarter  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Dissolve  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  and  mix  with  the 
ingredients.  Set  on  ice  till  it  begins  to  stiffen,  then  fill  the 
tomatoes  with  it  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  little  more 
mayonnaise  dressing  if  desired. — Miss  Pattie  Crook. 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Lobster. — Peel  tomatoes  and  scoop 
out  the  meat,  leaving  enough  to  keep  the  shape.  Chop  the  to- 
matoes, season  with  salt,  black  pepper,  cayenne  pepper,  and  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Mix  well  with  the  lobster,  and  add  an  oil 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Then  refill  the  tomatoes  and  place  on 
ice.  Serves  six  people,  and  is  delicious. — Eleanor  Freeman 
Lancaster. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


103 


Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes. — From  the  blossom  end  of  a  dozen 
smooth,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  a  thin  slice  and  with  a  small  spoon 
scoop  ont  the  pulp  without  breaking  the  rind;  chop  a  small 
head  of  cabbage  and  a  good  size  onion  fine,  and  mix  with  them 
fine  bread  crumbs  and  the  pulp;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
sugar  and  a  cup  of  cream.  When  all  is  well  mixed,  fill  the 
tomato  shells,  replace  the  slices  and  place  the  tomatoes  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  put  in  pan  just  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning;  drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  tomato 
and  bake  half  hour  or  so,  till  well  done.  Place  another  bit  of 
butter  on  each,  and  serve  in  same  dish.  Very  fine. — Mrs.  A.  H. 
Ellington. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Put  one  quart  tomatoes  on  to  stew  in  an 
iron  skillet;  allow  it  to  cook  until  dry  like  mush,  then  add 
sugar,  salt,  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg  and  half  cup  or 
one  cup  of  bread  crumbs. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Snider. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. — Dip  in  boiling  water  and  take  off  skins, 
cut  half  in  two  and  set  in  a  biscuit  pan,  skinside  down,  putting 
butter,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  on  each  piece;  put  in  the  oven 
on  the  top  rack  until  they  begin  to  brown.  A  nice  breakfast 
dish.— Mrs.  S.  W.  Tucker. 

Tomatoes  and  Onions. — Prepare  half  an  hour  before  dinner, 
scald  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling  water,  peel,  slice  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  vinegar  over  them,  and  add  sliced 
onions.   This  is  especially  nice  in  the  fall. 

Asparagus. — Boil  tender  white  asparagus  twenty  minutes. 
Drain,  add  more  boiling  water ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  drain  again 
and  add  one-fourth  cup  of  fresh  sweet  milk.  Just  as  this 
boils  add  a  little  thickening  and  about  a  saltspoon  each  of  salt 
and  sugar.  Pour  immediately  into  a  dish  with  drawn  butter. 
—Mrs.  B.  0.  Snider. 

Asparagus. — Let  stand  in  cold  water  to  freshen;  put  it  in 
plenty  of  boiling  water  well  salted.  It  will  cook  in  thirty  or 
forty  minutes.    Have  ready  four  slices  toasted  bread,  put  as- 


104  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


paragus  on  it  and  pour  over  white  sauce  of  thickened  milk 
and  butter. 

Asparagus. — Trim  off  the  hard,  woody  ends  of  the  stalks, 
tie  in  bundles,  six  or  seven  stalks  to  a  bundle,  and  drop  into 
boiling  salted  water.  Boil  rapidly,  uncovered,  till  tender, 
drain  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast  with  melted  butter. 

Asparagus  a  la  Creme. — Cook  the  asparagus  as  above.  Make 
the  plain  cream  sauce,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper;  add 
the  asparagus  and  serve  at  once  with  toast. 

Escaloped  Asparagus. — Fill  a  baking  dish  with  cream 
asparagus,  cover  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  till  brown  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  then  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve 
at  once. 

Asparagus  Fritters. — Make  a  fritter  batter  of  egg,  flour  and 
milk,  adding  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  baking  powder.  Add 
the  cooked  and  cut  asparagus  to  the  batter.  The  batter  must 
be  just  stiff  enough  to  drop  easily  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon. 
Fry  in  deep  fat,  smoking  hot,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve 
with  any  preferred  sauce. 

String  Beans. — Put  a  piece  of  bacon  four  inches  square  into 
a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  boil  half  hour,  then  put  in  beans, 
having  them  strung  and  broken  in  pieces.  Boil  from  two  to 
three  hours,  adding  water  as  it  boils  out.  Let  them  boil  down 
low  before  taking  up.   Add  salt  when  nearly  done. 

Snap  Beans. — Early  in  the  morning  string  round  tender 
beans  and  throw  in  water  till  one  hour  before  dinner,  when 
they  must  be  drained  and  thrown  into  a  ppt  where  bacon  is 
boiling. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. — Soak  one  quart  beans  all  night;  in 
the  morning  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and  set  at  the  side 
of  the  range,  until  swollen  and  soft,  but  not  broken.  If  you 
have  no  bean  pot,  put  them  into  a  deep  baking  dish;  thrust  a 
half  pound  chunk  of  salt  pork,  parboiled,  and  scored  on  top, 
down  into  the  beans;  add  a  teaspoonful  salt,  half  as  much 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  105 


made  mustard  and  tablespoon  molasses,  with  enough  hot  water 
to  nearly  cover  them;  fit  a  top  on  dish  and  set  in  a  slow  oven, 
peeping  at  them  three  or  four  times  to  see  if  they  need  more 
boiling  water.  If  so  supply  it.  For  the  last  half  hour  cook 
them  faster  and  uncovered.  This  is  the  genuine  New  England 
dish  and  cannot  be  improved  upon. — Marion  Harland. 

Baked  Egg  Plant. — Boil  till  tender,  peel  and  mash,  add  pep- 
per, salt,  bread  crumbs,  a  little  onion  and  a  spoonful  butter. 
Bake  on  a  plate  twenty  minutes. 

Egg  Plant  Pudding.— Quarter  the  egg  plant  and  lay  in  water 
over  night  to  extract  bitterness.  Next  day  parboil,  peel  and 
chop  fine;  add  one  cup  bread  crumbs  and  two  eggs  to  one 
pint  of  egg  plant ;  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Add  sweet 
milk  to  make  good  batter.  Bake  in  earthenware  dish  thirty 
minutes. — Mrs.  C.  P.  Black. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. — Take  fresh  egg  plants,  slice  one-quarter 
inch  thick,  rub  both  sides  with  salt,  stand  on  edge  in  a  bowl; 
this  extracts  the  bitterness;  dry  on  a  napkin  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  with  large  spoon  of  very  hot 
lard.  They  will  fry  a  nice  brown  in  ten  minutes.  It  is  not 
necessary  to  peel  them. 

Stewed  Celery. — Scrape  the  outside  stalks  of  celery  and  cut 
in  pieces  one  inch  long ;  let  stand  in  cold  water  half  hour,  then 
put  in  boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  and  cook  till  tender; 
drain  off  water  and  dress  with  butter,  salt  and  milk  or  cream, 
thickened  with  a  little  flour. 

How  to  Keep  Lettuce  Fresh. — Do  not  keep  it  in  water.  In- 
stead wash  the  leaves  carefully  and  wrap  them  up  in  a  wet 
cloth,  covering  with  several  thicknesses.  Place  on  a  plate  or 
in  a  large  bowl  until  wanted  for  use.  The  cloth  should  be  kept 
wet.  In  this  way  lettuce  will  keep  fresh  for  several  days  and  in 
a  much  better  condition  than  when  set  in  water  or  on  the  ice. 

Onions. — Onions  boiled  in  milk,  instead  of  water,  are  render- 
ed more  delicate  and  improved  in  flavor.    Let  the  milk  boil; 


106 


HW  VTE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE: 


add  a  little  salt.  Peel  the  onions,  and  pnt  them  in  boiling  milk, 
and  let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  well  done.  Drain  them 
in  a  colander ;  put  them  in  a  warm  dish,  and  pour  a  little 
melted  butter  over  them:  sprinkle  with  black  pepper. 

To  Boil  Okra. — Okra  should  be  young  and  tender.  Cut  off 
the  stems  and  tip  of  the  small  end:  boil  till  tender,  but  not 
long  enough  to  cause  it  to  fall  to  pieces;  pour  over  melted 
butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Carrots  Mashed. — Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water  and  a 
little  salt :  drain  well  and  then  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot.  Carrots  are  also  good  boiled 
plain,  with  salt  and  melted  butter  poured  over  them. 

Stewed  Carrots. — Prepare  young  and  tender  carrots,  drop 
into  boiling  water  and  cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Drain,  slice  and  put  into  a  stewpan  with  rich  milk  or  cream 
nearly  to  cover:  simmer  gently  until  tender;  season  with  salt 
and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Beets. — AYash  them  well:  be  careful  not  to  cut  the  top  too 
close  to  the  beet,  or  break  off  the  ends,  as  this  will  allow  both 
the  color  and  sweetness  to  escape:  boil  one  hour'.  When  done, 
drop  in  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  skin,  and  slice  very  thin. 
Dress  with  melted  butter  or  salad  oil.  peper  and  salt;  serve 
hot.  They  are  more  commonly  dressed  in  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper,  when  cold.    Old  beets  will  take  two  hours  to  boil. 

Buttered  Beets. — After  boiling  remove  skin  and  chop  fine: 
add  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar.    Serve  hot. 

Hot  Slaw. — Chop  cabbage  and  set  in  a  vessel  on  top  of 
stove,  with  just  a  little  water  and  let  get  perfectly  hot.  Make 
a  dressing  as  follows :  One  teacup  cream  with  egg  beaten  in, 
a  small  lump  butter,  one  teaspoon  made  mustard,  add  pepper 
salt,  and  add  gradually  two  tablespoons  vinegar  :  put  on  stove, 
and  when  hot  pour  over  slaw.    Chopped  celery  adds  to  it. 

Cold  Slaw. — Select  the  finest  head  of  bleached  cabbage — 
that  is  to  say.  one  of  the  finest  and  most  compact  of  the  more 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


107 


JDoi^Be  Tied  to  your  Kitchen  ^ 

Don't  spend  the  best  hours 
of  the  day  planning  at  kitchen 
work  until  you  have  no  time 
left  for  other  things. 

A  Hoosier  Kitchen  Cabinet 
will  do  away  with  kitchen 
drudgery,  enables  you  to  pre- 
pare the  three  daily  meals 
and  clear  up  in  half  the  usual  time,  with  half  the  usual  labor. 
We  have  the  sale  of  the  Hoosier  and  can  show  you  the  com- 
plete line. 

ALEXANDER  &  ROSE, 

JACKSON,  TENN. 

delicate  varieties;  cut  up  enough  into  shreds  to  fill  a  large 
vegetable  dish  or  salad  bowl — that  to  be  regulated  by  the  size 
of  the  cabbage  and  the  quantity  required;  shave  very  fine  and 
after  that  chop  up,  the  more  thoroughly  the  better.  Put  this 
into  a  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  after  seasoning  it  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  over  it  a  dressing  made  as  for 
cold  slaw;  mix  it  well  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled 
eggs. 

Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw  (Cabbage  Salad). — Beat  up  two  eggs 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  half  an  egg,  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  pepper,  and 
lastly  a  teacup  of  vinegar.  Put  all  these  ingredients  into  a 
dish  over  the  fire  and  cook  like  a  soft  custard.  Some  think  it 
improved  by  adding  half  a  cupful  of  thick  sweet  cream  to  this 
dressing ;  in  that  case  use  less  vinegar.   Either  way  is  very  fine. 


108 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


CEREALS. 

Boiled  Rice. — Wash  one  teacup  rice,  add  one  quart  boiling 
water,  teaspoon  salt,  boil  fast  twenty  minutes,  stirring  only 
twice.  Drain  off  the  water,  set  on  back  part  of  stove  and  cover 
with  a  cloth  for  one-half  hour,  and  every  grain  will  stand  to 
itself.  Or,  you  may  add  one  cup  of  milk  after  water  is  drained 
off  and  allow  it  to  cook  slowly  till  the  milk  is  absorbed. 

Spanish  Rice. — Put  lump  of  butter  in  pan,  pour  in  it  cup  of 
raw  rice,  and  allow  it  to  brown;  then  put  in  one  can  of  toma- 
toes, one  green  pepper  and  chopped  onion  to  taste. 

Rice  Cakes. — Use  rice  that  has  been  boiled  with  milk;  add 
one  egg ;  shape  into  cakes  and  fry  in  hot  grease. 

Hominy. — Large  hominy,  after  it  is  washed,  must  be  put  to 
soak  over  night;  if  you  wish  to  have  it  for  dinner,  put  it  to 
boil  early  in  the  morning,  or  it  will  not  be  done  in  time;  eat 
it  as  a  vegetable.  Small  hominy  will  boil  in  an  hour ;  it  is  very 
good  at  breakfast  or  supper  to  eat  with  milk  or  butter,  or  to 
fry  for  dinner.  Both  large  and  small  hominy  will  keep  good 
in  a  cool  place  several  days.  Be  careful  that  the  vessel  it  is 
cooked  in  is  perfectly  clean,  or  it  will  darken  the  hominy. 

Mush. — Have  one  quart  boiling  water  (it  must  be  boiling), 
one  teacup  meal,  wet  with  cold  water,  stirred  in  gradually; 
add  salt  and  let  boil  thirty  minutes ;  add  more  boiling  water  if 
it  is  too  thick. 

Fried  Mush. — Slice  cold  mush,  dip  in  meal  and  fry. 

Grits. — Grits  should  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water  for  two 
hours,  adding  more  boiling  water  as  it  boils  low.  Do  not  boil 
in  iron  vessel. 

Grits. — Wash  nicely,  allow  twice  as  much  water  as  grits, 
season  with  salt  and  boil  till  done.    Cold  grits  may  be  utilized 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


109 


by  slicing  and  dipping  the  slices  in  a  batter  of  flour  and  egg,  or 
in  dry  meal ;  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Baked  Grits. — After  cooking  the  grits  season  with  butter, 
salt  and  milk,  and  two  eggs  beaten  very  light;  bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish. 

Rice  as  a  Relish. — Cook  rice  so  that  the  grains  will  stand 
apart,  and  while  hot  put  a  generous  tablespoon  on  individual 
plates;  open  can  of  large  yellow  California  peaches;  lay  half 
a  peach  in  center  of  each  plate,  and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made 
as  follows :  Rub  together  thoroughly  one  tablespoon  butter 
with  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  add  yolks  four  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  and  juice  of  one  lemon;  beat  briskly  several  minutes 
and  then  add  glass  of  wine,  stirring  hard  all  the  time.  Set 
bowl  containing  this  in  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  till 
it  becomes  heated,  being  careful  that  it  does  not  boil. — Colum- 
bia Cook  Book. 

Rice  Croquettes. — Use  rice  that  has  been  left  over.  Mix  with 
two  well  beaten  eggs.  Make  into  balls  or  pear  shaped;  let 
stand  awhile,  then  fry  in  hot  lard.  Garnish  dish  with  parsley. 
—Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 


110 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


MACARONI. 

Baked  Macaroni. — Boil  one-half  ponnd  of  macaroni  till 
tender;  strain  off  the  water  and  pnt  in  a  deep  dish — buttered 
to  prevent  its  sticking — with  layers  of  grated  or  finely-cut 
cheese,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  alternating  with  layers  of  the 
macaroni.  Finish  with  the  cheese  layer  on  top.  Bake  till  a 
nice  brown — about  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 

Macaroni  with  Eggs. — Boil  till  tender  one-half  pound  of 
macaroni  or  spagetti;  drain  off  the  water;  beat  well  two  eggs 
and  mix  in  the  macaroni.  Butter  a  dish,  and  put  in  alternate 
layers  of  macaroni  and  eggs,  and  grated  cheese,  pepper  and 
salt.  Pour  over  all  about  half  a  teacup  of  milk.  Bake  till  a 
good  brown. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. — Break  one-half  pound  macaroni  into 
small  pieces;  cook  in  boiling  water  twenty  minutes,  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Drain  it  well  and  put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish,  upon  this  some  grated  cheese  and  small 
pieces  of  butter,  a  bit  of  salt,  then  more  macaroni  and  so  on, 
filling  the  dish;  pour  over  the  whole  one  cup  milk.  Bake  half 
hour. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. — One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni 
(inch  pieces)  and  cook  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water  twenty 
minutes.  Drain,  pouring  over  it  cold  water.  Make  a  sauce  of 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  hot  milk,  salted.  Put  a  layer  of  cheese  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  one  of  sauce,  and 
proceed  in  this  manner  until  all  are  used.  Cover  top  of  dish 
with  bread  crumbs  pulverized  in  food  cutter,  placing  bits  of 
butter  and  a  little  cheese  over  it,  and  bake  until  brown. 

A  secret  of  the  delicious  spaghetti  and  macaroni  served  in 
Italian  table  d'hote  restaurants  is  that  instead  of  being  boiled 
in  water,  the  cereal  is  cooked  in  very  rich  stock. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  Ill 


Macaroni  with  Tomatoes. — Cook  the  macaroni  as  for  cheese, 
abont  one-fourth  of  a  package.  While  that  is  cooking,  open  a 
can  of  tomatoes  and  put  in  another  vessel  on  the  stove,  chop- 
ping the  hard  lumps.  Then  take  two  slices  of  breakfast  bacon 
and  fry  until  crisp.  If  you  like  you  can  cut  this  in  small  bits 
and  put  in  the  tomatoes.  Then  take  one  onion  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  slice  and  fry  in  the  grease  of  the  bacon,  and  put  the 
grease,  onion  and  mocaroni  in  the  tomatoes  and  cook  about 
one  hour,  or  until  thick ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  on  the 
back  of  the  stove. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Newsom. 

Italian  Macaroni. — One  pound  beefsteak  ground  fine  in  meat 
chopper,  add  to  this  half  can  of  tomatoes ;  put  in  a  pot  and  set 
on  back  of  stove  to  simmer  for  two  hours.  Grind  two  medium 
sized  onions  and  brown  in  half  cup  of  butter.  Stew  about  one- 
third  package  of  macaroni  for  one  hour.  When  meat,  toma- 
toes, onions  and  macaroni  are  all  cooked  mix  onions,  tomatoes 
and  meat  together  for  a  sauce,  seasoning  to  taste  with  salt. 
Put  macaroni  on  a  large  platter,  spreading  sauce  over  it  and 
covering  all  with  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese  (Edam  prefer- 
red). A  little  olive  oil  added  to  the  sauce  makes  it  richer. 
This  makes  quantity  sufficient  for  ten  people.  Fine.  Mrs.  B. 
E.  Thomas. 

Spaghetti  and  Tomatoes. — One-quarter  pound  of  spaghetti, 
one-half  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Take  a  handful  of  spaghetti,  put  the  ends  into  boiling  salted 
water,  and  as  they  soften  coil  without  breaking.  Boil  briskly 
until  done,  drain  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes  to 
blanch.  Place  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  when  hot  add  the 
sliced  onion  and  fry  until  brown.  Add  flour  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Then  pour  in  the  strained  tomatoes,  and  when  they 
boil  add  the  spaghetti ;  boil  up  once  and  serve  without  cutting. 
Onion  may  be  omitted  if  desired. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Fite. 


112 


HOW  AYE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


BREAD. 

"Behind  the  nutty  loaf  is  the  millwheel;  behind  the  mill  is 
the  wheat  field ;  on  the  wheat  field  rests  the  sunlight ;  above  the 
sun  is  God." — James  Russell  Lowell. 

MEASURES  AND  WEIGHTS. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour  is  one  pound. 
One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  is  one  pound. 
Two  cups  of  butter  (packed)  are  one  pound. 
One  pint  of  butter  is  one  pound. 

One  quart  of  Indian  meal  weighs  one  pound  two  ounces. 

One  quart  of  powdered  white  sugar,  one  pound  one  ounce. 

One  quart  of  best  brown  sugar,  one  pound  two  ounces. 

Ten  eggs  are  one  pound. 

Five  cups  of  sifted  flour  are  one  pound. 

One  wine  glassful  is  half  a  gill. 

Eight  even  tablespoonfuls  are  a  gill. 

Four  even  salt  spoonfuls  make  a  teaspoon. 

One  saltspoonful  is  good  measure  of  salt  for  all  custards,  etc. 

Two  gills  are  half  pint. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  are  equal  to  one  tablespoonful. 

Rolls  and  Light  Bread. — Take  three  pints  of  unsifted  flour, 
and  at  noon  have  boiled  a  large  Irish  potato ;  while  the  potato 
is  boiling,  dissolve  the  half  of  an  yeast  cake  in  a  coffee  cup  of 
lukewarm  water.  Take  one  of  the  three  pints  of  flour,  and  sift 
it  into  a  bowl  ;  mash  the  potato  quickly  and  very  smoothly 
and  while  hot ;  put  it  into  the  pint  of  flour,  and  mix  potato  and 
flour  together  with  the  hand;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt.    Now  pour  onto  this  the  cup  of 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


113 


dissolved  yeast;  beat  this  batter  well  with  a  spoon;  cover  this 
bowl  of  batter,  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  moderately 
warm.  Abont  eight  o'clock  at  night,  sift  the  other  two  pints 
of  flour  on  the  biscuit  board,  leaving  out  a  very  little  to  knead 
the  dough  in  the  morning.  Then  take  a  tablespoonful  of  lard 
(not  heaping)  ;  mix  it  into  the  flour,  adding  another  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Now  pour  the  batter 
into  this  flour  and  knead  the  dough  well;  put  this  dough  into 
a  jar  or  bowl  that  has  a  cover.  Early  next  morning  knead  this 
dough  over;  make  into  rolls,  and  set  to  rise  for  breakfast.  If 
this  recipe  is  exactly  followed,  it  can  not  fail. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lan- 
caster. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Add  to  one  pint  hot  milk  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  lard,  one  tablespoon 
sugar;  cool;  add  one  compressed  yeast;  place  in  center  of  one 
quart  Dainty  flour,  stirring  in  flour  to  make  thick  batter ;  cover, 
let  rise ;  knead  rest  of  flour  in ;  let  rise  double ;  roll  out  to  quar- 
ter inch;  cut  with  form;  indent  each;  brush  with  butter;  fold 
one-half  over  other;  set  in  pan;  cover  for  one  hour;  then  bake 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Yeast  for  Bread. — Boil  and  mash  four  potatoes,  add  one 
cup  flour  and  pour  over  this  a  big  quart  of  boiling  water. 
When  cold  add  one  yeast  cake  soaked  in  half  cup  water. 

Bread. — One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar  and  one  teaspoon  lard.  To  this  add  one  large  cup  of  the 
above  yeast. — Mrs.  Ida  Hall. 

Irish  Potato  Liquid  Yeast— Into  two  boiled  Irish  potatoes, 
well  mashed,  smooth  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  tablespoon 
salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water, 
and  let  ferment  over  night  in  warm  place;  then  screw  jar  tight 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  In  making  rolls  use  one  teacup  of 
the  liquid. — Mrs.  Wm.  Holland. 

Tea  Rolls. — Half-gallon  dainty  flour,  one  heaping  spoon  lard, 
two  heaping  spoons  sugar,  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  cup  yeast, 


114  HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


enough  warm  water  to  make  soft  dough.  Knead  well  and  set 
to  rise.  When  light  work  down  and  set  to  rise  the  second  time 
— then  roll  out  on  board  and  cut  into  biscuit,  placing  in  pan 
to  rise  again  one  and  one-half  hours  for  supper. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Holland. 

Sugar  Rolls. — Two  quarts  flour,  one  or  two  eggs,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  walnut,  the  same  yeast  as  for  bread;  roll  half- 
inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  butter  and  raisins 
or  currants.  Cut  in  strips  and  roll.  Pinch  dough  together  on 
pne  end  so  the  syrup  will  not  come  out,  and  set  on  end  in  a 
biscuit  pan  to  bake. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Lanham. 

Light  Rolls. — Buy  one  five  cent  yeast  cake.  Dissolve  one- 
quarter  of  it  in  half  cup  of  luke  warm  water.  Pour  this  into 
one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  lard  size  of  egg,  salt,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  one  beaten  white  of  egg ;  mix  rapidly  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  (not  too  hot)  to  rise.  When  dough  is  well  risen  (which 
it  will  be  in  three  hours)  knead  it  well,  then  spread  enough 
flour  on  board  to  roll  dough  like  biscuits  and  cut.  Place  in 
pan,  rubbing  a  little  lard  on  top  of  each  loaf.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  Keep  the  remaining  part  of  yeast  cake  in  a  dry  place. 
It  can  be  used  several  days. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Pocket  Books. — Beat  yolks  four  eggs  with  two  dessert 
spoons  of  sugar,  then  add  one  teacup  sweet  milk  with  a  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  it.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter; 
lastly,  add  well  beaten  whites,  and  let  rise.  When  very  light 
add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  lard;  sift  in  flour 
and  make  soft  dough;  let  rise  again;  work  out  dough  with 
little  more  flour;  roll  in  pieces  about  five  inches  long  and 
three  inches  wide.  Spread  very  little  butter  on  one  end  and 
fold  like  a  pocket  book  and  put  them  to  rise.  When  light 
bake. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

To  make  Rolls. — One  cup  of  yeast,  one  cup  warm  water,  half 
cup  sugar,  half  cup  lard,  white  of  one  egg  well  beaten;  cream 
lard  and  sugar  together,  add  yeast  and  water,  stir  in  flour  to 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  115 


make  soft  batter,  and  when  light  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough,  and  set  to  rise  again,  and  when  light  work  and  make 
into  rolls — keep  them  warm  and  in  one  hour  they  will  be  ready 
to  bake. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

French  Rolls. — One  quart  sweet  milk,  half  pound  butter,  four 
eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teacup  soft  yeast  and  enough 
Dainty  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  When  light  add  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough  and  let  rise  again.  Then  roll  out  half  inch 
thick  and  cut  into  squares ;  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  small  lump 
butter  to  each  piece;  fold  over  one  half  over  the  other  as  a 
pocket  book. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Quick  Bread. — Sift  together  one  quart  Dainty  flour  with  one 
heaping  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda, 
half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  in  dry  two  tablespoons  of  lard  and 
last  work  all  into  a  dough  with  nearly  a  pint  of  buttermilk.  Let 
it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  mold  into  two  loaves.  Place  in  tins, 
let  stand  four  or  five  minutes  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  If  it 
gets  brown  too  quickly  on  top,  place  greased  paper  over  the 
loaves. — Mrs.  J„  R.  Thomas. 

Potato  Yeast. — Boil  one  large  potato ;  put  in  a  bowl ;  add  one 
tablespoon  flour,  two  of  sugar,  mash  well  together  and  pour 
in  the  water  potato  was  boiled  in.  Let  stand  to  cool ;  add  one 
square  of  Fleishman's  yeast.  Let  stand  to  rise  to  a  light  foam; 
keep  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Light  Bread,  by  a  Professional  Bread  Maker. — It  makes  fine 
bread,  does  away  with  the  annoyance  of  setting  bread  at  night, 
and  still  allows  you  to  get  your  bread  done  by  noon.  Save  the 
water  in  which  you  boil  the  potatoes;  mash  two  or  three  pota- 
toes and  add  to  it.  When  it  cools  add  one  yeast  cake,  one  half 
cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  stand 
over  night  in  a  warm  place  in  winter.  In  the  morning  take 
out  about  one  pint  of  this,  and  set  it  away  for  the  next  time. 
Add  a  little  more  water  if  needed,  and  stir  in  flour  to  make  a 
soft  sponge.    Let  it  rise  until  light,  mix  stiff,  let  rise  again, 


116 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


make  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake.  It  -will  come  up  so  quickly 
Add  a  little  more  water  if  needed,  and  stir  in  Dainty  flour  to 
make  a  soft  sponge.  Let  it  rise  until  light,  mix  stiff,  let  rise 
again,  make  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake.  It  will  come  up  so 
quickly  as  to  surprise  you.  Now,  when  you  want  to  bake  again, 
save  your  potato  water  as  before,  add  potatoes,  sugar  and  salt, 
and  at  night  the  pint  you  saved  before,  which  is  called  the 
"starter."  In  the  morning,  before  adding  any  flour  take  out 
your  "starter"  again,  and  proceed  as  before.  You  can  add  half 
a  yeast  cake  occasionally,  and  after  baking  ten  or  twelve  times 
it  is  probably  best  to  start  again,  otherwise  it  would  get  sour 
after  a  time.  This  way  of  baking  is  economical,  easy  and 
quick,  and  makes  the  best  bread  I  ever  had. — Mrs.  C.  H.  B. 

Light  Bread. — Light  bread  recipe:  Take  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  make  a  thin  mush  of  meal, 
and  set  aside  in  some  warm  place.  Next  morning  add  one  quart 
of  water  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  your  finger  in;  add  little  salt 
and  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  I 
might  say  hot  water,  for  it  ought  to  be  just  so  you  can  bear 
your  hand  in,  and  keep  it  that  way,  and  when  it  has  stood 
about  an  hour  stir  good  with  a  spoon,  and  when  it  rises  sift 
your  flour  and  make  a  stiff  dough  and  knead  it  well, 
and  put  in  pan  and  set  in  a  good  warm  place,  not  too  hot.  In 
the  stove  is  a  good  place,  but  have  it  so  you  can  bear  your 
hand  on  it  inside,  and  when  your  bread  rises,  handle  it  care- 
fully, as  it  is  easy  to  shake  down.  Do  not  have  the  fire  too 
hot  when  you  begin  to  bake.  Heat  the  stove  gradually.  I  have 
used  this  recipe  for  fourteen  years  and  always  have  nice  light 
bread. — ' '  Housekeeper. ' ' 

Salt  Rising  Light  Bread. — Let  cup  fresh  sweet  milk  almost 
come  to  a  boil.  Thicken  to  consistency  of  mush  with  corn 
meal.  I  put  this  mush  in  a  little  glass  jar  which  is  then  placed 
in  a  vessels  of  warm  water,  covered  close  and  put  in  a  warm 
place  overnight.    Next  morning  when  mush  is  risen  very  light 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


117 


I  take  one  pint  of  fresh  sweet  milk  and  add  enough  warm  water 
to  make  one  quart  of  the  mixture.  Have  it  a  little  more  than 
milk  warm.  Pour  into  a  gallon  stone  jar,  add  a  small  pinch 
of  soda,  spoon  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  the  mush  and 
flour  to  make  a  batter  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon.  Beat 
well  and  set  the  jar  in  a  pot  of  water  warm  as  the  hand  can 
be  held  in  comfortably.  Keep  it  an  even  temperature  and  it 
should  rise  to  top  of  jar  in  two  or  three  hours.  When  it  has 
come  to  top  of  jar,  pour  into  pan  with  sifted  flour  into  which 
has  been  put  a  pinch  of  soda,  tablespoon  of  salt,  handful  of 
sugar  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  lard.  Work  into  soft 
dough — knead  well — make  into  six  loaves.  Grease  well  and 
put  in  pan  to  rise.  Keep  it  about  the  same  temperature  as  you 
have  the  yeast  and  it  should  rise  to  the  top  of  pans  in  two 
hours,  when  it  is  ready  to  bake.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  moderate  oven.  I  grease  the  top  with  butter  soon  as 
removed  from  oven.  It  requires  one  pound  of  flour  to  a  loaf. 
—Mrs.  W.  W.  Adams. 

Old  Fashioned  Corn  Light  Bread. — Make  three  cups  mush; 
add  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  melted  lard;  when  cool 
(not  cold)  stir  in  meal  till  thicker  than  egg  bread.  Set  in 
warm  place  to  rise ;  when  it  rises  stir  in  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  cup  meal,  one  cup  Dainty  flour,  heaping  tablespoon  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  a  warm  well-greased  pan ;  let  rise  and 
bake.  When  done  roll  in  cloth  of  several  thicknesses  to  keep 
soft. 

Coffee  Bread. — At  noon  dissolve  one  cake  of  never  failing 
yeast  in  a  little  more  than  one  quart  warm  water.  Add  one 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt,  and  Dainty  flour  enough  to 
make  stiff  batter.  Set  in  warm  place  till  night.  About  eight  or  nine 
o'clock  beat  in  three  eggs  to  the  batter,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  butter,  one  cup  lard,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  work  mix- 
ture with  enough  flour  to  make  a  smooth  dough.  Put  in  well 
greased  vessel  and  by  morning  it  should  have  doubled  its  size 


118 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


when  it  is  ready  to  work  it  down  and  make  into  loaves.  Make 
into  six  loaves,  grease  with  butter  and  lard  mixed,  put  in  pans 
and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise.  When  well  risen  sprinkle  sugar 
and  cinnamon  over  top  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven.  Put 
pan  of  water  on  the  rack  to  prevent  scorching. — Mrs.  W.  W. 
Adams. 

Soft  Toast. — Toast  well,  not  too  brown,  two  thin  slices  stale 
bread ;  put  them  on  a  warm  plate,  sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  pour  upon  them  some  boiling  water ;  cover  with  another 
dish  of  the  same  size  and  drain  off  the  water.  Put  a  small  bit 
of  butter  on  toast,  and  serve  while  hot. 

French  Toast. — Break  one  or  two  eggs  into  a  pint  of  cold 
milk.  Slice  baker's  bread,  dip  slices  into  the  egg  and  milk 
and  then  lay  in  a  skillet  of  hot  lard  and  fry  brown ;  sprinkle  a 
little  cinnamon  and  sugar  over  them  when  taken  out.  Serve 
hot  in  a  covered  dish. 

Cream  Toast. — Boil  one  quart  milk ;  stir  in  tablespoon  butter, 
a  little  salt.  When  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  two  table- 
spoons of  flour  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  milk. 
Let  boil  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  toasted  bread  on  a  dish 
and  pour  boiling  milk  on  it.    Cover  and  send  to  table  hot. 

Lemon  Toast. — Take  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beat  well,  add  three 
cups  sweet  milk.  Take  baker's  bread,  not  too  stale,  and  cut 
in  slices ;  dip  them  into  the  milk  and  eggs  and  lay  into  a  frying 
pan  with  sufficient  melted  butter  to  fry  a  delicate  brown. 
Take  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  large 
cupful  white  sugar;  add  juice  two  lemons,  heating  well  and 
adding  two  cupfuls  boiling  water.  Serve  over  the  toast  as  a 
sauce,  and  you  will  find  it  a  delicious  dish. 

Bread  Sticks. — Common  bread  dough  can  be  used  for  these 
by  adding  more  shortening.  Tear  off  pieces  from  the  risen 
dough  the  size  of  a  butternut;  roll  into  sticks  and  lay  in  an 
oiled  pan  which  comes  for  this  purpose;  bake  fifteen  minutes. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


119 


Tie  three  or  four  with  baby  ribbon,  serving  each  guest  with  a 
bundle. 

Crowns. — Rub  two  tablespoons  of  butter  into  one  quart  of 
sifted  Dainty  flour,  then  add  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one  of  salt ;  add  just  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough  easily 
handled ;  roll  out  to  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into  squares ;  then 
fold  the  corners  to  the  middle ;  brush  tops  with  milk ;  bake  in 
hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes.   Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Potato  Puffs. — Three  medium  sized  potatoes,  boil  and  mash 
fine ;  while  hot  add  one  large  spoon  lard  and  one  of  sugar  and 
a  little  salt.  When  cold  add  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk  with 
one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  it.  Beat  well,  then 
mix  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Set  to  rise  in  a  well 
greased  bowl  until  quite  light.  When  ready  to  bake  sprinkle 
flour  on  biscuit  board  and  roll  out  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  turn  half  over  the  other  in  pocket- 
book  shape.  •  Place  well  apart  in  greased  pan.  Let  stand  until 
they  rise,  then  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Buns. — Take  a  piece  of  dough  large  enough  to  make  one 
dozen  rolls,  put  it  in  a  bowl;  add  two  eggs,  half  cup  sugar, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  egg.  Work  all  together,  add  enough 
Dainty  flour  to  make  a  smooth  dough;  roll  out  and  cut  into 
biscuits.  Let  them  rise  till  light  and  bake.  Will  require 
longer  to  bake  than  plain  rolls.   Very  good. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

Sally  Lunn. — Two  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  half  cup  sugar,  half 
cup  butter,  one  cup  liquid  yeast,  one  quart  Dainty  flour.  Put  to 
rise  at  11  o'clock  in  summer;  it  will  be  to  bake  at  tea  time 
(salt).  Put  to  rise  in  a  well  greased  pan  and  when  risen  bake 
in  the  same. — Mrs.  William  Long,  Sr. 

Dutch  Toast. — Take  a  good  round  steak  and  scrape  the  meat 
off  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  Have  ready  your  bread  sliced  as 
for  toast,  and  butter  it.  Spread  the  meat  on  each  piece  of  bread, 
adding  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  run  it  into  the  oven  only 


120  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


FOR 

FINE  BISCUITS 

APPETIZING  PASTRIES 

DELICIOUS  CAKES 
ELEGANT  LIGHT  BREAD 


A  Barrel  of  Satisfaction. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


121 


long  enough  to  brown  the  bread.  Very  nice  for  luncheon. — 
Eleanor  Freeman  Lancaster. 

Sally  Lunn. — Two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  half  cup  sugar, 
one  cup  butter,  one  cup  yeast,  one  quart  flour.  Put  to  rise  at 
11  o'clock  and  it  will  be  ready  for  tea  at  6  o'clock. 

Quick  Sally  Lunn. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter ;  stir  well 
together  two  eggs,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder  in  sufficient  Dainty  flour  to  make  batter  as  stiff  as  cake 
batter.   Bake  quickly  and  butter  while  hot. 

Coffee  Cake. — Take  a  piece  of  light  dough,  roll  thin,  put  in 
a  pan;  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  sugar  and  butter  and  let  rise, 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  It  will  take  longer  to  bake  than  plain 
bread.— Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

Coffee  Bread. — Add  to  one  quart  of  sponge,  two  eggs,  half 
cup  butter,  one  large  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Knead 
well  and  set  to  rise.  Then  mold  into  loaves  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Madison. 

Rusk. — Three  cups  Dainty  flour,  two  eggs,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-third  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-third 
teaspoon  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  milk.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  spices, 
add  sugar  and  rub  in  butter.  Mix  to  a  dough  with  the  eggs 
and  milk,  turn  on  to  a  board,  divide  into  portions  the  size  of 
an  egg,  work  until  smooth,  lay  close  together  on  a  greased  pan, 
brush  over  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake 
about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Tea  Rusk. — Three  cups  Dainty  flour,  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 
one  cup  sugar,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  muffin 
rings ;  serve  hot.   Very  nice. — Mrs.  M.  Holbrook. 

Brown  Bread. — Two  cups  sifted  graham  flour,  one  cup  meal, 
one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  molasses,  one  pint  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon soda,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Steam  two  and  one-half  hours, 
bake  five  minutes.    If  steamed  in  small  cans,  like  baking 


122 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


powder  cans  they  are  easier  handled  and  of  convenient  size. — 
Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Brown  Bread,  Steamed. — One  cup  wheat  flour,  one  cup  gra- 
ham flour,  one  cup  corn  meal,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  two  cups  dark  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda,  dis- 
solved in  the  molasses.  Put  into  cans,  put  cans  into  double 
boiler,  and  steam  for  three  or  four  hours. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Derry- 
berry. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Four  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup 
buttermilk  and  one  tablespoon  more,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  raisins,  one  cup  water  (cool),  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  of 
soda  in  buttermilk,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Use 
four  of  the  one  pound  baking  powder  cans — filling  each  two- 
thirds  full.— Tested  by  Mrs.  I.  0.  Benton. 

Graham  Bread. — Take  out  one  coffee  cup  of  risen  sponge  on 
baking  day.  Put  into  a  tray  two  parts  graham  flour,  one  part 
white  flour,  one  handful  of  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Wet 
this  up  with  the  sponge  and  when  it  is  mixed  add  half  cup  mo- 
lasses. The  dough  should  be  very  soft,  and  if  there  is  not 
enough  dough  add  a  little  warm  water.  Knead  well  and  give 
plenty  of  time  to  rise,  longer  than  white  bread.  Knead  second 
time.  The  second  rising  requires  nearly  as  long  as  the  first. 
Do  not  cut  while  hot. 

Graham  Bread. — Four  cups  graham  flour,  three  cups  milk, 
one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  three  hours. 
—Mrs.  H.  L.  Madison. 

Rice  Bread. — Two  cups  of  cold  rice,  one  cup  of  buttermilk. 
Dissolve  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  in  the  milk. 
Use  also  a  light  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir  in  rice,  two 
beaten  eggs,  one  small  cup  of  meal.  Put  one  tablespoon  of 
lard  in  a  hot  pan.   Bake. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 

Grit  Bread. — One  pint  well  cooked  grits ;  add  two  tablespoons 
meal,  one  egg,  one  pint  sour  milk,  one  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter, half  teaspoon  salt,  little  more  than  half  teaspoon  soda; 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


123 


pour  into  a  well  greased  pan;  bake.  Rice  bread  can  be  made 
the  same  way. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Rye  Bread. — Two  quarts  of  wheat  flour,  one  quart  of  rye 
flour,  mixed;  put  yeast  in  flour  and  set  to  rise.  In  making 
yeast  use  one  pint  of  water,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk;  let  come 
to  the  scald;  add  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  tea- 
spoon lard  or  butter,  two  cakes  of  compressed  yeast ;  let  rise ; 
make  in  loaves,  let  rise ;  then  bake  for  forty  minutes.  Put  the 
yeast  in  flour  and  make  up;  don't  let  yeast  rise. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Lanham. 

Rusk. — Take  a  piece  of  light  dough,  work  in  butter  the  size 
of  large  egg,  half  cup  white  sugar,  half  cup  milk,  Dainty  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  keep  it  warm  for  half  hour  or  so 
and  then  make  into  rolls,  and  when  light  bake  them. — Mrs.  E.  J. 
Taylor. 

Rusks. — Three  cups  Dainty  flour,  two  eggs,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-third  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-third 
teaspoon  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder,  one 
and  one-half  cups  milk. 

Currant  Bread. — Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with 
one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  two  eggs  light  and  stir  into  the 
butter  and  sugar,  add  one  cupful  of  milk,  four  cupfuls  of  Dainty 
flour  to  which  has  been  added  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  last  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cleaned  currants  dredged 
with  flour.  Roll  out,  cut  into  rounds  or  make  in  a  loaf,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Eat  hot  with  butter. 

Biscuits. — Into  a  quart  of  sifted  Dainty  flour  put  two  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  mix  to- 
gether while  dry,  then  rub  into  it  a  piece  of  lard  a  little  larger 
than  an  egg;  mix  with  cold  sweet  milk;  roll  thin;  cut  with  a 
tin  cutter,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven;  send  to  the 
table  immediately. 

Sweet  Milk  Biscuit.— To  one  quart  of  Dainty  flour  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar 


124  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


and  sift  five  times;  one  teaspoonfnl  of  bntter  and  one  of  lard; 
moisten  with  sweet  milk  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
M.  I.  Best. 

Soda  Biscuit. — One  quart  dainty  flour,  one  small  teaspoon 
soda,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  pint 
buttermilk,  a  good  tablespoon  lard.  Sift  flour,  containing  salt, 
baking  powder,  soda ;  rub  in  lard  and  add  milk.  Bake  in  quick 
oven.  More  baking  powder  may  be  added,  if  you  wish  the 
dough  to  rise  more. 

Drop  Biscuits. — One  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
rubbed  into  the  flour,  one  pint  of  milk;  drop  from  a  spoon 
into  buttered  pan;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  by  turning  full  flame 
on  the  gas  stove. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit. — Take  one  quart  dainty  flour,  one 
tablespoon  lard,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  mix  into  a  soft  dough,  with  sweet  milk  and  water, 
half  and  half;  handle  very  little;  roll,  cut  and  bake  in  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuit. — Take  one  pint  of  boiled  and  mashed 
sweet  potatoes,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  pint  sour  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  level  teaspoon  soda  and  flour  to  make  a  very  soft 
dough ;  roll,  cut  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Lillard. 

Spoon  Biscuit. — Eight  large  kitchen  spoons  dainty  flour,  two 
full  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons 
butter ;  mix  to  a  stiff  batter  with  ice  water ;  drop  by  spoonfuls 
into  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Beaten  Biscuit. — One  quart  of  dainty  flour,  a  large  table- 
spoon of  lard,  salt;  make  up  dough  very  stiff  with  equal  parts 
of  sweet  milk  and  cold  water;  beat  until  smooth  and  inclined 
to  ' '  blister '  \  Then  roll  moderately  thin,  prick  with  a  fork  each 
biscuit.   Cook  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 

Beaten  Biscuit. — One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  piece 
of  lard  size  of  an  egg,  adding  enough  water  to  make  stiff  dough. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  125 


Make  dough  much  stiff er  than  other  breads;  beat  steadily  half 
hour  by  the  clock.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  rather  small,  half 
an  inch  thick,  and  do  not  let  them  touch  in  the  pan.  Stick  them 
with  a  fork.   Let  the  stove  be  very  hot. — Virginia  Cook  Book. 

Oat  Meal  Scones. — One  cup  cold  cooked  oatmeal,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  milk  if  required,  half  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  to- 
gether flour,  salt  and  baking  powder ;  rub  in  the  butter  and  add 
oatmeal.  Blend  this  with  the  flour  and  mix  to  a  dough  with 
the  egg,  adding  milk  if  required.  Roll  three-quarters  inch 
thick,  cut  into  triangular  cakes  and  bake,  either  in  the  oven  or 
on  a  hot  griddle. 

Royal  Baking  Powder.— One  pound  cream  tartar,  half  pound 
soda,  one  big  cup  flour;  mix  and  sift  seven  times.  Use  a  little 
less  of  this  than  the  bought  baking  powder. 

Superior  Rice  Waffles. — One  quart  dainty  flour,  three  eggs, 
one  cup  boiled  rice  beaten  into  the  flour,  one  light  teaspoon 
soda.  Make  into  a  batter  with  buttermilk.  Bake  quickly  in 
waffle  irons.  Batter  made  as  above  and  baked  on  a  griddle 
makes  excellent  breakfast  cakes. 

Waffles. — Two  eggs,  two  cups  buttermilk,  half  teaspoon  soda, 
salt;  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  and  pour  in  lump  of 
melted  butter  size  of  egg. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

Waffles. — To  one  pint  buttermilk  add  two  eggs,  one  pint 
dainty  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  lard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon soda.   Dissolve  in  milk. 

Waffles. — Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  teacups  butter- 
milk, half  teacup  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoons  lard,  one  level 
teaspoon  soda,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  one  pint  Dainty  flour; 
add  beaten  whites  last  and  fry  in  quite  hot  waffle  irons. — Ten- 
nessee Cook  Book. 

Waffles. — One  pint  dainty  flour,  two  eggs,  -one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  tablespoon  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  table- 
melted  lard.    Beat  eggs  well;  add  milk,  then  flour,  baking 


126 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


powder,  salt  and  lard  last.  Fry  in  well  greased  hot  irons; 
butter  and  serve  hot. 

Waffles. — One  quart  Dainty  flour,  quarter  pound  butter,  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  sweet  milk  to  make  moderately  thin ;  add  one 
teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Batter  Cakes  of  Flour. — Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  two 
cups  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
half  teaspoon  salt;  beat  all  smoothly  together  and  bake  on  a 
hot  griddle.  Sour  milk  and  soda  can  be  substituted  for  sweet 
milk  and  baking  powder. — Mrs  Reese  Lillard. 

Cheap  Recipe  for  Batter  Cakes. — One  pint  sour  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  Dainty  flour,  enough  meal  to 
make  a  good  batter.   Bake  on  a  hoe. 

Batter  Cakes. — Beat  two  eggs,  add  half  pint  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder;  beat  thoroughly  and  bake  on 
griddle  at  once. — Mrs  Rorer. 

Batter  Bread. — Beat  very  light  one  or  two  eggs,  pour  into 
them  one  and  one-half  pints  fresh  milk;  add  slowly  one  pint 
meal,  beating  all  the  time ;  add  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  melted  lard  or  melted  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Pour  at 
once  into  a  well  greased  warm  earthen  pan ;  bake  thirty  minutes 
and  serve  hot. 

Griddle  Cakes. — Two  cups  Dainty  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  Sift  together  the  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder;  add  the  liquid  ingredients  to  make  a 
batter.   Beat  well  and  bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes. — One  and  one-half  cups  bread  crumbs, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  Dainty  flour,  pinch  salt,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, one  pint  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Scald  the 
milk;  pour  it  over  the  crumbs  and  butter  and  let  stand  until 
cool.  Add  the  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  yolks  of  eggs  and 
lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  slowly  on  a  hot 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


127 


griddle.   These  are  more  digestible  than  cakes  made  all  of  flour. 

Flannel  Cakes. — One  pint  dainty  flour,  two  tablespoons  gran- 
ulated sugar,  pinch  of  salt;  add  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  and  just  before  baking  add  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder.  Beat  all  to  a  thick  batter;  bake  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  griddle. 

Waffles  and  Flannel  Cakes. — One  tablespoon  of  sifted  meal, 
a  piece  of  lard  size  of  egg,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons 
boiling  water.  Into  this  mush  break  one  egg  and  beat  well. 
Add  one  pint  buttermilk  and  one  pint  Dainty  flour;  beat  until 
smooth.  When  ready  to  bake  add  one  teaspoon  soda  and  put  in 
hot  oven. 

Cracker  Fritters. — One  pint  pulverized  cracker,  four  eggs, 
one  gill  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
into  boiling  fat.  These  served  with  chops  are  fine. — How  to 
Entertain. 

Puffs. — Take  soda  biscuit  dough,  roll  very  thin,  cut  into 
squares  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  These  are  nice  for  breakfast  or 
to  make  a  garnish  for  dish  of  fried  or  broiled  chicken. — Mrs. 
Reese  Lillard. 

Pop  Overs. — Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  sweet 
milk,  five  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  pinch  of  salt ;  bake  in  cups 
in  quick  oven.  Serve  hot  with  syrup  or  sauce. — Mrs.  Reese 
Lillard. 

Dumpling  for  Stew. — One  cup  Dainty  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  half  butter,  half  lard ;  mix  with 
enough  sweet  milk  for  a  stiff  dough  and  drop  in  stew.  Bake  in 
hot  oven. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Cinnamon  Roses. — Roll  out  nice  biscuit  dough,  sprinkle  lib- 
erally with  sugar,  add  bits  of  butter  and  cinnamon.  Cut  in 
strips  and  roll  up  each  piece ;  pinch  it  together  on  the  bottom 
so  the  butter  will  not  run  out,  and  set  in  a  bread  pan ;  they  will 
require  about  as  long  to  bake  as  biscuits.  Good. — Mrs.  R.  A. 
Treadwell. 


128  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Rice  Corn  Bread. — One  pint  of  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  corn- 
meal,  one  onnce  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk; 
beat  the  eggs  very  light ;  then  add  the  milk  and  melted  butter ; 
beat  the  rice  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  then  add  the  eggs  and 
milk.  Lastly,  add  the  cornmeal;  beat  all  together  very  light, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Spoon  Bread. — One  pint  or  more  of  milk,  one  spoonful  of 
soda,  a  little  salt,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  little  cold  grits  or 
mush  mashed  smooth,  meal  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  a 
little  hot  grease;  bake  in  a  pan  which  can  be  brought  to  the 
table,  as  it  cannot  be  turned  out.  More  or  less  soda  is  used, 
according  to  milk,  but  the  batter  must  be  thin  and  only  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  grits  used. — Mrs.  John  H.  Gary. 

Muffins. — Take  one  pint  Dainty  flour,  yolk  one  egg,  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  half  tablespoon  butter,  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
one  pint  sweet  milk. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Delicious  Muffins. — One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  cup  milk.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and 
baking  pwder  together,  rub  in  the  butter,  add  sugar  and  mix  to 
a  batter  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Last  of  all  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  at  once  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Corn  Muffins. — One  pint  meal,  two  eggs,  one  cup  buttermilk 
(not  too  sour),  pinch  of  soda,  one  tablespoon  melted  lard, 
stirred  in  last.  Scalded  meal  makes  them  lighter.  Very  sour 
milk  never  makes  as  good  corn  bread. 

Corn  Muffins. — One  pint  meal,  one  pint  buttermilk,  one  or 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  lard,  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Dissolved 
in  milk,  a  little  salt.   Bake  in  pans. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. — One  pint  meal  (not  heaping),  three- 
quarters  pint  cold  water,  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  two  eggs, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  129 


pinch  of  salt.  Sift  half  of  the  meal  in  pan.  Put  lard  and  salt 
in  this ;  pour  enough  boiling  water  on  this  to  scald  it  well,  then 
stir  in  balance  of  the  meal.  Now  add  the  cold  water,  then  add 
the  cream  tartar,  soda  and  eggs.  Mix  them  well  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.  Have  iron  muffin  rings  piping  hot  and  well  greased 
with  lard.  Pour  in  the  batter.  Cook  in  very  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
L.  L.  Branum. 

Mush  Muffins. — Make  ordinary  mush,  just  a  little  thicker 
than  eaten  with  milk;  set  aside  to  partially  cool;  have  muffin 
rings  hot  and  well  greased,  and  fill  with  mush.  Run  into  oven 
just  long  enough  to  slightly  brown.  Serve  with  a  lump  of 
butter  in  the  center  of  each  one,  very  hot.  These  are  delicious. 
— Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Oat  Meal  Muffins.— Make  a  flour  batter  just  as  you  would  for 
flour  muffins,  and  add  the  left-over  oat  meal  for  breakfast, 
allowing  much  more  oat  meal  than  batter.  Put  in  hot  greased 
molds  and  cook  quickly.  Prepare  the  oat  meal  over  night  if 
you  want  muffins  for  breakfast. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Hirt. 

Graham  Muffins. — Two  cups  buttermilk,  two  and  one-half 
cupsful  graham  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  molasses,  two 
tablespoons  lard,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  half  teaspoon  salt. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Mush  Bread. — Make  a  thin  mush  of  corn  meal  and  milk  (or 
hot  water  if  milk  is  scarce).  Cook  till  perfectly  done,  stirring 
all  the  time  to  keep  it  smooth.  Then  add  lump  butter,  and 
after  it  cools  a  little,  two  eggs  at  a  time;  beat  in  a  very  small 
pinch  of  soda  and  a  little  salt.  Butter  a  dish  and  bake  slowly 
till  brown. 

Mush. — Mix  one  pint  corn  meal  with  cold  water;  stir  half 
gallon  boiling  water,  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Try  this  fried ;  it  is  most  delicious. 

Mush  Bread. — Make  a  mush  by  adding  slowly,  one  cup  of 
meal  to  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water  boiling  on  the  stove. 
Stir  until  smooth.    Take  up  and  add  one  well  beaten  egg,  one 


130 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


cup  buttermilk,  oue  small  teaspoou  soda,  butter  size  of  walnut. 
Salt.  Stir  well  and  bake  a  light  brown  in  pudding  dish. — Mrs. 
J.  L.  Nelson. 

Mush  Bread. — Sprinkle  slowly  half  pint  of  white  corn  meal 
into  a  pint  of  hot  milk.  Cook  until  it  is  a  smooth  mush.  Take 
from  the  fire.  Add  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  and  then 
fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites.  Turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  thirty  minutes. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Spoon  Bread  (good). — One  pint  meal,  one  pint  sour  milk, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  pint  warm  water,  four  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon melted  lard,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  a  greased  pan 
and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Jarman. 

Egg  Bread. — One  pint  buttermilk,  one  pint  meal,  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  melted  lard  or  butter.  Pour 
into  a  well  greased,  hot,  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  brown.   Nice  baked  in  gem  pans. 

Corn  Meal  Souffle. — Into  one  pint  hot  milk  stir  one  scant  cup 
meal  till  it  thickens  and  begins  to  bubble ;  remove  from  the 
fire  and  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  yolks 
four  eggs.  Fold  in  four  whites  beaten  stiff;  bake  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes;  serve  hot  in  baking  dish. — Mrs.  Reese 
Lillard. 

Corn  Cakes. — One  pint  corn  meal,  one  pint  buttermilk,  one 
egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  salt ;  bake  on  a  griddle. 

Corn  Pones. — One  pint  corn  meal,  quarter  teaspoon  soda,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teacup  buttermilk,  half  pint  hot  water;  mix 
meal,  salt,  soda  and  buttermilk,  stir  in  hot  water.  Heat  one 
teaspoon  lard  on  griddle,  pour  into  mixture ;  dip  up  large  spoon- 
fuls, place  on  griddle.   Bake  on  top  shelf  of  oven. 

Corn  Dodgers. — One  pint  meal,  one  teaspoon  lard,  salt  to 
taste.  Mix  with  hot  water  and  work  well.  Mold  with  hands 
and  bake  to  a  nice  brown. 

Crackling  Bread. — Scald  one  quart  of  meal  with  boiling 
water;  add  salt  and  one  cup  of  cracklings.    Mold  with  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


131 


hands  into  flat  pones  and  bake  until  brown. — Mrs.  H.  Vanden- 
brook. 

Corn  Meal  Batter  Cakes  No.  1. — Two  eggs,  two  cups  sour 
milk,  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teacup 
flour  and  corn  meal  to  make  batter  of  proper  consistency;  fry 
on  hot  greased  griddle. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 


CAKE. 

"The  best  recipe  for  any  possible  combination  is  an  ounce  of 
common  sense. " 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE. 

Cake,  to  be  nice,  should  be  made  of  the  best  materials.  But- 
ter and  eggs  should  both  be  fresh.  Some  persons  entertain  the 
mistaken  notion  that  butter  which  can  not  be  eaten  on  bread 
will  do  very  well  for  cake.  On  the  contrary,  the  baking  in- 
creases the  bad  flavor.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  wash  the  butter  in 
clear  water  before  using  it.  The  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs 
should  be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  separately.  Brown  sugar  will 
answer  for  some  kinds  of  cake,  if  free  from  lumps  and  creamed 
well  with  the  butter.  When  soda  is  used,  dissolve  before  adding 
to  the  general  mixture.  Butter  the  bakingpan  well,  covering 
the  bottom  with  buttered  white  paper.  In  cake  baking  much 
of  the  success  depends  on  the  oven,  which  should  be  well  and 
evenly  heated  before  the  cake  is  put  in;  and  never  allow  the 
heat  to  diminish,  or  the  cake  will  fall — except  fruit  cake,  which 
should  remain  in  the  oven,  while  it  cools  down  gradually. 


132  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Avoid  moving  the  cake  while  baking,  as  it  tends  to  make  it 
heavy.  When  the  cake  is  done  it  will  leave  the  sides  of  the 
pan.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  pnt  a  pan  filled  with  warm  water  on 
the  top  range  of  the  stove  after  the  cake  rises,  as  it  prevents 
burning  or  cooking  too  fast.  To  prevent  browning  too  fast,  lay 
a  paper  over  the  top  of  the  cake.  Avoid  any  contact  of  draft 
while  baking. 

When  baking  cake  grease  your  tins  well  and  then  dredge  well 
with  flour  and  have  pans  cold  when  you  put  cake  in,  and  it  will 
save  you  the  cutting  papers  and  greasing  them,  and  is  much 
nicer. 

Coloring  for  Cakes  and  Fruits. — Dark  red  coloring. — Take 
eight  grains  of  cream  of  tartar  finely  powdered,  and  ten  grains 
of  cochineal;  add  to  it  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  small  pea 
and  boil  with  four  tablespoons  of  water  in  a  granite  vessel  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Then  strain  through  a  cheese  cloth  and  put 
in  bottle  tightly  corked.  If  kept  any  length  of  time  add  a  little 
alcohol. 

Angel  Cake. — Eleven  whites,  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted 
powdered  sugar,  one  cup  dainty  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar, one  teaspoon  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt;  sift  flour,  cream  tar- 
tar, salt  and  sugar  all  together  five  times;  add  this  gradually 
to  the  beaten  whites;  put  in  lemon  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
—Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Angel  Food. — Eleven  eggs  (whites),  cup  and  a  quarter  sugar 
sifted  six  times,  one  cup  flour  sifted  six  times,  teaspoon  cream 
tartar.  Beat  whites,  when  half  beaten  add  cream  tartar,  barely 
lap  the  sugar  in,  but  do  not  beat,  then  the  flour  last,  the  same 
way.    One  teaspoon  of  lemon  to  flavor. — Mrs.  Hibernia  Neil. 

Angel  Food  Cake. — Add  to  the  whites  of  fifteen  well  beaten 
eggs  one  pound  of  sugar,  five  ounces  of  flour  (sifted  seven 
times)  folded  in ;  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven. — A.  T.  Nance. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


133 


Angel's  Food. — Separate  six  eggs.  Sift  half  a  cupful  of  flour 
five  times.  Sift  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the 
whites  until  stiff,  add  a  saltspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  beat 
again  until  fine  and  dry.  Add  slowly  the  sugar,  then  the  flour. 
Bake  in  a  small  square  breadpan  in  a  very  moderate  oven  for 
half  an  hour. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Angel  Food  Cake. — Whites  of  thirteen  eggs,  three-quarters 
pound  sugar,  after  it  has  been  sifted;  quarter  pound  flour, 
after  it  has  been  sifted;  beat  the  eggs  about  half  and  then  sift 
into  them  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar  and  beat  until  very  light 
and  dry.  Add  to  the  eggs  the  sugar,  stir  lightly,  then  add  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla  or  lemon.  Lastly  stir  in  the  flour  and  put  in 
pan  immediately  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  for  forty 
minutes.  When  done  turn  down  on  four  cups  or  glasses.  Put 
a  wet  towel  on  top  of  the  pan.  When  cold  run  a  knife  around 
and  turn  out. — Miss  Bruce  Harris. 

Angel  and  Sponge  Cake. — In  making  angel  and  sponge  cake 
always  use  pastry  flour.  Sift  flour  before  measuring.  In  mak- 
ing sponge  cake  sift  powder  several  times  with  flour.  Have 
bowl  and  beater  perfectly  dry  before  beating  whites.  Any 
moisture  will  prevent  their  beating  up  light.  Eggs  beat  quicker 
and  lighter  when  cool,  consequently  they  should  be  kept  in  a 
cool  place  until  needed.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  and 
beat.  This  toughens  the  fibre  and  helps  retain  the  air.  As  the 
lightness  of  sponge  cake  depends  mainly  on  the  amount  of  air 
beaten  into  the  eggs  care  should  be  taken  not  to  stir  much  when 
flour  is  added.  It  should  be  carefully  folded  in.  Beating  after 
flour  is  added  breaks  the  air  bubbles,  thins  the  pastry  and  makes 
the  cake  tough  and  heavy.  Do  not  grease  tins  in  angel  cake; 
invert  them  to  cool  when  taken  from  the  oven.  There  are  pans 
made  especially  for  these  cakes.    Layer  cakes  do  not  need  to 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


134 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


be  inverted ;  let  them  cool  in  pans  to  prevent  shrinking.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Wilson. 

Sponge  Cake. — Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  three-quarters 
pound  flour;  beat  eggs  separately,  add  sugar  and  fold  in  flour 
very  lightly. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Lancaster. 

Sponge  Cake  (white). — Whites  of  sixteen  eggs  well  beaten, 
two  glasses  of  sugar,  one  and  three-quarter  glasses  of  flour 
sifted  in  slowly,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of 
tartaric  acid.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  then  stir  in  sugar  with  fork. 
Put  acid  and  cream  tartar  in  flour  and  stir  in  gently  (never 
beat).  Flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with 
marshmallow  icing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Sponge  Cake. — Four  large  or  five  small  eggs;  beat  whites 
seven  minutes,  add  half  cup  sugar  and  beat  again  three  minutes. 
Beat  yolks  seven  minutes,  add  half  cup  sugar  and  beat  again 
three  minutes.  Turn  together;  add  juice  of  half  lemon  or  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  water  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  one  cup  flour 
very  lightly  and  bake  in  rather  slow  oven  about  thirty  minutes. 
— Mrs.  Madison. 

White  Sponge  Cake. — Whites  five  eggs,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  vanilla  flavoring;  bake  in 
quick  oven. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Sponge  Cake. — Nine  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour, 
six  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  one  light  teaspoon  baking  powder ; 
beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  very  light,  then  add  flour 
and  whites,  lastly  milk  and  baking  powder. — Miss  Fannie 
Fenner. 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. — Four  eggs,  three  light  cups  of 
flour,  two  cups  of  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar;  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water 
just  before  baking. 

Cheap  Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs  beat  with  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  sugar;  add  one  cup  of  flour,  beat  three  minutes,  one- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  135 


half  cup  of  milk,  add  one  cup  of  flour  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
yeast  powder.   Flavor  to  taste. 

Sponge  Cake  with  Cream  Filling,  or  New  England  Cream 
Pies. — Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour, 
half  cup  cold  water,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon 
soda.  Bake  in  quick  oven  in  two  layers ;  put  together  with 
this  cream;  one  pint  sweet  milk;  put  on  to  boil;  beat  two  eggs, 
half  cup  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  flour  well  together. 
Just  as  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  one  tablespoon  butter 
and  then  the  above  mixture ;  stir  constantly  until  cream  thick- 
ens like  mush ;  when  cold  flavor  to  taste ;  split  the  layers  and 
pile  cream  on  one  side ;  put  top  pieces  over  the  cream. — Mrs.  W. 

Delightful  Sponge  Cake. — Thirteen  eggs,  one  and  a  half 
pounds  sugar,  one  pound  flour ;  beat  yolks  well,  add  sugar  and 
then  add  whites  after  being  well  beaten ;  put  flour  in  through  a 
sieve,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time;  stir  in  gently  (never  beat  it 
in).  Just  before  baking,  flavor  with  lemon  and  stir  in  half  tea- 
cup cold  water.  Bake  quickly  in  layers  and  put  together  with 
the  following:  Grate  an  orange,  chop  a  can  of  pineapple  (do  not 
use  the  grated),  juice  of  one  lemon,  cut  up  several  bananas, 
sugar  to  taste.  Put  this  between  the  layers  and  use  plain  icing 
for  top. — Mrs.  W. 

Sponge  Cake. — Yellows  of  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  half  cup  ice  water,  two  cups  flour,  juice  of  a  lemon,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Lastly,  fold  whites  of  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  into  the  batter.  Bake  in  hot  quick  oven.  Bake  in  bis- 
cuit pan,  then  cut  half  in  two  and  put  cut-up  fresh  peaches 
between.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Harris. 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cake. — Half  cake  Baker's  chocolate  dis- 
solved in  one  cup  of  warm  sweet  milk.  Beat  two  cups  of  sugar 
with  four  yolks  of  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  measured  before  sift- 
ing, one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  then  add  the  whites  of  the 
four  eggs  beaten  stiff. — Mrs.  I.  W.  Wise. 


136 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Chocolate  Sponge  Icing. — Yolks  of  two  eggs,  half  cup  sweet 
milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar  beat  altogether,  boil  five  minutes,  remove  from  fire  and 
add  one  cup  of  bitter  chocolate  that  has  been  grated  and  melted 
over  hot  water. — Mrs.  I.  W.  Wise. 

Lady  Finger  Cake. — Eight  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  sugar, 
eight  stale  lady  fingers,  one  cup  grated  almonds,  one  cup  pecan 
nuts,  one-half  grated  lemon  and  juice,  one  teaspoon  va- 
nilla, one  teaspoon  baking  powder  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons 
warm  water.  Nuts  can  be  ground  in  a  meat  chopper. — Mrs. 
Martha  Dodson. 

Jelly  Roll. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  Dainty  flour, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  sweet  milk. — Mrs. 
Lee  Agnew. 

Jelly  Roll. — Four  eggs,  yellows  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half 
teaspoonful  soda,  salt.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  in  moderate  oven. 
Turn  out  of  pan  at  once,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll. 

Jelly  Roll. — Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  Dainty  flour,  four 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three-quarters  cup  hot 
water  stirred  in  last ;  flavor  to  suit  taste  and  beat  well.  When 
done  turn  on  a  cloth,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll.  Use  paper  in 
bottom  of  pan.  When  done  moisten  the  paper  and  it  will  come 
off  smooth. — Mrs.  H.  J.  Vandenbrook. 

Sponge  Roll. — To  six  eggs  broken  together  add  two  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  beat  fifteen  minutes;  add  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  lastly  beat  in  lightly  four  cups  Dainty 
flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  thoroughly  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Grease  two  biscuit  pans  and  dust  with 
flour ;  pour  in  batter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  turn 
out  on  a  damp  napkin ;  spread  with  jelly  quickly,  and  roll. 

Stale  Sponge  Cake. — Stale  sponge  cake  may  be  transformed 
into  an  excellent  dessert  by  cutting  it  in  slices  and  toasting  it 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


137 


delicately  over  the  coals.  Spread  whipped  cream  on  each  slice 
and  into  it  drop  a  teaspoonfnl  of  apple  or  quince  jelly. 

Sponge  Roll. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in  flour.  Break  two  eggs 
in  a  teacup,  fill  up  with  sweet  cream,  add  a  little  salt  and  flavor 
to  taste.  Beat  very  light,  add  sugar  and  flour.  Bake  in  loaf 
or  jelly  tins.  If  the  latter,  fill  with  any  good  marmalade,  pre- 
serves or  chocolate  filling.  Serve  with  sauce.  This  makes 
three  nice  rolls. — Miss  Pattie  Powell. 

Velvet  Cake. — Whites  eight  eggs,  three  cups  flour  sifted  four 
times,  two  cups  sugar,  two  level  teaspoons  Price's  baking 
powder,  three-quarters  cup  milk,  three-quarters  cup  butter 
(measured  after  it  is  creamed.  Add  one  cup  sugar  to  whites, 
which  have  been  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and  the  other  cup 
cream  with  the  butter;  then  add  them  together,  putting  in  the 
flour  and  the  milk  last. — Mrs.  Albert  Johnson. 

White  Layer  Cake. — Eight  eggs  (whites),  two  cups  of  sugar, 
four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  well  to- 
gether before  adding  milk,  which  must  be  stirred  in  slowly. 
Add  flour  and  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Flavor  with 
teaspoon  of  whiskey.  Line  pans  with  paper ;  bake  in  moderate 
warm  oven.  Put  layers  together  with  chocolate  icing.  Cook 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
milk,  two  ounces  or  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate,  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  a  walnut  added  just  before  you  take  it  off  fire. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake. 
— Mary  E.  Timberlake. 

White  Perfection  Cake. — Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
one  of  water,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  corn  starch,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  heaped  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder ;  dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  half  the  water,  add  it  to  the 
butter  and  sugar  well  creamed  together,  then  the  rest  of  the 
water  and  flour  and  whites  of  eggs. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 


138  HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TEXXESSEE. 


Mrs.  Mean's  White  Cake. — Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  six  cups 
flour  (slightly  heaped),  three  and  one-half  cups  sugar  (even), 
two  even  cups  butter,  measured  after  it  is  creamed,  two  cups 
ice  water,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  (slightly  heaped). 
Line  the  pan  with  paper,  letting  it  protrude  over  the  edges. 
Do  not  grease  pan. 

White  Cake. — Half  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  lard,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  four  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs 
well  beaten,  one  tablespoon  of  whiskey,  one  tablespoon  of 
lemon,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda. — 
Miss  Mary  Bond. 

White  Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  cream  one  cup  of 
butter  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  until  very  light. 
Mix  the  whites  with  the  butter;  add  three  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  light  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Stir  all  together  well  and  bake  in  jelly  cake  pans  or  as  a  loaf 
cake. — Mrs.  S.  D.  Hays. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  cups  dainty  flour, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add 
milk,  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten,  then  flour  mixed  with 
baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs. 
M.  H.  Taylor. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  one  cup  of  milk. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

White  Cake. — Eighteen  whites,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
powdered  sugar,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  flour,  quarter 
pound  corn  starch,  one  pound  butter,  two  level  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Flavoring:  Beat  whites  very  stiff,  then  by  de- 
grees stir  the  sugar  into  the  beaten  whites;  cream  butter  and 
flour  together.  Put  in  a  little  flour  at  a  time  until  it  will  take 
up  as  much  as  it  will  take  without  forcing ;  then  add  the  whites 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  139 

The  Hawkeye  Refrigerator  Basket, 

Keeps  Contents  Ice  Cold. 

Makes  an  out-door  luncheon  a  genuine 
luxury  because  a  small  quantity  of  ice 
keeps  everything  as  fresh  and  palatable 
as  when  prepared.  Well  made,  in  differ- 
ent sizes,  durable  and  nicely  finished. 
Prices,  $3.25  and  $3.50. 

G.  C.  ANDERSON. 

and  the  rest  of  the  flour  alternately  ;  sift  corn  starch  with  the 
flour.   Use  the  whitest  butter. — Mrs.  Wilson. 

White  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour, 
two  cups  sugar,  six  whites,  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  Royal 
baking  powder. 

To  Use  the  Yolks. — Six  yolks  well  beaten,  one  and  one-quar- 
ter cups  sugar,  half  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two- 
thirds  cup  butter,  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  muffin 
rings  or  as  layer  cake. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  ten  eggs,  cap  of  butter  three  cups 
of  sugar,  four  cups  of  dainty  flour,  one  cup  of  buttermilk,  one 
and  one-half  level  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  through 
the  flour,  half  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  two  tea- 
spoons of  tepid  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly, 
add  a  little  of  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  it  well;  add  whites 
of  eggs  and  flour  alternately.  Put  in  the  buttermilk  just  before 
the  last  of  flour.  Lastly  add  flavoring  and  pour  in  the  water 
from  soda.  Most  of  the  soda  will  remain  in  the  cup. — Mrs.  J. 
L.  Nelson. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup 
of  butter,  half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
baking  powder.   Bake  in  layers.    Good. — Mrs.  Yandenbrook. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  half  cup  butter,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder,  one  cup  of  milk. — Mrs.  A.  T.  Pegues. 


140 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


White  Cake  (delicious). — One  pound  flour,  heavy  weight,  one 
pound  sugar,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  whites  sixteen  eggs, 
one  heaping  teaspoon  Koyal  baking  powder ;  cream  butter  and 
sugar  till  very  light  and  white ;  add  one-quarter  of  flour,  then 
one-quarter  of  beaten  egg;  mix  well,  then  stir  in  half  the  re- 
maining flour  and  eggs ;  beat  this  well  and  then  put  in  the  rest 
of  the  flour  and  eggs.   Sift  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour. 

White  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  cream,  three 
cups  sugar,  five  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
whites  of  twelve  eggs. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

White  Cake. — Sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  flour,  one  pound 
sugar,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  two  spoons  baking  powder, 
flavor  to  taste.  Bake  one  and  one-half  hours  without  opening 
the  stove,  then  turn  on  gas  a  little  more  and  bake  twenty 
minutes  more  to  rise  and  brown. — Mrs.  Wm.  Holland. 

White  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
butter  (eight  ounces)  weighed,  one  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  cups  flour.  Cream  butter,  add 
sugar,  then  milk,  add  beaten  whites,  then  flour. — Mrs.  Hibernia 
Neil. 

White  Cream  Cake. — Whites  ten  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  three 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  buttermilk,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar  (sifted  in  flour),  half  teaspoon- 
ful  soda  (dissolved  in  two  teaspoonfuls  tepid  water)  ;  flavor 
with  lemon  extract  to  taste. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Dunaway. 

Small  Two  Layer  Cake. — Beat  two  eggs  and  one  cup  sugar 
together,  one  cupful  flour,  one  round  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  half  cup  boiling  milk,  one  dessertspoonful  butter  dis- 
solved in  milk. 

Good  Icing  for  Above: — One  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  quar- 
ter cup  butter  beaten  together,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one 
teaspoonful  cocoa ;  wet  to  proper  consistency  with  strong  coffee. 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


141 


Banquet  Cake. — Whites  twenty-two  eggs,  one  pound  butter, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds  flour, 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Keller. 

Caramel  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  two  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  with  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Put  together  with  the  following  caramel  filling :  One  pint  brown 
sugar,  with  sufficient  sweet  milk  to  start  cooking  well  •  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg ;  let  this  boil  until  almost  the  consistency 
of  molasses.   Let  cool  slightly  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Caramel  Cake. — Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  half  cup  butter, 
three  eggs,  one  cup  water,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
cream  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  soda.   Bake  as  for  jelly  cake. 

Filling. — One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  milk, 
one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  Boil  this  mixture  till  it 
ropes,  add  half  a  cake  Baker's  chocolate  (grated),  boil  till  it 
hardens  moderately  when  cool.  When  it  cools  some  add  a 
large  teaspoonfnl  of  vanilla  and  one-quarter  of  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  beat  till  it  begins  to  harden  and  spread  between 
layers.   This  makes  two  small  cakes. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Brown  Stone  Front. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half 
cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  milk.  Second  Part — One  cup  chocolate  (half  cake  Baker's 
chocolate),  half  cup  water,  yolk  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar.  Boil 
till  thick,  add  vanilla  and  stir  into  first  part.  Bake  in  layers 
and  use  icing  between. — Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Marshmallow  Cake. — Use  whites  of  eighteen  eggs,  two  and 
one-fourth  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar,  one  tablespoon  white  wine.  Sift  flour 
three  times,  add  cream  tartar  and  sift  again.  Beat  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  on  a  large  platter ;  add  sifted  sugar,  then  flour  very 
gently,  then  wine.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — Whites  of  five  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  pound 


142 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


fresh  marshmallows,  one  cup  boiling  water.  Boil  sugar  and 
water  until  it  ropes  well  from  spoon;  have  marshmallows 
broken  in  small  pieces;  add  to  boiling  syrup,  keep  well  under 
until  they  melt,  then  pour  into  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
beat  until  smooth  and  cold. — Mrs.  B.  0.  Snider. 

Marshmallow  Cake. — Whites  of  ten  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  a 
cup  of  water,  five  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder. 

Filling. — Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  cold  water ; 
cook  till  it  begins  to  drop  thick  from  the  spoon;  add  fifteen 
cents  worth  of  fresh  marshmallows ;  mash  until  dissolved ;  pour 
this  into  the  white  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff;  then  spread  on 
cake. 

Devil's  Food. — Brown  sugar  two  cups,  butter  half  cup,  two 
eggs,  half  cup  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  half  cake  sweet 
chocolate  dissolved  in  half  cup  hot  water.  Beat  eggs  together 
in  a  bowl,  add  butter  not  creamed,  add  milk  with  soda  in  it, 
then  flour,  chocolate  and  raisins  last.  Use  caramel  filling: — 
Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  half  cup  milk; 
stir  while  cooking  and  put  on  the  cake  just  before  it  begins  to 
harden. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Lanham. 

Devil's  Food. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  three  cups 
flour,  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  half  cup  milk.  Then  take 
one  cup  grated  chocolate,  half  cup  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  yolk 
of  one  egg  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  this  to  the  cake  batter, 
and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  half  cup 
water.  Cook  till  it  candies  real  stiff;  add  one-quarter  pound 
marshmallows,  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten. — Mrs. 
Hibernia  Neil. 

Devil's  Food  Cake. — Part  First. — One  cup  sugar,  one  cake 
grated  sweet  chocolate,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  yellows  of  three 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


143 


eggs.  Mix  well  and  cook  in  hot  water  to  a  thick  paste;  set 
aside  to  cool. 

Part  Second. — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  half  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder  in  flour.  Mix  well,  add  dark  mixture  and  bake 
in  two  loaves. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Black  Cake. — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  cup  of  molasses, 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  level 
teaspoon  of  soda,  half  cup  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  teaspoons 
each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  one  pound  raisins, 
two  eggs. — Mrs.  Balch. 

Blackberry  Jam  Cake. — Make  as  in  the  recipe  below  and  use 
one  cup  seeded  raisins  chopped  very  fine.  You  can  hardly  tell 
it  from  fruit  cake. — Housekeeper. 

Blackberry  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  three-quarters 
cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  of  jam,  three  tablespoons 
sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  cream,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  spice  and  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  three  tablespoons  of 
whiskey.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  icing. — Mrs.  S. 
B.  Lawrence. 

Blackberry  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  six  tablespoons  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  spice,  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon,  one  and  one-half  cups  blackberry  jam.  Mix  spices  in 
coffee  and  stir  in  batter.   Delicious. — Mrs.  A.  T.  Pegues. 

Jam  Cake. — Cream  one  cup  butter  and  two  of  sugar ;  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice,  one  cup  of  wine,  three  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  jam.  Bake  in  layers,  put 
together  with  a  white  icing.  Nuts  in  the  icing  add  much  to 
this  cake. 

Cocoa  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  nearly  half  cup  butter,  yolk 
one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  buttermilk,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  two  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour  and  four  teaspoons 


144 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


cocoa  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Bake  in  a  square  pan.  Ice  and 
cut  in  blocks. 

Cup  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour, 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  sweet  milk. 
— Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Feather  Cake. — One  egg,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Double  the  quantity,  it  makes  nice 
cake  to  be  eaten  while  warm  with  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  T.  Pegues. 

Dolly  Varden  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  cup 
butter,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder  well  sifted  with  the  flour;  cream  butter  and 
sugar  together,  add  yolks  and  beat  them  well  in,  then  the 
beaten  whites  and  about  half  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  bal- 
ance of  milk.  Take  out  half  in  another  dish  and  add  to  it  one 
cup  of  raisins,  half  cup  of  currants,  half  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  ginger,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves;  bake  in  layers, 
with  icing  between. — Tested  by  Mrs.  M.  C.  Woods. 

Dolly  Varden  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  sweetmilk,  three  cups  flour,  three  eggs,  three 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Bake 
half  the  batter  in  two  layers,  and  to  the  other  add  one  table- 
spoonful  molasses,  one  cup  chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  half 
cup  currants,  small  piece  chopped  citron,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  two  layers,  put  to- 
gether with  alternate  layers  of  the  white  cake  and  frosting. — 
Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Neapolitan  Cake. — Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Dark  Part  of  Cake. — Yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten  lightly,  one  cup 
brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  molasses,  half  cup  coffee, 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


145 


one  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  spice,  half  tea- 
spoon of  salt. 

Charlotte  Polonaise. — Boil  over  a  slow  fire  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  cream.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten ; 
stir  them  into  the  boiling  cream,  taking  care  to  have  it  smooth 
and  free  from  Inmps.  Let  this  mixture  boil  ten  minutes,  then 
divide  it,  putting  it  into  two  separate  saucepans.  Mix  in  one 
saucepan  six  ounces  of  chocolate,  scraped  fine,  two  ounces  of 
powdered  loaf  sugar,  quarter  pound  of  macaroons,  broken  up. 
Into  the  other  saucepan  of  cream  and  eggs  put  five  ounces  of 
blanched  almonds  pounded,  one  ounce  of  pounded  citron, 
four  ounces  powdered  loaf  sugar;  flavor  with  bitter  al- 
mond. Stir  these  well  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  Cut  a  large  sponge  cake  into  layers 
half  an  inch  thick;  spread  one  layer  thickly  with  choco- 
late cream  and  one  with  almond.  Do  this  alternately  until  the 
ingredients  are  used  up.  Pour  over  the  cake  one  pint  of  best 
sherry  wine,  then  a  coating  of  chocolate  icing.  Stick  blanched 
almonds  thickly  over  the  top.  Place  this  in  a  fiat  glass  dish. 
Garnish  with  whipped  cream  stiffened  with  a  small  quantity 
of  gelatine.  The  cream  should  entirely  surround  the  cake  and 
fill  the  dish,  only  leaving  the  top  of  the  cake  visible. — Mrs.  W. 

Lady  Orange  Cake. — Whites  of  ten  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar, 
three  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  corn  strach,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour, 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Flavor  with  either 
almond  or  orange.  Icing  for  this  cake :  Four  tablespoonfuls 
of  thick  cream,  made  thick  with  XXX  sugar.  Spread  one  inch 
thick  between  layers  and  on  top.  After  this  dries  ice  with  or- 
dinary icing.   Perfectly  delicious. — Mrs.  W. 

Bride's  Cake. — The  whites  of  eighteen  eggs,  three  cupfuls 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  butter,  four  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls sifted  flour,  and  three  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Tennes- 
see Cook  Book. 


146 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Plum  Cake  (very  fine). — One  pound  butter  (weighed),  three 
cups  sugar,  five  cups  flour,  two  pounds  raisins,  one  cup  milk, 
two  good  teaspoons  baking  powder,  twelve  eggs.  In  making 
the  cake  reserve  part  of  the  flour  to  roll  the  raisins  in.  Bake 
in  a  deep  cake  pan  one  hour  and  a  half  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  John  Freeman. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  half  pound  butter,  six 
eggs,  one  teacup  sifted  flour,  one  teacup  rich  sweet  milk,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  extract,  one 
package  of  Oswego  corn  starch.  Sift  the  corn  starch,  baking 
powder  and  flour  together  four  times.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately,  then  mix  ingredients  as  in  other  cake. 
Very  fine. — Mrs.  Ernest  Edenton. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. — One  pound  sugar,  three-quarters  pound 
butter,  six  eggs  broken  in  one  at  a  time,  one  box  corn  starch, 
three  tablespoons  flour.  Bake  in  muffin  rings. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wil- 
son. 

White  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two 
and  one-half  cups  flour  (before  sifting),  whites  of  seven  eggs, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  pound 
raisins,  one  pound  figs,  one  pound  dates,  one  pound  blanched 
almonds,  quarter  pound  citron,  three  teaspoons  of  cinnamon. 
Chop  the  fruit  (but  not  fine)  and  sprinkle  flour  over  it.  After 
mixing  the  cake  add  the  fruit  and  bake  slowly.  When  done  and 
still  warm,  pour  over  it  slowly  one  cup  of  sherry. — Miss  Guy 
Leeper. 

Fruit  Cake. — Three-quarters  pound  flour,  three-quarters 
pound  sugar,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  eight  eggs  (nine  if 
small),  one  and  one-half  pounds  raisins,  one  pound  currants, 
half  pound  figs,  quarter  pound  citron,  quarter  pound  pecans, 
one  wine  glass  of  strong  clear  coffee,  one  wine  glass  of  wine, 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice  to  taste.  Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  J. 
C.  Edenton. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  147 


White  Fruit  Cake. — Three  cups  flour,  one  cup  corn  starch, 
two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of 
eight  eggs,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  teaspoons  extract 
of  lemon,  two  of  brandy,  two  of  rose  water,  one  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  one  pound  figs,  half  pound  citron,  one  pound  crystalized 
cherries,  half  pound  pineapple,  one  pound  blanched  almonds — 
cut  them  up  a  little.  Use  extra  flour  for  the  fruit. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Keller. 

Fruit  Cake. — Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  but- 
ter, one  pound  flour,  two  pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants, 
two  pounds  citron  or  less,  one  pound  figs,  one  pound  dates,  half 
cup  molasses,  teacup  sherry  wine.  Cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice, 
at  least  one  tablespoon  each,  and  more  if  preferred,  four  nut- 
megs.  Bake  six  hours. — Mrs.  Hibernia  Neil. 

Black  Fruit  Cake. — Cream  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pound 
of  butter  until  light ;  then  add  ten  well  beaten  eggs,  one  pound 
of  dainty  flour,  reserving  some  of  it  to  flour  the  fruit.  Spice  the 
batter  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Add  two  pounds  of 
raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  well  washed ;  one  pound  of  cit- 
ron, cut  small;  one  pound  of  English  walnuts  (in  shell)  cut 
small;  one  pound  of  dried  figs,  cut  small.  Seed  and  cut  small 
the  raisins.  Mix  all  the  fruit,  add  part  of  the  flour  to  it, 
and  flour  the  fruit  well  so  it  does  not  stick  together;  stir  into 
your  batter;  now  add  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  in  which  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Very  fine.  The  water 
prevents  the  cake  being  dry.  You  can  also  add  one  cup  of  grape 
acid. 

Fruit  Cake. — Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  of 
citron,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  cur- 
rants, wine  glass  of  wine,  wine  glass  of  brandy,  one  cup  of  jam, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  allspice,  mace  and  cloves.  Add  soda  just 
before  putting  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  should  be  the 
last  thing.    You  can  add  one  pound  of  pecans  and  one  of 


148 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


almonds  if  nuts  are  preferred.  Bake  slowly  for  five  hours. — 
A.  T.  Nance. 

White  Fruit  Cake. — Whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound 
sugar,  one  pound  dainty  flour,  three-quarters  pound  butter, 
three  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  pounds  citron 
(some  sliced — some  chopped),  two  pounds  blanched  almonds, 
two  pounds  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  English  walnuts,  one 
tablespoon  of  mace,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon. — Mrs.  W.  P. 
Timberlake. 

Black  Fruit  Cake. — Two  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of 
raisins  cut  fine,  one  pound  citron,  three-quarters  pound  butter, 
one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour  heavy,  eleven  eggs,  half  tea- 
spoon of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and  rose  water, 
spoon  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  of  allspice,  half  tea- 
one  teacup  of  brandy  (or  one  pint  of  good  whisky),  one  teacup 
of  Madeira  wine.  Mix  well,  adding  fruit  and  spices  last.  Bake 
in  pans  (with  paper  cut  to  fit  the  bottom)  for  four  hours. — Mrs. 
W.  P.  Timberlake. 

Black  Fruit  Cake. — One  dozen  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  one 
pound  butter,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  flour,  and  extra  quar- 
ter pound  to  flour  fruits ;  mix  as  for  ordinary  pound  cake ;  two 
pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  washed  and  dried,  one  and 
one-quarter  pounds  citron,  two  and  one-half  pounds  almonds 
in  the  shell,  one  tumbler  full  of  brandy  or  good  whiskey,  one 
cup  black  molasses,  four  nutmegs,  one  cup  black  coffee,  cloves, 
allspice,  mace,  cinnamon  and  ginger,  tablespoon  each;  add  mo- 
lasses and  brandy  before  putting  in  fruits,  which  must  be  well 
floured  and  added  slowly  to  the  batter;  one  pound  figs,  one 
pound  English  walnuts,  one  pound  pecans.  Have  cake  pan 
well  greased  and  lined  with  thick  paper,  sides  and  bottom. 
Bake  six  hours. — Mrs.  Callie  Parker. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  dozen  eggs,  one  pound  butter,  one  pound 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  flour  browned  in  the  oven  to  a  light 
brown,  stirring  all  the  time,  two  pounds  raisins  after  seeding, 
two  pounds  currants  after  washing,  two  pounds  of  citron 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  149 


sliced  thin,  wine  glass  Madeira  wine  and  wine  glass  brandy, 
tablespoon  pulverized  cinnamon,  tablespoon  allspice,  teaspoon 
pulverized  cloves,  two  nutmegs,  teaspoon  soda;  mix  as  you 
would  pound  cake,  then  add  fruits,  spices,  soda  and  brandy; 
one  pound  shelled  almonds  may  be  added. — Mrs.  James  O'Con- 
nor. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  two 
pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  half  pound  cit- 
ron, three-quarters  pound  butter,  twelve  eggs,  quarter  ounce 
each  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  mace ;  one  wine  glass  of  wine 
or  brandy.  Make  up  the  cake,  then  add  spices,  flour  your  fruit 
and  add  it,  then  add  the  brandy.  I  use  one  tablespoon  baking- 
powder.  Bake  three  hours,  but  not  too  fast. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

Poor  Man's  Fruit  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  three 
cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  strong  coffee,  five  cups  of  flour,  one 
cup  whiskey,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  half  pound 
citron,  half  pound  figs,  one  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  spice, 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda. — Mrs. 
H.  C.  Irby. 

Prohibition  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
sugar,  one  pound  flour,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  small  teacup  of 
best  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  lemon  extract  if  desired.  Mix  and  beat  thoroughly 
as  for  pound  cake.  I  will  mention  I  put  in  the  syrup  next  to 
the  last  thing,  my  rose  water  being  the  last.  Then  add  two 
pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound  citron  (the 
fruit  having  been  prepared  before).  Spices  to  taste,  two  nut- 
megs, one  teaspoonful  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  pulverized. 
Lastly  two  or  three  ounces  of  rose  water. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Dunaway. 

Ocean  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  three 
scant  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Mrs.  Martha  Dodson. 

Pound  Cake. — One  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound 
flour,  eight  eggs.    Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  very  light  to- 


150 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


gether.  Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  add  them.  Then  add  the 
flour.  Bake  slowly,  and  is  better  in  small  tins.  Flavor  with 
lemon.  Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Old  Fashioned  Pound  Cake. — Ten  eggs,  one  pound  flour 
(about  three  cups),  one  pound  butter  (about  one  and  one-half 
cups),  wash  the  salt  out  of  the  butter,  cream  it  with  the  sugar; 
add  the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  the  sifted  flour  alternately  with 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites;  beat  with  the  hand  very  thoroughly; 
use  flavoring  if  any  is  desired;  bake  in  moderate  oven  two 
hours. 

Golden  Cake. — Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup 
milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

Golden  Cake. — Yellows  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  two  light 
cups  of  sugar,  one  light  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
three  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour,  two  level  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  together,  then  add  the  beaten  yellows.  When  well  mixed 
put  in  one-third  of  the  flour,  beating  and  stirring  well;  add 
one-half  of  the  milk,  then  rest  of  flour,  which  must  be  well 
stirred  in  to  prevent  lumps ;  then  use  remainder  of  milk.  Add 
flavoring  last.  The  baking  powder  is  sifted  into  the  flour. — 
Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Coffee  Cake. — One  egg,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  butter,  one  cup  strong  cold  coffee,  one  pound 
raisins,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  suda,  four  or  five  cups  flour. 

Ribbon  Cake. — White  Part. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup 
of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Divide  and  color  part 
pink. 

Yellow  Part. — Yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  four  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.   Bake  two  yel- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


151 


low  layers.  Add  to  what  is  left  one-half  pound  of  chopped 
raisins,  half  pound  of  figs,  half  pound  of  nuts  (reserve  half  of 
fruit  to  use  later  in  icing),  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  spice, 
one  grated  nutmeg.  Put  together  with  icing  made  as  follows : 
Whites  of  four  eggs,  four  cups  of  sugar,  one  grated  cocoanut, 
one  small  can  of  grated  pineapple.  As  you  stack  layers, 
sprinkle  cocoanut,  pineapple,  raisins,  figs  and  nuts. — Mrs.  A.  J. 
McGehee. 

Ribbon  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  cup  butter, 
one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  three  cups  flour. 
Bake  two  layers  and  to  the  balance  of  batter  add  one  cup 
seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  spice, 
cloves,  three  tablespoons  molasses.  Stack  up  with  jelly  or 
icing. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Lemon  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter, 
two  and  one-half , cups  of  flour,  five  eggs  beaten  separately,  four 
teaspoons  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  For  Jelly : 
One  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  eggs,  juice  of  two 
lemons;  beat  together  and  boil  until  like  jelly. — Mrs.  B.  P. 
Cantrell. 

Portugal  Cake  (fine  grain  loaf  cake). — One  pound  powdered 
sugar  sifted  and  half  pound  butter,  beaten  together ;  add  beaten 
yolks  of  eight  eggs,  three-quarters  pound  flour.  Beaten  whites 
of  eggs  stirred  in  lightly  last  thing.  Bake  slowly  an  hour  or 
more,  according  to  thickness. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  half 
cup  butter,  three-quarters  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  two 
heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cocoanut.  To  make  fill- 
ing :  Whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten ;  add  one  pound  of  sugar, 
beat  light  and  to  this  add  the  milk  of  one  cocoanut  and  the 
grated  cocoanut,  leaving  out  enough  dry  cocoanut  to  sprinkle 
on  top. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — Make  a  large  loaf  cake,  using  any  good 
white  cake  recipe.    The  next  day  after  baking,  with  a  sharp 


152 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


See 

Enochs  -  Smith 
Lumber  Co. 

for 

Mantels  and  Tile. 


Bibles,  Testaments  and  Other 
Popular  Books. 

AGENTS  WANTED 

Liberal  Commissions  to 
Hustlers. 

The  Ellis-Martin  Co. 

306  East  Main  Street, 
Jackson,  Tenn. 


knife,  slice  the  cake  into  four  equal  slices.  If  the  cake  is 
baked  in  a  round  pan  it  looks  prettier  when  iced.  Trim  off 
evenly  the  brown  edges.  Make  an  icing  of  four  cups  sugar, 
one  and  one-quarter  cups  cold  water.  Let  cook  until  it 
" threads".  Pour  over  four  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add 
half  teaspoon  cream  tartar  and  beat  until  smooth.  Beat  into 
this  the  grated  meat  of  one  very  large  or  two  small  cocoanuts. 
Spread  thickly  between  layers  of  cake,  also  cover  well  the  top 
and  sides.  Lastly  sprinkle  well  with  a  little  dry  cocoanut  that 
has  been  reserved. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

White  Cake. — Three  cups  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  but- 
ter, one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter,  add  sugar,  then  the  flour.  Dissolve  baking  powder  in 
the  boiling  water,  holding  it  over  the  cake  bowl,  so  it  will  not 
be  lost  as  it  effervesces.  Stir  it  in  the  batter,  and  add  the  well 
beaten  whites  last.  The  grain  of  this  cake  is  more  like  angel 
food,  and  will  remain  moist  longer  than  if  milk  were  used. — 
Mrs.  J.  T.  Newsom. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour  and  one  of  corn  starch,  whites  of 
eight  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder;  flavor  to  taste. — 
Mrs.  B.  P.  Cantrell. 

Molasses  Spice  Cake. — One  dozen  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  molasses,  two  pounds  of  flour,  a 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


153 


wine  glassful  of  spices,  and  a  teaspoonfnl  of  soda.  Mix  like 
pound  cake. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Spice  Cake. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  yolks  five  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  four 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  two  of  cloves,  two  of  baking  powder. 
Use  the  whites  for  icing. — Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Spice  Cake. — Whites  sixteen  eggs,  six  cups  flour,  four  cups 
sugar,  two  cups  butter,  one  cup  buttermilk,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder. 

Dark  Part. — Yolks  eight  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup 
molasses,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  buttermilk,  half  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  spices.  Half  of  this  recipe  makes  a 
medium  size  cake. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Spice  Cake. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  yolks  five  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  two  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  two  spice,  two  of  cloves,  two  baking  powder. 
Use  whites  for  icing. — Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Spice  Cake. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of 
sugar,  four  of  flour,  one  of  milk,  one  teaspoonfnl  of  yeast 
powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  cinna- 
mon and  half  a  nutmeg. — Gulf  City  Cook  Book. 

Cheap  Cake. — One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one 
spoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. — Mrs.  Ed.  Mercer. 

Everyday  Cake. — Half  cup  butter  creamed  with  three  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  milk,  ten  whites,  six  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons 
Royal  baking  powder.  Bake  in  biscuit  pan.  Ice  with  thick 
icing,  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

Plain  Cake. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  half  cupful  of  butter,  half 
cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla,  two  eggs,  flour  to  thicken.  This  will  make 
one  loaf.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  beaten 
eggs,  the  milk,  vanilla  and  flour,  then  the  baking  powder. 
Flour  varies  so  much  that  the  exact  quantity  cannot  be  given, 
but  enough  has  been  added  when  the  track  made  by  the  spoon 


154 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


in  mixing  does  not  at  once  disappear.  Add  the  baking  powder 
after  the  flour  and  beat  in  well.  Line  the  baking  pan  with  oiled 
paper,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Sunshine  Cake. — Separate  six  eggs,  one  jelly  glass  flour 
(even)  and  one  of  sugar,  juice  half  lemon  and  little  of  the  rind, 
one  scant  teaspoon  cream  and  a  little  salt  added  to  the  whites 
and  beaten  until  very  stiff.  Beat  yolks  lightly  and  add  to 
whites,  then  the  sugar,  and  fold  in  the  flour,  little  by  little. 
Bake  in  gas  oven  with  one  burner  on  20  or  30  minutes,  then  turn 
more  than  half  down  and  let  remain  in  one  hour  altogether. — 
Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Cup  Sunshine  Cakes.— Beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  until 
they  are  fairly  stiff;  then  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar  and  beat  until  fine  and  dry.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth;  sift  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  granulated 
sugar,  add  to  the  whites  carefully,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract.  When  thoroughly  mixed  fold  in  gently  one 
cupful  of  flour  that  has  been  sifted  four  or  five  times.  Turn 
into  greased  custard  cups  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  When  these  cakes  are  cold  they  should  be 
iced  with  orange  icing. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Golden  Cake. — Yolks  20  eggs,  well  beaten;  one  pound  sugar, 
added  to  eggs,  one  pound  butter  well  creamed,  one  pound  flour 
added  in  small  quantities;  flavor  fresh  lemon;  bake  in  small 
tins.  Excellent. 

Gold  Cake. — Twelve  yolks,  half  pound  butter,  one  pound 
sugar,  one  pound  flour,  one  teacup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  lemon  extract. 

Potato  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  of  Royal  baking  powder,  half  cup  milk,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  half  cup 
chocolate  melted,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  vanilla,  nutmeg.  Icing:  Two  cups  of 
sugar,  one  square  of  chocolate,  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Boil 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


155 


until  it  threads  or  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Remove  from 
fire  and  stir  until  begins  to  cream,  then  add  the  chocolate, 
melted.— Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Potato  Caramel  Cake  is  made  of  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of 
butter,  two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  a 
cupful  of  mashed  potato,  hot,  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  cupful  of  grated 
chocolate  or  two  squares  melted,  a  cupful  of  chopped  English 
walnuts,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
(half  as  much  if  preferred).  Cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs.  Add  the  milk,  the  mashed  potato,  spices  and 
melted  or  grated  chocolate.  Sift  the  baking  powder  in  the 
flour  and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  the 
sifted  flour  into  the  batter  and,  lastly,  beat  in  the  whites;  the 
nuts  are  added  just  before  the  cake  goes  into  the  tins.  A  nut 
cake  is  always  of  finer  flavor  if  the  nuts  are  put  in  the  very 
last  thing.   This  makes  a  large  loaf. 

Marble  Cake. — No.  1. — Dark. — Yolks  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups 
of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  five 
cups  of  flour  unsifted,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  allspice;  dissolve  the  soda 
in  molasses. 

Light. — Whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  white  sugar, 
one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Put 
alternately  about  a  handful  of  each,  or  any  way  the  taste  may 
dictate  to  be  prettily  marbled.  A  part  of  the  light  may  be 
colored  with  cochineal,  and  put  in  with  the  light  and  dark 
with  good  effect. 

Marble  Cake.— Light— One  cup  white  sugar,  half  cup  of 
butter,  half  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda.  Sift  cream  tar- 
tar and  soda  with  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk 
and  flour ;  last  whipped  whites. 


156 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Dark. — Half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  quarter  cup  of  butter,  quar- 
ter cup  milk,  half  cup  molasses,  two  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda,  half  nut- 
meg, half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice. Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  the  molasses  and  spices,  and  flour,  with  cream  tartar 
and  soda  well  mixed  in  it. — Tested  by  Mrs.  M.  C.  Woods. 

Haufcier  Cake. — Sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  three-quarter 
pound  flour,  half  pound  butter.  Beat  whites  stiff,  add  sugar 
and  beat  well;  add  yolks  beaten  very  light;  fold  in  flour  and 
add  butter  melted.  I  make  half  of  this  receipt  with  good  suc- 
cess.  Good. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Almond  Cake. — Whites  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  and  one-half 
cups  flour,  half  teaspoon  of  bitter  almond  extract,  one  cupful 
almonds,  blanched  and  shredded  fine,  half  glass  brandy  or 
sherry  wine,  and  when  cold  put  on  thick  white  icing,  flavored 
with  a  few  drops  of  bitter  almond  and  grated  almonds  sprink- 
led thickly  over  the  frosting. — Tennessee  Cook  Book. 

Almond  Cake. — Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour. 
Add  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  beaten  fine,  with  a 
wineglassful  of  rose  water. 

Hickorynut  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of 
flour,  whites  of  seven  eggs  and  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  two  of  cream  tartar,  one  pint  hickorynut  meats  rolled 
and  sprinkled  with  flour.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Rich 
and  excellent. 

Hickorynut  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  milk,  two-thirds 
cup  butter,  three  of  flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  cup  nut  kernels  cut  fine.  Tried  and  not  found 
wanting. 

Hickorynut  Cake. — Beat  half  a  cupful  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
add  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar,  beating  all  the  while. 
Measure  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  water;  sift  two  cupfuls 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


157 


of  flour  with  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Chop 
sufficient  hickorynut  kernels  to  make  one  cupful.  Add  first  a 
little  of  the  water  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  more  water 
and  flour  until  both  are  used;  beat  thoroughly  for  three  min- 
utes. Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one- 
half  to  the  mixture,  then  add  the  nuts,  and  last  the  remaining 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  square  or  round  pans  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Ice  with  soft  icing  and  decorate 
with  halves  of  nuts. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Dark  Fig  Cake. — Four  eggs  (whole),  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
cold  water  with  one  teaspoon  soda  in  it,  one  cup  of  raisins 
chopped  fine,  one  pound  figs  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  butter,  one  piece 
chopped  citron.    This  is  fine. — Mrs.  Chas.  King. 

English  Walnut  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one 
cup  milk,  three-quarters  cup  butter,  three-quarters  cup  nuts 
broken  fine  and  floured,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  three  eggs  well  beaten  together.  Bake  in  bis- 
cuit pans,  making  two  layers.  Take  whites  four  eggs,  one  and 
one-quarter  pounds  powdered  sugar,  juice  of  half  lemon  and 
one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  all  together  until  it  will  thread 
off.  Spread  on  first  layer,  place  second  on  top,  ice,  and  mark 
in  squares.    Place  half  a  nut  on  each  square. 

Pecan  Cake. — Three-quarters  pound  shelled  pecans,  two 
pounds  seeded  raisins,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  one  pound 
sugar,  one  pound  flour,  half  pound  flour  for  flouring  fruit, 
grated  rind  of  two  oranges,  six  eggs,  half  cup  black  molasses, 
half  pint  good  whiskey,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  the 
flour,  two  nutmegs  grated.  Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Gov. 
Folk. 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake. — One  cup  grated  chocolate,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  egg,  two  cups  sweet  milk;  mix  all  well  and  boil 
until  thick  and  smooth.  Set  aside  to  cool  while  making  the 
following  batter:  One  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  butter, 
two  cups  flour,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  three-quarters  tea- 


158 


EW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


spoon  soda  sifted  with  flour.  Beat  all  this  together  well  and  add 
chocolate  and  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  If  batter  is  hard,  add 
enough  milk  to  make  it  the  proper  consistency.  Bake  in  layers 
and  put  together  with  white  icing. — Mrs.  C.  X.  Harris. 

A  Good  Chocolate  Cake. — Part  1. — Quarter  pound  Baker's 
chocolate,  one  scant  cup  sugar,  half  cup  milk,  yolk  one  egg: 
let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

Part  2. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  melted  butter  well  mixed 
together,  two  eggs  beaten  separately  with  the  one  white  left 
from  dark  mixture,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  sifted  flour, 
with  two  teaspoons  of  powder.  Add  dark  mixture. — Mrs.  TV. 
H.  Wilson. 

Chocolate  Cake  (Sour  Cream). — Cream  one-third  cup  butter, 
add  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  then  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  together  until 
light,  then  two  squares  of  chocolate  melted  in  one-half  cup  boil- 
ing water.  Dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  half  teacup 
sour  milk  and  add  to  the  batter  alternately  with  two  cups  of 
sifted  flour.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla:  bake  in 
a  deep  pan  about  fifty  minutes,  or  in  two  layers  about  twenty 
minutes. 

Icing. — Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  with  quarter  cup  boiling 
water  until  it  spins  a  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon 
Pour  gradually  upon  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  beating  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  spread  on  cake  and  decorate  with  nuts. 

Solid  Chocolate  Cake. — Yolks  eight  eggs,  two  scant  cups 
sugar,  one  scant  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  two  heaping  table- 
spoons cocoa  or  grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
vanilla  to  taste,  four  cups  flour ;  nuts  broken  in  halves  and  stir- 
red into  the  batter  add  a  fine  flavor. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Mahon. 

Chocolate  Cake. — Two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  sifted  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  squares  chocolate  melted  and 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


159 


added  last,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Beat  well  and  bake 
in  loaf  or  layers  in  moderate  oven.  Use  any  filling  or  icing 
preferred. 

Chocolate  Block  Cake. — One-quarter  cake  chocolate  dissolved 
in  one  cup  warm  milk,  two  cups  sugar  beaten  in  four  yellows  of 
eggs,  one  and  one-quarter  cups  flour  measured  before  sifted, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  whites  of  the  four  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  This  makes  one  dozen  blocks.  Ice  them  with  white  icing 
and  decorate  with  whole  English  walnuts. — Tested  by  Mrs. 
Benton. 

Perfection  Cake. — Three  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup 
butter,  one  cup  corn  starch,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  twelve  eggs.  Whip  whites  thor- 
oughly and  add  sugar ;  cream  butter  and  add  to  the  eggs ;  then 
spoon  at  a  time  add  flour,  milk  and  corn  starch..  Dissolve  soda 
in  milk  and  put  cream  tartar  in  eggs  when  about  half  whipped. 
— Woman's  Exchange. 

Dixie  Ginger  Cake. — Half  cup  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter, 
three  cups  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  ginger,  two  teaspoons  soda  in  boiling  water,  two  well 
beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  gem  tins  or  bread  pan,  and  serve  with 
sauce. — Mrs.  John  H.  Gary. 

Soft  Ginger  Cake. — Five  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  two  of  sugar, 
one  of  butter,  one  of  molasses,  two  tablespoons  ginger,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda. 

Ginger  Cake. — Take  one  quart  molasses,  one  cup  sugar  in 
it,  two  tablespoons  soda,  two  eggs,  one  cup  lard,  two  heaping 
tablespoons  ginger,  flour  to  make  a  dough  of  medium  stiffness, 
one  tablespoon  salt,  knead  well,  roll  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
Brush  over  the  cakes  with  a  mop  dipped  in  mixture  of  yolk  of 
one  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses ;  bake  in  rather  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Grandmother's  Ginger  Cake. — Quarter  cup  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  soda,  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  half  cup  of 


160 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


molasses,  half  teasponful  of  ginger,  half  cup  of  sour  milk,  half 
teasponful  of  cloves,  two  cups  of  flour,  half  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, half  cup  of  raisins,  grated  rind  of  orange  or  lemon. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Mix  with  the  egg  beaten  very 
light  and  add  the  spices  and  molasses,  sift  flour  twice  before 
measuring,  add  soda  and  sift  again ;  mix  in  with  the  sour  milk. 
It  should  be  rather  soft.  Add  the  orange  or  lemon  peel  and 
the  raisins  which  have  been  rolled  in  flour.  Bake  half  hour  in 
moderate  oven. 

Spiced  Ginger  Cake. — One  cup  each  of  sugar,  butter  and  mo- 
lasses, three  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  cup  of  sour  cream,  half  grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cloves, 
one  tablespoon  ginger.    Extra  good. 

Ginger  Cakes. — Two  eggs,  two  teacups  molasses,  one  teacup 
sugar,  not  quite  one  teacup  buttermilk,  two  teaspoons  soda, 
three-quarters  cup  lard,  one  heaping  tablespoon  ginger;  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough.    Good. — Mrs.  Wells. 

Ginger  Cakes. — Three  pints  molasses,  seven  eggs,  two  cups 
sugar,  two  cups  lard,  three  large  spoons  ginger,  two  table- 
spoons soda,  and  enough  flour  to  make  very  soft  dough.  Half 
this  recipe  makes  a  big  lot  of  cakes.  Make  the  dough  as  soft 
as  can  be  handled,  and  sprinkle  the  cakes  with  sugar,  before 
baking. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Ginger  Cakes. — Two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
heaping  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  one  cup  hot  water,  two 
teaspoons  soda,  ginger  and  salt  to  taste. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Derry- 
berry. 

Ginger  Cakes. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  ginger,  one  heaping  teaspoon  soda  in  one-half 
cup  hot  water,  two-thirds  cup  lard  salted,  flour  enough  to  make 
stiff  dough.— Mrs.  C.  A.  Derryberry. 

Ginger  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 
half  cup  lard,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  soda,  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  ginger,  flour  to  stiffen  for  rolling  out. — Mrs.  J.  E. 
Ryley. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  161 


Ginger  Snaps. — One  large  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one 
coffee  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  half  cup  water,  one  table- 
spoon ginger,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Flour  for 
pretty  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  rather  thinner  than  teacakes  and 
bake  quickly.  These  ginger  snaps  will  keep  for  weeks  if  locked 
up.— Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. — Pour  eggs,  yolks  and  whites ;  one  pound 
butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  pound  flour,  one 
cup  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  soda. — Mrs.  Chas.  King. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. — Four  eggs,  half  cup  buttermilk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  black  molasses,  half  cup  sugar,  half 
cup  butter,  half  cup  lard,  tablespoon  of  ginger,  five  cups  flour. 
Pour  in  greased  pan  and  bake. — Mrs.  A.  M.  G. 

Roxbury  Cakes. — Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Gradually  beat 
in  half  cup  of  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  of  butter,  softened  but 
not  melted,  half  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup  of  sour  milk  and 
then  one  and  one-half  (five  ounces)  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  again 
with  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  a 
grating  of  nutmeg  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda.  Beat  in  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  dry,  and  then  one-half  cup  of  raisins 
(seeded)  and  one-half  a  cup  of  walnut  meats  (broken  small). 
Bake  in  small  tins.  Cover  with  boiled  frosting  and  decorate 
with  the  same  frosting  tinted  with  melted  chocolate  and  put  on 
with  the  leaf  tube.  This  tube  is  used  to  make  ribbon,  leaves 
and  ruffles.  This  recipe  makes  eighteen  cakes. — Boston  Cook- 
ing School. 

Delicate  Cake. — One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour  and  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  milk  by 
squeezing  through  the  fingers,  and  sift  the  flour  and  baking- 
powder  half  a  dozen  times. — The  Boston  Cooking  School. 

Sand  Tarts. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  cups 
flour,  two  eggs,  leaving  out  the  white  of  one,  roll  thin  and  cut 


162 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


in  square  cakes  with  a  knife,  spread  the  white  of  egg  on  top, 
sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar,  and  press  half  a  blanched 
almond  or  raisin  in  the  center. — Old  Virginia, 

Sand  Tarts. — One  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  half  pound 
butter,  two  eggs,  leaving  out  the  white  of  one,  half  pound 
blanched  almonds  cut  thin.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  add  melted  butter, 
then  the  beaten  egg,  roll  very  thin  and  cut  in  shapes.  Lightly 
brush  them  over  with  white  of  one  egg,  lay  the  almonds  on  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  equal  parts;  bake  quickly. 
— Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

How  to  make  Doughnuts. — Break  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  before 
beating  add  sugar,  beat  a  little,  then  add  the  milk,  then  flour, 
to  which  has  been  added  the  baking  powder,  nutmeg,  and  salt, 
before  it  was  sifted.  Work  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  but  do  not  roll  out  more  than  one-third  of  the  dough  at 
once.  Roll  this  one-eighth  inch  thick ;  they  will  be  raw  in  the 
middle  if  thicker.  Cut  out  a  great  many  before  you  start  to 
frying  them.  The  grease  must  be  boiling.  Take  out  as  soon  as 
they  are  a  golden  brown  and  roll  them  in  pulverized  sugar. 
Use  a  regular  doughnut  cutter,  since  they  fry  better  with  a  hole 
in  the  center. — Housekeeper. 

Doughnuts. — One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  one  cup  buttermilk,  scant  teaspoon  soda,  flour 
to  make  stiff  dough. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Derryberry. 

Doughnuts. — Two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  two  teaspoons  melted  lard,  one  cup  milk,  flour 
enough  to  roll,  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Wilson. 

Doughnuts. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sour  or  but- 
termilk, two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  flour  enough  to  roll.  Beat  egg,  add  sugar  and  melted 
butter,  then  milk,  to  which  the  soda  has  been  added;  mix  all 
well  with  the  flour,  roll  lightly  and  cut  out,  fry  in  boiling  lard ; 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


163 


when  done  sift  powdered  sugar  over  top. — Mrs.  Perry  C.  Calla- 
han. 

Doughnuts. — One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  warm  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  cup 
and  a  half  of  flour  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking- 
powder,  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  flavor  to  taste  with  grated  nut- 
meg.— Mrs.  M.  I.  Best. 

Doughnuts. — Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Cut  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.— Mrs.  C.  N.  Harris. 

Doughnuts. — One  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar, 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  little  nutmeg,  flour 
enough  to  roll  out ;  fry  in  hot  lard.— Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Maple  Biscuit. — Beat  separately  nine  eggs,  to  the  yolks  add 
four  teacups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  one  of 
vanilla.  Boil  as  for  icing,  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup 
water;  pour  over  the  well-beaten  whites,  turn  this  into  the 
yellow  batter,  mix  well  and  bake  in  the  square  flat  tins.  When 
nicely  browned,  remove  from  tins,  cut  in  small  squares  and 
triangles;  ice  alternately  with  pink  and  white  icing;  pyramid 
on  glass  cake  stand.   Dainty,  delicate  and  delicious. 

Maple  Biscuit. — Sift  together  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  cup- 
fuls  of  cornstarch,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub  into  these  ingredients  one  cupful  of 
butter  and  mix  with  cold  milk  to  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out,  fold 
up,  and  roll  again,  repeating  until  the  dough  is  flaky.  Roll 
out  finally  to  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  three-inch  circles, 
brush  with  butter,  dredge  thickly  with  grated  maple  sugar,  fold 
over  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Nut  Bars. — Two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one 
cup  coarsely  chopped  nuts,  half  cup  milk,  half  cup  sugar,  one 
egg,  two  tablespoons  butter,  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  flour,  salt  and 
baking  powder  into  a  bowl ;  rub  in  the  butter  and  add  the  nuts 
and  sugar.   Mix  to  a  rather  stiff  dough  with  the  egg  and  milk, 


164 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


turn  on  to  floured  board  and  roll  out  two-thirds  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  bars  of  convenient  size  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until 
golden  brown. 

Cake  Snowballs. — From  a  perfectly  white  angel's  food  cake 
about  two  and  one-half  inches  thick  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter 
(medium  size)  a  number  of  balls.  Have  ready  a  rich,  white 
icing.  Take  each  ball  on  a  fork  and  with  a  spoon  cover  en- 
tirely with  icing.  Then  cover  with  freshly  grated  cocoanut. 
This  might  also  be  made  with  pink  icing. — Mary  Roxie  Snider. 

Good  Tea  Cakes. — One  quart  flour,  one-third  cup  milk, 
three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  baking  powder,  half 
cup  lard,  pinch  salt.  Roll  out  soft  dough  as  you  can,  cut  out 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Tea  Cakes. — Half  pound  butter,  five  eggs  (beaten  separate- 
ly), one  pound  sugar,  one  teacup  sour  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  half  nutmeg,  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.    The  best  you  ever  ate. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Mann. 

Tea  Cakes. — Six  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  beaten  together, 
one  pound  of  butter  (can  use  some  lard)  well  creamed,  tea- 
spoon soda,  sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough  (about  three 
pints),  roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  H.  R. 
Lancaster. 

Tea  Cakes  No.  2. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  milk,  tablespoon 
butter,  one  egg,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Roll  out  thin  and  bake. — Mrs.  T.  Lee  Agnew. 

Tea  Cakes. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  teaspoon  salt,  three 
cups  sugar,  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup  buttermilk  and  flour  suf- 
ficient for  rolling;  flavor  with  cinnamon  or  lemon. 

Tea  Cakes. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
one  light  teaspoon  of  soda  in  cup  of  buttermilk,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Use  just  enough  flour  to  make  dough  roll 
easily. — Mrs.  Nance. 

Tea  Cakes. — Five  eggs,  one  very  small  cup  of  butter.  Beat 
as  much  sugar  as  you  can  into  the  eggs ;  a  little  soda,  no  milk, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


165 


make  a  dough  as  for  soft  biscuit.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Do  not 
grease  pan.  Roll  thin  and  bake  cakes  as  you  would  biscuits. — 
Mrs.  C.  N.  Harris. 

Princeton  Rocks. — Three-quarters  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
granulated  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one 
pound  raisins  or  dates,  one  pound  chopped  nuts,  one  teaspoon 
cloves,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  half  of  a  level  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one-quarter  cup  of  hot  water.  Drop  in  small  spoonfuls 
on  buttered  paper  in  pans,  as  they  spread.  Bake  quickly. — 
Mrs.  Theus. 

Cookies. — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of 
hartshorn  dissolved  in  quarter  cup  warm  water,  two-thirds  cup 
butter  or  lard,  three  eggs  beaten  well.  Stir  all  together  and 
make  a  soft  dough  with  six  cups  flour.   Roll  thin  and  bake. 

Chocolate  Jumbles. — Two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup 
melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  chocolate,  one  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  warm  water,  four  cups 
flour,  roll  real  thin,  cut  out  with  a  fried  cake  cutter  and  frost 
top  with  white  frosting.  I  always  make  boiled  frosting.  I 
only  use  half  of  this  recipe  and  use  the  white  of  the  second  egg 
for  frosting.   Let  the  jumbles  cool  before  putting  icing  on. 

Good  Cookies. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  cup  sour 
milk  or  cream,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda;  flour  to  make 
soft  dough,  roll  thin,  sift  sugar  over  them  and  gently  roll  it  in. 

Nut  Cookies. — One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups 
nuts  ground  fine,  three  eggs,  half  cup  sour  milk,  teaspoon  soda, 
and  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Dip  in  powdered  sugar.  Use 
either  walnuts  or  hickorynuts. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Mahon. 

Shrewsberry  Cookies. — Cream  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar 
in  one-half  pound  of  butter ;  add  three  eggs  well  beaten ;  flavor 
with  cinnamon ;  put  in  one  quart  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder;  work  well  together,  cut  in  shapes,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  and  bake  quickly. — Mary  E.  Timberlake. 


166 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


French  Cookies  (fine). — Two  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
butter,  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  three-quarters  cup 
sweet  milk ;  work  in  just  enough  flour  to  roll ;  roll  as  thin  as  a 
wafer. — Mrs.  R.  D.  Rodgers. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. — Three-quarters  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
light  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  cup  un- 
cooked oatmeal,  three-quarters  teaspoon  of  soda,  half  cup  of 
nuts,  half  cup  of  raisins,  two  scant  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Drop  in 
small  balls  in  greased  dripping  pan  an  inch  apart  and  bake  in 
quick  oven. 

Cream  Cookies. — Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two-thirds 
cup  sour  cream  or  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  little 
more  than  even.    Flour  to  roll  out. 

Cocoanut  Cookies. — One  cup  of  -  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one  grated  cocoanut,  flour  enough  to  roll  out.  Roll  rather  thin 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Mahon. 

Soft  Cookies. — Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups  of 
sugar;  add  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  two  beaten  eggs,  three  cups 
of  flour  that  has  been  thoroughly  sifted  with  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Turn  the  dough  upon  a  floured  pastry 
board,  knead  lightly,  roll  a  sheet  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  rounds  and  bake.  This  will  make  three  dozen  medium 
sized  cookies. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Rhoton. 

Molasses  Cookies. — Two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  lard,  two-thirds  cup  warm  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  gin- 
ger. Let  these  come  to  boil  on  stove  and  when  cold  add  one 
full  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  little  salt  and 
flour ;  mix  stiff  and  roll  thin. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Madison. 

Vanilla  Wafers. — One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one 
egg,  four  tablespoons  milk,  one  tablespoon  vanilla,  two-thirds 
teaspoon  soda,  one  and  one  half  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  flour 
to  mix  stiff,  and  roll  very  thin. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Madison. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  167 

Sweet  Wafers. — One  heaping  cup  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  five  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  bake 
in  wafer  molds.  While  hot  roll  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Long,  Sr. 

Rosettes. — One  egg,  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  pint 
milk;  flour  enough  to  make  batter  like  pan  cake;  have  boiling 
lard.  First  dip  rosette  mold  in  lard,  then  in  the  batter,  then 
back  in  lard;  keep  there  until  it  is  ready  to  drop  off  on  cloth, 
— Miss  Nannie  Mae  Temple. 

Sweet  Wafers. — No.  1. — One  egg,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  made  into  batter  and  dropped  into  the  irons.  If  the 
butter  does  not  furnish  salt  enough,  add  a  little. 

Sweet  Wafers. — No.  2. — Three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  rich  cream,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Sweet  Wafers. — No.  3. — Four  eggs,  three  teacupfuls  of  flour, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  and  one  cup  of  butter. 

Oatmeal  Sugar  Wafers. — Beat  an  egg  very  light,  without 
separating  the  white  and  yolk;  add  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  vanilla,  half  tablespoon  softened  butter, 
half  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-quarter  cups  Quaker  rolled  oats; 
beat  together  well  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto  a  buttered 
tin;  bake  in  slow  oven. — Boston  Cooking  School. 

Scotch  Wafers. — One  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  two  and  one-half  cups  oatmeal; 
make  a  batter  and  drop  three-quarters  teaspoon  of  mixture 
about  two  inches  apart  in  buttered  pan;  bake  a  few  minutes. — ■ 
Mrs.  G.  R.  Wadleigh. 

Little  Birthday  Cakes. — Bake  sponge  cakes  in  pop-over  cups 
to  have  them  round ;  when  cold  cut  a  small  round  from  center ; 
place  a  little  gold  or  silver  charm  in,  replace  cake,  ice,  decorate 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


168  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


with  nutmeats  and  red  candies.  Place  short  red  candles  ,on 
top. 

Marguerites. — Have  ready  some  reception  flake  crackers; 
make  meringue  of  whites  six  eggs  and  fourteen  tablespoons 
granulated  sugar;  beat  long;  when  real  stiff  pile  on  crackers 
and  fill  with  old  fashioned  walnut  kernels.  Put  in  stove  and  let 
them  cook  a  light  brown.   Nice  for  5  o'clock  tea. 

Marguerites. — The  whites  of  five  eggs,  five  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  blanched  al- 
monds, half  a  pound  of  pecans  or  English  walnuts  chopped  fine. 
Mix  thoroughly  by  first  beating  the  eggs  and  sugar,  then  adding 
the  nuts.  Spread  on  salted  flake  crackers  with  the  salt  wiped 
off.    This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  one  hundred  crackers. 

Hermits. — Three  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  raisins,  one 
cup  butter,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  vanilla,  lemon 
and  almond,  half  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  half  cup  sour  milk, 
one  quart  flour,  half  cup  chopped  nuts.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon 
in  a  greased  pan  one  and  one-half  inches  apart. — Carrolton, 
Mo.,  Cook  Book. 

CAKE  FILLINGS. 

Caramel  Filling. — One  teacup  milk,  two  teacups  brown 
sugar  (dark),  half  teacup  butter;  put  on  and  boil  together  till 
begins  to  thicken,  stirring  constantly;  add  vanilla  when  cool; 
beat  until  it  creams  nicely. — Mrs.  Hibernia  Neil. 

Splendid  Caramel  Filling. — Five  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
with  four  cups  sugar  put  on  to  boil;  brown  one  cup  sugar  and 
while  both  are  boiling  pour  together  and  stir  gently.  As  soon 
as  mixed  good  put  in  butter  size  of  an  egg.  When  butter  has 
melted  pour  into  bowl  and  flavor  with  one  tablespoon  vanilla; 
beat  until  smooth;  spread  between  cake.  If  necessary  add 
spoon  of  hot  water. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilsok. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


169 


Jackson  School  of  Business 

Thorough,  Practical, 
Progressive. 

Pits  young  men  and  young  women 
fdr  every  character  of  commercial 
work.   For  catalogue  and  litera- 
ture, write 

G.  A.  Derryberry,  Sec. 


We  guarantee  good  weight  in  Coal. 

HICKS -LAWRENCE 
COMMISSION  CO. 

Wholesale  Feed. 

DEALERS  IN 

Coal,  Lime,  Hair,  Cement. 

Phone  244. 
LaFayette  Street,  on  I.  C.  R.  R. 


Caramel  Filling. — Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  very  rich  cream,  one  cup  of  butter;  boil  all  to- 
gether until  not  quite  as  done  as  candy.  Pour  into  a  dish  and 
beat  until  very  light.   Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Caramel  Filling. — Boil  together  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 
one  of  new  milk,  and  lump  of  butter;  when  it  breaks  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat 
well.   Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Caramel  Filling  with  Brown  Sugar. — Four  cups  brown  sugar, 
two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  half  cup  butter;  put  on  fire  and 
boil  without  stirring  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water.  Take  from 
fire  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  begin  spreading  between  cake 
while  it  is  warm. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Caramel  Filling. — One  cup  sugar  browned  in  small  pan;  stir 
until  dissolved.  Take  three  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups 
milk,  half  cup  butter,  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  let  boil,  add  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  of  the  above  caramel,  then  slowly  add 
the  rest  of  it.  Cook  till  thick.  Beat  until  light.  Add  one  cup 
nuts  chopped  fine.  Spread  on  layers.  Ice  the  cake  and  decorate 
with  whole  nuts.  This  makes  a  very  thick  filling. — Mrs.  J.  T. 
Newsom. 

Marshmallow  Filling. — One  tablespoon  of  gelatine,  two  table- 
spoons of  cold  water,  two  cups  pulverized  sugar;  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Put  gelatine  and  water  on  stove  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved; add  sugar  and  beat  until  smooth. — Mrs.  Chas.  King. 


170 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Marshmallow  Filling. — Boil  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of 
water;  add  one-fourth  pound  of  marshmallow,  stir  till  well 
melted.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Beat  hard  till  cool.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Marshmallow  Filling. — Three  cups  sugar  and  one  cup  boil- 
ing water,  cooked  until  it  will  "thread".  Stir  into  this  four- 
teen marshmallows,  then  stir,  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs.  Flavor  with  tartaric  acid,  one  teasponful. — Mrs.  J.  L. 
Newsom. 

Marshmallow  Icing. — Steamed  Marshmallow. — Make  a  soft 
icing,  and  while  warm  add  the  marshmallows;  beat  until 
smooth ;  put  between  cake ;  cut  the  marshmallows  and  decorate 
top  of  cake  after  the  plain  icing  has  been  put  on. 

Marshmallow  Frosting. — Boil  three -fourths  of  a  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  and  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  milk,  without  stirring, 
about  six  minutes,  or  until  the  syrup  threads.  Cook  and  stir 
one-fourth  a  pound  of  marshmallows  and  two  tablespoons  of 
water  over  boiling  water,  until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Com- 
bine the  two  mixtures  and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread, 
after  flavoring  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract. 

Pineapple  Filling. — Use  boiled  icing  on  the  cake,  and  when 
it  is  almost  cold  put  on  layer  of  grated  pineapple  from  which 
all  the  juice  has  been  drained,  and  stack  up  the  cake  at  once. — 
Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Pineapple  Filling. — Boil  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of 
water.  When  done  beat  in  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  till  cool 
and  add  two  5teacupfuls  of  grated  pineapple. 

Pineapple  Filling. — One  can  pineapple,  one  cup  sugar,  one- 
quarter  box  gelatine ;  put  on  stove  and  boil  till  thick. 

Raisin  Filling. — One  cup  raisins,  one  cup  figs,  cooked  till 
done;  add  any  desired  fruit  and  beat  in  icing. 

Fig  Filling. — One  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  one  teacup 
water,  half  cup  sugar;  cook  until  smooth  and  soft;  spread  be- 
tween layer  cake  when  cold. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


171 


Fig  Filling. — Cook  together  a  cupful  of  water  and  one  of 
sugar;  add  a  cupful  of  finely  chopped  figs.  Cook  to  a  paste, 
and  when  smooth  spread  on  or  between  cake. 

Fig  Filling. — Take  one  pound  figs,  chop  fine  and  put  into  a 
stewpan  on  the  stove ;  pour  over  three  cups  hot  water  and  add 
half  cup  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  soft  and  smooth. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  King. 

Maple  Fudge  Filling. — Melt  one  pound  maple  fudge,  and 
when  of  the  right  consistency  spread  on  layers.  When  this  is 
partially  dry  spread  on  chocolate  filling.  If  preferred  use  a 
thick,  white,  creamy  icing,  instead  of  the  chocolate. — Mrs.  A. 
H.  Ellington. 

Charlotte  Polonaise  Cake  Filling. — Two  cups  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  egg.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and 
have  ready  two  yolks  well  beaten  with  two  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch  or  flour,  which  has  been  rubbed  to  a  paste.  Add 
some  of  the  boiling  milk  to  this,  pour  all  together  and  stir  till 
it  thickens,  flavor  after  it  cools  with  vanilla.  To  one-half  of 
this  add  half  pound  blanched  almonds  chopped  fine;  to  the 
other  one-quarter  pound  citron  cut  fine.  Bake  white  layer  cake 
and  use  the  almond  filling  on  one  layer  and  the  citron  on  the 
next.    Then  ice  the  cake. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Cream  Filling. — Boil  nearly  a  pint  of  milk,  then  stir  into  it 
two  tablespoons  corn  starch  moistened  with  a  little  milk,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  sugar;  when  nearly  done,  add  half  cup  butter 
and  flavor  to  taste. 

Cream  Filling. — One  pint  new  boiled  milk,  one  cup  sugar, 
half  cup  flour,  two  eggs;  beat  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together 
and  pour  hot  milk  over  it.  Wash  vessel,  return  to  fire  and 
cook  thick  over  hot  water.  Spread  between  cakes. — Mrs. 
Wilson. 

Prauline  Filling  for  Cakes. — Two  cups  sugar,  three-quarters 
cup  maple  sugar  and  enough  cream  to  moisten  thoroughly; 
add  when  it  boils  a  small  piece  of  butter;  when  it  thickens  stir 


172 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


in  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  broken  pecan  kernels.  Use  whole 
pecans  on  top  of  cake. 

Cheap  Cake  Filling. — Two  cups  sugar,  butter  size  of  egg, 
half  cup  milk  and  water  mixed;  cook  until  it  ropes;  add  small 
spoon  cocoa  or  chocolate  before  taking  from  fire.  Spread  be- 
tween cakes. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Fruit  Filling. — Dissolve  three  cups  sugar  in  one  of  water 
without  stirring  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  water.  Beat 
whites  three  eggs  stiff,  then  pour  over  them  the  boiling  syrup, 
beating  constantly.  Take  out  half  of  icing  and  add  pineapple, 
cocoanut  or  banana  and  spread  between  layers  of  the  cake. 
Then  ice  the  cake  with  plain  icing.  This  never  fails  if  the  in- 
gredients are  good. 

Chocolate  Filling. — Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  add 
enough  water  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  until  it  strings,  or  will  ball 
up  in  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  cut  about  one-quarter  cake  of  Bak- 
er 's  chocolate  into  little  pieces,  put  in  a  plate  and  set  in  the 
stove  to  melt.  When  the  sugar  has  cooked  enough,  add  it 
slowly  to  the  half  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  then  add  the 
chocolate  and  beat  till  it  begins  to  grow  stiff;  then  ice  the 
cake.— Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Chocolate  Filling. — One  cup  grated  chocolate,  half  cup  but- 
ter, one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  sugar ;  boil  till  thick.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  beat  until  almost  cool.  Spread  rapidly  be- 
tween cake. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Chocolate  Filling. — Three  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream, 
one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  chocolate ;  flavor  with  vanilla ; 
beat  this  in  the  slightly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.   Beat  well. 

Chocolate  Filling. — Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
half  cup  water,  three-quarters  cup  butter ;  cream  the  butter  be- 
fore using  it;  one-third  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate.  Dissolve  the 
chocolate  in  the  syrup  while  cooking.  Cook  until  it  will  harden 
when  dropped  in  a  cup  of  cold  water. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Long. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


173 


Chocolate  Filling. — Yolks  two  eggs,  one  cnp  sugar,  one  heap- 
ing tablespoon  butter,  one  cupful  sweet  cream;  put  over  the 
fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  boiling  point  stir  into  it  two  squares 
Baker's  chocolate  and  cook  until  thick.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
and  beat  until  ready  to  spread  on  the  cake. 

Chocolate  Macaroon  Filling. — Half  pint  milk,  two  cups 
sugar,  quarter  pound  chocolate,  quarter  pound  of  almond  maca- 
roons, broken  into  bits.  Let  the  mixture  boil  together  a  few 
minutes  till  it  becomes  thick.  Decorate  the  cake  with  whole 
macaroons. 

Lemon  Filling. — Yolks  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  three-quar- 
ters cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  flour  or  corn  starch ;  beat  the  yolks 
well  with  the  sugar  and  pour  the  boiling  milk  on  them ;  return 
to  the  fire  and  cook  until  thick. — Mrs.  Geo.  Gooch. 

Lemon  Filling. — Mix  together  two  eggs,  two  cupful s  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one,  one  teacupful 
of  cream  or  new  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch.  Boil  in  double  boiler  till  thick. 
Spread  when  cool. 

Lemon  Filling. — Four  lemons,  two  cups  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon corn  starch,  five  yolks,  half  cup  water;  boil  till  thick; 
add  half  cup  butter  after  cooking. 

Lemon  Cream  Filling. — Grated  rind  and  juice  four  lemons, 
one  pound  sugar,  quarter  pound  butter,  six  eggs;  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick  as  honey  and  put  between  cake.  Half 
of  this  recipe  makes  enough  for  medium  size  cake. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Wilson. 

Lemon  and  English  Walnut  Filling. — Squeeze  the  juice  of 
two  large  lemons  over  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  When 
smooth  spread  over  loaf  cake,  cut  into  squares  and  place  one 
or  more  English  walnut  kernels  on  each  square,  while  soft. 

Icing  for  Filling. — Two  cups  sugar,  whites  two  eggs;  put 
sugar  in  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  moisten;  have  the 
eggs  beaten  just  enough  to  break  the  whites;  pour  the  boiling 


174  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


sugar  on  it,  beating  all  the  while.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  larger 
bowl  of  ice  water  and  continue  beating  until  it  is  nice  and 
creamy;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Maple  Nut  Frosting. — Boil  one  and  seven-eighths  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  cupful  of  maple  syrup  and  half  a  cupful 
of  thin  cream  together  until  when  it  is  tried  a  soft  ball  may  be 
formed  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  three-quarters 
of  a  cupful  of  almonds  finely  shredded  and  beat  until  the  frost- 
ing is  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Icing. — Five  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups 
water;  cook  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  will  harden  at  once 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Then  pour  the  boiling  sugar  on 
the  well  beaten  whites  and  beat  until  stiff.  Flavor  with  lemon 
or  tartaric  acid. — Miss  Lizzie  Treadwell. 

Icing. — Two  cups  sugar,  seven  tablespoons  water;  cook  until 
it  ropes,  then  pour  over  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  stir- 
ring all  the  time. — Miss  Mary  Bond. 

Icing. — Whites  six  eggs,  three  pounds  sugar,  almost  one  cup 
water ;  cook  till  it  ropes ;  beat  eggs  stiff ;  pour  syrup  over  slow- 
ly, beating  all  the  while;  after  beating  nicely  put  in  one-eighth 
teaspoon  cream  tartar,  flavor  and  beat  till  stiff.  Excellent  for 
filling  too. — Mrs.  John  Parker. 

Icing  for  Cake. — Put  two  cups  of  sugar  in  icing  pan;  break 
whites  four  eggs  over  it;  add  juice  of  one  large  juicy  lemon; 
put  this  in  pan  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thick,  beating 
all  the  time.— Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Cooked  Icing. — Whites  three  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
water;  put  on  sugar  and  water  and  let  boil  till  it  will  spin  a 
thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Beat  whites  just  a  little 
and  pour  on  the  boiling  syrup,  beating  all  the  while  until  it  is 
cold.  If  used  as  a  cake  filling  add  chopped  raisins  in  one 
layer  and  nuts  in  the  next. 

Milk  Icing. — Ten  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  half  cup  sugar; 
boil  six  minutes  and  beat  till  cold. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


175 


Subscribe  for 

The  Ladies  Home  Journal 

Through  the  Silver  Thimble  Society 
of  the  First  Baptist  Church. 
Both  Phones  No.  97. 
Orders  taken  any  time  during  the  year. 

Chocolate  Icing. — Three  cups  sugar,  oue  cup  milk,  half  cup 
butter,  half  cake  chocolate,  whites  of  three  eggs.  This  will  ice 
two  dozen  block  cakes. — Miss  Lizzie  Treadwell. 

Cold  Icing. — No.  1. — Whites  of  three  eggs;  when  partially 
beaten  stir  in  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  juice  of  one 
lemon;  then  beat  till  white  and  thick.  Before  icing  tops  of 
cakes  rub  them  slightly  with  flour.  Spread  on  the  icing  with 
a  knife,  dipping  constantly  in  cold  water  to  make  the  icing 
smooth. 

Caramel  Icing. — Two  cups  maple  sugar,  one  cup  water,  one 
tablespoon  butter;  boil  till  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  water; 
take  off  the  stove  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  thick  sweet 
cream  and  beat  thoroughly. — Mrs.  Chas.  King. 

Golden  Frosting. — A  very  delicious  and  handsome  frosting 
can  be  made  by  using  yolks  of  eggs  instead  of  whites.  Proceed 
exactly  as  for  ordinary  frosting.  It  will  harden  just  as  nicely 
as  that  does.    Good  for  orange  cake. — Mrs.  Chas.  King. 

Cream  for  Cake. — One  egg  beaten  well,  one  cup  whipped 
cream,  half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  grated  cocoanut,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  orange;  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  it. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 


176  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


PUDDINGS. 

"The  proof  of  the  pudding  lies  in  the  eating." 

General  Rules. — In  boiling  puddings,  mind  that  the  cloth  be 
perfectly  clean.  Dip  it  in  hot  water  and  dredge  well  with  flour, 
by  sifting  the  flour  over  it.  When  bagged,  tie  the  string  tight, 
leaving  sufficient  room  in  the  bag  for  expansion  by  swelling. 
Put  the  pudding  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  placing  an  old  plate 
on  the  bottom.  Keep  sufficient  water  in  the  pot  to  cover  the 
pudding,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  boiling  cease  one  second. 
A  teakettle  of  boiling  water  should  be  at  hand  to  add  as  the 
water  boils  away.  Dip  the  pudding  into  cold  water  immedi- 
ately upon  taking  out,  which  prevents  its  adhering  to  the  cloth ; 
make  your  pudding-bag  of  thick  cloth;  if  it  is  thin,  it  will 
admit  water  and  deteriorate  the  pudding.  If  you  use  a  pud- 
ding-mold, grease  well  with  butter  from  which  the  salt  has 
been  carefully  washed. 

Plum  Pudding. — Four  eggs  beaten  well,  but  not  separately; 
two  large  cups  seeded  raisins,  half  cup  currants,  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  one  cup  chopped  citron,  one  cup  pecans,  two  large 
apples  chopped,  one  cup  sugar,  spice  and  brandy  to  taste; 
steam  four  hours.  Make  a  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar  and 
brandy,  mixing  brandy  and  sugar  into  butter  little  by  little. 

Plum  Pudding. — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  two  table- 
spoons of  sweet  milk;  have  the  raisins  well  floured.  Put  in  a 
thick  domestic  cloth;  dip  the  cloth  in  boiling  water  and  then 
flour  that  well  and  pour  pudding  on ;  tie  tight  as  possible ;  put 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


177 


in  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  three  hours ;  never  let  it  cease 
boiling.    Serve  with  hard  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Plum  Pudding. — Three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  a  little  salt,  one  cup  of  suet,  one  cup  of 
raisins.  Steam  three  hours.  Sauce  for  same:  To  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  add  one  heaping  teacup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  cold  water. 

Plum  Pudding. — Mix  four  cups  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one 
cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  two  eggs,  two  cups  raisins, 
two  cups  milk,  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  powdered 
cloves,  two  cinnamon,  half  each  of  mace,  allspice  and  salt,  one 
cup  chopped  almonds,  half  cup  currants;  boil  unceasingly  in 
buttered  mold  for  three  and  one-half  hours;  when  sending  to 
table  garnish  with  holly ;  pour  brandy  over  and  ignite.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  Tucker. 

English  Plum  Pudding. — Six  eggs  beaten  well;  into  this  put 
one  pound  of  sugar,  grate  a  large  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of 
ground  cloves  and  one  of  cinnamon,  sift  one  pound  flour,  into 
this  put  a  little  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  add  then 
one  pound  of  well  washed  currants,  one  pound  raisins,  one- 
fourth  pound  citron  cut  up  fine ;  mix  well  and  add  eggs.  If 
desired  add  one  glass  of  brandy.  Mix  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Have  water  boiling  and  dip  the  cloth  into  it,  dredged  with 
flour,  and  tie  in  ball,  leaving  room  for  swelling.  Let  boil  six 
hours,  taking  care  to  keep  water  boiling  all  the  time.  Serve  at 
once  with  a  hard  sauce,  made  of  one  cup  butter  creamed  with 
three  cups  sugar,  flavored  with  whiskey,  using  grated  nutmeg 
over  the  bowl  of  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Twenty-Five  Cent  Plum  Pudding. — One  pint  graham  or 
whole  wheat  flour,  half  pint  sweet  milk,  one  cup  New  Orleans 
molasses,  half  pound  raisins  chopped,  one-third  pound  almonds 
(pecans  are  better),  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  teaspoon  soda, 


178 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Dissolve  soda  in  tablespoon  of 
warm  water  and  stir  in  molasses.  Then  add  milk  and  flour 
and  remaining  ingredients.  Steam  in  a  closely  covered  tin  for 
four  honrs.    Grease  and  flour  the  mold. — Mrs.  B.  L.  Hayley.  . 

Boiled  Pudding. — One  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  nuts,  half 
pound  of  citron,  half  cup  butter,  three  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  sugar,  half  cup 
black  molasses.  Put  bag  in  hot  water,  then  dip  in  flour,  then 
pour  pudding  into  bag  and  boil  in  hot  water  for  three  hours. 
To  be  eaten  with  sauce.  This  makes  enough  for  seven  or  eight 
people. — Mrs.  Ross  Witherspoon. 

Christmas  Pudding. — Beat  well  yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  one 
teacup  melted  butter,  one  teacup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 
ginger,  three  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  ground 
cloves,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Dissolve  in  one  cup  sweet  milk  one 
teaspoonful  soda  and  strain  into  three  cups  flour,  with  one 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar ;  add  one  cup  raisins  stoned  and  chop- 
ped. Boil  three  hours  in  a  close  covered  tin.  Serve  with  hard 
or  liquid  sauce. 

Fruit  Pudding. — One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  milk,  half  cup 
butter,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  a  little  cit- 
ron, one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  three  cups  flour.  Let  molasses,  butter  and  spices 
come  to  a  boil  on  stove,  adding  other  ingredients  when  cold. 
Steam  four  hours. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Madison. 

Bird  Nest  Pudding. — Peel  and  core  enough  apples  to  fill  pan> 
stew  until  nearly  done,  take  off  and  have  a  rich  custard  made 
up  as  for  egg  custard ;  pour  this  over  the  apples  and  set  in  stove 
until  custard  is  done  ;  take  out  and  serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream. 

Fruit  Pudding. — One  glass  English  walnuts,  one  glass  dates, 
two  eggs  beaten  together,  half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder ;  chop  walnuts  and  dates,  mix  dates 
and  nuts.    Beat  eggs  well;  add  sugar,  beat  well:  add  nuts 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


179 


and  dates,  baking  powder  in  flour  and  mix  in  eggs,  etc.  Bake 
in  jelly  pans.  Put  paper  in  bottom  of  pan  and  a  rack  under 
pan  to  prevent  burning.  Bake  half  hour;  break  in  pieces  and 
serve  with  cold  cream. 

Fruit  Pudding. — Three  cups  flour,  two  cups  raisins,  currants, 
or  any  kind  of  fruit,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  suet  chopped  fine,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoon soda,  half  teaspoon  cloves,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon; 
bake  as  you  would  a  cake  and  steam  when  used.  It  will  keep 
as  a  fruit  cake.    Serve  with  rich  sauce. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — Peel  and  grate  one  medium  size 
potato ;  add  to  this  two  large  cups  sugar,  half  cup  melted  but- 
ter, three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  teaspoons  powdered  mace  and 
four  cups  fresh  milk.   Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Grated  Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — One  pint  grated  potatoes, 
three  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  large  teacup  sweet  milk,  large  teacup 
sugar. — Dr.  Hamilton. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. — One  pint  grated  potato,  one  and  one- 
half  teacups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoons  flour  and  two  teaspoons  gin- 
ger.— Mrs.  E.  A.  Treadwell. 

Apple  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sugar,  one  rounded  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard,  one  egg,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  two  teacups  of 
flour  with  two  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flavor 
with  cinnamon  and  pour  over  four  apples  which  have  been 
sliced  in  baking  dish.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven  and 
serve  with  the  following  sauce :  One  pint  of  boiling  water, 
three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  egg,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  corn  starch,  flavor  with  cinnamon. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Apple  Pudding.— Take  six  apples,  peel  and  core;  fill  the 
centers  with  sugar;  add  one-quarter  cup  of  water,  cover  and 
bake  until  nearly  done.  Then  pour  over  them  a  batter  made 
with  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  a  scant  pint  of 
sifted  flour,  with  one  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 


180 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Apple  Pudding  (Excellent). — Peel  and  core  eight  or  nine 
apples  of  medium  size ;  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  half  tumbler 
of  water,  wine  glass  of  wine,  heaping  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little 
cinamon  and  lemon  peel.  Cover  the  pan  and  stew  slowly  till 
apples  are  tender ;  take  them  up  and  let  them  get  cold ;  fill  the 
bottom  of  baking  dish  with  apples;  pour  over  them  custard 
made  by  beating  whites  and  yolks  six  eggs  and  one  quart  of 
milk;  sweeten  to  taste;  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
solid  or  liquid  sauce. 

Brown  Betty. — Chop  together  one  part  seeded  raisins  and 
two  parts  good  tart  apples.  Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  the  fruit  and  bread  crumbs,  finishing  with  the  bread 
crumbs  on  top.  Put  small  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  through 
it.  Moisten  the  whole  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  in 
a  cup  of,  cold  water,  for  a  pudding  filling  a  three  pint  dish. 
The  whole  must  be  sweetened  according  to  taste.  Cover  the- 
dish  and  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and 
bake  nearly  an  hour;  then  remove  from  the  pan,  uncover,  and 
brown  nicely.  Serve  warm  with  cream  and  sugar  or  with  or- 
ange or  lemon  juice.  Seeded  cherries  may  be  used  in  place  of 
apples  and  raisins.  In  that  case  the  water  may  be  omitted.  It 
is  well  to  toast  the  bread  crumbs  before  using. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One  pint  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  one 
quart  milk  for  half  hour,  three  tablespoons  of  Baker's  choco- 
late dissolved  in  water ;  beat  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar 
and  one  tablespoon  of  butter  which  has  been  creamed,  pinch  of 
salt ;  add  to  the  soft  chocolate  the  milk  and  crumbs ;  bake  in  a 
dish  for  forty  minutes.  When  done  use  the  whites  for  a  mer- 
ingue on  the  pudding. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  whole  egg  and  the  yolks 
of  three  others,  one  square  of  Baker's  chocolate,  small  piece 
of  butter ;  grate  chocolate  and  then  dissolve  it  in  the  milk ;  then 
put  milk,  chocolate  and  bread  crumbs  on  the  stove  and  let  it 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


181 


get  well  heated,  stirring  all  the  time ;  remove  from  fire  and  stir 
in  the  other  ingredients.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  cook.  Make 
a  meringue  of  the  three  whites  and  put  on  top  when  pudding 
is  done.  Eat  with  either  whipped  cream  or  plain  cream. — 
Mary  E.  Timberlake. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — One-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one 
and  three-eighths  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-third  ounces  of  cook- 
ing chocolate,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter,  and  add  half  the 
sugar  gradually,  continuing  to  beat  meanwhile.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  and  add  the  remain- 
ing sugar  gradually.  Combine  the  mixtures,  and  add  the  milk 
alternately  with  the  flour'  mixed  and  sifted  with  the  baking 
powder  and  salt;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff,  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  buttered  angel 
cake  pan;  then  remove  from  the  dish,  cool  slightly,  and  place 
on  a  serving  dish.  Fill  the  center  with  whipped  cream  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  also  pour  it  around  the 
mold. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — Take  three-quarters  pound  grated 
cocoanut,  half  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  sugar,  six  eggs 
beaten  well,  one  cup  milk,  one  wine  glass  brandy  or  wine,  one- 
quarter  pound  pounded  crackers.   Bake  on  pastry. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — One  large  cocoanut  grated,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  four  whole  eggs  or  whites  of  seven. 
Serve  with  hot  sauce.   Excellent. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Yanden. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — Take  one  pound  grated  cocoanut,  half 
pound  sugar,  half  pound  butter  or  less,  whites  six  eggs  beaten 
light,  half  pint  cream,  a  glass  of  brandy  and  quarter  pound 
cracker  crumbs ;  beat  them  together  and  bake  in  pastry. 

Lemon  Pudding. — Three  lemons,  one  cup  sugar,  eight  eggs, 
yolks  of  six,  whites  of  all,  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  juice  of 


182 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


all  three,  half  box  gelatine ;  put  lemon  juice,  sugar,  yolks  well 
beaten  in  a  double  boiler;  stir  constantly  till  it  begins  to 
thicken,  but  don't  cook  long;  beat  the  whites,  pour  on  gradu- 
ally all  the  time  the  mixture  in  the  boiler;  beat  in  gelatine  last, 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  water  (half  cup)  ;  stir  till  you  see 
the  gelatine  does  not  settle  at  the  bottom.  Pour  in  molds  and 
serve  with  cream.   Very  nice. — Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Caramel  Pudding. — One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup 
butter,  one  cup  cherry  or  plum  preserves,  five  eggs  beaten 
separately;  add  the  whites  just  before  it  is  done  and  put  in 
oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Mercer. 

Kiss  Pudding. — Boil  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  five 
eggs  beaten  well  with  cup  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch  (or  flour  one  cup)  ;  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and 
cook  until  thick ;  froth  the  whites,  put  on  top  and  brown  for  a 
moment  in  oven.  Serve  with  sauce.  This  is  very  fine. — Miss 
Pattie  Powell. 

Cracker  Pudding. — Three  cups  of  rolled  crackers,  three  cups 
of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons  sugar; 
pour  in  baking  pan;  bake  until  brown.  Beat  the  whites  with 
half  cup  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon,  and  use  as  a  meringue. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Owens. 

Henrietta  Pudding. — Fill  bottom  and  sides  of  a  bowl  with 
macaroons,  pour  sherry  wine  over  them,  then  a  rich  boiled  cust- 
ard after  it  cools — a  little  thicker  than  is  used  for  glasses ;  heap 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  all  over  the  top. — Tennessee  Cook 
Book. 

Queen  Mab  Pudding. — Cover  half  a  box  of  gelatine  with  half 
a  cupful  of  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Whip 
one  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  into  a 
double  boiler;  when  hot  add  the  gelatine.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  together  until 
light;  add  the  hot  milk,  gradually  return  to  the  farina  boiler; 
cook  for  about  two  minutes,  take  from  the  fire ;  add  a  teaspoon- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


183 


ful  of  vanilla  extract;  strain  into  a  bowl,  stand  this  in  a  pan 
of  cracked  ice,  and  stir  constantly  nntil  the  mixture  just  begins 
to  thicken.  At  this  stage  fold  in  quickly  the  whipped  cream, 
pour  into  a  mold,  and  stand  away  to  harden.  Serve  with  can- 
died or  preserved  cherries  and  plain  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  S. 
T.  Rorer. 

Macaroon  Pudding. — Butter  a  deep  pudding  dish,  and  fill  it 
with  alternate  layers  of  macaroons  and  preserves;  pour  over 
this  white  wine  until  the  whole  is  perfectly  saturated ;  then  add 
a  rich  custard  made  of  a  pint  of  milk  sweetened  to  taste,  and  the 
well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Bake  a  rich  brown.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  cup  of  white  sugar; 
spread  this  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  brown. 

Macaroon  Pudding. — Soak  one  tablespoon  gelatine  in  cold 
water ;  make  a  custard  of  two  cups  milk,  yolks  three  eggs,  one- 
third  cup  sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt ;  add  soaked  gelatine, 
when  dissolved  strain  into  pan  and  set  in  ice  water;  add  maca- 
roons and  flavoring,  stirring  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Mold,  chill  and  serve,  garnished 
with  macaroons. — Cooking  Club. 

Macaroon  Pudding. — One  dozen  almond  macaroons,  one- 
third  pint  sherry,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  whites  of  three 
eggs;  dip  each  macaroon  into  the  wine,  into  which  a  little  of 
the  sugar  has  been  dissolved.  When  the  macaroons  are  well 
soaked  place  them  in  a  baking  dish,  lining  the  sides  and  piling 
high  in  the  middle.  Put  over  this  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
and  balance  of  sugar  and  bake  till  light  brown.  Serve  either 
hot  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream. — Miss  Guy  Leeper. 

Jam  Pudding. — One  cup  jam,  three-quarters  cup  butter,  four 
eggs;  bake  fifteen  minutes;  serve  hot  with  whipped  cream. 
Excellent. 

Blackberry  Pudding. — Take  one  quart  nice  ripe  berries  which 
are  not  mashed,  and  roll  them  in  a  pan  of  flour;  have  ready  a 
square  of  domestic  which  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water  and 


184 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


dredged  with  flour;  tie  the  berries  up  iu  this,  allowing  a  little 
room  for  swelling.  Boil  one  hour  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. — ■ 
Mrs.  Mary  Freeman. 

Blackberry  Pudding. — Use  two  egg  cake  recipe.  Put  layer 
of  batter,  then  layer  of  fresh  berries,  then  layer  of  batter — have 
batter  stiff.  Bake  in  loaf  pan.  Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Lizzie 
Howard. 

Blackberry  Jam  Pudding. — Three  eggs  well  beaten,  half  cup 
butter  creamed,  one  cup  sugar,  two  light  cups  of  flour,  three 
tablespoons  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon, 
nutmeg  and  allspice,  one  cup  of  blackberry  jam.  Serve  hot 
with  wine  sauce. 

Prune  Pudding. — Half  pound  of  prunes  stewed  and  stoned, 
half  cup  of  sugar,  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
mix  together  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 
Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Lizzie  Howard. 

Prune  Pudding. — Seed  and  mash  fine  sixteen  prunes  that 
have  been  cooked  without  sugar;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs;  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  set  the  pan 
in  which  you  put  the  pudding  in  another  with  boiling  water  in 
it.  This  will  prevent  burning.  Serve  cold,  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Tigrett. 

Plain  Rice  Pudding. — Wash  and  boil  one  cup  rice ;  when  soft 
drain  off  water ;  add  tablespoon  butter ;  when  cool  add  one  cup 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  up  four  eggs  very 
light,  whites  and  yolks  separately;  add  them  to  the  rice;  stir 
in  one  quart  sweet  milk  gradually.  Butter  a  pudding  dish, 
turn  in  the  mixture  and  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  If 
desired  add  one-quarter  pound  raisins.  If  you  use  cold  cooked 
rice  first  soak  it  in  milk. 

Rice  Pudding. — No.  2. — Boil  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  milk 
until  soft.  When  it  is  cooled  a  little,  add  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  pour  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake ;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  eight  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  flavor  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  spread  this  over  the 
top  of  the  pudding ;  return  to  the  oven  and  brown. 

Fruit  Rice  Pudding. — One  and  one-half  cups  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  two  tablespoons  of  rice.  Put 
rice  in  double  boiler  with  one  quart  of  milk  and  cook,  stirring 
frequently  for  one  and  one-half  hours.  Turn  into  a  deep  but- 
tered dish,  add  the  cocoanut,  milk,  and  sugar  to  make  sweet  as 
desired.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Let  cook  one  hour.  Stir 
occasionally.  Serve. 

Sauce  for  Pudding. — Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
soft  or  powdered  sugar ;  beat  to  a  cream ;  then  add  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  (beaten  in),  and  flavor.  Lastly,  the  whites  of  the  egg, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stirred  in  lightly. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Thomas. 

Delmonico  Pudding. — One  quart  milk,  put  on  stove  in  pan, 
one  cup  sugar  dissolved  in  milk,  yolks  three  eggs,  three  table- 
spoons corn  starch  dissolved  in  milk;  stir  till  it  thickens;  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs;  add  one  tablespoon  sugar;  spread  on 
top.    Put  in  stove  and  lightly  brown. 

Delmonico. — Take  sixteen  stewed  prunes,,  cut  fine,  then  add 
three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  cream  of 
tartar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs — then 
mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly.  Cook  in  a  bucket  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — 
Mrs.  Ernest  Edenton. 

Delmonico  Pudding. — One  quart  milk,  two  tablespoons  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  yolks  five  eggs  beaten  well, 
six  tablespoons  sugar.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  water 
and  bake.  Beat  five  whites  with  one  cup  sugar,  flavor  with 
lemon,  spread  on  pudding,  return  to  oven  and  brown. — Ten- 
nessee Cook  Book. 

Queen  of  Puddings. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of 
bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  table- 


186 


HOW  WE  COOK  JN  TENNESSEE. 


spoonfuls  of  butter,  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Stir  all  well  together  and  put  in 
earthen  dish  to  bake.  Bake  about  one  hour,  then  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Beat  the  whites 
very  stiff  before  adding  sugar  and  lemon.  Bake  a  nice  brown. 
Serve  either  cold  or  hot. 

When  you  wish  to  make  bread  pudding  take  on  a  new  and 
rather  dainty  appearance,  bake  it  individually  in  small  custard 
cups.  Lay  a  whip  of  meringue  on  top  of  each,  with  a  spoonful 
of  red  jelly. 

Confederate  Pudding. — Slice  baker's  bread  very  thin,  butter 
each  slice  well  and  spread  with  jelly,  jam  or  preserves.  Fill  a 
buttered  baking  dish  with  the  bread  and  pour  over  it  one  pint 
of  sweet  milk  mixed  with  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Let  the  milk 
soak  into  the  bread,  then  bake  until  solid  and  serve  with  the 
following  sauce :  Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  one 
cup  of  sugar,  add  a  wineglassful  of  brandy  and  one  cup  of 
cream.  Set  saucepan  in  boiling  water  on  stove  and  stir  until 
it  thickens. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  three  heaping  tablespoons  of  tapi- 
oca over  night;  let  one  quart  sweet  milk  come  to  a  boil,  stir 
tapioca  into  it,  and  let  cook  till  it  thickens;  beat  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  with  one  cup  sugar  and  a  little  flour:  stir  this  into 
tapioca  and  milk  and  let  thicken.  Pour  into  baking  pan.  Beat 
whites  of  egg  to  stiff  froth,  sweeten,  spread  over  top  of  pudding 
and  brown  in  oven. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  over  night  one  teacupful  of  tapioca 
in  a  pint  of  milk.  The  next  morning  pour  over  the  tapioca  one 
pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  well  beaten 
eggs,  a  wine  glass  of  rose  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  a  little  nutmeg;  pour  in  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  half  an 
hour.   Sago  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  187 


Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  a  cupful  of  tapioca  over  night  in 
just  enough  water  to  cover.  In  the  morning  add  to  it  one  quart 
of  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  transparent.  Add 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
chopped  raisins,  and  a  very  little  chopped  citron.  Bake  till  the 
custard  is  set.   Serve  warm  or  cold  as  preferred. — Battle  Creek. 

Ginger  Pudding. — One  cup  butter,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  half  cup  buttermilk, 
one  tablespoon  ginger,  four  eggs. 

Ginger  Pudding. — Four  eggs  beaten  separately  and  very 
light,  one  heaping  cup  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups  of  molasses, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
three-quarters  cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of  flour.  Serve  with  a 
hot  sauce  flavored  with  whiskey. 

Lady  Finger  Pudding. — Line  a  dish  with  stale  pieces  of  cake, 
lady  fingers  if  you  have  them;  just  a  thin  layer  of  jam  over 
them;  make  a  rich  custard  and  pour  over  it;  set  in  stove  to 
brown ;  make  a  meringue  of  whites. 

Cottage  Pudding.— Beat  a  level  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add 
four  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  egg;  beat  five 
minutes,  add  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  three-quarters 
of  a  cupful  of  flour  that  has  been  sifted  with  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  pint  pudding  pan  or  in  four 
custard  cups. — Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

Fig  Loaf. — Wash  one  cup  figs,  put  into  double  boiler  and 
cook  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cold  water  till  tender ;  add  half 
cup  sugar  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer;  strain  off  the  syrup 
and  keep  one-quarter  cup  hot;  put  one  tablespoon  gelatine  to 
soften  in  a  tablespoon  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  hot  syrup; 
chop  the  figs  fine  and  mix  with  one  and  one-half  cups  bread 
crumbs;  then  add  the  hot  syrup  and  gelatine.  Stir  well  and 
pack  in  a  buttered  mold  and  set  away  to  get  cold;  serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Cooking  Club. 


188 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Prune  Whip. — Eighteen  prunes,  whites  of  five  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one  cup  sugar;  cook  prunes,  when  cold 
seed  and  mash  them;  add  one  cup  sugar  and  mix.  Then  add 
baking  powder  and  whites  of  eggs.  Stir  all  together  and  pour 
into  a  baking  dish  and  set  in  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  whip  cream. — Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Jones. 

Cream  of  Chocolate  Whips. — Dissolve  one  cup  of  chocolate 
in  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  add  it  to  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  boiling  milk.  Take  one  pint  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  three 
tablespoons  corn  starch,  five  beaten  eggs.  Mix  and  add  to  the 
boiling  milk,  stir  until  it  thickens.  Add  a  little  salt.  Pour  into 
cups,  top  with  plain  whipped  cream. 

French  Pudding. — Five  eggs,  beat  whites  of  four  of  them, 
put  the  whole  of  other  egg  in  yellows,  two  cups  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  the  sugar,  beat  into  the  yellows,  the  remaining 
half  cup  sugar  in  whites  of  eggs,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one 
quart  milk.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boiling  point,  then  mix  all  and 
let  come  to  a  boil  again.  Put  in  bowl  and  let  it  congeal,  then 
put  on  the  whites  and  let  brown  in  slow  oven. 

Caramel  Pudding. — Five  eggs  beaten  separately;  into  whites 
put  half  cup  sugar,  and  half  cup  sugar  into  yellows,  half  cup 
butter,  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  cream,  half  cup  cherry  pre- 
serves added  last.  Beat  the  whites  and  put  on  top.  Brown 
lightly.   Very  fine. 

Marshmallow  Pudding. — Cut  half  a  pound  of  marshmallows 
into  fine  pieces ;  put  a  wine  glassful  of  candied  cherries  with  Ja- 
maica rum  and  let  them  soak  while  preparing  the  nuts  and 
cream.  Shell  and  chop  enough  English  walnuts  to  make  half  a 
cupful,  and  whip  a  cup  of  thick  cream  stiff;  drain  the  cherries 
and  cut  up ;  sweeten  the  cream  before  whipping ;  then  add  the 
other  ingredients;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  mold; 
chill  thoroughly  and  turn  out. 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


189 


PIES. 

"The  two  dearest  things  in  housekeeping  are  butter  and  ex- 
perience. ' ' — Mrs.  Whitney. 

General  Rules  for  Pastry. — Pastry  should  be  made  on  a  cold, 
smooth  substance,  such  as  marble,  mixing  with  a  knife.  It 
should  be  made  quickly ;  much  handling  makes  it  heavy.  Great 
nicety  is  required  in  wetting  the  paste,  too  little  moisture  ren- 
dering it  dry  and  crumbly,  while  too  much  makes  it  tough  and 
heavy.  Reserve  half  of  the  butter  and  a  fourth  of  the  flour  to 
be  used  in  rolling  out  the  paste.  Roll  it  out  lightly,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  spread  with  butter;  fold,  and  roll  again,  repeating 
the  same  three  or  four  times,  always  rolling  fast  and  pressing 
on  lightly.  When  you  see  the  surface  of  the  paste  covered  with 
blisters,  you  may  be  sure  that  it  is  a  success;  that  is,  if  it  is 
baked  properly,  for  the  quality  of  the  paste  depends  much  on 
the  baking.  The  oven  should  be  well  and  evenly  heated  before 
baking,  and  not  allowed  to  cool. 

Flaky  Pie  Crust. — When  making  pies,  the  much  desired 
"flaky"  crust  can  be  made  in  this  way:  When  the  top  crust 
is  on  the  pies,  take  a  piece  of  soft  butter  and  with  the  fingers 
grease  freely  the  top,  on  this  rub  a  little  flour;  then  turn  the 
pie  in  a  slanting  position  and  pour  gently  over  it  one-half  a 
cup  of  cold  water. 

Pastry. — Half  pound  of  flour,  quarter  pound  of  lard.  Use  a 
pinch  of  salt ;  add  enough  cold  water  to  mix ;  roll  very  thin. — 
A.  T.  Nance. 

Pie  Crust. — Two  cups  flour,  one  scant  cup  lard,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  baking  powder  and  one-quarter  spoon  salt.  Chop 


190 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


shortening  in  and  mix  with  ice  water;  very  little  and  very 
quickly,  handling  as  little  as  possible. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Plain  Pie  Crust. — Two  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour,  one  cup 
shortening  (half  of  butter  and  half  of  lard,  cold),  pinch  of 
salt,  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  sifted  through  the 
flour.  Rub  the  shortening  thoroughly  into  the  flour;  mix  to- 
gether with  half  teacup  cold  water,  or  enough  to  form  a  rather 
stiff  dough ;  mix  as  little  as  possible ;  it  must  be  handled  very 
lightly.    This  is  for  two  pies. 

Pastry  (fine). — Into  one  pint  flour,  sift  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder;  add  heaping  tablespoon  lard  and  mix  thor- 
oughly with  a  knife.   Use  ice  cold  water  sufficient  to  mix. 

Fried  Pies. — Mash  dried  peaches  or  apples  through  a  col- 
ander; season  to  taste  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves. 
Cut  out  pastry  by  a  large  saucer,  spread  fruit  on  half  of  it  and 
fold  the  other  over;  press  the  two  edges  together  with  the 
prongs  of  a  fork  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard. 

Delicious  Pie. — For  two  pies;  six  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  spoon  vanilla ;  use  meringue  of  six  whites  and 
one  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. — One  pint  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg; 
bake  on  pastry. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. — One  pint  mashed  sweet  potato,  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg; 
pour  into  a  pan  and  bake. 

Sliced  Sweet  Potato  Pie. — Parboil  and  slice  two  medium 
sized  potatoes ;  put  them  in  a  deep  pie  plate  lined  with  pastry ; 
pour  over  the  potatoes  a  sauce  made  of  one  cup  sugar,  half 
cup  butter,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water  ;  flavor  with  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice  mixed  and  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon  and  whiskey.   Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Old  Fashioned  Sliced  Potato  Pie. — Boil  sweet  potatoes  until 
well  done.   Peel  and  slice  them.   Line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  good 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  191 


plain  paste,  and  arrange  the  sliced  potatoes  in  layers,  dotting 
with  butter  and  sprinkling  sugar,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  over 
each  layer,  using  at  least  one-half  cup  sugar.  Pour  over  three 
tablespoons  whiskey,  about  one-half  cup  water,  cover  with 
pastry  and  bake.    Serve  warm. 

Sliced  Sweet  Potato  Pie. — Parboil  and  slice  two  medium 
sized  potatoes;  put  them  into  a  deep  pie  plate  that  has  been 
previously  lined  with  puff  paste ;  pour  over  the  potatoes  a  sauce 
made  of  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  and  one  cup  of 
boiling  water ;  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rinds 
of  two  lemons ;  cover  with  paste.   Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. — One  pound  of  potatoes  boiled  and  rubbed 
smooth,  half  pound  of  sugar,  a  small  cup  of  cream,  one-fourth 
pound  of  butter,  four  eggs;  nutmeg  and  lemon  to  suit  the 
taste ;  bake  in  a  crust.   This  quantity  will  make  two  large  pies. 

Irish  Potato  Pie. — Two  cupfuls  of  boiled  potatoes  nicely 
strained  through  a  colander,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  of  milk, 
two  of  sugar,  six  eggs ;  flavor  with  wine  and  nutmeg.  Bake  on 
pastry,  or  in  a  dish  like  a  pudding. 

A  Delicious  Apple  Pie. — Six  apples  of  medium  size,  a  tumb- 
lerful of  crushed  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  two 
tumblerfuls  of  rich  cream,  six  eggs,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon ;  peel  the  apples  and  grate  them ;  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  together ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  sepa- 
rately; mix  as  for  cake.   Bake  in  paste. 

Green  Apple  Pie. — Pare,  core  and  slice  tart  apples,  boil  and 
mash ;  sweeten  to  taste,  adding  a  little  butter,  nutmeg  or  lemon ; 
put  in  pie  pan  lined  with  pastry  and  check  across  with  strips 
of  pastry. 

Sliced  Apple  Pie. — Peel  and  slice  wine  sap  apples — pick  out 
seed — line  pie  pans  with  pastry ;  lay  slices  of  apples,  sugar  and 
butter,  several  layers,  sprinkle  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  over 
them;  run  into  the  stove  with  a  pan  of  water  over  it  to  keep 


192 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


from  browning  too  quickly;  if  apples  are  not  juicy  add  two 
tablespoons  of  water  to  each  pie ;  use  plenty  of  butter  and 
sugar  (this  makes  the  syrup),  have  no  top  crust.  Delicious. — 
Mrs.  Lillard. 

Apple  Pie. — Grate  six  good  sized  apples  and  juice  of  two 
lemons;  stir  this  into  half  cup  butter  and  two  cups  sugar 
creamed  together;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  half 
cup  rich  milk;  then  stir  in  lightly  the  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs ;  use  nutmeg  if  you  like ;  bake  in  paste  with  strips  across 
top.  Evaporated  apples  stewed  and  run  through  a  colander 
may  be  used  instead  of  fresh  fruit. 

Apple  Pie. — Five  grated  apples,  two  lemons,  four  eggs  beaten 
separately,  half  cup  butter  creamed  with  two  cups  sugar,  half 
cup  milk ;  eggs  added  last. 

Peach  Pie. — Line  pie  pans  with  pastry;  stew  sliced  peaches; 
sweeten  and  put  in  a  little  butter  and  just  a  little  cinnamon; 
put  them  in  the  pans,  cover  with  top  crust  and  bake. 

Grape  Pie. — Put  the  skins  into  one  vessel  and  the  pulp  into 
another  and  cook  them ;  run  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  to  remove 
the  seed;  when  skins  are  tender,  mix  with  pulp  and  sweeten 
to  taste ;  fill  pastry  lined  pans,  put  on  top  crusts  and  bake. 

Cherry  Pie. — Line  your  pie  plate  with  good  crust,  fill  half 
full  with  ripe  cherries,  which  have  been  stoned;  sprinkle  over 
them  one  cup  sugar  and  bits  of  butter ;  fill  the  crust  to  the  top ; 
cover  with'  pastry  stripped  across  and  bake. 

Rich  Mince  Pies. — Take  four  pounds  beef  chopped  fine ;  pick 
and  chop  fine  two  pounds  suet,  wash  two  pounds  currants,  one 
pound  raisins,  grate  the  peel  of  two  lemons  and  put  in  the  juice ; 
pound  a  spoonful  of  dried  orange  peel,  slice  one  ounce  citron, 
chop  twelve  large  apples ;  mix  these  together  with  three  pounds 
sugar,  half  pint  wine  and  same  of  brandy,  and  sweet  cider  to 
make  it  a  proper  thickness;  if  the  cider  is  not  sweet,  put  in 
more  sugar  before  the  pies  are  baked.  Bake  with  under  crust 
and  use  strips  across  the  top. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


193 


BADSODASPOILS  GOOD  FLOUR 


Transparent  Pie. — Yolks  six  eggs,  whites  of  two,  one  cup 
butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour;  bake  on  pastry. — 
Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Three  Pies. — Oue  quart  sweet  milk,  three 
cups  pumpkin  boiled  and  strained,  one  aud  one-half  cups 
sugar,  half  cup  molasses,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  pinch 
salt,  tablespoon  each  of  giuger  $nd  cinnamon ;  beat  all  together, 
bake  on  under  crust.  A  tablespoon  of  brandy  is  a  great  im- 
provement. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Three  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
four  tablespoons  of  pumpkin  that  has  been  cooked  until  mushy ; 
little  salt,  little  butter ;  flavor  with  nutmeg ;  bake  on  crust  until 
"set",  then  put  over  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. — Mrs.  J.  R. 
Thomas. 


Writ©  for  Arm  and  Hammer  Book  of  Valuable  Recipea-  FREE.   r  , 


194 


HO^V  YTE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


Raisin  Pie. — One  crap  of  raisins,  chopped,  one  cnp  of  sugar, 
one  piece  of  lemon,  two  biscuits  grated,  lump  of  butter  size  of 
Jriekoryiirat,  one  cup  of  water,  pinch,  of  salt.  Put  all  together 
in  stewpan  and  let  simmer  until  thick.  Ylien  cool  bake  be- 
tween crusts. — Mrs.  B.  L.  Hayley. 

Raisin  Pie. — Take  one  package  of  raisins,  wash  well,  boil  with 
two  cups  of  water  and  one  one  cup  of  sugar;  let  boil  about 
fifteen  minutes,  then  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of  corn 
starch.    This  makes  two  pies. — Miss  Yandenbrook. 

Raisin  Pie. — Half  lemon  grated,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  egg, 
sugar  to  taste ;  bake  with  the  crust  like  mince  pie. 

Currant  Pie. — Take  one  package  of  currants,  wash  well  and 
boil  with  two  cups  of  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes;  then  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of  corn 
starch.    This  makes  two  pies. — Miss  Yandenbrook. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one 
pint  of  water,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  six  tablespoons  of  sugar;  boil  until  thick,  adding  one 
teaspoonful  of  extract.  Bake  the  crust ;  pour  in  chocolate ; 
beat  whites  of  the  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar ;  spread  over  top 
and  brown. — Miss  Yandenbrook. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
cups  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  mixed  with  the  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  stir 
all  together  and  cook  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  into  crusts  and 
bake ;  when  well  done  add  the,  meringue.  Makes  two  pies. — 
Mrs.  G.  M.  Savage. 

Chocolate  Pies. — Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  and  one-half  pints 
of  cream  or  rich  milk,  vanilla  to  taste ;  cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  to  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  then  add  well 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  chocolate  and  cream.  Bake  in  rich  puff 
paste.   Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  three  table- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


195 


spoons  sugar  and  spread  on  pies.   Return  to  oven  and  brown. 

Chocolate  Pies. — Four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  three  heaping 
teaspoons  flour,  one  pint  milk  and  nearly  two  squares  of  Bak- 
er's chocolate;  melt  and  stir  it  in  the  eggs  and  sugar;  it  mixes 
best  this  way;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Boil  together  one  cup  cream,  half  cup  sugar, 
a  little  block  of  chocolate;  pour  this  over  three  eggs,  one  cup 
sugar,  half  cup  butter,  well  beaten  together.  Bake  in  an  under 
crust  only. 

Strawberry  Pie. — Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  paste  and  fill 
with  whole  strawberries  that  have  been  washed  and  hulled. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  lay  narrow  strips  of  the  paste  across 
the  top  in  lattice  fashion.   Bake  quickly,  cool  and  serve  fresh. 

Sharkey  Pie. — Yolks  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  half  cup  but- 
ter, one  cup  jam  or  preserves  without  syrup,  one  nutmeg  and 
one  glass  of  wine.  Bake  in  nice  pastry  and  use  whites  of  eggs 
for  meringue. 

Cream  Pie. — Two  cups  milk,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  table- 
spoon butter,  yolks  three  eggs.  When  the  milk  has  come  to  a 
boil  have  ready  the  well  beaten  yolks,  to  which  have  been  added 
two  tablespoons  flour,  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  milk ;  add 
some  of  the  boiling  milk  to  this,  then  pour  all  together  and  let 
boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring  briskly;  add  butter.  Bake  the 
crust  to  the  pie  first  ;  then  put  cream  filling  in  it  and  have  a 
stiff  meringue  on  top;  return  to  over  and  let  it  brown;  flavor 
pies  with  vanilla,  and  meringue  with  lemon.  Very  fine. — Mrs. 
Sam  Lancaster. 

Cream  Pie. — One  cup  milk,  yolks  three  eggs,  six  level  table- 
spoons sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  flour  dissolved  in 
milk;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  this  is  cooked  and  cool,  pour 
into  a  baked  crust  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  whites 
and  brown  in  oven. 

Lemon  Pies. — Juice  of  six  lemons,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  half  cup  butter;  cook 


196 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


until  it  thickens  three-quarters  cup  sweet  milk. — Mrs.  Jones. 
Hernando,  Miss. 

Lemon  Pie. — One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon corn  starch  cooked  over  hot  water  for  at  least  fifteen 
minutes,  one  saltspoon  salt,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the 
white  of  one  egg,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Fill  the 
paste  while  hot  and  bake  quickly.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
stiff,  add  slowly  two  tablespoons  of  sifted  powdered  sugar, 
spread  over  the  pie  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  oven  and 
return  it  to  dry  and  brown  slightly. 

Lemon  Pie. — To  one  pie,  one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
water,  yolks  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  corn  starch,  butter  size  of 
walnut •  use  whites  of  eggs  for  frosting.   This  recipe  never  fails. 

Lemon  Pie. — Without  milk  or  butter.  The  very  best  used. 
Take  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
of  water,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  juice  of  large  lemon:  beat 
well  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar,  lemon,  flour  and  water  in  the 
order  named ;  this  will  make  two  pies.  Bake  on  a  bottom  crust, 
then  make  the  top  of  the  four  whites,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth, 
adding  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  brown  quickly. — Mrs. 
H.  C.  Irby. 

Lemon  Pie. — For  three  pies.  Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  two 
cups  white  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
one  cup  buttermilk  and  a  bit  of  soda ;  add  well  beaten  whites 
last  thing. — Mrs.  John  S.  Fenner. 

Lemon  Pie. — Yolks  six  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
whites  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  egg,  melted,  juice  of  one  lemon, 
meringue  of  four  whites  and  four  heaping  tablespoons  sugar, 
flavored  with  lemon. — Mrs.  R.  D.  Eodgers. 

Lemon  Pie. — The  yolks  of  six  eggs,  four  teacups  of  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  teacups  of  milk,  the  juice  and 
grated  rinds  of  four  lemons,  four  tablespoons  of  corn  starch: 
stir  well  together ;  bake  on  paste.  When  done  have  ready  the 
six  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  eight  tablespoons  of 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


197 


Jackson  Woolen  Mills 

Manufacturers  of 

High-Grade 
PANTS,  OVERALLS 
and  Children's  Suits 
Jackson,  Tenn. 


Concrete  Building  &  Paving 

COMPANY  (Inc.) 

Manufacturers  of 

Artificial  Stone  Blocks 

High  Class  Structural  Work 
and  Sidewalk  Building 

Jackson,  Tenn. 


pounded  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon;  spread  over  the  pies  and 
brown  lightly. — Mrs.  S.  W.  Tucker. 

Lemon  Raisin  Pie. — One  cup  raisins  (seeded  and  chopped), 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  cold  water,  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter;  stir 
lightly,  bake  with  top  and  bottom  crusts,  or  stripped  across 
with  pastry. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Buttermilk  Pie. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
two  eggs,  one  pint  buttermilk,  half  cup  of  butter;  beat  sugar 
and  eggs  together ;  add  the  butter,  then  the  flour,  then  the  but- 
termilk; flavor  with  lemon. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Caramel  Pie. — Yolks  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar;  three  heaping 
teaspoons  sifted  flour,  one  pint  milk,  four  tablespoons  caramel, 
half  teaspoon  vanilla ;  bake  in  good  rich  crust ;  meringue  made 
of  whites  and  one-third  cup  of  sugar.   Will  make  two  pies. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Put  the  rhubarb  in  deep  plates  line  with  pie 
crust,  with  a  thick  layer  of  sugar  to  each  layer  of  rhubarb  ; 
grated  lemon  peel  may  be  added.  Use  a  top  crust  and  press 
tight  around  the  edge  of  the  plate.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow 
oven. 

Prune  Pie. — Stew  one  pound  prunes  till  tender,  remove  seed, 
add  a  little  sugar;  spread  over  this  a  meringue  of  whites  of 
three  eggs  and  three  tablespoons  sugar ;  make  a  custard  of  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  half  pint  water  and  serve  with 
the  pudding. 


198  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Cocoanut  Cream  Pie. — Half  cup  prepared  cocoanut  soaked  a 
few  minutes  in  two  cups  milk,  two  eggs,  one  small  teacup 
sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch.  Put 
milk  and  cocoanut  in  double  boiler,  and  when  hot  stir  in  sugar, 
then  butter  and  yolk  of  egg  beaten  in  cold  milk,  and  one  table- 
spoon corn  starch  dissolved  in  milk.  Bake  crust  first,  then  add 
the  pie,  with  a  good  meringue  on  top.  Very  fine. — Mrs.  Lee 
Agnew. 

Cocoanut  Filling  for  Pies. — Half  cup  butter,  yolks  five  eggs, 
one  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one 
cup  grated  cocoanut;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  cook  till  thick; 
when  cold  fill  the  cooked  pie  crust  and  cover  with  meringue 
made  of  whites;  put  in  stove  and  brown. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Grandma's  Cocoanut  Custards. — One  cocoanut  grated,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  half  pound  sugar,  half  pint  sweet  milk ;  boil 
milk,  sugar  and  butter  together ;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the 
grated  cocoanut;  when  cool  add  three  well  beaten  eggs;  bake 
in  lower  crusts. 

Cocoanut  Custard. — The  well  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs,  one- 
quarter  pound  butter  creamed  with  six  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
add  half  pound  grated  cocoanut,  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  last 
and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Cocoanut  Custard. — One  grated  cocoanut,  two  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  milk,  six  eggs  well  beaten. 

Molasses  Custard. — Two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  cream,  butter  size  of 
egg;  boil  molasses  twenty  minutes  and  add  butter;  beat  eggs 
well,  add  sugar  and  flour  to  them ;  then  add  molasses,  and  cream 
last.   Makes  two  custards. — Mrs.  Albert  Johnson. 

Molasses  Custard. — One  pint  molasses  boiled  fifteen  minutes, 
one  cup  butter  or  less;  pour  into  four  well  beaten  eggs;  flavor 
with  teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 

Lemon  Custard. — Cream  one  tablespoon  butter  and  two  cups 
sugar ;  add  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoons  water, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


199 


juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons;  line  pie  plates  with 
pastry,  bake  just  a  little,  then  pour  in  custard  and  bake  a  light 
brown. 

Lemon  Custard. — One  cup  hot  water,  one  cup  sugar,  let  come 
to  a  boil;  add  one  tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold 
water  and  the  yellows  of  two  or  three  eggs ;  stir  till  it  thickens, 
then  set  off  and  add  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  a  little  salt 
and  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Use  meringue  on  top 
of  custard.    This  will  make  one  custard. 

Chocolate  Custard. — Half  cake  chocolate,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sweet  milk;  cook  all  together  very  little  (not  like  candy)  ; 
when  cool  add  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  on  rich 
pastry.  Meringue  of  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  half  cup  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  vanilla.  When  custards  are  done  and  nearly  cool 
spread  on  meringue  and  bake. 

Apple  Custard. — One  pint  mashed  stewed  apples,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  or  lemon,  one  spoon  of  butter, 
bake  slowly.  Good. 

Apple  Custard. — One  pint  of  stewed  apples,  quarter  pound 
butter,  one-half  pint  cream,  three  eggs,  beaten  light,  sugar  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  the  ingredients  and  bake  in  a 
puff  paste  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Jelly  Custards. — Four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  thick 
cream,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  jelly;  use  meringue  of  four 
whites.   Makes  two  pies. 

Jelly  Custard. — No.  2. — One  cup  jelly,  one  cup  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cup  butter,  four  eggs.  Makes  two  custards. — Mrs.  A.  H. 
Ellington. 

Caramel  Custard. — One  quart  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  large  tablespoon  of  corn  starch;  put  half  the  sugar 
in  the  pan  and  make  a  dark  brown  syrup,  then  pour  in  one 
quart  of  heated  milk.  When  caramel  is  thoroughly  dissolved  in 
the  milk,  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar  well  beaten  in  the  yolks  of 


200 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


three  eggs  and  corn  starch.  Boil  till  thick.  Place  on  top  a 
meringue  of  three  whites  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar ; 
flavor  with  vanilla.  It  can  be  cooled  and  slipped  on  fancy  dish, 
and  put  on  ice  till  served. 

Amber  Custard. — Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  sugar, 
half  cup  cream,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  cherry  preserves ;  bake 
in  lower  crusts.  This  makes  two  small  custards. — Mrs.  Reese 
Lillard. 

Cream  Custards. — Yolks  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  two  full 
tablespoons  butter,  four  tablespoons  flour,  three  cups  rich  milk, 
pinch  of  salt  and  vanilla  flavoring ;  beat  eggs,  sugar,  butter  and 
flour  together.  Have  milk  in  double  boiler,  and  when  scalding 
hot  gradually  pour  in  mixture,  stirring  constantly  till  it  thick- 
ens ;  take  off  and  flavor.  Bake  crusts  in  pie  pans,  then  pour  the 
mixture  into  them.  Meringue  of  four  whites  and  four  table- 
spoons sugar;  flavor  and  spread  over  the  custard;  run  into  the 
stove  and  brown. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Cream  Puff  Custards. — Take  one  quart  fresh  milk,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar,  yolks  three  eggs,  half  cup  flour;  put  milk 
in  double  boiler  on  stove,  and  when  scalding  hot  add  sugar, 
eggs,  flour,  beaten  together,  stirring  constantly  until  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  crusts  and 
fill  with  the  cream.  Use  meringue  of  four  whites  beaten  and 
four  tablespoons  sugar. — Mrs.  Reese. Lillard. 

Potato  Custard. — Three-quarters  pound  mashed  sweet  po- 
tatoes, one  pound  sugar,  quarter  pound  butter,  yolks  six  eggs, 
one  pint  sweet  milk,  pinch  of  salt;  flavor  with  lemon  and  nut- 
meg. Add  meringue  made  of  whites.  Very  fine. — Mrs.  John 
Gary. 

Potato  Custard. — One  cup  potatoes,  half  cup  butter,  four 
eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  cream ;  flavor 
with  lemon. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Neely. 

Prune  Custard. — One  and  one-half  pounds  prunes,  one  cup 
sugar,  pinch  salt,  flavoring  extract  in  meringue.    Cook  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


201 


„  BEARE 
I  ICE  i 

L  ^,   J  BROTHERS 
ICE  AND  COAL  COMPANY 


prunes  thoroughly,  set  to  cool,  then  remove  seed  and  mash  fine> 
beat  with  spoon  and  add  some  juice.  Bake  the  crust,  then  put 
in  fruit  and  spread  meringue  over  top  and  brown. — Miss  Van- 
denbrook. 

Pine  Apple  Custard. — One  can  pineapple,  two  cups  sugar, 
two  cups  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  butter;  beat 
eggs,  stir  in  butter,  sugar,  milk  and  last  pineapple.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Ida  Hall. 

Maple  Custard.— Beat  five  eggs  until  light,  add- three-fourths 
of  a  cupful  of  maple  sugar  crushed  fine  with  a  rolling  pin,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  cupfuls  of  milk.  Custards 
are  of  a  finer  grain  if  the  milk  has  been  boiled  and  allowed  to 
cool  before  being  used.  Strain  the  mixture  into  small  buttered 
cups.  Place  in  a  panful  of  hot  water  and  cook  in  oven  until 
the  centers  are  firm.  Chill,  turn  from  the  molds  on  lace-paper 
mats  and  thrust  some  strips  of  blanched  almonds  in  the  top. 

Chocolate  Custard.— Two  ounces  of  chocolate,  added  to  three 
cupfuls  of  hot  milk,  cook  in  this  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
with  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Turn  into  a 
dish  lined  with  lady  fingers.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
of  eggs  shaped  with  spoon  in  hot  water.   Very  good. 

Cream  of  Chocolate  Souffle.— Put  into  a  small  saucepan  four 
tablespoonfuls  (heaping)  of  chocolate,  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  boiling  water,  and  stir  on  back  of  stove  until  a  smooth  thick 
paste.   Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  very  light.   Add  the  choco- 


202  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


late  and  one  cnp  of  sugar  gradually,  constantly  beating.  Add  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  fold  into  the  mixture  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish,  buttered, 
and  bake  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  immediately  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  custard  sauce. 

Custard  Sauce. — Scald  one  and  a  half  cups  milk,  beat  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  or  two  whole  eggs,  add  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one- 
eighth  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 
Flavor  with  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Custards. — Place  one  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  When  cool  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  one  whole  egg  (well  beaten),  half  cup  of  sugar,  and 
two  tablespoons  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  of  boil- 
ing water.  Pill  small  custard  cups,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  very  stiff,  add  two 
tablespoons  poAvdered  sugar.  Spread  on  top  of  each  custard 
and  set  in  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 

Cup  Custard. — Six  eggs,  half  cup  sugar,  one  quart  sweet 
milk ;  break  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  beat  them,  add  sugar,  then  the 
milk  and  any  flavoring  desired.  Fill  custard  cups  and  set  in  a 
pan  half  full  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes  or  longer.  Try  them  with  handle  of  teaspoon  and  see 
if  they  are  firm;  if  left  in  too  long  it  will  whey.  Grate  nutmeg 
on  top  of  each  cup  after  taking  them  out.  Very  nourishing 
and  delicate  for  a  sick  person. — Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 

Egg  Custard. — Six  eggs  (whites  and  yellows  beaten),  two 
cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  buttermilk;  flavor  to  taste. — Miss 
Mary  Bond. 

Egg  Custard. — Yolks  of  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  walnut,  half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  small  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  well  together, 
flavor  and  put  on  rich  crust,  Beat  whites  lightly,  having  added 
to  them  one  tablespoon  of  sugar.    This  makes  one  custard. 

Transparent  Custard. — Yolks  of  nine  eggs,  one  cup  butter 
(creamed),  two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  sweet  milk.    Beat  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


203 


sugar  and  eggs  very  light,  then  add  butter  and  milk.  Flavor 
with  lemon.  Beat  whites  with  sugar  to  put  on  top  after 
custards  are  cooked,  then  set  in  stove  to  brown.  Makes  three 
custards. — Miss  Mary  Woolfolk. 

Custard  Without  Crust. — Two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  pint 
sweet  milk,  half  cup  of  sugar  in  which  one  tablespoon  of  flour 
has  been  stirred.  Mix  well  and  pour  in  vessel  where  one  table- 
spoon of  butter  has  been  melted.  Bake. 

Tapioca  Custard. — Soak  a  cup  of  pearl  tapioca  over  night  in 
sufficient  water  to  cover.  When  ready  to  prepare  the  custard, 
drain  off  the  water  if  any  remains,  and  add  one  quart  of  milk  to 
the  tapioca;  place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  transpar- 
ent; then  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  or  the  yolks 
of  two  and  one  whole  one,  mixed  with  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
of  sugar.  Let  it  cook  a  few  minutes,  just  long  enough  for  the 
custard  to  thicken  and  no  more,  or  it  will  whey  and  be  spoiled ; 
flavor  with  a  little  vanilla  and  turn  into  a  glass  dish.  Cover 
the  top  with  the  whites  beaten  stiffly  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  dot  with  bits  of  jelly,  or  colored  sugar  prepared  by 
mixing  sugar  with  cranberry  or  raspberry  juice  and  allowing 
it  to  dry.  For  variety,  the  custard  may  be  flavored  with  grated 
lemon  rind  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  whipped  up  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  or  other  flavor  may  be  dispensed  with, 
and  the  meringue  flavored  by  beating  a  tablespoonful  of  quince 
jelly  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — Make  the  crust  the  same  as  baking 
powder  biscuit,  only  use  more  shortening;  divide  the  dough  in 
four  parts,  roll  out  two  pieces  and  put  in  pie  tins.  Spread 
them  with  butter;  now  roll  the  other  two  out  and  place  them 
on  top  of  the  two  in  the  tins.  Place  in  oven  and  when  done 
separate  them  by  cutting  through  where  they  were  buttered; 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


204 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


spread  each  piece  with  butter  and  put  plenty  of  berries  and 
sugar  on.  The  top  crust  can  be  sprinkled  Avith  powdered 
sugar. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — One  full  pint  of  sifted  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
rub  flour,  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt  and  the  butter  to- 
gether as  for  biscuits.  Beat  one  egg  well  in  a  cup ;  fill  cup  with 
sweet  milk;  mix  all  together;  bake  in  two  or  three  layers  as 
for  cake.  Have  fruit  stemmed  and  well  sugared,  and  put  be- 
tween the  layers.  Ice  the  top.  Set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  and 
serve  with  rich  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — Make  a  quick,  cheap  cake  as  fol- 
lows: One  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  well  beaten 
egg,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  half  cup 
sweet  milk;  flavor;  cook  on  a  greased  biscuit  pan.  After  cake 
is  cold  cut  through  the  middle  of  it;  place  a  layer  of  berries 
which  have  been  sweetened  on  top  of 'each  layer  of  cake,  and 
over  this  spread  a  cooked  icing  (made  as  for  any  other  cake). 
Put  one  layer  of  cake  and  berries  over  the  other.  Excellent. — 
Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — Make  a  good  biscuit  crust,  and  roll 
out  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  two  cakes  the 
same  size  and  shape ;  spread  one  over  lightly  with  melted  but- 
ter, lay  the  other  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done 
they  will  fall  apart.  Butter  them  well,  as  usual.  Mix  the  ber- 
ries with  plenty  of  sugar,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  needed. 
Spread  the  berries  in  alternate  layers,  having  berries  on  top, 
and  over  all  spread  whipped  cream  or  charlotte  russe.  The 
juice  that  has  run  from  the  fruit  can  be  sent  to  the  table  in  a 
tureen,  and  served  as  a  sauce. 

Banana  Fritters. — One  cup  flour,  one  cup  milk,  half  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  olive  oil,  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg, 
six  bananas.  Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder; 
add  the  egg,  oil  and  milk,  and  beat  to  a  perfectly  smooth  batter. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  205 


1 FT'^  TAi  K  ST  HVFR 

LC 1  o  1  ALI\  S 1  Ui lis 

Snl  Tnrhfip  Id  &  Sons 

The  Home  Telephone 

nRv  cnniK 
Uni  buuu 

LI1C  UC51. 

Notions,  Shoes  and  Clothing! 

Have  you  one  in  your  residence  or 
place  of  business?    If  not  call  400 
and  a  representative  will  call  and 
explain  its  advantages. 

Cor.  Liberty  and  Lafayette  Sts. 

JACKSON,  TENN. 

Peel  bananas;  cut  into  slices  lengthwise;  let  them  stand  an 
hour  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Dip  each  slice  in 
the  batter  and  fry  brown  in  hot  fat.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  be- 
fore serving. 

Pineapple  Fritters. — Get  a  can  of  pineapple  "chunks".  Cut 
pineapple  in  pieces  about  an  inch  or  one  and  one-half  inches, 
square ;  dip  in  batter  as  made  for  rosettes  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard,  using  a  spoon  in  handling.  Sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar. — Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 

French  Pineapple  Fritters. — Slice  fresh  pineapple  rather  thin ; 
pour  sherry  wine  over  and  let  stand  an  hour;  make  a  plain 
batter  of  one  egg,  flour,  sweet  milk  and  pinch  of  salt;  dip 
slices  in  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard  to  brown  on  both  sides; 
take  out  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  over  each  while  hot. — Ten- 
nessee Cook  Book. 

Apple  Fritters. — Make  batter  as  for  plain  fritters,  and  throw 
in  very  thin  slices  of  apple ;  drop  in  hot  lard  by  spoonfuls,  with 
slice  of  apple  in  each  and  fry  light  brown.  Bananas  may  be 
used  in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Apple  Fritters. — One  egg,  one  small  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one-third  cup  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  four 
teaspoons  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoon  butter,  one  pint  sliced 
sour  apples.   Drop  from  a  spoon  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Chocolate  Meringue. — Melt  one  square  Baker's  chocolate, 
white  of  one  egg  well  beaten;  add  to  egg  two  tablespoons  of 


206 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE, 


sugar,  then  pour  in  the  melted  chocolate ;  beat  well  and  spread 
on  pie  and  brown  in  oven.  A  delightful  addition  to  cream, 
custard  or  cocoanut  pie. 

Chess  Cake. — Yellows  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  take  one  tablespoon  of 
custard  batter  and  make  up  with  pastry. 

Chess  Cakes. — Twelve  eggs,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  one 
pound  sugar;  beat  half  the  sugar  with  the  eggs,  and  half  with 
the  butter  and  mix  them ;  beat  till  very  light  and  bake  on  pastry 
in  small  tins. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Chess  Cakes. — Seven  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  three-quarters 
pound  butter,  one  tablespoon  cream ;  flavor  with  lemon ;  bake  in 
pastry. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Vanden. 

Apple  Roll. — Tavo  cups  flour,  milk  to  mix  to  a  dough  (about 
three-quarters  cup),  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  six  apples, 
two  tablespoons  butter  or  lard,  sugar,  nutmeg.  Mix  and  sift 
flour  and  baking  powder,  rub  in  the  lard  or  butter  and  make  to 
a  dough  with  the  milk.  Roll  thinly  about  twice  as  long  as  the 
dough  is  wide.  Brush  over  with  softened  butter,  spread  with 
chopped  apples  and  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Roll  up 
like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  in  slices  an  inch  thick  and  lay  cut  side 
up  on  a  greased  baking  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
serve  hot  with  a  sweet  sauce. 

Baked  Apple  Roll. — Make  a  paste,  roll  out  thin.  Spread  over 
it  apples  cut  in  thin  slices;  sprinkle  sugar  and  bits  of  butter  all 
over  this.  Roll  it  up ;  place  it  in  a  baking  pan ;  pour  in  water 
and  put  sugar  and  butter  around  it,  grating  over  all  a  nutmeg. 

Damson  Roll. — Use  short  biscuit  dough ;  roll  out  thin,  spread 
with  damson  preserves,  using  some  sugar  and  bits  of  butter 
over  it.  Roll  up  and  put  in  the  pan  to  bake ;  add  one  pint  warm 
water.  Put  a  teacup  in  the  center  of  the  pan  turned  upside 
down,  and  this  will  keep  the  juice  from  boiling  out.  Take  it  out 
before  serving. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


207 


Apple  Dumplings. — Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  only  add  a 
little  more  shortening;  take  a  piece  of  dough;  roll  out  almost 
as  thin  as  piecrust;  cut  in  round  pieces  by  a  coffee  saucer; 
sprinkle  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon  and  bit  of 
butter  on  the  chopped  apple  (allowing  one  small  apple  to  each 
dumpling).  Turn  the  ends  of  dough  over  the  apple  and  lap 
them  tight.  Lay  them  in  a  pan,  smooth  side  upward.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  on  each  one;  sprinkle  handful  of  sugar, 
turn  in  cup  boiling  water,  bake  in  moderate  oven  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Serve  with  sauce  of  cream  and  sugar  or  pudding 
sauce.  Baste  with  the  liquor  once  while  baking.  Nutmeg  adds 
a  nice  flavor. 

Apple  Dumplings. — One  cup  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  salt,  milk  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Cut  in  pieces  and  roll  out  thinner  than  for  biscuits 
Slice  apples  rather  thin  and  in  small  pieces  and  roll  up  in 
dough;  spice  if  preferred;  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  of 
water,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Prepare  this  before  making 
dumplings  and  set  back  on  stove  until  it  thickens  slightly. 
Pour  in  center  of  pan  of  dumplings  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
rather  slow.   Have  a  deep  pan. 

Cream  Puffs. — One  cup  hot  water,  one  cup  butter,  boiled  to- 
gether ;  while  boiling  stir  in  one  cup  sifted  flour ;  remoATe  from 
the  fire  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste ;  when  cool  stir  in  three 
beaten  eggs,  stirring  five  minutes;  drop  into  a  greased  pan  by 
dessert  spoonfuls  and  bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  For  the  filling  take  one  cup  milk,  half  cup 
sugar,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  flour,  half  teaspoon  vanilla ; 
cook  till  thick.  When  cream  and  puffs  are  cold,  cut  open 
with  sharp  knife  and  fill. 

Cream  Puffs. — Put  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half 
a  cupful  of  water  over  the  fire.  When  boiling  add  hastily  half 
a  cupful  of  flour ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  smooth ;  take  from  the 
fire,  and  when  cool  break  in  one  egg.   Beat  well  and  then  add 


208 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE 


MURDOCH  BROS. 

Fine  Groceries. 

a  second  egg.  Beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Drop  by  table- 
spoonfuls  on  a  greased  shallow  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  When  well  baked  these  shells  will  keep 
a  week ;  simply  reheat  before  filling.  They  may  be  filled  with 
custards  or  whipped  cream. 

Cream  Puffs. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  well;  bake  on  paper  and 
drop  out  of  a  big  spoon.  Let  them  stay  on  paper  until  cooked. 
Add  whipped  cream  when  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  B.  P.  Cantrell. 

Chocolate  Cream  Puffs. — Put  one  cup  of  boiling  water  in 
basin  on  stove  and  add  one-half  cup  butter.  When  thoroughly 
melted,  take  from  stove  and  stir  in  one  cup  of  flour,  a  little  at 
a  time,  in  which  is  blended  one-half  teaspoonful  soda.  After 
these  are  thoroughly  mixed,  add  three  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is  free  from  lumps,  then 
drop  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  on  well  greased  tins  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty-five  minutes.  When  ready 
to  serve  cut  a  hole  in  the  si'des  of  each  puff  with  the  scissors 
and  pour  in  the  following  filling:  Beat  a  cupful  of  sweet 
cream  very  stiff,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chocolate,  a  very  little 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  This  recipe  makes  just 
one  dozen  puffs.  Good. 

Peach  Cobbler. — Make  a  nice  rich  pastry,  roll  out  and  cut 
in  squares  and  prick  with  a  fork.  Put  in  a  biscuit  pan  and 
bake.  Stew  nice,  ripe,  juicy  peaches;  add  sugar,  some  butter 
and  cinnamon  ;  put  pastry  on  platter,  then  a  layer  of  peaches, 
then  another  layer  of  pastry.  Eat  when  nearly  cold  with 
cream. — Mrs.  H,  R.  Lancaster. 


HOW  AVE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


209 


SWEET  SAUCES. 

Vanilla  Sauce. — Half  cup  butter,  oue  tablespoon  (rounding) 
corn  starch,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  the 
butter ;  add  gradually  the  sugar  and  stir  until  light  and  creamy. 
Place  the  corn  starch  in  a  saucepan,  moisten  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  place  over 
the  fire  and  cook  until  clear.  At  serving  time  stir  this  hot 
mixture  into  the  butter  and  sugar;  stir  until  thoroughly 
mixed,  add  the  vanilla  and  serve. 

Creamy  Sauce. — Cream  two  tablespoons  butter;  beat  in  by 
degrees  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  each  of 
thick  cream  and  sherry.  Beat  long  and  hard.  Just  before 
serving  stand  bowl  over  hot  water  and  beat  till  sauce  looks 
creamy,  but  not  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter.  , 

Caramel  Sauce.- — Brown  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  one 
tablespoon  water,  stirring  constantly  till  it  browns;  then  add 
more  hot  water.  Mix  two  cups  sugar,  two  teaspoons  flour  and 
half  cup  butter  together;  add  the  syrup  and  two  cups  hot 
water;  let  all  boil  up  together  and  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

Caramel  Sauce. — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  hot 
water,  one  tablespoon  butter,  yolks  one  egg;  divide  the  sugar; 
put  one-half  with  butter  and  set  on  stove  to  brown;  then  stir 
both  together  and  let  cook  till  brown;  then  pour  in  hot  water 
and  let  cook  a  little.    No  flavoring.    Splendid  sauce. 

Jelly  Sauce. — To  every  white  of  egg  put  one  tablespoon  of 
jelly  and  one  of  white  sugar;  beat  until  very  light. 

Sherry  Sauce. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  pint  boiling  water,  one 
tablespoon  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water,  half  cup  sherry,  lump 
of  butter,  pinch  of  salt ;  boil  until  thick  and  smooth. 


210 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Lemon  Sauce. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  beaten 
egg,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  half  cup  boiling  water ; 
put  in  a  double  boiler  and  thicken  over  steam. 

Chocolate  Butter  for  Puddings. — This  is  to  be  served  the 
same  as  hard  sauce  with  ordinary  puddings.  Beat  to  a  cream 
a  half  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  unbeaten 
white  of  one  egg  and  beat  continuously  for  ten  minutes,  then 
stir  in  a  half  cup  of  chocolate,  one  tablespoonful  of  sherry, 
gradually,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  heap  in  a  glass  dish ; 
stand  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Spread  between  thin  slices 
of  bread.  This  also  makes  a  delightful  sandwich  for  the  lunch 
basket. 

Sauce  for  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  butter,  one  cup  sugar;  put  in  saucepan  and  boil  till  it  be- 
gins to  thicken;  take  off,  flavor  with  spoonful  of  vanilla,  and 
let  it  cool.— Mrs.  I.  B.  Tigrett. 

Sauce  for  Sponge  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  pint 
water  boiling  hot,  half  cup  butter ;  pour  into  bowl  where  cake 
was  made  and  this  will  thicken  ;  return  to  fire  and  let  boil  till 
thick;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Sauce  No.  2. — Half  pint  boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar,  table- 
spoon of  butter;  pour  into  well  beaten  yolks  and  whip  in 
beaten  white ;  flavor. 

Hard  Sauce. — Stir  to  a  cream  one  cup  butter  and  two  sugar ; 
add  one  wine  glass  of  wine  or  brandy,  or  one  teaspoon  essence 
of  lemon. 

Boiled  Sauce. — Dissolve  two  cups  of  loaf  sugar  in  two  cups 
water  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup.  Flavor  with  ground  cinna- 
mon and  grated  nutmeg. 

Sauce  for  Sponge  Cake. — Half  pint  boiling  water,  one  cup 
sugar,  half  cup  butter  (or  less)  ;  pour  on  the  well  beaten  yolk 
of  one  egg,  and  whip  in  well  beaten  white;  flavor  with  brandy, 
lemon  or  vanilla. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


211 


Sauce. — Heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  teacupful  sugar,  juice 
of  two  lemons ;  add  cup  boiling  water  and  set  on  stove  to  sim- 
mer. 

Creamy  Fruit  Sauce. — Cream  one  cup  butter,  beat  into  it  one 
cup  sugar;  add  half  cup  cream  or  milk;  gradually  add  one 
cup  fresh  fruit,  cherries,  berries,  malaga  grapes  or  orange 
pulp. — Mrs.  R.  L. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Take  two  cups  sugar,  with  two  teaspoons 
flour  mixed  through  it;  half  cup  butter,  two  cups  water;  slice 
lemon  very  thin,  halve  the  slices,  using  half  a  lemon;  do  not 
put  lemon  in  till  sauce  has  boiled. — Mrs.  R.  L. 

Strawberry  Sauce. — Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg ;  add 
a  cupful  of  crushed  berries  just  at  serving  time.  Any  fruit 
in  season  may  be  used  in  this  way  for  either  steamed  or  baked 
pudding. 

Maple  Nougat. — A  delectable  touch  to  ice  cream  is  maple 
nougat.  Boil  two  cupfuls  of  grated  maple  sugar,  half  a  cupful 
of  cream  and  a  walnut  of  butter  until  thick  and  waxy  when 
dropped  into  cold  water,  then  add  one  cupful  of  chopped  nuts, 
preferably  English  walnuts.  Pour  while  hot  over  portions  of 
cream  ready  for  serving. 

Foamy  Sauce. — Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  very  light  and  the 
white  until  dry.  Gradually  beat  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar  into 
the  yolk ;  then  fold  in  the  white ;  add  one  teaspoonf ul  of  va- 
nilla extract  and  one  cup  of  hot  milk. — Mix  thoroughly  and 
serve  at  once. — Boston  Cooking  School. 

Sauce  for  Pudding. — Cream  one-half  a  cup  of  butter ;  gradu- 
ally beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar  and  then  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff;  flavor  with  vanilla,  mace  or  brandy. — Boston 
Cooking  School. 

Grape  Juice  Sauce. — Pass  through  a  sieve,  together,  three  or 
four  times,  one  cup  sugar  and  three  level  tablespoons  of  corn 
starch  or  flour;  pour  over  one  pint  boiling  grape  juice;  stir 


212 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


and  cook  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  boiling,  then  let  sim- 
mer ten  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve  beat  in  three  or  four 
tablespoons  butter,  a  little  at  a  time;  a  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice  added  last. — Boston  Cooking  School. 


FRUIT. 

The  utensils  for  stewing  fruit  should  be  porcelain  lined,  or  of 
granite  ware;  fruit  cooked  in  tin  loses  much  of  its  flavor;  while 
if  it  be  acid,  and  the  tin  of  poor  quality,  there  is  always  danger 
that  the  acid  of  the  fruit  acting  upon  the  metal  will  form  a 
poisonous  compound.  Use  only  silver  knives  in  preparing  fruit 
and  silver  or  wooden  spoons  for  stirring. 

Evaporated  Fruits. — Wash  fruits  carefully,  put  to  soak  all 
night  and  cook  in  the  same  water  next  morning,  in  a  covered 
vessel.   Prunes  may  be  cooked  the  same  way. 

Crystalized  Apples. — Put  on  the  stove  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
two  cups  of  water;  let  it  boil  until  almost  ready  to  "hair"  or 
"thread";  then  drop  in  the  apples  which  have  been  pared  and 
cored  and  left  whole ;  cook  until  clear  and  tender,  turning  them 
over  if  needed.  When  cold  stick  full  of  halves  of  blanched 
almonds. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Hot  Grape  Juice. — Grape  juice  served  hot  in  bouillon  cups 
with  whipped  cream  on  the  top  is  very  nice  served  in  the  be- 
ginning of  a  dinner. 

Fruits  in  Season— One  quart  alcohol,  120  grains  salicylic 
acid,  put  in  a  two  gallon  stone  jar.  Beginning  with  strawber- 
ries put  in  two  pounds  fruit  and  two  pounds  sugar;  cherries, 
peaches,  raspberries,  pears  and  pineapples  afterwards  as  they 
come  in,  are  added  to  the  alcohol,  two  pounds  of  each  and  two 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


213 


American  Lady  Shoe 


Latest 


Models. 


Style  6001 

A  patent  kid  but- 
ton bootsdull  upper 
with  seamless  in- 
step, waited  sole, 
mil e tary  hez' 
perforated  tip. 

"  Vassal-" 
Toe 


'.menean 


«ady 
SHOE 


Latest 
Models. 


$3.50 


MADE  BY 


Hamilton-Brown  Shoe  Co. 


ST.  LOUIS,  U.  S.  A. 


of  sugar.  Stir  from  the  bottom  each  time  it  is  added  to.  When 
used  you  can  add  nuts  and  grapes  or  any  fresh  fruits.  To  be 
served  with  a  meat  course. 

Tutti-Frutti. — To  one  pint  of  alcohol  add  ten  pounds  of 
various  kinds  of  fruits,  adding  for  each  pound  of  fruit  one 
pound  of  sugar.  This  makes  two  gallons  and  should  be  made  in 
a  stone  jar,  adding  the  fruits  and  sugar  as  they  are  obtained  in 
season.  Stir  each  day  until  finished,  and  seal  in  fruit  jars.  The 
best  fruits  are  cherries  two  pounds,  bananas  two  pounds,  apri- 
cots, blackberries,  raspberries,  damsons,  juice  of  one  lemon. — 
Mrs.  Jeff  Hunt. 


214 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


"Wine  Saps." — Use  apples  that  are  not  mealy.  Take  six 
apples,  peel,  core  and  scald.  Put  in  a  pan  and  add  enough 
water  to  half  cover  them,  with  one  cup  sugar  added;  when  ap- 
ples are  cooking  turn  over  several  times  to  keep  them  from 
cooking  all  on  one  side.  When  nearly  done  take  apples  out 
very  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and  into  the  water  iu 
the  pan  put  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  cook  till  it  is 
almost  candied;  then  put  in  the  apples  and  let  them  cook  till 
well  seasoned  with  the  sugar  and  take  them  out;  pour  about 
one  teaspoon  sherry  wine  over  them. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Leeper. 

Stuffed  Apples. — Cut  off  tops  of  six  choice  apples;  take  out 
the  meat  of  the  apple  with  a  spoon,  chop  fine  and  mix  with 
raisins,  enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon; 
fill  the  hollow  apples  with  this ;  place  closely  together  in  a  pan 
with  one  tablespoon  of  water  in  it.  Bake.  Serve  with  a  spoon 
of  flavored  whipped  cream  on  the  top. — Miss  Pattie  Crook. 

Jellied  Apples. — One  pound  of  apples  peeled  ond  cored,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  water ;  make  a  sirup  of  the  sugar 
and  water,  and  simmer  the  apples  in  it  until  they  can  be  pierced 
with  a  straw.  Then  take  out  the  fruit  in  a  glass  bowl,  and  add 
half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  to  the  sirup,  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  When  the  sirup  is  nearly  cold,  pour  it  over  the 
apples,  and  let  it  congeal.    Serve  with  syllabub. 

Apple  Sauce. — Pare,  core  and  quarter  the  apples,  let  them 
stew  in  just  enough  water  to  cook  them  without  burning  them ; 
cook  until  perfectly  soft ;  mash  well,  and  when  done  stir  in  the 
sugar  or  any  seasoning  you  may  like.  Lemon  peel  or  sliced 
lemon  is  a  great  advantage  where  the  apples  are  not  well 
flavored.    Nutmeg  is  always  agreeable. 

Apple  Sauce. — Pare  and  core  the  apples,  put  into  saucepan 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them;  boil  till  tender;  when 
nearly  done  add  sugar,  allowing  one  cup  sugar  to  one  dozen 
apples;  flavor  with  extract  lemon  and  grate  nutmeg  over  the 
top. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.. 


215 


Apple  Souffle. — Stew  the  apples,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
peel,  line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  dish  two  inches  thick, 
make  a  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk  and  three  eggs,  when  cold 
pour  it  in  middle  of  the  dish;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  spread  over  the  top,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  it  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

Compote  of  Apples. — The  apples  should  be  pared  very  nicely 
and  the  cores  extracted.  Boil  them  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them,  to  which  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  peel,  which  must 
be  as  thin  as  possible.  Boil  the  apples  until  they  are  soft,  but 
not  until  they  begin  to  break.  When  done,  remove  them  from 
the  water,  and  lay  on  a  large  dish  to  cool.  For  eiTery  pound  of 
apples  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  lemon.  Add  the  sugar 
to  the  water  in  which  the  apples  have  been  boiled,  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  cold  apples.  Put 
in  self -sealing  jars  and  let  stand  for  a  few  days  before  using. 

Apples  with  Raisins. — Pare,  core  and  quarter  one  dozen 
medium  sized  sour  apples;  clean  thoroughly  one-quarter  as 
many  raisins,  and  turn  over  them  one  quart  boiling  water;  let 
them  steep  till  well  swollen,  then  add  the  apples  and  cook  till 
tender;  sugar  may  be  added  but  little  will  be  needed  unless 
apples  are  very  tart. — Battle  Creek. 

Stewed  Apples. — Take  one  dozen  tart  apples;  slice  them,  re- 
moving cores  and  seed  ;  have  a  spoon  of  bacon  drippings  in  hot 
skillet.  Put  apples  in  with  half  teacup  water;  cover  them  and 
they  will  be  tender  in  a  few  minutes;  add  sugar  before  taking 
up,  and  serve  for  breakfast,  as  you  would  fried  apples. 

Baked  Pears. — Pare  them,  cut  in  halves,  put  sugar  on  them, 
add  a  little  water  and  let  them  bake  till  perfectly  tender. 

Spiced  Apples. — Make  a  rich  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  two 
parts  sugar  to  one  part  water  ;  have  the  apples  peeled  and  cut 
into  fourths,  and  place  in  each  piece  of  apple  two  or  three 
whole  cloves.  When  the  syrup  is  boiling,  put  in  jnst  enough 
apples  to  cover  the  top,  and  cook  until  tender.    Remove  the 


216 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TEXXESSEE. 


apples  from  the  syrup  with  a  skimmer  to  keep  them  from  break- 
ing; repeat  this  until  all  the  apples  are  cooked,  then  pour  the 
remaining  syrup  over  them.    Serve  cold. — Mrs.  F.  R.  Bray. 

Apple  Compote. — Pare  the  apples,  cut  the  core  out,  leaving 
them  whole ;  make  a  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  pound  sugar 
to  one  pound  fruit ;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  fruit  and  let 
cook  until  clear,  but  remains  whole.  Remove  the  fruit  to  a 
glass  bowl,  and  dissolve  one-third  box  gelatine  in  half  teacup 
hot  water,  and  stir  briskly  into  the  syrup,  first  taking  off  the 
fire.  Then  strain  it  over  the  apples  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to 
cool.  When  cold  heap  whipped  cream  over  it.  Sliced  lemons 
may  be  added  to  the  syrup. 

Apple  Float. — To  one  quart  stewed  apples,  which  have  been 
run  through  a  sieve,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three  or 
four  eggs.  Beat  until  very  light.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  va- 
nilla.  Any  tart  apple  cooks  better  than  sweet  ones. 

Baked  Apples. — Wine  saps  are  excellent  pared,  cored  and 
baked  with  the  centers  filled  with  sugar  and  a  mixture  of 
chopped  raisins,  dates  or  chopped  nuts.  They  should  be  put 
into  a  shallow  earthen  dish,  with  water  sufficient  to  cover  the 
bottom,  and  baked  in  a  quick  oven,  basting  often  with  the 
syrup.  If  inclined  to  brown  too  quickly  cover  them  over  with 
a  granite  ware  pie  plate. — Battle  Creek. 

Apple  Compote. — Pare  eight  or  ten  tart  wine  sap  apples, 
remove  cores,  put  them  in  a  broad  shallow  pan,  with  hot  water 
to  cover  the  bottom;  cover  tightly  and  place  over  the  fire. 
The  steam  will  cook  them  tender  in  a  short  time.  Do  not  allow 
them  to  fall  to  pieces.  Make  a  syrup  by  dissolving  half  cup 
sugar  in  one  pint  hot  water  ;  add  three  teaspoons  juice  of 
canned  pine  apple  and  pour  over  apples  while  both  are  hot. — 
Battle  Creek. 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


217 


Caramel  Apples. — Put  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
with  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar  and  a  generous  dusting  of  cin- 
namon. When  hot,  throw  in  five  peeled  and  quartered  apples 
and  toss  and  stir  until  well  colored.  Cool,  arrange  on  a  serving 
dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  garnish  with  cubes  of  bright 
tinted  jelly  and  crystalized  mint  leaves. 

Mapled  Apples. — Core  and  pare  six  or  eight  quick  cooking 
tart  apples.  Let  simmer  in  a  cupful  each  of  maple  sugar  and 
water,  boiled  together  for  two  or  three  minutes,  until  -nearly 
tender,  turning  the  apples  often  to  avoid  breaking.  Set  the 
apples  in  an  enamelled  pan  and  press  into  them  chopped  al- 
monds, dredge  with  grated  maple  sugar  and  brown.  Serve 
warm  with  whipped  cream. 

Stewed  Crab  Apples. — Wash  well,  put  into  stew  kettle  with 
just  a  little  water,  and  stew  until  very  soft.  Rub  through  a 
colander  to  remove  skins  and  seeds.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

To  Prepare  Fresh  Pineapple. — Cut  the  pineapple  in  slices 
about  an  inch  thick.  Peel  each  one,  and  cut  the  fruit  in  small 
pieces,  rejecting  the  hard  center;  add  sugar  and  let  it  stand 
over  night,  or  several  hours  at  least  to  make  juice. 

Sugared  Figs. — Select  the  bag  figs,  wash  them  well,  and  put 
them  over  the  fire  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  Bring 
very  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  cook  at  a  simmer  for  about  two  hours, 
or  until  the  figs  are  very  tender.  Take  these  out,  add  one-half 
cupful  of  sugar  to  the  water  in  which  the  figs  were  cooked, 
and  let  this  boil  to  rather  thick  syrup.  Pour  it  over^the  figs'; 
and  put  where  they  will  become  ice  cold.  Just  before  serving 
heap  whipped  cream  upon  them. 

To  Serve  Grape  Fruit. — Cut  in  half ;  remove  the  seed ;  fill  in 
with  powdered  sugar;  add  a  number  of  maraschino  cherries 
and  pour  over  each  a  few  spoonfuls'  of  maraschino  cordial  off 
of  cherries. 


218 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


ICE  CREAM 
AND  FANCY  DESSERTS. 

"A  dainty  dish  to  set  before  the  king." — Mother  Goose. 

The  Best  Ice  Cream. — Sweeten  and  flavor  three  quarts  of 
rich  cream;  when  two  quarts  are  frozen  to  the  consistency  of 
mush,  add  the  third  quart  well  whipped. 

Ice  Cream. — Three  pints  cream,  one  pint  milk,  teaspoon  of 
vanilla;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff,  add  one  small  cup 
sugar,  and  beat  as  for  icing;  mix  with  ingredients  and  freeze. 
Flavor  with  sherry  wine.    Excellent. — Tested  by  Mrs.  Benton. 

Ice  Cream. — Half  gallon  milk,  one  pint  cream  (whipped), 
whites  five  eggs  and  yolks  of  two,  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar ; 
beat  yolks  well  and  add  the  sugar,  then  the  whites  and  beat 
well.  Have  the  milk  boiling;  add  some  of  the  boiling  milk  to 
the  eggs,  then  put  all  into  the  boiling  milk;  when  cool  enough 
begin  to  freeze  it,  adding  the  cream  after  it  begins  to  freeze. 
Flavor.— Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Ice  Cream. — Half  gallon  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  flour  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  milk;  whites  five 
eggs ;  well  beaten  yolks  of  three ;  put  on  one  quart  of  the  milk 
to  boil,  with  the  sugar  in  it,  stirring  till  dissolved.  Beat  the 
yolks  in  a  glass  tumbler,  with  a  fork,  then  add  them  to  the 
milk  as  soon  as  it  is  warm ;  when  the  milk  strikes  a  boil,  stir  in 
the  moistened  flour,  and  when  thickened  pour  into  a  bowl  over 
the  whites,  beating  rapidly.  Add  the  other  quart  of  milk  and 
set  bowl  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water  to  cool.  If  sherry  wine  is 
used  to  flavor,  it  should  not  be  added  till  it  begins  to  freeze. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


219 


When  you  order 
Ice  Cream  and  Sherbets, 
why  not  get  the  best? 
James  &  Nelson  make  the  best. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream  (Vanilla). — One-quarter  box  of 
Knox's  Sparkling  Gelatine,  half  a  cup  of  cold  milk,  one  quart 
of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vanilla  extract.  Soften  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  milk  five 
minutes  and  dissolve  in  the  quart  of  milk,  scalded;  add  the 
sugar  and  when  cold  strain  into  the  cream ;  add  the  vanilla,  and 
freeze.  Part  of  the  cream  may  be  whipped  and  added  to  the 
ice  cream  when  partly  frozen. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (Vanilla). — One-fourth  box  of  Knox's 
Sparkling  Gelatine,  two  quarts  of  milk,  three  yolks  of  eggs, 
three  cups  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  cream,  three  whites  of  eggs, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract.  Soften  the  gelatine  five 
minutes  in  a  little  of  the  cold  milk.  Sjcald  the  rest  of  the  milk 
and  cook  in  it  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  the  sugar,  until 
the  mixture  coats  the  spoon;  add  the  gelatine  and  the  cream 
and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve ;  when  cold,  add  the  extract  and 
begin  to  freeze ;  when  partly  frozen,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  When  frozen,  remove  the  dasher,  beat  thoroughly 
and  pack  closely  in  the  can  or  in  ice  cream  mold.  If  a  mold  be 
used,  fill  to  overflowing,  spread  a  piece  of  wrapping  paper  over 
the  cream  and  press  the  cover  down  tight  over  it.  Let  stand 
an  hour  or  more  packed  in  four  parts  of  ice  to  one  of  salt. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — For  each  quart  of  ice  cream,  melt  one 
or  two  ounces  of  chocolate  and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture ;  strain 
before  freezing.  Use  either  the  recipe  for  Philadelphia  or  Nea- 
politan ice  cream.    Americans  consider  the  formula  for  Phila- 


220 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


delphia  cream  suitable  for  fruit  ice  cream,  and  that  for 
Neapolitan  ice  cream  better  for  chocolate,  coffee  and  caramel 
ice  cream.   The  French  use  fruit  with  either. 

Vanilla  Cream. — Put  one  teacup  sugar  and  one  cup  flour,  but- 
ter size  of  walnut  in  a  bowl;  break  two  eggs  into  this  and  stir 
well ;  add  one  quart  boiling  milk  and  stir.  Return  to  vessel  and 
let  boil  till  it  has  a  bright  look ;  add  the  cold  milk  and  one  pint 
cream;  if  not  sweet  enough  to  taste  add  more  sugar.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. — Mrs.  John  H.  Freeman. 

Maraschino  Ice  Cream. — Half  gallon  very  thick  cream ;  three 
teacups  sugar,  one  big  bottle  maraschino  cherries,  quarter  pint 
Jamaica  rum;  put  sugar,  rum  and  cherry  juice  into  cream; 
chop  three-quarters  of  the  cherries  and  add  the  cream  ami 
freeze  hard;  serve  in  champagne  glasses. 

Marshmallow  Ice  Cream. — One  dozen  whites,  one  quart  milk, 
one  quart  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pound  marshmallows ; 
flavor  with  vanilla;  boil  milk,  add  eggs  beaten  with  sugar,  just 
before  taking  off.  Add  marshmallows  and  let  dissolve,  and 
the  dust  that  is  around  them  will  thicken  it.  Let  cool  and  add 
cream.   Freeze  and  pack.    Delightful. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Chocolate-Marshmallow  Ice  Cream. — Take  half  gallon  sweet 
cream,  one  pint  sugar,  three  ounces  chocolate,  grated,  half 
pound  marshmallows,  chopped  fine,  one  pint  new  milk ;  put  the 
pint  of  milk  into  double  boiler,  and  when  hot,  add  the  chocolate 
melted  with  half  the  sugar;  when  it  thickens,  take  off  and  let 
it  cool;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar;  the  cream  whipped  very 
stiff,  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  chop  marshmallows  fine,  and 
when  cream  begins  to  freeze  add  them  and  finish  freezing. 

Chocolate  Cream  (Without  Eggs). — Half  gallon  milk,  three 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  added  when  milk  begins  to 
boil.  In  using  cooked  custard  for  cream  it  is  more  convenient  to 
cook  only  one  quart  of  the  milk ;  then  add  to  the  balance  before 
it  cools. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Graves, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


221 


Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — One  cake  of  bitter  chocolate,  one  gal- 
lon of  cream.  Bring  cream  to  a  boil  and  thoroughly  mix  bitter 
chocolate  till  dissolved.  Add  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar. 
Let  cool  and  add  yolks  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten.  Season  with 
small  quantity  of  vanilla  extract.  The  above  recipe  was  ob- 
tained from  a  prominent  confectioner  in  one  of  the  large  cities, 
who  is  more  noted  for  his  delicious  chocolate  ice  creams  than 
any  one  in  the  city. 

Macaroon  Cream  Without  Whipped  Cream.-— One  large  pint 
of  milk.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil;  then  add  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one  teacup  of  sugar,  and  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  well 
creamed  together.  Stir  briskly  until  it  thickens;  when  partly 
cool  add  whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  When  cool  add  one  quart 
cream,  a  little  sherry  wine  or  vanilla,  and  one  or  two  dozen 
macaroons,  rolled  fine.    Freeze.— Mrs.  Tigrett. 

Orange  Cream. — Half  box  of  gelatine,  one  pint  of  cream,  one 
pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  five  oranges,  five  eggs  (yolks)  ; 
cover  the  gelatine  with  cold  water,  let  soak  half  hour ;  whip  the 
cream.  When  milk  boils  dissolve  gelatine  into  it ;  beat  eggs  and 
sugar  together  and  strain  milk  and  gelatine  into  them;  make 
the  boiler  clean  and  put  mixture  in  and  stir  over  fire  two 
minutes,  then  turn  out  to  cool.  When  cold  add  the  juice  of 
oranges  (after  straining).  Place  this  basin  in  pan  of  cracked 
ice  and  stir  constantly  till  it  thickens;  then  add  the  whipped 
cream;  stir  till  mixed  well. 

Spanish  Cream.— Half  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  half  pint 
water,  one  quart  fresh  milk,  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  two 
cups  sugar. — Mrs.  Ed.  Mercer. 

Coffee  Spanish  Cream. — One  and  one-half  cups  boiled  coffee, 
half  cup  milk,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  granu- 
lated gelatine;  heat  in  double  boiler  and  add  one-third  cup 
sugar,  salt,  and  three  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  together;  stir  and 
cook  until  slightly  thickened.  When  cooled  a  little  add  beaten 
whites  of  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. — Mrs.  Madison. 


222 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Czarina  Cream. — Soak  one-fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one- 
fourth  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  dis- 
solve by  placing  the  cup  in  hot  water.  To  one  pint  of  cream  add 
one  third  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  rose  water  and  the  gelatine.  Add  enough 
green  coloring  to  tinge  delicately.  When  the  cream  begins  to 
stiffen  add  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  finely  chopped  blanched 
almonds.  Place  in  a  mold  or  in  paper  cases,  and  stand  an  hour 
on  ice. 

Russian  Cream. — Quarter  box  of  Knox's  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
quarter  cup  of  cold  water,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
six  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Make  a  boiled 
custard  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  sugar  and  milk  and  add  the 
gelatine  softened  five  minutes  in  the  cold  water;  strain  and 
when  beginning  to  set  add  the  extract  and  fold  in  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  molded  serve  with 
sugared  fruit. 

Pineapple  Velvet  Cream. — Cover  half  box  of  gelatine  with 
cold  water;  let  soak  one-half  hour;  put  a  pint  of  grated  pine- 
apple and  one  cup  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan  and  let  it  simmer; 
add  the  gelatine  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved ;  take  up,  turn  into 
a  pan,  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  mix  in  carefully 
a  pint  of  whipped  cream;  pour  in  mold  and  set  on  ice  to 
harden. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Cherry  Ice  Cream. — Take  three  pints  cream  (not  whipped), 
one  quart  of  canned  cherries,  one  pint  milk.  Put  cherries  and 
cream  in  the  freezer  with  very  little  sugar,  the  cherries  being 
almost  sweet  enough.  Use  almost  as  much  salt  as  ice  in  freez- 
ing; mash  the  ice  on  a  tow  sack,  and  have  ice  thoroughly 
mixed  with  salt  before  beginning  to  pack  in  the  freezer. — Mrs. 
J.  F.  Snider. 

Tutti  Frutti  Cream. — One  gallon  milk,  boil  with  two  ounces 
arrowroot,  made  into  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Take 
from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  and  add  three  and  one- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


223 


FIRST 
NATIONAL 
BANK 


New  Southern 


OF 


JACKSON,  TENN. 


Jackson,  Tenn. 


half  cnps  white  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  freeze.  After 
it  begins  freezing  add  one  ponnd  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped, 
one  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped,  one-quarter  pound 
citron,  cut  in  small  pieces,  one-quarter  pound  peach  or  straw- 
berry preserves  or  crystallized  fruits. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Shelton. 

Tutti  Frutti  Cream. — One  gallon  of  rich  cream  whipped  and 
sweetened  to  taste  and  flavored  with  vanilla  and  a  small  wine 
glass  of  rum ;  if  desired  use  pink  fruit  coloring,  freeze  until  half 
frozen,  add  one  pound  of  raisins  seeded  and  cut  up,  one  pound 
of  dates  seeded  and  cut  up,  one  pound  of  figs  cut  small,  a  small 
quantity  of  blanched  almonds  cut  small,  stir  well  and  finish 
freezing.    This  quantity  makes  very  little  more  than  a  gallon. 

Tutti  Frutti  Cream. — No,  2. — One  quart  of  milk  thickened 
with  one  ounce  of  arrow  root ;  when  cool  add  one  quart  of  rich 
cream  and  two  cups  of  sugar  (scant)  ;  flavor  and  freeze.  When 
it  begins  to  freeze  add  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped  fine,  one-half  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped 
fine,  one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  and  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  French  candied  cherries.  Weigh  almonds 
after  hulling. 

Prauline  Ice  Cream. — Take  three  cups  genuine  maple  sugar 
after  being  crushed ;  dissolve  in  one  cupful  hot  water ;  put  over 
the  fire,  and  when  scalding  hot  gradually  whip  into  it  the  yolks 
of  six  well  beaten  eggs;  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
it  coats  the  spoon ;  let  it  get  cold  and  add  one  and  one-half  cup- 


224 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


fills  chopped  pecans  or  English  walnut  meats;  whip  three 
quarts  of  sweet  cream ;  mix  all  and  freeze. 

Apricot  Cream. — One  quart  apricots,  one  quart  sweet  milk, 
one  quart  cream,  two  cups  sugar.  Scald  the  milk  and  melt  the 
sugar  in  it;  let  it  cool  before  freezing.  Rub  the  apricot  pulps 
through  a  sieve,  and  when  cream  is  partly  frozen  add  fruit  and 
freeze  as  usual. — Mrs.  M.  H.  Taylor. 

Lotus  Cream. — Half  gallon  sweet  milk,  four  lemons,  two  cups 
sugar.  Slice  lemons  (remove  seed)  and  let  stand  for  half  hour 
with  the  sugar  on  them  to  make  juice.  Pour  the  milk  in  freezer 
and  add  lemons  and  sugar.  A  delicious  cream. 
.  My  Favorite  Frozen  Dainty. — To  one  quart  of  strawberries 
add  one  cupful  of  sugar;  mash,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved press  the  juice  through  cheese  cloth.  Add  an  equal 
amount  of  cream,  and  more  sugar  if  needed.  Freeze  in  three 
parts  ice  and  one  part  rock  salt. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — Wash  and  hull  one  quart  of  berries, 
sprinkle  over  them  one  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  mash  to  a 
pulp  and  let  them  stand  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Press 
through  a  cheese  cloth  until  nothing  remains  but  the  seeds. 
Scald  one  quart  of  cream  and  cool  it,  then  when  ready  to  freeze 
stir  it  into  the  juice,  and  add  more  sugar  till  quite  sweet. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — Mash  one  quart  of  strawberries; 
add  to  them  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  let  stand  for  half  an 
hour.  Scald  a  pint  of  cream;  add  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  and 
when  cold  add  a  second  pint  of  cream ;  turn  the  mixture  in  the 
freezer ;  when  frozen  very  hard  add  the  quart  of  mashed  straw- 
berries. Turn  the  crank  again  until  the  whole  is  well  frozen. 
This  may  be  used  after  it  has  been  standing  for  one  hour. 
Always  repack  after  the  first  freezing,  using  less  salt  and  coarse 
ice. 

Grape  Sauce. — Boil  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water 
together  for  ten  minutes  until  they  form  a  thick  syrup ;  add  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


225 


juice  of  a  lemon,  and  when  cold  add  half  a  pint  of  grape  juice. 
Pack  in  ice  until  serving  time. 

Peach  Ice  Gream. — For  one  gallon  of  peach  cream  use  one 
quart  milk,  one  quart  cream,  half  gallon  ripe  peaches  run 
through  a  colander.  Put  peaches  in  freezer,  add  milk,  and 
cream  whipped,  but  not  stiff.  Sweeten  peaches  to  taste,  and 
remember  that  it  will  not  taste  quite  so  sweet  when  frozen. — 
Mrs.  J.  F.  Snider. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. — Mash  peaches  fine,  allow  one  pint  cream 
to  each  quart  of  peaches ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream. — Heat  one  pint  milk  to  boiling,  stirring 
in  one  cup  sugar,  two  -tablespoons  flour,  and  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  Have  one  cup  sugar  in  saucepan ;  set  where  it  will  melt 
and  watch  carefully  if  the  fire  is  very  hot.  When  the  sugar  is 
melted  and  browned  it  should  be  turned  into  the  custard  and 
mixed ;  cook  ten  minutes  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  add 
pinch  of  salt,  one  quart  thick  cream  and  freeze. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream. — Take  one  cup  white  sugar;  pour  over 
it  one  tablespoon  hot  water;  put  into  sauce  pan  over  the  fire; 
let  it  melt  and  slowly  brown  (not  burn)  until  it  looks  like  mo- 
lasses; add  half  cup  water,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  to  thin  it; 
set  off  to  cool.  Make  a  custard  of  half  gallon  new  milk,  two 
cups  sugar,  tAvo-thirds  cup  flour,  three  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
Put  the  milk  into  double  boiler,  and  when  hot  add  the  eggs, 
sugar  and  flour  beaten  together,  stirring  until  it  thickens  the 
consistency  of  cream ;  let  it  cool  and  add  the  brown  syrup ; 
have  three  pints  of  sweet  cream;  whip  it,  add  to  it  the  mix- 
ture, and  freeze. 

Caramel  Bisque  Ice  Cream. — Three  eggs,  one-third  of  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  a  few  grains  of  salt,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cupful  of  chopped  walnut  meats,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  one  cupful  of  heavy  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  slightly,  and  add  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  the  milk 
^nd  salt ;  then  cook  over  hot  water  until  the  mixture  thickens, 


226  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


then  strain.  Put  the  remaining  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar 
in  an  omelet  pan,  and  stir  constantly  over  the  hot  part  of  the 
range  until  melted  to  a  syrup  that  is  light  brown  in  color; 
then  add  the  walnut  meats,  and  turn  into  a  slightly  buttered 
pan.  Cool,  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  pass  through  a  puree- 
strainer.  Add  this  to  the  custard,  then  add  vanilla,  and  cream 
beaten  until  stiff.  Freeze,  using  three  parts  of  finely  crushed 
ice  to  one  part  of  rock  salt,  to  insure  a  smooth,  fine-grained 
cream. 

Bisque. — Make  one  pint  boiled  custard.  When  cold  add  to  it 
one  quart  sweetened  cream;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Brown  three 
dozen  macaroons  and  crush  them  fine;  stir  in  the  cream  and 
freeze. 

Bisque. — For  one  gallon  of  bisque,  roll  fine,  or  grind,  one 
pound  of  macaroons,  and  pour  over  them  one-half  pint  of 
sherry  wine.  Add  enough  cream  to  almost  fill  a  gallon  freezer. 
Sweeten  to  taste.  Always  remember  to  make  any  ice  sweeter 
than  you  want  it  to  be,  because  the  sugar  freezes  out.  If  it  is 
not  desirable  to  have  it  so  rich,  use  a  little  boiled  custard  in- 
stead of  all  cream. 

Bisque. — Make  half-gallon  rich  custard,  allowing  six  eggs  to 
each  quart ;  add  before  taking  from  the  fire  one  pound  almond 
macaroons ;  flavor  with  sherry  wine ;  when  cold  freeze.  If  wine 
flavoring  is  used  in  ice  cream,  do  not  put  it  in  until  the  cream 
begins  to  freeze. 

Frozen  Peaches. — Boil  together  for  five  minutes  a  cupful 
each  of  sugar  and  water  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  Pare  and 
halve  some  peaches,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  sufficient  to  make 
a  quart  of  pulp,  add  the  syrup  and  a  few  drops  of  saffron  to 
give  a  faint  yellow  tinge.  Flavor  with  almond  essence  or  va- 
nilla, according  to  preference.  Freeze  as  ice  cream.  Serve  in 
sherbet  glasses. — Tested  by  Mrs.  F.  R.  Bray. 

Rum  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. — Pour  two  tablespoons  of  best  Ja- 
maica rum  over  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  very  slowly, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


227 


GRAND  PRIZE 

(The  highest  honor) 

Awarded  to 


Flavoring 

Extracts 

At  the 

ST.  LOUIS 
EXPOSITION. 

For  sale  by  all  representative  grocers 

beating  hard  all  the  time ;  add  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg.  Serve  at  once.— Tennessee  Cook 
Book. 

Pistachio  Sauce. — One  cupful  thick  cream,  one-third  cup 
sugar,  with  pistachio  flavoring  whipped  solid  through;  blanch 
and  chop  half  cup  pistachio  nuts ;  serve  ice  cream  in  sherbet 
cup,  with  sauce  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  nuts.  The  whipped 
cream  may  be  tinted  a  delicate  green. — Mrs.  Heibick. 

Chocolate  Sundays. — Take  two  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk;  let  all  cook  till  thick,  as 
for  icing,  in  a  double  boiler,  and  keep  it  in  tepid  water  until 
ready  to  serve ;  as  you  serve  each  plate  of  cream  pour  over  it  a 
tablespoon  of  the  chocolate ;  serve  with  vanilla  cream. 

Chocolate  Sauce. — For  the  sauce  melt  one  ounce  Baker's 
chocolate  in  half  cup  hot  water,  add  one  cup  sugar,  and  when  it 


228 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


boils  pour  over  it  half  cup  whipped  cream  or  plain  cream. 
Serve  at  once.  Put  the  sauce  around  the  cream  and  not  over  it. 

Sherry  Ice  Cream. — Make  plain  ice  cream  and  add  sherry  to 
taste  when  it  has  begun  to  freeze. 

Strawberry  Sauce  for  Cream. — Boil  one  cupful  strawberry 
juice  with  one  cup  sugar;  cool  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice.    Serve  ice  cold. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Syrup. — One  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar 
to  each  pint  of  juice.  Add  some  peel,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  then 
strain  and  cook.  It  makes  a  fine  beverage,  and  is  useful  for 
flavoring  pies  and  puddings. 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce. — One  tablespoonful  butter  melted;  one 
and  one-half  squares  chocolate ;  when  melted  together  add  one 
cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  boiling  water,  salt.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  Serve  with  ice  cream. — Mrs. 
Madison. 

Sherbet. — Make  one  quart  lemonade  with  three  lemons; 
when  nearly  frozen  add  one  pint  of  cream  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

A  Good  Sherbet. — Twelve  oranges,  twelve  lemons,  one  pine- 
apple, grated,  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  two  gal- 
lons of  water,  one  quart  of  sugar.  Boil  water  and  sugar  to- 
gether, taking  off  scum.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Squeeze  the  juice 
from  the  oranges  and  lemons  and  grate  the  rind  of  four  lemons 
and  two  oranges  and  put  in  the  juice.  Then  add  this  to  the 
boiled  syrup.  Last  of  all  put  in  the  stifly  beaten  whites.  It  is 
now  ready  to  freeze. 

Sherbets. — One  teaspoonful  of  Knox's  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
one-quarter  cup  of  cold  water,  one  quart  water,  one  pint  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  orange,  grape,  pineapple,  peach  or  straw- 
berry juice,  one-quarter  cup  of  lemon  juice.  For  lemon  sherbet, 
one  cup  of  lemon  juice.  Soften  the  gelatine  in  the  fourth  of  a 
cup  of  cold  water  five  minutes  and  add  to  the  quart  of  water 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


229 


and  pint  of  sugar  after  boiling  together  twenty  minutes ;  strain 
and  when  cold  add  the  fruit  juice  and  freeze. 

Milk  Sherbet  (Lemon). — One  teaspoonful  of  Knox's  Sparkl- 
ing Gelatine,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
juice  of  four  lemons.  Soften  the  gelatine  five  minutes  in  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  dissolve  over  hot  water  and  strain  into  the  rest 
of  the  milk;  turn  the  milk  into  the  can  of  the  freezer  packed 
for  freezing — and  when  thoroughly  chilled  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  sugar  stirred  together.   Freeze  as  usual. 

Milk  Sherbet. — Juice  of  seven  lemons,  strain  and  add  two 
cups  sugar.  Let  stand  one  hour.  Put  into  freezer  half  gallon 
milk  and  half  cup  sugar;  when  this  begins  to  freeze  add  lemon 
syrup. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — Two  quarts  water,  four  large  lemons,  one 
and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs ;  beat  some  of  the 
sugar  with  the  whites  of  eggs  and  mix  with  the  lemonade 
when  it  begins  to  freeze.  One  quart  of  milk  may  be  added, 
and  if  so,  add  extra  cup  sugar;  one  can  of  pineapple  is  an  im- 
provement. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — Five  lemons,  three  cups  of  sugar,  half  gal- 
lon sweet  milk,  one  pint  of  cream,  four  eggs  (whites).  Squeeze 
juice  out  of  lemons  and  put  rinds  with  juice.  Boil  sugar  as  for 
icing  and  pour  over  the  juice  of  lemons.  Let  stand  until  cool. 
Boil  sweet  milk  and  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  sifted 
flour  just  before  taking  off;  let  this  cool;  then  pour  milk  into 
freezer ;  then  the  juice ;  then  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and 
then  the  cream. 

Frozen  Mint. — Juice  six  lemons,  one  large  orange,  one  quart 
water,  two  cups  sugar,  add  essence  of  peppermint  or  fresh  mint, 
stir  and  freeze.  Nice  as  a  last  course  after  coffee. 

Mint  Ice. — Boil  together  one  gallon  of  water  and  seven  cups 
of  sugar ;  wash  thoroughly  a  bunch  of  fresh  mint  and  put  into 
the  boiling  water  and  let  remain  until  it  colors  the  water,  then 
remove  mint  from  water.    Set  aside  to  cool.    Add  the  juice' of 


230 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


ten  large  juicy  lemons.  Strain  and  freeze.  This  will  serve 
twenty-five  or  thirty  people,  using  small  sherbet  glasses. — Mrs. 
W.  E.  Dunaway. 

Mint  Sherbet. — Make  a  quart  of  lemon  ice.  Color  green  with 
the  leaf  green  coloring.  Just  before  it  begins  to  freeze  add 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  extract  of  mint. — Mrs.  W.  S.Keller. 

Grape  Sherbet. — Lay  a  square  of  cheese  cloth  over  a  large 
bowl;  drop  in  two  pounds  of  ripe  Concord  grapes  and  mash 
with  a  wooden  masher;  after  squeezing  out  all  the  juice,  add 
an  equal  amount  of  water,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  a  pound  or 
more  of  sugar.  Freeze. 

Grape  Sherbet. — Boil  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of 
water  together  for  five  minutes;  strain  and  cool.  When  cold, 
add  one  pint  of  unfermented  grape  juice  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  lemon  juice.  Turn  the  mixture  into  the  freezer  and  stir 
slowly  until  frozen.  Remove  the  dasher  and  stir  in  a  meringue 
made  by  beating  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  adding 
one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar.  Repack  the  can  and 
stand  aside  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  All  sherbets  may  be  made 
after  this  recipe,  substituting  the  same  amount  of  other  fruit 
juices. 

Apple  Sherbet. — Cook  apples  before  running  them  through  a 
sieve ;  add  juice  of  two  lemons  to  a  quart  of  apples,  and  make 
same  as  peach  sherbet  below. 

Peach  Sherbet. — Take  two  quarts  water,  one  quart  sugar, 
one  quart  peaches  after  being  mashed,  and  the  beaten  whites 
three  eggs.  Boil  one  cup  sugar,  and  while  hot  pour  over  the 
beaten  eggs  and  let  cool;  mix  rest  of  sugar  and  water;  pour 
into  freezer,  and  when  it  begins  to  freeze  pour  in  the  peaches 
and  frosting  and  freeze. 

Peach  Sherbet. — Take  two  quarts  water,  one  quart  sugar, 
one  quart  peaches,  after  being  mashed,  beaten  whites  three 
eggs;  boil  one  cup  sugar,  and  while  hot  pour  over  beaten  eggs 
and  let  cool;  mix  rest  of  sugar  and  water;  pour  into  freezer 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


231 


Cumberland  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co. 


Long  Distance  Lines  and  Telephones  of  this  Company  enable  you  to  talk 
almost  anywhere  in  Southern  Indiana,  Southern  Illinois,  Kentucky,  Ten- 
nessee, Mississippi  and  Louisiana.  We  can  put  you  in  quick  and  satis- 
factory communication  with  the  people  of  this  great  section  of  the  country. 
We  solicit  your  patronage. 

Rates  reasonable.    Equipments  and  facilities  unsurpassed. 


and  when  it  begins  to  freeze  ponr  in  peaches  and  frosting  and 
freeze. 

Fruit  Sherbet. — Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  water,  cook  to 
syrup,  white  of  one  egg  beaten;  let  cool  and  stir  in  two  cups 
mashed  peaches,  strawberries  and  pineapple. 

Strawberry  Sherbet.- — Mash  well  one-half  gallon  of  straw- 
berries, sweeten  to  taste,  dissolve  one-half  cup  of  sugar  in  one 
quart  of  rich  cream,  then  whip  cream  well,  mix  with  berries 
and  freeze;  a  pint  of  cream  and  well  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs  may  be  used  when  cream  is  scarce. — Mrs.  Jesse  Nelson. 

Pineapple  Ice. — To  a  two  pound  can  pineapple  add  three 
quarts  water,  half  box  gelatine  (prepared  for  jelly),  juice  of 
two  oranges,  whites  four  eggs ;  remove  the  hard  pieces  of  pine- 
apple, then  pass  it  through  a  colander  by  beating  with  a  potato 
masher;  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

Pineapple  Water  Ice. — Add  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar 
to  one  quart  of  water.  Boil  rapidly  for  five  minutes ;  then  cool. 
When  cold  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  quart  of  grated 
pineapple.  Mix,  turn  into  the  freezer  and  freeze,  stirring  slow- 
ly. If  canned  or  preserved  pineapple  is  used  allow  only  one 
pound  of  sugar. — Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

Grape  Ice. — Take  two  and  one-half  pints  Welch's  grape  juice 
(bought  of  druggist),  two  and  one-half  pints  water,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  granulated  sugar,  and  just  before  freezing  add 


JAS.  E.  CALDWELL, 

Pres.  &  Gen.  Manager. 


T.  D.  WEBB, 

Treasurer. 


LELAND  HUME, 
Sec.  &  Ass't  Gen.  Mgr. 


232 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE, 


beaten  whites  three  eggs  with  three  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar  beaten  in  them,  and  freeze. 

Grenadine  Ice. — Lemonade  of  nine  lemons,  sweetened  to 
taste,  with  one  and  one-half  pints  claret  wine ;  freeze. 

Orange  Ice. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  one  dozen  good  sized 
oranges  and  one  lemon ;  the  juice  should  be  strained.  Add  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  water,  and  boil  five  minutes; 
skim  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool  add  the  orange  juice  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine,  that  has  been  soaked  and  dissolved. 
Turn  the  whole  into  the  freezer  and  freeze  until  it  is  pretty 
stiff.  Then  beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  light,  add  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  again.  Remove  the 
top  from  the  can  and  stir  this  into  the  sherbet ;  then  cover  and 
freeze  hard.  This  will  serve  one  dozen  people,  and  the  orange 
peels  make  pretty  cups  in  which  to  serve  it. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Heavenly  Hash. — Juice  of  three  lemons  and  three  oranges  and 
three  bananas  mashed  to  a  cream,  three  cups  sugar,  three  pints 
water;  when  this  is  nearty  frozen  stir  in  whites  of  three  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Freeze  very  hard.  This  fills  a  gallon  freezer. — 
Mrs.  R.  P.  Mahon. 

Biscuit  Tortoni. — Use  a  generous  gallon  of  whipped  cream, 
one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  of  water,  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  half  a  cupful  of  dried  and  powdered  macaroons,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  blanched  and  chopped  almonds,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sherry,  two  of  candied  cherries  and  one-eighth  of  a  tea- 
spoon of  almond  extract.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together 
for  twenty  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well,  and  stir 
them  into  the  hot  syrup.  Place  the  basin  which  contains  the 
syrup  and  eggs  in  another  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  five 
minutes,  beating  all  the  while.  When  done  set  away  to  cool. 
Put  the  powdered  macaroons  into  a  chopping  tray  with  the 
chopped  almonds;  add  the  cherries  and  chop  until  the  cherries 
are  very  fine;  if  chopped  alone  they  would  become  sticky  and 
cling  together.   Add  wine  and  almond  extract  to  cold  egg  pre- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


233 


paratian;  stir  mixture  gently  into  the  whipped  cream,  and 
sprinkle  in  the  chopped  fruit  and  macaroons.  Have  a  gallon 
mold  or  freezer  packed  in  salt  and  ice.  Turn  the  preparation 
into  it  ;  cover  and  add  more  salt  and  ice,  and  place  a  piece  of 
carpet  or  blanket  over  the  tub.  Set  away  for  from  four  to  six 
hours.  Serve  with  an  iced  sauce.  Use  about  five  pints  of  salt 
in  packing  and  ice  enough  to  pack  very  solidly.  The  mold  may 
be  lined  with  Roman  punch  or  sherbet  as  for  mousse.  In  that 
case  no  sauce  will  be  required. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Frozen  Strawberry  Souffle. — Cover  half  box  of  gelatine  with 
a  half  cup  of  cold  water  and  soak  a  half  hour,  then  add  half  cup 
boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved ;  mix  pint 
of  strawberry  juice  with  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar,  until 
they  form  a  syrup.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  to  a  cream;  add 
them  to  the  syrup;  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Whip  one 
quart  of  cream.  Strain  the  gelatine  into  the  syrup  and  eggs, 
turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze.  When  pretty  stiff,  stir  in  lightly 
the  cream.  Repack  and  let  stand  a  while.  This  will  serve 
fifteen  people,  and  is  perfectly  delicious. — Mrs.  Isaac  Tigrett, 

Mousse. —  One  quart  cream,  one  tablespoon  gelatine  dissolved 
in  cold  water,  then  put  on  the  fire  to  melt.  Sweeten  cream  and 
flavor ;  then  whip  stiff ;  add  gelatine  and  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs.  Pack  in  freezer  four  hours  or  longer  before  serving. 
Be  sure  to  have  the  thickest  cream  for  mousse. 

Maple  Mousse. — One  cup  maple  syrup,  one  pint  full  cream; 
whip  both  until  stiff,  put  in  mold  and  set  on  ice  until  cold; 
fine ;  serve  with  cherries  and  cream. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Lanham. 

Pineapple  Mousse. — One  cup  pineapple,  one  cup  sugar,  let 
boil;  then  add  two  tablespoons  gelatine,  let  cool;  one  pint  of 
cream,  whipped;  mix  together  and  put  in  mold;  stand  on  ice: 
slice  the  same  as  above. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Lanham. 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


234 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Pineapple  Mousse. — One  teaspoonfnl  of  Knox's  gelatine,  one 
pint  of  double  cream,  one  cup  of  scalded  pineapple  juice, 
three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Soften  the 
gelatine  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  five  minutes  and 
dissolve  in  the  hot  pineapple  juice ;  add  the  sugar  and  let  cool, 
then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  cream;  beat  the  mixture  with  an 
egg  beater  until  thick  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl ;  then  turn  into 
a  chilled  mold ;  press  the  cover  down  over  wrapping  paper  and 
let  stand  packed  in  equal  measures  of  ice  and  salt  three  or  four 
hours.  Turn  from  the  mold  and' surround  with  half  slices  of 
pineapple  sugared  or  dressed  with  a  cold  sugar  syrup.  By  dis- 
solving part  of  the  pink  color  in  the  hot  mixture  a  very  hand- 
some dish  for  a  "pink"  luncheon  is  made.  Other  fruit  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Maple  Mousse. — One  quart  cream,  one  cup  maple  syrup, 
quarter  pound  chopped  pecans;  freeze,  after  it  is  sweetened  to 
taste. — Mrs.  James  Pope. 

Cafe  Mousse. — One  pint  cream  whipped,  five  eggs;  stir  beaten 
whites  in  with  whipped  cream ;  beat  yolks  well  and  add  one  cup 
sugar  and  half  cup  strong  coffee,  beating  all  three  together. 
Stir  two  mixtures  together  and  pack  in  ice  for  three  hours. 

Chocolate  Mousse. — Whip  one  quart  cream  very  stiff  and 
sprinkle  over  it  two-thirds  cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  mix  care- 
fully ;  then  add  two  ounces  melted  chocolate ;  or  if  you  nse 
sweet  chocolate,  grate  and  sprinkle  into  the  cream;  add  a  tea- 
spoon vanilla;  pour  into  a  mold  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for 
three  honrs. 

Maple  Parfait. — Beat  one  cup  of  double  cream  and  one  cup 
of  cream  from  the  top  of  a  quart  bottle  of  milk  until  thick  to 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  and  set  aside  to  keep  chilled.  Boil  one 
cnp  of  maple  syrup  and  one-eighth  a  teaspoonfnl  of  cream  of 
tartar  until  reduced  a  little.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until 
thick.  Then  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them  in  a  fine  stream, 
beating  constantly  meanwhile.    Return  the  mixture  to  the  fire 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  235 


One  /(ovelti/i 

0.  JJ.  Lurtiss 

2£S/iorg  S'as/ii'on  ^'eegrns. 

"ftectdy-to-Wear" 

JJlumber, 

Store, 

Steam  &  Sas  fitter 

Joseph,  {Prop. 

S0£>  9?.  *&6erty  St.       ^acAson,  "Cenn. 

&oih  Phones  5/. 

and  let  cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened  a  little.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  beat  until  cold.  Then  add  to  it  a  little  of  the 
cream.  Cut  and  fold  the  two  together.  Add  a  little  more 
cream,  and  when  the  two  are  evenly  blended,  add  to  the  re- 
mainder of  the  cream.  Blend  the  two  without  breaking  down 
the  cream,  and  pour  into  a  quart  mold.  Spread  a  paper  over  the 
top;  press  the  cover  over  the  paper  and  pack  the  mold  in 
equal  measures  of  ice  and  salt.  Let  stand  about  three  hours. 
When  turned  from  the  mold,  sprinkle  with  sliced  pecan  nuts. — 
The  Boston  Cooking  School. 

Maple  Parfait. — Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  until  light ;  add 
two  cups  of  maple  syrup ;  place  the  mixture  over  a  slow  fire, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  eggs  have  thickened  enough  to 
make  a  thick  coating  on  the  spoon  (cook  about  fifteen  minutes), 
Turn  this  into  a  bowl  and  whip  until  cold.  It  will  then  be  very 
light.  Add  one  quart  of  cream  well  whipped,  stirring  lightly 
together.  Place  in  mold,  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  four  or  five 
hours.  Serve  either  with  or  without  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  I. 
B.  Tigrett. 

Snow  Pudding. — One  and  one-quarter  tablespoons  Knox's 
gelatine  in  one-quarter  cup  of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  fifteen 
minutes.  Then  pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  on  gelatine.  Stir 
in  one  cup  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  lemon  juice.  Put  it  aside 
till  it  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  very  stiff. 
Pour  in  jelly  very  slowly  on  stiff  whites  of  eggs.   Beat  till  stiff. 


236  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Cut  up  an  orange,  banana  or  other  fruit  and  pour  in  mold  till 
cold.  Custard:  Three  yolks  of  eggs.  Beat  well  with  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar;  scald  one  pint  milk.  Pour  slowly  on  egg 
and  sugar.  Let  it  boil  about  five  minutes.  Flavor  when  cool. — 
Miss  Pattie  Crook. 

Lemon  Sponge  or  Snow  Pudding. — Soak  half  box  Knox's 
Sparkling  Gelatine  in  three-quarters  pint  of  cold  water,  then 
dissolve  over  the  fire  with  the  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons  and 
six  ounces  sugar.  Boil  all  together  two  or  three  minutes; 
strain  and  let  it  remain  until  nearly  cold  and  beginning  to  set, 
then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  whisk  ten 
minutes,  when  it  becomes  the  consistency  of  sponge;  put  it 
lightly  into  a  glass  dish,  leaving  it  rough  in  appearance.  Serve 
with  a  thin  custard. 

Vanilla  Blanc  Mange. — Soak  one  ounce  gelatine  in  one  quart 
milk  one  hour;  add  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  cup  sugar; 
flavor  with  vanilla,  set  away  to  cool.  Best  made  over  night. 
Serve  with  cream. 

Custard  Blanc  Mange. — Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  milk, 
four  eggs,  one  teacup  sugar.  Stir  into  it,  while  boiling,  one-half 
box  of  gelatine  after  it  has  soaked  ten  minutes;  season  with 
vanilla,  and  pour  into  molds.   Eat  with  whipped  cream. 

Blanc  Mange. — Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  sweeten  to  the  taste. 
Dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  or  gelatine,  and  pour  it  into  the 
milk;  at  the  same  time  remove  the  milk  from  the  fire.  When 
nearly  cold  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  mold.  Set  it 
on  ice  to  harden. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. — In  one  pint  of  water  dissolve  one 
ounce  of  gelatine.  Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  four  ounces  of 
grated  chocolate,  and  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  together 
for  five  minutes ;  then  add  the  gelatine,  and  stirring  constantly 
boil  five  minutes  longer.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla, and  pour  into  a  mold.   To  be  eaten  with  sweet  cream. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


237 


Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. — Soak  half  box  Knox's  Sparkling- 
Gelatine  in  half  cnp  cold  water ;  boil  one  quart  sweet  milk  with 
one  cnp  sugar  and  fonr  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  and  a  little 
salt  five  minutes ;  then  add  gelatine  and  boil  five  minutes  more, 
stirring  constantly;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into  mold. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  G,ood. 

Blanc  Mange  with  Almonds.— Half  a  box  of  Knox's  Sparkl- 
ing gelatine,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  cream  or  milk,  half  a 
pound  of  almonds,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Soften  the  gelatine  in 
half  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream  five  minutes  and  dissolve  by  stand- 
ing in  hot  water.  Pound  the  almonds,  after  blanching,  with 
part  of  the  sugar;  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar  and  part  of  the 
cream.  When  they  have  stood  half  an  hour  or  more  press  them 
through  a  napkin.  Add  to  this  almond  milk,  the  dissolved  gela- 
tine and  the  rest  of  the  milk  or  cream  and  turn  into  a  mold. 
Serve  with  cream. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Half  box  gelatine  covered  with  water,  stir 
until  it  dissolves;  let  boil  until  half  boils  away;  strain  into  a 
custard  made  of  three  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  one 
scant  pint  of  milk.  Custard  must  be  nearly  cold  before  cooled 
gelatine  is  strained  into  it.  Sweeten  your  cream  before  whip- 
ping, and  drain  upon  a  sieve  after  whipping.  Mix  with  custard 
immediately  after  straining  gelatine  into  custard.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Two  pints  of  cream  will  do  for  this  amount  of  char- 
lotte.—Mrs.  I.  0.  Benton. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff ;  one- 
quarter  box  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  one 
pint  of  sugar  (reserve  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  whip  it 
with  the  eggs).  Use  one  quart  of  cream  beaten  very  stiff. 
When  gelatine  is  nearly  cold  and  begins  to  thicken,  whip  in 
the  cream — a  little  at  a  time.  Flavor  to  taste  with  sherry. — ■ 
Mrs.  Chas.  King. 

Charlotte  Russe.— One  quart  of  cream,  half  a  box  of  gelatine, 
half  cup  of  cold  water,  half  cup  boiling  water.   Put  the  gelatine 


238 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


to  soak  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  let  it  stand  half  hour,  then 
pour  on  the  boiling  water,  put  on  the  fire  and  stir  constantly 
until  dissolved  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Whip  your  cream,  flavor 
with  sherry  wine  and  sweeten  to  taste  and  add  to  gelatine 
when  cool.  Pour  it  in  a  slow  stream  on  your  whipped  cream, 
stirring  fast  all  the  time.  Do  not  beat  too  long  in  mixing,  give 
a  final  stir  and  pour  the  charlotte  in  your  glass  bowl  lined  with 
lady  fingers. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Parker. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Soak  one-quarter  box  Knox's  Sparkling 
Gelatine  in  half  cup  milk  twenty  minutes;  when  dissolved  set 
cup  in  hot  water,  using  gelatine,  lukewarm ;  into  one  pint  whip- 
ped cream  add  half  cup  pulverized  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  then  add 
gelatine  and  strain  while  pouring  in;  stir  until  gelatine  is  well 
mixed  with  the  cream,  and  when  nearly  stiff  enough  to  drop, 
turn  into  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers  or  narrow  slices  of  sponge 
cake,  having  cake  even  on  top,  first  dipping  cake  in  white  of 
egg.  One  tablespoonful  of  wine  may  be  added  to  cream.  Very 
fine. 

Pineapple  Charlotte. — Use  any  recipe  for  Charlotte  Russe. 
Place  the  bowl  on  ice  and  just  as  the  charlotte  begins  to  get 
stiff,  beat  into  it  the  juice  from  one  can  of  pineapple.  This  is 
very  delightful,  and  is  a  nice  way  to  use  the  juice  when  making 
a  pineapple  filling  for  cake. 

Orange  Charlotte. — Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-third 
of  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  one  cup  of  orange  juice.  When  it 
begins  to  thicken  beat  with  a  whisk  until  it  froths,  then  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  two  cups 
of  whipped  cream ;  line  the  mold  with  orange  cut  in  thin  slices, 
pour  in  the  mixture  and  chill. 

Angel  Charlotte  Russe. — This  recipe  was  declared  the  best  of 
the  thousands  submitted  in  the  contest  of  1904.  The  author 
was  awarded  a  prize  of  a  $1,000  grand  piano.    One  tablespoon 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


239 


Knox's  gelatine,  quarter  cup  cold  water,  quarter  cup  boiling- 
water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  heavy  cream,  half  dozen  rolled 
stale  macaroons,  one  dozen  marshmallows,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
two  tablespoons  chopped  candied  cherries,  vanilla  or  sherry, 
quarter  pound  blanched  and  chopped  almonds.  Soak  gelatine 
in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  and  add  sugar.  When 
mixture  is  cold,  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff,  almonds,  maca- 
roons, marshmallows  and  candied  cherries.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  sherry.  Turn  into  a  mold  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  chill.   Remove  from  mold  and  serve  with  angel  cake. 

Maraschino  Velvet.— One  quart  of  hot  milk,  three  table- 
spoons of  arrowroot  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar ; 
when  well  cooked  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs, 
pinch  of  salt;  line  bottom  of  border  mold  with  maraschino 
•merries ;  pour  in  the  cream ;  set  on  ice ;  unmold ;  fill  the  center 
with  red  wine  jelly;  serve  with  cream. 

Orange  Cream. — Soak  one-quarter  box  of  gelatine  in  quarter 
cup  of  cold  water  half  an  hour ;  then  dissolve  it  in  half  cup  of 
boiling  water ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon ;  strain 
it  and  add  one  cup  of  orange  juice  and  pulp.  Set  this 
in  ice  water  to  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff, 
and  when  the  jelly  begins  to  stiffen  beat  it  light,  then 
add  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  together.  Put  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden.  Serve  with  custard  sauce,  using  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
pint  of  milk;  cook  it  over  hot  water  till  creamy  and  smooth. 
Strain  and  when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Float. — To  a  common  sized  bowl  of  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  wine,  take  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  three  large 
tablespoons  of  dark  fruit  jelly.— Tested  by  Mrs.  Benton. 

Pineapple  Souffle.— Cover  half  box  of  gelatine  with  cold 
water,  and  when  dissolved  place  on  the  fire  till  it  is  a  liquid; 
add  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  the  .juice  of 


240 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


one  lemon  and  one  can  of  grated  pineapple ;  place  in  ice  until 
cold  and  firm.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Souffle. — Soak  one  ounce  gelatine  in  cup  cold  water 
one  hour;  then  pour  juice  from  one  can  pineapple,  one  cup 
sugar,  juice  of  one  orange ;  put  on  stove  and  let  come  to  boiling- 
point,  then  set  off  and  when  cool  add  minced  pineapple;  whip 
one  pint  cream  and  fold  into  mixture ;  j)Our  into  a  mold  and  set 
in  ice  box.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  and  surround  with 
grated  pineapple.   Use  cherries  on  top. 

Orange  Cups. — An  orange  for  each  person,  cut  off  the  top, 
lay  aside  to  use  again;  scoop  out  all  the  pulp,  and  take  equal 
parts  grated  pineapple,  grape  fruit,  malaga  grapes  (seeded  and 
cut)  ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour  over  all  a  little  sherry  wine 
or  maraschino.  Refill  oranges,  put  on  top  of  each  and  keep  on 
ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Place  on  very  small  plates  and  gar- 
nish with  a  wreath  of  smilax.  A  first  course  for  breakfast. — 
Mrs.  Reese  Lillard. 

Orange  Baskets. — Select  pretty  oranges,  cut  them  in  basket 
shapes,  leaving  the  handle  and  tie  each  with  narrow  ribbon; 
fill  them  with  mixed  orange,  pineapple  and  malaga  grapes; 
sweeten  to  taste  and  add  a  teaspoon  sherry  to  each  basket. 
Serve  on  a  fancy  plate ;  garnish  with  smilax,  with  a  small  spoon 
on  each  plate. 

Orange  Jelly. — Take  as  many  oranges  as  people;  cut  off  tops 
of  oranges  and  remove  all  pulp.  Take  half  box  of  gelatine 
soaked  in  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water;  one  cup  of  boiling  water; 
the  juice  of  one  lemon;  one  cup  of  sugar;  two  cups  of  orange 
juice.  Put  the  water  and  sugar  over  the  fire;  when  sugar  is 
dissolved  add  the  gelatine,  remove  and  add  the  lemon  and 
orange ;  strain  the  whole  and  put  in  orange  skins. 

Boiled  Custard. — Put  on  one  pint  of  milk  to  boil,  add  pinch 
of  salt,  tiny  lump  butter ;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  very  light 
with  one  cup  sugar ;  dissolve  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  or  flour 
in  a  little  cold  milk.    When  milk  comes  to  boiling  point  add 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


241 


TRY 

L.  L.  Brannum's 


BELLE  MEADE  MARKET 


Both  Phones  18 


Ice  Cream  and 


Fresh  Meats,  Game  and 
Poultry 


Sherbets. 


BEST  BY  TEST 


Vegetables,  Oysters  and  Fish 
in  Season 


203  East  Main  Street. 


Both  Phones  34. 


214  East  Main  Street 


cornstarch.  After  the  cornstarch  cooks  stir  some  of  the  hot 
milk  into  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Put  back  in  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  thick;  add  the  whites  beaten  stiff,  or  pour  over 
whites.  Good  without  whites  and  nice  way  to  use  the  yolks0 
Serve  with  cake.   Good  with  any  kind  of  fruit  in  it. 

Boiled  Custard.— One  quart  milk,  seven  eggs,  one  cup  sugar; 
beat  eggs  and  sugar,  reserving  four  whites  for  meringue ;  pour 
the  scalding  milk  upon  the  eggs  and  sugar,  and  return  it  to  the 
fire,  stirring  constantly  till  it  thickens;  flavor  with  lemon. 
Beat  the  four  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  enough  fruit  jelly 
to  color,  which  will  sweeten  it  also.  Serve  in  glasses  with 
meringue  on  top. 

Boiled  Custard— One  quart  milk,  five  eggs,  five  tablespoons 
sugar ;  put  the  milk  and  sugar  on  to  boil ;  pour  the  boiling  milk 
on  to  the  well  beaten  yolks  and  if  not  thick  enough  return  to 
the  fire,  stirring  constantly.  Strain  and  set  aside  to  cool  and 
flavor.  Just  before  serving,  whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  add  any  kind  of  fruit  jelly  to  color  it;  this  will  also 
sweeten  it.  For  half  gallon  of  custard  use  seven  yolks  and 
three  whites,  reserving  four  whites  to  froth  for  the  top.  Makes 
a  pretty  dessert.  Have  ready  small  squares  of  bread  toasted, 
place  them  in  the  bowl  and  pour  custard  on  just  before 
serving. 

Almond  Custard.— Take  one  quart  boiled  custard,  add  to  it 
half  teacup  of  powdered  almonds  and  a  tablespoon  of  minced 


242 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


citron  -  set  on  ice  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Reese 
Lillard. 

Caramel  Custard  (frozen). — Make  a  rich  custard,  allowing 
one  cup  brown  sugar  to  each  quart.  Stew  the  sugar  till  it 
burns  a  little.  Then  mix  it  with  the  custard  while  hot.  Boil 
two  sticks  of  cinnamon  in  the  custard. 

Caramel  Custard. — One  quart  of  milk  in  double  boiler ;  brown 
half  cup  sugar  in  saucepan,  then  pour  half  cup  boiling  water 
over  it,  after  it  browns.  Let  it  boil  up  nicely  and  brown. 
Beat  yolks  three  eggs;  add  half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  and  beaten  whites.  Pour  caramel  syrup  into  this,  and 
when  milk  is  scalding  hot,  gradually  add  this  to  milk,  stirring 
until  it  thickens.  Do  not  flavor;  when  perfectly  cold  serve  in 
custard  glasses  with  whipped  cream  on  top. — Mrs.  Reese  Lil- 
lard. 

Pineapple  Jelly. — Soak  one  box  gelatine  in  half  pint  cold 
water,  set  on  top  of  stove  in  double  boiler  to  dissolve;  when 
gelatine  is  cold  and  beginning  to  set,  beat  into  it  pineapple 
juice  and  pineapple,  and  place  on  ice  to  harden.  Be  sure  you 
follow  the  above,  for  if  you  mix  pineapple  and  its  syrup  with 
the  gelatine  when  you  first  make  it,  the  acid  in  it  will  digest 
the  gelatine  so  it  will  not  harden. 

Lemon  Jelly. — Soak  one  box  Knox's  gelatine  in  one  pint  cold 
water,  two  minutes;  add  two  pints  boiling  water,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  and  stir  until  dissolved;  add  juice  of  three 
lemons,  strain  through  jelly  bag  into  molds. 

Wine  Jelly. — Soak  one  box  Knox's  gelatine  in  half  pint  cold 
water,  two  minutes ;  add  one  quart  boiling  water,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  and  stir  until  dissolved ;  add  half  pint  wine  and 
juice  of  two  lemons;  strain  and  pour  into  mold. 

Fancy  Jelly. — Make  lemon  or  wine  jelly  ;  after  dissolving  the 
white  gelatine  take  from  it  as  much  as  you  wish  to  color  and 
dissolve  the  pink  color  with  this  in  proportion  to  the  color 
wanted ;  pour  this  in  mold  first  and  let  harden,  then  balance  of 


HOAV  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


243 


white ;  or  you  can  lay  in  alternate  layers  by  letting  each  layer 
harden  before  pouring  in  the  next;  or  you  can  make  jelly 
colored  and  cut  into  cubes  for  garnishing  dishes.  A  little  pa- 
tience with  the  first  box  and  you  will  make  handsome  jellies. 

Orange  Jelly. — Soak  one-half  box  Knox's  gelatine  in  half  cup 
cold  water,  until  soft;  add  one  cup  boiling  water,  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  and  one  pint  orange  juice ;  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  and  strain. 

To  Make  Jelly  From  Feet.— Boil  four  calf's  feet,  that  have 
been  nicely  cleaned  and  the  hoofs  taken  off ;  when  the  feet  are 
boiled  to  pieces,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  colander,  and  when 
cold  take  all  the  grease  off  and  put  the  jelly  in  a  kettle,  leaving 
the  dregs  which  will  be  at  the  bottom.  There  should  be  from 
four  feet,  about  two  quarts  of  jelly;  pour  into  it  one  quart  of 
white  wine,  the  juice  of  six  fresh  lemons  strained  from  the 
seeds,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  a  little 
pounded  cinnamon  and  mace,  and  the  rind  thinly  pared  from 
two  of  the  lemons;  wash  eight  eggs  very  clean,  whip  up  the 
whites  to  a  froth,  crush  the  shells  and  put  with  them,  mix  it 
with  the  jelly,  set  it  on  the  fire,  stir  it  occasionally  till  the  jelly 
is  melted,  but  do  not  touch  it  afterwards.  When  it  has  boiled 
till  it  looks  quite  clear  on  one  side,  and  the  dross  accumulates 
on  the  other,  take  off  carefully  the  thickest  part  of  the  dross, 
and  pour  the  jelly  in  the  bag;  put  what  runs  through,  until  it 
comes  quite  transparent — then  set  a  pitcher  under  the  bag,  and 
put  a  cover  all  over  to  keep  out  the  dust ;  the  jelly  looks  much 
prettier  when  it  is  broken  up  to  fill  the  glasses.  The  bag  should 
be  made  of  cotton  or  linen,  and  be  suspended  in  a  frame  made 
for  the  purpose.  The  feet  of  hogs  make  the  palest  colored  jelly, 
those  of  sheep  are  a  beautiful  amber  color  when  prepared. — 
Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Whipped  Cream  Dessert. — For  a  simple  dessert  which  may 
be  arranged  in  a  large  dish,  or  in  individual  dishes  or  cups, 
take  stale  sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers  (stale  ones),  place  in 


244 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


the  bottom  of  a  dish  and  moisten  with  sherry.  Then  put  on  a 
spoonful  of  strawberry  or  raspberry  jam;  on  this  heap  the 
whipped  cream,  flavored  just  a  little  with  vanilla  or  almond. 
Set  on  ice  to  chill. 

Syllabub. — Two  pints  cream  whipped ;  whites  five  eggs  beaten 
stiff;  add  one  cup  sugar  to  them  and  mix  with  cream;  pour 
half  pint  wine  into  it.    Serve  in  small  custard  glasses. 

Cranberry  Marmalade. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  cranber- 
ries, half  pound  of  English  walnuts,  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil 
together  until  very  thick  and  pour  in  a  mold.  When  cold 
slice  down  in  thin  slices  and  serve. 

Pineapple  Foam. — Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  very  light ;  whip 
one  large  cupful  of  cream;  add  the  whites;  stir  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  last  stir  slightly  in  a  can  of 
grated  pineapple.    Chill  and  serve  in  glass  cups. 

The  Magic  Nest. — The  rinds  of  two  oranges  cut  in  small 
strips  like  matches.  These  are  then  dipped  into  a  thick  sirup 
made  of  white  sugar;  these  are  then  laid  in  a  dish  to  harden. 
Then  make  a  bowl  of  blanc  mange  (made  after  the  recipe  to  be 
found  in  any  good  cook  book)  ;  this  is  then  poured  in  the  shells 
of  six  eggs,  which  were  only  chipped  at  one  end  when  the  con- 
tents were  used.  They  are  then  set  on  ice  to  harden.  When 
ready  for  use  the  shells  are  broken  off.  Put  on  a  dish  and 
build  a  nest  of  the  candied  orange  peel,  and  into  the  nest  put 
the  eggs  of  blanc  mange.  The  effect  will  be  found  most  at- 
tractive.— Mrs.  S.  A.  Howard. 

Heavenly  Hash. — Take  as  many  oranges  as  covers  for  the 
table;  cut  off  the  tops  carefully  and  scoop  out  the  meat.  To 
one  quart  of  orange  (clipped  carefully)  the  same  quantity  each 
of  nice  figs,  dates,  raisins  and  citron  (all  clipped  carefully), 
and  the  strained  juice  of  one  or  two  lemons.  It  must  have  a 
little  acid  taste.  Then  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  to  taste.  Then 
pour  one  pint  sherry  over  it,  to  taste.  Put  in  a  china  bowl  and 
cover  closely  to  stand  over  night.    Fill  the  orange  cups  care- 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


245 


Jackson  Produce  Go.  Buys  Old  Feather  Beds. 


fully  and  cover  with  a  very  stiff  icing.  Keep  the  orange  cups 
in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  Emma  Buford. 

Stuffed  Bananas. — Cut  half  an  inch  from  both  ends  of  ba- 
nana; remove  one  section  of  the  skin  and  take  out  the  fruit, 
using  only  a  part  of  it.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  mix  with  it 
grated  pineapple,  orange  pulp,  malaga  grapes  (cut  and  seeded) 
and  brandy  cherries  in  equal  parts.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
over  all;  a  little  maraschina  and  sherry  wine;  refill  the  cases 
and  cover  with  whipped  cream.  This  is  a  course  for  a 
luncheon. 

Ambrosia. — Eight  or  twelve  oranges  peeled  and  sliced,  one 
cocoanut,  one  pineapple  sliced;  alternate  layers  of  each,  with 
sugar  sprinkled  on ;  have  the  top  of  cocoanut. 

Orange  Butter. — Juice  three  large  oranges,  grated  rind  one 
orange,  one  cupful  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  whites  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Beat  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  to- 
gether, until  thick;  then  put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  double 
boiler  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  as  thick  as  honey. 
Turn  out  and  use  when  cold.  This  will  keep  for  several  weeks 
in  a  cool  place. — Tested  by  Mrs.  F.  R.  Bray. 

Maple  Souffle.— Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  three 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  when  frothy,  also,  gradually, 
one  cup  of  thin  maple  syrup.  When  the  mixture  boils  remove 
from  the  fire  and  slowly  pour  over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes  or  until 
well  puffed  up  and  firm  to.  the  touch. 

Maple  and  Macaroon  Souffle.— Pound  one  and  one-half  cup- 
fuls  of  macaroons ;  measure  after  pounding.  Add  one  cupful  of 
scalding  cream ;  when  cool  stir  in  one  cupful  of  maple  syrup,  a 
few  grains  of  salt  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten; 
mix  thoroughly,  then  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until 


246 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


dry.  Pour  into  small  molds  buttered  and  sugared,  having  the 
molds  about  three-quarters  full.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  serve  immediately. 

Maple  Tapioca. — Mix  together  four  tablespoonfuls  of  quick- 
cooking  tapioca  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal  and 
sprinkle  into  a  quart  of  scalded  milk.  Stir  and  cook  until  the 
tapioca  becomes  transparent.  Add  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  maple 
syrup,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish.  Pour  over  the  top 
a  cupful  of  thin  cream,  set  into  the  oven  without  stirring  and 
bake  about  an  hour.    Serve  with  grated  maple  sugar. 


J.  A.  Thompson  &  Co. 


Sole  Agents  for 


115  East  La  Fayette  Street, 
Tel.  No.  30. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


247 


BEVERAGES. 

Here's  to  a  temperance  supper, 

With  water  and  lemonade, 
And  nice  black  coffee  to  end  with, 

And  this  is  how  it  is  made. 

When  one  buys  good  coffee  properly  browned  and  ground, 
and  then  the  infusion  is  not  satisfactory,  in  nine  out  of  ten 
cases  the  coffee  has  been  boiled  too  long,  or  the  water  has  not 
been  freshly  boiled  when  poured  over  the  coffee,  or  the  water 
may  have  been  lukewarm.  It  is  better  to  start  with  perfectly 
cold  water  than  with  water  not  boiling-hot.  If  coffee  is  made  in 
the  old-fashioned  tin,  by  courtesy  called  a  "coffee-pot,"  it 
should  be  mixed  first  with  cold  water,  then  covered  with  boiling 
water  and  brought  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  As  soon  as  it 
actually  boils  stand  it  aside  for  a  moment  to  settle,  and  drain 
it  off  into  another  pot.  A  five  minutes'  rest  on  the  grounds 
will  ruin  the  best  decoction  ever  made.  If  coffee  is  made  after 
the  French  fashion,  by  percolation,  the  water  must  be  freshly 
boiled,  the  coffee  finely  ground,  and  it  must  be  used  as  soon 
as  made. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Coffee  for  100. — Take  five  pounds  roasted  coffee,  grind  and 
mix  with  six  eggs;  make  small  muslin  sacks,  and  in  each  place 
one  pint  of  coffee,  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell ;  put  five  gallons 
boiling  water  in  coffee  urn,  having  a  faucet  at  the  bottom.  Put 
in  part  of  the  sacks  and  boil  two  hours.  Five  or  ten  minutes 
before  serving  raise  the  lid  and  add  one  or  two  more  sacks, 
and  if  you  continue  serving  several  times,  add  fresh  sacks  at 
regular  intervals,  taking  out  the  first  sacks  put  in,  and  filling 
up  with  boiling  water.    To  make  for  twenty  persons  use  one 


248 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


and  one-half  pints  ground  coffee  and  one  gallon  water. — Buck- 
eye Cook  Book. 

Coffee  for  75  People. — In  making  the  coffee  for  seventy-five 
guests,  twelve  quarts  will  be  required.  Allow  three  pints  of 
ground  coffee,  and  the  whites  and  shells  of  three  eggs.  Place 
this  mixture  together  in  the  coffee  pot,  stir  well  together,  and 
add  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  gradually  to  a  boil, 
then  add  nine  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  set  aside  to  ripen 
and  settle. 

Coffee. — Scald  the  pot.  Put  in  one  teacup  ground  coffee, 
add  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
Before  taking  from  the  fire  add  a  dash  of  cold  water  to  settle 
it.  Set  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil  till  it  is  served. 
Allow  a  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  to  each  person  and  one 
extra  spoonful,  in  measuring  out  coffee. 

Drip  Coffee. — Have  coffee  ground  very  fine.  Use  one  table- 
spoon to  each  cup.  Mocho  and  Java  mixed  is  regarded  the 
best  brand,  one  giving  strength — the  other  fine  flavor.  Freshly 
boiled  water  is  essential  to  good  coffee.  Pour  coffee  and  water 
through  dripper  (with  cheese  cloth  over  dripper)  three  differ- 
ent times,  letting  stand  a  short  while  between  times  of  pouring. 
Serve  with  good  cream. 

Tea. — To  each  cup  of  tea  use  one  small  teaspoonful  of  tea. 
Pour  over  this  one  cup  of  fresh  boiling  water.  Let  stand  well 
covered  five  minutes.   Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Iced  Tea. — Make  tea  for  ice  tea  just  before  serving,  as  it 
becomes  poison  to  the  system  if  allowed  to  boil  or  stand  long. 
One  cup  of  fresh  boiling  water  poured  on  tablespoonful  of  tea. 
Let  stand  well  covered  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  and  pour 
on  ice.  Serve  with  lemon. — Miss  Gilchrist,  Teacher  Domestic 
Science,  Knoxville,  Tenn. 

Cocoa. — Take  one  heaping  teaspoon  each  of  sugar  and  cocoa 
in  each  cup.    Put  on  stove  equal  parts  of  water  and  sweet 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


249 


milk.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  slowly  into  cup,  stirring 
until  dissolved. 

Chocolate. — Dissolve  six  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  in  one 
quart  boiling  water;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  add  one  quart 
sweet  milk.    Serve  hot.    Sweeten  to  taste. — J.  M.  S. 

Chocolate. — Scrape  fine  one  square  Baker's  chocolate;  add 
two  tablespoons  sugar  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon 
hot  water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  or  until  it  is 
perfectly  smooth  and  glossy.  Then  stir  it  all  into  a  quart  of 
boiling  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water.  If  it  is  wanted 
richer,  take  twice  as  much  sugar,  chocolate  and  water.  Excel- 
lent.— Mrs.  Alice  H.  Smith. 

Pinapple  Lemonade. — Pare  and  grate  a  ripe  pineapple.  Pour 
over  this  the  juice  of  fivedemons.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of 
granulated  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water  boiled  together  ten 
minutes.  Mix  and  add  one  quart  of  water  and  strain  through 
cheesecloth.  This  will  keep  for  months  if  put  in  a  cool  place. 
When  serving,  pour  over  crushed  ice,  and  put  a  maraschino 
cherry  in  each  glass. — Miss  Katherine  Bray. 

Cream  Lemonade. — The  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  the 
juice  of  two.  Strain  and  add  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar. 
After  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  a  small  wine- 
glassful  of  white  wine.  Stir  into  this  mixture,  slowly,  one 
quart  of  boiling  milk.  Strain  through  a  fine  wire  sieve.  Let 
cool,  and  place  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled. — Miss  Kather- 
ine Bray. 

Egg  Lemonade. — To  one  whole  egg  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water.  Beat  thoroughly.  Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
and  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  well,  pour  into  a 
glass,  and  fill  up  the  glass  with  more  water  if  necessary.  This 
is  most  nourishing. — Miss  Katherine  Bray. 

Apollinaris  Lemonade. — Put  one  cup  sugar,  half  pint  water 
in  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  when  sugar  is  dissolved,  add 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon.    Let  the  mixture  come  to  a  boil, 


250 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


cool  and  strain  and  add  jnice  three  lemons.  When  ready  to 
serve  add  one  pint  cold  Apollinaris  water.  Put  a  block  of  ice 
to  the  lemon  syrup  and  just  before  serving  add  the  Apollinaris. 
It  is  delightful. — Mrs.  John  Gary. 

Claret  Sangaree. — Two  dozen  oranges,  two  dozen  lemons; 
grate  the  rind  of  half  dozen  oranges  and  lemons  on  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  sugar;  let  stand  two  hours,  then  squeeze  the  juice 
of  the  oranges  and  lemons  on  the  sugar,  add  one  quart  water 
and  strain,  then  add  one  quart  claret.  Before  using  add  three 
or  four  pounds  of  ice  and  let  it  melt,  instead  of  adding  water; 
add  more  sugar  if  not  sweet  enough;  add  ice  about  two  hours 
before  serving. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Theus. 

Roumanian  Punch. — Juice  of  two  dozen  oranges,  one  dozen 
lemons,  juice  of  two  cans  sliced  pineapple,  one  bottle  of  mara- 
schino cherries,  or  a  bottle  of  strawberry  acid;  add  one  gallon 
water  to  half  the  quantity,  sweeten  to  taste,  put  a  lump  of  ice 
m  bucket,  and  just  before  serving  add  six  bottles  of  seltzer 
water.  When  the  punch  bowl  is  to  be  replenished  use  the  re- 
maining juice  and  seltzer  water. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Crook. 

A  Maraschino  Punch. — Boil  together  one  quart  of  water  and 
one  pound  of  granulated  sugar  for  five  minutes.  Add  the 
grated  rinds  of  two  lemons  and  four  oranges  to  the  syrup. 
Boil  five  minutes  longer,  and  then  strain  through  a  cloth.  Add 
the  strained  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges,  one  quart  of  cold 
water,  two  sliced  Tangerine  oranges,  one  sliced  banana,  one 
quarter  of  a  pineapple  sliced  fine,  and  twenty  or  thirty  Malaga 
grapes,  cut  in  two  and  seeded,  and  a  one  quart  bottle  of  Mara- 
schino cherries  and  their  liquor.  Pour  this  mixture  over  a 
block  of  ice  in  the  punch  bowl,  and  serve  as  soon  as  thoroughly 
chilled. — Miss  Katherine  Bray. 

Sherry  Punch. — Half  gallon  water,  two  cups  sugar,  rind  of 
three  lemons  boiled  together.  When  cool  add  juice  of  six 
lemons,  half  pint  sherry  wine  and  quarter  pound  of  crystalized 
cherries.  Freeze. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


251 


GO  TO  THE 

Jackson  Paint  &  Wall  Paper 

COMPANY  (Inc.) 

For  Paints,  Oils,  Glass 
and  Wall  Paper. 

123  E.  College. 


GO  TO 

W.  J.  LANIER 

FOR 

Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries 

Feed  Stuff  and  Produce 

109  Poplar  St. 


Pineapple  Punch. — Cook  one  cupful  of  grated  pineapple  with 
one  pint  of  water  fifteen  minutes;  strain  through  cheesecloth, 
and  add  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  one  pint  of  sugar  with  one 
pint  of  water  ten  minutes.  Add  half  a  cupful  of  freshly  made 
tea,  the  juice  of  three  oranges  and  three  lemons,  and  one  cup 
of  grape  juice  to  impart  a  pale  violet  color  to  the  beverage. 
Pour  this  mixture  into  a  punch  bowl  over  a  large  lump  of  ice. 
In  serving,  put  a  couple  of  fresh  violets  in  each  cup. — Miss 
Katherine  Bray. 

Tea  Punch. — Make  a  strong  infusion  of  tea,  pouring  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  over  a  tablespoonful  of  Ceylon  or  English 
breakfast  tea,  and  letting  it  stand  until  cold.  Strain  and  add 
to  the  following  mixture:  The  juice  of  three  lemons  and  the 
juice  of  three  oranges,  the  pulp  and  juice  of  a  shredded  pine- 
apple and  one  pint  of  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  entirely  dis- 
solved, add  one  quart  of  Apollinaris  and  one  box  of  fresh 
strawberries  or  raspberries,  used  whole.  Pour  over  a  block  of 
ice  in  the  punch  bowl.    Serve. — Miss  Katherine  Bray. 

Fruit  Punch. — One  quart  each  shaddock,  strawberry,  pine- 
apple, orange  juices;  one  pint  lemon  juice;  sugar  to  suit; 
shaved  ice  in  glasses ;  then  half  fill  with  juices ;  fill  with  mineral 
water;  ice  cream  and  strawberry  on  top;  compote  of  fancy 
cakes. 

Mint  Punch. — Put  into  punch  bowl  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar;  add  juice  of  six  lemons,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  melts. 


252 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Put  in  three  peeled  lemons,  sliced  very  thin,  and  leave  in  the 
ice  until  ready  to  use  it.  Add,  then,  one  dozen  sprays  of  green 
mint  and  a  quart,  at  least,  of  pounded  ice.  Stir  well  for  a 
minute  and  pour  from  a  height  into  it  two  or  three  bottles  of 
imported  ginger  ale. — Miss  Katherine  Bray. 

Tea  Punch. — For  a  large  crowd.  Two  gallons  of  tea  and  the 
juice  of  one  dozen  lemons;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  spray  of 
fresh  mint.    Serve  ice  cold  from  a  punch  bowl. — Mrs.  Dabney. 

Cranberry  Frappe. — Boil  two  quarts  of  cranberries  in  two 
pints  of  water  ten  minutes,  strain  through  a  coarse  cheese  cloth, 
add  two  pints  of  sugar  (one  and  one-half  would  be  enough) 
and  stir  and  boil  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  when  cold  add  the 
strained  juice  of  ten  lemons;  freeze  to  a  mush  and  pack  as 
usual ;  serve  in  sherbet  cups  with,  or  just  after,  roast  turkey. — 
Mrs.  J.  M.  Parker. 

Cranberry  Frappe. — Add  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water  to 
one  quart  of  cranberries.  Boil  until  soft,  pass  through  a  fruit- 
strainer,  return  to  the  fire,  and  add  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten. 
Cook  until  reduced  more  than  half,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  Be- 
fore freezing  add  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon,  also  a  syrup 
made  of  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  two  cupfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar  cooked  until  rich  and  syrupy.  Stir  all  together, 
and  freeze  rather  stiff.  Serve  in  frappe  cups  with  the  roast 
turkey. 

Strawberry  Frappe. — One  quart  ripe  mashed  strawberries, 
three  cups  sugar,  juice  four  lemons,  three  pints  water ;  let  ber- 
ries with  sugar  stand  one  hour ;  mix  all,  pour  into  freezer  and 
partially  freeze. 

Frappe. — For  a  very  large  crowd.  Two  dozen  lemons,  three 
dozen  oranges,  three  cans  sliced  pineapple,  and  six  quart  bot- 
tles of  Apolinaris  water.  Make  a  very  sweet  lemonade,  chop 
oranges  and  pinapple,  and  pour  lemonade  over  it;  let  it  stand 
until  ready  for  use,  then  pour  Apollinaris  water  in,  using  a  large 
lump  of  ice.   Flavor  with  sherry. — Mrs.  Bailey  Cantrell. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


253 


Fruit  Juices. — To  every  pint  of  juice  made  from  berries  add 
one-half  pint  of  water  and  from  one-quarter  to  one-half  pound 
sugar;  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil  and  seal  air-tight  in  bottles. 
This  makes  a  delicious  summer  drink. 

Grape  Juice  (Unfermented). — Stem  six  quarts  of  grapes  and 
put  over  fire  with  one  quart  of  water;  bring  slowly  to  a  boil 
and  strain.  Return  the  juice  to  the  fire ;  bring  again  to  a  boil ; 
bottle  and  seal  while  scalding  hot. 

Grape  Juice. — To  one  basket  grapes  pour  one  and  one-half 
quarts  of  water  over  fruit  after  it  is  mashed.  Let  this  cook 
till  all  the  juice  can  be  strained.  To  one  gallon  juice  add  one 
pint  sugar.  Put  on  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Seal  while  hot. 
Nice  as  a  cold  or  hot  drink.  Hot  grape  juice  with  cinnamon 
and  lemon  is  a  nice  first  course. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wilson. 

Grape  Juice. — Have  the  very  best  grapes;  wash  well,  after 
stripping  from  the  stems,  rejecting  imperfect  fruit.  Put  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  with  one  pint  water  to  every  three  quarts 
grapes;  heat  to  boiling  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  or  longer, 
skimming  as  needed.  Turn  off  the  juice  and  filter  through 
jelly  bag,  putting  seeds  and  skins  in  separate  bag  to  drain,  as 
the  juice  from  them  will  be  less  clear.  Heat  again  to  boiling 
add  one  cup  of  hot  sugar  to  each  quart  juice  and  seal  in  bottles. 
The  juice  from  skins  and  seeds  should  be  canned  separately. — 
Battle  Creek. 

Fruit  Juice. — Wash  four  pounds  berries,  pour  over  them  one 
quart  cold  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  two  ounces  citric 
acid.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  a  bowl.  Strain  through 
a  thin  bag  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  sugar. 
Boil  five  minutes  in  porcelain  kettle;  then  bottle. — Mrs.  Hart- 
mus. 

Fruit  Acid.— Twelve  pounds  of  fruit  in  a  pan;  cover  it  with 
two  quarts  water,  having  previously  acidulated  the  water  with 
five  ounces  tartaric  acid.  Let  stand  forty-eight  hours;  then 
strain  or  let  drip  in  a  bag,  taking  care  not  to  bruise  the  fruit. 


254 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  sugar;  stir 
until  dissolved  and  leave  a  few  days.  Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 
Use  two  tablespoons  to  a  glass  of  water. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Freeman. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — Cover  any  quantity  of  raspberries  with 
vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  over  night;  squeeze  them  through 
cheese  cloth;  add  one  pint  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice  and 
boil  well;  skim  clean  and  bottle. 

Raspberry  Vinegar  (fine). — Two  quarts  red  berries  in  a  jar 
with  one  quart  vinegar;  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  drain; 
two  quarts  fresh  berries  in  same  vinegar,  stand  twenty-four 
hours  and  drain.  To  each  pint  juice  add  one  pound  sugar. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes;  skim  and  bottle  when  cold.  Use  half 
glass  vinegar  in  half  glass  water. 

Cherry  Bounce. — Take  Morilla  cherries;  put  them  into  a  jar 
and  cover  with  a  good  whiskey,  and  let  stand  three  weeks ;  then 
drain  off  all  the  liquor;  thoroughly  mash  the  cherries,  but  do 
not  crush  the  stones;  strain  this  through  a  bag  and  add  it  to 
the  liquor.  To  every  gallon  of  this  add  syrup  made  of  two 
pounds  sugar  and  half  pint  water ;  bottle  and  seal. 

Apple  Wine. — To  one  gallon  good  sweet  cider,  stir  in  four 
pounds  light  brown  sugar,  and  let  stand  forty-eight  hours; 
then  treat  as  any  other  wine.  A  handful  of  raisins  will  im- 
prove the  flavor. 

Grape  Wine. — Mash  grapes,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
then  strain,  and  to  every  two  measures  add  one  of  sugar.  Beat 
white  of  one  egg,  add  and  stir  in  well.  Take  the  foam  off  for 
nine  mornings,  strain  and  bottle.  Tie  cloth  over  top  till  all 
fermentation  is  over;  then  cork. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Blackberry  Wine. — Wash  berries,  bruise  them;  to  each  gal- 
lon add  one  quart  boiling  water;  let  stand  twelve  hours; 
squeeze  out  the  juice;  add  two  pounds  light  brown  sugar  to 
each  gallon.  When  it  ceases  to  ferment  seal  in  jars  and  bottles. 
— Mrs.  Sam  Lancaster. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


255 


The  Success  of  Your  Dinner 

Depends  largely  upon  the 
kind  of  Coffee  you  serve. 
Don't  spoil  a  good  meal 
with  poor  Coffee.  Serve 

Maxwell  House  Blend 

You  get  all  the  original 
strength,  flavor  and  aroma 
as  it  comes  fresh  from  the 
roasters  in  every  sealed  can 

1    ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR  IT  1 

CREEK-NEAL  COFFEE  GO,,  Nashville,  Tenn,,  and  Houston,  Tex, 


Sweet  Blackberry  Wine,  for  Medicinal  Purposes. — One  quart 
boiling  water  to  a  gallon  of  mashed  blackberries,  three  pounds 
sugar  to  each  gallon  of  strained  juice  (one  pound  added  each 
day  for  three  days).  Let  stand  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved.   Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

Blackberry  Cordial. — No.  1.— Boil  the  blackberries  in  a  little 
water  about  fifteen  minutes;  then  strain  them.  To  one  quart 
of  juice  put  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  season  with 
cloves,  cinnamon,  and  allspice,  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.   To  three  quarts  of  the  juice  put  in  one  quart  of  brandy. 

Blackberry  Cordial.— No.  2— To  -each  quart  of  blackberry 
juice  add  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon, one-fourth  an  ounce  of  mace,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cloves.  Boil  this  mixture  twenty  minutes;  strain,  and  when 
cold  put  to  each  quart  a  pint  of  French  brandy. 


256 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

" Sweets  to  the  sweet." 

Preserves  and  Jellies. — In  making  preserves,  procure  firm, 
ripe  fruit,  as  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  natural  flavor  of  the 
fruit,  which  can  not  be  obtained  from  hard,  unripe  fruit. 

Sun  Preserved  Strawberries. — Hull  and  wash  four  pounds  of 
strawberries,  and  pour  over  them  .the  same  weight  in  sugar. 
Let  them  stand  in  the  cellar  over  night.  In  the  morning  cover 
the  receptacle  with  glass,  and  set  in  the  hot  sunshine,  taking 
it  in  at  night.  Repeat  this  for  four  days,  then  put  the  berries 
in  jelly  glasses  or  glass  jars,  and  pour  paraffin  over  the  top  or 
close  with  tight  covers.  Other  fruits  may  be  preserved  in  the 
same  way. — H.  A.  L.,  Tombstone,  Ariz. 

Sunshine  Preserves. — Select  a  bright,  sunny  day  for  making 
these  preserves.  Begin  early  in  the  morning.  Select  whole, 
perfect  strawberries  (or  any  other  small  fruit)  not  too  ripe; 
pick  and  wash  carefully.  Put  on  stove  one  pint  of  sugar  and 
enough  water  to  dissolve.  Stir  well  and  then  let  boil  until  it 
is  almost  ready  to  "hair"  or  thread.  Drop  carefully  in  your 
berries.  Let  cook  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  Pour  in 
flat  dish;  set  in  hot  sun  all  day.  Take  in  just  before  sundown 
and  put  in  pint  jars  and  seal.  Never  make  more  than  a  pint 
in  one  vessel ;  but  you  can  have  as  much  on  stove  at  once  as  you 
like. 

Brandied  Peaches. — Half  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit 
put  in  sugar  with  little  water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  drop  in 
fruit.  Let  them  scald  well,  then  take  out  and  to  every  gallon 
of  syrup  add  one  of  brandy.    Put  peaches  in  a  jar,  pour 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


257 


brandy  over  them.  Next  morning  mix  the  syrup  and  brandy; 
pour  over  peaches,  putting  in  each  peach  two  or  three  cloves. 
—Mrs.  J.  L.  Webster. 

Brandy  Peaches. — Use  ripe,  white  plum  peaches,  peel  them, 
put  in  a  stone  jar  a  layer  of  peaches,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  and 
so  on  till  the  jar  is  full.  Put  a  saucer  on  to  weight  them  down, 
and  tie  the  jar  up  tight,  and  set  away  for  several  months.  The 
air  must  be  excluded. — Mrs.  S.  W.  Tucker. 

Cherry  Preserves— Seed  cherries  carefully ;  weigh  them,  and 
to  every  pound  add  a  full  pound  of  sugar,  putting  in  vessel  a 
layer  of  sugar  and  a  layer  of  cherries,  alternately.  Let  stand 
over  night;  pour  into  kettle  and  boil  gently  till  fruit  is  thor- 
oughly tender  and  syrup  thick. 

Damson  Preserves. — Scald  the  damsons  till  the  seeds  can  be 
popped  out  easily;  then  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit,  and  cook  till  they  look  glossy. 

Damson  Preserves. — Wash  and  seed  the  damsons;  allow  to 
every  pound  of  fruit  one  pound  sugar,  and  to  every  four 
pounds  fruit,  one  pint  water ;  start  the  damsons  and  water,  and 
let  them  boil  one-half  hour  before  putting  in  the  sugar.  Cook 
till  moderately  thick. 

Orange  Marmalade. — One  dozen  oranges  cut  in  thin  slices, 
rejecting  the  pips;  put  into  an  earthen  jar  with  ten  pints  of 
cold  water,  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  boil  stead- 
ily for  two  hours;  add  twelve  pounds  loaf  sugar,  and  boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  longer;  cut  three  or  four  lemons  in 
thin  slices  and  put  in  just  before  removing  kettle  from  the  fire. 
Stir  while  cooling,  as  it  helps  to  mix  well.  Tart  oranges  are 
best.— Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Peach  Chips. — Take  ripe  peaches;  peel,  and  cut  from  the 
seed.  Make  a  thin  syrup ;  boil  the  peaches  in  this  until  they 
look  clear ;  then  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  roll  in  dry  brown 
sugar,  and  expose  to  the  sun  in  dishes;  change  to  dry  dishes, 
and  dip  in  sugar  again  until  entirely  dried  and  crystallized. 


258 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


The  syrup  may  be  kept  and  used  for  more  peaches. — Mrs.  H.  R. 
Lancaster. 

Quince  Preserves. — Pare,  core,  quarter  and  weigh  fruit ;  al- 
low equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Take  paring  and  cores,  put  in 
kettle  with  water  to  cover  them,  boil  half  hour.  Strain  through 
a  sieve,  return  to  kettle  and  boil  quinces  till  they  are  tender; 
lift  out  as  they  are  done  with  a  drainer,  and  lay  on  a  dish. 
If  the  liquid  seems  scarce  add  more  water.  Put  the  sugar  in 
and  boil  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  quinces.  Let  them  boil 
till  they  change  color,  say  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  but  do  not 
stir  them.  Have  two  fresh  lemons  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  when 
done  put  a  few  pieces  in  each  jar.  Quinces  may  be  steamed 
till  tender  if  desired. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Wash  and  quarter  the  quinces,  taking 
out  the  cores,  but  do  not  pare;  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  suf- 
ficient water  to  stew  them  in;  boil  until  soft;  run  through  a 
sieve,  and  to  each  pound  of  this  pulp  put  a  pound  of  sugar.  Re- 
turn to  the  kettle,  cook  slowly,  and  stir  constantly  until  done. 

Watermelon  Preserves. — To  a  bucket  of  cold  water  add  two 
handfuls  of  lime.  Cut  your  rinds,  either  watermelon  or  canta- 
loupe; let  it  remain  in  the  lime-water  tw'enty-four  hours,  turn- 
ing it  often  from  the  bottom.  Take  out  of  the  lime-water,  and 
soak  in  clear  water  to  remove  the  lime,  changing  the  water  fre- 
quently. Scald  in  strong  alum-water,  with  grape  or  butter 
bean  leaves,  keeping  the  vessel  well  covered  that  the  rind  may 
have  a  good  green  color.  Let  them  boil  in  this  about  ten 
minutes;  then  drop  the  rind  in  cold  water;  boil  in  a  strong 
ginger-tea,  making  enough  to  cover  the  rind  well,  and  long 
enough  to  impart  a  flavor  of  ginger  to  the  rind.  Make  a  sirup, 
using  two  pounds  of  white  sugar  to  one  pound  of  rind,  and 
water  sufficient  to  boil  the  rind  until  perfectly  transparent.  Do 
not  put  in  the  fruit  until  the  sirup  boils;  then  cook  slowly. 
The  rind  should  be  weighed  as  soon  as  cut.  Sliced  lemon  is  a 
great  improvement ;  when  not  at  hand,  the  oil  of  lemon  may  be 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


259 


TJhe  most  attractive  stock  of  fine  yoocts  ever  shown 
in  Jackson  is  now  on  display  in 

Robe's  jewelry  Store 

and  jfnnexj 

"Jo6eJs  Corner ,  "     Jackson,  Uenn. 

used,  but  not  until  the  preserves  have  been  taken  from  the  fire 
— while  hot. 

Citron. — Soak  rind  in  salt  water  ten  days;  wash  to  freshen, 
and  weigh  it.  Boil  till  tender.  Allow  one  and  one-half  pounds 
of  sugar  to  one  of  rind.  Make  a  syrup  and  when  boiling  put 
in  the  rind;  boil  six  hours.  Season  with  cloves  and  lemon. — • 
Mrs.  John  Gary. 

Pear  Preserves. — Select  ripe,  but  firm  fruit,  those  known  as 
"eating"  pears.  Pare  and  core  fruit,  cutting  large  pears  into 
halves  or  fourths,  leaving  small  fruit  whole— with  the  stem  on 
— after  it  has  been  scraped.  Weigh  fruit  and  use  a  little  more 
than  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Put 
sugar  in  porcelain  kettle  with  enough  water  to  make  sufficient 
syrup.  Stir  frequently  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Let  syrup  boil 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  fruit — cooking  separately  the 
whole,  halves  and  quarters.  Let  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes. 
Take  up  carefully  and  place  in  a  stone  jar,  tying  cloth  over  it. 
Put  in  a  cool  place  over  night ;  then  drain  off  syrup  into  kettle 
and  let  boil  ten  minutes ;  put  in  fruit  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes.  Return  to  stone  jar  and  again  leave  over  night.  Next 
day  put  on  syrup  as  before  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes;  then 
add  fruit  and  boil  slowly  to  prevent  coming  to  pieces.  Cook 
until  clear,  and  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw.  Put  in 
glass  jars  and  seal.  If  hard,  half-ripe  fruit  known  as  "pre- 
serving pears"  is  used,  the  fruit  must  first  be  parboiled  awhile 


260 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


in  clear  water  before  placing  in  boiling  syrnp.  Light,  clear, 
tender  preserves  result  from  this  process. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Pear  Preserves. — Peel  and  quarter,  weigh,  add  a  little  water, 
cover  close  and  steam  till  tender;  allow  three-quarters  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit;  cook  till  syrup  thickens,  but  not  too 
long. — Mrs.  R.  D.  Rodgers. 

Fig  Preserves. — Drop  them  in  a  weak  salaratus-water,  and  let 
remain  for  fifteen  minutes ;  wip  them  dry,  and  to  a  pound  of 
figs  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  When  the  sirup 
has  well  boiled,  put  in  the  figs,  and  boil  them  until  they  look 
clear;  take  out  the  fruit,  and  sun  it  for  two  hours;  then  return 
to  the  sirup,  and  boil  a  little  while  before  taking  off.  The}^  may 
be  flavored  with  either  ginger,  mace,  cinnamon,  or  lemon.  If 
lemons  are  used,  do  not  put  them  in  the  boiling  sirup,  as  that 
will  make  them  hard.  Slice  them,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  put 
in  a  vessel  with  a  very  little  water,  and  boil  until  tender ;  then 
pour  the  lemon  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  into  the 
sirup. 

Fig  Marmalade. — Use  ripe  figs ;  let  stand  in  soda  water  for  a 
few  minutes;  wipe  dry  with  a  coarse  cloth;  then  put  on  to  boil 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them ;  boil  until  soft,  mashing 
often.  When  soft  allow  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
of  figs.  Cook  slowly;  stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning.  Fla- 
vor with  lemon. 

Strawberry  Preserves. — Select  large  fine  berries;  allow  two 
pounds  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Put  berries  in  kettle ;  pom- 
sugar  over  them.  Allow  the  berries  to  cook  from  the  bottom 
before  stirring  the  sugar  all  through  them.  Let  them  come  to 
a  boil,  then  set  aside  till  they  cease  to  bubble  ;  put  them  back, 
and  let  come  to  a  good  boil,  then  set  aside,  and  the  third  time 
just  let  them  begin  to  boil,  and  put  them  in  heated  jars.  This 
makes  delicious  preserves,  giving  a  good  deal  of  syrup;  but  it 
is  a  thick  syrup  and  the  preserves  retain  flavor  of  fruit. — Mrs. 
Reese  Lillard. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  261 


Strawberry  Preserves. — Two  pounds  fruit,  two  pounds  sugar 
in  a  vessel  on  the  back  of  the  range  until  sugar  dissolves;  boil 
fast  twenty  minutes;  let  cool  and  seal.  Never  make  much  at  a 
time.   A  very  fine  recipe. — Mrs.  R.  D.  Rodgers. 

Strawberry  Jam. — To  each  pound  of  ripe  berries  allow  three- 
quarters  pound  sugar.  Put  in  kettle  and  stir  gently  not  to 
break  the  fruit;  cook  half  hour,  and  put  in  jars  air-tight. 

Plum  Preserves. — Have  plums  nearly  ripe,  one  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Put  plums  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
and  let  heat  gradually  until  it  boils;  pour  off  this  water  and 
do  not  use  it,  as  it  will  impair  the  flavor  of  preserves.  Make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar  and  enough  water  to  cook  them  in;  let  the 
syrup  boil  a  few  minutes  and  put  in  the  fruit  and  let  boil  till 
done. 

Jams  and  Butters. — Jams  and  butters  may  be  made  from  the 
inferior  pieces  of  fruits.  Peach  butter  is  better  made  from 
peaches  not  pared.  Wipe  them,  remove  the  stones  and  put 
them  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle.  To  each  peck  add  a  quart 
of  water,  cover  the  kettle  and  put  it  on  the  very  back  part  of 
the  stove  to  cook  slowly  for  one  hour.  Stir  every  ten  minutes. 
Butters  and  jams  scorch  easily  and  hence  require  constant  at- 
tention. At  the  end  of  the  hour  add  five  pounds  of  sugar,  re- 
move the  lid  from  the  kettle,  cook  slowly  and  stir  for  thirty 
minutes.  The  mass  should  be  smooth  and  about  the  consist- 
ency of  mush.  Have  your  jars,  lids  and  rubbers  in  boiling 
water.  Lift  a  jar,  adjust  the  rubber,  fill  with  jam,  screw  down 
the  lid.    Continue  thus  until  all  are  filled. — Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

Blackberry  Jam. — Weigh  the  fruit,  and  mash  it  well.  To 
every  pound  of  berries  add  a  little  more  than  half  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Boil  slowly  until  as  thick  as  desired,  stirring  con- 
stantly. 

Raspberry  Jam. — To  every  pound  of  red  raspberries  allow 
one  pound  of  white  sugar.  Put  the  raspberries  in  a  large  bowl, 
crush  them  well,  and  set  them  aside.    To  every  three  pounds 


262 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


of  sugar  acid  one  small  cupful  of  water,  let  it  boil  until  almost 
ready  to  turn  back  to  sugar,  then  stir  in  the  raspberries,  and 
boil  together  for  ten  minutes.  The  jam  is  perfect  in  color, 
flavor  and  firmness. 

Grape  Jam. — Hull  the  grapes,  boil  the  pulps  till  soft,  seed 
them  by  use  of  colander  or  thin  cloth;  then  add  hulls  and 
pound  for  pound  of  sugar,  cooking  until  it  is  the  consistency 
of  any  jam. 

Preserved  Peaches. — Reaches  for  preserving  may  be  ripe,  but 
not  soft.  Pare  them,  cut  in  halves  and  stone  them.  Allow  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  and  to  each  pound  of 
sugar  a  teacup  of  water.  Stir  until  it  is  dissolved;  set  over  a 
moderate  fire ;  when  it  is  boiling  hot  put  in  the  peaches.  Let 
them  boil  until  clear;  take  up  each  piece  with  a  spoon  and  lay 
on  a  flat  dish  to  become  cold.  Let  the  syrup  boil  until  thick; 
return  the  peaches  to  the  kettle  and  as  soon  as  they  are  boiling 
hot  seal  in  jars. 

Apple  Preserves. — Pare  and  slice  your  apples;  weigh  them 
and  your  sugar,  allowing  a  pound  of  crushed  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  In  a  stone  jar  place  a  layer  of  apples,  then  a  layer  of 
sugar,  sprinkling  every  layer  with  enough  water  to  moisten  the 
sugar;  let  this  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning,  remove  the 
apples;  put  the  sirup  in  a  kettle,  adding  a  little  more  water- 
enough  to  cook  the  apples.  Clarify  the  sugar  with  the  whites 
of  two  eggs;  strain  it,  and  return  to  the  kettle;  place  on  the 
fire;  when  nearly  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  apples;  give  them  a 
good  scald,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  remain  long  enough  to 
break;  remove  from  the  sirup,  place  them  in  dishes,  and  sun 
them  until  a  little  tough;  return  to  the  sirup,  boil  a  short  time, 
and  sun  again;  then  return  to  the  sirup,  and  boil  until  quite 
clear  and  the  sirup  is  thick.  Flavor  with  lemons  sliced,  or  with 
ginger.    Seal  tight. 

Apple  Preserves. — Pare,  core  and  weigh  the  apples  ;  and  to 
every  pound  of  fruit  allow  one  pound  sugar  and  a  teacup 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


263 


UMPHLETT  &  GRIFFIN 
Furniture,  Carpets,  Window  Shades 

211  Main  Street,    Jackson,  Tenn. 

Both  Phones  120. 
Special  Attention  Given  the  Undertaking  Business. 

water.  Make  the  syrup,  and  when  boiling,  drop  in  the  apples 
and  boil  till  they  are  clear.  A  few  quinces  added  give  a  very 
fine  flavor. 

Apple  Butter. — Reduce  four  gallons  of  cider  to  two  by  boil- 
ing, then  add  five  pounds  of  sweet  apples.  Stir  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  apples  are  tender.  Then  begin  to  add  tart  apples  that 
have  been  pared  and  cored,  until  you  have  a  perfectly  smooth 
and  thick  mass.  Cool  slowly,  skimming  whenever  necessary 
and  stirring  almost  constantly  until  the  material  will  not  break. 
Take  out  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  and  stand  aside ;  it  is 
perfect  if  it  does  not  separate.  If  it  has  not  been  cooked  suf- 
ficiently long  the  cider  will  leave  the  mass  and  form  a  liquid 
in  the  saucer.  As  a  rule  it  will  require  five  pounds  of  sweet 
apples  and  a  bushel  of  sour  apples  to  each  gallon  and  a  half  of 
cider.    Sugar  and  spice  may  be  added. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Jelly. — In  selecting  fruits  it  is  very  essential  that  you  exer- 
cise care  to  select  those  not  over  ripe.  Always  be  careful  in 
skimming;  to  have  clear,  pretty  jelly,  after  adding  the  sugar, 
every  particle  of  scum  should  be  taken  off  as  it  rises.  Boil  a 
quart  or  three  pints  of  syrup  at  a  time,  as  it  jellies  much 
quicker,  and  is  consequently,  of  a  brighter  color.  Let  all  jellies 
get  cold  before  covering;  then  cover  with  melted  paraffine. 
The  paraffine  may  be  saved  when  taken  off  the  glasses,  washed, 
wiped  dry,  put  in  a  jar  and  used  again  next  year. 


264 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Apple  Jelly. — Take  any  number  of  juicy  apples,  put  them  in 
a  porcelain  kettle  and  boil  to  rags.  Then  strain  through  a 
cloth  or  sieve.  Put  one  pound  sugar  to  each  pint  juice  and  boil 
till  it  jellies.  The  color  will  be  prettier  in  any  jelly  if  made  in 
small  quantities,  say  one  pint  at  a  time. 

Apple  Jelly,  No.  2. — This  recipe  will  answer  for  crabapples, 
quinces,  Japanese  quinces  and  ordinary  apples.  Remove  the 
cores  and  seeds  and  cut  the  fruit  into  strips ;  put  it  into  a  porce- 
lain-lined kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  allowing  to  each  pound 
of  fruit  a  quart  of  water.  Cover  the  kettle,  boil  for  twenty 
minutes,  drain  the  pulp  over  night  and  the  next  morning  meas- 
ure the  liquor.  Put  it  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  half  the  quantity  of 
sugar,  stir  a  moment  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  if  you 
have  been  careful  and  the  fruit  is  in  good  condition,  jelly  will 
be  formed  instantly.  In  measuring  the  liquid  before  you  put  it 
over  the  fire  it  is  well  to  measure  half  the  quantity  of  sugar  at 
once,  so  that  there  can  be  no  mistake.  Before  turning  the  jelly 
into  tumblers  put  a  teaspoonful  into  a  saucer -and  stand  it  on 
the  ice.  Take  the  kettle  quickly  from  the  fire  or  it  may  become 
thin.  When  jelly  boil  too  long  it  is  not  stiff,  or  it  is  sticky  or 
ropy,  according  to  the  fruit.  There  can  be  nothing  done  to 
remedy  either  condition;  a  second  cooking  always  makes  it 
worse. — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Damson  Jelly. — Select  ripe  damsons  (pick  off  stems)  and 
wash  them.  Put  into  a  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  pre- 
vent sticking.  Let  them  boil  one  hour  or  longer.  Strain 
through  a  bag.  Allow  one  pint  juice  to  one  pint  sugar;  boil 
ten  minutes;  add  sugar  and  boil  till  it  jellies. 

Plum  Jelly. — Have  your  plums  thoroughly  ripe ;  put  them  in 
a  kettle,  with  two  pints  of  water  to  half  a  bushel,  three  pints 
to  a  bushel;  let  them  boil  until  done,  stirring  all  the  time. 
When  they  have  all  burst,  they  are  done,  and  should  be  poured 
slowly  through  a  sieve.    After  all  the  juice  has  dripped  out, 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


265 


strain  it  through  a  piece  of  flannel.  To  every  pint  of  juice  put 
one  pound  of  loaf-sugar;  put  it  on,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  jellies. 
Take  the  fruit  that  is  left,  and  place  on  the  fire,  allowing  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  the  same  of  fruit,  or  a  little  more  weight  of 
sugar;  cook  until  done.    This  will  make  very  nice  marmalade. 

Grape  Jelly. — Pick  and  wash  your  grapes;  put  them  in  a 
kettle,  and  to  six  pounds  of  fruit  put  half  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
Place  the  kettle  on  the  fire,  and  steam  until  the  grapes  have 
yielded  their  juices  ;  then  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add 
one  pound  of  loaf  sugar.    Cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Grape  Jelly,  No.  2. — Put  only  enough  water  with  the  fruit  to 
start  a  boil  and  cook  half  an  hour  and  drain  well  through  a 
flannel  bag — do  not  squeeze.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  the  best  granulated  sugar,  boil  about 
twenty  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  One-quarter  of  a  pint  of 
red  currant  juice  to  every  pint  of  grape  juice  improves  the 
flavor.  Green  grapes  make  a  beautiful  light  colored  jelly.  They 
should  be  used  when  they  are  full  grown  and  just  beginning  to 
turn. 

Grape  Jelly. — Gather  Catawba  grapes  just  before  they  are 
ripe.  Pick  them  from  the  stems,  wash,  and  put  in  a  stone  jar. 
Set  the  jar  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water  over  a  quick  fire.  When  the 
juice  comes  well  out  of  the  grapes  take  them  from  the  fire,  and 
strain.  To  each  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound  of  the  best  loaf 
sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Fox  grapes  make  equally  good 
jelly. 

Quince  Jelly. — Wash  and  cut  up  the  quinces,  taking  out  the 
cores;  boil  in  clear  water  until  tender;  strain  through  a  flannel 
bag,  and  to  each  pint  of  liquid  allow  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 
Boil  until  done. 

Strawberry  Jelly. — To  one  gallon  of  strawberries  add  one 
quart  of  water;  let  boil  until  the  juice  has  cooked  out  of  ber- 


COOK  WITH  GAS 


266 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


E.  E.  FORBES  PIANO  GO. 

We  make  a  Specialty 
of  easy  terms  on 

Pianos,  Organs  and 
Talking  Machines. 


GO  TO 

City  Lumber  Co. 

FOR 

Sash,  Doors,  Binds,  Lath 
and  Shingles. 

Building  Material  of  All  Kinds. 
116-118  Poplar  Street. 
JACKSON,  TENN. 


ries,  then  strain,  and  if  berries  are  acid  to  each  cup  of  juice 
add  half  cup  sugar,  and  if  not  very  acid  use  less  sugar.  Cook 
until  it  will  jelly,  and  pour  into  glasses.  Lemon  juice  or  citric 
acid  added  to  juice  will  make  it  jelly  easily.  Delicious. — Mrs. 
J.  E.  Ryley. 

Cranberry  Jelly. — One  quart  of  berries,  half  pint  water,  one 
pound  sugar.  To  a  quart  of  berries  add  half  pint  water,  stir- 
ring frequently ;  when  soft  mash  through  a  sieve ;  add  sugar 
and  let  boil  up  once,  as  much  boiling  after  the  sugar  is  put  in 
will  cause  the  sauce  to  be  dark. 

Apple  Jelly. — Wash  and  cut  up  apples,  leaving  the  cores; 
put  them  in  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover;  boil  till  tender 
and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  If  apples  are  very  tart  allow 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  or  half  pound  if  apples 
are  sweet.  Lemon  juice  is  an  addition.  Boil  twenty  minutes 
after  sugar  is  added  to  juice.  It  will  be  lighter  if  made  one 
pint  at  a  time. 

Syrup. — Four  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  three  pints  of  water, 
small  teaspoonful  alum  (pulverized)  ;  let  come  to  boil  and  boil 
three  minutes;  strain  if  necessary. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Derryberry. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


267 


CANNED  FRUITS 
AND  VEGETABLES. 

Canned  Fruits. — Never  use  inferior  fruits  for  canning  or  pre- 
serving. The  secret  of  success  is  to  have  your  jars  brimful  and 
perfectly  air-tight.  Roll  your  jars  in  hot  water,  and  set  them  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water,  convenient  to  the  boiling  fruit  ;  heat  the 
tops.  After  filling  the  hot  jars  with  the  hot  fruit,  screw  the 
tops  on,  and  for  a  day  or  two  occasionally  examine  and  screw 
them  on  tighter  as  the  fruit  shrinks,  and  the  glass  contracts. 
Replace  old  rubbers  with  new  ones  every  year.  Black  rubbers 
are  the  best.  It  is  very  important  to  take  a  silver  knife  and 
run  down  in  the  jar,  at  the  sides,  to  expel  the  air  bubbles,  just 
before  sealing. 

Syrups. — Proportions  of  sugar  and  water  required  in  the 
syrups  of  the  different  fruits :  Pineapple,  one  pound  sugar,  one 
pint  water.  Peaches,  half  pound  sugar,  one  pint  water. 
Quinces,  half  pound  sugar,  one  pint  water.  Pears,  half  pound 
sugar,  one  pint  water.  Blueberries,  half  pound  sugar,  one  pint 
water.  Sour  plums,  three-quarters  pound  sugar,  one  pint  water. 
Sweet  plums,  half  pound  sugar,  one  pint  water.  Cherries,  half 
pound  sugar,  one  pint  water.  Red  raspberries,  half  pound 
sugar,  one  pint  water.  Blackberries,  half  pound  sugar,  one  pint 
water.  Strawberries,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pint  water.  These 
quantities  give  you  well-sweetened  fruit  with  a  rich  syrup. 

Canned  Cherries. — Stem  them,  wash,  and  seed  them,  allow 
half  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  They  make  their 
own  juice.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and  can,  observing  the  same 
rules  as  in  canning  other  fruit.    It  will  be  found  convenient  to 


268 


HOW  AVE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


pour  the  boiling  fruit  into  a  pitcher  and  then  into  the  jar,  as  it 
can  be  done  more  rapidly. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Canned  Peaches. — Select  large,  ripe  peaches  (not  soft) ;  pare 
and  halve  them;  throw  them  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  can 
them.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  half  pound  sugar,  and  just 
enough  water  to  prevent  scorching.  Let  them  come  to  a  boil 
and  boil  about  five  minutes;  put  them  into  the  jars  (having 
heated  them  by  pouring  some  very  hot  water  in  them,  and  set 
them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  also  heat  the  tops)  ■  let  the  jars  be 
full  of  fruit,  and  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them.  Screw  the 
tops  on  immediately. 

Canned  Peaches. — Have  nice  plum  peaches;  wash  clean,  peel 
carefully,  cut  in  halves  and  put  them  in  cold  water  to  prevent 
discoloring.  Have  a  porcelain  kettle,  into  which  put  the  sound 
peelings  and  the  seeds  of  the  peaches,  and  when  the  kettle  is 
half  full  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  till  tender.  Then 
strain  into  a  bowl;  wash  the  kettle  and  put  in  the  water  from 
the  peelings.  Then  put  in  your  peaches,  and  boil  till  you  can 
stick  a  straw  into  them.  Can  while  boiling  hot.  Run  a  silver 
knife  down  the  sides  to  expel  the  air.  This  syrup  may  be  dark 
but  will  bleach  out  in  the  course  of  time — during  the  winter. 
Do  not  use  this  same  syrup  for  a  second  kettle  of  peaches,  as  it 
makes  too  much  acid,  and  they  will  not  keep. 

Canned  Peaches. — Pare,  halve  and  seed ;  make  a  syrup  in  pro- 
portion of  one  pint  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar  (use  best  granu- 
lated sugar).  When  syrup  boils  drop  in  enough  fruit  for  one 
can.  Have  cans  prepared  by  placing  in  a  large  pan  of  hot 
water;  also  put  a  silver  tablespoon  in  the  can  before  filling.  In 
canning  use  porcelain  lined  kettle  and  new  rubbers.  Fill  can 
to  overflowing;  screw  top  tightly;  keep  in  a  cool  dry  place. — 
Mrs.  B.  0.  Snider. 

Canning  Red  Raspberries. — Fill  the  jars  with  fruit,  shaking 
down  well  (but  do  not  crush).  Adjust  rubbers  and  screw  on 
tops  loosely.    Put  several  folds  of  cloth  in  a  kettle  to  prevent 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  269 


contact ;  then  put  in  the  cans,  separating  them  from  each  other 
with  a  folded  cloth.  Surround  with  tepid  water,  to  rather 
more  than  one-half  the  height  of  the  jars.  Then  bring  to  boil- 
ing point,  and  boil  until  the  steam  will  issue  from  jars  when 
opened.  Lift  from  kettle,  and  fill  to  brim  with  boiling  syrup, 
made  in  proportion  of  one  cup  sugar  to  half  cup  water,  and  for 
a  pint  can  of  raspberries  add  one  tablespoon  of  currant  juice 
(this  gives  the  berries  a  rich  flavor).  All  kinds  of  berries  can- 
ned in  this  way,  remain  perfectly  whole  and  retain  a  fresh 
fruit  flavor,  that  is  lacking  when  stewed  or  cooked  in  a  granite 
kettle.  Plums  and  peaches  require  longer  cooking  than  a  tender 
berry. — Boston  Cooking  School. 

Canned  Blackberries. — Have  nice  ripe  berries ;  wash  and  put 
in  kettle  with  a  teacup  of  water.  Let  them  come  to  a  good  boil 
and  can;  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  if  you  like. 

Canning  Tomatoes. — Only  perfect  tomatoes  should  be  used 
for  canning.  If  a  large  quantity  is  to  be  canned,  have  a  large 
panful  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove  all  ready.  Select  your 
tomatoes,  and  drop  them  into  the  boiling  water,  leaving  them 
there  for  only  a  few  minutes.  Then  remove  them,  and  place  in 
another  panful  of  cold  water,  when  the  skins  can  be  readily  re- 
moved. I  cook  tomatoes  just  long  enough  to  bring  them  to  a 
brisk  boil,  when  they  are  ready  to  can.  Have  the  jars  already 
cleaned  and  on  the  stove  hearth  heating,  then  there  will  be  less 
danger  of  breakage.  Have  the  rubbers— all  new  ones — handy. 
I  get  new  rubbers  and  lids  every  season.  After  filling  the  jar 
full  with  the  boiling  fruit,  put  a  "knife  down  into  it,  to  insure 
the  escape  of  all  air,  then  see  that  the  jar  is  filled  to  the  brim. 
Wipe  the  jars  perfectly  dry,  place  the  dry  rubbers  on,  then 
screw  the  already  hot  lids  on  as  tight  as  you  can,  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  Do  not  try  to  screw  the  lids  on  tighter  after  they  are 
cool,  for  it  destroys  the  suction.  The  above  rules  will  hold  good 
for  any  kind  of  fruit,  only  some  have  to  be  cooked  longer  than 
others.— Mrs.  B.  M.  AV.,  Chilocco,  Okla. 


270 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


An  Infallible  Method  of  Canning. — When  ready  for  canning, 
rinse  and  drain  the  jars,  and  set  them  on  a  wet  folded  towel. 
Cook  the  fruit  or  vegetables  until  tender,  adding  sugar  if  de- 
sired. Using  two  kettles  and  cooking  only  enough  for  one  jar 
in  each  will  prevent  the  fruit  from  becoming  crushed  by  stir- 
ring. Now  for  the  secret.  Heat  the  lids  thoroughly,  but  not  so 
as  to  crack  the  porcelain  lining.  Place  the  rubber  on  the  jar, 
fill  level  full  with  fruit,  and  lifting  the  hot  lids  with  a  cloth, 
screw  tightly  in  place.  If  the  lids  are  old,  take  a  hammer  and 
tap  lightly  all  around  while  the  lid  is  hot,  to  make  the  union 
perfect.  The  union  of  the  rubber  and  the  hot  lid  with  the  jar 
filled  with  hot  fruit  makes  the  jar  air-tight,  which  is  the  secret 
of  keeping  fruit.  Don't  try  to  tighten  the  lids  when  cold,  for  if 
you  do  you  will  break  the  union  and  admit  air.  Use  dark  rub- 
bers, as  they  are  more  elastic,  and  can  be  used  for  several  years. 
You  may  can  vegetables,  fruits,  rhubarb  covered  with  cold 
water  without  cooking,  left-over  chicken  and  broth  and  many 
other  things  by  this  method. — S.  L.  L.,  Marion,  Ohio. 

Another  Method  of  Canning. — First  be  sure  that  your  rubbers 
are  firm  and  clean  and  strong.  Also  be  sure  that  the  mouths  of 
your  jars  are  perfect.  For  small  fruit  allow  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  four  pounds  of  fruit.  Always  use  a  porcelain-lined  kettle. 
Put  in  the  fruit,  sprinkle  sugar  over  it,  and  let  stand  for  an 
hour  or  two.  Then  put  over  the  fire,  bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  can  immediately.  Have  the  jars  in  hot  water  brought  to 
a  scald  from  cold.  Scald  the  covers  and  the  rubbers.  Many  a 
jar  of  fruit  has  spoiled  because  the  cover  and  the  rubber  were 
not  sterilized.  Larger  fruit  needs  a  longer  cooking.  Pears  must 
first  be  boiled  in  clear  water;  then  add  sugar  and  flavor  to 
taste.  Let  me  once  more  emphasize  the  absolute  necessity  of 
good  rubbers,  whole  jars  and  the  sterilizing  of  all  the  parapher- 
nalia. Then  your  fruit,  like  mine,  will  keep  for  years. — F.  W., 
Boston,  Mass. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


271 


XJhe  Jfrrankland  Carriage  Co. 

WO~2~4~6  Poplar  Street, 

^ae/csorij  Uenn. 

 •  — - 

We  are  exclusively  manufacturers  of  Fine  Vehicles. 
All  Surreys,  Phaetons,  Runabouts  and  Top  Buggies 
have  our  guarantee.  Every  vehicle  we  sell  is  built  in 
our  factory.    We  invite  inspection. 

Sulphured  Apples. — Pare  and  cut  in  quarters  or  eighths  two 
gallons  of  apples.  Have  ready  a  split  basket  with  nice  white 
cloth  spread  in  it.  Put  apples  in  this.  Have  ready  a  barrel 
with  vessel  for  coals  of  fire  in  the  bottom.  Suspend  basket  in 
barrel  by  running  a  stick  through  handle  and  resting  ends  of 
stick  on  top  edge  of  barrel.  Cover  with  tablecloth,  or  some- 
thing similar,  so  as  to  make  air  tight;  when  all  is  ready,  raise 
one  corner  of  cloth  and  drop  a  handful  of  sulphur  on  the  coals 
of  fire  in  vessel  at  bottom  of  barrel.  Close  quickly  and  leave 
ten  or  twelve  hours.  Then  put  away  in  glass  or  stone  jars, 
covering  latter  with  cloths  tied  over  the  top.  These  are  fine  for 
winter  use,  tasting  much  like  fresh  fruit. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Thomas. 

Canned  Beans. — To  five  quarts  of  beans,  strung  and  broken, 
put  seven  pints  of  water,  one  pint  cider  vinegar,  half  cup 
sugar.  Boil  all  together  at  least  thirty  minutes — then  can  in 
the  usual  way.  When  ready  for  use,  soak  a  few  minutes,  then 
boil  with  piece  of  bacon  two  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  J.  R. 
Thomas. 


212 


HOW  AVE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


CANDY. 

"It  shall  be  iu  thy  mouth  sweet  as  honey." 

To  Prevent  Sugar  and  Fruit  Syrups  from  Overflowing  or 
Rising  Too  High. — Butter  well  the  inside  of  a  vessel,  about  two 
inches  from  top;  this  will  keep  the  syrup  from  rising  higher 
than  where  it  is  buttered. 

To  Prevent  Syrups  for  Making  Candy  From  Burning  While 
Boiling. — To  avoid  this  put  in  your  vessel  three  or  four  white 
stone  marbles.  The  heat  will  keep  them  rolling  and  prevent 
the  scorching  or  burning  which  often  happens,  and  this  does 
away  with  constant  stirring. 

Fudge. — Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  cream,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one-fourth  cake  Baker's  chocolate;  mix  sugar 
and  cream;  when  hot,  add  chocolate  (grated);  as  soon  as  it 
boils,  put  in  butter.  Stir  vigorously  and  constantly  until  thick. 
Remove  and  beat  until  quite  cool;  pour  into  buttered  tins. — 
Mrs.  C.  A.  Derryberry. 

Fudge. — Three  cups  sugar,  two  large  tablespoons  of  butter, 
one-quarter  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate;  put  these  ingredients 
into  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  enough  milk  to  cover.  Boil  until  it 
slightly  hardens  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Add  a  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  and  beat  until  nearly  cold;  then  pour  in  buttered  dish; 
cut  in  squares. — Miss  Annie  May. 

Fudge. — Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  cream  or 
milk,  one  square  Baker's  chocolate  shaved  fine.  Boil  together, 
stirring  constantly  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  nearly  cold; 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  buttered  tin;  cut  into 
squares. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 


HOW  AVE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


273 


Nut  Fudge. — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  cups  of  white 
sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  nuts,  one  cake  of  sweet 
chocolate,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  lump  of  butter.  Put  all  ex- 
cept nuts  on  to  boil  for  about  twenty  minutes;  remove  from 
stove  and  beat  hard  until  it  begins  to  cream;  then  stir  in  the 
nuts  and  pour  in  a  greased  pan;  when  nearly  cold  cut  into 
squares  an  inch  wide. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Thompson. 

Chocolate  Fudge. — One-quarter  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  rich  milk,  one-quarter  pound  of  but- 
ter. Mix  grated  chocolate,  sugar  and  milk  and  boil  till  there 
are  no  bits  of  chocolate  visible.  Put  a  little  in  a  saucer  and 
run  a  spoon  through  it — there  will  be  an  open  mark  left  if  it  is 
done.  Take  from  the  fire  and  cream  into  it  the  butter  until  the 
whole  is  cool  enough  to  pour  into  the  buttered  dish — later  cut 
in  squares. — Miss  Guy  Leeper. 

Cocoanut  Fudge. — Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  but- 
ter size  of  English  walnut.  Put  on  stove,  stirring  all  the  time, 
and  cook  like  chocolate  fudge  until  done.  Beat  until  nearly 
cold  and  add  as  much  cocoanut  as  desired.  Pour  in  buttered 
pans. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Madison. 

College  Fudge. — A  college  girl  gives  this  as  her  recipe  for 
making  fudge :  Boil  a  fourth  of  a  cake  of  chocolate,  a  pound  of 
granulated  sugar  (two  cupfuls),  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  five  minutes.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and 
add  a  pound  of  marshmallows,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Beat 
until  candy  begins  to  stiffen,  then  pour  into  buttered  tins.  The 
brown  fudge  should  be  well  spotted  with  the  white  of  the 
marshmallows. 

Penocha. — Two  cups  sugar  (one  white  and  one  brown),  half 
cup  milk,  pinch  salt  and  one  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  until  it 
will  form  soft  ball  in  cold  water ;  take  from  fire,  add  one  table- 


COOK  WITH 


274  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


spoon  vanilla.  Stir  until  begins  to  cream;  add  one  cupful 
chopped  English  walnuts  (I  use  any  kind  of  nuts).  Pour  on 
buttered  platter;  let  cool  and  mark  in  squares.  Very  fine. — 
Mrs.  Lee  Agnew. 

Penotia  Candy. — Four  teacups  best  sugar,  one  cup  sweet 
cream  or  milk,  one-half  pound  English  walnuts,  chopped  fine, 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla;  cook  fifteen  minutes  on  hot  fire;  stir 
constantly  after  it  begins  to  boil ;  add  nuts  and  vanilla  just  be- 
fore taking  from  fire ;  turn  quickly  into  buttered  tins  and  mark 
into  squares  before  it  sets.— Mrs.  C.  A.  Derryberry. 

Pinuchi. — Three  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  egg,  one  and  one-quarter  cups  of  milk;  cook  till 
it  strings.  Then  stir  in  half  pound  of  shelled  pecans,  one  table- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Beat  till  it  begins  to  cool.  Pour  on  a  but- 
tered platter  and  cut  in  blocks. — Patty  Crook. 

Panocha. — Have  ready  shelled  a  quantity  of  pecan  nuts.  Put 
one  pound  of  dark  brown  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  cream  into  a 
saucepan ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  melts  and  boils  and  forms  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Take  from  the  fire ; 
add  half  a  pint  of  pecans,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  granulated,  and 
then  drop  it  in  little  cakes  on  oiled  paper. 

Marshmallow  Panouche. — One  cup  of  brown  sugar  made  into 
a  candy  with  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  scant  cup  of 
cream ;  when  this  reaches  the  ' '  string ' '  stage,  add  half  a  pound 
of  chopped  hazel  nuts  and  about  one  and  one-half  dozen  marsh- 
mallows,  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  for  the  flavoring;  stir 
hard  and  pour  into  buttered  tins  to  cool. 

Pink  Fondant. — Work  into  a  piece  of  vanilla  fondant  a  few 
drops  of  pink  coloring  matter,  adding  more  if  the  desired  shade 
is  not  produced  when  it  has  been  thoroughly  worked  through. 
If  the  shade  is  too  deep  add  white  fondant  and  work  until  it 
is  all  the  same  shade. 

Fondant. — It  is  a  good  plan  when  making  candy  to  prepare  all 
the  ingredients  before  one  begins  to  cook  the  sugar.    Shell  the 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


275 


nuts,  if  they  cannot  be  bought  already  shelled,  and  stone  the 
dates.  Blanch  the  almond  kernels  by  pouring  boiling  water 
over  them.  Allow  them  to  stand  for  about  five  minutes,  when 
the  skins  can  easily  be  removed  by  pressing  between  the  thumb 
and  forefinger.  Lay  on  a  napkin  to  dry  well  before  using.  The 
first  step  to  be  learned  in  making  candy  is  the  preparation  of 
the  fondant,  which  is  the  foundation  for  all  cream  candies. 
The  proportion  is: 

For  White  Fondant. — Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  half 
cupful  of  water,  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar. 

For  Maple  Fondant. — Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful of  maple  syrup,  one  cupful  of  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  cream  of 
tartar. 

When  making  large  quantities  of  candy  it  will  be  found  bet- 
ter to  cook  twice  this  amount  at  once.  Put  the  sugar  and  cream 
of  tartar  into  a  kettle  which  cooks  evenly  all  over  the  bottom ; 
pour  in  the  water,  and  when  all  the  sugar  is  wet,  place  over  the 
fire  and  boil.  To  test,  hold  the  forefinger  in  a  cupful  of  water 
for  a  few  seconds,  dip  quickly  into  the  boiling  syrup,  then  back 
into  the  water.  If  the  syrup  can  be  rubbed  off  the  finger  with 
the  thumb  and  rolled  into  a  soft  ball  it  is  ready  to  take  off  the 
fire.    This  is  the  best  test  I  have  found. 

Allow  the  mixture  to  get  cold,  then  stir  until  it  creams,  and 
turn  out  on  waxed  paper.  Take  the  lump  of  fondant  up  in  the 
hands  and  work  thoroughly  until  it  contains  no  lumps  and  is  in 
good  condition  for  molding  into  the  different  shapes. 

Fondant  prepared  in  this  way  is  just  right  for  making  can- 
dies which  are  to  be  covered  with  chocolate.  For  the  colored 
creams  the  syrup  should  be  cooked  a  little  longer,  and  not  al- 
lowed to  become  perfectly  cold  before  beating. 

The  maple  fondant  is  cooked  and  tested  in  the  same  way  as 
the  white,  but  usually  requires  longer  beating  to  make  it  cream. 

If  the  candies  are  to  be  dipped  in  chocolate  they  must  be  al- 
lowed to  dry  after  molding. 


276 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Take  a  large  piece  of  fondant  in  the  hand,  work  until  soft, 
then  form  a  small  hollow  in  the  top.  Pour  a  few  drops  of  va- 
nilla into  this  hollow,  then  fold  over  and  work  the  flavoring 
through  the  fondant.  Continue  until  the  fondant  has  enough 
vanilla,  which  can  be  determined  by  tasting.  Flavor  a  small 
piece  of  fondant  with  lemon  extract,  another  with  orange,  and 
another  with  some  different  extract,  say  pineapple,  coffee,  etc. 
Eoll  each  into  a  long  roll,  lay  on  waxed  paper,  press  with  a 
knife  into  a  rectangular  shape  as  nearly  as  possible,  half  an  inch 
wide  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Let  stand  to  dry.  When 
they  can  be  raised  off  the  paper  without  sticking  cut  each  flavor 
a  different  shape — the  lemon  into  three-cornered  pieces,  for  in- 
stance, the  orange  into  diamond-shaped  pieces,  and  the  pine- 
apple into  squares. — Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

Boiled  Fondant. — Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  (good 
measure)  boiling  water,  one-third  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
Put  on  stove  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  usually  as  it  be- 
gins to  boil.  Do  not  stir  after  it  begins  to  boil,  but  cover  and 
let  it  boil  moderately  for  five  minutes,  being  careful  that  the 
vessel  is  not  moved ;  after  it  has  boiled  five  minutes  remove  the 
cover  and  test  by  dropping  a  little  of  the  mixture  in  cold  water. 
It  should  usually  boil  for  perhaps  two  or  three  minutes  after 
the  cover  is  removed,  but  if  when  dropped  into  the  cold 
water  a  soft  gluey  ball  may  be  formed  with  the  fingers,  it  is 
done ;  remove  from  fire,  cover  with  a  towel  which  has  been  wet 
in  ice  water ;  let  stand  fifteen  minutes  to  cool.  Then  stir,  being 
careful  not  to  stir  in  the  crystals  which  have  formed  during  the 
boiling  on  the  sides  of  the  vessel.  A  thick  creamy  mass  should 
be  the  result.  When  hard  enough  knead  with  the  hands; 
flavor. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Madison. 

Praulines. — Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  moisten  thoroughly 
with  maple  syrup.  Cook  this  with  a  lump  of  butter,  until  it 
hardens  slightly  (but  not  as  hard  as  pulled  candy).  Eemove 
from  fire,  beat  hard  until  it  begins  to  harden,  then  add  one  cup 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


277 


of  hickorynuts  and  drop  on  a  marble  slab  until  cool. — Mrs.  J. 
L.  Newsom. 

Pralines. — Two  cups  coffee  "C"  sugar,  half  cup  maple 
syrup,  one  cup  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  all 
together  eight  minutes;  stir  all  the  time  while  cooking.  After 
removing  from  fire  stir  until  almost  cold ;  then  add  one  cup  of 
pecans.   Drop  on  greased  paper. — Mrs.  Martha  Dodson. 

Pecan  Pralines. — To  make  pecan  pralines  take  a  large  cup- 
ful of  granulated  sugar,  put  in  dry  pot  and  stir  constantly  un- 
til every  bit  of  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  a  bit  of  butter  and 
lemon  peel,  and  when  it  becomes  a  syrup  pour  it  over  shelled 
pecans.  Pour  out  on  marble  or  buttered  foolscap.  Another 
recipe  is  this:  Place  four  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes. 
Add  a  pound  of  butter  and  boil  five  minutes;  stir  hard;  add 
one  quart  of  kernels  and  when  it  again  comes  to  a  boil  pour  into 
buttered  tins  or  saucers  and  set  away  to  harden. 

Butter  Scotch. — Ten  tablespoons  sugar,  eight  tablespoons 
nectar  drip,  three  tablespoons  water,  butter  size  of  egg.  Boil 
all  together  for  twenty  minutes  till  it  is  a  good  brown,  and  then 
drop  from  spoon  on  a  marble  slab. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Pecan  Candy. — Put  two  cups  of  sugar  in  a  kettle  and  stir  con- 
stantly. Have  ready  one  cup  of  pecans.  When  sugar  is  melted 
stir  in  pecans  and  pour  on  marble.  Have  a  roller  in  cold  water 
and  roll  very  thin. 

Taffy  Candy. — Four  cups  sugar,  one  cup  boiling  Avater,  one 
teaspoonful  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Boil  until  it 
hardens  in  water.   Pour  on  a  slab  and  pull. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Nelson. 

Boston  Cream  Candy. — Three  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one 
pound  white  syrup,  one  and  one-half  pints  sweet  cream,  three 
pounds  of  almonds  before  they  are  shelled.  Boil  sugar,  syrup  and 
cream  together  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  stir  as  long 
as  it  can  be  stirred.   Before  too  stiff  add  almonds  which  have 


278 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


previously  been  shelled  and  blanched;  pour  into  a  deep  but- 
tered tin  and  when  nearly  cold  cut  in  slices. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

Molasses  Candy. — Dissolve  one  cup  sugar  in  half  cup  vine- 
gar ;  mix  with  one  quart  molasses,  and  boil  till  it  hardens  when 
dropped  from  the  spoon  into  cold  water;  then  stir  in  one  table- 
spoon butter  and  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Give  one  hard  stir  and  pour  into  buttered  dishes.  Pull  hard 
until  white,  using  only  the  tips  of  the  fingers. 

Molasses  Candy. — Boil  one  quart  molasses  in  a  deep  vessel. 
Boil  steadily  and  stir  from  side  to  side.  When  a  little  bit  put 
in  cold  water  becomes  brittle  it  is  done.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
dish  and  pull  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle,  or  you  may 
stir  in,  when  it  is  nearly  done,  some  walnuts.  Boil  a  little 
longer;  pour  on  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. 

Sugar  Candy. — Three  cups  sugar,  half  cup  vinegar,  half  cup 
water.  Boil  without  stirring  till  brittle.  Pour  on  a  buttered 
dish  and  pull  till  white  and  light. 

Mexican  Sugar  Candy. — Shell  sufficient  pecans  to  make  half 
a  pint  of  meats.  Put  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  into  an  iron 
saucepan,  stir  until  it  melts,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.  Take  from 
the  fire,  and  when  slightly  cooled  add  a  cupful  of  milk;  add 
another  cupful  of  sugar  and  stir  the  whole  until,  when  dropped 
into  cold  water,  the  syrup  forms  a  soft  ball.  Take  from  the 
fire,  add  the  nuts,  stir  until  it  granulates,  and  turn  into  a  shal- 
low, greased  pan.  Quickly  flatten  out,  and  when  cold  break 
into  squares. 

Caramel  Candy. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  cream;  place  on 
fire ;  one  cup  sugar,  put  in  a  pan  and  let  scorch ;  stir  while  scorch- 
ing— when  it  becomes  a  syrup  pour  into  the  other  and  stir  until 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


279 


it  is  well  mixed.  Drop  in  cold  water,  and  if  it  comes  up  with- 
out sticking,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  it  until  almost  cold. 
Add  a  cup  of  nuts ;  pour  on  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. — 
Mrs.  Robert  Paine. 

Cocoanut  Candy. — Two  pounds  of  white  sugar,  three-quarters 
pint  of  water.  Boil  until  it  will  string  (as  for  icing).  Add 
pinch  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  shaved 
paraffine.  When  this  is  thoroughly  dissolved  add  one  grated 
cocoanut  and  stir  until  it  thickens  and  creams.  Pour  in  but- 
tered dish  and  cut  when  nearly  cold. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Newsom. 

Cocoanut  Candy. — Take  one  large  grated  cocoanut  and  put 
into  a  deep  bowl.  Put  into  a  saucepan  four  cups  sugar,  with 
hot  water  to  dissolve  it  in ;  let  it  boil  until  it  threads  from  the 
side  of  a  spoon;  then  gradually  pour  over  the  cocoanut  and 
beat  hard.  Drop  in  cakes  on  a  cold  slab. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lan- 
caster. 

Cocoanut  Candy. — The  proportion  is  one  heaping  cup  of 
grated  cocoanut  to  two  even  cups  of  granulated  sugar.  Wet 
the  sugar  with  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut  and  a  little  water,  for 
there  is  scarcely  enough  milk  from  the  cocoanut  to  moisten  it 
sufficiently.  Boil  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  it  is  hard 
enough  to  pick  up  in  the  fingers,  though  not  hard  enough  to 
crack  against  the  sides  of  the  goblet.  Have  the  grated  cocoanut 
in  a  vegetable  dish  or  bowl  with  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  walnut.  Pour  the  boiling  hot  candy  on  the  cocoanut  and 
stir  until  it  begins  to  look  white  and  creamy,  then  pour  out  on 
a  platter  and  when  cold  cut  in  squares.  It  is  well  to  grate  the 
cocoanut  the  day  before  using  and  spread  it  on  a  platter  to 
dry.   Keep  the  milk  in  a  cool  place,  as  it  sours  easily. 

Hickory  Nut  Macaroons. — Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
froth,  add  slowly  one  cupful  of  pulverized  sugar  and  one  cupful 
of  nuts,  chopped  fine,  mix  thoroughly  and  drop  on  buttered  tins. 
Bake  slowly. 


280  HOTT  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


Hickory  Nut  Macaroons. — One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one 
pound  of  chopped  hickory  nuts,  the  whites  of  five  unbeaten 
eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Drop  on  buttered  paper  and  dry  in  the  oven.  These 
are  delicious. 

Chocolate  Macaroons. — Scrape  fine  half  a  pound  of  Baker's 
chocolate.  Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  stir  into  the 
eggs  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  scraped  chocolate, 
adding  a  very  little  flour.  Form  the  mixture  into  small,  thick 
cakes,  and  lay  them,  uot  too  close,  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  bake 
them  a  few  minutes.    Sift  sugar  over  them  while  warm. 

Peanut  Kisses. — Shell  and  remove  the  brown  skin 
from  one  quart  of  roasted  peanuts.  Put  them  through  a  nut- 
grinder  or  pound  them  to  a  paste.  Add  half  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar  and  the  unbeaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Beat 
all  well  together,  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  paper  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 

Egg  Kisses. — Fourteen  heaping  tablespoons  of  fine  granu- 
lated sugar  poured  on  the  whites  of  six  eggs.  Beat  until  it 
will  drop  from  a  spoon  like  batter,  or  stand  alone.  When 
beaten  add  one  cup  pecans.  Line  pan  with  brown  paper,  but 
do  not  grease.  Bake  slowly,  and  when  done  you  can  lift  off 
paper. — Eunie  Gooch. 

Egg  Kisses. — Four  eggs — whites  beaten  stiff:  one  cup  sugar, 
beaten  in  eggs — then  stir  in  one  cup  sugar.  Take  wrapping 
paper — do  not  grease — and  drop  mixture  from  fork  and  bake 
in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  C.  P.  Black. 

Peppermint  Drops. — One  cup  of  sugar,  just  moistened  with 
boiling  water;  boil  five  minutes;  take  from  the  fire  and  add 
cream  of  tartar  size  of  a  pea ;  mix  well  and  add  half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  essence  of  peppermint ;  beat  briskly  until  the  mixture 
whitens,  then  drop  quickly  on  white  paper.  Have  cream  tartar 
an  1  peppermint  measured  while  the  sugar  is  boiling.  If  it 
sugars  before  it  is  all  dropped,  add  a  little  water  and  boil  a 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


281 


minute  or  two.  Wintergreen,  lemon  or  other  flavors  may  be 
made  the  same  way. — Mrs.  Mattie  Wood. 

Lemon  Drops. — Pour  enough  lemon  juice  over  half  a  pound 
of  powdered  sugar  to  dissolve  it ;  put  it  in  a  pan  and  boil  to  a 
thick  syrup ;  drop  a  little  in  cold  water  and  when  it  is  brittle 
it  is  done.  Then  drop  on  buttered  plates  in  small  drops  and  set 
away  to  cool  and  harden. 

Cocoanut  Caramels. — Two  cups  of  sugar  with  enough  water 
to  boil  it.  When  ready  to  take  off,  put  in  one  cup  of  cocoanut 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter.   Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Caramels. — Put  half  pound  of  grated,  unsweet- 
ened chocolate,  four  ounces  of  butter,  one  pound  of  br^own 
sugar,  half  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup  of  cream  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla  sugar  into  a  saucepan ;  stir  the  whole  over  a  slow 
fire  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  then  boil  slowly  until  the 
mixture  hardens  when  dropped  into  ice-water.  Turn  into 
greased,  shallow  pans  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  nearly 
cold  dip  a  sharp  knife  in  olive  oil,  mark  the  caramels  in  squares ; 
when  cold  break  apart  and  wrap  in  waxed  paper. 

Peanut  Brittle. — Shell  and  remove  the  hard  skins  from  two 
quarts  of  peanuts;  roll  until  they  are  slightly  broken;  sift  the 
peanuts  lightly  and  allow  the  finer  portion  to  fall  on  an  ordin- 
ary bread  board ;  they  must  be  sufficiently  thick  to  cover  the 
board;  stand  the  remainder  aside.  Put  one  pound  sugar  into 
an  iron  saucepan;  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  melts  and  slightly 
browns;  then  stir  in  just  as  many  peanuts  as  the  sugar  will 
hold ;  turn  out  quickly  on  the  board  that  has  been  covered  with 
the  fine  nuts ;  roll  it  out  in  a  thin  sheet ;  cut  into  squares,  and 
when  cool  break  apart. 

Creamed  Dates. — Mold  pink  fondant  into  a  ball,  then  roll 
between  the  palms  of  the  hands  until  about  the  length  of  a 
date.  Place  inside  the  stoned  date,  and  press  the  edges  of  the 
date  together,  allowing  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  fondant 
to  show  the  whole  length  of  the  date.   Roll  in  granulated  sugar. 


282 


HOAV  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Stuffed  Dates. — Seed  the  dates  and  in  each  one  place  pecans 
or  English  walnuts.    Roll  in  sugar. 

English  Walnut  Creams. — Work  half  a  pound  of  fondant  un- 
til creamy,  and  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Have  ready  English  walnuts  shelled  and  divided  in  halves; 
take  a  piece  of  fondant  the  size  of  a  marble,  roll  in  the  hand, 
place  it  between  two  halves  of  the  walnuts,  press  together  and 
stand  them  aside  to  harden. 

Maple  Creams. — Mold  maple  fondant  into  any  shape  desired, 
and  dip  either  in  chocolate  or  in  maple  fondant  melted. 

Chocolate  Creams. — Cream  thoroughly  two-thirds  cup  sugar, 
three-quarters  cup  milk,  put  on  and  cook  till  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  water.  Have  prepared  two  squares  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  half  as  much  paraffine  melted;  when  the  cream  is 
taken  from  fire  flavor  with  vanilla.  Set  in  cold  water  and  beat 
awhile,  then  pour  out  on  marble  slab,  and  knead  like  dough. 
When  firm  make  into  little  balls,  then  dip  (with  a  hat  pin)  in 
chocolate  mixture  and  drop  on  greased  paper;  put  nuts  on 
soon  as  you  drop  them. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Nougat. — One  and  one-quarter  pounds  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons glucose,  add  to  this  one  cup  water  in  one  vessel,  and  in 
another  vessel  put  three-quarters  pound  sugar  and  three-quar- 
ters cup  water.  Let  each  cook  until  it  ropes,  then  pour  first  the 
three-quarters  pound  sugar  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs,  and  then  pour  in  the  other  syrups,  beating  all  the  time. 
When  quite  stiff  add  half  pound  almond  nuts.  Put  on  dish  and 
shape  lake  a  loaf.  Set  aside  until  cold.  Then  slice.  Add 
flavoring  to  taste — just  before  putting  in  nuts. — Mrs.  Martha 
Dodson. 

Marshmallows. — Eor  marshmallows,  take  two  ounces  of 
powdered  gum  arabic  and  pour  over  it  eight  tablespoonfuls  of 
water,  and  let  it  soak  for  an  hour;  then  heat  slowly  over  boiling 
water  until  the  gum  is  dissolved.  Strain  through  cheesecloth, 
add  about  seven  ounces  of  confectioners'  sugar,  and  stir  over 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


283 


THE  WHIG 

JACKSON'S 
LEADING  NEWSPAPER 

Only  paper  having  Associated  Press  service. 

the  fire  until  white  and  quite  stiff.  This  should  take  at  least 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  from  the  range,  beat  quick- 
ly for  say  two  minutes,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour 
into  a  tin  pan  previously  dusted  with  corn  starch,  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  Cut  into  squares  when  cold,  and  roll  each  square  in 
corn  starch  and  put  away  in  tin  boxes. 

Moravian  Mint  Cakes. — The  following  recipe  was  brought 
from  Moravia  by  the  Moravian  nuns  when  they  came  to  this 
country  to  avoid  persecution  prior  to  the  lading  of  William 
Penn,  settling  at  Litiz,  Pa.  It  has  never  been  in  print,  having 
been  closely  guarded  within  Moravian  families  ever  since. 
One  pound  of  pulverized  or  confectiones'  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  water  and  five  drops  oil  of  peppermint  (essence  of 
peppermint  will  not  do).  Mix  half  the  sugar  with  the  water 
in  a  porcelain  lined  saucepan;  put  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it 
boils  up.  Take  at  once  from  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  the  remain- 
ing sugar  and  the  oil  of  peppermint.  When  thoroughly  mixed, 
return  to  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  up  again.  Remove  at  once  from 
the  fire  and  pour  into  tin  patty-pans,  or  drop  on  greased  stiff 
paper  to  make  cakes  the  size  of  a  dollar.  The  pans  should  not 
be  greased.  If  allowed  to  more  than  just  boil,  it  will  show  clear, 
and  be  spoiled.  When  properly  made  it  is  a  creamy  white  con- 
fection, and  is  especially  nice  for  children,  being  pure  and 
wholesome. 


284 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


PICKLE. 

If  all  our  world  were  sweetness, 

Without  a  variation, 
We'd  soon  become  insipid, 

Devoid  of  animation. 
So  here  's  to  sour  pickles, 

May  they  always  have  their  rights, 
Add  zest  unto  our  banquet, 

And  whet  our  appetites.  — Bessie  Warren  Leach. 

Excellent  Pickle  Recipe. — Part  I. — Half  bushel  tomatoes,  one 
dozen  large  onions,  one  dozen  green  peppers.  Grind  very  fine 
and  put  a  layer  of  salt  and  then  of  tomatoes  in  a  cheese  cloth 
sack  and  hang  up  to  drip  over  night;  then  squeeze  out  and 
cover  with  vinegar  and  cook  slowly.  Part  II. — Two  pounds 
light  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoons  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon 
spice,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  one  tablespoon  black  pepper,  half 
cup  mustard,  one  pint  horseradish.  Add  enough  vinegar  to  this 
second  part  to  make  thin,  and  heat  together  in  a  separate  vessel, 
and  after  first  part  comes  to  a  boil  pour  in  this  second  part  and 
take  immediately  off  the  stove  and  put  in  jars  as  you  would  any 
pickles. — Mrs.  Fite. 

Preserve  Pickles  from  Molding. — Drop  a  few  slices  or  perhaps 
a  few  gratings  of  horseradish  on  the  top  of  pickles  in  each  jar. 
This  addition  adds  piquancy  to  the  cucumbers  and  preserves 
their  crispness. 

Mixed  Pickle. — Equal  quantities  of  green  tomatoes  and  cab- 
bage, one  peck  cut  fine;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  over 
night.  To  this  one  peck  add  eight  large  white  onions.  Sprinkle 
this  with  salt  too.  Next  morning  squeeze  all  the  salt  out.  Two 
gallons  of  bulk  cucumber  pickle  with  all  the  vinegar  squeezed 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


285 


out  and  mix  with  all  the  other  ingredients,  and  scald  in  com- 
mon vinegar.  Squeeze  hot  vinegar  out,  then  add  twenty  cents 
worth  white  mustard  seed.  Scald  half  gallon  good  apple  vine- 
gar with  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  eight  pods  of  red  pepper, 
one  dessert  spoon  of  tumeric,  quarter  pound  box  of  mustard, 
mixed  with  cold  vinegar  to  a  part.  Three  teaspoons  of  spice, 
three  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  six  pieces  of  ginger,  twenty  cents 
worth  of  stick  cinnamon  beat  in  a  mortar  till  fine.  Tie  it  up 
into  six  or  eight  little  bags.  Boil  all  the  spices  and  things  in 
the  apple  vinegar  before  pouring  over  pickle.  In  the  morning, 
if  too  dry,  pour  on  a  little  more  hot  vinegar. — Mrs.  Elizabeth 
Leeper. 

Chopped  Pickle. — Two  heads  cauliflower,  half  peck  green 
tomatoes,  half  dozen  large  green  cucumbers,  three  green  and 
three  red  mangoes,  three  bunches  celery,  one  and  one-half 
quarts  small  white  onions,  three-quarters  gallon  apple  vinegar, 
two  and  one-half  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  cents  worth  tumeric, 
two  cents  worth  white  mustard  seed,  quarter  pound  ground 
mustard  (Coleman's),  quarter  cup  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
whole  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  ground  cinnamon,  salt  to  taste. 
Boil  all  half  hour.  Then  add  tumeric,  ground  mustard  and  flour, 
mixed  to  a  paste.  Let  boil  five  minutes  or  until  it  thickens  like 
cream,  then  can.  Do  not  put  all  of  the  tumeric  in  until  tasted ; 
it  may  be  too  much. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Kyley. 

Chow-Chow  Pickle. — Half  peck  green  tomatoes,  one-fourth 
peck  white  onions,  one  dozen  good  size  cucumber  pickles,  six 
green  peppers,  ten  cents  of  white  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  tumeric,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar,  one 
large  head  of  white  cabbage,  fifty  cents  worth  of  celery.  Put 
through  a  mill.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  half  of  a 
box  of  Coleman's  mustard.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  let  stand 
for  one  hour.  Squeeze  dry.  Add  to  the  hot  vinegar;  let  boil 
thirty  minutes.  Use  one-half  recipe  for  a  small  family. — Mrs 
B.  0.  Snider. 


286 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


ffictuscher  jfcardware 

<Sole  J^gents  for 

White  3*rost  Refrigerators, 
^Peninsular  and  Slobe  Stoves  and  ZPanges, 
Coal  Oil  and  Sasoline  Stoves, 
Cole 's  jfir~t/yAt  Sweaters. 

See  our  "  Kleankut "  Food  Chopper  and  Lisk  Roasting  Pans. 
Rogers'  Silverplated  Knives,  Forks  and  Spoons. 
A  Full  and  Complete  Line  of  Hardware  always  in  stock. 
Your  trade  will  be  appreciated. 


Chow-Chow. — One  gallon  green  tomatoes  (after  they  are 
chopped),  two  gallons  cabbage,  one  quart  onions,  twelve  green 
peppers.  Salt  and  let  stand  over  night,  or  till  next  evening. 
Then  put  in  a  basket  and  let  drip  over  night.  In  the  morning 
put  in  a  large  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  with  vinegar  and 
water  (half  and  half).  Let  stay  two  days.  Then  put  in  basket 
and  drip  all  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  one  and  one-half 
gallons  cucumber  pickle  chopped  fine,  and  one  pint  grated 
horse  radish,  half  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  celery 
seed,  half  teacup  black  pepper  (ground),  two  ounces  pulverized 
cinnamon,  two  ounces  tumeric,  three  pounds  brown  sugar; 
cover  with  vinegar  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  while  hot 
add  one-quarter  pound  mustard. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Chow-Chow. — One  gallon  cabbage,  one  gallon  tomatoes,  one 
dozen  green  peppers  (take  out  seed),  six  cups  brown  sugar,  two 
dozen  onions,  one  cup  mustard  seed,  four  tablespoons  celery 
seed,  four  tablespoons  celery  seed,  one  and  one-half  cups  salt, 


Company^ 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


287 


three  teaspoons  mustard.  Mix  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions  and 
salt  together  over  night.  Press  out  all  water  and  add  sugar, 
etc.    Cook  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Cucumber  Pickle. — Take  cucumbers  out  of  brine,  soak  in 
water  several  days,  changing  the  water  often.  Scald  in  weak 
vinegar,  putting  into  this  one  tablespoon  of  alum  to  a  gallon 
of  cucumbers;  let  them  stand  in  this  until  cold.  To  one-half 
gallon  strong  vinegar  add  two  cups  sugar,  spices  tied  in  a  bag 
(no  cloves),  one  tablespoon  of  black  pepper,  a  little  garlic. 
Heat  and  pour  over  cucumbers. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Harrison. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickle. — Slice  about  one  inch  thick  after 
being  in  brine ;  soak  salt  out ;  boil  in  strong  alum  water  one- 
half  hour,  then  in  ginger  tea  one-half  hour;  make  a  syrup  of 
one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  pint  of  water,  three  pounds  of  sugar 
to  four  pounds  of  cucumbers.  Season  with  cinnamon,  cloves, 
mace;  put  the  cucumbers  in  and  boil  till  the  syrnp  is  thick 
enough. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Cabbage  Pickle. — Cut  cabbage  into  quarters;  put  in  brine 
and  remain  one  week.  Change  brine  and  remain  one  week 
longer.  Soak  about  twenty  minutes ;  press  in  cloth  till  dry. 
Scald  with  vinegar,  a  little  tumeric,  cloves  and  allspice.  Pack 
in  a  large  stone  jar  and  layer  with  the  following  spices:  One 
pint  mustard  seed,  four  ounces  race  ginger,  three  ounces  black 
pepper,  three  ounces  allspice,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  Ounce  celery 
seed,  three  handfuls  horse  radish,  four  lemons  cut  up,  four 
pounds  brown  sugar.  Cover  well  with  cold  vinegar.  Fine- 
Miss  Ella  McGuire. 

Cabbage  Pickle. — One  large  head  of  cabbage,  eight  onions, 
twelve  cucumbers  (slice  the  cucumbers  lengthwise  in  thin 
slices,  three  tablespoons  of  salt  sprinkled  over).  Put  the  pickle 
in  a  sack  and  hang  up  twenty-four  hours  to  drain.  Next  morn- 
ing take  it  out  and  sprinkle  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
ginger,  black  pepper,  celery  seed  and  mustard ;  one  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  mace  and  tumeric.    Mix  well  and  put  in  a  stone 


288 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


COOKSEY  BROS. 

Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries 

SPECIALTIES 
Vegetables,  Fruits,  Country 
Produce,  Etc. 

Cor.  Main  and  Church  Sts. 

Both  Phones  68. 


Robertson-Redman  Go. 

105-107  S.  Market  St.  Jackson,  Tenn, 

DRY  GOODS 

Clothing  for  Men  and  B03S, 

Millinery,  Tailor  Made  Suits  and 
Suits  for  Ladies  and  Misses,  Shoes, 
Hats  and  Caps,  Furnishing  Goods. 
Entire  stock  new  and  up-to-date. 


jar.  Put  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  two  quarts  of  vinegar;  let  boil 
and  pour  over  the  pickle.  Next  morning  let  drain  again;  boil 
the  vinegar  again  and  put  in  jars  and  seal. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Newsom. 

Onion  Pickle. — Put  silver  skinned  onions  in  a  salty  brine  for 
three  nights.  Take  them  out  and  soak  in  clear  water  half  of  a 
day.  Put  vinegar  on  to  boil  with  red  and  black  pepper  and 
mace.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil;  then  drop  onions  in  until  hot 
through.  Put  them  into  jar  then  for  two  mornings  more;  put 
vinegar  into  kettle  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  pour  over  onions, 
not  taking  onions  out. 

Onion  Pickle. — Peel  and  boil  small  onions  in  milk  and  water 
ten  minutes.  To  one  gallon  vinegar  add  half  ounce  mace,  one- 
quarter  ounce  cloves,  three  tablespoons  salt,  half  teaspoon 
alum,  when  boiling  hot.  Drain  off  milk  and  water  and  add 
the  spiced  vinegar  to  onions  and  seal  in  jars. 

Spiced  Plums. — To  use  the  plum  pulp  after  making  jelly. 
Two  pounds  sugar  to  three  pounds  fruit,  two  cups  vinegar  and 
spices  to  taste.   Boil  half  hour. — Mrs.  IT.  R.  Lancaster. 

Spiced  Grapes. — Separate  the  pulp  and  skin,  preserving  the 
skin,  which  boil  in  one  vessel  and  the  pulp  in  another,  and  run 
the  pulp  through  a  sieve  to  get  out  the  seed ;  then  add  the  skin 
to  the  pulp  and  boil  with  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  One 
pint  of  good  vinegar  and  five  pounds  sugar  to  every  seven  of 
fruit;  a  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  spice;  boil 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


289 


until  thick  and  put  in  glasses.  Plums  can  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

Spiced  Damsons. — One  and  one-half  gallons  damsons  to  one 
gallon  sugar  and  teacup  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  each  cloves 
and  spice  and  cinnamon.    Cook  until  thick. 

Damson  Sweet  Pickle. — One  peck  damsons  (seeded),  one  and 
one-half  pints  good  vinegar,  seven  pounds  brown  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  each  of  cloves  and  powdered  mace.   Boil  two  hours. 

Pepper  Mangoes. — Gather  your  pepper  when  green.  Cut  a 
slit  in  each  pepper ;  take  the  seed  out  carefully  and  wash  them. 
Pour  weak,  boiling  brine  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  four 
days;  renew  the  brine  daily,  and  always  have  it  boiling  hot. 
Freshen  the  peppers,  and  stuff  them  with  cabbage  that  has  been 
chopped  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  cinnamon,  mace  and 
cloves  that  have  been  pounded  fine,  and  with  whole  white  must- 
ard seed.  After  stuffing  the  peppers  tie  a  cord  around  each 
one;  pack  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  strong,  boiling  vinegar  over 
them  three  weeks  in  succession.  The  last  time  add  a  small 
piece  of  alum  to  the  vinegar. 

Chili  Sauce. — One  peck  tomatoes,  six  red  peppers,  six  large 
onions  chopped  fine,  three  tablespoonsful  salt,  two  cups  vine- 
gar, one  teaspoonful  ground  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  three  teaspoons  mustard,  one  teaspoon  whole  cloves,, 
three  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  whole  allspice.  Tie 
whole  spices  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  boil  all  together  for 
one  hour. — Mrs.  A.  H.  Ellington. 

Tomato  Catsup. — One  peck  ripe  tomatoes  chopped,  half  pound 
sugar,  quarter  pound  salt,  six  onions,  half  ounce  of  spice, 
quarter  pound  mustard,  half  ounce  black  pepper,  one-eighth 
ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  pint  vinegar.  Cook  three  hours 
after  it  is  strained. — Mrs.  S.  W.  Tucker. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. — Slice  green  tomatoes  and  half  as  many 
onions.  Put  a  layer  of  each  in  kettle  and  sprinkle  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  salt,  ground  mustard  and  brown  sugar,  one 


290 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


teaspoon  black  pepper,  and  spices  to  taste,  then  add  another 
of  tomatoes,  onions  and  spices.  Cover  with  strong  vinegar; 
boil  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  D.  W.  Hughes. 

Cantaloupe  Pickle. — Slice  and  peel  fine,  ripe  cantaloupe,  pour 
weak  vinegar  over  it,  and  let  remain  over  night ;  lay  them  in  a 
colander  and  measure  this  vinegar;  take  the  same  quantity  of 
strong  vinegar,  and  to  every  quart  allow  two  pounds  brown 
sugar;  let  boil  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes.  Before  taking 
from  the  fire  put  in  white  mustard  seed,  cinnamon,  mace. — 
Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Sweet  Pickle  Peaches. — Take  seven  pounds  of  fruit,  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  vinegar.  When  boiling,  put 
in  the  fruit ;  add  a  few  cloves,  spice  and  some  cinnamon ;  put 
these  in  a  muslin  bag.   Boil  twenty  minutes. 

*    *  * 

FOR  THE  SICK. 

Beef  Tea. — One  pound  of  nice  lean  beef,  cut  up  fine ;  put  in 
a  large  mouth  bottle,  or  jar;  set  in  vessel  of  cold  water  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Boil  three  hours.  Lay  a  top  on  the  jar,  but  do 
not  screw  it  up  tight,  Turn  at  once  into  a  sieve,  or  the  beef 
will  soak  up  the  juice. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

Beef  Extract. — Take  a  porterhouse  steak  about  one  inch 
thick;  remove  all  fat;  boil  quickly  over  a  brisk  fire.  Have 
ready  a  teacup,  warmed  in  hot  water;  place  beef  in  a  lemon 
squeezer,  extracting  all  juice  into  the  cup.  Season  with  salt, 
Serve  at  once.   Invaluable  where  solid  food  cannot  be  taken. 

Albumen  Water. — To  half  glass  crushed  ice  add  whites  of 
two  eggs;  beat  it  then  with  a  fork  until  it  froths  nicely;  add 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon 
of  whiskey.    To  be  given  in  cases  of  fever. 


HOW  AYE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


291 


MISCELLANY. 

POISONS  AND  THEIR  ANTIDOTES. 

Acids — Sulphuric.  Nitric,  Muriatic,  Oxalic. — Give  alkali — 
soap  and  soda  usually  at  hand.  Provoke  vomiting.  Give  bland 
drinks  and  milk.  Secure  rest.  Relieve  pain  with  opium,  and 
stimulate  if  necessary. 

Carbolic  Acid. — Give  Epsom  salts,  dilute  sulphuric  acid, 
glycerine,  and  oil.    Produce  vomiting.    Stimulate  if  necessary, 

Prussic. — Give  dilute  ammonia  water,  chlorine  water,  solu- 
tion of  a  salt  of  iron.  Produce  vomiting,  and  stimulate  if  ne- 
cessary. 

Arsenic,  Paris  Green,  Fowler's  Solution. — Provoke  vomiting. 
Give  hydrated  oxide  of  iron.  Magnesia  in  large  quantities. 
Give  milk,  butter,  and  a  dose  of  castor  oil.  Avoid  giving  acids. 
Stimulate  if  necessary. 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (lunar  caustic). — Give  strong  solution  of 
common  solt  and  repeat  often.  This  decomposes  the  poison. 
Produce  vomiting. 

Mercury,  White  and  Red  Precipitate,  Corrosive  Sublimate, 
Vermillion. — Albumen,  whites  of  eggs,  milk  and  wheat  flour  in 
water.  Provoke  vomiting.  Give  some  infusion  containing  tan- 
nic acid. 

Antimony,  Tartar  Emetic,  Oxide  of  Antimony. — Give  large 
drafts  of  warm  water.  Provoke  vomiting.  Give  infusion  of  oak 
bark.  Give  raw  eggs  and  milk  and  a  dose  of  castor  oil.  Stimu- 
late if  necessary. 

Phosphorus,  Matches,  etc. — Give  emetics,  magnesia  and  water 
and  mucilaginous  drinks  freely. 

Acetate  and  Sulphate  of  Zine  (white  vitrol). — Vomiting  will 
be  relieved  by  large  draughts  of  warm  water.    Carbonate  of 


292 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


Use  P.  &  S.  Safe 
Headache  Cure 


rewsj 


It  is  Guaranteed. 


Pinkston  &  Scruggs. 


Price  25c. 


soda  in  solution  will  decompose  the  sulphate.  Milk  and  albu- 
men will  act  as  an  antidote. 

Copper  and  Its  Salts,  Verdigris. — Give  albumen,  milk,  white 
of  eggs  in  solution,  freely.    Avoid  giving  vinegar. 

Alcohol. — Provoke  vomiting.    Give  hartshorn  and  water. 

Opium,  Morphine,  Laudanum,  Paregoric,  Choral. — Provoke 
vomiting  repeatedly.  Give  atropine,  strong  coffee,  and  tea. 
Keep  the  patient  in  motion.  Dash  cold  water  on  the  head  and 
shoulders.    Use  artificial  respiration  if  necessary. 

Strychnine. — Give  emetics,  chlorine  water:  inhale  chloro- 
form, ether,  and  the  nitrate  of  anryl.  Give  choral  and  the  bro- 
mides.   Secure  rest. 

Acetate  of  Lead  (sugar  of  lead). — Give  Epsom  salts  or  di- 
luted sulphuric  acid.  Produce  vomiting.  Give  bland  drinks 
and  dose  castor  oil;  lemonade  and  white  of  eggs. 

Creosote. — Give  albumen  and  white  of  eggs,  milk,  or  wheat 
flour.    Provoke  vomiting. 

Iodine. — Give  starch,  wheat  flour,  and  arrowroot  well  mixed 
in  water.  This  makes  an  insoluble  compound.  Give  vinegar 
and  water  and  move  the  bowels. 

Alkalies,  Carbonate  of  Ammonia,  Caustic  Potash,  Hartshorn, 
Lye. — Give  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  or  citric  acid  in  solution. 
Give  castor  oil,  olive  oil,  linseed  oil.  and  mucilaginous  drinks. 
Provoke  vomiting.  Relieve  pain  with  opium  and  stimulate  if 
necessary. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


293 


Geo.  H.  Geer,  Jeweler. 


Cure  for  Earache. — Take  a  bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  upon  it 
a  pinch  of  black  pepper ;  gather  it  up  and  tie  it ;  dip  it  in  sweet 
oil,  and  insert  it  in  the  ear.  Put  a  flannel  bandage  over  the 
head  to  keep  it  warm.   It  will  give  immediate  relief. 

Another  Cure  for  Earache. — Take  an  onion  and  roast  it  well ; 
pour  on  it  a  little  laudanum  and  sweet  oil.  Put  a  few  drops 
of  the  juice  in  the  ear,  and  stop  it  with  wool;  bind  the  warm 
onion  to  it. 

Liniment. — Turpentine,  coal  oil  and  wood  alcohol,  equal 
parts,  and  five  cents  worth  of  gum  camphor  cut  up  in  it;  fine 
for  rheumatism. — J.  P.  Snider. 

Cerate  to  Dress  Blisters. — Take  equal  parts  of  lard  and  mut- 
ton suet,  and  half  as  much  yellow  beeswax  as  there  is  suet ;  mix 
together ;  when  the  wax  is  melted  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  it 
till  cool.  If  you  do  not  stir  until  it  is  thick  as  mush  the  wax 
will  harden  first  and  the  salve  will  be  no  good.  This  gives 
great  relief,  and  is  very  fine. — Miss  Pet  McCorry. 

Tetter  Wash. — Pour  tablespoons  copperas;  burn  it  twenty- 
four  hours;  add  one  quart  water;  wash  with  it  three  times  a 
day.— Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

For  Bite  of  Insects. — A  lump  of  wet  saleratus  applied  to  the 
sting  of  a  wasp,  spider,  or  bee,  will  stop  the  pain  almost  imme- 
diately, and  prevent  all  swelling  of  the  part. 

Erysipelas. — Stew  one  tablespoon  of  cayenne  pepper  in  three 
ounces  of  olive  oil;  apply  with  soft  cloth.  It  is  also  good  for 
old  sres.    Tested  remedy. 

Lime  Water. — Lime  water  is  easily  prepared.  Get  a  good- 
sized  lump  of  lime  and  slake  it  by  pouring  water  over  it.  Let 
the  water  settle,  then  pour  it  off  and  pour  more  water  over  the 


294 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Holland  Dry  Goods 

and~  = 

Clothing  Company 


In  the  Murray  Block. 

Both  Phones  54. 


J.  J.  MOFFIT 

Choice  Fresh  Meats, 
Fish  and  Oysters. 

Vegetables  and  Fruit  in  Season. 
439  N.  Royal  Street. 
Phone  154. 


lime.  This  too  should  be  left  to  settle  and  then  decanted  off, 
after  which  the  lime  is  put  in  a  large  bottle  and  water  added. 
As  the  water  is  used,  the  bottle  can  be  refilled.  Replace  the  lime 
once  in  two  or  three  months. 

Plaster  for  Risen  Breast. — Beeswax,  mutton  suet  and  gum 
camphor,  each  size  of  a  walnut,  one  tablespoon  of  linseed  oil; 
stew  all  together  in  a  pan  for  ten  minutes,  with  the  flannel  cloth 
in  it.  Apply  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  and  it  will  stop  any  rising 
of  the  breast  if  taken  in  time. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Taylor. 

Mustard  Plaster. — Two  tablespoons  mustard,  and  one  table- 
spoon flour,  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  little  warm  water,  or  the 
white  of  an  egg.  Spread  on  a  cloth  and  cover  with  thin  muslin 
so  the  mustard  will  not  come  in  contact  with  the  skin. 

For  Burns. — Great  relief  is  sometimes  afforded' in  case  of  a 
burn  by  sprinkling  thickly  with  carbonate  of  soda,  and  laying 
over  this  a  soft  linen  cloth,  saturated  with  water.  Linseed  oil 
and  lime  water,  mixed  in  equal  quantities,  are  also  excellent 
for  a  burn. 

To  Kill  Waterbugs  and  Roaches. — Use  Sterns  Electric  Roach 
Paste. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Lancaster. 

To  Kill  Cockroaches. — Sprinkle  hellebore  on  the  floor  at 
night.— Mrs.  H.  C.  Irby. 

Library  Paste. — Five  pints  cold  water,  six  heaping  table- 
spoons flour,  one  tablespoon  gum  arabic,  one  teaspoon  alum, 
one  teaspoon  oil  of  cloves.    Put  four  pints  water  and  gum 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


295 


Jackson  Produce  Go.  Buys  Old  Feather  Beds. 


arabic  on  stove.  While  these  are  heating  mix  the  flour  and  the 
alum  with  the  remaining  pint  of  water.  When  the  water  is 
hot,  but  not  boiling,  add  the  alum  and  flour  mixture,  and  stir 
constantly  till  it  boils.  When  well  thickened  and  smooth  add 
the  oil  of  cloves,  and  put  it  in  jars  while  hot.  The  alum  keeps 
the  bugs  away;  roaches,  etc.,  would  do  much  damage  because 
attracted  by  the  flour.  The  oil  of  cloves  keeps  it  from  spoiling. 
This  rule  was  obtained  from  a  professional  librarian. — Boston 
Cooking  School. 

How  to  Wash  Cup  Towels. — Cut  up  piece  of  paraffine  about 
one  ich  square,  and  shave  about  one-quarter  cake  of  bar  soap 
in  half  gallon  of  hot  water.  When  it  has  melted  put  in  tea 
towels  and  boil.  It  cleanses  without  rubbing,  and  is  very  fine. 
— Marion  Harland.   Tested  by  Mrs.  J.  E.  Ryley. 

To  Remove  Iron  Rust, — Salts  of  lemon,  applied  to  spot  and 
exposed  to  the  sun,  will  remove  iron  rust  from  linen. 


CONSUMERS  ICE  CO. 

Manufacturers  of 

Pure  Crystal  ICE,  from  Filtered  Distilled  Water, 

and  Dealers  in 

BEST  GRADES  DOMESTIC  COAL 

Exclusive  Agents  for  the  Celebrated  Fordsville  Block  Coal. 
Telephone  440 


296 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


J.  C.  EDENTON,  President.  I.  B.  TIGRETT,  Cashier. 

WALTER  L.  BROWN,  Vice-Pres.  B.  H.  BLALOCK,  Ass't  Cashier. 

Union  Bank  $  Crust  Co. 


Copital  and  Surplus,  $120,000.00 

lacksonit,  Cm 

Acts  as  Guardian,  Executor  or  Trustee. 
Largest  Savings  Department  in  the  City. 
Interest  Allowed  on  Deposits. 


HOW  AVE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


297 


MENUS, 


Afternoon  Buffet  Refreshments  for  a  Valentine  Party. 

Broiled  Oysters  on  Toast,  Radishes. 
Celery  Salad,  on  Lettuce,  with  Mayonnaise. 
Trench  Capers.  Midget  Pickle.  Olives. 

Butter  Thins.  Coffee. 
Angel  Food  Cake. 
Heart  Shaped,  Pink  Ice  Cream. 
Cinnamon  Drops. 

Company  Luncheon. 

Bouillon,  Bread  Sticks. 
Deviled  Oysters  in  Paper  Cases,  Tomato  Ketchup. 
Chicken,  Maryland  Style.  . 
Stewed  Celery. 
Apple  Salad  in  Apple  Cases. 
Wafers  Cream  Cheese. 

Charlotte  Russe.  Sponge  Cake. 

Coffee. 

Green  and  White  Luncheon. 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup,  Wafers. 
Timbale  of  Fish,  Cream  of  Spinach  Sauce. 
Boiled  Chicken  on  Bed  of  Rice,  Cream  Sauce,  Chopped  Parsley  Garnish. 
Waldorf  Salad  in  Green  Apple  Shells. 
Wafers.  Cream  Cheese. 

Charlotte  Russe  with  Chopped  Pistachio  Nuts. 
Almond  Wafers. 
Coffee. 

Pink  Luncheon. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup,  Croutons. 
Radishes.  Olives. 
Fish  Timbale  Garnished  with  Shrimps. 
Cream  of  Tomato  Sauce. 
Veal  Cutlets.  Potato  Croquettes.  Buttered  Beets. 

Waldorf  Salad  in  Red  Apple  Skins. 
Wafers.  Edam  Cheese. 

Strawberry  Charlotte.  Small  Cakes  with  Rose  Icing* 

Coffee. 


298 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Chafing-Dish  Luncheon. 

Caviar  Canapes. 
Clam  Bouillon,  Whipped  Cream. 
Olives.  Radishes. 
Creamed  Sweetbreads  with  Fresh  Mushrooms. 
Milk  Biscuits. 
Waldorf  Salad  on  Lettuce  Leaves. 
Wafers.  Cream  Cheese. 

Lemon  Jeily.  Soft  Custard. 

Lady  Fingers.  Coffee. 

Luncheon. 

Fried  Chicken. 
Stuffed  Tomatoes.  Green  Peas. 

Dressed  Cucumbers  in  the  Rind. 
Hot  Rolls.  Beaten  Biscuit. 

Ice  Tea. 

Chicken  Salad,  Garnished  with  Nasturtiums. 
Wafers. 

Pine  Apple  Ice,  Served  on  Sliced  Pine  Apple. 
Marshmallow  Cake. 

— Mrs.  E.  L.  James. 

Afternoon  Tea,  Served  in  Buffet  Style. 

Chicken  Salad  on  Lettuce. 
Cheese  Balls,  Stuffed  with  Pecan  Nuts.  • 
Saratoga  Chips.  Olives.  Peanut  Sandwiches. 

Wafers. 

Scalloped  Oysters.  Rolls. 
Fruit  Relish,  with  Whipped  Cream  and  Maraschino  Cherries, 
in  Orange  Cups. 
Nut  Kisses.  Black  Coffee. 

—Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 

Banquet  for  150  People. 

Fruit  Cocktail. 
Shrimp  Salad,  with  Olive  Dressing,  Cucumber  Aspic. 
Wafers. 

Chicken  on  Toast,  Garnished  with  Parsley. 
Potato  Chips.  Olives.  Beaten  Biscuit. 

Lemon  Ice. 
Stuffed  Tomatoes,  with  Nuts  and  Celery. 
Tongue  Sandwiches.  Wafers. 
Block  Cream  with  Strawberries. 
Kisses.  Macaroons. 
Black  Coffee. 

Part  estimate  of  materials  used:  75  chickens,  10  cans  shrimp,  tongues, 
13  dozen  tomatoes,  300  beaten  biscuit,  24  blocks  of  cream,  iy2  crates  of 
strawberries,  8  pounds  macaroons  and  kisses. — Mrs.  Nelson. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


299 


Y.  M.  C.  A.  Banquet. 

Fruit  Eelish. 

Brain  Croquettes.  Potato  Chips. 

Wafers. 

Barbecued  Lamb  and  Sauce,  Green  Peas. 
Asparagus  Tips  on  Toast.  Pickle. 
Hot  Rolls.  Apple  Compote. 

Mint  Ice. 

Chicken  Salad.  Olives. 
Tomato  a  la  Mayonnaise.  Wafers. 
Strawberries. 

Block  Cream.  Angel  Food  Cake. 

Black  Coffee. 


Menu  for  an  April  Dinner. 

Grape  Fruit. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup.  Snowflake  Wafers. 

Spring  Lamb.  Mint  Sauce. 

Green  Peas  in  Cases.  Creamed  Cauliflower. 

Mangoes.  Hot  Rolls. 

Mint  Ice. 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  on  Toast.  New  Potatoes. 

Baked  Apple  with  Whipped  Cream. 
Roumania  Punch. 
Stuffed  Tomato  on  Lettuce  Leaf.         Boston  Cream  Sandwiches. 
Olives.  Radishes. 
Strawberries  in  Ice  Cream  Baskets. 
Angel  Food  Cake. 
Cafe  Noir.  Wafers.  Cheese  Balls. 

Salted  Almonds.  Nuts. 

— Miss  Crook. 


FOR  FIRE  INSURANCE 


SEE 


J.  T.  McCutrtien,  Jr.,  &  Go. 

PYTHIAN  BUILDING 

Phones  89. 


An  Important  Recipe. 

Where  clear  vis- 
ion and  relief  for 
headache  in  the 
region  of  eyes  is 
desired,  wear  a  pair  of  glasses  pre- 
scribed by  Irby  L.  Grady,  205  E. 
Main  Street.    Test  free. 

They  are  guaranteed. 


300  HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Luncheon  Menu. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup.  Wafers. 
Fish  Croquettes.  Potato  Spirals. 

Tartar  Sauce  in  Lemon  Cups. 
Eoast  Turkey,  Oyster  Dressing,  Cranberry  Jelly. 
Green  Peas.  Hot  Bolls. 

Orange  Ice. 

Apple  and  Celery  Salad,  Served  in  Apple  Cases. 
Olives.  Nut  Sandwiches. 

Nesselrode  Pudding.  Block  Cake. 

Coffee.  Cheese. 
Almonds.  Mints. 

— Miss  Pattie  Crook. 


Luncheon  Menu. 

Grape  Fruit. 
Cream  of  Celery  Soup,  Wafers. 
Creamed  Brains  and  Sweetbreads. 
Hot  Pastry  Sticks. 
Broiled  Chicken  on  Toast.  Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Asparagus  Tips.  Currant  Jelly. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 
Lemon  Ice. 
Waldorf  Salad  on  Lettuce  Leaf. 
Wafers. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream.  Block  Cake. 

Coffee.  Cheese  Sticks. 

Peppermints.  Salted  Almonds. 

— Miss  Pattie  Crook. 


Six  O'clock  Dinner. 

Fruit  Belish. 

Broiled  Chicken.  Potato  Chips. 

Frozen  Cucumber  Salad  in  Green  Peppers. 
Hot  Bolls. 

Lemon  Ice,  Garnished  with  Cream  de  Menthe  Cherries. 
Spring  Lamb.  Peas  on  Rosettes. 

Asparagus  Through  Green  Pepper  Rings. 
Pineapple  Fritters.  Hot  Rolls. 

Chicken  Salad,  on  Nasturtium  Leaves,  with  Mayonnaise. 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  on  Lettuce  Leaf. 
Olives.  Mangoes. 
Beaten  Biscuit. 
Pistachio  Cream.  Angel  Food  Cake. 

Black  Coffee.  Wafers.  Cheese  Balls. 

—Mrs.  B.  P.  Cantrell. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


301 


The  Christmas  Dinner. 

Canapes. 

Raw  or  Fried  Oysters.  Lemon  Quarters. 

Horse  Radish  Sauce.        Buttered  Brown  Bread. 
Consomme,  or  Clear  Soup. 
Celery.  Salted  Nuts.  Pickles  or  Olives. 

Roast  Goose.  Chestnut  Stuffing. 

Giblet  Gravy.  Piquant  Apple  Sauce. 

Browned  Mashed  Potatoes.  Creamed  Onions. 

Salad  of  Nuts,  with  Celery,  Apples  or  Cabbage  on  Lettuce  Leaves. 
Cheese  Wafers  or  Crackers. 
Plum  Pudding,  Hard  Sauce. 
Banana  Sherbet  or  Ice  Cream. 
Fruit.  Home  Made  Candies.  Raisins. 

Coffee. 


A  Christmas  Menu. 

Grape  Fruit  with  Maraschino  Cherries. 
Cream  of  Oyster  Soup. 
Finger  Rolls.  Stuffed  Olives. 

Roast  Turkey.  Giblet  Sauce. 

Cranberry  Frappe.  Pineapple  Jelly. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. 
Mashed  Potatoes.  Raised  Biscuit. 

Salad  of  French  Green  Beans  and  Celery. 
Brown  Bread  Sandwiches. 
Caramel  Ice  Cream. 
Rich  Fruit  Cake.  Cocoanut  Cake. 

Candied  Fruits.  Nuts.  Raisins. 

Coffee. 


Christmas  Dinner. 

Cavair  Canapes. 
Clear  Soup. 

Olives.  Salted  Nuts.  Celery. 

Creamed  Oysters  in  Ramekins. 
Roast  Turkey.  "Walnut  Stuffing.  Giblet  Sauce. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cranberry  Sherbet. 
Sweetbread  Cutlets  with  Asparagus  Tips. 
Malaga  Grape,  Celery  and  Pecan  Salad. 
Wafers.  Maraschino  Parfait.  Orange  Sauce. 

Assorted  Cakes. 
Nuts.  Bonbons.         Crackers.  Cheese. 

Coffee. 


302 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


A  Southern  Christmas  Dinner. 

Upon  what  meat  cloth  this  our  Caesar  feed  that  he  hath  grown  so 
great." — Julius  Caesar,  Act  1,  Scene  2. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 
Bouillon  Supreme.  Bread  Sticks. 

Celery.  Badishes.  Olives. 

Oysters  a  la  Creole. 


Baked  Fish. 

Sweetbread. 
Boast  Turkey. 

Eoast  Wild  Duck. 
Czarina  Cream. 
Fruit. 


Parisienne  Potatoes. 
Green  Peas. 
Bread  Stuffing.  Giblet  Sauce. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 
Orange  Sherbet. 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad. 
Angel  Cream  Cake. 


Confectionery. 
Cafe  Noir. 

Dinner. 

Tomato  Bisque. 


Boasted  Young  Pig. 
Stuffed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Fried  Ovsters. 


Nuts. 


Apple  Sauce. 
Boston  Baked  Beans. 


Lettuce. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Salted  Almonds. 


Nut  Salad. 
Fruit, 


Celery. 
Marshmallow  Cake. 


Tomato  Bisque. 
Potatoes  a  la  Creme. 

Celeiy. 

Asparagus. 

Olives. 

Cafe  Noir. 


Coffee. 
Dinner. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 

Baked  Bed  Fish. 

Green  Peas. 
Glace  de  Cherry. 
Koast  Turkey. 


Bonbons. 


Brent 's  Crackers. 


Corn  Dodgers. 


Cranberries. 
Hot  Biscuit. 


Fruit  Salad. 
Tomato  Aspic. 
English  Plum  Pudding. 


Wafers. 

Cheese  Straws. 
-Mrs.  Sam  C.  Lancaster. 


Morning  Party  for  25  People. 

Brain  Croquettes.  Saratoga  Chips. 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Pecans  and  Celery,  Olive  Oil  Dressing. 
Olives  with  Crushed  Ice. 
Hot  Bolls.  Wafers.  Iced  Tea. 

Neapolitan  Brick  Cream  with  Bavarian  Sauce. 
Angel  Food  Cake. 

—Mrs.  T.  H.  Temple. 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


303 


FRENCH  WORDS  IN  COOKING. 

Aspic. — Savory  jelly  for  cold  dishes. 

Au  gratin. — Dishes  prepared  with  sauce  and  crumbs  and  baked. 
Bouches. — Very  thin  patties  or  cakes,  as  name  indicates — mouthfuls. 
Bechamel. — A  rich,  white  sauce  made  with  stock. 
Bisque. — A  white  soup  made  of  shell  fish. 

Bouillon. — A  clear  soup,  stronger  than  broth,  yet  not  so  strong  as 
consomme. 

Braise. — Meat  cooked  in  a  closely  covered  stewpan,  so  that  it  retains 
its  own  flavor  and  those  of  the  vegetables  and  flavorings  put  with  it. 
Cannelon. — Stuffed  rolled-up  meat. 

Consomme. — Clear  soup  or  bouillon  boiled  down  till  very  rich,  i.  e.  con- 
sumed. 

Croustades. — Fried  forms  of  bread  to  serve  minces  or  other  meats  upon. 
Entree. — A  small  dish,  usually  served  between  the  courses  at  dinner. 
Fondue. — A  light  preparation  of  melted  cheese. 
Fondant. — Sugar  boiled  and  beaten  to  a  creamy  paste. 
Hollandaise  Sauce. — A  rich  sauce,  something  like  hot  mayonnaise. 
Matelote. — A  rich  fish  stew,  with  wine. 
Mayonnaise. — A  rich  salad  dressing. 
Meringue. — Sugar  and  white  of  egg  beaten  to  sauce. 
Marmade. — A  liquor  of  spices,  vinegar,  etc.,  in  which  fish  or  meats  are 
steeped  before  cooking. 

Poulette  Sauce. — A  bechamel  sauce,  to  which  white  wine  and  sometimes 
eggs  are  added. 

Ragout. — A  rich,  brown  stew,  with  mushrooms,  vegetables,  etc. 

Piquante. — A  sauce  of  several  flavors,  acid  predominating. 

Quenelles. — Forcemeat  with  bread,  yolks  of  eggs  highly  seasoned,  and 
formed  with  a  spoon  to  an  oval  shape;  then  poached  and  used  either  as  a 
dish  by  themselves,  or  to  garnish. 

Rissole. — Eich  mince  of  meat  or  fish  rolled  in  thin  pastry  and  fried. 

Sauter. — To  toss  meat,  etc.,  over  the  fire,  in  a  little  fat. 

Souffle. — A  very  light,  much  whipped-up  pudding  or  omelette. 

Timbale. — A  sort  of  pie  in  a  mold. 


304 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


THE  INDEX. 


SOUPS. 

Asparagus  Soup    7 

Barley  Soup    9 

Bouillon    4 

Bouillon  for  Twelve    4 

Celery  Bouillon    4 

Chicken  Stew    10 

Clear  Tomato  Soup   5 

Consomme    3 

Corn-Cob  Soup    7 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup   7 

Cream  Barley  Soup    8 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup    6 

Cream  of  Cheese  Soup    9 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup    7 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup    9 

Cream  Tomato  Soup   6 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup   6 

Crab  Gumbo    12 

File  for  Soup    13 

Force  Meat  Balls  for  Soup   14 

Green  Pea  Soup    10 

Gumbo    11 

Gumbo  File    13 

Marrow  Balls    14 

Noodles    14 

Okra  Gumbo    12 

Oyster  Soup    9 

Pea  Soup    10 

Potato  Soup    8 

Split  Pea  Soup    10 

Squirrel  Stew    11 

Squirrel  Stew  for  Twenty  Gallons  11 

The  "Way  to  Make  Croutons   14 

To  Make  Clear  Tomato  Soup ....  5 

To  Prepare  File  for  Gumbo   13 

Tomato  Bisque    5 

Tomato  Bouillon  with  Oysters.  . .  4 

Tomato  Puree    6 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  Stew   10 

Veal  Soup    6 

Vegetable  Soup   11 

White  Soup   .'   3 


FISH. 

Baked  Fish    16 

Baked  Fish,  No.  4   16 

Baked  Mackerel    21 

Baked  Bed  Snapper    16 

Broiled  Fish    15 

Buttered  Shrimp    18 

Canned  Salmon  Loaf   17 

Clam  Chowder    20 

Clams    20 

Codfish  a  la  Creme    19 

Codfish  Balls    20 

Codfish  on  Toast    19 

Crab  or  Shrimp  Patties   19 

Creamed  Codfish    19 

Deviled  Crabs    18 

Fish    15 

Fish  a  la  Creme    16 

Fish  Pudding    17 

Fried  Bed  Snapper    16 

Frogs    21 

How  Salt  Fish  Should  be  Fresh- 
ened   21 

Salmon  Bake    18 

Salmon  Draft   18 

Sauce  for  Canned  Salmon   17 

Shredded  Codfish  Balls    20 

Stewed  Crabs    18 

Shrimp  Salad    19 

Steamed  Fish    15 

To  Cook  Salt  Mackerel   21 

OYSTERS. 

Broiled  Oysters    24 

Deviled  Oysters    25 

Fine  Oyster  Pie   25 

Fried  Oysters,  No.  1   22 

Fried  Oysters,  No.  2   22 

Fried  Ovsters,  No.  3    22 

Grilled  Oysters    24 

Oyster  Bisque    24 

Ovster  Cocktail    26 

Oyster  Loaf    23 


HOW  "WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


305 


Oysters.— Continued.  page 

Oyster  Patties    25 

Oyster  Pates   25 

Ovster  Stew    23 

Scalloped  Oysters    24 

Steamed  Oysters    24 

Stewed  Oysters,  No.  2    23 

FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES. 

Bechamel  Sauce   31 

Brown  Sauce   31 

Cranberry  Sauce    28 

Caper  Sauce    29  j 

Drawn  Butter    92 

Hollandaise  Sauce    30 

Horseradish  Sauce    31 

Lemon  Pecan  Sauce  for  Meat.  ...  31 

Mint  JeUy    27 

Mint  Jelly  for  Cold  Lamb   28 

Mint  Sauce  for  Lamb    27 

Mushroom  Sauce    29 

Nut  Conserve    29 

Onion  Sauce    30 

Tartar  Sauce    17 

Tartar  Sauce  for  Pish   30 

MEATS. 

A  Nice  Breakfast  Dish   41 

Back-bone  Stew   36 

Baked  Chicken    44 

Baked  Hash    52 

Baked  Turkey    50 

Barbecue    34 

Barbecued  Pork    31 

Beef  Cakes    40 

Beef  Heart    42 

Beef  Loaf    41 

Beef  Steak    37 

Beef  Steak  and  Onions   37 

Beef  Steak  Bolls   42 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue   39 

Boiled  Chicken    45 

Boiled  Ham    33 

Broiled  Steak   37 

Brain  Fritters    52 

Brains    51 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops   44 

Broiled  Chicken    45 

Broiled  Chicken  on  Toast   46 

Broiled  Quail    56 


Meats.— Continued.  page 

Broiled  Squirrel    55 

Canvasback  Duck    56 

Carving  Meats   32 

Chicken  Patties    49 

Chicken  Pie    49 

Chicken  Pot-pie   49 

Chicken  Saute    47 

Chicken  Stew    47 

Chicken  Terrapin    48 

Chicken  Timbals    47 

Chili  Con-Came    54 

Cold  Boast  Warmed  with  Toma- 
toes   40 

Corned  Beef  Hash    40 

Creamed  Chicken   47 

Creole  Boast    40 

Creole  Steak    38 

Dressing   55 

Dressing  for  Fowls   50 

Dry  Hash    52 

Ducks   55 

Escalloped  Chicken    46 

Fricassee  Babbit    54 

Fried  Beef  Steak,  No.  2   38 

Fried  Beef  Liver    41 

Fried  Brains    52 

Fried  Chicken    44 

Fried  Ham    33 

Fried  Babbit    54 

Fried  Steak    38 

Frizzled  Beef    38 

Garnishes    32 

German  Hash    40* 

Hamburger  Steak    38 

Ham  Balls    33 

Ham  Toast    33 

Hashed  Mutton    44 

Hash  with  Gravy   52 

Hot  Tamales    57 

Jellied  Chicken    48 

Lamb  Stew    44 

Liver  Fritters    41 

Meat  Loaf    41 

Mince  Meat    50 

Minced  Chicken  a  la  Creme   46 

Mock  Duck    38 

Opossum   57 

Oyster  Dressing  for  Turkey   50 

Pig's  Head  Pudding   35 


306  HOW  WE  COOK 


IN  TENNESSEE. 


Meats. — Continued.  page 

Pork  Steak    34 

Pork  Tenderloins    34 

Pot  Eoast    42 

Pressed  Veal    43 

Proportions  for  Sausage  Meat...  36 

Rissoles  of  Sweetbreads   53 

Roast  Beef   39 

Roast  Duck    56 

Roast  Goose    55 

Roast  Mutton    44 

Roast  Pork    34 

Roast  Quail   56 

Round  Roll  Steaks   36 

Sausage    36 

Sausage  Meat    36 

Scalloped  Beef    39 

Scrapple   35 

Souse    35 

Spare-rib    36 

Stewed  Pigeons    57 

Stewed  Squirrel   55 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers   53 

Stuffed  Peppers    53 

Sweetbreads    53 

To  Boil  a  Ham   33 

To  Boil  a  Hen    45 

To  Boil  Fresh  Pork  Ham   34 

To  Broil  Birds   56 

To  Broil  Steak    37 

To  Cook  a  Pig's"  Head    35 

To  Cure  a  Dozen  Tongues   39 

To  Make  Fish  Timbals   48 

To  Prepare  Frog  Legs   54 

To  Roast  a  Goose    55 

Turkey  Dressing    50 

Turkey  Scallop    49 

Veal  Cutlets    42 

Veal  Loaf    43 

Veal  Roast    43 

Veal  Stew    43 

Veal  or  Meat  Pie    43 

EGGS. 

A  Delicious  Breakfast  Dish   61 

Boiled  Eggs     58 

Cupped  Eggs    62 

Dressing  for  Stuffed  Eggs   61 

Deviled  Eggs    60 

Eggs  en  Surprise   62 


Eggs.— Continued.  page 

Eggs  for  Breakfast   .  62 

Eggs  on  Toast  ,   59 

Egg  Scramble    59 

Egg  Toast    59 

Fried  Eggs    59 

Ham  Omelet    60 

Mexican  Omelet    60 

Omelets    60 

Poached  Egg8    58 

Rumbled  Eggs   61 

Scalloped  Eggs    59 

Scrambled  Eggs    59 

Shirred  Eggs    60 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs    58 

Steamed  Eggs    58 

Stuffed  Eggs    61 

To  Poach  Eggs   58 

To  Scramble  Eggs    59 

To  Test  Eggs    58 

CHEESE. 

Cheese  Fondu    64 

Cheese  Ramakin    64 

Cheese  Salad  in  Egg  Cases   64 

Cheese  Souffle   63 

Cheese  Straws    65 

Cheese  Toast    64 

Cottage  Cheese    64 

Scalloped  Cheese    64 

Toasted  Cheese    65 

Welsh  Rarebit    63 

Welsh  Rarebit  (chafing  dish)   72 

CROQUETTES. 

Banana  Croquettes    66 

Brain  Croquettes    66 

Canned  Chicken  Croquettes   69 

Chicken  and  Brain  Croquettes...  67 

Chicken  Croquettes    67 

Chicken  Croquettes  (chafing  dish)  71 

Ham  Croquettes    67 

Rice  Croquettes   109 

Salmon  Croquettes    67 

To  Fry  Croquettes    66 

To  Make  Croquettes   66 

THE  CHAFING  DISH. 

Chicken  Croquettes    71 

Crab  Toast    71 

Lobster  a  la  Newberg   72 


HOW  WE  COOK 


IN  TENNESSEE.  307 


Chafing  Dish. — Continued,  page 


Pan  Eoast    70 

Petit  Pois   71 

Quail   71 

Eice  Croquettes    71 

Stewed  Oysters    71 

Students'  Wafers    71 

Sweetbreads    72 

Welsh  Earebit   72 

SANDWICHES. 

A  Good  Sandwich    77 

Apple  Sandwiches    74 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches   75 

Club  Sandwiches   73 

Chicken  Salad  Sandwiches   74 

Chicken  Sandwiches   73 

Caviar  Canapes    74 

Cheese  Sandwiches    76 

Chocolate  Sandwiches    75 

Divided  Crackers  78 

Fruit  and  Nut  Sandwiches   77 

Ham  Sandwiches    73 

Lettuce  Sandwiches    74 

Maple  Sandwiches    77 

Mint  Sandwiches    75 

Nasturtium  Sandwiches   78 

Nut  and  Chicken  Sandwich   77 

Nut  Ginger  Sandwiches   ;  .  77 

Nut  Sandwiches    77 

Olive  Sandwiches    75 

Peanut  Sandwiches    76 

Salmon  Sandwiches    74 

Sardine  Canapes    74 

Sardine  Sandwiches    74 

Sweetbread  Sandwiches    75 

Sweet  Peanut  Sandwiches   76 

Tartare  Sandwiches    78 

SALADS. 

Apple  Salad    87 

American  Beauty  Salad   •.  88 

Banana  Salad    87 

Beet  Salad   84 

Canned  Chicken  Salad   81 

Celery  Salad   87 

Celery  and  Sardine  Salad   83 

Chicken  Pilaff    81 

Chicken  Salad    79 

Chicken  Salad  for  150   80 


Salads. — Continued.  page 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Salad    80 

Cream  Dressing  for  Fruit  Salad.  .  89 

Cream  Salad  Dressing   89 

Cucumber  Aspic   92 

Cucumber  Salad   84 

Deviled  Egg  Salad   84 

Dressing  for  Slaw    90 

Dressing  for  Slaw  107 

Dressing  for  Lettuce    90 

Drawn  Butter    92 

French  Fruit  Salad    88 

French  Salad   85 

Frozen  Cucumber  Salad    85 

Fruit  Salad   88 

Grape  Fruit  Salad    88 

Green  Pepper  and  Tomato  Salad.  86 

Irish  Potato  Salad    85 

Knoxall  Salad — Chicken  Cream..  81 

Lobster  Salad   102 

Mayonnaise  Dressing    90 

Mustard  Dressing  '   91 

Neapolitan  Salad    82 

Olive  Oil  Salad  Dressing    89 

Oyster  Salad  .   82 

Pear  and  Nut  Salad  :  . .  .  88 

Potato  Salad    85 

Prepared  Mustard    91 

Salad  Dressing    81 

Salad  Dressing    89 

Salmon  Salad    83 

Salted  Almonds    92 

Sardine  and  Celery  Salad   83 

Shrimp  Salad   83 

Shrimp  Salad  Dressing   90 

Sweetbread  Salad    83 

Tomato  Aspic    86 

Tongue  Salad    82 

Tomato  Salad    86 

Tomato  Jelly    92 

Tomato  and  Pineapple  Salad  ...  87 

Waldorf  Salad    84 


VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus   103 

Asparagus  a  la  Creme  104 

Asparagus  Fritters   104 

Baked  Egg  Plant   105 

Baked  Irish  Potatoes   99 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  100 


308  HOW  WE  COOK 


IN  TENNESSEE. 


Vegetables. — Continued,  page 


Beets   106 

Boiled  Potatoes    98 

Boston  Baked  Beans  104 

Broiled  Tomatoes   103 

Brown  Hashed  Potatoes    96 

Buttered  Beets   106 

Cabbage  Boiled    96 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes  100 

Carrots  Mashed   106 

Cauliflower    96 

Cold  Slaw   106  I 

Cornfield  Peas    94 

Corn  Fritters   100 

Corn  Pudding  .  .101 

Creamed  Peas    94 

Creamed  Potatoes   99 

Deviled  Potatoes   98 

Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw  107 

Egg  Plant  Pudding   105 

Escalloped  Asparagus   104 

Escalloped  Cabbage    95 

Fried  Cabbage    96 

Fried  Cucumbers   95 

Fried  Egg  Plant   105 

Fried  Squash   101 

Green  Corn,  Boiled  -.  101 

Green  Peas    94 

Hot  Slaw   106 

How  to  Keep  Lettuce  Fresh  105 

Medicinal  Properties  of  Foods ...  93 

New  Potatoes    97 

Onions   105 

Oyster  Plant   101 

Parsnips  101 

Parsnip  Fritters   101 

Potatoes   96 

Potato  Croquettes   97 

Potato  Balls    99 

Potato  Eissoles    98 

Potato  Snowballs    99 

Riced  Potatoes   98 

Roasted  Potatoes    98 

Saratoga  Potatoes    97 

Scalloped  Potatoes    98 

Scalloped  Tomatoes   102 

Snap  Beans  104 

Suanish  Tomatoes   102 

Squash   '.  101 

Stewed  Carrots   106 


Vegetables. — Continued.  PAge 


Stewed  Celery   105 

Stewed  Corn   100 

Stuffed  Potatoes    99 

Stewed  Tomatoes   102 

String  Beans   104 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes  103 

Stuffed  Cabbage    95 

Stuffed  Tomatoes   102 

Sweet  Potatoes   100 

Sweet  Potato  Cakes  100 

Texas  Potatoes    97 

Time  Required  for  Cooking   93 

Tomatoes  and  Onions  103 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Lobster..  102 

To  Boil  Green  Peas   94 

To  Boil  Okra   106 

To  Dress  Cucumbers  Raw   95 

To  Fry  Sweet  Potatoes  100 

Turnips    94 

Turnip  Salad    94 

CEREALS. 

Baked  Grits   109 

Boiled  Rice   108 

Fried  Mush   108 

Grits   3  08 

Hominy   3  08 

Mush   108 

Rice  as  a  Relish  109 

Rice  Cakes  108 

Rice  Croquettes   109 

Spanish  Rice   108 

MACARONI. 

Macaroni   110 

Baked  Macaroni   110 

Italian  Macaroni  Ill 

Macaroni  and  Cheese   110 

Macaroni  with  Cheese  110 

Macaroni  with  Eggs   110 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes   Ill 

Spaghetti  and  Tomatoes  Ill 

BREAD. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  124 

Batter  Bread    126 

Batter  Cakes   126 

Batter  Cakes  of  Flour  126 

Beaten  Biscuit   124 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


309 


Bread. — Continued.  page 

Biscuits   123 

Bread  113 

Bread  Sticks  118 

Brown  Bread   121 

Brown  Bread,  Steamed  122 

Buns   119 

Cheap  Becipe  for  Batter  Cakes..  126 

Cinnamon  Roses  127 

Coffee  Cake   121 

Coffee  Bread   117 

Coffee  Bread  121 

Corn  Cakes  130 

Corn  Dodgers   130 

Corn  Meal  Batter  Cakes,  No.  1..131 

Corn  Meal  Muffins  128 

Corn  Meal  Souffle  130 

Corn  Muffins   128 

Corn  Pones   130 

Cracker  Fritters   127 

Crackling  Bread   131 

Cream  Toast  118 

Crowns   119 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes  126 

Currant  Bread  123 

Delicious  Muffins   128 

Drop  Biscuits   124 

Dumplings  for  Stew  127 

Dutch  Toast   119 

Egg  Bread   130 

Flannel  Cakes   127 

French  Bolls  115 

French  Toast   118 

Graham  Bread   122 

Graham  Muffins   129 

Griddle  Cakes   126 

Grit  Bread   122 

Irish  Potato  Liquid  Yeast  113 

Lemon  Toast  118 

Light  Bread   116 

Light  Bread,  by  a  Professional 

Bread  Maker   115 

Light  Bolls   Ill 

Measures  and  Weights  112 

Mush   129 

Mush  Bread  129 

Mush  Muffins   129 

Muffins   128 

Oat  Meal  Muffins  129 

Oatmeal  Scones   125 


Bread. — Continued.  page 
Old  Fashioned  Corn  Light  Bread.  117 

Parker  House  Rolls  113 

Pocket  Books   114 

Pop  Overs   127 

Potato  Puffs   119 

Potato  Yeast   115 

Puffs   127 

Quick  Bread  115 

Quick  Sally  Limn   121 

Rice  Bread  122 

Rice  Corn  Bread   128 

Rolls  and  Light  Bread  112 

Royal  Baking  Powder   125 

Rusk   121 

Rusks   123 

Rye  Bread   123 

Sally  Limn   119 

Sally  Limn   121 

Salt  Rising  Bread   116 

Soda  Biscuit   124 

Soft  Toast  118 

Spoon  Bread   128 

Spoon  Bread   130 

Sugar  Rolls  114 

Superior  Rice  Waffles  125 

Sweet  Milk  Biscuits  123 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuit  125 

Tea  Rolls   113 

Tea  Rusk   121 

To  Make  Rolls   114 

Waffles   125 

Waffles  and  Flannel  Cakes  127 

Yeast  for  Bread   113 

CAKE. 

A  Good  Chocolate  Cake  158 

Almond  Cake   156 

Angel  Cake  132 

Angel's  Food   133 

Angel  Food  Cake   133 

Angel  and  Sponge  Cake  133 

Banquet  Cake   141 

Blackberry  Cake   143 

Blackberry  Jam  Cake   143 

Black  Cake   143 

Black  Fruit  Cake   147 

Bride's  Cake   145 

Brown  Stone  Front  141 

Cake  Snowballs   164 


310 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


Cake. — Continued.  page 

( !aramel  Cake  141 

Charlotte  Polonaise   145 

Cheap  Cake   153 

Cheap  Sponge  Cake   134 

Chocolate  Block  Cake   159 

Chocolate  Cake  158 

Chocolate  Cake  (Sour  Cream) ...  .158 

Chocolate  Jumbles   165 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake   157 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cake   135 

Chocolate  Sponge  Icing   136 

Cocoa  Cake   143 

Cocoanut  Cake  151 

Cocoanut  Cookies   166 

Coffee  Cake   149 

Coloring  for  Cakes  and  Fruits...  132 

Cookies   165 

Corn  Starch  Cake   146 

Cream  Cookies   166 

Cup  Cake   144 

Cup  Sunshine  Cake  154 

Dark  Fig  Cake   157 

Delicate  Cake  161 

Delightful  Sponge  Cake   135 

Devil's  Food   142 

Devil's  Food  Cake   142 

Dixie  Ginger  Cake   159 

Dolly  Yarden  Cake   144 

Doughnuts   162 

English  Walnut  Cake   157 

Everyday  Cake   153 

Feather  Cake   144 

Fruit  Cake   146 

French  Cookies   166 

General  Directions  for  Cake  131 

Gold  Cake   154 

Golden  Cake   149 

Golden  Cake   154 

Ginger  Cake   159 

Ginger  Cakes   160 

Ginger  Snaps   161 

Good  Cookies   165 

Good  Icing  for  Above  140 

Good  Tea  Cakes   164 

Grandmother's  Ginger  Cake  ....159 

Hautier  Cake   156 

Hermits   168 

Hickorynut  Cake   156 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake   134 


Cake. — Continued. 


i  How  to  Make  Doughnuts  162 

Ice  Cream  Cake  152 

Jam  Cake   143 

Jelly  Eoll   136 

!  Lady  Finger  Cake   136 

|  Lady  Orange  Cake   145 

j  Lemon  Cake   151 

Little  Birthday  Cakes.  .  167 

!  Marble  Cake   155 

i  Maple  Biscuit   163 

Marguerites  ..•  168 

:  Marshmallow  Cake   141 

.  Molasses  Cookies   166 

'  Molasses  Spice  Cake   152 

Mrs.  Mean's  White  Cake  138 

Neapolitan  Cake   144 

Nut  Bars   163 

Nut  Cookies   165 

i  Oatmeal  Cookies   166 

i  Oatmeal  Sugar  Wafers   167 

Ocean  Cake  148 

Old  Fashioned  Pound  Cake  149 

Pecan  Cake   157 

Perfection  Cake   159 

Plain  Cake   153 

|  Plum  Cake  (very  fine)  146 

Poor  Man's  Fruit  Cake   148 

Portugal  Cake   151 

Potato  Cake   154 

Potato  Caramel  Cake   155 

Pound  Cake   148 

Princeton  Kocks   165 

Prohibition  Fruit  Cake   148 

Bibbon  Cake   150 

Bosettes   167 

Boxbury  Cakes   161 

Sand  Tarts   161 

Scotch  Wafers   167 

I  Skrewsberrv  Cookies  165 

SmaU  Two 'Layer  Cake  140 

Soft  Cookies  166 

Soft  Ginger  Bread   161 

j  Soft  Ginger  Cake   159 

Solid  Chocolate  Cake   158 

1  Sponge  Cake   134 

;  Sponge  Cake  (white)   134 

!  Sponge  Cake  with  Cream  Filling.. 135 

i  Sponge  Boll  136 

!  Spice  Cake   153 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE.  311 


Cake. — Continude.  page 

Spiced  Ginger  Cake   160 

Stale  Sponge  Cake   136 

Sunshine  Cake   154 

Sweet  Wafers   167 

Tea  Cakes   164 

To  Use  the  Yolks  139 

White  Cake   138 

White  Cake  (delicious)   140 

White  Cake   152 

White  Cream  Cake  140 

White  Fruit  Cake  146 

White  Layer  Cake   137 

White  Perfection  Cake   137 

White  Sponge  Cake   134 

Vanilla  Wafers   166 

Velvet  Cake   137 

CAKE  FILLINGS. 

Caramel  Filling   141 

Caramel  Filling   168 

Caramel  Filling  (Brown  Sugar)  .  .169 

Caramel  Icing   175 

Charlotte  Polonaise  Filling  145 

Charlotte  Polonaise  Filling  171 

Cheap  Cake  Filling   172 

Chocolate  Filling   172 

Chocolate  Filling   136 

Chocolate  Icing   175 

Chocolate  Macaroon  Filling   173 

Cold  Icing,  No.  1  175 

Cooked  Icing   174 

Cream  for  Cake   175 

Cream  Filling   171 

Fig  Filling   170 

Fruit  Filling   172 

Golden  Frosting   ..175 

Good  Icing  for  Filling  140 

Icing  174 

Icing  for  Cake   174 

Icing  Filling   173 

Ice  Cream  Filling   152 

Lemon  Filling   151 

Lemon  Filling   173 

Lemon  Cream  Filling   173 

Lemon  and  English  Walnut  Fill- 
ing  173 

Marshmallow  Filling  .  ,  141 

Marshmallow  Filling   169 

Marshmallow  Frosting  170 


Cake  Fillings.— Continued.  page 

Marshmallow  Icing   170 

Maple  Fudge  Filling   171 

Maple  Nut  Frosting  174 

Milk  Icing   174 

Pineapple  Filling   170 

Prauline   171 

Raisin  Filling   170 

Splendid  Caramel  Filling   168 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple  Pudding.  179 

Apple  Pudding  (excellent)  180 

i  Blackberry  Jam  Pudding   184 

.Blackberry  Pudding   183 

Bird  Nest  Pudding  178 

Boiled  Pudding   178 

Brown  Betty   180 

Caramel  Pudding   182 

Caramel  Pudding   188 

Chocolate  Pudding   180 

Christmas  Pudding   178 

j  Cocoanut  Pudding  181 

;   Confederate  Pudding   186 

Cottage  Pudding   187 

Cracker  Pudding   182 

Cream  of  Chocolate  Whips  188 

Delmonico  Pudding   185 

English  Plum  Pudding  177 

Fig  Loaf   187 

French  Pudding   188 

Fruit  Pudding   178 

Fruit  Rice  Pudding  185 

:  General  Rules  176 

Ginger  Pudding  187 

Grated  Sweet  Potato  Pudding  ..179 

Henrietta  Pudding   182 

Jam  Pudding   183 

Kiss  Pudding   182 

Lady  Finger  Pudding   187 

Lemon  Pudding   181 

Macaroon  Pudding   183 

Marshmallow  Pudding  188 

Plain  Rice  Pudding  184 

Plum  Pudding   176 

Prune  Pudding   184 

Prune  Whip   188 

Queen  of  Puddings   185 

j  Queen  Mab  Pudding   182 

I  Rice  Pudding,  No.  2   184 


312  HOW  WE  COOK 


IN  TENNESSEE. 


Puddings. — Continued,  page 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding  179 

Tapioca  Pudding   186 

Twenty-Five  Cent  Plum  Pudding.  17 7 

PIES. 

A  Delicious  Apple  Pie  191 

Amber  Custard   200 

Apple  Custard   199 

Apple  Dumplings   207 

Apple  Fritters   205 

Apple  Pie   192 

Apple  Eoll   206 

Baked  Apple  Eoll  206 

Banana  Fritters  204 

Buttermilk  Pie   197 

Caramel  Custards   199 

Caramel  Pie   197 

Cherry  Pie   192 

Chess  Cake   206 

Chocolate  Cream  Puffs  208 

Chocolate  Custard  199 

Chocolate  Custard  201 

Chocolate  Custard  202 

Chocolate  Meringue   205 

Chocolate  Pie   194 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pie  198 

Cocoanut   Custards   198 

Cocoanut  Filling  for  Pies   198 

Cream  of  Chocolate  Souffle  201 

Cream  Custards   200 

Cream  Pie   195 

Cream  Puff  Custards   200 

Cream  Puffs   207 

Currant  Pie   194 

Custard  Sauce   202 

Custard  without  Crust   203 

Cup  Custard   202 

Damson  Boll  206 

Delicious  Pies   190 

Egg  Custard  202 

Flaky  Pie  Crust   189 

Frenee  Pineapple  Fritters   205 

Fried  Pies   190 

General  Bules  for  Pastry  189 

Grandma's  Cocoanut  Custards ...  .198 

Grape  Pie   192 

Green  Apple  Pie  191 

Irish  Potato  Pie   191 

Jelly  Custard   199 


Pies. — Continued.  page 

Lemon  Custards   198 

Lemon  Pies   195 

Lemon  Baisin  Pie  199 

Maple  Custard   201 

Molasses  Custards   198 

Old  Fashioned  Sliced  Potato  Pie.190 

Pastry   189 

Pastry   190 

Peach  Cobbler   208 

Peach  Pie   192 

Pie  Crust   189 

Pineapple  Custard   201 

Pineapple  Fritters   205 

Plain  Pie  Crust   190 

Potato  Custards   200 

Prune  Custard   200 

Prune  Pie   197 

Pumpkin  Pie   193 

Baisin  Pie   194 

Rhubarb  Pie   197 

Rich  Mince  Pie   192 

Sharkey  Pie   195 

Sliced  Apple  Pie   191 

Sliced  Potato  Pie   191 

Sliced  Sweet  Potato  Pie  190 

Strawberry  Pie   195 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  203 

Sweet  Potato  Pie   190 

Tapioca  Custard   203 

Transparent  Custard   193 

Transparent  Custard   202 

Transparent  Pie   193 

SWEET  SAUCES. 

Boiled  Sauce   210 

Chocolate  Butter  for  Puddings  .  .210 

Creamy  Fruit  Sauce  211 

Creamy  Sauce   209 

Foamy  Sauce   211 

Grape  Juice  Sauce   211 

Hard  Sauce   210 

Hard  Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding.  .  .177 

Jelly  Sauce   209 

Lemon  Sauce  210 

Lemon  Sauce   211 

Maple  Nougat   211 

Sauce   210 

Sauce  for  Cup  Cake   210 

Sauce  for  Pudding  211 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


313 


Sweet  Sauces. — Continued,  page 

Sauce  for  Sponge  Cake  210 

Sherry  Sauce   209 

Strawberry  Sauce   211 

Vanilla  Sauce  209 

FRUIT. 

Apple  Compote   216 

Apple  Float   216 

Apple  Sauce   214 

Apple  Souffle   215 

Apples  with  Eaisins  215 

Baked  Apples  216 

Baked  Pears  215 

Caramel  Apples   217 

Compote  of  Apples   215 

Crystalized  Apples   212 

Evaporated  Fruit   212 

Fruits  in  Season   212 

Hot  Grape  Juice   212 

Jellied  Apples   214 

Mapled  Apples   217 

Spiced  Apples   215 

Stewed  Apples   215 

Stewed  Crab  Apples  217 

Stuffed  Apples   214 

Sugared  Figs   217 

To  Prepare  Fresh  Pineapple  217 

To  Serve  Grape  Fruit   217 

Tutti-Frutti   ....213 

"Wine  Saps   "...  ..214 

ICE  CREAM  AND  FANCY 
DESSERTS. 

A  Good  Sherbet   228 

Almond  Custard   241 

Ambrosia   ...245 

Angel  Charlotte  Eusse  238 

Apple  Sherbet   230 

Apricot  Cream   224 

Biscuit  Tortoni   232 

Bisque   ,  226 

Blanc  Mange  with  Almonds   237 

Boiled  Custard   241 

Caramel  Bisque  Ice  Cream  225 

Caramel  Custard   242 

Caramel  Ice  Cream   225 

Charlotte  Eusse   237 

Cherry  Ice  Cream   222 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  236 


Ice  Cream,  Etc. — Cont.  page 
Chocolate  Cream  (without  eggs).. 220 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream   219 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream   221 

Chocolate  Marshmallow  Ice  Cream. 220 

Chocolate  Mousse   234 

Chocolate  Sauce  227 

Chocolate  Sundays   227 

Coffee  Spanish  Cream   221 

Cranberry  Marmalade   244 

Custard  Blanc  Mange  236 

Czarina  Cream   222 

Fancv  Jellv  .  242 

Float   239 

Frozen  Mint  229 

Frozen  Beaches   226 

Frozen  Strawberry  Souffle   233 

Fruit  Sherbet  .  .231 

Grape  Ice  231 

Grape  Sauce   224 

Grape  Sherbet   230 

Grenadine  Ice   232 

Heavenly  Hash   232 

Heavenfv  Hash   244 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce   228 

Ice  Cream   218 

Lemon  Jelly   242 

Lemon  or  Orange  Syrup   228 

Lemon  Sherbet   •  229 

Lemon  Sponge  or  Snow  Pudding.  .236 

Lotus  Cream   224 

Macaroon  Cream   221 

Maple  and  Macaroon  Souffle  245 

Maple  Mousse   233 

Maple  Parfait   234 

Maple  Souffle  245 

Maple  Tapioca   246 

Maraschino  Ice  Cream  220 

Maraschino  Velvet   239 

Marshmallow  Ice  Cream  220 

Milk  Sherbet   :  229 

Milk  Sherbet  (lemon)   229 

Mint  Ice  229 

Mint  Sherbet   230 

Mousse   233 

My  Favorite  Frozen  Dainty  224 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream   219 

Orange  Baskets   240 

Orange  Butter   245 

Orange  Charlotte  238 


HOW  WE  COOK  IN  TENNESSEE. 


Ice  Cream,  Etc. — Cont.  page 

Orange  Cream   221 

Orange  Cream   239 

Orange  Cups  240 

Orange  Ice   232 

Orange  Jelly   240 

Orange  Jelly  243 

Peach  Ice  Cream   225 

Peach  Sherbet   230 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream   219 

Pineapple  Charlotte   238 

Pineapple  Foam   244 

Pineapple  Ice   231 

Pineapple  Jelly   242 

jrineapple  Mousse   233 

Pineapple  Souffle   239 

Pineapple  Velvet  Cream   222 

Pineapple  Water  Ice   231 

Pishtachio  Sauce   227 

Prauline  Ice  Cream   223 

Rum  Sauce  Ice  Cream  226 

Russian  Cream   222 

Sherbets   228 

Sherry  Ice  Cream   228 

Snow"  Pudding   235 

Spanish  Cream  221 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream   224 

Strawberry  Sauce  228 

Strawberry  Sherbet   231 

Stuffed  Bananas   245 

Syllabub   -...244 

The  Best  Ice  Cream  218 

The  Magic  Nest   244 

To  Make  Jelly  From  Feet  243 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream  222 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream,  Xo.  2  223 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream,  Xo.  3  223 

Vanilla  Blanc  Mange  . . .236 

Vanilla  Cream   220 

Whipped  Cream  Dessert   243 

Wine  Jelly   242 

BEVEREGES. 

A  Maraschino  Punch  250 

Apollinaris  Lemonade   249 

Apple  Wine   254 

Blackberry  Cordial  Xo.  1  255 

Blackberry  Cordial  Xo.  2  255 

Blackberry  Wine   254 

Cherry  Bounce   254 


Bevereges. — Continued,  page 

Chocolate   249 

Coffee   248 

Coffee  for  75   24S 

Coffee  for  100   247 

Claret  Sangaree   250 

Cocoa   248 

Cranberry  Frappe  252 

Cream  Lemonade   249 

Drip  Coffee   248 

Egg  Lemonade   249 

Frappe   252 

Fruit  Acid   253 

Fruit  Juices  253 

Fruit  Punch   251 

Grape  Juice   253 

Grape  Wine   254 

Iced  Tea   248 

Mint  Punch   251 

Pineapple  Lemonade   249 

Pineapple  Punch   251 

Raspberry  Vinegar   254 

Roumanian  Punch  250 

Sherry  Punch   250 

Strawberry  Frappe   252 

Sweet  Blackberry  Wine   255 

Tea   248 

Tea  Punch   251 

Tea  Punch   252 

PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

Apple  Butter   263 

Apple  Jellv   264 

Apple  Jelly   266 

Apple  Preserves   262 

Blackberry  Jam   261 

Brandied  Peaches   256 

Brandy  Peaches   257 

Cherry  Preserves   257 

Citron   259 

Cranberry  Jelly   266 

Damson  Jelly   264 

Damson  Preserves   257 

Fig  Marmalade  260 

Fig  Preserves   260 

Grape  Jam   262 

Grape  Jellv   265 

Grape  Jellv,  Xo.  2  265 

Grape  Jelly,  Xo.  3  265 

Jams  and  Butters   261 


HOW  WE  COOK 


IN  TENNESSEE.  315 


Preserves  and  Jellies. — Cont,  page 


Jelly   263 

Orange  Marmalade   257 

Peach  Chips   257 

Pear  Preserves   259 

Plum  Preserves   261 

Preserved  Peaches   262 

Pulm  Jelly   264 

Quince  Jelly   265 

Quince  Marmalade   258 

Quince  Preserves   ...258 

Kaspberry  Jam   261 

Strawberry  Jelly   265 

Strawberry  Preserves   260 

Sun  Preserved  Strawberries  256 

Sunshine  Preserves   256 

Syrup  Jelly  266 

Watermelon  Preserves  258 

CANNED  FRUITS  AND 
VEGETABLES. 

An  Infallible  Method  of  Canning. 270 

Another  Method  of  Canning  270 

Canned  Beans   271 

Canned  Blackberries   269 

Canned  Cherries   267 

Canned  Fruits   267 

Canned  Peaches  268 

Canned  Eed  Raspberries  268 

Canning  Tomatoes   269 

Sulphured  Apples   271 

Syrups  267 

CANDY. 

Boiled  Fondant  276 

Boston  Cream  Candy   277 

Butter  Scotch  277 

Caramel  Candy   278 

Chocolate  Caramels  281 

Chocolate  Creams   282 

Chocolate  Fudge   273 

Chocolate  Macaroons   280 

Cocoanut  Candy  ...279 

Cocoanut  Caramels   281 

College  Fudge   273 

Creamed  Dates   281 

Egg  Kisses   280 

English  Walnut  Creams   282 

Fondant   274 

For  Maple  Fondant   275 

For  White  Fondant   275 


Candy. — Continued.  PAge 

Fudge   272 

Hickorynut  Macaroons   279 

Lemon  Drops   281 

Maple  Creams   282 

Marshmallows   282 

Marshmallow  Panuche  274 

Mexican  Sugar  Candy  278 

Molasses  Candy   278 

Moravian  Mint  Cakes   283 

Nougat   282 

Nut  Fudge   273 

Panocha   274 

Peanut  Brittle   281 

Peanut  Kisses   280 

Pecan  Candy   277 

Pecan  Praulines  277 

Penocha  Fudge   273 

Penotia   274 

Peppermint  Drops   280 

Pink  Fondant  274 

Pinuchi   274 

Praulines   276 

Stuffed  Dates   282 

Sugar  Candy   278 

Taffy  Candy   277 

To  Prevent  Syrup  from  Burning.. 272 
To    Prevent    Sugar    and  Syrups 
from  Overflowing   272 

PICKLE. 

Cabbage  Pickle   287 

Cantaloupe  Pickle   290 

Chili  Sauce   289 

Chopped  Pickle   285 

Chow-Chow  Pickle   285 

Cucumber  Pickle  287 

Damson  Sweet  Pickle   289 

Excellent  Pickle  Kecipe   284 

Green  Tomato  Sauce   289 

Mixed  Pickle   284 

Onion  Pickle   288 

Pepper  Mangoes   289 

Preserve  Pickles  from  Molding.  .284 

Spiced  Damsons   289 

Spiced  Grapes   288 

Spiced  Plums   288 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickle   287 

Sweet  Pickle  Peaches   290 

Tomato  Catsup   289 


316 


HOW  WE  COOK  IX  TENNESSEE. 


FOR  THE  SICK. 


Albumen  Water   290 

Beef  Extract   290 

Beef  Tea   290 

MISCELLANY. 

Another  Cure  for  Earache   293 

Cerate  to  Dress  Blisters   293 

Cure  for  Earache   293 

Erysipelas   293 

For  Burns   294 

For  Bite  of  Insects   293 

French  Words  in  Cooking  


A.  J.  HcGEHBE 

Real  Estate  Agent 

Home  Phone  593. 


Miscellaney. — Continued,  page 


How  to  Wash  Cup  Towels  295 

Library  Paste   29-1 

Lime  Water   293 

Liniment   293 

Menus   

Mustard  Plaster   ,  294 

Plaster  for  Bisen  Breast  294 

Poisons  and  their  Antidotes  ....  291 

Tetter  Wash  293 

To  Kill  Cockroaches  294 

To  Kill  Water  Bugs  and  Koaches.294 
To  Bemove  Iron  Rust  295 


PRESCRIPTION  PRECISION 

When  the  prescription  is  brought 
to  us,  every  detail,  every  ingredi- 
ent, every  quantity  and  every  de- 
tail of  compounding  is  RIGHT — 
precisely  right. 


O.  J.  NANCE 

117  E.  Main  Street.    Phones  58. 


