^^^ 


A"* 


%  4 


■*-    A 


■■^ 


^     .-^ 


"<^,^' 


"<^v 


^- 


S^%, 


■X^ 


■>%..  .^V 


c- 


A%^ 


V 


,NV     ,  0  ^  '. 


-OO^ 


.x> 


A 


*^. 


'"-^^.x^ 


'r' 


^^ 


x^^.. 


aX' 


"^y-    V^' 
P^^. 


.-i> 


x^^^. 


%4^ 


v-J' 


.0-' 

0^    ^ 


C' 


-^ 


:r,  -,:- 


^"\"   *> 

\    B 

)^ 

■^0^             '; 

-           ^ 

v^ 

:    -^0^ 

<^^. 

^'^.    s^ 

■'■^o 

0^ 

xO^x. 

.^ 

"^^^ 

^ 

<x<^^ 


oo- 

\  ■ 

'      "      A-           "<>, 

'^r 


.>     -7-^. 


^^  .</'  \  V 


A^'  •^^. 


,\ 


'  .r> 


0  o. 


*. 


/j,  X      -<• 


■N^ 


A^ 


^^V^ 


HOW  WE  COOK 


LOS  ANGELES 


A  Practical  Cook-Book  Containing  Six   Hundred  or 

More  Recipes  Selected  and  Tested  by 

OVER  Two  Hundred  Well 

KNOWN  Hostesses 

INCLUDING  A  FRENCH,  GERMAN  AND  SPANISH   DEPARTMENT 

With  MENUS, 

Slggestions  for   Artistic  Table  Decorations, 
AND  Souvenirs 


Ladies'  Social  Circle,  Simpson  M.  E.  Chur 


LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


'Some  ha  c  meat  that  canua'  eat, 
A  nd  some  ivad  eat  that  -want  it, 

But  we  ha'e  meat  and  ive  can  eat, 
zAnd  sae  the  Lord  be  tliankii." 


los  angeles,  cal, 

Commercial  Printing  House 

mdcccxciv. 


ao%^3-Z 


Good  cooks  always  use  the  best 
materials  in  preparing  food. 

It  is  of  still  greater  importance 
that  your  medicines  should  consist 
of  the  purest  drugs. 

We  devote  ourselves  mainly  to  the  pre- 
scription trade,  and  in  this  department  are  used 
only  chemicals  and  parmaceutical  preparations 
from  the  best  manufacturers,  both  foreign  and 
American.  It  is  with  confidence  that  I  invite 
the  public  to  have  their  prescriptions  prepared 
at  my  store.    Purity  and  accuracy  is  my  motto. 

Yours  very  respectfully, 

ADOLF    EKSTEIN, 

Bradbury   Block  Prescription  Druggist i 


Watches,  Diarr)©r)ds,  I3fcr'lir)^  ©ilvep 
Wcircs,  Sut  Slctss,  Silv'ep  jf  Ictfed 
@©oJs,   licat^cp    Isfooas 


Sil^cp  lT)our)tcd.  arjd  ^ 

P     11    1  -    J  ^^e  j^^"^       ,^'°^  largest 

.-i^^  ^^  ...5teck, 

®^  .^^Sife^     M^*^  ^o  ^}.^2  "Fin-est  (Seeds, 

^<:^"^  the  reru  Icv/est  "Prices 

^7° 


Montgomery   Bros. 

Jewelers  and  Silversmiths 

120  and   122  N.  Spring  St.,         LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


PREFACE 

THE  Publishers  of  this  book,  firmly  believing  that  it 
is  no  more  expensive  to  furnish  a  table  with  food 
which  is  well  and  appetizingly  prepared,  than  it  is  to 
furnish  it  with  food  which  is  poorly  prepared,  have  earnestly 
endeavored  to  provide  a  cook-book  so  superior  that  if  the 
general  direcftions  and  recipes  are  faithfully  followed, 
failures  with  the  consequent  discomforts  may  be  avoided. 
To  accomplish  this,  scores  pf  ladies  have  been  commun- 
icated with,  and  asked  to  furnish  two,  three  or  more  of 
what  they  considered  their  choicest  recipes.  Thus  have 
the  recipes  for  the  various  departments  been  secured  with 
the  names  of  the  donors  attached. 

A  reference  to  the  list  of  contributors  we  feel  is  a 
guarantee  of  the  worth  and  popularity  of  this  book.  We 
have  presented  American,  Spanish,  German  and  French 
departments — a  thing  unusual. 

Great  care  has  been  taken  to  give  concise  general 
directions  for  each  chapter  ;  indeed,  to  make  this  book  so 
valuable  that  no  lady,  whether  rich  or  poor,  can  afford  tO' 
be  without  it. 

Mrs.  K.  M.  Widney        Mrs.  Carrie  Schutze 
"      W.  J.  Brown  "       W.  B.  Abernethv 

W.  G.  Whorton      "       E.  R.  Smith 
W.  F.  Marshall    "      J.  E.  Murray 

Committee  en  Publication 


H.JEVNEI 


^s^ 

i 

il 

1- 

T 


AKES  pleasure  in  placing  before  the  people  of  Southern  Californu 
a  line  of 

Fancy  p^^  Staple  Groceries 


equal  in  quality  and  as  great  in  assortment  as  can  be  found  in  any  store 
in  the  United  States.  Importing  man}^  goods  direct,  and  buying  frora~ 
Manufacturers,  Packers  and  producers  in  large  quantities,  we  are,  to 
the  delight  of  the  new  comers,  able  to  place  nearly  all  goods  in  our  line 
at  prices  as  low  as  generally  sold  in  Eastern  cities.  Our  constant  aim 
is  to  please  the  people,  and  so  well  have  we  succeeded,  that  our  present 
quarters,  though  enlarged  four  times  since  our  start  nine  j^ears  ago,  are 
taxed  to  their  utmost  capacit}'. 

Our  Tea  Department 

has  received  the  closest  and  most  skillful  attention,  and  we  never  fail  to 
please  the  most  exacting  in  their  wants  of  a  fine  cup  of  Tea.  You  will 
find  in  our  stock  the  choice.'^t  Formosa  Oolongs,  Moyune  Gunpowders 
and  Young  Hysons,  Pan  Fired  and  Basket  Fired  Japans,  Eng.  Break= 
fasts,  Indian  and  Assam  Teas,  varying  in  price  from  25  cents  to  $1.50 
per  pound,  very  excellent  qualities  at  50  cents  per  pound. 

'A  trial  will  convince  3'ou  that  we  are  the  house  to  buy  Tea  from. 

H.  JEVNE 


136  and   138  N.  Spring  St. 

d^RElfiL  GROCER  LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


WHOLESALE 
an 


LIST   OF    CONTRIBUTORS 


Mrs  W  B  Abernethy 
"AS  Allen 
"     W  H  Anderson 
"     G  h  Arnold 
"     H  C  Austin 
"AS  Averill 
"    J  J  Ayers 
"     AS  Baldwin 
"     Anna  Bancroft 
"     Hancock  Banning 
"     W  H  Barnard 
Miss  Martha  Bashor 
Mrs  A  S  Baxter 
"     Mary  Bear 
"    John  Beck  with 
"    S  E  Bennett 
"    J  W  Bessey,  Orange,  Calif 
Miss  Bertha  Bessey,  Orange,  Calil 
Mrs  Vida  A  Bixby,  Orange,  Calif 
"    Jotham  Bixbj-,  Long  Beach 
"     Anna  Bixby 
"     C  W  Blaisdell 
"     MM  Bovard 
"     LA  Bradish 
"     T  W  Brotherton 
■  '     F  W  B 
"     W  J  Brown 
"     Charles  Capeu 
"     C  C  Carpenter 
"     T  J  Carran 
"     \V  T  Carter 
"    SB  Caswell 
"     Burdette  Chandler 
"     Enieline  Childs 
Miss  Ruth  Childs 
Mrs  J  S  Chapman 
Dr  Chase 
Mrs  Cheever 

"     E  W  Clark 
Miss  Delia  demons 
Mrs  G  I  Cochran 
"     C  W  Congdon 
"    J  F  Conroy 
"     C  C  Converse,  Boston 
"     Homer  Cooke,  Waukegaii,  111 
Mr  Elwood  Cooper,  Santa  Barbara 
Mrs  Alice  M  Cooper 
Miss  Juliet  Corson 
Mrs  Kenyon  Cox,  Long  Beach 
"     Alice  Curtain 
"    Jennie  Curtin 
"     E  J  Curson 
"     Mrs  M  J  Danison 
"     D  S  Dickson,  Petaluma 


Mrs  W  M  Dickson,  Petaluma 
Miss  Lois  Dickson,  Petaluma 
"      Mary  Dickson,  Petaluma 
Mrs  Elizabeth  Dickey 
"     AC  Doan 
"     C  G  Du  Bois 
"     Geo  B  Dunham 
"     I  R  Dunkleberger 
"     W  J  Elderkin 
"     C  J  Ellis 
"    J  F  Ellis 
"     E  P  Ewing 
'■     Adolf  Eksteiu 
"    J  A  Fairchild 
"     S  H  Fairchild 
Miss  Farmer,  Boston 
Mrs  Alex  Faucett 
"    Mary  E  Flanders 
"     Flanders 
"     H  J  Fleishman 
Miss  Houora  Fogarty 
Mrs  Charles  Forman 
Miss  Eloise  Forman 
Mrs  James  Foord 
"     S  C  Foy 

"    Jessie  Benton  Fremont 
Miss  E  Benton  Fremont 

"      H  B  Freeman 
Mrs  G  W  Garcelon,  Riverside,  Calif 
"     M  A  Gibson 
"    J  A  Gilchrist 
"    J  W  Gillette 
"     A  J  Glassell 
"     K  R  Glassell 
Mr.  L.  C.  Goodwin 
Mrs  A  C  Goodrich 
Mr  J  A  Graves 

Capt  F  Edward  Gray,    Alhambra 
Mrs  T  C  Griswold 
"     C  H  Haas 
"     M  Hagan 
"AM  Hall 
"     Orr  Haralson 
"     A  D  Hall 
"     Marian  Harland 
"     Henry  T  Hazard 
"     Frank  S  Hicks 
"    J  W  Hendricks 
"    J  A  Henderson 
"     Susie  G  Hill 
"     W  B  Holcorab 
"     E  Hollenbeck 
"     W  J  IJorner 
"     F  M  Hotchkiss 


HARPER  &  REYNOliDS  GO. 

Would  Hespeetfully  eall  the  attention  of  the 

Ladies  of  Los  Angeles 

to  tJieip  Large  and  Complete  Assortment  of 

STOVES  ftp  RANGES 


We  are  Agents  for  „    „_..«,  „™,i™   ^^^r^.r 

„  -L      „    .      o  n    .  fl  COMPLETE  STOCK 

CriDDon,  Sexton  &  Go.  s 

^^^UNlVERSflL  RANGES       j.| 

Mesne  manufacturlno  Co.'s      •  {lOUSE  FUHNISHING  GOODS 
PJESTIC    TEUTONIC  RHNGES  :[ 

Dangler's  Gasoline  Ranges  ; 

Golden  Star  Oil  Ranges  KITCHEN  USENSILS 

HARPER    &    REYNOLDS    CO. 

152  ^>  154  flopth  Main  St.  ^  151 "'  153  %  lios  Angeles  St. 


i 


LIST   OF    CONTRIBUTORS.. ..CONTINUED 


Mrs  C  H  Howlaud,  CeutiueUa 
Mr  J  L  Howland,  Pomona 
Mrs  S  C  Hubbell 

"     R  C  Hunt 

"     Gerard  Irvine 
Mr  H  Jevne 
Miss  Mina  Jevne 
Mrs  Hancock  M  Johnston 

"     J  M  Johnston 

"    J  H  Jones 

"AC  Jones 

"    J  C  Joplin,  Orange  Co.,  Calif. 
Miss  Josie  Kaiser 
Mrs  M  E  Kerr,  Orange,  Calif. 
Miss  Ella  Kerr,        "  " 

Mrs  Flora  Kimball,   San  Diego 
Miss  Nellie  King 
Mrs  E  F  C  Klokke 

"     H  T  Lee 

"    Geo  Lerrigo 

"     Katharine  Duncan  Lewis 

"     W  \V  Lord 

"     E  W  Lucas 
Mr  Charles  F  Lumniis 
Mrs  C  D  Major 

"     W  F  Marshall 

"     T  Masac 

"  Mary  Mathison 
Miss  Ida  A  Maynard 
Mrs  E  Verona  May 

"     T  M  McCamant 

"    J  W  McKinley 

"     W  J  McKloskey 

"     R  L  McKnight 

"     C  C  McLean 
Miss  M  E  McLellan 
Mrs  H  McLellan 

"     Harriet  J  Meakin,  San  Diego,  Cal 

"    J  J  Melius 

"    J  J  Meyler,  Bowling  Green,  Ky 

"     E  B  Millar 

"     Frank  A  Miller,  Riverside 

"     M  G  Moore 

"     Morrell 

"     M  Mudge 

"    J  E  Murray 
J  H  Norton 

"     G  G  O'Brien,  Riverside,  Cal 

"     Anna  Ogier 

"     Anna  O'Melven}' 

"     H  G  Otis 

"     Owens 

"    HZ  Osborne 

"     Elwood  Packard,  Pomona 

"     Z  L  Parmelee 


Mrs  H  L  Parlee 
Miss  K  R  Paxtoii 
Mrs  J  H  F  Peck 

"     Mrs  S  J  Peck 

"     W  H  Pendleton 

"     C  W  Pendleton 

"     W  H  Perry 

•■     Frank  E  Phillips 

'■     M  Pickering 

"     F  H  Pieper 

"    J  E  Plater 

■     H  S  Powell 

"     E  A  Pruess 

"     I   H  Preston 

••     AC  Radford 

"    J  C  M  Rainbow,  San  Diego 

'■     W  J  Robinson,  New  Brunswick 

"     Augusta  Robinson 

"     ST  Rorer 

"     L  J  Rose 

"     Erskine  M  Ross 

'■     \V  \V  Ross 

"     S  S  Salisbury 

"     EH  Sanderson 

"    Carl  Schutze 

"     Fannie  H  Shoemaker 

'■     George  Segar,  Riverside,  Cal 

"     CM  Severance 
M'  El  'fecv<r>tniCg- 

"     Ella  Sherrard 

"     Charles  Silent 

"     Edward  Silent 

"     H  Sinsabaugh 

"    J  C  Slaughter 

"     Converse  Smith,  Boston 

"     Henry  Smith 
Mrs  E  R  Smith 

"     HE  Smith 

'•     I  Smith 

'■     S  E  Smith,  St  Johns,  N  B 

"     Guy  Smith,  Tustin,  Calif 

"     S  Speedy 

"     E  F  Spence 

'^'     J  S  Stanway 

"     George  Steckel 

"     J  M  Stewart 

"  D  G  Stephens 
Miss  Kate  Stevens 
Mrs  A  C  St  John 

"     T  D  Stimson 

"     Willard  Stimson 

"     Ezra  Stimson 

"EPS 
"76" 
Mrs  Cameron  Thoni 


Crystal  Palace 

The  Largest  and  Leading  Crockery  House  on  the  Coast 


MEYBERG  BROS. 

IMPORTERS  AND  JOBBERS  OF 

Crockery,  Glass  ^  China  Ware 

Hanging,  Piano,  Banquet  and  Table  Lamps 


ROGERS  BROS.' 
PLATED  WARE 


Willow  and  Wooden  Ware 

;  ;  BABY  BUGGIES 

Cutlery  and  Clocks  ;  !     Refrigerators  and  Filters 


Agents  for  the  Famous  ;  i  Agents  for 

B.  .^*  H.  ROCHESTER    :  HAVILAND  &  CO.'S 
LAMPS  i'         FRENCH  CHINA 

SPECIAL  ATTENTION   PAID  TO  OUR 

Gas  and  Electric  Fixture  Department 


Everything  in  Kitcheo  and  Household  Goods 


Ma-\rV\r\frf    Rv/^c'      38-140-142  S  outh  Main  Street,  Los  Ange 
iVieyUerg   DIOS.    i  ,1-133-133  S.LosAngeiesSt Cal 


PRICES    WILL    tell 

We  do  not  advertise  goods  at  half  price, 
neither  can  any  other  dealer  legitimately. 

We  do  know  that  reliable  factory  goods 
cannot  be  sold  at  lower  prices  than  we  offer. 

We  are  not  prepared  to  enter  into  com- 
petition with  dealei's  purchasing  refuse 
stock  of  odds  and  ends. 

We  do  claim  our  prices  are  the  lowest  ■ 
for  a  first-class  reliable  shoe  and  cheerfully 
invite  comparison.  Obliging  clerks  always 
in  attendance. 

The  queen  shoe  STORE 


162-164    NORTH    MAIN    STREET, 


Mail  Orders  Promptly  and  Accuracely  Filled 


LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


LIST   OF  CONTRIBUTORS  ...CONTINUED 


Mrs  C  C  Thomas 

Mr  P  C  Tomson,  Philadelphia 

Mrs  John  Truslow 

A  T  Tuttle 

Hugh  W  Vail 

I  N  Van  Nuys 

F  M  Van  Doren 

Vaughn 

Carrie  G  Waddilove 

Charles  Walton 

Helen  Widney  Watson 

Weiside 

Mary  B  Welch 

G  Wiley  Wells 

A  M  Whaley 

S  W  Wheeler 


Mrs  D  L  Whipple 
"     B  C  Whiting 
"     G  W  White 
"     W  G  Whorton 
"    J  P  Widney 
"     WW  Widney 
"     R  J  Widney 
"     R  M  Widney 
Miss  Frances  Widney 
Mrs  John  Wigmore 
"     Charlotte  L  Wills 
"     M  H  Williams 
Miss  Eva  E  Williams 
Mrs  Modini-Wood 
"     C  B  Woodhead 
"     W  H  Workman 


SPANISH    DEPARTMENT 


Mrs  Vida  A  Bixby 

Senorito  Epitosia  Bustamente 

Mrs  A  F  Coronel 

"    J  G  Downey 

"     Don  Juan  Foster 
Marie  de  la  Domiugues  de  Francis 


Sister  Immanuel 
Mrs  Walter  Moore 
A  Sepulveda  de  Mott 
Mrs  E  A  Preuss 
"     Carrie  Schumacher 
"     Dolores  Sepulveda 


M  Bandino  de  Winston 
GERMAN    DEPARTMENT 


Mrs  W  W  Holt 
"    J  Johansen 
"     G  Kerckhoff 
"     W  G  Kerckhoff 
"     A  Knoch 


Mrs  EEC  Klokke 
"     John  G  Mossin 
"    E  A  Preuss 
"     Rutz 
"     Carrie  Schumacher 


FRENCH     DEPARTMENT 


Mme  V  Chevallier 
Mrs  C  C  Ducommun 


Mrs  E  A  Preuss 
"     Carrie  Schumacher 


RUSSIAN    DEPARTMENT 


Mrs  P  A  Demens 


Mrs  E  R  Smith 


THE    LADIES'  SOCIAL   CIRCLE 


T^HE  Ladies'  Social  Circle  of  Simpson  Tabernacle  are 
responsible  for  the  publication  of  this  book.  The  pro- 
ceeds are  for  the  benefit  of  the  church.  We  are  very 
grateful,  and  we  wish  here,  publich',  to  express  our  gratitude 
to  the  many  contributors  for  their  kindness,  interest  and 
generosity  in  furnishing  recipes,  menus,  general  directions, 
suggestions  for  table  decorations,  and  souvenirs,  as  well  as 
for  all  help  given  in  any  way,  in  either  department  of  this 
book.  The  book  will  be  for  sale  by  all  members  of  the 
Social  Circle.  » 

OFFICERS  AND  MEMBERS 

President,  Mrs  K  M  Widnky  2d  Vice  Pres.,  Mrs  F  H  Pieper 

1st  V-Pres.,  Mrs  Alice  L  Curtain    Fin.  Sec.  and  Treas.,  Mrs  W  J  Brown 
Recording  Secretary,  Mrs  E  W  Lucas 

Mrs  W  B  Abernethv 

"     O  L  Allen 

"     D  B  .\lexaiider 

"     H  L  Banks 

"AS  Baxter 

"    J  W  Bear 

"    J  N   Beecher 

"     W  W  Beckett 

"     LA  Bradish 

■'     N  J  Brown 

••     W  T  Carter 

"     G  I  Cochran 

'    J  T  Conley 

"     Alice  L  Curtain 

*'     E  J  Curson 

"     E  Dickey 

"     AC  Doan 

"    AM  Dunsmore 

"     S  H  Fairchild 

"  A  R  Frasher 
Miss  Liilti  Gibson 
Mrs  J  A  Gilchrist 

"     C  H  Haas 

"AM  Hall 

"     W  J  Horner 

"    AY  B  Holcomb 

"     R  C  Hunt 

"     E  J  Keihl 

"     George  Lerrijj^o 

'■     W  W  Lord 

"     S  W  Little 

■"     S  J  Linn 


Mrs  E  \V  Lucas 
"     W  F  Marshall 
"     S  A  Mattison 

Miss  Kate  Mertz 

Mrs  C  C  McLean 
"    T  F  McCamant' 
"     H  G  Miller 
"    J  E  Murray 
"     Z  L  Parmelee 
"     C  B  Patterson 
"     S  J  Peck 
"     M  Pickerini^ 
"     F  H  Pieper 
"     I  H  Preston 
"     AC  Badford 
"     A  L  Robinson 
"     ML  Sampson 
"     L  C  Schutze 
"     C  H  Shaffner 
"     E  R  Smith 
"     E  Robinson  Smith 
"     HE  Smith 
"     H  Y  Stanley 

Miss  Eliza  Stoughton 
"     Olive  Storm 

Mrs  A  T  Tuttle 
"     W  J  \Yarneke 
"     ML  \Ye1)ster 
"     AM  \Yhalev 
"    Y^'  G  \Yharton 
"    M  H  Williams 
"     \Y  W  Widney 
Mrs  R  M  Widnev 


FOOD    COMBINATIONS 


Miss  R.  R.  Paxton 


If  only  two  vegetables  are  used  with  lean  meat,  use  one 
starchy  and  one  green.  The  objecft  of  eating  is  to  repair 
the  body  which  is  constantly  throwing  off  used  up  material, 
and  during  the  period  of  growth  to  form  new  tissue. 

The  nutritive  supply  must  be  adapted  to  the  require- 
ments of  the  system,  nitrogen  must  be  replaced  by  nitrogen, 
carbon  by  carbon.  We  therefore  need  a  mixed  diet,  which 
must  be  varied  according  to  individual  peculiarities,  age, 
occupation,  climate,  etc.  As  a  general  thing,  five  or  six 
times  as  much  carbonaceous  as  nitrogenous  food  is  required 
— the  nitrogen  forming  tissue,   the    carbon    producing    heat. 

SOUP 

Crackers,  croutons,  breadsticks. 

FISH 

Potatoes,  bread,  cucumbers.  Potatoes  prepared  in  var- 
ious ways.       Garnish  fish  prettily. 

BEEF=ROAST 

White  and  sweet  potatoes,  corn,  peas,  asparagus,  cauli- 
flower, tomatoes. 

BEEF=BOILED 

Potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  cauliflower,  cabbage, 
spinach. 

VEAL 

As  for  beef. 

MUTTON 

Potatoes,  peas,  spinach,  asparagus,  cauliflower,  rice,  cold 
slaw. 


26  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Ayigeles 

LAMB 

Same  as  mutton. 

PORK 

This  in  a  carbonaceous  food,  and  should  be  combined 
with  food  containing  nitrogen,  as  beans,  peas,  lentils,  cab- 
bage. With  ham,  which  is  very  oily,  we  use  eggs  (which 
are  highly  nitrogenous)  apple  sauce,  horse  radish,  turnips,, 
tomatoes. 

TURKEY 

Potatoes,  onions,  turnips,  cold  slaw,  in  facft  any  vege- 
table, cranberry  sauce,  currant  jelly. 

CHICKEN 

Boiled  rice,  rice  croquettes,  tomatoes,  potatoes,  cauli- 
flower, cold  slaw. 

DUCKS 

Potatoes,  peas,  turnips,  onions,  parsnips,  macaroni. 
SMALL   BIRDS 

These  are  nice  roasted  with  a  strip  of  bacon  pinned 
around  them.       Pin  with  a  sharp  wooden  tooth  pick. 

LIVER 

Onions,  bacon,  potatoes. 

BRAINS 

Peas. 

SWEETBREADS 

Peas,  tomatoes. 

VENISON 

Potatoes,  tomatoes,  spinach,  rice,  currant  or  wild  plum 
jelly. 


OLD  TIME    HOSPITALITY 


Jessie  Benton  Frea\ont 


Washington  was  my  chief  home  although  we  had  two 
others  equally  ours,  for  one  was  my  father's  house  in  St. 
Loufs  and  the  other  my  mother's  —  and  our  birthplace  in 
Virginia,  a  colonial  grant  to  my  great  grandfather  a  Scotch 
officer,  whose  wife  came  over  reluctantly.  ( I  do  not  blame 
her,  it  is  weary  work  to  leave  home  and  old  civilization  for 
a  new  country),  but  as  this  is  altogether  a  paper  on  domes- 
tic and  social  habits,  I  only  refer  to  her  as  having 
stamped  her  Virginia  home  with  the  comfort  and  decorum 
and  much  of  the  elegance  of  French  housekeeping.  For 
Scotland  and  France  were  in  close  relations  through  the  past 
century,  and  to  this  day  we  find  the  good  traces  in  their 
gardens  and  housekeeping,  and  I  feel  its  life-long  benefits  in 
health,  for  there,  as  well  as  in  St.  Louis,  which  was  com- 
pletely a  French  town  in  my  early  day,  we  were  saved  from 
the  over-use  of  meats,  and  were  used  to  fowls  and  vege- 
tables carefully  prepared  and  served  as  a  course.  Soups, 
from  the  "gumbo"  to  clear  bouillons  were  the  rule  in  all 
households.  The  whole  health  is  influenced  by  this  pre- 
dominance of  lighter  food,  fruits  and  vegetables;  with  breads 
of  all  kind  and  soups,  these  make  not  only  better  health 
but  better  tempers  and  promote  temperance  in  eating  by 
maintaining  a  calm  stomach.  This  is  a  fad  with  me.  From 
both  sides,  my  father  as  well  as  my  mother,  we  were  trained 
to  nicety  and  giving  as  well  as  receiving  pleasure  from  the 
family  table.  The  best  education  in  all  things  comes  from 
unconscious  imitation  and  influence  of  environment,  when 
later,  the  reasons  are  given  one  is  fortified  against  less  refined 
influences. 

We  were  four  little  sisters  and  it  was  the  law  to  be  fresh 
and  tidy,  and  in  the  parlor  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  dinner 


28  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

— in  Washington  this  was  at  five  to  meet  the  daily  hours  of 
the  Senate. 

My  father,  who  was  certainlj-  one  of  the  most  largely 
useful  and  busy  men  in  Government  affairs  never  omitted 
his  care  for  the  family.  He  was  our  chief  teacher,  with 
masters  coming  at  fixed  hours  to  add  their  teachings  in 
languages  and  general  studies,  for  we  were  homebred.  And 
my  mother,  who  overlooked  her  household  as  only  a  Southern 
woman  wdth  slaves  had  to  do,  filled  her  social  position  also, 
fully,  while  by  her  example  we  were  trained  to  "pretty 
manners." 

One  invariable  inflexible  law  was  maintained,  and  I  kept 
to  it  in  my  young  household,  and  wherever  I  could  have 
instilled  it  into  young  families.  Not  only  were  we  to  be 
quite  tidy  in  person  but  we  were  to  keep,  for  that  hour  of 
family  reunion  whatever  we  had  seen  or  known  through  the 
day — of  things  or  from  books  —  which  would  give  pleasure 
to  all.  And  if  any  opposite  state  of  mind  cropped  out,  any 
crossness  or  temper,  or  small  rudeness,  nothing  was  said  ; 
but  the  next  day  that  child  ate  by  itself  at  a  side  table 
with  its  face  turned  from  us  :  all  education  my  father  held 
should  be  on  the  lines  we  must  follow  more  fully  as  we  grew 
older.  This  "sending  to  Coventry"  of  a  social  offender  was 
what  would  surel^^  overtake  us  when  we  were  grown  if  we 
made  ourselves  unwelcome,  it  was  the  law  of  "Doing  to 
others  as  we  would  be  done  by,"  not  preached  but  acted  on. 

This  I  write  to  show  the  family  atmosphere  that   made 

dinners  a  charming  time  of  social  exchange    of  one's   best, 

and  not   exclusively  a    function  of  necessity,   or   for   empty 

show. 

Washington  had  always  exceptional  advantages  in  people 

to   meet    in  that  way.  From   all  over  the  country  great 

lawyers   brought   cases   before    the   Supreme    Court  —  these 

met  on  common    ground   at  my  father's,  where  the  ruinous 

hospitality  of  (the  past)  South  had  full  sway.       Many  men 

have  told  me  since,   that  never   had   they  sat  at   such    real 

feasts  of  brilliant  minds,  and  delicate  excellence  of  food  as  at 


Old   Time  Hospitality  2g 

that  table  round.  Not  only  lawyers,  but  the  great  interests, 
from  the  shoes  of  L,ynn  to  the  sugars  of  Louisiana  —  the 
military  men  of  the  day  fresh  from  Indian  wars — on  into  the 
Mexican  war,  for  my  father  was  for  twenty-eight  years 
chairman  of  the  Senate  Military  Committee  and  understood 
their  needs  and  was  their  powerful  ally — the  many  interest- 
ing, travelled,  diplomats  with  all  of  whom  there  were  inter- 
national interests  and  with  some  close  personal  relations — 
these  made  a  constantly  recurring  yet  varying  set  of  agreeable 
guests  who  might  well  say  they  looked  forward  to  their 
business  visits  to  Washington  as  bringing  them  again  to  that 
delightful  table. 

We  grew  up  from  babyhood,  most  of  our  children  were 
born  there  too — in  that  dear  home.  Then  it  was  burned  in 
1855.  In  1856  the  South  excommunicated  me — to  go  against 
my  people  was  hard,  but  there  was  no  choice  possible,  and  in 
1858  my  father  died.  Often  I  ran  down  from  New  York  to 
stay  a  day  or  so  with  him — but  my  mother  was  gone  and 
only  my  father  turned  the  old  look  of  welcome — the  younger 
people  looked,  and  felt  me,  gone  from  their  ideas,  and  it 
was  more  pain  than  pleasure,  but  I  kept  my  children  as 
much  as  I  could  with  their  grandfather.  Except  for  brief 
stays  in  California,  and  longer  in  Europe,  I  lived  in  that 
uncommon  atmosphere  for  nearly  thirtj^  years. 

Your  request  brought  up  so  much  of  the  past  I  just  had 
to  tell  you  why  I  was  from  a  very  early  age  a  practised 
critic  and  comprehending  person  at  ceremonious  dinners — 
invited,  and  not  entirely  misplaced  either  as  a  guest  at 
splendid  dinners  in  New  Orleans,  and  in  Washington  at  the 
Presidents  and  the  best  houses  of  foreign  ministers  as  well 
as  our  own  people  of  high   position.  From    my   twelfth 

year  on  I  was  on  dinner  lists,  for  I  was  tall  for  my  age,  and 
spoke  French  and  Spanish  so  well  I  was  constantly  put  by 
some  Minister  whose  English  was  elementary,  and  who  had 
no  shyness  in  asking  me  to  interpret  —  nor  had  my  good 
home  training  left  me  any  false  shyness,  for  usages,  people 
and  all  I   was  familiar  with  in  my  own  home. 


JO  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Ayigeles 

And  now  I  will  tell  3-ou  of  some  dinners  of  my  young 
time: 

Mr.  Van   Buren  had   been   our  minister  to   England  and 
liked    elegance.  He    found   the   President's   house    rather 

shabby,  and  though  he  and  his  three  sons  made  a  family 
of  men  only,  yet  men  can  have  nice  and  pretty  ideas  as 
well  as  women.  Congress  was  slow  in  voting  new  furniture, 
and  the  old  satins  and  velvets  below  had  to  go  on. 
But  the  smaller  dining-room,  and  the  library  and  sitting- 
rooms  above  were  all  made  fresh  and  cheerful  at  the 
President's  expense  by  English  chintzes.  Lots  of  books, 
piclures,  china  things,  such  as  are  usual  now,  gave  another 
effect  to  these  rooms  which  were  not  open  to  the  public, 
and  the  dreadfully  open  windy  hall  below  he  had  protected 
by  a  glass  screen — later  a  Tiffany  art  glass  screen  divided 
the  long  enclosure.  Mr.  Van  Buren  also  used  his  own 
beautiful  table  furnishings.  When  he  was  asked  if  it  was 
true  as  a  certain  Senator  had  said  in  a  speech  against  him, 
that  he  was  "an  aristocrat  wasting  the  people's  money  on 
gold  spoons."  "I  do  own  gold  tableware",  he  said — "and  the 
Senator  knows  it  is  mine,  for  he  has  had  the  spoons  in 
his  mouth,  often,  at  my  table." 

Smith  Van  Buren  was  just  eighteen,  and  his  father  invited 
a  birthday  company  of  suitable  ages — the  youngest  attaches 
and  young  Americans,  and  the  girls  were  all  under 
sixteen  —  I  was  just  thirteen.  The  President  came  in  for 
dessert.  The  dinner  was  like  all  other  dinners  which 
never  seem  to  get  awaj-  from  the  soup,  fish,  entrees,  filet 
de  boeuf  and  salad  and  game — served  quickly  and  quietly 
in  courses,  but  one  innovation  was  the  fresh  flowers  in 
place  of  the  great  table  decoration  brought  from  Paris  long 
before — that  venerable  long  mirror,  with  its  ormolu  balustrade 
and  its  groups  of  statuettes  upholding  baskets  of  artificial 
flowers.  Those  flowers  were  still  on  duty  in  President 
Polk's  time  when  I  had  reached  the  mature  age  of  twenty- 
three.  But  for  us,  in  our  early  spring  time,  the  President  had 
ordered  tulips  and  hyacinths,   and   for  the  first    time    I  saw 


Old   Time  Hospitality  ji 

them  used  naturally,  in  old-time  champagne  glasses  at  each 
plate.  The  ices  too,  were  moulded  and  colored  to  imitate 
fruits,  and  there  were  the  unfailing  tall  pyramids  of  oranges 
in  quarters,  and  grapes,  all  covered  and  hung  with  a  network 
of  spun  sugar.  And  each  girl  had  a  lovely  and  large  bon-bon 
box  from  Paris  with  the  finest  candies  and  fruit  glaces. 

The  next  3"ear  the  whole  house  had  been  made  over 
fresh;  and  I  was  again  there  at  a  great  dinner,  this  time  in 
the  State  dining-room,  for  I  was  one  of  eight  bridesmaids, 
(all  under  sixteen,  as  the  bride  was  that  age),  though  the 
"bridegroom  who  was  the  Russian  minister  was  over  sixty, 
and  the  groomsmen  matched  his  age  :  Mr.  Buchanan,  the 
English  minister,  the  Belgian  and  so  on.  Artificial  flowers 
and  marble  cupids  were  good  enough  for  this  December  and 
Maj'  business,  and  we  nearly  fell  asleep  over  the  length  of  the 
dinner,  for  our  groomsmen  took  advantage  of  our  youth  to 
be  at  their  ease  and  talked  to  each  other  and  dined  seriously. 
Everything  was  very  much  as  it  is  now — only  more 
prolonged,  but  Washington  has  always  had  its  liberal  foreign 
infusion  and  is  exceptional  in  having  had  always  a  fixed 
order  of  society  and  usages.  So  it  was  in  advance  of  other 
localities  in  breaking  the  shell  of  provincialism. 

Both  in  our  Virginia  and  St.  Louis  homes,  and  alwaj^s  in 
"Washington,  I  was  only  among  the  sort  of  people  who  had 
neither  wish  nor  temptations  to  coarse  feeding  or  anj^  habits 
of   intemperance    in    food    or    drink.  My    father's    well 

known  contempt  and  avoidance  of  any  form  of  self-indulgence 
naturally  brought  him  like  companionship.  I  was  almost 
thirty  before  I  ever  saw  a  gentleman  stupefied  b}^  drink. 
Perhaps  I  had  an  exceptional  life,  but  since  my  earlier 
•days  I  have  seen  many  people,  and  I  am  constantl}'  pleased 
and  cheered  to  see  how  right  prevails  over  wrong;  and  good 
outnumbers  bad,  and  generally  I  feel  it  is  a  fairly  good  world, 
and  we  can  each  make  it  the  better  and  more  beautiful  by 
doing  our  ver}'  best  just  around  us — which  is  my  moral  from 
our  family  dinner  table. 


J 2  How   We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

The  Sunday  dinner  was,  always,  an  especial  pleasure  to 
all  of  us.  It  had  been,  in  m}^  father's  unmarried  time,  the 
day  when  he  and  his  more  intimate  friends  could  dine  at 
leisure  as  they  were  free  from  business.  But  my  mother, 
with  her  Scotch-Presbyterian  training,  felt  differently.  I 
have  heard  my  father  laughingly  explain  how  she  "weaned 
liim" — being  a  womanly  as  well  as  a  clear-headed  woman 
she  made  no  opposition  to  old  habits,  (for  my  father  was 
nearly  forty  when  he  married),  but  she  made  the  family 
luncheon  on  Sundays  so  attracflive,  so  flattering  to  all  his 
preferences,  that  any  friend  he  wished  to  have  he  would 
ask  home  from  church  —  and  so  it  came  that  we  grew  up 
to  it  as  a  special  pleasure  to  have  my  father  at  that  one 
o'clock  meal  —  the  wholesome  hour.  Mr.  Sumner  coming 
in  by  chance  once,  begged  to  be  invited  other  Sundays,  and 
for  seven  years  he  was  always  when  in  Washington, 
expedled  and  nearly  always  in  his  favorite  place  facing  the 
flower-stand — in  a  broad   south  window. 

Steamed  Turkey  or  Chickens 

A  Ham  (Small,  cured  for  at  least  four  years  in  the  smoke-house) 

Buffalo  Tongue 

A  Salad  of  Lettuck,  or  Tomatoes,  or  Cucumbers 

(\viTH  Mayonnaise  Dressing) 

Roasted  Potatoes,        Homl-made  Bread,  always  Cold 

all  placed  upon  the  table  at  once 

for  dessert 

Wine  Jelly  Fresh  Fruits  Cake 

Claret  Preserved  Ginger 

Dry  Pine-apple  Cheese 

It  was  always  a  cold  dinner,  for  my  mother  felt  the 
servants  should  have  the  day  of  leisure  also.  She  had 
grown  up  among  slaves  who  could  objedl  to  nothing  —  and 


Old    Time  Hospitality  jj 

though  our  own  servants  were  free-born,  and  some  had 
been  set  free  by  my  parents,  yet  the  id^a  of  claiming  equal 
rights  to  rest,  or  religion,  did  not  occur  to  them  —  but  it 
did  to  my  mother  to  give  them.  For  this  everything  was 
prepared  on  Saturday. 

But  our  cook  "Aunt  Betsey"  who  lived  twenty-three  years 
with  us  had  been  not  only  "a  born  cook"  but  "made"  by 
training  under  a  French  chef  (and  pra(5lice  under  a 
Virginia  housekeeper )  and  each  thing  was  as  completely 
delicately  good,  and  handsome  to  see  too,  as  for  a  fine  supper 
of  to-day.  Onl}^  claret  on  the  table:  my  father  was  really 
temperate  in  food  and  almost  wholly  so  in  drink  —  abstem- 
ious is  a  better  word,  for  his  tastes  were  refined.  For 
example,  the  turkey  was  never  roasted  for  he  thought  that 
"coarse",  but  steamed,  with  a  stufiing  of  oysters,  and  a 
white  sauce  of  cream  and  herbs.  This  was  Mr.  Sumner's 
delight,  for  he  greatly  enjoyed  nice  food  ( as  Longfellow's 
letters  show)  also  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  bufialo  tongues, 
a  luxury  not  easily  had,  but  sent  through  the  Fur  Company 
to  my  Father.  He  had  said  in  a  speech  on  the  future 
Railways  of  the  West  that  the  bufialos  were  the  natural 
engineers  who  had  found  the  best  passes  across  the  Rocky 
Mountains.  For  this  Mr.  Sumner  called  them  "Engineers' 
tongues".  The  only  hot  thing  was  the  potato,  which  could 
be  left  in  the  hot  ashes  of  the  covered  fire  —  for  cooking 
ranges  were  unknown  at  first  and  then  despised  by  both 
epicures  and  cooks.  With  the  natural  hunger-hour,  the 
pleasant  people,  the  unusual  freedom  from  work-a-day 
obligations  no  wonder  the  food  seems  so  good,  and  it  was 
as  good  and  attradlive  as  it  was  satisfying.  It  was  a  favor 
to  be  asked — verbally — to  our  Sunday  early  dinner.  There 
was  always  provision  made  for  more  people  though  it  was 
if  possible  confined  to  very  few.  Years  later  when  I  had 
a  sea-side  home  at  Nahant,  near  Longfellow's,  Mr.  Sumner, 
who  always  made  his  friend  long  visits  there,  came  regularly 
in  the  old  intimate  way  to  my  house — "I  get  tired  of  fish- 
dinners",     he     would     say,     and     "you    keep     house      like 


J/  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


your   mother  —  I  never  feel  I  intrude  or  disturb  any  one". 
It  was  my   "well-done"  as  one  of  that  centre  of  wit,  of 
large   ideas,  of  large   hospitality,  represented  at   our   home 
table. 

Los  Angeles,  May  14,  1894. 


MRS.  ALCOTT'S  TABLE 


Mrs.  C.  M.  Severance 


Through  the  infecftious  enthusiasm  of  a  friend  I  was 
beguiled  into  a  pledge  which  I  find  must  now  be  re- 
deemed, despite  its  evident  lack  of  fitness  to  the  matter  in 
hand.  For  of  all  imaginable  roles,  that  of  catering  to  the 
public  taste  in  the  way  of  menus,  or  in  recipes  for  popular 
dishes,  is  for  me,  a  most  grievous  "misfit."  But,  as  a  com- 
promise,•and  perhaps  as  a  novelty,  I  have  been  kindly  per- 
mitted to  give  as  my  contribution,  what  will  be  a  mere 
outline  or  hint  of  my  own  ideal  menu  and  cooking,  as  illus- 
trated practically  at  the  table  of  Mrs.  Bronson  Alcott,  the 
sturdy  and  capable  mother  of  our  famous  Louisa  and  her 
sisters. 

In  later  years  the  family  purse  was  well  filled  by  the  re- 
sults of  lyouisa's  profitable  literary  work.  But  when  I  was 
first  a  guest,  the  luxury  of  a  hired  cook  was  not  to  be  in- 
dulged; and  the  brave  housemother  put  before  her  visitors  the 
work  of  her  own  hands  and  brain,  the  latter  a  factor  not  to  be 
had  for  the  asking,  nor  for  any  given  number  of  dollars  per 
week,  from  our  untrained  maidens  of  our  time. 

The  element  of  brains  and  the  charming  home  atmosphere 
no  doubt  counted  for  much  in  the  relish  of  the  food.  Cer- 
tainly to  me  those  meals  were  "fit  to  set  before  a  king,"  so 
dainty  were  they  in  their  getting  up,  so  delicate  in  their 
flavors,  so  perfect  in  kind  and  color,  "so  done  to  a  turn," 
after  the  best  fashion  of  our  grandmotheis. 

No  odor  of  frying  fat,  or  of  crude,  pungent  vegetables 
polluted  the  pure,  fresh  air  of  the  house.  The  usual  "cuts 
and  joints"  being  replaced  by  deliciously-cooked  breads,  by 
"crushed  wheat"  moulded  into  the  appetizing  and  artistic 
forms  of  corn,  melons,  and  other  pretty  fruits,  and  smothered 
in  genuine  cream;  or  by  pears  and  apples  baked  to  a  luscious 


J  6  How    We  Cook  hi  Los  A7igeles 

tenderness  and  a  rich  brown:  so  that  these  special  dishes  came 
to  stand  with  me,  for  the  veritable  plain  living  which  is  the 
poetic  accompainment  of  high  thinking,  ''the  feast  of  reason'' 
which  begets,  or  at  least  does  not  hinder,  the  flowing  together 
over  it,  of  noble  souls.  And  those  meals  gave  us  not 
"roasted  I^ady,"  but  a  useful,  sweet,  gracious  hostess,  gener- 
ous of  herself  as  well  as  of  her  stores,  with  no  smell  of  the 
kitchen  upon  her  garments,  nor  worry  of  it  on  her  placid 
face.  For  nearly  all  these  dishes  were  prepared  in  the  early 
morning  hours,  and  cooled  by  the  Concord  breezes  for  the 
summer  days  delight  and  refreshment.  And  of  such  meals 
the  bluff  old  Abernethy  w^ould  not  have  needed  to  utter  his 
strong  statement  that  "we  dig  our  graves  with  our  teeth;" 
for  by  such  diet;  which  discards  the  unnecessary  stimulus  of 
condiments,  of  high  flavors,  and  harmful,  because  too  tempt- 
ing a  variety  at  any  one  meal;  a  normal  appetite  is  cultivated 
and  satisfied,  which  keeps  instinctively  to  "the  golden  mean  of 
not  too  much." 

But  for  such  meals  it  is  evident  that  no  special  recipes  are 
needed,  beyond  the  suggestion  of  the  skillful  use  of  the  cook's 
good  brains,  a  scrupulous  exactness  of  measure,  and  of  time, 
and  the  use  of  only  the  best  material.  I  may  add,  however, 
directions  for  one  item  of  this  simple  meiui,  and  that  some- 
what modified  by  later  experiment,  the  "Graham  biscuit  or 
roll,"  now  called  the  whole  wheat  gem. 

Take  of  this  modern  meal  (which  includes  all  the  nutritit^u^'i^ 
ous  elements  of  the  grain,  leaving  out  only  the  harsh  outer 
husk,)  I  cupful,  ij4  cupsof  fresh  milk,  or  of  cold  water  a  trifle 
more  or  less,  the  former  making  the  gem  moister  within  and 
crisper  and  browner  of  crust.  Beat  the  meal  and  milk  to- 
gether smartly,  then  pour  the  mixture  into  very  hot,  iro?i  gem- 
pans  and  put  these  into  a  very  hot  oven.  Twenty  minutes, 
or  less,  will  take  to  give  an  even  nut-brown  color,  and  eaten 
with  fresh  butter  they  will  give  the  full  sweetness  of  the  grain 
and  of  the  well-baked  crust.  To  a  natural,  health}'  appetite 
no  item  of  the  gourmand's  feast  can  be  more  tempting  nor 
eaten  with  keener  relish. 


Mrs.  AlcotVs   Table  37 


Saying  this  I  will  no  doubt  find  myself  justified  in  the 
eyes  of  "the  world's  people"  in  my  opening  statement  of 
being  a  misfit  in  a  19th  century  cook-book,  and  must  appeal 
from  this  to  the  verdict  of  the  better  time  coming  in  the  20th 
century,  where  I  am  confident  of  winning  my  case. 


TABLE    DECORATIONS 


Mrs.  Anna  Bancroft 


[The  following  charming  letters  were  kindly  contributed  b}'  Mrs. 
AnnajBancroft,  who  has  spent  six  months  in  Chicago,  at  the  World's 
Fair  as  assistant  to  Mrs.  Candace  Wheeler,  the  latter  being  Diredlor 
of  the  Women's  Building.  Mrs.  Wheeler  is  President  of  the  Associated 
Artists  of  New  York  City — indeed  was  the  founder  of  that  society'.] 


My  DBA.R  M.: — I  have  lately  had  the  pleasure  of  accept- 
ing several  very  pleasant  invitations  to  breakfasts,  luncheons, 
etc.,  and  as  you  said  in  your  letter,  that  you  wanted  to  do 
some  entertaining,  I  thought  you  might  like  to  know  how 
they  do  that  sort  of  thing  here. 

I,ast  Wednesday,  I  went  to  a  breakfast  which  will  long 
linger  in  my  memor}^  the  decorations  being  so  charming. 
It  was  given  by  a  young  couple,  both  artists,  who  are  famed 
for  their  informal  entertainments.  One  leaves  with  the 
thought  that  here,  at  least,  they  have  rested  in  an  oasis  in 
the  dreary  desert  of  most  social  functions.  Formality  began 
and  ended  with  the  written  invitations.  One  felt  perfe(5lly 
certain  when  greeted  by  the  host,  in  white  flannels,  and  the 
hostess,  in  an  airy,  white,  lace-trimmed  "confe(5lion",  that 
a  good  time  was  coming.  Nothing  was  formal,  nothing  stifi". 
And,  although  eighteen  people  of  different  tastes  and  char- 
adlers,  sat  down  together,  each  felt  the  atmosphere  of  the 
house  at  once;  and  long  before  the  table  was  reached,  was 
in  a  frame  of  mind  to  be  delighted  with  everything,  and  to 
add  his  or  her  share  to  the  general  entertainment. 

The  breakfast  room  was  the  perfection  of  brightness. 
The  shades  and  hangings  had  been  taken  away  from  the 
windows  to  allow  the  sun  to  pour  through  a  lattice-work 
of    green    vines    so    cleverly    woven    back    and    forth    that 


Table  Decorations  jg 


Nature  seemed  the  handmaiden.  Vines  were  trailed  from 
the  sides  of  the  room  to  the  chandelier,  hiding  the  fixtures, 
and  forming  a  bower  over  the  dainty  table;  in  the  center 
of  which  was  a  large  bowl  filled  with  white  sweet  peas, 
whose  delicate  fragrance  could  not  interfere  with  the  most 
fastidious  appetite,  as  a  heavier  odor  might  have  done.  The 
dainty  green  of  the  asparagus  vine  trailed  o'er  the  blossoms 
and  along  the  table  in  every  direction.  Before  each  guest 
were  individual  flower-holders  filled  with  the  same  blossoms; 
the  vine  running  around  each  plate  formed  a  refreshing 
nest  for  the  good  things  to  come.  The  center  bowl  and 
holders  were  of  the  dainty  rainbow  ware  that  refle(5ls  the 
many  shades  of  pinks,  purples  and  blues;  and  here,  together 
with  the  sunlight,  furnished  just  enough  color  to  add 
character  to  the  whole.  Almost  no  silver  was  used.  The 
linen  was  embroidered  in  light  and  airy  designs;  everything 
was  simple  and  refreshing.  And  the  eyes  and  brains  of 
all,  feeling  the  effect,  the  conversation  partook  of  the 
brightness  and   crispness  of  the  hour. 

Well  might  the  hostess  sit  smiling  and  unconcerned.  If 
the  cook  had  not  been  "on  time",  nor  the  menu  all  that 
it  should  have  been,  every  one,  by  this  time,  was  too 
agreeably  impressed  to  be  affecfted  by  such  trifles. 

As  I  looked  at  the  table,  I  thought  how  the  scheme 
might  be  varied  from  green  and  white  by  using  forget-me- 
nots,  pink  sweet  peas,  mignonette,  or  the  pink  and  white 
Lady  Washington    geraniums. 

The  menu  was — well  it  would  take  too  long  to  tell  of 
its  delights,   so  I  will  leave   that   for  another  letter. 


Yours,   A. 


My  Dear  M.: — As  in  your  last,  5'ou  seemed  pleased 
with  what  I  wrote  you  about  the  breakfast  decorations, 
and  expressed  your  willingness  "to  sit  at  the  feet  of  the 
scribe,"  I  will  tell  you  something  about  some  lovely 
luncheons  it  has  lately  been  my   good  fortune  to  attend. 


^o  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


I,uncheons  are  the  pride,  and  alas!  often  the  downfall 
of  many  a  hostess.  In  the  hands  of  some  women,  they  are 
dreams  of  fairy  land — everything  that  is  beautiful,  artistic, 
and  satisfactory.  While  another  poor  mortal  with  a  wild 
desire  to  outshine  her  dearest  friend,  will  take  the  greatest 
liberties  with  the  materials  on  hand.  Colors  run  riot.  The 
drawn  work  and  embroidery  and  other  art  (?)  works  are 
trotted  out — the  more  the  merrier.  Gossip  has  its  fling;  it 
always  does  when  things  are  at  sixes  and  sevens;  and  one 
goes  home  with  the  feeling  that  she  has  been  looking 
through  a  kaleidescope.  The  brain  is  weary,  the  eyes  are 
tired,  and  the  digestion  upset.  In  spite  of  the  wild  craze 
for  over-decorating,  however,  the  best-dressed  tables  are 
becoming  more  simple  each  year,  and  consequently,  more 
refined.  Fancy  work  is  used  in  moderation,  and  flowers 
in  less  profusion.  But  pardon  my  preaching,  as  I  have 
just  come  from  such  a  lovely  luncheon  which  I  will  not 
describe;  but  tell  you  about  two  or  three  I  attended  lately 
which  were  really  soul,  or  perhaps  I  might  say  mind,  satis- 
fying. 

At  the  first  one,  given  by  a  bride  in  return  for  some 
luncheons  given  by  her  school  friends,  the  decorations  were 
pink  azalias.  The  table  was  covered  with  drawn  work  and 
would  have  looked  very  much  over-trimmed  but  for  the 
beautiful  color  scheme  which  was  so  perfect  that  I  was 
tempted  to  forgive  the  hostess  for  spoiling  her  eyesight. 
By  the  way,  more  handwork  is  put  on  the  linen,  nowadays, 
than  ever  before.  An  artistic  hostess  finds  she  must  exer- 
cise great  judgment  in  order  to  have  everything  embroidered 
and  befuddled  just  enough.  But  to  return  to  my  table. 
The  cloth  of  very  fine  linen  was  bordered  with  fifteen 
inches  of  drawn  work,  and  lined  with  delicate  pink  silk 
fringed,  and  hanging  about  an  inch  below  the  fringe  of  the 
cloth.  An  oblong  runner,  almost  entirely  drawn,  beautifully 
worked  and  lined  with  the  same  pink,  reached  to  the  edge 
of  the  plates. 

An  oblong  cut  glass  dish  filled  with  azalias,   white  with 


Table  Decorations  // 


pink  edges,  and  maiden  hair  fern  graced  the  center.  At 
every  plate  was  placed  a  little  white  spoon  made  of  twisted 
tissue  paper  with  a  bunch  of  tiny  pink  blossoms  tied  on 
the  handle  with  white  ribbon.  These  served  a  double 
purpose;  the  salted  almonds  being  in  the  bowl  of  the 
spoon  and  the  name  of  each  guest  in  gilt  lettering  on  the 
handle;  as  dainty  a  name  card  as  one  would  wish  to  see. 
The  sherbet  glasses  were  hidden  in  beautiful  tissue  paper 
tulips,  white  with  deep  edges  and  dashes  of  pink  color.  A 
small  lace  doyley  lined  with  pink  set  off  these  pretty 
flowers.  Larger  doilies  with  the  same  lining  were  under 
the  finger  bowls  of  cut  glass;  a  single  azalia  and  spray  of 
maiden  hair  fern  floating  on  the  water.  Potted  azalias  and 
ferns  were  in  effective  positions  about  the  room.  The 
china  service  was  in  white  and  gold. 

Last  week,  Mrs.  S.  gave  a  luncheon  to  her  sister.  She, 
Mrs.  S.,  is  a  beautiful  brunette  who  goes  in  for  style  (with 
a  capital  S)  and  stunning  effects  that  startle  rather  than 
soothe.  The  decorations  of  the  room  were  in  yellow  and 
black.  The  runner  and  napkins  were  embroidered  in  deep 
yellow  ribbons,  bowknots  and  ends.  In  the  center,  a  low, 
flat  dish  was  filled  with  yellow  and  black  pansies  (pulled 
up  by  the  roots  instead  of  picked)  giving  the  impression  of 
a  bed  of  growing  flowers  which  was  made  more  real  by 
the  bunches  being  raised  in  the  center  of  the  bed.  From 
this  glowing  wealth  of  colors,  rose  a  brass  standard  lamp, 
the  base,  and  part  of  the  standard  completely  hidden  by  the 
pansies.  The  shade,  which  was  immense,  almost  a  canopy 
for  the  table,  was  made  of  light  yellow  silk  with  a  very  full 
and  deep  flounce.  Perched  all  over  the  top  of  this  were  stuff- 
ed black-birds  in  every  conceivable  position,  and  looking  as  if 
a  flock  had  settled  there  for  the  afternoon,  A  few  birds 
with  out-stretched  wings  hovered  over  the  table  and  about 
the  room.  These  were  suspended  from  the  ceiling  by 
invisible  wires.  Bunches  of  yellow  pansies  alternated  with 
black  ones  at  the  plates.  Great  dishes  of  the  pansies  were 
placed    on    sideboard  and  dresser;  and  a  round  table  in  the 


4-2  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

bay  window  was  simply  a  bed  of  yellow  and  black  flowers. 
On  the  name  cards,  which  were  painted  in  water  colors, 
were  pretty  girls,  who  on  some  were  in  yellow  tulle,  and 
on  others,  in  black  tulle;  those  in  yellow  being  placed  with 
the  yellow  pansies,  and  those  in  black  with  the  black 
flowers. 

Mrs.  G.  gave  a  dainty  forget-me-not  lunch  to  the  M's 
who  were  just  starting  for  Europe.  This  was  a  great 
contrast  to  the  yellow  and  black  affair  of  Mrs.  S.  The 
linen  was  all  embroidered  in  forget-me-nots  and  white 
ribbon.  A  pot  of  tall  maiden  hair  fern  spread  its  feathery 
sprays  high  and  far  over  the  table.  Banked  so  as  to 
completely  hide  the  pot,  and  reaching  almost  to  the  plates 
was  a  garden  of  the  forget-me-nots  apparently  growing  in 
their  own  foliage.  At  each  cover  was  a  bunch  of  the  same 
flowers;  and  a  little  pin  tray  in  the  center  of  which  was 
painted  a  wreath  of  forget-me-nots,  the  name  of  the  guest, 
and  the  date  of  the  luncheon.  They  were  souvenirs  as  well 
as  name  cards  and  were  too  pretty  to  be  lost  on  the  waj^ 
home.  The  ices  were  served  in  paper  ice-cups  twined 
with  spra3'S  of  the  same  dainty  blue  flowers;  and  a  spray 
was  also  dropped  into  each  finger  bowl.  Four  silver 
standard  lamps  were  placed  about  the  room;  the  shades 
of  white  silk  completely  covered  with  artificial  forget-me- 
nots.  As  a  background  to  the  whole,  potted  plants  were 
placed  in  all  the  corners  and  around  the  room.  The  china 
service  at  this  lunch  was  delicate  blue  and  silver. 

But   this   letter  is   unconscionatle  long  so  I    must  close. 

Yours  ever,  A. 


My  Dear  M.: — What  of  dinners?  Don't  I  go  to  any  or 
don't  they  give  dinners  now  ?  Yes  to  .  both  questions, 
although  I  think  luncheons  predominate.  There  is  very 
little  difference  between  the  luncheon  and  dinner  decora- 
tions. There  is  so  much  attempted  for  the  luncheon  that 
little    new    is  left   for    the    heavier    meal,     and    people    are 


Table  Decorations  ^j 


satisfied  to  decorate  in  much  the  same  manner.  At  one  or 
two  places,  they  have  used  the  bare  table;  but  I  think,  and 
have  good  authority  for  thinking,  that  that  is  only  suitable 
for  informal  luncheons,  late  teas,  and  theatre  suppers;  or 
when  the  repast  is  Bohemian  in  its  nature.  At  a  dinner 
where  many  courses  are  served  and  where  silver,  glass,  and 
china  are  used  in  abundance,  the  bare  boards  are  cold  and 
do  not  show  off  the  elegance  and  daintiness  of  the  neces- 
sary decorations.  .Crumbs,  bits  of  fat,  etc.,  that  are  always 
dropped  upon  a  table  do  not  brush  easily  from  the  wood 
but  leave  greasy  little  roads  running  from  corner  to 
corner,  that  are  anything  but  appetizing.  This  is  not  so 
at  an  informal  lunch  or  supper,  as  the  crumbs  are  allowed 
to  remain  unmolested  during  the  meal.  There  is  a  fresh- 
ness and  a  cleanliness  to  a  white-dressed  table  that  is  very 
appetizing,  and  the  flowers  with  other  decorations  show  to 
the    very    best  advantage. 

At  a  dinner  I  attended  lately,  the  decorations  were 
quite  unique;  being  made  of  the  new  crepe  paper.  In  the 
center  of  the  table  was  a  large,  round,  flat  dish  of  maiden 
hair  fern;  with  lavender  and  deep  purple  orchids  of  the 
butterfly  variety  made  of  the  paper.  The  tall  central  lamp 
of  brass  had  an  immense  square  shade  of  the  white  crepe 
paper  with  deep  purple  fringe  tinted  in  water  color.  A 
scroll  work  in  purple  was  painted  above  this  edge.  Large 
bows  of  the  paper  wired,  and  pasted  in  two  opposite 
corners  gave  a  light  and  butterfly  effect.  Fifteen  large 
orchids,  each  four  inches  across,  made  of  paper  and  beauti- 
fully painted  to  represent  the  natural  flowers  were  scattered 
over  the  entire  top  and  side.  A  big  bow  and  a  bunch  of 
the  orchids  were  tied  about  half  way  up  the  standard  of 
the  lamp.  The  table  was  round  and  seated  twelve.  At 
regular  distances  from  the  center,  and  from  each  other,  were 
tall  candle  sticks  covered  with  white  paper.  The  candles 
were  white,  and  had  quite  good  sized  shades  all  bordered 
with  the  same  purple-tinted  edges  and  trimmed  with  small 
orchids.         As     the     shades     were    furnished     with     mica 


How   We  Cook  m  J^os  Angeles 


chimneys  and  spreaders,  there  was  no  blaze  to  flame  up 
and  startle  all,  just  when  X\ie  guest  of  honor  had  reached 
the  point  of  his  story.  At  the  covers  of  the  ladies  were 
beautiful  white  baskets  made  of  twisted  paper,  tinted  and 
trimmed  to  match  the  shades,  and  each  filled  with  a 
pound  of  delicious  candy.  The  name  of  each  lady  was 
painted  in  gold  on  a  white  ribbon  tied  to  the  handle. 
Alternating  with  these  beautiful  souvenirs  were  penwipers 
for  the  gentlemen.  Two  cunning  little  brownies  of 
opposite  sexes,  one  dressed  in  white,  the  other  in  deep 
purple,  stood  on  a  mat  of  crocheted  paper  and  held  in 
their  tiny  hands  the  name  cards  of  the  gentlemen  who 
were  to  carry  them  home.  The  ice-cups  were  white,  buried 
in  a  wreath  of  orchids.  Nothing  daintier  or  less  expensive 
could  be  devised  for  an  effective    decoration. 

At  another  dinner,  the  table  was  trimmed  with  white 
pond  lilies;  the  leaves  and  long,  rubber-like  stems  adding 
much  to  the  grace  and  elegance  of  arrangement.  From 
the  chandelier  hung  an  immense  bunch  of  the  white 
blossoms  and  leaves  which  had  been  pulled  from  the 
bottom  of  the  lake  instead  of  being  picked.  The  long 
stems  hung  quite  to,  in  fact  touched,  a  round  mirror  which 
formed  a  good  sized  lake  in  the  middle  of  the  large  round 
table.  Around  the  edge  and  trailing  over  the  glass  were 
the  blooms  and  leaves.  At  intervals,  the  bunches  of  flowers 
were  raised  like  a  mound  to  hide  a  small  fairy  lamp  with 
a  pink  shade  that  shed  a  faint  glow  over  the  glass  and 
flowers.  As  the  entire  lighting  was  shaded  in  faint  pink 
the  same  efiecft  was  produced  all  over  the  room.  At  each 
cover  was  a  fairy  lamp  completely  hidden  with  a  bunch 
of  flowers  and  leaves.  A  card  painted  and  cut  out  to 
represent  the  real  flower  bore  the  name  and  served  as  a 
souvenir.  The  patties  were  served  in  pond  lilies  made 
of  paper,  and  the  large  natural  leaves  were  pinned  together 
with  little  sharp  twigs  to  make  pretty  cups  for  the  ices. 
The    whole  effecl  was  charming. 

But    for  the   present,    adieu,    A. 


MENUS  AND   DECORATIONS 


SinPLE  JUNE  BREAKFAST  —  (  Mrs.  C.  E.  Thorn) 
MENU 

Raspberries  on  small  branches 

Lobster  a  la  Newberg  Toasted  Crackers 

Sweetbreads  in  Scollop  Shells  Biscuit 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  Saratoga  Chips 

Cucumbers  (served  in  hollows  of  ice)  French   Dressing 

Orange  Sherbet  in  Orange  Baskets         Cake,  etc. 


BREAKFAST  -  (  Mrs.  Hujjh  W.  Vail ) 
MENU 

Sliced  Figs  with  Cream 

'■      Oermea 

Baked  Eggs  Parisienne  Potatoes 

Corn  Cakes        "Whole  Wheat  Gems 

Coffee  with  Whipped  Cream 


A  ROSE  BREAKFAST  — (Mrs.  Ezra  Stimson  ) 
DECORATION 

Cloth,  white;  service,  daint}-  as  possible;  center  piece, 
candelabra  with  pink  shades;,  careless  arrangement  of  pink 
roses  at  either  end  of  the'  table.  At  each  cover,  a  half 
open  bud  of  same  rose;  the  name  card,  a  single  satin 
rose  petal.  On  side  table,  banquet  lamp  with  pink  shade; 
and  scattered  about  the  .^oom,  baskets  or  bowls  of  roses. 
The    strawberry      ice     served    in    real    roses,     the    centers 


How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


removed  and  filled.  The  fragrance  and  beauty  of  a  "rose 
screen"  is  its  own  reward.  Cover  a  screen  with  coarse 
green  or  pink  net;  and  by  use  of  florists*  wire,  cover  it 
with  roses;  unfold  and  place  across  one  corner  of  the  room. 


Strawberries 

Timbale  of  Shrimps  Cream  Sauce 

Rolls 

Fried  Spring  Chicken  Peas 

Potato  Balls  Parsley 

Tomatoes 

(Stuffed   with  chopped   cucumbers,   served  on  cress  and   capped    with 

Mayonnaise) 

Cheese  Straws 

Strawberry  Ice  Lady-fingers 

Coffee 


BREAKFAST—  (  Miss  K.  R.  Paxton  ) 
MENU 

Fruit  Oranges 

Germea  Cream 

Chops  French  Rolls 

Coffee 


BREAKFAST -(Miss  K.  R.  Paxton) 
MENU 

Cherries 

Oatmeal  Cream 

Tomato  Omelet 

Toast  Coffee 


Menus  and  Decorations  4.J 

JULY   BREAKFAST—  (  Mrs.  Ezra  Stimson  ) 

MENU 

Omelet  with  Herbs 

Finger  Rolls  Fried  Frogs  Legs 

Olives 

Veal  Cutlets  Tomato        Sauce 

Potato  Croquettes 

Coffee  Cakes  Coffee 

Strawberries  and  Cream 


OCTOBER  BREAKFAST  — (Mrs.  Ezra  Stimson) 
MENU 

Deviled  Oysters  in  Scollop  Shells 

Broiled  Chicken  French  Peas 

Vienna  Rolls  Coffee 

Mayonnaise  of  Tomatoes 

Cheese  Fingers  Wafers 

Ices  Cakes 

Fruits 


BREAKFAST  —  (  Miss  K.  R.  Paxton  ) 
MENU 

Bananas 

Wheatena  Cream 

Broiled  Steak  Creamed  Potatoes 

Cornmeal  Gems 

Coffee 


^8  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

A  MAGENTA   LUNCHEON -(  Mrs.  G.  Wiley  Wells) 

DECORATIONS 

This  may  not  be  aesthetic,  but  it  is  ''fin  de  siecle".  As 
many  flowers  take  on  this  glowing  shade  called  "nature's 
red",  it  will  not  be  difficult  to  decorate  the  table  with 
brilliant  magenta  which  is  most  effective  with  cut  glass, 
and   the   satin  damask   of  the   cloth. 

At  each  plate,  place  quite  a  broad  bow  of  magenta 
ribbon  with  a  spray  of  pretty  white  flowers  tied  in  it.  On 
one  loop,  painted  in  silver,  the  name  of  the  guest  and  date 
of  luncheon.  Have  white  candles  with  little  magenta 
shades.  Fill  bonbon  dishes  with  magenta  and  white  candies. 
Place  around  the  edge  of  a  cut  glass  olive  dish  a  circle  of 
magenta  pickled  beets.  Decorate  pickle  dishes  in  the  same 
fashion.  Another  dish  with  small  magenta  radishes  will 
add  another  touch  of  color. 


Raspberries  or  Strawberries 

Bouillon  , 

Deviled  Crabs  in  Shells 

(In  serving,  surround  with  Magenta  petals) 

Turkey  Mashed  Potatoes 

(Use  the  white  meat  onh- — garnish  with  pickled  beets) 

Sweetbread  Patties  Green  Peas 

Raspberry  Ice 

Celery  Salad  Cheese  Cakes 

(Garnish  the  salad  with  slices  of  egg— the  whites  dyed  magenta  with 

beat  vinegar ) 

Charlotte  Russe 

(  Served  in  small  white  paper  cases  tied  with  narrow  magenta  riblron 

the  top  decorated  with  a  few  candied  cherries) 

Ices 

A  brick  of  Vanilla  and  Raspberry  Ice 

Fruit  Bonbons 

Coffee 


Menus  and  Decorations  ^g 

A  JANUARY   LUNCHEON -(Mrs.  I.  N.  Van  Nuys) 
MENU 

Raw  03'sters 

Bouillon 

Deviled  Crab  Olives 

Broiled  Quail  Spiced  Currants 

Potatoes  Parisienne        Green  Peas 

CelerA'-  Salad  Garnished  with  Shrimps  Cheese  Straws 

Individual  Charlotte  Russes 

Fru/t  Salad  Angel  Food 

Contectionerv 

Black  Coffee 


LUNCHEON  — (Mrs.  Hugh  W.  Vail) 
MENU 

Shaddocks 

Broiled  Shad  with  Tartan  Sauce 

Saratoga  Potatoes 

Chicken  Patties         Olives  in  Cracked  Ice 

Lamb  Chops  Chestnut  Sauce  Green  Peas 

Chocolate  with  Whipped   Cream 

Cheese  Straws  Orange  Salad 

Lemon  Jelly  with  Almonds 

Bonbons    ■  Salted  Almonds 


LUNCHEON  —  (  Miss  K.  R.  Paxton  ) 
MENU 

Thinly-Sliced  Cold  Meats 

Fried  Tomatoes 

Bread  Cofifee 

Lemon  Sponge 


fo  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

LUNCHEON  -  (  Mrs.  W.  W.  Ross  ) 
MENU 

Sugared  Pomegranates 

Bouillon 

Creamed  0_vsters  on  Toast 

Veal  Cutlets  with  Mushrooms 

Fried  Bananas  with  Sweet  Sauce 

Apricot  Sherbet 

Potted  Quail  Potatoes  Green  Peas 

Welsh  Rabbit  Stufifed  Olives 

Sweetbread  Patties 

Lettuce  Salad  Cheese  Sticks 

Tutti   Frutti  Cream  Asssorted  Cake  Confections 

Tea  Coffee 


LUNCHEON  — (Mrs.  Willard  H.   Stimson  ) 
DECOR.\TIONS 

Use  plain  white  damask  table  cloth;  let  the  embroidery 
of  center  piece  be  also  in  white.  In  center  of  table,  place 
a  large  rose  bowl  filled  with  carnations  and  ferns.  Before 
each  lady,  place  a  long-stemmed  bouquet  of  delicate  pink 
carnations  and  ferns,  tied  with  pink  satin  streamers.  On 
each  ribbon,  fasten  the  dinner  card.  Arrange  the  bouquets 
so  as  to  form  the  chief  decoration  of  the  table. 

MENU 

03'sters  on  the  Half  Shell 

Bouillon  Toasted  Crackers 

Deviled  Crabs        Sauce  Tartare 

Sweetbread  Croquetts  Parker  House  Rolls 

Pine  Apple  Sherbet 

Broiled  Squabs  Potato  Bouletts 

Water-cresses 
Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Celery  Mayonnaise 
Cheese    Straws 
Nesselrode  Pudding- 
Coffee 


Menus  and  Decorations  ^i 

MAY   DAY    LUNCHEON  — (A\rs.  M.  M.  Bovard) 
TABLE   DECORATIONS 

From  chandelier  over  table  was  suspended  a  large  basket 
of  grasses  and  brilliant  May  flowers.  Dinner  cards  of 
dainty  little  May   baskets  with  salted  almonds. 


Amber  Soup  Oliveg 

Txirbot  a  la  Creme 

Lamb  Chops  Green  Peas 

Spring  Chicken — Maryland  Style 

New  Potatoes 

Limcheon  Mnffins  Green  Apple  Fritters 

Lettuce  and  Tomatoes        Mayonaise  Dressing 

Strawberr\^  Short  Cake  Strawberry  Sauce 

Candied  Rose  Leaves  May  Baskets 

Iced  Tea 


LUNCHEON  —  (  Miss.  K.  R.  Paxton  ) 
MENU 

Raw  0\^sters  in  Ice  Form 

Bouillon 

Shad  Roe  Croquettes        Bechamel  Sauce 

Rolls 

Creamed  Chicken  with  Mushrooms 

Pine  Apple  Ice 

AlaA'onnaise  of  Sweetbreads 

Cheese  Straws 

Cream  and  Ices  in  Individual  Molds 

Meringue  Fancy  Cakes 

Coffee 


^2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

LUNCHEON-  (Miss  K,  R.  Paxton  ) 
MENU 

Beef  Stew        Dumplings 

Lettuce  Ereiich  Dressing 

Rolls  Tea 


LUNCHEON-  f  Miss  K.  R.  Paxton) 


Baked  Halibut  Fisli  Sauce 

Cold  Slaw 

Hot  Biscuit  Chocolate 

Baked  Apples 


A  JUNE  DINNER  —  (  Mrs.  I.  N.  Van  Nuys  ) 


Pine  Apple  Sherbet  Consomme  Royale 

Halibut  Sauce  Tartare        Potato  Croquette 

French  Artichokes  Mayonnaise 

Boiled  Turkey  0_vster  Sauce 

Peas  Mashed  Potatoes  Spiced  Peaches 

Lettuce  Salad         French  Dressing 

Strawberry-  Meringue 

Individual  Ices  Fancy  Cakes 

Coffee 


Memis  and  Decorations 


53 


A  SPRING  DINNER  IN   GREEN   AND  WHITE -(Mrs.  Charles  Forman  ) 
DECORATIONS 

Lay  the  table  with  pure  white  napery;  placing  in  the 
center  a  large  low  bowl  of  Paris  daisies  with  their  own 
foliage.  For  the  ladies,  have  corsage  bouquets  of  long- 
stemmed  daisies  tied  with  No.  4  green  satin  ribbon  in  loops 
and  flowing  ends;  across  one  of  which  write  the  name  in 
gold  to  match  the  daisy's  center.  For  the  men's  places, 
write  the  name  on  a  plain  white  card,  through  one  end  of 
which  pass  the  green  stem  of  a  white  carnation  with  a  bit 
of  feathery  green,  for  a  boutonaire. 

MENU 

Oysters  in  a  block  of  Ice  encircled  with  Sniilax 

Salt  Pepper  Lemon  Crackers 

Green  Asparagus  Soup 

Baked  Barracuda  New  Potatoes  with  Cream  Sauce 

Sliced  Cucumbers 

Boiled  Calf's  Tongue  Spinach  and  Pickles 

Artichokes  with  Melted  Butter 

Roast  Lamb  Mint  Sauce  Green  Peas 

Lettuce  with  French  Dressing     Cheese  Straws 

Snow  Pudding 

Pistache  Ice  Cream  Lady  Cake 

Black  Coffee 

SIGMA  CHI   GREEK   DINNER— (  Mrs.  M   M.  Bovard  ) 
DECOKATIONS 

The  Daneburg  Cross  of  white  enamel  with  gold  letters, 
IE..Y.,  the  badge  of  the  fraternity;  white  carnations,  the  flower; 
blue  and  gold,  the  colors.  The  tables  were  formed  in  the 
shape  of  the  cross;  around  the  border  of  the  cloth  was 
marked  a  Greek  border  of  laurel  leaves.      The  center  piece 


5/  How    We   Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

was  a  Greek  cross  formed  with  mirrors  imbeded  in  white 
carnations  and  lace  ferns.  Suspended  from  the  chandelier, 
a  cross  of  the  new  white  centaurea  margaretta;  the  beauty 
of  which  was  twice  told  in  the  mirror  below.  Dinner  cards 
of  white  celluloid  Daneburg  cross,  with  names  and  dates 
painted  in  blue  and  gold.  Table  talk:  Greek  quotations 
given  while  a  tiny  bundle  of  pine  fagots  were  tossed  by 
each  guest  into  an  earthen  bowl  painted  in  blue  and  gold, 
containing  burning  alchohol    and  salt. 

MENU 

Almond  Soup  Olives 

Salted  Almonds 

Boiled  Salmon  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Pine  Apple  Ice 

Roast  Turkey  Oyster  Dressing 

Scalloped  Asparagus        New  Potatoes 

French  Rolls 

Lobster  en  Mayonnaise 

Russian  Cream 

Moussee  Angel  Food  Cake 

French  Nougat 

Coffee 

DINNER  — (  Mrs.  E,  B.  Millar  ) 
MENU 

Raw  O^'sters  Consomme 

Crabs  dn  Coquille 

Fillet  of  Beef 

Green  Peas  Duchesse  Potatoes 

Lemon  Sherbet 

Salmi  of  Duck 

Lettuce  Salad  Cheese  Straws 

Nesselrode  Pudding 

Coffee 


Menus  and  Decorations  55 


; DINNER— (  Mrs.  J.  E.  Plater) 


Oysters— Half  Shell 

White  Soup 

Baked  Shad  White  Sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Mushroom  Patties 

Lemon  Ice 

Fillet  of  Beef  with  Mushrooms 

Mashed  Potatoes  Baked  Tomatoes 

Asparagus  cold  Sauce  Maj-onuaise 

Strawberries  Ice  Cream 

Black  Coffee 


DINNER  —  (  Mrs.  C.  E.  Thorn  ) 


Raw  03-sters 

Green  Turtle  Soup 

Trout  Tartare  Sauce 

Duchesse  Potatoes 

Sweetbread  Patties 

Turkey  Stuffed  with  Chestnuts 

Cranberry'  Jelly  Green  Peas 

Haunch  of  Venison  Currant  Jelh- 

Salad 

Lettuce  with  Pat4  de  Foie  Gras 

Orange  Sherbet        Cakes 

Black  Coffee 


5<5  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

DINNER  FOR  OCTOBER  OR  NOVEMBER -(  Mrs.  J.  H.  F.  Peck) 
DECORATIONS 

In  the  center  of  the  table,  place  a  large  cut  glass  dish 
filled  with  purple  and  white  grapes.  Tie  a  bow  of  lavender 
ribbon  (of  generous  width)  and  place  on  the  grapes;  draw- 
ing the  ends  of  ribbon  to  the  corners  of  the  table,  or  up 
over  the  chandelier.  Take  small  bunches  of  grapes,  crys- 
tallized with  sugar;  tie  with  ribbons,  and  place  at 
each  plate. 

MENU 

Oysters  (raw) 

Amber  Soup 

Creamed  Sweetbreads  browned  in  Shells 

Olives  Salted  Almonds 

Orange  Sherbet 

Fried  Chicken  a  la  Jerse_v 

Peas  Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Potato  Croquettes 

Salad  Romain  Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Raspberries  in  Form 

Served  with  whipped  cream  and  white  pound  cake 

Cheese  and  Coffee 


DINNER  —  (  Miss  K.  R.  Paxton  ) 

MENU 

Ivlock  Bisque  Soup 

Roast  Beef  Brown  Sauce 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes         Mashed  Potatoes 

Onions 

Water  Cress  French  Dressing 

Waters  Cheese 

Preserved  Ginger 

Coffee 


Menus  and  Decorations  57 


DINNER  —  (  Mrs.  Hugh  W.  Vail ) 


0\'sters  in  block  of  Ice 

Mushroom  Soup 

Crab  Creole 

Saddle  of  Lamb  with  Stufted  Potcito 

Green  Peas        Stuffed  Peppers 

Asparagus 

Cucumber  Salad 

Pickles  Currant  Jell^v 

Fruit  Pudding 

Black  Coftee  Cheese 


DINNER—  (,  Miss  K.  R.  Paxton  ) 


Raw  Oysters 

Consomme 

Salmon  Sauce  Hollandaise 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef  Mushroom  Sauce 

French  Peas 

Broiled  Quail  Jeslimne  Potatoes 

Lettuce 

Cheese  Wafers 

Charlotte  Russe 

Coffee 


^8  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

DINNER— (Miss  K.  R.  Paxton) 
MENU 

Clear  Soup 

Roast  Chicken  Giblet  Savice 

Rice  Croquetts  Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Mashed  Potato 

Mayonnaise  of  Celery 

Brie  Wafers 

Hamburg  Cream 

Coffee 


SALADS 


E.  p.  E. 


In  salad  making,  the  best  success  is  obtainable  only  by 
a  close  observance  of  three  very  important  rules,  viz.: 

I.  The  ingredients  composing  the  salad  and  dressing 
must  be  suitabl}^  chosen. 

II.  They  must  be  introduced  into  the  mixture  in  a 
certain  specific  order. 

III.  The  method  of  mixing  must  be  suited  to  the  nature 
of  the   ingredients. 

A  dressing  should  not  be  the  prominent  feature  of  a 
salad.  It  should  be  a  dressing  only;  an  adjunct  to  tone 
down  too  sharp  an  acid,  or  a  flavor  too  pungent ;  or  to 
render  more  distinctive  the  individuality  of  the  fruits, 
vegetables,  etc.,  composing  the  salad.  This  is  the  true 
mission  of  the  dressing. 

There  are  four  distinct  classes  of  salad  dressing: 
I.  Transparent  dressing.         2.   French  dressing. 
3.   Cream  dressing.  4.    Mayonnaise  dressing. 

TRANSPARENT  ORANGE    DRESSING 

Three  oranges  (juice  only);  4  ounces  of  sugar;  i  lemon 
(juice  only);   i  &gg. 

Beat  together,  using  the  white  and  shell  of  the  Q^g. 
Heat  to  boiling  point.  Simmer  five  minutes.  Strain. 
If  liked,  a  little  of  the  grated  peel  of  both  orange  and 
lemon  may  be  added. 

JELLIED  TRANSPARENT  ORANGE  DRESSING 

Add  to  the  above  mixture  before  heating  a  half  ounce 
■of  gelatine  soaked  in  half  a  gill  of  water. 


6o  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


TRANSPARENT  TOMATO   DRESSING 

One  pint  of  tomato,  stewed  and  strained  ;  i  tablespoon 
arrowroot  mixed  in  cold  water;  i  ounce  butter;  )^  teaspoon 
each  of  sugar  and  salt;  a  little  pepper. 

Boil  tomato  and  arrowroot  two  minutes.  Add  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  Nice  either  hot  or  cold  with  any 
kind  of  meat  salad. 

FRENCH     DRESSING 

Four  teaspoons  of  vinegar;  ^  teaspoon  of  salt;  ^3  tea- 
spoon of  pepper.  Mix,  and  pour  over  salad,  then  add 
Rowland's  olive  oil    to  taste. 

CREAH  DRESSING 

One  pint  of  boiling  cream;  2  ounces  of  flour;  2  ounces- 
of  butter.  Stir  the  flour  and  butter  to  a  smooth  paste,  add 
the  boiling  cream  and  cook  two  minutes.  Remove  from 
the  saucepan,  and  add  the  batter,  stirring  until  cool  and 
perfectly  mixed;  then  season  to  taste  with  lemon  juice, 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  capers,  minced  onion, 
parsley,  chopped   pickled  cucumbers;  any  or  all  of  these. 

SOUR    CREAM  DRESSING 

One  cup  of  sour  cream;  y^  cup  of  vinegar  or  lemon- 
juice;  season  with  salt  and  ca^^enne  pepper.  Use  on  vege- 
table or  fish  salads. 

HOT   CREAfl  DRESSING 

One  ounce  of  flour;  i  ounce  of  butter;  i  pint  sweet  cream r 
salt,  and  pepper.  Cook  flour  and  butter  together  two 
minutes;  add  cream,  and  season  to  taste.  Use  on  cauli- 
flower,  beets,  potatoes,   or  any  vegetable. 

HAYONNAISE     DRESSING 

One    teaspoon  of  mustard;    i   teaspoon    of  salt;   i^^    tea- 


Salads  6t 

spoons  of  vinegar;   i    yolk  of  egg;   y^   pint   Howland's  olive 
oil. 

Use  a  two  quart  bowl  to  allow  room  for  beating.  Mix 
the  mustard,  salt  and  vinegar;  add  the  5'olk,  beat  well,  add 
the  oil,  pouring  it  in,  in  a  fine,  thread-like  stream,  beating 
rapidly  all  the  time.  Vinegar  or  lemon  juice  may  be  added 
if  required  to  make  it  of  the  proper  consistency. 

COOKED  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Fiv^e  yolks  of  eggs,  5  tablespoons  vinegar;  4  ounces  of 
butter;  y^  pint  sweet  cream;  salt,  pepper  and  mustard. 

Beat  in  the  yolks,  cook  in  boiling  vinegar  until  stiff, 
being  careful  to  stir  clean  from  the  sides  of  the  bowl 
while  cooking.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  butter; 
stirring  until  cool  and  smooth.  Season  to  taste,  and  thin 
with  cream.       Oil  may  be  used  in  place  of  cream  if  preferred. 


MAYONNAISE  SAUCE 

Mrs     Henderson's  Cook  Book. 

*  Yolk  of  I  &%z  ;  2  .saltspoons  salt ;  i  saltspoon  mustard 
powder  ;  oil  (Howland's)  ;  vinegar  ;  lemon  juice  ;  cayenne 
pepper. 

Beat  yolk  of  &z%  well,  in  cold  bow^l,  with  silver  fork  ;  then 
add  salt  and  mustard  worked  well  together.  Mix  in  last,  a 
little  good  oil,  slowdy,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  alternated  with  a 
few  drops  of  vinegar.  In  proportion  as  the  oil  is  used,  the 
sauce  should  gain  consistency.  When  it  begins  to  have  the 
appearance  of  jelly,  alternate  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  with 
the  oil.  When  the  ^%^  has  absorbed  a  gill  of  oil,  finish  the 
sauce  by  adding  a  very  little  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  and 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  good  vinegar.  These  proportions 
will  suit  most  tastes,  yet  some  may  prefer  more  oil  and  mus- 
tard. Be  cautious  in  the  use  of  cayenne.  * 
By  beating  the  ^%%  a  minute  before  adding  the  oil,  there 
is  little  danger  of  the  sauce   curdling  ;  yet  if  by  adding  too 


62  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

much  oil  at  first  it  should  curdle,  interrupt  the  operation  im- 
mediately. Beat  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs  on  another 
plate,  add  the  curdled  mayonnaise  by  degrees  and  finish  by 
adding  oil,  lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  according 
to  taste. 


SALAD  DRESSING 

Mrs.  E.  Hollenbeck. 

Eight  eggs,  yolks;  i  cup  sugar;  }4  cup  cream;  i  cup  of 
butter;  i  tablespoon  salt;  i  tablespoon  mustard;  i  table- 
spoon black  pepper;  i  pinch  of  cayenne;  i^  pints  of 
vinegar. 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  cream,  sugar,  salt,  mustard,  pepper, 
and  cayenne.  Mix  thoroughly.  Bring  the  vinegar  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  the  butter  and  boil  again.  Pour  this  on  the 
other  ingredients,  and  mix  well. 

This  dressing,  if  bottled  when  cold,  and  stored  in  a  cool 
place,  will  keep  good  for  weeks. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Mrs.  H.  Z.  Osborne. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs;  i  tablespoon  soft  butter;  Vi  teaspoon 
dry  mustard;  3  tablespoons  Rowland's  olive  oil;  the  juice  of 
one  lemon;  Vs  teaspoon  salt;  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
also  of  sugar. 

Free  the  yolks  entirely  from  the  whites  of  the  ^ZZ^  stir 
briskly  with  silver  fork  one  or  two  minutes,  add  the  softened 
butter,  then  the  mustard,  and  the  oil,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 
Stir  constantly  for  two  minutes,  and  add  the  sugar  and  cay- 
enne pepper,  and  lastly,  the  lemon  juice,  and  salt.  Stir  all  a 
minute  or  two,  or  until  very  smooth  and  well  blended. 

If  you  follow  directions  carefully,  you  will  have  a  dressing 
that  has  not  "  curdled  "  and  will  not  curdle,  and  can  easily  be 
made  in  ten  minutes. 


Salads  6j 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Glassell. 

Three  tablespoons  of  oil;  i  tablespoon  salt;  ^  tablespoon 
mustard;  ^  tablespoon  sugar;  ^  tablespoon  pepper;  2  eggs; 
I  teacup  vinegar;   i  teacup  milk. 

Beat  together  until  thick,  the  oil,  salt,  sugar,  mustard  and 
pepper.  Add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  vinegar,  little 
by  little,  lastly  the  milk.  Place  the  bowl  containing  mixture 
in  boiling  water,  stir  it  constantly  until  cooked  to  a  thick 
cream,  (this  will  require  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes).  If  bot- 
tled and  kept  cool,  it  will  keep  two  weeks. 

Good  for  lettuce  or  potato  salad. 

ENGLISH  SALAD  DRESSING 

Mrs.  Anna  0'Melven3'. 

Three  eggs;  i  teaspoon  salt;  i  teaspoon  dry  mustard;  >^ 
teaspoon  pepper;  6  tablespoons  Rowland's  olive  oil;  10 
tablespoons  vinegar;  4  tablespoons  sweet  cream. 

Rub  together  until  very  smooth,  the  yolks  of  two  hard 
boiled  eggs,  and  one  raw  o^gg.  Add  the  salt,  pepper  and  mus- 
tard; and  by  degrees  the  oil  and  vinegar.  Beat  thoroughly, 
adding  the  cream  last. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 

Mrs.  Emmeliue  Childs. 

One  pint  of  vinegar;  and  2  teaspoons  salt  —  heated. 
One  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  white  sugar;  2  teaspoons 
of  dry  mustard;  6  tablespoons  cream;  and  6  eggs — mixed. 

When  these  are  well  beaten,  pour  on  the  hot  vinegar, 
slowly;  carefully  beating  all  the  time.  Then  boil  until  it  be- 
comes thick  like  boiled  custard.     Thin  with  cream,  if  desired. 

SALAD   DRESSING 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Gilchrist. 

Half  cup  of  vinegar;  }^  cup  water;  }^  cup  sugar;  i  tea- 
spoon mustard;  ]4,  teaspoon  salt;  i  Qgg;  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper;  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut. 


^T-  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles  64. 

Heat  together  the  vinegar,  water,  sugar  and  butter,  then 
add  the  other  ingredients. 

PARKER  HOUSE  SALAD  DRESSING 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Packard,  Pomona. 

One  level  teaspoon  dr}'  mustard;  i  ^ZZ'^  V'^  teaspoon  salt; 
3  tablespoons  Rowland's  olive  oil;  i  tablespoon  vinegar;  yi 
teaspoon  black  pepper. 

Mix  the  mustard  and  the  yolk  of  the  ^%%  smoothly 
together,  then  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop,  then  the  vinegar,  then 
the  salt  and  pepper.  Last  of  all  add  the  white  of  the  ^%z 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  this  into  the  mixture  and  your 
dressing  is  complete. 

CREAM  5ALAD   DRESSING 

Mrs.  Anna  O'Melveny. 

Four  eggs;  i  tablespoon  melted  butter;  ^  cup  thick 
cream  ;  2  tablespoons  strong  vinegar;  pepper,  salt. 

Rub  until  smooth  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Beat  in  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg.  Add  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Beat  the  cream,  mix,  and  last  add  the  vinegar. 

LETTUCE  SALAD 

Mrs.  Mary  Bean . 

Dressing.  Half  cup  vinegar;  ^2  cup  sweet  cream;  2 
tablespoons  sugar;  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  the  lettuce,  drj'  with  a  towel  ;  place  in  salad  bowl, 
and  pour  the  dressing  over  it. 

CELERY    SALAD. 

Mrs.   Parker. 

Six  heads  celery;  i  ^%%  yolk;  i  teaspoon  mustard;  a  lit- 
tle salt  and  pepper;  three  tablespoons  water;  juice  of  one 
lemon;  4  ounces  Howland's  olive  oil. 

Wash    and   drj^    the  celery,    cut    it  in    pieces  in   a  salad 
bowl;  mix  the    yolk,  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  and 
two  tablespoons  of  water.       Beat  all  together;  pour  the  olive  c?*;- 
in  drop  by  drop,  then  add  a  tablespoon   of  hot  water.        Pour 
over  the  celery. 


.  Sa/ads  6^ 

GREEN  PEPPER  SALAD. 

Mrs.  L.  J.  Rose. 

Bell  peppers,  tomatoes,  onions,   salt. 

Cut  the  peppers  in  halves,  remove  the  seeds;  chop  the 
tomatoes  very  fine;  add  half  the  pepper  seeds,  with  a  little 
onion  and  salt.  Mix  all  together.  Fill  the  peppers  and  pour 
Mayonnaise  Dressing  over  them. 

DELICIOUS  TOHATO  SALAD 

Mrs.  Anna  O'Melveny. 

Cut  a  circle  from  the  stem  end  of  large,  ripe  tomatoes, 
remove  the  pulp  with  a  sharp  knife,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  skin.  Chop  the  pulp  with  one  fresh  cucumber 
(peeled)  and  a  slice  of  onion.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  of  Howland's  olive  oil.  Place  in  the  ice  box 
with  the  skins.  Prepare  a  thick  mayonnaise  which  should 
be  put  on  ice  also.  Just  before  serving,  drain  off  the 
superfluous  liquid,  fill  the  skins  with  the  chopped  mixture, 
placing  a  large  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each. 
Set  the  stuffed  tomatoes  in  the  center  of  a  platter,  with  a 
border  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  as  a  course,  with 
delicate  crackers  and  cheese,   or  cheese  straws. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

Mrs.  J.  J.  :Mellus. 

U^e  tomatoes  the  size  of  an  ^ZZ-  Remove  the  skins  and 
a  little  pulp,  from  the  stem  end;  turn  them  to  drain,  and  keep 
them  on  ice  one  hour,  then  fill  with  mayonnaise.  Serve  with 
lettuce  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  green  peppers; 
cut  as  fine  as  possible. 

The  lettuce  should  be  washed,  and  kept  on  ice  several 
hours,  being  careful  to  shake  out  all  the  water. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Mrs.  Helen  Widney  Watson. 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  (very  thick);  i  tablespoon  of 
vinegar,  (generous  measure) ;  i  tablespoon  of  Durkee's  salad- 
dressing,  (generous  measure);  3  yolks  of  eggs. 


66  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles         • 

If  these  proportions  do  not  suit  all  tastes,  the  quantitj'  of 
vinegar  and  salad  dressing  can  be  added  to  or  diminished. 
The  potatoes  should  be  cold  but  freshly -cooked.  Fill  a 
three-pint  salad  dish  within  an  inch  of  the  top  with  layers  of 
thinly-sliced  potatoes  ;  each  layer  to  be  salted,  peppered  and 
strewed  with  tin3^bits  of  onion,  then  pour  the  dressing  over  it. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Mrs.  Alice  Curtain. 

For  the  salad:  Six  large  potatoes;  i  coffee  cup  chopped 
celery,  (using  only  white  stalks. ) 

For  the  salad  dressing:  Three  eggs;  i  cup  milk;  one  table- 
spoon each  of  sugar;  Rowland's  olive  oil;  salt;  i  scant  table- 
spoon mustard;  i  cup  vinegar. 

Boil  the  potatoes  till  done,  when  cold  slice  thin.  Put  in 
the  salad  bowl  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  the  celery, 
then  a  layer  of  the  dressing,  until  potatoes  and  celery  are 
used.  Prepare  the  dressing  as  follows  :  Rub  the  salt,  mus- 
tard and  sugar  in  a  bowl  till  smooth,  work  in  well  the  oil  and 
the  eggs,  beat  well,  then  add  the  vinegar  slowly,  and  lastly 
the  milk.  Set  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  and  cook 
until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

Mrs.   Hugh  W.  Vail. 

Large  green  cucumber;  tomato;  celery;  parsley;  onion; 
mayonnaise. 

Peel  and  cut  the  cucumbers  in  two,  lengthwise,  remove 
the  seeds,  mix  with  the  pulp  of  the  tomato,  chopped  celerj^ 
and  parsley,  (a  little  onion  if  preferred,)  cover  with  mayon- 
naise, and  fill  the  cucumber  with  the  mixture,  and  serve  in  a 
large  bowl  of  cracked  ice. 

BEET  SALAD 

Beets  boiled  and  sliced  thin,  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
sliced  potatoes.  Served  with  cream  dressing,  either  hot  or 
cold. 


Salads  6j 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Danison. 

One  half  head  of  cabbage;  4  slices  of  boiled  ham;  i  cooked 
beet;  2  hard-boiled  eggs;  i  tablespoon  of  dry  mustard;  ^4  cup 
of  sugar;   i  cup  of  vinegar. 

The  pieces  of  ham,  fat  and  all  chopped  fine  ;  cabbage  and 
beet  chopped  separately,  and  fine  ;  eggs  chopped  mediumly 
fine.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  together, 
pouring  the  vinegar  on  last. 

Corned  beef  may  be  used  instead  of  ham. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Stewart. 

One  salad  bowl  cabbage  (cut  fine);  1-2  pint  rich  cream;  ^ 
pint  vinegar;  butter  size  of  a  walnut;  i  teaspoon  sugar;  yi 
teaspoon  salt;  ^  teaspoon  corn  starch;  i  teaspoon  grated 
horseradish,  (dry);  2  pinches  black  pepper;  i  egg;  (2  if  cab- 
bnge  is  watery.) 

Put  all  ingredients;  except  cream,  cabbage  and  egg]  in  a 
double  boiler.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  slowly  the  egg — 
well  beaten;  then  the  cream.  Pour  over  the  cabbage  while 
hot. 

CHEESE   SALAD 

Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  crisp  lettuce,  and  serve  with 
either  French  or  cooked  mayonnaise  dressing. 

niXED  SALAD 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Melius. 

Slice  ripe  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  and  tinj-  young  onions. 

Arrange  them  in  layers  in  a  salad  bowl,  garnish  with 
young  lettuce,  and  the  moment  before  serving,  cover  with 
French  dressing.  The  cucumbers  should  be  peeled  and  soaked 
in  ice  water  for  two  hours  before  using. 


6S  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

OYSTER  riAYONNAISE 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Ewing. 

Heat  medium-sized  oysters  to  the  boiling  point,  in  their 
own  liquor.  Drain  them  well,  when  cold,  dress  with  Mayon- 
naise, highly  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  sprinkle 
finely  cut  celery  on  top  of  the  salad. 

SALMON   SALAD 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Ewiug. 

Salmon;   cabbage;    cream  dressing. 

Pick  cooked  salmon  into  small  pieces,  have  white  crisp 
cabbage  finely  shaved;  sprinkle  a  layer  of  cabbage  in  the 
bowl,  cover  it  with  bits  of  salmon;  repeat  until  the  desired 
quantity  is  obtained;  pour  over  it  a  cold  cream  dressing,  and 
garnish  by  sprinkling  on  the  top  some  shavings  of  cabbage. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hubbell. 

One  can  of  shrimps;  i  good-sized  lemon;  i  cup  sour  cream 
— thick;  I  yolk  of  egg;  3  tablespoons  Darkee's  salad  dressing; 
celery;   cayenne  pepper. 

Break  the  shrimps  in  two  or  three  pieces,  squeeze  the  juice 
of  the  lemon  over  them,  and  add  half  the  quantity,  of  celery. 
For  the  dressing,  add  the  well-beaten  yolk  to  the  cream  and 
Durkee's  dressing,  using  very  little  cayenne. 

SHRinP  SALAD 

Mrs.  M.  S.   Mathison. 

Soak  canned  shrimps  in  ice  water  several  hours,  and  serve 
them  with  boiled  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Dressing. — Three  eggs;  i  teaspoon  mustard;  2  teaspoons 
salt;  }l  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  2  tablespoons  sugar;  2 
tablespoons  melted  butter;  or  Howland's  olive  oil;  }4.  cup  of 
hot  vinegar;  cream,  lettuce,  English  walnuts. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  mustard,  salt,  cayenne,  sugar,  but- 
ter and  vinegar.  Froth  the  whites  and  cook  all  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thick.  Thin  with  cream.  Garnish  with  English 
walnuts,  and  lettuce. 


Safads  6g 

SHRinP  AND  CUCUHBER  SALAD 

Mrs.  \V.  G.  Whorton. 

One  can  of  shrimps;  3  large  cucumbers. 

Soak  the  shrimps  in  ice  water  one  hour.  Pare  the  cucum- 
bers; lay  them  in  ice  until  very  cold  and  crisp;  cut  in  cubes. 
Cut  the  shrimps  in  two  or  three  pieces;  mix  with  the  cucum- 
bers.    Serve  wdth  mayonnaise  or  lettuce. 

LOBSTER    SALAD 

Miss  Wister. 

Select  small,  heavy  lobsters;  put  them  in  warm  water  and 
boil  half  an  hour.  Take  from  the  shells  and  claws  all  the 
edible  meat.  Cut  it  in  blocks,  and  cool  it  thoroughly.  Use 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  very  cold.  When  ready  to  serve  make 
a  nest  of  lettuce  on  the  dish;  mix  about  three- fourths  of  the 
Mayonnaise  with  the  prepared  lobster;  place  it  in  the  dish; 
cover  with  the  rest  of  the  dressing  ;  garnish  with  small  tufts 
of  lettuce,  and  the  smaller  claws. 

COVE  OYSTER  SALAD 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Sinsabaugh. 

Two  cans  of  cove  oysters;  >^  teacup  cream;  5^  teacup  of 
vinegar;  3  eggs;  i  tablespoon  butter  (heaping);  i  tablespoon 
celery  seed,  or  celery,  cut  fine;  i  teaspoon  sugar;  i  teaspoon 
salt;  I  teaspoon  mustard;  ^  teaspoon  cayenne;  handful  of 
rolled  crackers. 

Beat  the  eggs.  Add  to  them  the  cream,  vinegar,  butter, 
sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  caj^enne.  Cook  in  a  steam  boiler 
until  it  thickens;  add  the  celery.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters;  chop  them,  add  the  cracker  crumbs;  pour  the  dressing 
over  them  when  cold. 

riAYONNAISE  OF  SWEETBREADS 

Mrs.  George  Steckel. 

One  pair'  of  sweetbreads  ;  i  teaspoon  salt ;  i  pint  mayon- 
naise ;  lettuce,  onions. 

After  the  sweetbreads  are  cleaned  and  parboiled,  let  them 
lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then  remove  the  skin  and  fat; 


JO  How    We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Salt  and  simmer  gently  twenty 
minutes,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  Wash  and  dry,  tender  leaves 
of  lettuce.  Rub  the  bottom  of  a  bowl  with  onion,  and  in  it 
make  one  pint  of  mayonnaise.  Place  in  the  center  of  the 
salad  dish  a  thin  slice  of  onion  and  arrange  lettuce  leaves 
around  it.  Cut  the  cold  sweetbreads  in  thin  slices;  mix  care- 
fully with  mayonnaise,  and  add  to  the  dish. 

This  is  a  delicious  salad,  and  if  prepared  as  directed  will 
have  only  the  faintest  suspicion  of  onion. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Mrs.  Hendersou's  Cook  Book. 

One  chicken;  white  celery  stalks;  3  tablespoons  vinegar; 
I  tablespoon  Rowland's  olive  oil;  salt,  pepper,  mustard. 

Boil  chicken  till  tender,  when  cold,  separate  the  meat  from 
the  bones.  Cut  into  small  bits;  do  not  mince  it.  Cut  some 
white,  tender  stalks  of  celery  into  three-quarters  inch  lengths. 
Mix  chicken  and  celery  together;  stir  into  them  a  mixture  in 
the  proportion  of  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar  to  one  of  oil; 
pepper,  salt,  mustard  to  taste.  Set  this  aside  for  an  hour  or 
two.  When  ready  to  serve  mix  the  chicken  and  celery  with  a 
mayonnaise  dressing,  reserving  a  portion  of  the  mayonnaise  to 
mark  the  top.  Garnish  with  fresh  celery  leaves,  stick  a  bunch 
of  these  in  the  center  of  the  salad  and  from  the  center  to  each 
of  the  four  sides,  sprinkle  rows  of  capers. 

Chicken  salad  is  often  made  of  lettuce  instead  of  celery. 
Marinate  the  chicken  alone  a  moment  before  serving,  add  the 
small,  tender,  sweet  lettuce  leaves,  then  pour  mayonnaise 
dressing  over  the  top.  Garnish  with  the  center  heads  of  let- 
tuce, capers,  cold  chopped  red  beets,  or  sliced  hard-boiled 
eggs.  Sometimes  little  slips  of  anchovy  are  added  for  a  gar- 
nish.    When  on  the  table  it  should  all  be  mixed  together. 

Many  may  profit  by  this  recipe  for  chicken  salad,  for  it  is 
astonishing  how  few  understand  making  so  common  a  a  dish. 
It  is  often  minced  and  mixed  with  hard-boiled  eggs  for  a 
dressing. 


Salads  yr 

CHICKEN  5ALAD 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Otis. 

In  mixing  chicken  salad  allow  one  yolk  of  an  egg  to  each 
chicken,  and  to  four  chickens  one  and  a  half  pints  of  olive 
oil.  Pick  the  chickens  apart  with  fingers,  removing  carefully 
all  fat  and  skin.  Then  take  celery,  pick  likewise  into  small 
pieces  and  add  it  to  the  chicken  until  there  is  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  each.  If  celery  cannot  be  obtained,  use  lettuce  pre- 
pared in  the  same  manner. 

For  the  dressing  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  yolk  of 
an  egg;  pepper  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  and 
juice  of  one  lemon,  more  if  the  lemon  is  not  very  juicy.  The 
oil  should  be  added  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly. 
While  stirring,  add  an  occasional  drop  of  vinegar.  To  this 
mixture  add  the  last  thing  one-half  cup  of  rich  cream,  and 
when  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  over  the  salad  just  before  it  is 
served.  The  object  of  the  lemon  is  to  cut  the  oil,  and  make 
the  dressing  of  a  cream-like  consistency. 

SALAD  OF  STUFFED  EGGS 

Mrs.  L.  J     Rose. 

One  dozen  eggs;  2  tablespoons  Ho wland's  olive  oil;  onions, 
salt,  red  pepper. 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  the  hard-boiled  eggs;  remove  the 
yolks,  mash  and  add  the  oil.  Use  a  little  onion,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  fill  the  white  cups. 
Press  them  together  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

EGG  SALAD 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Fairchild. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs;  3  medium-sized  pickles;  i  teaspoon 
mustard;  2  teaspoons  sugar;  i  teaspoon  salt;  i  tablespoon 
Howland's  olive  oil;  2  tablespoons  vinegar;  a  little  parsley,  a 
little  pepper. 

Cut  the  eggs  in  halves;  take  out  the  yolks,  powder  them, 
and  mix  with  the  chopped  pickles,  parsley,  and  other  season- 
ing. Cut  a  small  piece  from  the  round  end  of  the  eggs;  fill 
with  the  mixture,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


y2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

EGG  SALAD 

Mrs.  Orr  Haralson. 

Kight  eggs,  hard-boiled;  4  tablespoons  Howland's  olive  oil; 
2  tablespoons  vinegar:  i  small  teaspoon  salt;  Y-z  teaspoon  pep- 
per; y^  clove  garlic;  V^^  teaspoon  mustard;  i  sprig  parsley — 
chopped  fine. 

After  the  eggs  are  boiled  and  thoroughly  cold,  cut  them  in 
halves;  take  out  the  yolks,  mash,  and  mix  them  with  the 
other  ingredients.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture.  Tie  two 
halves  together  with  a  dainty  ribbon,  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce 
and  cover  with  mayonnaise. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Mrs.  L.  J.  Rose. 

This  delicious  dish  is  made  of  several  kinds  of  fruit. 
I^eave  the  small  fruits  whole,  and  slice  the  larger  kinds. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  and  serve  with  ice  cream. 

SHADDOCKS 

Mrs.  Hugh  W.   Vail. 

Cut  the  shaddocks  in  halves;  remove  the  pith  and  seeds; 
fill  with  sugar  and  cracked  ice. 

ORANGE  SALAD 

Mrs.  Hugh  W.  Vail. 

Quarter  the  oranges  and  serve  with  lettuce  and  mayon- 
naise. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Mrs.  John  A.  Henderson. 

Three  oranges;  i  lemon;  i  can  pineapple;  Vo  box  gelatine; 
I  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar;  candied  cherries,  white 
grapes. 

The  juice   of  three  oranges;    if  not    ver^^  juicy  use   four; 
the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  juice  trom  the  pineapple.    Cut  the 
slices  of  pineapple  in  small  pieces.     Soak  the  gelatine  for  one 
hour  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it.     Then  pour  over  it  half 
a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  dissolve  it.     Add  the  pieces  of  pine- 


Salads  yj 

apple  to  the  juices  and  gelatine  with  the  sugar  and  set  away  to 
harden.  Add  candied  cherries  as  the  salad  begins  to  harden; 
white  grapes  may  also  be  then  added.  Bananas  may  be  used 
instead  of  pineapple. 

FRUIT   SALAD 

Mrs.  A.  M    Hall. 

One  box  of  gelatine;  i  cup  cold  water;  lyi  pints  boiling 
water;  2  or  3  lemons;  2  cups  sugar;  oranges,  bananas,  straw- 
herries  and  pineapple. 

Pour  the  cold,  water  over  the  gelatine  and  soak  one  hour. 
Pour  over  this  the  boiling  water  and  strain.  Add  the  juice 
of  the  lemons  and  the  sugar.  When  almost  cool  stir  in  sliced 
oranges,  bananas,  strawberries  and  pineapple. 


SOUPS 


M.  B.  W. 


Broth,  or  stock,  may  be  made  by  boiling  the  cracked 
joints  of  beef,  veal,  or  mutton  in  water;  in  the  proportion 
of  two  and  one  half  pints  to  each  pound  of  bones  and  meat. 
The  bones  and  meat  should  be  of  about  equal  weight. 
Chicken  and  veal  added  to  beef  make  a  more  delicate  soup. 

Put  the  meat  in  the  pot,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  skim.  Next  set  the  pot  where  it 
will  simmer  slowly  four  or  five  hours,  when  it  should  be 
done. 

The  next  day,  when  the  broth  is  cold,  and  and  the  fat 
which  has  hardened  on  the  top  has  been  removed,  a  nice 
jelly  will  be  formed,  which,  if  kept  in  a  cold  place,  should 
keep  one  week.  When  vegetables  are  used,  they  should 
be  added  only  in  time  to  become  well  cooked.  If  onions 
are  used,  they  should  be  fried  in  a  little  hot  butter,  before 
they  are  added  to  the  soup.  Potatoes  and  cabbage  should 
be  boiled  in  separate  water,  before  they  are  added  to  a  soup. 

Just  before  dinner  each  day,  if  soup  is  to  be  served,  it 
is  only  necessary  to  cut  off  some  of  the  jelly,  heat  it,  serve 
it  alone  or  add  any  flavoring  desired,  as  onion,  tomato, 
asparagus,  green  peas,  macaroni,  vermicelli,  tapioca,  or  any- 
other  flavoring. 

Stock  should  be  kept  in  a  stone  jar,  and  is  valuable 
aside  from  making  soups,  for  gravies,  sauces,  and  stews. 

TO  CLEAR  SOUP  STOCK 

Allow  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  for  every  quart 
of  stock.  Set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  till  hot,  let  simmer 
ten  minutes,  then  add  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  strain 
through  a  fine  strainer  or  napkin. 


Soups  "js 

SOUP 

MRS.    B.    C.    WHITING. 

All  flavoring  should  be  added  to  the  soup  after  the 
stock  is  made  and  when  cold;  no  vegetables  should  be  boiled 
with  stock,  as  it  gives  it  a  bad  flavor.  Boil  the  vegetables 
first  and  press  them  through  a  colander,  then  add  them  to 
the  stock,  and  boil  two  minutes;  otherwise  soups  disagree 
with  some  people. 

CARAflEL  FOR  COLORING  SOUPS 

MRS.    LINCOLN. 

Melt  one  cup  sugar  with  one  tablespoon  of  water  in  a 
frying  pan.  Stir  until  it  becomes  a  dark  brown  color. 
Add  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  simmer  ten  minutes  and 
bottle  when  cool.  This  should  be  always  kept  on  hand, 
as  it  is  useful  for  many  purposes.  It  gives  a  rich,  dark 
color  to  soups,  coffee,  and  jelly;  is  more  wholesome  than 
browned  butter  in  sauces,  and  is  delicious  as  a  flavoring  in 
custards  and  pudding  sauces. 

PROFITEROLES  FOR  SOUP 

MRS.    FRANK    K.    PHILLIPS. 

One  fourth  cup  boiling  water;  2  eggs;  Y-z  scant  cup 
flour;   yl  cup  butter. 

Put  the  water  and  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  place  on 
the  fire.  When  it  boils  rapidly  add  the  flour  all  at  once. 
Beat  well  with  a  strong  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Turn  into 
a  bowl  and  put  away  to  cool.  When  cool  add  the  eggs 
one  at  a  time  and  beat  15  minutes.  Roll  the  size  of  peas 
and  drop  on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

TO  riAKE  FORCE  MEAT  BALLS 

MRS.  J     F.   CONROY. 

Chop  cooked  meat  until  fine;  add  chopped  parsley,  a 
little  fine  onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  bread  crumbs;  dip  in  ^%^ 
and  fry.  Before  serving  put  balls  in  soup  and  boil  once, 
then  arfd  two  lemons  sliced,  with  tomato  catsup,  and  a  little 
vinegar — say   i   tablespoonful — just  before  serving. 


7<5  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

nARROW=FAT  BALLS  FOR  SOUP 

MRS.    M.    G.    MORE. 

One  cup  of  marrow;  2  eggs  (well  beaten);  i  cup  dry 
bread  crumbs;  a  little  salt. 

Remove  the  marrow  from  soup  bones.  Soak  or  wash 
free  from  blood,  chop  fine. 

Mix  the  ingredients  together,  form  into  balls  and  cook 
in  soup  one  half  hour. 

BOUILLON 

Juliet  Corson. 

This  is  the  most  elaborate,  and  at  the  same  time  the  most 
delicate,  and  nutritious  soup  that  can  be  made. 

Four  quarts  of  cold  water;  4  pounds  soup  beef  and  bone; 
I  chicken  or  fowl  weighing  from  3  to  4  pounds;  the  small  end 
of  a  leg  of  veal,  (the  knuckle).  One  large  carrot;  i  small 
onion;  i  large  turnip;  3  roots  parsley;  i  blade  of  mace;  i  dozen 
whole  cloves;  i  stalk  celery;  i  dozen  pepper  corns;  i  hz.y  leaf; 
a  sprig  of  any  dried  herb,  (sage  excepted);  i  tablespoon  of 
salt. 

Carefully  pluck,  singe,  draw,  and  truss  the  fowl  for  boiling. 
Cut  the  beef  in  a  large  piece  from  the  bone.  Break  the  bones 
in  small  pieces,  removing  the  marrow;  put  them  in  the  bottom 
of  the  soup  kettle;  lay  on  them  the  beef  and  fowl;  pour  in  the 
water  and  let  it  gradually  heat  and  boil,  removing  all  scum  as 
it  rises.  Peel  the  onion,  carrot  and  turnip,  leaving  them 
whole;  stick  the  cloves  in  the  onions.  Wash  the  parsley  with 
stalk  and  leaves  Attached;  in  the  midst  of  it  put  the  mace,  bay 
leaf,  celery,  pepper  corns,  etc.  Wrap  the  roots  and  leaves  of 
the  parsley  about  these  and  tie  in  a  compact  little  bundle. 
(This  makes  a  bouquet  or  fagot  of  herbs).  After  the  soup  is 
skimmed  clear,  add  the  bouquet,  the  vegetables,  and  the  level 
tablespoon  of  salt.  Cover  the  kettle,  and  place  it  where  its 
contents  will  boil  slowly  from  one  side,  for  three  hours  at 
least.  When  the  chicken  is  tender  take  it  up.  It  can  be  used 
for  any  of  the  dishes  made  of  cooked  chicken. 

Strain  the  bouillon  through  a  clean  towel  laid  double  in  a 


Soups  77 

colander  set  over  an  earthen  bowl.  When  cold,  remove  every 
particle  of  fat.  Mix  for  each  quart,  the  white  and  shell  of  an 
egg>  with  one  tablespoon  of  cold  water  in  a  sauce  pan;  pour  in 
the  bouillon,  set  it  over  the  fire,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep 
the  &^g  loosened  from  the  pan  until  it  begins  to  boil;  then 
place  where  it  will  boil  gently  until  the  soup  looks  clear  as 
wine,  under  the  thick  scum  of  ^ZZ-  Strain  again  through 
folded  towel  and  colander,  allowing  it  to  run  through  without 
squeezing  the  towel,  as  that  might  force  through  some  tiny 
particle  of  the  ^%Z-  It  should  be  perfectly  clear  and  spark- 
ling, and  of  the  color  of  amber. 

The  bouillon  after  it  is  clarified  will  keep  from  three  to  ten 
days,  according  to  the  weather.  Sealed  in  jars  it  will  keep 
indefinitely. 

AHBER  OR  CONSOMME 

Mrs.   Rorer 

Four  pounds  beef;  i  ounce  suet;  i  small  onion;  3  quarts 
cold  water;  4  cloves;  i  small  carrot;  piece  of  celery;  i  ^%%, 
(white). 

Cut  into  dice  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  from  the  round.  Put 
about  one  ounce  of  suet  and  one  small  onion,  sliced,  into  the 
soup  kettle,  and  cook  until  a  good  brown;  tlien  add  the  meat. 
Cook  without  covering  thirty  minutes;  add  the  cold  water; 
cover  the  kettle  and  simmer  gently  for  about  three  hours;  at 
the  end  of  this  time  add  the  cloves,  carrot,  piece  of  celery, 
and  simmer  one  hour  longer.  Strain  and  stand  away  to  cool. 
When  cold,  remove  all  grease  from  the  surface.  Turn  the 
consomme  into  a  kettle;  beat  the  white  of  ^^^  with  a  half  cup 
of  cold  water;  add  it  to  the  boiling  consomme;  boil  one  min- 
ute and  strain  through  cheese  cloth.  Season,  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve.     If  not  dark  add  ateaspoonful  of  caramel. 

CONSOMME  ROY  ALE 

Mrs.  Edward  Silent 

Three  eggs;  y^.  cup  of  stock;  J/3  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  then  add  the  stock  and  salt.      Butter  a 


7^  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

small  pan;  pour  the  custard  in  and  set  it  in  a  large  pan  of  hot 
water  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  custard  is  firm.  When 
cold  cut  into  squares  and  add  to  any  soup. 

nULLAQATAWNY  SOUP 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jones. 

One  chicken  weighing  3  pounds,  3  pounds  veal,  two  large 
onions,  2  large  slices  carrot,  4  stalks  celery,  3  tablespoons 
butter,  I  tablespoon  curry  powder,  4  tablespoons  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  5  pints  water. 

Take  two  tablespoons  of  the  fat  from  the  opening  of  the 
chicken  and  put  in  the  soup  pot.  As  soon  as  melted,  put  in 
the  vegetables,  which  have  been  cut  fine.  Let  all  cook  to- 
gether for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  frequently,  then  add  the 
veal  cut  into  small  pieces.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then 
add  the  whole  chicken  and  the  water.  Cover  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil,  skim  and  set  back,  where  it  will  simmer  for  four 
hours,  (in  the  meantime  taking  out  the  chicken  when  tender.) 
Now  put  the  butter  into  a  small  frying  pan,  and  when  hot, 
add  the  dry  flour;  stir  until  a  rich  brown;  then  take  from  the 
fire,  and  add  the  curry  powder;  stir  this  mixture  into  the 
soup  and  let  it  cook  half  an  hour  longer,  then  strain  through 
a  seive  Rinse  out  the  soup  pot  and  return  the  strained  soup 
to  it.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  the  chicken,  (which  has  been 
freed  from  the  bones  and  skin,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,) 
Simmer  very  gently  thirty  minutes.  Skim  off"  any  fat  that 
may  rise  to  the  top,  and  serve  with  small  squares  of  toasted 
bread. 

PLAIN  BEEF  SOUP 

"  76" 

One  shank  bone;  i  cup  pearl  barley;  3  or  4  good-sized 
potatoes. 

Take  a  shank  bone,  wash  nicely,  and  after  breaking  it  in 
several  places,  put  it  into  a  pot  of  cold  water,  without  salt. 
Let  it  boil  slowly  half  an  hour,  taking  off"  the  scum  as  it  rises; 
add  the  barley  and  let  it  boil  two  and  one  half  or  three  hours. 
Half  an  hour  before  taking  it  up,  have  the  potatoes  pared  and 


Soups  yg 

sliced  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  put  them  in  to  boil. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  the  soup  is  too  rich,  skim 
off  the  fat  from  the  top  before  putting  on  the  table. 

OX^TAIL  SOUP 

Mrs.  E.  Holleubeck. 

One  joint  beef,  (well  filled  with  marrow);  2  ox  tails;  ^ 
pound  okra;  salt;  a  little  red  pepper;  handful  rice;  i  soup 
bunch. 

Let  beef  and  ox-tails  come  to  a  boil,  then  skim  well.  Let 
boil  1J2  hours;  then  add  okra  cut  up  small,  rice  and  vege- 
tables.    Remove  vegetables  when  done,  add  salt  and  pepper. 

This  soup  should  cook  five  or  six  hours. 

BROWN  50UP  (Southern  Soup) 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Coiiroy. 

Soup  beef;  12  whole  cloves;  soup  bunch;  water;  3  table- 
spoons brown  flour;  force  meat  balls. 

Put  beef  into  cold  water,  allowing  i  pound  to  i  quart  of 
cold  water,  add  cloves.  Boil  until  the  meat  is  tender;  take 
up  the  meat,  put  in  soup  bunch,  boil  i  hour.  Take  from  fire 
and  strain,  return  the  clear  soup  to  the  pot,  set  on  the  fire. 
Take  two  tablespoons  brown  flour,  moisten  with  cold  water 
until  smooth  like  cream,  stir  into  soup  before  putting  in  force- 
meat balls. 

WHITE  SOUP 

Mrs.  Oweus. 

Six  tomatoes;  4  onions;  4  tablespoons  crushed  tapioca; 
yY-z   pints  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt;    2  quarts  water. 

Boil  the  vegetables  in  the  water  till  soft,  rub  through  a 
sieve,  return  the  paste  to  the  water,  add  the  tapioca  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes;  season,  add  the  milk,  and  as  soon  as  hot, 
.serve. 

SCOTCH  SOUP 

Training  School  of  Glasgow. 

One  bone;  i  pound  lean  beef;  i  teacup  of  oatmeal;  2  onions 


8o  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

or  leeks;   a  bit  of  carrot;  turnip  and  celery;    lo  coffee  cups  of 
water,  salt  and  pepper. 

Take  the  fat  from  the  bone  and  put  it  on  to  boil  with  the 
water;  add  the  onion,  carrot,  turnip  and  celery.  Set  it  to 
boil  three  hours,  and  strain.  (This  makes  stock  and  may  be 
made  a  day  or  two  before  it  is  used.)  Then  put  a  little  beef 
drippings  in  the  soup  pot;  cut  the  meat  in  small  squares,  also 
chop  the  onion  finely,  and  fry  them  all  in  the  drippings;  add 
the  stock  and  allow  it  to  boil,  then  add  gradually  the  oatmeal, 
one  dessertspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.  Let  all  boil  for 
three  quarters  of  an  hour  and  serve. 

KENTUCKY  CHICKEN  SOUP 

Mrs.  G.  Wiley  Wells. 

One  chicken;  i^  gallons  cold  water;  i  tablespoon  finelj- 
chopped  onion;  i  potato — size  of  an  &z^\  Y-z  teacup  rice; 
I  quart  fresh  milk;  i  teaspoon  flour;  salt;  pepper;  lump  butter. 

Cut  chicken  into  pieces,  put  into  a  gallon  and  a  half  of 
cold  water.  Boil  slowly  two  hours,  then  put  into  it  the 
onion  and  potato  cut  up  fine,  and  half  cup  of  uncooked  rice. 
L,et  all  boil  until  the  water  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  then  put  in 
a  quart  or  more  of  fresh,  rich  milk.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoon 
of  flour,  mixed  in  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  again;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter,  size  of  a  pigeon's  ^^^. 

Boil  this  soup  five  or  six  hours. 

CHICKEN  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Couroy. 

One  full-grown  chicken;  3  pints  water;  i  teacup  cream; 
Yi  teacup  pearl  barley  or  rice;  pepper  and  salt. 

Cover  and  let  cook  slowly  one  hour,  skim,  and  add  tea- 
cup of  cream  just  before  serving. 

The  chicken  may  be  eaten  with  mashed  potatoes,  or  used 
for  salads  or  croquettes. 

GUMBO  SOUP 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Arnold. 

Two  pounds  of  beef  and  bone;   ^  pound  of   ham  or  salt 


Soups  8i 

pork;  I  quart  of  tomatoes — sliced;   2  quarts  of  gumbo — sliced: 
4  tablespoons  of  butter. 

Put  the  meat  and  gumbo  in  a  pot,  with  one  quart  of  cold 
water;  stew  for  one  hour,  then  add  the  tomatoes,  and  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  more  if  needed.  When  the  contents 
of  the  pot  are  boiled  to  pieces,  put  in  the  butter  and  pepper. 
Strain  and  serve  with  croutons. 

GUMBO  SOUP 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Elderkin. 

One  spring  chicken;  i  small  slice  ham;  i  heaping  table- 
spoon lard;  okra;  i  or  two  large  tomatoes;  i  spoon  of  flour; 
a  little  boiled  rice. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  in  small  pieces,  also  the  ham.  Put 
into  a  pot  with  the  tablespoon  of  hot  lard ;  when  fried, 
add  okra,  cut  into  small  pieces,  the  tomatoes  and  flour. 
Cover  the  whole  with  water,  and  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow 
fire.  If  crabs  or  shrimps  are  obtainable  add  them,  and  season 
the  whole  highly.     Salt  to  the  taste. 

Place  a  little  boiled  rice  in  the  center  of  a  soup  plate,  add 
some  gumbo.     Serve  very  hot. 

Many  persons  in  New  Orleans  add  Chili  pepper. 

OKRA  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

One  can  of  okra;  (if  5'OU  cannot  procure  fresh  okra);  i 
tablespoon  minced  onion;  i  tablespoon  butter;  i^  pints  boil- 
ing water;  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  can  of  okra  in  pot,  with  the  onion  and  butter,  when 
boiling  hot  add  the  boiling  water;  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste. 

MUSHROOn  SOUP 

Mrs.  Hugh  W.  Vail. 

One  tablespoon  flour;  i  tablespoon  butter;  i  quart  milk; 
I  pint  mushrooms. 

Melt  flour  and  butter  until  very  smooth,  (do  not  brown). 


82  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

add  the  milk  slightly  heated  to  the  flour  and  butter.  Stir 
constantly  in  a  double  sauce  pan  until  it  becomes  thick  like 
cream. 

To  prepare  the  mushrooms.  Peel  and  boil  for  two  hours; 
when  cold,  press  through  a  fine  colander,  and  stir  into  the 
previously  prepared  soup  until  well  heated  through.     Serve. 

CORN  SOUP 

Miss  M.  K.  McLellau. 

One  pint  grated  green  corn;  i  quart  milk;  i  pint  hot 
water;  i  heaping  tablespoon  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter;  i 
slice  of  onion;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Boil  the  corn  cobs  in  the  water  half  an  hour;  take  them 
out  and  put  the  grated  corn  in,  and  the  onion.  L,et  them  boil 
about  half  an  hour,  then  strain  and  add  the  flour  and  butter 
— mixed  smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  add 
the  milk  boiling  hot.     Season  and  serve. 

CORN  SOUP 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Elderkin. 

One  quart  of  corn,  fresh  or  canned;  3  pints  fresh  milk; 
pepper;  salt;  butter  size  of  an  &z^\  ^  teaspoon  corn  starch; 
4  tablespoons  cream. 

Place  over  the  fire,  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  i  quart 
of  corn.  When  well  stewed,  press  through  a  colander  into 
a  fresh  sauce  pan,  then  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Let  this 
stand  while  you  place  over  the  fire  three  pints  of  fresh  milk, 
when  this  has  come  to  a  boil,  (be  careful  not  to  scorch),  stir 
in  slowly  the  corn.  Let  all  cook  together  very  slowly  for 
ten  minutes,  or  until  it  has  boiled  well  five  minutes;  then 
add  the  corn  starch  which  has  been  dissolved  in  cold  milk 
and  also  the  cream.     Serve  immediately  very  hot. 

POTATO  SOUP 

Mrs.  Charles  Silent. 

Three  potatoes;  i  pint  of  stock;  i  teaspoon  chopped 
onion;    i  stalk  of  celery;   i  teaspoon  salt;    Yi  teaspoon  celery 


Soups  83 

salt;  Yz   saltspoon  white   pepper;    ^4    saltspoon  cayenne   pep- 
per;  Yz  tablespoon  flour;   i  tablespoon  butter. 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes;  let  soak  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour.  Put  into  boiling  water  and  cook  until  very  soft. 
Cook  the  onion  and  celery  with  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  the  potatoes  are  soft,  drain  off  the  water  and  mash 
them.  Add  the  boiling  milk  and  seasoning.  Rub  through  a 
strainer,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  again.  Put  the  butter  in  a 
small  sauce  pan,  and,  when  melted  and  bubbling,  add  the 
flour,  and  when  well  mixed  stir  into  the  boiling  soup;  let  it 
all  boil  five  minutes,  and  serve  very  hot.  If  the  soup  is  too 
thick,  add  more  hot  milk.  The  celery  salt  may  be  omitted 
if  you  have  fresh  celery — if  you  like,  add  i  tablespoon  of  fine 
chopped  parsley  just  before  serving, 

SPINACH  SOUP 

Mrs.  Edward  Silent. 

One  peck  of  spinach;  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter; 
3  tablespoons  of  flour;  i  tablespoon  of  sugar;  i  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  a  little  pepper;   i  quart  of  stock  or  milk. 

Wash  the  spinach  and  cook  in  a  little  water  until  tender, 

drain,  chop  and  pound  the  spinach  to  a  paste,  then  add  the 

butter,   flour,    sugar,    salt    and    pepper.     Cook    ten    minutes, 

then  add  the  stock  or  milk,  when  hot  rub   through  a  sieve. 

Serve. 

POTATO  SOUP 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Holcomb. 

Six  potatoes;  i  quart  of  milk;  ^  cup  of  butter;  i  ^%^; 
pepper  and  salt. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes,  while  mashing,  add  the  but- 
ter and  pour  in  gradually  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  well  and 
strain.  Heat  once  more.  Beat  up  the  egg,  put  in  the  tureen 
and  pour  over  it  the  soup  when  ready  to  serve. 

POTATO  SOUP 

"76." 

Three  good-sized  potatoes;  i  teacup  sweet  milk;  2  quarts 
of  water;   i  cup  sweet  cream;  pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  taste. 


-^^  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Peel  and  slice  potatoes,  boil  in  the  water  till  nearly  done, 
then  add  the  milk,  pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  taste.  Just 
before  removing  from  the  fire,  pour  in  the  sweet  cream. 

MOCK  BI50UE  SOUP 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Walton. 

One  half  can   tomatoes;     i    quart  milk;     Vi   cup  butter;    i 

tablespoonful  corn  starch;    i  teaspoonful  salt;    ^  saltspoonful 

white  pepper. 

Stew    the    tomatoes    until   soft   enough    to   strain    easily. 

Boil  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.     Cook  one  tablespoonful  of 

the  butter  and  the  corn  starch   together  in  a  small  saucepan, 

adding  enough  of  the  hot  milk  to  make  it  pour  easily.     Stir 

it  carefully  into  the  boiling  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes.     Add 

salt,  and  pepper  and  the  strained   tomatoes.     If  the  tomatoes 

be  very  acid,  add  half  a  saltspoonful  of  soda  before  straining. 

6erve  very  hot. 

TOMATO  SOUP 

Mrs.  C.  C.  McLean. 

One  quart  soup  stock;  i  quart  tomatoes — canned  or  fresh; 
parsley  and  small  onion,  for  flavor. 

Boil  15  minutes;  strain  and  thicken  with  flour.  Add 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.     Serve  very  hot. 

TOMATO  CREAH  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Ayers. 

Boil  till  soft  four  large  tomatoes;  strain  through  a  sieve, 
and  then  add  one  teaspoon  of  soda;  a  quart  of  milk;  4  rolled 
crackets;  butter;  pepper,  and  salt. 

TOHATO  SOUP 

Mrs.  D.  G.  Stephens. 

One  quart  stock;  i  quart  can  tomatoes;  i  teaspoon  soda; 
I  quart  milk;  2  tablespoons  butter;   2  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

Heat  together  the  stock  and  milk.  Put  the  tomatoes 
through  a  colander,  place  on  stove,  when  hot  add  soda. 
Melt  the  butter  and  stir  into  it  the  corn  starch.  Add  this  to 
the  tomatoes.  Stir  the  milk  and  tomatoes  into  stock.  Sea- 
:son  to  taste. 


Soups  8s 

TOHATO  CREAH  SOUP 

Miss  M.  E.  McLellan. 

Six  tomatoes;  i  small  salt  spoon  soda;  i  pint  of  milk;  2 
large  teaspoons  flour;   i  dessertspoon  butter. 

Stew  the  tomatoes,  add  the  soda,  then  strain  through  a 
fine  strainer.  Boil  the  milk  and  thicken  it  with  the  flour; 
add  the  butter,  then  the  tomato.     Season  to  taste  and  serve. 

TOHATO  SOUP 

Mrs.  A.  C.  St.  John. 

One  pint  cooked  tomatoes;  i  teaspoon  salt;  pinch  of  soda; 
3  rolled  crackers;  }(  teaspoon  pepper;  i  heaping  tablespoon 
butter;    i  quart  sweet  milk. 

Put  the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  add  the  soda  and  boil 
for  five  minutes;  then  add  the  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper; 
when  this  boils  add  the  rolled  crackers;  let  just  boil  and 
serve  at  once. 

Instead  of  the  quart  of  milk,  a  pint  of  water  and  a  pint  of 
milk  may  be  used,  and  still  m.ake  an  excellent  soup. 

[GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  Wigraore. 

Three  pints  green  peas;  ^  pound  of  butter;  2  slices  ham; 
3  onions,  sliced;  4  heads  lettuce,  (shredded);  2  French  rolls, 
(crumbs  of);  2  handfuls  spinach;  i  lump  sugar;  2  quarts  me- 
dium stock. 

Put  the  butter,  ham,  i  quart  peas,  onions  and  lettuce  to  a 
pint  of  stock;  simmer  one  hour;  add  the  rest  of  the  stock  and 
the  rolled  crumbs;  boil  for  another  hour.  Boil  the  spinach 
and  squeeze  dry.  Rub  the  soup  through  a  sieve,  and  spinach 
with  it  to  color  it.  Then  have  ready  i  pint  of  young  peas 
boiled,  add  them  to  the  soup.  Put  in  sugar,  give  one  boil  and 
serve. 

QREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Mrs.  Edward  Silent. 

One  quart  green  peas;  i  quart  water;  i  pint    milk;  ^    tea- 
spoon salt;    }4  saltspoon  pepper;    }^    teaspoon  sugar;    i  table 
spoon  butter;  i  tablespoon  flour. 


so  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Put  the  peas  into  i  pint  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
soft.  Mash  them  in  the  water  in  which  they  boiled,  and  rub 
through  a  strainer,  gradually  adding  a  pint  of  water.  Put  on 
to  boil  again  Cook  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  small  sauce  pan, 
being  careful  not  to  brown  it.  Stir  into  the  boiling  soup. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  the  milk,  which  should  be  hot. 

This  is  a  good  way  to  use  cold  peas,  or  peas  that  are  old 
and  hard.  When  the  pods  are  fresh,  wash  them  thoroughl}% 
allow  more  water,  and  cook  them  with  the  peas. 

BEAN    SOUP 

"76." 

One  quart  small  white  beans;  i  quart  cold  water,  (to  be 
thrown  away  after  five  minutes  boiling);  i  scant  teaspoon 
soda;  2  quarts  rich  milk;  2  quarts  cold  water;  salt  and  but- 
ter to  taste. 

Boil  beans  in  1  quart  of  water  with  the  soda  five  minutes; 
take  out,  throw  away  water,  and  rub  skins  off  in  cold  water; 
then  put  beans  into  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil  until  very 
soft;  this  will  require  2  or  3  hours.  Add  the  milk,  pepper, 
salt  and  butter  to  taste;  boil  up  once,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 
This  is  a  superior  soup. 

CELERY  SOUP 

Mrs.  A     .S.  Averill. 

Bones  of  a  roasted  turkey  or  chicken;  3  good  heads  celery; 
butter  and  milk. 

Take  the  bones  of  a  roasted  turkey  or  chicken  with  the 
bits  not  suitable  for  reappearance  upon  the  table,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  boil  thoroughly  two  or  three  hours.  Strain 
out  the  bones  and  set  aside  for  stock. 

Cut  up  the  celery,  using  all  not  fit  for  table.  Cover  with 
hot  water,  and  boil  until  soft.  Strain  through  colander.  Add 
stock  and  season.  Add  butter  and  sufficient  good  rich  milk. 
Serve  hot. 


Soups  8j 

CELERY  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

One  bunch  celery;  i  pint  salted  water;  i  tablespoon 
chopped  onion;  i  pint  milk;  i  tablespoonful  butter;  J-  table- 
spoon flour;  salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  celery  into  inch  pieces,  and  boil  until  very  soft  in 
salted  water,  mash  in  the  water  left  from  boiling.  Boil  the 
onion  in  the  milk  ten  minutes,  and  add  it  to  the  celery.  Press 
all  through  a  fine  sieve  and  boil  again,  adding  the  butter  and 
flour,  (cooked  together);  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  five 
minutes  and  strain. 

CREAH  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

Mrs.    F.  W.   King. 

One  quart  milk;  Yz  cup  rice;  i  quart  soup  stock;  i  large 
head  of  celery;  lump  of  butter;  salt  and  pepper;  i  cup  of 
whipped  cream. 

Boil  the  rice  in  the  milk,  with  a  shade  of  mace,  until  soft 
enough  to  ru!)  through  a  colander.  Boil  celery  in  soup  stock 
twenty  minutes;  add  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
strain  this  into  the  milk,  cook  together  a  few  minutes.  Add 
cup  of  whipped  cream  after  pouring  soup  in  the  tureen. 

CREAH  OF  ASPARAGUS 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hubbell. 

Two  bunches  asparagus;  i  pint  stock;  i  tablespoon  butter; 
2  tablespoons  flour;  salt  and  pepper;  i  pint  hot  milk. 

Cut  off  the  hard  parts  of  the  asparagus;  boil  in  the  stock 
half  an  hour,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  put  on  to  boil 
again.  Melt  the  butter  and  stir  into  it  the  flour;  add  it^the 
stock  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  soup  is 
boiling  add  the  milk  and  the  asparagus  tops  which  have  been 
previously  cooked  tender  in  salted  water. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

;\Irs.  C.  H.  Walton. 

Two  bunches  asparagus;  i  pint  white  stock;  i  pint  cream 
or  milk;  3  tablespoons  butter;  i  tablespoon  chopped  onion;    2 


88  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

tablespoons  of  flour;  i  teaspoon  sugar:  i^  teaspoon  salt;  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  pepper. 

Cut  off  heads  of  asparagus  and  stew  the  rest  with  stock. 
Cook  butter  and  onion  ten  minutes;  add  flour  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Add  this  with  seasoning  and  simmer  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  stew  pan,  add  cream 
and  asparagus  heads,   boil  once  and  serve. 

ALMOND  SOUP 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Bovard. 

One  quart  milk;  browned  flour;  2  eggs,  (whites  only);  i 
tablespoon  butter;  ^  teaspoon  extract  of  almond. 

To  the  milk  add  the  butter  and  enough  browned  flour  to 
make  the  thickness  of  cream.  (Cook  in  a  double  boiler). 
Add  the  almond  extract,  and  just  before  serving  beat  in  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  some  blanched  almonds 
chopped  finely. 

NEW  ORLEANS  CRAB  GUMBO 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Glassell. 

Two  tablespoons  flour;  2  tablespoons  lard;  2  onions;  i  tea- 
spoon gumbo,  fillet. 

Fry  the  flour  in  the  lard  with  the  onions,  cut  up  fine,  until 
a  nice  brown.  After  the  crab  is  cut  up  and  picked  out,  add  it 
and  stir  until  all  is  brown;  then  put  this  into  ordinary  soup 
stock,  and  boil  until  well  done.  When  ready  to  dish  up  stir 
in  I  teaspoon  of  gumbo  fillet,  and  pour  out  as  soon  as  it 
thickens,  as  the  fillet  will  get  gritty  if  boiled  over  a  minute. 

N.  B.  This  is  not  okra  but  fillet,  a  powder  ground  from 
leaves  by  the  Indians. 

This  recipe  will  answer  for  Oyster  Gumbo  also.       But  the 
oysters  must  be  added  when  the  soup  is  nearly  done. 

CRAB  SOUP 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Thomas. 

One  crab,  chopped  fine;  2  quarts  milk;  Yz  cup  butter;  i 
large  spoonful  flour:  ^2  cup  sweet  cream. 

Cook  butter   and   flour  together,  do  not  brown;  add  milk 


Soups  Sg 

and  cook  until  smooth  as  cream.  Season  with  cayenne  pep- 
per, and  salt.  Add  crab,  which  scald,  but  do  not  boil  after 
adding  to  the  milk.    Pour  into  the  tureen  ^2  cup  sweet  cream; 

and  then  add  soup. 

CRAB  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Hendricks. 

One  quart  milk;  2  medium-sized  or  i  large  crab;  6  eggs, 
(yolks);  salt,  cayenne  or  tobasco  sauce. 

Pick  the  meat  of  the  crab  into  fine  shreds,  and  let  it  soak 
in  the  milk  for  one  hour;  then  put  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  it 
come  Just  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  When  at  boiling 
point,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs;  stir  quickly  for  a 
minute  or  so,  and  serve  immediately.  Season  well  with  salt, 
and  cayenne  pepper  or  tobasco  sauce.  I  prefer  the  sauce, 
using  about  six  or  seven  drops. 

GREEN  TURTLE  SOUP 

Mrs.  Lincoln. 

One  can  green  turtle  ;  i  quart  brown  stock  ;  2  table- 
spoons each  of  butter  and  flour;    one  lemon. 

Cut  the  green  fat  into  dice  and  lay  it  aside.  Simmer 
the  remainder  of  the  turtle  meat  in  the  stock  for  half  an 
hour.  Brown  the  flour  in  the  browned  butter,  add  it  to  the 
soup.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  thin 
slices  of  lemon,  ^gg  balls,   and  the   reserved  green  fat. 

MOCK    TURTLE    SOUP 

Mrs.  J.   H.   F.   Peck. 

One  pint  black  beans;  4  or  5  quarts  of  water;  }i  pound 
of  beef,  or  ]4  calf's  head;  ^  pound  salt  pork;  i  onion;  i 
grated  carrot;  i  turnip;  i  teaspoon  whole  cloves;  i  lemon; 
I  hard-boiled  egg. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night  in  cold  water.  The  day  fol- 
lowing, boil  them  in  four  or  five  quarts  of  fresh  water  with 
the  beef,  (or  half  of  calf's  head, )  salt  pork,  onion,  carrot, 
turnip  and  cloves,  for  from  three  to  six  hours.  Strain 
through  a  colander  and  skim  off  the  fat.  Place  lemon 
sliced  and  hard-boiled  egg  in  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over. 


po  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


OYSTER  SOUP 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

One  quart  of  hot  water;  i  pint  of  milk;  ^  teacup  of 
butter;  i  quart  oysters;  2  teaspoons  salt;  }^  teaspoon  pepper; 
4  crackers,   rolled  fine. 

Put  the  hot  water  in  a  granite  stew  pan,  add  the  other 
ingredients  in  the  order  they  come;  boil  as  soon  as  possible, 
then  add  the  oysters;  let  the  whole  come  to  a  boiling  heat 
quickly,   remove  from  the  fire  and  serve  hot. 

BISQUE  OF  OYSTERS 

Mrs.  Frank  E.  Phillips. 

One  quart  of  oysters;  i  quart  of  sweet  cream;  i  pint  of 
chicken  stock;  i  pint  stale  bread  crumbs,  scant;  2  table- 
spoons of  butter;  I  tablespoon  of  flour;  yl  teaspoon  of  white 
pepper;  i-io  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper;  i  bay  leaf;  i  sprig 
parsley;  i  stalk  of  celery;  i  small  slice  of  onion;  i  bit  of 
mace;  4  eggs — yolks  only. 

Put  the  chopped  oysters  with  their  own  liquor,  half  the 
stock  and  seasoning,  into  a  stew  pan,  and  cook  slowl}-  twenty 
minutes.  The  other  half  of  the  stock  and  bread  crumbs  put 
in  another  stew  pan  and  cook  twent)^  minutes.  Strain  the 
liquor  from  the  first  pan  into  the  second,  pressing  all  the 
juice  from  the  oysters,  then  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Re- 
serve half  the  cream;  put  the  remainder  in  a  double  boiler; 
mix  the  butter  and  flour  together  until  smooth  and  creamj'. 
When  the  contents  of  the  stew  pan  have  cooked  ten  minutes, 
rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve  and  return  to  the  pan. 
Add  the  butter  and  flour;  stir  the  mixture  until  it  boils,  then 
add  the  hot  cream,  and  set  in  a  cooler  place.  Beat  the  yolks 
and  cold  cream,  stir  into  the  mixture,  and  cook  one  minute, 
(stirring).     Use  whole  spices. 

AN  EXCELLENT  OYSTER  STEW 

Mrs.  A.  S.   Averill. 

One  quart  of  03'sters;  i  quart  of  milk;  i  teaspoon  of  flour; 
salt  pork,  butter,  salt,  pepper. 


Soups  gr 

Cut  the  slice  of  pork  into  tiny  bits  and  fry  it;  add  the 
flour  and  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Then  add  the  oysters  and 
their  juice,  and  allow  them  to  plump  in  the  hot  mixture. 
Heat  the  milk,  season  it  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  add 
it  to  the  oysters,  and  serve  very  hot. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Ross. 

Fish,  weighing  lo  or  12  pounds;  i^  pounds  salt  pork; 
16  or  18  good-sized  potatoes;  i  quart  of  boiling  milk;  12  or 
14  hard  crackers;  3  pints  of  water;  2  tablespoons  salt;  i 
teaspoon  pepper;  a  little  flour;  a  couple  of  onions,   if  desired. 

This  is  said  to  be  Daniel  Webster's  recipe  for  chowder. 
Have  the  fish  well  cleaned,  leaving  on  the  skin;  cut  into 
slices  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  using  only  the  breast,  which 
is  the  best  part  for  chowder.  Cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices, 
and  put  into  a  very  large  pot,  and  fry  out  all  the  fat;  take 
out  the  pork,  leaving  the  fat  in  the  pot.  Add  the  three  pints 
of  water,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  fish,  covering  as  much 
of  the  surface  of  the  fat  as  possible.  Slice  the  potatoes  thin 
and  put  in  a  la3'er  of  them;  sift  in  the  salt,  pepper  and  flour, 
then  a  layer  of  pork  cut  in  strips,  another  layer  of  fish  and 
what  potatoes  may  be  left.  Fill  the  pot  with  water  until  it 
covers  the  whole.  Put  over  a  good  fire  and  let  it  boil 
twent5'-five  minutes.  Take  the  boiling  milk  and  put  in  the 
crackers,  add  to  the  chowder,  and  let  boil  five  minutes  more. 
It  is  then  ready  to  serve. 

LONG    ISLAND  CLAfl  CHOWDER 

Mrs.  E.  Veroua  May. 

Clams  ;  i  pound  of  salt  pork  ;  7  onions,  medium  size  ; 
9  potatoes;  2  quarts  of  boiling  water;  i  quart  of  boiling 
milk;  34  cup  of  butter;  4  cups  of  oj^ster  crackers;  a  pinch  of 
tliyme;  salt,  pepper. 

Chop  the  pork  and  brown  in  the  kettle  until  crisp.  Then 
add  the  chopped  onions  and  cook  slightly,  next  the  chopped 
potatoes  and  boiling  water.     Cut  out  the  tough  part  of  the 


^2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

clams  and  chop  it;  add  the  clams  and  their  liquor.  Boil 
thirty  minutes,  then  add  the  milk,  salt,  pepper,  butter,  thyme,, 
and  crushed  crackers.     Excellent. 


CLAM  CHOWDER 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Widney. 

Six  tablespoons  pickled  pork;  2  medium-sized  onions; 
I  dessertspoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  flour;  i  quart  clams; 
I  quart  milk;  i  pint  cream;  i  quart  potatoes;  1^4  pints 
toasted  bread;    salt  and  thyme. 

Fry  the  pork,  (cut  into  dice),  onions  and  butter  thor- 
oughly; then  add  flour;  brown  well  and  place  on  the  back 
of  the  stove.  Put  clams  over  the  fire  in  their  own  liquor; 
when  they  have  boiled  three  minutes,  strain  them  and  return 
the  liquor  to  the  fire;  add  to  the  liquor  the  fried  pork  and 
onions,  milk,  cream,  and  the  potatoes — cut  into  dice,  and 
salt  to  taste.  When  about  to  send  to  table,  add  the  clams 
chopped  fine,  toasted  bread  cut  in  dice,  and  a  little  thyme. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Mrs.  H.   C.  Austin. 

One  pound  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips;  4  pounds  cod  or  sea 
bass;  chopped  onions;  parsley;  summer  savory;  pepper; 
crackers. 

Soak  the  pork  in  cold  water  five  minutes;  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pot  with  this.  Cut  the  cod  or  sea-bass  into  pieces 
two  inches  square,  and  lay  enough  of  this  over  the  pork  to 
cover  it;  then  the  chopped  onions,  (this  may  be  omitted,  if 
desired),  parsley,  summer  savory,  pepper  and  crackers.  Re- 
peat this  layering  until  your  fish  and  pork  are  used.  Cover 
with  cold  water,  and  boil  gently  for  an  hour.  Then  take  out 
the  thick  part  with  a  skimmer,  and,  after  thickening  the 
other  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  pour  it  over  that  you 
have  skimmed  out. 


Soups  gs 

DUnPLINGS 

One  pint  of  flour;  i  scant  cup  sweet  milk;  J^  teaspoon 
salt;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder. 

Sift  the  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour  together,  and  mix 
with  the  milk  into  a  dough  soft  enough  to  handle  easily. 
Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cutter, 
and  drop  into  the  boiling  stew  and  boil  ten  minutes. 


FISH 


M.  B.  W. 


Fish  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand;  but  should  be 
cleaned  immediately,  in  strongly-salted  water.  After  they  are 
cleaned,  they  should  be  washed  with  a  cloth  wet  in  salt  water, 
then  wrapped,  sprinkled  with  salt  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 
Fish  should  never  be  soaked;  nor  put  in  an  ice-chest,  as  any 
food  which  may  be  in  the  chest  will  absorb  the  odor.  Ice 
may  be  placed  around,  but  should  not  touch  the  fish;  ice  and 
water  have  a  tendency  to  soften  fish:  a  soft  fish  is  unfit  to 
eat. 

BAKED  WHITE  FISH 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Sanderson. 

Steam  a  white  fish  until  tender;  remove  bones;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper;  shred. 

Dressing:  Heat  i  pint  of  milk,  %  pound  flour,  cook. 
When  cold,  add  two  eggs,  ]^  pound  butter.  Season  with  a 
little  grated  onion  and  parsley.  Bake  in  alternate  layers  of 
fish  and  sauce.  Sprinkle  top  with  crumbs  and  butter,  and 
brown  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  serve  with  more  sauce. 

BAKED  SHAD 

Practical  Housekeeping. 

Open  and  clean  the  fish;  leave  on  the  head,  if  preferred; 
cut  out  the  backbone,  from  the  head  to  within  two  inches  of 
the  tail,  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture:  Stale  bread 
crumbs;  i  large  onion;  2  ounces  of  butter;  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  parsley  and  2  yolks. 

Soak  the  bread  in  water,  squeeze  dry,  mince  the  onion 
and  fry  in  butter.  Add  the  bread,  butter,  and  seasoning  of 
pepper,    salt   and   parsley.     Heat  thoroughly.      After  taking 


F2sh  P5 

from  the  fii^,  add  the  yolks,  well  beaten.  Stuff.  When  the 
fish  is  filled,  wind  it  with  tape,  place  in  baking  pan,  baste 
slightly  with  butter,  and  cover  bottom  of  pan  with  water. 
Serve  with  Qgg  sauce. 

BAKED  HALIBUT 

Juliet  Corson. 

A  halibut,  weighing  three  or  four  pounds;  i  quart  of 
tomatoes;  i  medium-sized  onion;  garlic,  size  of  a  dried  pea; 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  bread  crumbs. 

The  fish  is  to  be  cleaned  and  washed;  the  fins  and  tail 
trimmed;  then  laid  in  a  baking  dish  in  which  it  can  be  sent 
to  the  table;  or  in  a  pan  from  which  it  can  be  removed  with- 
out breaking.  The  tomatoes  and  onion  are  to  be  peeled, 
sliced  and  placed  in  the  pan  with  the  fish,  also  the  garlic — 
minced  very  fine,  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pep- 
per. The  fish  is  to  be  dusted  with  fine  sifted  crumbs  and 
dotted  with  butter.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Hither  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  may  be  used. 

BAKED  FISH 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Welch. 

A  fish  weighing  from  four  to  six  pounds  is  a  good  size  to 
bake.     It  should  be  cooked  whole  to  look  well. 

Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt  and  a  little 
salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  (parsley  and  onions  if  you  please); 
mix  this  with  one  o-gg.  Fill  the  body,  sew  it  up  and  lay  it 
in  a  large  dripper;  put  across  it  some  pieces  of  salt  pork,  to 
flavor  it  ;  put  a  pint  of  water  and  a  little  salt  in  the  pan. 
Bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half;  baste  frequently.  After  taking 
up  the  fish,  thicken  the  gravy  and  pour  over  it. 

[This  is  a  good  way  to  bake  Barracuda  or  any  California 
fish. — Eds.] 

DRY  STUFFING  FOR  BAKED  FISH 

Mrs.  F.  W.  King. 

One  cup  of  cracker  crumbs;   ^  cup  of  melted  butter;   i 


g6  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

saltspoon  of  salt;  i  saltspoon  of  pepper;  i  teaspoon  of  chopped 
onion;  i  teaspoon  of  parsley;  i  teaspoon  of  piclcles;  i  tea- 
spoon of  capers. 

Stuff  the  fish,  and,  when  baked,  served  with  HoUandoise 
Sauce,  prepared  as  follows  : 

One  half  cup  of  butter;  yi  cup  of  boiling  water;  2  lemons, 
(the  juice);  2  eggs,  (yolks);  ^  teaspoon  of  salt;  a  speck  of 
cayenne. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks,  lemon  juice, 
cayenne  and  salt,  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  sauce  thickens. 

TO  COOK  COARSE=GRAINED  FISH,  (Sculpin  excepted) 

Mrs.  Carl  Schutze. 

One  sliced  onion;  6  pepper-corns;  6  corns  allspice;  3 
cloves;   i  bay  leaf;   i  piece  of  lemon  peel;   ^2  cup  vinegar. 

Pour  into  a  fish  kettle,  or  large  shallow  pan,  sufficient 
water  for  cooking  the  fish.  Salt  it  well.  Add  onion,  pepper- 
corns, cloves,  all-spice,  bay  leaf  and  lemon  peel.  To 
do  away  with  the  odor  of  kelp,  if  any  there  be,  add  the  vine- 
gar. Boil  all  this  before  putting  the  fish  in.  Set  the  kettle 
where  it  will  keep  just  under  boiling  heat — for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.     Drain  and  serve  wnth  sauce. 

EGG  SAUCE  FOR  FISH 

Two  tablespoons  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter;  i  cup  milk; 
I  cup  fish  water;   i  0.%%. 

Rub  flour  and  butter  together;  boil;  but  not  long  enough 
to  become  yellow.  In  another  dish,  boil  fish  water  and  milk, 
from  which  the  cream  has  not  been  taken;  add  to  the  butter 
and  flour,  and  stir  altogether  till  smooth;  season  with  salt  if 
necessary.  Let  the  sauce  simmer  till  ready  for  use;  add  the 
^^%  last — boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine. 

BOILED     FISH 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

Wrap  fish  in  a  cloth  and  boil  three-quarters  of  an    hour  in 


Fish  P7 

a  kettle  of  hot  water  with  salt  enough  for  seasoning.   Remove 
cloth  carefully  and  place  the  fish  upon  a  platter. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH 

Milk;  corn  starch;  3  hard-boiled  eggs;  butter. 

Heat  the  milk  in  sauce  pan,  afterward  thicken  with  corn 
starch;  add  the  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Season  with  butter.  Pour 
over  the  fish. 

Any  kind  of  large  fish  may  be  used.  Barracuda  is  a 
favorite. 

HALIBUT  AU  GRATIN 

Mrs    Frank  Phillips. 

One  pint  cooked  halibut;  1%  cups  sweet  cream  or  milk;  i 
cup  bread  crumbs;  i  tablespoon  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter; 
y^  teaspoon  pepper;  V2  teaspoon  onion  juice;  i)4  teaspoon 
salt. 

Break  the  fish  into  flakes  with  a  fork.  Sprinkle  with  half 
the  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  lightly.  Heat  the 
milk  in  a  small  sauce  pan,  mix  the  flour  and  one  spoon  of  but- 
ter. Stir  it  in  the  boiling  milk,  cook  one  minute;  add  the 
onion  juice,  pepper  and  salt.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Put  in 
dish  in  layers,  the  last,  a  layer  of  cream  sauce.  Sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  and  the  remainder  of  the  butter.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes.  More  heat  is  required  on  the  top  than  at  the 
bottom. 

HALIBUT  HAITRE   d'HOTEL 

Three  pounds  of  halibut;  i  tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon 
chopped  parslej^;  bread  crumb.<,  egg,  salt,  pepper. 

Cut  thfe  halibut  in  pieces  three  inches  square;  dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  lard  to  a  rich 
brown.  Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  lemon  juice,  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper.  Mix,  and  spread  on  the  hot  squares  of  hali- 
but. Set  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  melt  the  butter, 
then  serve.     A  delicious  breakfast  dish. 


How    We  Cook  in  Los  Ano^eles 


FISH   a  la  CREAH 

Mrs.  J.  J.   Meyler. 

Two  pounds  of  fish;  i  quart  milk;  i  spoonful  butter;  2 
spoonfuls  flour;  ^2  onion;  lemon,  tobasco  sauce,  salt. 

Boil  halibut  or  coarse  grained  fish  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
the  skin,  pick  in  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Put  three- 
fourths  of  the  milk  in  a  custard  boiler  to  heat.  Mix  the  but- 
ter and  flour  with  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  cook  until 
quite  thick;  then  ndd  the  onion,  finely  chopped,  and  two  drops 
of  tobasco  sauce.  Put  alternate  layers  of  fish,  and  dressing  in 
a  baking  dish,  with  a  slice  of  sweet  rind  lemon  quartered  over 
the  dressing.  Have  the  dressing  cover  the  entire  top.  Bake 
slowly  half  an  hour.     Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

CREAM  FISH 

Miss  Delia  demons. 

Six  pounds  of  fish  boiled,  cooled  and  picked  in  pieces. 

Sauce — I  quart  of  milk;  i  onion,  cut  fine,  tied  in  a  bag 
and  boiled  in  the  milk.  Rub  a  teacup  of  butter  in  enough 
•sifted  flour  to  make  the  milk  like  rich  cream.  Stir  into  the 
boiling  milk  and  cook  thoroughly.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  finely  chopped  parsley.  Mix  with  the  fish.  Sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  a  few  minutes. 

FRIED  FISH  OF  ANY  KIND 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Austin. 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish;  lay  in  a  large  flat  dish;  salt 
and  dredge  with  flour.  If  the  fish  is  large  and  thick  slice  it; 
have  ready  a  frying  pan  of  hot  lard  or  butter;  put  it  in  and  fry  to 
a  good  brown. 

A  NICE  BREAKFAST  DISH 

Mrs.   A.  C.  Jones. 

Broil  sardines  delicately,  and  serve  on  toast  with  lemon. 
BROILED    TROUT 

Every-Day  Cook  Book. 

Clean,  and  split  them  open;  season  with  a  little  salt  and 
cayenne;  dip  in  whipped  egg,  dredge  with  flour  and  broil  over 
a  clear  fire.     Serve  with  sauce. 


Fish  gp 

BOILED  TROUT 

Put  the  fish  in  boiling  salted  water,  with  a  dash  of  vine- 
gar in  it;  remove  all  scum  as  it  rises,  and  boil  the  fish  until 
their  eyes  protrude.  Lift  without  breaking.  Drain.  Serve 
on  a  napkin.     To  be  eaten  with  shrimp,  or  anchovy  sauce. 

FISH    TOAST 

Mrs    M.  G.  Moore. 

Salted  fish — i  tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon  flour;  i  cup 
sweet  milk;   i  hard  boiled  egg;  some  toasted  bread;  pepper. 

Shred  fish  into  small  pieces;  freshen  in  cold  water.  Heat 
butter  in  frying-pan;  stir  in  the  flour;  cook;  add  one  cup  or 
more  of  sweet  milk,  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and  last  the  fish,  after 
first  draining  from  the  water.  Add  a  little  pepper,  and  pour 
over  a  nice  dish  of  toast.  The  sauce  is  excellent  with  baked 
potatoes. 

BREADED  SMELTS 

Juliet  Corsou. 

Smelts;  milk;  cracker  dust;  beaten  &gg. 

The  smelts  should  be  wiped  dry,  then  dipped  in  milk, 
rolled  in  cracker  dust,  dipped  in  beaten  egg,  rolled  again  in 
cracker  dust,  and  fried  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat.  When 
taken  from  the  fat  lay  them  upon  brown  paper  a  moment  to 
free  them  from  grease. 

FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Carpenter. 

Half  pound  finnan  haddie,  picked  and  braized  in  butter; 
I  cup  cream;  i  hard-boiled  egg,  cut  in  small  pieces;  the  yolk 
of  I  raw  Qgg;  i  teaspoon  of  grated  Edam  cheese;  thicken  with 
flour.  Season  to  taste,  cook  seven  or  eight  minutes,  and  serve 
in  chafing  dish. 

SALT  FISH   PUDDING— (Breakfast  Dish) 

Mrs.  B.  C     Whiting. 

Should  you  have  some  Alaska  salmon  left  over,  or  a  lit- 
tle mashed  potato,  or  boiled  rice,  or  both,  instead  of  throwing 


loo  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

away,  butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  the 
potato,  rice,  and  fish,  then  grated  bread  crumbs  over  the  top, 
and  pour  over  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  or  drawn  butter,  then 
bake.  You  can  add  pepper  and  more  salt  if  necessary.  Hard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  and  a  little  fish  sauce  is  an  improvement. 
Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley. 

BOILED  SALMON 

Every-Day  Cook  Book. 

The  middle  slice  of  salmon  is  best.  Sew  the  fish  neatly  in 
a  bag  made  of  mosquito  net,  put  in  boiling  salted  water.  Boil 
gently,  allowing  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound.  When 
done  unwrap,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  fish,  and  lay  it 
upon  a  hot  dish.  Have  ready  a  large  cup  of  drawn  butter, 
very  rich,  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  tablespoon  of  minced 
parsley,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and 
sliced  eggs. 

SALHON   LOAF 

Mrs.  \V.  W.   Ross. 

One  cup  bread  crumbs;  i  can  salmon;  4  tablespoons  melted 
butter;  4  eggs;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Remove  all  bones  and  pieces  of  skin  from  fish.  Stir  to- 
gether with  other  ingredients  and  turn  into  a  greased  pan,  and 
steam  one  hour.     Serve  with  following  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Salmon  Loaf — i  cup  boiled  cream;  i  tablespoon 
corn  starch,  heaped\  i  tablespoon  melted  butter;  yolk  of  i  egg. 

Thicken  the  cream  after  it  is  boiled  with  the  corn  starch, 
wet  with  salmon  juice;  add  butter  and  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten. 

SALMON   LOAF 

Mrs.  K.  F.  C.   Klokke. 

One  can  salmon;  4  eggs;  i  cup  bread  crumbs;  butter  size 
of  an  ^%'g,  melted  and  cooled;  pepper,  salt.  Steam  half  an 
hour. 

Sauce — I  ^<gZ^  or  yolks  of  two;  %  cup  butter;  ^-i  cup  of 
boiling  water;    i  lemon,  juice  only. 


Fish  lor 

ESCALOPED    SALHON 

Mrs.  Adolf  Ekstein. 

Bread  crumbs;  salmon;  milk;  flour;  butter;  pepper;  salt. 

Place  in  baking  d:sh  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
salmon  picked  to  pieces.  Thicken  some  milk  with  a  little 
flour;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the  fi:^h 
while  hot.      Bake  till  brown. 

ESCALOPED  SALMON 

Mrs.  Augusta   Robinson. 

One  egg;  ^  cup  of  milk;  a  few  drops  Worcestershire 
sauce;  bread  crumbs. 

Remove  bones  from  a  piece  of  boiled  salmon.  Fill  a  baking 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  salmon;  top 
layer  of  crumbs.  Season  each  layer  of  crumbs  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Beat  the  ^<g<g  separately  and 
well,  add  milk  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Pour  over  the  es- 
caloped  salmon.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  with  cover,  then  remove 
cover,  and  brown  five  minutes. 

Codfish  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  very  satisfactorily  as 
a  breakfast  dish. 

COLD    SALMON 

Mrs.  K.  F.  C.  Klokke. 

Six  laurel  leaves;  handful  of  parsley;  ^  lemon,  sliced; 
I  onion,  good-sized,  sliced;  i  carrot,  sliced;  i  spoonful 
white  pepper — whole;  yi  spoonful  cloves;  plenty  of  salt,  vine- 
gar, water,   lettuce,  sliced  egg,  mayonnaise. 

Boil  the  parsley,  laurel  leaves,  lemon,  onion,  carrot,  pep- 
per, cloves,  and  salt,  in  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water.  In 
this  while  boiling  lay  the  cuts  of  salmon,  which  should  be  one 
and  one-half  inches  thick.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  from  five  to 
ten  minutes.  Place  the  salmon  on  platter  to  cool.  Garnish 
with  sliced  eggs,  sliced  lemons,  and  lettuce.  Serve  with 
mayonnaise. 


I02  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


ROASTED  CODFISH 

Mrs.  M.  G     Moore. 

Select  a  thick  piece  of  dry  codfish;  do  not  wash  or  soak  it; 
toast  both  sides  to  a  deep  brown;  pound  it  to  pieces  with  a  dull 
knife.  Pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  let  it  simmer  a  few 
minutes,  drain  off  the  water;  repeat  this  operation  two  or 
three  times.  Drain,  season  with  pepper  and  butter,  and  set  it 
in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Delightful  with  baked 
potatoes. 

CODFISH   BALLS 

Mrs.    A.   C.   Radford. 

Codfish;  mashed  potato;  butter;  sweet  milk;  a  beaten  0.%^. 

After  washing  and  soaking  the  fish,  mince  it  fine;  and  boil 
twenty  minutes.  Turn  off  the  water,  cover  again  with  fresh 
boiling  water,  and  boil  anotlier  twenty  minutes.  Drain  it  dry 
and  spread  upon  a  dish  to  cool.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
mashed  potato;  work  into  a  stiff  batter,  by  adding  a  lump  of 
butter,  sweet  milk,  and  egg.  Flour  your  hands,  and  make  the 
mixture  into  balls;  drop  into  boiling  lard,  or  good  drippings, 
and  fry  them  to  a  light  brown. 

CODFISH   BALLS 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Carran. 

Equal  quantities  of  codfish  and  mashed  potato;  red  beets 
— cooked;  salt  pork. 

Carefull}^  pick  and  wash  the  codfish,  mix  thoroughly  with 
the  potato  and  chopped  beets,  work  into  balls,  brown  in  the 
fat  of  salt  pork,  and  garnish  with  bits  of  fried  pork. 

TO  COOK  CODFISH 

Mrs.   C.  G.  Dubois. 

Two-thirds  quart  of  codfish;  i  pint  cream;  j/  pint  milk; 
I  tablespoon  flour;  i  ^ZZ'^  2  tablespoons  milk;  butter,  size  of 
butternut. 

Shred  the  codfish;  soak  till  fresh:  place  in  saucepan  with 
cream  and  the  milk;  boil  once.  Beat  egg  and  flour  together, 
with  the  milk;  add  same  to  the  fish,  stirring  constantly  till 
done.     Season  with  butter.     Serve  on  toast. 


Fish  roj 

ESCALOPED  CODFISH 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes;  i  pint  sweet  milk;  2  raw 
eggs;  lump  of  butter,  size  of  a  walnut;  salt;    pepper;  codfish. 

Pick  codfish   in   pieces,  and  soak  in  lukewarm  water  over 
night,  or   for   several   hours;  change   the  water   a   few   times. 
Mix  the  potatoes,  milk,  eggs,  codfish  and  butter  thoroughl)-. " 
Season  with  salt  and   pepper,  if  necessary.     Bake  in  buttered 
dish  one  half  hour. 

TURBOT  a  la  CREilE 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Ellis. 

Boil  a  cod  or  bass;  after  it  is  cooked,  and  cold,  remove  the 
bones.     Chop  very  fine,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Sauce — One  pint  of  milk;  3  tablespoons  of  flour;  a  very 
little  chopped  onion;  parsley;  nutmeg;  salt;  pepper;  2  table- 
spiions  of  butter. 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour;  put  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire. 
Add  the  seasonings,  and  when  thick,  the  butter;  then  put  in 
a  dish  a  laj^er  of  fish,  and  a  layer  of  sauce,  until  it  is  full. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

FISH  TURBOT 

Mrs.   F.  W.  King. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk;  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  i  table- 
spoon of  butter,  large;  2  eggs;  any  kind  of  cold  fish;  pepper, 
salt. 

Let  the  milk  come  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  flour, 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cool  it  and  add  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  The  fish  should  be  freed  from  bones,  and  picked 
in  pieces.  Put  in  an  escalop  dish,  first  a  layer  of  dressing, 
then  of  fish;  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  the  top 
with  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.      Bake  a  light  brown. 

TURBOT 

Mrs.  L.  %V.  Wheeler. 

Cod,  halibut,  or  any  kind  of  white  fish;  one  cup  of  milk; 
I  tablespoon  of  butter;  i  teaspoon  of  flour;  i  egg;  pepper; 
salt;  a  little  chopped  onion,  and  parsley. 


lo^  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  scald  the  milk  and  add 
to  them,  and  cook  until  it  thickens;  add  the  beaten  egg. 
Cook  a  few  minutes  longer,  then  stir  in  the  onion  and 
parsley.  Steam  the  fish  ten  minutes,  pick  it  fine,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  fish  in  a  dish,  cover 
with  the  dressing.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Cover 
the  top  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

0Y5TERS"a  la  POULETTE 

Mrs.  Hancock  Banning. 

One  dozen  oysters;  ^  ounce  of  butter;  i  gill  of  cream; 
)^  of  a  lemon;  i  teaspoon  of  dissolved  flour;  yolk  of  one  o^gg; 
salt;  chopped  parsley. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor;  drain;  add  to  the 
liquor  the  salt,  butter,  lemon  juice,  cream  and  flour.  Add 
the  beaten  yolk,  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Place  the  oys- 
ters in  a  hot  dish;  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  adding  a  very 
little  chopped  parsley. 

ESCALOPED  OYSTERS 

Mrs.  A.  S.  .\verill. 

One  can  of  oysters — choice;  i  dozen  soda  crackers;  salt; 
pepper;  butter;   i  Qgg\   i  cup  of  milk. 

Drain  the  oysters;  crush  the  crackers,  (but  not  too  fine); 
cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  the  crumbs;  cover  it 
with  a  layer  of  oysters,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper; 
cover  it  with  crackers,  dotted  thickly  with  butter.  Repeat 
until  the  dish  is  nearly  filled,  having  the  last  layer  of  crack- 
ers and  butter.  Beat  the  egg  with  the  milk  and  pour  over 
the  dish.  Bake  half  an  hour,  until  delicately  browned. 
Serve  at  once. 

CREAfl  OYSTERS 

Mr.s.  J.  W.  McKiuley. 

One  can  fine,  large  oysters;  i  pint  cream;  }2  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  rolled  fine;  pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  taste. 

Put  the   oysters  and   cream  into  separate  kettles   to  heat. 


Fish  lo^ 

The  oysters,  when  the  edges  curl,  are  to  be  taken  from  the  juice 
in  the  kettle  and  put  on  a  platter  to  keep  warm.  Sift  the 
cracker  crumbs  into  the  cream,  add  the  oyster  juice.  Season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  more  or  less  butter,  as  the  richness  of 
the  cream  may  require.  Pour  over  the  oysters  and  serve  very 
hot.     This  is  nice  served  on  slices  of  toast. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hubbell. 

One  pint  oysters;  i  tablespoon  melted  butter;  i  tablespoon 
flour,  rounding;  i  cup  hot  milk;  salt,  pepper — cayenne,  lemon 
juice,  celery  salt. 

Mix  butter  and  flour;  pour  on  the  hot  milk  slowly,  beating 
well;  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper — caj'enne,  celery  salt,  and  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Parboil  the  oysters,  drain,  and  add  to  the 
sauce. 

DEVILED  OYSTERS 

Marion  Harland. 

One  quart  fine  oysters;  cayenne  pepper;  lemon  juice;  some 
melted  butter;  egg,  beaten  light;  ^^  cup  rolled  cracker. 

Wipe  the  oysters  dry,  and  lay  in  a  flat  dish.  Cover  with  a 
mixture  of  melted  butter,  cayenne  pepper  (or  pepper  sauce), 
and  lemon  juice.  Let  them  lie  in  this  for  ten  minutes,  turn- 
ing them  frequently;  roll  in  the  crumbs,  then  in  the  beaten 
^gg,  again  in  the  crumbs,  and  fry  in  mixed  lard  and  butter, 
made  very  hot  before  the  oysters  are  dropped  in. 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

Mrs.  il.  J.  Danison. 

Three  eggs;  a  few  crackers;  butter;  salt. 

Drain  oysters,  spread  them  upon  a  cloth  and  press  another 
upon  them  to  absorb  all  moisture.  Have  ready  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten;  in  another  dish,  fineh^  crushed  crackers.  Dip  oy- 
sters, alternately  in  the  Q.gg  and  crackers,  rolling  over  so  as  to 
become  well  incrusted.  In  the  frying  pan  heat  sufficient  but- 
ter to  entirely  cover  the  oysters.  Fry  both  sides  quickly  to  a 
light  brown.     Dry  in  colander  before  serving.       Salt  to  taste. 


io6  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Anp;eles 


BROILED  OYSTERS 

"76." 

Finely  rolled  crackers;  some  melted  butter;  salt. 

The  oysters,  after  being  strained,  are  rolled  in  cracker 
crumbs;  then  shaken  gently  on  a  rough  towel.  Dip  in  melted 
butter;  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  broil  on  gridiron.  Serve 
hot. 

CURRIED  OYSTERS 

Practical  Housekeeping. 

One  quart  of  oysters;  ^'  cup  of  butter;  2  tablespoons 
flour;  I  tablespoon  currj'  powder. 

Drain  the  liquid  from  the  oysters  into  a  sauce  pan,  add 
butter,  flour,  and  curry  powder  well  mixed.  Boil;  add  oysters 
and  a  little  salt.      Boil  up  once,  and  serve. 

OYSTER  ROLL 

Cut  a  round  piece  of  bread  six  inches  across,  from  the  top 
of  a  well-baked  round  loaf  Remove  the  inside,  leaving  a  crust 
half  an  inch  thick.  Make  a  rich  oyster  stew,  put  in  the  crust 
first  a  layer  of  the  oysters;  then  of  bread  crumbs.  Repeat 
until  it  is  filled.  Put  the  cover  on  top.  Glaze  the  loaf  with 
the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Place  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
moments.     Serve  verj-  hot. 

OYSTER  PIE 

Two  pounds  of  veal;  i  quart  of  oysters;  suet,  flour,  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  biscuit  dough. 

Cut  the  veal,  and  a  small  piece  of  suet  into  small  pieces. 
Boil  until  well  done.  Thicken  the  stock  with  flour,  remove 
from  the  fire,  add  oysters,  some  bits  of  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Place  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  cover  with  a  crust, 
prepared  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit.  Bake  until  the  crust 
is  done. 

OYSTER  PATTIES 

Mrs.  A.  C.  St.  John. 

Pie  crust;  oysters;  butter;  pepper,  salt. 

Line  gem  pans  with  rich  pie  crust,  and   bake  in  a  quick 


Fish  loy 

oven.  Have  ready  a  stew  made  of  either  canned,  or  fresh 
oysters,  quite  thick,  and  well  seasoned.  Remove  the  crusts 
from  the  pans,  fill  with  the  oysters,  and  serve  hot.  These 
with  baked  potatoes  aie  good  for  luncheon. 

One  pint  of  oysters  makes  one  dozen  patties. 

OYSTER  SHORT  CAKE 

Mrs.  Susie  G.  Hill. 

One  and  a  half  cups  flour;  i  tablespoon  lard;  ^4  teaspoon 
Cleveland's  baking  powder;  a  pinch  of  salt;  sweet  milk;  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg. 

Mix  baking  powder,  salt  and  lard  in  the  dry  flour;  add 
just  enough  milk  to  make  a  dough  that  will  roll  out.  Spread 
on  butter,  roll  it  again,  and  repeat  until  all  the  butter  is  used. 
Bake  in  two  layers  in  a  quick  oven. 

Filling — I  quart  of  oysters;  i  tablespoon  butter;  ^i  cup  of 
sweet  milk;  3  crackers,  salt,  pepper. 

Season  the  oysters  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Stew 
them  a  few  minutes,  add  the  milk,  and  when  it  comes  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  the  cracker,  finely  rolled.  Place  between 
and  on  top  of  the  cake. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

Miss  Ruth  Childs. 

Three  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup;  6  tablespoons  oyster 
liquor;  2  teaspoons  Worcester.shire  sauce;  2  teaspoons  pepper 
sauce;  3  lemons,  juice  only;  a  little  salt;  175  California  oysters. 
Mix  and  serve. 

OYSTERS  IN  ICE 

Mrs.  Hugh  W.   Vail. 

Take  a  block  of  ice  one-and-a-half  feet  long  by  one  foot 
wide.  Melt  the  center  with  a  plate  full  of  hot  water.  Place 
several  oysters  in  the  hollow,  and  slices  of  lemon  around  the 
top.  Set  the  ice  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  watercress,  or 
parslej\ 


io8  How    We  Cook  i7i  Los  At^gelcs 

DEVILED  LOBSTER 

Mrs.  Chas.  Howland. 

One  can  lobster;  2  tablespoons  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter;  i 
teaspoon  mixed  mustard;  i  pint  milk;  i  onion;  crumbs,  cay- 
enne pepper  and  salt. 

Beat  flour,  butter,  and  seasoning  together.  Stir  in  the 
boiling  milk.  Add  the  chopped  lobster,  cook  two  minutes, 
then  pour  into  a  baking  dish.  Cover  with  crumbs  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

STEWED  LOBSTER 

Mrs.  J.  H.   Norton. 

Two  lobsters  freshly  boiled;  V3  pint  sweet  cream;  3  eggs; 
I  ounce  melted  butter;  salt,  pepper — cayenne. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  lobsters,  cut  in  dice,  about  half  an 
inch  in  size;  put  into  a  sauce  pan  with  the  butter,  and  other 
seasoning.  Cook  five  minutes.  Add  the  cream,  into  which 
the  eggs  have  been  beaten.  Let  it  come  almost  to  the  boiling 
point,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve,  on  slices  of  toast  if  pre- 
ferred.    To  be  eaten  hot. 

LOBSTER  a  la  NEWBERQ 

Mrs.  C.  E.   Thorn. 

Four  pounds  lobster;  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  (yolks);  }{  pound 
butter;  Vs  cup  cream;  i  large  tablespoon  flour;  salt,  pepper  to 
taste. 

Remove  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  mash  fine,  with  2  table- 
spoons of  the  cream.  Rub  the  butter  smooth  with  the  flour, 
and  put  in  a  farina  boiler.  When  the  butter  is  melted  add  the 
cream,  and  stir  until  scalding  hot.  Add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and 
the  lobster.  Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper;  stir  gently  until 
thoroughly  heated. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER 

Mrs.  S.   C.    Hubbell. 

One  pint  lobster;  i  cup  milk;  i  cup  cream;  2  tablespoons 
flour;  salt,  cayenne  pepper. 

Cut  the  lobster  in  small  pieces.       Thicken   the  milk    and 


Fish  log 

cream,  with  the  flour;  season  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  up  once, 
and  add  the  lobster,  which  should  be  thoroughly  heated;  when 
ready  to  serve. 

CRAB  FOR  LUNCHEON 

Mrs.   Charles  Forinan. 

Six  spoons  of  minced  crab;  2  spoons  cracker  crumbs;  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine;  ^^  lemon;  nutmeg,  cayenne  pepper, 
salt. 

Mix  the  crab,  cracker  and  eggs.  Add  the  juice  of  the  half 
lemon,  a  dust  of  nitmeg,  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 

One  spoon  butter;  i  spoon  flour;  i  spoon  onion,  finely 
minced;  i  pint  stock  or  water;  2  sprigs  parsley. 

Warm  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan.  Sprinkle  in  the  onion 
and  parsley.  Cook  thoroughly  without  browning,  then  add 
the  flour,  stirring  constantly  until  cooked;  then  the  boiling 
stock  or  water  Beat  thoroughly  to  prevent  lumping.  Mix 
with  the  prepared  crab,  place  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Serve  on  a  platter  surrounded  by  noodles 
prepared  as  follows: 

Two  eggs;  2  spoons  of  cold  water;  flour. 

Make  eggs,  flour,  and  water  into  astififdough,  kneading  it 
twenty  minutes  at  least;  roll  it  out  very  thin;  sprinkle  lightly 
with  flour,  and  fold  over  closely  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  into  fine 
strips,  separate  lightly,  and  let  them  dry  on  the  pastry  board 
for  an  hour  or  more.  Put  these,  an  handful  at  a  time  into 
boiling  salted  water.  Skim  out  when  done.  Keep  them  warm 
until  enough  are  cooked.  Heat  a  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  pan, 
add  a  spoonful  of  cracker  crumbs;  brown  lightly  and  mix  it 
thoroughly  through  the  noodles.  Surround  the  crab,  placing 
all  in  the  oven  for  a  moment,  Ihat  it  may  be  evenly  heated. 

DEVILED  CRAB 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Glas-seH. 

12  crabs;  i  onion;  i  dozen  mushrooms;  i  teacup  cracker 
crumbs;  i  teacup  cream;  i  egg;  i  lemon;  butter;  pepper; 
cayenne. 

Boil   the  crabs  half  an  hour,  then  pick  out  flesh  and  fat, 


How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


discarding  the  dtradman's  fingers.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  a 
lump  of  butler — size  of  an  ^%Z.  Chop  one  onion  fine  and  fry 
until  brown.  Add  the  prepared  crab  meat,  and  the  mush- 
rooms. Moisten  the  cracker  crumbs  with  the  cream  and  the 
^Z%  yo^^"  add  lemon  juice.  Salt  to  taste,  and  a  thick 
sprinkle  of  caj'enne.  Stuff  the  crab  shells,  cover  with  crumbs, 
putting  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Bake  twenty- 
minutes. 

N.  B.— Two  California  crabs  equal  a  dozen  Eastern  crabs. 

CRAB  a  la  CREOLE 

Mrs.  Hugh  W.  Vail. 

I  crab;  2  green  peppers;  butter,  size  of  a  walnut;  i  onion; 
I  tomato,  (large);  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  cream;  pepper; 
salt;  toasted  bread. 

Chop  the  pepper  and  onion  very  fine.  Add  the  butter  and 
tomato,  (skinned),  and  simmer  them  for  ten  minutes  in  a 
saucepan,  rubbed  with  onion  before  using.  Add  pepper 
and  salt.  Mix  the  flour  with  enough  cream  to  look  like 
drawn  butter;  add  the  tomato  sauce  to  this.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  then  add  the  picked  crab,  and  serve  immediately  on 
slices  of  toast. 

CRAB    EN   COQUILLE 

X.  Y.  Z. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shells,  mince  and  mix  it  with  a 
cream  sauce.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  mixt- 
ure in  the  crab  shell,  as  in  a  scallop  shell;  cover  with  but- 
tered cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown. 

TERRAPIN 

Four  terrapins;  8  ounces  butter;  4  tumblers  cooking 
sherry;  4  eggs —yolks  only;  flour;  salt;  cayenne;  black 
pepper. 

Wash  the  live  terrapins  in  several  waters,  until  perfectly 
clean;  throw  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  allowing  to 
each  one  teaspoon  of  salt.     Cook  until  so  tender  that  the  legs 


Fish 


can  be  easily  pulled  oflF.  Take  them  out.  Remove  tlie  top 
shells,  the  sand  bag,  and  the  gall,  (very  carefully).  Cut  the 
remainder  into  small  pieces — rejecting  nothing  but  the  intes- 
tines and  skinny  portions.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  the 
sherry,  and  the  butter,  cut  in  pieces  and  rolled  in  flour. 
Season  with  cayenne,  black  pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  and  just  before  serving,  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks. 
This  is  sufficient  for  eight  or  ten  persons. 

DEVILED  SHRIMPS 

Mrs.  Willard  H.  Stiinson. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter;  i  tablespoon  of  flour;  yi  pint 
cream;  2  yolks;  2  tablespoons  catsup;  )4  teaspoon  mustard; 
pepper;  cracker  crumbs. 

Mix  flour  and  butter  in  a  saucepan — without  burning; 
add  the  cream,  stirring  constantly  until  thoroughly  cooked 
and  smooth.  Pepper  to  taste,  and  stir  in  the  yolks,  slightly 
beaten.  When  cold,  add  the  mustard  moistened  with  the 
catsup.  Mix  the  shrimps  with  the  dressing.  Fill  the  shells. 
Dust  with  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown. 

TIHBALE  OF  SHRIHP 

Mrs.  Ezra  T    Stimsoii 

To  each  pint  of  shrimps  allow  one  tablespoon  of  butter; 
2  tablespoons  of  flour;  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley;  i 
teaspoon  of  salt;  i  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  a  dash  of  cayenne; 
2  cups  of  cream  or  milk;   3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth;  add 
the  cream  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  thickens; 
add  the  eggs,  after  having  passed  them  through  a  sieve;  then 
the  shrimps  chopped  fine,  or  rather  small  pieces;  then  the 
seasoning.  Fill  timbale  cases;  cover  top  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bits  of  butter  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 

FRIED  FROGS  LEGS 

Mrs.  Lincoln. 

Remove   the  skin  from  the  hind  legs — which  is  the  only 


TI2  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Afigeles 

part  used.  Dip  in  crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper; 
then  in  egg,  and  again  in  crumbs.  Wipe  the  bone  at  the  end; 
put  in  a  basket,  and  fry  one  minute  in  smoking -hot  fat. 
Drain  and  serve.  Some  parboil  them  in  boiling  salted  water 
and  a  little  lemon  juice  before  frying. 


ENTREES 


SWEETBREAD    PATTIES 

Mrs.  I.   N.  Van  Nuys. 

Four  sweetbreads;  ^  pint  mushrooms;  Y^,  lemon;  2  table- 
spoons of  butter;  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  ^  pint  of  cream;  i 
teaspoon  of  salt;  a  pinch  of  pepper;  a  grating  of  nutmeg. 

Squeeze  the  lemon  juice  over  the  sweetbreads  and  dice 
them.  Melt  the  butter  with  the  flour  in  a  porcelain  sauce- 
pan, stirring  carefully,  without  browning.  Add  cream,  salt, 
pepper  and  nutmeg;  then  the  mushrooms  and  sweetbreads. 
Fill  pattie  cases — procured  at  the  confectioners.  Garnish  the 
dish  with  parsley. 

BRAIN  PATTIES 

Mrs.  J.  H.   Norton. 

Two  sets  of  brains;  y^  bottle  of  mushrooms;  French  peas; 
drawn-butter  sauce;  pepper;  salt;  nutmeg. 

Boil,  clean,  and  chop  the  brains  very  fine.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  the  drawn-butter  sauce — quite 
rich  and  thick.  Stir  the  brains  into  the  sauce,  that  they  may 
get  heated  thoroughly.  Chop  the  mushrooms  fine  and  add 
to  the  sauce.  Fill  the  pastry  shells  wnth  the  mixture,  plac- 
ing on  the  top  of  each  pattie  French  peas  that  have  been 
heated,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Grate  a  little 
nutmeg  on  the  patties  before  putting  on  the  peas. 

Delicious  as  an  entree. 

CHICKEN    PATTIES 

Every-Day  Cook  Book. 

Cooked  chicken;  yi  pint  of  milk;  i  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch;   i  teaspoon  of  butter;  salt;  pepper;  puff  paste. 

Mince  the  chicken;  season  well;  stir  into  it  a  sauce  made 
of  the  milk,  thickened  with  corn  starch,  seasoned  with  butter, 


114-  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

salt  and  pepper.  lyine  small  pattie  tins  with  rich  pufF  paste. 
Bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  Fill  with  chicken.  Return  to  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown  slightly. 

IMITATION  PATTIE  DE  FOIE  QRAS 

Marion  Harland. 

lyivers  of  4  or  5  fowls  and  as  many  gizzards;  3  tablespoons 
melted  butter;  i  chopped  onion;  i  tablespoon  Worcestershire, 
or  other  pungent  sauce;  salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste;  a  few 
truffles — if  you  can  get  them. 

Boil  the  livers  until  quite  done;  drain  and  wipe  dry,  and, 
when  cold,  rub  them  to  a  paste  in  a  Wedgewood  mortar. 
lyCt  the  butter  and  onion  simmer  together  very  slowly  at  the 
side  of  the  range  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  them  through  thin 
muslin,  pressing  the  bag  hard  to  extract  the  full  flavor  of  the 
onion,  and  work  this  well  into  the  pounded  liver.  Turn  into 
a  larger  vessel,  and  mix  with  it  the  rest  of  the  seasoning, 
working  all  together  for  a  long  while.  Butter  a  small  china 
or  earthenware  jar  or  cup,  and  press  the  mixture  hard  down 
within  it,  interspersing  it  with  square  bits  of  the  boiled  giz- 
zards, to  represent  truffles.  Of  course,  the  latter  are  pref- 
erable; but,  being  scarce  and  expensive,  they  are  not  alwaj^s 
to  be  had.  If  you  have  them,  boil  them  and  let  them  get 
cold  before  putting  them  into  the  pattie.  Cover  all  with 
melted  butter,  and  set  all  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

This  pattie  is  a  delicious  relish,  and  is  more  easily  attain- 
able than  would  at  first  appear.  The  livers  of  a  turkey  and 
a  pair  of  chickens  or  ducks  will  make  a  small  one,  and  these 
can  be  saved  from  one  poultry  day  to  another,  by  boiling 
them  in  salt  water,  and  keeping  in  a  cool  place.  Or,  one  can 
often  secure  any  number  of  giblets,  by  previous  application  at 
the  kitchen  of  a  restaurant  or  a  hotel. 

MUSHROOn  PATTIES 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Lewis. 

One  tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon  flour;  i  can  mush- 
rooms; salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  together  the  butter  and  flour,    stir  in  graduall}^  the 


Entrees  ii^ 

liquor  from  the  mushrooms  that  has  been  heated  to  boiling, 
then  add  the  mushrooms  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  pattie  shells  with  the  creamed  mushrooms  and  brow^n  in 
oven.     Serve  hot. 

CREAMED   SWEETBREADS 

Mrs.  H.  J.    Fleishman. 

Half  pound  calves'  sweetbieads;  2  tablespoons  flour;  2  table- 
spoons butter;  2  tablespoons  tomato  pulp,  thick;  i  tablespoon 
chopped  mushrooms;  i  teaspoon  sugar;  cream,  pepper,  salt  to 
taste;  boiling  milk. 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  in  salt  water.  Mix  flour  and  butter. 
Add  sufiicient  milk  and  cream  to  make  a  thick  sauce.  Add 
tomato,  mushrooms,  sugar,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Brains  maybe  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

THE  QUEEN'S  SWEETBREADS 

Mrs.   W.  J.  Elderkiu. 

After  carefully  preparing  your  sweetbreads,  parboil  them, 
then  cut  in  slices  about  one  inch  in  thickness.  Dip  quickly 
into  melted  butter,  then  cover  with  finely  grated  cheese.  Dip 
these  into  the  yolks  of  well  beaten  eggs,  then  in  finely  prepared 
bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  very  hot  lard,  a  golden  brown.  Serve 
very  hot  with  tomato  sauce  and  finely  chipped  celery. 

VEAL  OR  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  C.  C.  McLean. 

One  pint  minced  veal  or  chicken;  ^  pint  milk;  i  table- 
spoon butter;  2  tablespoons  flour;  i  tablespoon  chopped  pars- 
ley; pepper,  salt. 

Mix  the  butter  and  flour,  stir  it  into  the  milk,  cook  until 
it  thickens.  Add  the  meat,  pepper,  salt  and  parsle3^  When 
cold  shape  in  molds  and  fry  in  deep  lard  or  butter. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  Charles  Carpenter. 

One  large  chicken;  i  set  of  calves'  brains,  or  sweetbreads ;^ 
I  pint  cream;  %  pound  butter;  4  yolks  of  eggs;  juice  of  half  a 
lemon;  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  mace,  flour,  bread  crumbs. 


JIT 6  How    We  Cook  in  Los  A7igeles 

Free  the  chicken  meat  from  the  bones;  mince  it  fine,  add 
■the  parboiled  brains,  or  sweetbreads,  rub  all  to  a  smooth 
.paste.  Add  the  cream,  butter,  and  seasoning.  Put  over  the 
fire  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle.  When  it  boils,  add  an  hand- 
ful of  flour.  When  it  becomes  a  stiff  paste  stir  in  the  yolks 
and  juice  of  the  half  lemon.  Boil  up  once.  lyCt  the  paste 
cool  over  night,  closely  covered.  Roll  out  in  a  cool  place,  in 
small  bolsters.  Dip  in  powdered  bread  crumbs,  then  in  ^z%> 
then  in  crumbs  again.     Fry  in  new  lard,  very  deep. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hubbell. 

Half  pound  chicken,  chopped  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, cayenne,  celery  salt;  lemon  juice;  onion  juice;  chopped 
parsley;  cream  sauce  to  make  quite  soft. 

Keep  on  ice  until  hard,  then  roll,  dip  in  crumbs,  beaten 
^%%^  and  again  in  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  thin 
cream  sauce  and  green  peas. 

Cream  sauce — Two  tablespoons  melted  butter;  2  table- 
spoons corn  starch,  heaping;  i  pint  hot  milk;  salt,  pepper, 
celery  salt,  cayenne. 

Mix  butter,  and  corn  starch.  Add  the  milk  slowly,  beat- 
ing well,  and  season. 

TIMBALE  OF  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  T.  A.    Lewis. 

Half  pound  cooked  chicken;  i  gill  cream;  whites  of  five 
•eggs;  I  teaspoon  salt;  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

Chop  the  chicken  very  fine,  then  pound  it  to  a  paste,  adding 
gradually  the  cream.  Then  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beat 
each  one  well  into  the  mixture  before  adding  another.  Add 
the    salt     and     cayenne    pepper.  Stir    in    carefully    the 

whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  your  timbale 
cups  well  buttered;  fill  half  full  with  the  mixture,  stand  them 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes.     Serve  hot  with  cream  mushroom  sauce. 


Entrees  iij 

TONGUE  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Norton. 

One  tongue,  good  size;  2  eggs,  beaten;  small  quantity  pota- 
toes, cooked;  melted  butter;  Worcestershire  sauce,  celery  salt, 
salt,  pepper. 

Boil  the  tongue  very  tender,  chop  very  fine.  Add  the 
potatoes  chopped,  the  eggs  and  a  small  quantity  of  melted 
butter;  season.  Make  into  any  shape  desired.  Roll  in  beaten 
Q^g,  then  in  cracker  dust,  fry  in  hot  laid  to  a  light  brown. 
Garnish  with  green  and  serve. 

SHAD  ROE  CROQUETTES 

Miss  Parloa. 

One  pint  cream;  4  tablespoons  corn  starch;  4  shad  roe;  4 
tablespoons  butter;  i  teaspoon  salt;  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  a 
slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  a  speck  of  cayenne. 

Boil  the  roe  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water,  then  drain,  and 
mash.  Put  the  cream  on  to  boil.  Mix  the  butter  and  corn- 
starch together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  cream.  Add  the 
seasoning  and  roe.  Boil  up  once,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Shape^ 
and  fry. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES 

One  can  oysters;  i  set  brains;  i  egg;  breadcrumbs,  parsley, 
butter,  salt,  cracker  crumbs,  cayenne  pepper. 

Dry  the  oysters,  chop  them  fine;  add  the  brains  and  enough 
breadcrumbs  to  mold;  add  the  beaten  egg,  a  little  butter, 
the  parsley  chopped,  cayenne  and  salt.  Make  in  shapes, 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  Alice  Curtain. 

Four  or  five  potatoes;  butter  and  cream;  i  egg;  cracker 
crumbs;  oil  or  lard;  salt. 

Boil  and  mash  thoroughly  the  potatoes,  season  to  taste 
with  butter,  salt,  and  cream.  Beat  to  a  cream,  then  add  the 
well-beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Make  into  rolls,  dip  into  the 
beaten  yolk  of  the  egg,  then  into  cracker  crumbs.  Put  into  a. 
wire  basket  and  fry  in  deep  hot  lard  until  brown. 


ir8  Hocv    We  Cook  in   Los  Ang-e/es 


RICE  CROQUETTES 

Miss  Pailoa. 

One  large  cup  of  cooked  rice;  J4  cup  milk;  i  egg;  i  table- 
spoon sugar;  i  tablespoon  butter;  }4  teaspoon  salt;  a  slight 
grating  of  nutmeg. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  add  rice  and  seasoning.  When  it 
boils  up  add  the  egg,  well-beaten.  Stir  one  minute,  then  take 
oflF  and  cool.  When  cold,  shape,  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs.  Serve 
very  hot.     Any  flavoring  can  be  substituted  for  the  nutmeg. 

CHEESE  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Hicks. 

Ten  ounces  Roquefort  cheese;  5  ounces  butter;  sweet 
cream;  cayenne  pepper. 

Mix  the  cheese  and  butter,  (which  should  not  be  highly 
salted),  with  enough  cream  to  give  the  mixture  the  consist- 
ency of  paste;  use  the  cayenne  with  discretion.  vShape  like 
small  croquettes,  and  serve  with  water  crackers  and  coffee. 

LAHB  CHOPS  WITH   NOODLES 

Mrs.  J.  W.  McKinley. 

To  make  the  noodles;  break  a  large  egg  into  a  bowl,  and 
beat  into  it  a  little  more  than  half  a  cup  of  flour  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Now  work  this  dough  with  the  hands  until 
it  becomes  smooth  and  like  putty.  Sprinkle  a  moulding  board 
with  flour  and  roll  the  dough  as  thin  as  possible.  It  should  be 
like  a  wafer,  then  roll  it  up,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  it  into 
very  thin  slices.  Shake  out  these  little  slices  on  the  board, 
and  let  them  dry  for  half  an  hour  or  more.  Put  on  the  stove 
a  large  saucepan  containing  two  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Add 
a  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  after  turning  the  noodles  into  the 
•water,  cook  them  rapidly  for  twenty-five  minutes,  then  drain 
off  all  the  water.  Have  the  chops  cut  from  the  ribs.  Trim 
them,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  for  eight  min- 
utes over  clear  coals.  Heap  the  noodles  in  the  center  of  a 
warm  dish.  Arrange  the  chops  around  them.  Over  the 
noodles  sprinkle  fried  bread  crumbs. 


Entrees  //p 

How  to  ixy  crumbs — To  prepare  them,  drj'  pieces  of  bread, 
until  thej'  will  crumble  between  the  fingers.  Place  the  bread 
on  a  board  and  crush  lightl}^  with  a  rolling  pin.  Most  of  the 
crumbs  should  be  so  coarse  that  they  will  not  pass  through  a 
flour  sieve.  Place  a  frying  pan  containing  two  level  table- 
spoons of  butter  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  butter  becomes  hot 
add  the  crumbs.  Stir  constantly  until  the  crumbs  are  brown 
and  crisp. 

ROULETTE  OF  VEAL 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Jones. 

Small,  thin  veal  steaks;  bacon;  parslej-;  onion. 

Spread  the  steaks  with  the  finely  minced  parsley,  and 
onion;  roll,  and  fasten  them  with  tooth  picks.  I^et  them  stand 
two  or  three  hours.  Brown  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  hot  sauce 
pan.  Add  a  little  water.  Put  in  the  veal,  cook  it  very  slowly 
one  hour,  adding  a  little  water  if  required.  Take  out  the  veal 
when  done,  and  make  the  gravy,  by  creaming  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  with  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  pouring  into  it,  little  by 
little,  some  of  the  hot  gfavy  in  which  the  veal  was  cooked, 
then  pouring  this  slowly  into  cream,  when  it  is  ready  to 
serve. 

BEEF  ROLL 

Mrs.  Mary  E.  Flauders. 

Two  pounds  round  steak,  chopped  fine;  2  well-beaten  eggs; 
3  rolled  soda  crackers;  ^  cup  butter;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  little  sage;  put  in  a  square  bread  tin  and  bake, 
basting  often. 

HEAT  PIE 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Peck. 

Cold  meat;  salt;  biscuit  dough;  water;  tablespoon  butter. 

Remove  the  bone  and  gristle  from  cold  roast  beef,  steak,  or 
any  other  meat.  Chop  it  fine.  Turn  into  a  pan.  cover  with 
water,  add  butter  and  stew  it  a  few  minutes.  Season  to  taste. 
Line  a  deep  baking  pan  with  a  good  biscuit  dough.  Pour  in 
the  meat,  put  on  top  crust,  and  bake. 


I20  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

VEAL  LOAF 

Mrs.  Lou  Ward. 

Six  pigs  feet;  8  pounds  veal;  salt,  pepper. 

Boil  separately,  until  the  meat  can  be  picked  in  pieces.  Use 
sufficient  water  to  give  a  quart  of  liquid  from  each.  Then 
boil  all  together  in  one  kettle  until  thick  enough  to  press. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  in  the  last  boiling.  Press  over 
night. 

BEEF  LOAF 

Mrs.  B.  M.  Ross. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  lean  steak,  chopped  fine;  2  eggs;  i 
cup  rolled  crackers;  i  small  teaspoon  pepper;  i  teaspoon  salt; 
butter. 

Mix  all  together  and  mold  into  a  loaf.  Spread  bits  of  but- 
ter on  top  and  bake  carefully.  Cut  into  thin  slices  when  cold. 
Nice  for  school  lunches  or  picnics. 

MEAT  LOAF 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Clark. 

3  pounds  raw  beef,  chopped  at  the  market;  3  eggs;  3  large 
crackers,  rolled  fine;  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  \}^  tea- 
spoons of  salt;  a  shake  of  pepper;  a  little  clove  and  nutmeg. 
Bake  two  hours  and  a  quarter  in  a  moderate  oven. 

HAHBURQ  LOAF 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Williams. 

3  pounds  chopped  beef;  i  cup  milk;  6  soda  crackers;  2 
eggs;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  the  beef,  milk,  soda  crackers — rolled  fine,  the  well- 
beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  into  a  large  bowl,  and  mix 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  well-buttered  bread  pan  one  hour, 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

RAGOUT  OF  LIVER 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Ellis. 

Put  a  little  lard  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  hot,  throw  in 
half  an    onion    minced    fine,  one   or   two   sprigs   of  parsley, 


Entrees  121 

chopped,  and  slices  of  calf's  liver.  Turn  the  liver  several 
times,  allowing  it  to  cook  well,  and  imbibe  the  flavor  of  the 
onion  and  parsley.  When  cooked,  place  it  by  the  side  of  the 
fire.  In  another  saucepan  make  a  sauce  as  follows:  Put  in 
a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  large  hickory  nut,  when  it 
bubbles,  sprinkle  in  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour,  stir  it  until 
it  assumes  a  fine  brown  color,  then  pour  in  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  it  well  with  the  ^g%  whisk;  add  salt, 
pepper,  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of 
capers.  Drain  out  the  slices  of  liver,  put  in  the  sauce,  and 
keep  hot  till  ready  to  serve. 

CALF'S  LIVER  EN  BROCHETTE 

Cut  thin  slices  of  liver,  and  of  bacon,  into  pieces  three 
inches  square.  Put  alternate  slices  of  liver  and  bacon  on 
skewers,  and  broil  over  coals  until  done  and  brown.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Kidneys  are  delicious,  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

KIDNEY  STEW 

Miss  Delia  Clemons. 

Two  beef  kidneys;  i  onion;  4  cloves;  ^  pod  of  red 
pepper;  salt. 

Put  all  together,  in  sufiicient  water  to  cover;  boil  once; 
skim;  then  let  simmer  three  hours,  until  tender.  Next 
morning,  cut  them  open;  remove  all  fat,  and  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  skillet;  sift  in 
a  little  flour;  brown;  then  turn  in  the  kidneys  and  gravy. 
Stir  until  it  thickens  a  little.     Serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Mrs.  TM.   Pickering. 

One  chicken;  i  tablespoon  of  snlt;  i  tablespoon  of  butter; 
I  tablespoon  of  flour;  water. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces ;  boil  until  tender,  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  it,  adding  the  salt  when  half  done. 
Take  out  the  chicken,  thicken  the  liquid  with  the  flour  and 
butter  rubbed  together.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  boil 
five  minutes. 


How    We  Cook  i?i  Los  Angeles 


Crust — One  quart  of  flour;  i  cup  of  butter;  2  teaspoons 
of  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  make  into  dough,  adding  a 
little  salt.  Roll  one-half  of  this  one  quarter  of  an  inch  in 
thickness.  I^ine  a  deep  dish,  allowing  an  inch  to  turn  over 
the  top  crust;  put  in  the  chicken  and  gravy.  Cover.  Wet 
the  edge  and  fold  over  the  under  crust;  press  them  firmly 
together.  Cut  a  hole  in  the  center.  Spread  soft  butter 
over  the  top.  Make  an  ornament  to  fit  the  center  and  bake 
until  done. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  CHICKEN  PIE 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Ross. 

Spring  chicken;  sliced  bacon;  i  teacup  bread  crumbs; 
I  pint  of  rich  cream;  i  tablespoon  butter;  yolks  of  three 
hard-boiled  eggs;  salt  and  pepper. 

Make  a  rich  pastry,  line  a  deep  tin  pan  with  it,  put  in 
chicken  with  other  ingredients,  cover  with  a  top  crust  and 
bake  slowly  one  hour. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Katheriiie  Duncan  Lewis. 

Pastry — one  pint  of  flour;  i  coffeecup  of  butter  and  lard, 
mixed;   Y-z  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Chop  well  in  wooden  chopping  bowl,  then  mix  into  a 
stiff"  dough,  with  ice  water,  (never  touch  with  the  hands,  and 
have  the  butter  frozen),  roll  out,  fold  up  and  put  on  ice  for 
half  an  hour. 

One  chicken;  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  2  tablespoons  of 
flour;  one  cup  of  oysters;  salt;  pepper;  celery  seed;  i  pint 
chicken  broth. 

The  chicken  should  be  boiled,  cut  in  pieces,  and  laid  in 
the  baking  dish,  with  the  gravy — made  of  the  butter  and 
flour  cooked  together,  to  which  is  added  the  pint  of  hot 
liquor  in  which  the  chicken  has  been  boiled.  Add  salt, 
pepper,  celery  seed,  and  oysters.  Cover  with  the  pastry. 
Bake  thirty  or  forty  minutes.     No  bottom  or  side  crust. 


E71  trees  r2j 

CHICKEN   a  la  MERINQO 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Walton. 

Two  chickens;  salt  pork;  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  2  table- 
spoons of  onions;  4  tablespoons  of  flour;  i  quart  white  stock 
or  water;  i  cup  of  strained  tomato;  i  cup  of  mushrooms; 
olives. 

Singe  and  cut  up  the  chickens.  Roll  the  pieces  in  flour 
and  fry  them  brown  in  pork  fat.  Brown  the  onions  in  the 
butter,  add  flour  and  stock,  simmer  five  minutes;  season; 
add  the  tomato,  pour  over  the  chicken.  Cook  twenty  min- 
utes.    Add  mushrooms  and  olives. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Whorton. 

One  chicken;  2  tablespoons  gelatine;  hard-boiled  eggs; 
salt;  pepper. 

Boil  the  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones,  chop  fine;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  in  a  mold  a  layer  of  chicken,  then  a  layer  of 
sliced  eggs;  alternate  these  until  the  mold  is  nearly  full; 
Boil  down  to  one  half  the  liquor  which  is  left  in  the  pot. 
While  warm,  add  the  gelatine;  w^hen  dissolved,  pour  over  the 
chicken.     Set  in  a  cool  place  to  jelly. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  J.  W.   Gillette. 

Two  chickens;  i  cup  of  butter;  i  tablespoon  of  salt;  i 
teaspoon  of  pepper;  i  beaten  o^gg;  a  little  parsley;  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

Boil  the  chickens  until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones. 
Chop  the  meat.  Boil  the  liquor  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  cup- 
ful. Add  to  this  the  butter,  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  beaten 
egg.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  chicken.  Lay  slices  of 
boiled  egg  in  a  dish,  press  in  the  chicken.  Serve,  garnished 
with  celerj^  tops. 


12^  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Avgeles 

CREOLE  FRICASSEE 

Mrs.  E.  M.   Ross. 

Cut  chicken,  or  any  other  fowl,  into  pieces,  and  allow  it 
to  lie  in  cold  salted  water  for  30  minutes,  take  out  and  dry 
with  a  towel.  Rub  each  piece  with  a  little  black  and  red 
pepper  and  dredge  them  lightly  with  flour.  Have  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  ham  fat  boiling  hot  in  the  saucepan,  brown  the 
chicken  in  this.  When  well-browned  on  both  sides,  put  in  a 
few  rings  of  onions,  and  when  these  are  pale  brown,  add  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  hot  water — celery,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
cover  closely  and  cook  gently  until  the  chicken  is  tender. 
The  Creoles  color  this  gravy  very  often  with  Chili  pepper, 
which  gives  it  a  fine  red  color. 

5ALni  OF  DUCK 

Juliet  Corson. 

Dress  and  cut  the  duck  in  small  joints  before  cooking. 
Roast  it  brown  in  its  own  fat.  Dust  with  dry  flour,  which  is 
also  browned.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  and  stew  slowly 
until  tender.  iV  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a 
cupful  of  olives  are  to  be  added  at  any  time. 

SALMI  OF  DUCK 

Mrs.  Carl  Schutze. 

At  elegant  dinners,  when  duck  is  served,  only  the  breast  is 
used.  The  portions  that  remain  can  be  prepared  for  luncheons 
as  follows: 

Cut  the  joints  neatly,  remove  every  bit  of  meat  from  the 
bones,  crack  and  put  them  in  a  stew  pan,  with  the  bits  of  skin, 
add  I  tomato,  sliced;  i  onion,  sliced;  i  carrot,  sliced;  a  few 
bits  of  celery,  salt,  pepper  and  a  very  little  Spanish  pepper. 
Cover  with  water  and  stew  slowly  two  hours,  (a  longer  time 
will  do  no  harm).  In  another  saucepan  brown  sufficient 
flour  and  butter  for  sauce  for  the  meat.  Strain  the  liquid  from 
the  stew,  pour  it  boiling  on  the  flour  and  butter.  Rub  the 
vegetables  through  a  sieve  and  add  them,  and  then  put  in  the 


Entrees  12^ 

•duck  meat,  let  it  get  very  hot,  then  serve.  On  no  account  let 
it  boil.  Spanish  pepper  should  be  used  cautiously,  as  a  little 
goes  a  good  way. 

BRAINS 

Miss  M.  E.  McLellan. 

Brains;  vinegar;  laurel  leaves;  onions;  beefsteak;  cloves; 
flour;   butter;   pepper;  salt. 

Scald  and  skin  the  brains,  cover  vi^ith  vinegar;  add  a  few 
laurel  leaves,  two  or  three  cloves  and  a  little  onion.  Let  them 
stand  several  hours.  When  ready  to  cook,  pour  oflF  the  vine- 
gar and  stew  them  in  water  about  twenty  minutes.  Make  a 
gravy  of  beef  stock,  a  little  flour  and  butter.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  vinegar.  Put  the  brains  in  the  gravy 
and  cook  them  a  few  minutes.     Serve. 

BRAIN  FRITTERS 

Mrs.  A.  C.   Doau. 

One  pair  beef  brains;  put  in  cold  salt  water  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  to  remove  the  blood.  Wash  them,  boil  in  salted 
water  for  fifteen  minutes.  When  cold,  cut  in  slices  about  half 
an  inch  thick.     Dip  in  batter  made  as  follows: 

One  ^%%,  well  beaten;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  i  cup  flour;  and  a 
little  salt;  fry  in  very  hot  lard  until  brown.     Serve  hot. 

CREAM  FRITTERS 

Mrs.  R.  I^.  McKuight. 

Six  macaroons;  6  eggs;  y^  pint  cream;  2  ounces  sugar;  ^ 
lemon. 

Pound  the  macaroons  in  a  mortar,  mix  them  with  the 
sugar,  and  grated  rind  of  the  half  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  soft; 
and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add.  Add  the 
cream;  mix  well.  Fry  the  fritters  a  light  brown  on  both 
sides.       Sift  sugar  over  them  and  serve  immediate!}'. 

GREEN  CORN  FRITTERS 

Mrs.  W.  W.    Lord. 

One  quart  corn;  i  teacup  flour;  2  eggs;  butter,  milk. 
Use  sufiicient  milk  to  make  a  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  butter, 
■one  tablespoon  to  one  fritter. 


126  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS 

Mrs.   C.  H.  Walton. 

One  pint  lobster  meat,  cut  fine;  i  saltspoon  salt;  i  salt- 
spoon  mustard;  i  cup  thick  cream  sauce;  a  little  cayenne. 

Mix,  and  spread  half  an  inch  thick  on  a  platter.  Cut  in 
the  shape  of  cutlets.  Roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  and  agairt 
in  crumbs.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Drain,  and  serve  with  a 
claw  to  represent  the  bone. 

NUT  SANDWICHES 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Converse. 

Bread,  butter,  English  walnuts;  Swiss  cheese;  salt. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  delicately  buttered  bread  into  fancy 
shapes.  Spread  them  with  walnuts  chopped  very  fine  and 
mixed  with  grated  vSwiss  cheese,  slightly  salted.  Put  two 
together. 

HACARONI   PUDDING 

Mrs.  H.  Z.  Osborne. 

One-third  package  (best  white)  macaroni;  Js  cup  butter;  i 
cup  grated  cheese;  )j  cup  sweet  milk;  i  ^'g%\  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

Break  macaroni  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into  a  sauce 
pan  of  boiling  water.  Boil  for  half  an  hour.  Then  drain  off 
all  of  the  water  and  season  with  the  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  half  of  the  grated  cheese.  Put  this  into  a  buttered  pud- 
dmg-dish,  and  sprinkle  the  remainder  of  the  cheese  over  the 
top,  and  pour  the  milk  and  ^%<g  (thoroughly  beaten  together) 
over  all,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese  and  Tomatoes 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Holcomb. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  cracker  crumbs;  i  cup  macaroni;  cheese, 
tomatoes,  milk,  butter;  salt,  pepper. 

Break  into  half-inch  pieces  enough  macaroni  to  fill  a  cup. 
Put  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  rapidly 
for  one-half  hour.     Put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of   macaroni. 


Entrees  i2j- 

then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  until  a 
sufficient  quantity  is  used.  Pour  over  this  mixture  enough 
milk  to  cover,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Cover  the 
whole  with  cracker  crumbs,  moistened  in  melted  butter.  Bake 
until  the  crumbs  are  a  light  brown. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME 


M.  B.  W. 


In  roasting  or  boilitig  whole  any  fowl,  truss  it. 

To  broil,  split  the  body  down  the  back,  and  lay  it  open. 

Cut  the  joints,  do  not  break  the  bones,  when  preparing  a 
fowl  for  fricassee. 

The  longer  fowl  or  game  can  be  kept  perfectly  sweet, 
before  cooking,  the  more  tender  it  will  be. 

ROAST  TURKEY 

Mrs.  W.  G.  W. 

The  turkey  should  be  carefully  plucked,  singed  with  white 

paper,    neatly  drawn,   washed  inside,    and  thoroughly   dried 

with  a  cloth.     Cut  off  the  neck   close  to  the  back,  leaving 

enough  of  the  skin  to  turn  over  on  the  back.     Cut  off  the 

legs  in  the  joints,  draw  out  the  strings  from  the  thighs,  and 

flatten    the    breast  bone — to  make   it  look   plump.     Fill  the 

breast  and  body  with  the  dressing,    sew  up  carefully,  truss 

firml5\     Dredge  with  flour  and  put  in  the  oven.     Baste  freely, 

first  with  butter  and  water,  then  with  the  gravy  in  the  pan. 

Roast  to  a  golden  brown,   allowing    twenty   minutes   to  the 

pound.     To  prevent  scorching,  lay  a  piece  of  buttered  brown 

paper   over   the    breast.      Serve    with    cranberrj'   sauce    and 

gravy. 

PLAIN  DRESSING  FOR  ROAST  TURKEY 

Mrs.  W.  G.  W. 

One  large  or  two  small  loaves  of  stale  bread;  3/|  pound 
of  butter;  i  teaspoon  of  salt;  2  teaspoons  of  sage;  i  teaspoon 
of  pepper;  Use  only  the  soft  part  of  the  bread,  finely  crumbed, 
and  work  in  the  butter  without  melting. 

CHESTNUT  DRESSING  FOR  ROAST  TURKEY 

Mrs.  W.  G.  W. 

Shell  thirty  large  chestnuts,  boil  them  two  or  three  min- 
utes,   throw    them    into  cold  water,    and  remove   the  brown 


Poultry  and  Game  /2g 


skin.  Cover  again  with  boiling  water  and  cook  them  slowly 
one  hour.  Dr3%  mash  and  mix  them  with  a  plain  bread  and 
butter  dressing,  omitting  the  sage.  Serve  turkey  with  chest- 
nut sauce. 

Oyster  Stuffing  for  Roast  Turkey 

Mrs.  W.  G.  W. 

Make  a  bread  and  butter  dressing,  leaving,  out  the  sage. 
Drain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters.  Put  in  first  a 
spoonful  of  the  dressing,  then  two  or  three  oysters;  until  the 
turkey  is  filled.     Be  careful  not  to  break  the  05'sters. 

TURKEY  DRESSING 

Mrs.  Frank  Phillips. 

One  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  i  tablespoon  of  butter; 
I  pound  of  currants;   i  egg',  a  little  milk. 

Put  the  crumbs  and  butter  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes, 
then  take  out  and  add  the  currants,  (which  have  been  boiled 
and  dried),  the  e:gg  and  milk. 

STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Walton. 

Soft  bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  season  with  thyme,  salt 
and  pepper;  moisten  with  ],4  cup  of  hot  butter,  and  hot  water 
enough  to  make  it  quite  moist.  Mix  in  about  }4.  pound  of 
chopped  English  walnuts. 

ROAST  TURKEY 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Jones. 

When  the  turkey  is  made  ready  to  roast,  fill  the  breast 
and  body  with  a  dressing  made  of  grated  bread  crumbs;  ^2 
cup  melted  butter;  pepper;  salt  and  sage.  One  raw  egg 
added  makes  the  dressing  cvit  smoothly. 

Rub  the  outside  of  the  turkey  well  with  fresh  lard  or  a 
little  butter  and  salt.  Roast  from  two  to  four  hours,  accord- 
ing to  size.     Serve  with  cranberry  sauce. 


rjo  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Anjs^eles 

BONED  ROASTED  TURKEY 

Mrs.   W.  J.  Brown. 

Slit  the  skin  down  the  back,  and  raising  one  side  at  a 
time  with  the  fingers,  separate  the  flesh  from  the  bones  with 
a  knife;  when  the  legs  and  wings  are  reached,  unjoint  them 
from  the  body,  and  cut  through  to  the  bone,  then  turn  back 
the  flesh  and  remove  the  bones.  The  turkey  may  be 
reshaped,  by  stuffing  with  any  dressing  preferred,  sew 
together,  press  the  wings  close  to  the  back,  tie  firmly.  Baste 
often  with  water,  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter.  Roast  until 
thoroughly  done.  Carve  across  in  slices.  Serve  with  cran- 
berry sauce,  or  ]e\\y. 

BOILED   TURKEY 

Practical  Housekeeping. 

Wash  the  turkey  thoroughly,  and  rub  it  with  salt;  fill  with 
a  dressing  of  bread  and  butter,  seasoned  with  sage,  salt  and 
pepper,  mixed  with  a  pint  of  raw  oysters,  (chopped).  Tie  the 
legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body.  Place  in  boiling  salted 
water,  with  the  breast  downward,  skim  often.  Boil  about  two 
hours,  but  not  until  the  .skin  breaks.  Serve  with  oyster 
sauce. 

DEVILED  TURKEY 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Ellis. 

Cut  the  legs  and  thighs  from  a  roasted  turkey.  Score  them 
deeply,  and  rub  in  plenty  of  mustard.  Pour  over  them  the 
gravy  and  juice  of  meat.  Pepper  and  salt  liberally;  put  in 
Worcestershire  sauce,  cayenne  pepper  and  a  dash  of  garlic. 
Let  it  stand  all  night  to  become  thoroughly  impregnated. 
Before  breakfast  put  in  stew  pan  on  fire  and  stew  thoroughly, 
pouring  the  juice  with  plenty  of  butter  in  the  stew  pan. 

HARYLAND  FRIED  CHICKEN 

Juliet  Corson. 

To  prepare  the  chicken;  remove  the  feathers,  singe  it,  wipe 
it  with  a  wet  towel.  Draw  it  without  breaking  the  intestines, 
and  there  will  be  no  need  of  washing  it.        Cut  it  in  joints,  as 


Poultry  and  Game 


for  fricassee;  dip  each  joint  quickly  in  cold  water,  then  at  once 
roll  it  in  ilour,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  covering  it  thor- 
oughly. Melt  lard  in  a  large,  shallow  frying  pan,  covering 
the  bottom  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep.  When  the  fat  begins  to 
smoke,  put  in  the  chicken,  leaving  spaces  between  the  pieces. 
Fry  slowly  until  it  is  a  light  brown,  and  tender.  Allow  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  for  preparing  the  entire  dish. 

FRIED  YOUNG  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Pendleton. 

Flour,  butter,  lard,  salt,  chicken. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces;  salt,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  slowly' 
in  equal  quantities  of  hot  butter  and  lard,  until  of  a  fine 
brown. 

BROILED  CHICKEN 

Practical  Housekeeping. 

Cut  the  chicken  open  on  the  back,  lay  on  the  meat  board,, 
and  pound  until  it  will  be  flat  on  the  gridiron.  Broil  over 
coals  until  of  a  nice  brown.  It  will  cook  much  better  if  cov- 
ered with  a  pie  tin,  pressed  down  with  a  weight,  so  that  all 
parts  of  the  chicken  may  lie  close  to  the  gridiron.  While  the 
chicken  is  broiling,  boil  the  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  in  a  pint 
of  water;  when  tender,  chop  fine,  add  flour,  butter,  pepper, 
salt.  Stir  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  in  the  water  in  which  the3' 
were  boiled.  When  the  chicken  is  cooked,  dip  it  in  the  gravy 
while  hot,  return  it  to  the  gridiron  for  a  minute,  then  put  it 
in  the  gravy,  boil  half  a  minute,  and  serve  hot.  Cook  quail 
in  the  same  way. 

ROAST  GOOSE 

Miss  Parloa. 

Stuff  the  goose  with  a  dressing  made  as  follows: 
Potatoes  boiled,  peeled,  and  mashed  fine  and  light;  i  table- 
spoon salt;  I  teaspoon  pepper;  i  teaspoon  sage;  2  tablespoons  of 
onion  juice;  2  of  butter.        Truss,  and  dredge  well  with  salt, 
pepper  and  flour.       Roast  before  the  fire,  (if  weighing  eight 


1^2  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

pounds),  one  and  one-half  hours;  in  the  oven,  one  and  one 
■quarter  hours.  Make  gravy  as  for  turkey.  No  butter  is 
.required  for  goose,  it  is  so  fat.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

ROAST  DUCK 

Miss  Parloa. 

Ducks  to  be  good  must  be  cooked  rare;  for  this  reason  it  is 
best  not  to  stuff.  If  you  do  stuff  them  use  the  goose  dressing, 
and  have  it  very  hot.  The  better  waj^  is  to  cut  an  onion  in 
two,  and  put  in  the  body  of  the  bird,  then  truss,  and  dredge 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  roast,  if  before  the  fire,  forty 
minutes,  if  in  the  oven,  thirty  minutes.  The  fire  must  be  very 
hot,  and  the  oven  a  very  quick  one.  Serve  with  currant  jelly, 
and  a  sauce,  made  the  same  as  for  turke3\ 

ROASTED  TEAL  DUCK 

Mrs.   Anna  Ogier. 

Pick,  clean,  and  hang  the  ducks  two  days.  Make  a  stufi"- 
ing  of  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  onions,  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter.  Lay  them  in  a  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  pepper  and 
salt.      Baste  frequently. 

HOW  TO  DRESS  A  DUCK  DRY 

Mrs.  Carl  Schutze. 

The  feathers  of  a  duck  can  be  easih'  removed  while  the 
natural  heat  remains  in  it. 

Select  a  heavy  piece  of  board,  longer  and  broader  than  the 
bird.  Drive  two  nails  firmly  in  the  top,  and  to  these  tie  the 
duck  securely,  as  soon  as  slaughtered.  Set  the  board  in  slant- 
ing position  on  the  table.  Scald  wings  and  tail  that  the 
larger  feathers  may  be  removed  easily.  Pick  breast  and  back 
first.  Work  as  rapidly  as  possible,  using  both  hands.  Hold 
the  bird  first  by  the  wings,  then  bj^  the  feet  over  a  quick 
blaze  so  as  to  remove  hairs. 

Place  the  edge  of  a  knife-blade  under  pin-feathers  and 
remove  by  grasping  them  between  thumb  and  blade. 


Poultry  and  Gajne  ijj 


BREAKFAST  QUAIL 

J.  A.  Graves. 

Prepare  the  birds  by  opening  in  the  back,  place  them  in  a 
dripping  pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  generous  supply 
of  butter;  add  enough  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 
then  place  them  in  a  hot  oven.  Turn  the  birds  frequently, 
basting  them  with  the  seasoned  water  in  the  pan,  which 
gradually  cooks  down,  making  a  fine  gravy.  By  constant 
basting,  the  birds  when  well  done  and  nicely  browned,  will  be 
rich  and  juicy  and  of  a  finer  flavor  than  when  broiled. 

Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

BROILED  QUAIL 

Mrs.  Adelia  Hal!. 

Dress  the  birds  carefully,  and  lay  them  a  little  time  in 
salted  water.  Split  down  the  back,  dry  with  a  cloth,  rub  with 
butter,  and  place  them  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire.  Turn 
them  frequently.  Dip  them  in  melted  butter,  seasoned  with 
salt.  Day  slices  of  thin  toast  nicely  buttered  upon  a  hot  dish, 
place  a  bird,  breast  upward,  upon  each  slice.  Garnish  with 
currant  jelly. 

ROAST  QUAIL 

Everyday  Cook  Book. 

Pluck  and  drain  the  birds,  rub  them  with  butter,  tie  strips 
of  bacon  over  the  breasts,  and  roast  in  the  oven  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes. 

HUNTER'S    STEW 

J.   A.  Graves. 

One  dozen  quail,  (doves  may  be  used);  i  gallon  of  water; 
I  large  onion;  2  pods  of  red  pepper;  tomatoes;  potatoes;  green 
corn;   bacon;  celery;   black  pepper;   salt. 

Put  the  quail  in  a  porcelain  lined  stew  pan  with  close 
fitting  cover.  Add  the  water,  pepper  pods,  a  slice  of  bacon, 
salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  and  boil  one  hour, 
then  add  the  onion  quartered,  the  celery  chopped,  corn  cut 
from    the    ear,    tomatoes,    and    potatoes,   and    more   water    if 


/J/  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


required.  Stew  one  hour  and  a  half.  Regulate  the  quantity 
of  vegetables  according  to  taste.  Corn  and  tomatoes  add 
much  to  the  flavor.  A  few  rabbits,  quartered  and  cooked 
with  the  birds  is  an  improvement.  Canned  corn  maj^  be  used 
if  fresh  is  not  in  season. 

LARDED  AND  ROASTED  GROUSE 

Mrs.   Frank  K.   Phillips. 

Clean,  and  rinse  quickly  in  cold  water.  Season  with  salt 
^and  pepper.  Dredge  with  butter  and  flour.  Put  one  onion 
inside,  roast  half  an  hour  in  hot   oven. 

Serve  with  bread  sauce  and  fried  bread  crumbs.  Any  fowl 
can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

PIGEON  PIE 

Everj'day  Cook  Book. 

Clean  and  truss  three  or  four  pigeons.        Rub  outside  and 

inside  with  a  mixture  of  pepper  and  salt.     Fill  with  bread  and 

butter  stuffing  or  mashed  potatoes.       Sew  them  up.       Butter, 

and  line  with  pie  crust,  the  sides  of  a  pudding  dish,  and  lay  in 

the  birds.       For  three   large  tame  pigeons,  cut  quarter  of  a 

pound   of  sweet  butter,    strew  this  over  them,  with   a  large 

teaspoon  of  salt,  a  small  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and,    if  liked, 

some  minced  parsley.       Dredge  with  a  tablespoon  of  wheat 

flour,  add  water  to  nearly  fill  the  pan,  lay  skewers  across  the 

top,  cover  with  puff"  paste  crust.        Cut   a  slit  in  the   middle. 

Ornament  the  edge.      Bake  in  a  quick   oven  one  hour,  then 

brush  the  crust  with  the  yolk  of  egg  beaten  with  a  little  milk, 

and  finish  baking.     All   small  birds    may  be  cooked  in  this 

manner. 

WILD  PIGE0N5  WITH  OLIVES 

Mrs.  E.  F.  C.   Klokke. 

Clean,  wash,  and  salt  the  pigeons.  Brown  them  in  hot  but- 
ter, then  stew  them  in  broth  or  water  for  from  fort^'-five  to 
sixty  minutes.  Add  broth  or  water  from  time  to  time  to 
prevent  burning.  Bjil  pickled  olives  in  water  for  from  five 
to  ten  minutes,  add  them  to  the  grav\';  stew  them,  a  few 
moments,   and  serve  with  the  birds. 


Poultry  and  Game  /jj 


ROAST  WILD  DUCK 

Mrs.  W.  G.  W. 

Before  roasting,  parboil  them,  with  a  small  peeled  carrot 
placed  in  each;  this  will  absorb  the  fishy  flavor  which  most 
wild  ducks  have.  When  parboiled,  throw  away  the  carrots, 
and  lay  the  ducks  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour.  Dry,  and 
stuff  with  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage 
(or  onion.)  Roast  until  brown  and  tender,  basting  alter- 
nately with  butter  and  water,  and  the  drippings.  When  the 
ducks  are  taken  up,  add  a  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  to  the  gravy;  thicken  with  browned 
flour,   and  serve  in  a  tureen. 


FRIED  RABBIT 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Hendricks. 

A  young  cottontail  rabbit;  bacon;  flour;  hot  lard. 

Soak  the  rabbit  four  or  five  hours  in  strong,  salt  water. 
Cut  in  pieces  suitable  for  frying.  Roll  in  flour,  and  drop 
into  hot  lard,  to  which  two  or  three  good-sized  pieces  of 
bacon  have  been  added.  Season  well.  Cook  thoroughly 
and  it  will  be  as  nice  as  chicken. 


BARBECUED  RABBIT 

Two  tablespoons  vinegar;  i  tablespoon  made  mustard; 
pepper,  salt,  butter,  parsley. 

Clean  and  wash  the  rabbit;  open  it  all  the  way  on  the 
under  side.  Lay  it  flat  in  salted  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Wipe  dry,  and  broil  it,  gashing  the  thick  part  of  the  back 
that  the  heat  may  penetrate  it.  When  brown  and  tender, 
put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  add  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  turning 
it  over  and  over,  that  it  may  absorb  the  butter.  Cover 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Heat  the  vinegar, 
and  mustard;  pour  it  over  the  rabbit;  garnish  with  crisp 
parsley,   and  serve. 


ij6  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

JACK  RABBIT  FRIED 

Mrs.  Carl  Schutze. 

Sufficient  fat  for  cooking;  a  little  chopped  parsley;  pepper, 
salt. 

Dress  rabbit  and  soak  over  night  in  very  salt  water. 
Joint.  Cut  the  back  across  the  spine  into  pieces  two  inches 
thick.  Wipe  pieces  as  dry  as  possible  and  immerse  in  deep 
fat,  very  hot.  Four  minutes  time  will  cook  the  thinner 
pieces,  and  eight  minutes  will  be  required  for  the  joint  of 
the  hind  leg  if  very  large.  Watch  carefully  that  the  pieces 
do  not  burn.  When  done,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and 
parsley.  Laj^  on  butcher's  paper  that  the  fat  may  be  ab- 
sorbed, and  place  in  oven  till  ready  for  use.  This  way  of 
cooking  preserves  the  game  taste    liked  by  so  many. 

JACK  RABBIT  FRICASSEE 

Mrs.  Carl  Schutze. 

One  onion;  a  few  pepper  corns;  a  little  cream;  a  piece 
of  butter;  salt. 

Dress  rabbit,  and  soak  over  night  in  very  salt  water. 
When  ready  for  use,  joint;  put  it  in  a  large  saucepan  with 
the  onion,  sliced,  and  sufficient  water  to  cover.  Boil  five 
minutes  before  turning  off  the  water.  Season  with  salt 
and  whole  pepper  corns.  Remove  rabbit  and  onion  to  a 
hot  platter.  Skim  off  pepper  corns  and  thicken  the  gravy. 
Add  cream  and  butter  and  boil  once  more  before  turning 
over  the   rabbit. 

SQUIRRELS 

Recipes  for  rabbit  and  squirrel  are  interchangeable.  The 
large  fat  California  squirrels  have  tender,  savory    meat. 


MEATS 


M.  B.  W. 


Meat  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  paper  in 
which  it  is  sent  from  the  market;  the  paper  imparts  a  dis- 
agreeable taste,  aside  from  absorbing  the  juices.  Meat 
should  be  cut  across  the  grain  of  the  muscle.  If  necessary 
to  clean,  scrape  fresh  meat,  or  wash  all  over  with  a  clean,  wet 
cloth.  Do  not  place  meat  in  water.  Wipe  perfectly  dry 
before  cooking.  Never  put  meat  directly  on  ice;  hang,  or 
place  on  a  dish  in  the  refrigerator,  not  in  the  ice  chamber. 

Salt  meats  should  be  put  to  cook  in  cold  water,  fresh 
meats  in  boiling  water.  In  boiling  meats,  if  more  water  is 
required,  add  hot  water,  and  be  careful  to  keep  the  water  on 
the  meat  constantly  boiling. 

BEEF    a  la  MODE— Southern  Style 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Couroy. 

Seven  to  lo  lbs.  beef  round,  shoulder  is  best;  i  table- 
spoon allspice;  i  tablespoon  cinnamon;  i  tablespoon 
cloves;  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  garlic,  bacon,  fresh  pork,  i 
pint  water. 

Bind  the  beef  with  a  strip  of  muslin  to  keep  in  shape. 
Cut  five  turnips  and  five  carrots  in  strips  about  three  inches 
in  length,  and  a  third  of  an  inch  in  width;  boil  them,  but  not 
so  tender  that  they  will  break.  Cut  pork  into  strips  of  the 
same  size,  make  incisions  in  the  beef  an  inch  apart,  in  each 
of  these  put  a  piece  of  pork,  of  carrot,  and  of  turnip,  which 
have  been  rolled  in  the  mixed  spices;  use  small  bits  of 
garlic  occasionall}'.  When  all  are  filled  place  in  a  spider 
with  a  pint  of  water;  dredge  with  flour;  bake  slowly  two 
hours;  then  add  to  the  pan  whole  onions,  carrots,  and  turn- 
ips;   lay   small  pieces  of  bacon   on    the  beef;    bake  another 


ijS  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

hour;  the  last  half  hour,  baste  with  gravy  prepared  as  fol- 
lows: 

One  turnip;   i  carrot;   3,4  pint  water;    ^i;  pint  currant  jelly. 

Cook  until  thick;  then  strain. 

Remove  the  cloth  from  the  beef,  and  serve  it  on  a  dish 
with  the  whole  vegetables  placed  around  it,  and  small  pieces 
of  fat  on  top. 

ROAST  BEEF 

A.  C.  B. 

A  sirloin  or  rib  roast  is  best.  Have  the  bones  removed. 
Roll  the  meat  and  fasten  in  shape  with  skewers  or  tie  with 
strong  string.  Place  on  a  rack  in  a  dripping  pan  and  put  in 
a  very  hot  oven  to  sear  it  over  in  order  to  retain  the  juices. 
Keep  the  oven  closed  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  open, 
dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  baste  with  the  gravy. 
Turn  the  meat  when  necessary  and  baste  often.  Bake  a  six- 
pound  roast  one  hour  if  liked  rare,  and  an  hour  and  a  quarter 
if  liked  well  done.  Serve  with  gravy  made  from  the  drippings 
of  the  meat;    or  any  favorite  sauce. 

LARDED  FILLET  OF  BEEF 

Mrs.  M.  B.   Welch. 

The  fillet  must  be  well  trimmed  and  freed  from  fat  and 
skin.  Then  lard  it  neatly;  put  the  trimmings  of  pork  or 
bacon,  with  which  you  have  larded  it,  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dripping  pan;  pour  into  the  pan  a  cup  of  good  beef  stock,  or 
hot  water,  though  the  stock  is  much  the  better;  sprinkle  salt 
and  pepper  over  the  fillet,  put  it  in  the  pan,  and  bake  from 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
fillet,  basting  frequently,  and  adding,  if  necessary,  a  little 
stock  occasionally.     Serve  with  mushroom  sauce. 

POTTED  ROAST 

Miss  Carrie  T.  Waddilove. 

Five  pounds  round  steak;  2  large  slices  salt  pork;  i  large 
onion  (sliced);  4  cloves  of  garlic  (cut  fine);  4  bay  leaves 
(crushed  fine);   i   large  carrot   (cut   in  thin   pieces);    4  stalks 


Meats  TS9 

celery  (cut  thin);  4  drops  tobasco;  i  teaspoon  ground  cloves; 
Yz  teaspoon  mace;  i  pint  boiling  water;  i  can  French 
mushrooms;  grated  rind  ^  orange;  pepper,  salt. 

Place  slices  of  salt  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  kettle;  cover 
with  onion,  garlic,  bay  leaves,  carrot,  celery,  tobasco,  ground 
cloves,  mace  and  orange  peel. 

Trim  the  steak  well;  bind  together;  make  several  incis- 
ions and  put  in  them  salt  pork,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  in 
boiling  water  for  a  few  moments  in  order  to  retain  juice;  then 
take  it  out  and  put  it  on  top  of  the  ingredients  in  the  pot  and 
cover  with  the  pint  of  boiling  water.  Lay  a  thick  cloth  over 
the  pot,  covering  closely;  boil  constantly  for  three  or  four 
hours.  About  an  hour  before  serving,  uncover  and  set  on 
back  of  stove;  turn  over  the  beef;  do  not  thicken  the  gravy. 
Chop  coarsel}'  a  can  of  French  mushrooms  and  add  to  gravy 
about  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING— An  Accompaniment  for  Roast  Beef 

Mrs.    E.  J.  Curson. 

One  pint  sweet  milk;  4  eggs;  2  cups  flour;  2  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;   I  teaspoon  salt;  drippings. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix  the  ingredients 
into  a  smooth  batter.  Pour  drippings  from  the  roast  into  a 
baking  dish,  add  the  batter,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  immediately.  It  is  not  good  except  it  be  hot.  This  is 
"better  than  the  old  waj-  of  baking  in  the  pan  with  the  roast. 

BROILED  STEAK 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Widney. 

Steak  to  be  good  should  be  at  least  three-fourth  inch 
thick.  Trim,  put  in  double  broiler,  and  cook  over  a  bed  of 
clear  coals  for  ten  minutes  if  you  wish  a  rare  steak,  from 
twelve  to  fifteen  for  a  well-done  steak.  Turn  constantly. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  first-class  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Do  not  stick  a  knife  or  a  fork  into  the  meat  as  this 
injures  it.  Many  serve  with  mushroom,  tomato  and  other 
sauces. 


//o  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

TO  FRY  STEAK 

Mrs.  T.  F.  McCamant. 

A  good  tenderloin  steak;  salt,  pepper,  flour,  suet. 

Remove  the  gristle,  and  outside  parts  from  the  steak. 
Pound  well.  Season  and  roll  in  flour,  fry  in  smoking  hot 
suet  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep.  Turn  it  as  soon  as  it  browns. 
When  cooked  remove  to  a  hot  platter  and  spread  over  it  a 
little  butter. 

Steak  fried  in  this  way,  if  not  overcooked,  is  as  whole- 
some as  when  broiled. 

BEEF  STEAK  WITH  ONIONS 

Mrs.  Anna  Ogier. 

Tenderloin  steak  or  porterhouse;  2  large  onions;  i  table- 
spoon of  butter;  cream,  flour,  pepper,  salt. 

Crisp  the  steak  quicklj'  on  both  sides,  in  a  very  hot,  well- 
greased  frying  pan.  Remove  it  to  a  dish  and  keep  it  hot. 
Chop  and  scald  the  onions,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  fry 
to  a  light  brown;  dredge  with  flour,  and  add  cream  or  milk 
sufficient  to  make  a  nice  gravy.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  then 
pour  it  over  the  steak. 

STEAK  SINOLAISE 

Mrs.  Hotchkiss. 

Three  and  one  half  lbs.  beefsteak;  i  tablespoon  vinegar; 
3  silver-skinned  onions;  salt,  pepper,  flour,  lard,  parsley, 
thyme,  sage,  bay  leaves,  garlic. 

The  steak  should  be  two  and  a  half  or  three  inches  thick 
and  not  too  large  to  lie  flat  in  a  spider.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  vinegar.  Make  three  or  four  incisions  in  it  and 
put  small  pieces  of  garlic  in  them.  Let  it  stand  thirty 
minutes,  then  rub  it  on  both  sides  with  sweet  lard,  dredge 
plentifully  with  flour.  Fry  brown  on  both  sides,  then  sprinkle 
it  with  the  sweet  herbs,  and  onions  sliced  thin,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  stew  slowly  until  tender  in  a  closely-covered 
spider.  One  and  a  half  hours  is  required  for  a  steak  of  this 
size.     Serve  with  plain  boiled  rice. 


Meats 


14.1 


BRAISED  BEEF 

Mrs.   Henderson. 

Five  lbs.  fresh  beef,  (not  too  lean)  ;  i  onion,  sliced  ;  i  car- 
rot, sliced  ;  i  quart  boiling  water  ;  2  or  3  sprigs  of  parsley; 
4  cloves,  a  little  celery;  pepper,  salt. 

Cover  tightly,  cook  three  hours,  adding  a  little  boiling 
water  if  needed. 

Serve  with  horseradish  sauce. 

BEEF  OMELET 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Lord. 

Three  fts.  beef  (chopped  fine);  3  eggs  (beaten);  6  crackers 
(rolled  fine);  i  tablespoon  salt;  i  tablespoon  melted  butter; 
I  teaspoon  pepper;  sage  to  taste. 

Mix  well  and  form  into  a  loaf.  Put  a  little  water  and  bits 
of  butter  into  the  pan.  Invert  a  pan  over  the  top  and  bake 
an  hour  and  a  quarter,  basting  occasionally. 

DRIED  BEEF  FRIZZLED  IN  CREAM 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Pieper. 

Chipped  beef;  butter  the  size  of  an  &ZZ'^  a  little  flour; 
cream. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  stir  the  beef  in  it  for  two 
or  three  minutes,  dust  in  a  little  flour;  add  the  cream.  Boil, 
and  serve  hot. 

CORN  BEEF  BOILED 

Mrs.  W.  J.   Brown. 

Put  the  meat  in  cold  water.  Boil  five  to  six  hours,  then 
remove  the  bones.  Wrap  it  in  a  napkin  and  put  it  in  a  cool 
place  under  a  weight  to  press  it.  It  will  be  more  juicy  if 
left  in  the  liquor  until  cold. 

LUNCHEON  CORN  BEEF 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Thin  slices  corn  beef;  i  tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon 
flour;    I  tablespoon  good  vinegar;    i  cup  of  water. 

Put  into  a  frying-pan  the   butter   and  flour;  cook;   stiring 


1^2  How    We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

all  the  while.     Add   water   and  vinegar.     L,ay  the   corn  beef 
into  this  and  cook  four  or  five  minutes. 

HUNTER'S  ROAST 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Widuey. 

L,eg  mutton;  i  lb.  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Cut  the  bacon  in 
strips  about  three  inches  long;  make  slits,  or  pockets  near  the 
surface  of  the  mutton,  and  insert  the  bacon  in  such  a  way 
that  the  fat  from  it  will  drain  through  the  mutton  while 
roasting. 

Baste  often;  allow  about  15  minutes  to  the  pound. 

TO  FRY  MUTTON 

Mrs.  T.  F.  :McCamaiit. 

Mutton;  salt;  pepper;  sugar;  nutmeg  or  cinnamon;  flour; 
suet. 

Take  steak  from  the  round  of  mutton;  pound  thoroughly; 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  a  voy  little  nutmeg 
or  cinnamon,  or  both.      Roll  in  flour,  fry  in  hot  suet. 

Mutton  prepared  and  cooked  in  this  way  will  pass  for 
venison  at  any  table. 

LEG  OF  nUTTON  BOILED 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Leg  of  mutton;  boiling  water;  i  tablespoon  vinegar;  salt; 
pepper. 

Add  the  vinegar  to  boiling  water;  put  in  the  mutton. 
When  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point  set  it  on  back  of  the  stove 
and  let  it  simmer  two  and  one-half  hours.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cook  until  tender,  which  will  take  from  four  to 
five  hours. 

Serve  with  caper,  or  ^^z  sauce. 

SADDLE  OF   LAMB 

Mrs.  Liucolu. 

Trim  off  all  the  pink  skin  and  superfluous  fat.  Remove 
the  ends  of  the  ribs,  the  cord,  and  veins  along  the  back. 
Wipe,  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour;  place  it 


Meats 


143 


in  the  pan,  with  the  inside  up,  in  order  to  thoroughly  cook 
the  fat.  Baste  and  dredge  often.  When  the  fat  is  brown  and 
crisp,  turn,  and  cook  the  upper  part  till  brown.  Keep  a 
buttered  paper  over  it  to  prevent  burning. 

SHOULDER  OF  VEAL 

Miss  Frances  Widney. 

Two  and  one  half  lbs.  veal;  Vi  cup  butter;  i  cup  sweet 
cream;  toasted  bread;  pepper;  salt;  cornstarch. 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  kettle;  cut  the  veal  in  pieces;  fry  it 
brown  in  the  butter,  then  add  sufficient  water  to  cook  it. 
When  done,  thicken  the  gravy  with  the  cornstarch,  and  add 
the  cream.  Serve  on  the  toasted  bread.  This  is  sufficient 
for  seven  persons. 

BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS 

Mrs.  J.  M.  B. 

Trim  and  flatten  the  cutlets;  season  with  pepper  and  salt» 
dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  rolled  cracker.  Fry  rather  slowly 
in  butter  or  beef  drippings.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  plain,  or 
with  tomato  sauce. 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON-Old  Kentucky  Huntsman's  Recipe 

Haunch  of  venison;   y^,  lb.  butter;  salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  venison  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with  water,  and 
boil  until  tender;  drain  off  the  water,  put  the  butter  with 
salt  and  pepper  in  the  kettle,  set  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  let 
brown,  first  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the  other.  Venison 
cooked  in  this  way  retains  its  natural  flavor,  and  will  be  found 
delicious. 

HAH  BONES 

Mrs.  Jessie  Beuton  Fremont. 

"The  Funeral  of  a  Ham."  This  is  the  startling  name 
the  Germans  give  their  final  use  of  the  unsightly  "ham- 
bones"  —too  good  still  to  be  thrown  away,  but  too  ugly  to 
bring  to  table. 

The  bone,   itself,  goes  into  the  soup  kettle  and  from  the 


/^/  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

broth  it  flavors,   the}-  take    enough  to  stew   gently,   {boiling 
fast,  kills  flavors  and  hardens  meat),  the  shavings  of  ham  that 
had  remained  on  the  bone. 

Put  these  in  the  broth  with  a  Chili  pepper,  a  very  little 
garlic,  soup-herbs  and  a  laurel  leaf — pungent,  but  sparingly 
used  flavors,  and  let  them  assimilate  by  slozv,  steady  heat. 
Then  make  mashed  potatoes  into  a  lining  for  a  pudding- 
dish  (you  can  also  use  boiled  macaroni  in  the  same  way;) 
and  lay  in  the  stewed  ham  in  light  layers  alternating 
with  potatoes  (or  macaroni)  and  bake  so  it  will  look  light 
and  brown,  like  a  potato  souffle.  There  may  be  some 
baking  powder  to  make  the  brown  top  crust  and  sides,  or 
cream,  (I  really  do  not  know  how  it  is  done,  but  it  should 
be  brown  and  raised  like  a  nice  dish  of  baked  mashed 
potatoes)  and  sent  to  the  table  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was 
baked.  It  is  simple  enough — most  excellent  and  flavoroiis, 
or  only  fit  for  a  railway  eating-station — according  to  the  in- 
telligent patience  of  the  cook. 

BAKED  HAH 

Mrs.  S.  Speedy 

Scrape,  and  wash  a  nice,  plump  liam.  Mix  a  paste  of  flour 
and  water.  Roll  it  out  about  an  inch  in  thickness,  cover  the 
entire  ham  with  this,  wetting  the  edges  to  make  them  adhere. 
Bake  three  hours. 

BAKED  HAfl 

Everyday  Cook  Book 

Wash  and  scrape  the  ham,  then  cover  with  cold  water  and 
simmer  gently,  until  the  skin  can  be  pulled  off  (probably  two 
or  three  hours).  When  skinned,  and  in  the  dripping  pan, 
pour  over  it  one  teacup  of  vinegar,  and  one  of  hot  water  in 
which  one  teaspoon  of  mustard  has  been  dissolved.  Bake 
slowly  two  hours,  basting  often.  Then  cover  the  ham  all 
over  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  with  brown  sugar,  pressing  it 
down  firmly.  Set  it  in  a  very  slow  oven.  The  sugar  will 
soon  form  a  thick  crust.  It  should  remain  in  the  oven  a  full 
hour.     Then  remove  from  the  pan,  drain,  and  place  upon  a 


Meats  7/5 

dish.  When  the  ham  is  cool,  but  not  cold,  press  it  by  turning 
another  flat  dish  on  top  with  a  weight  on  it.  Pressing  makes 
the  ham  slice  firmly. 

BOILED  HAH 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Widney 

Take  a  ham  weighing  from  twelve  to  fourteen  pounds, 
wash  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly, 
from  five  to  six  hours.  When  nearly  cold,  remove  the  ham 
from  the  water  in  which  it  boiled  and  draw  off  the  skin.  Have 
ready  six  or  eight  well  rolled  soda  crackers,  with  which  is 
mixed  about  three  tablespoons  of  sugar;  spread  over  ham, 
place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  for  thirtj'  or  forty  minutes. 

BROILED  HAH 

Practical  Housekeeping. 

Broil  slices  of  ham  on  a  hot  gridiron  until  the  fat  runs 
out,  and  the  meat  is  slightly  brown ;  then  drop  the  slices  into 
a  pan  of  cold  water,  drain  and  return  to  the  gridiron;  repeat 
several  times  until  the  ham  is  done.  Place  on  a  hot  platter; 
add  a  little  butter,  and  serve  at  once.  Pickled  pork  and 
breakfast  bacon  may  be  broiled  in  the  same  way. 

HAH  FOR  TOAST 

Mrs.  S-  C.   Hubbell. 

One-fourth  pound  lean  ham;  i  tablespoon  cream  or  milk; 
I  tablespoon  melted  butter;  yolks  of  three  eggs. 

Mince  the  ham,  and  mix  it  with  the  other  ingredients;  then 
stir  all  together  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens. 
Spread  on  hot  toast. 

HAfl  FOR  SANDWICHES 

Mrs.  \V.  W.  Ross. 

Five  pounds  ham,  boiled  and  cold;  2  pounds  fresh  beef 
tongue;  i  tablespoon  white  sugar;  i  teaspoon  mustard,  dry; 
I  teaspoon  pepper;  2  eggs. 

Chop  the  ham  and  tongue  very  fine;  add  the  sugar,  mus- 


1^6  How   We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

tard  and  pepper.  Moisten  the  meat  with  the  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Spread  the  mixture  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread.     This  quantity  will  make  a  hundred  sandwiches. 

ROAST  PIG 

Mrs.   J.  M.  B. 

Select  a  pig  from  four  to  six  weeks  old.  Clean  it 
thoroughly  using  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the  water  you  wash 
the  inside  with.  Wipe  dry  and  stuff  with  a  dressing  made  of 
bread  crumbs  highly  seasoned  with  butter,  sage,  salt  and 
pepper.  Sew  it  up.  Skewer  the  fore  legs  forward,  and  the 
hind  legs  backward.  Rub  it  over  with  butter,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Put  it  in  a  dripping  pan  with  a 
little  water  and  bake  about  three  hours,  basting  often.  It  is 
not  necessar)^  to  have  the  oven  very  hot  at  first;  be  careful 
not  to  let  it  burn.  When  done,  place  it  on  a  platter;  garnish 
with  parsley  and  put  an  apple  or  small  ear  of  corn  in  its 
mouth. 

ROAST  5PARE  RIBS 

Trim  off  the  rough  ends;  crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle, 
rub  with  salt,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold  over,  stuff  with  plain 
turkey  dressing.  Sew  up  tightly,  put  in  dripping  pan  with  a 
pint  of  water.  Baste  frequently,  turning  once,  so  that  both 
sides  may  be  of  a  rich  brown. 

TO  FRY  TRIPE 

Take  prepared  tripe,  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  it  four 
inches  square;  dip  first  in  ^"g^,  then  in  flour;  fry  slowly  to  a 
delicate  brown,  in  butter.  Add  to  the  gravy  a  wine-glass 
each  of  vinegar  and  water;  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  dish 
with  the  tripe. 

BROILED  TRIPE 

Prepare  tripe  as  for  frying;  lay  on  a  broiling  iron  over  a 
clear  fire;  let  broil  gently  on  both  sides;  Serve  on  a  hot 
platter  with  plenty  of  butter.     Garnish  with  lemon  or  parsley. 


Meats  i^j 

TO  COOK  A  CALF'S  HEAD 

Mrs.  T.  B. 

Tie  the  brains  iu  muslin  with  sweet  herbs.  Boil  brains, 
head,  haslet,  and  feet,  two  hours,  adding  the  liver  the  last 
hour.  When  nearly  done  take  out  the  brains,  and  a  portion 
of  the  lights.  Chop  them  with  a  hard  boiled  ^%%,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter,  add  a  little  of  the  broth; 
dredge  lightly  with  flour  and  cook  sufficiently  to  make  a 
nice  sauce.  Take  up  the  rest  of  the  meat,  remove  the  bones, 
lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

SALT  TONGUE 

Miss  Parloa. 

Soak  over  night,  and  cook  from  five  to  six  hours.  Throw 
into  cold  water  and  peel  off"  the  skin. 


FRESH  TONGUE 

Miss  Parloa. 

Put  into  boiling  water  to  cover,  with  two  tablespoons  of 
salt.  Cook  from  five  to  six  hours.  Skin  the  same  as  salt 
tongue. 

BREAKFAST  FRITTERS 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Ross. 

One  cup  minced  meat;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  i  tablespoon 
bread  crumbs;   i  tablespoon  flour;  ^z^,  pepper,  salt. 

Mix  and  season.  Make  into  small  cakes  and  fry  them  a 
light  brown  in  deep  fat. 

MEAT  CAKES 

Mrs.  S.  J.   Peck. 

Three  cups  chopped  meat;  i  cup  mashed  potato;  2  eggs, 
salt,  pepper  and  sage. 

To  any  cold  meat  chopped  fine,  add  the  potatoes,  eggs  and 
seasonings.  Work  all  together;  form  into  cakes,  roll  in 
flour  and  fry. 


y/?  How   We  Cook  in  Los  A^igeles 

TO  CORN  BEEF 

Mrs.  S.   C.  Foy. 

Take  twelve  or  fifteen  pounds  of  beef,  cut  from  the  round; 
cut  it  into  four  pieces;  put  into  a  jar  or  cask,  and  cover  with 
brine  made  as  follows:  To  one  gallon  boiling  water,  dissolve 
rock  salt  until,  when  cold,  a  fresh  ^^^  will  float.  Turn  a 
plate  over  the  meat,  and  press  it  down  with  a  stone.  One 
teaspoon  of  saltpetre  will  give  the  meat  a  red  color.  In  about 
four  days,  pour  off  the  brine,  boil,  skim,  and  cool,  and  pour 
over  the  meat  again.     Six  days  will  corn  thoroughly. 


SAUCES 


M.  B.  W. 


Sauces  are  often  a  failure,  because  the  flour  is  not  sufii- 
ciently  cooked.  When  the  flour  and  water  are  mixed  and 
added  to  the  boiling  liquid,  the  sauce  should  boil  at  least  ten 
minutes. 

A  quicker  and  better  way  is  to  cook  the  dry  flour  in  the 
hot  butter,  thus  insuring  a  smooth  sauce,  free  from  grease, 
and  of  excellent  flavor. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Mrs.  i;.  H.  Sanderson. 

Butter,  size  of  %  egg;  i  teaspoon  flour;  yolks  of  4  eggs; 
I  small  lime  or  ^  lemon;  salt,  red  and  black  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  butter  in  sauce  pan,  heat  till  it  bubbles,  then  add 
flour,  stirring  constantly;  do  not  brown.  Remove  from  fire; 
stir  in  with  ^^^  whisk  the  yolks,  well  beaten.  Return  to 
stove  just  a  moment  to  set  the  eggs.  Remove  from  the  stove 
and  add  juice  of  lime  or  lemon;  Season.  This  must  not  boil 
after  the  eggs  are  in  or  it  will  curdle.  Must  be  made  and 
served  at  once.     Fine  for  an}'  fish. 

A  SIMPLE  BROWN  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Henderson. 

One  tablespoon  minced  onion;  i  teaspoon  flour,  heaped;  y^ 
pint  stock;  a  little  butter. 

Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter  until  it  takes  color,  then 
sprinkle  in  the  flour.  When  that  browns  add  the  stock. 
Cook  it  a  few  minutes  and  strain. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  • 

Mrs.  W    J.  Brown. 

Half  cup  butter;  2  tablespoons  flour;  i  pint  boiling  water 
or  milk;   i  sprig  parsley;  salt;  pepper. 


150  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Rub  butter  aud  flour  together,  put  into  a  sauce  pan  with 
the  boiling  water;  stir  constantlj^  until  perfectly  smooth, 
then  add  the  parsley,  season,  and  serv^e. 

EGG  SAUCE 

Mince  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  stir  them  into 
drawn  butter.     If  too  thick,  add  a  little  cream  or  milk. 

CAPER  SAUCE 

Add  two  tablespoons  of  pickled  capers  to  a  drawn  butter 
'sauce.     Good  for  boiled  leg  of  lamb. 

SAUCE  TARTARE  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Ayers. 

Half  cup  Rowland's  olive  oil;  1  5'olks  of  raw  eggs;  3 
tablespoons  vinegar;  i  tablespoon  mustard;  i  teaspoon  sugar; 
I  teaspoon  salt;  i  teaspoon  onion  juice;  y^  teaspoon  pepper; 
I  tablespoon  cucumber  pickles,  chopped. 

Beat  the  eggs,  oil  and  seasoning  together  like  mayonnaise, 
then  add  the  pickles. 

CHESTNUT  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  TURKEY 

Miss  Parloa. 

One  pint  shelled  chestnuts;  i  quart  stock;  i  teaspoon  lemon 
juice;  i  tablespoon  flour;  2  tablespoons  butter,  salt,  pepper. 
Boil  the  chestnuts  about  three  minutes;  then  plunge  into 
cold  water,  and  rub  off  the  dark  skins.  Cook  them  gently  in 
the  stock  until  they  will  mash  readily.  Mash  fine  as  possible. 
Cook  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  sauce  pan  until  a  dark  brown. 
Stir  into  the  sauce  and  cook  two  minutes. 

The  chestnuts  used  are  twice  as  large  as  the  native  nut. 
All  first-class  grocers  keep  them. 

GIBLET  SAUCE 

jStew  the  neck,  liver,  heart,  and  gizzard  in  a  little  water, 
thicken  with  butter  and  browned  flour.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  strain.  Mince  the  heart  and  liver  very  fine  and  re- 
turn to  the  sauce.     Serve  ver}^  hot. 


Sauces  751 

OYSTER  SAUCE 

Miss  Parloa. 

One  pint  oysters,  3  tablespoons  butter;  i  heaping  table- 
spoon flour;  I  tablespoon  lemon  juice;  salt,  pepper,  a  speck 
of  caj^enne. 

Wash  the  oysters  in  enough  water  with  the  addition  of  the 
oyster  liquor  to  make  a  pint,  boil,  and  skim.  Stir  the  butter 
and  flour  in  a  sauce  pan,  until  of  a  dark  brown.  Add  the 
skimmed  liquor,  boil  up-  add  the  other  ingredients,  boil  up 
once  more,  and  serve. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE  FOR  BOILED  TONGUE 

Mrs.  T.  F.  McCamant. 

One-half  cup  of  vinegar;  2  large  onions;  2  tablespoons 
sugar;   i  tablespoon  butter;  pepper,  salt,  water. 

Slice  the  onions  fine;  stew  them  in  the  vinegar,  and  water 
enough  to  cover.  Boil  until  tender,  and  mash  them  smooth. 
Add  sugar  and  butter,  cook  until  quite  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly; season  with  pepper  and  salt.  This  forms  the  base  of 
several  sauces.  One  is  made  by  adding  an  equal  quantit}'  of 
the  gravy  from  roast  beef,  mutton,  or  turkey. 

BECHAHEL  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Henderson. 

One  tablespoon  flour;  3  or  4  tablespoons  good  thick 
cream;  i  pint  of  veal  stock;  Y^  of  rather  small  onion;  Y^  oid, 
turnip;  ^  of  a  good-sized  carrot;  2  sprigs  parsley;  Y\  of  a 
bay-leaf;  Y^  ^  sprig  of  thyme;  3  pepper-corns;  Y  lump  of 
sugar;  a  small  blade  of  mace;   i  oz.  butter,  size  of  walnut. 

Put  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  and  when  hot  add  to  it  all  the 
ingredients  but  the  stock,  mace,  flour  and  cream  fry 
this  slowly  until  it  assumes  a  yellow  color;  do  not 
let  it  brown,  as  the  sauce  should  be  white  when  done; 
stir  in  the  flour,  which  let  cook  a  minute,  and  add  the  blade 
of  mace  and  the  stock,  (boiling)  from  another  stew-pan. 
After  it  has  all  simmered  about  five  minutes,  strain  it 
through   a   sieve   without   allowing   the  vegetables   to   pass 


1^2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

through;  return  the  strained  sauce  to  the  fire,  reduce  it,  by- 
boiling,  about  one-third;  add  the  cream  and  the  sauce  is 
ready. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

One-half  cup  grated  cracker;  )A,  cup  grated  horseradish; 
I  cup  cream;  i  tablespoon  fat  from  cooked  meat;  salt,  pepper. 
Simmer  together  fifteen  minutes. 

Serve  with  braised  beef. 

MUSHROOn  SAUCE 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Welch. 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire.  Stir  until  the  flour  is  well  browned. 
Add  very  slowly  the  juice  from  half  a  can  of  mushrooms, 
and  sufficient  hot  beef  stock  to  make  the  sauce  the  proper 
thickness;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice;  Add  a  half  can  of  mushrooms,  simmer  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve. 

MINT  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Henderson. 

Put  four  tablespoons  of  chopped  mint;  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar  into  a  sauce-boat. 
Let  it  remain  an  hour  or  two  before  dinner,  that  the  vinegar 
may  become  impregnated  with  the  mint. 

CHESTNUT  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Lincoln. 

Remove  the  shells  from  one  pint  of  large  chestnuts; 
scald  or  boil  them  three  minutes  to  loosen  the  skin.  Remove 
the  skin;  break  them  in  halves,  and  look  them  over  carefully. 
Cook  in  salted  boiling  water  or  stock  till  very  soft.  Mash 
fine  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Cook  i  table- 
spoon flour  in  two  tablespoons  brown  butter,  stir  into  the 
chestnuts  and  cook  five  minutes,  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 


Sauces  153 

BREAD  SAUCE  FOR  GAME  OR  MEATS 

Mrs.  Frank  Phillips. 

Two  cups  milk;  i  cup  bread  crumbs;  2  tablespoons  butter; 
I  teaspoon  salt;  J  3  teaspoon  pepper;   ^  onion. 

Dry  the  bread  in  the  oven.  Roll  it  into  coarse  crumbs; 
sift  and  put  the  part  which  goes  through  the  sieve  (about  one 
third)  to  boil  with  the  milk  and  onion.  Boil  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  the  butter,  and  the  season- 
ing. Skim  out  the  onion.  Fry  the  remainder  of  the  crumbs 
in  the  rest  of  the  butter,  which  must  be  very  hot.  Stir  over 
a  hot  fire  two  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn,  cover  the 
breasts  of  the  birds  with  these.  Pour  the  sauce  around  the 
birds,  or  serve  separately. 

THICK  CREAfl  SAUCE  FOR  CROQUETTES,  ETC. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Walton. 

One  pint  hot  cream;  yi  teaspoon  salt;  2  even  tablespoons 
butter;  ^  saltspoon  white  pepper;  4  heaping  tablespoons 
flour;  ^  teaspoon  celery  salt;  a  few  grains  of  cayenne. 

Scald  the  cream.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  granite  saucepan. 
When  bubling,  add  the  dry  flour.  Stir  till  well  mixed.  Add 
one  third  of  the  cream,  and  stir  as  it  boils  and  thickens.  Add 
more  cream  and  boil  again.  When  perfectly  smooth,  add  the 
remainder  of  the  cream.  The  sauce  should  be  very  thick, 
almost  like  a  drop  batter.  Add  the  seasoning,  and  mix  it 
while  hot  with  the  meat  or  fish. 


VEGETABLES 


A    C.  B. 


All  vegetables  are  best  when  fresh  and  crisp;  celery, 
lettuce,  cucumbers,  and  radishes  should  be  kept  in  cold 
water.  New  potatoes  should  be  prepared  just  before  cooking 
and  put  on  in  boiling  water.  Old  potatoes  should  be  peeled 
and  put  into  cold  water  an  hour  before  cooking;  then  drain 
off  the  water  and  put  into  cold  water  and  set  over  the 
fire;  when  they  are  barely  done,  drain  off  the  water  and  set 
on  back  of  the  stove.  A  small  quantity  of  caj'enne  pepper 
put  into  the  water  when  cooking  cabbage  and  onions  will 
somewhat  neutralize  the   disagreeable  odor. 

ASPARAGUS  ON  TOAST 

Mrs.  G.   W.   White. 

Asparagus;  soda;  salt;  pepper;  butter;  cream  or  milk; 
toasted  bread. 

Cut  off  the  hard  ends.  Boil  the  rest  whole  with  a  very 
little  soda  in  the  water,  which  will  preserve  the  color,  make 
tender,  and  improve  the  flavor.  Boil  until  tender.  Season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Spread  on  hot  buttered  toast, 
and  pour  over  it  hot  cream  or  milk. 

AHBUSHED  ASPARAGUS 

Mrs.  Willard  H.  Stimson. 

Three  bunches  asparagus;  stale  light  rolls;  only  the 
tops  are  used;  3  eggs;  i  pint  milk;  pepper;  salt;  a  tablespoon 
butter. 

Boil  asparagus  twenty  minutes,  and  drain.  Take  out  the 
inside  of  the  rolls,  and  put  the  tops  in  the  oven  to  dry.  Stir 
the  beaten  eggs  into  the  boiling  milk  with  the  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  asparagus,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
fill  the  tops  with  the  mixture  and  serve  hot. 


Vegetables  155 


ARTICHOKES 

Mrs.  Lincoln. 

The  Globe  Artichokes  are  thick,  fleshy-petalled  flowers 
which  grow  on  a  plant  that  resembles  the  thistle.  The 
thickened  receptacle  and  scales  of  the  involucre  form  the 
edible  portion.  Soak  the  artichokes,  cut  oflf  the  outside 
leaves,  trim  awa}'  the  lower  leaves,  and  the  ends  of  the  others. 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  with  the  tops  downward,  half 
an  hour.  Drain,  remove  the  choke — or  internal  filamentous 
portion — and  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

BEETS 

Mrs.  Henderson. 

Be  careful  not  to  prick,  or  cut  the  skin  before  cooking,  as 
the}^  will  then  lose  their  color.  Put  them  into  boiling  water, 
and  boil  until  tender.  If  they  are  served  hot,  season  them 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  if  cold,  slice  and  pour  vinegar 
over  them,  or  cut  in  dice,  and  mix  with  other  cold  vegetables 
for  a  salad. 

STRING  BEANS 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Abernethy 

One  and  a  half  quarts  beans;  i  small  onion;  i  tablespoon 
(rounded)  lard;  i  heaping  teaspoon  sugar;  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  little  flour. 

String  the  beans  carefully  and  break  in  small  pieces.  Put 
the  lard  in  a  large  skillet  and  when  very  hot  put  in  the  onion, 
chopped  fine,  and  cook  brown  ;  have  ready  the  beans 
thoroughly  washed  and  drained,  put  in  the  skillet  and  cover 
very  closely.  Allow  them  to  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  once  or  twice  to  prevent  burning;  then  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  If  the  water  needs 
replenishing  be  sure  it  is  boiling.  When  cooked  season  with 
salt,   pepper,  and  teaspoon  sugar,   and  sift  in  a    little    flour. 


zjd  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

STRINGED   BEANS 

Mrs.  Helen  Widney  Watson. 

One  quart  beans;  ^  cup  cream,  more  is  better;  i  table- 
spoon butter;  salt,  pepper. 

String,  wash,  and  slit  the  bean  pods  lengthwise,  cover 
them  with  cold  water,  and  cook  until  perfectly  tender.  Drain 
off  any  water  that  may  remain.  Cook  dry,  being  careful  not 
to  burn.  Add  the  butter.  Stir  for  a  moment  or  two,  then 
add  the  salt,  pepper  and  cream. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Horner 

One  quart  beans;  i  pound  salt  pork;  i  teaspoon  saleratus; 
I  teaspoon  mustard;   i  teaspoon  salt;   i  tablespoon  molasses. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning  bring  them  to 
a  boil;  adding  the  saleratus;  then  drain,  and  put  them  into  an 
earthen  pot  with  salt  pork,  molasses,  mustard,  and  salt. 
Cover  with  water  and  bake  four  hours  adding  more  water,  as 
may  be  necessary. 

BAKED  BEANS 

Mrs.  Augusta  Kobiuson. 

Two  cups  beans;  i  scant  teaspoon  soda  ;  3  tablespoons 
molasses;  3  inch  square  salt  pork;  pinch  mustard. 

Prepare  the  beans  in  the  evening  and  let  soak  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water,  put  the  beans  in  the  bean 
jar,  add  the  molasses,  soda,  mustard,  and  the  salt  pork  ;  cut 
in  pieces,  put  on  enough  water  to  cover.  Put  the  lid  on  the 
jar  and  allow  them  to  simmer  all  day  in  a  slow  oven,  watching 
that  the  beans  do  not  get  dry.  This  process  may  be  hurried 
by  parboiling  the  beans  for  about  two  hours  before  putting  in 
the  bean  jar. 

MASHED  CARROTS 

Mrs.  W.  G.  W. 

Carrots;  butter;  pepper;  salt. 

After  scraping  and  washing  the  carrots  lay  them  in  cold 
water    half  an    hour ;    then    cook    tender   in   boiling    water. 


Vegetables  i§y 

Drain,  mash  with  a  wooden  beetle,  work  in  a  good  sized  piece 
of  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Heap  in  a  vegetable 
dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 

BOILED  GREEN  CORN 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Whorton. 

Choose  young  sugar  corn  full  grown  but  tender.  Strip  off 
the  outer  husks,  turn  back  the  innermost,  carefully  pick  out 
the  silk,  recover  the  ear  with  the  thin  husk,  tie  it  with  thread, 
put  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  rapidly  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes,  according  to  size  and  age  of  corn.  Cut  off  the 
stalks  close  to  the  cob  and  send  it  to  the  table  in  a  napkin. 

Or,  the  corn  may  be  cut  from  the  cob  after  it  is  boiled,  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

CORN  OYSTERS 

Mrs.  Charlotte  L.  Wills. 

One  pint  pulp  ;  ^  teaspoon  salt ;  2  tablespoons  lard  or 
butter;  a  dash  of  cayenne  or  black  pepper. 

Score  and  press  out  pulp  of  sweet  corn  as  for  pudding  ; 
mix  well  together  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  lard  or 
butter  in  a  frying  pan.  When  hot,  drop  some  of  the  mixture 
into  it  in  little  pats;  brown,  and  turn.     Serve  hot  with  meats. 

Makes  a  good  dish  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

CORN  PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Melius. 

One  and  one-half  dozen  ears  green  corn;  3  eggs;  i  teacup 
cream;  one  teaspoon  sugar;  Y^  teaspoon  salt;  pepper;  butter 
size  of  an  ^gg. 

Cut  down  the  center  of  each  row  of  kernels.  Scrape  out 
pulp,  being  careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  husk.  Add  the  salt, 
pepper,  sugar,  cream  and  beaten  eggs.  Bake  until  of  a  light 
brown. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Ross. 

One  dozen  large  ears  of  corn;  5  eggs;  Yi  cup  butter;  i 
quart  milk;  i  tablespoon  sugar. 


1^8  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Grate  the  corn  from  the  ears;  mix  it  well  with  the  beaten 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  add  the  butter,  sugar,  a  little  salt,  the 
milk,  and  last,  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  slow- 
ly for  an  hour  in  a  covered  dish,  removing  the  cover  for  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  to  be  served,  that  it  may  brown. 

CORN  PUDDING— As  made  in  Western  Pennsylvania. 

Mrs.  Charlotte  L.  Mitts. Wiiii'- 

One  dozen  ears  sweet  corn;  i  pint  milk;  i  teaspoon  salt; 
^  teaspoon  black  pepper;  ^4  cup  butter. 

Score  the  corn  down  the  middle  of  each  row;  press  out  all 
the  pulp,  leaving  the  hull  on  the  cob.  Mix  the  pulp,  milk, 
salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  pudding  dish;  pour  in  the  mixture; 
cut  up  the  remainder  of  the  butter  and  put  it  in  the  pudding. 
Bake  slowly  one  hour.  Serve  as  a  vegetable  with  meats, 
lyess  milk  than  a  pint  may  be  successfully  used  if  the  corn  is 
young. 

We  now  have  a  small  wooden  frame  with  steel  knife  and 
teeth  fastened  in  it  which  scrapes  the  corn  more  easil}^  and 
quickly. 

STEWED  CAULIFLOWER 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

One  tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon  flour;  i  pint  of  boiling 
water;  2  tablespoons  vinegar  ;  2  eggs  (yolks  only);  a  little 
salt  and  pepper;  cauliflower. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  in  salted  water  ;  remove  from  the  fire 
before  it  becomes  too  tender;  drain  in  sieve.  Melt,  without 
browning,  the  butter;  stir  in  the  flour  ;  cook,  stirring  all  the 
while.  Then  add  slowly  the  boiling  water,  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper.  As  soon  as  the  mixture  boils,  put  the  cauliflower  in 
it;  stir  in  very  carefully  the  yolks  of  eggs. 

Serve  at  once. 

CAULIFLOWER  AND  CHEESE 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Cauliflower;   i  tablespoon  cheese,  grated;   i  oz.  butter. 
Boil  cauliflower,  not  too  tender.        Remove  from  the  fire 


Vegetables  /jp 

and  place  in  baking  dish  in  the  oven.  Put  over  the  top  the 
cheese  and  butter,  melting  it  well  into  the  vegetable  and 
slightly  browning. 

Sauce: — Two  oz.  butter  ;  i  teaspoon  flour;  2  teaspoons 
cream  or  milk;  2  oz.  cheese  (grated);  2  eggs  (beaten). 

Melt  the  butter,  without  browning;  into  this  put  the  flour; 
slightly  cook  it,  then  add  cheese,  cream  or  milk,  and  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  all  is  perfectly  smooth. 
Do  not  permit  it  to  boil.     Pour  over  cauliflower. 

CABBAGE 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Spence. 

One  cabbage;  boiling  salted  water;  yi  teaspoon  soda. 

The  cabbage  should  be  fine  and  of  medium  size.  Wash, 
quarter,  and  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water  to  which 
the  soda  has  been  added.     Boil  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

LADIES'  CABBAGE 

c.  s. 

Cabbage;  4  tablespoons  cream;  i  tablespoon  butter;  i  ^g%; 
pepper;  salt. 

Select  medium  sized  heads  that  feel  firm  and  heavy. 
Shave  the  cabbage  very  fine,  and  let  it  lie  in  cold  salted 
water  one  hour.  Drain  and  place  in  plenty  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  rapidly  for  ten  minutes,  then  drain;  add  butter,  pepper, 
salt  and  cream.  Simmer  until  it  is  nearly  dry.  Just  before 
serving,  beat  the  egg  to  a  cream;  stir  quickly  into  the  cabbage; 
boil  up  once  and  serve. 

HOT  CABBAGE  SLAW 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Parlee. 

One  cabbage;  i  teacup  milk;  ^  teacup  vinegar;  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut;  pepper;  salt. 

Slice  the  cabbage  fine;  put  it  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the  milk, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  When  it  boils,  add  the  vinegar; 
cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  until  done.  Less  vinegar  may 
be  used  or  none  at  all.  If  cream  is  used  instead  of  milk,  less 
butter  is  required. 


t6o  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

STUFFED  CABBAGE 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Dauison. 

One  bead  cabbage;  some  cooked  veal  or  chicken;  i  ^%z, 
(yolk);  salt;  pepper. 

Choose  a  large  fresh  cabbage  and  cut  out  the  heart;  fill 
with  the  veal,  or  chicken  chopped  very  fine,  highly  seasoned, 
and  rolled  into  balls  with  yolk  of  ^ZZ-  Then  tie  the  cabbage 
firmly  together,  (some  tie  a  cloth  around  it, )  and  boil  in  a 
covered  kettle  two  hours. 

TO  COOK  EGG  PLANT 

H.  F.  G. 

Peel,  and  slice  as  thin  as  possible;  lay  them  in  salt  water 
for  a  few  minutes;  dry  them  on  a  cloth;  dust  with  flour  ;  and 
drop  them  (three  or  four  at  a  time)  in  hot  lard.  Fry  quickly 
to  a  light  brown  like  Saratoga  chips.  They  are  nice  for 
breakfast  eaten  with  tomatoes  sliced  in  vinegar. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT 

Miss  Carrie  T.  Waddilove. 

Four  ^'g'g  plants  ;  3  hard  boiled  eggs  ;  i  fresh  &%%  ;  i  slice 
onion;  i  tablespoon  minced  salt  pork;  3  handfuls  browned 
bread  crumbs;  2  or  3  cloves;  garlic;  pinch  sage;  red  pepper; 
salt;  some  white  bread  crumbs. 

Scrape  the  ^^%  plant  from  out  the  shell  and  chop  with 
salt  pork,  browned  bread  crumbs,  onion,  garlic,  sage,  red 
pepper,  salt.  Fry  in  a  little  butter  for  five  minutes;  break 
in  one  fresh  ^%'g  ;  then  add  the  chopped  boiled  eggs.  Fill 
cases;  cover  with  white  bread  crumbs.  Bake  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Soak  ^'g'g  plant  in  strong  salt  water  several  hours 
before  using.     This  quantity  is  sufiicient  for  eight  persons. 

HOHE  HADE  HOniNY 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Congdou. 

One  can  of  lye  potash;  i  quart  water.  Dissolve  in  an 
earthen  vessel;  when  settled  and  clear,  bottle  for  use. 

One  quart  dry  corn;  3  quarts  water;  3  tablespoons  potash 
lye. 


Vegetables  i6i 

Shell  the  corn,  rejecting  all  shrivelled  kernels;  soak  it  over 
night.  Boil  half  an  hour  in  the  water  and  lye;  if  at  the  end 
of  that  time  the  skins  do  not  slip  off  easily,  boil  longer. 
Wash  the  corn  in  soft  water  until  it  is  free  from  hulls;  some- 
times eight  or  ten  waters  are  required.  Then  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  soft.     Salt  to  taste. 

TO    PREPARE    HOMINY 

Mrs.  Cheever,  Waukegau,  111. 

Two  quarts  wood  ashes;  3  gallons  water;  4  quarts  corn;  salt. 

Boil  the  ashes  in  one  gallon  of  the  water  for  one  hour; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  remaining  two  gallons;  be 
sure  it  is  cold  water;  let  it  settle;  skim  it  and  then  drain  off 
the  lye;  put  it  in  a  kettle  and  add  the  corn.  Boil  until  the 
skins  crack;  then  drain  off  the  water  and  wash  in  several 
waters,  rubbing  with  the  hands  until  the  hulls  are  removed. 
Then  cook  in  water  with  sufficient  salt  till  tender. 

HOniNY  GRITS  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  Heury  Smith. 

One  cup  homin}^  grits;  3  cups  milk;  i  teaspoon  vanilla; 
beef  drippings;  3  eggs;  i  teaspoon  salt;  4  tablespoons  sugar; 
bread  crumbs. 

Cook  the  grits  with  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 
milk  has  been  entirely  absorbed;  then  stir  in  two  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten,  the  salt,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Turn  out  to  cool. 
When  cold,  form  into  cylinders;  beat  well  the  remaining  ^^^ 
and  dip  the  C3'linders  first  in  the  ^g%  then  in  the  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar. 
If  not  for  desert,  omit  the  sugar  and  vanilla. 

nusHROons 

Mrs.  W.  J.  McCloskey. 

Pare  the  mushrooms  and  drop  them  into  vinegar  and  water 
to  prevent  discoloration.  The  vinegar  gives  them  a  tart 
flavor  and  can  be  increased  or  diminished  to  taste.  Put  in  a 
sauce  pan  sufficient  butter  to  cover  the  mushrooms;  when  the 
butter  is  brown,  drop  them  in  and  cook  over  a  rapid  fire  until 


i62  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


they  begin  to  brown;  then  stir  in  flour  and  water  mixed  to  a 
thin  smooth  paste.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  from 
six  to  ten  minutes.     Long  cooking  toughens  them. 

BROILED    MUSHROOnS 

H.  F.  G. 

Choose  the  largest  sort;  lay  them  on  a  small  gridiron  over 
bright  coals,  stalks  upward.  Broil  quickly.  Season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

FRIED  MUSHROOMS 

H.  F.  G. 

Peel;  put  them  in  hot  butter  and  heat  thoroughly — much 
cooking  toughens  them.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Serve  on  buttered  toast;  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  on  each 
mushroom  is  an  improvement. 

BOILED  HACARONI 

X.   Y.   Z. 

Never  make  the  mistake  of  washing  macaroni  before 
cooking  it.  If  dusty,  wipe  it  with  a  dry  cloth,  then  plunge 
it  in  boiling  salted  water.  Boil  steadily  until  it  softens  suf- 
ficiently to  break  under  gentle  pressure.  Drain  in  a  colander 
and  hold  it  under  the  cold  water  faucet  until  the  glutinous 
coating  is  removed  and  the  little  tubes  lie  separately  in  the 
dish,  then  drain,  and  finish  as  desired. 

ONIONS    a  la  CREME 

Mrs.  A.  C.   Doaii. 

Onions;  butter;  breadcrumbs;  salt;  pepper;  sweet  cream. 

Boil  the  onions  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Butter  a 
deep  baking  dish;  fill  alternately  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
sprinkled  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of 
sliced  onions,  until  full,  having  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Cover 
with  sweet  cream.  Bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  brown.  Serve 
hot  in  the  same  dish. 


Vegetables  .  zdj 

ESCALOPED  ONIONS 

Mrs.  Mondini  Wood. 

Onions;  cracker  crumbs;  cream;  butter;  pepper;  salt. 

Cook  thirty  sliced  onions  in  salted  water  until  very  tender 
(they  will  be  more  delicate  if  the  water  is  changed.)  Put  a 
layer  of  onions  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs  sea- 
soned with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Repeat  until  the  desired 
amount  is  prepared,  finishing  with  the  crackers.  Add  a  little 
of  the  onion  water  and  sufficient  cream  to  make  very  moist. 
Bake  until  a  light  brown. 

BOILED  ONIONS 

Remove  the  tops,  roots  and  thin    outer  skin.      Put   them 

in    cold    water   and   parboil.       Drain,    and    cook    them    very 

tender  in  plenty  of  milk  and  water,  salted.      Drain  again  and 

put  them  in  a  hot  dish.     Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of 

butter. 

STUFFED  OLIVES 

Mrs.  T.  A.   Lewis. 

Open    olives,    take    out    pits,     and    stuff    with    chopped 

truffles. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS 

H    F.   G. 

Parsnips;  2  tablespoons  butter;  pepper;  salt;  a  little 
minced  parsley;  3  tablespoons  of  cream;  %,  tablespoon  of 
flour. 

Boil  the  parsnips  until  tender.  Scrape,  and  slice  length- 
wise. Put  over  the  fire,  the  butter  and  other  seasonings. 
Shake  until  the  mixture  boils,  then  add  the  cream,  mixed 
with  the  flour,  boil  once,  and  pour  over  the  parsnips. 

PARSNIPS 

Mrs.  Alice  Curtaiu. 

Parsnips;   i  egg;  salt;  pepper;  butter. 

Peel  the  parsnips,  cut  thin  and  cook  with  a  little  water, 
until  dry.  Mash  fine,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt;  beat  up  the  ^<g^  and  mix  with  the  parsnips  while  hot, 
then  fry  in  butter,  or  beef  drippings  or  a  mixture  of  both,  as 
you  would  potato  croquettes.      Excellent. 


1 6 if.  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 

Mrs.  Hugh  W.  Vail. 

Large  green  peppers;  bread  crumbs;  chopped  meat; 
butter;  grated  cheese;  tartare  sauce. 

Remove    the  seeds  from    the    peppers.       Mix    the    bread 

crumbs,  meat,  cheese,    and    butter.     Stuff  the    pepper  skins 

with  the  mixture  and  bake  until  brown.     Serve  with  tartare 

sauce. 

GREEN  PEAS 

H.  F.  G. 

Lay  them  in  cold  water  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before 
shelling.  After  shelling  put  immediately  into  boiling  water, 
with  one  or  two  teaspoons  of  white  sugar.  Boil  rapidly  un- 
til the  skin  begins  to  shrivel,  then  turn  them  into  a  hot  dish 
with  a  little  salt,  and  a  small  lump  of  butter. 

Peas  should  not  be  cooked  with  seasoning. 

BOILED  POTATOES 

Wash  the  potatoes  just  before  cooking,  put  them  in  cold 
salted  water  and  boil  until  half  done,  turn  the  water  off,  and 
pour  on  fresh  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  until  soft.  Take 
from  the  fire,  put  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water  in  the  pot  and 
pour  it  off.  This  method  of  cooking  improves  even  poor 
potatoes,  making  them  soft,  and  mealy. 

POTATOES  BAKED  IN  HILK 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Lucas. 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  sliced  potatoes,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  cover  with  new  milk.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven,  one  and  one-half  hours. 

POTATOES  au  QRATEN 

Mrs.  C.   H.   Walton. 

Cut  potatoes  in  cubes,  mix  with  white  stock  and  white 
sauce,  cover  with  crumbs  and  bake. 

POTATO  PUFFS 

Mrs.  Owens. 

One  quart  mashed  potatoes;    2  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  light;  beat  the  potato,  nicely  seasoned,  until 


Vegetables  i6^ 

creamy;  then  dip  up  a  spoonful  of  potato,  immerse  it  in  the 
^•g^  and  lay  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
with  these  puffs,  and  brown  evenly  in  a  well-heated  oven. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

Mrs.  Owens. 

Three  tablespoons  butter;  2  teaspoons  flour;  i  teaspoon 
minced  parsley;   i  cup  cream,  or  milk. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  dice.  Mix  the  butter,  flour 
and  cream  in  a  saucepan.  When  the  mixture  comes  to  a 
boil,  add  the  potatoes  with  pepper,  salt  and  parsley.  Boil  up 
once  and  serve. 

HASHED  AND  BROWNED  POTATOES 

Miss  Ida  A.  Mayuard. 

One  quart  cold  boiled  potatoes;  i  teaspoon  flour;  salt, 
pepper,  milk;   2  tablespoons  butter. 

Chop  the  potatoes,  coarse;  sprinkle  with  flour,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  add  a  little  milk  to  moisten.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  add  the  potatoes,  and  cook  slowly 
until  brown  on  the  under  side.  Fold,  and  turn  out  like  an 
omelet. 

STUFFED  POTATOES 

Miss  Ida  A.  Maynard. 

Six  medium-sized  potatoes;  i  tablespoon  butter;  a  little 
hot  milk;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Bake  the  potatoes;  when  done,  cut  off  a  small  piece  at 
each  end,  with  a  spoon,  remove  the  inside,  which  mash,  and 
beat  well  and  moisten  with  the  hot  milk;  add  the  butter,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fill  the  skins  with  this 
mixture  and  brush  with  melted  butter.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

Mrs.  A.X.  Alien. 

Six  potatoes;   i  cup  milk;   i  tablespoon  butter;   i  teaspoon 

salt;  4  eggs,  whites  only:    a  speck  of  cayenne;  grated  cheese. 

Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  skins,  peel  and  mash  them  while 


i66  How    We  Cook  hi  Los  Ayigeles 


hot;  add  the  butter,  milk  and  cayenne.  Beat  until  light, 
whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  gently  into  the  potatoes. 
Put  them  in  baking  dish,  dust  with  grated  cheese,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  of  a  golden  brown. 

RAW  POTATO  CAKES 

Mrs.   Owens. 

One  quart  grated  potato  ;  4  eggs  ;  i  tablespoon  flour  ;  i 
teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Peel,  and  grate  the  potatoes  on  a  coarse  grater  as  quickly 
as  possible.  Mix  with  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  flour, 
baking  powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Fry  by  spoonsful  in  a 
frying  pan,  in  hot  lard.     Turn  like  griddle  cakes.     Serve  hot. 

BAKED    POTATOES 

Select  potatoes  of  equal  size,  wash  and  wipe  dry  with  a 
cloth.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  as  soon  as  done. 

POTATO  CROUQUETTES 

Marion  Harland. 

Beat  mashed  potatoes  soft,  with  milk  and  a  little  butter  ; 
whip  in  the  yolk  of  an  ^<g%  for  every  cupful.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  L,et  all  get  cold  and  stiff.  Make  into  croquettes, 
roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

ESCA LOPED  POTATO 

Mrs.  Nellie  King 

Three  cups  mashed  potato,  hot  ;  ^  cup  milk  ;  2  table- 
spoons butter;  raw  ^^Z'^'  Pepper;    salt;  breadcrumbs. 

Beat  together  the  potato,  milk,  ^z%>  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Fill  a  baking  dish  with  this  mixture.  Sprinkle  the  top 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  covered.  Then 
remove  the  cover  and  brown  five  minutes. 

PARISIENNE  POTATOES 

Mrs.   Hugh  W.  Vail. 

Cut  raw  potatoes  into  small  balls,  fry  them  in  very  hot 
lard  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 


•  Vegetables  j6j 

DUCHKSS  POTATOES 

X.     V.  z. 

Bight  large  potatoes;  i  tablespoon  butter;  2  eggs;  salt; 
cracker  crumbs;  flour. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes;  mix  them  with  the  butter,  salt 
and  raw  yolks;  stir  all  together  over  the  fire.  When  cold,  roll 
out,  using  sufficient  flour  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  board; 
make  into  shapes  according  to  fancy.  Beat  the  white  of  one 
e^g  with  one  tablespoon  of  cold  water;  dip  the  potato  in  this, 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fr}'  in  hot  lard. 

FRENCH  POTATOES 

Mrs.  Orr  Haralson. 

Potatoes;  2  eggs;  yi  teaspoon  salt;  ^  teaspoon  pepper;  2 
tablespoons  flour. 

Select  small  new  potatoes  of  uniform  size;  scrape  them 
clean  and  white;  roll  them  in  batter  made  after  recipe  given 
above.  Put  a  layer  in  a  wire  basket  and  place  in  a  kettle  of 
smoking  hot  fat  until  cooked. 

HASHED  POTATOES 

H.   F.  G. 

Potatoes  are  not  good  for  mashing  until  they  are  fully 
grown.  Peel  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  before 
boiling.  Put  them  in  salted  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly 
until  done  (not  overdone);  then  turn  them  quickly  into  a 
colander;  drain  dry;  return  them  to  the  drj^  kettle;  mash  them 
smooth;  season  with  salt,  a  little  white  pepper,  generous  piece 
of  butter,  and  one,  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream. 
Set  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  with  a  strong  spoon,  stir  the 
potatoes  until  creamy  and  very  light.     Serve  hot  as  possible. 

MASHED  POTATOES  BAKED 

Heap  creamed  mashed  potatoes  upon  a  flat  dish,  shaped 
into  a  mound  or  pine  apple;  brush  lightly  with  beaten  white 
of  Qgg;  brown  delicately,  garnish  the  edge  of  the  plate  with 
parsley. 


1 68  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles^ 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES 

H.  F.  G. 

One  quart  cooked  potatoes;  3  tablespoons  butter;  i  table- 
spoon chopped  onion  ;  i  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  ;  salt  ; 
pepper. 

Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter  until  it  is  slightly  browned, 
then  add  the  sliced  potatoes,  well  salted  and  peppered.  When 
thoroughly  heated,  add  the  parsley,  and  cook  two  minutes. 

The  onions  may  be  omitted. 

SARATOGA    POTATOES 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Widney. 

Pare,  and  slice  potatoes  thin  as  possible,  lay  them  in  ice 
water  for  an  hour.  Then  dry  them  on  a  cloth.  Drop  the 
slices,  few  at  a  time,  in  deep  hot  lard,  or  better  still  cottolene. 
Fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  Take  up  with  a  skimmer,  la}'  them 
on  clean  soft  paper.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  set  them  in  the 
open  oven,  to  preserve  their  crispness.  Serve  either  hot  or 
cold. 

BOILED  RICE 

X.   Y.   Z. 

Wash  the  rice,  drain,  and  put  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Boil  twelve  minutes,  drain,  cover  with  a  thickly  folded  towel, 
set  in  the  oven,  leaving  the  door  open,  and  steam  it  until  the 
grains  are  dry  and  bursting. 

SUnnER  SQUASH 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Siusabaugli. 

Young  squash  ;  ^^^  ;  cracker  crumbs  ;  corn  meal ;  salt; 
pepper;  butter,  and  lard. 

Select  solid  squash,  that  have  not  begun  to  form  seed,  cut 
them  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  lay  them  in 
salt  and  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Dip  each  slice  into  beaten 
^ZZ->  roll  ill  fills  cracker  crumbs  and  Indian  meal,  well  salted 
and  peppered.  Fry  in  hot  olive  oil,  or  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Ffy  briskly  at  first,  afterwards  more  slowly  until  tender. 


Vegetables  i6p 

BAKED  HUBBARD  SQUASH 

O.  G.  M. 

Cut  in  pieces,  scrape  out  the  seeds  and  soft  part.       Bake 

from  one  to  one  and  a  half  hours,  according  to  the  thickness 

of  the  squash.       To  be  eaten  with  butter  and  salt,  like  baked 

potatoes. 

SPINACH 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Kerckhoff. 

Four  bunches  spinach;  i  cup  water;  )4  tablespoon  salt; 
2  tablespoons  butter;  2  tablespoons  dried  bread  crumbs,  or 
I  tablespoon  flour;  yi  cup  cream. 

Pick  apart  leaf  by  leaf  the  spinach,  and  wash  thoroughly; 
put  into  a  large  stew  pan  with  the  water,  cover  closely  and 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  the  salt  and  cook  five  min- 
utes longer.  Remove  from  fire,  turn  into  a  colander,  and 
press  out  as  much  water  as  possible;  then  put  into  chopping 
tray  and  mince  very  fine.  Put  butter  into  frying  pan;  when 
melted,  add  bread  crumbs  or  flour;  stir  the  mixture  until  it 
becomes  smooth  and  frothy;  then  add  the  chopped  spinach 
and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  add  the 
cream  and  cook  for  one  minute. 

SPINACH  WITH  CREAM 

Mrs.  R.  L.  ilcKnight. 

Spinach;  cream;  sugar;  nutmeg;  stale  bread;  salt. 

Pick  the  leaves  from  the  stalks;  wash  thoroughly;  boil  in 
covered  sauce  pan  with  just  sufficient  water  to  prevent  burn- 
ing; add  salt,  and  turn  frequently  while  cooking.  When 
tender;  drain  and  chop  fine,  and  return  to  the  sauce  pan  with 
sufiicient  boiling  cream  to  moisten;  add  a  sprinkling  of  sugar 
and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Stir  it  until  thoroughly  hot;  then 
pile  it  high  in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  around  the 
base   with  rings  of  stale  bread  fried  in  boiling  fat.      Serve 

very  hot. 

BAKED  SALSIFY 

Miss   M.  E.  McLellan. 

Salsify;  breadcrumbs;  milk;  butter;  pepper;  salt. 

Boil  the   salsify  until  the  skin  comes  off  easily.     Remove 


lyo  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

the  skin;  slice.  Put  into  a  dish  a  layer  of  salsify,  and  a  laj^er 
of  bread  crumbs  with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt  on  each 
layer;  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  crumbs  on  top. 
Then  pour  over  it  as  much  milk  as  the  dish  will  hold  and  bake 
until  brown  or  from  thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes. 

BOILED  SWEET  POTATOES 

X.  Y.  Z. 

Wash,  and  put  them  in  salted  boiling  water,  cover  close, 
and  boil  rapidly  half  an  hour,  longer  if  the  potatoes  are  large. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

X.  Y.  Z. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  until  they  are  two  thirds  done,  then  peel, 
and  cut  them  lengthwise  in  two  or  three  slices.  Lay  them  in 
a  buttered  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bits  of  butter, 
and  bake  until  they  are  nicely  browned. 

BROILED  TOHATOES 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Welch. 

Select  tomatoes  not  over  ripe,  halve  them  crosswise,  dip 
the  cut  side  into  beaten  Qgg,  then  into  wheat  flour,  and  place 
them  upon  a  greased  gridiron.  When  well  browned,  turn 
them  and  cook  the  skin  side  until  thoroughly  done.  Put 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt  on  the  egg  side  and  serve  upon  a 
platter. 

ESCALOPED  TOriATOES 

Mrs.  Adolf  Ekstein. 

Breadcrumbs;  tomatoes;  butter;  little  sugar;  pepper,  salt. 

Put  a  layer  of  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  buttered  pudding 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  (canned  ones  will  do) 
season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sugar;  then  a  layer 
of  the  crumbs,  and  so  on  finishing  with  a  layer  of  crumbs. 
Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

FRIED  TOMATOES  FOR  BREAKFAST 

Mrs.  T.  S.  Stanway. 

Cut  large  smooth  tomatoes   in  slices  half  an  inch  thick; 


Vegetables  lyi 

dip  them   in    powdered  bread  crumbs  and  fry   them  a  light 
brown  in  half  butter  and  half  lard. 

5TUFFED  TOMATOES 

H.   F.    W. 

Twelve  large  smooth  tomatoes;  i  cup  bread  crumbs;  i 
tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon  sugar;  i  teaspoon  salt;  i 
teaspoon  onion  juice;  a  little  pepper. 

Arrange  the  tomatoes  in  a  baking  pan;  cut  a  thin  slice 
from  the  smooth  end  of  each,  scoop  out  as  much  of  the  pulp 
and  juice  as  possible,  without  spoiling  the  shape.  Mix  this 
with  the  other  ingredients.  Fill  the  tomatoes,  put  on  the 
tops,  and  bake  slowly,  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Slip  a 
pancake  turner  under  them  and  lift  gently  on  to  a  hot  platter. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

BAKED  TOHATOES 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Widuey. 

Tomatoes;  butter;  salt;  pepper. 

Cut  a  piece  the  size  of  a  quarter  dollar  from  the  stem  end 
of  large  smooth  tomatoes,  put  in  each  a  salt  spoon  of  salt, 
half  as  much  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg;  set  them  in 
a  pan  and  bake  nearly  an  hour. 

Particularly  good  with  lamb,  or  mutton  chops. 

BAKED  DICED  TURNIPS 

ISIrs.  Adolf  Ekstein. 

Turnips,  cooked  in  salted  water;  cream  gravy;  cracker 
crumbs. 

Cut  the  turnips  into  dice,  and  cook  in  the  salted  water; 
when  done,  put  into  a  colander  and  douse  with  cold  water; 
then  place  in  a  baking  dish  and  pour  the  cream  gravy  over 
them,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE 


BOILED  EGGS 

H.  F.  W. 

Put  the  eggs  in  cold  water  over  a  moderate  fire;  if  desired 
soft,  they  will  be  sufficiently  cooked  by  the  time  the  water 
reaches  the  boiling  point;  if  hard,  leave  them  in  the  water 
fifteen  minutes,  keeping  it  just  below  the  boiling  point. 
Cooked  in  this  way  the  yolks  will  be  dry,  mealy  and  healthful. 

BAKED  EGGS 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Doau. 

Six  fresh  eggs;  6  tablespoons  rich  sweet  cream;  pepper, 
salt. 

Grease  an  agate  pie  pan  thickly  with  butter.  Break  into 
it  the  eggs,  and  pour  the  cream  between  them.  Season  to 
taste,  and  bake  them  for  four  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

BEAUREGARD  EGGS 

Mrs.  Fannie  H.  Shoemaker. 

Five  eggs;  i  tablespoon  corn  starch;  5  squares  of  toast; 
Vi  pint  milk;  butter  size  of  a  walnut;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

Boil  the  eggs  twenty  minutes,  remove  the  shells.  Chop 
the  whites  fine,  rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve.  Do  not  mix 
them.  Rub  the  butter  and  cornstarch  together,  and  stir  into 
the  boiling  milk.  Add  the  whites,  salt  and  pepper;  lay  the 
toast  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  it  with  the  white  sauce,  then  with 
a  layer  of  yolks,  repeat  once.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Stand  it  in  the  oven  for  one  or  two  minutes, 
then  serve. 

EGGS  BRONILLE 

H.  F.  W. 

Six  eggs;  ^  cup  cream;  2  mushrooms;  3  tablespoons 
butter;  i  teaspoon  salt;  a  little  pepper;  a  slight  grating  of 
nutmeg. 


Eggs  and  Cheese  //j 


Dice  the  mushrooms,  and  fr)^  them  one  minute,  in  one 
tablespoon  of  the  butter.  Beat  eggs,  cream,  pepper  and  salt 
together;  add  the  butter  and  mushrooms.  Put  this  mixture 
in  a  saucepan  over  a  moderate  fire,  stirring  it  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  rapidly  until  it  be- 
comes thick  and  cream5\  Then  heap  on  slices  of  toast, 
garnish  with  toast  points  and  serve  immediately. 

CURRIED  EQG5 

Mrs.  Chas.  Capen. 

Four  eggs;  i  teaspoon  chopped  onion;  i  tablespoon 
butter;  i  heaping  tablespoon  flour;  ]2  tablespoon  curry 
powder;  i  cup  cream;  salt;  pepper;  bread  crumbs.  Boil  the 
eggs  half  an  hour;  shell,  and  slice  into  a  shallow  dish.  Frv 
the  onion  in  the  butter,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it;  add  flour. 
and  curry  powder.  Pour  the  cream  on  slowl3^  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Simmer  until  the  onion  is  soft,  then  pour 
over  the  eggs,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  brown, 
in  the  oven.     Serve  hot. 

ESCALOPED  EQQ5 

Miss  H.  B.  Freeman. 

Melt  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  two  very  thin  slices  of 
cheese  in  a  frying  pan;  break  in  the  number  of  eggs  you  wish 
to  use;  drop  small  pieces  of  butter  over  them,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  then  sprinkle  thickly  over  the  top  nice 
bread  crumbs;  place  in  the  oven  and  let  remain  until  the 
yolks  are  of  a  jelly-like  consistency,  then  serve. 

ASPARAGUS  OMELET  FOR  BREAKFAST 

H.  F.  \V. 

Four  tablespoons  cream;  4  tablespoons  asparagus;  4  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  the  cream,  and  proceed  as  for  plain 
omelet,  when  ready  to  fold,  spread  over  it  the  asparagus;  the 
soft  heads,  which  have  been  cooked,  cut  up,  and  heated  in  a 
little  butter. 


77/  How    We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

BAKED  OHELET 

Mrs.   W.  J.  Brown. 

Six  eggs;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  2  tablespoons  flour;  butter 
size  of  an  ^z%\  ^  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  the  flour  into  a  little  of  the  fnilk;  add  the  rest  of  the 
milk  and  the  yolks  well  beaten,  mix  thoroughly.  Just  before 
cooking  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Heat  the  butter  in  a 
spider  or  earthen  baking  dish,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it; 
pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  about  ten  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  Loosen  it  with  a  knife  and  slip  it  on  a  hot  platter 
and  serve. 

TOHATO  OMELET 

Mrs.  J.  H.   Joiies. 

Six  eggs;   i  cup  milk;   i  tablespoon  flour;  pinch  salt. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix  the  flour  and 
milk;  add  the  yolks  and  then  the  well-beaten  whites,  and  a 
tomato  which  has  been  previously  boiled,  mashed,  strained 
and  seasoned.  Place  in  a  well-buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  five  minutes. 

CHEESE  OHELET 

Mrs.  Anua  O'Melveny. 

Beat  6  eggs  very  light,  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add 
to  the  yolks  i  small  cupful  of  warm  milk,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  lastly  and  lightly,  the  whites  and  some  rich  grated 
cheese. 

Have  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter  heating  in  the  frying 
pan,  and  when  very  hot  pour  in  the  mixture,  taking  care 
that  it  does  not  scorch.  As  soon  as  it  sets,  put  in  the  oven 
covered,  and  bake  about  eight  minutes.  When  done  turn 
over  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once. 

A  DELICIOUS  OMELET 

H.  F.   W. 

One  small  cup  bread  crumbs;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  3  eggs; 
I  tablespoon  butter;  a  little  salt. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  over  night.     In  the  morning 


E^gs  and  Cheese  775 


beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding  the  yolks  and 
and  salt  first,  then  the  whites.  Stir  lightly,  and  pour  into  a 
shallow  frying  pan,  in  which  is  the  hot  butter.  Fry  a  light 
brown  and  serve  at  once.  It  should  be  folded  almost  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  set,  in  order  to  have  it  light  and  tender  inside. 
Substitute  cold  mashed  potato  for  the  crumbs  and  you  have 
potato  omelet.     It  may  be  baked  if  preferred. 

FRIAR'S  OriELET 

X.   Y.  Z. 

Ten  large  apples;   i  egg;  butter;  sugar;  bread  crumbs. 

Peel,  slice,  and  stew  the  apples,  seasoning  them  to  taste, 
with  butter  and  sugar,  when  cool  beat  in  the  ^%%.  Butter 
thickly  the  inside  of  a  plain  mold  that  will  hold  three  pints. 
Over  the  butter  put  an  half  inch  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then 
pour  in  the  apple  sauce;  cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Turn  out  of  the 
mold,  dust  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve  hot  with  cream  or 
sauce. 

EGG  OHELET 

Mrs.  John  L.  Truslow,   Santa  Barbara. 

To  each  person  allow  i  egg;  i  even  teaspoon  butter;  2 
tablespoons  sweet  milk,    salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Break  the  whites  of  eggs  in  pudding  dish  and  beat  well. 
Beat  the  yelks  till  light;  add  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and 
milk;  turn  into  the  whites  stirring  all  the  time.  Bake  in 
nice  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  immediately. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

H.  W.  W. 

One  half  ft  American  cheese  ;  i  tablespoon  butter  ;  i  gill 
milk;  i  egg,  yolk;  salt;  pepper;  mustard. 

Grate  the  cheese,  put  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the  butter,  a 
little  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  the  cheese  begins  to 
melt,  stir  in  slowly  the  milk  ;  when  smooth  add  the  yolk. 
Spread  the  mixture  on  slices  of  buttered  toast  and  serve  in  a 
chafing  dish. 


1^6  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

RAREBIT  a  la  SOYER 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Ellis. 

One  half  lb  rich  cheese  ;  2  oz.  butter  ;  i  teaspoon  mustard 
(made);  salt,  little;  cayenne,  plenty;  2  eggs  (beaten). 

Stir  with  wooden  spoo?i. 

Cut  cheese  into  small  cubes,  as  nearly  as  possible  of  a  size. 
Put  eggs  in  after  it  is  nearly  cooked.  Serve  on  hot  toast,  on 
very  hot  plates. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

O.  G.   M. 

Bread  crumbs;  salt;  pepper;  grated  cheese;   i  egg. 

Kqual  quantities  of  bread  and  cheese;  season.  Mix  into  a 
paste  with  the  egg,  roll  into  balls,  and  fr}-  in  boiling  oil, 
butter,  or  cottolene. 

CHEESE  CAKE5 

Mrs.  M.  B.   Welch. 

One  and  one  half  ounces  butter;  i^^  ounces  sugar;  i  egg\ 
five  drops  of  almond  essence;  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  a  sprin- 
kle of  nutmeg;  i  ounce  of  cracker  crumbs;  4  tablespoons  milk. 

Bake  in  patty  pans  lined  with  puff  paste. 

CHEESE  FONDU 

Mrs    E.  R.  Smith. 

One  fourth  lb  of  cheese;  i  gill  of  milk;  3  eggs;  butter, 
pepper,  salt. 

Grate  the  cheese,  and  heat  it  in  the  milk  until  it  is  per- 
fectly melted.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  eggs  (beaten) 
and  seasoning.  Put  butter  in  dish  and  set  to  melt.  When 
melted  pour  in  the  cheese  mixture.  Heat  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  it  stiffens. 

A  good  luncheon  dish. 

CHEESE  FONDU 

E.  P.  T. 

To  2  tablespoons  of  slightly  browned  flour,  add  % 
saltspoon   mustard,  yi    saltspoon  white  pepper,  a  few  grains 


Eg^^s  and  Cheese  ijy 


cayenne,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  saltspoon  soda,  ^2  cupful 
skimmed  milk  and  ^  tb  grated  cheese.  Heat  over  boiling 
water  until  the  cheese  is  melted,  add  quickly  3  well  beaten 
eggs,  stir  until  smooth,  put  in  patty  pans  or  paper  cups,  bake 
quickly  and  serve  very  hot. 

CHEESE  RAflAKINS 

Mrs.   Fannie  H.  Shoemaker. 

Four  tablespoons  grated  cheese  ;  2  tablespoons  butter  ;  i 
gill  milk  ;  2  ounces  bread  ;  3  eggs,  yolks  of  two,  whites  of 
three;  yi  teaspoon  mustard;  cayenne  and  salt. 

Boil  the  bread  and  milk,  stirring  until  smooth.  Add  the 
butter  and  cheese,  stirring  over  the  fire  one  minute.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  yolk  and  seasoning  ;  then  carefully  stir 
in  the  stiffl}'  frothed  whites,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Woodhead. 

One  cup  flour;  i  cup  grated  cheese;  2  oz.  butter;  pinch  of 
salt;  a  dash  of  ca5'enne  ;  water  to  make  of  the  consistency 
of  pie  crust  dough. 

Roll  in  sheets  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  strips, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHEESE  CROQUETTES 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Hicks. 

Ten  ounces  Roquefort  cheese  ;  5  ounces  butter;  cream  ; 
cayenne. 

Mix  the  cheese  with  the  butter,  which  should  be  fresh  and 
not  too  highl}'  salted,  add  enough  cream  to  give  it  the  consist- 
ency of  paste.  Make  it  hot  with  cayenne,  but  not  too  hot. 
Mould  in  the  shape  of  small  croquettes,  and  serve  with  water 
crackers,  and  coffee. 

CHEESE  AND  EGG  TOAST 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

One  tablespoon  cheese  ;  ^  pint  cream  or  milk  ;  2  eggs; 
butter;  salt,  pepper;  slices  of  toasted  bread. 


ijS  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Cut  the  cheese  into  small  pieces  ;  put  it  into  the  cream  or 
milk;  boil  until  melted.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter, 
add  eggs  (well  beaten),  and  remove  from  the  fire,  stirring 
for  a  few  moments.     Spread  over  the  slices  of  toast. 

CHEESE    SOUFFLE 

H.   F.   W. 

Six  ounces  Parmesan  cheese  ;  i  saltspoon  dry  mustard  ;  i 
saltspoon  white  pepper;  2  ounces  butter;  a  pinch  of  cayenne  ; 
I  gill  milk;   2  tablespoons  flour;  6  eggs. 

Grate  the  cheese,  put  it  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the  mustard, 
pepper,  and  cayenne.  Stir  into  this  mixture  the  flour  and 
butter;  then  add  the  milk  slowly.  Put  the  sauce  pan  on  the 
fire  and  stir  the  contents  until  a  thick  rich  cream  is  formed, 
being  careful  that  it  does  not  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add 
the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  the  whites,  stiffly  frothed.  Pour 
the  mixture  into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes.     Serve  immediately. 

CHEESE  WITH  RICE 

One  cup  rice  ;  2)/2  cups  boiling  water  ;  i  tablespoon  salt  ; 
^  ft)  cheese;  cayenne;  milk;  cracker  crumbs;  butter. 

Rub  the  rice  through  several  waters;  put  it  in  the  boiling 
salted  water.  Steam  until  tender,  stirring  with  a  fork  instead 
of  a  spoon  so  as  not  to  break  the  kernels.  When  the  rice  is 
done,  put  a  layer  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  dot  it  with 
shavings  of  cheese  and  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Repeat  until  the 
rice  and  cheese  are  used,  having  the  top  layer  of  cheese.  Add 
milk  to  half  the  depth  of  the  contents  of  the  dish,  cover  with 
buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  the  cheese  melts. 

This  can  be  served  as  an  entree  witli  lamb  or  as  a  break- 
fast dish. 


BREAD 


A.  C. 


There  are  three  important  requisites  in  the  composition 
of  good  bread  :  —  good  flour,  good  yeast,  and  thorough 
kneading.  Flour  should  be  white  and  dr3%  and  sifted  before 
using.  The  bowl  or  pan  in  which  a  bread  sponge  is  mixed 
should  be  thoroughly  wrapped  in  a  thick  cloth,  flannel 
being  preferable. 

BREAD 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Perry. 

One  cake  Royal  yeast  ;  6  cups  water;  y^,  cup  milk  ;  i  tea- 
spoon salt;  a  small  piece  of  butter;  flour. 

Make  a  thin  batter  of  flour  and  three  cups  of  water;  to  this 
add  the  yeast  which  has  been  softened  in  warm  water.  When 
light,  add  the  salt,  butter,  milk,  three  caps  of  water,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  very  stiff.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  more  flour.  Knead  thoroughly  and  make  into 
loaves.     This  recipe  will  make  most  delicious  rolls. 

YEAST   BREAD 

Mrs.  JI.  S.  Mathisou. 

One  cake  Magic  yeast  ;  i  pint  lukewarm  water  ;  i  quart 
new  milk  ;  i  quart  cold  water  ;  i  tablespoon  salt  ;  2  table- 
spoons sugar;  flour;  butter  or  lard. 

At  noon  soak  the  yeast  in  the  warm  water  fifteen  minutes, 
then  stir  in  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff"  batter.  Set  it  in  a 
warm  place  (not  too  warm)  until  very  light.  In  the  evening 
scald  the  milk  and  add  it,  with  the  water,  salt,  sugar  and 
flour,  enough  to  knead.  Knead  it  half  an  hour,  then  rub  the 
top  of  the  dough  with  butter  or  lard,  to  prevent  its  drying. 
In  the  morning  knead  another  half  hour,  divide  into  six 
loaves,  and  when  sufficiently  light  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot 
oven.      When  taken  from  the  oven,  wet  the  tops  of  the  loaves 


i8o  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

with  sweet  milk,  to  soften  the  crust.       Do  not  wrap  the  bread 
in  cloths  until  it  is  cold. 

POTATO  YEAST 

Honora  Fogarty. 

Four  large  tablespoons  flour  ;  i  tablespoon  salt  ;  i  table- 
spoon sugar;  )^  salt  spoon  ginger  ;  4  potatoes,  medium  size  ; 
2  quarts  water. 

Cook  the  potatoes  in  the  water  ;  when  done,  mash  them 
and  add  with  the  water  to  the  other  ingredients.  vStir  thor- 
oughly. When  cool  add  i  cake  of  Magic  yeast  soaked  in  ^ 
cup  cold  water. 

YEAST   BREAD 

Honora  Fogarty. 

One  quart  lukewarm  water  ;  i  pint  yeast  ;  i  tablespoon 
salt. 

Make  a  sponge,  cover  carefully,  let  it  stand  until  ver}' 
light,  then  mix  it  stiff.  L,et  it  rise  one  hour  ;  mold  into 
loaves.     L,et  it  rise  again;  bake  one  hour  at  least. 

This  quantity  will  make  four  loaves  and  a  pan  of  biscuits. 

GOOD  BREAD 

H.   F.   W. 

One  cake  Magic  yeast  ;  i  tumbler  warm  water  ;  4  table- 
spoons flour;   1^2  cups  boiling  water;  flour;  warm  water. 

Soak  the  3'east  in  tumbler  of  warm  water  thirty  minutes. 
Mix  the  measured  flour  in  the  boiling  water.  Stir  till  like 
cream.  When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast;  keep  this  in  a  warm 
place  twelve  hours.  Then  add  two  pints  warm  water,  beat 
(not  stir)  fifteen  minutes.  Then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  heat  the  batter,  until  lukewarm. 
Add  flour;  knead  until  it  does  not  stick  to  the  board,  When 
light,  mold  into  loaves.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five 
to  sixty  minutes. 

BREAD  STICKS 

Mrs.  John  Wigmore  from  Mi.ss  Parloa. 

Four  cups  flour;  %  cup  butter;  i  cup  boiled  milk;  }\  cake 


Bread  i8i 

compressed  yeast ;    3  tablespoons  cold    water  ;     i  tablespoon 
sugar;   i  teaspoon  salt,  scant  measure;  white  of  i  ^%^. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the 
water.  Beat  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  all  the 
ingredients  to  the  flour.  Knead  well,  and  let  the  dough  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  make  into  balls  the  size  of  large 
walnuts.  Roll  these  into  sticks  a  foot  long.  Place  them  two 
inches  apart  in  long  pans.  Let  them  rise  half  an  hour  in  a 
cool  place.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
They  should  be  quite  dry  and  crisp, 

RYE  BREAD 

Mrs.  T.  D.  Stimsou. 

One  quart  boiling  milk;  a  little  salt;  2  tablespoons  butter  ; 
2  tablespoons  sugar  ;  J4  cake  compressed  yeast ;  ^i  cup  corn 
meal;  rye  flour;  wheat  flour. 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  the  milk.  When  it  is  luke- 
warm; add  the  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little  sweet  milk,  the  corn 
meal,  and  rye  flour,  until  it  is  stiff"  as  can  be  stirred  with  a 
spoon.  Let  this  stand  until  morning  ;  then  knead.  When 
light,  make  into  loaves,  using  a  little  wheat  flour  on  the 
board,  and  put  in  pans  to  rise.  This  makes  two  loaves  of 
very  nice  bread. 

OATriEAL  BREAD 

Mrs.  T.   W.  Brotherton 

One  cup  oat  meal  ;  i  cup  warm  water  ;  y^  cup  sugar  ;  i 
tablespoon  melted  butter  ;  }l  cake  compressed  j^east  ;  wheat 
flour. 

The  oat  meal  should  be  cooked  and  salted  as  for  the  table. 
In  the  evening  add  the  other  ingredients,  stirring  in  all  the 
wheat  flour  possible.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
stir  in  more  wheat  flour;  put  in  pans.  Let  it  rise  again,  then 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

ROLLS 

Mrs.   C.  W.  Pendleton. 

One  pint  milk  ;  2  tablespoons  sugar  ;  i  tablespoon  lard, 
large;  l-z  cake  compressed  yeast;  i  quart  flour;  i  pinch  salt  ; 
warm  water;  soda  the  size  of  a  pea. 


i82  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


Scald  the  milk,  add  lard  and  sugar.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in 
a  little  warm  water.  When  the  milk  is  cool  add  the  yeast 
and  flour.  I^et  this  batter  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  this,  adding  the  salt  and 
soda.  L,et  it  stand  two  or  three  hours,  then  knead  again  and 
mould.  I  make  mine  round,  and  turn  one  side  over  the  other. 
I^et  them  rise  one  and  a  half  hours.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FRENCH   ROLLS 

Marian  Harlaiid. 

One  pint  milk;  2  eggs;  4  tablespoons  yeast;  3  tablespoons 
butter;  i  teaspoon  salt;  3  pints  flour;  or  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough;  i  tablespoon  white  sugar. 

Warm  the  milk  slightlj^  and  add  to  it  the  beaten  eggs  and 
salt.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  quickl}-  and  lightly,  un- 
til it  is  like  yellow  powder.  Work  into  this  gradually,  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  the  milk  and  eggs,  then  the  5'east.  Knead 
well,  and  let  it  rise  for  three  hours,  or  until  the  dough  is 
light  and  begins  to  crack  on  top.  Make  into  small  rolls;  let 
them  stand  on  the  hearth  twenty  minutes  before  baking  in  a 
quick  oven.  Just  before  taking  them  them  up,  brush  over 
with  white  of  ^z%.  Shut  the  oven  door  one  minute  to  glaze 
them . 

SWEETENED  FRENCH  ROLLS 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Millar. 

Two  cups  milk;  i  cup  home-made  yeast;  3  tablespoons 
sugar;   i  tablespoon  butter;   i  ^gz- 

To  the  milk,  yeast,  and  beaten  ^gg,  add  sufficient  flour 
(into  which  the  butter  should  be  worked)  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Mix  well.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
knead  it  (not  too  much).  Roll  out  into  rounds,  fold  over, 
lay  in  a  pan,  cover  closely,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  place,  un- 
til very  light.      Bake  quickly  in  a  moderate  oven. 

VIENNA  R0LL5 

Juliet  Corson. 

Four  fts.  flour;  3  pints  milk  and  water;  3 2    ounce  of  salt; 


Bread  j8j 

1 3/(  ounces  fresh  compressed  \'east,       These    proportions  are 
for  an  ordinar)^  family. 

Place  the  flour  in  the  bread  bowl,  and  in  it  put  the  milk, 
water  and  salt;  mix  with  the  liquid  enough  of  the  flour  to 
make  a  very  thin  batter;  next  rub  the  yeast  to  powder  between 
the  hands,  and  mix  it  into  the  batter;  cover  the  bread  closelj^ 
and  let  it  stand  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  At  the  end  of 
that  time  mix  in  the  rest  of  the  flour  smoothl5%  and  let  the 
dough  thus  made  stand  again,  closely  covered,  for  two  hours 
and  a  half,  until  it  is  light  and  elastic;  then  cut  into  pound 
pieces,  and  each  pound  into  twelve  equal  parts;  flatten  these 
small  pieces  of  dough  into  squares  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  fold  their  corners  to  the  center,  pinch  them  down  to 
hold  them,  and  turn  the  little  rolls  thus  made  over  on  a  board 
covered  with  cloth;  let  them  stand  about  ten  minutes,  turn 
them  up  again  on  a  baking  sheet,  and  put  them  into  a  hot 
oven  and  bake  quickly  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  when  half 
done  brush  them  with  milk,  return  them  to  the  oven  and 
finish  baking  them. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

Mrs.  T.  D.  Stimsou. 

One  pint  boiling  milk;  i  heaping  tablespoon  butter;  i 
heaping  tablespoon  sugar:  i  even  teaspoon  salt;  ^  cake  com- 
pressed 5' east;  best  wheat  flour. 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  the  boiling  milk,  let  it  cool 
until  lukewarm,  then  add  the  yeast,  and  stir  in  the  flour  grad- 
ually until  thick  enough  to  knead.  Knead  ten  minutes,  cover 
with  a  cloth,  place  a  heavy  pan,  or  molding  board  over  it;  let 
it  stand  until  morning.  Knead  again,  and  let  stand  until 
ten  o'clock,  then  roll  out,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  butter 
half  of  the  upper  side  and  lap  over  the  other;  put  in  a  pan, 
leaving  plenty  of  room  between;  when  light  bake  twenty 
minutes.     This  makes  three  dozen  rolls. 

BEATEN   BISCUIT 

Mrs.  J.  W.  McKinley. 

One  pound  flour;  2)4  ounces  lard;  a  pinch  of  salt;  water 
to  make  a  stiff"  dough. 


t8^  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

lyay  the  dough  on  a  molding  board,  and  beat  with  a  roll- 
ing pin,  adding  flour  as  it  softens.  Beat  until  the  dough  will 
crack  as  it  is  pulled  apart.  It  will  require  about  five  hun- 
dred strokes.  Make  into  biscuit  the  size  of  a  large  walnut, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

Martha  Bashor. 

Two  pints  flour;    i  tablespoon  lard  or  butter;    2  teaspoons 
Cleveland's  baking  powder — heaped;  sweet  milk. 
Knead  little  as  possible.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAH  BISCUIT 

,  :Mrs.  J.  M.  Stewart. 

One  quart  flour;  i  coffee  cup  sour  cream;  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;  }4  teaspoon  soda;  a  little 
salt;   sweet  milk. 

Mix  the  baking  powder  in  the  dry  flour,  and  stir  it  into 
the  cream  with  the  soda  and  salt.  Use  enough  sweet  milk 
in  mixing  to  make  the  dough  roll  easily.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

The  above  makes  a  superior  crust  for  strawberry  short- 
cake. Roll  the  dough  in  two  equal  parts.  Put  them  together, 
spreading  butter  between,  that  they  may  separate  easily 
when  baked. 

TWIN  BISCUIT 

Miss  Ida  A.   Maynard. 

One  pint  flour;  )4  teaspoon  salt;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;    i  tablespoon  butter;  milk. 

Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Rub  in  the 
butter.  Add  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  thin. 
Cut  into  rounds  with  a  small  cutter.  Spread  these  with 
softened  butter,  then  cut  more  rounds,  and  put  one  on  top  of 
each  of  the  buttered  ones.  Bake  about  ten  minutes  in  a  very 
hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  SHORTCAKE 

Mrs,  T.  W.  Brotherton. 

One  half  cup  butter;     i  cup  sugar;     >^  cup  water  or  milk; 
3  well-beaten   eggs;     i    cup  graham  flour,    (sifted);     %   cup 


Bread  185 

white  flour;    2   teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder,  sifted 
with  flour. 

Delicious  with  strawberries  or  raspberries.  Cream  an 
improvement.  To  be  baked  in  layers — berries  added  just 
before  serving. 

BROWN  BREAD 

Mrs.  Vida  A.  Bixby. 

Two  cups  corn  meal;  i  cup  graham  flour;  i  cup  white 
flour;  2  cups  sour  milk;  i  cup  molasses;  2  eggs;  i  teaspoon 
soda;  salt;   i  cup  raisins. 

Mix  together  the  corn  meal,  graham  and  white  flour. 
Add  milk;  molasses,  eggs,  soda,  and  a  little  salt.  Raisins 
should  be  put  in  last,  if  used  at  all.  Their  use  is  optional. 
Steam  four  hours.     Brown  in  oven  one  half  hour. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Melius. 

Two  cups  corn  meal;  i  cup  r3'e  flour,  or  sifted  graham; 
2  cups  sweet  milk;  i  cup  sour  milk;  ]/z  cup  molasses;  Yi 
teaspoon  salt;  2  tablespoons  melted  butter;  i  teaspoon  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  y'l  cup  of  hot  water. 

Pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  tin  and  steam  three 
hours,  then  bake  twenty  minutes,  leaving  on  the  cover.  Be 
careful  to  keep  the  water  boiling. 

STEAMED  QRAHAH  BREAD 

Mrs.  H.  Z.  Osborne. 

One  and  one  half  teacups  sour  milk;  i  ^zz;  i  teaspoon 
saleratus;  ^  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  molasses;  Y-z  teaspoon  salt; 
shortening,  the  size  of  an  ^^%. 

Stir  in  enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  then 
add  the  0.%%  well  beaten,  and  stir  in  wheat  flour  until  the 
batter  is  thick.  Put  it  in  a  well-greased  tin.  Steam  two 
hours,  then  brown  it  in  the  oven. 

SOUTHERN  RICE  BREAD 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

Three  eggs;    i^  pints  milk;   i  teaspoon  salt;    i  pint  white 


1 86  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


corn  meal;   i  tablespoon  melted  butter;   i  cup  cold  boiled  rice; 
2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  beat  well.  Add  the  baking  powder  last.  Bake 
in  round,  shallow  pans  (well  greased)  thirty  minutes.  Serv^e 
hot. 

THE  REAL  OLD  CORN  PONE 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Gibson. 

Corn  meal;    molasses;    salt;  boiling  water. 

Make  a  thin  mush;  when  cool,  stir  in  meal  until  about  as 
thick  as  graham  bread  dough — (a  stiff  batter).  Add  a  little 
salt,  and  a  little  molasses  to  sweeten.  Pour  into  a  well-greased 
Dutch  oven,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light, 
it  will  be  raised  in  the  middle  and  break  in  little  cracks  all 
over  the  top,  have  the  coals  of  fire  ready  to  put  on  top  and 
under  the  oven.  •  Stand  it  with  one  side  to  the  fire  for  a  short 
time,  then  turn  it  a  little,  and  continue  turning  it  until  everj^ 
part  has  been  exposed  to  the  fire.  When  carefuU}^  made  this 
is  delicious. 

CORN  BREAD 

Mrs    S.  J.  Peck. 

Two  cups  sour  milk;    i  cup  flour;     ^  cup  warm  water;     2 
^&SS;   Yz  teaspoon  soda;   i  teaspoon  salt;  corn  meal. 

Mix  flour,  milk,  salt  and  eggs.  Stir  in  sufficient  meal  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Add  the  soda,  dissolved  in  warm  water, 
last.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  hot  pan  well  greased.  Bake 
to  a  nice  brown.     To  be  eaten  hot. 

STEAHED  CORN  BREAD 

Mrs.   D.  S.  Dickson. 

Two  cups  corn  meal;     2  cups  buttermilk;     i  cup  syrup;    i 
cup  flour;   i  teaspoon  soda,  (dissolved). 
Steam  three  hours. 

CORN  PONE 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Hunt. 

Two  cups  corn  meal — heaped;  i  cup  flour;  2j4  cups  sweet 
milk;  2  tablespoons  white  sugar;  i  tablespoon  lard;  2  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;   i  teaspoon  salt;  3  eggs. 


Bread  rSj 

Beat  all  together  very  thoroughly,  adding  the  stiffly 
frothed  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Pour  into  a  well-greased 
dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.     Good. 

SOUTHERN   HOE  CAKE 

Mrs.  James  Foord. 

Two  cups  corn  meal — fresh;   i  teaspoon  salt;  boiling  water. 

Scald  the  meal  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  it.  It  should 
not  be  stiff.  Pour  into  a  shallow  pan,  making  the  cake  half 
an  inch  thick.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  of  a  light  brown. 

JOHNNY  CAKE 

Mrs.  Z.   L.  Parmelee. 

Two  cups  yellow  corn  meal;  i  cup  flour;  ^  cup  molasses; 
%  cup  shortening;  2  cups  sour  milk;  i  teaspoon  soda;  a 
pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  mixture  thoroughlj^  and  pour  into  tins,  that  it 
may  be  an  inch  or  more  in  thickness,  before  baking.  While 
baking,  after  it  begins  to  brown,  brush  the  top  with  melted 
butter.      This  is  a  great  improvement. 

Sweet  milk  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  Cleveland's 
baking  powder  may  be  used  instead  of  sour  milk  and  soda. 

JOHNNY  CAKE 

Mrs.  I.   H.   Prestou. 

Half  cup  brown  sugar;  ^  cup  butter  and  lard — mixed; 
Y-z  cup  wheat  flour;  ^  pint  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  Cleve- 
land's baking  powder — heaped;   ^  teaspoon  salt;   2  eggs. 

Corn  meal  to  make  a  batter.  Mix  the  ingredients  as  for 
•cake.     Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

TEA  nUFFINS 

Mrs.   A.  C.   Radford. 

One  quart  flour;  i  pint  milk;  3  eggs  well  beaten;  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour;  add  the  eggs, 
butter  and  milk.      Bake  in  buttered  rings  in  a  quick  oven. 


iS8  How   He  Cook  in  Los  Angeles  ' 

OATHEAL  MUFFINS 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Couverse. 

One  cup  cooked  oatmeal;  i  pint  flour;  Y^,  pint  milk;  ^ 
cup  lukewarm   water;  %  of  a  yeast  cake;  i  tablespoon  sugar  r 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  sugar  and  salt.  Cool.  Add  the  yeast 
dissolved  in  the  water,  then  the  flour  mixed  with  the  oatmeal. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  let  it  rise,  then  beat  again.  Fill  the 
pans  two-thirds  full.  Set  in  a  warm  place  twenty  minutes. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

nUFFINS,  No.   1 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Smith. 

One  pint  warm  milk;  flour;  lump  of  butter,  the  size  of  an 
^ZZ'^   /^  cup  yeast;  salt. 

Sufficient  flour  should  be  used  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  I^et 
it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  before  baking,  it  should 
stand  in  tins  half  hour.     Quick  oven. 

MUFFINS,  No.  2 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Smith. 

One  cup  milk;    3  cups  flour;    4  teaspoons  melted  butter; 

2  eggs;   I  teaspoon  soda;  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Dissolve  soda  in  the  milk. 

FLOUR  MUFFINS 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Smith. 

One  and  half  cups  sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  i  tablespoon 
sugar;  i  tablespoon  melted  butter;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;    i    egg;  a  little  salt. 

Bake  in  muffin  rings. 

ENGLISH   MUFFINS 

Mrs.  I.  N.  Van  Nuys. 

Four  cups  flour  ;  2  cups  milk  ;   i  tablespoon  sugar  ;  3  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;   i  teaspoon  salt;  2  eggs. 
Bake  in  rings  on  a  hot  griddle. 


Bread  i8g 

ENGLISH   MUFFINS 

Mary  Roach. 

One  pint  lukewarm  potato  water  ;  2  tablespoons  mashed 
potato;   I  large  cup  yeast;  flour;  corn  meal. 

Mix  like  soft  bread  dough.  When  very  light,  roll  and  cut 
with  a  large  cutter,  sprinkle  corn  meal  over  the  molding 
board,  leave  the  muffins  upon  it  until  light  ;  then  bake  on  a 
pancake  griddle  until  quite  crisp. 

CORN  nUFFINS 

Mrs.  Jerome  Curtiu. 

Two  cups  flour  ;  3  cups  milk  ;  i  cup  corn  meal  ;  l^  cup 
butter;  1  tablespoons  sugar;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking 
powder;  salt. 

Lard  may  be  used  instead  of  butter.        Bake  in  gem  pans, 

CORN  nUFFINS 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Jones. 

One  half  cup  butter  ;  i  cup  sugar,  scant ;  2  cups  flour  ;  4 
€ggs;  I  pint  milk;  i  cup  Indian  meal;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  then  flour,  milk, 
etc.     Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  GRITS  OR  CORN  MUFFINS 

Mrs.  Augusta  Robinsou. 

One  cup  white  flour  ;  i  cup  graham  grits  or  corn  meal  ;  i 
small  tablespoon  sugar  or  molasses;  i  ^g^;  i  small  tablespoon 
melted  butter;  ^  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar;  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff" batter. 

Bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven.  This  recipe  makes  eight  or  ten 
muffins. 

WAFFLES 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Perry. 

One  cake  Royal  yeast ;  2  teacups  milk  ;  V2  teaspoon  salt ; 
yz  teaspoon  baking  soda;    i  ^%^;  flour;  warm  water. 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a   little  warm  water,  add  the  milk, 


I  go  How    We  Cook  in  Los  A^igeles 


salt,    and    flour    enough    to  make    a    thin  batter.       In  the 

morning  stir  in  the  soda  and  egg   (well  beaten).       Bake  in 

waffle  irons. 

WAFFLES 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Averill. 

One  pint  buttermilk  ;  i  tablespoon  sugar  ;  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter;   i  teaspoon  soda,  scant;  2  eggs;  flour;  salt. 

Stir  flour  into  the  buttermilk  until  the  spoon  can  rest  on 
top  of  the  batter.  Add  sugar,  butter,  salt,  and  soda,  and  just 
before  baking,  the  eggs  well  beaten. 

These,  as  all  other  kinds  of  warm  breakfast  cakes,  are 
better  if  mixed  over  night,  adding  the  soda  and  eggs  in  the 
morning. 

WAFFLES 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Holcomb. 

One  quart  flour  ;  3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder  ; 
Y-z  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  a  little  milk. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together.  Rub  in  the  butter, 
add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately are  added  last.  Waffle  irons  should  be  hot  and  filled 
two  thirds  full. 

WAFERS 

Mrs.  H.  K.  S.  O'Melveny. 

One  pint  flour,  prepared  is  best;  i  cup  milk;  i  tablespoon 
butter;    i  teaspoon  salt. 

Rub  butter  and  salt  into  the  flour,  wet  with  the  milk,  roll 
as  thin  as  possible,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  cake-cutter,  and  roll 
again,  thinner  than  possible — they  should  be  translucent. 
Transfer  them  to  a  floured  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
delicately  browned.     Very  dainty. 

GRAHAM  QEHS 

Mrs.  E.  K.  Smith. 

Two  large  spoons  sugar  ;  2  eggs  ;  i  ^4  cups  sour  milk  ;  i 
teaspoon  soda  ;  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter. 

Rub  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  eggs,  milk, 
and  soda.  Buttermilk  may  take  the  place  of  sour  milk.  This 
recipe  will  make  one  dozen  gems. 


Bread  igr 

QRAHAfl  GEHS 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Holcomb. 

One  and  a  half  pints  graham  flour  ;  i  Qgg  ;  sweet  milk  ;  3 
teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  i  tablespoon  butter  ;  i 
tablespoon  sugar. 

Mix  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  rub  in  the  butter,  add 
salt,  sugar,  and  the  beaten  egg.  Stir  these  ingredients  to  a 
batter  with  milk.  Drop  in  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

CORN  QEnS 

Mrs.  \V.  M.  Dickson. 

Two  cups  corn  meal ;  2  cups  flour  ;  2^3  cups  sweet  milk  ; 
2  eggs;  ]A  cup  butter,  i  tablespoon  sugar;  2  teaspoons  cream 
tartar;   i  teaspoon  soda. 

AUNTY'S  BANNOCKS 

One  pint  meal  ;  i  pint  milk  ;  i  pint  water  ;  2  tablespoons 
sugar;  5  eggs,  a  little  salt. 

Scald  the  meal  in  the  water,  add  the  eggs  while  hot,  bake 
one  hour.     Good. 

JOLLY  BOYS 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

One  pint  yellow  corn  meal;  ^  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  i  pint 
warm  milk;  i  yeast  cake;  2  tablespoons  warm  water;  ]/2  cup 
sugar;  flour. 

Scald  the  meal  (it  should  be  moist,  not  wet).  Cream  the 
butter,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  milk  (scalded,  and 
cooled).  Beat,  add  meal,  yeast  (dissolved  in  two  tablespoons 
of  water),  sugar,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Cover,  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  over  night,  or  until  ver}'  light.  Make 
into  balls  the  size  of  English  walnuts,  place  on  a  floured 
cloth,  and  when  light  (about  an  hour),  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

FRITTERS 

Mrs.  Homer  Cooke. 

One  pint   sweet    milk;    2   eggs;   ^^    teaspoon    Cleveland's 


fg2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

bakiug  powder;   i  small  teaspoon  salt;    flour;  hot  fat;  maple 
molasses. 

Use  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter;  fry  in  hot  fat, 
and  serve  with  maple  molasses. 

DELICIOUS  PUFFS  FOR  TEA 

Mrs.  C.  C.  McLean. 

One  pint  sweet  milk;  6  eggs;  a  large  pinch  of  salt;  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  until  they  are  very  light;  stir  in  the  milk,  salt, 
frothed  whites,  and  flour  to  make  a  batter  about  the  con- 
sistency of  boiled  custard.       Bake   in    gem   pans    in    a  quick 

oven. 

POP  OVERS 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Smith. 

Two  eggs;  2  cups  milk;   2  cups  flour;  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Beat  very  light,    drop    in    hot    gem    pans,    bake    half   an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Miss  M.  E.  McLellan. 

One  quart  sour  milk;  i  teaspoon  salt;  i  teaspoon  soda;  i 
tablespoon  sugar;   2  eggs;  flour. 

Mix  over  night,  using  enough  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff" 
batter;  in  the  morning,  add  the  sugar,  the  soda  dissolved  in 
warm  water,  and  the  eggs  well  beaten. 

ADIRONDACK  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

H.   F.   \V. 

One  pint  sour  milk;  i  pt.  flour;  2  eggs;  i  teaspoon  soda; 
Yz  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  flour  and  milk  together;  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  eggs  well  beaten,  soda,  and  salt.  Bake  on  hot 
griddle.     A  delicious  griddle  cake. 

RICE   GRIDDLE  CAKES 

Miss  M.  E.  McLellan. 

One  small  cup  boiled  rice;  i  cup  sifted  flour;  24  cup  milk; 
I  tablespoon  sugar;  i  beaten  ^ZZ'^  ^  little  melted  butter;  salt; 
I  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 


Bread  ipj 

Sift  the  sugar  and  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Beat 
the  eggs  separately,  and  add  the  whites  last.  If  a  half  pint 
cup  is  used,  two  eggs  will  be  needed. 

CRUMB  CAKES 

Mrs.  T.  W.  Brotherton. 

One  and  one  third  cups  crumbs  of  stale  bread;  3  cups  sweet 
milk;  3  eggs;  i  dessert  spoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder; 
flour. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  baking  powder,  eggs  well  beaten,  and  flour  suffi- 
cient to  make  them  of  the  right  consistenc}-  for  baking  on 
a  griddle. 

WHEAT  CAKES 

Mrs.  Homer  Cooke. 

One  cup  of  buttermilk;   i  teaspoon  soda;  flour;  salt. 

To  every  cup  of  rich  buttermilk,  add  one  small  level 
teaspoon  of  soda;  salt  to  taste,  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
thin  batter;  beat  until  light. 

FLANNEL  CAKES 

Mrs.  M.  Hagan. 

One  quart  flour;    i  ^gg;   Yo  teaspoon  soda;  sour  milk. 
Make  a  batter  of  the    milk    and    flour;  beat    the  q%^  with 
the  soda  until  very  light,  and  add  it  to  the  batter. 

CORN  MEAL  PANCAKES 

L.  C.  Goodwiu. 

One  pint  sour  milk;  i  cup  flour;  i  cup  corn  meal;  i  tea- 
spoon soda;   2  eggs;  a  little  salt. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding   the  whites  last. 


CAKE 


Miss  Farmer,  Boston  Cooking  School. 


In  making  cake  only  the  best  materials  should  be  used  ; 
and  these,  with  accurate  measurements  and  care  in  baking, 
can  hardl}'  fail  to  produce  good  results. 

Pastry  flour  should  always  be  used,  and  fine  granulated 
sugar,  unless  otherwise  specified.  If  bread  flour  is  used 
instead  of  the  pastry,  less  is  required  ;  allowing  a  difference 
of  one  tablespoonful  for  each  cupful  called  for  by  the  recipe. 
The  materials  should  first  be  brought  together  and  prepared 
and  the  pans  buttered.  Use  clarified  butter  for  this,  procuring 
it  b}'  melting  the  butter  and  carefully  turning  it  off  so  that 
the  salt  which  sinks  to  the  bottom,  may  be  left  behind.  It  is 
easier  to  use  a  small  brush  in  buttering.  The  pans  may  be 
papered,  if  liked,  but  a  thin  dusting  of  flour  is  just  as  good, 
dredging  the  pan  with  flour  and  then  shaking  out  all  that 
one  can,  leaving  only  as  much  as  will  be  taken  up  by  the 
butter,  which  will  be  only  a  fine  dust.  Square  or  round  pans 
are  best  for  cake,  as  they  are  more  easily  handled  and  the 
cake  bakes  more  evenly.  The  cake  should  not  be  poured  into 
the  pan,  but  put  in  by  spoonfuls,  one  in- each  corner  first  and 
then  in  the  center,  smoothing  it  over  and  having  the  sides 
and  corners,  if  anything  higher  than  the  center,  as  they  will 
cook  quicker  and  shrink  more.  For  baking  cake  a  rather 
moderate  oven  is  required  for  most  kinds. 

No  thermometer  has  as  yet  been  invented  which  can  satis- 
factorily test  the  heat  of  the  oven,  and  it  must  be  tested  by 
the  hand  or  by  flour,  which  if  nicely  browned  in  five  minutes, 
will  show  the  temperature  to  be  just  right.  If  too  hot,  the 
heat  may  be  reduced  in  any  way  most  convenient,  not, 
however,  by  placing  water  in  the  oven  unless  absolutely 
necessary  as  the  moisture  generated  will  interfere  with  the 


Cake  J  g^ 

proper  baking  of  the  cake.  Baking  cake  may  be  divided  into 
four  stages.  In  the  first  quarter  the  cake  should  begin  to  rise. 
In  the  second,  it  should  rise  more  and  brown  slightly.  In 
the  third  it  should  rise  to  its  full  height,  double  its  height 
when  first  put  in  the  oven,  and  brown  more.  In  the  fourth 
quarter  it  should  finish  baking  and  shrink  from  the  pan, 
which  shows  it  is  done.  This  last  test  does  not  apply  to  bride 
or  pound  cake,  which  should  be  tested  with  the  finger.  If  it 
leaves  a  depression  the  cake  is  not  thoroughly  baked,  but  if  it 
is  firm  to  the  touch  it  is  done.  A  cake  should  be  watched 
carefully  in  the  baking,  timing  by  the  clock,  and  turning  the 
cake  as  often  as  necessary;  only  making  sure  that  each  motion 
is  a  gentle  one. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Mrs.  Charles  Silent. 

Twelve  eggs;  i  ft  butter;  i  ft  brown  sugar;  ij^  fts 
browned  flour;  i  cup  molasses;  3^2  fts  raisins;  2  fts  currants; 
2^2  fts  citron  ;  J  j  cup  currant  jelly  dissolved  in  Yz  cup  hot 
water;  i  teaspoon  soda;  i  teaspoon  cloves;  i  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon; I  teaspoon  nutmeg;  i  teaspoon  mace;  ^A.  teaspoon  ginger. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs,  whites  and 
yelks  separately.  Add  the  beaten  yelks  to  butter  and  sugar. 
Add  the  soda  to  the  dissolved  jelly  and  hot  water.  Mix  the 
fruit  with  the  browned  flour  and  mix  all  together  adding  the 
spices  last.      Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven- for  four  hours. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Mrs.  .\iina  O'Melveny. 

Two  coffee  cups  butter  ;  4  coffee  cups  sugar  ;  8  eggs,  well 
beaten  ;  i  coffee  cup  sour  milk  ;  5  coffee  cups  sifted  flour  ; 
I  lb  raisins,  well  stoned;  i  heaping  teaspoon  soda  ;  i  large 
nutmeg,  grated  ;  i  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  all- 
spice ;  I  teaspoon  each  lemon,  and  vanilla;  i  ft  English  cur- 
rants, well  washed;   ^2  ft  citron,  sliced  thin. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together  till  perfectly  smooth.  After  all  the 
ingredients  except  the  fruit  are  put  together,  beat  thoroughly. 


>Tf5  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

When  the  fruit  is  prepared  roll  it  in  flour.  Then  stir  into  the 
■cake  batter  until  well  mixed.  If  you  like  the  flavor  of 
•crushed  orange  peel,  add  a  tablespoonful.  This  quantity  will 
make  four,  two-quart  pans  of  cake.      Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

BLACK  FRUIT  CAKE 

Mrs.  J.  E.   Murray. 

One  cup  butter  ;   3^2  cups  brown  sugar  ;   V2  cup  molasses  ; 

1  cup  milk  ;  4  cnps  flour  ;  4  eggs  ;  i^^  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder  ;  i  ft  raisins  ;  i  ft  currants  ;  J^  ft  figs  ;  ^^  lb 
citron;  2  teaspoons  each  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice. 

Bake  slowly. 

PLAIN  FRUIT  CAKE 

Miss  S.  E.  Smith,  St.  Johns,  Xew  Brunswick,  Canada. 

One  large  cup  butter  ;  2  cups  dark  brown  sugar  ;  i  cup 
molasses;  i  cup  water;  3  eggs;  3  heaping  cups  raisins;  i  cup 
currants;  4^  cups  flour;  i  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  water; 
a  little  sliced  citron  and  spice  to  taste;  figs  if  desired. 

PORK  CAKE 

Dr.  Chase,  Ann  Arbor. 

One  lb  fat  salt  pork  entirely  free  of  lean  or  rind  ;  i  lb 
raisins  seeded  and  chopped  fine;  }{  lb  citron  shaved  very  thin; 

2  cups  sugar;  i  cup  molasses;  i  teaspoon  soda,  powdered  and 
put  in  molasses;  i  oz.  each,  nutmeg  and  cloves;  2  oz.  cinna- 
mon; flour,  sifted,  enough  to  give  the  ordinary  consistency  of 
cake  mixture. 

Chop  the  pork  very  fine  ;  pour  over  J/^  pint  boiling  water. 
Add  other  ingredients  and  bake  slowly.  Trj^  with  broom 
straw.  When  nothing  adheres  it  is  done.  If  properly  cared 
for  will  be  nice  and  moist  two  months  after  baking. 

THREE  PLY  CAKE 

Mrs.  K.  D.  Major. 

Two  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour  ;  Yz  cup  butter  ;  i  cup  milk 
•or  water;  3  eggs,  beaten  yelks  and  whites  separatelj^  ;  i  tea- 
spoon Cleveland's  baking  powder  ;  i  cup  raisins;  i  cup  currants; 
a  little  citron;   i  teaspoon  molasses;  spice  to  taste. 


Cake  iQY 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  milk  or  water,  then 
yelks  of  eggs,  flour  and  yeast  powder  ;  lastly  whites  of  eggs 
and  flavoring. 

Take  one  third  of  mixture  into  another  dish  and  add  to  it 
the  fruit  and  spices.  Bake  in  three  layers,  with  fruit  layers 
in  center,  and  join  while  warm  either  with  jelly  or  white 
icing. 

WALNUT  CAKE 

Mrs.   M.  E.  Kerr,  Orange. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar  ;  Y^  cup  butter  ;  -2.  cup  milk  • 
3  eggs  ;  3  cups  sifted  flour  ;  i  heaping  teaspoon  Cleveland's 
baking  powder  ;  i  cup  nut  meats,  chopped  a  little  ;  i  cup 
seeded  raisins,  chopped  a  little. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Put  together  in 
the  usual  way.  Fill  the  cake  pan  with  a  layer  of  the  cake, 
then  a  layer  of  raisins  upon  that,  then  strew  over  with  a 
handful  of  nut  meats,  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is  two  thirds 
full.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 

WALNUT  FILLING  FOR  ANY  LAYER  CAKE 

Miss  Kate  Steveus. 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff";  i  cup  of  walnuts  cut  fine 
with  a  knife  ;  i  cup  seeded  raisins  ;  8  tablespoons  pulverized 
sugar;  flavor  with  Watson's  extract. 

Make  a  thick  syrup  of  the  sugar,  when  it  ropes,  pour  it 
over  the  whites,  beating  all  the  time.  Beat  till  nearly  cool, 
then  add  raisins  and  nuts  and  spread  between  layers. 

NUT  CREAM  CAKE 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Siusabaugh. 

Three  eggs;  i  cup  sugar  ;  i  heaping  teaspoon  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;  5  tablespoons  hot  water;  \]%  cups  flour,  well 
sifted. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together,  add  hot 
water  and  stir  in  the  flour  slowly.  Then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake  in  two  layers  in  an 
oven  rather  hotter  than  for  loaf  cake. 

Cream  for  above  cake  :     Chop  enough    English   walnuts 


igS  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

(quite  fine)  to  make  one  cupful  and  stir  into  one  half  pint  of 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  lemon,  to  taste. 
Spread  this  between  the  layers  and  ice  the  top. 

NUT  CAKE 

Mrs.  Burdette  Chandler. 

One-half  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour;  i  cup 
sweet  milk;  3  eggs,  beaten  separateh';  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

Filling:  One  cup  nuts,  chopped  finely;  3  eggs,  whites 
only,  beaten  stiff.  Stir  together;  adding  enough  sugar  to 
make  filling  sufficiently  stiff. 

Bake  cake  in  layers,  and  spread  filling  between. 

NUT   CAKE 

Mrs.  A.   T.  Tuttle. 

One  pound  flour;  i  pound  butter;  i  pound  pulverized 
sugar;  10  eggs;  i  pound  any  kind  of  nuts  chopped  fine; 
I  pound  raisins;  i  pound  currants;  ^2  pound  citron;  2  nut- 
megs. Flavor  to  taste  Beat  all  together  very  hard.  Bake 
three  hours      Cover  top  with  icing. 

FIG  CAKE 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Goodrich. 

One  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  sifted  flour;  flavor 
with  vanilla;  i  cup  milk;  4  eggs — yelks  and  whites  beaten 
separately;  3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Take  ^  the  batter,  pour  into  two  jelly  tins  and  on  each 
put  a  layer  of  split  figs,  seeds  up.  To  the  other  half  of  the 
batter  add  2  tablespoons  molasses,  i  cup  seedless  raisins,  ^ 
cup  currants,  i  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  of  cloves, 
a  little  more  flour,  and  bake  in  two  jelly  tins.  Put  the  layers 
together  with  frosting — having  a  fig  cake  on  top. 

FIG  CAKE 

Mrs.  Willard  H.  Stimson. 

Four  eggs — w^hitesonly;   ^  large  cup  milk;   -i  cup  butter; 


Cake  jpp 

1%  cups  sugar;    3  cups  flour;    i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking 
powder. 

Filling  for  same. — Two  eggs — whites  only;  i^^2  pounds 
figs — chopped;  i  cup  raisins — seeded;  i  cup  walnut  meats; 
powdered  sugar  to  make  a  good  icing;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

BANANA  CAKE 

Mrs.  Homer  Cooke,  Waukegan,  111. 

One  and  one  half  cups  granulated  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  ^ 
cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  sifted  flour;  i}i  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;  flavor  to  taste. 

Bake  in  two  layers  in  large  sized  tins.     Put  sliced  bananas 
on  one  layer  of  cake,    cover   with    thick   layer   of  whipped 
cream — sweetened  to  taste,   then  layer  of  cake  and  another 
layer  of  banana  and  whipped  cream. 
This  cake  should  be  eaten  fresh. 

IVIARSHMALLOW  CAKE 

Mrs.  Homer  Cooke,  Waukegan,  111. 

Take  any  favorite  recipe  for  cake  and  make  two  good 
layers,  putting  one  in  the  oven  before  the  other;  flavor  with 
lemon. 

Use  banana  marshmallows — if  you  can  get  them.  Have 
them  a  little  warm  and  place  them  as  close  as  you  can  crowd 
them  on  the  first  layer  of  cake.  Try  to  have  the  other  layer 
just  ready,  so  it  will  go  together  hot.  Make  a  lemon  icing  of 
the  white  of  one  Qgg,  same  quantity  of  lemon  juice  and  sufii- 
cient  confectioners'  sugar  to  make  it  the  proper  consistency. 

This  cake  is  better  to  stand  a  day  or  two  before  eating. 

BLACKBERRY  CAKE 

Mrs.   W.  J.  Browu,  Miss  Eva  Williams. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  i  cup 
blackberry  jam;  3  tablespoons  sour  cream;  1)2  cups  flour;  i 
teaspoon  soda;   i  teaspoon  cinnamon;   i  nutmeg  (grated). 

Beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  cream; 
then  stir  in  the  jam,  sour  cream,   soda,  flavoring,   flour  and 


200  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

the    well-beaten    whites    of  the    eggs.      Bake    in   two   layers 
and  put  together  with  boiled  frosting. 

This  is  a  delicious  cake.  Raspberry  or  strawberry  jam 
can  be  used  in  place  of  blackberry. 

FROSTING  FOR  BLACKBERRY  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  B. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar;     ]/>,  cup  hot  water;    whites  of 

2  eggs. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon; 
then  pour  gradually  into  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Beat  rapidly  to  prevent  its  being  grainy.  When  the  right 
consistency,  spread  quickly,  as  it  soon  becomes  too  stiff  to 
spread  smoothly. 

CRANBERRY  CAKE 

Mrs.  Gerrard  Irvine. 

Three  cups  sugar;  iji  cups  butter;  i)4.  cups  sweet  milk; 
1J2  pounds  raisins;  6  eggs — beaten  separately;  2  teaspoons 
Watson's  lemon  extract;    7  cups  flour;    2  quarts  cranberries; 

3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Bake  very  slowly  1^2  hours.  Mix  as  any  cake.  Cook 
cranberries.  Remove  seeds  and  skins,  and  sweeten  as  for 
cranberry  sauce.     Add  to  cake  mixture.     Bake  in  loaf. 

POUND  CAKE 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Welch. 

One  pound  butter;  i  pound  flour;  grated  peel  of  i  lemon; 
I  pound  sugar;  whites  of  nine  eggs;  yelks  of  seven. 

Cream  the  butter.  Add  the  sugar  and  well-beaten  yelks, 
(beat  these  until  very  light);  then  mix  in  alternately  the 
flour  and  stiffly-beaten  whites,  and  add  the  grated  lemon 
peel.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

POUND  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.   T.  Carter. 

One  pound  pulverized  sugar;  yi  pound  butter;  lo  eggs — 
well  beaten;   18  ounces  flour. 


Cake  20I 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  well  together  with  the  hand, 
add  the  eggs  graduall}',  and  beat  well.  Flavor  with  lemon 
and  then  add  the  flour,  stirring  gently.  Bake  in  buttered 
and  paper-lined  molds  in  moderate  oven. 

POUND  CAKE 

Aliss   M.  E.  McLellan. 

Four  eggs — their  weight  in  butter,  in  powdered  sugar  and 
in  flour;  a  small  half  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  eggs 
beaten — not  separatel)';  flavor  with  mace  and  extract  of 
lemon.  Bake  in  cups  or  gem  tins,  and  cover  with  icing  when 
cold. 

WHITE  CAKE 

^•i^„^  Miss  Farmer,  Boston  Cooking  School. 

One  half  cup  butter;  i]4  cup  sugar;  ]4,  cup  milk;  5  eggs — 
whites  only;  2  cups  flour — sifted  before  measuring;  i^  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;  }l  rounding  teaspoon 
cream  tartar;   i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter  in  a  warm  bowl,  and  add  gradually  the 
sugar  and  milk,  also  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff. 
Sift  the  flour  together  with  the  baking  powder  and  cream 
tartar,  and  add  with  the  vanilla.  Beat  thoroughly  to  give 
fineness  of  texture,  and  bake  half  hour  in  shallow  pans. 
When  done,  spread  marshmallow  paste  between  and  also  on 
the  top. 

This  will  be  found  an  especially  nice  white  cake,  and  with 
the  marshmallow  filling,  which  is  something  new,  makes  a 
very  attractive  cake. 

MARSHMALLOW   PASTE— for  the  above 

Three  fourths  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  milk;  y2  teaspoon  vanilla; 
%  pound  marshmallows;   2  tablespoons  hot  water. 

Stir  the  milk  and  sugar  together  and  boil  withotit  stirring 
for  six  minutes — counting  the  time  from  the  moment  it  begins 
to  boil  all  over  the  surface.     Melt  the  marshmallows,  and  add 


202  Hoiv    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

2  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  cooking  over  hot  water  until 
smooth,  stirring  meanwhile.  Combine  the  two  mixtures, 
and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread.  Add  the  vanilla  last. 
If  the  sugar  is  stirred  while  boiling,  it  is  apt  to  granulate. 

WHITE  PERFECTION  CAKE 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Hunt. 

Two  cups  sugar;  V\  cup  butter;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  ^4  cup 
corn  starch;  3  cups  flour;  8  eggs — whites  only,  (beaten  very 
stiff);  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  any  flavor 
desired. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  milk,  then 
the  flour  and  corn  starch,  with  the  baking  powder  mixed 
with  them.  Beat  until  smooth  and  white  as  cream,  then 
add  flavoring,  and,  last  of  all,  stir  in  the  whites.  Do  not 
beat  them  in,  and  do  not  beat  the  cake  after  the  whites 
are  in.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

This  cake  may  be  made  richer  by  adding  ^  pound  citron 
sliced  very  thin,  floured  and  added  just  before  baking. 

DELICATE  CAKE 

Mrs.  Burdette  Chandler. 

One  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups 
flour;  5  eggs — whites  only;  4  even  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

DELICATE  CAKE 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Vau  Doren. 

One  and  half  cups  sugar;  ~i  cup  butter;  Yi  cup  sweet 
milk;  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  J 2  teaspoon  soda;  2^^  cups 
flour;  I  pound  laisins,  stoned  and  chopped,  and  laid  in 
middle  of  cake;  whites  of  6  eggs. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE 

Mrs.   A.  S.  Baldwin. 

Three  cups  powdered  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour; 
y'l  cup  corn  starch,    and    cup  filled  up   with  flour;     ^   cup 


Cakes  '  20J 

sweet  milk;    3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;   14  eggs 
— whites  onl3^ 

Flavor  with  rose  or  bitter  almond.  Bake  little  over  three 
hours. 

SNOW  CAKE 

Mrs.  Gerrard  Irvine. 

One  half  teacup  butter;  i  teacup  sugar;  i^  teacups  flour 
— sifted  with  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder — twice; 
y2  cup  sweet  milk;  4  eggs — whites  only. 

Flavor  with  lemon.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well 
together.  Add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  lemon  extract. 
Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Stir  them  gently  in,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven,  being  careful 
not  to  open  oven  door  for  20  minutes. 

SNOW  CAKE 

Mrs.  Vaughn. 

One  cup  sugar;  j4  cup  butter;  ^  cup  sweet  milk;  1% 
cups  flour;  4  eggs — whites  only — well  beaten;  i  teaspoon 
Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Mrs.  F.  S.   Hicks. 

Whites  of  II  eggs;  i^  cups  granulated  sugar,  measured 
after  sifting;  yolks  of  6  eggs;  i  cup  flour,  measured  after  sift- 
ing; I  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  i  teaspoon  orange  extract. 

This  is  made  almost  exactly  like  angel  cake.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar. 
Beat  the  yelks  in  a  similar  manner,  add  to  them  the  whites, 
sugar,  and  flavoring.  Finally  stir  in  the  flour.  Mix  quickly 
and  well.  Bake  for  50  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Use  a  pan  the 
same  as  for  angel  cake,  with  little  knobs  on  the  corners  so 
that  when  the  cake  is  turned  upside  down  it  will  not  be  flat  on 
the  table,  but  will  allow  a  current  of  air  to  pass  around  it. 


2.o^  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

ANGEL  CAKE 

Hiss  Mary  Dickson,  Petaluma. 

Whites  of  II  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  2  cups  sugar, 
sifted  once;  i}^  cups  flour,  sifted  seve7i  times;  then  add  i  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar  and  sifi  again;  i  teaspoon  vanilla  or  bitter 
almond. 

When  the  eggs  are  read}^  put  the  sugar  in  gradually^ 
beating  it  well;  then  add  the  flour  slowly,  add  flavor.  Beat 
all  very  hard,  and  pour  into  an  ungreased  pan.  Bake  forty 
or  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  turn  the  pan 
with  cake,  upside  down  across  another  pan  or  dish,  so  it  will 
not  sweat.  Do  not  take  it  out  of  the  pan  till  it  is  cold.  The 
baking  pan  should  be  new,  or  one  that  has  never  had  milk  or 
grease  of  any  kind  in  it. 


ANGEL  CAKE 

Mrs.  Weiside,  (Pastry  Cook  at  Glenwood.) 

One  cup  flour;  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar:  1J2  cups  sugar;  11 
eggs,  whites  only;  i  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Sift  the  flour  with  the  cream  tartar  twice.  Whip  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  a  great  deal.  Stir  in 
flour  with  a  spoon.     Flavor.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Weiside  has  made  this  cake  successfully  for  fifteen 
years,  and  says  if  the  directions  are  followed  no  extra  care  in 
baking  is  needed. 

FEATHER  CAKE 

Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Robinson,  Moncton,  Canada. 

Four  eggs,  whites  only;  ij^  cups  sugar;  }i  cup  butter;  2 
cups  flour;  i  cup  milk;  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  V^  teaspoon 
soda.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  with  a  little  of  the 
milk,  add  half  the  flour  in  which  the  cream  tartar  and  soda 
have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  then  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
and  flour  with  flavoring,  and  lastly  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiflf 
froth.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Cake  20^ 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE 

Mrs.  T.  C.  Griswold. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  i  cup  corn  starch;  2  cups 
flour;  I  cup  milk;  6  eggs,  whites  only;  i^^  teaspoons  Cleve- 
land's baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste  and  bake  one  hour  if 
in  one  cake.       A  shorter  time  if  in  two. 

JENNY  LIND  CAKE 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Van  Doren. 

Two  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  i  cup 
flour;  3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  12  eggs,  whites 
only. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Mrs.  D.  L.  Whipple. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  3  eggs,  beaten  thoroughly ; 
i^  cups  flour,  sifted  three  times  with  '4  teaspoon  salt,  and  2 
teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  add  flour  so  prepared 
to  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beat  well;  add  -3  cup  boiling  water 
last  and  bake  in  medium  oven. 

CREAH  SPONGE  CAKE 

Miss  Ella    Kerr,  Orange. 

One  cup  sugar;  3  eggs;  -i  cup  sweet  cream;  i^  cup 
flour;  I  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  the  cream  then  the 
flour  and  baking  powder.      Flavor  with  lemon. 

SPONGE    CAKE 

Mrs.  L-  A.  Bradish. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  flour;  i  cup  boiling  water;  2  even 
teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  4  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Sift  the  baking 
powder  into  the  flour  and  stir  into  the  sugar  and  eggs,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  flavoring,  pour  in  the  boiling  water  and 
bake  immediately. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Welch. 

One  pound  pulverized  sugar;  ^^  pound  sifted  flour;  i  salt- 


2o6  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

spoon  salt;  lo  eggs,  beaten  separately;  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
I  lemon. 

Beat  both  yelks  and  whites  very  thoroughly;  blend  them 
lightly  and  quickly  together;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then 
the  lemon  juice,  rind  and  salt,  lastly  the  flour.  Do  not  beat 
the  mixture  after  the  flour  is  added. 

PREHIUn  SPONGE  CAKE 

Miss  Lois  Dickson,  Petaluma. 

Three  eggs,  well  beaten;  i  cup  sugar;  yi  cup  milk;  i^ 
cups  flour;  y^z  teaspoon  soda;  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  a  pinch 
of  salt;  flavor  to  taste. 

SPONGE  DROP  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Carter. 

Twelve  eggs,  yelks  only;  i  teaspoon  extract  lemon;  i 
pound  sugar;  i  pound  and  4  ounces  flour;  ^  ounce  carbonate 
of  ammonia. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  wooden  bowl,  adding  the  yelks  of  the 
eggs  one  or  two  at  a  time,  and  beating  with  your  hand. 
When  all  are  in,  rub  thoroughly  together,  then  add  the  car- 
bonate of  ammonia,  finely  pulverized;  if  necessary  dissolve  in 
a  little  milk;  add  flavoring,  and  then  the  flour,  stirring  gently. 
Drop  on  well-buttered  and  floured  tins,  in  bits  the  size  of  a 
walnut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  cool  cover  the  drops 
with  "Royal  icing,"  either  tinted,  prepared  with  chocolate  or 
plain  as  you  may  fancy.  The  chocolate  icing  is  prepared  by 
adding  melted  chocolate  to  the  plain  icing. 

LEMON  CAKE 

Mrs.  \V.  J.  Brown. 

One  cup  butter;  3  cups  sugar;  5  eggs,  whites  beaten  sepa- 
rately; I  cup  sweet  milk;  4  cups  sifted  flour;  i  teaspoon  cream 
tartar;  i  teaspoon  soda;  or  i}4  teaspoon  s  Cleveland's  baking 
powder  and  J 2  teaspoon  soda;  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  one 
lemon. 

Beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream,  stir  in 
the  other  ingredients,    adding  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs 


Cake  20J 

last.     This  is  a  delicious  cake  and  will  make  two   good-sized 

loaves. 

LEMON  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Dickson. 

Three-fourths  cup  butter;  i^^  cups  sugar;  i^  cup  sweet 
milk;  2>2  cups   flour;   3  eggs;    i  teaspoon  soda;    2   teaspoons 

cream  tartar. 

* 

For  jelly;  take  i  coffee  cup  sugar-  2  tablespoons  butter;  2 
eggs;  juice  of  2  lemons. 

Beat  all  together  and  boil  until  the  consistency  of  jell}'. 
For  orange  cake  use  oranges  instead  of  lemons. 

LEHON  CAKE 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Gillette. 

One  cup  sugar;  ^2  cup  butter;  ^2  cup  milk;  2  cups  flour, 
sifted;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  2  eggs.  Flavor 
with  extract  of  lemon.     Bake  in  layers. 

For  the  jelly — 2  coffee  cups  of  sugar;  2  eggs;  2  table- 
spoons batter;  2  lemons,  juice  only. 

Mix  lemon  juice  with  the  sugar,  butter  and  eggs;  boil  to 
the  consistency  of  jelly.  Orange  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

Miss  Ida  Mayuard,  Colorado  Springs. 

Half  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1)2  oranges;  ^  cup  cold 
water;  5  eggs,  yelks  of  only  four;  1^2  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;  2}^  cups  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  pow- 
der. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  slowly  and  beat  well, 
then  the  yelks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  to  this  the  juice  of 
the  oranges  and  the  grated  rind  of  one;  then  the  water,  then 
flour  and  beat  well.  Now  add  the  whites  of  5  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  30  minutes. 

Orange  frosting — Take  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
orange.  Let  it  stand  20  minutes,  then  add  the  unbeaten  white 
of  one  ^%%  and  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to  make  it  stiff 
enough  to  spread. 


2o8  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

ORANGE  FILLING— for  Layer  Cake 

Mrs.  H.  K.  S.  O'Melveiiy. 

Two  oranges;  i  lemon;  grate  the  rinds  and  add  the  juice; 
I  cup  cold  water;  i  cup  sugar;  i  tablespoon  corn  starch  mixed 
in  some  of  the  water.  Boil  until  smooth;  and  cool  before 
putting  on  the  cake. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.  \V.  Ross. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar;  J^  cup  butter;  ^  cup  milk; 
y^  cup  flour;  3  eggs.  Into  this  mixture  stir  chocolate  custard 
made  as  follows: 

Eight  tablespoons  Ghirardelli's  grated  chocolate;  5  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar;  y^  cup  of  milk.  Cook  until  it  thick- 
ens a  little  and  beat  until  cool.  Stir  this  into  cake  part  thor- 
oughly. ■  Add  to  this  mixture  i^  cups  flour  and  2  teaspoons 
Cleveland's  baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in 
three  layers.     Put  white  icing  between  the  layers  and  on  top. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE 

Miss  Ruth  Childs. 

One  and  one-half  cups  butter;  i  cup  white  powdered  sugar; 
I  pound  browm  sugar;  6  eggs — yelks  and  whites  separately;  i 
cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  y  pound  sliced  blanched 
almonds;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  33  cake 
Ghirardelli's  chocolate;  i  lemon;  i  teaspoon  cloves;  i  tea- 
spoon allspice;  i  teaspoon  cinnamon;  i  pound  chopped 
raisins. 

Bake  slowly  one  hour  and  a  half. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

One  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  -3  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups 
sifted  flour;  4  eggs — whites  only;  i^  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;  i  square  Ghirardelli's  chocolate — grated; 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  milk,  flour  and 
baking   powder   and   stir   well.     Add   whites   of  eggs    well- 


Cake  2op 

beaten.  Bake  in  three  layers,  two  of  white  and  add  the 
grated  chocolate  to  the  third.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Place  the  dark  layer  between  the  two  white  ones.  For  the 
chocolate  frosting,  make  a  s3Tup  of  two  cups  granulated 
sugar;  8  tablespoons  water;  boil  till  it  threads  from  the 
spoon.  Have  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  beat  rapidly  while  pouring  in  syrup — that  the  frosting 
may  be  smooth,  then  add  i  square  of  grated  chocolate,  and 
beat  till  thick  enough  to  spread. 

This  quantity  is  sufficient  to  put  between  the  layers,  and 
also  to  cover  the  cake. 

If  cocoanut  cake  is  desired,  bake  cake  in  three  layers  with 
no  chocolate,  and  put  no  chocolate  in  frosting.  Put  frosting 
on  each  layer,  and  sprinkle  with  freshly  grated  or  prepared 
cocoanut. 

CREAfl  CAKE. 

Miss  Bertha   Bessey,  Orange. 

Five  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately;  i  tumbler 
sugar;  i  tumbler  flour;  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  %  teaspoon 
soda.     Bake  in  two  layers  in  moderate  oven. 

When  cold,  whip  a  pint  of  cream;  sweeten  with  yi  cup 
sugar,  flavor  with  %  teaspoon  pineapple  extract,  and  spread 
on  one  layer;  place  the  second  layer  on  this;  cut  in  the  number 
of  pieces  required  and  spread  the  remaining  cream  over  the 
top.     Serve  as  a  dessert  or  cake. 

MOCHA  CREAM  CAKE. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Goodrich. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  ^2  cup  sweet 
milk;  1^2  cups  sifted  flour;  i]4  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking 
powder;  3  eggs,  whites  only,  beaten  to  stiff  froth. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  milk,  then 
flour  and  baking  powder;  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake 
in  three  layers  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Filling:  Make  a  scant  ^2  cup  of  strong  Mocha  and  Java 
coffee,  reserving  2  tablespoons  for  the  icing;  to  the  remainder, 
add  sweet  milk   to  make  one  half  pint;  put  this  in  a  double 


2/0  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

boiler  and  heat;  when  cool,  stir  in  i  teacup  sugar;  2  table- 
spoons flour;  yolks  of  4  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten  together. 
Cook  15  minutes,  stirring  often;  when  lukewarm,  beat  in 
slowly  2  tablespoons  butter.  Spread  between  layers  and 
finish  top  with  the  following  icing:  Beat  together  i  teacup 
powdered  sugar  and  white  of  one  eg^;  add  the  two  table- 
spoons coffee  and  beat  till  light  and  smooth. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 

Mrs.  John  Beckwith. 

One  and  one-half  cups  fine  granulated  sugar;  y^  cup 
butter;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  sifted  fiour;  i  large  teaspoon 
Cleveland's  baking  powder;  4  eggs,  whites  only,  beaten  light. 

Work  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  milk,  then  flour 
with  baking  powder;  slowly  stir  till  smooth;  add  eggs  lightly. 
Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  bake  in  brisk  oven,  watching  closely. 

Caramel  for  cake:  One  cup  morning's  milk;  2  cups  "C" 
sugar. 

Dissolve  sugar  in  the  milk,  placing  on  stove  to  melt 
slowly;  when  it  is  ready  to  boil,  stir  it  constantly  until  it 
ropes  on  the  spoon;  then  remove  from  the  stove  and  add  a 
large  spoon  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  beat  until  it 
grains,  spread  quickly  on  the  cake,  which  should  be  in 
two  layers  and  cold.  The  cup  for  measuring  this  cake  should 
be  a  large  coffee  cup. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 

Mrs.  H.  T.   Hazard. 

One  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  5  eggs,  whites  only,  well 
beaten;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  i  cup  sweet 
milk;   i  cup  corn  starch;  1^2  cups  flour;     flavor  with  vanilla. 

Stir  well  until  smooth  and  bake  in  two  long  pans. 

Filling  for  this  cake:  One  cup  sugar;  }i  cup  water;  }{. 
cup  butter;  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  five  minutes  without  stirring.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  stir  until  white  and  creamy,  but  not  too  hard.  Place 
this  filling  between  the  two  layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake, 
smoothing  it  quickly  in  place.  Great  haste  must  be  made 
in  order  to  have  this  a  success. 


Cake  211 

HACCAROONS 

Mrs.  John  Beckwith. 

One  pint  sugar;  i  pint  flour;  i  pint  almonds,  or  white  of 
English  walnuts,  chopped  fine;  4  eggs. 

Drop  on  greased  paper  and  bake  a  light  brown.  They  will 
keep  for  a  long  time  and  are  fine. 

ALMOND  CREAM  CAKE 

Mrs.  George  I<.  Arnold. 

Two  cups  sugar;  }-  cup  butter;  "jA,  cup  sweet  milk;  6- 
eggs,  whites  onl}';  3  cups  flour;  3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking 
powder. 

lyine  the  tins  wdth  paper,  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Cream  for  cake:  Between  the  layers,  spread  a  custard 
made  as  follows:  One  cup  milk;  ^  cup  sugar;  let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  and  add  i  ^^g  or  two  yolks  and  i  tablespoon  corn 
starch;  flavor  with  bitter  almonds;  and  add  ^  pound  of 
blanched  and  chopped  almonds. 

For  the  top  and  sides,  make  a  boiled  frosting  of  i^  cups 
granulated  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  ornament 
the  cake  with  y^  pound  of  blanched  almonds  split  in  two. 

BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

Mrs.  J.   E.  Murray. 

One-half  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  3 
cups  sifted  flour;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  4 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  whites  to  be  added 
last.     Flavor  with  lemon. 


NO  NAHE  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Lord. 

One  cup  butter;  3  cups  sugar.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar  together,  then  add  ^  cup  sweet  milk;  3^  cups  flour; 
]/2  teaspoon  soda,  in  the  milk;  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  sifted  in 
flour;  whites  of  10  eggs,  put  in  mixture  next  to  last;  flour 
last. 


2 [2  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

VIOLET  CAKE 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Hazard. 

One  cup  butter  creamed;  2  cups  sugar;  j-olks  of  3  eggs;  i 
cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking 
powder;  whites  of  eggs. 

Mix  in  the  order  given;  divide  the  batter  into  four  equal 
parts  and  bake  in  four  layers.  Color  half  the  batter  with 
violet  paste  (size  of  a  pea).  When  baked;  lay  first  a  light 
layer,  then  a  violet,  then  light,  then  violet.  Put  together 
with  lemon  jelly. 

Lemon  Jell}^:  Beat  one  egg;  add  i  cup  water,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon;  pour  this  slowh'  on  i  cup  sugar, 
mixed  with  i  tablespoon  flour.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
smooth  like  cream. 

Frosting:  Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  light  with  20  tea- 
spoons powdered  sugar;  flavor  with  violet  extract;  color  with 
violet  paste,  and  decorate  with  candied  violets. 

TRNCOLORED  CAKE 

Mrs.  T.  C.  Griswold. 

One  and  one  half  cups  sugar;  7^  cup  butter;  -3  cup  milk;  i^ 
cups  flour;  -/i  teaspoon  soda;  i]^  teaspoon  cream  tartar; 
whites  of  7  eggs. 

Take  73  of  the  batter  and  bake  for  white  cake,  and  put 
pink  coloring  in  remaining  third.  For  yellow  part,  take  i  cup 
sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  ^  cup  milk;  i  cup  flour;  j-elksof  5  eggs; 
I  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  j4  teaspoon  soda. 

Flavor  with  lemon.  Put  pink  cake  in  center,  white  on 
each  side  and  j'ellow  top  and  bottom.  Put  together  with  cus- 
tard or  frosting. 

LEOPARD  CAKE 

Mrs.   L.  M.  Wheeler. 

Six  eggs,  whites  only;  ^  cup  of  milk;  2  cups  powdered 
sugar;  3  scant  cups  of  sifted  flour;  )'2  cup  butter;  2  teaspoons 
Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  lemon.  Mix  i  cup  of  chopped  raisins  in  ^ 
cup  of  the  cake  batter,  and  drop  it  into  the  cake  in  spoonfuls 
as  it  is  put  into  the  pans. 


Cake  2ij 

MARBLE  CAKE 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Pieper. 

lyight  part — i  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour;  ^ 
cup  sweet  milk;  i  teaspoon  soda;  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar; 
whites  of  7  eggs. 

Dark  part — i  cup  butter;  i  cup  molasses;  2  cups  brown 
sugar;  i  cup  sour  milk;  5  cups  flour;  2  tablespoons  each  cinna- 
mon and  spices;  i  tablespoon  cloves  and  i  nutmeg;  i  teaspoon 
soda;  yelks  of  7  eggs.  If  sweet  milk  is  used  in  dark  part  add 
2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Welch. 

Silver  part — y^,  cup  butter;  i  cup  sugar;  4  eggs,  whites 
only;  i^  cups  sifted  flour;  y^  cup  sweet  milk;  i^  teaspoons 
Cleveland's  baking  powder;  Yz  teaspoon  extract  of  bitter 
almond. 

Gold  cake — Make  just  the  same  as  the  silver,  only  use  the 

yelks   of  4   eggs  and    flavor   with    vanilla   instead   of  bitter 

almond. 

EXCELLENT  CAKE 

Miss  Josie  Kaiser. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  4  eggs,  well  beaten;  Y^  cup 
corn  starch;  i  cup  milk;  4  cups  sifted  flour;  2  teaspoons 
Cleveland's  baking  powder;  2  teaspoons  lemon  extract. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  eggs  and  corn 
starch,  then  milk  and  flour,  baking  powder  and  flavoring 
last. 

BOSTON  CREAM  PUFFS 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Carter. 

Pufis — I  quart  water;  20  eggs;  12  ounces  butter  13^  pounds 
flour,  sifted. 

Have  water  boiling,  add  butter,  then  the  flour,  stirring 
briskly.  Remove  from  fire  and  let  cool.  When  cold  add 
eggs,  one  or  two  at  a  time,  rubbing  constantly  until  the  mix- 
ture is  perfectly  smooth,  then  drop  on  well-buttered  tins  and 
glaze  over  with  a  little  milk  and  yelk  of  egg.  Bake  in  hot 
oven. 


ZF/f  How   We  Cook  i7i  Los  Angeles 

Cream — 6  ounces  pulverized  sugar;  4  ounces  corn  starch;  3 
eggs;  I  quart  milk. 

Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  corn  starch  together  until  perfectl}^ 
smooth.  Heat  the  milk  until  it  boils,  then  add  eggs,  sugar, 
etc.,  stirring  very  briskly  to  prevent  scorching.  Let  boil  a 
few  minutes  then  remove  from  fire.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Open 
puffs  on  one  side  and  insert  cream  with  teaspoon.  Sprinkle 
with  sifted  sugar  and  serve  while  fresh.  This  makes  a  very 
large  quantity. 

PLAIN  LOAF  CAKE 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Whaley. 

One  and  a  half  cups  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  ^{(  cup  hot  water; 
Y-i.  cup  cold  water;  3  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  beaten  separately; 
2^  cups  flour;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  the  hot 
water.  Then  add  the  other  ingredients,  the  whites  of  eggs 
being  last. 

PLAIN  CAKE 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Hall. 

One  cup  sugar;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  yl  cup  melted  butter;  i 
^Z^',  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  i  pint  sifted  flour. 
Bake  ^  of  an  hour. 

CUP  CAKE 

Mrs.  Alice   Curtiti. 

One  and  a  half  cups  flour;  i  cup  sugar;  Vi  cup  milk;  2  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;  yelks  of  3  eggs  and  white 
of  I,  using  whites  of  2  for  frosting. 

HARQARET'S  CAKE 

Miss  S.  E.  Smith,  St.Jolin,  New  Brunswick. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar;  V^  cup  butter;  i  cup 
sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  i  lemon,  juice  and  rind;  i  small  tea- 
spoon soda. 

Bake  in  square  or  oblong  tin  and  frost  with  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sugar. 


Cake  2  /'5 

COFFEE  CAKES 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Hendricks. 

One  quart  flour;  i  yeast  cake,  or  i  cup  yeast;  2  eggs;  4 
tablespoons  sugar;  i  teaspoon  cinnamon;  i  teaspoon  lemon 
extract;  %  pound  butter. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  light  roll  out  quite  thin  and  spread  with  melted  butter; 
then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  currants,  raisins  and 
citron  to  suit  the  taste.  Cut  into  squares,  let  them  rise  again 
and  bake. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

Mrs.  D.  S.  Dickson. 

One  cup  butter;  i  cup  sugar;  i  cup  molasses;  i  cup  seeded 
raisins;  i  cup  cold  coffee;  3  cups  flour;  2  eggs;  small  quantity 
citron,  sliced  ver}-  thin;  2  teaspoons  soda;  nutmeg  and  cinna- 
mon to  taste.     Bake  slowly  \%  hours. 

BREAD  CAKE 

Mrs.  George  Segar,  Riverside,  Cal 

One  coffee  cup  bread  sponge;  i^  coffee  cups  brown  sugar; 
y-z  pound  raisins;  yi  pound  currants;  i  cup  butter,  creamed 
with  the  sugar;  3  eggs;  spices  to  taste;  i  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water. 

Beat  whites  and  yelks  separatel)'.     Mix  thoroughly'.     Put 

fruit  in  last.       Let  it  rise  until  light.       Add  a  little    flour  if 

necessary  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff"  batter.       Bake  in  moderate 

oven. 

BREAD  CAKE 

Mrs.  W.   M.   Dicksou. 

Two  cups  bread  dough;  i^  cups  sugar;  ^4  cup  butter;  i 
cup  raisins;  2  eggs;  ^4  teaspoon  each  salt  and  soda. 

Rub  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  eggs  very 
light,  and  mix  with  the  dough.  Add  a  little  spice  if  desired. 
Bake  when  light. 

SPICED  GINGER  CAKE 

Mrs    Heiiry  T.  Lee. 

One  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  butter,  or  drippings,  or  both  together 
beaten  to  a  cream;   i  cup  molasses;  3  small  cups  flour;  i  cup 


2t6  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

very  sour  milk,  4  days  old;  2  heaping  tablespoons  ginger;  2 
small  teaspoons  soda,  stirred  in  milk;  i)^  tablespoons  cloves; 
yY^  tablespoons  cinnamon. 

Stir  all  well  together  and  add  J  2  pound  of  currants  dipped 
in  flour. 

"When  you  have  a  cake  or  bread  in  the  oven,  do  not  slam 
the  oven  door,  or  walk  heavily  about  the  kitchen  while  it  is 
baking.  A  fine  cake  will  b?  irretrievably  ruined  by  a  slight 
jar  at  a  certain  stage  of  its  baking." 

QINQER  BREAD— With  Yolks  of  Eggs 

:Mrs.   M.  R.  Sinsabaugh. 

Seven  eggs,  yolks  only;  i  saltspoon  salt;  i  cup  New 
Orleans  molasses;  i  tablespoon  lard  or  butter;  i  level  teaspoon 
soda  in  3/^  cup  hot  water;  i  heaping  teaspoon  ginger,  or  about 
the  same  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  ginger  mixed,  if 
preferred;  3/^  cup  brown  sugar. 

Use  flour  enough  to  make  the  batter  of  the  same  consist- 
ency as  for  ordinary  loaf  cake  or  muffins.  Bake  slowly  45 
minutes  or  more  if  necessary. 

OUR  MOTHERS'  GINGER  CAKES 

Mrs.  Charlotte  M.  Wills. 

Two  quarts  flour;  3  teaspoons  baking  soda,  sifted  with  the 
flour;  I  pint  New  Orleans  molasses;  2  eggs;  ^  cup  brown 
sugar;  i  cup  lard;  i  cup  milk;  3  teaspoons  ground  ginger; 
I  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Heat  the  molasses  and  lard.  Mix  with  sugar,  milk  and 
beaten  eggs.  Stir  the  mixture  well  and  it  will  foam.  (Keep 
out  one  pint  of  the  flour  to  roll  the  cakes  in).  Add  flour  and 
let  it  all  become  cool.  Roll  out  as  soft  as  possible.  Cut  with 
biscuit  or  fancy  cutter  and  bake  in  pans  in  quick  oven. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 

Mrs.  D.  L.  Whipple. 

Four  cups  flour;  2  cups  molasses;  2  cups  buttermilk;  i  cup 
thick  sour  cream;  ^  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  i  teaspoon  ginger;  i 
teaspoon  soda. 


Cake  2iy 

FINE  SOFT  GINGER  CAKE 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Murray. 

One  cup  butter;  i  cup  boiling  water;  i  cup  sugar;  i  cup 
New  Orleans  molasses;  3  cups  flour;  i  tablespoon  ginger,  cin- 
namon and  allspice,  mixed;  i  tablespoon  soda,  sifted  in  the 
flour;  4  eggs,  beaten  light  and  stirred  in  the  last  thing. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 

Mrs.  Vida  A.  Bixby. 

.  Half  cup  molasses;  ^  cup  sugar;  2  eggs;  ^  cup  butter;  ^ 
cup  milk;  2  cups  flour;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder; 
a  sprinkle  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger  and  nutmeg. 

FAIRY  GINGER  BREAD— For  the  Little  Ones 

Mrs.  T.  W.  Brotherton. 

One  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  i  cup  milk;  i  tablespoon 
ginger;  ^  teaspoon  soda;  4  small  cups  flour,  sifted. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light,  dissolve  the 
3oda  in  the  milk,  mix,  and  add  the  sifted  flour.  Turn  baking 
pans  upside  down,  wipe  very  clean,  butter  well.  Spread  mix- 
ture upon  them  very  thinly,  bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
brown.  While  still  hot  cut  into  squares — with  case  knife. 
Slip  carefully  off". 

GINGER  BREAD 

Mrs.  Louisa  C.  Carrau. 

One  cup  molasses;  i  cup  brown  sugar;  3  cups  flour;  3  eggs, 
well  beaten;  i  large  tablespoon  ginger;  i  large  tablespoon 
soda;  i  cup  melted  butter;  i  cup  boiling  water;  a  little  cinna- 
mon.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

SPICE  CAKE 

Mrs   Gerrard  Irvine. 

One  cup  sugar;  i  &%%\  i  small  teaspoon  soda;  ^  teaspoon 
salt;  1/2  cup  sour  cream;  Yz  cup  buttermilk;  ^  teaspoon  gin- 
ger; ^  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

GINGER  SNAPS 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Gillette. 

Two  cups  molasses;  i  ^%z;  i  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed; 
2  teaspoons  soda;  flour  to  roll. 


2i8  ,  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Boil  the  molasses  and  shortening  together  five  minutes,  let 
it  cool,  then  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  and  soda,  ginger  to  taste. 
Mix  soft  as  possible  and  roll  thin.  Will  bake  in  a  few  min- 
utes.    These  are  excellent. 

GINGER  SNAPS 

Mrs.  Morrell,  Albany,  Texas. 

One  cup  sugar;  i  cup  New  Orleans  molasses;  i  cup  butter 
or  meat  fryings;  i  tablespoon  ginger;  i  teaspoon  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water;  as  much  flour  as  can  be  stirred,  not 
kneaded.  Pinch  off  a  piece  the  size  of  a  marble  and  roll  in 
the  hands,  and  place  in  baking  tin,  leaving  quite  a  space 
between  to  allow  for  spreading.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
leave  in  the  pan  until  they  cool  enough  to  snap.       Keep  the 

dough  warm. 

COOKIES 

Mrs.  Alex.   Fawcett,  Ohio. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  i  teaspoon  soda;  i 
cup  sour  cream  or  milk;  flour  to  mix  soft.  If  cream  is  used 
}4.  cup  of  butter  is  sufficient. 

Take  sifted  flour  and  mix  the  butter  with  it  the  same  as 
for  pie  crust,  then  add  the  sugar.  Make  a  cup-shaped  hole  in 
this  mixture,  and  break  in  the  eggs,  add  the  cream  (or  milk) 
in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved.  If  more  flour  is  needed 
to  roll  the  dough  into  thin  cakes  add  what  is  necessary,  but 
be  careful  not  to  make  too  stiff".  Sprinkle  the  cakes  with 
granulated  sugar  and  roll  gently  in.     Bake  quickly. 

COOKIES 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Hunt. 

One  cup  butter;  i  cup  sugar;  %  cup  sweet  milk;  4  eggs; 
2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  flour  to  mix  quite 
soft. 

If  nut  cookies  are  desired,  mix  finely  chopped  nuts  into 
dough  before  rolling  out. 

JUMBLES 

Mrs.  Gerrard  Irvine. 

One  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar;  }i  cup  butter;  3  table- 


Cakes  2rg 

spoons  sweet   milk;    3   eggs;   y^,    teaspoon   soda;    i    teaspoon 
cream  tartar. 

Mix  with  sufficient  flour  to  roll.  Sprinkle  with  sugar, 
cut  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

BACHELOR   BUTTONS 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Caswell. 

One  cup  white  sugar;  ^  cup  butter;  i^  cups  flour;  i  ^zg. 

Flavor  with  almond.  Roll  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a 
small  walnut,  roll  these  in  white  sugar  and  place  in  buttered 
tins  some  distance  apart  to  allow  them  room  to  spread.  Add 
a  little  more  flour  if  they  flatten  too  much. 

This  recipe  should  make  between  fifty  and  sixty  of  these 
little  cakes.     They  are  very  nice. 

SAND  TARTS 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Carpenter. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour;  2  eggs,  leav- 
ing out  the  white  of  one. 

Cream  the  butter  and  beat  in  the  sugar  and  eggs  well. 
Add  flour.  Roll  out  very  thin  and  cut  in  diamond  shape. 
Spread  the  white  of  egg  on  top.  Sprinkle  wdth  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  Press  a  blanched  almond  or  raisin  in  the  center 
of  each. 

FRUIT  COOKIES 

Mrs.   George  Segar,  Riverside. 

One  coffee  cup  butter;  i  coffee  cup  brown  sugar;  yi  coffee 
cup  molasses;  ^  coffee  cup  sour  milk  or  cream;  i  coffee  cup 
raisins;  j4  coffee  cup  currants;  3 eggs;  i  teaspoon  soda;  spices 
to  taste;  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  thick.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

CRULLERS 

Mrs.   Elizabeth  Dickey. 

Two  cups  sugar;   y^  cup  butter;    i  cup  sour  cream;  i   cup 
buttermilk;  3  eggs;  i  teaspoon  soda;  flavor,  or  not,  to  suit. 
Beat  the  eggs  well,  then   add   all  the  ingredients  together 


220  How    H-e  Cook  m  Los  Avgeles 

and  put  in  all  the  flour  you  can  knead  in.  Knead  as  long  as 
it  will  take  flour.  Now  roll  as  thin  as  crust  for  pies,  and  cut 
any  desired  shape,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

The  beauty  of  crullers  consists  in  kneading  hard,  and  roll- 
ing thin.  This  amount  will  fill  a  three-gallon  jar,  and  will 
keep  well. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs.  D.  I..  Whipple. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  3  eggs;  butter  size  of 
walnut;  3  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Mix  with  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Beat  yelks  of  eggs  and 
mix  with  milk.  Beat  whites  and  mix  with  batter  last.  F*ry 
in  hot  lard. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Murray. 

One  cup  sugar;  i  cup  sour  milk;  i  ^%Z')  ^  very  little  but- 
ter; I  teaspoon  soda;  j4  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  i  teaspoon 
salt;  flour  to  mix  soft.     Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS 

Mrs.  Converse  Smith,  Boston. 

One  pint  milk;  i  teacup  mashed  potatoes;  }4  cake  of  yeast 
dissolved  in  half  cup  warm  water,  (not  hot)  water.  Flour  to 
make  stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise  over  night,  in  the  morning  add 
I  cup  sugar;  i  Qgg;  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  small  piece  of 
soda  and  little  nutmeg.  Mold  very  soft  and  let  rise  again, 
then  cut  out  or  twist  them  and  fry. 

ORANGE  ICING  FOR  CAKE 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Otis. 

One  cup  sugar;  4  tablespoons  water;  2  oranges,  rind  grated 

into  juice;  add  sugar  and  water,  then  boil  until  syrup  begins  to 

string.     Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  foam,  then  pour  syrup 

over  it,   stirring  constantly,    and    put  upon  the   cake    while 

warm. 

GELATINE  FROSTING 

Miss  Farmer,  Boston  Cooking  School. 

Two  and  a   half  tablespoons    hot  water,  (boiling);   ^4  cup 


Cake  22T 

confectioner's  sugar;  %  level  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine: 
^4  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Add  the  granulated  gelatine  to  the  boiling  water,  and  when 
it  is  thoroughl}'  dissolved  add  the  sugar,  vanilla,  or  other 
flavoring  if  preferred,  and  beat  until  of  the  right  consistency 
to  spread. 

This  is  a  frosting  quickly  made,  and  does  not  require  the 
whites  of  eggs.  If  the  granulated  gelatine  cannot  be  pro- 
cured, ordinar}'  gelatine  maj'  be  used  hy  allowing  one  table- 
spoonful. 

CHOCOLATE    FROSTING 

Miss  Farmer. 

Two  squares  Ghirardelli's  chocolate:  3/^  cup  sugar;  3 
tablespoons  milk;  i  &%z^  3'elk  onl}-. 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  the  sugar  and  the  milk,  either 
hot  or  cold.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth  and  add 
the  ^^%  yelk.  Cook  for  one  minute  and  pour  over  the  cake. 
Especiall}^  nice  for  laj-er  cake. 

BOILED   FROSTING 

Miss  Ida  Maynard,  Colorado  Springs. 

One  cup  sugar;  Yz  cup  water.  Boil  together  until  a  thread 
will  drop  from  the  spoon,  then  pour  this  slowlj'  on  the  beaten 
white  of  one  &%^,  beating  all  the  time.  Add  one  teaspoon 
flavoring,  and  when  slighth^  cool  spread  upon  the  cake. 


ROYAL  ICING 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Carter 

This  icing  should  be  made  of  the  finest  sugar  dust.  If 
made  from  common  pulverized  sugar,  it  must  be  run  through 
a  lawn  sieve.  Work  into  a  soft  paste  with  the  whites  of  eggs, 
and  flavor  with  lemon  or  an\'  essence  you  maj'  prefer.  Tint  to 
any  shade  with  vegetable  colors,  or  leave  plain.  Work  the 
icing  with  a  wooden  spatula,  or  paddle  to  such  consistency 
that  when  withdrawn  the  point  of  icing  left  behind  will  stand 
erect,  or  lay  like  piping. 


222  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

niLK  FROSTING 

Mrs.    D.  S.  Dickson. 

Five  tablespoons  milk;  i  cup  sugar.  Boil  until  it  will  drop 
from  a  spoon  like  jelly,  and  cool. 

MILK  ICING 

Mrs.  Jerome  Curtin. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar;  6  tablespoons   milk  or  water. 

Put  on  stove  and  boil  five  minutes.  Do  not  stir.  Take  off 
fire  and  stir  briskly  until  cool.  When  nearly  cold,  or  when 
commencing  to  thicken,  add  white  of  one  ^'g'g,  beaten  stiiF 
and  flavored  to  taste. 


PUDDINGS  AND  THEIR  SAUCES 


BOILED  PUDDINGS 

Miss  K.  R.  Paxtoii. 

Grease  the  mold  very  thoroughly  and  there  will  be  no 
danger  of  sticking.  Do  not  fill  the  mold  as  room  must  be 
allowed  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Put  the  mold  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water.  It  is  not  necessary  for  the  water  to  cover 
the  mold;  half  way  to  the  top  of  mold  is  sufficient;  when  the 
water  gets  too  low,  replenish  with  boiling  water.  The  kettle 
must  be  covered  with  a  tight  fitting  lid  to  keep  in  steam. 
Put  a  flat-iron  on  the  lid  to  keep  it  down  tight.  On  no  ac- 
count, allow  the  water  to  stop  boiling.  If  pudding  is  boiled 
in  a  bag,  dip  it  in  boiling  water,  wring,  sprinkle  with  flour, 
tie  up  the  pudding  in  the  bag  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell. 

Bavarian  creams,  gelatine,  corn  starch,  or  any  pudding 
served  in  a  form;  wet  mold  with  cold  water;  pour  out  water 
but  do  not  wipe  the  mold;  pour  in  pudding  and  put  in  cold 
place;    when  ready  to  serve,  turn  it  out  in  dish. 

PLUM  PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Widuey. 

One  quart  cracker  crumbs;  1)2  cups  sugar;  i  large  tea- 
spoon cinnamon;  i  small  teaspoon  salt;  ^  pound  currants; 
^  pound  candied  lemon  or  orange  peel — chopped;  3  pints 
milk;  ^  cup  butter;  6  eggs;  i  nutmeg;  i  pound  stoned 
raisins;    ^   pound  citron — chopped  fine. 

Pour  the  milk  over  the  cracker  crumbs,  beat  the  yelks  of 
the  eggs,  sugar  and  butter  until  light,  and  add  them.  Stir 
in  all  the  fruit,  first  adding  to  it  a  trifle  of  flour,  to  prevent 
its  sticking.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.  Butter  a 
large  mold,  or  two  smaller  ones,  and  put  in  pudding,  leaving 
room  for  rising.  Cover  close  and  steam  five  hours.  Serve 
with  hot  sauce,  or  cold  hard  sauce. 

This  has  proved  most  excellent,  and  is  enough  for  18  per- 
sons. 


224-  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Aiigeles 

ENGLISH  RECIPE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Mary    O.  Lerrigo. 

Twelve  eggs — well  beaten;  2  pounds  beef  suet — chopped 
fine;  2  pounds  bread  crumbs;  1^2  pounds  flour;  2  pounds 
stoned  raisins;  2  pounds  currants;  i  pound  sultana  raisins; 
1  pound  sugar;  V^  pound  candied  peel;  i  nutmeg  and  Y-z 
ounce  mixed  spices;  rinds  of  2  lemons  grated;  i  small  tea- 
spoon salt. 

Mik  well  together  and  add  the  eggs.  If  not  moist  enough, 
add  a  little  molasses  and  water.  Put  into  buttered  molds, 
tie  up  safel)^  put  into  boiling  water,  and  keep  boiling  for  six 
hours. 

This  will  make  3  good-sized  puddings. 

ENGLISH  FRUIT  PUDDING 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Smith. 

One  cup  chopped  suet;  i  cup  seeded  raisins;  i  cup  cur- 
rants; I  cup  sour  milk;  ^A  cup  sugar;  li  cup  molasses;  % 
pound  citron;  i  teaspoon  soda;  small  quantity  each — nutmeg, 
cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Steam  three  hours. 

BLACK  PUDDING 

Mrs.  E.   D.  Major. 

Half  pint  molasses;  J4  cup  sugar;  }{  cup  sweet  milk;  ^ 
teaspoon  cloves;  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon;  Y^  cup  butter;  ij^ 
cups  flour;  3  eggs;    j4  teaspoon  soda. 

Steam  one  hour. 

nOLASSES  PUDDING 

Mrs.  D.  S.  Dicksou 

Three  cups  flour;  i  cup  cold  water;  i  cup  seeded  raisins; 
I  cup  molasses;   ^2  cup  butter;    i  teaspoon  soda. 

Steam  3  hours  and  then  invite  your  friends  to  dinner. 

BLACK  PUDDING 

Mrs.   R.  J.  Widney. 

Two  eggs — yolks;    fi  cup  molasses;  2  cups  flour;    i  tea- 


Puddings  and  their  Sauces  225 

spoon  cinnamon;    i  teaspoon  cloves;    i  cup  cold  water,  and  i 
even  teaspoon  soda — to  be  added  at  the  last. 

Put  in  an  air-tight  steamer,  and  cook  for  an  hour.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. 

PLAIN  PLUn   PUDDING 

Mrs.  Col.  Mudge. 

One  cup  crackers — rolled  fine;  i  cup  raisins — stoned;  i 
cup  molasses;  J. 2  cup  sugar;  small  piece  of  citron — sliced 
thin;  2  eggs — well  beaten;  i  teaspoon  cinnamon;  ]^  teaspoon 
cloves;  Y^  teaspoon  allspice  extract;  i  teaspoon  lemon 
extract;   ^A  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Steam  three  hours. 

5UET  PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Stewart. 

One  cup  milk;   i  cup  raisins;   i  cup  syrup  or  brown  sugar; 
y-i  cup  suet;   i  teaspoon  soda;  ilour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Boil  steadily  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING 

Miss  Ruth  Childs. 

Three  dozen  chestnuts;  8  eggs — 5'olks;  i  pint  cream;  2 
sticks  pounded  vanilla;  ^2  pint  pine  apple  syrup;  little  salt; 
4  ounces  quince  citron;  6  ounces  pine  apple;  6  ounces  dried 
cherries;  4  ounces  Smyrna  raisins;   ^^  pint  whipped  cream. 

Boil  the  chestnuts  in  water;  when  done,  peel,  pound  and 
rub  through  a  sieve;  put  this  pulp  into  a  stewpan  with  the 
eggs,  cream,  vanilla,  pineapple  syrup,  and  a  very  little  salt. 
Stir  these  ingredients  over  a  stove  fire  until  the  eggs  are 
sufficiently  set  in  the  custard,  then  rub  the  whole  through  a 
Tammy,  and  put  into  a  basin.  Cut  the  citron  and  pine- 
apple, (previously  simmered  in  the  syrup  above  alluded 
to),  and  place  these  in  a  basin  with  the  cherries  and  raisins. 
Allow  the  fruit  to  steep  for  several  hours  in  two  wine  glasses 
cherry  cordial.  Place  the  chestnut  cream  in  a  freezing  pot, 
immersed  in  rough  ice,  and  freeze  it  in  the  usual  manner; 
then  add  half  pint  whipped  cream  and  the  fruit.  Mix  the 
pudding,  and   continue  working    the  freezing  pot  for  a  few 


226  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

minutes  longer.  When  the  pudding  is  set  firm,  put  it  into 
a  mold,  cover  it  down  and  immerse  in  ice  until  it  is  required 
to  be  sent  to  the  table. 

FRUIT  JELLY  PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  H.  F.  Peck. 

One  box  gelatine;  i  pint  cold  water;  3  lemons;  i  pint 
boiling  water;  ^  pound  white  sugar;  strawberries;  peaches 
or  bananas. 

Put  gelatine  in  a  large  pitcher,  add  cold  water.  Squeeze 
lemons  into  this  and  throw  in  the  skins.  lyCt  all  stand  an 
hour,  then  add  boiling  water  and  white  sugar.  When  dis- 
solved, strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  flannel  bag.  When  this 
commences  to  thicken,  put  a  layer  of  strawberries  in  a  large 
dish  or  mold,  then  some  of  the  jelly,  then  a  layer  of  peaches 
or  bananas,  then  the  jelly  again,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
full.  Set  away  on  ice.  When  ready  to  use,  turn  out  of 
mold,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  and  powdered  sugar. 

CABINET  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Erneline  Childs. 

Dried  cherries;  candied  citron;  slices  of  sponge  cake; 
ratapas  or  macaroons;  8  eggs — yolks;  i  pint  milk  or  cream; 
6  ounces  sugar;  rind  of  i  lemon;    arrowroot  sauce  or  custard. 

Spread  the  inside  of  a  plain  mold  with  butter,  and  orna- 
ment the  sides  with  the  cherries  and  citron.  Fill  the  mold 
with  alternate  layers  of  slices  of  sponge  cakes,  ratapas  or 
macaroons;  then  fill  up  the  mold  with  a  lemon  custard,  made 
with  the  eggs,  milk  or  cream,  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of 
a  lemon.  This  custard  must  not  be  set,  but  merely  mixed 
up.  Steam  the  pudding  in  the  usual  way  for  about  an  hour 
and  a  half.  When  done,  dish  it  up  either  with  arrowroot 
sauce  or  a  custard. 

WALNUT  PUDDING 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Two  cups  flour;  i  cup  sugar;  )4  cup  butter;  .^^  cup  wal- 
nuts; ]-2  cup  water  or  milk;  i^  teaspoons  Cleveland's  bak- 
ing powder;  3  unbeaten  eggs. 

Bake  and  serve  with  sauce. 


Puddings  and  their  Sauces  22y 

FIG  PUDDING 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Workman. 

One  cup  chopped,  dried  figs;  i  cup  chopped  suet;  i  cup 
brown  sugar;  i  cup  bread  crumbs;  i  cup  flour;  ^4.  cup  milk; 
2  eggs;    I  heaping  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  salt. 

Steam  four  hours,  and  serve  hot  with  any  sauce  desired. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

Miss  M.  E.  McLellan. 

Fifty  prunes;  5  eggs — whites;  sugar. 

Soak  prunes  over  night,  then  stew  until  thoroughly  done, 
and  there  is  but  little  water  left.  Rub  through  a  colander. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar.  Add  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Turn  on 
to  a  platter  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  either  as  a  hot  or 
cold  pudding. 

PRUNE  SHAPE 

Mrs.  C.  H.   Howlaiid. 

One  quart  prune  juice;  i  pint  stewed  prunes;  i  box  gela- 
tine; ^2  cup  sugar,  unless  prunes  are  sweetened  when  boil- 
ing. 

Stew  the  prunes  until  tender.  Pour  off"  the  juice.  Add 
to  it  Ihe  gelatine,  previously  soaked  in  a  little  water,  then 
the  sugar,  and  stir  them  all  together  on  the  stove  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Stir  in  the  prunes.  Pour  into  a  wet 
mold,  and  when  cold  and  firm  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

PUFF  PUDDING 

Miss  Miiia  Jeviie. 

One  quart  milk;  5  eggs;  5  tablespoons  flour;  a  pinch  of 
salt. 

Whip  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour 
the  milk  (boiling)  on  the  flour  and  whipped  yolks.  Slir  in 
the  whipped  whites  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with 
hot  sauce. 

STEAMED  PUDDING 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Whortoii. 

One  cup  sugar;     i  cup  sweet  milk;    i  tablespoon  butter;   i 


228  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder;     i  egg;     i  pint  flour;    a 
little  salt. 

Steam  one  hour.  Eat  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  a  nice 
pudding  sauce.  Very  nice  with  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit  in  it, 
■or  stewed  fruit  under  it. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs;  i  quart  milk;  i  cup  sugar;  butter 
— size  of  an  egg;  4  eggs;   i  lemon. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  well,  then  add  milk,  sugar,  bread 
■crumbs,  butter  and  the  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Put  in  a 
pudding  dish  and  bake  3^  hour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  juice  of 
the  lemon.  Spread  this  over  the  pudding  when  done,  and 
replace  in  the  oven  and  brown  slightly.  This  is  good  cold; 
or,  let  the  pudding  get  cold,  then  spread  with  a  layer  of  cur- 
rant jelly  before  putting  on  the  frosting. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

Marian  Harland. 

One  scant  teacup  bread  crumbs — bread  dried  in  o\en  and 
rolled;  2  eggs;  i  pint  milk;  %  teaspoon  soda — scant;  i 
tablespoon  melted  butter.     Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk.  Add  butter  and  soda — dissolved 
in  a  little  water,  yolks  and  nutmeg;  and  last,  the  whites  beaten 
stiff.  Beat  well  together,  and  bake  in  buttered  pan  %  hour. 
Serve  with  nutmeg  sauce. 

SWEET  POTATO    PUDDING 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Whaley. 

One  pound  raw  sweet  potato — grated;  2  eggs;  2  table- 
spoons sugar;  i  teaspoon  ginger;  ]4.  teacup  molasses;  i 
tablespoon  butter;  milk  to  make  thin  batter;  any  other 
spice,  if  desired. 

Mix  the  ingredients  well  together — the  eggs  well  beaten — 
and  bake  one  and  one-half  hours. 


Puddings  a7id  Their  Sauces  22p 


CARROT  PUDDING 

Mrs.  G.  G.  O'Brien,  Riverside,      Mrs  Harriet  J.  Meakiii,  Sau  Uiego. 

One  cup  gyrated  carrot — raw;  i  cup  grated  potato — raw; 
I  cup  stoned  raisins;  i  even  teaspoon  soda;  Y^  teaspoon  nut- 
meg: I  cup  flour;  i  cup  brown  sugar;  1/2  cup  suet  or  butter: 
^  teaspoon  cinnamon;   ^  teaspoon  cloves. 

Mix  soda  with  the  grated  potato  and  mix  all  together. 
Steam  three  hours.     Serve  with  carrot  pudding  sauce. 

SPONGE  PUDDING 

Mrs.   E.   R.  Smith. 

Three  eggs;  4  tablespoons  flour;  ii-  pints  milk;  a  little 
salt. 

Stir  the  milk,  (scalding  hot),  into  the  flour,  then  add  the 
yolks,  then  the  whites — beaten  to  a  stifi"  froth,  and  bake 
immediately  for  one  half  hour.  Serve  as  soon  as  baked  with 
lemon  sauce. 

This  is  a  favorite  dessert  at  many  tables. 

ORANGE    PUDDING 

Mrs.  Hancock  M.  Johnston. 

Juice  of  6  oranges;  5  eggs;   i  coffeecup  sugar. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Add  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  stir  well.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  pan  of 
water. 

ORANGE    PUDDING 

Mrs.  W.  \V.  Widney. 

Two  and  one  half  cups  hot  water;  114  cups  sugar;  3  eggs 
— yolks;  2  tablespoons  corn  starch;  juice  4  oranges;  rind  of 
one;  butter — size  of  a  walnut;   i  teaspoon  vanilla. 

After  this  mixture  has  been  well  boiled,  put  into  baking 
dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,, 
arid  mixed  with  two  tablespoons  sugar.     Brown  in  oven. 

ORANGE  5P0NGE 

Mrs.   G.  W.  Garcelon,  Riverside. 

One  ounce  gelatine;  i  pint  water;  6  oranges;  i  lemon;  3 
eggs,  whites  only;  sugar  to  taste. 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  pan,  let  stand  until  almost  cold.     Mix 


2^^o  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

in  the  juice  of  the  orange  and  lemon;  add  eggs  and  sugar. 
Whisk  all  together  until  it  is  white  and  spongy.  Put  in 
molds      Will  be  ready  for  use  the  next  day. 

APPLE  SAGO  PUDDING 

Mrs.    C.  G.    Du  Bois. 

One  cup  sago;  6  cups  water;  12  apples. 

Put  the  sago  in  the  water,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
swell.  Stew  the  apples  and  mix  them  with  the  swelled  sago. 
Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  If  apples  cook  quickly  it  is 
nice  to  put  them  in  raw,  with  a  little  sugar.  Peaches  are 
good  used  raw.  Serve  with  cream  or  sugar,  or  any  sauce 
desired. 

APPLE  PUDDING 

Miss  M.  E.  McLellau. 

Two  large  tart  apples:  Y-z  tablespoon  butter;  2  eggs;  sugar; 
y^  cup  fine  bread  crumbs. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  apples.  Boil  them  in  a  very  little 
water.  Strain  them  and  add  the  butter  with  sugar  to  taste. 
Add  the  bread  crumbs  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the 
white  of  one.  Bake  about  half  an  hour  and  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  white  of  the  other  egg,  and  i  table- 
spoon sugar.     Brown  the  meringue.  Serve  warm  or  cold  with 

cream. 

A  NEW  APPLE   PUDDING 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Six  tart  apples;  i  pint  flour;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;  i  ^^%,'^  i  teacup  sweet  milk;  a  little  salt. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  stew  them  in  very  little  water 
until  done.  Make  a  batter  of  the  other  ingredients.  Beat 
the  stewed  apples  into  it.  Bake  in  a  buttered  earthen  dish. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

PLAIN  APPLE  PUDDING 

Mrs,  8.  E.  Smith,  St.  John,  New  Brunswick. 

Three  or  four  good-sized  tart  apples;  i  cup  milk;  i  Q:%Z'^  ^ 
teaspoon  cream  tartar;  ^  tea.spoon  soda;  small  piece  butter; 
flour;  salt  to  season. 


Puddings  ayid  their  Sauces  2jr 

Cut  up  apples  in  a  pudding  dish.  Make  a  batter  of  the 
milk,  Q^gg  and  other  ingredients.  Add  flour  to  make  a  rather 
thin  batter.  Pour  this  over  the  apples  and  steam  or  bake. 
Serve  with  sauce. 

SNOW    PUDDING 

Mrs.  M.  Pickering. 

One  quart  boiling  water;  3  tablespoons  corn  starch;  U  cup 
sugar;  6  eggs;  i  pint  sweet  milk;  lemon;  i  teaspoon  butter. 

Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water  with  the 
sugar  and  butter,  and  pour  into  the  boiling  water.  Add  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff.  Stir  fast  until  all  is  very- 
light.  Make  a  custard  of  the  sweet  milk,  and  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Season  with  lemon,  and  when  cold  serve 
with  the  snow  pudding. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Woodhead. 

Half  box  gelatine;  ^  pint  milk;  ^  pint  whipped  cream;  5 
eggs  (whites  only);  i  teaspoon  vanilla;  sugar  to  taste. 

Soak  gelatine  in  milk,  place  over  stove  aud  stir  until  gela- 
tine is  dissolved;  then  add  cream,  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten, 
vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste.  Mix  all  together  well.  Place  on 
ice  12  hours. 

SNOW  PUDDING 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Baxter 

Three  cups  milk;  3  tablespoons  corn  starch;  3  eggs, 
whites. 

Sauce — One  cup  milk;  i  cup  sugar;  3  eggs,  yolks. 

Pudding — Heat  the  milk  and  add  the  corn  starch  wet  with 
a  little  milk,  when  this  is  thick  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in 
the  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  pour  in  a  mold  to  cool. 

Sauce — Heat  milk,  add  sugar  and  beaten  yolks.  Cook 
until  it  thickens.     Flavor  to  taste. 

FROZEN  RICE  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Hancock  Banning. 

Half  cup  rice;  i  quart  water;  i  saltspoon  salt;  i  pint  milk; 
3  eggs;  I  cup  sugar;  )^  pint  cream;  )^  pint  milk;  vanilla. 


2^2  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Compote — I  pint  granulated  sugar;  i  pint  water;  i  quart 
strawberries. 

Boil  for  one-half  hour,  the  rice  in  the  water  with  the  salt. 
Drain  and  put  in  double  boiler,  with  i  pint  milk,  and  cook 
until  milk  is  all  absorbed.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  and  just 
before  removing  from  fire,  add  to  the  rice;  with  i  cup  of  sugar. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  add  ^ 
pint  of  cream  and  yi  pint  milk,  and  freeze. 

Compote  for  rice  pudding — Dissolve  the  granulated  sugar 
with  the  boiling  water.  Do  not  stir,  and  take  from  fire  just 
before  it  reaches  the  boiling  point.  Pick,  wash,  and  wipe 
dry  the  strawberries,  and  pour  syrup  over  them.  Serve  with 
the  rice  pudding. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

Miss  Frances  Widney. 

One  pint  milk;  large  Yz  cup  sugar;  2  heaping  tablespoons 
Ghirardelli's  grated  chocolate;  i  heaping  tablespoon  corn 
starch;  pinch  of  salt. 

L,et  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  sugar  and  choco- 
late, well  mixed,  then  the  corn  starch  wet  with  two  spoonsful 
of  the  milk.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  and  turn  into  cups  or 
mold.  Set  it  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  well 
sweetened,  or  with  plain  cream  and  sugar  iiavored  with  vanilla. 

DELICATE    PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Plater. 

One  cup  water;  i  cup  fruit  juice;  3  tablespoons  corn  starch; 
Yt,  saltspoon  salt;  sugar  to  taste;  3  eggs. 

Boil  the  water  and  fruit  juice,  wet  the  corn  starch  in  a  lit- 
tle cold  water,  stir  into  the  boiling  syrup  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes. Add  the  salt  and  sugar  to  taste;  the  quantity  depending 
upon  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  till  foamy,  and  stir 
into  the  starch.  Turn  at  once  into  a  mold.  Serve  cold  with 
boiled  custard  sauce  made  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

nOUNTAIN  DEW  PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Chapinau. 

One  pint  milk;  2  eggs;  4  tablespoons  cocoanut;  ^A  cup 
rolled  crackers;  i  teaspoon  lemon  juice;  i  cup  sugar.   Mix  the 


Puddings  and  their  Sauces  ^jj 


milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  cocoanut,  cracker  and  lemon 
juice  together.  Bake  half  an  honr.  When  done  cover  with 
frosting  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  cup  of  sugar. 

INDIAN  PUDDING 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Gilchrist. 

One  pint  milk;  5  tablespoons  sifted  Indian  meal;  ^ 
cup  light  molasses;  i  teaspoon  salt;  i  teaspoon  ginger;  i  tea- 
spoon cinnamon;  i  ^z^;  i  pint  milk  used  cold. 

Put  milk  to  scald,  when  it  begins  to  simmer,  stir  in  sifted 
Indian  meal,  wet  with  molasses.  Cook  a  few  minutes.  Add 
salt,  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Put  cold  milk  into  which 
the  well  beaten  q^%  has  been  added  into  a  baking  dish, 
(earthen  preferred).  Pour  the  mixture  in,  stirring  but  little. 
Bake  slowly  two  or  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Mary  B.  Welch. 

One  pint  sweet  milk;  ^  pint  Indian  meal;  i  cup  molasses; 
^  cup  butter;  3  well-beaten  eggs;  i  cup  cold  sweet  milk. 

Boil  the  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  kettle  and  stir  in  the  meal; 

let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  an  hour;  melt  the  butter  and 

molasses  together   and  add  to  the  hot  mixture,  and  leave  for 

half  hour.  Then  add  eggs  and  cold  milk.  Bake  ^  of  an  hour. 

Serve  with  sauce. 

HEAVENLY  HASH 

Mrs.  L-  W.  Wheeler. 

One  pineapple,  sliced  thin;  4  oranges;  sugar;  i  box  straw- 
berries; 6  bananas;  lemon  juice. 

Put  a  layer  of  pineapple  in  a  dish,  cover  with  sugar,  then 
a  layer  of  berries,  of  orange  and  of  bananas  until  all  are  used. 
Cover  each  layer  of  fruit  with  powdered  sugar. 

5IMPLY  MADE  DES5ERT 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Batter;  fruit;  i  Q^ZZ- 

Make  a  common  griddle-cake  batter,  add  ^%z  and  some 
fruit.  Fry  in  a  little  lard  and  serve  with  pudding  sauce.  If 
canned  fruit  is  used,  it  should  first  be  drained. 


2^^  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


FRUIT  FRITTERS 

Mrs.  C.   C.  McLean. 

Two  eggs,  whites;  i  tablespoon  flour;  i  tablespoon  cold 
water;  i  tablespoon  butter,  or  Howland's  olive  oil;  apricots, 
peaches,  and  strawberries. 

Make  a  batter  with  the   beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  flour, 

cold  water  and  butter  or  oil.       Mix  thoroughly  before  putting 

in  the  whites.        Pare  the  apricots   and  peaches,  and   cut   in 

quarters,    strawberries  used  whole.       Dip  each   piece  of  fruit 

into  the  batter,  and  drop  into  the  boiling  fat.       Two  minutes 

will  cook  them  brown  and  crisp;  then  sugar  them  and  serve 

hot. 

FRUIT  DUMPLINQ5 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

One  pint  flour;  fruit;  a  little  salt;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's 
baking  powder;  milk  to  make  a  very  soft  dough. 

Sift  the  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour  together;  mix  with 
milk  till  very  soft.  Place  in  a  steamer  well  greased  cups.  Put 
in  each  a  spoonful  of  batter,  then  one  of  fruit.  Cover  with 
another  of  batter.  Steam  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  lemon  sauce. 

PEACH  ROLLS 

Mrs.  M.  G,  Moore. 

Stew  dried  fruit;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Make  a  good 
baking  powder  crust,  roll  very  thin  and  spread  with  fruit, 
putting  small  pieces  of  butter  on  the  fruit.  Roll  up  and  place 
in  a  deep  pan.  To  3  or  4  rolls  add  i  cup  sugar,  and  ^  cup 
butter,  and  pour  over  this  hot  water  enough  to  cover.  Bake 
Yz  hour.     Serve  with  sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BLACKBERRY  MUSH 

Mrs.   M.  G.   Moore. 

Two  quarts  ripe  berries;  i)^  pints  boiling  water;  i  pound 
sugar;  i  pint  sifted  flour. 

To  the  berries  add  the  boiling  water  and  sugar;  cook  a  few 
minutes,  then  stir  in  flour.  Boil  until  the  flour  is  cooked. 
Serve  hot  or  cold,  with  sweet  cream  or  hard  sauce. 


Puddings  and  their  Sauces  2^5 

FRIED  BANANAS 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Ross. 

Take  medium  sized,  firm  bananas;  peel  and  slice  length- 
wise. Fry  in  good  salad  oil,  or  sweet  butter,  (which  has  been 
previously  heated),  until  the  banana  is  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
with  pudding  sauce. 

FRUIT  FOR   DESSERT 

Mrs.  C.  C.  McLean. 

One  egg,  white;  fruit;  sugar. 

Beat  well  the  white  of  an  ^ZZ^  with  a  little  water,  dip  the 
fruit  in  and  roll  it  immediately  in  powdered  sugar;  place  on  a 
dish;  leave  it  for  five  or  six  hours,  then  serve.  A  more  beau- 
tiful, palatable  and  exquisite  dessert  than  a  plate  of  currants 
thus  dressed,  cannot  be  had. 

5UGARED  POHEGRANATES 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Ross. 

Fill  a  glass  dish  with  the  red  pomegranate  .seeds,  sprinkle 
with  pulverized  sugar,  and  serve. 

SAUCE  FOR  CHRISTHAS  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Flauders. 

One  cup  boiling  water;  i  cup  sugar;   i  cup  butter;  5  eggs. 
Cream  the  butter,  sugar,  and  yolks.       Beat  in  the  whites, 
and  pour  in  the  water. 

HARD  SAUCE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar;  y^  cup  butter. 
Beat  the  butter  well,  then  stir  in  the  sugar  and  beat  to  a 
cream,  flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

STRAWBERRY    SAUCE 

Mrs.  Helen  W.  Watson. 

One  large  tablespoon  butter;  i^  cups  powdered  sugar; 
white  of  one  egg;  i  pint  mashed  strawberries. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  the  sugar  and 
the  beaten  white  of  the  ^'g%.  Beat  till  very  light,  and  just 
before  serving  add  the  mashed  strawberries.       Instead  of  the 


2j6  How   'We  Cook  iii  Los  Avgeles 

butter  and  egg,  one  quart  of  the  whipped  cream  may  be  added 
to  the  strawberries  and  sugar.  A  generous  half  pint  of  cream 
makes  a  quart  when  whipped. 

CREAM  SAUCE 

One  half  cup  butter;  i  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  milk  or  cream; 
I  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  all  the 
time;  add  milk  or  cream  gradually,  then  flavoring.  Beat  until 
very  smooth  and  creamy.     Serve. 

CARROT  PUDDING  SAUCE 

Mrs.  G.  G.  O'Brien,  Riverside. 

One  cup  sugar;  i  ^ZZ'^  /^  cup  boiling  milk;  juice  of  one 
lemon. 

Beat  sugar  and  egg  till  foamy,  pour  gradually  into  milk, 
add  lemon  juice.  Cook  in  pan  of  boiling  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly. 

PUDDING  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Alice  Curtain. 

One  pint  milk;  ^  cup  sugar;  i  tablespoon  flour,  or  corn 
starch;    i  teaspoon  butter;  cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 

Mix  the  flour  in  a  little  water  till  perfectly  smooth.  Scald 
the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  stir  thoroughly,  then  add  the  thick- 
ening and  butter.  Cook  5  or  10  minutes.  Flavor  with  a  lit- 
tle cinnamon  or  nutmeg. 

This  sauce  may  be  varied,  by  adding  the  yolk  of  one  ^g^,, 
well  beaten  with  the  sugar,  to  the  milk.  Then  add  about  ^ 
the  thickening,  and  just  before  serving  beat  the  white  of  ^^z 
stiff",  and  stir  in  the  sauce.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond 
extract. 

EVERY=DAY  SAUCE 

Mrs.   A.  M.   Whaley. 

Two  tablespoons  butter;  i  cup  sugar;  i  tablespoon  flour; 
pinch  of  salt;  i  scant  pint  boiling  water;  3  tablespoons  cold 
water. 

Beat   the  sugar  and  butter   to  a  cream,  add  the   flour  and 


Puddings  and  their  Sauces  2J7 


thoroughl}-  mix.  Then  add  the  salt  and  cold  water,  then  the 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  after  removing 
from  the  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond. 

LEHON  SAUCE 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

Three-quarters  cupof  sugar;  i  egg;  ^^  cup  butter;  i  lemon; 
I  teaspoon  nutmeg,  yi  cup  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  in  the  egg  whipped 
light,  then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  half  the  rind — 
grated;  also  the  nutmeg.  Beat  hard,  then  add  the  water,  put 
the  sauce  into  a  tin  pail  and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of 
the  tea-kettle — which  must  be  boiling — until  the  sauce  is  very 
hot.     Stir  constantly. 

NUTMEG  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Dunham. 

Half  coflFee  cup  sugar;  butter,  size  of  hickory  nut;  i  table- 
spoon flour,  rounded;  few  drops  vanilla;  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
scant. 

Mix  butter,  flour,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  together.  Dissolve 
with  a  little  cold  water,  then  pour  on  one  pint  boiling  water. 
Stir  well  and  cook  about  10  minutes.  Just  before  serving  add 
vanilla. 

ARROWROOT  SAUCE  FOR  PLUH  OR  SUET  PUDDING 

One  cup  sugar;  two  teaspoons  arrowroot;  two  table- 
spoons butter;  juice  of  one  lemon;  one  small  teaspoon  good 
extract  vanilla;  half  cup  cold  water.  Mix  sugar  and  arrow- 
root, the  lemon  juice  and  water.  Boil  slowly  until  well- 
cooked  and  nice  and  clear.  Take  off"  and  add  butter.  When 
nearly  cold,  put  in  the  vanilla.  If  the  butter  does  not  make 
it  sufficiently  salt,  a  little  salt  may  be  added.  If  too  thick, 
thin  with  warm  water.  To  give  it  more  of  the  lemon  flavor, 
a  little  of  the  rind  may  be  put  in  while  cooking. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  sauce. 


PIES 


CHOPPED  PASTE 

Miss  Ida  G.  Mayuard,  Colorado  Springs. 

One  quart  flour;  i  pint  butter,  or  butter  and  lard  mixed; 
ice  water;   i  teaspoon  salt. 

Put  flour  into  a  chopping  bowl.  Add  salt  and  butter,  or 
butter  and  lard.  Chop  thoroughly.  Mix  into  a  stiff  dough 
with  ice  water.  Toss  out  onto  a  floured  board.  Pound  and 
roll  thin.  Fold  the  sides  so  they  will  meet  in  the  center.  Fold 
the  ends  to  meet.  Then  fold  one  half  on  to  the  other.  Pound 
and  roll  again,  and  fold  as  before.  Keep  on  ice  until  ready 
to  use. 

This  is  excellent  for  pastry  and  pies,  and  is  ver}^  good  for 

patties, 

RICH  SHORT  CRUST 

Mrs.  B.  C.  Whiting. 

Ten  ounces  flour;  i  egg — yolk;  ^  pound  butter;  2  ounces 
finely-sifted  sugar;   2  tablespoons  water. 

Rub  the  butter,  flour  and  sugar  together.  Beat  uj>  the 
eg^  with  the  water,  then  mix  with  the  flour  to  a  moderately 
soft  paste.     Roll  it  out  twice. 

QRAHAH  PIE  CRUST 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

Graham  flour;  sweet  cream;  butter;  salt. 

Sift  the  flour  and  rub  into  it  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a 
little  salt,  and  use  sweet  cream  to  mix  with.  Roll  out  as 
you  would  other  crust. 

This  is  healthful  as  well  as  delicious. 

CRUST  FOR  PUMPKIN    PIE 

Mrs.  S.   Speedy. 

Butter  your  pie  tin  well,  then  take  some  dry  corn  meal 
and  shake  it  around  in  the  buttered  tin;  empty  it  out,  leaving 
only  what  sticks  to  the  tin.  Have  your  pumpkin  ready,  the 
same  as  for  any  pie;  pour  it  in  your  tin;  set  it  in  the  oven 
and  bake  it.  You  will  be  surprised  to  see  what  a  nice  crust 
it  will  form. 


Pies  2J9 

PIE  CRUST 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Four  cups  flour;  i  cup  lard,  or  half  lard  and  half  butter; 
white  of  I  &gg;   i  teaspoon  salt,  if  lard  is  used. 

Rub  the  shortening  well  into  the  flour,  then  add  cold 
water  to  make  it  the  consistency  to  roll  out,  then  add  white 
of  &gg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

FLAKEY  CRUST  WITHOUT  BUTTER 

Mrs.  Carl  Schutze. 

Flour;  lard;  Highland  evaporated  milk;  salt. 

Use  four  parts  flour  to  one  part  lard.  Chop  together. 
Add  a  little  salt.  Mix  to  a  consistency  to  roll  out  with  evap- 
orated milk,  or  any  other  unsweetened  variety. 

This  will  be  as  flakey  as  real  butter  paste. 

niNCE  HEAT 

Mrs.  K.  M.  Widney. 

Three  pounds  tender  beef — chopped  fine;  3  pounds  cold, 
boiled  tongue — chopped  fine;  3  pounds  beef  suet,  free  from 
membrane,  chopped  fine;  4  pounds  stoned  raisins — soaked  in 
one  pint  grape  juice;  4  pounds  pared,  cored  and  chopped 
tart  apples;  4  pounds  clean  curr.mts;  i  pound  chopped 
citron;  %  pound  orange  peel — candied;  ^  pound  lemon  peel 
— candied;  i  pound  sweet  almonds — blanched;  i  teaspoon 
ground  pepper;  i  teaspoon  ground  all-pice;  i  teaspoon  ground 
mace;  2  ounces  bitter  almonds — blanched;  4  lemons — juice 
and  grated  yellow  rind;  4  oranges — ^juice  only  4  pounds 
coffee  sugar;  2  level  tablespoons  salt;  i  teaspoon  ground 
cloves;   i  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon;    2  nutmegs — grated. 

See  that  the  flavor  is  rich  and  even,  adding  more  sugar  or 
spices,  if  required;  but  not  allowing  any  one  flavor  to  pre- 
dominate. Let  the  mixture  stand  at  least  over  night  before 
using  it.  It  will  be  better  if  it  is  left  in  a  cool  place  for  a 
week  or  ten  days.     Will  keep  good  all  winter. 

The  above  is  Miss  Juliet  Corson's  recipe  for  mince  meat — 
omitting  the  wine  and  brandy  which  she  uses.  I  use  cider 
and  grape  juice,  which  have  been  boiled  down  from  one  gallon 


2/0  How   We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

to  one  quart.  I  often  use  also  the  rich  juices  of  sweet 
pickles,  such  as  peaches,  plums,  etc.,  also  jellies — currant  is 
especially  nice — which  have  been  left  over. 

MINCE  MEAT— An   English  Recipe 

Mrs.  Mary  O.  Lerrigo. 

One  pound  finely  chopped  kidney  suet;  2  pounds  raisins — 
chopped  fine;  3  pounds  currants — cleaned  and  dried;  3  pounds 
apples — chopped  fine;     i  pound  candied  peel — chopped  fine; 

1  pound  sugar;  rinds  of  3  lemons— grated;    i  small  teaspoon 
salt;   Yt,  ounce  mixed  spice;   i  pound  lean  meat. 

Mince  the  lean  meat  very  fine.      Mix  all  well  together. 

nOCK  MINCE  PIE 

Mrs.  J.  S    Van  Doren.     Mrs.  Baldwin. 

Two  eggs;  2  pounded  crackers;  Yz  cup  sugar;  yi  cup 
boiling  water;  i  teaspoon  cinnamon;  y'o  teaspoon  nutmeg; 
Yz  cup  molasses;  ^  cup  vinegar;  }2  cup  chopped  and  seeded 
raisins;  Ya  teaspoon  cloves;   i  teaspoon  salt. 

Boil  all  together  5  minutes.  Remove  from  fire.  Add 
piece  of  butter,  half  as  large  as  an  ^<g%.  The  well-beaten 
eggs.     Makes  two  pies. 

EXCELLENT  IVIINCE  HEAT 

Mrs.  M.  G.   Moore 

3  pints  finely  chopped  meat;  5  pints  chopped  apples;  i 
pint  molasses;    4  pints  brown  sugar;     i  pint  chopped  suet; 

2  pints  raisins;  i  tablespoon  salt;  i  tablespoon  pepper;  i  pint 
currants;  i  pint  vinegar;  i  pint  chopped  citron;  2  level  table- 
spoons salt;  2  level  tablespoons  cinnamon;  2  level  table- 
spoons ground  nutmeg;  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  3  lemons. 

If  anything  seems  lacking,  add  salt. 

A  CALIFORNIA  PIONEER  APPLE  PIE-1852 

Mrs.  B.  C.  Whiting. 

Break  four  soda  crackers  into  an  earthen  bowl.  Pour 
over  them  a  pint  of  cold  water,  made  very  tart  with  citric 
acid.  When  soft,  but  not  mashed,  removed  the  soda  crackers 
to  your  pie  plate,  with  the  under  crust  already  on;  then  sift 
over  two  tablespoons  of  light   brown  sugar,  and  a  little  all- 


Pies  2  if.  I 

spice  and  cinnamon  to  flavor.  (The  brown  sugar  and  spice 
give  the  requisite  color),  after  which  put  on  a  prettily  per- 
forated top  crust,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  a  few 
moments. 

The  deception  was  most  complete  and  readily  accepted. 
Apples  at  this  early  date  were  a  dollar  a  pound,  and  we 
young  people  all  craved  a  piece  of  mother's  apple  pie  to 
appease  our  homesick  feelings. 

SQUASH   PIE 

Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Marshall. 

Two  heaping  tablespoons  squash;  ^^  coffee  cup  sugar — 
granulated;  i  ^ZZ'^  scant  )^  teaspoon  level  full  of  cinnamon; 
pinch  of  salt;    i  large  teacup  rich  milk. 

The  Hubbard  squash  is  best  and  should  be  steamed. 
Mash  it  through  a  colander.  Beat  the  q%%  thorojig hly ,  then 
add  the  sugar,  salt,  squash  and  cinnamon,  and  beat  well 
together,  then  add  the  milk.  Stir  it  in  well.  Bake  with 
one  crust.     This  makes  one  pie, 

SQUASH  PIE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Two  teacups  steamed  or  baked  squash;  ^  cup  sugar;  3 
eggs;  2  tablespoons  N,  O.  molasses;  i  tablespoon  melted 
butter;  2  teaspoons  ginger;  i  teaspoon  cinnamon;  2  cups 
milk;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mash  the  squash  through  a  colander.  Beat  the  eggs  well, 
then  add  the  sugar,  molasses,  butter,  salt  and  spices,  and 
stir  together  thoroughly,  then  add  the  milk  and  stir  again. 
Bake  with  one  crust.     This  will  make  two  pies. 

TO  MAKE  FRUIT  PIE 

Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Marshall. 

Line  pie  pan  with  crust;  put  in  fruit;  sprinkle  sugar, 
flour  and  a  few  bits  of  butter  over  it.  If  apple,  add  a  little 
cinnamon.  If  fruit  is  very  juicy,  no  water  will  be  needed;  if 
not,  add  i  large  tablespoon  water.  Add  more  or  less  sugar, 
according  to  tartness  of  fruit.  Cover  with  top  crust,  and 
bake  about  half  an  hour. 


242  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

In  making  fruit  pie,  be  careful  to  make,  as  a  little  friend 
used  to  say,  "a  fat  pie." 

LEMON  PIE 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Peck. 

One  lemon;  i  cup  sugar;  3  eggs;  i  cup  sweet  milk;  i 
tablespoon  corn  starch;   i  teaspoon  butter. 

Cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  starch.  Add  the  milk  and 
beaten  yolks.  Grate  the  yellow  off  the  outside  of  the  lemon, 
and  use  as  flavoring.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  add  it  to  the 
mixture.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  these 
the  last  thing  and  stir  well.  This  makes  enough  for  two 
pies.      Bake  with  bottom  crust  only. 

LEMON  PIE 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Austin. 

Three-quarters  cup  sugar;  73  cup  water;  i  lemon;  3  eggs; 
I  tablespoon  butter;  i  tablespoon  flour.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar;  add  flour,  yolks  3  eggs — well  beaten,  water,  i  lemon, 
and  piece  of  rind. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  light,  with  a  tablespoon 
of  sugar  to  each  ^Z%,  for  a  meringue;  flavor  this  with 
lemon  juice.  Spread  it  over  the  pie  when  baked,  and  put  it 
back  in  the  oven  until  it  is  slightly  browned.  Use  half  the 
grated  rind  and  all  the  juice  of  the  lemon. 

LEnON  PIE 

Mrs.  Olive  Storm. 

One  cup  milk;  two  tablespoons  flour;  i  cup  sugar;  i 
lemon;  3  eggs. 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler.  When  it  comes  to  boiling 
point,  stir  in  flour,  after  it  has  been  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste 
in  a  little  cold  milk;  then  add  sugar  and  the  juice  of  lemon. 

Take  the  eggs,  keeping  the  whites  of  2  for  the  frosting, 
add  the  other  with  the  yolks  to  the  milk.  L,et  cook  a 
few  minutes,  then  pour  into  the  crust  and  bake.  Frost  after 
it  is  done  and  then  brown. 


Pies  24.3 

LEHON  PIE 

Mrs.  A.   T.  Tuttle. 

One  lemon;  i  cup  water;  i  tablespoon  corn  starch;  i  cup 
sugar;   i  ^"gz;  butter — size  of  an  egg;   i  cup  boiling  water. 

Use  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Dissolve  the 
corn  starch  in  the  water.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the 
butter  and  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch  and  cold  water. 
Let  it  get  cold  and  then  add  the  ^%g  and  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  the  lemon.  Bake  with  upper  and  under  crust.  This 
will  make  two  pies. 

ORANGE  PIE 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Kerckhoff. 

Two  tablespoons  butter;  y^  cup  sugar;  2  eggs;  }^  cup 
milk;  i  cup  flour;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder; 
rich  cream. 

Filling. — Two  oranges — juice  and  grated  peel;  ^  cup 
sugar;   i  tablespoon  flour;   ^  cup  water. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  the  milk,  the  beaten  whites  and  flour,  in  which 
has  been  mixed  the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  deep  jelly  pan. 
When  done,  split  in  half  with  a  sharp,  broad  bladed  knife, 
and  spread  filling  between.     Serve  with  rich  cream. 

Filling. — Mix  flour  and  sugar.  Add  juice  and  rind  of 
oranges,  then  water.     Boil  five  minutes. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE 

Mrs.  S.  Speedy. 

Sour  apples;  3  eggs;  Yi  cup  butter;  y^  cup  sugar;  nut- 
meg. 

Peel  apples  and  stew  until  soft,  with  little  water  left  in 
them.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  eggs,  butter  and  sugar. 
(If  very  sour,  more  sugar  may  be  needed.)  Season  with  nut- 
meg.. Pour  into  crust  and  bake.  When  baked,  cover  with  a 
meringue  and  season  as  for  lemon  pie. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Bennett. 

Three  ounces  Ghirardelli's  chocolate;  i  cup  boiling  milk; 
2  eggs;   I  small  cup  sugar;  6  or  8  drops  vanilla  extract. 


2//  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  the  milk.  Stir  until  it  is  very 
smooth,  then  add  the  eggs — beaten  separately,  sugar  and 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a  large  pie.  Cook  for  about  three 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven — 
otherwise,  the  custard  will  curdle. 

Vanilla  improves  the  pie  greatly. 

CU5TARD  PIE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

One  ^%^\  I  pint  milk;  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar; 
nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  e^^g  well,  with  one  tablespoon  sugar;  then  add 
the  milk,  the  remaining  sugar,  nutmeg  and  salt.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Do  not  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  When  the 
custard  is  set,  remove  from  the  oven  carefully,  and  when  cold 
you  will  have  a  delicious  pie. 

Very  much  depends  on  the  baking. 

REAL  CREAM  PIE 

Mrs.  J.   H.  F    Peck. 

Whites  of  4  eggs;  i  teaspoon  vanilla;  i  jelly-glass  pow- 
dered sugar;   V-z  pint  of  cream. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  a  little  at  a  time 
the  powdered  sugar  and  vanilla.  Bake,  in  a  well-buttered 
pie  plate  in  a  slow  oven,  ten  minutes.  When  this  meringue 
is  cold,  whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  spread  over  the  pie. 

CREAM  PIE 

Mrs.   Burdette  Chandler. 

Generous  pint  milk — scald;  3  generous  tablespoons  sugar; 
I  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  corn  starch;  3  eggs — 
yolks;   i  teaspoon  vanilla,  or  other  flavoring;  pinch  salt. 

Beat   all    together  with   a   little  cold  milk,    and    add    to 
scalded  milk.     Let  cook  a  minute  or  two.     Bake  crust  before 
filling.     Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
and  spread  on  the  top.     Put  in  the  oven  and  brown. 
GREEN  CORN  PIE 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Three  ears  raw  corn  grated;  i  even  cup  sugar;  i  pint  sweet 
milk;  2  eggs;  a  little  butter. 


Pies  24.5 

Boil  milk  and  pour  over  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  as 
other  custard  pie.     This  makes  one  deep  pie. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

Mrs.  Frank  A.  Miller,  Riverside. 

Make  a  crust  with  one-third  more  shortening  than  for 
biscuit.  Roll  it  in  two  sheets;  place  one  of  them  on  a  round 
jell}' cake  tin  and  spread  with  butter;  place  the  other  on  top 
and  bake. 

When  baked,  separate  the  layers  and  place  mashed  straw- 
berries, sweetened,  between  and  on  top  the  layers.  Serve  with 
sweetened  cream.  In  the  absence  of  sweet  cream,  cream 
butter  and  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one  cup  sugar  to  one- 
half  cup  butter,  and  mix  with  the  strawberries  before  placing 
between  the  layers.     Serve  hot. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

Miss  Frances  Widney. 

One  pint  flour;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking  powder;  2 
level  teaspoons  butter;  i  level  teaspoon  lard. 

Mix  as  for  biscuits;  bake  quickly  in  a  deep  round  pie  pan 
in  one  layer.  When  done,  cut  the  cake  in  three  layers,  butter 
well,  and  spread  liberally  between  and  over  the  top  with 
mashed  strawberries.  There  should  be  at  least  one  quart  after 
they  are  mashed,  and  sweetened  with  half  pint  of  sugar. 
Serve  immediately  with  or  without  sweet  cream. 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS 


K.  R.  P. 


Wherever  we  mention  milk  or  cream  in  the  following 
recipes,  it  is  self-understood  that  we  speak  of  the  ordinary 
unprepared  article.  As,  however,  pure  concentrated  milk, 
commercially  known  as  Highland  Brand  Evaporated  Cream, 
is  largely  used  in  many  families  to  the  exclusion  of  all  other 
forms  of  milk,  owing  to  its  uniform  wholesome  qualities, 
besides  its  convenience  and  economy,  our  book  would  not  be 
complete  without  giving  directions  for  its  use. 

As  it  is  simply  pure  milk  partially  dessicated,  the  addition 
of  about  three  parts  of  water  to  one  part  of  Highland  Evapor- 
ated Cream  restores  it  to  its  original  fluidity,  and  after  thus 
diluting  it,  you  may  use  it  in  precisely  the  same  manner,  for 
either  cooking  or  drinking  as  ordinary  milk. 

For  coffee  or  cocoa  it  may  be  used  undiluted,  about  two 
teaspoons  to  the  cup. 

As  a  dressing  for  fruits,  cereal  foods,  etc.,  it  should  be 
diluted  with  about  two  parts  of  water,  which  gives  it  the  rich- 
ness of  cream, 

A  mixture  of  one  part  of  Highland  Evaporated  Cream  to 
about  four  parts  of  ordinary  milk  also  answers  instead  of 
dairy  cream  for  ice  cream  and  other  purposes. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

MISS    K.    R.    PAXTON. 

For  the  best  ice  cream  only  the  best  materials  should  be 
used.  Good  cream,  granulated  sugar,  ripe  fruit  or  the  best 
flavoring  extracts.  Do  not  use  milk,  corn  starch,  gelatine  or 
eggs,  except  for  Neapolitan  cream.  Half  the  cream  should  be 
scalded,  as  it  makes  a  smoother  frozen  cream.  If  extract  is 
used  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  scalding  cream.  If  ripe  fruit 
is  used  dissolve  one-half  sugar  in  the  scalding  cream  and  mix 
the  other  half  with  the  fruit.       Flavoring  and  fruit  should  be 


Creams  and  Cnsiards  2^^ 

added  when  the  cream  is  nearly  frozen,  that  is,  when  it  turns 
hard. 

For  a  four-quart  freezer  about  ten  pounds  of  ice  and  four 
pounds  of  rock  salt  will  be  required.  Chip  the  ice  in  a  tub 
with  an  ice  chipper,  or  else  put  it  in  a  coarse  sack  and  pound 
with  a  mallet.  Mix  the  ice  and  salt.  Place  the  freezing  can 
in  the  tub  being  careful  to  put  the  ball  of  the  can  in  the  socket 
of  the  tub;  put  in  dasher,  pour  in  mixture  (scalded  cream  and 
sugar  dissolved  in  it,  and  the  unscalded  cream),  put  on  cover, 
fasten  on  crank,  then  turn  the  handle  to  see  if  it  works  prop- 
erly, then  pack  with  the  ice  and  salt,  pounding  it  down  solid. 
Turn  slowly  and  steadily  until  it  turns  a  little  hard,  take  off 
cover  and  add  flavoring  or  else  the  sweetened,  strained  fruit, 
cover,  turn  until  you  can  turn  it  no  longer,  take  out  dasher, 
scrape  it  off  and  work  the  cream  well  with  a  wooden  paddle 
for  about  ten  minutes.  Put  on  cover,  put  cork  in  dasher  hole, 
repack  with  ice  and  salt,  cover  with  a  piece  of  old  carpet,  and 
let  it  stand  an  hour  or  two  before  using.  If  it  is  to  be  molded, 
fill  the  molds  with  cold  water,  pour  out  water  but  do  not  wipe. 
Pack  in  the  frozen  cream  after  you  have  worked  it  well — close 
the  molds  and  bind  with  strips  of  muslin  dipped  in  melted 
butter,  then  bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  an  hour  or  more.  When 
ready  to  serve  wash  off  the  molds  with  cold  water,  and  the 
cream  will  soon  slip  out. 

ICE  CREAM 

Miss    Ida  G.  Maynard. 

Half  cup  sugar;  i  saltspoon  salt;  i  tablespoon  flour;  i 
unbeaten  egg;  i  pint  hot  milk;  i  quart  cream;  flavor. 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  flour  together;  add  egg;  mix  well. 
Pour  slowly  over  this  the  hot  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  often.  When  cold,  add  cream;  strain 
and  flavor;  freeze,  using  three  parts  ice  to  one  of  salt. 

RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

Miss  K.  R.  Paxtoii. 

One  quart  cream;  i>^  pounds  sugar;  3  pints  raspberries; 
scald  half  the  cream;  add  half  the  sugar  and  stir  till  dissolved. 


24-8  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Mash  berries  with  remainder  of  sugar  and  let  stand  half  hour, 
stirring  often  to  dissolve  sugar.  Mash  berries  and  sugar 
through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  prevent  seeds  from  going 
through.  Add  the  remainder  of  cream  to  the  cold  scalded 
cream  and  freeze,  when  it  turns  hard  add  the  berry  mixture 
and  finish  as  usual. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE  CREAfl 

Miss  K.  R.  Paxton. 

One  quart  cream;  i  pound  sugar;  i  pineapple;  juice  and  ^ 
grated  rind  of  i  orange. 

Scald  half  the  cream,  put  in  half  the  sugar  and  stir  till  dis- 
solved. Pare  the  pineapple,  leaving  the  leaves  at  the  top  for 
a  handle;  cut  out  eyes,  then  either  grate  the  pineapple,  or  with 
a  silver  fork  tear  it  into  small  pieces.  Mix  the  remainder  of 
the  sugar  with  this,  stirring  often  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
When  the  scalded  cream  is  cold,  put  in  the  can  with  the 
remainder  of  the  cream  and  freeze.  When  it  begins  to  turn 
hard,  add  the  pineapple  and  sugar,  to  which  has  been  added 
half  the  rind  and  juice  of  orange,  finish  freezing,  remove  dasher 
and  beat  according  to  directions. 

5AG0  CREAM 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Averill. 

Two  tablespoons  sago;  i  pint  milk;  salt;  2  eggs,  yelks;  3 
tablespoons  sugar;  meringue;  2  eggs,  whites;  i  tablespoon 
sugar. 

Soak  sago  in  half  cup  cold  water  for  half  hour;  add  milk 
and  salt.  Place  in  a  rice  boiler  over  the  fire.  When  hot,  add 
the  well -beaten  yelks  of  eggs  and  sugar.  Cook  until  it  thick- 
ens. Place  in  a  mold.  Spread  over  the  top  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  to  which  has  been  added  i  tablespoon 
sugar.  Set  in  oven  until  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Pearl  tapioca  may  be  used  instead  of  sago. 

COEFEE  CREAn 

Mrs,  Emeline  Childs. 

One  package  Cox's  gelatine;  i  pint  strong  coffee;  i  pint 
whipped  cream;  vanilla  flavoring. 


Creams  and  Custards  24.Q 

Divide  the  gelatine,  leaving  more  for  the  coffee  part,  than 
for  the  cream.  Dissolve  part  for  cream  in  milk,  and  the  part 
for  coffee  in  cold  water,  for  about  an  hour.  Then  make  a  pint 
of  strong  coffee,  which,  when  clear,  pour  into  the  gelatine 
intended  for  the  coffee  part,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Mix  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  with  the  cream  part,  and 
sweeten  to  taste,  adding  a  little  vanilla  flavoring. 

When  all  is  ready,  put  alternately  in  a  mold  half  cup  of 
each,  coffee,  first;  let  each  layer  stand  until  cool.  Then  set  it 
on  ice,  and  when  required  serve  with  a  sauce  of  whipped 
cream. 

CHANTILLA  CREAfl 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Widney. 

One  pint  sweet  cream;  2  eggs,  whites;  i  cup  sugar;  sponge 
cake. 

Add  to  the  cream  beaten  stiff,  the  well  beaten  whites, 
sugar,  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Cut  squares  of  sponge  cake 
lay  alternately  in  a  dish  with  the  cream. 

BISCUIT  TORTONI 

Mrs.  Frank  Phillips. 

One  gallon  whipped  cream;  i  cup  powdered  sugar  2; 
tablespoons  candied  cherries;  2  tablespoons  blanched  almonds; 
}i  teaspoon  extract  almond;  i  cup  water;  j'olks  of  5  eggs;  4 
tablespoons  raspberry  or  strawberry  syrup;  ^  cup  dried  or 
powdered  maccaroons. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  20  minutes .  Add  the 
beaten  yolks  and  set  the  basin  in  another  of  boiling  water  for 
five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  add  the  syrup  and 
extract;  then  the  cream,  then  the  maccaroons  and  chopped 
almonds  and  cherries.  Then  pour  in    the   mold  or  freezer. 

Take  great  care  in  packing  the  ice  and  salt. 

BAVARIAN  CREAil  WITH  PEACHES 

Mrs.  H.  McLellan. 

Eighteen  fine  peaches;  ^4  pound  sugar;  ^  package  gela- 
tine; I  glass  cream;  i  pint  whipped  cream. 

Cut  peaches   into  small  pieces;  boil  them   with  the  sugar. 


2^0  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Ayigeles 

When  reduced  to  a  marmalade,  squeeze  them  through  a  sieve; 
add  the  gelatine  and  cream.  Stir  it  well  to  make  smooth. 
When  it  is  cold  and  about  to  form,  add  the  whipped  cream 
and  mold.  Cut  up  fresh  peaches  and  serve  around  the  mold. 
The  gelatine,  should  of  course,  be  dissolved  before  used. 

STRAWBERRY  CREAM 

Mrs.  F.  M.   Hotchkis. 

One  quart  ripe  strawberries;  ^  box  gelatine:  j4  cup  hot 
water;  i  heaping  cup  sugar;  i  pint  cream. 

Stem  the  berries,  then  mash  them,  add  sugar  and  let  stand 
for  half  hour.  Cover  the  gelatine  with  cold  water  and  let 
stand  for  an  hour  or  more.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  froth;  strain 
the  berries  and  sugar  through  a  rather  coarse  strainer;  dissolve 
the  gelatine;  add  it  to  the  berries.  Place  berry  mixture  in  a 
basin — a  tin  one  is  preferable — and  put  in  ice  water  and  stir 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  whipped  cream.  Turn 
into  a  mold  and  let  harden.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  This 
will  make  two  quarts. 

HAHBURQ  CREAH 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Welch. 

Two  large  lemons,  juice  and  rind;  i  cup  augar;  8  eggs. 

Stir  together  the  juice,  rind  and  sugar,  add  the  well  beaten 
yolks,  put  all  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  (if 
you  have  not  a  double  boiler);  stir  for  three  minutes,  take 
from  the  fire,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  serve 
when  cold. 

VELVET  CREAfl 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Goodrich. 

One  pint  sweet  cream;  2  tablespoons  gelatine;  3  tablespoons 
sugar;  any  flavoring  desired. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  warm  water.  Put  the  sugar 
and  flavoring  in  the  cream,  then  whip  stiff",  and  while  whip- 
ping pour  in  the  gelatine.  When  whipped  sufficiently  pour  in 
a  mold  and  set  away  to  cool. 


Creams  and  Custaids  2^1 

TAPIOCA  CREAM 

Mrs.  Burdette  Chandler. 

Three  tablespoons  tapioca;   i   quart  milk;  73  cup  sugar;  3 

eggs. 

Cover  the  tapioca  over  night  with  water.  In  the  morning 
pour  off  the  water,  if  any,  and  put  tapioca  into  the  milk. 
Put  on  the  stove,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  yolks  of  eggs, 
sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Make 
a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  spread  over  the  top, 
sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  and  brown  in  oven. 

IV10US5ES 

Miss  Parloa. 

This  dish  is  really  a  mossy  froth.  Whip  cream  and  drain 
it,  for  if  there  is  any  liquid  cream  in  the  mousse  it  will  not  be 
perfect.  Pack  the  mold  in  salt  and  ice,  using  five  pints  of  salt 
for  a  gallon  mold.  Put  the  mousse  preparation  into  the  mold, 
cover  and  set  away  for  four  or  six  hours.  Six  hours  is  always 
best.  If  the  mold  be  lined  with  white  paper,  the  mousse  will 
have  a  smoother  and  handsomer  appearance  when  turned  out 
on  a  dish,  but  it  takes  a  little  longer  to  freeze.  It  is  a  great 
improvement  to  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  mold  with  a 
sherbet  that  will  combine  with  the  flavor  of  the  mousse. 

PINEAPPLE  SOUFFLE 

Miss  Far:uer,  Boston. 

One  large,  ripe  pineapple;  6  eggs;  i  pound  sugar;  i  pint 
water. 

Peel  and  chop  the  pineapple  into  little  bits.  Lay  the  pulp 
in  a  dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  sugar.  Set  aside  for 
several  hours,  then  mash  the  pulp  and  strain.  Put  to  one 
pint  of  pure  fruit  juice  the  pint  of  water  and  put  in  double 
boiler;  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Cook  to  a 
soft  custard,  strain  and  beat  until  cold.  Freeze  and  serve 
either  plain  or  with  cream  flavored  with  juice  of  the  fruit. 


2^2  How    \^e  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

CHARLOTTE  RU5SE 

Mrs.  C.  W,  Blaisdell. 

One  quart  thin  cream;  ^  box  gelatine;  sugar;  lady  fingers; 
flavoring. 

Sweeten,  flavor  and  then  whip  the  cream  until  in  a  froth. 
Put  gelatine  in  as  little  cold  water  as  possible  to  soak.  Set  on 
the  stove  to  melt.  L,et  cool  before  putting  into  the  cream, 
Line  a  dish  with  cake  or  lady  fingers.  Pour  the  cream  into  it 
and  set  on  ice  until  ready  for  use. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

Half  pound  of  lady  fingers;  2  boxes  strawberries;  i  pint 
sweet  cream;  ^  cup  sugar. 

Fit  the  cakes  neatly  in  the  dessert  bowl  or  platter;  cover 
them  with  the  berries  and  sprinkle  over  them  the  sugar.  Pour 
over  all  the  cream  which  has  been  lightly  whipped,  flavored 
and  sweetened.  This  is  a  very  delicate  dessert.  Other  fruit 
can  be  used — raspberries,  very  ripe  peaches,  or  pineapple. 

RASPBERRY  CHARLOTTE 

Mrs.  Augusta  Robinson. 

Butter  and  cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with  dry 
bread  crumbs.  Put  on  this  a  layer  of  ripe  raspberries  sprinkled 
with  sugar.  Proceed  with  layers  of  crumbs,  berries  and  sugar, 
until  the  dish  is  full,  the  last  layer  being  crumbs.  Put  bits  of 
butter  on  the  top  and  bake  with  a  plate  over  it  for  Y^  hour. 
Remove  the  plate  and  let  it  brown  just  before  serving. 

DELICIOUS  APPLES  FOR  TEA 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Two  pounds  apples;  i  pound  white  sugar;  3  lemons. 

Pare,  core  and  slice  the  apples  into  a  pan.  Add  the  sugar, 
the  juice  of  the  lemons,  and  the  grated  peel  of  one;  boil  two 
hours,  turn  into  a  mold.       Serve  cold,  with  custard  or  cream. 

BAKED  PEACHES 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Norton. 

Peaches;  brown  sugar;  flour;  butter. 


Creams  and  Custards  2§j 


Peel  the  peaches,  place  them  in  a  pan,  sprinkling  on  each 

one,   brown  sugar,   flour,  and  a  bit  of  butter,   add    sufiicient 

water  to  make  a  nice  syrup.     Bake  until  soft,  and  light  brown 

in  color. 

APPLE  SNOW 

Mrs.  H.  McLellan. 

Six  tart  apples;  3  eggs,  whites  only;  sugar  to  taste;  vanilla. 
Pare,  core  and  boil  the  apples  in  as  little  water  as  possible; 
cool  and  strain;  beat  thoroughly  and  add  the  eggs  beaten  thor- 
oughly. Sweeten  and  beat  until  like  snow.  Serve  on  top  of 
soft  custard.  The  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  may  be  used  instead 
of  vanilla,  if  preferred. 

FRUTTI  SNOW 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Glassell. 

Six  eggs;  6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very  stifi"  froth,  then  add  grad- 
ually powdered  sugar,  beating  not  less  than  fifteen  minutes. 
Place  on  ice,  and  just  before  serving,  dot  with  preserved  crab- 
apples,  whole  cherries,  or  bits  of  jelly.  Place  in  large  glass 
dish  and  surround  with  whipped  cream. 

COUSIN   KATE 

Mrs.  James   Foord. 

Eight  large  apples,  sweet;  i  coffee  cup  milk;  i  cup  flour; 
2  eggs. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples.  Make  a  batter  of  the  milk, 
flour  and  eggs,  beaten  light.  Add  apples  and  bake  in  a  shal- 
low pan,  well  buttered,  twenty-five  minutes,  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  icing. 

ORANGE  SAGO 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Widney. 

One  cup  sago;  2  cups  cold  water;  3  cups  orange  juice, 
equal  to  the  juice  of  about  12  oranges;  2  cups  sugar;  pinch  of 
salt. 

Wash  sago  thoroughly.  Soak  in  the  water  two  hours. 
Add  orange  juice,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  boil  in  a  porcelain  ves- 


2^^  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

sel  until  the  sago  is  perfectly  clear.  Turn  into  a  bowl  which 
has  first  been  rinsed  in  cold  water;  then  it  will  turn  out  in 
good  shape.  Serve  with  sweet  cream,  or  a  delicate  boiled  cus- 
tard. 

ORANGE  TRIFLE 

Miss  Ida  G.  Maynard. 

Half  box  gelatine;  ^  cup  cold  water;  i  cup  boiling  water; 
I  cup  sugar;  i  pint  cream;  4  or  6  oranges;  }4  lemon;  3  eggs; 
lady  fingers. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  twenty  minutes;  add 
the  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  the  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of 
one,  and  the  juice  of  the  half  lemon.  Strain,  add  the  yolks 
of  the  ^Z%s>,  slightly  beaten,  cook  until  it  thickens  a  little, 
then  add  the  sugar,  stir  on  ice,  until  thick.  Add  the  cream 
whipped,  and  turn  it  into  a  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers.  When 
ready  to  serve,  turn  out  on  a  platter. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Otis. 

Juice  of  10  large  oranges;  i  pint  cream;  i  teacup  sifted 
sugar;  yolks  12  eggs. 

Sweeten  the  orange  juice  with  the  sugar  and  set  it  over 
the  fire.  Stir  constantly  till  hot,  then  skim  it  carefully,  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  nearly  cold  add  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  and  the  cream.  Put  all  into  a  sauce  pan  and 
stir  over  a  very  slow  fire  until  thick.  Pour  into  cups  and 
serve  cold.  If  desired,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  with 
a  teacup  of  powdered  sugar  may  be  used.  A  heaped  table- 
spoonful  on  the  top  of  each  cup  of  the  custard. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD 

Mrs.   Augusta  Robinsou . 

Three  or  four  oranges;  J^  cup  sugar.  For  custard — 2  cups 
milk;    i   ^%%\  a  little  sugar;  i  large  tablespoon  corn  starch. 

Peel  carefully,  and  slice  thinly  across,  the  oranges;  sprin- 
kle the  sugar  over  them  and  let  them  stand  for  about  i  hour, 
then  pour  over  them  the  custard  prepared  as  follows: 


Creams  and  Custards  ^55 


Put  the  milk  on  the  stove  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  together 
the  ^ZZ^  tli6  corn  starch  and  the  sugar.  Pour  this  into  the 
hot  milk,  stir  till  it  thickens.  Pour  over  the  oranges.  Serve 
cold. 

WEST  INDIAN  FLOATING  ISLAND 

Mrs.  T.  Masac. 

Make  an  ordinary  custard  for  floating  island,  only  beating 
up  any  preferred  fruit  jelly  with  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs,  thus  giving  them  a  pretty  color  and  flavor. 

LEHON  SPONGE 

Mrs.  Cameron  Thorn. 

Half  package  gelatine;  i^  pints  water;  ^  pound  sifted 
sugar;  juice  six  lemons;  rind  of  i  lemon;  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water;  then  add  the  sugar,  the 
juice,  and  rind  of  the  lemon.  Boil  the  whole  a  few  minutes, 
then  let  stand  till  quite  cold,  and  just  beginning  to  stifi"en;  then 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  whisk  till  it  is  quite 
white.     Wet  a  mold  with  cold  water  and  pour  the  mixture  in. 

STRAWBERRY  OR  RASPBERRY  SPONGE 

Mrs.  A.    C.  Doau. 

One  quart  strawberries  or  raspberries;  ^  box  gelatine;  i^ 
cups  water;  i  cup  sugar;  juice  of  i  lemon;  4  eggs,  whites. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  ^  cup  of  the  water.  Mash  the  ber- 
ries, and  add  half  the  sugar  to  them.  Boil  the  remainder  of 
the  sugar  and  the  cup  of  water  gently  20  minutes.  Rub  ber- 
ries through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  gelatine  to  boiling  syrup,  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  berry  juice.  Place  the  bowl  in  pan 
of  ice  water  and  beat  with  ^^^  beater  five  minutes,  then  add 
lemon  juice  and  the  beaten  whites,  beat  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Pour  into  well  wet  molds  and  set  on  ice.  Serve 
with  cream.    Delicious. 

APRICOT  SHERBET 

Mrs.  W.  \V.  Ross. 

Rub  through  a  colander  a   sufficient  quantity  of  ripe  or 
canned  apricots  to  make  three  quarts  of  the  pulp.      Into  that 


2^6  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

stir  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water.  Beat  the  whites 
of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  thoroughly  into  fruit  the 
last  thing.  Place  in  the  freezer  and  stir  constantly  until  fro- 
zen quite  hard.  Keep  the  freezer  packed  in  ice  until  you  wish 
to  serve.      Eggs  can  be  omitted  if  desired. 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

Mrs.   Anua  O'Melveny. 

Six  oranges;  2  lemons:  i  quart  water;  i  pint  sugar. 

Cut  a  circle  about  2  inches  in  diameter  from  the  stem  end 
of  each  orange  and  remove  carefully  to  keep  them  unbroken. 
Scoop  out  the  pulp  neatly  with  a  silver  spoon,  and  set  the 
skins  in  a  refrigerator  or  in  a  pail  surrounded  with  ice  and 
salt.  Put  the  water,  sugar,  and  grated  rind  of  two  oranges 
over  the  fire  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  When  cool,  add  the 
juice  of  6  oranges,  2  lemons,  and  freeze.  Shortly  before  serv- 
ing, fill  the  chilled  orange  skins  with  the  sherbet  and  put  on 
the  covers  of  orange  rind  which  have  been  previously  deco- 
rated with  narrow  yellow  ribbon,  for  handles.  A  circle  of  wavy 
green  leaves  will  add  to  the  effect  of  this  dish,  which  may  be 
served  as  a  dessert,  or  just  after  the  roast. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Salisbury. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  gelatine;  2  pounds  granulated 
sugar;  i  can  grated  pineapple;  i  pint  cold  water;  3  pints  boil- 
ing water;  juice  of  7  lemons;  white  of  one  ^^g. 

Put  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  until 
dissolved,  then  add  the  boiling  water,  sugar,  juice  of  the 
lemons  and  the  pineapple;  put  in  the  freezer,  and  when  about 
half  frozen  add  the  well  beaten  white  of  the  ^"gZ-  This  fills  a 
six  quart  freezer,  and  will  serve  thirty-five  people. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET 

H.  F.  W. 

Two  quarts  of  berries;  whites  of  4  eggs;  2  pounds  sugar; 
water. 

Wash  the  berries,   cover  with  the  sugar,  let  them  stand  an 


Creams  and  Custards  2^  7 


hour,  then  press  out  all  the  juice.  Add  as  much  cold  water  as 
there  is  juice.  Freeze  until  slightly  stiff.  Then  stir  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites,  and  freeze  until  hard. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE 

Mrs.  J.   M.  Johustou. 

Johnson's  Bahama  pineapple,  25  cents  per  can. 

Strain  juice  from  the  fruit,  then  pour  cold  water  over  fruit, 
and  strain  off  into  juice.  Add  little  less  than  quart  of  cold 
water.  Take  2  tablespoons  Cox's  gelatine,  soak  it  in  just 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  well,  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  dissolve;  add  to  juice,  sweeten  to 
taste.  Use  about  3  cups  sugar,  then  freeze.  Flavor  with 
oranges  if  preferred,  one  dozen  oranges  and  three  lemons. 


BEVERAGES 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  TEA 

H. Jevue. 

To  make  a  perfect  cup  of  tea,  the  water  must  be  fresh  and 
quickly  boiled,  and  the  teapot  hot — an  earthen  one  being 
preferable. 

Put  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  pint  of  water  into  the 
warm  pot,  pour  in  the  boiling  water  and  let  stand  from  three 
to  four  minutes  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove.  Never  allow 
to  boil. 

Serve  tea  from  the  first  infusion,  and,  if  a  second  cup  is 
wanted,  make  fresh  tea,  unless  you  have  transferred  the 
liquid  from  the  leaf  before  the  tannin  has  had  time  to  be 
extracted. 

Tea  is  a  healthful  beverage,  if  made  and  used  as  above; 
but  as  commonly  used  by  the  majority,  it  can  be  properly 
called  a  soup  made  of  tea  leaves.  There  is  also  more  danger 
of  too  large  a  quantity  of  leaf  being  used  than  too  little. 
Very  few  people  like  a  strong  tea. 

Avoid  cheap  teas,  as  one  pound  of  good  quality  will  go  as 
far  as  two  pounds  of  common,  if  used  intelligently, 

CARE  OF  COFFEE  POT 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Widuey. 

Never  allow  cold  coifee  or  grounds  to  remain  in  the  coffee 
pot.  Empty,  wash  thoroughly  and  dry  well,  as  soon  as  the 
meal  at  which  you  have  used  coffee  is  over.  If  cold  cofi"ee 
remains,  it  can  be  used  to  wet  the  coffee  for  next  time,  A 
fruitful  cause  of  poor  coffee  is  a  poorly-kept  coffee  pot, 

CHURCH  SOCIAL  COFFEE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Horner. 

Half  pound  coffee;   i  gallon  boiling  water;   i  egg. 
Put  coffee  in  a  bag  and  boil  three  or  four  minutes. 


Beverages  2^g 

COFFEE 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Abernethy. 

Use  a  mixture  of  'ji  Java  and  ]/>>  Mocha,  finely  ground. 
Allow  I  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  for  each  cup, 
and  for  each  four  cups  of  coffee  add  %  teaspoon  chicory.  In 
the  evening  prepare  the  coffee  for  breakfast,  by  mixing  the 
required  quantity  with  the  white  of  &%%.  Add  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  and  let  stand  till  morning,  in  a  closely- covered 
bowl.  Put  the  mixture  in  the  coffee  pot  which  mtist.  be  kept 
clean  and  dry.  Add  i  cup  cold  water  and  let  come  to  the  boil, 
then  pour  in  the  required  amount  of  boiling  water,  and  put 
where  it  will  keep  verj'  hot  but  not  boil.  If  for  dinner,  mix 
six  hours  before  the  meal  is  served. 

COFFEE 

Mrs.  I.  R.   Dunkelberger. 

Equal  weights  of  Mocha  and  Java  make  the  best  coffee. 
To  make  one  quart  coffee,  grind  one  large  cup  of  coffee.  Put 
into  pot  with  one  ^ZZ'^  ^"^  sufficient  cold  water  to  moisten. 
Let  it  stand  till  the  coffee  swells;  then  pour  on  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  stay  over  fire  till  it  reaches  the  boiling  point;  take 
off;  let  stand  five  minutes;  turn  off  into  another  pot,  and 
send  to  table  to  be  served  with  boiled  cream. 

CHOCOLATE 

H.   F.  W 

One  ounce  unsweetened  Ghirardelli's  chocolate;  ^  cup 
sugar;  ^  teaspoon  corn  starch;  i  pint  boiling  water;  i  pint 
milk;   i  ^gz- 

Grate  the  chocolate,  or  cut  in  small  bits.  Mix  with  sugar 
and  corn  starch.  Blend  them  over  hot  water;  then  add, 
slowly,  boiling  water.  Simmer  ten  minutes  and  set  it  in  a 
double  boiler  until  ready  for  use.  Beat  the  ^zz  ^o  a  cream, 
pour  the  boiling  chocolate  over  it  and  serve  at  once. 

LEHONADE 

H.   F.  W. 

Five  lemons;  i  orange;  ^  pound  loaf  sugar;  i  pint  water; 
I  bottle  (quart)  Appolinaris  water;  ice. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the  lemon  rinds 


26 o  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

and  let  stand  one  hour;  then  remove  the  rinds.  Add  the 
strained  juice  of  the  lemons,  the  Appolinaris  water,  and  the 
orange — cut  in  very  thin  slices — each  slice  quartered.  Pour 
the  lemonade  into  a  bowl,  having  a  block  of  ice  in  the  center. 
Serve  a  piece  of  orange  in  each  glass. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR 

Mrs.  E.  F.   Speiice. 

Three  pounds  raspberries  to  i  quart  white  wine  vinegar. 
Put  in  stone  jar  for  three  days.  Strain  through  flannel  bag. 
To  each  pint  juice,  one  pound  cube  sugar.  Place  over  a 
gentle  fire.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Bottle,  seal  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place.  Blackberry  vinegar  may  be  made  in  same  way — 
allowing  5^4  pounds  sugar  to  3  pints  juice. 

Mixed  with  ice-water  makes  a  delicious  drink  for  warm 
weather. 

STRAWBERRY  VINEGAR 

Mrs.  Wm.  J.  Robinson,  Monctou,  Canada. 

Let  one  gallon  strawberries  stand  48  hours  in  one  quart 
cider  vinegar;  then  mash  and  strain,  and  add  one  pound 
sugar  to  every  pound  juice.  Put  it  over  the  fire  and  let  it 
simmer  very  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Skim  well,  bottle,  and 
when  cold,  cork  tight. 

I  have  kept  this  for  two  years. 


SPANISH   MENUS 


A.  Sepuln'eda  de  Mott 


BREAKFAST 

Omelel  with  fine  Herbs 

Boiled  Trout 

Stewed  Rabbit 

Fried  Artichokes 

Dessert 


ALMUERZO 

Toi-tilla  de  Hierbas  finas 

Trucha  Cocida 

Conejo  Guisado 

Alcachofas  fritas 

Posties 


DINNER 

JuHeiine  Soup 

Garvanzo  Pottage 

Cod  with  Potatoes 

Veal  a  la  Mode 

Salmon  Spanish  St3-le 

Roasted  Turkey' 

Lobster  Salad 

Dessert 


COMIDA 

Sopa  Juliana 
Potage  de  Garvanzo 
Bacalao  con  Patatas 

Ternera   Estofada 
Salmon  a  la  Espanola 

Pava  en  Asador 

Ensalada  do  Langosta 

Posties 


SPANISH  DEPARTMENT 


JULIENNE    SOUP 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Take  same  amount  of  carrots,  celery,  lettuce,  sorrel,  green 
peas  and  French  beans.  Put  them  in  butter,  with  a  few  cuts 
of  onion.  Add  boiling  broth,  boil  on  slow  fire  and  add  some 
thin  slices  of  bread. 

SOUP'^a  la  CATALANA 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Six  ounces  beef;  6  ounces  mutton;  }^  chicken;  Spanish 
peas;  salt;  a  large  pot,  ;3  full  of  spring  water. 

When  the  water  boils,  put  in  the  meat,  chicken  and  peas, 
with  salt  to  taste.  Boil  slowly,  skimming  carefully.  When 
the  meat  is  done,  remove  it.  This  stock  can  be  used  for  rice, 
noodle,  macaroni,  or  bread  soup. 

SO  PA  ES  PA  NO  LA 

Reliable. 

Four  pounds  lean  veal;  %  pound  salt  pork;  2  turnips;  i 
onion;  i  beet;  4  tablespoons  oat  meal;  %  nutmeg;  i  teacup 
cream;  ^  teaspoon  allspice. 

Put  the  veal  in  a  stew  pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let 
it  simmer  four  hours.  Mince  the  pork,  fry  to  a  light  brown, 
and  add  it  to  the  veal.  One  hour  before  serving,  add  the 
sliced  turnips,  onion,  carrot,  and  beet.  Cook  slowly  forty 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  colander,  return  the  broth  to  the 
pan.  Add  the  oatmeal,  cook  twenty  minutes,  add  cream, 
spices,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  into  a  tureen,  over  toasted  bread 
cut  in  dice.     Serve  hot. 

PURSLAINE  SALAD 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Corouel. 

Purslaine;  lard,  or  butter;  onions;  oil;  vinegar. 

Wash  well,  and  boil  in  salted  water,  when  cooked,  drain. 
Fry  some  onions  in  lard,  or  butter,  then  fry  the  purslaine. 
When  well  fried,  place  in  a  dish,  and  add  oil,  vinegar,  and  a 
raw  onion  cut  fine. 


Spanish  Department  26 j 

TROUT  a  la  CA5CARA 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Trout;  salt;  lard;  flour;  i  onion,  i  head  garlic,  parsley, 
peppermint,  cloves,  thyme,  sweet  basil. 

Clean  the  trout,  cover  with  salt  for  an  hour.  Wash  and 
boil  them  (over  a  quick  fire),  with  sufficient  water  to  cover, 
add  all  the  other  ingredients.  When  done,  take  out  the  onion, 
garlic,  and  thyme,  and  serve. 

BOILED  TROUT 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott 

Boil  the  trout,  after  cleaning  them,  in  boiling  w^ater  wdth 
a  few  pieces  of  parsley.  After  boiled  pour  on  a  little  more 
fluid,  and  on  top  of  that  a  little  powdered  pepper. 

SALMON  SPANISH  STYLE 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Boil  with  leeks  and  pepper  in  white  broth,  and  serve  with 
the  leeks,  or  else  with  parsley  and  onions  chopped,  covering 
lightly  with  pepper. 

COD  WITH  POTATOES 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Keep  the  cod  in  water  for  some  time,  then  cut  it  in  pieces 
and  fry  it  in  oil;  when  it  is  a  golden  color  add  some  water  and 
some  potatoes;  crush  some  fried  garlic,  parsley,  and  pepper, 
with  which  make  a  sauce  and  thicken  with  crumbs  of  bread, 
and  pour  over  cod  and  potatoes. 

ROASTED  TURKEY 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Dress  turkey;  cover  it  with  a  coat  of  sliced  bacon,  if  it  is 
verj^  fat;  and  if  not  fat,  lard  it,  (or  stuff")  with  small  strips  of 
bacon  well  cooked,  and  cover  the  W'hole  with  a  greased  paper, 
which  will  be  removed  when  it  is  half  cooked,  so  as  to  take  a 
fine  color.     Serve  sprinkled  with  gravy. 

BROILED  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Corouel. 

Cut  the  chicken  open  on  the  back.  Salt  it,  inside  and  out, 
rub  it  with  butter  or  lard.  Broil  over  coals,  keeping  it  well 
covered  with  butter  or  lard. 


264.  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

CHICKEN  DRESSING 

Maria  de  los  Dotninguez  de  Francis. 

Grated  bread  crumbs;  5  soda  crackers,  wet;  i  large  table- 
spoon butter;  i  onion;  ^  cup  raisins,  seeded;  )4  cup  olives; 
salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg. 

Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter,  (not  too  brown).  Mix  with 
the  bread  crumbs  and  crackers,  add  the  raisins  and  olives, 
half  of  which  may  be  left  whole,  the  other  half  slice.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  if  desired.  This  quantity  is 
sufficient  for  one  chicken. 

STEWED  PARTRIDGES 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

The  partridges  after  being  dressed,  are  put  over  a  slow 
fire  in  a  round  earthen  pot  (oUa),  with  fried  bacon  cut  in 
squares,  onions  quartered,  (plenty  of  them),  two  heads  of  gar- 
lic, all  kinds  of  spices,  salt  and  lard.  Let  the  whole  boil  slowly, 
-covered  with  another  smaller  round  earthen  pot  (olla),  full  of 
water,  putting  between  the  two  pots  a  piece  of  wrapping 
paper. 

CROQUETTES  OF  CHICKEN  AND  PORK 

Senorita  Epitasia  Bustanieute. 

One  pound  each  of  fresh  white  pork  and  white  meat  of 
chicken,  grind  as  for  sausage.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pep- 
per, mint,  garlic,  onion,  and  tomato — the  last  three  ground 
fine.  Mix  two  eggs  with  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  and  two 
tablespoons  cold  water,  and  work  into  the  ground  meat.  Make 
into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts,  and  cook  in  soup  or  salted  boil- 
ing water.  Take  out  with  ladle  and  serve  on  fried  bread 
crumbs.     The  balls  should  almost  double  in  size  in  cooking. 

DRESSING    FOR  SHALL  BIRDS 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Coronel. 

Chop  equal  quantities  of  walnuts  and  almonds.  Mix  with 
bread  soaked  in  vinegar,  fry  in  oil,  season  with  salt.  Serve 
with  any  small  birds,  putting  over  all  green  peppers,  and 
olives  chopped  together. 


Spa7iish  Department  265 

FRIED  RABBIT 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Corouel. 

Wash  the  rabbit,  fry  it  in  oil,  seasoning  with  salt  and  vin- 
egar. Just  before  serving  add  thyme  and  chopped  olives. 
Green  peppers  cut  open  are  placed  on  the  dish.  On  them  is 
served  the  rabbit. 

STEWED  RABBIT 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Prepare  it,  without  wetting  it,  then  cut  in  slices  and  put  in 
the  "olla"  with  cooking  oil,  parsley,  garlic  and  pepper,  and 
keep  it  over  a  slow  fire;  then  add  some  hot  water,  and  when  it 
is  half  cooked  put  in  a  few  leaves  of  laurel,  cloves  and  pulver- 
ized cinnamon. 

RABBITS  CALADONIAN  STYLE 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

As  rabbits,  wild  or  tame,  have  a  strong  odor,  it  is  best  to 
lay  them  in  a  pan  and  rub  them  with  oil  and  salt  before  cook- 
ing; then  cut  them  in  pieces;  put  the  pieces  in  a  kettle  with 
oil  and  bacon.  Turn  them,  several  times,  add  water  and  a 
small  piece  of  bacon.  When  they  are  half  cooked  put  them  in 
the  following  sauce:  Put  into  a  mortar  a  piece  of  laurel  leaf, 
some  wild  marjoram,  sage,  and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel,  add  a 
little  toasted  bread,  if  you  have  any;  take  a  piece  of  bacon 
from  the  kettle,  pound  it  up  with  the  rest.  Pour  boiling  water 
on  this,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  pour  it  on  the  rabbit,  and 
cook  till  done  over  a  very  slow  fire.  Rabbits  are  very  nice 
cooked  with  onions  or  mushrooms  and  chestnuts,  truffles  or 
artichokes,  olives  and  capers  and  with  other  kinds  of  vege- 
tables, 

HARES  AFRICAN  STYLE 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Take  the  bones  out  of  two  partridges  and  one  hare;  lard 
the  latter  with  large  pieces  of  pork  heavily  seasoned  with  all 
sorts  of  spices  and  aromatic  herbs.  The  sauce  is  made  from 
the  livers  of  the  hare  and  the  partridges,  garlic  and  sliced 
onions,  thyme,  green  mint,  black  pepper,  salt,  and  two  laurel 


266  Hoiv    We  Cook  in  Los  A?ige/es 

leaves.  Put  the  pieces  of  meat  in  a  stewpan  in  layers,  mixed 
with  this  sauce,  and  arrano;e  them  in  the  form  of  a  roll.  Wrap 
all  well  in  a  light  paste  of  flour  and  lard;  put  it  in  the  oven 
until  the  cover  is  golden  brown  and  cracked  on  the  outside. 
This  is  a  sign  that  the  dish  is  ready  to  be  serv^ed. 

SPANISH  STEAK 

Mrs.   E.  A.  Pruess. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  round  steak;  6  red  chilis;  i   table 
spoon  flour;  2  cloves;  garlic;  a  little  thyme,  lard. 

Vein,  and  seed  the  chilis,  cover  them  with  boiling  water, 
soak  until  tender,  then  scrape  the  pulp  into  the  water.  Cut 
the  steak  in  small  pieces,  fry  it  brown  in  hot  lard,  add  the 
flour  and  brown  it,  cover  with  the  chili  water,  add  garlic,  and 
thyme.  Simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender,  and  the  gravy  of  the 
right  consistency. 

VEAL    a  la  HODE 

A.  Sepulveda  de   Mott. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  the  veal.  Fry  some  bacon,  and  in 
this  fry  the  veal;  then  put  in  the  olla.  Fry  some  onion,  well- 
chopped,  and  put  on  the  meat:  also,  a  little  vinegar,  two 
heads  crushed  garlic,  salt,  sprig  parsley,  and  a  few  leaves  of 
laurel.  Put  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  covered  by  a  paper, 
on  the  top  of  which  set  a  cup  of  water,  to  prevent  evapora- 
tion.     Let  it  boil  two  hours. 

SPANISH  STEW 

Mrs.  Vida  A.  Bixby. 

Cold  cooked  meat;  i  tablespoon  lard  or  beef  drippings; 
I  onion;  i  chili;  4  ripe  tomatoes. 

Heat  the  lard,  or  drippings,  in  a  skillet.  Add  the  meat 
cut  fine.  Fry  it  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  chopped  onions, 
chili  and  tomatoes.  Cover  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes, 
or  more. 

This  is  a  good  way  to  serve  up  odd  bits  of  steak,  roast  or 
stew. 


Spanish  Department  26y 

FINE  BRAINS 

Senorita  Epitasia  Bustamente. 

Soak  a  set  of  brains  an  hour,  vein  and  prepare  thoroughly. 
Beat  till  fine  and  foaming  like  omelet,  i  &%z\  tablespoon 
dried  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  taste  of  grated  onion, 
add  to  brains.  Take  eight  slices  fresh  bread,  spread  with 
preparation  of  brains  in  a  dripping  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  ten  minutes.  Take  out  and  set  bread  in  a  spider 
of  hot  fat,  and  fry  carefully,  so  that  the  bread  is  a  light 
brown  color  on  the  underside.     Serve  immediately. 

Spanish  rice  is  proper  accompaniment. 

TONGUE  PIQUANTE 

Senorita  Epitasia  Bustamente. 

Boil  a  beef  tongue  till  tender;  skin  and  cut,  like  lyonnaise 
potatoes. 

Sauce. — Seed  and  vein  15  chili  peppers.  Boil  half  an 
hour  with  a  little  salt,  changing  water  three  times.  Take 
out  chilis  and  mash  to  a  red  pulp.     Add  one  pint  cold  water. 

Roast  one  pound  pumpkin  seed  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven; 

skin  and  run  them  through  a  coffee  mill.     Add   ^    pint  cold 

water,  and  run  through  strainer.     Mix  with  chilis.     Add  one 

tablespoon  pork  fat,   tablespoon  flour,   and    tablespoon    salt. 

Boil,  stirring  carefully.     Add  the  prepared  tongue  and  cook 

for  half  an  hour. 

E5TAFAD0 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Downey. 

Two  pounds  beef,  ribs  or  mutton;  i  spoon  lard;  onions; 
green  peppers;  black  pepper;  thyme;  garlic;  vinegar;  rai- 
sins; olives;  tomatoes;  4  slices  toast. 

Heat  the  lard  in  a  saucepan.  Put  in  all  the  ingredients. 
(Leave  the  peppers  whole,  mince  the  garlic.)  Cover  close 
and  stew.     Serve  on  the  toast. 

CHILI  CON  CARNI 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Slaughter. 

Beefsteak — round;  i  tablespoon  hot  fat;  2  tablespoons 
rice;  i  cup  boiling  water;  2  large  red  peppers— dry;  >4  pint 
boiling  water;  salt;  onions;  flour. 


268  How    U'e  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Cut  the  steak  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  frying  pan  with  the 
fat,  hot  water  and  rice.  Cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  until 
tender.  Remove  the  seeds  and  part  of  the  veins  from  the 
peppers.  Cover  with  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them 
stand  until  cool,  then  squeeze  them  in  the  hand  until  the 
water  is  thick  and  red.  If  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little 
flour.  Season  with  salt  and  a  little  onion,  if  desired.  Pour 
the  sauce  on  the  meat  and  serve. 

DRIED  BEEF  WITH  PEPPERS 

Mrs.  \V.  S.  Moore. 

Two  pounds  jerked,  dried  beef;  2  ounces  lard;  i  onion;  6 
red  peppers;  brown  flour. 

Place  the  beef  in  pan  in  hot  oven  ten  minutes,  then 
shred.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  lard  and  onion,  and  fry  for 
five  minutes.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  peppers.  Pass 
them  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  with  the  beef.  Thicken  with 
brown  flour.  Season  to  taste.  Cook  twenty  minutes,  and 
serve  piping  hot. 

JAMBALAZA 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Elderkiu. 

One  pound  of  rice;  i  pound  sausage;  i  pound  ham;  2 
onions;  2  large  tomatoes;  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper;  a  sprig 
of  parsley;  i  heaping  tablespoon  lard;  i  pint  boiling  water; 
a  little  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  and  soak  it  one  hour.  Cut  up  the  sausage, 
tomatoes,  onions,  parsley,  pepper  and  ham.  Fry  these  in 
the  lard,  then  add  the  water.  Stir  in  the  rice  gradually. 
Cover  the  pot  and  set  it  where  it  can  cook  slowly.  Serve 
while  hot. 

Jambalaza  is  very  nice  made  with  oysters,  shrimp  or 
chicken  substituted  for  sausage. 

OHELET  WITH  FINE  HERBS— Breakfast 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Beat  some  fresh  eggs,  add  a  little  milk,  and  then  add  some 
fine  herbs,  well  chopped,  and  make  the  omelet  as  required. 


Spanish  Department  26g 


SPANISH    OMELET 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Ross. 

One  tablespoon  butter;  i  finely-chopped  onion;  i  pint 
tomatoes;  i  tablespoon  sliced  mushrooms;  i  tablespoon 
capers;  salt;  pepper;  4  eggs;  4  tablespoons  milk. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  onion,  and  cook  till  yellow;  then 
add  tomatoes,  and  cook  till  nearly  dry,  when  the  mushrooms, 
capers,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  ^  saltspoon  pepper  should  be 
added.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  ^  teaspoon  salt,  ^  salt- 
spoon  pepper,  and  the  milk.  Butter  an  omelet  pan  and  pour 
in  the  mixture.  When  creamy  throughout,  let  it  brown  on 
the  bottom.  Pour  some  of  the  tomato  on  one  side,  fold  over, 
and  turn  out  on  a  platter;  pour  the  rest  of  the  tomato  sauce 
around  the  omelet  and  serve.  The  addition  of  a  green  pepper 
is  a  help  in  seasoning — about  a  tablespoon  being  sufficient. 
Both  onion  and  pepper  should  be  chopped  very  fine.  The 
tomato  mixture  should  cook  very  slowly,  and  until  it  is  quite 
dry. 

Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

SALZA 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Melius. 

Three  large  tomatoes;  i  small  onion;  5  //t?/ green  peppers; 
Y-z  teaspoon  salt;  2  tablespoons  vinegar. 

lyay  the  peppers  on  coals,  turning  them  until  blistered. 
Throw  them  into  cold  water,  then  remove  the  skins  and 
seeds.  Skin  the  tomatoes  and  chop  all  together  until  quite 
fine.     Strain  off  the  juice,  and  add  the  salt  and  vinegar. 

To  be  served  with  soups  or  roasts  as  a  relish. 

SALZA 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Workman. 

Six  ripe  tomatoes;  4  green  peppers;  salt;  raw  onion. 

Scald  and  skin  the  tomatoes.  Squeeze  out  part  of  thin 
juice.  Roast  the  peppers  on  coals,  or  in  an  oven,  until  a 
light  brown.  Then  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Skin  and 
chop  them  with  the  tomatoes  quite  fine,  strain  off"  the  water, 


2yo  How    We    Cook  in  Los  Aiigeles 

add  salt  and  a  little  finely-chopped  onion.     To  be  eaten  with 
all  kinds  of  meat.     It  will  keep  several  days. 

ARTICHOKES 

Mrs,  Juan  Foster. 

This  is  a  most  delicious  tuber.  Mash  and  peel  the  arti- 
chokes. Cut  in  pieces.  Scald  and  cook  them.  Remove 
them  from  the  soup  in  which  they  have  been  cooked.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  oil  and  fried  garlic.  Add  some  of 
the  soup  in  which  the  artichokes  were  cooked  and  all  kinds 
of  spices,  and  let  them  boil.  If  you  desire  some  soup  also, 
season  what  remains  of  the  water  in  which  the  artichokes 
were  boiled,  as  you  would  a  meat  soup.  It  will  be  so  good 
that  you  will  doubt  whether  it  is  a  meat  or  fish  soup. 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

Select  the  tenderest.  Cut  them  in  pieces,  after  washing 
and  drying  them.  Put  them  in  a  paste  made  with  flour,  two 
eggs,  a  little  vinegar,  and  same  amount  of  oil.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Fry  them  and  serve  with  fried  parsley. 

STEW — Catalonian  Style 

Mrs.  Juau  Foster. 

Cut  the  beef  in  small  squares.  Put  it  in  a  stew  pan  with 
a  small  piece  of  bacon,  and  the  right  amount  of  salt.  Add 
some  fried  onion  and  a  few  pieces  of  garlic.  Cover  the  stew- 
pan  with  packing  paper,  and  set  over  an  iron  kettle  contain- 
ing water.  Put  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  and  shake  occa- 
sionally, so  that  it  will   not  burn.     In  this  way   you   avoid 

adding  water. 

QARVANZO  POTTAGE 

A.  Sepulveda  de  Mott. 

After  the  garvanzos  are  well  boiled,  with  onion,  cook 
them  with  oil,  in  which  must  have  been  fried  garlic  and 
chili.     Put  in  beaten  eggs,  and  a  little  cloves  and  pepper. 

FRIJOLES  CON   QUESO— Beans  with  Cheese 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Moore. 

One  quart  red  beans;  4  tablespoons  lard;  salt;  pinch  of 
cayenne;   ^  pound  good  cheese. 


Spanish  Depaitvient  2ji 


Boil  the  beans  until  soft,  then  drain  and  turn  into  a  frj-- 
ingpan  with  the  lard.  Salt  to  taste.  Pepper  and  cheese 
grated.  Stir  until  cheese  dissolves  and  thoroughly  blends. 
Serve  hot. 

FRIJOLES 

E.  Beiiton  Freiuout. 

One  cup  beans;  i  long  red  pepper;  }4  clove  garlic;  i 
small  thin  slice  bacon. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  Cook  slowly  from  eight  to 
ten  hours,  as  big  hominy  is  cooked. 

lyike  hominy,  the}^  are  even  better  the  next  day. 


STUFFED  CHILIS 

Mrs.  Vida  A.   Bixby. 

Six  green  chilis;  2  pounds  meat;  2  onions;  i  large  ripe 
tomato;  2  slices  bread;  i  pound  raisins;  i  pound  olives;  i 
tablespoon  vinegar;  salt;  pepper;  i  tablespoon  sugar;  2  eggs; 
lard;  flour. 

Remove  stems  and  seeds  from  the  peppers.  Boil  the 
meat  until  tender.  Chop  fine.  Add  onions,  tomato  and 
bread — chopped  fine.  Add  raisins,  olives,  vinegar  and  salt, 
sugar  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fry  all  together  in  a  little  lard. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  stuff  the  chilis.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter.  Dip  chilis 
in  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

STUFFED  CHILIS 

Mrs.   Carrie  Schumacher. 

Green  chilis;  yellow  cheese;  ^  tablespoon  flour;  2  eggs; 
butter,  lard,  milk. 

Roast  the  chilis,  so  that  the  skins  can  be  easily  removed; 
seed  and  fill  with  cheese  finely  minced,  dip  them  in  a  batter 
made  of  the  flour,  milk,  and  beaten  eggs,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown,  in  a  little  butter  and  lard  mixed.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 


2y2  How    We  Cook  hi  Los  Angeles 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Mrs.   K.  A.  Pruess. 

One  tablespoon  lard;   Y-t,  teaspoon  flour;  4  large  tomatoes, 

chopped;    2  small  chilis,    chopped.     Cook  all  together   until 

done. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Downey. 

One  dozen  large  peppers;  i  onion;  Yz  cup  grated  corn; 
I  cup  meat  or  chicken;   i  tablespoon  lard  or  butter. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers,  then  throw  them 
upon  a  bed  of  live  coals,  turning  them  constantly  until  they 
are  of  a  light  brown;  then  take  them  up,  throw  them  into 
cold  water,  and  remove  the  skins.  Heat  the  lard  or  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  and  add  the  minced  onion;  when  this  is  hot, 
add  the  tomato,  and  grated  corn,  with  pepper  and  salt.  L,et 
it  simmer  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Add  the  minced  meat  or 
chicken.  (A  small  slice  of  ham  or  bacon  improves  the 
flavor.)     Mix  well,  stuff  the  peppers,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Sauce  for  the  peppers. — One  spoon  butter;  i  spoon  flour; 
I  onion;   i  tomato;  green  pepper;   2  apples. 

Chop  the  pepper,  slice  the  onion  and  tomato.  Add  a  i^'Vi 
raisins  and  olives,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  a  sauce.  Boil 
until  the  apples  are  soft.  Put  the  peppers  in  this  sauce. 
Simmer  a  moment,  then  serve. 

GREEN    PEPPERS 

Spanish  Lady. 

Beefsteak;  green  peppers;  tomatoes;  eggs;  apples;  raisins; 
sugar;  vinegar;  onions;  thyme;  pepper;  salt. 

Roast  the  peppers  on  hot  coals,  remove  the  skins  and  stuff" 
them. 

Stuffing — Boil  and  chop  a  steak  fine,  as  for  hash,  fry 
chopped  onions,  one  green  pepper,  one  tomato,  a  little  thyme, 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  stuffed,  roll  them  in 
flour,  dip  in  beaten  ^'gZ'<  ^^^  ^Y  ^^  ^ot  fat. 

Gravy — Make  gravy  by  frying  onions,  peppers,  tomatoes, 
a  few  raisins;  slices  of  apple,  thyme,  vinegar,  and  a  little 
sugar. 


Spanish  Department  ^  27J 


STUFFED  POTATOES  (PERU  AND  BOLIVIA) 

Chas.  F.  Lurumis. 

Mashed  potato;  salt,  black  pepper,  raisins,  olives;  cloves; 
beef;  hard-boiled  ^%z. 

Make  a  dough  of  the  mashed  potato,  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per. Mince  the  cooked  lean  beef  fine,  and  mold  it  to  eg  g 
shape,  with  raisins — stoned,  a  little  ground  clove,  minced  q.^% 
and  stoned  olives.  Cover  this  with  the  potato  dough,  and 
fry  the  roll,  (which  should  be  the  size  of  a  large  goose  ^%%)., 
in  hot  lard,  taking  care  not  to  burn,  but  only  to  give  it  a  bright 
golden  brown. 

HACARONI 

Mrs.  Carrie  Schumacher. 

Macaroni;  ham;  tomatoes;  cheese. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain. 
Fry  some  small  pieces  of  ham,  add  a  few  tomatoes.  Simmer 
a  little  while,  then  add  the  macaroni,  and  quite  a  large  piece 
of  cheese,  finel)^  minced.  Cook  until  the  tomatoes  are  done, 
and  the  cheese  melted. 

GREEN  CORN  TAHALES 

Maria  de  los  Reyes  Domiiiguez  de  Francis. 

Two  dozen  ears  sweet  corn;  i  tablespoon  fresh  lard;  a  little 
salt. 

Grate  the  corn,  (saving  the  inside  husks),  beat  it  smooth 
with  the  lard,  and  salt.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  into 
a  husk  and  double  it  over.  Put  some  of  the  cobs  in  a  kettle 
with  sufiicient  hot  water  to  cover  them.  Lay  the  tamales  on 
the  cobs,  with  a  plate  on  top  to  keep  them  in  place.  Cover 
the  kettle,  and  steam  them  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot,  with 
butter. 

CHICKEN  TAHALES 

S.  JIachado  de  Bernard. 

Take  two  quarts  yellow  dried  corn,  boil  in  water  mixed 
with  Yz  teacup  lime.  Let  it  boil  till  well  cooked,  then  wash 
thoroughly  and  grind  on  the  nietata,  three  times  till  it  becomes 
very  fine. 


27^  ,        How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Take  two  full-grown  chickens  and  boil  in  water  enough  to 
cover  them;  season  with  a  little  salt;  let  boil  till  quite  tender, 
then  remove  and  let  cool;  then  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mix  with 
the  corn,  (which  has  been  rolled  on  the  vietatd)  enough  of  the 
water  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled,  to  make  it  soft,  and 
add  about  two  cups  lard.  Season  with  a  little  salt,  and  knead 
thoroughl5^ 

After  this  take  three  dozen  red  chilis,  remove  seeds — 
then  roast  in  a  moderate  oven  for  a  few  seconds.  Take  out 
and  place  in  tepid  water,  then  grind  on  the  7netata  several 
times,  together  with  almost  a  head  of  garlic,  then  strain  well. 

In  a  stewing  pot  place  some  lard,  and  when  hot  drop  in  one 
onion,  cut  fine,  and  about  a  spoon  of  flour,  let  cook  a  little 
while,  then  drop  in  the  chili;  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the 
cut  chicken,  a  cupful  raisins,  a  cupful  of  olives,  about  a  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  come  to  a  boil 
again,  then  take  away  from  the  fire.  Let  soak  in  cold  water, 
dry  corn  leaves.  When  well  soaked,  shake  them  well  and 
apply  a  thin  layer  of  the  corn  dough  on  the  half  of  each  leaf, 
then  put  a  spoon  of  the  stew  on  the  prepared  leaf,  and  cover 
with  the  prepared  leaves,  tie  the  ends  with  strings  made  of  the 
same  leaf 

If  liked,  boiled  eggs  cut  in  halves  may  be  placed  in  each 
spoon  of  stew.  When  the  tamales  are  finished,  place 
them  in  a  large  pot  with  a  little  boiling  water  and  boil  one 
hour.  Any  other  meat  can  be  used  if  desired.  The  metatas 
can  be  purchased  at  any  Mexican  store. 

A  NICE  WAY  TO  COOK  SQUASH. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Schumacher. 

Cut  the  squash,  and  a  little  onion.  Fry  it  a  light  brown  in 
hot  lard,  then  stew  until  tender,  in  a  little  water. 

STUFFED  SQUASH,  BAKED 

Mrs.  W.  S.   Moore. 

Six  young  scalloped  summer  squash;  2  pounds  lean  veal, 
minced;  6  tomatoes;  3  green  peppers;  i  onion. 


Spaiiish  Department  2^5 


Season  the  above  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  stuff  the 
squash.  Bake  in  hot  oven  one  hour.  Serve  in  baking  dish, 
hot. 

SPANISH  RICE 

Senorita  Epitasia  Bustaniente. 

Into  tablespoon  boiling  salt  pork  fat,  put  cupful  well  washed 
rice,  mixed  with  teaspoon  chopped  onion,  salt,  pepper  and 
taste  of  mint,  fry  about  five  minutes,  stirring  carefully.  Add 
one  quart  of  cold  water,  and  cook  on  back  of  range  for  on  e 
hour. 

When  serving,  use  a  layer  of  rice  on  platter,  and  a  layer  of 
sauce,  such  as  given  in  Pipian  de  Leugua,  till  it  is  thoroughly" 
seasoned.     The  sauce  must  redden  the  outside. 

RICE  a  la  VALENCIA 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Put  the  rice,  with  sweet  oil,  chopped  onions,  garlic,  pars- 
ley and  tomatoes  in  a  pot,  and  fry  all  for  awhile.  Add  water 
and  rice  in  the  proportion  of  five  of  water  to  one  of  rice,  and 
let  it  boil  until  the  water  is  absorbed  by  the  rice.  Let  it  cool 
and  if  it  is  done  properly  you  will  find  the  grains  of  rice  entirely 
dry  and  separate  from  each  other. 

FRIED  RICE 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Coronel. 

Rice,  lard,  onions,  garlic,  salt,  black  pepper,  hot  water, 
tomatoes. 

Wash  the  rice,  brown  it  in  hot  lard,  then  add  onions,  toma- 
toes, garlic.  Cover  the  whole  with  hot  water.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Let  the  rice  cook  thoroughly,  adding  water 
as  needed,  but  do  not  stir  it. 

TORTILLA 

Spanish  Lady. 

One  quart  flour;  i  cup  milk;  salt;  2  tablespoons  lard. 

Make  a  dough  and  knead  thoroughly.  Take  pieces  of  the 
dough  and  pat  between  the  hands  until  it  makes  a  large  round 
cake,  and  cook  on  griddle  until  brown. 


2y6  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Aiigeles 


SPANISH  BUN 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Goodrich. 

Two  eggs;  i  cup  brown  sugar;  y^,  cup  butter;  }^  cup  sweet 
milk;  i^  cups  sifted  flour;  i^  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking 
powder. 

Bake  in  a  thin  cake. 

Icing — White  of  one  ^ZZ^  i  cup  brown  sugar.  Beat  until 
light,  then  spread  on  the  cake  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes. 

RECIPE  FOR  PRESERVING  ORANGES 

sister  Imnianuel. 

Five  dozen  oranges;  lo  gallons  water;  2  pounds  common 
salt. 

The  oranges  should  be  of  good  size — thick  skinned,  and 
not  too  ripe.  Grate  the  surface  lightly.  Place  them  in  a  shal- 
low vessel,  so  that  they  are  not  crowded,  and  let  them  come  to 
a  boil  in  the  water  and  salt.  Take  out  carefully,  and  throw 
them  into  fresh  cold  water.  Set  them  in  a  cool  place,  changing 
the  water  every  two  hours,  for  three  days.  The  second  day 
remove  the  seeds  and  juice,  but  not  the  pulp.  This  can  be 
done  by  making  an  incission  in  one  end  of  the  oranges.  Con- 
tinue to  change  the  water  every  two  hours,  wiping  each  orange 
dry  with  a  coarse  towel,  and  pressing  out  the  water  after  each 
change.     Do  this  gently.     Prepare  a  syrup  as  follows: 

Syrup — first  day.  Five  gallons  water;  3^  pound  white 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Boil  over  a  slow  fire  three  hours, 
then  take  out  the  fruit  and  let  it  drip. 

Second  day — Make  a  new  syrup.  Five  gallons  water;  one 
pound  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  The  oranges  must  be  put  in 
the  syrup  when  it  is  cold,  then  brought  to  a  boil.  (If  fruit  is 
put  in  hot  syrup,  the  surface  is  toughened  like  leather).  Take 
out  fruit  and  let  drip. 

Third  day — Make  a  new  syrup.  Pound  for  pound,  boil  to 
the  consistency  of  thick  molasses.  When  cold  put  in  the 
oranges.     They  are  now  ready  for  use  or  for  jars. 

lycmons  and  citrons  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


Spanish  Department  277 

How  to  riake  Crystallized   Chinese  Oranges. 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Take  oranges  not  quite  ripe,  cut  oflF  the  colored  part  of  the 
rind  carefully  with  a  sharp  knife;  cut  a  hole  where  the  stem 
has  been,  sufficiently  large  to  take  out  all  the  inside.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  change  the  form  of  the  orange.  When  they  are 
clean  inside  and  outside,  cover  them  with  water  and  salt  for 
24  hours.  Then  change  the  water,  but  this  time  omit  the 
salt.  Do  this  for  five  or  six  days,  or  until  all  the  bitterness 
has  disappeared.  Then  put  them  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes;  then  put  them  immediately  in  cold  water; 
then  allow  them  to  drain  while  preparing  the  syrup.  The 
syrup  is  made  by  putting  equal  quantities  by  weight  of  sugar 
and  fruit  in  enough  water  to  give  the  consistency  of  ordinary 
S3'rup.  Boil  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  over  a  slow  fire  until  the 
syrup  attains  the  consistency  of  'Sxoufty.  Take  the  fruit  out 
and  let  it  dry  in  a  convenient  place. 

Small  lemons  or  limes  are  crj'stallized  by  the  same  process, 

except  that  thej^  are  simply  cut  in  two  before  being  placed  in 

the  brine. 

LEMON    PRESERVES 

Maria  de  los  Doniinguez  de  Francis. 

Ten  pounds  fruit;  10  pounds  sugar;  y^.  gallon  water. 

Grate  the  lemons  well.  Make  an  incision  in  one  end.  Put 
them  in  water,  with  two  pounds  of  salt,  and  boil  them  a  few 
minutes.  Then  throw  them  immediately  into  cold  water. 
Wash,  and  squeeze  them  slightl3\  Keep  them  in  cold  water 
two  days,  changing  the  water  twelve  times  each  day,  so  that 
the  juice  and  seeds  will  come  out — the  last  time — squeeze 
them  again,  drain,  and  dry  on  a  towel.  The  day  before  they 
are  to  be  cooked,  prepare  the  sj'rup,  boil,  skim,  and  cool  it 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  put  the  lemons  which  have  been 
drained  and  dried,  into  the  cold  syrup,  and  boil  them  seven  or 
eight  hours. 


PRESERVE  OF  ORANGE  OR  LEMON  FLOWERS 

ording  to  the  Formula  of  Don  Diego  Granada,  Chief  Cook  of  His  Majesty,  the 
King  Don  Felipe  III. 

Take  the  flowers  from  the  tree  when  the}-  are  well  opened; 


2'j8  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

wash  them,  boil  them  for  a  little  while;  change  the  water  and 

boil  them  again  until  they  are  very  tender.      Take    them  out 

of  this  last  water  and  when  the  flowers  are  cool,   open  them 

one  by  one  as  you  would  a  book.     Put  them  in  a  vessel  (olla) 

with  their  weight  of  sugar  and    a  little   musk.      Stir   them 

up  with  the  sugar,  slowly;  put  them  over  a  slow  fire  until  the 

sugar  thickens,  spread  them   on  a  marble  table,  separate  the 

flowers  one  from  another  as  rapidly  as  possible,  and  allow  to 

dry. 

TO  PRESERVE  FIGS  WHOLE 

Marie  de  la  Domingues  de  Francis. 

One-half  cup  lime;  i  bucket  water;  syrup  for  lo  lbs  figs 
made  of  lo  fts  sugar;   i  gal.  water,  cold. 

Use  half  ripe  figs,  prick  them  twice  with  a  fork.  Stand 
them  in  the  lime  water  over  night,  in  the  morning  wash,  and 
throw  them  into  cold  water,  drain  them.  When  the  syrup 
has  boiled  and  been  well  skimmed,  put  over  the  figs  and  cook 
them  very  slowly  seven  or  eight  hours, 

PRESERVE  OF  HUSKMELON 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Take  a  melon  not  quite  ripe,  cut  it  into  longitudinal 
pieces;  cut  away  the  rind  and  the  white  nearest  to  the  rind 
and  throw  away;  soak  what  is  left  for  three  days  in  salted 
water.  Then  put  them  in  clear  water  for  six  days,  changing 
the  water  every  day.  Then  boil  them  until  they  are  tender, 
rub  them  in  cold  water,  drain  them  until  all  the  superfluous 
moisture  has  disappeared.  Then  put  them  in  a  round 
earthen  vessel  (olla),  cover  them  with  clarified  sugar  (com- 
mon syrup),  and  leave  them  for  eight  days,  so  as  to  absorb 
the  syrup.  After  this  boil  them  in  the  syrup  for  about  one 
hour  over  a  slow  fire  and  keep  them  in  a  proper  place.  If 
you  wish  you  can  put  any  kind  of  essence  you  prefer,  or 
none  at  all. 

TO  CURE  OLIVES 

Mrs.  Isabel  del  Valle,  of  Camulos. 

Cut  the  olives  from  the  tree  when  they  are  not  over-ripe. 
Put  them  in  fresh  water  and  change  it  every  third  day  until 


Spanish  Department  2j^ 

the  bitterness  is  removed.  Prepare  a  lye  of  wood  ashes  and 
if  possible  let  it  be  the  ashes  of  grape  vines,  as  experience 
has  taught  that  this  is  the  best.  They  should  remain  in  this 
lye  twenty -four  hours.  Take  them  from  it  and  put  them  in 
salt  water  and  keep  for  use. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  OIL  FROM  OLIVES 

Mrs.  Juan  Foster. 

Cut  the  olives  from  the  tree  when  quite  ripe;  keep  them 
for  three  weeks  in  the  dark,  mill  them;  put  the  paste  in  sacks, 
strong  but  porous;  press  them  and  you  have  oil  of  the  best 
quality.  To  have  a  second  grade  of  oil  put  the  paste,  after 
being  pressed,  in  hot  water,  and  press  it  again.  This  water 
mixed  with  the  oil  should  be  put  in  jars  or  pans,  and  when 
the  oil  comes  to  the  top  it  must  be  taken  off  and  filtered  and 
put  in  bottles. 

If  you  add  a  little  salt  to  the  oil  before  filtering  you  will 
be  repaid  for  the  trouble. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Workman. 

Dry  red  peppers;   onions;  salt. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers;  soak  them  in  boiling 
water  until  soft;  remove  the  skins  by  rubbing  them  through  a 
coarse  sieve;  season  with  salt,  and  a  small  quantity  of  finely 
chopped  onions.  If  too  thick  add  water.  Use  as  a  sauce,  or 
in  gravies,  and  stews. 

CHILI    COLOROW 

Mrs.  Kenyou  Cox,  Long  Beach. 

Eight  quarts  ripe  tomatoes;  i  quart  onions;  i  quart 
strong  green  peppers;  i  quart  strong  vinegar;  i  cup  sugar;  6 
tablespoons  salt. 

The  tomatoes  should  be  measured  after  peeling,  and 
mashing;  the  onions  and  peppers  chopped  very  fine.  Boil 
until  thick,  bottle  and  seal. 


28o  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

SPANISH  CATSUP 

One-half  gal.  green  encumbers;  ^  gal.  cabbage;  i  quart 
tomatoes;  i  pint  beans;  i  dozen  onions;  i  dozen  ears  of 
green  corn;  2  teacups  white  mustard  seed;  i  teacup  ground 
mustard;  i  lb.  sugar;  3  tablespoons  tumeric;  2  tablespoons 
grated  horseradish;  3  tablespoons  celery  seed;  2  table- 
spoons Rowland's  olive  oil;  i  tablespoon  mace;  i  table- 
spoon cinnamon;   i  tablespoon  cayenne  pepper. 

Peel,  and  slice  the  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let 
them  stand  six  hours.  Prepare  the  cabbage  in  the  same  way. 
Chop  the  onions,  let  them  stand  in  boiling  water  half  an 
hour;  chop  the  tomatoes,  beans,  and  corn,  scald  and  drain. 
Mix  all  the  other  ingredients,  place  in  a  jar;  with  the  pre- 
pared vegetables,  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar. 


GERMAN    MENUS 


Mrs.  J.  G.  MossiN 


BREAKFAST 

Coffee  or  Chocolate 
Rolls,   Kuchen 


DINNER 

Kloesse        Soup 

Raddish  Caviar  with  Ra'C  Bread 

Blue  Trout 

Roast  Young  Pig 

Red  Cabbage  Rice 

Fried  Goose  Liver 

Green  Peas  and  Young  Carrots 

Fricassee  Squab 

Noodles 

Celery  Salad 

Omelet  v^'ith  Raspberry 

Peach  Ice 

Crackers  Cheese 

Coffee 


SUPPER 

Cold  Roast  Ham 
Pickled  Trout 
Herring  Salad 

Rye  Bread 
Pickled  Goose 
Pickled  Mushroom 

Spiced  Peaches 
Schwartz  Brod  Torte 


282  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


AFTERNOON  COFFEE 

R3'e  Bread  Unsalted  Butter 

Jelly        Preserved  Fruit 

Chocolate  Cake 

Leb  Kitchen 

Apfel  Kuchen 

Pfeffer  Nusse 
Blitz  Kuchen 
Zimmet  Sterne 


GERMAN  DEPARTMENT 


SOUP  STOCK 

Mrs.  John  G.  Mossin. 

Three  quarts  water;  4  fts.  beef;  i}4,  fts  mutton;  veal 
knuckle;  i  red  pepper;  i  turnip;  i  carrot;  i  onion;  salt,  pepper. 

Boil  slowly  five  hours,  strain,  cool;  when  ready  to  use, 
take  ofi"  the  fat. 

MILK  SOUP  WITH  PRUNES 

Mrs.  J.  Johansen. 

Boil  I  ft)  dried  prunes,  until  soft,  in  a  pan;  put  in  with 
them  I  quart  of  milk  (less  a  little  to  stir  the  flour).  Let 
come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with 
the  reserved  milk,  a  little  of  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  and 
sweeten  to  taste;  let  boil  up,  then  turn  into  a  tureen, 
sprinkle  sugar  over  it,   and  serve. 

BUTTERHILK  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  Johansen. 

Take  i  cup  rice,  pearl  barley  or  sago,  and  boil  until  soft, 
in  water  with  some  currants,  raisins,  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 
and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  (the  yellow,  not  the  white). 
When  the  above  ingredients  are  well  cooked,  add  the  butter- 
milk, stirring  rapidly  to  prevent  its  being  grainy. 

FISH  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  Johansen. 

Take  carp  or  codfish,  cut  up  and  roll  in  flour.  Toast 
some  bread,  butter  well,  tben  place  the  fish  between  the 
pieces  of  toast.  Boil  some  carrots,  cut  in  cubes,  in  some 
bullion  until  tender;  season  with  parsley,  mash  well  and 
strain.  Steam  the  fish  and  toast  while  boiling  the  bullion; 
then  mash  fine  and  add  to  the  bullion;  salt  to  taste.  Serve 
with  toast  well  browned  in  butter;  cut  in  cubes  and  put  in 
the   soup. 


284^  Hoiv    Vi'e  Cook  m  Los  Angeles 


DUnPLINQS  FOR   ANY    KIND  OF  SOUP 

Mrs.   J.  Johauseu. 

One  and  one-fourth  fts  cold  boiled  potatoes;  %  tb  butter; 
2  whole  eggs;  yolks  of  2  more;  i  tablespoon  flour. 

Grate  the  potatoes  and  put  in  frying  pan  with  the  butter, 
and  thicken  with  grated  bread;  stir  well  but  do  not  let  it 
brown;  turn  it  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Take  the  two  whole  eggs 
and  the  two  yolks  beaten  separately,  stir  in  the  flour  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  with  a  spoon 
and  drop  into  the  soup;  slip  the  spoon  into  the  soup  every 
time  you  put  in  a  dumpling.     Boil  them  about  three  minutes 

MEAT  DUriPLlNQS  FOR  flEAT  SOUP 

Mrs.  J.  Johauseu. 

Take  a  porterhouse  steak  and  scrape  it  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  For  an  ordinary -sized  family, 
take  2  eggs  and  mix  with  the  meat;  add  bread  crumbs  or 
crackers,  season  with  salt.  Make  into  balls  the  size  of  a 
walnut  and  drop  into  the  soup;  boil  about  five  minutes. 

EGG  DUMPLINGS  OR  CLOSE 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Three  eggs;  3  tablespoons  butter;  4^  soda  crackers, 
crumbed. 

Cream  butter,  add  eggs,  then  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  one 
hour  before  using.  Roll  in  small  balls  and  cook  fifteen  min- 
utes.     Be  sure  your  soup  is  boiling  before  adding  dumplings. 

BAKED    PICKEREL 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossiu. 

Fish;  salt;  bread  crumbs;  butter;  i  cup  sour  cream;  i  table- 
spoon vinegar;  lemon;  parsley. 

Prepare  the  fish,  place  in  a  baking  pan;  rub  with  salt  and 
bread  crumbs;  baste  with  butter.  When  nearly  done,  mix 
the  vinegar  with  the  sour  cream,  turn  into  the  pan  and  let  it 
boil.  Serve  very  hot,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon. 


German  Department  285 


FRIED  SHELT 

Mrs.  J.  G.  ISIossiu. 

Smelt;  milk;  salt;  bread  crumbs;  flour;  lard. 
Soak  the  fish  in  milk  two  hours,  then  dry  thoroughly;  rub 
with  salt;  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  flour;  fry  in  hot  lard. 

FISH,  TROUT 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Fish,  weighing  4  lbs;  onion;  bay  leaves;  vinegar;  pepper; 
salt;  lemon;  parsley. 

Clean  the  fish,  leaving  on  head  and  fins  ;  put  in  a  pan 
with  a  few  slices  of  onion  and  a  few  bay  leaves,  half  cover  with 
boiling  vinegar,  (if  vinegar  is  verj'  sharp,  dilute  with  water); 
add  salt  and  pepper;  simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes.  Cover 
with  blotting  paper;  set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon.     Oil  may  be  added. 

HERRING  SALAD 

Mrs.  A.  Knoch. 

Six  herring;  3  fts  roast  veal;  6  pickles;  6  beets;  3  apples; 
3  hard  boiled  eggs;  2  tablespoons  Rowland's  olive  oil;  salt; 
pepper;  mustard;   vinegar. 

Scale  and  soak  the  herring  over  night  in  water  or  sour 
milk.  In  the  morning,  bone  and  cut  into  small  squares;  cut 
veal,  pickles,  boiled  beets,  and  green  apples  in  the  same  way. 
Mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly,  being  careful  not  to  mash 
them.  Make  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  eggs  creamed  with 
olive  oil;  adding  salt;  pepper,  vinegar  and  mustard  to  taste. 
Garnish  with  chopped  beets,  pickles,  parsley  and  hard  boiled 
eggs. 

STEWED  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  Carrie  Schumacher. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces;  fry  very  brown,  turning  it 
frequently  with  a  large  spoon;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Brown  a  little  minced  onion;  before  the  chicken  is  brown 
enough,  sprinkle  over  it  with  a  little  browned  flour;  add  water. 
Stew  until  tender. 


286  How   H'e  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

FRICASSEED  VEAL 

Mrs.  A.  Knoch. 

Four  lbs  veal  (breast  preferred);  butter,  size  of  a  lien's 
^%%;  salt;  pepper;  i  medium  sized  onion;  mace;  lemon  peel;  i 
tablespoon  flour. 

Cut  the  veal  into  pieces,  two  or  three  inches  square;  wash 
in  cold  water;  then  scald  in  hot  water;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  put  in  a  stew  pan  containing  the  heated  butter. 
Turn  meat,  being  careful  not  to  brown  it;  add  the  onion,  mace, 
the  peel  of  half  a  lemon  (the  yellow  only)  and  water  sufiicient 
to  cover.  Cook  until  tender,  keeping  the  pan  covered.  Mix 
the  flour  with  enough  water  to  make  a  creamy  mixture. 
Add  this  when  the  veal  is  done;  boil  three  minutes.  The 
juice  of  a  lemon  added  just  before  the  thickening  is  a  great 
improvement. 

FRICASEED  CHICKEN 

Mrs.  A.  Knoch. 

Same  as  fricasseed  veal,  except  the  chicken  is  cut  at  the 
joints.  Care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  crushing  the  bones. 
Instead  of  sprinkling  with  pepper,  add  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper 
corns;  also  3  or  4  mushrooms.  The  gizzard  should  not  be 
put  in  until  the  meat  is  half  done. 

PIGEONS   STEWED 

Mrs.  Carrie  Shumacher. 

Stew  like  chickens,  and  serve  on  toast.     Very  nice. 
DRESSING  FOR  PIGEONS 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossiu. 

Chop  the  livers  and  hearts  of  six  pigeons;  use  enough 
calf  s  liver  to  make  a  teacupful;  one  cup  bread  crumbs;  two 
eggs;  chop  a  little  parsley;  small  piece  of  onion;  ^  cup 
currants. 

Then  fill  the  pigeons.  Take  a  spoonful  of  butter,  one  of 
lard,  half  an  onion.  Let  them  brown.  Lay  in  your  pigeons. 
Fry  them  brown,  then  add  a  cup  of  soup  stock.  Let  them 
simmer  gently  until  tender.  Add  a  tablespoon  flour,  ^  cup 
sweet  cream,    i  tablespoon  catsup;  for  gravy. 


German  Department  28'/ 


ROAST  DUCK,  A  SWEDISH  RECIPE 

Mrs.  Carl   Schutze. 

One  duck;  i  medium-sized  lemon;  2  small  apples;  ^  cup 
sultana  raisins;   i  teaspoon  flour. 

Rub  duck  well  with  salt,  and  pepper  inside  and  out. 
Thicken  the  juice  of  the  lemon  with  flour,  and  slice  the 
apples  into  the  batter  thus  made,  until  every  piece  is  coated. 
Wash  sultanas  and  remove  stems.  Put  a  few  raisins  in  the 
duck,  then  a  few  slices  of  apple,  until  moderately  well  filled. 
Sew  with  a  cord.  Cut  ofi"  the  neck,  so  as  to  leave  the  skin 
long  enough  to  tie  over  the  end  neatly.  Bind  wings  to  the 
sides.     Roast  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

ROAST  DUCK  DRESSING 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Two  hard-boiled  eggs;  3  cups  bread  crumbs;  i  cup  sau- 
sage meat;  Y-z  cup  shredded  olives;  }{  cup  raisins;  salt; 
pepper;  a  little  thyme. 

If  too  dry,  moisten  with  a  very  little  milk. 

PICKLED  GOOSE 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Goose;  boiling  water;  2  teaspoons  whole  cloves;  2  tea- 
spoons whole  pepper;  6  bay  leaves;    i  cup  vinegar. 

Cut  the  goose  as  for  fricassee,  remove  all  fat,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  tender.  Remove  the  meat  from  the 
stock,  skim  off"  all  fat,  return  stock  to  the  kettle,  boil  until 
there  is  only  enough  to  cover  the  meat.  While  boiling — add 
cloves,  pepper,  bay  leaves,  and  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the 
meat.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

GERMAN   RELISH 

One  goose;   i  pint  cider  vinegar;  pepper;  salt. 

Remove  the  loose  fat  from  a  nice  goose.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Boil  until  nearly  done  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible, then  add  the  vinegar,  and  cook  until  very  tender;  then, 
leaving  in  the  bones,  pack  in  a  stone  jar.  Sliced  cold, 
this  is  a  dainty  dish. 

Turkey  and  chicken  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


288  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

DRESSING  FOR  ROAST 

Mrs.  J.  G    Mossin. 

Half  pound  sausage  meat;  2  eggs;  i  small  onion;  2  cups 
bread  crumbs;  ^  nutmeg;  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley; 
I  apple;   i  handful  raisins;  pepper;  salt.     Mix  well. 

Pig  six  weeks  old. 

BEEF  CUTLETS 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Holt. 

Take  four  parts  of  beef  and  one  part  of  suet.  Chop  both 
fine.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Form  into  pats.  Beat 
one  ^%z,  add  a  little  cloves  and  nutmeg,  then  dip  the  pats 
into  the  ^%Zy  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter. 

riEAT  ROLLS 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Holt. 

Take  several  kinds,  or  one  kind,  of  boiled  meat,  and  chop 
fine.  Fry  one  good-sized  onion  in  butter,  and  add  i  teaspoon 
flour.  Add  the  meat  and  two  eggs — beaten,  a  little  nutmeg, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Bake  an  omelet 
and  spread  the  above  mixture  over  the  omelet  and  roll,  then 
cut  in  slices,  dip  them  in  ^^g,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry 
till  brown  in  butter. 

MEAT  BALLS 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Holt. 

Chop  fine  some  beef,  or  veal,  with  a  little  raw  ham.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  i  tablespoon  sour  cream,  four 
crackers,  rolled  fine,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  and  nutmeg. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stifi"  froth,  and  add  to  the 
above  mixture  with  the  meat.  Beat  all  well  together,  and 
drop  ofi"  a  spoon  into  hot  lard  and  fry. 

THE  LEAVINGS  OF  SOUP  flEATS 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Holt. 

Slice  the  meat  and  lay  it  in  vinegar  over  night,  then  dip 
it  in  a  beaten  ^%%.,  season  with  nutmeg,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  butter. 


German  Department  28p 


POTATO  DUnPLINQS 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Six  potatoes  (good  size);  i  tablespoon  salt;  i  cup  flour; 
4  eggs;   I  slice  bread;  butter. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  and  when  cold,  grate  them,  and  mix 
with  the  salt,  flour,  eggs  and  bread — cut  in  small  squares, 
and  fried  in  butter — mold  into  balls  like  croquettes,  put  in 
boiling  water,  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  they  can 
be  steamed  half  an  hour. 

To  be  eaten  with  meat  gravy. 

ASPARAGUS 

Mrs.  George  KerckhofF. 

Boil  the  asparagus  in  salt  water  until  soft — from  forty-five 
minutes  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve  with  either  of  the 
following  sauces: 

Egg  Sauce. — Two  whole  eggs,  or  the  yolks  of  three;  i 
teaspoon  flour;  2  tablespoons  sweet  cream;  yi  cup  asparagus 
water;  a  pinch  of  nutmeg;  butter — the  size  of  an  egg;  vinegar 
to  taste. 

Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  then 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  serve  immediately. 

Browned  Cracker  Sauce. — Two  tablespoons  butter;  i 
tablespoon  rolled  cracker. 

Brown  the  butter,  then  add  the  crumbs.  When  well- 
browned  take  up  quickly. 

CABBAGE 

Mrs.  Carrie  Shumacher. 

One  cabbage;   i  tablespoon  lard;   flour;    milk;  nutmeg. 

Boil  the  cabbage  until  tender,  drain  and  chop  fine.  Have 
the  lard  very  hot,  put  the  cabbage  in  it,  sprinkle  it  with  a 
little  flour,  add  milk — when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  grate  in  a  little 
nutmeg,  if  liked,  and  serve. 

RED  CABBAGE 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Ellis. 

Red  cabbage;  roast  pork  drippings;  onions;  flour;  vine- 
gar; salt;  butter;  sugar;  pepper. 


2 go  How    We  Cook  m  Los  Angeles 


Halve  the  cabbage,  remove  the  coarse  leaves  and  large 
leaf  ribs,  and  cut  in  fine  long  strips.  Boil  in  just  enough 
water  to  prevent  burning,  add  the  drippings  and  some  chopped 
onions;  put  in  the  cabbage  gradually,  boil  it  briskly  in  an 
uncovered  vessel  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  cover  closely  and 
boil  it  from  a  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  add  salt  very 
carefully.  When  the  cabbage  is  cooked  (not  too  tender), 
stir  in  a  little  flour,  being  careful  that  the  liquid  is  neither 
too  thick  nor  too  thin;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top,  and 
stir  in  a  liltle  vinegar  and  one  or  two  teaspoons  of  sugar.  Red 
cabbage  should  be  cooked  in  granite  ware;  iron  or  tin  dis- 
colors it. 

BOILED  SPINACH 

Mrs.  A.  Ktioch. 

Spinach;  butter;  i  tablespoon  flour;  milk;  salt;  pepper; 
nutmeg;  hard  boiled  eggs;  fried  bread. 

Carefully  pick  over  and  wash  the  spinach;  boil  until  tender 
in  enough  salted  water  to  cover;  drain  in  a  colander;  chop 
fine  on  a  chopping  board  Heat  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  skillet; 
stir  in  the  flour,  add  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  gravy; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Put  in  the  spinach 
and  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Boil  eggs  five  minutes,  cut 
lengthwise  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the  dish.  Bread  cut 
in  strips  half  an  inch  wide  by  two  inches  long,  fried  in  butter, 
may  be  added,  sticking  them  upright  between  the  eggs. 

RYE  BREAD 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossiu. 

Two  tablespoons  salt;  i  cake  Magic  yeast;  i  pint  lukewarm 
water;  J^^  cake  compressed  yeast;  i  cup  sour  cream;  i  quart 
warm  milk;  rye  flour;  wheat  flour. 

At  night,  make  a  stiff  batter  with  the  warm  water  rye  flour, 
and  Magic  yeast.  In  the  morning,  add  the  compressd  yeast, 
cream  and  milk,  and  equal  parts  of  rye  and  white  flour 
sufficient  to  knead  well.      Bake  in  hot  oven. 

NOODLES 

■     Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossiu. 

Th  ee  eggs;  enough  flour  to  make   stiff  dough,    knead   as 


German  Department  2gi 


for  bread,  roll  very  thin;  let  them  dry  about  an  hour,  then 
roll  as  for  jelly  cake;  slice  very  thin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Boil 
in  a  quart  of  water  with  salt  to  season;  boil  fifteen  minutes 
then  drain  in  colander.  Brown  cracker  crumbs  in  butter, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  same  of  cracker  crumbs.  Put  noodles 
on  a  platter  covering  with  the  brown  crumbs. 

NOODLES 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Preuss. 

One  cup  flour;  i  ^ZZ'^  salt. 

This  quantity  makes  one  dish  of  noodles.  Mix  into  a  stiff 
dough;  roll  very  thin;  spread  on  a  cloth  until  dry  enough  to 
fold  without  sticking.  Roll  into  a  long  roll,  cut  it  fine 
crosswise,  then  toss  them  until  they  are  separated  into  long 
narrow  strips.  Put  them  into  boiling  salted  water;  boil  five 
minutes,  drain.  Brown  a  large  piece  of  butter,  add  some 
bread  crumbs  and  pour  it  over  the  noodles.  These  noodles 
make  a  nice  dish. 

A  NICE  LUNCHEON  DISH 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Preuss. 

Fry  cold   noodles  in  hot  butter  until  brown,    and  beat  in 

three  or  four  eggs. 

FLY  AWAY 

Mrs.  E.  A.    Preuss. 

Cut  noodle  dough  into  squares;  fry  in  very  hot  lard; 
sprinkle  sugar  over  them  while  hot.  They  will  be  deliciously 
crisp. 

GERMAN   PANCAKES 

•*  Mary  Roach. 

One  pint  flour;  6  eggs;  i  teaspoon  salt;  2  cups  sweet  milk. 

Make  a  batter  of  milk,  flour  and  salt;  beat  it  thoroughly; 
add  the  beaten  yolks,  beat  again;  then  the  frothed  whites. 
Fry  on  hot  griddle  with  plenty  of  rendered  butter. 

GERHAN    PANCAKES 

Mrs.  J.    Johansen. 

Three  to  5  eggs;  J^  cup  flour;  3^  pint  milk. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately  then  add  the  milk  and  flour  and 
pinch    of    salt.      Take  a  large  frying  pan  well  grea.^ed  with 


2g2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

butter  and  lard;  pour  the  batter  in    and   fry    till    brown,    and 
turn  them  over.     Serve  with  butter  and  cinnamon. 

POTATO  CAKE5 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Four  raw  potatoes;  2  slices  bread;  3  eggs;  i  cup  boiling 
milk. 

Grate,  and  drain  the  potatoes;  pour  the  boiling  milk  on 
the  bread;  when  cold,  add  potatoes,  and  eggs;  fry  like  pan- 
cakes, on  a  griddle.  Serve  any  kind  of  pickles  with  them,  or 
preserved  fruits. 

RICE  CAKES 

Mrs.  J     G.  Mossin. 

One  cup  rice;  i  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  flour;  3 
eggs;  salt;  cinnamon;  powdered  sugar. 

Boil  the  rice,  adding  salt,  when  the  rice  is  done  add  the 
butter  and  cook,  then  add  eggs,  and  flour.  Fry  in  hot  lard, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  cinnamon.  Serve  with 
maple,  or  raspberr}'  syrup.  Some  prefer  powdered  sugar,  and 
lemon  juice. 

SPATZLE 

Mrs.  T.  Masac. 

One  cup  flour;   i  ^z?,'^  ^  little  water  and  salt. 

To  each  cup  of  flour,  take  one  egg,  a  very  little  water  and 
salt.  Beat  up  till  light.  Drip  through  a  colander  with  holes 
about  ^  inch  in  diameter  into  boiling  salt  water.  The 
spatzle  will  rise  almost  immediately  to  the  surface  and  are 
ready  to  be  drained.  Fry  for  a  few  minutes  in  butter  and  add 
a  few  fried  onions.     Serve  with  stew. 

BRIOCHE 

Miss  Ruth  Childs. 

Dissolve  ^  cake  compressed  yeast  in  one  cup  lukewarm 
water.  Stir  in  j4  pound  flour,  and  let  it  rise  in  a  moderately 
warm  place,  twice  as  high  and  fall  again.  Stir  up  in  another 
bowl  ^2  ft),  butter  and  8  eggs,  one  after  the  other;  mix  with 
the  other  dough  and  add  i  teaspoon  salt  and  2  table- 
spoons sugar    with    %    lb  more  flour.      L,et  it  rise  again  and 


Gennaii  DepartDioit  2gj 


set  in  the  ice  box  for  twelve  hours,  very  near  the  ice.  Take 
out,  shape  asj'ou  wish  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  three- fourths  of  an  hour. 

APFEL  5TRUDEL 

Mrs.    T.  Masac. 

One  lb.  flour;  ^  lb.  butter;  y^  lb.  leaf  lard  tried  out;  2 
cups  bread  crumbs,  butter,  sugar,  cinnamon,  to  taste;  a  little 
finely-chopped  lemon  rind;  currants;  finely-sliced  apple. 

Shortening  and  flour  to  be  equal  weight,  the  shortening  to 
be  kept  on  ice.  Rub  the  flour  and  lard  thoroughly  together, 
add  sufiicient  ice  water  to  make  the  dough  of  the  proper  con- 
sistency to  roll  out.  Sprinkle  flour  on  pie-board,  the  dough 
rolled  out  to  the  thickness  of  about  one-sixteenth  of  an 
inch,  then  scatter  thin  slices  of  ice  cold  butter  over  it, 
fold  the  dough  over  and  again  roll  out,  and  repeat  the  process 
until  all  the  butter  is  used.  Keep  on  ice  until  used.  Next 
fry  the  bread  crumbs  in  butter  seasoned  with  sugar  and 
ground  cinnamon  to  taste;  a  little  finely-chopped  lemon  rind 
may  be  added.  Take  the  dough,  roll  out  on  a  tablecloth 
sprinkled  with  flour,  stretch  it  as  thin  as  possible  with  the 
hands.  Sprinkle  over  this  surface  all  of  the  fried  bread 
crumbs,  currants  to  taste,  and  a  liberal  share  of  apple.  Roll 
up  the  strudel,  pinch  the  ends  together,  put  in  a  buttered  pan, 
cover  with  a  well-buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  un- 
til quite  brown.  Good  hot  or  cold,  or  sliced  and  fried  the 
next  day. 

GERMAN  PIE  CRUST  FOR  BANANA  TURNOVERS 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Seven  ounces  butter  and  lard  mixed  in  equal  parts;  i  Qgg: 
I  teaspoon  sugar;  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon;  rind  of  i  lemon, 
grated;   i  pint  sifted  flour;   3  tablespoons  milk. 

Roll  thin  as  cooky  dough.  Peel  bananas  and  cover  the 
crust  as  for  turnovers;  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Use  for 
dessert  or  for  an  afternoon  coffee.  This  crust  can  be  used  for 
any  fruit;  can  be  used  after  standing  in  ice  box. 


^p/  Hojv    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


KUCHEN  WITH  BAKING   POWDER 

Mrs.  J.   G.  Mossin. 

Two  cups  flour;  V-z  cup  milk;  2  eggs;  11  tablespoons  butter; 
2  tablespoons  sugar;  i  teaspoon  Cleveland's  baking  powder; 
granulated  sugar;  cinnamon  or  grated  almonds. 

Mix,  and  spread  thin  in  a  buttered  pan;  melt  a  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  spread  it  over  the  top;  sprinkle  with  granulated 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  fifteen  minutes.  Grated  almonds 
can  be  used  instead  of  cinnamon,  or  apples  cut  very  fine  can 
be  put  on  top  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

KUCHEN  WITH  YEAST 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

One-half  cake  compressed  5^east;  i  tablespoon  sugar; 
I  cup  lukewarm  milk;  lyi    cups  flour;   i  cup  butter;   4  eggs; 

1  cup  sugar;  i  cup   flour;  y^  cup  seeded  raisins;   i  tablespoon 
finely  sliced  citron. 

Dissolve  yeast  and  tablespoon  sugar  in  the  warm  milk;  mix 
with  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Let  it  rise  one  hour;  then 
add  one  cup  flour,  butter,  sugar,  eggs,  and  fruit.  Stir  one 
hour.  Butter  a  deep  cake  mold;  pour  in  the  batter,  and  let  it 
rise  two  hours.      Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

BROWN  LEB  KUCHEN 

Miss   Ruth    Childs, 

One  quart  honey;  i  ft  sugar;  2  fts  flour;  i  ft  almonds;  % 
ft  orange  peel;  ^  ft  citron;  2  oz.  cinnamon;  rind  of  i  lemon; 
^  teaspoon  soda. 

Warm  the  honey;  chop  the  other  ingredients;  mix  all 
together,  and  let  stand  one  half  hour.  Roll  out  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick  and  cut  into  squares;  let  them  stand  over  night 
in  a  warm  room.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven.     Use  boiled  icing. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

Mrs.  E.  F.  C.  Klokke. 

One  quart  flour;  i  pint  warm  milk;  ^  cake  compressed 
yeast;  i  teaspoon  salt;  yi  cup  sugar;  yi  cup  butter;  ^  lemon; 

2  eggs;  flour;  cinnamon;  cracker  or  bread  crumbs. 

Stir  the  flour,    milk  and  yeast  to  a  smooth  batter;  when 


German  Department  2^3 


light  and  spongy,  add  the  salt,    eggs,    sugar,   butter,    lemon, 

and  flour  to    make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll.     Roll  it  an  inch  in 

thickness;    lay    in    a  pan;   spread   warm  butter   over    it,    and 

sprinkle  with  sugar,   cinnamon,  and  either  cracker  or  bread 

crumbs. 

LOAF  COFFEE  CAKE 

Mrs.     Rutz. 

One  ft)  flour;  i  pint  warm  milk;  V-z  yeast  cake;  ^  lb 
butter,  beaten  to  a  cream;   i  cup  sugar;  4  eggs. 

Mix  flour,  milk  and  yeast  cake,  and  put  in  a  moderately 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  add  the  butter,  sugar  and 
^ZZ^'^  beat  for  one  half  hour.  Put  in  a  well-buttered  mold 
and  let  it  rise  to  the  top.       Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LIGHTNING  COOKIES 

Mrs.   J.  G.  Mossiii. 

One-half  ft)  butter,  ^A,  ft)  sugar;  i  lb  flour;  ^  lb  almonds; 
4  eggs;grated  rind  of  Y^,  lemon;  cinnamon. 

Cream  the  butter;  add  eggs,  sugar  and  lemon,  stirring 
constant!}^,  then  the  flour.  Spread  the  dough  as  thin  as  a 
wafer  on  greased  tins;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
shaved  almonds.  Soon  as  baked,  cut  in  diagonal  squares  and 
remove  from  the  tins. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossiu. 

One  fourth  lb  brown  sugar;  )^  lb  white  sugar;  i  tablespoon 
butter;  2  eggs;  7  oz.  Ghirardelli's  chocolate  (grated);  7  oz. 
flour;  I  lemon  rind;  i  tablespoon  chopped  citron;  ^  teaspoon 
cinnamon;  %  teaspoon  cloves.  Let  stand  one  hour;  then  roll, 
cut  and  bake. 

SPONGE  CAKE  WITH  SWEET  ALMOND  fllLK 

M.  Bandiiii  de  Winston. 

One-half  gallon  milk;  i^  lbs  ground  sweet  almonds;  a 
few  sticks  of  cinnamon;  sugar  to  taste. 

Boil  to  the  consistency  of  molasses,  and  let  it  cool.  Divide 
the  sponge  cake  into  squares,  then  horizontally  into  half 
squares;  place  a  layer  of  cake  on  a  platter;  cover  with  the 
almond  milk;  put  some  fruit  jelly  over    the  milk,  and  over 


2g6  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

the  jelly  another  layer  of  cake;  and  so  on,  until  it  is  of  the 
desired  thickness.  Cover  with  the  milk;  ornament  with 
raisins  and  ground  cinnamon. 

MACCAROONS 

Mrs.  Rutz. 

One-half  Ih  almonds;  i  Ife  pulverized  sugar;  whites  of  3 
eggs;  juice  of  i  lemon  and  part  of  the  grated  peel. 

Mix  thoroughly  the  almonds  (which  have  been  blanched 
and  pounded  with  the  white  of  one  ^gz)  with  the  sugar, 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  lemon  juice  and  peel.  Stir  this 
mixture  constantly  and  quickly  over  the  fire  until  it  loosens 
readily  from  the  stewpan.  Turn  into  another  vessel;  make 
into  small  cakes;  put  on  a  baking  tin;  spread  over  with 
paper  or  wafer;  place  in  a  partially  cooled  oven  and  bake 
slowly  to  a  reddish  yellow  color. 

CHOCOLATE    CAKE 

Mrs.  J.  G.  Mossin. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  butter;  4  eggs;  4  sticks  Ghirardelli's 
chocolate;  ^  cup  milk;  i  cup  chopped  almonds;  ^  cup 
mashed  potato;  2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  Cleveland's  baking 
powder;  i  teaspoon  cinnamon;  i   nutmeg;  i    teaspoon  cloves. 

ORANGE  KALTSCHALE 

Mrs.    Rutz. 

Grate  the  rind  of  a  few  oranges  on  sugar;  peel  them  and 
cut  in  eight  parts;  dip  them  in  powdered  sugar  and  lay  them 
in  a  tureen,  and  let  stand  one  hour;  then  add  as  much  water 
as  you  require.     Serve  with  lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI 

Mrs.  George   Kerchhoff. 

One  quart  milk;  ^  cup  starch;  ^  cup  sugar;  yolks  6  eggs; 
vanilla  or  lemon  peeling. 

Make  into  a  custard  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point. 
Put  in  a  glass  dish  a  thick  layer  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  or 
mixture  of  fruits,  fresh  or  stewed.     When  the  custard  is  cold 


German  Department  2gy 


pour  it  over  the  fruit,  and  cover, the  whole  with  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Heat  an  iron  shovel  and  hold  over  the  eggs 
until  they  color  a  light  brown. 

TO  HAKE  COFFEE 

Mrs.  J.  Johansen. 

Have  the  coffee  ground  fine  (Mocha  and  Java)  and  add  a 
little  chiccory.  Put  the  required  amount  of  coffee  in  a 
cotton  flannel  bag,  and  pour  the  required  amount  of  boiling 
water  over  it  quickly;  cover  it  and  let  it  steam  five  minutes. 

QERHAN  WAY  OF  HAKINQ  COFFEE 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Preuss. 

Have  a  cone-shaped  perforated  tin  (holes  not  too  small). 
About  an  inch  from  the  top  should  be  a  band  to  rest  on  the 
coffee  pot.  A  bag  of  flannel  or  cheese  cloth  large  enough  to 
overlap  the  funnel.  Put  the  coffee  in  the  bag  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  it;  (the  water  must  be  boiling),  and  let  it  drip — the 
water  runs  through  quickly.     The  coffee  is  delicious. 

PICKLED  nUSHROOMS 

Mrs.  J.  G.   Mossin. 

One  spoon  butter;  i  can  mushrooms;  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice. 

Stew  the  mushrooms  in  the  butter  verj^  gently  for  a  few 
minutes;  add  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover;  put 
them  in  a  glass  jar  lightly  covered;  place  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  When  cold;  they  are 
fit  to  serve. 

PICKLED  CUCUHBERS 

Mrs.  Rutz. 

Cucumbers;  salt;  small  white  onions;  peppers,  red  and 
green;  bay  leaves;  horse  radish;  allspice;  white  mustard  seed; 
whole  black  pepper;  vinegar. 

Peel  ripe  cucumbers;  cut  in  two,  lengthwise;  remove  the 
seeds;  rub  with  salt,  and  lay  upon  platters  for  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  wipe  them  dry;  cut  in  pieces  to  suit.  Pack  in 
glass  jars  alternating  layers  of  cucumbers  with  layers  of 
spices.     Fill  the  jars  with  boiled  vinegar. 


FRENCH  DEPARTMENT 


BOUILLON 

^Ime.  V.  Chevallier. 

One  pound  beef;  i  carrot;  i  onion;  i  spoon  lard;  ]/z  glass 
water;  f  pint  boiling  water;  salt. 

Cut  the  beef  in  small  pieces,  put  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the 
carrot,  onion,  lard  and  half  glass  water.  Simmer  quarter  of 
an  hour,  until  it  begins  to  stick  to  the  pan,  then,  pour  on  the 
boiling  water,  salt,  and  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Strain 
and  serve. 

LOBSTER    a  la  CREOLE 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Preuss. 

One  large,  or  two  small  lobsters;  3  tomatoes;  3^  a  green 
pepper;  i  cup  cream;  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter;  a  little  flour; 
toast. 

Cut  the  lobsters  in  small  pieces.  Cook  and  strain  the 
tomatoes  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  cream, 
and  strained  tomatoes.     Cook  a  little  while.       Serve  on  toast. 

STUFFED  PIGEONS 

Mrs.  C.  Ducomimiii. 

Mince  the  hearts  and  livers  of  the  pigeons,  and  some  meat. 
Soak  milk  bread  in  hot  milk,  squeeze  dry,  and  mix  it  with  the 
meat.  Add  parsley,  marjoram,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  bacon. 
Fill  the  pigeons  and  sew  them  up.  Fry  them  in  butter.  When 
done  remove  the  butter,  and  replace  it  with  good  broth.  Add 
a  little  vinegar  and  spices.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour. 

CHICKEN    FRICASSEE 

Mine.  V.  Chevallier. 

One  chicken;  butter;  i  spoon  flour;  glass  water;  salt,  pep- 
per; parsley;    3  q.%%  yolks;    i  lemon. 

Pluck,  clean,  and  singe  the  fowl.  Cut  in  pieces,  and  soak 
half  an  hour  in  tepid  water  to  whiten  the  flesh,  drain.  Stir 
the  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter  in    a  sauce  pan  until  the  butter 


FrencJi  Department  2gg 

is  melted.     Add  water,  salt,  pepper,  parsley.     Put  in  chicken 
and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half.      Take  the  chicken  out,  stir  into 
the  gravy,  the  yolks  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon. 
Mushrooms  are  an  excellent  addition. 

CHESTNUT  FILLING  FOR  POULTRY 

Mrs.  C.  Duconiniun. 

Three  dozen  chestnuts,  boiled;  milk  bread;  hot  milk,  pep- 
per, salt,  liver  and  heart  of  a  fowl;  i  egg;  lemon  peel,  i  onion; 
butter. 

Peel  and  pound  the  chestnuts  fine  in  a  mortar.  Soak  a 
few  slices  of  bread  in  the  milk,  then  squeeze  it  dry.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  lemon  peel,  finely  cut.  Mince 
the  heart  and  liver.  Mix  all  with  the  white  of  an  ^^%.  Fry 
the  chopped  onion  in  butter,  then  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Stir  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed  and  heated,  then  fill  the 
fowl. 

BEEF  "a  la  MODE 

Mme.  V.  Chevallier. 

Beef;  lard;  Y^  a  calf  s  foot;  i  onion;  i  carrot;  i  laurel  leaf; 
I  small  clove  of  garlic;  a  few  cloves;  salt,  pepper,  water. 

Tie  a  layer  of  lard  on  top  of  the  roast.  Place  in  saucepan 
with  a  spoon  of  lard,  calfs  foot,  onion,  carrot,  laurel,  thyme, 
garlic,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  this  a  glass  of  water.  Cook 
until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Strain  the  gravy  before  serving. 
Time  four  hours.     Slow  fire  and  pan  well  covered. 

FILET  de  BOEUF 

Mrs.  C.  Duconi:uun 

Cut  pieces  of  tenderloin  the  thickness  of  a  finger;  beat 
them  well.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  sweet 
oil.  L,ay  one  upon  another,  and  set  them  aside.  Fry  each 
piece  on  both  sides  in  hot  butter.  Il^ay  them  in  a  hot  dish  and 
keep  it  warm.  Remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  add  to  it 
some  broth,  a  lump  of  butter  mixed  with  flour,  herbs  cut  fine; 
cook  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  over  the  meat  and  serve,  or 
the  meat  can  be  heated  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  gravy,  and 
then  served. 


joo  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


CALF'S  FEET 

Mrs.  C.   Ducommun. 

Boil  the  feet  three  hours  in  four  quarts  water,  remove  the 
large  bones,  split  and  lay  them  in  a  sauce  pan.  Mix  a  little 
flour  with  two  ounces  of  butter.  Add  it  with  pepper,  salt, 
mace,  and  a  little  vinegar,  to  two  cups  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  feet  were  boiled.  Simmer  this  ten  minutes,  garnish  with 
sliced  lemon.  Serve  very  hot.  The  remainder  of  the  jelly 
may  be  used  as  jelly. 

riEAT   BALLS 

Mrs.  C.  Ducoiumun. 

Two  pounds  veal;  yi  pound  bacon;  3  eggs,  whites;  milk 
bread;  salt;  pepper;  nutmeg;  fine  herbs;  lemon  peel. 

Mince  the  veal  and  bacon  very  fine.  Add  all  the  other 
ingredients.  Mix  thoroughly.  Form  into  balls  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Cook  in  boiling  water.  When  done,  they  rise  to  the 
surface.  Place  on  a  platter,  and  pour  over  them  a  white 
sauce,  made  of  butter  and  flour,  seasoned  with  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar. 

FOIE  a  le  POULETTE 

Mrs.  C.  Ducommuu. 

One  calfs  liver;  i  onion,  good  size;  flour;  butter-  pepper; 
salt;  broth;  vinegar. 

Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  dredge  with  flour,  mince  the 
onion  and  fry  it  in  butter,  then  the  liver.  Cook  a  little,  then 
add  the  other  articles,  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter.    Stir  until  well  mixed  and  serve. 

FRESH    PEAS 

Mrs.  C.  Ducommun. 

Put  the  peas  over  a  brisk  fire,  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a 
teaspoon  flour.  Stir  until  the  butter  is  melted  and  well 
mixed.  Then  add  a  little  boiling  water.  Cook  half  an  hour, 
then  season  with  salt,  very  little  pepper,  and  a  little  sugar  if 
liked,  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 


French  Department  joi 


SQUASH  AND  CORN 

Mrs.  C.  Ducommun. 

Three  ears  corn;  3  squashes;  i  spoon  lard  or  butter;  i  onion, 
minced  fine;  i  tomato,  cut  fine;  i  green  pepper,  cut  fine;  salt  to 
taste. 

Heat  the  lard  or  butter  in  a  saucepan.  When  very  hot, 
fry  the  onion  a  little,  then  add  all  the  other  vegetables.  Cover 
closely,  and  stir  frequently  to  prevent  scorching. 

MACARONI 

Mrs.  Carrie  Schumacher. 

Put  the  macaroni  in  salted  boiling  water.  Cook  until  ten- 
der, then  drain.  Fry  small  pieces  of  ham.  Add  a  few  toma- 
toes. Simmer  a  little  while,  then  add  macaroni  and  quite  a 
large  piece  of  cheese,  minced  fine.  Cook  until  the  cheese  is 
melted,  and  tomatoes  done. 

BATTER  PUDDING 

Mrs.  C.  Ducommuu. 

Three  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  heaped;  2  cups  milk;  6 
eggs. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately,  very  light.  Mix  the 
milk  and  flour.  Add  the  yolks,  the  whites  last,  bake  imme- 
diately.    Serve  with  sauce. 


RUSSIAN   DEPARTMENT 


RUSSIAN   BEET  SOUP 

Mrs.  P.  A.  Demens. 

Take  3  lbs  fat  beef  or  pork;  i  or  2  bay  leaves  and  5  or 
10  grains  pepper.  Boil  about  two  hours  or  until  tender,  then 
add  some  cut-up  cabbage  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar. 
Carefully  wash,  but  not  cut  before  boiling,  five  or  six  beets, 
and  boil  until  tender;  slip  off  the  outside  and  cut  into  thin 
slices.  Add  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  to  soup,  mix  well; 
season  with  salt,  put  the  boiled  beets  into  the  soup  and  boil 
twice.     Serve  with  sliced  meat. 

CABBAGE  SOUP 

Mrs.  P.  A.  Demens. 

Three  fbs  fat  beef;  2  carrots;  2  onions;  i  turnip;  i  baj' 
leaf;  5  to  10  grains  pepper;  ^  head  cabbage;  i  tablespoon 
flour;    parsle)'. 

Cook,  and  strain  the  stock,  add  to  it  the  cabbage,  cut  into 
twenty  pieces,  stir  in  the  flour,  boil  twice;  when  about  to 
serve,  add  some  parsley  and  a  little  pepper. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

Clean  and  boil  in  separate  kettles  red  beets,  carrots,  and 
potatoes.  Cut  them  in  good  slices  and  season  each  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter.  Garnish  a  platter  with  fresh  lettuce, 
arranging  the  slices  of  potatoes,  then  the  beets,  more  potatoes, 
and  the  carrots  to  finish.  Serve  with  salad  dressing.  This 
makes  a  ver}^  showy  dish  if  arranged  with  care. 

Sweet  Sauce  for  Pudding,  Cauliflower,  Asparagus,  etc. 

Mrs.   P.  A.  Demens. 

Six  lumps  sugar  ;  6  eggs,  yolks  ;     i  dinner  glass  water  ;     i 

slices  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs;  powder  the  sugar  ;  add  water  and  lemon. 
Put  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly,  and  when  high  and 
frothy,  pour  over  pudding. 


Russian  Departme^it  ^oj 

CRANBERRY    PUDDING 

Mrs.  P.  A.  Demeus. 

Two  cups  cranberries;  i  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  cornstarch;  i 
glass  water;  cinnamon. 

Of  the  cranberries  make  six  or  seven  cups  of  juice,  add 
the  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  cornstarch  mixed  with  water.  Stir 
well,  serve  hot.     Boil  in  porcelain  dish. 

FARINA  PUDDING 

Mrs.  P.  A.  Demens. 

Five  cups  cream  ;  i^  cups  farina  ;  i  cup  sugar  ;  ^  ft 
ground  almonds;  i  teaspoon  vanilla;  bread  crumbs;  a  little 
water. 

Boil  all  together,  then  turn  into  a  porcelain  bowl,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake. 

APPLE  SOUFFE 

Mrs.  P.  A    Demeus. 

Six  baked  apples;  6  whites  of  eggs;  ^  cup  powdered  sugar; 

cream. 

Mash  the  apples;  beat  the  whites;  mix  them,  adding 
gradually  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Place  in  a  porcelain  platter, 
set  it  in  the  oven  for  about  ten  minutes  to  brown.  Serve  at 
once  with  cream. 


RAISIN  MAKING  IN  CALIFORNIA 


James  Boyd,  Riverside,  Cal. 


Our  best  table  raisins  are  made  from  a  white  grape  called 
the  Muscat  of  Alexandria,  and  by  some  the  Muscatel.  Our 
seedless  raisins  come  from  the  large  clusters  of  raisins  picked  off 
in  packing,  also  from  the  broken  clusters  when  putting  them 
through  the  stemmer  preparatory  to  assorting  and  packing. 
There  is  also  a  seedless  grape  called  the  Sultana,  which  makes 
a  very  excellent  raisin  for  cakes,  etc.  The  Sultana,  as  well  as 
a  new  variety  of  seedless  grapes  called  the  Thompson's  Seed- 
less, do  well  in  California.  The  Zante  currant  which  is  made 
from  a  small,  seedless  black  grape,  has  not  so  far  been  success- 
fully grown  in  California.  These  varieties  of  grapes,  which 
are  natives  of  Europe,  do  not  succeed  in  the  States  beyond  the 
Rocky  mountains,  for  climatic  reasons. 

Our  California  grapes  are  grown  in  the  same  way  that  the 
native  grape  is  grown  in  the  Eastern  States,  except  that  we  do 
not  trellis  them  or  need  to  protect  them  in  winter,  and  in 
pruning,  which  is  done  every  spring,  they  are  cut  back  so  that 
they  look  like  a  row  of  dry  stumps  until  they  start  growing  in 
the  spring  when  the  vineyards  look  beautiful  in  their  rich 
green. 

The  grapes  begin  to  ripen  in  August,  but  for  raisin  making 
they  have  to  be  very  ripe,  and  are  not  fit  to  make  into  raisins 
until  thej^  are  rich  and  full  of  sugar.  Grapes  that  are  fit  to 
make  into  raisins  require  to  be  very  solid  and  fleshy,  unlike 
wine  grapes,  that  require  plenty  of  juice.  When  picking, 
which  is  usually  well  along  in  September  and  early  in  October, 
all  imperfect  berries  are  removed  from  the  clusters  and  the 
bunches  are  then  laid  on  trays,  which  are  made  of  thin  lumber 
the  size  being  usuall}'  two  feet  b}^  three  feet.  They  are  left  in 
the  sun  for  the  curing  process,  until  the  exposed  surfaces  begin 
to  shrivel,  which  happens  generally  in  ten  days  or  two  weeks, 


Raisin  Making  J05 


when  they  are  turned  by  simply  placing  an  empty  tray  on  top 
of  a  full  one  and  reversing  the  two,  when  the  fresh  surface  is 
left  exposed  to  the  sun  for  about  two  weeks  longer,  or  until 
they  are  properly  cured,  when  they  are  slidden  ofif  the  trays 
into  large  boxes  called  sweat  boxes;  where  they  are  kept  until 
the  moisture  is  equalized  through  the  whole  and  the  stems  get 
tough,  when  they  are  ready  for  packing. 

The  packing  is  usually  done  in  large  packing  houses  by 
firms  who  make  a  business  of  packing  and  marketing  the 
fruit.  The  packing  is  usuallj'-  done  by  women  and  girls  for  all 
choice  fruit,  but  for  loose  raisins  which  are  generally  shipped  in 
sacks;  machinery  is  much  used  for  stemming  and  cleaning, 
and  men  usually  do  this  part  of  the  work. 

In  the  early  years  of  raisin  making  everything  was  packed 
in  boxes,  but  now  much  of  the  fruit  is  put  in  sacks  to  save  ex- 
pense for  boxes  and  packing. 

The  process  of  raisin  making  is  clean  and  agreeable  all 
through.  The  production  has  increased  so  within  the  last  five 
years,  that  California  furnishes  nearly  enough  to  supply  the 
whole  of  the  United  States.  Owing  to  lack  of  co-operation 
among  the  growers,  the  business  is  not  as  remunerative  as 
in  former  years,  but  steps  are  being  taken  to  remedy  the  evil 
complained  of. 


DRIED  FIGS 


As  Prepared  by  D.  H.  Burnham,  Riverside.  Contributed  by 

Mrs.  lOLA    M.  COLBURN. 


Use  White  Smyrna,  or  some  thin-skinned  variety  of  white 
fig,  thoroughly  ripe  when  picked,  and  must  be  dried  quickly. 
Use  raisin  trays  for  drying.  All  trays  filled  during  the  day 
are  placed  that  night  in  the  bleaching  house  and  subjected  to 
the  fumes  of  a  little  burning  brimstone;  other  nights,  if 
there  is  any  dampness  at  all,  they  should  be  covered.  In  the 
morning  they  are  placed  in  the  sun.  When  partially  cured 
turn  in  trays,  same  as  raisins.  Only  a  few  days  is  required 
to  dry  them  if  the  weather  is  good.  Watch  carefully  so  as 
not  to  let  them  get  too  dry,  as  that  spoils  them.  Go  over  the 
trays  and  pick  them  out  as  soon  as  cured.  The  better  the  fig 
the  sooner  it  is  cured.  When  taken  from  trays  they  are  put  in 
large  sacks  of  cotton  cloth  like  flour  sacks,  and  put  in  a  cool 
place  to  sweat.  While  still  moist  and  pliable  from  sweating 
they  should  be  packed  in  boxes  and  pressed.  The  main 
points  to  be  considered  are,  i,  The  quality  of  the  fresh  fig.  2, 
Its  thorough  ripeness.  3,  Bright,  perfectly  dry  weather.  4, 
The  care  which  does  not  allow  them  to  get  too  dry. 

Figs  cured  in  this  way  are  excellent  without  the  bleach- 
ing process,  and  are  preferred  by  many  for  their  own  use. 

While  in  the  business,  Mr.  Burnham  took  the  first  pre- 
mium for  several  3^ears  at  the  Riverside  Citrus  Fairs,  on  his 
cured  figs. 


SMALL  FRUITS 


F.  Edward  Gray,  Alhambra 


They  who  possess  a  home  in  Southern  California,  be  it  city 
lot,  suburban  acre  or  extensive  ranch,  naturally  aim  to  make 
it  attractive. 

Not  the  least  among  the  means  of  making  it  such,  within 
or  without,  is  a  well  maintained  small  fruit  garden. 

With  straw,  black  and  raspberries  properly  cared  for, 
growing  within  the  home  enclosure,  the  good  housekeeper 
always  has  the  wherewithal  at  hand  to  brighten  up  her  table 
and  please  the  taste  of  her  most  fastidious  guest. 

THE  BLACKBERRY 

Although  dark  of  hue  this  branch  is  by  no  means  the 
black  sheep  of  the  berr)'  family.  It  keeps  you  at  a  respectable 
distance  with  its  vicious  thorns,  but  after  careful  persistency 
you  will  find  it  as  attractive  and  beautiful  as  any  of  its  kin. 

There  is  one  thing  about  the  blackberry,  the  most  decided 
ill  treatment  will  not  kill  it.  Once  plant  it  in  your  garden,  it 
will  remain  there  forever,  and  a  da3^ 

It  requires  a  sunny  place,  succeeding  best  in  a  light  soil, 
possibly  not  so  rich  as  the  raspberry  as  it  has  a  tendency  to 
rankness. 

Set  out  as  early  in  winter  as  possible.  If  5'ou  need  more 
than  one  row,  allow  six  feet  between  each  row,  with  plants 
three  feet  apart  in  the  rows.  They  require  more  room  than 
the  raspberry,  and  should  have  support.  Stakes  at  the  ends 
of  the  rows  with  wires  stretched  from  end  to  end  will  sustain 
them  nicely. 

Keep  the  growth  down  to  three  feet,  if  possible,  more  can 
be  done  with  the  thumb  and  finger  at  the  right  time  than 
with  pruning  shears  after  neglect.        Pinch  back  the  green 


joS  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

canes  in  early  May  and  June  with  a  result  that  you  will  have 
better  shaped  plants  and  a  greater  abundance  of  fruit. 

Two  varieties  is  all  that  is  necessary  and  will  give  you 
more  than  you  and  your  neighbors'  children  will  need. 

Crandall's  Early  is  not  only  an  excellent  berry  and  prolific 
bearer  but  will  ripen  three  weeks  earlier  than  any  other  and- 
last  some  times  as  late  as  December,  but  this  is  not  desirable 
as  it  is  not  the  berry  for  preserving  and  canning,  as  is  the 
Kittatinny,  for  under  good  culture  this  latter  variety  is  very 
large,  sweet,  rich  and  melting  when  fully  ripe.  It  reaches  its 
best  condition  if  allowed  to  ripen  on  the  vines. 

THE  STRAWBERRY 

To  make  a  success  of  your  strawberry  patch,  the  ground 
should  be  thoroughly  cultivated  and  pulverized;  properly 
deepened  and  enriched.  A  sandy  loam  will  give  the  most 
satisfactory  results.  No  shade,  and  an  abundance  of  mois- 
ture are  some  of  the  chief  needs  of  the  strawberry. 

Two  hundred  plants  will  be  sufiicient  for  an  ordinary  fam- 
ily. Procure  young  plants;  set  them  out  in  the  fall  or  win- 
ter just  before  the  first  rains,  and  you  will  get  quick  returns 
of  the  luscious  fruit. 

Select  equal  proportions  of  the  "Monarch  and  "Sharp- 
less"  varieties  and  you  will  have  berries  every  month  in  the 
year. 

Prepare  the  ground  in  ridges,  say  from  twelve  to  fifteen 
inches  apart,  according  to  the  volume  of  water  at  your  com- 
mand. Set  the  plants  one  foot  apart  on  top  of  the  ridge.  In 
planting,  excavate  a  place  for  each  plant  sufficiently  large  to 
put  the  roots,  spread  out,  down  their  whole  length;  fill  and 
press  earth  firmly;  be  careful  that  crown  of  plant  does  not  go 
below  the  surface. 

Set  a  new  bed  every  year  with  thrifty  young  plants.  Pull 
up  old  plants  after  two  years'  bearing. 

THE  RASPBERRY 

To  succeed  with  this  crimson,    melting  berry,   prepare  the 


Small  Fruits  jog 


ground  as  thoroughly  and  in  same  manner  as  for  the  straw- 
berry, using  care  not  to  overfertilize, 

Kstablish  your  row  of  plants  where  they  will  have  partial 
shade,  along  a  fence  or  hedge,  if  possible.  Plant  them  out 
as  early  as  possible  in  the  winter  to  receive  the  full  benefit  of 
the  rains,  cutting  back  the  old  canes  six  inches  from  the 
surface. 

Keep  the  ground  level,  don't  let  it  bank  up  against  the 
plants,  mulch  well  with  hay  or  long  grass  to  preserve  the 
moisture.  Support  the  plants  with  stakes.  Be  liberal  with 
water  and  you  will  have  fruit  every  day — and  for  Christmas. 

As  for  variety,  none  will  give  such  general  satisfaction  as 
the  Cuthbert,  deservedly  known  as  the  "Queen  of  the  Mar- 
ket." The  berries  are  of  the  largest  size;  very  firm;  deep 
rich  crimson;  flavor  excellent  and  very  prolific. 

Don't  waste  time  and  space  in  planting  out  the  the  Black 
Cap  varieties;  they  will  not  do  well  in  this  climate  and  only 
produce  sour  fruit  and  bitter  disappointment. 


FRUITS 


Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown 


Fruit  should  be  carefully  selected  for  canning  or  preserving 
and  should  be  used  as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is  picked. 
Berries  should  be  preserved  the  same  day  they  are  picked. 
Pears,  peaches  and  apricots  should  be  firm  but  not  fully  ripe 
as  they  then  retain  their  shape  and  have  abetter  flavor.  Use 
only  the  best  granulated  sugar  for  putting  up  fruit  or  making 
jellies.  To  prevent  fruit  from  fading  or  being  injured  by  the 
chemical  action  of  the  light  through  the  glass  jar,  wrap  two 
or  three  thicknesses  of  paper  around  jars.  The  most  satis- 
factory way  of  canning  fruit  after  it  is  prepared  is  to  place 
it  with  care  in  glass  jars,  until  they  are  full,  then  fill  to 
about  an  inch  of  the  top  with  rather  hot  syrup  prepared  with 
the  right  quantity  of  sugar  as  given  in  the  general  directions 
which  follow;  fasten  on  the  covers  tight  enough  to  lift  by,  but 
not  air  tight,  then  place  several  thicknesses  of  cloth  on  the 
bottom  of  the  boiler  to  prevent  the  jars  breaking;  set  the  jars 
in  and  fill  to  about  two  or  three  inches  of  the  tops  of  the  jars 
with  tepid  water,  and  boil  the  required  length  of  time  accord- 
ing to  general  directions — that  is  after  the  water  commences 
to  boil  rapidly  in  the  boiler.  When  cooked,  take  out,  being 
careful  to  cover  the  jar  that  the  air  may  not  strike  it, 
or  it  will  break;  set  on  a  folded  towel  wet  with  cold  water, 
remove  the  cover  and  fill  with  hot  syrup,  or  if  the  required 
amount  of  sugar  has  been  used,  fill  with  boiling  water;  see 
that  there  are  no  air  bubbles  in  the  jar,  fasten  on  the  cover 
securely,  invert  the  jar  and  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  If  the  fruit  is  sufficiently  cooked,  the  rubbers  good, 
and  the  jars  air  tight,  your  fruit  will  keep  indefinitely. 

As  jellies  and  jams  grow  dark  by  cooking  after  the  sugar 
is  added,  boil  the  fruit  or  juice  well  before  adding  the  sugar, 
which  should  be  heated  in  the  oven  but  not  allowed  to  brown. 


Fruits 


Sn 


When  the  jelly  is  read}'  to  remove  from  the  fire,  have 
ready  a  heated  pitcher  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth,  wet  with 
hot  v;ater,  over  the  top;  pour  the  jelly  through  the  strainer; 
and  if  the  cloth  is  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  there  will  be  no 
waste  of  jelly.  Have  the  glasses  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water;  take  them  out  and  drain  a  moment  and  turn  the  jell)' 
in  from  the  pitcher;  or  if  a  silver  teaspoon  is  placed  in  the  glass 
and  then  the  jelly  poured  in,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  the 
glass  cracking. 

It  is  thought  by  some  that  fruit  must  be  sweetened  in 
order  to  keep  from  spoiling,  but  such  is  not  the  case.  Fruit 
properly  cooked,  put  up  while  boiling  hot  in  air  tight  jars 
will  keep  just  as  well  as  the  sweetened;  and  is  preferable  when 
intended  for  pie-making. 

The  fruit  closet  should  be  cool  and  dry;  if  too  warm,  the 
fruit  may  spoil;  if  too  damp,  it  will  mold.  Jars  of  fruit  should 
be  examined  two  or  three  days  after  filling;  if  any  of  the 
syrup  leaks  out,  they  should  be  opened  and  the  fruit  used  for 
jam,  as  it  will  have  lost  its  delicacy  of  color  and  flavor — an 
item  so  desirable  in  canned  fruits. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CANNING  FRUIT 

Amount  of  sugar  for  a  quart  jar  and  time  for  cooking 
Boil  blackberries  moderately  about  6  min.     Amt.  sugar, 
raspberries  "  " 

strawberries  "  " 

Bartlett  pears  in  halves  " 
peaches,  halves  moderately ' ' 
peaches,  whole         "  " 


plums 

apricots 

nectarines 

crab  apples,  whole 

pine-apple,  sliced 

ripe  currants 

pie-plant,  sliced 

cherries 

sour  apples,  quar'd 

grapes 

quinces,  quartered 


6 

8 

20 

8 
15 

ID 

8 


25 
15 

6 
10 

8 
10 

ID 
20 


6  oz. 


6  to 
6  to 
8  to 


6 

10 
10 

6 

8 


jf2  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

CANNED  BLACKBERRIES  AND  RASPBERRIES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

[yook  over  the  fruit  carefully,  drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water; 
remove  from  water  with  the  hands,  let  drain,  then  fill 
the  jars;  add  the  syrup  and  follow  the  preceeding  "General 
Directions." 

FOR  CANNING  BLACKBERRIES 

Mrs.  S.  H.    Fairchild. 

Put  the  berries  in  a  vessel  with  a  little  water  to  create 
steam  and  sufficient  to  boil;  add  one  teacup  sugar  to  every  two 
lbs  of  berries.  Make  a  batter  of  one  tablespoon  flour  and  a 
little  water  to  every  quart  of  fruit,  after  being  cooked,  beat 
thoroughly  until  it  is  perfectly  free  from  lumps;  when  berries 
come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  batter  very  gently  to  avoid  mashing 
them.  Use  care  at  this  point  to  prevent  burning;  when  they 
are  of  the  thickness  of  syrup,  can  immediately.  Berries  put 
up  in  this  way  keep  better  and  have  a  more  natural  flavor 
than  when  put  up  in  any  other  way.  Raspberries  and  ripe 
currants  may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner  with  equal 
success — currants  requiring  more  sugar. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES  AND  GOOSEBERRIES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

lyook  over  the  fruit,  remove  the  stems  and  blows;  drop 
them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  remove  carefully  with  the 
hands;  fill  the  jars,  add  the  syrup  and  follow  the  preceeding 
'  'General  Directions. ' ' 

STEWED   CRANBERRIES 

Miss  Frances  Widney. 

One  quart  cranberries;  i  pint  granulated  sugar;  i  cup 
water. 

Look  over  the  berries  carefully,  wash  and  put  in  a  granite 
stew  pan;  add  the  water  and  sugar;  cover  and  let  boil 
about  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  scum  but  do  not  stir  them. 
When  cold,  they  will  jelly  and  the  skins  will  be  tender. 


Fruits  jij 

CANNED  PEACHES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Select  peaches  that  are  ripe  but  not  soft.  Pare,  remove  the 
stones,  place  the  fruit  in  the  jar;  adding  three  peach  stones 
(cracked)  to  each  jar;  prepare  the  syrup  and  cook  according 
to  preceeding  "General  Directions." 

CANNED  APRICOTS  AND  NECTARINES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Use  the  fruit  before  it  is  soft.  Pare,  remove  the  stones 
and  place  in  the  jars  with  three  of  the  cracked  stones;  add 
the  syrup  and  follow  preceeding  "General  Directions." 

CANNED  PEARS  OR  QUINCES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Pare,  cut  in  quarters  or  the  pears  in  halves;  place  them  in 
the  jars,  add  the  hot  syrup  and  proceed  according  to  preceeding 
"General  Directions." 

CANNED    PLUMS 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Plums  should  be  thoroughly  ripe.  Remove  the  stems, 
fill  the  jars,  add  the  syrup  and  follow  the  preceeding 
"General  Directions." 

CANNED  TOHATOES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Use  firm,  ripe,  medium-sized  tomatoes;  scald  slightly; 
remove  the  skin  and  cook  without  breaking,  by  putting  them 
into  the  jars  carefully,  filling  with  hot  water,  and  cook 
according  to  general  directions. 

CANNED  SWEET  CORN 

O.  G.  M. 

Take  fresh,  sweet  corn,  when  tender,  and  cut  from  the 
cob  before  cooking;  put  in  glass  jars  and  pack  it  tight;  when 
full,  fasten  covers  sufficiently  to  keep  out  the  water.  Place 
several  thicknesses  of  cloth  on  bottom  of  boiler;  pack  in  the 
jars,  one  over  the  other,  and  cover  them  with  cold  water. 
Watch  carefull)^  and  when  it  commences  to  boil,  boil  three 


J 1 4-  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

hours,  take  out,  fasten  the  covers  air-tight.     When  cool,  put 
in  a  cool  place  and  the  corn  will  be  as  fresh  as  in  summer. 
Peas  can  be  canned  in  same  way. 

BLACKBERRY  JAfl 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Salisbury. 

To  6  pounds  blackberries  allow  9  pounds  sugar  and  boil 

twenty  minutes. 

BLACKBERRY  JAH 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Select  fresh,  ripe  berries,  removing  all  imperfect  ones; 
mash  well  in  in  an  earthen  dish  and  add  i  pound  best  granu- 
lated sugar  to  each  pound  or  pint  of  fruit.  Put  the  berries 
in  a  porcelain  or  granite  preserving  kettle  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  add  the  sugar,  (which  should  be  heated  in  the  oven) 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
burning.  If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy,  it  may  require  to  boil  ^ 
of  an  hour.     Put  in  jelly  glasses  or  fruit  jars. 

STRAWBERRY  JAH,  No.    1 

Mrs.   R.  M.  Widuey. 

Wash,  hull  and  weigh  the  berries.  Mash  them  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  (granite  or  porcelain),  add  Y\  pound  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  fruit.  Cook  for  about  30  minutess  stirring 
constantly  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon.  Dip  into  fruit 
jars  and  seal  while  hot. 

STRAWBERRY  JAH,  No.  2 

Mrs.   R.  M.   Widney. 

Four  pounds  fresh  strawberries;  i  pint  currant  juice;  5 
pounds  sugar. 

Mash  the  strawberries,  add  the  currant  juice  and  boil  10 
minutes.  Skim,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  10  or  15  minutes 
longer,  or  until  it  is  sufficiently  thick.  Put  in  glass  jars  or 
jelly  glasses,  cover  closely  with  paper,  brushed  over  with 
white  of  ^%^. 

RASPBERRY  JAM 

Mrs.   R.  M.   Widney. 

Made  as  directed  for  Strawberry  Jam,  No.  i. 


Fruits  315 

PINE  APPLE  JAH 

Mrs.   W.  J.  Brown. 

Pare  the  pine  apple  carefully;  grate  it,  and  add  Y\  pound 
granulated  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  about  fifteen  min- 
utes and  seal  in  glass  jars. 

CURRANT  JAM 

A.  C.   B. 

Remove  the  currants  from  the  stems,  crush  them  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  heated  and 
cook  but  fifteen  minutes  longer,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

PEACH  BUTTER 

Mrs.  Wm.  F.  Marshall. 

Use  thoroughly-ripe  peaches;  pare  them;  remove  the 
stones  and  take  pound  for  pound  of  peaches  and  sugar.  Cook 
the  peaches  until  they  are  soft,  then  add  half  the  sugar  and 
boil  half  an  hour;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and 
boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. If  the  flavor  of  the  peach  stone  is  desired,  crack  some 
of  the  stones,  boil  a  few  minutes  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
and  add  to  the  fruit,  or  season  with  cinnamon  and  cloves,  if 
preferred. 

APPLE  AND  PEAR  BUTTER 

Mrs.    M.  G.  Moore. 

One  peck  each  apples  ^nd  pears;  ^  dozen  quinces;  5 
pounds  lightest  brown  sugar. 

Pare,  core  and  cut  into  pieces  the  apples  and  pears;  add 
the  quinces  and  boil,  stirring  often  till  smooth  and  rich  in 
coloring,  then  add  the  sugar  and  stir  constantly  till  the 
bubbles  gather  in  the  middle  and  cook  outwardly.  Put  in 
earthen  jars  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  The  sun  must 
not  be  allowed  to  fall  upon  it. 

APPLE  BUTTER 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Widney. 

Ten  gallons  cider;   i  bushel  apples. 

The  day  before  making  the  butter,  boil  the  cider  down 
one-half.     The  apples  should  be  peeled,  cored,  and  put  in  the 


j/(5  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

boiled-down  cider,  as  rapidly  as  possible  in  the  earlj^  morning 
of  the  day  in  which  the  butter  is  made.  At  first  it  will  be 
necessary  to  stir  only  every  few  moments;  later  on,  as  the 
apples  are  dissolved,  the  butter  should  be  stirred  constantly. 

In  the  absence  of  the  great  copper  kettles  that  our  grand- 
mothers used,  I  usually  get  a  large  new,  tin  wash-boiler. 
The  butter  should  be  cooked  until  when  taken  out  the  cider 
will  not  separate,  but  the  whole  be  a  thick,  smooth 
substance — a  butter  indeed.  The  cooking  requires  a  full  day. 
The  butter  burns  or  scorches  so  easily  that  it  is  necessary  to 
constantly  stir,  so  as  to  scrape  the  entire  surface  of  the  bot- 
tom of  the  kettle. 

APPLE  AND  QUINCE  CHEESE 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Thomas. 

Six  pounds  quinces;  3  pounds  apples;  4  pounds  white 
sugar. 

Prepare  as  for  preserving.  Cook  the  quinces  first  in 
enough  water  to  cover.  When  tender,  add  the  apples  and 
cook  till  done,  then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  a  few  minutes  as 
for  jelly.  Pour  into  shallow  tin  pans;  when  cold,  cover  with 
white  paper  dipped  in  white  of  ^zz-  Cut  into  thin  slices  or 
cubes,  and  serve  for  lunch. 

LEnON  BUTTER 

Mrs.  T.  F.  McQpmant. 

One  cup  sugar;  i  cup  boiling  water;  i  tablespoon  flour; 
I  tablespoon  butter;    i  ^z%;  i  lemon. 

Mix  together  the  sugar,  butter,  flour,  ^ZZ — well  beaten, 
and  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind. 
Pour  this  into  the  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly.  Stir  well 
to  prevent  burning. 

ORANGE    riARHALADE 

Mrs.  G.  W.  White. 

Slice  very  thin  twelve  oranges  and  five  lemons,  using  the 
entire  fruit,  but  removing  all  the  seeds  carefully.  To  every 
pound  of  fruit  add  one  quart  of  water.  Set  away  for  twenty- 
four  hours. 


Fruits  jiy 

Second  Morning. — Boil  the  fruit  till  tender.  Set  away 
twenty-four  hours. 

Third  Morning. — To  each  pound  of  the  boiled  fruit  add 
one  pound  of  sugar.     Boil  until  the  liquid  makes  a  jelly. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE— English  Recipe 

Mrs.  Heury  Smith. 

One  dozen  oranges;  4  good  sized  lemons;  i^^  pints  water 
to  each  pound  sliced  fruit;  i  pound  and  2  ounces  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit. 

Slice  the  oranges  and  lemons  verj^  thin,  and  take  out  the 
seeds,  then  add  the  water  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Then  boil 
till  the  peel  is  tender,  (about  i  hour),  let  this  stand  till  quite 
cold,  take  out  the  fruit  and  weigh  it,  and  to  every  pound 
allow  I  pound  2  ounces  sugar.  Boil  this  one  hour,  taking 
great  care  it  does  not  burn.  Stir  well  with  wooden  or  agate 
spoon.  When  done  put  in  glasses  and  seal  while  hot.  It  is 
best  not  to  boil  too  long  in  one  pan,  as  it  is  very  quick  to 
burn. 

ORANGE  MARHALADE 

Miss  Eloise  Forinau. 

Four  dozen  oranges;  4  lemons;  ^  pounds  granulated 
sugar  to  every  pound  of  oranges  after  the  peel  is  removed. 
Less  sugar  for  very  sweet  fruit.  Peel  two  dozen  removing  as 
little  of  the  white  lining  as  possible.  Cat  the  peel  into  narrow 
strips  about  an  inch  long,  with  the  scissors.  Put  in  cold  water 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Change  the  water  three  times  and 
boil  peel  until  tender.  Extract  all  the  juice  from  these 
oranges.  Carefully  remove  white  skin,  stringy  part  and  seeds 
from  remaining  oranges,  (2  dozen),  and  cut  the  pulp  into 
small  pieces.  Put  juice,  pulp  and  sugar  into  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle; add  the  lemon  juice  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Skim  care- 
fully, add  the  orange  peel,  which  has  been  thoroughly  drained 
after  boiling;  the  sliced  peel  of  the  four  lemons  and  boil  the 
mixture  until  clear;  from  one  half  to  one  hour.  Put  into  jelly 
glasses  when  cold.  Cover  and  set  away  for  one  month.  This 
makes  a  dozen  glasses  of  very  rich  marmalade. 


St8  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Use  as  many  oranges  as  desired,  reserving  the  very  thin 
peel,  (yellow  part  only),  of  3  oranges  out  of  12.  Cut  the  peel 
in  fine  shreds  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  soak  in  salt  water 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water,  rinse  the  peel, 
and  put  on  the  stove  in  clear  cold  water;  boil  till  tender,  drain 
off  the  water  and  add  to  the  pulp  of  the  oranges,  prepared  as 
follows: 

Remove  every  particle  of  the  peel,  white  skin  and  seeds, 
from  the  oranges,  cut  the  pulp  or  segments  into  small  pieces, 
measure  the  peel  and  pulp  of  oranges,  and  use  one  pint  of  best 
granulated  sugar  to  each  pint  of  prepared  fruit.  Drain  off 
some  of  the  juice  of  the  oranges  into  a  preserving  kettle,  add 
the  sugar,  boil  up  and  skim,  then  add  the  peel  and  pulp;  boil 
about  thirty  minutes,  or  until  sufficiently  thick,  remove  from 
stove,  and  put  in  glass  jars  or  jelly  glasses. 

ORANGE  FLOWER  SYRUP 

Miss  E.   Benton  Fremont. 

One  pint  fresh  white  orange  petals;  i  quart  rich  syrup, 
made  of  granulated  sugar  and  water. 

Select,  and  wash  without  bruising,  the  white  petals  of  the 
orange  flowers.  While  the  petals  drain  on  a  cloth,  prepare  a 
rich  syrup  of  granulated  sugar  and  water,  allowing  one  quart 
for  each  pint  of  blossoms.  After  skimming  the  syrup  care- 
fully, drop  in  the  petals  and  simmer  only  two  minutes,  stir 
gently,  strain  and  bottle;  seal  while  hot.  It  will  be  a  delicate 
sea  green  color,  retaining  all  the  fragrance  of  the  flower  and 
reminding  one  when  opened,  of  an  orange  grove  in  Spring.  A 
teaspoonful  added  to  a  glass  of  water  makes  a  most  delicious 
drink,  and  is  regarded  by  the  Floridians  as  a  nerve  tonic. 
This  is  also  a  very  agreeable  flavoring  for  custards,  icing  or 
pudding  sauces. 

PRESERVED  BLACKBERRIES 

A.   C.  B. 

Look   over,    wash,  and  weigh    the    fruit,  using  pound  for 


Fruits  ^  rg 

pound  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Put  the  berries  and  sugar  on  the 
stove,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  slowly,  then  cook  about  an 
hour,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  pour  into  glass  jars  and 
seal  while  hot. 

PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES 

A.   C.   B. 

Use  one  pound  best  granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
berries;  place  them  in  the  kettle  on  back  of  stove  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  slowly  until  the  berries  are  clear, 
skim  out  the  berries  carefully  and  boil  the  syrup  until  thick, 
then  carefully  put  the  berries  in  the  hot  sj-rup  and  let  them 
boil  up,  then  put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

PRESERVED  PEACHES 

Mrs.  W.J.  Brown. 

Use  peaches  before  they  are  perfectly  ripe.  Select  them 
of  even  size,  pare,  remove  the  stones,  weigh  the  fruit  and 
allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Use  just  enough 
water  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  When  boiling  hot  put  in  one 
layer  of  the  prepared  fruit,  and  three  peach  stones  to  each 
quart,  simmer  slowly  about  ten  minutes,  then  turn  each  piece 
over  carefully  and  simmer  until  the  fruit  is  clear,  then  put  in 
jars  carefully  and  seal.  If  the  syrup  is  not  all  needed  to  fill 
the  jar,  add  the  sugar  to  it  for  the  next  jar  and  cook  as  before. 
A  low,  broad  granite  pan  is  best  to  use. 

PRESERVED  PEARS 

Mrs.  Helen  W.  Watson. 

Bartlett  pears  are  best  for  preserving.  Use  them  before 
they  become  soft.  Pare,  cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  and  use  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  in  the 
preserving  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Let 
it  boil  slowly  until  the  required  color  is  obtained. 
If  you  prefer  to  have  them  white,  remove  the  fruit  as 
soon  as  it  becomes  clear,  boil  down  the  syrup,  drop  in  the 
pears,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  jars  and  seal.  By 
cooking  them  slowly  several  hours  they  will  become  a  rich, 
dark  color. 


j^o  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

PRESERVED  QUINCE3 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

Select  quinces  of  even  size.  As  you  peel  and  core  them 
throw  into  cold  water.  Make  a  syrup  of  i  pint  water  and  i 
pound  granulated  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Bring  the 
syrup  to  a  boiling  point,  drain  the  fruit  from  the  cold  water, 
and  add  to  the  boiling  syrup.  Boil  slowly  until  they  become 
the  desired  color. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Use  muscat,  or  raisin  grapes.  Cut  the  grapes  open  wixh.  a 
knife,  remove  the  seeds,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  one 
pound  best  granulated  sugar.  Cook  slowly  for  thirty  minutes 
or  until  the  grapes  are  perfectly  clear.  Put  in  glass  jars  and 
seal.     Delicious. 

FIQ  PRESERVES 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Siusabaugh. 

Select  figs  that  are  not  over  ripe;  White  Smyrna  preferred. 
Pare  them,  and  use  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  fruit.  Cover 
fruit  with  sugar  and  set  in  refrigerator  over  night.  Pour  off 
the  syrup  thus  formed  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  heat  it.  Place 
enough  figs  to  cover  bottom  of  kettle  and  boil  until  a  light 
amber  color,  and  dip  out  and  place  in  the  jar.  Keep  adding 
and  dipping  out  as  fast  as  done,  until  all  are  cooked,  and  then 
pour  hot  syrup  over  figs  and  seal. 

PRESERVED  FIGS 

Mrs.  S.   C.  Hubbell. 

Select  fine,  large,  white  figs,  of  equal  ripeness.  Peel,  and 
weigh  them.  Cover  wdth  water,  boil  slowly  until  tender,  but 
not  broken.  Take  them  out  with  care  and  lay  on  platter. 
Prepare  a  thick  syrup  of  sugar — as  many  pounds  as  of  fruit — 
boil,  and  skim  it,  then  put  in  the  figs,  and  cook  slowly  until 
transparent.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  few  slices  of  lemon. 
Put  in  glass  jars.     Many  persons  add  a  little  ginger  also. 


Fruits  ^2r 

PRESERVED  FIGS 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Haas. 

Use  white  figs,  picked  the  day  before  preserving.  Peel  and 
weigh  them,  and  use  ^  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit. 
Sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  figs  and  let  them  stand  over 
night.  Pour  the  syrup  ofi'and  boil  it  down.  When  thick  put 
the  figs  in  and  cook  gently  until  clear,  then  drain  through  a 
sieve  and  boil  the  syrup  down  again.  Put  the  figs  in  and  boil 
slowly   I  hour.    Use  i  lemon  sliced,  to  every  3  pounds  of  figs. 

LOQUOT  PRESERVE 

Mrs.  Alice  Cooper. 

Remove  skins  and  stones  from  the  loquots.  Allow  one 
pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  until 
clear,  and  seal  in  glass  jars.  A  little  of  this  preserve  used  in 
making  fruit  cake  adds  to  its  richness. 

ORANGE  PRESERVE 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Joplin,  Orange   Co. 

Use  ripe  navel  oranges,  peel  them  carefully,  be  sure  to 
remove  all  the  white,  also  the  end  and  stem  running  through 
the  center,  using  great  care  not  to  break  the  orange.  Throw 
in  cold  water  a  few  hours,  when  you  can  remove  more  of  the 
white,  then  drop  them  into  boiling  water.  Have  ready  a 
syrup  made  of  i}^  pounds  granulated  sugar  to  one  pound  of 
fruit.  L,ift  the  oranges  out  of  the  water  with  a  skimmer, 
drain  well  and  drop  them  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  cook  till 
they  are  clear.  When  done  put  in  glass  jars  and  seal  while 
boiling  hot.  If  you  do  not  remove  all  the  white,  the  preserve 
will  be  bitter. 

ORANGE  PEEL  PRESERVE 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Joplin,  Orange  Co. 

Soak  the  peel  in  strong  salt  water  nine  days,  changing 
the  water  every  three  days,  then  dry  on  a  sieve.  Make  a 
syrup  of  one  pound  sugar  to  one  quart  water.  Put  the  peel 
in  and  simmer  until  transparent.  This  is  nice  to  put  in  with 
the  preserved  oranges.     If  the  peel  is  cut  in  halves  it  is  nice  to 


^22  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

put  a  preserved  orange  into  the  peel  when  served.     If  careful 
in  placing;  it  makes  a  very  pretty,  as  well  as  palatable  dish. 

PRESERVED  CITRON 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Haas. 

Remove  the  inside,  cut  in  quarters,  peel  and  put  in  a  jar  of 
strong  brine  and  let  stand  three  days.  Drain  off  and  put  in  a 
new  brine  three  days.  Drain  second  water  off  and  put  in  third 
brine  three  days,  then  drain  and  soak  three  days  in  fresh 
w^ater.  The  twelfth  day  make  a  syrup  of  ^  pound  sugar  to  i 
pound  fruit.  Put  in  the  citron  and  cook  till  clear.  Orange 
or  lemon  peel  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  waj'. 

GREEN  ALMOND  PRESERVES 

Miss  E.  Beuton  Fremont. 

The  shell  of  the  almond  must  be  soft;  pierce  them  through 
in  several  places  with  a  strong,  coarse  needle.  Then  lay  them 
for  five  days  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  each  morning. 
On  the  fifth  daj'  put  the  almonds  in  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  they  are  easily  pierced  by  a  thin,  pointed  sliver  of  wood. 
Take  them  out  and  drain  oS"  the  water  and  sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar;  ^  pound  sugar  to  i  pound  almonds;  cover  with  a 
clean  cloth  and  let  stand  all  night.  Next  morning  pour  off" 
the  syrup,  boil  the  almonds  again  for  a  few  moments  and 
repeat  the  sprinkling  of  sugar  as  before.  Do  this  three  or  four 
times  in  all,  depending  on  the  tenderness  of  the  almonds. 
Then  to  the  syrup  which  has  been  each  morning  drained  off" 
from  the  almonds,  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  y{  pound  to 
each  ^  pound  already  used.  Boil  to  a  syrup,  skim  carefullj', 
then  drop  in  the  almonds  and  let  them  boil  a  few  minutes. 
When  the}'  are  cooled,  put  in  air-tight  jars,  and  set  in  a  cool 
but  dry  place. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY 

A.   C.    B. 

Wash  the  fruit  and  let  drain.  Put  into  the  preserving  ket- 
tle with  a  cup  of  water.  Heatslowlj^  until  the  juice  begins 
to  separate.       Then  boil  until  the  berries  are  very   soft;  then 


Fndfs  J2J 

pour  them  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  drain.  Measure  the  juice 
and  use  i  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  the  juice.  Boil  the 
juice  rapidh'  20  minutes,  then  add  the  heated  sugar  and  boil 
from  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY  No.  1 

Mrs.  Z.  L-  Parmelee. 

Put  the  fruit  in  a  preserving  kettle  on  back  of  stove,  when 
the  juice  separates  from  the  berries  let  it  come  to  the  boiling 
point.  Then  turn  into  a  jelly  bag  and  drain.  Measure  the 
juice  and  allow  3/|  pound  granulated  sugar  to  one  pint  juice. 
Heat  the  sugar  thoroughly,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning. 
Boil  the  juice  rapidly  for  25  minutes.  Add  the  sugar  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Boil  from  2  to  5  minutes.  Then  remove 
from  stove  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses.  Set  awa}'  a  day  or 
two,  then  cover  with  paper,  brushed  over  with  white  of  &^g, 
and  keep  in  a  dark,  dr}',  cool  place. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY  No.  2 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Johustou. 

Boil  currants  and  strain  out  the  juice,  likewise  straw- 
berries. 

To  I  cup  currant  and  2  cups  berry  juice,  use  3  cups  sugar. 
Boil  in  a  medium-sized  kettle  five  minutes,  and  then  pour  into 
glasses.  Apples  may  be  used  instead  of  currants  if  pre- 
ferred. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY 

Mrs.  Z.  L.  Parmelee. 

Make  same  as  strawberrj^  jell)'  No.    i. 

RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  JELLY 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

Use  equal  parts  of  each  and  make  according  to  directions 
for  currant  jelly. 

CURRANT  JELLY,  No.   1 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brown. 

The  best  jellj^  is  made  from  currants  when  they  first  ripen, 
before  they  are  thoroughly  ripe. 


J 2/  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

Pick  the  currants  from  the  stems,  crush  them  in  an  earthen 
dish,  put  the  pulp  in  a  jelly  bag-  to  drain,  but  do  not  squeeze 
as  it  will  make  the  jelly  cloudy.  To  i  pint  of  juice, 
use  one  pint  of  best  granulated  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  in  the 
oven  to  heat,  stirring  it  often  to  prevent  burning.  Boil  the 
juice  rapidl)^  twenty  minutes  in  a  porcelain  or  granite  kettle, 
skimming  well,  add  the  sugar  that  has  been  heated  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  then  strain  into  glasses.  When  cold,  cover  it 
with  paper  cut  to  fit  the  glass,  and  brush  over  with  the  white 
of  egg.  Tie  paper  over  the  glass  and  set  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry 
place. 

By  squeezing  the  fruit  after  it  has  been  drained,  one  can 
make  a  jelly  that  will  not  be  as  clear,  but  it  will  answer  for 
some  purposes. 

CURRANT  JELLY,  No.  2 

Look  over  the  fruit,  remove  all  the  imperfect  currants, 
put  over  the  fire  and  scald;  drain  in  a  jelly  bag,  boil  the  juice 
fifteen  minutes.  Skim  well,  add  the  heated  sugar  and  boil 
five  minutes,  turn  into  glasses  and  cover  as  directed  in  No.  i. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY 

A.  C.  B. 

Boil  6  lbs  green  gooseberries  in  6  pints  of  water  until  they 
are  thoroughly  cooked,  but  not  broken  too  much,  then  pour 
them  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  drip  until  the  pulp  is  dry.  To 
every  pint  of  juice,  use  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar;  heat 
the  sugar  in  the  oven,  and  boil  the  juice  rapidly  half  an 
hour;  skim  it,  then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer. 

TOKAY  GRAPE  JELLY 

Mrs.  Guy    Smith,  Tustin. 

Wash  and  clean  the  grapes  carefully.  Boil  slowly  one 
hour,  stirring  frequently.  Strain  through  a  colander  and 
then  through  a  fine  bag;  do  not  squeeze.  Measure  juice  and 
boil  twenty  minutes;  then  add  one  pint  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Put  in  glasses 
and  cover  with  paper  dipped  in  alcohol  to  prevent  moulding. 


Fruits  J  2^ 

GRAPE  JELLY 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

Use  the  grapes  before  they  are  fully  ripe.  Wash  and 
drain  them,  removing  all  imperfect  ones;  put  them  into  a 
kettle,  mash  and  cook  them  until  their  skins  are  broken, 
then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag;  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  use 
one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  rapidly  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  from  five  to  ten  minutes  longer. 

LOQUOT  JELLY 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Arnold. 

One  lb  sugar  to  i  pint  juice. 

Wash  the  fruit  and  put  in  water  enough  to  half  cover. 
Boil  slowly  until  the  juice  is  extracted,  strain  and  add  sugar 
in  the  above  proportion.  Boil  until  it  will  jelly,  then  fill  the 
glasses. 

LOQUOT  JELLY 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Barnard. 

Cut  off  blossom  end  of  loquot.  Boil  in  water  until  soft; 
squeeze  out  and  strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Use  ^  lb  of  sugar 
to  I   ft)  of  fruit,  weighing  both  before  boiling. 

PLUM  JELLY 

Mrs.   R.  M.  Widuey. 

Remove  the  stems,  wash,  put  in  the  preserving  kettle, 
cover  with  water  and  boil  until  well  done;  pour  in  jelly  bag 
and  drain.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  one  pint  sugar;  put 
on  the  stove  and  boil  rapidly  twenty  minutes;  skim,  add 
heated  sugar  and  boil  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  remove 
from  stove  and  put  in  glasses.  Red  plums  make  beautiful 
jelly. 

PEACH  JELLY 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Bessey,  Orange  Co. 

Put  the  peaches  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  a  little  water, 
cover.  Heat  slowl}'  and  cook  until  the  peaches  will  mash 
readily,  then  turn  into  a  jelly  bag  and  drip  until  the  pulp  is 
dry.      Boil  the  juice   rapidly    twenty  minutes,   skimming  it 


J 26  Hoiv    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

often.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  measure  and  return  it  to  the 
fire;  as  soon  as  it  boils  again,  add  as  many  pounds  of  sugar 
as  you  have  pounds  of  juice,  and  boil  until  it  jellies.  Pour 
into  tumblers,  and  stand  aside  two  or  three  days;  then  cover 
with  paper  and  put  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Apricot  jelly  is  made  much  the  same  way;  but  be  sure  to 
use  fruit  that  is  not  too  ripe.  A  beautiful  jelly  is  made  by 
using  half  apricot  and  half  blackberry  juice. 

GUAVA    JELLY 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Smith. 

After  washing  the  fruit,  put  it  into  the  fruit  kettle,  putting 
more  than  enough  water  to  cover  the  fruit;  cook  until  soft, 
run  through  a  fruit  strainer  and  add  the  same  quantity  of 
sugar  as  there  is  juice,  boiling  and  testing  as  in  other  fruit 
jelly.  Guavas  require  more  water  than  any  other  jelly  fruit. 
The  late  guavas  are  the  best  for  jelly. 

PINEAPPLE    JELLY 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Ayers. 

One  and  one- half  quarts  of  wetting  all  together  (scant 
measure);  a  scant  pint  sugar;  white  and  shell  of  one  ^ZZ'^  ^^ 
ounce  box  of  Cox's  gelatine;  juice  of  one  lemon.  Soak 
gelatine  in  ^A,  pint  of  water,  an  hour  or  so.  Open  a  can  of 
pineapple;  strain  off  the  juice,  cut  pineapple  in  small  pieces; 
put  into  porcelain  saucepan,  pour  on  boiling  water  and 
simmer  twenty  minutes,  then  skim  out  the  pineapple;  add 
sugar,  gelatine,  lemon,  pineapple  juice  and  white  and  shell  of 
the  egg  to  the  mixture.  L,et  this  boil  up  once  and  then  set 
back  for  twenty  minutes  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil. 
Strain  through  a  napkin  into  molds,  and  set  away  to  cool; 
when  cold,  keep  it  upon  ice  until  hard.     To  be  eaten  fresh. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY 

Mrs.  Helen  W.  Watson. 

Wash  the  fruit  clean,  remove  stems,  put  into  the  pre- 
serving kettle  and  cover  with  water;  boil  until  soft;  then 
pour  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  it  drain;  do  not  press  the  fruit 
through.      Allow    i  cup  sugar  for  every  cup  of  juice.     Put 


Fruits  J  2  7 

sugar  in  the  oven  to  heat;  put  on  the  juice  letting  it  boil  20 
minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  and  boil  5  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  stove  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses  which  are  set  on  a 
folded  cloth,  wet  in  cold  water,  to  avoid  their  breaking.  If 
you  desire  a  darker  colored  jelly,  boil  the  sugar  with  the 
juice  for  25  minutes. 

BANANA  JELLY 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Baldwin. 

Half  box  gelatine;  y^  pint  cold  water;  Yt,  pint  boiling 
water;  yi  cup  sugar;   2  bananas. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  till  soft,  then  add  the 
boiling  water  and  sugar.  Stir  thoroughly  and  strain  into 
molds  wet  with  cold  water.  When  partly  cold,  stir  in  the 
bananas  sliced  thin. 

ORANGE  JELLY 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Widney. 

Wash  the  oranges  and,  with  a  silver  spoon,  remove  the 
pulp.  (If  a  flavor  of  the  peel  is  desired,  squeeze  a  few  of  the 
oranges  with  a  lemon  squeezer.  This  will  give  sufficient 
flavor  without  making  the  jelly  bitter).  Boil  quickly  in  a 
porcelain  or  granite  kettle.  Drain  through  a  jelly  bag,  with- 
out squeezing.  Add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice, 
and  boil  rapidly  for  20  minutes.  If  managed  rightly,  the 
jelly  will  be  of  a  clear,  amber  color  and  delicious. 

ORANGE  JELLY 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Baldwin. 

Half  box  Cox's  gelatine;  ^  pint  cold  water;  i  cup  sugar; 
^  pint  orange  juice. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  ten  minutes,  then 
put  it  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  then 
add  the  sugar  and  orange  juice  and  let  it  boil  up  once.  Put 
in  glasses  and  cover  with  manilla   paper  wet  in  white  of  egg. 

LEHON    JELLY 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Danisou. 

One  box  Cox's  gelatine;  i  pint  tepid  water;  2  pints  sugar; 
3  pints  boiling  water;  juice  of  4  lemons. 


J 28  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Ajigetes 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  pint  of  tepid  water.  It  will 
need  to  stand  two  or  three  hours;  then  add  the  three  pints  of 
boiling  water,  sugar,  and  lemon  juice.  Strain  and  cool  in 
molds,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  all  the  while — otherwise,  it 
will  not  harden.      ^  of  this  recipe  maj^  be  used. 

I  think  for  this  kind  of  jelly,  it  is  unsurpassed. 

SPICED  CURRANTS 

Mrs.  G.  I.  Cochran. 

Five  pounds  currants;  4  pounds  brown  sugar;  2  table- 
spoons ground  cloves;  2  tablespoons  cinnamon;  i  pint  vine- 
gar. 

Boil  two  hours. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES 

Mrs.  C.  G.  Dubois. 

Five  pounds  gooseberries;  2^  pounds  brown  sugar;  -i 
pint  vinegar;   i^  ounces  cloves;    i  ounce  cinnamon. 

Boil  from  two  to  three  hours.  Add  the  vinegar  and  spices 
half  an  hour  before  it  is  done.     Stir  while  cooking. 

SPICED  GRAPES 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Marshall. 

Seven  pounds  muscat  grapes;  3^  pounds  sugar;  1%  pints 
vinegar;  i  teaspoon  each  ground  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves, 
tied  in  a  bag. 

Boil  the  sugar,  spice  and  vinegar  and  pour  over  the 
grapes.  The  next  daj^  pour  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  and  pour 
over  the  grapes  again.  The  next  day  pour  off  the  syrup, 
and  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  grapes  and  cook  them  until 
tender. 

SPICED  PEACHES 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Hubbell. 

Nine  pounds  peaches;  ^yi  pounds  sugar;  i  pint  vinegar; 
1/2  cup  cloves;  %  cup  cinnamon. 

Pare  and  halve  the  peaches,  and  put  them  in  a  jar.  Tie 
the  spices  in  separate  cloths,  boil  them  with  the  vinegar  and 
sugar  a  few  moments  and  pour  over  the  peaches  boiling  hot. 
Let  them   stand  over  night.     In  the  morning,  put  them  in  a 


F-ruits  ^2g 

kettle  and  boil  ten  minutes,  then  take  out  the  peaches,  leav- 
ing the  spices.  Boil  the  vinegar  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  pour  on  the  peaches. 

CRAB  APPLE  PICKLE 

Mrs.  Augusta  Robinson. 

Eight  pounds  apples;  4  pounds  sugar;  vinegar  to  cover 
them;  i  tablespoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper. 

Put  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  together,  put  in  the 
crab  apples  and  cook  them  slowly  until  tender. 

SWEET  PICKLE  APRICOTS 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Thomas. 

Seven  pounds  sugar;  i  pint  cider  vinegar;  ^  teacup  cay- 
enne pepper;   i  dozen  cloves — no  more. 

When  the  syrup  boils,  drop  in  the  fruit.  Cook  until  clear 
— but  not  soft.     Seal  while  hot  in  glass  jars. 

Kxcellent  with  any  meat,  cold  or  hot. 

FIG  PICKLE 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Jopliu,  Orange  County. 

One  quart  vinegar;  4  pounds  brown  sugar;  >^  ounce  each 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace. 

Take  ripe  but  firm  figs  with  stems  on.  Let  them  stand 
over  night  in  salt  water;  next  day  put  them  into  fresh  water 
for  one  hour,  then  put  them  into  the  hot  syrup,  made  by 
boiling  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Remove  them  from  the  fire  and  let  them  stand  over  night. 
Repeat  the  boiling  the  third  time,  letting  them  stand  over 
night  the  second  night,  and  the  third  time  they  boil  put  into 
glass  jars  and  seal. 

GINGERED  FIGS 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Joplin,  Orange  County. 

Take  ripe  but  firm  figs  with  stems  on.  Let  them  stand 
over  night  in  salt  water;  next  morning  put  them  in  fresh 
water  for  one  hour,  then  put  them  into  weak  alum  water  for 
a  few  minutes  to  make  them  firm,  then  put  them  into  a  strong 
ginger   tea — made    of  best   white   ginger   root   mashed    and 


J  JO  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

boiled.  Cook  the  figs  in  this  until  they  are  clear,  then  put 
them  into  a  boiling  syrup,  made  with  a  pound  of  best  white 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  ^  pound  of  mashed  ginger 
root  to  ID  pounds  of  sugar.  I^et  them  stand  in  the  syrup 
over  night;  in  the  morning  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  seal 
in  glass  jars. 

PICKLED  LIHES— Reliable 

I,inies,  vinegar,  salt,  allspice,  cloves,  white  mustard  and 
horseradish. 

Cut  the  limes,  fill  with  salt,  and  lay  them  in  the  sun  to 
dry.  When  dry,  wash  off  the  salt,  and  pack  them  in  jars  in 
alternate  layers  with  the  spices,  and  fill  the  jars  with  hot 
vinegar.     They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  four  weeks. 

5WEET  PEAR  PICKLES 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Widuey. 

Nine  pounds  fruit;  i  pint  vinegar;  4^  pounds  brown  sugar; 
^  pound  stick  cinnamon;  Yz  pound  cloves. 

Tie  the  spices  in  small  bags,  and  boil  them  with  the  sugar 
and  vinegar  until  a  good  syrup  is  formed.  Then  put  in  the 
pears,  (Bartlett  or  Seckel).  Place  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
and  cook  very  slowly  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

Nine  pounds  gooseberries;  6  pounds  brown  sugar;  i  pint 
vinegar;  i  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon  tied 
in  a  cloth. 

Use  the  gooseberries  before  they  turn  ripe,  add  the  vinegar, 

sugar  and  spices  and  cook  four  hours,    and  seal  in  bottles. 

Splendid. 

GOOSEBERRY    CATSUP 

Mrs.  H.  L.  PoweU. 

Ten  pounds  ripe  gooseberries;  5  pounds  sugar;  2  table- 
spoons pepper;  2  tablespoons  each  allspice,  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon; I  quart  vinegar. 

Boil  the  berries  and  vinegar  to  a  pulp,  add  the  sugar  and 
spice,  and  boil  five  minutes,  then  seal  in  glass  jars. 


Fruits  331 

GRAPE  CATSUP 

Mrs.  J-  F-  Conrov. 

Ten  pounds  grapes;  2>^  pounds  sugar;  i  quart  vinegar;  2 
tablespoons  cinnamon;  2  tablespoons  cloves  and  spice,  mixed; 
2  tablespoons  each  salt,  pepper  and  cloves. 

Boil  the  grapes  and  run  through  a  sieve,  then  add  the 
sugar,  vinegar  and  spices,  and  boil  until  catsup  is  a  little 
thick. 

To  Prepare  Fruit  (Qlase)  for  Family  Use 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Thomas. 

The  fruit  used  must  be  preserved  in  thick  syrup — if  one 
year  old,  all  the  better.  Drain  the  fruit  from  the  syrup  and 
lay  in  the  sun  for  one  or  two  days,  then  sprinkle  with  granu- 
lated sugar.  Pears,  crab  apples,  figs,  cherries  or  any  fruit 
of  which  the  juice  jellies  when  exposed,  make  fine  dishes, 
when  prepared  by  the  above  directions;  and  one  quart  jar  at 
a  time  is  enough. 


OLIVE  CULTURE  IN  CALIFORNIA 


J.  L.  HOWLAND,  Pomona 


lyittle  attention  has  been  paid  to  the  cultivation  of  the  olive 
until  the  past  few  years,  and  the  only  variety  known  here 
formerly  was  the  Mission,  brought  by  the  Spanish  padres  from 
Spain,  and  planted  at  the  old  missions.  Some  of  these  trees 
are  still  standing,  though  planted  a  century  ago — mostly 
neglected,  or  at  best  slightly  cultivated.  This  proves  the  lon- 
gevity and  tenacity  of  life  of  the  olive,  and  that  when  once 
rooted  it  will  hold  its  own  even  under  adverse  circumstances. 
"We  have  authentic  records  of  its  living  to  be  over  three  hun- 
dred years  old,  so  when  we  plant  an  olive  orchard  we  are  not 
planting  merely  for  our  own  benefit,  but  for  future  genera- 
tions. 

The  olive,  because  of  the  moderate  care  which  it  requires 
and  the  copiousness  and  value  of  its  product,  may  be  consid- 
ered one  of  the  most  valuable  of  trees.  Though  it  is  limited  in 
its  possible  extension,  the  Italian  growers  already  look  for- 
ward with  dread  to  its  being  cultivated  in  other  countries,  and 
now  California  seems  likely  to  prove  a  formidable  rival.  But 
the  fear  would  seem  to  be  unfounded,  as  the  only  source  of 
supply  for  olives  pickled,  and  pure  olive  oil  in  the  United 
States  is  limited  to  this  State. 

The  demand  for  the  pure  article  is  constantly  growing,  both 
abroad  and  at  home,  and  it  is  doubtful  if  the  production 
abroad  will  any  more  than  supply  the  European  market. 

The  growth  of  the  olive  is  to  be,  it  seems  to  me,  one  of  the 
leading  and  most  permanent  industries  of  Southern  Califor- 
nia. It  will  give  us  what  is  nearly  impossible  to  buy  now, 
pure  olive  oil,  in  place  of  the  cottonseed  and  lard  mixture  in 
common  use.  It  is  a  most  wholesome  and  palatable  article  of 
food. 

The  experiments  have  gone   far  enough  to  show  that  the 


Olive  Ctilture  in  California  jjj 

industry  is  remunerative.  *  *  A  mature  olive  grove  in 
good  bearing  is  a  fortune.  I  feel  sure  that  within  twenty-five 
years  this  will  be  one  of  the  most  profitable  industries  of  Cali- 
fornia, and  that  the  demand  for  pure  olive  oil  and  edible  fruit 
in  the  United  States  will  drive  out  the  adulterated  and  inferior 
commercial  products.  But  California  can  easily  ruin  its  rep- 
utation by  adopting  the  European  systems  of  adulteration. 

In  regard  to  soil  suitable  for  the  olive,  it  will  live  in  any 
soil  except  a  dry  and  compact  or  wet  one.  It  is  safe  to  say 
that  the  olive  prefers  a  soft,  friable,  moderately  cool  soil,  and 
one  rich  in  lime  and  potash;  a  soil  that  the  roots  can  extend 
through  in  all  directions,  and  that  will  admit  of  the  free  cir- 
culation of  air  and  moisture.  The  olive  will  flourish  wherever 
its  roots  will  penetrate  easily  and  there  is  plenty  of  lime  and 
alkali,  such  as  a  loose  soil  of  rocky  clay,  or  sand,  of  granite  or 
volcanic  formation. 

I  consider  the  best  age  at  which  to  plant  the  olive  to  be 
two  or  three  years,  for  the  reason  that  the  one-year  old 
plants  and  roots  are  apt  to  be  soft  and  sappy,  and  the  loss  will 
be  much  greater  in  transplanting  them  from  the  nursery  to 
the  orchard  than  the  older  trees  which  have  their  roots  and 
stems  hardened. 

The  proper  distance  at  which  to  plant  olive  trees  is  from 
twenty  to  thirty  feet,  as  they  need  a  great  amount  of  sun  and 
light  to  bring  the  fruit  to  perfection.  If  planted  closer,  in  a 
few  years  every  other  tree  will  have  to  be  taken  up,  and  that 
will  leave  too  much  vacant  space. 

The  olive  should  be  planted  as  early  in  the  winter  as  the 
land  can  be  suitably  prepared,  (of  course  that  will  depend  on 
how  early  the  rains  come),  and  especially  on  dry  lands  they 
must  be  planted  as  early  as  possible  so  as  to  get  all  the  bene- 
fit of  the  winter  rains. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  not  to  take  good  care  of  olive  trees 
when  they  are  first  planted.  The  olive  is  rather  a  difiicult 
tree  to  transplant,  and  should  be  given  the  same  care  as  the 
orange  tree  until  it  gets  started;  after  that  there  is  no  fruit 
tree  which  will  stand  so  much  abuse. 


jj/  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

In  the  first  place  the  ground  should  be  plowed  good  and 
deep,  say  twelve  inches,  and  the  clods  mashed.  The  holes 
should  be  from  eighteen  inches  to  two  feet  deep,  and  as  wide. 
As  soon  as  the  trees  are  planted  they  should  be  thoroughly 
irrigated,  and  again  in  about  a  week  (if  it  does  not  rain),  after 
that  in  two  weeks,  and  then  in  a  month.  After  they  once  gftt 
started,  give  them  about  the  same  water  you  would  a  decidu- 
ous orchard.  On  dry  lands  the  trees  should  be  given  about 
two  pailfuls  of  water  when  planted,  and  the  same  amount 
three  or  four  times  during  the  first  summer. 

KINDS  TO  PLANT: 

The  following  list  has  been  made  up  from  my  own  experi- 
ence for  the  last  eight  years  and  are  all  varieties  I  would  plant 
for  myself: 

For  pickles — Regalis,  Columella,  Polymorpha,  Manzanillo. 

For  oil — Rubra,  Pendulina,  Uvaria,  Nevadillo  Blanco, 
Oblongo. 

Oil  and  pickles — Columella,  Pendulina,  Mission. 

USES  OF  OLIVE  OIL  AS  A  FOOD 

Olive  oil  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  lard  for  frying  cer- 
tain articles  of  food.  The  use  of  oil  dates  back  to  the  patri- 
archal epoch  in  Jewish  history,  from  which  it  has  come  down 
almost  without  change  to  the  Arabs  of  to-day,  who  make 
various  kinds  of  cakes  by  frying  or  boiling  mixtures  of  flour 
or  meat  in  olive  oil. 

In  Spain  and  Italy,  where  olive  oil  enters  most  generally 
into  the  cuisine  of  the  people,  it  almost  entirely  replaces  but- 
ter and  lard.  It  is  used  for  salads,  for  seasoning  all  kinds  of 
vegetables,  and  for  frying  vegetables,  fish  and  meats. 

LOCATIONS  FOR  GROWING  SUPERIOR  OLIVES 

ELWOOD   COOPER,  SANTA   BARBARA 

I  have  purchased  the  olives  grown  in  the  San  Fernando 
Valley  for  two  or  three  years.  One  of  the  parties  had  the 
Old  Mission  orchard,  another  had  a  young  orchard  grown 
not  far  from  the  Mission.  These  were  the  finest  and  largest 
olives  I  have  ever  seen  grown  in  California.      Just  across  the 


Olive  Culture  in  California  S35 


mountains,  north,  the  olives  grown  are  also  verj^  fine.  The 
San  Fernando  olives  I  used  in  making  oil,  as  I  did  not  keep 
them  separate  from  my  own,  I,  of  course,  cannot  tell  how 
they  compared  in  quantity   and    quality  of  oil.  I  suspect 

that  the  trees  were  irrigated,  and  hence  the  larger  size  of  the 
berries. 

It  has  been  stated  that  by  irrigation  the  fruit  is  larger, 
which  is  important  for  pickling,  but  that  the  crop  will  not 
yield  more  oil;  but  I  am  satisfied  that  with  the  average  rainfall 
of  17  inches  which  falls  in  Santa  Barbara,  Ventura  and  lyos 
Angeles  Counties,  that  there  is  no  better  olive  district  on  the 
face  of  the  earth.  Of  course,  there  are  conditions  of  heat  in 
certain  localities  that  is  not  the  best  for  olives,  but  I  have 
never  seen  anything  on  this  side  of  the  tunnel  that  would 
indicate  too  much  heat  for  any  of  our  fruits.  The  olive  crops 
that  I  bought  were  in  successive  years  and  demonstrated 
beyond  doubt  the  adaptility  of  the  valley  for  olive  growing. 


PICKLES 


PICKLING  OLIVES 

J.  L.   Howland,  Pomona. 

For  the  purpose  of  pickling,  the  olives  must  be  picked  just 
as  they  commence  to  turn  red,  about  one  month  before  matur- 
ity. Each  berry  should  be  picked  carefully  by  hand  and 
placed  gently  in  a  basket  or  can  of  water;  they  are  then  placed 
in  vats  and  covered  with  water,  to  which  is  added  a  solution  of 
American  lye  of  one  pound  to  every  ten  gallons  of  olives.  The 
solution  should  be  drawn  off  and  poured  over  the  olives  ever}'- 
hour  or  so,  till  the  lye  has  penetrated  to  the  pit — or  very 
nearly  so — which  can  be  told  by  cutting  an  olive  open  with  a 
knife.  It  should  be  turned  to  a  yellowish  color  to  the  pit. 
The  lye  should  then  be  drawn  off  and  fresh  water  poured  on 
the  olives,  and  changed  every  few  hours  for  the  first  day. 
After  that  it  should  be  changed  every  twenty-four  hours  for  a 
week  or  ten  days,  till  all  the  lye  has  been  washed  out  and  the 
olives  are  perfectly  fresh.  Then  put  them  in  a  weak  solution 
of  salt  for  a  week,  after  which  time  this  should  be  drawn  off 
and  a  stronger  solution  of  14  ounces  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of 
water  should  be  poured  over  them.  The  salt  should  be  first 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  then  strained  and  water  added  till  it  is 
of  the  right  strength.  The  olives  should,  also,  be  kept  out  of 
the  sunlight. 

TO  CURE  OLIVES 

Mrs.   Flora  M.  Kimball,  National  City. 

Take  i  lb  concentrated  lye  ;  10  gallons  olives,  Water 
sufficent  to  cover  them. 

Stir  them  from  the  bottom  daily,  and  change  the  lye  when 
the  strength  seems  exhausted.  Taste  frequently  to  ascertain 
when  the  bitterness  is  extracted  from  the  fruit.  It  requires 
from  one  to  two  weeks  to  accomplish  this,  as  there  is  a  diflfer- 
ence  in  the  strength  of  the  lye.  When  free  from  the  bitter 
taste  add  clear  water  and  change  it  every  day  until  the  water 
runs  off  clear.     Then  put  it  in  a  weak  brine. 


Pickles  JJ7 

PICKLED  OLIVES 

Mrs.  E.  F.  C.  Klokke. 

Take  the  olives  from  the  tree  when  they  are  ripe,  dark 
brown  or  black.  Prick  each  one  with  a  silver  fork  in  three 
or  four  places.  Place  them  in  fresh  water,  without  salt,  for  a 
week,  changing  the  water  every  twenty-four  hours.  After 
that,  put  them  in  salt  and  water,  and  change  the  same  every 
forty-eight  hours  till  they  are  good  to  eat. 

OLIVE  PICKLING. 

Mrs.  Guy  Smith,   Tustin. 

Carefully  pick  the  olives,  keeping  those  of  a  color  to 
gether.  All  green,  all  red,  or  turning  red,  or  black — small 
green  ones  are  not  ripe  enough  to  be  good.  To  four  gallons 
of  olives,  take  one  flb  of  concentrated  lye  and  four  gallons  of 
water.  Dissolve  the  lye  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water. 
Keep  the  olives  all  under  the  water,  and  stir  several  times  each 
day.  Keep  the  olives  in  the  lye  three  days,  when  the  bitter- 
ness should  be  out;  soak  in  fresh  water  four  days,  changing 
the  water  at  least  twice  each  day.  When  no  taste  of  bitter- 
ness, or  of  lye,  is  left,  cover  with  brine;  one  pint  of  salt  to 
one  gallon  of  water.  Keep  every  olive  under  the  brine. 
Black  and  ripe  olives  need  more  salt  to  keep  them. 

PICKLING  0LIVE5 

J.  C.  M.  Rainbow,  San  Diego,  Cal. 

Dissolve  I  pound  of  American  concentrated  lye  in  12  gal- 
lons of  water,  put  in  the  olives  and  let  them  stand  three  days 
and  nights,  stirring  frequently.  Draw  oflf  the  water  and  add 
a  new  lye  of  the  same  strength  as  the  first,  and  let  it  stand 
3  days,  do  this  the  third  time,  or  till  the.  bitterness  is  taken 
out,  then  soak  in  fresh  water,  changing  it  till  free  of  lye,  then 
place  them  in  brine  for  use. 


Directions  for  making  oil  can  be  found  in  Spanish  Depart- 
ment. 


j^8  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


CHOWDER 

Mrs.  C.  G.   Dubois. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes;  i  dozen  green  peppers;  2  table- 
spoons cloves;  4  tablespoons  white  mustard  seed;  3  table- 
spoons cinnamon;   i  tablespoon  black  pepper. 

Cbop  the  tomatoes  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  them 
stand  over  night,  then  press  out  the  juice.  Add  the  peppers 
chopped,  and  the  horseradish.  Cover  with  weak  vinegar. 
Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  drain  off  the  liquid,  add  the  spices, 
pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  fresh  vinegar.  Chopped  onions 
can  be  added,  if  liked. 

CHOW   CHOW 

Mrs.  D.  L.  Whipple. 

Two  heads  cauliflower;  i  peck  green  tomatoes;  6  green 
peppers;  6  large  onions;  i  cup  salt;  2  quarts  vinegar;  i  tea- 
cup grated  horseradish;  ^  teacup  sugar;  i  teaspoon  ground 
cloves;   i   tea-spoon  cinnamon;   i  teaspoon  allspice. 

Cut  the  cauliflower;  slice  the  tomatoes,  peppers  and 
onions.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  them  stand  over  night, 
then  drain  and  chop  them.  Add  vinegar,  sugar,  horseradish 
and  spices.  Stew  slowly  three  hours,  then  add — ^  cup 
white  mustard  seed;  %  cup  French  mustard;  %  package 
white  celery  seed. 

CHOW  CHOW 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Frasher. 

One  large  cabbage;  3  large  onions;  3  peppers — green;  i 
peck  green  tomatoes;  3  quarts  vinegar;  2  cups  sugar;  i  cup 
mustard;  i  tablespoon  cloves;  i  tablespoon  cinnamon;  i 
tablespoon  allspice;  3  tablespoons  salt. 

Chop  together  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions.  Boil  in 
vinegar,  then  drain.  To  3  quarts  of  scalding  vinegar,  add 
sugar,  mustard,  salt  and  spices,  pouring  it  while  hot  over 
the  chopped  cabbage,  peppers  and  onions.  The  mustard 
may  be  omitted,  and  the  tomatoes  may  be  scalded  the  first 
time  in  their  own  juice. 


Pickles  jjg 

TOMATO  CHOW  CHOW 

H.  G.  W. 

Half  bushel  green  tomatoes;  i  dozen  onions;  i  dozen 
green  peppers;   i  pint  salt;    i  pint  vinegar. 

Chop  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt,  let  stand  over  night;  in  the 
morning,  drain  off  the  brine,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  cook 
one  hour  slowly,  then  drain,  and  pack  the  chow  chow  in  a 
jar.  Heat  the  following  ingredients  and  pour  over  it  when 
boiling^ — 2  pounds  brown  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar,  }4.  pint  horse- 
radish— grated,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  i  tablespoon  ground 
cloves,  I  tablespoon  allspice,  i  tablespoon  pepper.  Mix  well, 
and  cover  immediately.     It  will  keep  for  months. 

TOHATO   PICKLE 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Hall. 

Ten  pounds  green  tomatoes;  3^  pounds  brown  sugar; 
I  tablespoon  whole  cloves;  i  pint  strong  vinegar;  salt;  3 
sticks  cinnamon. 

Wash  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  then  in  a  jar  put  a  layer  of 
tomatoes,  then  a  light  layer  of  salt,  and  so  continue  until  the 
tomatoes  are  all  used.  Put  a  weight  on  them  and  let  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  ofi"  the  brine  and  rinse  with 
cold  water.  To  the  vinegar  add  the  sugar,  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Pour  over  the  toma- 
toes and  let  stand  for  twenty-four  hours,  then  pour  off,  boil 
and  pour  over  them  again.  Do  this  for  three  days,  then  seal 
in  jars. 

GREEN  TOMATO  50Y 

Common  Sense  in  the  Household. 

Two  gallons  green  tomatoes — sliced  without  peeling;  12 
good-sized  onions — sliced;    2  quarts  vinegar;     i  quart  sugar; 

1  tablespoon  allspice;   i  tablespoon  cloves;  2  tablespoons  salt; 

2  tablespoons  ground  mustard;  2  tablespoons  black  pepper. 

Mix  all  together  and  stew  until  tender,  stirring  often — lest 
they  should  scorch.     Put  up  in  small  glass  jars. 

This  is  a  most  useful  and  pleasant  sauce  for  almost  every 
kind  of  meat  and  fish. 


j/o  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


GREEN  TOHATO  HIQDEN 

Mrs.  Hancock  Johnston. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes;  12  large  onions;  ^  pound 
mustard;  i  ounce  cloves;  i  ounce  ground  ginger;  i  ounce 
ground  pepper;  i  ounce  allspice;  i  bottle  mixed  mustard;  i 
pound  sugar;   2  soup  ladles  Rowland's  olive  oil. 

The  tomatoes  should  be  sliced  thin,  sprinkled  with  salt, 
and  allowed  to  stand  twenty-four  hours.  The  onions  should 
be  cut  very  thin.  ,  Alternate  layers  of  onion  and  tomato, 
with  layers  of  spices.  Cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  gently 
three  hours. 

OLIVE  0ILPICKLE5 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Worsham. 

One  hundred  cucumber  pickles,  medium  size,  about  as 
large  round  as  a  quarter   of  a  dollar. 

Cut  in  thin  slices;  sprinkle  evenly  through  with  salt,  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Drain  thoroughly,  and  if  too  salty, 
rinse  and  drain  well.  Take  i  large  coflfee  cup  Rowland's 
olive  oil;  %  "^  black  mustard  seed;  ^  ft  white  mustard  seed; 
I  tablespoon  celery  salt;  2  teaspoons  sugar.  Stir  all  well  and 
mix.  Pack  closely  in  jar  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 
Ready  for  use  in  ten  days;  and  will  keep  without  sealing  in  a 
cool,  dry  place. 

OIL  AND  VINEGAR  PICKLES 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

One  hundred  small  cucumbers;  i  quart  small  onions;  8 
tablespoons  Hovvland's  olive  oil;  i  tablespoon  celery  seed;  i 
tablespoon  black  pepper;  salt;    vinegar. 

Quarter  the  cucumbers,  slice  the  onions.  Place  in  a  col- 
ander in  alternate  layers,  with  a  generous  sprinkling  of  salt 
on  each.  Let  them  stand  six  hours,  under  a  heavy  weight, 
mix  the  spices  and  oil,  put  in  the  pickles,  cover  with  cold 
vinegar  and  seal. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE5 

Mrs.  A.  C.  St.  John. 

Cucumbers;  salt;  vinegar. 

Leave  a  small  stem  on  each  cucumber.     Place  them  in  a 


Pickles  J  4. 1 

brine,  that  will  bear  an  ^^z^  fo^^  twenty-four  hours.  Heat 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  cucumbers.  Heat  them  a  few  at 
a  time  in  the  vinegar,  pack  in  a  jar,  and  pour  the  boiling 
vinegar  over  them.     These  will  keep  for  months. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES,  SWEET 

Mrs.  Hayward. 

Ripe  cucumbers;  i  pint  vinegar;  i  cup  sugar;  i 
tablespoon  ginger;  i  teaspoon  mustard;  i  teaspoon  cassia; 
^  teaspoon  mace  and  nutmeg.  t 

Pare  the  cucumbers,  quarter  them  lengthwise,  remove  the 
seeds,  sprinkle  with  salt,  let  them  stand  over  night,  then 
drain  them  in  a  colander.  Boil  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices 
until  clear,  then  put  in  the  encumbers  and  cook,  taking  out 
each  piece  carefully  when  done.  There  should  be  sufiBcient 
syrup  to  cover  the  cucumbers. 

SPICED  CUCUHBER  PICKLES 

Mrs.  Kenyon  Cox,  Long  Beach. 

One  hundred  cucumbers;  3  large  green  peppers;  2  quarts 
vinegar;  i  tablespoon  whole  cloves;  i  tablespoon  whole  all- 
spice; I  tablespoon  white  mustard  seed;  slips  of  horseradish; 
alum — size  of  walnut;  y^  cup  salt. 

Wash  the  cucumbers;    rub  them  well,  and  put  in  a  jar 
with  the  peppers,  salt  and  alum.     Add  the  spices  to  the  vine- 
gar.    Heat  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  over  the  pickles 
Cover  with  cabbage  leaves. 

CUCUHBER  MANGOES— A  Kentucky  Recipe 

Mrs.  G.  Wiley   Wells. 

Large  cucumbers;  brine;  cider  vinegar;  cloves;  allspice; 
ginger  root;  red  pepper;  cinnamon;  white  mustard  seed; 
celery  seed;  one  cup  of  Howland's  olive  oil;  alum. 

Keep  the  cucumbers  in  brine  that  will  float  an  ^^^^  three 
or  four  weeks;  then  soak  in  water  until  the  salt  is  well  out. 
Green  them  in  a  brass  kettle  with  alum.  Cover  them  with 
grape  leaves,  then  cover  with  vinegar.  When  green,  throw 
them  into  water  until  cold.  Wipe  dry,  and  put  them  in 
vinegar,  with  oil  and  spices. 


^jf.2  How    We  Cook  171  Los  Angeles 

Stufiing  for  Mangoes. — Two  dozen  heads  cabbage — chop- 
ped fine;  i  dozen  onions — chopped  fine;  i  pound  celery  seed; 
I  pound  black  mustard  seed;     i  pound  white  mustard  seed. 

Half  pound  stick  cinnamon;  i  cup  horseradish;  y^.  cup 
mace;  white  ginger  root;  a  piece  garlic; — all  chopped  fine 
and  well  mixed. 

Three  quarts  chow  chow — (Cross  &  Blackwell's);  i  cup 
mustard  and  tumeric — mixed;   i  bottle  olive  oil — the  best. 

Mix  the  spices  with  the  oil.  Chop  the  chow  chow  and 
mix  it  with  the  mustard  and  tumeric.  Cut  a  slit  in  the 
cucumbers,  stuflf,  tie,  and  put  them  in  the  prepared  vinegar. 
If  any  stufiing  is  left,  add  that  also. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Dunham,  Moreno 

Half  pint  chopped  onions;  ^  pint  chopped  green  peppers; 
y^  cup  sugar;  2)^  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  crushed; 
I  tablespoon  salt;  i  pt.  vinegar. 

The  chopped  onions  and  peppers  should  be  cooked  about 
one  hour  (in  sufiicient  water  to  prevent  burning)  before  add- 
ing the  tomatoes,  then  cook  till  the  tomatoes  are  thoroughly 
softened.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  then  add  the  salt  and 
sugar,  boil  until  about  half  cooked  away,  then  add  the 
vinegar  and  continue  boiling  till  as  thick  as  desired.  This 
will  keep  indefinitely  without  sealing. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Mrs.  W.    J.  Horner. 

Twenty  four  large,  ripe,  tomatoes;  12  chili  peppers;  2 
large  onions;  i  tablespoon  salt;  i  dessert  spoon  cinnamon;  i 
dessert  spoon  allspice;  i  dessert  spoon  ginger;  )4  teaspoon 
cayenne;   i  cup  sugar;   i  quart  vinegar. 

Boil  slowly  two  hours,  bottle  while  hot,  and  seal. 

FRENCH    MUSTARD 

Alice  L.  Curtain. 

One  generous  pint  vinegar;  3  large  onions,  chopped  fine; 
I  teaspoon  white  pepper;   i  teaspoon  salt;  i  tablespoon  brown 


Pickles  j^j 

sugar;    3    tablespoons   mustard;      i    tablespoon     Rowland's 
olive  oil  or  butter. 

Cover  the  chopped  onions  with  the  vinegar,  let  it  stand 
three  days,  then  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  squeezing  the 
onions  dry.  Mix  the  mustard  smooth,  in  a  little  vinegar, 
add  to  it  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  until  it  thickens, 
stirring,  to  prevent  burning,  bottle.      Will  keep  a  long  time-. 

AROHATIC  MUSTARD 

The  same  as  French,  with  the  addition  of  another  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  and  one   teaspoon    of  ground    cinnamon   and 

cloves. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Spence. 

Three  gal.  tomato  juice;  3  pints  vinegar;  9  tablespoons 
salt;  6  tablespoons  black  pepper;  i  tablespoon  cayenne;  5 
tablespoons  cloves;  3  tablespoons  allspice;  3  tablespoons  cin- 
namon; 3  tablespoons  mustard. 

Boil  until  of  the  usual  consistency  of  catsup. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

Mrs.  John  Beckwith. 

One  gallon  peeled  tomatoes;  2  tablespoons  allspice;  3 
tablespoons  salt;  3  tablespoons  ground  mustard;  3  tablespoons 
black  pepper;  6  pods  red  peppers;   i  quart  vinegar. 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  slowly  in  the  vinegar  for  three 
hours,  press  through  a  sieve  and  then  simmer  down  to  one- 
half.     Put  in  bottles  and  seal  while  hot. 

CUCUMBER    CATSUP 

A.  C.  B. 

Three  doz.  large,  ripe  cucumbers;  i  doz.  onions;  i  table- 
spoon black  pepper;  3  pods  red  peppers;  i  teaspoon  ground 
cloves;    mace;  allspice;  vinegar,    salt. 

Slice  the  cucumbers  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
let  drain  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  the  black  pepper; 
red  pepper,  chopped;  cloves;  mace  and  allspice,  put  in  jars, 
pour  hot  vinegar  over,  and  seal. 


j^^  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

PICALILLI 

Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Dunham,  Moreno. 

Three-fourths  gallon  chopped  cabbage;  i^  tablespoons  all- 
spice; I  gallon  chopped  green  tomatoes;  i^^  tablespoons 
broken  mace;  6  tablespoons  mustard;  i^  tablespoons  cinna- 
mon; 3  tablespoons  celery  seed;  i  tablespoon  cloves;  i 
tablespoon  black  pepper,  ground;  ^  ft  sugar;  3  quarts 
vinegar. 

Sprinkle  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes  with  salt,  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  squeeze  lightly  in  a  cheese 
cloth  bag  to  free  the  mixture  from  excess  of  water. 

Place  in  a  granite  ware  pan,  add  spices,  sugar,  and 
vinegar.  The  allspice,  mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  should  be 
chopped,  not  ground.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring.  In 
this  climate  I  have  found  best  to  seal. 

PICKLED  WALNUTS 

Mrs.  Cameron  Thom. 

One  quart  vinegar;  i  ounce  black  pepper;  i  ounce  ginger; 
1  ounce  eschalots;  i  ounce  salt;  i  ounce  pepper;  i  ounce 
mustard  seed. 

Secure  the  walnuts  before  they  become  woody.  Steep 
them  in  brine  one  week,  then  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  new 
brine  and  allow  them  to  simmer  gently.  Drain  and  put  in  a 
cool  place  until  they  become  black,  (about  two  days),  then 
put  them  in  the  hot  pickle  of  vinegar  and  spices. 

riARTYNIA  BEAN  PICKLES 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

One  gallon  beans;  3  pounds  brown  sugar; 

The  beans  should  be  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  your 

nail.     Scald  with  fresh,  weak  brine  seven  times,  every  other 

day.     Cook  them  until  tender,  and  proceed  as  with  any  other 

sweet  pickle. 

GREEN  PEPPER  PICKLES 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

Peppers;  vinegar;  cabbage;  cucumbers;  mace;  cloves; 
cinnamon;  mustard. 

If  the  peppers  are  preferred  less  pungent,  open  the  top  of 


Pickles  j/^5 

each  and  remove  half  the  seeds.  L,ay  them  in  a  brine  of  salt 
and  water  strong  enough  to  bear  an  ^%^.  lyCt  them  remain 
in  this  two  weeks,  being  careful  that  the  brine  covers  them 
and  to  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises.  If  they  are  not  yellow 
at  the  end  of  two  weeks,  let  them  remain  a  little  longer. 
When  yellow,  take  them  from  the  brine,  wash,  and  place  in 
a  kettle  of  cold  water,  cover  with  grape  leaves,  set  near  the 
fire  where  they  will  get  hot,  but  not  cooked.  When  they  are 
greened,  drain,  pack  in  jars,  and  pour  over  them  cold,  spiced 
vinegar.  If  the3^  are  to  be  stuffed,  chop  cabbage  and  cucum- 
bers very  fine.  Season  highly  with  mace,  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  mustard  seed.  Stufi"  each  pepper  with  this  preparation 
and  tie  it  with  a  thread. 

The  bell  pepper  here  is  not  too  fiery  for  pickling. 

PICKLED  ONIONS 

Mrs.  John  Beckwith. 

Small, , white  onions;  vinegar;  unground  black  pepper; 
unground  allspice. 

Peel  the  onions  and  put  them  in  dry  bottles  or  jars.  Pour 
over  them  enough  cold  vinegar  to  cover  them.  To  each  jar, 
add  two  teaspoons  of  allspice  and  the  same  of  black  pepper. 
Cover  securely  and  put  in  a  dry  place;  they  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  a  fortnight. 

This  is  a  simple  recipe,  but  very  delicious,  the  onions 
being  nice  and  crisp. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

One  cabbage;  i  spoonful  cloves;  2  spoonfuls  allspice; 
vinegar. 

Quarter  cabbage  as  for  boiling.  Steam  until  about  three- 
fourths  done.  Remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool  enough, 
stick  in  the  cloves.  Put  in  a  jar,  cover  with  vinegar,  add 
cinnamon  and  allspice. 


^^6  How   We  Cook  i?i  Los  Angeles 

SPICED  ONIONS 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Moore. 

One  quart  cider  vinegar;  2  cups  sugar;  i  teaspoon  pep- 
per;  I  teaspoon  cloves;   i  teaspoon  allspice;   i  teaspoon  salt. 

Slice  the  onions,  pack  them  in  a  jar,  sprinkling  a  little 
salt  on  each  layer.  Scald  the  vinegar  with  the  spices,  and 
pour  it  over  the  onions  while  hot.  After  twenty-four  hours, 
repeat  the  scalding  of  the  vinegar.  The  onions  will  be  ready 
for  use  in  three  or  four  days. 


CANDIES 


Mrs.  W.  T.  Carter 


The  materials  used  in  the  home  manufacture  of  the  finest 
quality  of  so  called  French  candy  are  neither  expensive  nor 
difficult  to  obtain.  Aside  from  sugar,  the  basis  of  all  confec- 
tions, these  materials  consist  chiefly  of  flavors  and  colorings. 
These  can  be  procured  from  your  druggist  or  grocer.  The 
basis  of  Cream  Nuts,  Chocolate  Drops,  Butter  Cups,  Cream 
Bars,  Cocoanut  Drops  and  many  others  is  '"fondant",  or  in 
other  words,  gramdated  sugar  creamed. 

TO  HAKE  FONDANT 

Take  of  granulated  sugar  4  pounds;  water,  i  quart;  cream 
tartar,  yi  teaspoon.  Mix  the  sugar  and  water  together  in  a 
granite  or  porcelain  kettle  and  put  over  a  hot  fire;  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  add  the  cream  tartar.  I^et  the  syrup  cook  to  the 
consistency  of  jelly,  keeping  the  sides  of  the  kettle  wiped 
down  with  a  cloth  and  cold  water.  Try  the  syrup  by  drop- 
ping into  a  cup  of  cold  water;  when  it  can  be  rolled  into  a 
ball,  it  is  done  and  should  be  taken  instantly  from  the  fire 
and  the  kettle  placed  in  a  large  vessel  of  cold  water;  now 
flavor  with  one  tablespoon  vanilla.  While  it  is  still  warm — 
not  hot — stir  the  mass  briskly  with  a  wooden  spatula  or 
paddle,  always  stirring  in  the  same  direction,  until  it  is 
perfectly  white  and  of  a  soft  creamy  texture.  lyCt  the  stirring 
be  brisk  and  uninterrupted  in  order  that  the  syrup  may  not 
granulate.  After  the  sugar  creams,  turn  it  out  on  to  a  sheet 
of  tin,  or  a  cake  board  and  knead  as  you  would  dough  or 
bread.  When  it  is  worked  until    perfectly    smooth,  •  the 

cream  is  ready  for  use,  and  should  be  put  into  an  earthen  jar 
and  covered  with  a  damp  cotton  cloth  and  closely  covered. 
It  will  keep  for  weeks,  and  can  be  sliced  like  butter. 


J ^8  How   W/e  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


CREAM  WALNUTS 

Take  from  the  fondant  pieces  the  size  wanted  and  roll  them 
into  little  balls,  then  press  upon  them  the  half  of  a  walnut  kernel 
until  flattened;    set  on    edge    to   dry.       Cream    dates,  cream 
figs,  and  cream  almonds  are  all  made  in  the  same  way. 
CHOCOLATE  CREAH  DROPS 

Balls  the  size  and  shape  of  small  birds'  eggs  are  made  of 
the  fondant,  and  when  they  are  hardened  (which  will  be  in  lo 
or  12  hours),  they  may  be  dipped  in  chocolate  which  has  been 
melted;  the  vessel  containing  the  melted  chocolate  must  be 
kept  in  pan  of  hot  water  to  prevent  hardening.  Throw  the 
drops  into  the  melted  chocolate,  one  at  a  time,  and  immedi- 
ately dip  them  out  with  a  bent  wire  or  a  table  fork  and  set 
them  on  a  slightly  buttered  paper  to  dry.  When  dry,  they 
are  ready  to  be  eaten  or  put  into  boxes. 

Fruit  Drops  of  all  kinds  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
except  that  the  fondant  must  be  flavored  with  the  desired 
fruit  flavor,  and  instead  of  the  chocolate  coating,  use  the 
fondant  which  should  be  colored  to  represent  the  fruit:  as, 
red  for  the  strawberry  flavor,  yellow  for  lemon  or  peach,  etc. 
Melt  the  fondant  to  be  used  for  a  glace,  add  the  coloring  and 
keep  warm;  but  if  it  should  become  too  stiff,  add  carefully  a 
few  drops  of  hot  water, 

WALNUT  CREAM  BAR 

Have  ready  a  quantity  of  walnuts  finely '^chopped.  Melt 
over  a  slow  fire  the  desired  quantity  of  fondant;  add  the 
walnuts  and,  if  desired,  finely  sliced  citron,  chopped  raisins, 
etc.  Turn  into  a  shallow  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper; 
when  cold,  cut  into  bars, 

COCOANUT  BAR 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner,  except  you  thicken 
the  melted  fondant  with  dessicated  or  grated  cocoanut, 
COCOANUT  CAKES  OR  KISSES 

Prepare  as  for  cocoanut  cream  bars,  and  while  the  mixture 
is  hot,  spread  on  buttered  paper  or  tins  in  cakes  the  desired 


Candies  j^fg 

size;  these  can  be  varied  by  the  use  of  different  coloring 
matter:  making  some  pink,  some  yellow,  some  chocolate,  etc. 
This  fondant,  which  is  the  basis  of  all  the  preceeding  candies, 
or  "bon-bons",  is  also  used  to  glaze  cakes,  biscuits,  etc.,  and 
is  called  "French  glace",  "sugar  icing",  "Conserve",  etc. 
When  used  for  covering  cakes,  it  must  be  diluted  and  poured 
over  them.  If  for  small  cakes  or  biscuits,  melt,  color,  or  not, 
as  you  fancy,  and  dip  them  in.  I  have  confined  my  recipes 
exclusively  to  French  candies.  To  go  into  full  details  con- 
cerning all  kinds  of  candies  would  require  too  much  space. 
These  I  have  very  often  and  very  successfully  made. 

TAFFY 

Miss  Mary  Dickson,  Petaluma. 

Two  cups  sugar;  i  cup  boiling  water;  %.  teaspoon  cream 
tartar;  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Drop  into  cold  water  to  find  when  done.  Pour  into  butter- 
ed pans  and  when  cool  pull  until  white. 

NUT    BARS 

Mrs.  A.  W.  O'Melveuey. 

Peanuts,  almonds,  English  walnuts  or  pecans  may  be 
used  for  this  candy.  Prepare  the  nuts  by  removing  the 
inner  covering  and  chopping  them.  Grease  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  a  broad,  shallow  tin  or  pan  with  fresh  butter  and  put 
the  nuts  into  it.  spreading  evenly.  Put  a  pound  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  with  half  a  teacup  of  water  and  a  pinch  of  cream 
tartar  into  a  kettle  and  boil  until  thick,  but  not  too  brittle. 
Pour  the  syrup  over  the  nuts,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
slightly  stiff,  mark  off  into  wide  bars  with  a  sharp  knife  and 
let  stand  several  days  when  it  will  become  soft  and  delicious. 

POPCORN  CANDY 

Mrs.  A.   W.  O'Melveney. 

Put  two  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  and  a  cup  of 
water  into  a  kettle  to  boil,  until  the  syrup  threads.  Mix  in 
four  quarts  of  popped  corn,  stir,  take  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
until  cool.      Make  into  balls  or  flat  cakes. 


J5^  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

CREAM  CANDY 

Miss  Mary  Dicksou,  Petaluma. 

Two  large  coffee  cups  sugar;  y^  cup  boiling  water;  y^  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar;  i  rounding  tablespoon  glucose. 

Cook  until,  when  lifted  out,  it  will  stay  on  the  spoon  like 
jell)',  when  it  is  done — this  will  not  be  long.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  until  it  creams;  then  mold  with  the  hands. 
This  is  good  cream  for  nuts. 

HARD  CREAM  CANDY 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Pieper- 

Three  teacups  granulated  sugar;  i  cup  weak  vinegar;  2 
teaspoons  flavoring. 

Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling. 
Pull  until  white,  and  cut  in  sticks  or  kisses. 

NUT  TAFFY 

Mrs.    Vaughn. 

Two  pints  maple  syrup;  ^  pint  water. 
Boil,   until  brittle  in  cold  water.     Before  taking  off,  add  a 
tablespoon  of  vinegar.     Line  buttered  pans  with  nut  kernels 
and  pour  taffy  over  them. 

UNCOOKED  FRENCH  CANDIES 

Mis.'  Mary  Dickson,  Petaluma 

Break  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  three  table- 
spoons cold  water;  beat  just  enough  to  mix  the  water  and 
^ZZ^  ^"^  s'^^^  ^^  powdered  sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  be  mold- 
ed into  shape  by  the  fingers;  flavor  with  any  essence  you  like. 
This  is  a  very  good  foundation  for  walnut,  date,  fig,  chocolate, 
pineapple  or  zxiy  kind  of  fruit  or  nut  creams,  or  may  be 
flavored  or  colored  in  any  waj-. 

CREAH  CANDY 

Mrs.    A.  W.    O'Melveney. 

Put  four  cups  granulated  sugar  with  two  of  water  and 
one  of  thick  cream  into  a  kettle;  stir  until  the  sugar  dissolves; 
add  a  tablespoon  butler  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Let  it  boil 
until  it  is  brittle;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Pour  into 
buttered  plates  and  cool  quickly.       Take  up  and  pull  rapidly 


Candies  j^r 

and  evenly  until  the  mass  becomes  soft  and  smooth  to  the 
touch.  Draw  out  into  flat  sticks  and  let  stand  in  a  dry  place 
until  creamy;  then  drop  in  wax  or  buttered  papers,  and  put 
away  in  an  air  tight  box. 

OLD=FASHIONED  BUTTER  SCOTCH 

Mrs.   A.  W.    O'Melveney. 

Put  three  pounds  of  yellow  sugar  in  a  kettle  with  three- 
fourths  pound  of  butter.  Set  it  over  the  fire  to  melt.  Let 
boil  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  scorching. 
Take  from  the  fire,  pour  into  buttered  tins  or  trays;  when 
stiff",  mark  off"  into  squares;  when  cold,  break  apart  and  wrap 
in  wax  paper.  Will  keep  for  a  long  time  and  improve  with 
age. 

LEMON  CARAMELS 

Mrs.  F.  H.   Pieper. 

Two  cups  white  sugar;  2  tablespoons  glucose;  j/z  cup 
boiling  water. 

Boil  together,  stirring  all  the  time,  till  it  snaps  in  cold 
water;  then  add  one  cup  cream,  one  tablespoon  butter,  flavor 
with  lemon.  Pour  out,  cut  into  squares.  Cocoanut  may  be 
used  by  sprinkling  on  before  cutting. 

NUT  CARAflELS 

Mrs.    F    H.  Pieper. 

Four  cups  sugar;  3  tablespoons  glucose;  i  cup  boiling 
water. 

Boil,  stirring  constantly  till  it  snaps;  then  add  one-half 
cup  butter  and  one  cup  cream;  boil  one  minute,  add  two  cups 
chopped  nuts;  pour  on  buttered  tins.  Can  be  flavored  with 
vanilla,  making  vanilla  caramels. 

KISSES 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Pieper. 

Whites  of  2  eggs  into  which  beat  gradually  2  cups 
powdered  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

Drop  on  well-buttered  paper  one  teaspoonful  to  the  kiss, 
(two  inches  apart),  place  paper  on  a  tin  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  just  long  enough  to  turn  a  little  yellow. 


j^2  How   U'e  Cook  in  Los  Angeled 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

Mrs.    M.  J.  Dauison. 

One  cup  grated  chocolate;  i  cup  milk;  i  cup  molasses;  i 
cup  sugar;  bntter  the  size  of  an  ^ZZ'^  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Boil  until  it  will  harden  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Put  into  buttered  pans  and  before  it  is  cold,  mark  off  into 
square  blocks. 

PEANUT  CANDY 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Hayward,  St.  John,  N.  B. 

Two  cups  molasses;  i  cup  brown  sugar;  i  tablespoon  butter; 
I  tablespoon  vinegar. 

Boil  all  together  until  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Put  the  skinned  peanut  kernels  into  buttered  pans  and  when 
the  candy  is  done,  pour  over  them.  Mark  into  squares  while 
warm. 

NUT  MACAROONS 

One  pound  powdered  sugar;  5  eggs,  whites  only,  unbeaten; 
I  pound  nuts,  chopped  fine;  i  tablespoon  flour;  2  small  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder. 

Weigh  the  nuts  before  cracking.  Mix  the  ingredients 
together  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon  upon  buttered  paper,  on 
baking  tins.  Do  not  put  them  too  near  each  other.  Bake  to 
a  light  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COCOANUT    DROPS 

Mrs.    W.  H.    Hayward,  St.  John,  N.  B. 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth;  add  gradually  i 
small  cup  sugar;  i  cup  cocoanut,  and  i  spoonful  of  flour. 
Bake  five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

MOLASSES   TAFFY 

Mrs.   W.  H.  Hayward,  St.  John,  N.  B. 

One  cup  molasses;  i  cup  sugar;  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  ^%g.  Boil  hard  and  test  in  cold  water.  When  brittle, 
pour  into  buttered  pans.  As  it  cools,  mark  in  squares  with 
the  back  of  a  knife. 


Candies  j5j 

SUGAR  CANDY 

Mrs.  Alice  Curtain. 

Six  cups  white  sugar,  i  cup  water;  i  tablespoon  butter;  i 
cup  vinegar;  i  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  hot  water;  2  teaspoons 
Watson's  vanilla. 

Put  together  the  sugar,  water,  and  vinegar,  and  boil  with- 
out stirring;  test  by  dropping  into  cold  water;  when  it  snaps 
in  pieces  when  struck  against  the  side  of  the  cup,  it  is  done. 
Before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  butter,  soda  and  vanilla. 

COCO  AN  UT  CANDY 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Pieper. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar;  4  cups  water;  4 
teaspoons  vinegar;  butter,  size  of  an  ^%%. 

Boil  all  till  thick,  or  about  forty-five  minutes.  Just  before 
removing  from  fire,  stir  in  i  cup  grated  cocoanut.  Pour  on 
buttered  plates  to  cool. 

SALTED  ALHONDS 

Miss  K.  R.  Paxton. 

Procure,  if  possible,  the  finest  Jordan  almonds,  cover  i 
quart  of  them  with  boiling  water;  put  on  stove,  stir  two  or 
three  times  from  the  bottom  that  they  may  be  blanched  evenl}\ 
When  the  skins  slip  off  easily,  drain  off  the  water  and  cover 
with  cold  water  for  about  two  minutes.  Drain,  rub  off"  skins 
and  spread  on  cloths  in  a  warm  place  to  dry,  stirring  occa- 
sionally, lyeave  in  warmth  till  brittle.  Put  one  scant 
teaspoon  Rowland's  olive  oil  in  a  shallow  pan,  heat  it,  put  in 
almonds  and  stir  them  until  slightly  oiled.  Place  in  a  moder- 
oven  until  a  delicate  brown,  stirring  often.  Take  from  oven 
and  sprinkle,  while  hot,  with  the  finest  powdered  salt. 

ORANGE  DROPS 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Hayward,  St.  John,  N.  B. 

Grate  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  one  orange,  add  to  this 
a  pinch  of  Tartaric  acid;  then  stir  in  confectioner's  sugar 
until  stiff"  enough  to  form  into  balls  the  size  of  small  marbles. 
Substitute  lemon  for  orange  and  you  have  delicious  lemon 
drops. 


j5/  How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

MARSH  HALLOWS 

Mrs.  A.  W.  O'Melveuey. 

Dissolve,  by  heating  over  a  slow  fire,  eight  ounces  gum 
arable  in  three  gills  water;  stir  and  strain.  Boil  one  ounce 
marsh  mallow  roots  in  a  little  water  for  half  an  hour  low. 
Add  the  gum  solution  with  a  half  pound  of  loaf  or  powdered 
sugar;  let  cook  slowly  and  stir  constantly  until  it  becomes  a 
thick  paste  which  will  roll  between  the  fingers.  Add  the 
well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  stir  for  a  minute  or  two  and 
pour  into  a  pan  to  cool.  Sheets  of  white  paper  should  be 
placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  the  ends  projecting  in 
order  to  lift  out  the  paste,  when  it  may  be  cut  into  little 
blocks  and  rolled  in  pow^dered  sugar. 

FIG  PASTE 

Mrs.  A.  W.  CMelveney. 

Chop  into  small  pieces  and  boil,  one  ft)  figs;  when  soft, 
press  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  which  should  be  reduced  to  one  cupful.  Stir  in 
three  ft)S  granulated  sugar  and  cook  down  slowly,  until  a 
thick  paste  is  formed.  Pour  into  pans  lined  with  paper;  let 
cool,  take  out  on  paper  and  cut  into  sections.  Dust  with 
powdered  sugar. 

PENOCHA  CANDY 

Mrs.  Alice  Curtaiu. 

One  cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups  brown  sugar;  2  lbs  walnuts 
or  as  many  as  you  like. 

Do  not  stir.  This  candy  takes  a  long  time  to  cook.  Just 
before  it  is  done,  put  in  the  nuts. 


INVALID  COOKERY 


GRAHAM  GEMS 

Mrs.  T.    F.  McCamant. 

Mix  a  batter  of  graham  flour  and  water.  Let  it  stand 
until  sour,  the  same  as  for  old-fashioned  buckwheat  cakes. 
When  of  the  proper  consistency,  add  a  little  melted  suet  or 
butter  and  salt.  While  your  gem  tins  are  heating,  stir  in 
thoroughly  ^  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The 
quantity  of  soda  must  necessarily  be  regulated  by  the  sourness 
of    the  batter,   it    is  not  always   alike.  "Practice  makes 

perfect." 

GRAHAM  PANCAKES 

Mrs.  T.    F.  McCamant. 

Mix  the  same  as  for  gems,  only  thinner  and  leave  out  the 
shortening.  Sour  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water.  A 
little  sugar  put  in  the  batter  will  make  the  cakes  brown  nicer. 
Use  the  soda  of  course. 

EGG  LEMONADE 

Beat  the  white  of  one  fresh  egg;  the  juice  of  one  lemon 
and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  into  a  glass  of  water.  Pleasant  and 
nourishing  for  invalids. 

BAKED  MILK 

Put  }4  gallon  milk  in  a  jar,  and  cover  closely  with  writing 
paper,  tie  over  the  mouth.  Let  it  stand  in  a  moderate  oven 
8  or  ID  hours.  It  will  then  be  like  cream,  and  is  excellent 
for  invalids;  consumptives  especially. 

REFRESHING  DRINK 

One  ft)  ground  flax-seed  and  2  lemons  boiled  together  in 
4  quarts  of  water.  When  cool,  sweeten  to  taste.  Good  for 
persons  with  weak  lungs. 


S5(>  How    We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

CIDER  PANADA 

Pour  y^  cup  water  over  a  slice  of  nice  toast;  sprinkle 
lightly  with  nutmeg  and  sugar.  Then  add  4  tablespoons 
cider.     Any  fruit  cordial  may  be  used  if  preferred. 

QUICK  BEEF  TEA 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

Take  a  round  steak  (always  the  best  piece  of  meat  for 
invalids),  cut  into  pieces  the  size  of  your  hand.  Have  ready 
a  cup  in  hot  water.  Broil  your  steak  quickly  on  both  sides, 
turning  quickly  to  retain  the  juice;  broiling  only  enough  to 
start  the  juice.  Squeeze  with  a  lemon  squeezer  the  juice  into 
the  hot  cup;  add  a  little  salt;  and  carry  to  the  invalid  with 
the  cup  still  in  hot  water,  to  prevent  coagulation. 

STEAK 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

Scrape  from  round  steak  sufficient  meat  to  make  a  patty 
the  size  of  a  dollar  or  larger.  Have  ready  a  nicely  browned 
piece  of  toast  moistened  with  hot  water.  When  you  broil 
your  patty,  broil  also  pieces  of  steak,  turning  every  minute. 
Put  the  patty  on  the  toast,  and  squeeze  the  juice  from  the 
steak  over  it.     Serve  very  hot. 

BOILED  RICE 

Mrs.  J.   F.  Conroy. 

Thoroughly  wash  i  cup  rice;  put  into  plenty  of  boiling 
water,  and  salt  it;  boil  until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with 
finger  nail.  Turn  into  a  colander  and  hold  under  water  faucet 
until  the  water  runs  through  perfectly  clear.  Put  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  salt  to  taste.  Set  in  a  hot  oven  for  five 
minutes,  shaking  occasionally.  Grate  a  little  loaf  sugar  over 
it  and  serve  immediately.  Never  stir  rice  with  a  spoon  or  fork 
as  it  breaks  the  grains  and  spoils  the  flavor. 

TO  POACH  AN  EGG 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

Take  fresh,,  cold  water  and  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil. 
Take  from  over  the  fire  and  drop  an  ^^%  into  it;  from  8  to  10 


Candies  j^y 

minutes  will  be  required  to  cook  sufficiently.       Never  let  the 
water  boil  after  the  &gg  is  added  as  that  make  it  indigestible. 

CARAMEL  COFFEE 

Mrs.  Jerome  Curtin. 

Six  cups  bran;  6  cups  rolled  oats;  i  large  cup  New 
Orleans  molasses. 

Rub  the  ingredients  thoroughly  with  the  hands.  Brown 
in  the  oven  very  carefully,  stirring  often;  no  grinding  is 
necessary.  This  recipe  has  been  used  very  successfully  in  a 
Sanitorium,  One  tablespoonful  to  the  person.  If  desired, 
clear  with  white  of  e:gg. 

OAT  MEAL  GRUEL 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Baldwin. 

One  cup  rolled  oats;  put  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.  With  the 
hands,  squeeze  the  oats  in  the  water  three  or  four  times. 
Then  strain  the  water  and  boil  from  one-half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  gruel.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  sugar,  if  desired. 

EGG  RELI5H 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Baldwin. 

Break  the  egg  separatel)',  and  beat  each  part  one-half  an 
hour;  put  together  and  beat  one-quarter  hour.  Then  add  one 
teaspoon  fruit  cordial  and  fill  the  glass  with  milk, 

BLACKBERRY  SYRUP 

One  quart  blackberry  juice;  2  lbs  granulated  sugar;  i  oz. 
ground  cinnamon;  ]4.  oz.  ground  mace;  3  teaspoons  ground 
cloves. 

Boil  all  together  in  a  porcelain  kettle  for  fifteen  minutes; 
then  strain,  and  seal  in  glass  jars. 

nULLED  BUTTERMILK 

Mrs.    Wm.    F.   Marshall, 

One  quart  buttermilk;  i  scant,  rounded  tablespoon  flour. 
Put  the  buttermilk  in  a  bowl;  place  in  a  saucepan  of  cold 
water  and  put  over  the  fire;  stir  slowly  all  the  time.  Mix  the 
flour  smooth  with  a  little  buttermilk  or  water;  when  the 
buttermilk  is  a  little  more  than  lukewarm,  stir  in  the 
thickening.       Now  stir  thoroughly,    watching  closely,    and 


j^8  How   We  Cook  in  Los  A^igeles 

when  it  looks  as  if  full  of  fine  grains  as  it  runs  from  the 
spoon,  remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  of  the  hot  water  and 
keep  stirring  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  In  order  to  make  this 
successfully,  the  buttermilk  must  be  fresh,  and  procured 
where  churning  is  done  frequently  so  that  it  shall  be  good 
and  sweet. 

HULLED  BUTTERMILK 

By  an  Invalid. 

Make  a  thickening  of  i  tablespoon  flour  and  cold  butter- 
milk. Stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling  buttermilk;  stir  constantly 
after  putting  over  the  fire.  Add  a  little  allspice  and  sweeten 
to  taste.     Pour  over  slices  of  toast. 

JELLY  WATER  FOR  FEVER5 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Couroy. 

Mix  I  teaspoon  cherry  or  blackberry  jelly  in  a  glass  of 
cool  water;  drink  immediately. 

ISLAND  MOSS  JELLY 

Soak  one  handful  of  moss  in  water  enough  to  cover,  for 
one  hour;  then  stir  it  in  to  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and 
simmer  until  it  is  dissolved.  Remove  from  the  fire,  sweeten 
to  taste  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice,  cinnamon  stick  or  fruit 
cordial;  strain  and  pour  into  molds;  cool  before  using. 

ISINGLASS  JELLY 

Put  I  oz.  of  isinglass  and  i  oz.  loaf  sugar  into  a  gill  of 
cold  water,  and  place  over  the  fire  until  the  isinglass  dissolves. 
Remove  the  jelly  from  the  fire;  add  i  pint  rich  currant  or 
blackberry  cordial,  and  strain  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag. 

ARROWROOT  JELLY 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Conroy. 

One  cup  boiling  water;  2  heaping  teaspoons  arrowroot;  2 
teaspoons  white  sugar;  3  tablespoons  blackberry  cordial. 
Excellent  for  children  with  any  bowel  trouble. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


Mrs.  Lincoln. 


4  teaspoons  of  liquid =  i  tablespoon 

3         "  "  dry  material :=  i  " 

I  pt.  of  milk  or  water =:  i  pound 

I  pt.  of  chopped  meat  packed  solidly...   =  i       " 

9  large  eggs  or  10  medium  ones =  i       " 

I  round  tablespoon  butter =  i  oz. 

1  heaping       "  "       =  2  oz.  or  J/;  cup 

Butter  size  of  an  egg =  2  oz,  or  X  cup 

2  round   tablespoons   flour,  coffee  or 

powdered    sugar =  i  oz. 

I  tablespoon   liquid =  ^  oz. 

TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS 

I  even  teaspoon  soda  and  2  full  ones  of  cream  tartar  to  i 
qt.  flour. 

3  heaping  or  4  even  teaspoons  baking  powder  to  i  qt 
flour. 

I  teaspoon  soda  to  one  pint  of  sour  milk. 

I  teaspoon  soda  to  i  cup  molasses. 

I  saltspoon  salt  to  i  qt.  milk  for  custard. 

A  pinch  of  salt  or  spice  is  about  a  saltspoonful. 


LIST  OF  UTENSILS 

Needed  in  Every  Well-to-do  Family  of  Six  Persons  or  More. 


Miss  Ida  G.  Maynard. 


EARTHENWARE 

I,  2  qt,  pitcher. 
I,  I  qt.  pitcher. 

1,  I  pt.  pitcher. 

2,  6  qt.  bowls. 
2,  2  qt.  bowls. 
2,  I  qt.  bowls. 
2,  I  pt.  bowls. 
12  cups  for  popovers. 
2  round  baking  dishes. 
2  medium  oval  platters 

1  blanc  mange  mold, 

2  stone    jugs,    one  each     for 
molasses  and  vinegar. 

1  bean  pot. 

Glass  jars  for  groceries. 
4  plates. 

2  stone  jars. 

IRONWARE 

I  frying-pan. 

I  griddle. 

I,  6  qt.  pot. 

I  dripping-pan  for  meat. 

I  dripping-pan  for  fish. 

I  meat  rack. 

I  lemon  squeezer. 

I  French  frying-pan. 

1  Scotch  bowl. 

2  sets  gem  pans. 
I  waffle  iron. 


I  salamander. 

I  pair  scales. 

6  kitchen  knives. 

6  kitchen  forks. 

2  vegetable  knives. 

I  carving  knife. 

I  bread  knife. 

I  palette  knife. 

I  French  vegetable  scoop. 

I  meat  fork. 

I  pie  fork. 

2  mixing  spoons. 

for      2  ivory  salt  spoons. 

6  tablespoons. 

6  teaspoons. 

I  set  skewers. 

I  set  larding  needles. 

I  pastry  wheel. 

I  cake  turner. 

2  cake  pans,  Russian  iron. 

3  bread  pans,  Russian  iron 

I  roll  pan,  Russian  iron. 

I  chopping  knife. 

AGATE  WARE. 

I,  2  qt.  double  boiler. 

I,  4  qt.  covered  kettle. 

I,  2  qt.          "      stewpan. 

I,  3Pt. 

I,  3  pt.  saucepan. 

I,  I  pt. 

List  of  Ute7isils 


361 


1,  I  qt.  saucepan 
I  preserve  kettle. 
I,  2  qt.  round  pan. 

1, 3qt.     "      " 

I  soup  kettle. 
I  teapot. 

1  coflfee  pot. 

2  shallow  pie  plates. 
2  deep  pie  plates. 

I  egg  poacher. 

WOODENWARE 

I  large  bread  board. 

I  small  bread  board. 

1  meat  board. 

I  large  chopping  tray. 

1  small  chopping  tray. 

I  potato  masher. 

I  mortar  and  pestle. 

I  potato  slicer. 

I  gal.  ice  cream  freezer. 

I  ice  pick. 

1  wooden  mallet. 

2  butter  paddles. 
I  rolling  pin. 

Wooden     buckets    for  sugar 
and  meal. 

TINWARE 

I  large  grater. 
I  nutmeg  grater. 
I  apple  corer. 
I  flour  dredge. 
I  sugar  dredge. 
I  salt  dredge. 
I  pepper  box. 
I  spice  box. 
I  grocers'  funnel. 
I  funnel  for  liquids. 


I  wire  broiler  for  steak. 
I  wire  broiler  for  fish. 
I  wire  broiler  for  toast. 
I  wire  potato  masher. 
I  wire  frying-basket. 
I  large  Dover  ^%^  beater. 
I  small  Dover  ^%%  beater. 
I  fine  wire  strainer. 
I  flour  sifter. 
I  soup  strainer. 
I  colander. 

1  wire  dish  cloth. 

2  large  dish  pans. 

I  small  dish  pan  for  flour. 

I,  4qt.  milk  pan. 

I,  I  pt.  measure. 

4,  y^  pt,  measuring  cups. 

I  brown  bread  mold. 

I  oval  mold. 

I  pudding  mold. 

I  melon  mold. 

I  jelly  mold. 

I  doz.  small  corn  cake  tins. 

I  doz.  scalloped  tins  for  cakes. 

I  doz.  muffin  rings, 

I  whip  churn. 

I  large  biscuit  cutter. 

1  small  biscuit  cutter. 
6  vegetable  cutters. 

2  pattie  cutters. 
I  ladle. 

I  doughnut  cutter. 

I  long  handled  skimmer. 

1  long-handled  dipper. 

2  shallow  jelly  cake  pans. 
2  deep  jelly  cake  pans. 

I  canister  for  tea. 


:^62  How  We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 

I  canister  for  coffee.  i  streamer   to  fit  over  kettle. 

I  cake  box.  i  fish  sheet. 

I  bread  box.  i  ginger-bread  sheet. 


HINTS 


Cold  tea  is  excellent  for  cleaning  grained  wood. 

The  ashes  of  wheat  straw  make  an  excellent  silver  polish. 
Apply  with  soft  leather  or  chamois. 

Little  bags  of  unground  pepper  pinned  to  hangings  and 
among  clothes  in  wardrobes  will  keep  away  moths.  Ground 
black  pepper  sprinkled  plentifully  into  fur  will  preserve 
effectually  from  moths. 

Sprinkle  fine  meal  on  grease  spots  in  your  carpet.  Let  it 
remain  several  hours  and  it  will  have  absorbed  the  grease. 

Tar  on  cotton  goods  can  be  removed  by  spreading  clean 
lard  on  the  part  stained,  and  allowing  it  to  remain  for  some 
little  time. 

Rub  ink  stains  on  linen  with  clean  tallow  before  washing 
and  boiling. 

To  remove  grease  from  silk  goods,  wash  with  ether. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  A. 

To  set  the  color  in  any  cotton  or  linen  goods,  dissolve 
one  tablespoon  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a  pail  of  very  hot  water. 
This  will  be  sufficient  for  lo  or  12  yards  of  goods.  Dip 
thoroughly,  seeing  that  every  part  is  evenly  wet.  Keep  in 
the  water  from  20  to  30  minutes.  This  will  not  injure  the 
most  delicate  color,  but  fix  it  iudellibly.  If  you  feel  at  all 
doubtful,  try  a  small  piece  of  your  goods — dry,  then  wash  in 
the  ordinary  way. 

Lemon  juice  and  salt  will  usually  remove  rust. 

To  take  stains  from  silk,  use  i  part  essence  of  lemon  and 
5  parts  spirits  of  turpentine.     Apply  with  a  linen  cloth. 

EVENING  SUPPERS 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Ayers. 

One  gallon  of  ice-cream  for  every  twenty  guests;  one  hun- 


7<5/  How   W^e  Cook  i7i  Los  Angeles 

dred  and  fifty  sandwiches  for  every  hundred  people;  five 
chickens  and  one  dozen  heads  celery  to  fifty  persons;  twenty 
cakes  for  every  hundred  persons. 

TO  PURIFY  WATER 

Mrs.  George  Bixby. 

Pare  a  cactus,  slice,  and  lay  in  bottom  of  water  pitcher. 


A  little  kerosene  oil,  stirred  into  starch,  will  prevent  flat- 
irons  from  sticking. 

Kerosene  will  remove  the  smoke  of  coal  oil  stoves  from 
tins. 

Red  Seal,  Granulated  98  per  Cent.  Lye  or  Potash. 

p.  C.  Thomson,  955  Otsego  Street,  Phil. 

For  making  lo  pounds  of  hard  soap  without  boiling. 
Take  5^  pounds  of  clean  grease,  free  from  salt,  melt  in 
ordinary  pan  or  kettle,  and  set  aside  to  cool  until  lukewarm. 
While  the  grease  is  cooling,  take  one  can  of  Thomson's  Red 
Seal  I^ye  or  Potash,  and  dissolve  the  contents  in  y/z  pints 
cold  water,  in  an  earthen  or  iron  vessel  or  pan.  When  the 
lye  or  potash  is  about  summer  heat,  pour  it  slowly  into  the 
grease — not  the  grease  into  the  lye.  Stir  until  the  lye  and 
grease  are  thoroughly  combined  and  become  thick,  when  the 
stirring  should  cease.  Set  in  a  cool  place  till  the  soap 
becomes  hard. 


INDEX 


FOOD   COMBINATIONS 


Beef,  Roast       .        ...  25 

"      Broiled      ....  25 

Birds,  Small       ....  26 

Brains 26 

Chicken 26 

Ducks 26 

Fish 25 

Lamb 26 

Liver .26 

Mutton 25 


Pork 26 

Soup 25 


Sweet  Breads    . 

Turkey 

Veal      .... 

Venison 

Old   Time  Hospitality 

Mrs.  Alcott's  Table 

Table  Decorations    . 


26 
26 
25 
26 
21 
35 
38 


MENUS  AND  DECORATIONS 


Breakfast    . 


A  Rose 

July  • 

October 

Simple  June 
Dinner,  June 

"        Green  and  White  Spring 
"        Sigma  Chi,  Greek 


47       Dinner 

46 

46 

45 

45 

47 

47 

45 

52 

53 

53 

54 

55 

55 

56 


.  57 

57 

58 

"        October  and  November  56 

Luncheon 51 

.  52 

.  52 

.  49 

.  49 

.  50 

.  50 

.  51 

.  49 

.  48 


May  Day 

January 

Magrenta 


Salad,  Beet 
"       Cabbasre 


Cove  Oysters 
Celery   . 
Cheese  Lettuce 
Chicken 

Cucumber     . 
Egg 


SALADS 

66       Sala 

67 

67 

69 

64 

67 

70 

71 

66 

71 


5gg      ... 

72 

stuffed 

71 

Fruit 

72 

"... 

72 

"... 

73 

Green  Pepper 

65 

Lettuce 

64 

Lobster 

69 

Mixed    . 

67 

Orange . 

.     72 

3^6 


How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


Salad,  Potato 

65 

Salad,  Dressing,  Mayonnaise 

"            "                  .        . 

66 

cooked 

61 

"        Salmon 

68 

" 

"        Maj'onnaise 

60 

"        Shaddock    . 

72 

" 

"        Mayonnaise 

62 

"        Shrimp  . 

68 
68 

u 

"        Mayonnaise 
"        Ma3'onnaise 

63 

"        Shrimp  and  Cucumbe 

r     69 

Oyster 

68 

"        Sour  Cream 

60 

" 

"        Mayonnaise 

"        Tomato,  delicious 

65 
65 

" 

Sauce 
"        Mayonnaise 

61 

"        Dressing,  boiled  . 

63 

Sweet 

"                "         Cream 

60 
64. 

.> 

Breads 

69 
62 

"                "         English 

63 

" 

... 

63 

*'                "         French 

60 

" 

"        Transparent 

Hot  Cream 

60 

Orange 

59 

Jellied    Tra 

ns- 

" 

"        Transparent 

pareni 

Tomato 

60 

Orangt 

;     59 

" 

"        Parker 

House 

64 

SOUPS 

Soup,  Almond   . 

88 

Soup 

, Gumbo      .... 

80 

Amber  or  Consomme   . 

77 

.... 

81 

Asparagus 

87 

Kentucky  Chicken 

80 

Bean 

86 

Marrowfat  balls  for 

76 

Bouillon   . 

76 

Mock  Bisque   . 

84 

Bisque  of  Oysters  . 

90 

"    Turtle     . 

89 

Brown,  Southern    . 

79 

Mullagatawny 

78 

Caramel  for  Coloring 

.     75 

Mushroom 

81 

Celery       . 

86 

New     Orleans    Crab 

"             ... 

87 

Gumbo     . 

88 

Chicken     . 

80 

Okra          .... 

81 

Consomm6  Royal  . 

77 

Oxtail 

79 

Com 

82 
82 

0\'ster  Stew    . 

90 
90 

Crab 

88 
89 

Plain  Beef 
Potato      . 

78 
28 

Cream  of  Asparagus 

87 

" 

83 

Cream  of  Celery    . 

87 

" 

83 

Dumplings  for 

93 

Profiteroles  for 

75 

Green  Pea 

85 
85 

Scotch 

79 
75 

"      Turtle   . 

89 

Spinach    . 

83 

Index 


367 


Soup,  To  clear  stock 

74 

Soup 

"        Cream 

.      84 

"      Tomato    . 

84 

" 

"             •' 

.      85 

"             "... 

84 

" 

To  make  force  meat  balls     75 

<l                       u 

85 

" 

White 

.      79 

FISH 

A  Nice  Breakfast  Dish    . 

98 

Hadd 

ie,  Finnan 

.      96 

Codfish  Balls     . 

102 

Halibut,    au   Gratin 

.      97 

"            " 

102 

" 

Maitre  d'  Hote 

1        .      97 

"         Escaloped 

103 

Lobster.  Creamed     . 

.   108 

"         Roasted 

102 

" 

Deviled 

.   108 

To  Cook 

102 

" 

a  la  Newberg 

.   108 

Crab  for  Luncheon 

109 

" 

Stewed 

.   108 

"      a  la  Creole 

110 

Nice  Breakfast  Dish  . 

.      98 

■'      en  Coquille 

110 

Oyster  Cream    . 

.   104 

"      Deviled      . 

109 

" 

Creamed 

.   105 

Fish,  Baked  White 

94 

" 

Curried  . 

.   106 

Shad 

94 

" 

Cocktail 

.   107 

" 

95 

" 

Broiled  . 

.   106 

"      Broiled     . 

96 

" 

Deviled  . 

.   105 

"            "        Salmon 

100 

" 

Escaloped 

.   104 

Trout 

98 

" 

Fried      . 

.   105 

"      Boiled 

99 

" 

In  Ice 

.   107 

*'      Breaded  Smelts 

99 

" 

Short  Cake  . 

.   107 

"      Baked  Halibut 

95 

" 

a  la  Poulette 

.   104 

"      Cream 

98 

" 

Roll 

.   106 

"      Dr\'  Dressing  for  Baked 

95 

" 

Pie  . 

.   106 

"      Egg  Sauce  for 

96 

" 

Patties  . 

.   106 

"      Escaloped  Salmon 

101 

Salmon  Loaf     . 

.   100 

" 

101 

" 

" 

.   100 

"      a  la  Cream 

98 

Salt  Fish  Pudding     . 

•      99 

"      Toast    . 

99 

Shrimps,  Deviled 

.   Ill 

"      Turbot      . 

103 

" 

Timbale  of 

.   Ill 

"      Sauce  for  . 

97 

Terrapin 

.   110 

"      To  Cook  Coarse grainec 

96 

Turbot,  a  la  Cream 

.   103 

"      Cold  Salmon   . 

101 

" 

.   103 

"       Fried  of  any  kind  . 

98 

" 

Fish      . 

.   103 

Frogs'  Legs,  Fried    . 

111 

ENTREES 

Beef  Loaf 120 

"     Roll 119 

Brains 125 

"      Fritters   ....  125 


Brains,  Patties  ....  113 
Calf  s  Liver  en  Brochette  .  121 
Cheese  Croquettes  .  .  .  118 
Chicken  "  ...   115 


368 


How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


Chicken  Croquettes  . 

116 

Macaroni  Baked  with  Cheese 

Jellied 

123 

and  Tomatoes    .   126 

"         Patties 

113 

Meat  Loaf 

.   120 

"         a  la  Meringo    . 

123 

"      Pie     . 

.   119 

"         Pie       .... 

121 

Mushroom  Patties   . 

.   114 

"            "        .        .        .        . 

122 

Nut  Sandwiches 

.   126 

"            "   Old  Virginia 

122 

Oyster  Croquettes    . 

.   117 

"         Pressed 

123 

Patties  Imitation  de  Foie 

Gras  114 

Timbale  of 

116 

Potato  Croquettes  . 

.   117 

Corn  Fritters,  Green  .        .     . 

125 

Rice 

.  118 

Cream  Fritters  .... 

125 

Ragout  of  Liver 

.   120 

Creole  Fricassee 

124 

Shad  Roe  Croquettes 

.  117 

Duck,  Salmi  of  . 

124 

Sweet  Breads  Creamed 

.   115 

"".... 

124 

"          Patties 

.   113 

Hamburg  Loaf 

120 

"            "          The  Queen 

's      .   115 

Kidne3'  Stew      .... 

121 

Tongue  Croquettes  . 

.   117 

Lamb  Chops  with  Noodles    . 

118 

Veal  or  Chicken  Croquettes      115 

Lobster  Cutlets 

126 

"    Loaf  .    ■    . 

.   120 

Macaroni  Pudding  . 

126 

"     Rotilette  of 

.   119 

POULTRY 

AND  GAME 

Chicken,  broiled 

131 

Pigeon,  Wild,  with  Olives       .   134 

,  Fried  Young 

131 

Quail,  Breakfast 

.   133 

,,      ,  Maryland  fried  . 

130 

"     ,  Broiled    . 

.   133 

Dressing,  Turkey 

129 

"     ,  Roast 

.   133 

"        ,       "             ... 

129 

Rabbit,  Barbecued    . 

.   135 

.Plain  for  Turkey     . 

128 

"     ,  Fricassee 

.   136 

"        ,  Chestnut  for  Turkey 

128 

"     ,  Fried  Jack   . 

.   136 

Duck,  How  to  dress  dry 

132 

"     ,  Fried     . 

.   135 

"     ,  Roast       .... 

132 

Squirrels 

.   136 

"     ,  Teal  Roast      . 

132 

Turkey,  Boiled 

.   130 

"     ,  Wild,  Roast     . 

135 

"     ,  Boned,  Roasted 

.   130 

Goose,  Roast     .... 

131 

"     ,  Deviled 

.   130 

Grouse,  Larded  and  Roasted 

134 

"     ,  Roast 

.   128 

Hunters'  Stew 

133 

"     ,      " 

.   129 

MEATS 


Beef  a  la  Mode,  Southern  style  137 
"   ,  Braised      ,        .        .        .   141 


"   ,  Fillet  of,  Larded 
"   ,  Omelet 
"   ,  Roast 
Calf's  Head,  to  Cook 


138 
141 
138 
147 


Corn  Beef,  Boiled      .  .        .141 

"        "     ,  Luncheon  .        .   141 

"     ,(To  Corn)  .        .   148 

Dried  Beef  Frizzled  in  Cream   141 

Fritters,  Breakfast  .        .   147 

Ham,  Baked       .        .  *        .   144 


Index 


369 


Ham,  Baked 

.   144 

Spare  Ribs,  Roast     . 

.   146 

"    ,  Boiled 

.   145 

Steak,  Broiled    . 

.   139 

"    ,  Bone 

.   142 

"      ,  Sinolaise 

.   140 

"    ,  Broiled      . 

.   145 

"      ,  To  Fry     . 

.   140 

"    ,  Sandwiches 

.   145 

"      ,  With  Onions 

.   140 

"    ,  Toast 

.   145 

Tongue,  Fresh 

.   147 

Hunter's  Roast 

.   142 

Tongue,  Salt 

.   147 

Lamb,  Saddle  of 

.   142 

Tripe,  Broiled     . 

.   146 

Meat  Cakes 

.   147 

"     ,  To  Fry     . 

.   146 

Mutton,  Boiled  Leg  of 

.   142 

Veal,  Shoulder  of      . 

.   143 

Mutton,  To  Fry 

.   142 

Veal  Cutlets  Breaded 

.   143 

Pig,  Roast 

.   146 

Venison,  Haunch  of 

.   143 

Potted  Roast     . 

.   138 

Yorkshire  Pudding 

.   139 

Sauce,  Bechamel 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS 

.   151       Sauce,  Horse-radish 


.   152 


"      ,  Bread,  for  Game  or 

" 

,  Mint 

.   152 

Meats      . 

.   153 

" 

,  Mushroom     . 

.   152 

"      .  Caper 

.   150 

'• 

,  Oyster     . 

.   151 

'•      ,  Chestnut  for  Roast 

t( 

,  Piquante  for  Boiled 

Turkey    . 

.   150 

Tongue 

.   151 

"      ,  Chestnut 

.   152 

" 

,  Simple  Brown 

.   149 

"      ,  Drawn  Butter 

.   149 

" 

,  Tartare,  for  Meat  and 

"      ,Egg          .        . 

.   150 

Fish 

.   150 

"      ,  Giblet      . 

.   150 

" 

,  Thick  Cream  for  Cro- 

"     ,  Hollandaise 

.   149 

quettes    . 

.   153 

VEGETABLES 

Artichokes 

.   155 

Corn, 

Oysters     . 

.   157 

Asparagus  Ambushed 

.   154 

" 

Pudding 

.   157 

On  Toast 

.   154 

" 

" 

.  157 

Beets 

.   155 

" 

" 

.   158 

Beans,  Baked     . 

.   156 

Egg-Plant,  Stuffed    . 

.   160 

'■     ,  Boston  Baked 

.   156 

,  To  Cook 

.   160 

"     ,  String     . 

.   155 

Hominy  Grits  Croquette 

3       .   161 

"     ,  Stringed 

.   156 

" 

,  Home-made 

.   160 

Cabbage 

.   159 

" 

,  To  Prepare 

.   161 

"        ,  Hot  Slaw 

.   159 

Macaroni,  Boiled 

.   162 

"        ,  Ladies' 

.   159 

Mush 

rooms 

.   161 

,  Stuffed       . 

.   160 

,  Broiled 

.   162 

Cauliflower  and  Cheese 

.   158 

"          ,  Fried     . 

.   162 

,  Stewed 

.   158 

Olives 

,  Stuffed    . 

.   163 

Carrots,  Mashed 

.   156 

Onions  a  la  Creme    . 

.   162 

Com,  Boiled  Green   . 

.   157 

" 

,  Boiled   . 

.   163 

370 


How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


"      ,  Escaloped    . 

.   163 

Potatoes,         "          .        .        . 

167 

Parsnips 

.   163 

,  Parisienne 

166 

"        ,  Creamed   . 

.   163 

,  Pufifs 

164 

Peas,  Green 

.   164 

,  Saratoga 

168 

Peppers,  Stuffed 

.   164 

,  Stuflfed      . 

165 

Potatoes  an  Gratin 

.   164 

,  Sweet  Baked    . 

170 

,  Baked 

.   166 

,  Sweet  Boiled   . 

170 

"        ,  Baked  in  Milk 

.   164 

Rice,  Boiled         .        .        .        . 

168 

"        ,  Boiled 

.   164 

Salsify,  Baked    .        .         .        . 

169 

"        ,  Cakes,  raw 

.   166 

Spinach 

169 

"        ,  Creamed  . 

.   165 

"       ,  With  Cream 

269 

"        ,         " 

.   165 

Squash,  Hubbard,  Baked 

169 

".        ,  Croquettes 

.   166 

,  Summer 

168 

"        ,  Duchesse  . 

.   167 

Tomatoes,  Baked 

171 

"        ,  Escaloped 

.   166 

,  Broiled    . 

170 

"        ,  French 

.   167 

"          ,  Escaloped 

170 

"        ,  Hashed  and 

"          ,  Fried  for  Breakfast 

170 

Browned 

.   165 

,  Stuffed     . 

171 

"        ,  Lyonnaise 

.   168 

Turnips,  Baked  diced 

171 

"        ,  Mashed  and  B 

aked   167 

EGGS    AND   CHEESE 

Cheese,  Balls      . 

.   176 

Eggs,  Brouille    .        .        .        . 

172 

"      ,  Cakes    . 

.   176 

"     ,  Curried     . 

173 

"      ,  Croquettes  . 

.   177 

"     ,  Escaloped 

173 

"      ,  Fondu   . 

.   176 

Omelet,  Asparagus  f 

or  Break- 

"      ,        " 

.   176 

fast 

173 

"      ,  Ramakins     . 

.   177 

"      ,  Baked 

174 

"      ,  Straws 

.   177 

"      ,  Cheese 

174 

"      ,  and  Egg  Toast 

.   177 

"      ,  Egg      . 

175 

"      , Souffle 

.   178 

"      ,  Delicious 

174 

"      ,  With  Rice      . 

.   178 

,  Friar's 

175 

Eggs,  Baked 

.   172 

"      ,  Tomato 

174 

•'     ,  Beauregard     . 

.   172 

Rarebit  a  la  Soyer 

, 

176 

"     ,  Boiled 

.   172 

Welsh  Rarebit 

175 

BREAD 

Biscuit,  Baking  Powder 

.   184 

"         Brown    . 

185 

"           Beaten 

.   183 

Corn       .         .        .         . 

186 

"          Cream  . 

.   184 

"        Steamed     . 

186 

Twin     . 

.   184 

Good      . 

180 

Bread, 

.   179 

"        Graham,  Steamed 

185 

"        Bannocks,  Aunt} 

-'s      .   191 

Oat  Meal 

181 

"        Boston  Brown 

.   185 

Potato  Yeas 

t 

ISO 

Index 


371 


Biscui 

t,  Rice,  Southern    . 

.   185 

Muffins,  Corn    . 

.   189 

" 

Rye 

.   181 

"            "        •        •        I 

.   189 

" 

Sticks      . 

.   180 

Muffins,  English 

.   188 

" 

Yeast 

.    180 

"             '• 

.   189 

" 

"... 

.   179 

Flour  . 

.   188 

Cakes 

,  Adirondack  Griddle 

192 

"        Graham  Grits  orCorn  189 

" 

Corn  Meal  Pan  . 

.   193 

No.  I.  and  No.  II.      .   188 

" 

Pone 

.   186 

Oat  Meal   . 

.   188 

" 

"       Real 

.   186 

Tea       .        .        . 

.   187 

(i 

Crumb   . 

.   193 

Pop  Overs 

.   192 

^^ 

Flannel  . 

193 

Puffs  for  Tea,  Delicious 

.   192 

Griddle  . 

.    192 

Rolls 

.   181 

" 

Johnny  . 

.   187 

"      French 

.   182 

(( 

"         .        . 

.   187 

"          "       Sweetened 

.   182 

i< 

Rice  Griddle 

.   192 

Parker  House 

.   183 

" 

Hoe,  Southern 

.   187 

"        Vienna     . 

.   182 

" 

Wheat    . 

.   193 

Shortcake,  Graham 

.   184 

Fritters        .... 

.   191 

Waffles 

.   189 

Gems 

Corn 

.   191 

... 

.   190 

" 

Graham  . 

.   190 

"              .        .       •. 

.   190 

" 

... 

.   191 

W^afers 

.   190 

Jollv 

Bo3's 

.   191 

CAKE 


Cake,   Almond  Cream     . 

211 

Cake,  Cranberry 

.   200 

"       Angel       .        .        .        . 

204 

"        Cream 

.   209 

"           "            .        .        .        . 

204 

"             "        Sponge 

.   205 

"       Bachelor  Buttons 

219 

"       Cup 

.   214 

"       Banana  .        .        .        . 

199 

"        Delicate  . 

.   202 

Birthday 

211 

"       Delicate   . 

.   202 

"        Blackberry 

199 

"        Excellent 

.   213 

"              "      Frosting  for 

200 

Feather 

.   204 

Boiled 

221 

';      Fig  •      •      . 

.   198 

"        Bride's     .        .        .        . 

202 

.   198 

Bread       .        .        .        . 

215 

Fruit 

.   195 

"            "           .        .        .        . 

215 

.        . 

.    195 

"       Caramel 

210 

"    Black      . 

.   196 

'■        Caramel 

210 

"     Plain       . 

.   196 

"        Chocolate 

208 

"       Gelatine  Frosting 

for.   220 

"              "                 .        .        . 

208 

"       Gold  and  Silver 

.   213 

"       Chocolate  Frosting  for 

221 

"       Jenny  Lind     . 

.   205 

"       Coffee       .        .        .        . 

215 

"       Lemon     . 

.   206 

Coffee       .        .        .        . 

215 

"             "          .        . 

.   207 

"       Corn  Starch. 

205 

"          .        . 

.   207 

372 


How   We  Cook  in  Los  Angeles 


"       Leopard 

.   212 

" 

Sunshine 

.   203 

"       Marble    . 

.   213 

" 

Three-ply 

.   196 

"       Margaret's 

.   214 

" 

Tri-colored 

.   212 

"       Marshmallow 

.   199 

" 

Violet 

.   212 

Paste    .   201 

" 

Walnut    . 

.   197 

"       Milk  Frosting  for 

.   222 

" 

"        Filling  fo 

r 

"           "      Icing  for 

.   222 

Lay 

er    .   197 

"        Mocha  Cream 

.   209 

" 

White       .        .       ". 

.   201 

"       Neapolitan 

.   208 

" 

"        Perfection  . 

.   202 

"       No-name 

.   211 

Cook 

es       .        .        . 

.   218 

Nut  . 

.   198 

" 

.   218 

"     .        . 

.   198 

" 

Fruit     . 

.   219 

"       Nut  Cream 

.   197 

Crullers       .        .        .        . 

.   219 

"        Orange    . 

.   207 

Doug 

inuts 

.   220 

"             "        Icing  for    . 

.   220 

• 

'                   .        .        . 

.   220 

"             "        Filling  for 

.   208 

' 

'          , Raised    . 

.   220 

Plain 

.   214 

Ginger  Bread     . 

.   216 

"           "        Loaf 

.   214 

" 

.   217 

"       Pork 

.   196 

"      Fairy  . 

.   217 

"        Pound 

.   200 
.   200 

'•      Soft      . 

.   216 
.   217 

"            " 

.   201 

Cake  Fine  soft 

.   217 

((            li 

.   203 

"      Our  Mothe 

r's    .   216 

"        Spice 

.   217 

Spiced 

.   215 

"       Snow 

.   203 

Snaps     . 

.   217 

"       Royal  Icing 

.   221 

" 

.   218 

"       Sponge 

.   205 

Jumbles 

.   218 

" 

.   205 

Macaroons 

.   211 

" 

.   205 

Puffs 

Boston  Cream 

.   213 

."       Sponge  Drop 

.   206 

Sand 

Tarts 

.   219 

"       Premium  Sponge. 

.   206 

PUDDIN 

GS  AND 

THEIR  SAUCES 

Bananas,  Fried 

.   235 

Pudd 

ing,  Apple 

.   230 

Blackberry  Mush      . 

.   234 

" 

,  Apple,  new 

.   230 

Dessert,  Simply  Made 

.   233 

" 

,        "      plain 

.   230 

Dumplings,  Fruit 

.   234 

Puddings,       "     Sago 

.   230 

Fritters,  Fruit 

.   234 

" 

,  Black 

.   224 

Fruit  for  Dessert 

.   235 

" 

,  Black 

.   224 

Hash,  Heavenly 

.   233 

" 

,  Bread 

.   228 

Orange  Sponge 

.   229 

" 

,  Cabinet     . 

.   226 

Peach  Rolls 

.   234 

" 

,  Carrot       . 

.   329 

Pomegranates,  Sugared 

.   235 

" 

,  Chocolate 

.   232 

Prune  Shape 

.   227 

" 

,  Delicate     . 

.   232 

Index 


373 


Pudding,  English  Fruit 

.   224 

Pudding,  Snow 

231 

,  English  Plum 

.   224 

"        ,  Snow 

231 

.  Fig     • 

.   227 

"        ,  Sponge 

229 

,  Fruit  Jelly 

.   226 

"        ,  Steamed    . 

227 

"        ,  Frozen  Rice 

.   231 

,Suet   .        .        .        . 

225 

"        , Indian 

.   233 

"        ,  Sweet  Potato  . 

228 

,       "     baked 

.   233 

,  Walnut      . 

226 

"        ,  Molasses 

.   224 

Sauce,  Arrowroot     . 

237 

"         ,  Mountain  Dew 

.   232 

,  Carrot  Pudding    . 

236 

"        ,  Nesselrode 

.   225 

,  Christmas  Pudding      . 

235 

"        ,  Orange 

.   229 

'      ,  Cream    ,        .        .        . 

236 

"        ,  Orange 

.   229 

,  EYer3-  Day 

236 

"        ,  Plum,  Plain 

.   225 

'      ,  Hard        ."       .        .        . 

235 

,  Plum 

.   223 

'      ,  Lemon    .        .        .        . 

237 

Puddings,  Prune 

.   227 

'      ,  Nutmeg  .        .        .        . 

237 

,Puff   . 

.   227 

'      ,  Pudding 

236 

"        ,  Queen  of   . 

.   229 

'      ,  Strawberry    . 

235 

"        ,  Snow 

.   231 

PIES 

Pie,  Apple,  California  Pic 

)neer  240 

Pie,  Lemon         .        .        .        . 

242 

'  ,      "        Custard 

.   243 

"     ,       "             .        .        .        . 

242 

'  ,  Chocolate  . 

.   243 

"     ,       "             .        .        .        . 

242 

'  ,  Chopped  Paste 

.   238 

"     ,       "             .        .        .        . 

243 

'  ,  Cream 

.   244 

"     ,    Mince  Meat    . 

239 

'  ,      "        ,  Real      . 

.   244 

"    Mince  Meat,   an  English 

'    Crust    . 

.   239 

"        "            "         recipe  . 

240 

"     ,  Flaky  without 

but- 

"       "            "         excellent     . 

240 

ter     . 

.   239 

"        "            "         mock  . 

240 

'        "     ,  Graham   . 

.   238 

"   Orange 

243 

'        "     ,  Pumpkin  Pie 

,   238 

"   Scjuash 

241 

'         "      ,  rich,  short 

.   238 

"         " 

241 

'     ,  Custard     . 

.   244 

Short  Cake,  Strawberry 

245 

'     ,  Fruit — To  make 

.   241 

u                  ..                             .. 

245 

'     ,  Green  Corn 

.   244 

CRE; 

^MS    AND 

CUSTARDS 

Apples  for  Tea,  Delicious 

.   252 

Cream,  Coffee    .        .        .        . 

248 

Biscuit  Tortoni 

.   249 

"       Hamburg 

250 

Charlotte  Russe 

.   252 

"       Ice,  Directions  for 

246 

" 

.   252 

' '       Pineapple  Ice 

248 

"          Raspberry- 

.   252 

"       Raspberr\^  Ice 

247 

Cream,  Bavarian  with  pe 

aches  249 

"       Sago       .        .        .        . 

248 

Chantilla 

.   249 

"       Strawberry   . 

250 

'//-AL 
fZ/Aji 

•/-'Al 


7-^AI' 


Something  to 
Cook  with 

All  the  Cook  Books  in  the  world  won't  make  good 
cooking  if  you  haven't  the  right  things  to  Do  With.  In 
a  rude  age  rude  things,  meat  broiled  on  heated  stones. 
Evolution  all  the  way  up.  Now  its  our  self-basting  roast- 
ing pans,  and  all  the  new  kinks  in  agate  ware  kettles  and 
cookers.  You  will  find  prices  at  the  Big  Department  Store 
about  one  third  less  than  anywhere  in  the  cit3^  No  matter 
what  you  want  for  the  kitchen,  we  have  it,  and  if  it  comes 
from  us  its  good. 

A.  Hamburger  <&  Sons 

LOS  ANGELES 


-A 


•//■Al^ 

S-zK 


m 


m 


7/AU 

m 

'/-A|? 

B'/Ali 


PARISIAN 


FASHION 
LEADERS 


CLOAK 
^^"  SUIT 


LEADING 
MODISTES 


COMPANY 


For  LADIES 
MISSES 
AND  CHILDREN 


221   S.  SPRING  ST. 


LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 

Telephone  633 


We  Cook 


IN 


Los  Angeles 


W^W7~??f~W¥J>  CAN    BE 


C%!^*^r^^v% 


^-i^^'-i^J^'-^y^'v?^       PROCURED    AT 


The  Ladies  Social  Circle 


SIMPSON  CHURCH 

And  will  also 
be  on  Sale  at 

PARMELEE'S   BAZAAR 

232  and  234  S.  Spring  St. 

LOS  ANGELES 


Index 


375 


Cream,  Tapioca 

.   251 

Sherbet,  Orange 

256 

Velvet     . 

.   250 

"        Pineapple    . 

256 

Custard,  Oran.sje 

.   254 

"        Strawberry 

256 

•' 

.   254 

Snow,  Apple       .         .        -         . 

253 

Floating  Island, 

West  In 

3ian    255 

Frutti      .         .        .         . 

253 

Ice,  Pineapple    . 

.   257 

Soufle,  Pineapple 

251 

Mousses 

.   251 

Sponge,  Lemon 

255 

Peaches,  Baked 

.   252 

"        Strawberry  or  Rasp- 

Sago, Orange     . 

.   253 

berry     .        .        .        . 

255 

Sherbet,  Apricot 

.   255 

Trifle  Orange      .        .        .        . 

254 

BEVERAGES 

Chocolate   . 

.  ,259 

Lemonade 

259 

Coffee,  Church  Social       . 

.   258 

Tea,  Directions  for  Making    . 

258 

"... 

.   259 

Vinegar,  Raspberry 

260 

"... 

.   259 

"        Strawberry 

258 

Coffee-pot,  Care 

of   . 

.   258 

SPANISH    DEPARTMENT 


Menus 261 

Breakfast 261 

Dinner 261 

Artichokes 270 


"  Fried 

Beef,  Dried,  with  Peppers 
Birds,  Dressing  for  Small 
Brains,  Fine       .... 
Bun,  Spanish      .... 
Cake,    Sponge     with     Sweet 

Almond  Milk 
Catsup,  Spanish 
Chicken,  Broiled 
Chili  con  Carni 
Chilis,  Stuffed     .... 


270 
268 
264 
267 
276 

295 
280 
263 
267 
271 
271 
263 
279 


Hares,  African  Stj^le 
Jambalaza  . 
Macaroni    . 
Olives,  To  Cure 
Olive  Oil,  To  Make 
Omelet,  Spanish 

With  Fine  Herbs 


265 
268 
273 
278 
279 
269 
268 


Cod  with  Potatoes 

Colorow,  Chili. 

Croquettes    of    Chicken    and 

Pork        .        .        .  264 

Dressing,  Chicken      .        .        .  264 

Estafado 267 

Figs,  to  Preserve  Whole  .        .  278 

Frijoles 271 

Con  Queso     .        .        .  270 


Oranges,   Recipe  for  Preserv- 
ing     .        .        .        .276 

Ci-ystalized  Chinese  277 

Partridges,  Stewed  .        ,        .  264 

Peppers,  Green  ....  272 

Stuffed        .        .        .  272 

Potatoes,  Stuffed      .        .        .  273 

Preserves,  Lemon      .        .        .  277 

Muskmelon     .        .  278 
"          Orange  or  Lemon 

Flower     .        .        .  277 

Rabbit,  Caladonian  Style        .  565 

Fried      ....  265 


"        Stewed 
Rice  a  la  Valencia 

"    Fried   . 

"    Spanish 
Salad,  Pui'slane 


265 

275 
275 
275 
262 


We  Preach  the  Gospel  of  Pure  Food 


C^^JVO 


J.  R.  Newberry  &  Co. 


WHOLESALE 
AND    RETAIL 


GROCERS 


Our  Aim  .  . 
Our  Motto  . 
Our  Gospel 
Our  Creed . 


To  Excel 

Merit  Wins  .... 

Pure  Food 

The  Golden  Rule 


m 


^/©€/- 


7(s 

2i6  and  218  So.  Spring  St. 

Telephone  26         LOS  ANGELES,  CALIF. 
711  MAIN  STREET 

Telephone  72  RIVERSIDE,    CAL. 


Index 


377 


Salmon,  Spanish  Style 
Salza    .... 


Sauce,  Chili 
Sauce,  Tomato  . 
Sopa,  Espanola 
Soup,  a  la  Catalana 

"      Julienne    . 
Squash,  Nice  ay  ay  to  Cook 

Stufifed,  Baked    . 
Steak,  Spanish  . 


263  Stew,  Catalonian 

269  "       Spanish    . 

269  Tamales,  Chicken 

279  "          Green  Com 

272  Tongue  Piquante 

262  Tortilla 

262  Trout  a  la  Cascara 

262  "      Boiled      . 

274  Turkey,  Roasted 

274  Veal  a  la  Mode  . 
266 


270 
266 
273 
273 
267 
275 
263 
263 
263 
266 


GERMAN  DEPARTMENT 


Al- 


Breakfast    . 

Dinner 

Supper 

Afternoon  Coftee 

Apfel  Strudel      . 

Asparagus 

Beef  Cutlets 

Brioche 

Brown  Leb-Kuchen 

Cabbage 

Red      . 
Cake,  Chocolate 
"       Coffee 
"       Coffee  Loaf 
"       Sponge  with  Sweel 
mond  Milk 
Chicken,  Fricasseed 

"        Stewed. 
Coffee,  To  Make 

"      German  Waj-  to  Make 
Cookies,  Chocolate 
"  Lightning 

Cucumbers,  Pickled 
Dressing  for  Duck 
"  "     Pigeons 

"  "     Roast 

Duck,  Roast 
Dumplings,  Egg 
Meat 
Potato 
"  Soup 

Fish,  Trout 


281  Fly  Away  (Noodles)        .        .   291 

281  Goose,  Pickled   ....   287 

281  Herring  Salad    ....   285 

282  Kuchen  with  Baking  Powder  294 

293  "  "  Yeast  .  .  294 
289  Luncheon  Dish,  a  Nice      .        .   291 

288  Macaroons  ....  296 
292  Meat  Rolls          ....   288 

294  "      Balls  ....   288 

289  Mushrooms,  Pickled  .  .  297 
289       Noodles 290 

296  "  291 

294  Orange  Kaltschale    .        .        .   296 

295  Pancakes,  German    .        .        .   291 

"...   291 

295  Pickerel,  Baked          .        .        .   284 

286  Pie  Crust,  German    .        .        .   293 

285  Pigeons,  Stewed        .        .        .   286 

297  Potato  Cakes  ....  292 
297  Relish,  German  .  .  .  287 
295  Rice  Cakes  ....  292 
295  Rye  Bread  .  .  ,  .  .  290 
297  Soup,  Buttermilk      .        .        .   283 

287  "       Fish        ....   283 

286  "       Meat,  Leavings  of       .   288 

288  "       Milk,  with  Prunes        .   283 

287  "  Stock  .  .  .  .283 
284  Smelt,  Fried  ....  285 
284       Spatzle 292 

289  Spinach,  Boiled  .        .        .   290 

284  TuttiFrutti        ....   296 

285  Yeal,  Fricasseed        .        .        .   286 


MOTHS 


are 
not 
in 
it 


when 

TARINE 


IS 

used. 

Your  Druggist  sells  it. 


Good 
Housekeepers 

Are  sworn  enemies  of  flies 
and  all  bothersome  insects. 
Now  is  the  time  to  make 
war — the  best  ammunition 
is 

"T.  B." 

Insect  -  Powder 

You  can  get  it  of  your 
druggist  or  grocer  if  you 
ask  for  it. 

If  you  want  to  extermin- 
ate— use  no  other. 


R.  LEWTAS  &  SONS 


THE  FAMOUS 


PHILADELPHIA 


Telephone 


'MAKERS 


ICE  CREAM 

WHIPPED  CREAM 

FRESH  CREAM 

AND 

Fruit  Ices  of  Every  Description 
FACTORY 

518  Macy  St.,  Los  Angeles 

Special  Rates  for  all  Charitable  Purposse. 


Fine  Stationery 

^       Visiting  Cards 

y       Wedding  invitations 

^       AT  Home  cards 

■*  ENGRAVED  AND  PRINTED 


WhiTINH''^  Celebrated  Superfine 

VV  nil  UNO  5  WRITING   PAPERS.. 


In  all  the  Latest  Styles,  Shapes  and  Tints. 

The  Finest  Stock 

The  Best  Assortment 
The  Latest  Ideas 

The  Lowest  Prices 

Our  Prices  on  Engraved  Work 
cannot  be  Beaten. 

EDWARD  T.  COOK 

Fashionable  Stationer 

"  m 

117  SOUTH  SPRING  STREET 

LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


Index 


379 


FRENCH    DEPARTMENT 

Beef  a  la  Mode  . 

.   299 

Lobster  Ji  la  Creole 

.   298 

Boeuf,  Fillet  de 

.299 

Macaroni    . 

.   301 

Bouillon 

.   298 

Meat  Balls 

.   300 

Calf  s  Feet 

.  300 

Peas,  Fresh 

.   300 

Chestnut  Filling 

.   299 

Pigeons,  Stuffed 

.   298 

Chicken  Fricassee 

.  298 

Pudding,  Batter 

.   301 

Foie  a  la  Poulette 

.   300 

Squash  and  Corn 

.   301 

RUSSIAN  DEPARTMENT 


Pudding,  Cranberry 

303 

Souffle,  Apple     . 

.  303 

"          Farina 

393 

Sot 

p.  Beet,  Russian 

.  302 

"          Sweet  Sauce  for 

302 

' 

Cabbage 

.   302 

Salad,  Russian  .        . 

302 

Fig  Dr3^ing 

306 

Blackberries 

.   307 

Raisin  Alaking  in  California 

304- 

Raspberries 

.   308 

Small  Fruits 

307 

Strawberries 

.   308 

FRUITS 

Butter,  Apple     . 

315 

Glace  Fruit 

.   331 

"          "      and  Pear    . 

315 

Jam,  Blackberry 

.   314 

"      Lemon 

316 

" 

.   314 

"      Peach    . 

315 

Currant     . 

.   315 

Cheese,  Apple  and  Quince 

316 

Pineapple 

.   315 

Canned  Apricots  and  Nectar- 

Raspberry 

.   314 

ines 

313 

Strawberry 

.   314 

"       Blackberries 

312 

" 

.   314 

"                   "           and  Rasp- 

Jell 

"i,  Banana     . 

.   327 

berries 

312 

Blackberry 

.   322 

"       Corn,  Sweet 

313 

Crab  Apple 

.   326 

Canning,  Directions  for  . 

311 

Currant    . 

.   323 

Canned  Peaches 

313 

" 

.   324 

"        Pears  and  Quinces 

313 

Gooseberry 

.   324 

Plums 

313 

Grape 

.   325 

"        Strawberries  and 

"      Tokay    . 

.   324 

Gooseberries 

312 

Guava 

.   326 

"        Tomatoes 

313 

Lemon 

.   327 

Catsup,  Gooseberrj- 

330 
330 

Loquat 

.   325 
.   325 

"        Grape    . 

331 

Orange 

.   327 

Gingered  Figs    . 

329 

" 

.   327 

Even  a  competitor  calls  Marion  Harland's  letter  April  5, 
1893,  commending  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder, 

A  Handsome  Tribute. 

He  tries,  however,  by  inserting  old  quotations  in  his 
advertisement,  to  make  the  public  believe  that  this 
letter  of  Marion  Harland's  applied  to  his  own  baking 
powder  and  not  to  Cleveland's,  as  it  actually  does. 

Some  people  think  such  advertising  is  "  smart "; 
others  believe  it  is  dishonest.  One  thing  is  sure ; 
"smart",  tricky  and  deceptive  advertising  is  a  poor 
way  to  regain  lost  confidence  or  lost  trade. 

Here  is  Marion  Harland's  letter  in  full,  with 
date  and  signature  : 

April  5th,   1893. 

I  wish  to  sa}'  that  I  use  and  recommend  one  and  onlj^  one 
baking  powder,  and  that  is  Cleveland's. 

Years  ago  I  did  use  others  and  spoke  favorably  of  them  at 
the  time.  In  preparing  the  new  edition  of  "Common  Sense  in 
the  Household,"  however,  I  thought  it  best  to  substitute  baking 
powder  in  the  recipes  instead  of  cream-of-tartar  and  soda,  and 
made  a  careful  investigation  of  the  baking  powder  question. 

Finding  Cleveland's  Baking  Powder  to  be  really  the  best,  I 
recommended  it  in  "Common  Sense  in  the  Household,"  and  now 
use  it  exclusively.  y.  , 

Brooklyn,   N.  Y.  .JCO^i^J^  M$i^^^^^Pt^ 


hidex 


381 


Jelly,  Peach 

.   325 

Preserved  Citron 

.   322 

"     Pineapple 

.   326 

Figs 

.   320 

"    Plum 

.   326 

" 

.   320 

"    Raspberry 

.   323 

" 

.   321 

and  Currant    323 

Grapes 

.   320 

' '    Strawberry 

.   323 

Loquats   . 

.   321 

Jelly,          "         "       . 

.   323 

Oranges    . 

.   321 

Marmalade,  Orange 

.   316 

Orange  Peel 

.   321 

"                 " 

.   317 

Peaches    . 

.   319 

"                 " 

.   318 

Pears 

.   319 

English  .   317 

Quinces     . 

.   320 

Pickled  Apricots,  sweet 

.   329 

Strawberries 

.   319 

"       Crab  Apple  . 

.   329 

Spiced 

Currants 

.   328 

"       Figs        .        . 

.   329 

" 

Gooseberries 

.   328 

"       Limes     . 

.   330 

" 

Grapes. 

.   328 

"      Pears,  sweet 

.   330 

" 

Peaches 

.   328 

Preserved  Almonds,  Green      .   322 

Stewed  Cranberries 

.   312 

"         Blackberries 

.   318 

Syrup, 

Orange  Flower 

.   318 

PICKLES 

Olive  Culture  in  Californ 

ia      .   332 

Pickles 

,  Cucumber    . 

.  340 

OHves,  Kind  to  Plant 

.   334 

Green  Pepper 

.   344 

"      Location  for  Growing    334 

Martj'nia  Bean 

.   344 

Olive  Oil,  Used  as  Food 

.   334 

Oil  and  Vinegar 

.   340 

Pickles  . 

.   336 

Olive      . 

.   336 

Catsup,  Cucumber  . 

.   343 

" 

.   336 

"         Tomato 

.  -243 
.   343 

.. 

.  337 
.   337 

Chowder     . 

.   338 

" 

.   337 

Chow-Chow 

.   338 
.   338 

Olive  Oil 
Onion    . 

.  340 
.   345 

"           Tomato 

.   339 

Picalilli 

.   344 

Higden  Green  Tomato    . 

.    340 

Pickled  Tomato 

.   339 

Mangoes  Cucumbers 

.   341 

" 

Walnuts 

.  344 

Mustard  Aromatic  . 

.   343 

Sauce, 

Chili 

.  342 

"         French 

.   342 

" 

" 

.   342 

Pickles,  Cabbage 

•   345 

Soy  Green  Tomato 

.  339 

"        Cucumber,  ripe,  s 

weet  341 

Spiced 

Onions    .        , 

.  346 

"               "            spicec 

.   341 

CANDIES 

Almonds,  Salted 

.   353 

Bar,  Walnut  Cream 

.   348 

Bar,  Cocoanut  . 

.   348 

Butter-Scotch,  old-fashio 

ned  .   351 

"    Nut     . 

.   349 

Cal 

ces 

or  Kisses,  Co 

:oan 

ut    .   348 

382 


How   We  Cook  ill  Los  Angeles 


Candy 

.   353 

Cream  Walnuts        .        . 

348 

"       Cream    . 

.   350 

Drops,  Chocolate  Cream 

34S 

"            "          .        . 

.   350 

"        Cocoanut 

352 

Hard 

.   350 

"        Orange  . 

352 

"       French,  uncooked 

.   350 

Fondant,  To  Make 

34-; 

"       Peanut   . 

.   352 

Kisses  . 

351 

"       Penocha 

.   354 

Macaroons,  Nut 

352 

"       Popcorn 

.   349 

Marshmallows  . 

35-J 

"       Sugar 

.   353 

Paste,  Fig  . 

35^ 

Caramels,  Chocolate 

.   352 

Taffy,  . 

34£ 

"           Lemon 

.   351 

"       Molasses 

35S 

Nut    . 

.   351 

Nut  . 

35C 

INVALID 

COOKERY 

Buttermilk  Mulled   . 

.   357 

Jelly,  Island  AIoss     . 

358 

" 

.   358 

'■      for  Fevers 

358 

Coffee  Caramel 

.   357 

Lemonade,  Egg 

35f 

Drink,  Refreshing 

.   355 

Milk,  Baked  "    . 

35£ 

Egg  Relish  .        .        . 

.   357 

Panada,  Cider   . 

356 

"     to  Poach    . 

.   356 

Pancakes,  Graham 

35£ 

Gems,  Graham  . 

.   355 

Rice,  Boiled 

35( 

Gruel,  Oatmeal  . 

.   357 

Steak   . 

356 

Jelly,  Arrowroot 

.   358 

S^TUp,  Blackberry 

35' 

"      Isinglass   . 

.   358 

Tea,  Beef  Quick 

356 

DEPARTMENTS 

Beverages  . 

.   258 

Mrs.  Alcott's  Table  . 

3J 

Bread  .... 

.   179 

Old  Time  Hospitalit 

V 

2' 

Cake    .... 

.   194 

Olive  Culture 

33i 

Candies 

.   347 

Pickles 

336 

Contributors 

.      21 

Poultry  and  Game 

12J 

Creams  and  Custards 

.   246 

Puddings  and  Their  Sauces 

22C 

Eggs  and  Cheese 

.   172 

Raisin  Making  in  California  . 

30.J 

Entrees 

.   113 

Russian  Department 

30i 

Figs,  to  Dry, 

.   306 

Salads 

5{ 

Fish      .... 

.      94 

Sauces 

14£ 

Food  Combinations 

.      25 

Small  Fruits 

30' 

French  Department 

.   298 

Soups  .... 

lA 

Fruit    .... 

.   310 

Spanish  Department 

261 

German  Department 

.   281 

Table  Decorations    . 

38 

Hints   .... 

.   363 

Utensils 

366 

Invalid  Cooking 

.   355 

Vegetables  . 

154 

Meats 

.   137 

Weights  and  Measures 

35£ 

Menus  and  Decorations 

.      45 

^ 

^ 


x>>  ,^^' 


^>  .c^' 


C>      -^cA 


o>- 


.V^'.^^. 


^-o  "> 


o  0^ 


'  •>..    •■ 

y 

^0 

x*      ''' 

•S^            0 

^  '■  -    "--*^ 

o*^\ 

■^^ 

. . ;  '^  >^ 

- 

'--'-'J "    \C> ^ 

,  X 


';.  ,# 


■  V    -t^^ 


o  0' 


^■ 


/^ 

"     'X 

^0  ^'...^-  . 

^^^ 

"^ 

* 

:%     ^ 

^^ 

y' 

^0^      : 

x^ 

°^. 

v^:^   -^^..   - 

■A 

0'' 

c- 

'     -^^ 

Vr.              .-. 

-i.,*^' 

':,^•^%;^^,"  , 

''■.^_ 

■^c^ 

0^ 

,-% 

■^^ 

N*^  °<.    : 

cp-.^^r^/'^ 


-fi 


.v^- 


,  ,  ,   ,     ^.^.     *  .0    N  o  '        ^>^^^ 


'o  0^ 


.0  o 


CO"- 


^,:^w^c 


.0 


\^'^r>. 


\^'' 


■  0' 


o  0  ; 

w   ''    "   "  /  > 


..^^ 


r        --^^       V^^ 


.-!\''        ^-     ^■•/0!!■i^ 


x>'  -/». 


OO^ 


'^, 


^^^  ,<^' 


-.V%, 


c'^ 


.0- 


^'V" 


.^^' 


.N'      * 


-^z 


N^^     ^^ 


^^^     ^^^ 


o<^' 


\N'  -/>, 


'^./-  aV 


A 


.^^^    . 


'-^t^  V^ 


.0^   »^ 


0   N    c 


*.      <^^ 


•^^^ 


■N^- 

■  \ 

O 

s*\ 

V 

A 


V^' 


'^    v#' 


sO' 


.'N 


'^  v"-^ 


ill 


mm 


mm' 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


