Shelf. 

DOTTED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


THE 


JIUN^EI^   P^NDB06K 


CONTAINING    A    DESCRIPTION    OF 


ALL  ARTICLES  REQUIRED  IN  CAMP 


WITH 


Hints  on  Provisions  and  Stores 


AND 


RECEIPTS  FOR  CAMP  COOKING 


^ 


BY 


-AN  OLD  HUNTER"    ;^^J 

\ 

BOSTON  ,    '  **  H*  ^  "if 

LEE  AND  SHEPARD,  PUBLISHERS 

NEW  YORK 

CHARLES  T.  DILLLINGHAM 

1885 


Copyright,  1885, 
By  LEE  AND  SHEPARD. 


All  rights  reserved. 


huxtek's  handbook. 


CONTENTS. 

Section.  Page« 

Introduction              5 

I.  Quantity  of    Provisions  required  on  a  Trip. 

and    Comparative    List   of    Provisions.  9 

II.  List    of    Provisions   from   which  to  select  .  15 

III.  The    Hunter's    Paraphernalia      ...  19 

IV.  The    Camp    Fire 23 

V.  General   Remarks   on    Camp    Routine       .  29 

VI.  Cooking    Utensils             .....  39 

VII.  General  Remarks  on    Camp  Cookery        .  45 
Index   to    Receipts 57 

VIII.  Recipes  for    Camp  Cookery        ...  6i 

IX.  The    Last    Resource in 

Index  to  Section    X.            ....  116 

X.  On  the    Treatment   of   Drowning,    Wounds, 

Stings,    etc., 117 

Index   to   Section  XL      .                 .         .         .  130 

XL       Miscellaneous    Receipts       ....  131 

XII.    Signs   of   the    Weather           ....  135 


INTRODUCTION. 


The  want  of  a  cheap,  portable  and  reliable  Hand 
Book  devoted  to  the  interior  economy  of  the  Hunter's 
Camp,  and  more  especially  to  the  Art  of  Camp 
Cookery,  has  long  been  felt.  We  have  some  excellent 
works  on  Hunting,  some  of  which  devote  a  few  pages 
to  these  subjects,  but  these  books,  in  their  elaborate 
bindings,  with  their  numerous  illustrations,  and  costing 
a  considerable  sum  of  money,  are  better  fitted  to  grace 
a  Drawing  Room  table,  or  to  occupy  places  in  the 
Library,  than  to  be  carried  through  the  vicissitudes  of 
a  campaign.  Their  usefulness  would  scarcely  com- 
pensate the  Hunter  for  the  care  which  he  would  feel 
bound  to  bestow  on  them  in  order  to  keep  their  beauty 
unsullied  by  the  unavoidable  exposure  to  dampness, 
dirt,  and  the  thousand  little  accidents  of  Camp  life. 
More  acceptable  to  the  Hunter,  be  he  professional  or 
amateur,  would  be  a  rough  and  ready  handbook  which 
he     could   use    without    fear     and    and    trembling,    and 


6  JNTR  OB  UC  TJON. 

which  could  be  consigned,  without  compunction,  to  any 
corner  of  the  larder,  not  always,  in  truth,  dispensing 
the  odors  of  Araby  the  Blest.  Such  a  want  I  have 
endeavored  to  fill :  such  a  is  here  handbook  offered  to 
the    public. 

Many  years  of  experience  in  the  economy  of  Camp 
life,  supplemented  by  diligent  research  among  the  best 
authorities  on  the  subject,  have,  I  trust,  qualified  me 
to   undertake    the    compilation    of   these    pages. 

The  various  sections  of  the  work  need  not  be  com- 
mented on  here,  with  the  exception  of  Section  IX, 
which  contains  the  Receipts  for  Camp  Cookery.  The 
Receipts  here  given  cover  a  large  area,  comprising  not 
only  the  directions  for  preparing  the  frugal  fare  of 
the  hardened  Hunter,  but  also  the  formulas  for  con- 
cocting the  somewhat  more  dainty  dishes  affected  by 
the   amateur    Nimrod. 

As  to  whether  a  professional  hunter  should  confine 
himself  to  the  commonest  diet  and  abjure  the  fare 
of  civilization,  I  need  express  no  opinion.  That  is 
merely  a  matter  of  personal  election.  I  may,  however, 
mention  the  obvious  fact,  that  the  better  nourished 
the  body  is,  the  more  hardship  it  can  endure.  Good 
food  keeps  us  in  good  health  ,  exercise,  or  work,  also 
conduces  to  the  same  desirable  end.  The  better  our 
health  the  greater  pleasure  do  we  take  in  working, 
and   the   greater   the    benefit    derived    therefrom.      Thus 


INTRODUCTION.  7 

we  have  these  two  powers,  food  and  exercise,  while 
separately  benefiting  us,  most  intimately  depending  on 
each  other  for  their  ability  to  bestow  that  benefit, 
and  hence  while  undergoing  plenty  of  exercise  we 
must  not  neglect  to  appropriate  a  sufficiency  of  its 
con-comitant  adjunct,  nourishing  food.  From  these 
facts  it  will  be  seen  that  the  idea  held  by  some 
young  amateur  hunters,  that  they  should  deprive  them- 
selves of  their  customary  diet  in  supposed  manly 
emulation  of  their  more  hardy  professional  brethren, 
is  as  hurtful  as  foolish.  While  the  wiry  old  scout 
thrives  on  his  bear  meat  broiled  in  the  coals,  sup- 
plemented by  some  meal  and  tea,  and  scorns  to  prepare 
any  compound  dishes,  the  amateur  who  leaves  home 
for  a  week's  holiday  in  the  wilderness  is  liable  to  be 
seriously  inconvenienced,  if  not  actually  made  ill,  by 
too  great  a  change  in  his  diet.  Again,  we  must  re- 
member that  to  please  one's  self  in  the  choice  of 
food,  as  well  as  in  other  matters,  is  a  part  of  that 
liberty  which  the  hunter  fondly  expects  to  enjoy,  and 
should  obtain,  when,  casting  off  the  shackles  of  civil- 
ization, he  seeks  pleasure,  sport,  and  health  in  the 
wilds  of  the  forest,  or  on  the  waters  of  the  lagoons. 
Thus  I  have  considered  it  to  be  my  duty  to 
present  receipts  which  shall  meet  the  desires  of  all 
classes    of   hunters    and   excursionists. 


S  INTRODUCTION. 

With  hunters,  to  be  able  to  cook  their  food  prop- 
erly, is  a  prime  necessity  of  life.  No  more  piteous 
object  exists  than  the  young  hunter  who,  though 
surrounded  by  plenty,  has  yet  to  content  himself  with 
the  plainest  food,  and  that  not  cooked  but  spoiled  by 
the  injudicious  application  of  fire.  And  yet  there  are 
hundreds  of  such  amateur  hunters  who,  when  out  on 
their  initiatory  shooting  excursion  find  themselves  sud- 
denly confronted  by  a  deficiency  of  which  they  never 
thought,  a  lamentable  ignorance  of  the  art  of  cooking. 
If  such  young  hunters  follow  the  advice  presented  in 
this  handbook,  they  may  expect  their  efforts  in  cook- 
ing  to    meet   with   success. 

To  make  the  work  as  a  guide  to  Camp  Cooking 
more  complete,  I  have  added  some  general  remarks 
on  t*he  different  modes  of  cooking,  such  as  Boiling, 
Roasting,   etc.,   which    I    hope   will    prove   instructive. 

The  experience  of  many  Trips  into  the  wilderness 
has  been  drawn  upon  to  present  correct  views  to  the 
reader,  and  that  the  pages  here  offered  to  the  public 
will  enable  all  hunters  to  escape  the  painful  episodes 
which  usually  attend  the  amateur's  initiation  into  the 
mysteries    of   Camp   life    is    the    earnest   wish   of 

"An   Old   Hunter." 


c 


THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 


SECTION  I. 

THE  QUANTITY  OF  PROVISIONS  REQUIRED  ON  A 
HUNTING  TRIP,  AND  COMPARATIVE  LIST  OF 
PROVISIONS. 

In  making  up  our  list  of  groceries  for  a 
hunting  excursion  several  circumstances  are  to 
be  considered,  the  duration  of  the  trip  being, 
of  course,  the  first  consideration.  The  sec- 
ond consideration  is  as  to  whether  we  can 
purchase  provisions  en  route.  If  we  can,  then 
we  need  not  carry  as  much  food  with  us  as 
we  should  have  to  take  if  we  were  going  to 
pass  through  an  uninhabited  country.  The 
last    consideration     under    which     we     can     at- 


io  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

tempt  to  limit  the  amount  of  provisions 
which  we  transport,  is  the  chance  of  securing 
the  game  of  which  we  go  in  search.  The 
experienced  hunter  can  best  deal  with  these 
questions  himself,  but  while  there  are  circum- 
stances which  may  authorize  him  to  limit  to 
a  certain  extent  the  amount  of  provisions 
which  he  carries,  I  would  most  earnestly  ad- 
vise all  amateurs  to  take  with  them  enough 
food  to  provide  full  meals  for  every  day  of 
their  intended  stay.  The  inexperienced  inva- 
riably carry  too  little  food,  and  even  when 
they  think  they  are  most  munificently  provided, 
they  are  sure  to  be  on  short  commons  ere 
they  return  to  their  homes.  We  may  consider 
a  few  methods  of  arriving  at  an  approximate 
idea  of  the  quantity  of  provisions  required  by 
a   party    contemplating    a    hunting   excursion. 

If  four  of  us  start  on  a  two- week's  trip  we 
will  require,  at  three  meals  per  day,  enough 
food  to  provide  168  meals.  This  number 
contains  only  56  dinners,  and  as  pur  break- 
fasts and    suppers    are    generally    composed   of 


PROVISIONS  REQUIRED.  u 

lighter  food  than  that  which  we  consume  at 
the  mid-day  meal,  we  may  so  far  moderate 
our  list  of  groceries  as  to  provide  the  most 
substantial  articles  for  the  dinners  only.  I 
speak  of  confining  our  expenses  to  the  lowest 
possible  rale,  as  I  am  aware  that  money  is 
very  often  quite  a  consideration  even  with 
those  who  can  afford,  for  pleasure,  to  spend 
a   few  weeks    on    a  hunting   trip. 

Another  way  in  which  to  arrive  at  the 
quantity  of  food  which  we  should  carry,  is,  to 
consider  the  value  thereof  in  money.  Thus, 
if  we  pay  $3,  $4  or  $5  per  week  for  board 
we  are  provided  with  different  classes  of  tables 
according  to  the  rates  which  we  pay.  If  we  are 
willing  to  live  on  the  board  which  $3  per 
week  provides — very  good  board  for  a  hunter — 
the  grocery  list  of  four  men  for  two  weeks 
need  not  cost  more  than  $24.  The  only 
trouble  in  making  up  such  a  list  is  to  know 
how  to  place  our  money  to  the  best  advan- 
tage, or,  what  quantities  of  different  articles 
to   buy.       As   a  criterion   of   what  is    required, 


12 


THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 


I  give  below  a  list  of  groceries  which  were 
taken  by  three  young  hunters  on  an  actual 
trip,  and  which  gave  perfect  satisfaction  and 
left  no  great  surplus  to  be  carried  home.  It 
is  to  be  noted  that  this  was  a  duck  shooting 
excursion,   by  water,   in   birch  bark   canoes  : 


COMPARATIVE  LIST  OF    PROVISIONS. 

Three  Men   for  Two   Weeks  : 


Smoked  ham 

20  lbs 

Pork    (very  fat) 

20  lbs 

Lard  (for  frying)     . 

5  lbs 

Corn    Beef 

3  cans 

Lobster 

4  cans 

Salmon     . 

4  cans 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

3  cans 

Smoked    Herrings 

1  box 

White  Beans 

8  pints 

Flour        .         . 

10  lbs 

Oatmeal 

10  lbs 

Tea 

2  lbs 

Coffee 

1  lb 

Cocoa 

2  pkgs 

Pilot  Bread 

15  lbs 

Brown  Sugar 

10  lbs 

Rice 

• 

. 

7  lbs 

PROVISIONS  REQUIRED.  13 

Cooking   Raisins  .         .         .  2  lbs 

Syrup 1  gal 

Pickles 4  bottles 

Marmalade 2  jars 

Harvey's  Sauce         ...  2   bottles 

Baking    Powder         ....  1  tin 

Mixed  Herbs  .         .         .         .  1  tin 

Onions 10  lbs 

Potatoes,    and  in   same   bag,   a  few 

carrots  ....  1-2  bush 

Salt,    Pepper,  Mustard,   Vinegar. 

Bread,    Butter,   Eggs,  Milk   and    Potatoes    were   pur- 
chased  occasionally  en  route: 

The  above  is  a  very  simple  list  of  plain  food, 
but  when  to  this  is  added  the  game  secured, 
ducks,  snipe  and  fish,  we  have  the  materials 
wherewith  to  concoct  very  elaborate  meals. 
While  this  party  were  careful  to  go  out  fully 
provisioned  for  the  two  weeks  of  their  intended 
stay,  the  game  which  they  bagged  enabled 
them  to  prolong  their  trip  to  three  weeks,  and 
thus  they  had  the  full  pleasure  of  hunting 
without  any  fear  of  being  stinted  in  their  ra- 
tions. 


14  THE   HUXTEKS  HANDBOOK, 

When  going  in  pursuit  of  different  game, 
through  different  descriptions  of  country,  the 
kind  of  provisions  which  the  hunter  should 
carry  varies  somewhat,  and  it  is  therefore  im- 
possible to  give  any  definite  list  by  which  he 
may  be  guided ;  but  I  think  that  reference  to 
the  list  presented  above,  and  a  consideration 
of  the  methods  advanced  for  ascertaining 
the  quantity  required,  with  a  glance  at  the 
list  in  Section  II,  will  enable  him  to  arrive 
at  a  close  estimate  of  what  he  actually  re- 
quires, and  to  see  what  articles  of  luxury  are 
at  his  disposal.  To  the  amateur  I  can  merely 
reiterate  my  admonition  that  he  trust  not  to 
fickle  chances  of  the  chase,  nor  yet  to  the 
procurability  of  provisions  en   route. 


SECTION    II. 

LIST    OF     PROVISIONS      FROM       WHICH     TO     SELECT. 

That  the  hunter  may  see  at  a  glance  what 
articles  are  available,  and  that  he  may  over- 
look none  of  the  necessaries,  I  submit  a  list 
of  such  provisions  as  are  suitable  for  his 
larder.  When  we  take  into  consideration  the 
varieties  of  canned  goods  which  modern  trade 
places  at  the  disposal  of  the  housekeeper,  we 
have  a  very  long  list  from  which  to  select 
our  provisions  for  camping  out.  But  I  wish 
to  warn  the  young  hunter  against  purchasing 
largely  of  canned  goods.  He  will  find  them 
in  most  cases,  to  be  very  expensive  food,  and 
such  as  is  apt  to  pall  on  the  appetite.  He 
will  occasionally  long  for  an  honest  dish  of 
Ham     and     Eggs,      Pork      and     Beans,      Fried 


16  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

Potatoes  or  Flap-jacks.  Such  canned  goods 
as   will    be    found    most    useful    are   as    follows : 

Cooked  Corn  Beef,  Ham,  Lobsters,  Salmon, 
Baked  Beans,  Pea  flour,  Liebig's  Extract  of 
Beef,  Lambs'  Tongues,  Sardines,  Marmalade, 
Condensed  Milk.  We  have  in  these  the  ma- 
terials  for   cold    lunches. 

The  long  list  of  canned  luxuries  offered 
by  most  grocers  is  also  open  to  inspection, 
and    comprises 

Canned  Soups,  in  Tomato,  Pea,  Chicken, 
Oxtail,  Maccaroni,  Soup  Bouilli,  etc.,  Canned 
Oysters,  Mackerel,  Deviled  Ham,  Deviled 
Meats,  Roast  Lamb  and  Mutton,  Smoked 
Beef,  Tenderloin,  Bonne  Bonche,  Pigs'  Feet, 
Corn,  Peas,  Succotash,  Tomatoes,  Strawber- 
ries, Quinces,  Pears,  Peaches,  Pine  Apples, 
etc.,  and  in  sauces  we  have  Harvey,  Nabob, 
Browning,  Worcestershire,  Chutney,  Tobasco, 
French  and  German  Mustard,  etc.,  and  a  host 
of    other   articles. 

It  may  be  observed  that  by  taking  a  few 
cans    of    the    luxuries    the    amateur    may    make 


PROVISIONS    TO   SELECT.  17 

his  meals  in  the  wilderness  more  like 
those  at  home,  and  so  escape  the  unpleasant 
craving  for  food  to  which  he  has  been  used. 
I  well  remember  that  in  our  first  trips  into 
the  wilds,  when  we  carried  no  canned  articles, 
our  chief  craving  was  for  fresh  meat,  and 
when  we  failed  to  secure  any  game,  and 
were  forced  to  live  on  ham  or  salt  pork  day 
after  day,  this  craving  became  very  marked 
and  detracted  in  no  small  degree  from  the 
pleasure  of  the  trip.  With  our  modern  supply 
of  canned  meats,  no  hunter  need  experience 
this    want. 

The  other  groceries  from  which  to  select 
are,  Ham,  Pork,  Lard,  for  frying,  Codfish, 
Smoked  Herrings,  Flour,  Oatmeal,  Cornmeal, 
Potatoes,  Onions,  Carrots,  Compressed  Vege- 
tables, White  Beans,  Cheese,  Rice,  Raisins, 
Brown  Sugar,  White  Sugar,  Syrup,  Tea,  Coffee, 
Cocoa,  Chocolate,  Broma,  Kaoka,  Pickles, 
Curry  Powder,  Baking  Powder,  Mixed  Herbs, 
Corn  Starch,  Pilot  Bread,  and  in  fact  the 
whole     range     of    groceries,     as     necessity     or 


iS  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

fancy  dictates.  Do  not  forget  those  necessary 
articles,  Salt,  Pepper,  Mustard,  and  Vinegar. 
Butter  may  be  taken  and  also  eggs,  packed 
in  salt,  if  these  articles  cannot  be  bought  en 
route.  Bread  is  too  bulky  to  carry,  and  if 
we  take  plenty  of  flour  we  may  bake  our 
own. 


SECTION    III. 

THE    HUNTER'S     PARAPHERNALIA. 

When  contemplating  a  trip,  the  hunter,  es- 
pecially if  he  be  an  amateur,  should  make  out 
a  list  of  every  article  which  he  will  require, 
both  in  groceries  and  in  personal  belongings, 
and  as  each  article  is  packed  away  in  its 
proper  place  he  should  mark  it  off  the  list. 
In  this  way  he  will  be  sure  to  procure  every- 
thing which  may  be  needed,  and  he  will  es- 
cape the  disagreeable  experience  of  finding, 
when  well  on  his  journey,that  some  little  but 
much  needed  article,  such  as  salt,  has  been 
left    behind. 

The  following  list  comprises  the  articles  gen- 
erally required  when  on  a  hunting  trip  via 
water : 


2o  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

If  bark  canoes  are  used,  we  should  take  a 
spare  paddle,  a  pole,  leg-of-mutton  sail,  canvas 
and  tacks  for  repairs,  a  sponge,  some  rosin 
and  a  rosin  pot  and  iron.  This  iron,  being 
heated,  is  used  to  melt  the  old  rosin  on  the 
canoe,  and  so  cover  leaks  when  they  occur  at 
seams  which  have  been  previously  rosined. 
We  may  next  enumerate  the  tent,  with  its 
bag,  poles,  ropes  and  pegs  complete.  A  good 
long  rope  should  be  carried  to  secure  the  tent 
in  gales,  and  will  be  found  otherwise  useful. 
Cooking  utensils,  per  Section  VII.  Provisions, 
per    Sections     I    and     II. 

Groceries  may  be  best  carried  in  strong  cot- 
ton bags,  holding  each  about  10  pounds, 
marked  in  pencil  with  the  name  of  contents, 
and  packed  in  water-proof  boxes.  These  boxes 
should  be  the  size  of  common  biscuit  boxes, 
for  if  they  are  too  big  and  very  heavy,  when 
packed,  they  are   awkward  to    handle. 

Canned  goods,  potatoes,  etc.,  which  will  not 
be  injured  by  water,  may  be  carried  in  bags, 
such  as  salt  sacks.     A  sharp  axe   and  a  supply 


THE   HUNTER'S  PARAPHERNALIA.        z\ 

of  matches  are  required.  Matches  may  be 
carried  in  a  large-mouthed  bottle,  securely 
corked,    in  a  waterproof    tin   box. 

We  may  enumerate  other  articles  as  fol- 
lows: Gun,  powder,  shot,  (different  sizes)  wads 
and  caps,  or  cartridges  for  breech-loaders, 
cleaning  utensils,  rags  and  oil.  Belt  and  hunt- 
ing knife.  A  sewing  bag  containing  needles, 
thread,  etc.,  fishing  outfit,  wax  candles,  change 
of  shirt,  pants  and  socks  for  night.  Mocas- 
sins for  night,  a  tin  of  boot-grease,  (see  Section 
XI)  blankets,  water-proof  bags  to  hold  bed- 
ding and  clothes,  overcoat,  Rubber  coat, 
Cups,  plates,  knife,  fork  and  spoon.  Cloth 
for  washing  dishes.  Each  member  should 
have  a  haversack  containing  towels,  comb, 
brush,  soap,  tooth  brush,  handkerchief,  etc. 
Such  articles  as  tobacco  may  also  be  carried 
in  the  haversack.  Reading  matter  may  be 
carried  if  desired.  Rubber  sheets  are  excel- 
lent articles  for  spreading  on  the  ground  un- 
der the  bedding,  and  for  covering  goods  in 
rainy    weather.     Lastly,    any    medicines    which 


22  THE   HUXTER'S   HAXDBOOK. 

may  be  thought  requisite  should  be  carried. 
(See    section    X.) 

The  experienced  hunter  will  know  without 
any  remarks  on  my  part,  what  of  the  above 
mentioned  articles  will  be  most  useful  to  him, 
but  to  the  amateur  I  would  say  that,  so  far 
as  is  commensurate  with  his  capabilities  of 
transportation,  he  is  at  liberty  to  consult  his 
comfort,  and  should  take  with  him  on  his 
trip,  all  articles  which  may  actually  conduct 
to  his  enjoyment  of  his  holiday.  He  should 
be  careful  that  all  articles  of  his  parapher- 
nalia are  properly  packed  in  appropriate 
receptacles,  so  that  in  unloading  his  boat  or 
canoe  he  will  not  have  a  multitude  of  loose 
articles    to  handle. 

It  is  impossible  to  place  before  the  amateur 
any  absolute  list  of  his  requirements,  but  from 
the  above  table  he  will  be  able  to  select 
whatever  he  may  need  for  any  description  of 
Hunting    excursion. 


SECTION    IV. 


THE     CAMP     FIRE. 


The  quality  of  our  fire  depends,  of  course, 
upon  the  wood  which  we  find  at  hand,  and 
sornewhat,  though  not  necessarily  in  any 
great  degree,  upon  the  state  of  the  weather. 
In  some  localities  wood  is  very  scarce  and 
we  have  to  exercise  great  economy  in  its  use. 
In  such  cases  the  fire  should  be  built  in  a 
hole  or  trench  so  as  to  prevent  drafts  of  air 
from  hastening  combustion.  In  selecting  a 
permanent  camping  place,  wood  is  one  of  the 
most  important  considerations.  In  some  places 
quantities  of  drift  wood  abound,  and  when 
near  by  we  have  the  standing  hard  wood* 
we    are    in    the  cook's    paradise. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  the  fire  is  not 
built  too  close  to  the  tent,  and  also  that  it  be 


24  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

placed  to  leeward  thereof  to  prevent  danger 
ffrom  sparks.  In  making  our  fire  we  first  pro- 
cure a  large  log,  green  if  possible,  and  place 
it,  length  wise  to  the  wind,  on  the  spot  chosen 
as  our  fire-place.  This  is  called  the  "Back 
log,"  and  against  it  we  build  our  fire,  on 
whichever  side  is  most  convenient.  Over  the 
Back  log,  from  behind,  project  our  cranes,  or 
"spumgullions" — poles  driven  into  the  ground 
and  notched  on  the  upper  side  to  receive,  the 
handles  of  our  kettles,  as  they  swing  over  the 
blaze.  In  laying  the  sticks  for  the  fire  we 
should  place  them  all  one  way,  parallel  to  the 
back  log,  and  start  the  flame  at  the  windward 
end.  By  laying  the  wood  in  this  manner,  we 
secure  a  more  compact  fire  than  when  we 
cross-pile  the  sticks,  and  the  sticks  fall  clown 
to  their  own  burning  as  those  below  are  con- 
sumed; but  if  we  cross-pile  the  sticks  they  fall 
apart  when  burnt  through  the  middle,  and  ne- 
cessitate a  continual  raking  to  keep  them 
together.  The  object  of  placing  the  back  log 
parallel  to    the    wind    is    to    prevent     its    being 


CAMP    FIRE.  25 

burned  through  the  middle,  and  to  allow  us 
to  work  with  greater  ease  on  either  side  of  the 
fire. 

In  undertaking  the  different  methods  of 
cooking,  we  require  different  kinds  of  fires. 
Thus,  for  boiling  an  ordinary  fire  will  suffice, 
but  for  frying  we  require  a  good  bed  of  coals 
and  no  blaze.  This  subject  is  more  fully  re- 
ferred to  in  "General  Remarks  on  Cooking," 
Section  Vll. 

Before  cooking  each  meal  we  should  brush 
the  loose  ashes  away  from  the  fire  with  a 
bough.  If  we  camp  on  the  same  spot  for  a 
few  days,  the  accumulation  of  ashes  at  our 
fire  place  will  be  very  inconvenient ;  and  they 
should  be  covered  with  a  thin  layer  of  earth 
and  the  fire  continued  thereon,  or  we  may 
select  a  new  spot  for  the  fire,  covering  the 
old  ashes  as  before  to  prevent  their  being 
blown  about.  Should  we  wish  to  cook  a  very 
elaborate  dinner,  we  should  start  two  fires, 
about  five  yards  apart,  and  so  escape  the 
great    heat    which    one    large    fire    would    throw 


26  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

out.  At  one  of  these  fires  we  ma}'  perform 
the  roasting  or  frying ;  at  the  other,  the 
boiling. 

In  rainy  weather,  when  not  being  used  for 
cooking,  the  fire  should  be  covered  with  slabs 
of  wood  to  shed  the  rain,  or  a  frame  work 
of  poles  should  be  erected  over  it  and  a 
rubber  sheet,  or  a  roof  of  bushes,  placed 
thereon.  If  the  fire  is  not  kept  burning 
all  night  some  dry  sticks  should  be  placed 
under  cover  of  the  tent  and  will  save  much 
trouble  in  starting  the  fire  in  the  morning 
when    everything  will  be  wet   with  dew. 

Should  the  hunter  be  reduced  to  the  neces- 
sity of  using  grass  or  hay  with  which  to  cook, 
he  should  twist  the  hay  into  tight  ropes  or 
blocks  about  two  feet  long  and  of  three  or 
four  inches  diameter.  The  tighter  these  blocks 
are  compressed  the  longer  they  will  burn,  and 
the  hotter  will  be  the  fire.  It  is  a  fact  that 
on  the  Western  Prairies,  where  wood  is  often 
extremely    scarce,     some    farmers   use    this    des- 


CAMP  FIRE.  27 

cription     of     fuel    for     both     the     purposes     of 
cooking   and   heating    their    habitations. 

In  using  his  axe  to  cut  up  fire  wood,  the 
amateur  cannot  employ  too  much  care  both 
to  prevent  accidents  to  himself  or  companions, 
and  to  avoid  breaking  the  handle  or  dulling 
the  axe  on  stones.  For  the  production  of 
fire  a  good  supply  of  matches  should  be  car- 
ried and  the  utmost  care  bestowed  upon  their 
safe  keeping.  The  hunter  will  do  well  to  pro- 
vide himself  with  a  sun,  or  burning  glass,  and 
if  by  any  accident  his  matches  are  lost,  this 
glass  on  being  held  at  the  proper  focal  dis- 
tance, in  the  sunshine,  will  readily  ignite  paper, 
leaves,  or  small  splints.  But  as  this  glass  is 
available  only  during  sunshine,  it  is  well  to 
have  other  methods  of  procuring  fire  at  our 
command.  If  some  paper  or  cloth  be  placed 
in  a  gun  on  a  charge  of  powder,  it  will  be 
ignited  when  the  gun  is  fired,  and  may  be 
coaxed  into  flame.  Another  method  is  to 
scatter  some  powder  on  a  stone,  and  having 
placed  some  dry  leaves  on   the  powder  in  such 


28  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

a  manner  as  to  prevent  these  being  blown 
away,  explode  a  cap  on  the  powder  by  a 
blow  of  the  axe  or  a  stone.  The  sparks  pro- 
duced by  striking  two  stones  together  will  also 
explode  powder.  In  using  these  methods  some 
of  the  powder  should  be  dampened  and  formed 
into  a  ball.  This  will  burn  slowly  and  throw 
off  a  vast  quantity  of  sparks,  and  produce 
great  heat.  Some  of  the  uncivilized  tribes  of 
Polynesia  procure  fire  by  inserting  a  pointed 
stick  into  a  corresponding  hole  in  another 
piece  of  wood,  and  twirling  the  stick  rapidly 
between  the  palms  of  the  hands.  This  method 
may  be  looked  upon  as  being  the  hunter's 
last  resource,  and  I  hope  none  of  my  readers 
will    ever  have  to    test  its   efficacy. 


SECTION  V. 

GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  CAMP  ROUTINE. 

For  the  guidance  of  the  amateur  who  is  not 
conversant  with  the  General  Economy  of  Camp 
life,  I  may  present  a  series  of  short  remarks 
on  the  system  of  management  which  he  should 
follow  when  on  an  excursion.  As  the  circum- 
stances under  which  hunting  trips  are  under- 
taken vary  so  widely,  some  being  by  land  and 
in  pursuit  of  different  kinds  of  game,  and 
some  by  water  in  various  conveyances,  it  may 
be  well  if  I  confine  myself  to  speaking  of 
some  definite  kind  of  trip,  and  from  the  observ- 
ations advanced  the  amateur  may  determine 
what  method  of  management  to  pursue  when 
on  any  kind  of  excursion.  For  the  present, 
we    may   consider    that    the    following    remarks 


3o  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

apply,  in  chief,  to  the  conducting  of  a  Duck 
shooting    excursion,    by    water,   in    bark    canoes. 

The  daily  work  in  Camp,  such  as  cooking, 
collecting  wood,  etc.,  should  either  be  under- 
taken by  each  member  in  turn,  or  each  mem- 
ber should  be  assigned  a  special  duty  for 
the    whole   trip. 

If  possible,  go  into  Camp  before  dark,  and 
have  all  arrangements  completed  before  night- 
fall. 

In  selecting  a  Camping  ground,  the  condi- 
tions to  be  desired  are,  plenty  of  wood,  good 
water,  with  a  convenient  landing  place,  and 
a    dry,    level,    sheltered    spot    for    the    tent. 

A  bed  of  spruce  boughs  may  be  made  as 
follows:  Cut  off  all  large  butts;  lay  the 
boughs  in  tiers,  commencing  at  the  top  of  the 
bed,  placing  the  butts  toward  the  bottom,  and 
over   this   spread    a    rubber  sheet  or   a    blanket. 

The  blankets  used  at  night  should  not  be 
spread    down    in   the   daytime. 

In  case  of  rain,  dig  a  small  trench  round 
the    tent    to    prevent    water   from    running   in. 


CAMP  ROUTINE.  31 

At  night  loosen  the  tent-ropes,  as  the  dew 
causes    the   canvass    to    contract. 

Guns  may  be  strapped  round  the  tent-poles; 
ammunition  boxes  placed  at  the  head  of  the 
beds  ;  grocery  boxes,  at  night,  placed  inside 
the  tent,  ranged  at  the  foot  of  the  beds ; 
haversacks  suspended  from  the  tent-poles,  or 
kept  at  the  head  of  the  beds,  or,  in  daytime, 
hung   outside    the  tent. 

Stretch  a  rope,  high  up  between  the  tent, 
poles,  on  which  to  hang  clothing  at  night- 
In  daytime,  the  rope  may  be  suspended  out- 
side for  the  same  purpose,  or  a  pole  will 
answer  the    same    end. 

On  rising  in  the  morning  spread  all  the 
bedding  on  the  grass,  if  dry,  to  air ;  when 
taken  in,  fold  it  up  neatly,  and  place  each 
man's    bundle    at    the    head    of  his    bed. 

If,  during  a  continuance  of  rainy  weather, 
the  bedding  becomes  damp,  seize  every  op- 
portunity   of    drying   it    before    the    fire. 

When  on  an  excursion  for  any  length  of 
time,  such  articles  of   clothing  as  shirts,    socks, 


32  '  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

etc.,  may  be  washed  on  a  fine  day,  and  hung 
in   the    sun    to    dry. 

At  night,  the  canoes  should  be  lifted  out 
of  the  water,  and  may  be  placed  on  their  sides 
close  to  the  curtains  of  the  tent  as  an  addi- 
tional   shelter    from    the    wind. 

On  breaking  up  Camp,  or  starting  on  a 
day's  journey,  examine  and  repair  the  canoes 
before  loading   up. 

The  consistency  of  which  to  make  rosin  de- 
pends on  the  season  of  the  year  and  the 
temperature  of  the  water.  If  too  hard,  the 
fosin  splits  or  cracks  in  cold  water,  and  if 
too  soft  it  runs  in  warm  weather.  Use  more 
or  less  grease  according  to  circumstances.  Wet 
the  finger  before  applying  it  to  press  or 
smooth  the  rosin   on   the    canoe. 

When  not  in  use,  keep  the  canoe  in  the 
shade.  Let  it  remain  on  its  bottom  in  the 
grass    if  no    shade   is    available. 

When  at  the  ponds  for  the  evening  shoot- 
ing, the  canoe  should  be  hid  in  the  bushes, 
or    it  may   be  masked  by   placing   boughs    and 


CAMP  ROUTIXE.  33 

grass  in  it  so  as  to  hide  the  entire  structure. 
When  the  canoe  is  thus  disguised  the  hunter 
may  sit  in  it  to  shoot,  or  he  may  paddle  to 
within    gun-shot   of    ducks  in  the    water. 

Cooking  utensils,  after  being  cleaned,  and 
when  not  in  use,  should  be  ranged  on  a  slab, 
or  other  piece  of  wood,  near  the  fire-place. 
A  small  rack  may  also  be  erected  here  on 
which    to    hang  dish-towels,    etc. 

Small  saplings,  stripped  of  their  branches, 
but  having  the  forks  left  on,  may  be  driven 
into  the  ground  on  either  side  of  the  tent  door, 
and  will  form  excellent  racks  on  which  to  hang 
shot-bags,  belts,  etc.,  during  the  day,  and 
against  which  to  lean  paddles,  fishing-poles, 
etc. 

The  grocery  boxes  should  be  over-hauled 
and  cleaned  occasionally,  and  all  parcels  ex- 
amined   and    kept   neatly   tied  up. 

Place  such  groceries  as  are  most  used  in  a 
box  by   themselves. 

Each  member  of  the  party  should  be  ac- 
quainted   with  the  whereabouts  of  every  article. 


34 


THE  HUNTER'S   HA XD HOOK, 


This  will  prevent  much  mauling  and  tossing 
of  goods.  The  maxim,  "Have  a  place  for 
everything,  and  keep  everything  in  its  place,'' 
should  never  be  more  strictly  obeyed,  and  its 
observance  is  never  followed  by  better  results, 
than   when  in  Camp. 

Keep  all  dishes,  knives,  etc.,  in  a  box  by 
themselves. 

All  articles  which  will  admit  of  it  should 
be  carried  in  bags  as  these  adapt  themselves 
to  any  shape  in  the  canoe,  and  contract  as 
their    contents   diminish. 

Ham  and  Pork  should  be  wrapped  in  a  clean, 
strong    cloth,    and    may   be    carried   in  a   bag. 

Occasionallv,  on  a  fine  dav,  the  contents 
of  all  bags  should  be  spread  out  in  the  sun, 
(that  is,  vegetables,  and  such  articles  as  will 
be  benefited  thereby)  and  the  bags  allowed  to 
get    aired    and  dried. 

Do  not  forget  that  the  guns,  being  much 
used,  require  to  be  cleaned  occasionally. 
Neat's-foot  oil  is  excellent  to  use  on  locks, 
etc. 


CAMP  ROUTINE.  35 

A  rule  which  all  amateurs  should  follow  is, 
"Do    not   argue    before    breakfast." 

Those  who  do  not  bathe  for  pleasure  daily, 
when  the  opportunity  presents,  should  make  it 
a    duty    to    do   so. 

Never  fire  at  small  birds  with  Duck-shot ;  it 
will  be  a  waste  of  ammunition.  Use  the  pro- 
per  sizes    of   shot    for   different    game. 

If  possible,  let  the  Tent  be  dry  before 
folding    it   up  to    remove. 

When  leaving  a  camping  ground,  and  after 
the  canoes  are  loaded,  take  a  last  look  and 
examine  the  ground  carefully,  that  nothing 
may   be    left   behind. 

When  in  the  Canoe,  the  guns,  if  loaded, 
should  occupy  the  following  positions  :  The 
bow-man  should  rest  his,  hammers  downward, 
on  the  bar  in  front  of  him,  with  the  but 
running  back  by  his  knees;  the  stern-man  also 
rests  his  against  the  bar  in  front  of  him,  and 
in  the  same  position  as  described  for  the  bow, 
keeping  the  muzzle  pointed  outwards  clear  of 
the    man     in    the    bow.     When     in    pursuit    of 


36  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

game,  or  when  passing  through  places  where 
ducks  may  lurk,  the  bow-man  should  keep  his 
gun  in  hand  ready  for  action.  Keep  the  gun, 
when  loaded,  except  when  required  for  im- 
mediate use,  at  half-cock,  and  in  raising  it  in 
the  Canoe  elevate  the  muzzle  first,  and  do 
not   let  the  hammer   catch    on    the    bars,  etc. 

At  all  times,  when  carrying  or  holding  a 
loaded  gun,  keep  its  muzzle  elevated,  or  de- 
pressed, and  pointing  out  of  range  of  all 
persons. 

Let  the  weight  of  each  man  be  known,  and 
in  loading  the  Canoe  distribute  the  cargo  so 
that  when  manned  she  will  float  on  an  even 
keel. 

When  one  person  alone  is  paddling  an 
empty  Canoe,  he  will  find  it  to  be  a  great 
assistance  to  place  a  few  stones  in  the  bow 
as    ballast,   especially    if    the    wind    be    blowing. 

For  sailing  in  a  Canoe  a  leg~of-mntto?i  sail 
is  generally  used.  The  mast  is  strapped  into 
a    notch   in    the    back     edge     of    the     fore-mid 


CAMP  ROUTIXE.  37 

bar,  and  its  heel  fits  into  a  small  step  screwed 
to    the   ribs   beneath. 

Two  Canoes  may  be  lashed  together  and 
blankets  or  sheets  used  as  sails.  The  Canoes 
are  placed  at  about  four  feet  apart  at  the 
center  bars,  and  the  tent-poles,  are  securely 
lashed  across  to  the  fore-mid  and  aft-mid 
bars  of  each  Canoe.  The  lashings  should 
be  securely  fastened  at  each  gunnel  at 
each  bar.  The  sail  may  be  placed  in 
either  Canoe,  or  each  may  carry  one.  When 
sailing  in  this  manner  before  the  wind,  great 
speed    may    be    attained    with    perfect  safety. 

When  passing  over  good  bottoms,  the  pole 
may  be  used  as  a  pleasant  change  from  pad- 
dling, but  none  but  those  who  are  well 
practiced  in  the  art  should  venture  to  pole  a 
loaded    Canoe. 

In  going  down  stream,  keep  the  current ; 
in    going   up,    hug   the    shore. 

.  If   the    hunter   has    to    pass   through    danger- 
ous   rapids,   he     should     lash     all     his    valuable 


38  THE  Hi\\  TEA'S  HANDBOOK. 

articles    to    the     canoe     and    divest    himself    of 
shoes    and    all    superflous    clothing. 

From  the  foregoing  remarks,  the  amateur 
will  gather  that  all  is  required  to  render  his 
life  in  Camp  pleasant,  and  to  crown  with  suc- 
cess his  efforts  at  house-keeping  in  the  wil- 
derness, is  some  small  stock  of  neatness  and 
activity,  and  in  fact  that  he  follow,  in  some 
degree,  the  well-recognized  customs  of  civilized 
households. 


SECTION    VI. 


COOKINO      UTENSILS. 


Regular  Trappers  can  and  often  do  per- 
form their  cooking  with  a  surprisingly 
small  number  of  utensils.  In  fact,  a  kettle 
for  tea  is  the  stock  in  trade  of  many.  Their 
game  is  spitted  before  the  glowing  coals  or 
roasted  in  a  bed  of  ashes  in  the  midst  of 
the  fire,  and  potatoes  or  bread  are  baked 
before  the  open  fire.  Thus  they  rival  in  the 
limited  resources  of  their  cuisine,  the  paucity 
of  those  Kings  of  the  Chase,  the  red  denizens 
of  the  primeval  prairies.  And  yet  those  old 
trappers  are  perfectly  happy,  and  for  the  best 
of  reasons,  that  they  have  never  known  any 
other  mode  of  living.  I  do  not  mean  to  sav 
that    they   are   ignorant    of    the    customs    of  civ- 


4o  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

ilization,  I  merely  state  that  they  are  so  ac- 
customed to  their  mode  of  living  that  they  do 
not  desire,  and  would  not  be  content,  under 
any  other  circumstances.  But  I  do  not  ex- 
pect the  amateur  hunter  to  confine  himself 
to  such  a  limited  list  of  cooking  utensils. 
The  man  who  devotes  but  a  few  clays  in  a 
year  to  the  exciting  chase  may  be  allowed,  in 
following  out  the  same  line  of  conduct  as  that 
pursued  by  the  professional  hunter,  to  retain, 
as  far  as  he  wishes,  the  habits  of  his  daily  life. 
He  should  not  feel  called  upon  to  stint  himself 
of  any  comforts  when  selecting  his  cooking 
utensils  for  a  trip. 

For  excursions  to  different  localities,  by  dif- 
ferent modes  of  conveyance,  and  for  different 
periods  of  time,  the  number  and  description 
of  cooking  utensils  required  varies  greatly. 
Nevertheless,  I  present  a  full  list  of  these  ar- 
ticles, and  the  hunter  can  easily  decide  what 
he  will  require,  both  as  necessities  or  as  attri- 
butes   to  his  greater  comfort. 

The   first    and    most   important  article    of  our 


COOKING   UTENSILS.  41 

list  of  cooking  utensils,  is  the  tea  kettle — 
most  important,  for  only  in  one  way  can  we 
prepare  this  cheering  beverage.  This  may  be 
of  tin,  and  should  be  of  a  capacity  suitable 
to  the  number  composing  the  hunting  party. 
One  kettle,  if  kept  properly  clean,  will  very 
well  answer  for  the  making  up  both  tea  and 
coffee. 

Next  we  have  the  Frying-pan.  This  is 
an  old  stand-by  for  hunters,  and  a  most 
useful  article.  All  kinds  of  fish,  flesh  and 
fowls  may  be  cooked  in  this  ever-ready 
utensil.  There  is  a  pan  made  expressly  for 
cooking  at  the  camp  fire,  having  a  long  iron 
handle,  but  this  instrument  I  cannot  recom- 
mend. The  handle  is  heavy  and  unwieldy. 
For  our  greater  comfort  in  cooking  we  may 
attach  a  long  wooden  handle  to  the  short 
iron  one  of  the  pan,  tying  it  thereto  with 
twine  or  wire.  This  handle  may  be  detached, 
if  so  desired,  for  greater  ease  of  transporta- 
tion. If  necessary,  two  frying  pans  may  be 
carried,    and    while    one    is    employed   in    frying 


42  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

fish  or  ham,  the  other  may  be  used  for 
frying  potatoes,  warming  beans,  etc.,  or  for 
stewing  articles.  The  second  pan  will  well 
repay    the    trouble    of    transportation. 

We  next  want  the  utensils  in  which  to 
cook  our  potatoes,  beans,  rice  or  oatmeal. 
For  potatoes,  a  tin  kettle  will  suffice,  but  if 
possible,  an  iron  pot  should  be  carried  for 
cooking  the  other  articles  as  they  burn  very 
earily  when  cooked  in  tin.  Nevertheless,  a 
tin  kettle  will  do  very  well,  requiring  but  a 
little  more  attention  to  keep  the  contents 
well  stirred  and  the  fire  in  a  moderate 
condition.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  kettles 
of  different  sizes,  such  as  will  fit  inside  one 
another.  In  this  way  we  greatly  increase  our 
abilities  to  cook  without  sacrificing  space  in 
transportation. 

A  Dutch  Oven  is  an  excellent  article  on 
a  hunting  excursion,  and  should  be  taken 
when  space  in  the  boat  or  canoe  will  per. 
mit.     Its    use    is    referred    to    in   Section    VII. 


COOKING    UTENSILS.  43 

There  are  a  variety  of  cooking  appliances 
manufactured  for  the  use  of  the  hunter, 
such  as  the  "  Tripod  and  Utensils "  and 
"  The  Camp  Cooking  Stove "  with  its  com- 
pactly arranged  pots,  but  for  cooking  at  the 
open  camp  fire  the  utensils  mentioned 
above  are  all  that  are  necessary.  To  enume- 
rate, we  may  say  that  the  cooking  utensils 
required  on  an  ordinary  hunting  trip — for 
example,  a  Duck  shooting  excursion,  via 
water,  in  canoes,  a  party  of  four,  for  ten 
days — are    as    follows  : 

1    Tea    Kettle,    tin. 

1    Potato    Kettle,    tin. 

1    Rice,    etc.,   Kettle,    iron    preferred. 

I    or    2    Fry    Pans. 

Dutch    Oven,    if    possible. 

When  we  remember  that  we  can  roast  our 
game  before  the  fire,  or  burried  in  the 
ashes,  it  will  be  seen  that,  with  the  above 
utensils,  our  methods  of  cooking  are  as 
uncurtailed  as  if  we  had  a  domestic  cooking 
range     on     which     to     manipulate     our     meals 


44  THE  HUNTER'S  II A XD BOOK. 

Great    care    should    be    taken    of    the    cooking 

utensils,     and     to    much     attention     cannot  be 

paid     to     keeping    them    clean.        Section  VI 

contains   some    remarks    further    relating    to  the 

hunters'     Cooking     Utensils,     and     should  be 
read   in   this    connection. 


SECTION   VII. 

GENERAL     REMARKS     ON     CAMP    COOKING. 

When  en  route,  and  the  chief  object  is  to 
cover  distance,  the  hunter  has  little  time  to 
bestow  on  cooking.  He  then  falls  back  on 
his  canned  goods,  and  probably  confines  his 
efforts  at  cooking  to  the  production  of  the 
ever-acceptable  can  of  Tea.  But  when  in  a 
stationary  camp,  and,  indeed,  whenever  he 
can  spare  time  when  en  route,  the  hunter 
should  put  forth  his  best  efforts  and  produce 
at  least  one  solid,  substantial  and  comfort- 
able meal  per  day.  To  the  person  who  is 
at  all  conversant  with  the  art  of  cooking, 
the  preparing  of  such  a  meal  is  an  absolute 
pleasure.  More  especially  does  he  feel 
gratified     if    his     companions    on    the    trip    are 


46  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

deficient  in  knowledge  of  cooking,  for,  in 
truth,  the  experienced  cook  then  becomes 
the  most  important  personage  in  the  party, 
and  he  also  has  the  pleasure  of  knowing 
that  his  efforts  are  appreciated,  for  the  good 
will  of  hunters,  as  well  as  that  of  the 
proverbial  morose  husband,  is  reached  through 
their  stomachs.  Though  such  a  person  may 
be  quite  willing  to  undertake  the  cooking 
for  his  party,  during  the  entire  trip,  yet  a 
more  desirable  state  of  affairs  exists  when 
all  the  party  are  able  to  undertake  that  im- 
portant duty  in  rotation.  (We  refer,  of 
course,  to  parties  who  have  no  hired  cook 
with  them.)  No  party  should  ever  venture 
to  go  out  on  a  hunting  excursion  without 
numbering  in  their  ranks  at  least  one  per- 
son who  can  cook.  It  appears  to  be  foolish 
to  write  such  an  evident,  simple  remark,  but 
when  amateur  hunters  act  foolishly,  must  I 
not  suit  my  conversation  to  their  conpre- 
hension?  I  have  known  parties  to  act  just 
thus   foolishly.       I    once    met    with    a    party    of 


CAMP   COOKIXG.  47 

young  men  on  an  excursion,  and  far  from 
home.  They  had  a  good  supply  of  provisions 
with  them,  but,  from  sheer  ignorance  of  how 
to  cook  their  food,  they  were  glad  to  buy 
meals  at  the  houses  of  farmers  on  the  way. 
But  we  will  revert  to  a  more  pleasant  part 
of  our  subject — we  will  endeavor,  as  is  one 
of  the  chief  objects  of  this  pamphlet,  to 
teach  such  young  amateur  hunters  how  to 
enjoy,    to    its  fullest,   their   food. 

In  cooking,  be  it  in  the  kitchen  of  kings, 
or  at  the  humble  camp  fire  of  the  hungry 
hunter,  too  much  attention  cannot  be  paid 
to  that  God-like  quality — cleanliness.  All 
our  cooking  utensils  should  undergo  close 
inspection  before  being  used,  and  after  use 
they  should  be  cleaned  and  put  away  in 
their  proper  place.  All  articles  to  be  cooked 
should  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  the  cook 
himself  would  do  well  to  pay  a  little  at- 
tention to  personal  cleanliness  before  he 
undertakes  to  exercise  his  art.  Look  you ! 
of    what    more    disgusting    object    can   we    con- 


48  THE   HUXTER'S  HAXDBOOK. 

ceive  than  the  person  who,  rousing  from  his 
blankets  in  camp,  proceeds  to  prepare  the 
morning  meal  with  utensils  which,  though 
musty  from  last  night's  supper,  are  yet  clean 
when  compared  with  his  unsanctifled  condition? 
The  sight  of  a  slovenly,  dirty  person  cooking  our 
food  detracts  in  no  small  degree  from  our 
appetite.  If  several  of  the  party  are  able 
to  assist  in  preparing  a  meal,  one  should 
collect  wood  and  attend  to  the  fire ;  another 
may  clean  such  articles  as  game,  potatoes, 
etc.,  so  that  he  who  undertakes  to  super- 
intend the  cooking  may  give  his  undivided 
attention  to  the  handling  of  the  small 
groceries.  If  the  cook  has  no  assistance,  he 
should  so  regulate  his  work  that  all  the 
rougher  tasks  are  completed  first,  so  that  he 
may  wash  his  hands  before  undertaking  the 
more  delicate  office  of  manipulating  the  in- 
gredients of  his  various  dishes.  The  cook 
must  not  forget  that  different  articles  vary  in 
the  length  of  time  required  to  cook  them, 
and  he     should    place     on    the    fire    first    those 


CAMP    COOKING.  49 

requiring  the  longest  time ;  he  will  thus  have 
all  his  articles  ready  for  table  at  once,  and 
nothing   need    be    allowed    to    get   cold.  ■. 

ON     BOILING. 

This  is  the  simplest  method  of  preparing 
food,  and  by  it  almost  every  description  of 
fish,  meat,  fowls  and  vegetables  may  be 
cooked.  When  in  camp  we  need  not  confine 
the  operation  of  boiling  to  any  particular 
description  of  kettle ;  we  may  even  boil 
articles  in  our  frying  pan,  the  essential  con- 
dition of  the  operation  being  merely  that 
the  articles  are  cooked  in  boiling  water.  It 
is  to  be  noted  that  soups,  stews,  etc.,  are 
made  by  boiling,  and  owe  their  names  to 
their  ingredients  rather  than  to  the  utensils 
in  which  they  are  prepared.  The  hunter 
may  often  be  called  upon  to  use  the  uten- 
sils at  his  command  for  purposes  far 
different  from  those  for  which,  in  the 
economy    of     civilization,     they     were    intended. 


5o  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

In  boiling  articles  the  hunter  must  pay 
attention  to  the  following  points  : — the  pot 
must  be  kept  boiling,  and  not  allowed  to 
cease  boiling  until  the  article  is  cooked ; 
boil  slowly ;  know  the  time  required  to  cook 
the  article  (given  in  the  different  recipes) 
and  abide  by  it ;  skim  the  pot  when  a  scum 
is  seen  to  form  on  the  surface.  When  the 
object  is  to  extract  substance  from  scraps  of 
meat,  or  from  bones,  as  in  making  soups, 
the  pot  may  be  allowed  to  boil  faster,  but 
should  be  kept  closely  covered.  The  follow- 
ing remark,  taken  from  an  excellent  author- 
ity on  Cooking,  may  be  of  interest,  as  it 
will  apply  as  well  to  any  articles  which  the 
hunter  may  cook,  as  to  the  meat  spoken  of. 
"Two  mutton  chops  were  covered  with  cold 
water,  and  one  boiled  fiercely,  and  the  other 
simmered  gently,  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour ;  the  flavor  of  the  chop  which  was 
simmered  was  decidedly  superior  to  that  of 
the  one  which  was  boiled  \  the  liquor  which 
boiled     fast     was     in      like      proportion     more 


CAMP   COOKIXG.  51 

savoury^  and,  when  cold,  had  much  more 
fat  on  its  surface  j  this  explains  why  quick 
boiling  renders  meat  hard,  etc., — because  its 
juices  are  extracted  in  a  greater  degree." 
When  the  water  evaporates  quickly,  more  hot 
water  should  be  added.  Some  remarks  on 
the  boiling  of  Vegetables  will  be  found 
under    that    head    in    the    recipes. 

ON     ROASTING     AND     BAKING. 

A  method  of  roasting  fish  and  game, 
much  in  vogue  with  old  hunter's,  is  to  cover 
them  up  in  a  bed  of  hot  coals,  where  they 
remain  until  cooked.  This  method  is  not  to 
be  recommended  to  amateurs.  Nevertheless, 
he  will  find,  in  the  recipes,  directions  for 
its  use,  and  he  may  experiment  with  some 
fish  or  game  on  which  he  does  not  depend 
for  a  meal.  Great  experience  is  required  to 
ensure  its  successful  accomplishment.  A 
simpler  method  of  roasting  is  by  spitting 
his     game    before     a    good    clear    fire.       It  is 


52  THE    HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

thus  continually  under  his  surveillance,  and 
the  operation  should  be  as  successful  as  it 
is  simple.  A  pan  should  be  placed  under 
the  article  being  roasted  to  catch  the  fat 
which  exudes.  A  little  water  should  be 
placed  in  the  pan,  with  some  salt,  and  the 
article  cooking  should  be  frequently  basted 
with  this  liquor.  The  fire  should  not  be  too 
hot  at  first,  as,  by  hardening  the  outside  of 
the  meat,  it  prevents  the  heat  from  pene- 
trating. When  about  half  cooked,  the  meat 
may  be  placed  nearer  the  fire,  or  the  fire 
increased.  The  time  required  to  roast  various 
articles  is  given  in  the  recipes.  The  Spit 
is  merely  a  stick  inserted  in  the  meat  or 
game  to  be  roasted,  and  serves  to  hold  the 
article  before  the  fire.  It  may  be  laid  over 
a  forked  stick,  or  supported  in  any  manner 
found  convenient.  The  article  being  roasted 
should  be  frequently  turned,  and  basted  as 
before    stated. 

Baking,    in    our    domestic     kitchens,     consists 
of    placing    the    article     to    be    cooked    in    the 


CAMP   COOKING.  53 

oven,  and  observing  various  regulations. 
Such  an  operation  we,  of  course  never  per- 
form when  on  a  hunting  excursion,  but  we 
can  bake  bread,  potatoes,  etc.,  before  the 
fire  in  the  same  manner  as  we  roast  meat. 
There  is  no  difference  in  the  operations ; 
the  articles  operated  upon  bestow  the  name 
on  the  method  of  operation.  Thus  our 
bread    is    baked,    our   game  roasted. 

Bread,  and  all  compound  dishes  may  be 
best  baked  in  a  Dutch  Oven,  and  the 
amateur  who  considers  his  comfort  should, 
when  possible,  have  one  of  these  articles 
among  his  cooking  utensils.  The  oven  his 
placed  before  a  hot  bed  of  coals,  and  by 
collecting  the  heat,  and  by  reflection,  readily 
cooks    any    articles    consigned   to    its  care. 

ON      FRYING. 

Frying  may  be  termed  the  hunter's  rough 
and  ready  method  of  preparing  food.  By 
this    method    all    fishes,    flesh,    and    fowls    may 


54  THE   HUNTER'S  HAXDBOOK. 

be  cooked.  The  following  points  should  be 
observed  : — Have  a  clear  fire  of  coals ;  make 
the  pan  hot  and  grease  it  well  before 
placing  articles  in  it  to  cook ;  olive  oil  is 
better  than  lard  or  other  grease  ;  if  using  pork 
fat,  cut  it  up  and  try  out,  and  place  the 
meat  in  the  remaining  oil  ;  all  articles 
should  be  frequently  turned  to  allow  the 
steam  to  evaporate  ;  shake  the  pan  often, 
and  do  not  allow  the  articles  to  stick ;  take 
care  that  the  sputtering  fat  does  not  take 
fire,  and  if  it  does,  remove  the  pan  at  once 
from  the  coals  and  blow  out  the  blaze.  The 
observing  of  these  points,  and  of  the  direc- 
tions found  in  the  different  recipes,  should 
enable  the  hunter  to  attain  complete  success 
in  frying  his  pan-cakes,  ham  and  eggs,  trout 
or   birds. 

ON      STEWING. 

The     term     Stewing     is    applied    to    the    pro- 
duction    of    compound     dishes,     in     which    the 


CAMP   COOKIXG. 


55 


various  ingredients  are  boiled  together.  By 
this  method  we  can  produce  many  savoury 
and  fragrant  dishes.  Stewing  is  also  an 
economical  process,  for  we  may  thus  cook 
together  scraps  of  meat,  small  birds  and 
other  articles  which  alone  would  prove  to  be 
but  sorry  morsels.  It  has  been  stated  that 
all  cookery  is  but  an  aid  to  digestion,  and 
while  I  hold  that  some  cookery  may  be 
very  detrimental  to  the  digestive  organs,  I 
will  acknowledge  that  the  process  of  stewing 
resembles  the  action  of  the  stomach,  and  is 
therefore,  if  from  no  other  reason,  to  be 
highly  recommended  to  the  hunter's  use. 
The  points  to  be  observed  when  stewing 
articles  are  as  follows  : — let  the  pot  boil 
slowly ;  stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning, 
and  keep  the  pot  continually  boiling  until 
the  mass  is  cooked.  Further  remarks  on 
stewing  will  be  found  in  all  recipes  for 
preparing   dishes    by    that   useful    method. 

The    hunter   who    carries    the    requisite    uten- 
sils   has    all    of    the    methods    of    cooking    just 


56  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

mentioned  at  his  command,  and  he  must  be 
indeed  shiftless  who,  being  provided  with  a 
sufficiency  of  good  food,  can  not  prepare  it 
in  such  a  manner  that  he  may  not  only  eat 
it,  but  also  enjoy  it  to  its  fullest  extent. 
In  closing  this  Section,  I  may  quote  the  fol- 
lowing from  an  excellent  authority  : — "To  some 
extent  the  claims  of  either  process  of  cook- 
ing depend  upon  the  taste  of  the  individual. 
Some  persons  may  esteem  the  flavor  of 
fried  meats,  while  others  will  prefer  broils  or 
stews.  It  is  important,  however,  to  under- 
stand the  theory  of  each  method  of  cooking, 
so  that  whichever  may  be  adopted,  it  may 
be  done  well.  Bad  cooking,  though  by  a 
good  method  is  far  inferior  to  good  cooking 
by   a   bad    method." 


INDEX  TO   RECEIPTS. 

RECEIPTS  FOR  CAMP  COOKERY,    (SEC.   VIII.) 

No.  Page. 

SOUPS. 

General  Remarks         ......  61 

i     Plain    Pea  Soup 63 

2  Bean   Soup 64 

3  Liebig's  Extract  of  Beef. 64 

4  Canned  Soups      65 

5  Vegetable   Soups 65 

FISH. 

6  Smoked    Herrings 66 

7  Fish,  to  bake  in  the  coals 67 

8  Fish,  ordinary  method    of    cooking             .         .  68 

9  Brook  Trout 68 

10  Salmon 68 

Codfish.     (See  No.  89.) 10S 

Fish-cakes.     (See  Nos.  90-91.)  .        .        109-110 

CANNED    FISH. 

11  Oysters,  stewed 69 

12  Oysters,   fried               70 

13  Oysters,   raw            70 

14  Lobsters,    as  canned             .....  70 

15  Lobsters,  stewed              70 

16  Lobster  Salad     .                   71 

17  Lobster  Croquettes 71 

1 3     Salmon,    as    canned 71 

19     Salmon,    stewed 72 


58 


INDEX    TO    RECEIPTS. 


GAME. 

20  Venison,   moose,   bear-meat,  etc.,   to  roast 

21  Ducks,    partridges,    quails,    etc.,   roasting   in   the 

ashes      ........ 

22  Ducks,   partridges,  squirrels,    etc.,   roasting    be- 

fore   the   fire 

23  Ducks,    to    stew  .         .         . 

24  Ducks,    to   fry  .... 

25  Snipes,    to   fry     .... 

26  Snipes,    to  stew      .... 

27  Snipes,    on  toast 

28  Turkey,   to   boil      .... 

29  Goose,   to    roast 

30  Rabbit,    to   roast     .... 

31  Rabbit,    curried 

32  Rabbit,    with    onions 

MISCELLANEOUS     MEATS. 

33  Salt   Beef   and    Pork,  stewed     . 

34  Corned  Beef,    canned,    cold 

35  Corned   Beef,    canned,   stewed 

36  Ham,    Bacon    or   Pork,    to  fry 

37  Ham,  Bacon    or  Pork,    to    roast  or    bake 

33  Ham    and   Eggs 

3)  Ham    or    Pork,   with    onions 

40  Ham,  barbecued     . 

41  Pork   fritters 

42  Pork  and   Beans.     No.  I 

43  Pork  and   Beans.     No.    2 

44  Eggs,   to  poach 
AS  Eggs,    to   boil 

46  Eggs,    Savory 

47  Eggs,  curried 


72 


73 


IXDEX    TO    RECEIPTS. 


59 


VEGETABLES. 


48  Potatoes,  to   bake 

49  Potatoes,   to    boil 

50  Potatoes,   (raw)    fried     .         .         . 

51  Potatoes,    (boiled)   fried 

52  Potato  fritters  .... 

53  Onions,    to   boil 

54  Onions,    to    fry        .... 

55  Vegetables,    miscellaneous 

56  Vegetables,   canned 

MISCELLANEOUS    DISHES 

57  Rice,  plain    boiled 
5S  Rice,    with    raisins 

59  Rice,  savory 

60  Rice  croquettes 

61  Rice    pudding 

62  Oatmeal   pancakes 

63  Flour   pancakes 

64  Indian    Meal    pancakes 

65  Oatmeal   porridge 
65  Corn   Meal   porridge 

6/  Corn  Meal   porridge,   fried 

63  Hoe    Cake 

69  Corn    Bread         .... 

70  Oat  Cake        .         .        .        .        . 

71  Bread 

PUDDINGS. 

72  Batter   pudding,   baked  or   boiled 

73  Rice    pudding  .... 

74  Cossacks'    Plum    pudding 


60  INDEX    TO    RECEIPTS. 

SALAD-DRESSINGS   AND    SAUCES. 

75  Dressing   for  Canned  Lobster,   etc.      .        .         .  ioo 

j6  Tomato   Salad     .......  ioi 

yy  Dutch   sauce,  for   Meat  or   Fish  .         .         .  ioi 

78  Sauce  for   Ducks,    Geese,  etc.       ....  101 

79  Drawn    Butter,   for    Fish,    Onions,   etc.     .         .  102 

80  Pudding   sauce 102 

81  Sauce   Hollandaise,   or  Drawn   Butter      .        .  103 

82  Plum   pudding   Sauce 103 

BEVERAGES. 

Tea,     General    Remarks. 

83  Tea,   to  steep   or   draw         .....  105 

84  Coffee,   to    draw 106 

85  Coffee,    to  improve    flavor    of        ...         .   107 

86  Coffee,   substitute  for    cream  in  107 

87  Coffee,    Essence   or    Extract  of  .         .         .107 

88  Beverages,   miscellaneous  ....       10S 

APPENDIX. 

89  Codfish,   salt,  to   boil 108 

90  Fish  Cakes,   with   raw  fish        ....       109 

91  Fish  Cakes,  with  cooked  fish      .  .         .         .110 

THE     LAST     RESOURCE,     OR     WHAT     TO    USE     WHEN      PRO- 
VISIONS   RUN    SHORT.    (Sec.    IX.) 

General  Remarks. 

92  Potato  soup 112 

93  Dandelions,  as    greens 114 

94  Corn   Meal n^ 

95  Frogs,   to    roast,   fry   or   stew    .         .         .         .115 

96  Miscellaneous    articles   of   diet  .         .         .115 


SECTION  VIII. 

RECEIPTS     FOR    CAMP    COOKERY. 

Note. — If  the  hunter  should  wish  to  prepare  any 
of  the  compound  dishes  mentioned  in  these  Receipts, 
he  must  remember  to  include  the  different  ingred- 
ients in  his  list  of  groceries.  In  all  the  receipts  the 
quantities  may  be  varied,  but  the  proportions  should 
be    observed. 

SOUP. 

GENERAL    REMARKS. 

Soups  are  seldom  made  at  the  Camp  fire, 
but  as  times  may  occur  when  scraps  of  meat 
and  carcasses  of  game  might  be  concocted 
into  a  fragrant  dish,  I  feel  that  these  Re- 
ceipts would  not  be  complete  without  some 
reference  being  made  to  Soups.  As  a  gen- 
eral   rule     soups    may    be     made     out     of   any 


62  THE  HUNTER'S  HA XD BOOK. 

flesh  or  game  which  will  impart  its  substance 
and  flavor  to  the  water.  Canned  soups  are 
excellent  articles  of  diet,  and  when  we  have 
a  jar  of  Liebig's  Extract  of  Beef  we  can 
produce  a  soup  unrivalled  in  the  whole  range 
of  cookery  for  its  wholesome  and  sustaining 
qualities.  Soups  should  be  allowed  to  boil 
for  a  long  time  in  order  that  the  full  sub- 
stance of  the  article  operated  upon  may  be 
extracted.  The  soup  should  boil  slowly  and 
be  frequently  skimmed.  In  making  soups  in 
camp  we  wish  to  produce  a  good  strong  ar- 
ticle, rather  than  the  clear,  delicate  dish  of 
society  dinners.  To  this  end  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  place  a  small  quantity  of  vegetables, 
properly  cut  up,  in  the  pot  when  first  plac- 
ing it  on  the  fire.  In  the  time  required  to 
extract  the  substance  from  the  meat  these 
vegetables  will  have  dissolved,  and  will  be 
thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  liquor.  Other 
vegetables  may  be  added  at  such  times  as 
will  allow  of  their  being  cooked  without  their 
dissolving.        Thus,     carrots    may    be     put     in 


CAMP  COOKERY.  63 

three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  the  soup  is 
to  be  taken  off  the  fire  \  potatoes  and  onions, 
twenty  minutes  before.  All  vegetables  for 
soups  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  and  placed  in  cold  water  ready 
to  add  to  the  soup  when  required.  In  thick- 
ening soups  with  flour,  the  flour  should  be 
mixed  with  cold  water  and  all  lumps  broken 
up,  and  then  stirred  into  the  boiling  soup. 
Should  the  hunter  have  to  place  himself  on 
short  rations,  he  will  find  the  soup  pot  to 
be   his   best   friend. 

1. 

PLAIN    PEA    SOUP. 

Put  3  pounds  pork,  well  soaked,  and  cut 
into  4  or  5  pieces,  into  3  quarts  water.  Add 
1-2  pound  split  peas,  1-2  teaspoonful  sugar,  a 
little  pepper,  3  ounces  fresh  vegetables  or  2 
ounces  compressed.  Boil  2  hours,  or  until 
peas  are  tender.  Broken  biscuit  may  be 
added.  Salt  beef  may  be  used  instead  of 
pork,    but   should    be    well   soaked.       Do     not 


64  THE   HUNTER'S  HA XD BOOK. 

add   vegetables    until    the    meat    and   peas  have 
boiled    an    hour    and    a    half. 

2. 

BEAN     SOUP. 

To  i  gallon  water  add  i  1-2  pints  white 
beans,  2  pounds  pork,  or  a  ham  bone,  4 
onions  cut  fine,  and  pepper.  Boil  until  beans 
are  dissolved.  If  the  beans  have  been  soaked 
in  water  for  some  time,  say  over  night,  about 
2   hours   will    suffice    to   cook    them. 

3- 

liebig's   extract  of    beef. 

That  the  hunter  may  see  the  full  value  of 
this  article,  I  quote  the  following  from  the 
wrapper  accompanying  the  pots  :  "A  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  Extract  dissolved  in  boil- 
ing water  will,  with  the  addition  of  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  salt,  produce  a  breakfast 
cupful  of  strong  and  clear  Beef  tea."  This 
is  an  excellent  beverage  to  partake  of  in 
the   early   morning   before    undertaking   to    pre- 


CAMP   COOKERY.  65 

pare  the  regular  breakfast.  "An  excellent 
soup,  equal  to  that  prepared  from  fresh  meat, 
is  obtained  by  boiling  soup  vegetables,  with 
some  bones  and  marrow,  till  done,  and  then 
adding  the  necessary  quantity  of  Extract,  with 
plenty  of  salt.  Soups  made  with  peas,  len- 
tils, beans,  potatoes,  bread,  barley,  carrots, 
turnips,  and  other  vegetables,  gain  by  the  ad- 
dition of  Extract  as  much  as  if  fresh  meat 
had  been  boiled  with  them,  equal  in  quantity 
to  what  would  be  required  for  producing  the 
Extract." 

4- 

The  canned  soups  sold  by  grocers,  are  to 
be  recommended.  Directions  for  use  accom- 
pany each   can  or    package. 

5- 

VEGETABLE    SOUP. 
(A   good    dish   to    use    when    rations  run    short.) 

3  onions,  3  small  turnips,  1  carrot,  and  4 
potatoes,  all  cut   up.       Put   into   the   pot   with 


66  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

1-4  pound  butter,  same  of  lean  ham,  or  any 
bones  or  scraps  of  meat,  and  a  pinch  of 
mixed  herbs.  Place  over  fire  for  10  minutes, 
then  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  well  mixed  in 
2  quarts  of  water,  and  a  dessertspoonful  Ex- 
tract of  Beef,  (if  on  hand,)  salt  and  pepper. 
Boil  until  vegetables  are  well  cooked,  skim, 
and  serve   with    toasted   bread. 

FISH. 

(Under  this  head  we  have  the  canned  fish  which 
we  may  purchase  for  our  larder,  as  well  as  those 
which   we   may   catch    with    the    fly,  or   hook    and   line). 

6. 

SMOKED     HERRINGS. 

The  simplest  way  to  cook  these  fish  is  to 
toast  them,  at  the  end  of  a  pointed  stick 
over  the  coals,  first  cleaning  and  removing 
the  skin.  Another  method  is  to  scald  in 
boiling  water  until  the  skin  curls  up,  then 
remove  head,  tail  and  skin.  Clean  well.  Put 
into  fry  pan  with  a  little  butter  or  lard. 
Fry  gently    a  few   minutes,    dropping    in    a  lit- 


CAMP   COOKERY.  fy 

tie  vinegar.  These  are  excellent  articles  on 
a  trip,  and  may,  if  occasion  arises,  be  eaten 
without  any  more  cooking  than  what  they  re- 
ceived   in    being   smoked. 

7- 

BAKING    FISH    IN    THE    COALS. 

Clean    the   fish,    and     if    it    is    large    enough 
to    be    emptied  through   a  hole  in  the  neck,  do 
not  slit  the    belly.     Season  the  inside  with  salt 
and    pepper,    and    if    liked,    stuff    with     Indian 
meal.        Have  ready  a   good    bed    of    glowing 
coals,  and  lay  the  fish  in  this  and  cover  it  up, 
using  first     some    ashes    or    dead    embers,   that 
the  fish  may  not  be  burnt.   Half  an  hour,  more 
or  less,  according  to  size,    is    required   for   the 
operation.       Experience    alone     can     determine 
the    time  required.     On   removing  the  fish  from 
the   fire    and    peeling   off     the     skin,  the     flesh 
will    be   found    to    be    clean    and    well    soaked. 
The  amateur  should  experiment  in   this  method 
before   he    undertakes    to    trust    to     it     for    the 
production   of   a   meal. 


63  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 


ORDINARY     METHOD     OF     COOKING     FISH. 

All  fish,  eels  included,  may  be  cooked  by 
frying,  the  larger  ones  being  cut  up  into 
several  pieces.  After  cleaning  the  fish,  wipe 
and  dry  well  in  a  cloth.  Place  in  the  hot 
pan  with  plenty  of  fat.  Sprinkle  with  in- 
dian  meal.  Turn  frequently  and  shake  the 
pan  often.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
few    drops    of    any    sauce    desired. 

9- 

BROOK    TROUT. 

If  small,  fry  as  directed  in  No.  8.  If 
large,  boil  and  serve  with  drawn  butter. 
(No.    79.) 

10. 

SALMON. 

Salmon  may  be  boiled  and  served  with 
drawn  butter  (No.  79  )  or  cut  into  pieces 
and  fried.       Time    of    boiling   varies  according 


CAMP   COOKERY.  69 

to    size.       Add    salt    to    the    water   in  which    it 
is    boiled. 

CANNED     FISH. 

Directions  for  use  are  generally  printed  on  the 
cans.       The   following   will    be  found   useful : 

II. 

OYSTERS,     STEWED. 

Pour  the  liquor  off  the  oysters  into  the  fry 
pan  to  stew  with  twice  the  quantity  of  milk. 
Add  a  little  butter,  the  size  of  a  marble, 
some  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  crumbled 
biscuit,  or  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  As  soon 
as  the  liquor  boils  throw  in  the  oysters  and 
let  them  remain  for  30  seconds.  Then  pour 
into  dish  for  immediate  use.  When  milk  can- 
not be  had,  use  water,  same  quantity  as  the 
liquor  of  the  oysters,  and  to  the  above  named 
ingredients  add  a  pinch  of  mixed  herbs.  A 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  is  an  improvement, 
when   herbs    are    not    used. 


70  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

12. 

OYSTERS,     FRIED. 

Dry  the  oysters  in  a  clean  cloth.  Dip  in 
beaten  ez'X  and  then  in  biscuit  crumbs.  Or 
sprinkled  with  Indian  meal.  Add  salt  and 
pepper.  Fry  for  four  or  five  minutes  in  lard, 
which  is  better  for  this  purpose  than  butter. 
Turn    them  when    necessarv. 

OYSTERS,      RAW. 

When  oysters  are  used  raw,  as  canned,  add 
salt,    pepper    and  vinegar   to    suit    the    taste. 

14. 

LOBSTER,     AS     CANNED. 

When  lobsters  are  eaten  cold,  as  prepared 
in  the  cans,  the  salad  given  in  No.  75,  will 
be    an    excellent   addition. 

!$• 

LOBSTER     STEW. 

Chop  the  lobster  fine,  add  a  little  milk  or 
water,    2    raw    beaten    eggs,    and    a  small  lump 


CAMP    COOKERY.  71 

of  butter.        Stew  in  frying    pan    for    five  min- 
utes.       Salt  and    pepper  to    taste. 

16. 

LOBSTER     SALAD. 

Mix  olive  oil,  mustard,  vinegar,  salt  and 
a  hard  boiled  egg.  Beat  up  together,  add 
lobster,  lettuce  and  seasoning  to  suit  the  taste. 
Sliced  cucumber  or  tomato  may  be  substituted 
for   lettuce. 

LOBSTER      CROQUETTES. 

Chop  the  lobster  fine  ;  add  pepper  and 
salt.  Mix  with  one  fourth  as  much  bread 
crumbs  as  there  is  meat.  Form  into  balls 
with  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  roll  in  biscuit  crumbs.  Fry 
in   lard. 

18. 

SALMON,     AS     CANNED. 

Add    salt,  pepper   and  vinegar   to    suit    taste. 


72  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK, 

19. 
SALMON,     STEWED. 

Some  people  cannot  eat  canned  salmon ; 
they  find  that  it  poisons  them.  These  un- 
pleasant effects  will  not  be  experienced  if  the 
fish  is  prepared  as  follows  : — Pour  off  all  the 
oil  and  place  the  salmon  in  a  little  water 
in  the  fry  pan.  Let  simmer  for  a  minute, 
and  pour  off  the  water.  Add  a  little  fresh 
water,  and  thicken  with  flour,  or  bread  or 
biscuit  crumbs.  Salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of 
mixed  herbs  to  suit  the  taste.  Stew  gently 
for  five    minutes. 

GAME. 

(All  game  should  be  kept  for  a  day  or  two  before 
being   used,  if   the    weather    will   permit. 

20. 
Venison,  moose,  or  bear  meat  may  be 
spitted  in  joints  of  several  pounds  before  the 
fire,  turning  occasionally  and  sprinkling  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Baste  as  required.  (See 
"General  Remarks,  Camp  Cookery," — Roast- 
ing.)      Use    any    sauce    preferred. 


CAMP   COOKERY.  73 

21. 

Ducks,  partridges,  quail,  etc.,  may  be  roasted 
in  the  coals  in  the  manner  described  for 
fish  in  No.  7.  Draw  and  clean  in  the  usual 
manner,  but  do  not  pluck  off  the  feathers. 
Stuff  with  bread  crumbs  or  broken  biscuit 
well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip 
the  bird  in  water  to  wet  the  feathers,  and 
bury  in  the  ashes  and  coals.  The  time  re- 
quired can  only  be  judged  by  experience  ; 
the  size  of  bird  and  strength  of  fire  are  to 
be  considered.  A  teal  will  require  half  an 
hour  or  more,  other  birds  proportionately. 
When  taken  from  the  fire  remove  the  skin, 
and  if  the  operation  has  been  successful  the 
flesh  will  be  found  to  be  clean  and  tender. 
(For   sauces    for   game    see    No.     78.) 

22. 

Ducks,  partridges,  pigeons,  turkeys,  geese, 
black-birds,  snipes,  squirrels,  etc.,  may  be 
spitted  before  the  fire.  Clean  the  birds  well, 
and  observe    the    directions   given   for    "Game" 


74  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK'. 

in  No.  20.  The  birds  may  be  split  open  down 
the  back  and  extended  on  the  spitting  stick, 
or  they  may  be  roasted  whole,  with  appro- 
priate dressings.  (For  dressings  see  No.  78, 
etc.)  Time  required  to  roast  Woodcock  or 
Snipe,  15  or  20  minutes.  Pheasant  or  Par- 
tridge, 20  or  30  minutes.  Duck,  45  minutes, 
Turkey,  3  hours  for  a  large  one :  2  hours 
for   middling   size. 

23- 

DUCKS,     ALL.    KINDS,     TO     STEW. 

Clean  well  and  divide  into  convenient 
pieces.  Place  in  the  pot  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  them,  or  as  much  as  you 
will  require  to  produce  the  desired  quantity 
of  stew.  Place  on  the  fire  and  boil  slowly. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  mixed 
herbs,  Worcestershire  or  other  sauce  to  suit 
taste,  also  some  onions,  carrots,  potatoes,  etc., 
cut  fine.  A  few  of  these  vegetables  may 
be  placed  in  the  pot  when  first  put  to  the 
fire.        They     will     dissolve     in    the     time     re- 


CAMP    COOKERY.  75 

quired  to  stew  the  game,  and  add  a  pleas- 
ant body  to  the  dish.  Time  required,  about 
one  hour  and  a  half.  The  remainder  of  veg- 
etables may  be  added  as  follows:  carrots, 
about  45  minutes  before  stew  will  be  cooked ; 
potatoes,  onions,  or  turnips,  about  30  min- 
utes. If  vegetables  are  not  used  to  thicken 
the  stew,  by  being  allowed  to  dissolve,  a 
little  flour  or  corn  starch  may  be  used  for 
that  purpose.  To  stew  slowly  for  a  long 
time  is  the  secret  of  success  in  making 
these  stews,  and  yet  the  pot  must  be  removed 
from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  suffic- 
iently cooked.  Inspect  the  meat  occasion- 
ally and  you  will  know  just  when  it  is 
done.  Do  not  let  the  contents  of  the 
pot  burn  at  the  bottom.  Skim  the  pot  fre- 
quently. 

24. 

DUCKS,     TO     FRY. 

Having   cleaned    and   plucked   the    bird,    di- 
vide    into     pieces,     such    as    legs,     wings,  and 


j6  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK, 

make  four  pieces  of  the  body.  Dry  the  meat 
\  in  a  cloth,  and  place  in  the  hot  frying  pan 
with  some  pork  fat  previously  tried  out.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  and  any  sauce  desired. 
Fry  slowly  until  done.  Remove  the  meat 
from  the  pan  and  set  in  a  dish  by  the  fire 
to  keep  warm.  Then  to  the  fat  in  the  pan 
add  a  little  water  (sufficient  to  make  the  de- 
sired quantity  of  sauce)  thicken  with  flour, 
to  which  has  been  added  an  onion  chopped 
line  and  some  mixed  herbs.  Stir  briskly 
until  incorporated,  and  stew  for  about  five 
minutes.  Pour  over  the  fried  duck,  and 
serve. 

25- 

SNIPES,     TO     FRY. 

Same  as  for  Ducks,  (No.  24)  but  do  not 
cut  the  birds  up  after  cleaning.  Omit  onion 
from   the    sauce. 

26. 

SNIPES,     TO     STEW. 

Same  method  as  for  Ducks,  (No.  23.) 
Place    6,     10,    or    12   birds    in    the    pot,    whole, 


CAMP  COOKERY.  77 

at  once.  If  the  birds  are  very  fat,  remove 
the  fat  before  stewing  them.  Skim  pot  fre- 
quently. 

27. 

SNIPE    ON     TOAST. 

After  dressing  the  birds  fasten  a  very  thin 
piece  of  fat  ham  or  bacon  round  the  breast 
of  each  and  fry  in  boiling  hot  lard  for  two 
minutes.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve   each   on   a   piece    of  toast. 

28. 

TURKEY,     TO     BOIL. 

Pluck  the  bird  carefully,  draw  and  singe 
it ;  wash  it  inside  with  warm  water.  Wipe 
dry  with  a  cloth.  Cut  off  the  head  and 
neck  close  to  the  backbone,  leaving  enough 
of  the  crop  skin  to  turn  over  the  stuffing. 
Draw  the  sinews  from  the  legs,  and  cut  off 
the  feet  just  below  the  first  joint  of  the  leg. 
Press  the  legs  into  the  sides  and  skewer 
them  firmly.  Fill  the  breast  with  sausage 
or  forcemeat,    or    bread    crumbs,     herbs     and 


78  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

onions.  Put  into  sufficient  hot  water  to 
cover  it ;  boil  gently  for  from  one  and  a 
half  to  two  hours.  Remove  the  scum  as  it 
rises.       (For   sauces   see    Nos.    78,   79,   81.) 

29. 

GOOSE,    TO    ROAST. 

Having  picked,  cleaned  and  singed  the  bird 
make  a  stuffing  as  follows  :  2  ounces  onion 
(if  the  flavor  of  raw  onions  is  not  liked, 
slice  and  partly  boil  them)  chopped  fine ;  1 
ounce  sage  or  mixed  herbs  ;  4  ounces  bread 
crumbs,  stale  ;  a  lump  of  butter,  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Mix 
the  whole  well  together  with  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Do  not  quite  fill  the  goose,  as 
the  stuffing  will  swell.  Tie  it  to  the  spit  at 
both  ends,  and  roast  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
or  an   hour    and    three    quarters. 

3°- 

RABBIT,     TO     ROAST. 

Skin  and  clean  thoroughly,  and  spit  before 
a  good  fire.  (Observe  the  directions  given  in 
"General    Remarks   on    Cooking," — Roasting.) 


CAMP    COOKERY.  79 

3*- 

RABBIT,     CURRIED. 

Skin     and    wash    the    rabbit    and    cut   it  into 
joints.       Put   on    to    stew   with    2    ounces    but- 
ter  and   3    onions    sliced.       When    the    onions 
are   brown   pour   in    one    pint    of    stock,    made 
with     Extract    of    Beef.      (See     No.    3.)      The 
stock    should    be     boiling    when    added    to  the 
stew.       Mix    1    tablespoonful    of   curry   powder 
and     1     tablespoonful    flour    smoothly    with    a 
little  water  and    add  to  the  stew.     Stew  slowly 
for   half     an   hour   or    more.       A    little    lemon 
juice    is    an   improvement.       Serve    with    boiled 
rice. 

32. 

RABBIT     WITH     ONIONS. 

Clean  the  Rabbit  and  put  it  on  to  boil 
in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  When 
boiled  tender  take  it  out,  joint  it,  and  fry 
in  lard  to  a  light  brown.  Remove  from  the 
pan  and  set  by  the  fire  to  keep  warm.  Have 
six    onions    sliced,    and   fry    them    in    the    lard. 


80  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

When  done  add  a  little  water  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Let  this  simmer  for  a 
minute,    and    pour    over    the     rabbit. 

MISCELLANEOUS     MEATS. 

33- 

SALT    BEEF    AND    PORK    STEWED. 

Cut  the  beef  and  pork,  or  either,  into 
dice  and  place  in  the  pot  or  pan  to  stew. 
If  the  meat  is  very  salt  the  water  may  be 
poured  off  after  stewing  for  2  minutes,  and 
fresh  water  added.  After  stewing  gently  for 
half  an  hour,  add  vegetables,  carrots,  potatoes, 
etc.,  and  some  pepper  and  mixed  herbs. 
Thicken  with  flour  or  rice.  When  vegetables 
are  cooked,  remove  the  stew  and  add  toasted 
bread,    or   broken    biscuit. 

34- 

CANNED  CORNED  BEEF,  COLD. 

After  removing  the  beef  from  the  can,  cut 
into  slices,  and  use  with  pepper,  mustard, 
and    Worcestershire,    or    any     other     sauce    to 


CAMP   COOKERY.  81 

suit  taste.  Canned  beef  should  be  kept  in 
a  cool  place,  and  placed  in  cold  water  for 
some    time    before    being    opened. 

35- 

CANNED  CORNED  BEEF,  STEWED. 

Stew  together  some  carrots,  onions  and  po- 
tatoes, or  some  compressed  vegetables,  with 
herbs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  when 
nearly  cooked  add  as  much  canned  beef  as 
desired.  Let  simmer  until  the  gelatine  in 
the  beef  has  become  incorporated  with  the 
stew — between  5    and    10    minutes. 

36. 

HAM,    BACON,    OR    PORK,    TO    FRY. 

The  simple  operation  of  frying  these  meats 
is  properly  understood  by  few.  The  following 
points  should  be  attended  to  : — The  slices  cut 
should  not  be  more  than  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  thick.  If  very  salt,  and  these  meats 
generally  are,  the  slices  should  be  soaked  in 
warm   water    for    at    least    an    hour,    and    the 


82  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

water  changed  two  or  three  times.  If  this 
does  not  extract  the  salt  sufficiently,  the  slices 
may  be  boiled  for  a  short  time  before  fry- 
ing. After  soaking,  pare  off  all  rind,  etc., 
and  trim  nicely.  Wipe  and  dry  the  slices 
before  placing  in  the  pan.  Have  the  pan 
hot  and  well  greased,  and  fry  the  slices 
quickly  until  brown,  turning  them  when  neces- 
sary.    Add   pepper    and    sauce    to  taste. 

37- 

HAM,    BACON    OR    PORK,    TO    ROAST    OR    BAKE. 

The  slices  of  ham,  etc.,  as  cut  and  pre- 
pared as  dictated  in  No.  36,  may  be  roasted 
before  the  fire  on  a  spit,  or  rolled  up  and 
secured  with  a  wooden  skewer,  and  baked  in 
the    Dutch    oven. 

38. 

HAM    AND    EGGS. 

Prepare  the  ham  as  directed  in  No.  36. 
(For  this  purpose  the  slices  may  be  cut  a 
little    thicker    if    so    wished.)       When    fried    re- 


CAMP    COOKERY.  83 

move  from  pan  and  set  by  the  fire.  See 
that  the  pan  is  not  very  hot,  and  break  into 
it  the  desired  number  of  eggs.  In  doing 
this  hold  the  egg  very  near  the  pan,  and 
do  not  let  it  spread  much.  The  pan  must 
be  held  very  steady  until  the  eggs  are  set. 
Dip  a  little  of  the  hot  grease  over  the  eggs. 
Add  pepper  and  salt  if  necessary.  When 
the  eggs  are  cooked  place  each  on  a  slice  of 
ham  and  serve.  A  nicer  method  of  prepar- 
ing *eggs  for  this  dish  is  by  poaching  them 
in   water.     (See    No.    44.) 

39- 

HAM,    OR    PORK,    AND    ONIONS. 

Prepare  the  ham,  etc.,  as  directed  in  No. 
36,  and  place  by  the  fire  to  keep  warm. 
Have  ready  some  onions,  say  2  per  man, 
previously  sliced  and  stewed  until  nearly 
cooked,  with  pepper,  some  herbs  if  liked, 
and  salt  if  necessary.  On  taking  the  ham 
from  the  pan,  place  the  onions,  from  which 
drain    the    water,    in    it   and     fry     for    about   5 


84  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

minutes.  Add  a  tablespoonful  moist  flour. 
Turn  over  the  ham  or  pork,  and  serve.  (See 
No.    54.) 

40. 

BARBECUED    HAM. 

Prepare  as  in  No.  36,  then  lay  the  slices 
in  the  pan,  pepper  each,  and  spread  on  each 
one-fourth  teaspoon  of  made  mustard.  Pour 
in  vinegar  in  proportion  of  half  a  teaspoon^ 
ful  to  a  slice ;  fry  quickly,  turning  often. 
Remove  and  place  on  a  dish.  Then  add  to 
gravy  half  a  glass  of  wine,  if  on  hand,  and 
one  teaspoonful  sugar,  boil  up  once  and  pour 
over  the    slices   of   ham. 

41. 

PORK    FRITTERS. 

Prepare  slices  of  pork  as  directed  in  No. 
36.  Place  in  pan  and  fry  until  nearly  done. 
Have  at  hand  a  thick  batter  made  of  one 
part  corn  meal  to  two  parts  flour,  mixed  with 
cold    water.       Dip  the   slices    of     pork     in   the 


CAMP    COOKERY.  85 

batter,    and    replace    in   fry   pan    until    cooked 

a   nice  brown. 

42. 

PORK    AND    BEANS.       NO.    I. 

Soak  1  quart  beans  over  night.  Next  day 
boil  with  1  large  onion.  When  nearly  done 
take  out  the  onion,  and  place  the  beans  in 
a  dish  to  bake  before  the  fire,  or  in  Dutch 
oven.  In  centre  of  beans  put  1-2  pound 
salt  pork,  not  fully  buried.  Pour  in  some 
of  the  water  in  which  the  beans  were  boiled, 
and  bake  one   hour. 

43- 

PORK    AND    BEANS.       NO.    2. 

Boil  the  beans,  (time  about  3  hours)  and 
when  half  done  add  pieces  of  pork,  some 
pepper  and  an  onion  cut  fine.  If  water 
evaporates,  add  more,  but  regulate  so  that 
when  the  beans  are  boiled  there  will  be  no 
water  to  pour  off.  Do  not  bake.  A  supply 
of  these  beans  may  be  kept  for  some  days 
in  a  jar,  and  warmed  in  a  frying  pan,  etc., 
as    required. 


86  THE    HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK,  ' 

44. 
EGGS,    TO    POACH. 

Have  some  water,  well  salted,  simmering 
in  the  frying  pan,  and  into  this  break  the 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  carefully,  so  as  not  to 
break  the  yolk.  Let  the  egg  run  slowly 
from  the  shell,  holding  the  hand  as  near  the 
water  as  possible.  Dip  the  hot  water  over 
the  eggs.  Remove  them  before  they  are  hard. 
Time  about  two  and  a  half  minutes.  Place 
each  upon  a  piece  of  thin  buttered  toast. 
This  is  an  excellent  way  of  preparing  eggs  to 
eat   with  fried    ham    or   pork.       (See    No.    38.) 

45- 

EGGS,    TO    BOIL. 

Time  required,  to  boil  soft,  three  minutes. 
After  that  time  they  become  hard.  The  wa- 
ter should  not  be  boiling  violently,  as  it  is 
then  liable  to  burst  the  shell  and  spoil  the 
egg.  Place  the  egg  gently  in  the  pot,  as 
a    very  slight   blow  will    crack  the    shell. 


CAMP    COOKERY.  87 

46. 
SAVORY     EGGS. 

Break  5  eggs  into  a  dish,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  pepper  and  thyme,  or  mixed  herbs ; 
beat  them  well  together ;  have  the  frying  pan 
ready  and  place  in  it  about  2  ounces  fresh 
butter ;  let  it  boil  ;  then  pour  in  the  eggs 
and  stir  quickly  until  cooked,  about  4  min- 
utes,   and   serve    immediately. 

47- 

EGGS,     CURRIED. 

Slice  2  onions  and  fry  in  butter  until 
brown,  add  1  tablespoonful  curry  powder  ; 
add  1  pint  of  broth  made  of  Extract  of 
Beef,  (See  No.  3)  and  stew  until  onions  are 
tender.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  or  corn 
starch.  Have  8  eggs  boiled  hard  and  slice 
them  into  the  stew.  Let  them  get  warm 
but  do    not   boil. 


88  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

VEGETABLES. 

48. 
POTATOES,     BAKED. 

Potatoes  may  be  baked  before  the  open 
fire.  Have  a  good  bed  of  coals  and  place 
the  potatoes  on  a  stone  before  them.  Turn 
them  when  necessary.  When  done  they  will 
crack  open  when  squeezed  gently  in  the 
hand. 

49. 

POTATOES,     BOILED. 

The  simple  operation  of  boiling  potatoes  is 
best  performed  as  follows  : — Wash,  and  leave 
the  skin  on,  and  throw  them  into  boiling  wa- 
ter, salted.  When  soft  enough  to  allow  a 
fork  to  be  thrust  through  them  easily,  dash 
a  little  cold  water  into  the  pot,  let  the  po- 
tatoes remain  two  minutes,  and  then  pour 
off  the  water.  Replace  them  over  a  slow 
fire  until  the  steam  is  evaporated.  Peel 
them  and  place  them  in  an  open  dish.  Time, 
about    half  an    hour. 


CAMP   COOKERY.  89 

POTATOES     (RAW),     FRIED. 

Peel  large  potatoes  and  cut  in  slices  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Dry  in  a  cloth 
and  fry  in  lard.  Have  a  quick  lire,  and 
move  the  slices  of  potato  continually,  turning 
as  required.  When  crisp,  place  on  a  plate 
to    drain,    and   sprinkle    with    salt    and    pepper. 

51- 

POTATOES,     BOILED,     TO     FRY. 

Take  any  cold  potatoes,  cut  them  into 
slices,  and  place  them  in  the  hot  frying  pan 
with  plenty  of  fat.  Add  salt  and  pepper, 
and  stir  and  turn  frequently  with  a  knife. 
Time,    about    20    minutes. 

52- 

POTATO     FRITTERS. 

Beat  together  1  cupful  mashed  potatoes,  2 
eggs  (beaten,)  1-2  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoon- 
ful   of   flour,    (mixed    with    some    of     the    milk) 


go  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

and  a  little  melted  butter,  about  one  table- 
spoonful.  Fry  in  some  lard.  Turn  when  re- 
quired. l 

53- 

ONIONS,      BOILED. 

Peel  and  wash  the  onions,  and  boil  in 
salted  water  until  soft.  Change  the  water 
once,  when  the  onions  are  half  cooked,  if  so 
wished.  When  soft  remove  from  pot,  and 
pour  some  drawn  butter  over  them  (See  No. 
79.)     Time,    about    half    an    hour. 

54- 

ONIONS     FRIED. 

The  following  method  gives  a  dish  of  rather 
strong  onions,  but  is  liked  by  many.  It  may 
be  used  also  to  prepare  the  onions  for  ham 
or  pork  (See  39)  :  Peel  and  slice  the  desired 
number  of  onions,  and  place  them  in  the  hot 
frying  pan  with  plenty  of  lard  or  pork  fat. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  and  sauce,  to  suit  the  taste. 
Stir  frequently,  and  cut  as  fine  as  desired 
while   frying.         When     nearly    done   sprinkle    a 


CAMP   COOKERY.  91 

little  flour  over  them,  and  stir  them  well  up 
so  as  to  cook  the  flour  well,  and  break  all 
lumps. 

55- 

VEGETABLES,     MISCELLANEOUS. 

To  cook  other  vegetables,  such  as  carrots, 
turnips,  etc.,  to  use  alone,  clean  them  well, 
slice  them,  and  lay  in  cold  water  until  pla- 
cing them  in  the  pot.  Have  the  water  boiling 
briskly,  and  salted.  Skim  the  water  before 
putting  in  the  vegetables.  When  the  vegeta. 
bles  sink,  they  are  generally  done.  Test 
with  a  fork,  and  take  them  off  as  soon  as 
done. 

56. 

CANNED     VEGETABLES. 

Directions  for  use  generally  accompany  each 
can.  Canned  Tomatoes  are  especially  to  be 
recommended  to  the  hunter,  and  are  excel- 
lent when  stewed  with  bread  crumbs,  or 
broken   biscuit,    salt   and   pepper. 


92  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

MISCELLANEOUS   DISHES. 

57- 

RICE,     PLAIN      BOILED. 

Pick  over  the  rice  and  wash  it  in  cold 
water.  To  i  pint  rice  put  3  quarts  of 
boiling  water  and  1-2  teaspoonful  salt.  Boil 
for  17  minutes  from  the  time  it  begins 
to  boil.  Then  pour  off  all  the  water,  and 
replace  pot  over  a  moderate  fire,  with  cover 
off,  to  steam  fifteen  minutes.  Be  accurate  as 
to    time. 

58- 

RICE,     BOILED,     WITH     RAISINS. 

Prepare  the  rice  as  directed  in  No.  57. 
When  it  has  been  boiled  for  10  minutes, 
throw  in  a  handful  of  cooking  raisins  and  let 
boil  and  steam  as  in  No.  57.  If  the  raisins 
are  put  in  at  first  they  are  liable  to  be 
boiled    to    pieces. 

59- 

SAVORY     RICE. 

Wash  and  pick  1-2  pound  rice ;  stew  it 
gently   in   a   little    broth,    (made  of    Ext.    Beef, 


CAMP   COOKERY.  93 

See  No.  3)  with  an  onion,  some  mixed 
herbs,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  When  the  rice 
is  swelled,  dip  it  out  of  pan  and  place  be- 
fore the  fire  to  dry.  Then  place  on  a  dish 
and  pour  the  broth  it  was  boiled  in  round 
it. 

60. 

RICE     CROQUETTES. 

To  some  cold  boiled  rice  add  enough 
beaten  egg  to  allow  of  making  the  rice  into 
balls.  Add  also  sugar  and  lemon  peel,  or 
any  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste.  Then  form 
the  mass  into  small  oval  balls  or  cakes, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  dip  in  beaten 
egg.  Fry  in  butter.  When  done  sprinkle 
with    sugar. 

61. 

RICE    PUDDING. 

See   No.    73. 

62. 

OATMEAL    PANCAKES. 

Mix  together,  dry,  1-2  pint  flour,  1-2  pint 
oatmeal,    and     2     teaspoonfuls    Baking   Powder. 


94  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

Add  enough  cold  water  to  form  into  a  thick 
batter,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Have  the  fry- 
ing pan  hot,  and  grease  it  with  a  piece  of 
pork  fat.  Pour  on  some  of  the  batter,  form- 
ing three  cakes  which  will  not  touch  one 
another.  When  one  side  is  cooked,  turn  with 
a  knife.  A  little  experience  will  teach  the 
exact  amount  of  Baking  Powder  to  use  to 
produce  light  cakes,  and  the  proper  consist- 
ency of  the  batter.  A  good  bed  of  hot 
coals  is  required,  to  fry  properly,  and  the 
pan  must  be  well  greased  before  cooking  each 
batch   of    cakes. 

63. 

FLOUR    PANCAKES. 

To  i  pint  of  flour  add  enough  milk  to 
form  into  a  thick  batter.  Beat  up  3  eggs, 
and  add.  Beat  the  whole  until  perfectly 
smooth.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Fry  in  the 
frying  pan,  observing  the  directions  given  in 
No.  62. 


CAMP   COOKERY.  95 

64. 
INDIAN    MEAL    CAKES. 

(The  following  is  quoted  from  "The  Complete 
American  Trapper,"  and  may  be  tried  if  wished. 
We  have  never  tested  this  Recipe,  but  it  should  be  a 
success.) 

''Indian  meal  cakes  are  easily  made  by 
dropping  a  quantity  of  the  hot  mush  (Indian 
meal  porridge,  boiled  for  an  hour,)  in  the 
frying  pan,  having  previously  stirred  in  a 
small  quantity  of  soda,  (or  baking  powder) 
and  turning  it  as  soon  as  the  lower  side  is 
browned."  See  directions  for  frying  in  No. 
62. 

65. 

OATMEAL    PORRIDGE. 

Moisten  1  pint  of  oatmeal  with  some  cold 
water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  pour  into  2 
pints  of  boiling  water.  Boil  half  an  hour  or 
more.  If  too  thick  add  more  water.  Boil 
slowly    and    stir   frequently. 


96  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

66. 
CORN    MEAL    PORRIDGE. 

Corn,  or  Indian  meal  porridge  is  made  in 
the  same  manner  as  Oatmeal,  (See  No.  65) 
and  the  same  proportions  of  meal  and  water 
are  used.       Boil   for   at   least  one  hour. 

67. 

CORN    MEAL    PORRIDGE,    FRIED. 

The  porridge,  or  sapaun,  as  the  Indians  term 
it,  produced  by  following  recipe  No.  66,  may 
be  sliced  when  cold,  and  fried  with  lard  or 
pork  fat. 

68. 

HOE    CAKE. 

Pour  enough  boiling  water,  or  milk,  on 
corn  meal,  (salted)  to  moisten  it.  Let  it 
stand  for  an  hour,  or  longer.  Put  three  ta- 
blespoonfuls  on  the  hot  frying  pan,  and  form 
into  a  round  cake  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
When  brown,  turn  it  over.  Grease  the  pan 
with   lard  or   pork  fat. 


CAMP  COOKERY.  97 

69. 
CORN    BREAD. 

Into  i  pint  of  corn  meal  pour  boiling  wa- 
ter enough  to  wet  it.  Dissolve  one-half  tea- 
spoon soda  in  hot  water,  (or  mix  same  quan- 
tity of  baking  powder  with  the  meal  while 
dry)  and  add  it  with  two  well  beaten  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  and  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Stir  well  and  bake  in  buttered  pans 
(tin  plates  will  do)  for  half  an  hour  in  the 
Dutch  oven,  or  before  the  open  fire.  Have 
a  strong   fire,   in    either    case. 

70. 

OAT    CAKT. 

To  i  pint  of  oatmeal  add  i  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  mix  well,  and  add  enough 
cold  water  to  moisten,  and  a  pint  of  salt. 
Spread  about  half  an  inch  thick  on  the  fry- 
ing pan  well  greased.  Hold  over  the  fire 
to  bake.  Turn  when  bottom  is  done ;  or 
roast  in  the  Dutch  oven.  The  cake  should 
not   scorch,    but   gradually    dry   through. 


gS  THE   HUNTERS  HANDBOOK. 

71- 
BREAD. 

When  camping  out,  we  can  make  excellent 
bread  by  the  following  method  :  —  To  i  quart 
of  flour  add  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  mix  well  while  dry.  Add  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Mix  with  cold  water,  or  sweet 
milk,  into  a  thick  dough  that  can  be  handled 
without  sticking.  Knea.d  it  thoroughly ;  on 
this  depends  its  excellence.  Rub  dry  flour 
on  the  hands  to  prevent  the  dough  from 
sticking.  Form  into  round  biscuits  or  loaves. 
Bake  before  a  good  fire,  or  in  the  Dutch 
oven.  These  biscuits  may  also  be  baked  in 
a  frying  pan,  holding  it  over  the  fire,  to 
cook  slowly,  and  turning  the  biscuits  as  often 
as    necessary.       They    are    best    when  cold. 

PUDDINGS. 

72. 
BATTER    PUDDING,    BAKED    OR    BOILED. 

Take    6    ozs.    flour,    a    little    salt,  and  3  eggs 
beaten ;    beat    all    together    with    milk,,    added 


CAMP   COOKERY.  99 

by  degrees,  until  of  the  thickness  of  cream, 
put  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  Dutch 
oven  for  about  an  hour.  If  to  be  boilled, 
Put  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  and  floured 
mold,  (tin  cups  will  answer  the  purpose)  and 
tie  over  with  a  cloth.  Place  the  mould  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water.  Boil  one  hour  and 
a  half,  or  more.  The  longer  time  will  pro- 
duce a  lighter  article.  Eat  with  butter  and 
sugar. 

73- 

RICE    PUDDING. 

Boil  some  rice  and  raisins,  as  directed  in 
No.  58,  but  do  not  steam  the  rice.  Let 
there  be  a  little  water  in  it.  When  done, 
add  two  or  three  beaten  eggs,  well  stirred 
in,  and  a  little  sugar.  Let  simmer  four  or 
five   minutes,  and    set    aside    to    cool. 

74- 

COSSACKS'    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Mix  well   together    1     lb.    of    flour,   3-4   lb. 
raisins,    3-4     lb.     pork     fat     chopped    fine,     2 


ioo  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

tablespoonfuls  syrup  or  sugar,  and  1-2  pint 
water.  Tie  tightly  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  4 
hours.       For   sauce    see    No.    82. 

SALAD-DRESSINGS    AND    SAUCES. 

75- 

DRESSING     FOR     CANNED     LOBSTER,  ETC. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  1  dessert  spoonful  of  salad 
oil,  or  melted  butter,  add  to  it  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  made  mustard,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine 
white  sugar,  and  put  to  it  gradually  a  cup 
of   vinegar. 

Another:  — 

2  potatoes  mashed;  1  tablespoonful  made 
mustard;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  3  tablespoonfuls 
salad  oil,  or  melted  butter ;  4  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar ;  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  pounded 
fine ;  1  onion  cut  fine,  and  one  tablespoonful 
Anchory  or  other  sauce.  Mix.  all  together 
and  pour  over   lobster,   etc. 


CAMP  COOKERY.  101 

76. 
TOMATO     SALAD. 

Cut  tomatoes,  not  over  ripe,  into  slices. 
Cut  up,  as  fine  as  possible,  some  small  on- 
ions, one  to  each  tomato,  and  sprinkle  over 
slices  of  tomato.  Add  pepper,  salt  and  vin- 
egar. Onions  may  be  soaked,  or  partially 
cooked,    if    considered    too    strong. 

77- 

DUTCH     SAUCE     FOR     MEAT    OR     FISH. 

Put  6  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  4  of  vine- 
gar, into  a  warm  pan,  and  thicken  with  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Make  quite  hot, 
but  do  not  boil.  Squeeze  in  some  lemon 
juice.      Pour   over  meat,    etc. 

78. 

SAUCE   FOR   DUCKS,    GEESE,    ETC. 

Chop  very  fine  1  oz.  onion  and  1-2  oz. 
sage  or  mixed  herbs.  Put  them  into  the 
frying   pan  to    stew    with    4    tablespoonfuls   of 


to-  THE  IJLWTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

water.  Simmer  gently  for  10  minutes,  then 
add  i  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  i 
oz.  fine  bread  crumbs,  or  biscuit  broken  very 
fine.  Mix  well  together.  Then  pour  to  it 
a  gill  of  broth  (see  No.  3)  or  melted  but- 
ter, Stir  well  together,  and  simmer  a  few 
minutes    longer. 

79- 

DRAWN    BUTTER,    OR    WHITE    SAUCE,    FOR    FISH, 
ONIONS,     ETC. 

To  the  desired  quantity  of  milk,  add 
enough  moistened  flour  to  thicken;  add  a 
lump  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Boil  slowly 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  milk  cannot 
be    had,    water    will   dc.       (See    81.) 

80. 

PUDDING    SAUCE. 

1  teaspoonful  of  milk,  and  2  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  some  sugar ;  place  on  fire, 
and  stir  till  it  just  comes  to  the  boil ;  then 
let   it   cool.       When    luke-warm,    stir   it    into    a 


CAMP    COOKERY.  103 

glass    of     sherry,     or    the     same     quantity    of 
water   with    a    small   dash    of    any    liquor. 

81. 

SAUCE    HOLLANDAISE,    OR    DRAWN    BUTTER    FOR 
FISH. 

2  spoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with  1  pint  of 
water.  Place  in  fry-pan,  and  when  cooked 
add  pepper,  salt,  lemon  juice,  and  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  beaten.  Take  off  fire  and  add 
1-2    lb.    butter.       Stir    all    the    time. 

82. 

PLUM    PUDDING    SAUCE. 

Mix  some  fine  white  sugar  with  some 
melted  butter ;  add  a  glass  of  sherry,  a 
small  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  little  nutmeg 
and   lemon-peel    grated. 

BEVERAGES. 

TEA. 

General  Remarks. 
To  ensure   having   a   good  cup    of    tea,    you 
must    buy    a    good     article    from    a   responsible 


104  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

grocer.  No  article  of  commerce  is  more 
largely  adulterated,  or  with  more  disgust- 
ing, baneful  substances  than  tea.  The  vast 
difference  in  the  prices  of  this  article  shows 
at  once  that  the  modern  trade  therein  has 
become  greatly  prostituted.  If  the  tea  which 
is  sold  for  fifteen  cents  per  pound  is  good, 
how  shall  we  name  that  which  is  sold  for 
ninety  cents  per  pound  ?  If  the  ninety  cents 
is  an  honest  price,  and  no  fancy  figure, 
then  the  tea  sold  at  the  lower  price  must  in- 
deed be  trash.  That  the  hunter  may  be 
careful  when  purchasing  this  his  favorite  bev. 
erage,  I  quote  the  following  remarks  from 
one    of    our    daily    papers:  — 

"  A  recent  analysis  of  some  samples  of  al- 
leged tea  in  New  York,  showed  that  the 
specimens  examined  contained  the  following 
articles :  Nutgalls,  currant  leaves,  iron  filings, 
filbert  husks,  sulphate  of  copper,  oak  bark, 
hornets'  and  wasps'  nests  shredded  and  col- 
ored, acetic  acid,  aloes,  manila  paper,  vernal 
grass,  and  other  things   too   numerous    and    dis- 


CAMP   COOKERY.  105 

gusting  to  mention."  As  teas  vary  some- 
what in  strength,  and  as  different  people  have 
different  tastes  to  be  suited,  it  is  impossible 
to  lay  down  any  exact  rule  for  the  amount 
of  tea  to  add  to  a  given  quantity  of  water. 
As  a  general  guide  the  following  formula 
may   be  used  :  — 

83. 

TEA,    TO    STEEP    OR    DRAW. 

An    old    rule    runs,    "  1    teaspoonful  for   each 

cup,     and     one     for      the     tea-pot."       This     is 

rather    ambiguous.       It    may    mean    either     "1 

teaspoonful   for  each    cup   placed    on   the  table, 

i.  e.,  for  each  person,"  or  "1  teaspoonful  for 
each    cup    of    tea  expected    to    be    used,   or  for 

each    cup     of    water   placed  in    the    tea-kettle." 

However,    the    following    is    generally   used    at 

the     camp     fire:  —  Put     1     oz.     tea,     or     2  1-2 

tablespoonfuls,    heaped,    to    4   pints    of    boiling 

water.       Remove    immediately    from     the    fire. 

Cover    slowly.       Shake    the    kettle,  and    place 

by   the    fire,    but    do    not    let    it    boil.       Should 


io6  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

this  proportion  make  the  tea  too  strong,  or 
too  weak,  regulate  the  next  drawing  accord- 
ingly. Use  the  purest  soft  water  attainable. 
Tea  which  is  allowed  to  stand  for  a  long 
time  with  the  leaves  in  it,  becomes  very  un- 
wholesome, and  if  it  is  desired  to  keep  some 
cold,  to  drink  during  the  day,  it  should  be 
poured  from  the  leaves  into  another  can  as 
soon  as  sufficiently  drawn,  or  the  leaves  may 
be  dipped  out  with  a  spoon.  Tea  drank  to 
excess  will  produce  nervousness,  and  strong 
green  tea  may  so  far  injure  health  as  to 
produce    lameness    and    neuralgia. 

84. 

COFFEE,  TO  DRAW. 
(Buy  fresh  ground,  rather  than  the  imported  packages.) 
Add  coffee  to  boiling  water  in  the  propor- 
tion of  1  oz.,  or  3  table.spoonfuls,  to  1 
quart.  Boil  for  30  minutes  or  longer.  If 
the  coffee  does  not  settle,  dash  in  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water,  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes. 
Should  the  coffee  be  weak,  use  more  when 
next    making. 


CAMP  COOKERY.  107 

85- 

COFFEE,    TO    IMPROVE    FLAVOR    OF 

The  flavor  of  coffee  may  be  greatly  im- 
proved, and  its  delicate  aroma  increased,  by 
adding  a  little  soda  to  the  water  with  which 
it    is    made.       A    very    little    will    suffice. 

86. 

COFFEE,    SUBSTITUTE    FOR    CREAM    IN. 

Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth,  put  to  it  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  place  in  a 
can  and  pour  the  coffee  on  to  it  gradually 
from  the  pot,  or  stir  the  egg  into  the  coffee, 
when  off  the  fire,  if  you  have  no  other  can 
at   hand. 

87. 

COFFEE,     ESSENCE,     OR     EXTRACT     OF. 

This  article,  sold  by  grocers,  is  to  be  rec- 
ommended, and  produces,  with  boiling  water, 
an  instantaneous  cup  of  coffee.  Directions 
accompany   each    bottle. 


io8  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

88. 
MISCELLANEOUS    BEVERAGES. 

The  following  articles,  which  are  all  to  be 
recommended,  have  directions  printed  on  the 
wrappers  or  boxes  : — Cocoa,  chocolate,  Cadbury's 
essence  of  cocoa,  broma,  kacka,  etc.  Cocoa 
forms  a  very  nourishing  drink  to  partake  of 
in  the  morning  before  the  labor  of  cooking 
a  regular  breakfast  is  undertaken,  and  will  be 
of  use  to  those  amateurs  who  are  unaccus- 
tomed to  very  early  rising,  or  to  working  be- 
fore breakfast.  It  may  be  prepared  with 
water  alone,  if  no  milk  is  to  be  procured. 
A  few  bottles  of  lime  juice  will  be  an  excel- 
lent   addition    to    the    hunter's   outfit. 

APPENDIX. 

The   following   useful    Receipts  were    omitted   under  the 
heading    of   "Fish  "  : 

89. 

COD-FISH,    SALT,    TO    BOIL. 

Wash    the    fish    well,    and    cut    into    pieces, 
according   to   size   of    pot.       Place   in   the   pot 


CAMP   COOKERY.  109 

with  cold  water  and  set  on  fire  to  boil  slow- 
ly. Change  the  water  once.  This  will 
freshen  the  fish,  and  render  it  cleaner.  A 
good  method  is  to  soak  the  fish,  cut  up,  in 
water  over  night,  and  cook  next  day.  When 
done,  remove  skin  and  bones.  For  sauce 
see   Nos.    79-81. 

90. 

FISH     CAKES     (WITH     RAW     FISH). 

1  pint  salt  cod-fish,  raw,  picked  very  fine, 
and  as  many  raw,  whole,  peeled  potatoes  as 
will  be  equal  to  2  pints.  Put  together  in 
cold  water  and  boil  until  potatoes  are  thor- 
oughly cooked  ;  remove  from  the  fire  and 
drain  off  the  water.  Mash  together.  Add 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  a  little  pepper.  Mix  well  together. 
Drop,  1  spoonful  at  a  time,  into  the  frying 
pan  well,  greased  with  lard.  Brown*  and 
turn.  Do  not  mould  these  cakes  with  the 
hand ;  drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon.  Use 
sauce,   mustard,    etc. 


no  THE   HUX TEN'S  HAXDBOOK. 

91. 

FISH     CAKES     (WITH     COOKED     FISH). 

Take  cold,  boiled  cod-fish  and  cold,  boiled 
potatoes.  Pick  all  the  bones  from  fish,  and 
mash  fish  and  potatoes  together.  Add  a 
little  pepper,  and  salt  if  necessary.  Form 
into  cakes,  and  fry  with  lard  until  the  out- 
sides  are  brown  and  crisp.  Use  sauce,  mus- 
tard,  etc. 


SECTION    IX. 

THE      LAST     RESOURCE,     OR     WHAT     TO     USE     WHEN 
PROVISIONS     RUN     SHORT. 

The  hunter  may  sometimes  find  himself 
far  from  home,  with  his  provisions  at  a  very- 
low  ebb,  no  money  in  his  pocket,  and  no 
game  to  be  secured.  It  is  then  that  he  has 
to  call  up  all  his  powers  of  endurance,  and 
to  exercise  all  his  knowledge  of  cooking  to 
make  his  provisions  go  as  far  as  possible. 
True,  if  he  is  passing  through  a  settled  coun- 
try he  can  not  starve,  but  if  his  route  lies 
through  a  land  of  famine  he  may  have  to 
eat  many  things  which  are  not  included  in 
the  list  of  his  ordinary  food.  We  do  not  gen- 
erally eat  frogs,  meadow-hens,  or  beavers, 
and  yet  these  are  all  good  articles  ot  food, 
and    the    hunter    who    can    obtain    them,    when 


ii2  THE   HU XT  EFTS  Hs*  XDBOOK. 

his    provisions    are     expended,    should    consider 
himself     to    be    in     luck.        He    might    be    re- 
duced   to    the    necessity    of    eating    still    more 
objectionable     articles.       I     have    known     men 
who    were    glad    to    eat    skunk    flesh.       What 
we    eat    is   more    a    matter    of     custom    than    of 
the     superior     fitness     of     the     articles    of    our 
diet.       This   fact    appears    more   fully  when  we 
remember   that    the    natives    of   the    South   Seas 
eat    their    snakes,     beetles     and     worms ;     the 
Chinese    their    birds'    nests ;    the     civilized    in- 
habitants    of     Europe    their    frogs    and    horse 
flesh,    and    the     Esquimaux     the     oily    blubber 
of    the     whale.       Mostly     every    school-boy    in 
America    can    relate    how    the    Indians    of    the 
North    and    West    eat     their    dogs ;      how    the 
cannibals    of    Polynesia    devour   their    own   spe- 
cies.      But    we    will    not    enter    into    any    deep 
discussion   on    this    subject.       We    merely    wish 
to    show    the    amateur    hunter    that    should    he 
be    placed    on    short  rations,    by    any   unavoid- 
able circumstances,  or  be  perfectly  destitute  of 
his    ordinary   food,    he    has     still    at    his    com- 


CAMP    COOKERY.  113 

mand  many  articles  which  will  sustain  life. 
The  hunter  should  watch  his  decreasing  stock 
of  provisions  with  a  jealous  eye,  and  so 
regulate  his  return  journey  that  he  will  reach 
a  place  where  he  may  replenish  his  larder 
before  his  stock  is  entirely  consumed.  As 
stated  elsewhere,  the  soup-pot  is  the  best 
utensil  to  use  when  rations  run  short.  A 
proper  manipulation  will  make  a  small  amount 
of   food    do    great    service. 

The  following  receipts  may  be  of  use  to  the 
hunter  \  some  of  them,  indeed,  may  be  used 
at  any  time,  but  they  are  so  appropriate  for 
use  in  times  of  scarcity  of  provisions  that  we 
have    placed    them    under    this   head. 

92. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

Peel  and  chop  4  onions  and  put  them  in- 
to a  kettle  with  2  oz.  fat  or  butter,  add  3 
quarts  of  water,  and  boil  half  an  hour. 
Then  add  4  lbs,  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes, 
pepper   and    salt    to    taste  ;    stir  well    on     the 


U4  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

fire    for    half    an    hour.       Any    scraps  of    meat* 

biscuits,    or    a    little    rice,   barley  or  flour,    or 

some     mixed     herbs     will     of     course  improve 
this   dish. 

93- 

DANDELIONS,     AS     GREENS. 

Gather  some  tops  of  dandelions,  wash  well, 
and  put  into  just  enough  salted  boiling  water 
to  cover  them.  When  tender  squeeze  out  all 
the  water,  place  them  in  the  frying-pan,  and 
fry  for  a  few  minutes,  with  a  little  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter,  or  pork  fat.  When  done, 
add  some  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  if  ob- 
tainable. 

94. 

CORN     MEAL. 

If  a  good  supply  of  this  wholesome  article 
is  carried  in  a  bag,  it  will  form  a  valuable 
stand-by  when  what  is  generally  considered  to 
be  more  dainty  food  is  scarce.  Methods  for 
using   are   given    in    Nos.    64-66-67-68-69. 


CAMP    COOKERY.  115 

95- 

FROGS,  TO  ROAST,  FRY  OR  STEW. 

The  hind  legs  only  of  frogs  are  used. 
These  may  be  roasted  before  the  fire,  (see 
No.  20,)  fried  in  the  pan,  (see  Nos.  24-25,) 
or  stewed,  (see  Nos.  23-26,)  using  such  in- 
gredients   as    are    obtainable. 

96. 

MISCELLANEOUS      ARTICLES     TO     USE. 

The  following  articles  may  be  used  if  oc- 
casion    arises :  —  Squirrels     are     very   good     as 

food.  This  fact  is  not  generally  known 
among  amateur  hunters.  Cook  as  directed  in 
Nos.  22  or  25.  Meadow-hen  ;  roast,  (see 
No.  22,)  fry,  (see  No.  24)  or  stew,  (see  No. 
23.)  Black-birds  —  same  as  meadow-hens. 
If  the  hunter  has  to  eat  any  very  strong, 
objectionable  flesh  or  fowls,  the  articles  should 
be  thoroughly  washed  and  par-boiled,  and 
such  things  as  onions,  pepper  and  salt  used 
freely,  if   on    hand. 


INDEX  TO  SECTION  XI. 

MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS. 

Page. 

To   preserve    Meat  and   Fish 131 

To    salt    Meat  and    Fish 132 

To   preserve    Dead    Game             133 

Boot    Grease 133 

How  to   Load    a    Gun          ......  134 


SECTION   X. 

THE     TREATMENT     OF     DROWNING,    WOUNDS,    ACCIDENTS, 
BITES    AND    STINGS,     ETC. 

As  the  hunter  is  much  exposed  to  accidents,  he 
should  have  in  his  outfit  such  simple  remedies  as 
experience  teaches  him  may  be  most  useful.  We  may 
enumerate  the  following  articles  : — A  strip  of  Stick- 
ing Plaster,  Bottle  of  Tincture  of  Arnica,  Bottle  of 
some  strong  Liniment,  Bottle  of  Diarrhoea  Mixture, 
Bottle   of   Dark   Brandy,  and    a   box   of   Cathartic   Pills. 

The  following  methods  of  treating  Bites,  Wounds, 
Cuts,  etc.,  will  prove  to  be  effectual,  in  the  absence 
of   a   Physician. 

I. 

BURNS    AND    SCALDS. 

To  burns  apply  some  cotton  dipped  in  oil, 
or  grease  the  spot  with  any  fat  at  hand. 
Scalds  may    be    treated    in    the    same    way  j     or 


n8      THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

covered  with  scraped  raw  potato  ;  or  cover 
the  scald  with  treacle,  and  dust  well  with 
flour. 

2. 

ORDINARY    CUTS. 

Use  thin  strips  of  sticking  plaster.  Bring 
the    edges    of    the    wound     carefully     together. 

3- 

LARGE    CUTS. 

Cut  two  broad  pieces  of  sticking  plaster  so 
as  to  look  like  a  comb ;  clean  the  wound, 
pouring  on  some  lukewarm  water ;  place  a 
piece  of  the  plaster  on  either  side  of  the 
wound.  These  pieces  should  have  been  so 
cut,  and  must  be  so  arranged,  that  they 
shall  interlace  each  other.  Cross  the  pro- 
jecting strips,  or  teeth,  and  by  pulling  them 
through  each  other  close  the  wound,  then 
press  the  sticking  plaster  well  clown,  both 
on   the    flesh    and   where    it    crosses    itself. 


TREATMENT  OF  £>/?OtVAr/A'Gt  ETC.       119 
CONTUSIONS,    OR     BRUISES. 

Bathe  with  Tincture  of  Arnica,  and  bind 
with  a  piece  of  cotton,  on  which  pour  a  few 
drops  of  the  Tincture,  or  bathe  in  cold  wa- 
ter and  bind  with  damp  cotton.  If  the 
skin  is  broken  dilute  the  Arnica  with  twelve 
parts   water, 

5- 

HEMORRHAGE. 

When  an  artery  is  divided  or  torn  the 
blood  jumps  out  of  the  wound,  and  is  of  a 
bright  scarlet  color.  If  a  vein  is  injured 
the  blood  is  darker  and  flows  evenly.  To 
stop  the  latter  apply  a  bandage,  and  under 
it  place  a  piece  of  cotton  or  other  cloth 
folded,  so  as  to  press  on  the  vein.  In  ap- 
plying bandages  to  arrest  arterial  bleeding 
be  careful  to  place  them  between  the  wound 
and  the  heart.  If  the  wound  is  in  the  arm, 
tie    a    piece    of   tape,    or    cord     that   will    not 


120  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

cut,  loosely  round  the  arm  above  the  cut. 
Pass  a  small  stick  under  the  tape  and  twist 
it  round  until  the  tape  compresses  the  arm 
tightly  enough  to  arrest  the  bleeding.  Then 
tie  the  stick  in  position.  If  it  still  bleeds 
place  a  cork,  or  piece  cf  wood  rolled  in 
cloth,  underneath  the  tape,  on  the  inside  of 
the  fleshy  part  of  the  arm  where  the  artery 
may  be  felt  beating.  If  the  wound  is  in  the 
leg  and  the  twisted  tape,  placed  above  the 
wound,  fails  to  arrest  the  bleeding,  place  the 
cork  in  the  direction  of  a  line  drawn  from 
the  inner  part  of  the  knee  a  little  to  the  out- 
side of  the  groin.  The  object  is  to  com- 
press   the  artery. 

6. 

BLEEDING    AT    THE    NOSE. 

Plug  the  nostrils  with  lint,  and  bathe  the 
forehead  and  nose  with  cold  water,  keeping 
the  head  raised.  Raise  the  arms,  and  place 
both     hands     behind    the    head,    allowing     the 


TREA  TMENT  OF  DRO  WNING,  E  TC.       1 2 1 

head  to  rest  on  them.  To  chew  a  piece  of 
paper,  or  other  substances,  also  tends  to  ar- 
rest   the    bleeding. 


VIOLENT    SHOCKS. 

When  a  person  is  rendered  unconscious, 
untie  all  strings,  collar,  etc.,  and  loosen  any 
clothing  that  is  tight  and  interferes  with  the 
breathing.  Raise  the  head,  and  note  if  there 
is  any  bleeding  from  any  part;  apply  smell- 
ing salts  or  a  burning  feather  to  the  nose, 
and    hot   bottles    to    the    feet. 


CHOKING. 

If  a  bone,  or  other  substance  is  caught  in 
the  throat,  insert  the  forefinger  and  press 
upon  the  roof  of  the  tongue  to  induce  vom- 
iting. If  this  does  not  have  the  desired 
effect,  swallow  a  large  piece  of  potato  or 
soft   bread.       If    these    fail    to    remove  the  ob- 


122  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

struction,  take  a  mustard  emetic.  (A  large 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  mixed  with  a  tumbler 
of    warm    water.) 

9- 

DROWNING. 

Send  for  medical  assistance  immediately, 
and  in  the  mean  time  proceed  as  follows : 
i.  Strip  the  body  and  rub  it  dry ;  then  rub 
with  hot  blankets,  and  place  on  a  warm  bed, 
in  a  warm  room  if  possible.  2.  Cleanse 
away  the  froth  from  the  nose  and  mouth. 
3.  Apply  warm  bricks  or  stones,  bottles,  etc., 
to  the  arm-pits,  between  the  thighs,  and  to 
the  soles  of  the  feet.  4.  Rub  the  body  with 
the  hands  enclosed  in  warm  socks.  5.  If 
possible,  place  the  body  in  a  warm  bath. 
6.  To  restore  breathing,  put  the  pipe  of  a 
common  bellows  into  one  nostril,  (or  blow 
into  the  nostril)'  carefully  closing  the  other 
and  the  mouth  ;  at  the  same  time  draw 
downwards,  and  push  gently  backwards  the 
upper   part    of     the    windpipe,    to    allow  a   free 


TREATMENT  OF  DROWNING,  ETC.       1:3 

admission  of  air;  blow  the  bellows  gently, 
to  inflate  the  lungs,  till  the  breast  is  raised 
a  little ;  then  set  the  mouth  and  nostrils  free, 
and  press  gently  on  the  chest.  Repeat  this 
operation  of  inflating  the  lungs  until  signs 
of  life  appear.  When  the  patient  revives 
apply  smelling  salts  to  the  nose,  if  obtain- 
able, and  give  some  warm  wine  or  brandy 
and  water.  Never  hold  the  body  up  by  the 
feet.  Do  not  rub  the  body  with  salt  or 
spirits  and  do  not  roll  on  casks.  These 
remedies  should  be  continued  for  twelve 
hours. 

10. 

SUNSTROKE,    APOPLEXY,    AND    FITS. 

Raise  the  head  and  support  it  by  gentle 
pressure  on  the  sides  of  the  head ;  unloose 
all  tight  clothes,  strings,  etc.,  and  apply 
cold  water  to  the  head  and  face.  Send  for 
medical    assistance    if   procurable. 


124  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

ii. 

NARCOTIC     POISONS. 

(Bane  berries;  fools  parsley;  deadly  nightshade; 
water    hemlock ;   thorn   apple  ;    opium,    etc.) 

Give  emetics,  large  draughts  of  fluids,  tickle 
the  throat,  apply  smelling  salts  to  the  nose, 
dash  cold  water  over  the  face  and  chest, 
apply  mustard  poultices,  and  endeavor  to 
rouse  the  person  by  walking  between  two 
persons,    and,   if   possible,   by   electricity. 

12. 

VEGETABLE    IRRITATING    POISONS. 

(Mezereon  ;  monks-hood  ;  bitter  apple ;  gamboge, 
etc.) 

Give  emetics  of  mustard  or  chamomile,  large 
draughts  of  warm  milk,  or  other  bland  fluids, 
leech  the  belly  if  necessary,  and  give  strong 
infusion    of  coffee. 

POISONOUS    FISH. 
(Old-wife  ;  sea-lobster  ;    mussel  ;  tunney  ;  blower  ;  rock- 
fish,    etc.) 

Give    an    emetic,  excite    vomiting   by    tickling 


TREATMENT  OF  DROWNING,  ETC.       125 

the  throat,  and  draughts  of  warm  water.  Fol- 
low emetics  by  purgatives,  and  give  sugar 
and  water   to    drink  freely. 

14. 

BITES  OF  REPTILES. 
(Viper  ;  black-viper  ;  rattle-snake,  etc.) 
If  possible,  immediately  tie  a  tape  or  string 
between  the  wound  and  the  heart,  and  draw 
tight.  Scarify  the  parts  with  a  penknife,  or 
other  sharp  instrument  to  excite  bleeding,  and 
apply  a  cupping  glass  over  the  bite,  fre- 
quently removing  it,  and  bathing  the  wounds 
in  volatile  alkali,  (or  some  liniment.)  If  a 
cupping  glass  cannot  be  procured,  make  the 
wound  bleed  as  much  as  possible,  and  suck 
it,    or  burn  it  well  with     a   hot   poker.        Give 

the  patient  plenty  of   whiskey,  if   possible,   and 
cover  up  warmly. 

BITES    OF    MAD    ANIMALS. 

Tie    a   string   tightly    above   the  part,  cut  out 
the  bite,    and   cauterize  the  wound  with  a   red 


126  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

hot    poker,    or    lunar   caustic.       Give    a   purga- 
tive,   and    plenty  of  warm   drink. 

.       16. 

SIMPLE      BITES. 

For  small  bites  (where  the  animal  is  not 
mad)  bathe  the  part  well  with  Tincture  of 
Arnica  diluted  with  twelve  times  the  quantity 
of    water. 

17- 

NETTLE    STING. 

Rub  the  part  with  green  sage  leaves,  or 
bathe  with  water  in  which  some  herbs  have 
been  steeped. 

18. 

STINGS    OF    BEES    AND    WASPS. 

Pull  the  sting  out,  pressing  a  watch  key 
over  it  to  expose  it  well ;  suck  the  wound, 
if  possible,    and   bathe    with    cold    water. 

19. 

TREATMENT    OF    DIARRHOEA. 

This  complaint  is  very  liable  to  attack 
amateur    hunters,   being    induced    by   change   of 


TREATMENT  OF  DROWNING,  ETC.       127 

water,    diet,    and    mode  of    living.     A  bottle    of 
Diarrhoea    mixture    may    be     procured    of    any 
druggist,     and     should    have     a     place     in     the 
hunter's     outfit.       In     absence    of     such    med- 
icine   try     the    following : — Half    a    cupful    of 
milk  or  water,  and   one    teaspoonful   of  pepper, 
mix     and     drink.        Abstain    from     soft    food. 
Brandy  and  pepper  is  a  more  effectual  remedy. 
Dr.    Franklin,    in    his    "Advice    to    Swimmers," 
says  :    "  It   is    certain    that   much    swimming   is 
the    means   of    stopping  diarrhoea,    and   even  of 
producing  constipation.     With   respect    to   those 
who     do     not  know    how  to   swim,   or   who    are 
affected     with     diarrhoea    at     a     season    which 
does    not  permit   them    to  use    that   exercise,    a 
warm    bath,    by    cleansing     and    purifying    the 
skin,    is  found  very  salutary,   and   often   affects 
a   radical    cure." 

20. 

BLACK-FLIES,     MOSQUITOES,    ETC.,    OINTMENTS    FOR 
PROTECTION    FROM. 

These   pests    generally    infest   every   locality 
frequented  by  the  hunter,  and  to  guard   against 


128  THE  HUNTER'S  HA XD BOOK. 

their    bites    some     of     the     following    prepara- 
tions   should   be    carried : 

i.  The  simple  herb,  pennyroyal,  found  in 
most  sandy  localities,  rubbed  on  the  hands 
and    face,     will    check    the    attacks    of    insects. 

2.  Make  an  ointment  of  i  ounce  oil  of 
pennyroyal,  3  ounces  lard.  Put  into  a  little 
wooden  box,  or  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and 
apply   when    required. 

3.  Mix  common  tar  and  sweet  oil  in  equal 
parts.       Bottle    for   use. 

4.  Tobacco  smoke  is  obnoxious  to  mos- 
quitoes, and  if  the  pipe  be  lighted,  those  pests 
will    not    be    so    troublesome. 

21. 

BLACK-FLIES,    MOSQUITOES,     ETC.,    TO    RID    THE 
TENT    OF. 

When  these  insects  infest  the  tent,  a 
smudge  should  be  lighted  in  the  windward  door- 
way or  placed  under  the  windward  curtain. 
The  smudge  is  composed  of  birch,  or  other 
bark,     set     on     fire     and    covered     with    green 


TREATMENT  OF  DROWNING,  ETC.       129 

grass,  leaves,  or  other  materials  which  will 
create  a  large  amount  of  smoke.  While 
the  smoke  is  passing  through  the  tent,  drive 
out  all  the  insects  with  a  towel  or  cloth, 
then  close  the  tent,  and  the  smudge  may  be 
removed.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  continue  the 
smudge  outside  the  tent,  in  such  a  position 
that  the  breeze  will  drift  the  smoke  on  the 
canvas.  This  will  drive  off  the  insects  with- 
out  filling   the    tent   with    the    smoke. 


INDEX    TO    SECTION    X. 

THE   TREATMENT    OF    DROWNING,    WOUNDS, 

ETC. 


No 

Page. 

General    Remarks             

117 

I 

Burns    and  Scalds      ...... 

117 

2. 

Il8 

3- 

Tl8 

4- 

Contusions   or  bruises             .... 

119 

5- 

Hemorrhage 

119 

6 

Bleeding    at  the    nose             .... 

120 

7- 

121 

8. 

121 

9- 

122 

10. 

Sunstroke,  Apoplexy,   and   Fits 

I23 

ii 

Narcotic  Poisons         .                  .... 

124 

12. 

Vegetable    Irritating    Poisons 

124 

J3- 

124 

14. 

Bites    of  Reptiles 

125 

I5- 

Bites    of   Mad    Animals 

I25 

16. 

126 

17- 

126 

i3. 

Stings   of   Bees    and    Wasps 

126 

19. 

Treatment    of    Diarrhoea            .... 

126 

20 

Black-flies,    Mosquitos,    etc.,     Ointments    for 

protection  from       ...... 

127 

21 

Black-flies,    Mosquitos,    etc.,    to    rid   the    tent 

128 

SECTION  XI. 
MISCELLANEOUS     RECEIPTS. 

TO    PRESERVE   MEAT    AND    FISH. 

The  hunter  may  at  times  secure  more  game 
than  he  can  immediately  use,  and  he  should 
then  employ  some  of  the  following  methods 
to    preserve    the    surplus   for   future    needs : — 

i.  To  dry  meat  and  fish  :— For  meat,  cut 
the  flesh  intp  small,  thin  strips,  all  the  meat 
being  cleaned  off  the  bones.  If  venison, 
place  the  pieces  of  meat  on  the  inside  of 
the  hide  of  the  animal,  and  mix  well  with 
salt.  Roll  these  pieces  up  in  the  hide  and 
let  it  stand  for  three  hours.  Build  a  frame 
over  the  fire-place  by  driving  four  forked 
poles  into  the  ground  in  the  form  of  a 
square,    and    about    six   feet    apart.     The    forks 


132  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

should  be  about  four  feet  above  the  ground. 
On  these  lay  a  frame-work  of  poles,  spread 
the  strips  of  meat  on  the  frame,  and  start 
a  good  steady  fire  of  hard  wood  beneath. 
Keep  the  fire  lighted  for  twenty-four  hours. 
The  meat  thus  prepared  will  keep  for  al- 
most any  length  of  time.  Moose  and  bear 
meat  is  dried  in  the  same  manner.  If  the 
hide  is  not  available  to  wrap  the  salted 
strips  in,  place  them  in  layers  in  any  vessel. 
The  object  is  to  let  them  absorb  the  salt, 
which    the    fire    afterward    dries    in. 

Fish  may  be  dried  in  the  same  manner. 
Scale  them,  spread  open  by  cutting  down 
the    back,  clean    them,    and    remove    backbone. 

2  To  salt  meat  and  fish  : — When  it  is  not 
desired  to  keep  the  meat  or  fish  for  any 
length  of  time,  we  may  cut  the  meat  into 
convenient  pieces,  and  place  in  layers  in  an 
earthen  vessel,  using  pepper  and  salt  freely, 
and  keeping  the  vessel  covered  in  a  cool 
place.  For  fish,  clean  as  usual,  from  the 
belly    cut    down  the    back,   and   so  divide    into 


MISCELLAXEOUS  RECEIPTS.  133 

two  pieces,  place  in  layers  in  an  earthen  or 
wooden  vessel,  sprinkling  each  piece  freely 
with  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Keep  in  a 
cool    place. 

TO    PRESERVE    DEAD    GAME. 

If  only  for  a  short  time,  clean,  pluck  and 
place  in  a  covered  jar,  using  salt  and  pep- 
per freely.  If  for  a  long  time,  proceed  as 
follows : — Take  out  the  intestines,  pluck,  fill 
the  inside  with  unground  wheat,  and  place 
the  fowl  in  a  heap  or  cask  of  the  same 
grain,  in  such  a  manner  as  to  insure  its 
being    covered.       It   will    keep    for    months. 

BOOT    GREASE. 

A  simple  preparation  for  boots  and  shoes 
is  made  as  follows  :  Melt  together  1  part 
black  rosin,  2  parts  beeswax,  and  3  parts 
tallow  (candle  will  do)  or  other  fat.  This 
keeps  the  leather  soft  and  waterproof.  Pour 
into  a  tin  box,  and  melt  at  fire  when  wanted 
to    apply. 


134  THE   HUXTER'S  HAXDBOOK. 

HOW    TO    LOAD    A    GUN. 

The  following  old-fashioned  rhyme  contains  some 
good    hints    on    loading    a    muzzle    loader  : — 

"Our  sport  almost  at  hand,  we  charge  the 
Gun, 

Whilst  ev'ry  well-bred  Dog  lies  quietly 
down. 

Charge  not  before.  If  over  night  the 
piece 

Stands  loaded,  In  the  Morn  the  Prime 
will    hiss  ; 

Nor  Prime  too  full,  else  You  will  surely 
blame 

The  hanging  Fire,  and  lose  the  pointed 
Aim 

Yet  cleanse  the  Touch-hole  first ;  a  Par- 
tridge  Wing, 

Most  to  the  field  for  this  wise  Purpose 
bring. 

In  charging  next,  good  Workmen  never 
fail 

To  ram  the  Powder  well,  but  not  the 
Ball. 


SECTION    XII. 


SIGNS    OF    THE    WEATHER. 


It  is  very  convenient  for  the  hunter  to  be 
able  to  tell,  by  observing  the  present  state 
of  the  weather,  what  state  will  exist  during 
the  next  day,  or  for  perhaps  a  longer  period. 
He  may  thus  tell  whether  he  will  be  able 
to  strike  tent,  or  start  on  any  arranged  ex- 
cursion on  the  morrow,  or  whether  he  had 
better    remain    in    camp    and    avoid    a    wetting. 

The  signs  of  the  weather,  as  seen  in  the 
sky  and  clouds,  are  nothing  more  than  the 
existing  state  of  the  weather,  but  as  one  state 
is  invariably  followed  by  another  of  a  de- 
scription which  never  varies,  we  may,  by 
observing  the  present  state,  after  some  expe- 
rience, foretell  the  state  which  shall  neces- 
sarily  succeed.      In   presenting   a   few  remarks 


136  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

to  guide  the  hunter  in  fore-casting  the  weather, 
fwe  shall  not  touch  upon  any  of  the  complex 
considerations  by  which  "the  weather  prophet" 
arrives  at  his  learned  conclusions,  We  shall 
confine  ourselves  to  some  of  the  simplest 
rules  laid  down  by  those  observers  of  nature 
who  have  given  us  the  benefit  of  their  studies ; 
rules  which  have  been  proved  to  be  trust- 
worthy. 

1. 

SIGNS    IN    THE    SKY    AND    HEAVENLY    BODIES. 
An    easily-remembered    little    rhyme    runs    as   follows : 

Evening   red    and    morning   grey 
Will    set    the    traveler   on   his    way ; 
But   evening   grey    and    morning   red 
Will    bring   down    rain    upon    his    head. 

This    is    truth    and    poetry     combined.       An 
old  couplet,   worthy    of   credence,    says  : 

If   it    rains    before    seven, 
It   will    clear  before   eleven, 
In     other    language,     early    morning    rains    do 
not    continue    for    any    length    of    time. 


61GJVS  OF    THE   WEATHER.  137 

A  clear  sky  and  dead  calm  at  sunset,  with 
the  sun  going  down  a  well-defined  form,  but 
on  which  the  eye  can  gaze  without  being 
dazzled,  indicate,  in  summer,  a  warm,  bright 
morrow ;  in  winter,  such  a  sunset  is  suc- 
ceeded by    sharp   frost. 

A  yellow  sunset  indicates  wet,  soon  to  fol- 
low. 

If  it  rains  before  sunrise,  there  will  be  a 
fine    afternoon. 

A  red  evening  foretells  fine  weather,  but 
if  the  color  spreads  very  far  upwards  from 
the  horizon  in  the  evening ;  or  if  the  color 
spreads  in  like  manner  at  sunrise,  it  foretells 
wind    or    rain,  or     both. 

If  the  sun  at  rising  appears  enlarged  there 
will  shortly  be  sudden  and  sharp  showers,  if 
in  summer;  but  in  winter  settled  and  moder- 
ate weather. 

Halos,  cornas,  etc.,  indicate  coining  rain  or 
snow. 

A  haziness  in  the  atmosphere,  which  ob- 
scures   the    sunlight,    and    makes    the    sun    look 


138  THE    HUNTER'S   HANDBOOK. 

white  or  ill-defined,  foretells  rain.  If  at  night 
the  moon  and  stars  grow  dim,  rain  will  fol- 
low. 

If  the  sun  is  white  at  setting,  or  shorn  of 
his  rays,  or  goes  down  behind  a  bank  of 
clouds  on  the  horizon,  bad  weather  is  to  be 
expected. 

If  the  moon  looks  pale  and  dim,  expect 
rain ,  if  red,  wind ;  if  of  her  natural  color, 
with    a    clear  sky,    fair   weather    will    obtain. 

If  the  sun  at  rising  is  surrounded  by  an 
iris,  or  circle  of  white  clouds,  fair  weather 
will    follow,    for  a   short    time. 

If  there  are  red  clouds  in  the  west  at 
sunset,  it  will  be  fine ;  if  they  have  a  tint 
of  purple,  it  will  be  very  fine ;  or  if  red, 
bordered    with    black    in    the   southeast. 

If  there  be  a  ring  or  halo  round  the  sun 
in    bad    weather,   fine    weather    is    at    hand. 

If  there  be  lightning  without  thunder  after 
a    clear   day,    fair   weather   will   continue. 

Before  much  rain  the  clouds  grow  bigger, 
and    increase    very   fast.     When  the  clouds  are 


SIGNS  OF  THE   WEATHER.  139 

formed  like  fleeces,  but  dense  in  the  middle 
and  bright  towards  the  edges,  with  a  bright 
sky,  they  are  signs  of  frost,  with  hail,  snow, 
or  rain.  If  clouds  from  high  in  the  air,  in 
thin  white  trains  like  locks  of  wool  they  fore- 
tell wind  and  probably  rain.  When  a  gen- 
eral cloudiness  covers  the  sky,  and  small 
black  fragments  of  clouds  fly  underneath,  they 
are  a  sure  sign  of  rain,  and  probably  it  will 
be  lasting.  Two  currents  of  clouds  always 
portend   rain,    and,   in    summer,    thunder. 

If  at  sunrise  many  clouds  are  seen  in  the 
west  and  soon  disappear,  fine  weather  will 
obtain. 

If  the  clouds  at  sunrise  move  to  the  west, 
fine    weather,    of   short  duration,    will    exist. 

If  there  be  a  rainbow  during  continued  wet 
weather,   the    rain    will    soon    be   over. 

If  a  rainbow  disappear  suddenly,  it  will  be 
fine. 

The  following  signs  all  foretell  foul,  wet 
weather : — 

If    the    sun     rise    pale,    or     purple    red,     or 


140  THE   HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

even  dark  blue,  there  will  be  rain  during 
the    day. 

If  the  clouds  are  red  at  sunrise,  there  will 
be    rain    the    next    day. 

If  at  sunrise  many  dark  clouds  are  seen  in 
the  west,  and  remain,  it  will  rain  on  that 
day. 

If  the  sun  at  rising  is  covered  by  a  dark 
spotted    cloud,    it    will   rain    the   same    day. 

If  the  sun  burn  more  than  usual ,  or  there 
be  a  halo  round  the  sun  or  moon  during  fine 
weather,   foul    weather   is    at   hand.* 

If  it  rain  during  sunshine,  showers  will 
continue. 

If  the  full  moon  rise  pale ;  wet.  If  it  rise 
red  ;   wind. 

If  the  stars  appear  larger,  and  closer,  and 
flicker,    rain    or  wind    is    at    hand. 

An    Aurora    Borealis    foretells    wet    weather. 

A   continued  rain   from    the    south  is  scarcely 

*     In    "The   Wreck   of  the    Hesperus"    the    Old   Sailor   says: 
"I   pray  thee   put   into   yonder  port,    For    I  fear   a   hurricane." 
"Last     night     the     moon     had     a    golden   ring,    and   to     night   no 
moon    we    see." 


SIGNS  OF  THE   WEATHER.  141 

ever  succeeded  by  settled  weather  before  the 
wind  changes,  either  to  the  west  or  some 
point    of    the    north. 

If    rain    falls     during    an    east    wind,    it    may 
be   expected    to    continue  for  twenty-four  hours. 

If  the  sun  be  seen  double,  or  more  times 
reflected    in    the    clouds,    expect  a  heavy  storm. 

A  very  red  eastern  sky  at  sunset,  indicates 
bad    weather. 

2. 

SIGNS     IN    FOGS     AND     MISTS. 

A  less  complicated  class  of  Signs  of  the  Weather 
than  those  observed  in  the  sky,  but  one  none  the 
less  accurate  in  its  readings,  is  that  presented  by  the 
movements  of  fogs  and  mists,  and  the  various  cir- 
cumstances under  which  these  are  formed.  Some  of 
the  simplest  conditions  under  this  Class,  and  the  re- 
sults   to    which    they    lead,    are    as    follows  :— 

If  mists  rise  in  low  ground  and  soon  van- 
ish,  expect    fine    weather. 

If  mists  rise  to  the  hill-tops,  expect  rain 
in    a    day  or  two. 

A    black    mist    indicates    coming    wet. 


1 42  THE    HUNTER'S   HAXDBOOK. 

When  the  fog  leaves  the  mountains  and 
rises    higher,    fair    weather    is    at  hand. 

If  the  dew  lies  plentifully  on  the  grass 
after  a  fine  clay,  it  is  a  sign  of  another.  If 
not,    and   there    is    no    wind,    rain    will   follow. 

If  near  the  full  moon  there  be  a  general 
mist  before  sunrise,  it  will  be  fine  for  sev- 
eral   days. 

If  the  fields  are  covered  with  a  mist  be- 
fore   sunrise,    fine    weather    is    indicated. 

If  a  white  mist,  or  dew,  form  in  the  eve- 
ing  near  a  river,  and  spread  over  the  adjoin- 
ing:   land,    there    will   be    fair    weather. 

If  there  be  a  damp  fog  or  mist,  with  wind, 
rain    will    follow. 

If  the  fields  in  the  morning  be  covered 
with  a  heavy  wet  fog,  it  will  generally  rain 
within    two    or    three    days. 

If  a  morning  fog  form  into  clouds,  at  dif- 
ferent heights,  which  increase  in  size  and 
drive  in  layers,  thunder  and  heavy  rain  are 
foretold. 


S/GXS  OF  UNE   WEATHER.  143 


SIGNS     GIVEN     BY     ANIMALS,      INSECTS,    AND    INANI- 
MATE   OBJECTS. 

Any  change  in  the  weather  has  its  effect  upon  an- 
imals, birds,  insects,  and  some  inanimate  objects,  and 
these,  by  their  actions,  impart  to  us  their  knowledge 
of  what  state  of  weather  is  approaching.  True,  by 
observing  the  signs  which  have  been  treated  of  in 
Parts  1  and  2  of  this  Section,  we  may  foretell  the 
coming  state  as  soon  as  can  animals  or  birds,  but  by 
knowing  the  meaning  of  the  signs  which  those  crea- 
tures exhibit,  we  may  avail  ourselves  of  a  large  store 
of  knowledge  which,  though  second-hand,  is  ready- 
made,  and  as  useful  as  easy  of  acquirement.  The 
facts  which  have  been  noted  by  Naturalists,  etc.,  un- 
der this  head,  are  very  volumnious,  but  we  shall  re- 
fer only  to  those  which  may  be  of  use  to  the  hun- 
ter. 

When  rain  is  coming,  ravens  caw,  swallows 
chntter,  small  birds  plume  themselves  and 
make  a  show  of  washing,  crows  make  a  great 
noise  in  the  evening,  and  geese  cackle  more 
than    usual. 

Sheep    huddle     together    at    the    approach    of 


144  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

bad    weather,    and    turn   their  tails  in    its    direc- 
tion.    Dogs  feel   lazy   at    the  approach    of  rain. 

If  spiders,  in  spinning  their  webs,  make  the 
terminating  filaments  long,  we  may,  in  propor- 
tion to  their  length,  conclude  that  the  weather 
will  be  fine  and  continue  so  for  ten  or  twelve 
days.  Spiders  generally  alter  their  webs  once 
in  24  hours ;  if  they  do  this  between  six  and 
seven  in  the  evening,  there  will  be  a  fine 
night ;  if  they  alter  their  web  in  the  morning, 
a  fine  day;  if  they  work  during  rain,  expect 
fine  weather,  and  the  more  active  and  busy 
the  spider  is,  the  finer  will  be  the  weather. 
If  spiders  web  (gossamer)  fly  in  the  autumn 
with  a  south  wind,  expect  an  east  wind  and 
fine  weather.  When  spiders  break  and  de- 
stroy their  nests,  and  creep  away,  wet  weather 
may   be    expected. 

If   gnats  fly  in  compact  bodies  in  the  beams 
of   the  setting   sun,   there  will  be   fine  weather. 

If   bats    flutter    and    beetles    fly    about,    there 
will    be    a   fine    morrow. 


SIGNS  OF  THE   WEATHER.  145 

If  owls  scream  during  foul  weather,  it  will 
change    to    fair. 

If  storks  and  cranes  fly  high  and  steadily, 
fair    weather. 

In  all  of  the  following  cases,  rain  is  to  be 
expected  : 

If  ditches  and  drains  smell  stronger  than 
usual. 

If  tobacco  smoke  seems  denser  and  more 
powerful. 

If   the    convolonlus    and    chickweed    close. 

If  foxes  and  dogs  howl  and  bark  more  than 
usual. 

If    moles  cast   up    hills. 

If  horses  stretch  out  their  necks,  and  sniff 
the  air,  and  assemble  in  the  corner  of  a 
field,    with  their  heads    to    leeward. 

If  turkeys  gobble,  and  if  quails  make  more 
noise    than    usual. 

If  sea-birds  fly  towards  land,  and  land-birds 
to    sea. 

If  swallows  fly    lower   than    usual. 


146  THE  HUNTER'S  HANDBOOK. 

If  the  crow  makes  a  great  deal  of  noise, 
and   fly  round    and   round. 

If  water-fowl  screams  more  than  usual,  and 
plunge    into  the   water. 

If  cranes  place  their  bills  under  their 
wings. 

If  fish  bite  more  readily,  and  gambol  near 
the  surface    of   the    streams   and    ponds. 

If   frogs    and    toads    croak    more    than  usual. 

If  the   owl  screech. 

When  sea-gulls  and  other  birds  fly  inland 
a   stoim   is  to   be  expected. 

If  the  wind  be  hushed  with  sudden  heat, 
thunder    and    rain    are    foretold. 

General    Remarks. 

Sudden  rains  do  not  last  long,  but  when 
the  air  grows  thick  by  degrees,  and  the  sun, 
moon,  and  stars  shine  dimmer  and  dimmer, 
it    is    then    likely  to    rain   six    hours. 

After  very  warm  and  calm  weather,  a  squall 
or  storm,  with  some  rain,  may  follow  ;  likewise 
at    any    time    when    the    atmosphere    is  heated 


SIGNS  OF  THE   WEATHER.  147 

much  above  the  usual  temperature  of  the 
season,  and  when  there  is,  or  recently  has 
been,  much  electric  or  magnetic  disturbances 
in    the    atmosphere. 

Storms  are  most  frequent  in  December 
January  and  February.  In  September  there 
are  generally  one  or  two  storms.  The  ver- 
nal equinoctial  gales  are  stronger  than  the 
autumnal. 

NOTE.  All  mention  of  the  readings  of  scientific  in- 
struments as  presaging  the  weather,  has  been  pur- 
posely omitted,  as  the  general  hunter  does  not  carry 
such  instruments  on  his  excursions.  While  it  is  im- 
possible to  enumerate  the  sources  whence  the  re- 
marks on  the  weather  have  been  gathered,  I  wish, 
nevertheless,  to  express  my  indebtedness  to  a  very 
useful  volume  entitled  "Enquire  Within,"  and  to  a 
copy  of  "Vernier's   Almanac." 


FINIS. 


"In  less  than  one  hundred  pages  is  much  and  deep 
philosophy." 


THE  STARS  AND  THE  EARTH; 


OR 


Thoughts  upon  Space,  Time  and  Eternity. 

WITH   AN  INTRODUCTION  BY 

THOMAS  HILL,   D.D.,   L.L.D. 

Late  President  of  Harvard  University. 

Cloth,  50  Gents. 


"The  main  purpose  of  the  book  is  to  show,  from  the  laws  of  light, 
how  the  past  may  he  actually  present  to  God,  and  may  hereafter 
become  actually  present  10  men."—  Churchman,  New  Yoik 

"  The  author  takes  up  the  phenomenon  of  light,  and  by  it  shows  how 
the  past  is  the  present  with  God.  further  on.  he  seeks  to  prove  the 
unity  of  the  Creator  by  the  proofs  of  unity  pervading  the  creation, 
laying  down  the  theory  that  the  universe  may  be  the  embodiment  of 
a  single  thought  occupying  neither  space  nor  time,  the  volume  is 
sublime  poetry  "—Christian  Register  lso&tun. 

"■  It  is  poetic  in  its  suggestions,  and  leaves  the  impression  that  nature 
gives  the  cue  to  things liidden  and  mysterious.  There  is  no  dogmatic 
conclusion,  and  yet  the  dogmas  of  oniniprosence  and  omniscience  aro 
elucidated  by  it.  In  less  than  one  hundrtd  pages  is  much  and  deep 
philosophy  "—  Boston  Commonwealth. 

"  It  cannot  but  be  valuable  to  the  student  of  science  as  well  as  Hie 
professor  nf  leligion,  and  lends  to  bring  them  closer  together  and 
reconcile  them  "—Potter's  M»itltl>/. 

"  We  common  i  the  book  to  the  curious  an"<  thouohtful  reader,  as- 
suring him  that  hnviiiar  once  read  it  he  will  >  or  be  likely  ever  to  for- 
get the  impressions  made  by  it  "—  Chicago  .idvMice. 


SHORTHAND  WITHOUT  A  MASTER. 


Universal  Phonography; 

OR 

SHORTHAND  BY  THE  "  ALLEN  METHOD." 

A.  Self -Instructor,  whereby  more  Speed  than  Long-Hand 
Writing  is  gained  at  the  First  Lesson,  and 
additional  Speed  at  each  sub- 
sequent Lesson. 

By    G.    G.    ALLEN, 
Principal  of  the  Allen  Stenographic  Institute,  Boston. 

Price  50  Cents. 

There  is  scarcely  any  acquirement  so  helpful  to  the  student,  scientist, 

or  professional  man,  as  shorthand  writing.    Heretofore,  all  the  methods 

have  required  so  long  a  time  before  one  could  become  so  proficient  as  to 

ui.ike  it  of  any  advantage,  t'.iat  men  in  middle  life  or  busy  men  have  not 

een  able  to  uive  the  time  ^o  learn  if ;  but  l>y  the  "Allen Method"  one  can 

most  in  "  ihj  idle  mo  nents  of  ;i  lvi-y  hfe,"  certainly,  in  an  hour  a  d;iy 

two  or  three  mouths,  become  so  expert  as  to  report  a  lecture  verbatim. 

m  Rev.  Dr.  THOMAS  HILL,  Late  President  of  Harvard  College. 

Portland,  June  2, 1883. 
.  nost  cordiallv  indorse  the  main  principles  of  Mr.  Allen's  method  of 
printing  phonography;  thev  all  are  thoroughly  practical,  and  must,  of 
necessity,  lead  to  better  practical  results  than  the  analytic  methods  usu- 
ally pursued.  I  hope  Mr.  Allen's  methods  will  bring  into  more  general 
use  the  phonographic  style  of  shorthand. 

From  R.   M.  Pflsifer,  of  R.  M.  Fulsifer  <fc  Co.,  Proprietors  of  the 
"Boston  Herald." 

The  "Herald,"  Boston,  Aug.  17,1881. 
Bear  Sir:— I  have  for  the  past  eight  months  employed  as  my  private 
stenographer  a  gentleman  educated  at  vour  Institute,  and  recommended 
to  me  by  yon.    I  have  been  entirelv  satisfied  with  the  service  which  he 
has  rendered.  Respectfully  yours,  R.  M.  PULSIFER. 

37  Matthews,  Harvard  College. 
I  had  taken  but  two  lessons  of  you,  and  at  my  third  lesson  I  wrote 
three  times  as  fast  as  an  ordinary  long-hand  writer. 

S.  B.  PEARMAIN. 

1G4  nANOVER  Street,  Boston. 
After  taking  a  two  months'  course  I  wrote  from  matter  with  which  I 
was  entirely  unfamiliar,  one  hundred  and  forty  words  per  minute. 

B.  C.  STICKNEY. 

549  Thipd  Street,  Boston. 

Before  completing  a  three  months' course  I  could  write  one  hundred 
and  sixty-five  words  per  minute.  I  find  no  difficulty  in  taking  down 
sermons,  speeches,  lectures,  etc.,  verbatim.        THOMAS  F.  MacKEY. 

I  have  taken  a  three  months'  course  of  lessons,  and  am  now  doing  law 
reporting.  MINNIE  E.  CONLAN. 

Reporting  for  some  of  the  best  Boston  lawyers,  she  earns  more  In  a  day 
thaa  ordinary  lady  employes  can  in  a  week. 


How  the  Ant  can  be  enlarged  to  the  size  of  the  Elephant 

BEGINNINGS  WITH  THE  MICROSCOPE. 

A    WORKING    HANDBOOK, 

Containing  Simple  Instructions  in  the  Art  and  Method  of  Using 

the  Microscope,  and  Preparing  Articles  for 

Examination, 

By  WALTER  P.  MANTON,  M.D., 

Author  of  "  Taxidermy  without  a  Teacher,"  "Insects," 
and  "  Field   Botany." 


Llastrated,    Price  50  Cents. 


This  dainty  little  manual  treats  of 

1.  The  Microscope  and  Working  Tools. 

2.  Preparing  Objects. 

3.  Stains  and  Staining. 

4.  Embedding. 

B.     Needle  Preparations  and  Section  Cutting. 

6.  Mounting. 

7.  How  to  Work. 

9.    What  to  work  with. 

Dr.  Manton,  whose  previous  *'■  Practical  Helps  to  Natural  History  " 
are  having  an  extensive  salo,  here  gives  in  a  simple  and  comprehen- 
sive manner,  a  fund  of  information  about  "the  revealer  of  those 
particles  which  in  the  aggregate  go  to  make  up  bodies  visible  to 
the  naked  eye,  but  which,  taken  singly,  are  so  small  that  their  size 
must  be  magnified  many  times  in  order  that  the  human  eye  may 
determine  their  structure.*' 

This  handbook  will  be  found  equally  valuable  as  a  manual  for 
schools,  as  an  instructor  to  the  energetic  youth  who  receives  one  of 
these  valuable  instruments  as  a  premium,  or  as  a  book  of  reference 
by  the  lucky  youngster  who  has  a  sample  dcpoe>ited  in  his  Christmas 
stocking  or  left  beside  his  pla  e  on  his  birthday. 


HANDBOOK    OF    THE    TELEPHONE. 


4®"  EVERYBODY  WANTS 


The  Telephone. 


AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE 


Phenomena  of  Electricity,    Magnetism,  and  Sound,    as 

involved  in  its  action;  with  directions  for 

making  a  Speaking  Telephone. 


Prof.  A.  E.  DOLBEAR,  of  Tufts  College. 
Author  of  M  The  Art  of  Projecting." 


16mo.    Illustrated.    50  Cents. 


"  An  interesting  little  book  upon  this  most  fascinating  subject, 
which  is  treated  in  a  very  clear  and  methodical  way.  First,  we  have 
a  thorough  review  of  the  discoveries  in  electricity,  then  of  magnetism, 
then  of  those  in  the  study  of  sound— pitch,  velocity,  timbre,  tone,  res- 
onance, sympathetic  vibrations,  etc.  From  these  the  telephone  is 
reached  and  by  them  in  a  measure  explained." — Hartford  Co  want. 

"  It  treats  of  electricity,  magnets,  the  galvanic  battery,  thermo-elec- 
tricity, magneto-electricity,  magneic  induction,  and  all  the  appli- 
ances for  producing  the  wonderful  and  useful  results  that  have  already 
come  to  the  world  by  the  invention  of  the  telephone.  It  is  a  little 
book  that  will  be  desired  by  al   classes  of  the  community;   neatly 

C rinted  a'id  tastefully  bound.     Every  young  person  in  the  land  should 
ecome  familiar  with  the    principles  of  physical  science  involved  in 
this  discovery  "-N.&.  Journal  of  Education. 

"  This  is  a  subject  of  much  interest  at  present,  and  Prof.  Folbeae's 
exposition  of  it  will  be  welcomed.  The  author  elucidates  the  phenom- 
ena of  elecfricitv,  magnetism  and  sound,  as  involved  in  the  action  of 
the  telephone :  describes  the  workings  of  the  speaking  telephone,  and 
gives  directions  for  making  one.  The  author  is  specially  qualified  to 
write  on  the  subject,  as  he  is  the  inventor  of  the  telephone  which  he 
describes  l lis  descriptions  are  plain  and  are  helped  out  by  a  dozen 
or  mor  ■  engravings."—  Hustun  Journal. 


•N")  little  book  is  capable  of  doing- better  service." 


ELOCUTION  SIMPLIFIED. 


By  WALTER  K.  FOBES. 


WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION  BY  GEORGE  M- 

Cloth,  50  Cents, 


P  A  T/nj 


"  The  Manual  is  divided  into  four  parts.  Part  First  describes  a  series 
of  gymnastics  to  give  strength  and  elasticity  to  the  muscles  used  in 
speaking.  Fart  Second  is  a  system  of  vocal  exercises  for  daily  prac- 
tice. Part  Third,  the  application  of  the  vocal  exercises  to  the  reading 
of  short  extracts,  showing  the  effect  when  thus  applied  I'art  Four 
is  a  chapter  giving  general  hints  on  elocution,  and  showing  how  easily 
defects  in  speech  may  be  cured. 

W  th  or  without  an  instructor,  this  Manual  is  just  what  the  student 
is  in  great  need  of  and  he  can  supply  that  need  by  a  study  of  '  Llocu- 
tion  Simplified  '  "—  The  Dartmouth,  Hanover.  A'. 11. 

"  A  very  useful  book  for  boys,  giving  them  practical  instruction  in 
an  art  altogether  too  much  neglected  uow  in  our  educational  metii- 
ods."—  Hartford  Courant. 

'•This  valuable  little  book  occupies  a  place  heretofore  left  vacant, 
as  a  digest  of  elocution  that  is  both  practical  and  methodical,  and  low 
in  price."—  iV.  Y.  Tribune. 

"  No  little  book  is  canable  of  doing  better  service  in  the  community, 
if  its  inculcations  and  instructions  are  carefully  followed."—  The 
Churchman,  New  York. 

"  A  book  treating  this  subject  within  a  limited  srace.  and  bringing  it 
within  the  comprehension  of  the  novice  and  amateur  of  the  art.  is 
certainl*  needed.  We  believe  that  this  is  just  such  a  work"—  The 
Normal  Tracker. 

'■  The  rules  laid  down  are  expli  it  and  to  the  point,  and  are  illustra- 
ted by  copious  extracts  from  the  great  masters  of  English  speech, 
'ihe  Appendix  contains  some  valuable  hint«  on  lisping,  stammering, 
stuttering,  and  other  defects  of  speech  "—  Commercial  liulhtm ,  Boston 

"  Mr  <:eo.  M.  Baker  has  written  an  Interesting  introduction,  full  oj 
valuable  advice."—  Boston  Gazette. 


A  MOST  VALUABLE  COMPANION. 


FIELD  BOTANY : 

A   Hand-Book   for   the   Collector. 

CONTAINING 

Instructions  for  Gathering  and  Preserving  Plants,  and 

the  Formation  of  a  Herbarium;    also,  Complete 

Instructions  in  Leaf  Photography,  Plant 

Printing,  and  the  Skeletonizing 

of    Leaves. 

By    WALTER    P.    M ANTON. 
Illustrated.     Cloth,  50  Cents. 


"A  most  valuable  companion  The  amount  of  information  con- 
veyed in  tlie  small  compass  is  surprising."—  Demorest's  Monthly,  New 
York. 

"  It  is  just  what  the  boys  and  girls  need  for  the  spring  campaign  in 
Botany,  aud  at  the  modest  price  of  fifty  cents  is  accessible  to  all."— 
Christian  Register,  Boston. 

"  Tt  is  entirely  practical,  and  gives  the  collector  just  the  knowledge 
required  to  render  his  work  permanent  and  satisfactory  Itssmall- 
aess  fits  it  to  be  carried- in  the  pocket,  which  is  a  consideration."— 
National  Baptist,  iV.  Y. 

"  Of  inestimable  value  to  young  botanists.**—  Rural  New  Yorker. 

"There  are  many  practical  suggestions  in  the  book,  also,  which  would 
orobably  be  new,  and  which  would  certainly  be  useful  to  teacher  as 
well  as  pup  1."—  Kingston  (N.  Y.)  Freeman. 

"  We  heard  a  class  of  bright  young  botanists  recite  the  other  day, 
n  I  we  thought  at  the  time  now  delightful  a  thing  it  would  be  to 
•rosecute  in  these  blossoming  months  that  entertaining  study  our- 
eUes.  I  erhaps  we  shall  carry  out  the  thought  If  we  do,  this  little 
.fork  shall  be  our  vade  mecum."  -  Chicago  Standard. 


THE  TRIBULATIONS  OF  A  FRENCHMAN. 


Broken  EnGUSh. 

A  Frenchman's  Struggles  with  the  English  Language. 

Amusing  as   a  narrative,  instructive   as   a  handbook    of  French 
conversation . 

By  DPzroif.  IE.  CL  IDTTIBOIS, 

Author  of  "The  French  Teacher,  a  right  system  of  teaching  French." 


Cloth,  50  cents  ;   cheap  edition,  paper,  30  cents. 


*■>•> 


"Who  has  not  heard  of  Professor  Dubois,  "  the  funny  Frenchman  »'! 
Many  will  remember  his  instructive,  amusing,  and  witty  lectures, 
"Broken  English;  or,  the  Mistakes,  Trials,  and  Tabulations  of  a 
Frenchman  while  wrestling  with  the  English  Tongue."  After 
listening  to  his  story  of  how  he  went  to  the  theatre  expecting  to  sco 
Laura  Keene  appear  in  two  pieces,  supported  by  her  husband  ;  how 
ho  told  some  of  his  mishaps  over  and  over  again,  because  his  hearers 
kept  saying  "Do  tell,"  "I  want  to  know,"  &c.  ;  how  he  said, 
"kicked  the  bucket,"  and  used  other  expressions  of  a  like  nature, 
supposing  them  to  be  the  most  polite  forms  of  speech;  what  a 
Btruggle  he  had  with  certain  little  words  to  find  out  how  to  say 
broke  i  off,  broken  up,  broken  out,  broken  down,  broken  in,  &c, 
and  how  he  made  other  mistakes  almost  without  number,  many  a 
listener  has  expressed  the  hope  the  Professor  would  have  thj  lecture 
put  in  some  permanent  form,  that  it  might  not  be  forgotten. 

Finally  taking  the  advice  of  his  friends,  Professor  Dubois  has  con- 
cluded to  add  the  materials  collected  in  later  years,  and  have  the 
whole  published  as  one  of  Lee  and  Shepard's  popular  handbooks. 

It  is  published  in  English  and  French,  on  opposite  pages,  and  will 
thus  be  a  very  valuable  aid  to  those  learning  French. 


"FULL  OF  SERVICEABLE  INFORMATION." 


Handbook  of  Conversation  : 

Its  Faults  and  Its  Graces. 

COMPRISING 

i.     Dr.  Peabody's  Lecture.        2.— Mr.  Trench's  Lecture. 
3.—  Mr.  Parry  Gwinn's  "  A  "Word  to  the  Wise  ;  or, 
Hints  on  the  Current  Improprieties  of  Ex- 
pression in  "Writing  and  Speaking." 
4.— Mistakes  and  Improprie- 
ties   in    Speaking    and 
Writing  Cor- 
rected. 

COMPILED  BY 

ANDREW  P.  PEABODY,  D.D.,  L.L  D., 
Late  of   Harvard    University. 

Cloth,  50  Cents. 

"  A  book  which  will  he  of  incalculable  value  to  the  young  man  or 
woman  who  will  carefully  m>te  and  follow  out  its  numerous  and  valu- 
able suggestions  It  is  worth  owning,  and  ought  to  be  studied  by 
many  who  heedlessly  misuse  their  mother  tongue."—  Boston  Deacon. 

"  This  little  manual  contains  a  great  varietv  of  valuable  matter  for 
the  instruction  of  those  who  would  improve  their  style  in  conversa- 
tion. It  is  in  fact  one  of  the  veiy  best  and  clearest  handbooks  of  its 
kind  that  we  have  seen  "—  T lie  Day,  Baltimore. 

"It  is  a  useful  handb  o'c  on  the  proprieties  and  common  errors  of 
English  speech.'  —  The  Churchman 

*'  Th°:  book  is  full  of  serviceable  information  and  can  be  advanta- 
geously read  and  kept  for  reference  bv  everv  one  who  desires  to  con- 
verse and  to  write  properly  and  gracefully  '''—Paper  World. 

'  II  tp  is  a  neat  nocket-volume.  which  every  person  phonld  have 
for  re  v.\\  reference  Kor  the  young  it  is  of  especial  value  and  to  the 
oi.l  it  U  of  great  interest."—  Vox  Popuh. 


KNOW    WHAT    YOU    ARE    DRINKING. 


WATER  ANALYSIS: 

A   Handbook   for   Water   Drinkers. 

BY   G.   L.  AUSTIN,   M.  D. 
Price  50  Cents. 


"  This  little  book  furnishes  to  non-professional  men  a  ready  and 
pleasing  method  of  determining  water  to  the  extent  necessary  to  af- 
ford a  perfect  idea  as  regards  its  wliolesomeness  for  drinking  pur- 
poses. We  cannot  but  congratulate  the  author  on  the  happy  concep- 
tion and  execution  of  this  work,  which  cannot  fail  to  make  many 
friends  in  its  behalf."—  Chicago  Chemical  Review. 

"  The  tests  are,  for  the  most  part,  simple,  and  are  described  in  lan- 
guage devoid  of  technicalities.  The  work  will  be  of  service  to  all  who 
wish  to  know  what  they  a.e  drinking."—  Medical  bulttiin,  lJhnu. 

"This  will  prove  a  very  acceptable  hook  to  those  who  drink  water, 
and  who  hive  any  special  desire  to  know  what  kind  of  water  they 
drink.  It  has  been  prepared  by  an  entirely  competent  person."—  Chi- 
cago Interior. 

"It  condenses  into  fifty  pages  what  one  would  have  to' wander 
through  a  small  chemical  librar- to  find,  we  commend  the  book  as 
deserving  of  a  wide  circulation  "—  N.  Y.   Independent. 

"Another  of  Lee  and  Shepard's  model  litt'e  '  Handbooks,'  wlrch 
have  proven  a  popular  card  it  contains  the  gist  of  the  science."— 
Des  Mines  State  Leader. 

'•  A  most  valuable  little  book."-  Boston  Globe. 

r  ,«  Dir"  &ust'n  'M1  well-known  authority,  and  his  conclusions  will  com- 
mand attention."—  Brooklyn  Eagle. 

coI-N°  *.?"?  ran  Pernsp  this  book,  even  for  a  few  moments,  without 
seeimr  tnat  it  is  verv  systematic  and  concise;  plainly  written,  and  well 
worth  the  price  asked  "-  Medical  and  Surg.cal  Journal,  Si.  Louis. 


USEFUL  IN  AN  EMERGENCY. 

WHAT  IS  TO  BE  DONE? 

A  Handbook  for  the  Nursery,  with  useful  Hints  for  Children 
and  Adults. 

By   ROBEBT   B.    DIXOJST,    M.D. 

Surgeon   of  the  Fifth    mass.    Infantry  ; 

PHYSICIAN    TO  THE  BOSTON    DISPENSARY. 


Price,  cloth,  SO  cents;    paper,  30  cents. 


This  is  not  only  a  useful,  but  at  the  same  time  a  clever  little  hand- 
book, and  one  which  is  well  adapted  for  all  who  have  any  regard 
for  their  own  health  or  that  of  their  children.  The  book  contains 
hints  and  remedies  fjr  the  treatment  of  accidents  and  diseases, 
and  they  are  so  clearly  arranged  that  any  on ".  can  easily  understand 
what  do  do  in  an  emergency  when  a  physician  cannot  be  reached,  or 
before  his  services  can  be  obtained.  Besides  the  general  hints,  there 
is  a  prefix  containing  a  set  of  rules  on  the  personal  care  of  the  health, 
arranged  in  such  a  clear  and  concise  manner  that  they  will  be  not 
only  instructive,  but,  at  the  same  time,  exceedingly  interesting  read- 
ing. If  people  of  ad  classes  cannot  or  will  not  eat,  drink,  and  avoid 
all  that  is  recommended  in  this  book,  at  least  they  can  learn  the 
reason  why  such  and  such  conditions  of  atmosphere,  diet,  and  exer- 
cise should  be  sought  for,  and  such  an  1  such  determiidng  causes  of 
ill  health  be  shunned.  If  every  boy  and  girl  in  the  l.ind  could  be 
taught  the  rules  to  be  found  in  this  little  book,  we  have  no  hesitation 
in  saying  they  would  be  saved  much  suffering  and  disease,  and 
would  add  incalculably  to  the  strength  of  our  Continent  by  producing 
and  preserving  a  sounder  and  more  vigorous  race  of  human  beings. 

This  handbook  will  be  found  especially  useful  for  cottagers  during 
the  summer  season,  who  live  at  some  distance  from  their  physician. 

It  is,  witbort  doubt,  the  best  book  of  the  kind  yet  prepared  for  the 
non-professioual  world. 


rHE  MOST  COMPLETE  BOOK  OF  THE  KIND  EVER  WRITTEN. 

Practical  Boat-Sailing. 

A  concise  and  simple  Treatise  on  the  Management  of  Small  Boaife 
and  Yachts  under  all  Conditions;  with  Explanatory  Chapteis  on  or. 
dinary  Sea  Manoeuvres,  and  the  Use  of  Sails,  Helm,  and  Anchor,  and 
Advice  as  to  what  is  proper  to  be  done  in  Different  Emergencies; 
Supplemented  by  a  short 

VOCABULARY  OF  NAUTICAL  TERMS. 
By  DOUGLAS  FRAZAR, 

Formerly  Fourtn  Officer  of  the  Steamship  ••Atlantic,"  Master  ef  ti  e  Bark  "  Maryland, "  and  Conv 
minder  of  the  Yacht  "  Fennimore  Cooper  "  in  the  Northern  Seas  of  Chn.a  and  Japw*. 

Numerous  Illustrations.     Cloth,  $1.00. 


"  Capt.  Frazar  has  done  his  work  in  a  sailorly  way,  using  no  techni- 
calities but  which  he  explains  fully  before  hr  goes  an  inch  further. 
His  ideas  are  clear  and  concise,  his  method  simple  and  practical,  and 
his  teachings  so  plain  that  his  little  book  will  be  hailed  with  real 
pleasure  by  all  who  are  embryo  yachtsmen.  The  illustrations,  of  which 
there  are  over  two  dozen,  are  '  right  to  the  point,'  ami  from  them  the 
beginner  can  at  once*  see'  what  some  men  would  take  pages  to  explain. 
*  •  *  I  his  little  work  is  of  great  practical  value,  and  shoula  be  in  the 
hands  of  every  yachtsman."—  Nautical  Gazette. 

"  Capt  Frazar  is  the  son  of  a  shipmaster,  and  was  fami1  ar  with  boats, 
Yachts,  and  shipping  generally,  from  his  youth  until  he  rose  to  the  top 
of  his  profession  as  a  seaman.  *  *  It  is,  unquestionably,  the  most 
complete  book  of  the  kind  ever  written,  and  will,  no  doubt,  be  read 
with  interest  by  all  who  have  anything  to  do  with  boats  or  yachts."— 
Traveller,  Boston. 

"  Its  directions  are  so  plain,  that  with  the  aid  of  the  accompanying 
pictorial  illustrations  and  diagrams  given  in  the  book,  it  does  seem 
as  if  •anybody,' aft  r  reading  it,  could  safely  handle  a  sailboat  in  a 
squall."—  Times,  Hartford. 

"  The  work  is  admirably  done,  and  by  a  thorough  study  of  these  di- 
rections, boat  sailing,  which  lias  been  considered  the  most  dangerous, 
is  really  made  one  of  the  most  safe  of  sports." —  Providence  Journal. 

"  Of  course  Capt.  Frazer  does  not  pretend  that  one  may  become  an 
Expert  sailor  bv  reading  his  book,  but  he  gives  a  great  amount  of  val- 
uable information,  and  so  smooths  the  way  to  the  practical  knowledge 
which  can  only  be  gained  by  actual  experience."—  New  Bedford  Mer- 
cury. 

"  Here  is  a  book  that  every  boy  ought  to  have  There  are  certain 
things  boys  will  do.  They  fish,  shoot,  swim,  and  sail  it  may  be  added 
that  they  al«o  drown  and  are  shot.  *  *  Boys  should  be  taught  how 
^o  do  these  things  which,  when  igno'antly  attempted,  vield  danger. 
Here  we  have  a  good  guide  to  the  art  of  boat  sailinsr;  sensible  instruc- 
tion, full  explanation!  and  a  clear  evidence  of  the  fact  that  to  be  care- 
less is  to  be  in  danger.  We  can  heartily  commend  the  volume."— 
Hartford  Courant. 


"JUST    HOW    IT    IS    DONE." 


Whirlwinds, 
Cyclones,  and  Tornadoes. 

By  Prof.  ^W.  N.  JDJk. VIS. 

(Harvard  College.; 

Cloth,  50  cents. 

"A  popular  treatise  upon  the  causes  of  these  phenomena, 
which  have  lately  become  of  such  frequency  in  the  West  and 
South,  has  become  much  needed.  The  public  have  become 
somewhat  familiar  with  these  through  reading  of  their  ter- 
rible effects,  but  there  is  a  too  general  lack  of  knowledge  as 
to  their  causes.  The  study  of  the  natural  phenomena  of  the 
earth,  sea,  and  air  have  yielded  great  additions  to  the  general 
stock  of  knowledge  on  these  subjects,  and  the  reasons  giving 
rise  to  any  one  of  these  great  disturbances,  as  well  as  the 
more  common  experiences  of  rain  and  wind,  can  be  accurately 
explained,  if  not  always  predicted,  by  those  who  watch  the 
weather  reports.  Every  one  should  master  the  explanations 
given  in  this  little  book."  —  Lowell  Tunis. 

"  Any  of  the  thousands  in  this  country  who  have  been  blown 
into  the  middle  of  next  week  by  tornadoes  during  the  past 
few  years  can  discover  precisely  how  it  was  done  by  reading 
this  little  book,  which  belongs  to  Lee  &  Shepard's  '  Science 
Series.'  It  is  in  fact  an  essay  on  the  theory  of  storms,  accom- 
panied by  a  number  of  cuts  and  diagrams  intended  t<>  throw 
additional  light  upon  the  subject.  To  say  the  very  least  of 
the  book,  it  is  exceedingly  interesting  and  instructive,  whether 
the  theory  advanced  is  correct  or  not."  —  C/ii'-af/o  Herald. 

"  Mr.  Davis,  who  is  an  instructor  in  Harvard  College,  in  the 
essay  before  us,  has  given  his  theory  of  storms,  in  an  inter- 
esting and  convincing  manner.  At  a  time  like  the  present, 
when  the  West  seems  singled  out  for  the  most  extraordinary 
natural  disturbances,  and  the  East  is  not  free  from  dangerous 
storms  and  floods,  such  a  work  is  of  real  value,  not  only  as 
showing  the  causes,  but  also  the  means  of  prevention,  of  those 
apparently  ungovernable  phenomena.  The  action  of  whirl- 
winds and  cyclones,  the  causes  of  motion,  the  danger  of  tor- 
nadoes, etc.,  are  clearly  described,  and  are  useful  to  the 
scientist  as  well  as  to  the  layman."  —  Boston  Commercial  B\d 
letin. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


