**  ^  >Vsi 


<p  ^  •  •  r 


<T  a      _^c 


THE  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 


THE 


HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK 


OR,    HEALTHFUL   AND 


PALATABLE  FOOD  WITHOUT  CONDIMENTS. 


Rvv  TV  TR  ALL,  M.  D. 


BY 


AUTHOR    OF    "HYDROPATHIC     ENCYCLOPEDIA  •" 

'HYDROPATHIC   COOK-BOOK;"    "HYGIENIC   HAND   BOOK'"    "THE 

TRUE    HEALING    ART;"      "DIGESTION    AND    DYSPEPSIA'" 

"  THE   BATH  ;"   "  WATER-CURE  FOR  THE  MILLION  ■»  ' 

"THE  MOTHER'S   HYGIENIC  HAND-BOOK,"  AND     ' 

VARIOUS  OTHER    WORKS. 

7- 


'• 


" 


S.   R.   WELLS,   PUBLISHER,    3S9  BROADWAY. 

1874. 


A\ 


^ 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1874,  by 

SAMUEL  R.  WELLS, 

In  the  office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington,  D.  C. 


BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 
STEREOTYPED  BY  THE  ORPHANS  ON  THE  CHURCH  CHARITY  FOUNDATION. 


HE  work  now  offered  to  the  public  is  an  explanation  of 
our  mode  of  cooking  at  "Hygeian  Home."  More 
than  twenty  years  ago  the  "  Hydropathic  Cook  Book  " 
was  published,  as  an  exposition  of  the  theory  and 
practice  of  cookery  adapted  to  that  age  and  stage  of  the  Dietetic 
Reformation  ;  and  that  work  is  still  commended  to  those  who 
desire  a  more  complete  treatise  on  diet,  with  a  plan  for  plain  and 
wholesome  cooking. 

But  for  a  dozen  years  past  our  table  for  invalids  has  been  pre- 
pared without  the  employment  of  milk,  sugar,  salt,  yeast,  acids, 
alkalies,  grease,  or  condiments  of  any  kind.  Our  only  seasonings 
have  been  fruits  and  other  foods  in  a  normal  state,  so  prepared  and 
combined  as  to  produce  the  requisite  flavor  to  please  without 
perverting  the  taste. 

As  our  institution  stands  alone  among  all  the  real  or  pretended 
health  institutions  in  the  world  in  this  respect,  we  have  taken  much 
pains  and  made  many  experiments  to  improve  every  article  and 
perfect  every  dish  ;  and  we  have  reason  to  believe  that  all  persons 
who  desire  pure  and  palatable  food,  and  who  wish  to  "eat  to  live," 
will  find  ample  directions  in  this  little  volume. 

Among  the  special  advantages  of  the  plan  we  have  adopted,  so 
far  as  invalids  are  concerned,  is  the  absence  of  sour  stomach,  bilious- 
ness, and  constipation,  so  troublesome  to  all  dyspeptics  who  use 


6  PREFACE. 

milk  and  sugar.  Nor  do  our  patients  have  any  desire  to  drink  at 
meals.  Pure  food  never  occasions  thirst ;  and  all  physiologists 
know  that  taking  water  with  food  renders  digestion  and  assimila- 
tion imperfect  in  all  persons,  and  seriously  interferes  with  the  re- 
covery of  health  by  invalids. 

As  we  use  no  seasonings,  they  are  not  mentioned  in  our  recipes. 
But  those  who  cannot  change  at  once  from  high-seasoned  to  un- 
seasoned food,  may  season  to  suit  with  anything  they  please,  re- 
collecting that  the  rule  of  health  always  is,  the  less  the  better.  The 
recipes  are  good  in  their  own  merits  ;  and  it  is  for  the  reader  to 
choose  what  concessions  he  will  make  to  habit  or  vitiated  appe- 
tences. He  may  be  assured,  however,  that  a  little  perseverance  in 
the  use  of  unseasoned  food  will  generally  soon  restore  the  normal 
sensibilities,  so  that  the  purest  food  will  be  the  most  palatable. 

Florence  Hights,  N.  J.  R.  T.  T, 


^mmmmmwz 


Chapter  I — Breads 


General  Rules — Premium  Bread — Cold  Water  Loaf  Bread — Hot 
Water  Rolls— Hot  Water  Loaf  Bread  — Mush  Rolls— Gems  — 
Fruit  Gems — Wheat-Meal  Crisps  —  Oat -meal  Crisps  —  Cocoanut 
Bread — Fruit  Bread — Sweet  Potato  Bread — Sweet  Potato  Fruit 
Bread — White  Potato  Bread — Fancy  Breads — Pumpkin  Bread — Ap- 
ple Bread — Snow  Bread — Corn  and  Graham  Bread — Farina  and 
Graham  Bread — Rye  and  Indian  Bread — Mixed  Meal  Bread — Plain 
Johnny  Cake — Pumpkin  Johnny  Cake — Rye  Bread — Oat -meal  Bread 
— Brown  Bread — Berry  Short  Cake — Corn  Dodgers — Rice  Cakes — 
Berry  Toast — Apple  Toast — Rhubarb  Toast — Whole  Grains  and 
Seeds. 

Chapter  II — Mushes 21 

General  Rules — Crushed  Wheat  Mush — Corn  Grits — Hominy — 
Farina — Oat-meal  Mush — Corn-meal  Mush — Graham  Mush  —  Rye 
Mush — Berry  Mush — Rice  Mush. 

Chapter  III — Pies 25 

General  Rules — Graham  Pie  Crust — Mush  Pie  Crust — Oat-meal 
Pie  Crust — Potato  Pie  Crust — Corn-meal  Pie  Crust — Cocoanut  Pie 
Crust — Apple  Pie — Berry  Pie  —  Cranberry  Pie  —  Rhubarb  Pie — 
Pumpkin  Pie — Stewed  Apple  Pie — Peach  Pie — Pear  Pie — Dried 
Fruit  Pies— Cocoa-custard  Pie — Tarts — Dumplings. 

Chapter  IV — Puddings 31 

General  Rules — Hygienic  Brown  Betty — Indian  Pudding — Corn 
Mush  Pudding — Sweet  Potato  Pudding — Birds'  Nest  Pudding — • 
Baked  Apple  Pudding — Sweet  Apple  Pudding — Rice  and  Apple 
Pudding — Snow  Ball  Pudding — Steamed  Pudding. 


Vlil  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Chapter  V — Sauces 35 

,  General  Rules — Cocoanut  Sauce — Date  Sauce — Lemon  Sauce — 
Orange  Sauce — Currant  Sauce — Fig  Sauce — Apple  and  Tomato 
Sauce — Dried  Fruit  Sauce — Grape  and  Apple  Sauce — Shortcake 
Sauce. 

Chapter  VI — Soups 39 

General  Rules  —  Vegetable  Soup  —  Tomato  Soup  —  Split  Pea 
Soup — Bean  Soup — Green  Bean  Soup — Green  Pea  Soup — Spinach 
Soup — Vegetable  and  Rice  Soup — Potato  Soup — Asparagus  Soup — 
Vegetable  Broth — Barley  Broth — Porridges — Gruels. 

Chapter  VII — Vegetables 44 

General  Rules  —  Model -cooked  Potatoes  —  Boiled  Potatoes  — 
Boiled  Peeled  Potatoes — Mashed  Potatoes — Browned  Potatoes — 
Browned  Mashed  Potatoes — Baked  Potatoes — Roasted  Potatoes — 
Steamed  Potatoes  —  Sweet  Potatoes  —  Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes — 
Boiled  Turnips — Browned  Turnips — Boiled  Beets — Chopped  Beets 
and  Tomatoes — Parsnips  —  Browned  Parsnips  —  Carrots  —  Boiled 
Cabbage  —  Cabbage  and  Tomatoes  —  Cauliflower  —  Asparagus  — 
Greens — Green  Peas — Green  Beans — Boiled  Green  Corn — Roasted 
Green  Corn  —  Succotash  —  Garden  Beans — Lima  Beans  —  Boiled 
Dried  Beans — Baked  Dried  Beans — Mashed  Baked  Beans — Beans 
and  Cabbage — Split  Peas — Dried  Green  Peas — Cucumbers. 

Chapter  VIII — Fruits 55 

General  Rules — Baked  Apples  —  Baked  Apples  with  Dates — 
Baked  Pared  Apples — Steamed  Apples — Stewed  Apples — Stewed 
Dried  Apples — Pears — Peaches — Stewed  Dried  Peaches — Apricots- 
— Quinces — Pineapples — Cranberries — Blackberries — Whortleberries 
— Raspberries — Strawberries — Cherries — Plums — Currants  —  Goose 
berries — Bananas  —  Oranges — Lemons — Tomatoes — Melons — Rhu- 
barb— Pumpkin — Squash — Grapes  —  Prunes  —  English  Dried  Cur- 
rants— Figs. 

Chapter  IX — Preserving  Fruits 64 

General  Rules — Berries — Strawberries — Grapes — Packing  Grapes 
— Apples — Peaches — Pears — Tomatoes — Bananas  —  Rhubarb — Ve- 
getables— Miss  Jones'  Invention. 


CHAPTSR    I. 
BREADS. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

ERFECT  bread  is  made  of  the  meal  of  any 
kind  of  grain  and  pure  water.  It  may  be 
rendered  as  light,  crisp,  and  tender  as  de- 
sirable by  kneading  or  otherwise  working  at- 
mospheric air  into  the  dough.  Water  of  any  tempera- 
ture may  be  employed  in  making  the  dough.  Hot  or 
boiling  water  renders  the  bread  softer  and  damper,  cool 
and  cold  water  renders  it  more  dry  and  brittle.  But 
for  the  best  possible  article  the  water  cannot  be  too  cold. 
Iced-water  renders  the  bread  tender  and  most  delicious, 
if  the  kneading  is  well  managed. 

Excellent  bread  may  be  made  of  wheat-meal,  rye- 
meal,  corn-meal,  oat-meal,  or  of  various  admixtures  of 
them,  to  please  the  fancy  or  suit  the  taste.  Those  who 
employ  wheat-meal  exclusively  should  see  that  the  grain 
be  plump.,  clean,  and  properly  ground.  In  grinding  it 
should  be  finely  comminuted,  or  cut  into  small  particles 
by  s^arp  stones  or  hand  mills.  If  ground  with  dull 
stones  the  branny  portion  will  be  rubbed  off  in  flakes, 


10  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

and  good  light  bread  cannot  be  made  of  the  article. 
The  white  wheat  is  more  easily  managed  than  the  red, 
and  makes  a  handsomer  appearance  on  the  table,  al- 
though I  cannot  say  that  it  is  more  wholesome  than  the 
red. 

It  is  very  important  that  the  meal  be  freshly  ground, 
as  all  meal  or  flour  deteriorates  continually.     We  have 
it  fresh  from  the  mill  twice  a  week.     Private  families 
with  hand  mills  can  grind  it  fresh  every  day. 


PREMIUM   BREAD. 

Mix  unbolted  wheat-meal  (Graham  flour)  with  pure 
cold  water — the  colder  the  better  —  to  a  stiff  dough; 
knead  thoroughly  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the 
dough  becomes  elastic  and  spongy,  and  does  not  re- 
quire the  bread-board  longer  to  be  dusted  with  flour  to 
prevent  sticking  as  it  is  rolled  out.  For  baking  the 
dough  may  be  rolled  out  and  out  into  various  forms,  4o 
suit  taste  or  convenience.  It  may  be  made  into  rolls, 
squares,  strips,  rings,  "diamonds,"  "  fingers,"  etc.,  the 
object  in  all  cases  being  to  expose  as  much  of  the 
surface  as  possible  to  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

The  rolls  and  "fingers"  are  made  three  ox  four  inches 
long  and  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick ;  squares  and 
diamonds  are  one  to  two  inches  in  diameter  (these  re- 
quire pricking),  and  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  strips  may  be  three  or  four  inches  long,  one  inch 
wide,  and  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick ;  rings  are  made 


BREADS.  II 

by  cutting  out  a  circle  of  dough  one-half  to  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  three  inches  in  diameter, 
then  cutting  out  a  ball  from  the  centre  of  the  circle  one 
inch  in  diameter.  The  rings  and  balls  present  a  beau- 
tiful appearance  on  the  table,  and  no  shape  in  which 
dough  can  be  cut  is  in  better  condition  for  baking. 

For  baking,  a  quick  oven  is  required.  The  bread 
should  be  placed  immediately  on  the  grates  of  the  oven, 
never  on  tins  ;  it  should  be  placed  in  the  hottest  part  of 
the  oven  at  first,  and  removed  back  a  little  as  soon  as  a 
crust  is  formed.  Care  must  be  taken  to  have  the  dough 
thoroughly  baked,  or  it  will  become  heavy  when  cold. 
The  time  required  for  baking  is  twenty  to  forty  minutes, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  bread  and  the  heat  of  the 
oven.  When  well  done  the  bread  has  an  elastic  or 
spongy  feeling. 


COLD-WATER  LOAF-BREAD. 

This  is  mixed  and  kneaded  in  the  same  manner  as 
the  "  Premium"  bread  ;  but  is  molded  in  a  larger  form,, 
and  baked  in  a  more  moderate  heat,  to  insure  its  being 
thoroughly  done  in  the  centre,  without  burning  the 
outside.  It  is  usually  made  in  loaves  two-and-a-half  to 
three-and-a-half  inches  thick,  and  of  any  length  desired. 
It  should  be  in  the  oven  about  one  hour.  If  the  crust 
is  too  hard,  cover  it  in  an  earthen  jar,  or  envelop  it  close- 
ly in  a  linen  cloth  until  cold,  when  it  is  ready  for  the 
table.      It  should  never  be  cut  while  hot. 


12  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

HOT  WATER  ROLLS. 
This  is  commonly  called  "soft  bread."  It  is  made 
by  pouring  boiling  water  over  wheat-meal,  and  stirring 
with  a  strong  spoon  to  a  stiff  dough  ;  then  kneaded 
quickly  and  rolled  out  into  any  desired  form  ;  "  rolls  " 
and  "diamonds,"  are  the  best  forms  for  this  kind  of 
bread.  This  bread  has  a  very  sweet  flavor,  and  ' '  new 
beginners  "  are  very  fond  of  it. 


HOT  WATER  LOAF  BREAD. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  preceding, 
except  that  it  is  molded  into  long  loaves,  three  or  four 
inches  thick.  It  requires  baking*  about  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


MUSH  ROLLS. 

These  are  made  light,  spongy,  and  soft  enough  for 
toothless  persons,  by  mixing  with  cold  mush  of  any 
kind,  sufficient  meal  to  form  a  soft  dough ;  then  rolled 
to  the  size  of  the  thumb,  and  baked  in  a  hot  oven  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes.  A  few  English  currants  may  be  added 
to  render  them  more  palatable. 


GEMS. 


Stir  into  the  coldest  water  any  kind  of  meal  and  mix 
to  a  stiff  batter,  yet  so  that  it  may  lift  with  a  spoon  and 


BREADS.  13 

settle  smooth  of  itself ;  drop  immediately  into  hot  gem 
pans  (iron  are  best) ;  let  them  stand  on  the  top  of  the 
stove  a  few  minutes,  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  or 
forty  minutes.  When  done  they  should  be  light  and 
dry  when  broken.  If  mushy  on  the  inside  the  batter 
was  not  thick  enough.  If  the  gem  pans  are  hot  and 
kept  smooth  no  greasing  is  necessary. 


FRUIT  GEMS. 

These  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  preceding, 
with  the  addition  of  any  kind  of  dried  fruit  that  may  be 
preferred.  Seedless  currants,  thoroughly  washed  and 
soaked  in  a  very  little  water,  or  raisins  stoned  and  stewed 
soft,  are  commonly  preferred.  The  addition  of  a  little 
grated  cocoanut,  makes  an  article  of  food  which  is 
simple,  wholesome,  and  luxurious. 


WHEAT-MEAL  CRISPS. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  "Premium  Bread;"  roll  to  the 
thickness  of  a  table  knife  blade ;  cut  in  any  desired 
form  ;  prick  with  a  fork  ;  put  it  on  the  grate  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  watch  closely  to  see  that  it  becomes  cooked 
and  crisp  without  being  browned.  If  well  managed 
these  crisps  are  delicious,  very  tender,  and  well  adapted 
to  those  who  have  poor  teeth. 


14  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

OAT-MEAL   CRISPS. 

These  maybe  made  of  oat-meal  or  oat-meal  mush, 
mixed  with  boiling  water  to  a  stiff  dough  ;  then  kneaded 
a  little  ;  mixed  with  a  little  wheat-meal  to  prevent  its 
crumbling;  moulded,  cut  into  small  thin  cakes,  and 
baked  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  If  made 
very  thin,  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  they  will  retain 
a  rich  flavor  for  several  days. 


COCOANUT  BREAD. 

Add  to  three  quarts  of  wheat-meal  one  grated  cocoanut 
(or  in  that  proportion);  mix  with  water  to  a  stiff  dough  ; 
knead  till  the  dough  becomes  spongy ;  mold  into  any 
desired  form,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes.  This  bread  is  a  great  favorite  on  festive  occa- 
sions. 


FRUIT  BREAD. 
Make  a  dough  as  for  either  of  the  first  three  kinds  of 
bread  ;  roll  out  the  dough  on  the  bread-board  of  any 
thickness  desired  ;  cover  this  with  a  mixture  of  the  fol- 
lowing fruits,  or  with  either  one  or  more  of  them  : 
stoned  raisins,  stoned  dates,  English  currants,  and 
stewed  figs ;  cocoanut  may  be  grated  over  the  fruit 
if  its  flavor  is  also  desired  ;  turn  the  dough  over  the 
fruit,  and  roll  up  tightly  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.      If  made   with  cold  water,  as    in   " Premium" 


BREADS.  15 

bread,  it  may  be  rolled  in  a  cloth  and  steamed  two  or 
three  hours.  This  is  regarded  as  a  very  rich  and  savory 
dish,  and  also  wholesome. 


SWEET  POTATO  BREAD. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  with  the  skins  on,  peal  and  mash 
through  a  colander  ;  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
wheat-meal;  if  too  moist  add  more  wheat-mea!  ;  if  too 
dry  add  a  little  boiling  water ;  knead  together  quickly  as 
for  "Hot  Water "  bread,  or  roll  it  into  "Diamonds," 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


SWEET  POTATO  FRUIT  BREAD. 

Make  a  dough  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  adding 
grated  cocoanut  if  desired  ;  roll  out  thin  and  spread  on 
any  one  or  more  kinds  of  fruit  (raisins  and  figs  are 
sufficient),  mentioned  in  the  recipe  for  "  Fruit  Bread  ;" 
make  into  a  loaf  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


WHITE  POTATO  BREAD. 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes  ;  boil  them  in  as  little 
water  as  will  cover  them  ;  mash  them  through  a  col- 
ander with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  ;  heat 
the  whole  to  the  boiling  point ;  mix  in  wheat-meal  until 
sufficiently  stiff  to  knead ;  cut  into  small  cakes  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The  flavor  usually  preferred  is 
secured  by  using  three  parts  of  meal  to  one  of  potatoes. 


l6  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

FANCY  BREADS. 

Make  " Sweet  Potato  Bread"  as  already  mentioned  ; 
roll  thin  and  cut  into  fanciful  shapes  with  cake  cutters, 
or  make  a  dough  as  for  "Premium  Bread,"  adding 
freely  of  grated  cocoanut,  and  roll  thin  and  cut  into  any 
desirable  forms  ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


PUMPKIN  BREAD. 

Stew  pumpkin  very  dry  and  mix  with  wheat-meal  to  a 
rather  soft  dough  ;  make  the  dough  into  the  shape  of 
loaf  bread,  diamonds,  rolls,  or  roll  thin  and  divide  into 
pieces  with  cake  cutters. 


APPLE  BREAD. 


This  is  made  precisely  as  the  preceding,  substituting 
apple  sauce  for  pumpkin.  Sweet  apples,  and  those  of  a 
mild  acid  flavor,  are  the  best  for  this  kind  of  bread. 


SNOW  BREAD. 

Mix  thoroughly  together  two  parts  of  dry,  clean  snow, 
and  one  part  of  corn  meal ;  turn  the  mass  into  an  iron 
baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven.  The  bread 
should  be  one  to  one  and  a  half  inches  in  thickness. 


CORN  AND   GRAHAM   BREAD. 
Take  cold  corn  meal  mush,  and  knead  wheat-meal 


BREADS.  17 

into  it  till  the  mass  becomes  a  soft  dough  ;  shape  it  into 
a  loaf,  or  into  "  diamonds,"  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  as 
long  as  possible  without  burning  the  crust. 


FARINA  AND  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Cold  boiled  farina  and  wheat-meal  may  be  made  into 
nice  bread,  in  the  manner  of  the  preceding  recipe.  It 
does  not  require  baking  so  long. 


RYE  AND  INDIAN  BREAD. 

Mix  two  parts  corn  meal  and  one  part  rye-meal ;  pour 
on  boiling  water  enough  to  wet  the  whole  ;  pack  it  into 
a  pan  and  steam  five  or  six  hours,  then  set  it  into  the 
oven  to  brown.  Raisins,  dates,  currants,  or  other  fruits, 
may  be  added  to  this  kind  of  bread,  if  desired. 


MIXED  MEAL  BREAD. 

Take  one  part  each  of  rye  flour,  wheat-meal,  and 
oat-meal,  and  three  parts  of  corn-meal ;  mix  thoroughly  ; 
pour  on  boiling  water  enough  to  scald  all  the  meal  ; 
pack  into  a  pan  and  steam  six  or  seven  hours.  Before 
sending  to  the  table  it  should  be  browned  in  the  oven. 
Prunes,  raisins,  dates  or  currants  mav  be  added  to  this 
kind  of  bread. 


PLAIN  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Wet  corn-meal  with  either  hot  or  cold  water,  pack  it 
one  inch  thick  in  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


18  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

PUMPKIN  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Take  pumpkin  stewed  until  it  is  very  dry  and  sweet, 
and  stir  corn  meal  into  it  until  the  mass  becomes  a 
rather  stiff  dough  ;  spread  it  on  a  baking  pan  on  which 
dry  meal  has  been  sifted,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


RYE  BREAD. 
Pour  boiling  water  on  rye-flour  or  rye-meal,  and  mix 
into  a  stiff  dough  ;  make  it  into  loaves  about  three  inches 
in  diameter,  or  cut  into  squares  or  rolls,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven. 


OAT-MEAL  BREAD. 
Take  oat-meal  mush  and  knead  in  dry  oat-meal ;  roll 
out  to  the  thickness  of  one  quarter  of  an  inch,  and  cut 
with  a  cake  cutter,  or  roll  thin  as  a  knife  blade  ;  bake  as 
crisps.  Boiling  water  may  be  poured  on  the  uncooked 
oat-meal  instead  of  using  the  mush. 


BROWN  BREAD. 

Scald  two  parts  of  corn-meal,  let  it  stand  one  or  two 
hours  ;  add  two  parts  of  rye  and  one  of  wheat-meal  ; 
mix  thoroughly,  and  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a 
strong  iron  spoon  ;  add  raisins  or  currants  if  desired, 
and  steam  five  or  six  hours ;  then  place  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  two  hours.     It  mav  be  served  warm  or  cold. 


BREADS.  19 

BERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Mix  water  (the  colder  the  better),  wheat-meal,  and  a 
little  grated  cocoanut,  so  as  to  form  a  stiff  batter ;  drop 
the  batter  in  hot  bread  pans  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ;  when  cold,  split  open,  lay 
each  half  crust  down,  and  cover  with  ripe  strawberries, 
raspberries,  blackberries  or  whortleberries.  Good  ripe 
peaches  will  answer  in  place  of  berries.  Any  of  the  fruit 
sauces,  mentioned  in  another  chapter,  may  be  added  if 
desired,  on  serving  the  dish. 


CORN   DODGERS. 

Mix  corn  meal  and  the  coldest  water  to  a  stiff  dough  ; 
mold  into  small  cakes  of  an  oval  shape  ;  place  in  hot 
pans  previously  dusted  with  meal ;  smooth  the  top  with 
the  hands  dipped  in  water,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  one 
hour. 


RICE   CAKES. 

Take  two  parts  of  boiled  rice,  one  part  of  corn  meal, 
and  one  part  of  stoned  or  seedless  raisins  chopped  fine  ; 
mix  with  water  to  a  soft  dough,  roll  into  small  cakes, 
and  bake  in  a  pan  dusted  with  meal  to  prevent  sticking. 
It  should  remain  in  the  oven  until  a  crust  is  formed. 


BERRY   TOAST. 
Toast  thin  slices  of  Graham  bread,  dip  them  in  hot 


20  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

water,  and  cover  with  hot  stewed  berries.     Blackberries 
and  whortleberries  are  commonly  preferred. 


APPLE  TOAST. 

Apple  sauce  or  stewed  apples  may  be  employed  in  the 
same  manner  as  berries.  If  very  tart,  dates  may  be  used 
to  sweeten. 


RHUBARB  TOAST. 

Peel,  and  cut  the  stalks  in  pieces,  put  them  in  a  stew 
pan,  add  a  little  water,  some  stoned  dates,  and  a  few 
English  currants  well  picked  and  washed ;  let  them  all 
cook  until  done,  and  then  pour  them  over  the  toasted 
bread. 


WHOLE  GRAINS  AND  SEEDS. 

These  may  be  roasted  over  burning  coals,  or  on  a  hot 
stove,  if  placed  in  a  "corn-popper"  and  shaken  con- 
stantly ;  or  boiled  until  soft.  Wheat  and  rice  are  the 
favorite  grains  for  boiling,  and  corn  for  roasting  01 
"popping." 


CHAPTER    IX. 
MUSHES. 

GENERAL  RULES. 


USHES  of  all  kinds  should  be  stirred  as  little 
as  possible  while  cooking,  after  the  material 
sets,  or  stops  sinking,  to  the  bottom.  Much 
stirring  breaks  up  the  particles  and  frees  the 
starchy  matter,  rendering  the  food  pasty,  and  destroying 
the  light,  spongy,  delicate  appearance  it  should  present 
on  the  table;  too  much  stirring  also  makes  it  more 
liable  to  adhere  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  The 
water  should  boil  when  the  meal  or  grain  is  stirred  in, 
be  kept  boiling,  and  the  mush  stirred  frequently  for  a 
few  minutes,  when  it  will  cease  sinking  ;  then  cover 
closely  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more.  Mushes 
should  not  be  too  thick,  nor  so  thin  as  to  spread  much 
on  the  plate  when  dished.  The  tendency  of  fruit  when 
cooked  in  mushes  is  to  settle  and  adhere  to  the  kettle  ; 
hence  in  adding  fruit,  the  better  way,  as  a  general  rule, 
is  to  cook  it  separately  and  mix  just  before  dishing.  The 
fruit  for  this  purpose  should  always  be  cooked  slowly 
and  in  as  little  water  as  possible. 


22  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

CRUSHED  WHEAT  MUSH. 

As  the  grits  swell  very  much  in  cooking,  they  should 
be  stirred  gradually  into  boiling  water  until  a  thin  mush 
is  formed  ;  the  boiling  should  be  continued  slowly  for 
two  or  three  hours  ;  the  coarser  the  grits  the  longer  they 
should  be  boiled.  Raisins  may  be  cooked  with  it  for  a 
seasoning,  or  stoned  dates  may  be  added  after  it  is 
cooked. 


CORN  GRITS. 

In  this  market  this  is  prepared  from  white  corn, 
which  is  cut  into  coarser  or  finer  particles  of  nearly 
uniform  size  ;  the  coarser  kind  is  called  samp.  It  is 
cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  wheaten  grits  (crushed 
wheat — cracked  wheat),  and  requires  boiling  from  one  to 
two  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  grits. 


HOMINY. 

This  is  very  coarse  corn  grits,  the  grains  of  corn 
being  broken  into  coarse  pieces.  It  should  be  washed 
several  times  ;  soaked  over  night,  then  boiled  in  the 
same  water  four  or  five  hours.  Raisins  give  this  dish  a 
very  rich  flavor. 


FARINA. 
This  should  be  gradually  stirred  into  hot  water  ;  a 
small   quantity  will   cook  in  half  an  hour,  but  larger 


MUSHES.  23 

quantities   require  boiling   slowly  one  or   two   hours. 
Grated  cocoanut  gives  it  a  fine  flavor. 


OAT-MEAL  MUSH. 

Put  into  your  kettle  nearly  as  much  water  as  you  wish 
mush  ;  when  it  boils  stir  in  the  oat-meal  evenly  until  a 
thin  mush  is  formed  ;  then  cover  and  let  it  boil  slowly 
half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 


CORN-MEAL  MUSH 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  oat-meal  mush, 
but  is  improved  by  longer  cooking.  The  coarser  the 
meal  the  longer  it  should  be  cooked.  Very  fine  meal 
does  not  make  good  mush.  English  currants  or  raisins 
may  be  cooked  with  it.  Sliced  sweet  apples  may  be 
cooked  in  it  by  spreading  them  near  the  surface,  an 
hour  before  it  is  done. 


GRAHAM  MUSH. 

This  is  made  of  Graham-flour  (wheat-meal)  and  hot 
water,  in  the  same  manner  as  oat-meal  mush  ;  but  re- 
quires cooking  only  about  twenty  minutes ;  care  is 
required  in  stirring  it  not  to  have  it  lumpy.  Stoned 
dates  make  the  best  seasoning. 

RYE  MUSH. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  Graham  mush  ; 
it  is  not  so  palatable  as  the  other  mushes. 


24  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

BERRY  MUSH. 

Pick  and  wash  the  berries;  stew  them  in  a  little 
water,  adding  a  few  stoned  dates,  stirring  frequently 
until  well  cooked ;  then  stir  in  very  evenly  a  little  Graham 
flour  or  oat-meal.  Blackberries,  raspberries,  or  whortle- 
berries may  be  used. 


RICE  MUSH. 

Wash  the  rice  and  boil  it  until  the  grains  are  soft ;  do 
not  stir  it ;  when  done  uncover  and  let  the  steam  escape. 
Raisins  are  the  proper  fruit  when  seasoning  is  desired. 

A  convenient  method  of  cooking  fruited  rice  mush  is, 
to  put  the  washed  rice  into  a  wet  bag,  rilling  about  one- 
fourth  of  it  (mixing  raisins  if  desired),  and  then  boil  or 
steam  it. 


OiHI^IF'TIEiF*-   III. 

PIES. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

HE  chief  difficulty  in  making  Hygienic  pies  is, 
to  have  the  crust  soft  and  tender  without  yeast 
or  grease.  But  this  can  be  done  in  various 
ways,  and  of  various  materials.  But  however 
made  and  however  tender,  they  can  all  be  rendered 
still  more  so  by  covering  them  in  a  stone  crock,  or, 
better  still,  with  a  few  folds  of  linen  cloth,  so  that  the 
crust  will  absorb  the  moisture  of  the  contents.  The 
following  recipes  for  making  crust  will  suit  nearly  all 
tastes  and  circumstances. 


GRAHAM  PIE  CRUST. 

Pour  boiling  water  into  wheat-meal  and  stir  to  a  soft 
dough  ;  roll  out  as  thin  as  possible  ;  sprinkle  a  little 
meal  over  the  pie  plate,  and  spread  this  as  the  bottom 
crust.  Make  the  top  crust  by  mixing  wheat-meal  with 
ice-cold  water ;  add  grated  cocoanut  if  desired ;  knead 
as  quickly  as  possible  co  a  stiff  hard  dough ;  roll  very 
thin  ;  cover  and  bake  immediately. 


26  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

MUSH  PIE  CRUST. 

Take  any  coid  mush — wheat-meal,  cold  boiled  rice, 
corn-meal,  or  oat-meal,  or  any  mixture  of  them  ;  knead 
a  little  wheat-meal  into  it  and  roll  thin,  making  the 
upper  and  under  crusts  alike.  If  there  is  only  mush 
enough  for  one  crust,  the  top  crust  may  be  made  accord- 
ing to  the  preceding  recipe. 


OAT-MEAL  PIE  CRUST. 

Scald  two  parts  of  oat-meal  with  one  part  water,  and 
roll  thin.  This  crust  bakes  very  quickly,  so  that  fruit 
which  requires  much  cooking  should  be  cooked  before 
making  into  the  pie. 


POTATO  PIE  CRUST. 


Boil  dry  mealy  potatoes  ;  sift  through  a  colander ; 
mix  them  thoroughly  with  one-half  the  quantity ;  add 
boiling  water  equal  to  about  one-fourth  the  bulk  of  the 
mixture  ■  roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CORN-MEAL  PIE  CRUST. 

A  very  tender  crust  for  squash,  pumpkin,  or  custard 
pies,  may  be  made  by  placing  dry  corn-meal  on  the 
bottom  of  the  dish. 


COCOANUT  PIE   CRUST. 

A  rich  and  very  delicious  pie  crust  may  be  made  as 
follows  :  mix  one  part  grated  cocoanut  with  two  parts 


PIES.  27 

Graham  flour,  and  water  (the  colder  the  better)  suffi- 
cient to  make  a  stiff  dough  ;  knead  five  minutes,  then 
add  one  part  of  boiled  rice  and  mix  thoroughly 


APPLE  PIE. 
Make  a  crust  according  to  either  of  the  above  recipes 
except  the  last ;  spread  the  bottom  crust  on  the  plate  ; 
on  this  sDread  a  few  dates,  stoned  and  cut  into  small 
pieces  ;  sift  a  little  meal  over  this,  and  lay  on  the  apples 
in  slices  or  stewed  ;  if  the  fruit  is  very  juicy  sift  on  more 
meal  ;  cover  with  the  top  crust ;  have  the  fruit  extend 
close  to  the  edges  of  the  crust,  which  should  be  wet  so 
that  the  top  and  bottom  crust  will  adhere  at  their  edges  ; 
with  a  knife  roll  the  edges  under  so  that  they  will  be 
smooth ;  bake  immediately,  being  careful  not  to  have 
the  top  crust  much  browned.  As  soon  as  done,  cover 
tight  with  a  dish  about  two  inches  deep,  and  let  it  steam 
till  cold,  when  the  crust  will  be  very  tender. 


BERRY  PIE. 

This  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  apple  pie, 
using  blackberries,  raspberries  or  whortleberries  instead 
of  apples.  It  requires  more  dates  than  apple  pie  does 
for  sweetening,  unless  the  berries  are  very  ripe. 


CRANBERRY  PIE. 

This   is  also  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  pre- 
ceding, only  two  or  three  times  the  quantity  of  dates  are 


28  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

required.  A  top  crust  may  be  used  or  not ;  or  narrow 
strips  of  a  thin  crust  may  be  laid  across.  If  no  top 
crust  is  used  it  will  not  need  to  be  covered  when  done. 


RHUBARB   PIE. 

Peel  the   stalks  and   cut  into   small   pieces,  putting 
dates  both  below  and  above  them. 


PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Stew  the  pumpkin  according  to  the  recipe  in  this  work 
for  so  doing  ;  when  nearly  dry  and  quite  rich,  it  is  ready 
for  the  pie.  Mix  two  parts  of  corn-meal  and  one  part 
of  Graham  flour ;  sift  the  mixture  over  a  pie  plate  to  the 
depth  of  an  eighth  of  an  inch  ;  upon  this  spread  a  layer 
of  the  stewed  pumpkin,  and  on  this  lay  stoned  raisins ; 
cover  with  another  layer  of  pumpkin-  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Dates  may  be  used  instead  of  raisins,  if 
preferred.  They  should  be  stewed  and  put  through  the 
colander. 


STEWED   APPLE  PIE. 

This  may  be  made  according  to  the  recipe  for  pump- 
kin pie,  omitting  the  top  crust. 


PEACH   PIE. 
This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  apple  pie. 


PIES.  29 

PEAR  PIE. 
•  This  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  pre- 
ceding. 

DRIED  FRUIT  PIES. 
Nearly  all  kinds  of  dried  fruits  may  be  made  into  pies 
in  the  same  manner  as  green  fruit,  first  stewing  the  fruit. 
It  is  better  to  mash  the  fruit  through  the  colander,  and 
make  the  pie  after  the  recipe  for  pumpkin  pie. 

COCO-CUSTARD  PIE. 
Make  an  under  crust  according  to  the  recipe  for 
cocoanut  pie  crust,  and  fill  with  stewed  pumpkin  or 
squash,  sweetened  with  a  little  date  sauce.  Other  stewed 
fruits  may  be  used,  as  apples,  peaches,  raisins  or  berries. 
This  pie  is  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

TARTS. 
Mix  Graham  flour  plentifully  with  grated  cocoanut ; 
pour  into  the  mixture  ice-water  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
dough ;  knead  it  hard  ;  roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  round 
cakes  two  or  three  inches  in  diameter  ;  cut  out  the 
centre  of  a  part  of  them,  leaving  a  narrow  rim  ;  put  three 
layers  of  these  rims  on  one  centre  or  round  piece,  wet- 
ting them  so  as  to  make  them  unite;  prick  the  centre 
with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  yet  not  so  as  to 


30  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

brown  them.  They  should  be  crisp  and  tender  when 
done.  When  wanted  for  use  they  have  only  to  be  filled 
with  some  kind  of  fruit  sauce,  as  stewed  English  currants, 
pineapple,  marmalade,  etc. 


DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  crust  of  wheat-meal,  water,  and  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  thoroughly  kneaded  as  for  "  Premium  Bread  ;" 
roll  out  quickly  a  small  piece  of  the  dough,  a  little 
thicker  than  for  pie  crust ;  press  it  into  a  tea  cup  with 
the  hand  ;  fill  with  sliced  tart  apples,  peaches,  whortle- 
berries, or  other  fruit ;  press  together ;  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  one  hour,  and  serve  with  sauce.  Dates  and 
raisins  may  be  employed  to  sweeten  when  apples  01 
other  tart  fruits  are  used. 


OHAPTBR.   XV- 
PUDDINGS. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

UDDINGS  are  intermediate  between  mushes 
and  pastry.  They  are  substantially  baked 
mushes,  or  pies  with  the  crust  and  contents 
intimately  interblended.  The  principal  skill 
required  in  producing  hygienic  puddings,  consists  in 
selecting  such  materials  as  will,  when  cooked,  present  a 
light  spongy  mass,  and  such  seasoning  ingredients  as 
will  render  them  palatable  without  impairing  their  diges- 
tivity.  Puddings  and  mushes  should  always  be  eaten 
very  slowly  and  with  dry  cracker,  hard  bread,  or  other 
solid  food,  to  insure  proper  mastication. 


HYGIENIC  BROWN  BETTY. 
Prepare  a  quantity  of  apples  for  stewing,  cleanse  some 
raisins  and  currants,  and  stone  some  dates  ;  the  propor- 
tions may  be  according  to  taste  or  fancy  ;  cut  some 
Graham  bread  into  thin  slices;  put  into  the  stewing 
kettle  a  layer  of  the  fruits  ;  then  a  layer  of  bread,  repeat- 
ing and  alternating  until  the  kettle   is   nearly  full,  or 


32  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

until  a  sufficient  quantity  is  prepared  ;  then  pou>  on 
cold  water  until  it  reaches  within  two  inches  of  the  top 
of  the  pudding  ;  set  it  where  it  will  simmer  slowly  with- 
out burning  ;  cook  until  the  bread  and  fruit  are  tho- 
roughly soft,  when  the  liquor  will  be  very  rich ;  serve 
warm  or  cold.  Grated  cocoanut  may  be  added  if  its 
flavor  is  desired. 


INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Prepare  apples  for  stewing,  and  stone  some  dates  ;  put 
Indian-meal  into  the  baking,  and  pour  boiling  water  into 
it  enough  to  make  a  thin  mush.  Add  the  apples  and 
dates,  grated  cocoanut  if  desired,  and  bake  five  or  six 
hours.  Raisins  and  figs  may  be  employed  wi-th  the 
other  fruits,  or  instead  of  them.  It  may  be  served  with  a 
dressing  of  stewed  English  currants,  or  stewed  figs,  but 
is  excellent  without  any  sauce. 


CORN  MUSH  PUDDING. 

Early  in  the  morning  make  a  mush  of  corn-meal, 
stirring  it  very  thick ;  place  it  where  it  will  simmer 
slowly  and  not  burn  ;  let  it  cook  seven  or  eight  hours  ; 
an  hour  before  done  add  as  many  raisins  as  may  be  de- 
sired ;  just  before  removing  from  the  fire  stir  in  grated 
cocoanut  enough  to  flavor  well ;  put  it  into  molds  to 
cool.  It  should  be  served  the  next  day,  with  or  without 
a  dressing  of  currant  or  fig  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  33 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 
Grate  half  a  dozen  raw  sweet  potatoes  ;  mix  them 
with  two  quarts  of  green  apple  juice  ;  add  sufficient 
grated  cocoanut  to  flavor,  and  raisins  if  desired  ;  then 
mix  with  Graham  flour  enough  ro  make  a  batter  of  the 
proper  consistency  for  gems  ;  bake  in  a  pudding  dish, 
or  in  gem  pans.  The  batter  needs  beating,  and  the 
apple  juice  should  be  as  cold  as  possible. 

BIRDS'  NEST  PUDDING. 
Put  into  the  bottom  of  the  pudding  dish  a  few  stoned 
raisins ;  fill  two-thirds  full  with  quartered  apples— or 
the  apples  may  be  cored  whole,  and  the  cavity  filled  with 
the  raisins  ;  make  a  batter  as  for  gems,  adding  grated 
cocoanut ;  pour  the  batter  over  the  apples  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  When  done  loosen  the  edges  of  the 
crust,  and  turn  it  upper  side  down  on  a  plate.  Cur- 
rant sauce  is  a  good  dressing. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING. 
Boil  good  apples,  with  dates  enough  to  sweeten  them, 
in  about  one-fifth  their  bulk  of  water.     Put  all  through 
a  colander;  stir  in  some   grated  bread  crumbs,  and  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  ;  bake  about  forty  minutes. 

SWEET  APPLE  PUDDING. 
Pare  and  core  good  ripe  sweet  apples ;  fill  the  centre 
of  each  with  raisins  s.nd   cranberries  ;    put   them    into 


34  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

boiling  water  into  which  Indian-meal  has  been  stirred 
to  the  consistence  of  thin  mush ;  bake  about  three 
hours.  If  the  apples  are  not  very  sweet  a  few  dates 
will  give  the  requisite  flavor,  added  to  the  cranberries 
and  raisins. 


RICE  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Boil  the  rice  until  it  is  soft,  half  fill  the  pudding  disn 
with  peeled  and  cored  apples  whose  cavities  have  been 
filled  with  dates  ;  put  the  rice  over  the  fruit  as  a  crust, 
and  bake  one  hour. 


SNOW-BALL  PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  large  mellow  apples ;  fill  the  cavities 
with  dates  or  raisins ;  inclose  them  in  cloths  spread 
over  with  boiled  rice  ;  bake  one  hour.  Before  turning 
them  out  they  should  be  dipped  in  cold  water.  Stewed 
currants  or  figs  make  a  good  sauce  for  this  kind  of  pud- 
ding. 


STEAMED  PUDDING. 

Mix  three  parts  of  bread  or  crackers  cut  into  small 
pieces,  one  part  tart  apples  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  one 
part  dried  sweet  fruit — raisins,  dates,  figs,  or  a  mixture 
of  them,  chopped  fine  ;  add  sufficient  water  to  prevent 
the  pudding  drying  while  cooking  ;  mix  thoroughly  and 
steam  four  or  five  hours,  according  to  quantity. 


§) 


SAUCES. 
GENERAL  RULES. 

ERSONS  whose  ideas  of  sauces  as  dressings 
or  relishes  for  food,  are  limited  to  combina- 
tions of  butter,  sugar,  salt,  vinegar,  and 
spices,  may  be  astonished  to  learn  what  vari- 


eties of  wholesome  as  well  as  palatable  articles  can  be 
made  by  combinations  of  fruits  and  their  juices.  The 
number  is  practically  unlimited,  but  Hygienists 
usually  have  or  soon  acquire  appetences  so  nearly  nor- 
mal that  they  are  satisfied  with  few.  All  that  is  required 
to  make  a  wholesome  and  palatable  sauce  or  dressing, 
is  a  selection  of  fruits  that  are  themselves  wholesome, 
and  such  admixtures  and  preparations  of  them  as  will 
suit  the  taste.  The  following  recipes  are  favorite  speci- 
mens.   

COCOANUT  SAUCE. 
Stew  equal  parts  of  chopped  figs,  raisins  and  English 
currants  for  an  hour  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them  ; 
when  nearly  done  add  grated  cocoanut  in  quantity  to 


36  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

suit  the  taste,  and  a  little  Graham  flour  to  thicken.  An 
excellent  sauce  maybe  made  by  adding  grated  cocoa-nut 
to  date  sauce. 


DATE   SAUCE. 

Boil  the  dates  for  an  hour,  or  until  tender,  in  water 
enough  to  cover  them  ;  sift  through  a  colander,  rejecting 
such  portions  as  will  not  pass ;  stir  thoroughly,  adding 
more  water  if  too  thick,  and  boil  again ;  if  too  sweet 
acid  fruit  of  any  kind,  boiled  and  passed  through  a  col- 
ander, may  be  added  before  it  is  boiled  the  last  time. 
Dried  or  canned  fruits  may  be  used  with  the  dates  ;  or 
the  juices  of  canned  fruits  may  be  added  without  passing 
through  the  colander. 


LEMON  SAUCE. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  date  sauce, 
omitting  all  fruits,  except  the  dates,  and  adding  the 
grated  peel  of  lemon  sufficient  for  the  flavor  desired. 
Grate  the  peel  before  the  lemon  is  cut,  and  care  should 
be  taken  to  grate  only  the  yellow  part,  as  the  white  part 
is  bitter  and  indigestible. 


APPLE  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Boil  good  ripe  tomatoes,  which  have  been  scalded  and 
peeled,  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  then  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  sliced  apples,  and  cook  until  the  apples  are 
soft. 


sauces.  37 

dried  fruit  sauce. 

All  kinds  of  fruit,  or  mixtures  of  them,  cooked  until 
well  done  and  properly  thinned  with  water,  make  good 
dressings,  or  sauces  for  puddings  and  mushes. 


GRAPE  AND   APPLE  SAUCE. 

Equal  parts  of  stewed  grapes  and  sweet  apples,  strained 
through  a  thin  cloth,  and  thickened  with  a  little  rice  or 
Graham  flour,  make  a  rich  sauce  for  rice,  hominy,  samp, 
and  other  mushes.  Sour  apples  and  dates  may  be  used 
instead  of  sweet  apples. 


ORANGE  SAUCE. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  the  above,  sub- 
stituting orange  for  lemon,  and  adding  some  acid  fruit 
when  the  orange  juice  is  not  sufficiently  tart. 


CURRANT  SAUCE. 

Pick  and  wash  English  currants  very  carefully,  then 
stew  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  cold. 


FIG  SAUCE. 
Wash  the  figs ;  chop  them  coarse,  and  stew  in  water 
enough  to  make  the  sauce  of  the  requisite  consistence. 


SAUCE   FOR   SHORT  CAKE. 
Stew  dates  and  rub  them  through  a  colander ;  set  the 
liquid  over  the  fire,    and  when  boiling   thicken  with  a 


'38  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOX. 

little  Graham  flour  or  farina,  wet  with  berry  juice.  Or 
chop  figs  into  small  pieces  ;  stew  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water;  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

This  sauce  is  intended  specially  for  strawberry  short- 
cake, but  will  answer  for  berry  cakes  of  all  kinds. 

Note. — The  above  sauces  or  dressings  may  be  used  indiscrimi- 
nately with  crushed  wheat,  rice,  hominy,  oat -meal,  all  kinds  of 
mushes,  steamed  puddings,  berry  cakes,  etc.  Either  of  them  is  an 
excellent  relish  for  any  dish  for  which  any  dressing  is  desired  ;  but 
we  have  indicated  such  preferences  as  experience  in  providing  for  a 
great  variety  of  tastes  and  habits  has  suggested. 


CXH^^TIE^   VI. 
SOUPS. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

YGIENIC  soups  consist  of  one  or  more  vege- 
tables boiled  very  soft,  and  equally  diffused 
through  a  large  proportion  of  water.  If 
eaten  with  bread,  cracker,  uncooked  fruit,  or 
other  solid  food,  they  are  not  objectionable  as  slop  food. 
They  are  usually  made  of  varying  proportions  of  pota- 
toes, peas,  beans,  carrots,  turnips,  beets,  parsnips,  etc., 
and  sometimes  flavored  with  tomatoes.  The  following 
varieties  are  favorites  with  us. 


VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Take  three  medium-sized  turnips,  a  small  head  of 
cabbage,  four  or  five  medium-sized  carrots,  three  me- 
dium-sized parsnips,  and  three  quarts  of  pared  potatoes  ; 
chop  all  of  the  vegetables  except  the  potatoes  very  fine  ; 
put  them  in  three  quarts  of  water  ;  boil  them  till  nearly 
done  ;  then  add  the  potatoes  and  cook  until  they  are 
reduced  to  a  pulp.  A  small  quantity  of  tomatoes  may 
be  added,  or  not,  as  preferred.  Beans  and  peas  added 
to  vegetable  soup  increases  its  richness. 


40  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Scald  and  peel  good  ripe  tomatoes  ;  stew  them  one 
hour ;  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve ;  add  grated  pota- 
toes to  thicken  sufficiently,  and  cook  half  an  hour  longer. 


SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

Wash  one  pint  of  split  peas,  and  boil  in  three  quarts 
of.  water  three  hours. 


BEAN  SOUP. 
Wash  the  beans ;  put  them  in  cold  water  and  raise 
the  temperature  slowly  to  the  b  oiling  point ;  add  water 
enough  to  have  the  soup  of  the  thickness  desired  ;  boil 
until  the  beans*  are  softened  ;  press  them  through  a  col- 
ander, and  boil  for  a  minute  or  two.  Sago,  soaked, 
may  then  be  added  if  desired. 


GREEN  BEAN  SOUP. 

Boil  one  quart  of  garden  or  kidney  beans,  and  put 
them  through  the  colander ;  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
vegetable  broth  ;  dredge  in  a  little  Graham  flour  or  oat- 
meal ;  stir  the  dish  until  it  boils ;  then  add  one  ounce 
of  spinach  and  one  ounce  of  parsley,  chopped  fine  ;  scald 
till  these  are  done,,  and  send  to  the  table. 


GREEN  PEA   SOUP. 
Take  three  pints  of  peas  ;  three  medium-sized  turnips, 
one  carrot,  and  the  pods  of  the  peas ;  boil  one  quart  of 


SOUPS.  41 

the  largest  of  the  peas  with  the  pods  until  they  are  quite 
soft ;  rub  them  through  a  fine  colander :  return  the 
pulp  into  the  pan ;  add  the  turnips,  the  carrot,  sliced, 
and  a  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  when  the  vegetables  are 
nearly  soft,  add  the  smaller  peas.  Potatoes  may  be  used 
instead  of  turnips. 


SPINACH  SOUP. 

Take  two  quarts  of  spinach,  half  a  pound  of  parsley, 
two  carrots,  two  turnips,  and  one  root  of  celery ;  stew 
all  of  them  in  a  pint  of  water  until  quite  soft ;  rub  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve  ;  add  one  quart  of  hot  water  and 
boil  them  twenty  minutes. 


VEGETABLE   AND  RICE  SOUP. 

Take  one  pound  of  turnips,  half  a  pound  of  carrots, 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  parsnips,  half  a  pound  of  pota- 
toes, and  three  tablespoonsful  of  rice ;  chop  the  vege- 
tables fine ;  put  the  turnips,  carrots,  and  parsnips  into  a 
pan  with  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  add  the  rice  ;  boil 
them  one  hour ;  add  the  potatoes  and  two  quarts  of 
water,  and  boil  them  until  they  are  all  well  done. 


POTATO  SOUP. 

Wash  and  pare,  but  do  not  cut,  the  potatoes,  put  them 
in  a  little  more  than  enough  of  boiling  water  to  cover 
them;    if  any  lumps   remain   after   boiling   pass   them 


42  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

through  a  colander.     This  soup  is  as  delicious  as  it  is 
simple,  and  is  always  a  favorite  with  Hygienists. 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Prepare  asparagus  as  for  boiling  in  the  ordinary  man- 
ner ;  cut  the  tender  part  of  the  stalks  into  small  pieces  ; 
add  half  the  quantity  of  potatoes,  and  cook  till  a  thick 
soup  is  formed.     This  is  a  favorite  and  delicious  dish. 


VEGETABLE  BROTH. 

This  may  be  made  of  various  combinations  and  pro- 
portions of  the  vegetables  used  in  making  soups,  to  suit 
different  tastes  or  fancies.  The  following  recipe  will 
serve  as  a  basis.  Take  four  turnips,  two  carrots,  one 
onion,  and  a  spoonful  of  lentil  flour.  Cut  the  vegetables 
in  pieces,  and  boil  all  the  ingredients  together  until  well 
cooked,  in  water  sufficient  to  make  a  thin  soup. 


BARLEY  BROTH. 

Take  four  ounces  of  pearl  barley ;  two  turnips,  and 
three  ounces  of  corn-meal ;  steep  the  barley  (after  being 
washed)  twelve  hours  ;  put  it  on  the  fire  in  five  quarts 
of  water ;  add  the  turnips  chopped  fine  ;  boil  one  hour  ; 
stir  iri  the  meal ;  thin  if  necessary  with  more  water,  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  twenty  minutes. 


soups.  43 

PORRIDGES. 

These  are  thin  mushes.  Oat-meal  is  the  favorite  article 
for  porridge ;  but  wheat-meal  makes  a  good  dish.  The 
following  recipe  will  serve  for  all  dishes  of  this  kind. 
Stir  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  oat-meal  into  a  little  cold 
water  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  uniform ;  add 
one  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 


GRUELS. 


These  are  thin  porridges.  They  may  be  made  in  the 
same  manner,  adding  two  or  three  times  as  much  water. 
They  are  seldom  used  except  for  fever  patients.  Wheat- 
meal  and  corn-meal  make  the  best  dishes. 


VEGETABLES. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

LL  boiled  vegetables  should  be  cooked  in  as 
ltttle  water  as  possible  ;  the  secret  of  procur- 
ing the  richest  flavor  and  best  quality  of  boiled 
vegetable  food  consists  in  using  just  water 
enough  to  have  it  nearly  evaporated  when  the  vegetables 
are  done.  The  water  should  be  boiling  when  the  vege- 
tables are  put  in  it  and  raised  to  the  boiling  point  as  soon 
as  possible  afterwards.  With  few  exceptions  all  edible 
vegetables  are  more  wholesome  as  well  as  nutritive  when 
fully  ripe.  The  principal  exceptions  are,  peas,  beans, 
corn,  cucumbers  and  spinach,  which  may  be  eaten  at 
any  stage  of  growth.  The  fresher  they  are  the  better 
always.  The  cook  who  would  economize  fuel  and  labor 
should  know  that  boiling  is  a  process  that  cannot  be 
hurried.  If  the  water  is  kept  at  the  boiling  point  nothing 
more  can  be  done  to  hurry  the  cooking.  Any  additional 
heat  is  lost  in  steam.  All  vessels  in  which  vegetables 
are  boiled  should  be  kept  clean  and  bright.  In  baking 
potatoes  it  is  important  that  those  of  nearly  uniform  size 
be  selected,  if  all  are  to  be  placed  on  the  table  at  the 


VEGETABLES.  45 

same  time.  Probably  no  common  article  of  food  is 
more  abused  by  the  agriculturist  and  maltreated  by  the 
cook,  than  the  potato.  And  we  commend  to  all  who 
would  understand  the  culture,  preservation,  and  best 
method  of  using  this  important  tuber,  a  little  work  by 
Dr.  John  McLaurin,  entitled  the  "Model  Potato."* 

MODEL  COOKED  POTATOES. 
Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size ;  wash  quickly  in  cold 
water,  without  cutting;  put  them  in  a  kettle  or  tight- 
lidded  saucepan,  filling  the  vessel  about  two-thirds  full  ; 
cover  tightly,  and  cook  them  in  their  own  juices.     They 
should  be  put  in  an  oven  or  over  a  fire  sufficiently  hot 
to  convert  the  water  they  contain  into  steam.     As  soon 
as  softened  they  can  be  peeled  and  placed  on  the  table, 
or  served  with  their  skins  on.     Cooked  in  this  manner 
potatoes  have  a  richness  of  flavor  unknown  to  any  other 
method.  ^^^__ 

BOILED  POTATOES. 
Wash  in  cold  water  without  cutting  ;  cover  them  with 
water,  and  boil  in  a  covered  vessel  until  soft  enough  to 
be  readily  penetrated  with  a  fork  ;  pour  off  the  water ; 
shake  them  up  loosely,  and  let  them  remain  uncovered 
to  dry.  Some  kinds  of  potatoes  have  a  richer  flavor 
when  cooked  with  the  skins  on. 

*  For  sale  by  S.  R.  Wells.    Price  50  cents. 


46  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

BOILED  PEELED  POTATOES. 
Wash,  pare,  and  put  them  in  cold  water ;  if  old  they 
are  improved  by  soaking  several  hours  ;  then  boil  them 
in  water  just  sufficient  to  cover  them,  the  kettle  being  un- 
covered ;  as  soon  as  the  fork  will  readily  pass  through 
them,  pour  off  the  water,  shake  them  up  loosely,  and  let 
them  remain  uncovered  a  few  minutes.  This  method 
renders  them  dry  and  mealy. 


MASHED  POTATOES. 
Wash,  pare  and  boil  the  potatoes  according  to  the 
preceding  recipe  ;  when  tender  pour  off  the  water  and 
mash  them  until  smooth  and  destitute  of  lumps  ;  then 
beat  them  with  a  fork  until  they  are  light  and  white,  and 
send  to  the  table,  not  pressed  down,  but  laid  in  the  dish 
lightly. 


BROWNED  POTATOES. 
Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  them  in  thin  slices  ;  lay 
them  on  a  gridiron  ;  place  them  over  the  fire,  or  on  a 
tin  in  a  hot  oven  ;  if  the  latter,  put  them  first  on  the 
bottom  so  that  the  under  side  will  brown  and  the  mois- 
ture escape ;  then  change  them  to  the  upper  grate  to 
brown  the  upper  side.  Send  them  immediately  to  the 
table. 


BROWNED   MASHED  POTATOES. 
Take  cold  mashed  potatoes  ;  compress  them  into  a 
dish,  smoothing  the  top ;  place  them  in  a  hot  oven  till 


YEGETABLES.  47 

warmed  thoroughly  through,  and  browned  on  the  top. 
An  elegant  dish  may  be  made  by  forming  the  mashed 
potatoes  into  small  cones  two  and  a  half  inches  high, 
placing  them  on  a  pan,  and  browning  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 
If  the  potatoes  to  be  baked  are  all  to  be  served  at  the 
same  time,  it  is  very  important  that  they  are  of  nearly 
uniform  size.  They  require  a  hot  oven,  and  as  soon  as 
done,  the  skin  of  each  should  be  broken  to  let  out  the 
vapor,  then  served  immediately. 


ROASTED  POTATOES. 
Wash  them  carefully  ;  cover  with  hot  ashes,  and  when 
done  they  will  be  very  rich  and  mealy. 


STEAMED  POTATOES. 
In  cooking  potatoes  by  steam,  the  steam  should  be 
generated  before  putting  the  potatoes  into  the  steaming 
vessel,  and  kept  up  briskly  afterwards  until  they  are 
done.  It  will  render  them  more  dry  and  mealy  to  take 
off  the  cover  just  before  they  are  done,  or  put  them  in 
an  oven  to  dry  and  finish. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 
These  may  be  baked  or  boiled  with  their  skins  on. 
When  boiled  they  should  be  peeled  before  sending  to 


48  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

the  table.  They  may  be  par-boiled,  then  peeled  and 
browned  in  the  oven.  They  are  excellent  if  sliced  and 
browned  the  next  day  after  being  boiled. 


MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Sweet  potatoes  may  be  boiled  and  mashed,  or  mashed 
and  browned  in  the  manner  mentioned  for  white  potatoes. 


BOILED  TURNIPS. 

Wash  and  peel  the  turnips  ;  put  them  in  just  boiling 
water  enough  to  cook  them  and  be  evaporated  by  the 
time  they  are  soft.  They  may  be  sent  to  the  table  whole, 
sliced  or  mashed.  A  little  potato  added  and  mashed 
with  them  makes  a  nice  dish. 


BROWNED  TURNIPS. 

These  are  very  palatable  when  prepared  of  cold  boiled 
turnips  in  the  same  manner  as  mashed  or  sliced  potatoes. 
Early  turnips  are  best,  when  cooked  dry  and  mashed. 


BOILED   BEETS. 

Wash  the  beets  without  cutting.  The  tops  and  fibrous 
roots  should  be  twisted  off  instead  of  cut,  so  as  not  to 
waste  the  juice;  they  may  be  boiled  like  turnips,  or 
steamed  like  potatoes  ;  a  large  kettle  full  requires  boiling 
steadily  four  or  five  hours.  When  very  tender  place 
them  in  cold  water  and  remove  the  skins ;    then  slice 


VEGETABLES.  49 

immediately  and  send  to  the  table.     Beets  may  also  be 
baked  like  potatoes. 

CHOPPED  BEETS    AND  TOMATOES. 

Chop  very  tenderly  cooked  beets  very  fine  ;  mix  them 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  canned  or  stewed  tomatoes ; 
boil  them  together  a  few  minutes,  and  send  to  the  table. 


BOILED    PARSNIPS. 

Wash  the  parsnips,  scrape  their  skins  off,  and  if  large 
cut  them  in  pieces ;  put  them  into  boiling  water  and 
cook  till  very  tender.  It  is  well  to  have  all  the  water 
evaporate  in  the  process  of  cooking,  and  if  they  are 
browned  a  little  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  it  will  add  to 
the  richness  of  their  flavor.  When  stewed  until  the 
liquor  becomes  rich  and  sweet,  this  should  be  served 
with  the  parsnips. 


BROWNED  PARSNIPS. 

Cold  boiled  parsnips,  sliced  and  browned  in  the  same 
manner  as  potatoes,  make  an  excellent  relish  with  break- 
fast. 


CARROTS. 


These  may  be  boiled  and  browned  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  parsnips  and  potatoes.  They  require  longer 
cooking  than  parsnips,  and  to  most  persons  are  much 
less  palatable. 


50  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

BOILED   CABBAGE. 

Take  off  the  outer  leaves  ;  cut  the  head  in  quarters  01 
half-quarters  ;  cook  in  as  small  a  quantity  of  water  as  pos- 
sible until  thoroughly  done.  It  should  be  cooked  in  a 
tightly-covered  kettle. 


CABBAGE  AND  TOMATOES. 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine  ;  place  it  in  a  kettle  witn  very 
little  water,  and  cover  tightly;  let  the  moisture  nearly 
evaporate,  and  when  nearly  done,  add  one  half  the 
quantity  of  canned  or  stewed  tomatoes  ;  cook  thoroughly, 
being  careful  not  to  burn  the  mixture. 


CAULIFLOWER. 
Cut  off  the  green  leaves ;  cleanse  the  heads  carefully 
from  insects ;    then  boil  in  water  just  sufficient  to   be 
evaporated  when  the  article  is  tender. 


ASPARAGUS. 
Put  the  stalks  into  cold  water  ;  cut  off  all  that  is  very 
tough ;  then  peel  and  tie  the  stalks  in  a  bundle  or 
bundles  ;  boil  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender  ; 
lift  them  on  the  dish,  remove  the  string,  and  send  to  the 
table. 


GREENS. 


Under  this  head  are  comprised  spinach,  beet-tops,  cab- 
bage-sprouts, turnip-leaves,  mustard-leaves,  all  of  which  are 


VEGETABLES.  5 1 

excellent,  and  milk-weed  leaves,  cowslips,  and  dandelion 
leaves,  which,  though  a  trifle  bitter,  are  not  unwhole- 
some. All  require  to  be  carefully  washed  and  cleaned, 
and  boiled  until  very  tender  ;  then  drained  in  a  colander 
and  sent  to  the  table. 


GREEN  PEAS. 

These  are  much  richer  in  flavor  if  gathered  just  before 
being  cooked ;  do  not  wash  the  pods  unless  necessary ; 
shell  and  cook  immediately  in  just  water  enough  to 
make  a  rich  sweet  gravy  with  them. 

When  very  young  and  tender  it  improves  them  to 
wash  the  pods  and  then  scald  them  in  the  water  in  which 
the  peas  are  to  be  cooked ;  then  remove  the  pods  and 
add  the  peas ;  when  cooked  they  will  have  a  sweeter 
flavor,  derived  from  the  juices  of  the  pods. 


GREEN  BEANS. 
When  very  young  the  pods  need  only  to  be  clipped, 
cut  finely,  and  boiled  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until 
tender ;  when  older,  break  off  the  ends  and  strip  off  the 
strings  that  line  their  edges  ;  break  them  into  small 
pieces,  and  boil  until  tender.  They  require  boiling 
three  or  four  hours. 


BOILED   GREEN  CORN. 
Trim   off  the  husks  and    silk  ;    put   the  ears  in  hot 
water,   and  boil  them  twenty  or  thirty  minutes ;  or  the 


52  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

ears  may  be  steamed  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 
The  kernels  may  be  cut  from  the  cob,  scraping  the  cob 
after  cutting,  a  little  hot  water  added,  and  cooked  by 
boiling  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 


ROASTED   GREEN   CORN. 

Remove  the   husks  and   silk  ;    place  the   ears   on  a 
gridiron,  and  this  over  red  hot  coals  or  in  a  hot  oven. 


SUCCOTASH. 
This  is  usually  made  of  green  corn  and  garden  beans, 
though  string  beans  are  sometimes  added.  Cut  the  corn 
from  the  cobs,  scraping  them  afterwards  ;  add  the  beans 
and  a  trifle  of  hot  water ;  cover  closely  and  boil  until 
the  beans  are  soft.  Lima  beans  and  sugar  corn  make 
an  excellent  succotash. 


GARDEN  BEANS. 

Shell  the  beans  from  the  pod  ;  add  a  very  little  water, 
and  cook  until  the  beans  are  very  tender  and  the  juice 
thickened. 


LIMA  BEANS. 
These  should  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  garden 


beans. 


BOILED  DRIED   BEANS. 
Wash  the  beans  thoroughly,  and  put  them  in  a  kettle 


VEGETABLES.  53 

of  colfi  Water;  let  them  be  heated  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point,  and  cooked  until  done— about  three  hours.  Do 
not  parboil  them.  It  is  a  mistaken  notion  that  the  first 
water  is  injurious.  It  removes  much  of  the  richness  of 
the  bean  to  turn  off  the  water.  It  is  well  to  let  them 
soak  over  night,  first  washing  them,  and  then  cooking 
them  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  soaked. 

BAKED  DRIED  BEANS. 
Prepare  them  as  for  boiling ;  boil  them  nearly  soft, 
place  them  in  the  baking  pan,  with  a  part  of  the  water, 
and  let  them  bake  in  the  oven  until  moderately  browned. 

MASHED   BAKED  BEANS. 
Prepare  them  according  to  the  preceding  recipe,  only 
a  little  drier  ;  then  with  a  spoon  or  pestle  mash  them  to 
a  powder  and  bake.     This  is  a  delicious  dish. 

BEANS  AND  CABBAGE. 
When  the  beans  are  half  boiled,  add  a  head  of  cabbage, 
cut  into  small  pieces.     Beans  and  potatoes  may  be  mixed 
in  the  same  manner. 

SPLIT  PEAS. 

Pick  them  over  carefully  and  wash  thoroughly  ;  put 

them  over  the  fire  in  cold  water ;  adding  hot  water  as 

they  become  dry ;  they  may  be  cooked  nearly  dry,  or 

more  moist,  as  preferred.     They  require  cooking  about 


54  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

two  hours.  They  may  be  baked  in  the  same  manner  as 
beans.  When  cold  they  may  be  sliced  and  browned, 
making  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 


DRIED  GREEN  PEAS. 
Pick  over  and  wash  thoroughly  ;  soak  them  over  night 
in  soft  water ;  in  the  morning  put  them  over  the  fire  in 
the  water  in  which  they  have  been  soaked  ;  boil  three 
hours  and  a  half,  or  until  tender.  These  may  be  baked 
in  the  same  manner  as  beans. 


CUCUMBERS. 
These  require  no  cooking.     They  are  not  objection- 
able to  healthy  stomachs,  nor  to  most  invalids,  if  eaten 
fresh  as  a  part  of  the  meal.     If  kept  any  time  they  should 
be  placed  in  the  refrigerator,  or  in  cold  water 


OHAPTBn  VIII. 
FRUITS. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

HE  majority  of  good  ripe  fruits  cannot  be  im- 
proved by  cooking,  provided  they  are  to  con- 
stitute a  principal  or  even  large  proportion  of 
21  the  meal  ;  nevertheless  they  can  be  cooked  in 
many  ways  without  impairing  their  wholesomeness,  and 
rendering  some  of  them  more  acceptable  to  invalid 
stomachs,  as  well  as  agreeable  to  tastes  variously  culti- 
vated, and  more  or  less  vitiated.  Fruits  may  be  baked, 
steamed,  boiled,  or  stewed,  the  only  rules  to  be  observed 
being,  to  cook  them  uniformly  until  soft,  and  not  scorch 
or  burn  them.  We  give  a  list  of  our  favorite  recipes. 
Fruits  should  be  cooked  in  stone  or  porcelain  vessels, 
not  in  tin,  brass,  or  copper. 


BAKED  APPLES. 

Select  apples  of  nearly  uniform  size  ;  fill  the  baking 
plate  with  them,  pour  on  a  few  spoonsful  of  water,  and 
cook  till  softened  all  through. 


56  HVGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

BAKED  APPLES  WITH  DATES. 

Take  large  tart  apples  ;  pare  and  core  them  whole ; 
fill  the  place  of  the  core  with  dates ;  place  them  in  the 
baking  plate,  pour  over  them  a  little  water,  and  cook  till 
softened  thronorh. 


BAKED  PARED  APPLES. 


Pare,  quarter,  and  core  the  apples ;  fill  the  pudding 
dish  with  them  ;  if  very  tart  distribute  a  few  pieces  of 
dates  among  them  ;  if  very  juicy  add  no  water,  if  not  add 
a  little ;  bake  and  place  them  in  a  cool  place. 


STEAMED  APPLES. 


For  steaming  apples  should  be  prepared  as  for  baking. 
About  twice  as  much  time  is  required  as  for  baking. 


STEWED   APPLES. 

Apples  may  be  stewed  whole,  or  with  the  skins  or 
cores,  or  both  removed.  They  certainly  have  a  richer 
flavor  when  cooked  with  the  skins  on.  When  quite  tart 
a  few  dates  may  be  cooked  with  them.  A  very  nice  and 
delicious  dish  is  made  by  passing  s-tewed  apples  through 
a  colander,  beating  them  until  light  and  spongy,  and 
placing  them  in  a  pudding  dish,  to  be  moderately 
browned  in  the  oven. 


FRUITS.  57 

STEWED  DRIED  APPLES. 
Pick  over  the  fruit  carefully,  reject  all  imperfect  or 
discolored  pieces  ;  wash  thoroughly  ;  then  boil  in  just 
water  enough  to  cover  them.  They  may  be  flavored 
with  proper  proportions  of  dried  peaches,  raisins,  figs, 
dates,  or  quinces. 


PEARS. 

Pears  may  be  baked,  boiled,  or  stewed,  in  the  same 
manner  as  apples.  Some  varieties  of  small  early  pears 
are  very  delicious  when  boiled  whole  without  paring,  or 
stewed  a  long  time  with  a  few  dates  among  them. 

As  pears  are  among  the  most  perishable  of  fruits,  they 
may  be  picked  before  they  are  quite  ripe,  and*  placed  in 
a  dry  cool  place  to  ripen.  A  favorite  method  with  us  of 
cooking  such  pears  is,  to  pare,  halve  and  core  them, 
and  stew  in  sufficient  water  to  make  a  rich  juice,  adding 
a  few  figs  to  flavor.     Send  the  dish  cold  to  the  table. 


PEACHES. 
The  idea  of  cooking  good  ripe  peaches  is  never  to  be 
entertained.  But  those  of  inferior  quality,  or  those  not 
fully  ripe,  may  be  improved  by  boiling  them.  They 
should  be  peeled,  except  when  the  skins  are  very  smooth, 
clean  and  tender.  They  should  not  be  stoned.  Figs 
are  the  best  seasonings,  and  should  be  cut  in  pieces  and 
cooked  with  them. 


58  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

STEWED  DRIED  PEACHES. 

Dried  peaches  (or  dried  pears  when  obtainable)  may 
be  stewed  in  the  same  manner  as  dried  apples.  A  nice 
dish  may  be  prepared  by  cooking  them  rather  dry, 
mashing  them  through  a  colander,  placing  the  pulp  on 
a  pie  plate,  and  baking  moderately  in  the  oven. 


APRICOTS. 
Apricots  are  to  be  prepared  and  used   in   the   same 
manner  as  peaches. 


QUINCES. 
Quinces  are  of  little  value  per  se,  but  when  dried  or 
canned,  are  excellent  to  flavor  other  fruits  with. 


PINEAPPLES. 
The  remarks  in  relation  to  quinces  are  equally  appli- 
cable to  pineapples. 


CRANBERRIES. 

Pick  and  wash  the  berries;  add  dates  enough  to 
sweeten  to  suit  the  taste ;  stew  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible without  burning  them  until  they  become  soft ;  then 
mash  the  whole  through  a  colander  and  set  away  to  cool. 


BLACKBERRIES. 
Ripe  and  rich-flavored  blackberries  neither  admit  of 


FRUITS.  59 

nor  require  cooking.  But  when  the  fruit  is  unripe  or 
inferior,  it  should  be  cooked.  Pick  over  the  fruit,  and 
wash  if  necessary ;  put  it  into  a  stew  kettle  with  a  very 
little  water ;  if  very  sour  add  a  few  dates ;  boil  fifteen 
minutes ;  serve  cold. 


WHORTLEBERRIES. 

When  not  fully  ripe  these  may  be  cooked  in  the  same 
manner  as  blackberries. 


RASPBERRIES. 
The  same  remarks  apply  to  these  berries. 


STRAWBERRIES. 
When  not  fully  ripe,  strawberries,  for  invalids,  should 
be  stewed  with  a  few  dates,  taking  care  not  to  have  them 
very  juicy.  When  ripe  and  clean,  no  cooking,  prepara- 
tion, or  seasoning  can  improve  them.  If  sandy  or  dirty 
they  should  be  quickly  rinsed  in  cold  water  before  serv- 
ing. An  ornamental  dish  may  be  prepared  by  putting  a 
layer  of  green  leaves  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and 
filling  it  with  the  hulled  berries. 


CHERRIES. 
When  too  sour  or  not  sufficiently  ripe  to  eat  without 
cooking    or    seasoning,    cherries    may  be   stewed   and 
sweetened  with  dates. 


60  HYGEIAN   HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

PLUMS. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  plums,  some  of  which  are 
sweet  and  luscious,  while  others  are  sour  and  unpalatable. 
They  are  to  be  managed  in  the  same  manner  as  cherries. 

CURRANTS. 

Green  currants  are  not  unwholesome  when  stewed 
and  sweetened  with  dates.  When  fully  ripe  they  are 
good  without  cooking. 


GOOSEBERRIES. 

These  may  be  managed  in  the  same  manner  as  cur- 
rants. 


BANANAS. 

These  are  not  cookable.     They  should  be  peeled,  sliced, 
an  d  eaten  with  bread,  rice,  or  mushes. 


ORANGES. 

These  may  be  put  on  the  table  whole,  or  peeled  and 
the  sections  separated. 


LEMONS. 

We  only  use  lemons  to  flavor  sauces,  pies,  puddings, 
greens,  etc. 


FRUITS.  6 1 

TOMATOES. 
Very  ripe  tomatoes  are  better  uncooked.  But  if  im- 
perfectly ripened  they  should  be  stewed  in  as  little  water 
as  possible  and  for  a  long  time.  They  may  be  cooked 
in  half  an  hour,  but  will  improve  if  stewed  one  or  even 
two  hours  longer.  Crumbs  or  pieces  of  toasted  bread 
are  an  excellent  addition  ;  or  the  juice  maybe  thickened 
with  a  little  Graham  flour. 


MELONS. 

None  of  the  numerous  varieties  of  watermelons  and 
muskmelons  can  be  improved  by  cooking.  They  should 
not  be  taken  from  the  vines  till  fully  ripe,  and  the 
sooner  after  being  gathered  they  are  eaten,  the  more 
wholesome  and  delicious. 


RHUBARB. 
This  is  prepared  as  for  making  pie,  and  stewed  with 
dates  to  sweeten. 


PUMPKINS. 
Some  of  the  richer  kinds  of  pumpkins  are  good  if 
baked ;  but  all  are  excellent  when  properly  stewed  or 
steamed.  As  little  water  as  possible  without  allowing 
the  pumpkin  to  burn  should  be  used.  Like  tomatoes, 
pumpkin  is  rendered  richer  and  sweeter  by  prolonged 
cooking.  When  nearly  done  it  should  be  left  uncovered, 
to  evaporate  some  of  the  water. 


62  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

SQUASH. 

Stewing  is  the  usual  method  of  cooking  all  kinds  of 
squashes;  but  some  of  the  more  solid  and  richer  kinds 
are  excellent  and  sometimes  preferable  when  baked. 
Wash,  wipe,  cut  in  four  or  more  pieces,  remove  the 
seeds,  and  bake  in  a  pan.  Steaming  squash,  however, 
is  better  than  boiling  it. 


GRAPES. 


The  idea  of  cooking  rich  ripe  grapes  is  inadmissible ; 
if  sour  or  not  fully  ripe,  they  may  be  stewed  in  as  little 
water  as  possible,  and  pressed  through  a  colander  to  re- 
move the  skin  and  seeds. 

PRUNES. 

Stew  them  until  soft  in  just  water  enough  to  cover 
them  ;  do  not  stir  them  so  as  to  mangle  the  skins ;  they 
should  appear  on  the  table  plump  and  unbroken. 

ENGLISH  DRIED  CURRANTS. 
These  are  generally  used  to  flavor  ether  dishes,  but 
are  excellent  of  themselves;  they  maybe  stewed  in  the 
same  manner  as  most  other  dried  fruits. 


FIGS. 
When  quite  fresh,  figs  are  better  uncooked  ;  when  old 


FRUITS.  63 

they  should  be  quickly  washed  in  boiling  water,   and 
then  stewed  until  soft. 


DATES. 

These  may  be  eaten  uncooked  with  other  foods  ;  but 
we  seldom  use  them  except  to  sweeten  and  flavor  other 
fruits  and  foods. 


OIHI^IF^TIECFt  131. 


PRESERVING    FOODS. 


GENERAL  RULES. 


ANNING,  drying,  and  refrigeration  are  the 
only  hygienic  processes  for  preserving  fruits, 
vegetables,  or  foods  of  any  kind.  Antiseptics 
of  every  sort — salt,  sugar,  vinegar,  alcohol,  etc., 
not  only  add  injurious  ingredients,  but  change  the 
organic  arrangement  of  the  constituent  molecules,  dete- 
riorate the  quality  of  the  food,  and  lessen  its  nutritive 
value. 

The  process  of  canning  has  reached  great  perfection 
within  a  few  years,  so  that  almost  all  kinds  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  can  be  preserved  in  their  natural  flavors  for  an 
indefinite  time,  without  a  particle  of  sugar  or  salt.  All 
that  is  required  is  a  perfect  expulsion  of  atmospheric  air, 
and  its  complete  exclusion  afterwards.  Some  articles 
require  heating  to  the  boiling  point,  and  others  con- 
siderable cooking  in  order  to  expel  all  the  air. 

Of  the  various  jars  for  canning,  the  best  are  ' '  Masons, " 


PRESERVING  FOODS.  6$ 

the  "Gem,"  and  the  "Hero."    These  are  all  of  glass, 
and  for  fruits  no  other  material  should  be  employed. 

Within  a  few  years  great  improvements  have  been 
made  in  drying  fruits  and  vegetables.  And  the  recent 
introduction  of  "Boswell's  Heater  and  Dryer"  seems  to 
be  all  that  can  be  desired  for  families  to  dry  any  food 
they  wish  to  preserve  in  that  manner,  economically  and 
in  perfection. 

The  objections  to  drying  in  the  sun  is  the  exposure  of 
the  articles  to  dust  and  insects,  while  drying  over  a  range 
or  in  an  oven  is  troublesome  and  expensive.     Some  of 
the  methods  for. drying  which  have  been  introduced  and 
patented,   although  rapid  and  economical,   do  not  well 
preserve   the  nutritive  value  and  natural  flavor  of  the 
articles.     Some  of  them  are  so  arranged  that  the  steam 
or  vapor  which  is  evaporated  from  the   lower  tiers   or 
layers  passes  through  those  above,  thus  cooking  <w/and 
dissipating  their  juices  and  flavor.     This  is  obviated  in 
"Boswell's  Heater  and  Dryer."     This  is  so  arranged 
that  a  current  of  fresh  air  carries  the  moisture  of  each 
layer  into  the  flue,  producing  an  article  which  for  flavor, 
richness,  color,  and  nutritive  value,  cannot  probably  be 
excelled.     As  the  Heater  is  useful  also  in  drying  clothes, 
heating  rooms,  and  in  cooking  victuals,  every  family  which 
has  fruit  to  dry  will  find  it  doubly  economical ;  and  it 
would  pay  many  who  do  not  raise  fruit,  to  purchase  in 
season  and  dry  for  themselves  in  Boswell's  Heater. 

Fruits  for  canning  should  he  carefully  selected,  and  all 


66  HYGEIAN  HOME    COOK-BOOK. 

imperfect,  decayed,  or  unripe  ones  rejected.  When 
sandy  or  unclean  they  should  be  quickly  and  carefully 
washed.  Blackberries,  raspberries,  and  whortleberries, 
are  canned  without  difficulty  so  as  to  keep  well.  Straw- 
berries require  longer  cooking  and  more  careful  manage- 
ment. Grapes,  cherries,  currants,  and  all  of  the  staple 
fruits  are  successfully  canned  with  little  trouble. 


BERRIES. 
Cover  them  with  a  little  water  in  a  stewing  kettle  ;  boil 
for  a  few  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  have  them  burned ; 
fill  the  jar  with  them  while  boiling  hot ;  wipe  the  edges 
of  the  jars  clean ;  screw  down  the  top  tight,  and  put 
them  in  a  cool  place.  Do  not  let  a  draught  of  cold  air 
strike  them,  or  they  may  break.  The  jar  for  receiving 
the  fruit  should  be  clean  and  hot.  A  convenient  me- 
thod of  heating  it  is  to  place  it  sidewise  into  hot  water, 
(being  careful  that  the  water  enters  the  inside  the  mo- 
ment it  touches  the  outside,  or  the  vessel  may  crack), 
give  it  a  whirl,  lift  it  out  and  let  the  water  run  out,  set  it 
in  a  pan  over  the  stove  or  in  a  warm  place,  and  fill 
immediately.  When  stone  jars  are  employed  for  can- 
ning, place  them  on  the  stove,  with  a  little  cold  water 
in  them,  some  time  before  commencing  to  cook  the 
fruit.  When  the  water  in  them  is  heated  nearly  to  the 
boiling  point,  they  may  be  emptied  and  filled  with  the 
hot  fruit.  The  cork  should  fit  closely,  and  be  covered 
with  cement.     This  may  be  made  of  sealing-wax  and 


PRESERVING  FOODS.  67 

bees-wax,  or  of  resin  and  bees-wax  ;  the  proportions  of 
sealing-wax  and  bees-wax  should  be  such  that  the 
cement  when  cold  will  be  neither  sticky  nor  brittle. 
The  cement  should  be  melted  and  poured  over  the  corks 
instantly  after  they  are  applied  to  the  jars.  The  jars 
should  be  watched  until  cold,  and  if  any  air-bubbles 
appear  in  the  cement,  prick  them  and  add  more  cement. 


STRAWBERRIES. 

As  these  berries  are  exceptional,  we  give  a  special 
recipe.  Boil  the  fruit  thirty  minutes  after  filling  the  jars 
in  the  manner  above  mentioned,  let  them  stand  five 
minutes  to  settle ;  fill  the  shrinkage,  seal  tight,  and  turn 
the  jars  on  their  top  ;  let  them  remain  in  this  position 
over  night ;  the  next  morning  the  imperfect  ones  can 
be  detected  and  corrected. 


GRAPES. 

Canned  grapes  are  admissable  with  mushes  and  pud 
dings  in  the  winter  season,  or  as  a  relish  with  any  kind 
of  farinaceous  food  at  all  seasons.  Select  the  freshest, 
nicest  bunches,  and  can  in  the  usual  manner.  An  ex- 
cellent jelly  for  farinaceous  dishes  may  be  prepared  by 
stewing  the  grapes,  mashing  them  through  a  colander  to 
remove  the  skins  and  seeds/  and  then  canning  in  the 
usual  manner. 


68  HYGEIAN   HOME   COOK-BOOK. 

PACKING   GRAPES. 

Grapes  may  be  easily  preserved  in  the  following  man- 
ner :  Take  the  late  grapes  ;  pick  them  carefully  ;  spread 
them  out  in  a  cool  place  in  layers  on  shelves  ;  let  them 
remain  two  weeks ;  then  pack  them  in  barrels  with  dry 
hard-wood  sawdust.  Bran  will  answer  very  well.  Packed 
in  this  manner  the  fruit  will  keep  good  through  the 
winter.  After  packing  they.should  be  kept  in  a  cool 
and  dry  place. 

Grapes  may  be  kept  in  good  condition  for  several 
weeks,  by  dipping  the  end  of  the  stem  of  perfect  bunches 
in  melted  sealing-wax,  then  wrapping  the  bunches  in 
tissue  paper,  and  laying  or  suspending  them  in  a  dry 
cool  place.  The  more  paper  that  is  placed  between  them 
the  longer  they  will  keep. 


APPLES. 
Peel,    quarter,   core,   and  stew  until   soft;    then  can 
them  in  the  same  manner  as  berries. 


PEACHES. 
In  order  to  preserve  their  color,  peaches  after  being 
peeled  should  be  kept  in  cold  water,  until  you  are 
ready  to  can  them.  They  are  canned  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  berries.  They  may  be  canned  with  or  without 
peeling  and  stoning.  It  is  important  that  they  are  boil- 
ing hot  when  sealed,  and  that  all  of  the  fruit  is  covered 
by  its  juices. 


PRESERVING  FRUITS.  69 

PEARS. 
These  may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  peaches. 
If  gathered  before  they  are  quite  ripe,  they  may  be  laid 
away  in  a  dry,  cool  place  to  ripen,  and  then  canned. 


TOMATOES. 
Those  of  the  firmest  flesh,  or  least  juicy,  are  the  best 
for  canning  ;  cover  them  with  hot  water  ;  remove  the 
skins  and  cut  away  all  the  green  part ;  then  stew  and  can 
in  the  usual  manner.  This  fruit  may  be  improved  by 
much  cooking  before  canning.  There  is  no  objection  to 
tin  cans  for  preserving  tomatoes,  if  they  are  new ;  and 
the  fruit  is  more  easily  kept  in  them,  as  they  can  be 
hermetically  sealed  without  difficulty. 


RHUBARB. 
Peel  the  rhubarb ;  stew  with  dates  enough  to  sweeten 
as  desired,  and  can  in  the  usual  manner. 


BANANAS. 
This  fruit  may  be  canned  in  the  usual  manner.     It 
makes  an  admirable  sweetening  and  flavoring  ingredient 
for  pies. 


VEGETABLES. 
Green  corn,  peas,  beans,  and  asparagus,  are  preserved 
by  canning  with  more  difficulty  than  are  most  kinds  of 


70  HYGEIAN  HOME  COOK-BOOK. 

fruits ;  hence  nearly  all  the  canning  establishments  add 
more  or  less  sugar,  salt,  or  some  other  antiseptic.  But 
this  is  entirely  unnecessary.  Ifwell  cooked  and  managed 
in  all  respects  in  the  manner  recommended  for  straw- 
berries, there  need  be  no  difficulty  in  keeping  them  fresh 
and  sweet  the  year  round. 


Note. — A  Miss  Jones,  of  New  York,  has  invented  a  method  of 
canning  fruit  in  their  own  juices  without  cooking  them,  which  is 
said  to  be  a  labor-saving  and  economical  improvement  on  all  exist- 
ing methods  of  canning.  It  consists  in  removing  the  air  from  the 
fruit  and  vessel  holding  it,  filling  the  vacuum  by  infiltrating  the 
juices  of  other  fruit,  previously  prepared,  and  then  sealing.  Con- 
siderable machinery  is  required  for  this  process,  and  we  hope  she 
will  soon  have  it  so  perfected  and  cheapened  that  it  may  come 
into  general  use. 


INDEX. 


_AJ?PLE  and  Tomato  Sauce. 

Apple  Bread 

Appte  Pie 

Apple  Toast 

Apricots 

Asparagus 

Asparagus  Soup 


BAKED   Apple  Pudding. 

Baked  Apples 

Baked  Apples  with  Dates.. 

Baked    Dried  Beans 

Baked  Pared  Apples 

Baked  Potatoes 

Bananas 

Barley   Broth 

Beans  and  Cabbage 

Bean  Soup • 

Berry  Mush 

Berry  Pie 

Berry  Short-cake 

Berry  Toast 

Birds'  Nest  Pudding. 

Blackberries 


PAGE 

.  36 

.  16 

•  27 

,.  20 

.  58 

.  50 

.  42 

•  33 

•  55 
.  56 

•  53 

•  56 

•  47 
..  60 
..  42 
.  53 
.  40 
..  24 
,.  27 
■■  T9 
,.  19 

33 
53 


PAGE 

Corn-meal  Pie  Crust 26 

Corn  Mush  Pudding 32 

Cranberries •■»•  58 

Cranberry  Pie 27 

Crushed  Wheat  Mush 22 

Cucumbers 54 

Currants 60 

Currant  Sauce 37 

X>ATES 63 

Date  Sauce 36 

Dried  Fruit  Pie 29 

Dried    Fruit    Sauce 37 

Dried  Green  Peas 54 

Dumplings 3° 


ENGLISH  Dried  Currants 


Boiled  Beets 48 

Boiled  Cabbage 5© 

Boiled  Dried  Beans 52 

Boiled  Green  Corn 5* 

Boiled  Peeled  Potatoes 46 

Boiled  Potatoes 45 

Boiled  Parsnips 49 

Boiled  Turnips -    4» 

Breads 9 

Brown  Bread J° 

Browned  Mashed  Potatoes.. 46 

Erowned  Parsnips 49 

Browned  Potatoes 4° 

Browned  Turnips 48 

CABBAGE  and  Tomatoes 50 

Carrots 49 

Cauliflower 5© 

Cherries 59 

Chopped  Beets  and  Tomatoes 49 

Cocoa-Castard 29 

Cocoanut  Bread 14 

Cocoanut  Pie  Crust 26 

Cocoanut  Sauce 35 

Cold  Water  Loaf  Bread 11 

Corn  and  Graham  Bread 16 

Corn  Dodgers 19 

Corn  Grits 22 

Corn-meal    Mush 23 


FANCY  Breads 

Farina 

Farina  and   Graham  Bread, 

Figs 

Fig  Sauce 

Fruit  Bread 

Fruit  Gems 

Fruits 


62 


GARDEN  Beans 

Gems , » 

Gooseberries 6o 

Graham  Mush 23 

Graham  Pie  Crust 25 

Grape  and  Apple  Sauce 37 

Grapes • 02 

Green  Beans •  51 

Green  Bean  Soup •  •  4° 

Green  Peas 5* 

Green  Pea  Soup 4° 

Greens ■••  5° 

Gruels 43 


HOMINY 

Hot  Water  Loaf  Bread. 

Hot  Water  Rolls 

Hygienic  Brown  Betty 


INDIAN  Pudding. 
JOHNNY  Cake.., 


XiEMONS 6° 

Lemon  Sauce 3" 

Lima  Beans < 52 


72 


INDEX. 


MASHED  Baked  Beans 53 

Mashed  Potatoes 46 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 48 

Melons 61 

Mixed  Meal  Bread 17 

Model  Cooked  Potatoes 45 

Mushes 21 

Mush  Pie  Crust 26 

Mush  Rolls 12 

OAT-MEAL  Bread 18 

Oat-meal  Crisps 14 

Oat-nTeal  Mush...    23 

Oat-meal  Pie  Crust 26 

Oranges 60 

Orange  Sauce 37 

X»EACHES 57 

Peach  Pie. 28 

Pear  Pie 29 

Pears 57 

Pies 25 

Pineapple 58 

Plain  Johnny  Cake 17 

Plums 60 

Porridges 43 

Potato  Pie  Crust 26 

Potato  Soup 41 

Premium   Bread 10 

Preserving  Fruits 64 

Prun  es 62 

Puddings 31 

Pumpkin   Bread 16 

Pumpkin  Johnny  Cake 18 

Pumpkin  Pie. 28 

Pumpkins... 61 

QUINCES 58 

RASPBERRIES 59 

Rice 24 

Rice  and  Apple  Pudding 34 

Rice  Cakes 19 

Rhubarb 61 

Rhubarb  Pie 28 


Rhubaro  Toast ao 

Roasted  Green  Corn 52 

Roasted  Potatoes 47 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread 17 

Rye  Bread 18 

Rye  Mush 23 

(SAUCES.. 35 

Short-cake  Sauce 37 

Snow  Ball  Pudding 34 

Snow  Bread 16 

Soups 39 

Spinach  Soup 41 

Split  Peas 53 

Split  Pea  Soup 40 

Squash _ 62 

Steamed  Apples.. 56 

Steamed  Potatoes 47 

Steamed  Pudding 34 

Stewed  Apple  Pie 28 

Stewed  Apples 56 

Stewed  Dried  Apples 57 

Stewed  Dried  Peaches 57 

Strawberries 59 

Succotash 62 

Sweet  Apple  Pudding 33 

Sweet  Potato  Bread 15 

Sweet  Potatoes 47 

Sweet  Potato  Fruit  Bread 15 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding 33 

TARTS 29 

Tomatoes 61 

Tomato  Soup 40 

"VEGETABLE  and  Rice  Soup.  .  41 

Vegetables 44 

Vegetable  Broth 42 

Vegetable  Soup 39 

"WHEAT-MEAL  Crisps 13 

White  Potato  Bread 15 

Whole  Grains  and  Seeds 20 

Whortleberries 59 


Cru^l\ed 
WHITE    WHEAT, 


mapBriattwG  wmm@m3 

The  most  excellent  and  popular  preparations  of  Whole 
Wheat  now  manufactured. 

Sold  by  all  Grocers, 

Ii)  f^dk&geg  of  3,  6  kud  13  I<K 


Pamphlets,    containing     testimonials,    receipts,    and 
other  valuable  information. 

ATLANTIC  FLOUR  MILLS, 

18,  20  and  22  Hamilton  Ave., 

BROOKLYN,    N.  Y. 


S'Eckers'  Carina. 

A  very  agreeable,  light,  nutritive  food,  a  superior  article 
for  PUDDBNGS  and  JELLIES,  and  highly  recom- 
mended by  physicians  for  invalids  and  children.  As  a  food 
for  infants,  it  is,  beyond  doubt,  the  best  that  can  be  substituted 
for  the  nourishment  received  from  the   mother. 


deckers'  Cracked  Wheat. 

The  most  popular  preparation  of  wheat  for  producing  and 
maintaining  a  healthful,  active  condition  of  the  system.  It 
contains,  in  a  larger  proportion  than  most  other  articles  of  food, 
the  Phosphates  and  Nitrogenous  elements  so  necessary  to  the 
perfect  development  of  muscle,  nerve,  and  brain,  and  is  pecu- 
liarly beneficial  to  dyspeptics  and  persons  of  sedentary  habits. 


Heckers*  Superlative  Flour 

Received  the  First  Premiums  at  the  World's  Fair,  London  ; 
the  World's  Fair,  New  York  ;  and  wherever  exhibited,  both  in 
Europe  and  America.  It  is  very  popular  with  those  desiring 
the  finest  bread  or  biscuit  that  can  be  produced. 

Heckers  Croton,  ManSiattan,  and  Magnolia 

Brands,  so  long  and  favorably  known,  still  maintain  their 
high  reputation  for  uniformity  and  excellence  of  quality,  and 
are  very  popular  with  those  desiring  choice  pastry  or  family  flour. 


Li 


memm&s « 


Is  made  from  first  quality  white  wheat,  and  has  no  superior 
in  the  market. 


FOR    SALE    BY   ALL    GROCERS, 

OR  AT  THE 

OR  O  TON     MILLS, 

203  Cherry  Street,  New  York. 


THE 

Mother's  Hygienic  Hand-Book, 

For  the  Normal  Development  and  Training  of  "Women  and  Children,  and 
the  Treatment  of  their  Diseases  with  Hygienic  Agencies.  By  R.  T. 
Trall,  M.D.,  author  of  "The  Hydropathic  Encyclopedia,"  "  The  True 
Healing  Art,"  "  Digestion  and  Dyspepsia,"  etc.  One  vol.,  12mo.  Plain 
$1.  Fine  ed.  $1.25.  New  York  :   S.  R.  Wells,  389  Broadway,  Publisher. 

This  is  the  latest  and  the  best  of  the  author's  many  excellent  works.  It  covers 
ground  the  most  important.  It  has  to  do  with  the  perpetuation  of  the  race.  Shall 
children  he  well  or  illy  gener  ted  ?  Shall  the  lives  of  mothers  he  imperiled  while 
perform  ng  the  functions  of  motherhood  ?  Or  may  she,  by  certain  information  given 
in  this  Hand-Book,  pass  through  the  trying  periods  without  danger  and  with  hut 
trifling  pain  ?  Yea,  verily,  it  may— and  it  mud— bo  even  so.  Among  other  important 
matters  not  named  here,  this  Mother's  Hygienic  Hand-Book  contains : 


CHAPTER 

I.  Ante-Natal  Influences. 
II.  Anatomy  of  the  Uterine  System. 

III.  Displacements  of  the  Uterus. 

IV.  Menstruation— Regular. 
V.  Menstrual  Disorders. 

VI.  Pregnancy— Proper  Management. 
Vn.  Miscarriage — Cause  and  Preven- 
tion. 
VIII.  Presentations  and  Positions. 
IX.  The  Foetus  in  Utero. 
X.  Parturition— Preparation. 
XL  Diseases  during  Pregnancy. 


CHAPTER 

XII.  Management  of  Labor. 

XIII.  Attentions  to  the  Child. 

XIV.  Attentions  to  the  Mother. 
XV.  Disorders  Incident  to  Labor. 

XVI.  Disorders  During  Lactation. 
XVII.  Disorders  of  Infancy. 
XVIII.  Disorders  of  Childhood. 
XIX.  Training  of  Children. 
XX.  Hygiene  of  Infancy. 
XXI.  Raising  Children  by  Hand. 
XXII.  Accidents  and  Emergencies. 
XXIII.  Poisons  and  Antidotes. 


Every  prospective  mother  ought  to  peruse  this  work,  and 
learn  how  to  properly  prepare  herself  for  the  event.  It  will 
teach  her  exactly  what  she  needs  to  know,  and  what  may  be 
learned  no  where  else.  It  will  prove  a  most  useful  charity — 
yea,  an  inestimable  blessing — to  the  considerate  man  who  be- 
stows the  book  on  the  one  who  is  to  bring  joy  and  gladness — 
through  anxious  periods  —  to  his  household.  Will  he  not 
grant  her  this  trifling  boon  ? 

The  above  gives  a  fair  idea  of  the  nature  and  scope  of  this  work.  It  will  be  seen 
that  it  covers  the  whole  ground,  and,  if  it  is  carefully  read,  will  go  far  towards  giv- 
ing us  an  "Enlightened  and  a  Healthful  Motherhood." 

Ladies  wanted  to  act  as  Agents  for  this  work.  Send  stamp 
for  terms.  Copies  sent  by  mail,  post-paid,  on  receipt  of  price, 
plain,  $1.  Fine  $1.25.  Address  S.  R.  Wells,  389  Broadway,  N.Y. 


Works    of    a,    XO mired    Nature. 

Supplied  by  S.  R.  "Wells,  389  Broadway,  N.  T. 

Infancy.  Physiological  and  Moral  Management.  Dr.  Combe,  $1.50.— Hereditary- 
Descent,  its  Laws  and  Facts.  $1.50  —Children :  Their  Diseases  and  Manage- 
ment. $1.75.- Philosophy  of  Generation,  Abuses,  etc.  50  cts.— Pregnancy 
and  Childbirth.  50  cts.  Chastity :  Lectures  for  the  Young.  50  cts.— Home 
Treatment,  for  Sexual  Abuses.  50  cts.— Amativeness  :  Perverted  Sexuality. 
25  cts.— Uterine  Diseases;  or,  Displacements  of  the  Uterus.  Illustrated.  $5. 
— Sexual  Diseases,  Causes,  Prevention  and  Cure.  $2.00.— Midwifery  and 
Diseases  of  Women.  $1.75— Animal  Fertility:  The  Population  Question. 
25  cents.— Maternity :  Bearing  and  Nursing  of  Children.  $1.50.— Chronic 
Diseases;  or,  Nervous  Diseases  of  Women.  50  cents.— Parent's  Guide.  Hu- 
man Development,  through  Pre-Natal  Influences.  $1.50.    See  fc-  Special  List." 


BOGLE  &  LYLES, 

PROPRIETORS    OF   THE 

Renowned  "A"  Brand,  Hermetically  Sealed 

FRUITS,   VEGETABLES, 

ETC.,    ETC. 


Sole  Proprietors  x>f  the  celebrated  "  B  and  L  "  Brand  of 

IRISH  OAT-MEAL? 


AGENTS    FOR 

RICHARDSON    &   ROBBINS' 

CHOICE 

Capped  Wfo  beffsrttyite,  dotted  f/leafr 

ETC,    ETC 

87  &  89  PARK  PLACE,  NEW  YORK. 


These  goods  are  fast  gaining  the  reputation  their  Superior 
Quality  demands,  and  notwithstanding  the  great  competi- 
tion in  this  trade,  now  stand  at  the  HEAD  OF  THE  LIST. 
A  trial  of  them  will  prove  that  they  are  the  best  in  the  market. 


"GOOD  BOOKS  FOR  ALL." 

Published  by  S.  R.  WELLS,  389  Broadway,  N.  Y. 

Best  Works  on  these  subjects.     Each  covers  ground  not  covered  by  others. 
Copies  sent  by  return  post,  on  receipt  of  price.     Please  address  as  above. 


American  Phrenological  Jour- 

nal  and  Life  Illustrated.  Devoted  to 
Ethnology,  Physiology,  Phrenology, 
Physiognomy.  Psychology,  Biography, 
Education,  Art,  Literature,  with  Meas- 
ures to  Reform,  Elevate  and  Improve 
Mankind  Physically,  Mentally  and  Spir- 
itually.    Monthly,  $3  a  year. 

Annuals  of  Phrenology  and 
Physiognomy.  One  yearly  i2mo  vol- 
ume. Price  25  cents  for  the  current  year. 
For  1865,  '66,  67,  '68,  '69,  70,  '71,  '72  and 
'73.  The  nine  containing  over  400  pages, 
many  portraits,  with  articles  on  '  How 
to  Study  Phrenology,"  "  Bashfulness, 
Diffidence,  Stammering,"  "Marriage  of 
Cousins,"  "Jealousy,  Its  Cause  and 
Cure,"  etc.     Bound  in  one  vol.,  $2. 

Constitution  of  Man.  Considered 
in  relation  to  External  Objects.  By 
George  Combe.  The  only  authorized 
American  Edition.  Twenty  Engravings, 
and  a  Portrait  of  Author.    $1.75. 

Chart  for   Recording  Develop- 
ment, 10  cents. 
Chart   of    Physiognomy   Illus- 

trated  for  Framing.     Map.     25  cents. 

Defence  of  Phrenology.  A  Vin- 
dication of  Phrenology  against  Attacks. 
The  Cerebellum  the  seat  of  the  repro- 
ductive instinct.     Boapdman.     $1.50. 

Domestic  Life.  Marriage  Vindicated. 
Free  Love  Exposed.  By  Sizer.     25  cents. 

Education.  Founded  on  the  Nature 
of  Man.  By  J.  G.  Spurzheim.  Appen- 
dix, with  the  Temperaments.     $1.50. 

Education    and    Self-Improve- 

ment  Complete.  Physiology — Animal 
and  Mental  ;  Self-Culture  and  Perfection 
of  Character  ;  Memory  and  Intellectual 
Improvement.     In  one  vol.     Muslin,  $4. 

Expression:  Its  Anatomy  and  Phil- 
osophy. By  Sir  Charles  Bell.  Illus- 
trations. Notes  by  Editor  Phrenological 
Journal.     Fancy  cloth.     Fine.     1.50. 

How  to  Read  Character.  A  New 
Hand-Book  of  Phrenology  and  Physiog- 
nomy, for  Students  and  Examiners,  with 
a  Chart  for  recording  the  sizes  of  the 
different  Organs  of  the  Brain,  in  the  De- 
lineation of  Character.  170  Engravings. 
Latest  and  best.  Paper,  $1.  Muslin,  $1.25. 

Ulemory  and  Intellectual  Im- 

provement,  applied  to  Cultivation  of 
Memory.    Very  useful.     $1.50. 


Lectures    on    Phrenology.      By 

George     Combe.      The     Phrenological 
Mode  of  Investigation.  1  vol.  i2mo.  $1.75. 

Mental  Science.  The  Philosophy  of 
Phrenology.      By  Weaver.     $1.50. 

ITIoral  Philosophy.  By  George 
Combe.  Or,  the  Duties  of  Man  consid- 
ered in  his  Individual,  Domestic  and 
Social  Capacities.     Latest  Ed.     $1.75. 

Natural  Laws  of  .11  an.  Questions 
with  Answers.  A  Capital  Work.  By  J. 
G.  Spurzheim,  M.D.     Muslin,  75  cents. 

New  Physiognomy;  or,  Signs  of 
Character,  as  manifested  through  Tem- 
perament and  External  Forms,  and  es- 
pecially in  the  "  Human  Face  Divine." 
With  1000  Illustrations.  In  three  styles 
of  binding.  In  muslin,  $5 ;  in  heavy 
calf,  $8  ;  turkey  morocco,  full  gilt,  $10. 

Phrenology  and  the  Scriptures. 

Harmony  between  Phrenology  and  Bible. 
By  Rev.  John  Pierpont.     25  cents. 

Phrenological  Rust.  Showing  the 
latest  classification,  and  exact  locations 
of  the  Organs  of  the  Brain,  for  Learners. 
In  this  Bust,  all  the  newly-discovered 
Organs  are  given.  It  is  divided  so  as  to 
show  each  Organ  on  one  side  ;  and  all 
the  groups — Social,  Executive,  Intellec- 
tual, and  Moral — properly  classified,  on 
the  other  side.  Two  sizes  ;  largest  in  box, 
$2.00  ;  smaller,  $1.00.     Sent  by  express. 

Phrenological  Guide  for  Students, 
25  cents. 

Phrenology  Proved,  Illustra- 
ted  and  Applied.  Analysis  of  the  Pri- 
mary Mental  Powers  in  their  Various 
Degrees  of  Development,  and  Location 
of  the  Phrenological  Organs.     $1.75. 

Self-Culture  and  Perfection  of 

Character  ;  Including  the  Training  and 
Management  of  Children.     $1.50. 
Self-Instructor  in   Phrenology 

and  Physiology.    100  Engravings,  Chart 
for  Phrenologists.  Pap.  50  cts.  mus.  75  cts. 

Symbolical  Head  and  Phreno- 

logical  Map,  for  Framing.    25  cents. 

'Wells'   New  Descriptive  Chart 

for  the  Use  of  Examiners,  giving  a  De- 
lineation of  Character.     Illus.     25  cents. 

Your     Character     from     Your 

Likeness.    Inclose  stamp  for  a  copy  of 
circular,*'  Mirror  of  the  Mind." 


To  Physician*,  Lecturers,  and 

Examiners.  We  have  a  Cabinet  of  40 
Casts  of  Heads,  selected  from  Our  Mu- 
seum, which  are  sold  at  $35.  Also  a  set 
of  Phrenological  Drawings  on  canvas, 
size  of  life,  40  in  number,  price  $40.  #  A 
set  of  six  Anatomical  and  Physiological 


plates,  colored  and  mounted,  $20.  An- 
other set  of  twenty,  in  sheets,  plain,  $35. 
Colored  and  mounted,  $60.  Skeletons, 
from  $50  to  $100.  Manikins,  $500  to  $1000. 
Portraits  in  oil  from  $5  upwards.  Wood- 
cuts, $3.50  to  $5.  Symbolical  Heads, 
Electrotypes,  $3  to  $5,  and  $7.50,  each 


All  Works  pertaining  to  the  "Science  of  Man,"  including  Phren- 
ology, Physiognomy,  Ethnology,  Psychology,  Physiology,  Anatomy, 
Hygiene,  Dietetics,  etc.,  supplied.     Enclose  stamp  for  Wholesale  Terms. 


Works  on    Physiology  and   Hygiene. 

[It  has  been  said  that,  a  man  at  Forty  Years  of  Age,  is  either  "  a  Physician  or  a  Fool." 
That  at  this  Age,  he  ought  to  know  how  to  treat,  and  take  care  of  himself.  These  Works 
are  intended  to  give  instruction  on  "  How  to  Live,"  and  How  to  avoid  Diseases.] 

Tiie    Science  of  Health.    A  new 

Independent  Health  Monthly,  which 
teaches  the  Laws  by  which  Health  is  pre- 
served, Disease  eradicated,  and  Life  pro- 
longed, on  Hygienic  Principles.  Its 
agencies  are  :  Food,  Drink,  Air,  Exercise, 
Light,  Temperance,  Sleep,  Rest,  Bathing, 
Clothing,  Electricity,  Right  Social  Rela- 
tions, Mental  Influences.  It  is  a  first- 
class  Magazine,  published  at  $2  a  year. 

Anatomical  and  Physiological 

Plates  Arranged  expressly  for  Lectures 
on  Health,  Physiology,  etc.  By  R.  T. 
Trail,  M.  D.  They  are  six  in  number, 
representing  the  normal  position  ana 
life-size  of  all  the  internal  viscera,  mag- 
nified illustrations  of  the  organs  of  the 
special  senses,  and  a  view  of  the  nerves, 
arteries,  veins,  muscles,  etc.  Fully  col- 
ored, backed,  and  mounted  on  rollers. 
Price  for  the  set,  net  $20. 

Avoidable    Causes   of  Disease, 

Insanity  and  Deformity.  Marriage 
and  its  Violations.     By  Dr.  Ellis.    $2. 

Accidents    and    Emergencies, 

What  to  Do — How  to  Do  it.     25  cents. 

Cure  of  Consumption  by  Me- 
chanical Movements.    By  Dr.  Wark,  30c. 

Children,  their  Management  in  Health 
and  Disease.     By  Dr.  Shew.     $1.75. 

Diseases    of    the    Throat    and 

Lungs.     With  Treatment.     25  cents. 

Digestion  and  Dyspepsia.  Com- 
plete Explanation  of  the  Physiology  of 
the  Digestive  Processes,  Symptoms  and 
Treatment  of  Dyspepsia  and  other  Dis- 
orders of  the  Digestive  Organs.  Illus. 
By  Dr.  Trall.     New,  Muslin,  $1. 

Philosophy  of  Electrical  Psy- 
chology,  in  12  Lectures.    Dodds.     $1.50. 

Family  Gymnasium.  Gymnastic, 
Calisthenic,  Kinesipathic,  and  Vocal  Ex- 
ercises, Development  of  the  Bodily  Or- 
gans.    By  Dr.  Trail.     Illus.     $1.75. 


Domestic    Practice   of  Hydro- 

pathy.     By  E.  Johnson,  M.D.     $2. 

Hydropathic  Cook  Book.  Recipes 

for  Cooking  on  Hygienic  Principles,  $1.50. 

Food  and  Diet.With  Dietetical  Regi- 
men suited  for  Disordered  States  of  the 
Digestive  Organs.  Dietaries  of  Principal 
Metropolitan  Establishments  for  Lunat- 
ics, Criminals,  Children,  the  Sick,  Pau- 
pers, etc.  A  Scientific  Work.  By  Pereira. 
Edited  by  Dr.  C.  A.  Lee.     $1.75. 

Fruits  and  Farinacea,  the 
Proper  Food  of  Man.  By  Dr.  Smith. 
With  Notes  by  Dr.  Trall.     $1.75. 

Hydropathic  Encyclopedia.  A 
System  of  Hydropathy  and  Hygiene. 
Outlines  of  Anatomy  ;  Physiology  of  the 
Human  Body;  Hygienic  Agencies,  Pre- 
servation of  Health  ;  Theory  and  Prac- 
tice ;  Special  Pathology,  Nature,  Causes, 
Symptoms,  and  Treatment  of  all  known 
Diseases.  A  Guide  to  Families  and  Stu- 
dents, and  a  Text-Book  for  Physicians. 
By  R.  T.  Trall,  M.D.  $4.50.  "  The  most 
complete  work  on  this  subject."   Tribune. 

Hygienic  Hand-Book.  A  Practi- 
cal Guide  for  the  Sick-Room.  Alphabeti- 
cally arranged.  Appendix.  Trail.     $2. 

Family  Physician.  A  Ready  Pre- 
scriber  and  Hygienic  Adviser.  With  Ref- 
erence to  the  Nature,  Causes,  Prevention 
and  Treatment  of  Diseases,  Accidents, 
and  Casualties  of  every  kind.  With  a 
Glossary  and  Copious  Index.  Illustrated. 
By  Joel  Shew,  M.D.     Muslin,  $4. 

Management  of  Infancy,  Physio- 
logical and  Moral  Treatment.  By  An- 
drew Combe,  M.D.     Muslin,  $1.50. 

Medical  Electricity.  Manual  for 
Students,  Showing  the  scientific  applica- 
tion to  all  forms  of  Acute  and  Chronic 
Diseases  of  the  Different  combinations 
of  Electricity,  Galvanism,  Electro-Mag 
netism,  Magneto-Electricity,  and  Human 
Magnetism.     By  Dr.  White,  $2. 


Midwifery  and  the  Diseases  of 

Womfn.  A  Descriptive  and  Practical 
Work  With  the  general  management  of 
Child-Birth,  Nursery,  etc.     $1.75. 

Movemeilt-Cure  (Swedish).  History 
and  Philosophy  of  this  System  of  Med- 
ical Treatment,  with  Examples  and  Di- 
rections for  their  Use  in  Diseases.  Illus- 
trated.     By  Dr.  Taylor.     $1.75. 

Notes  on  Beauty,  Vigor  and  De- 
velopment ;  or,  How  to  Acquire  Plump- 
ness of  Form,  Strength  of  Limb,  and 
Beauty  of  Complexion.     12  cents. 

Paralysis  and  other  Affections 
of  the  Nerves  ;  Cure  by  Vibratory  and 
Special  Movements.  Dr.  Taylor.  $1. 

Physiology  of  Digestion.  Con- 
sidered with  relation  to  the  Principles  of 
Dietetics.     Illus.     Combe.     50  cents. 

Parents'  Guide;  or,  Human  Devel- 
opment through  Inherited  Tendencies. 
By  Mrs.  Hester  Pendleton,  Second  ed., 
revised  and  enlarged.    1  vol.  i8mo,  $1.50. 

Philosophy  of  Mesmerism  and 
Clairvoyance.  Six  Lectures,  with  Intro- 
duction, 50  cents. 

Philosophy  of  Sacred  History, 
considered  in  Relation  to  Human  Ali- 
ment and  the  Wines  of  Scripture.  By 
Sylvester  Graham,  $3.00. 

Philosophy  of  Water  Cure.  De- 
velopment of  the  true  Principles  of  Health    J 
and  Longevity.     Balbirnie.     50  cents. 

Practice  of  Water  Cure.   Contain-  ; 
ing  a  Detailed   account   of   the   various 
Bathing  processes.     Illus.     50  cents. 

Physiology,  Animal  and  Men- 

tal  :    Applied  to    the   Preservation    and 
Restoration  of  Health,  of  Body  and  Pow-    ' 
er  of  Mind.     Illus.     Muslin,  $1.50. 
Principles  of  Physiology  applied 
to  the  Preservation  of  Health  and  to  the 
Improvement  of  Physical  and  Mental  Ed-   j 
ucation.     By  Andrew  Combe.     $1.75. 


Sober  and  Temperate  Life.    Dis- 
courses and  Letters  of  Cornaro.    50  cts. 
Science    of  Human    Life,    Lee- 

tures  ON.  By  Sylvester  Graham.  With 
a  copious  Index  and  Biographical  Sketch 
of  the  Author.     Illustrated.     $3.50. 

Story  of  a  Stomach.  An  Egotism. 
By  a  Reformed  Dyspeptic.  Mus.  75  cts. 

Tea  and  Coffee,  their  Physical,  Intel- 
lectual, and  Moral  Effects  on  the  System. 
By  Dr.  Alcott.     25  cents. 

Teeth  ;  their  Structure,  Disease  and 
Management,  25  cents. 

Tobacco  ;  Its  Physical,  Intellectual  and 
Moral  Effects,  25  cents. 

The  Alcoholic  Controversy  A 
Review  of  the  Westminster  Review  on 
Errors  of  Teetotalism.     Trail.     50  cents. 

The  Bath.  Its  History  and  Uses  in 
Health  and  Disease.  By  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D. 
Paper,  25  c.  ;  muslin,  50  cents. 

Three  Hours'  School  a  Day.  A 
Serious  Talk  with  Parents.     $1.50. 

The  Human  Feet.  Their  Shape, 
Dress  and  Proper  Care,  $1.25. 

True  Healing  Art;  or,  Hygienic 
vs.  Drug  Medication.  A  practical  view  of 
the  whole  question .    Pap.  30  c,  mus.  50  c. 

Water-Cureforthe  Million.  The 

Processes  Explained.  Popular  Errors  Ex- 
posed. Hygienic  and  Drug  Medication 
Contrasted.  Rules  for  Bathing,  Dieting, 
Exercising,  etc.  Pap.,  30  cts.,  mus.  50  cts. 
Water- Cure  in  Chronic  dis- 
eases. Causes,  Progress,  and  Termina- 
tions of  Various  Diseases  of  the  Digestive 
Organs,  Lungs,  Nerves  and  Skin,  and 
their  Treatment.     By  Dr.  Gully.     $2. 

<<;  Special  List"  of  70  or  more  Private 
Medical,  Surgical  and  Anatomical  Works, 
invaluable  to  those  who  need  them,  sent 
on  receipt  of  stamp,  by  S.  R.  Wells,  N.Y. 


Works  for  Home  Improvement. 

This  List  embraces  just  such  Works  as  are  suited  to  every  member  of  the  family — use- 
ful to  all,  indispensable  to  those  who  have  not  the  advantages  of  a  liberal  education. 


Aims    and   Aids  for    Girls    and 

Young  Women,  on  the  Duties  of  Life, 
Self- Culture,  Dress,  Beauty,  Employ- 
ment, Duties  to  Young  Men,  Marriage, 
and  Happiness.     By  Weaver.     $1.50. 

JEsop's  Fables.  The  People's  Pic- 
torial Edition.  Beautifully  Illustrated 
with  nearly  Sixty  Engravings.     Gilt.  $1. 

Carriage  Painter's   Illustrated 

Manual.  Art,  Science  and  Mystery  of 
Coach,  Carriage,  and  Car  Painting.  Fine 
Gilding,  Bronzing,  Staining,  Varnishing, 
Polishing,  Copying,  Lettering,  Scrolling, 
and  Ornamenting.     By  Gardner.    $1.00 

Chemistry.  Application  to  Physiology, 
Agriculture,  Commerce.  Liebig.  50  cents. 


Conversion  of  St.  Paul.  Py  Geo. 
Jarvis  Geer,  D.D.     i2mo.     $1. 

Footprints  of  Life;  or,  Faith  and 
Nature  Reconciled.  A  Poem  in  Three 
Parts.  The  Body,  The  Soul,  The  Deity. 
By  Philip  Harvey,  M.D.     $1.25. 

Fruit  Culture  for  the  Million  : 
A  Hand-Book.  Being  a  Guide  to  the 
Cultivation  and  Management  of  Fruit 
Trees.  How  to  Propagate  them.  Illus.  $1. 

Gems  of  Goldsmith.— The  Travel- 
er. The  Deserted  Village.  The  Her- 
mit. With  notes  and  a  sketch  of  the 
Great  Author.     Illustrations.     Gilt.    $1. 

Good  Man's  Leeracy.  Rev.  Dr.  Os- 
good. 25  cents.  Gospel  Among 
the  Animals.     Same.    25  cents. 


I   I Vaiid  Rook  for  Home  Im pro ve- 

mknt:  Comprising  "How  tc  vVrite," 
"  How  to  Talk,"  '*  How  to  Behave,"  and 
"  How  to  do  Business."     One  vol.    $2.25. 

How  to  Live;  Saving  and  Wasting, 
or,  Domestic  Economy  made  plain.  $1.50. 

How  to  Paint.  A  Complete  Com- 
pendium of  the  Art.  Designed  for  the 
Use  of  Tradesmen,  Mechanics,  Mer- 
chants, Farmers,  and  a  Guide  to  the  Pro- 
fessional Painter.     By  Gardner.     $1. 

Home  for  All  ;  The  Concrete,  or  Gra- 
vel Wall.  Octagon.  New,  Cheap,  Su- 
perior Mode  of  Building.     $1.50. 

Hopes  and  Helps  for  the  Young 

of  Both  Sexes.  Formation  of  Charac- 
ter, Choice  of  Avocation,  Health,  Con- 
versation, Cultivation,  Social  Affection, 
Courtship,    Marriage.     Weaver.     $1.50. 

Library     of    Mesmerism     and 

Psychology.  Philosophy  of  Mesmerism, 
Clairvoyance,  and  Mental  Electricity ; 
Fascination,  or  the  Power  of  Charming  ; 
The  Macrocosm,  or  the  World  of  Sense  ; 
Electrical  Psychology,  Doctrine  of  Im- 
pressions ;  The  Science  of  the  Soul, 
Physiologically  and  Philosophically.  $4. 

Life  at  Home  ;  or,  The  Family  and  its 
Members.  A  capital  work.  By  William 
Aikman,  D.D.     $1.50  ;  gilt,  $2. 

Life  in  the  West;  or,  Stories  of  the 
Mississippi  Valley.  Where  to  buy  Pub- 
lic Lands.     By  N.  C.  Meeker.     $2. 

Man  and  Woman  considered  in  their 
Relation  to  each  other  and  to  the  World, 
By  H.  C.  Pedder.     $1.00. 

Man,   in  Genesis  and  in   Geol- 

OGY  ;  or,  the  Biblical  Account  of  Man's 
Creation,  tested  by  Scientific  Theories  of 
his  Origin  and  Antiquity.  By  Joseph  P. 
Thompson,  D.D.,  LL.D.  One  vol.  $1. 

Pope's  Essay  on  Man.  With  Notes. 
Beautifully  Illustrated.  Cloth,  gilt,  bev- 
eled boards.     Best  edition.    $1. 

A  Self-Made  Woman;  or,  Mary 
Idyl's  Trials  and  Triumphs.  Suggestive 
of  a  noble  and  happy  life.  By  Emma  M. 
Buckingham.     $1.50. 


Oratory —  Sacred  and   Secular 

or,  the  Extemporaneous  Speaker.  In- 
cluding Chairman's  Guide.     $1.50. 

Temperance  in    Congress.    Ten 

Minutes'  Speeches — powerful — delivered 
in  the  House  of  Representatives.      25  cts. 

The  Christian  Household.  Em- 
bracing Husband,  Wife,  Father,  Mother, 
Child,  Brother,  Sister.     Weaver.     $1. 

The   Emphatic  Diagiott  ;  or,  *he 

New  Testament  in  Greek  and  English. 
Containing  the  Original  Greek  Text  of 
the  New  1  estament,  with  an  Interlineaiy 
Word-for-Word  English  Translation.  By 
Wilson.    Price  $4,  extra  fine  binding,  $5. 

Right     Word     in      the     Right 

Place.  A  New  Pocket  Dictionary  Syn- 
onyms, Technical  Terms,  Abbreviations  , 
Foreign  Phrases,  Writing  for  the  Press  . 
Punctuation,  Proof-Reading.     75  cents. 

The  Temperance  Reformation. 

History  from  the  first  Temp.  Society  in 
U.S.     By  Armstrong.     $1.50. 

The  Model  Potato.    The  result  of 
20  years'  investigation  and  experiment  in 
cultivation  and   cooking.      By  McLarin 
Notes  by  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D.     50  cents. 

Thoughts  for  the  Young   Men 

and  Young  Women  of  America.  By 
L.  U.  Reavis.     Notes  by  Greeley.  $1.00. 

Ways  of  Life,  Showing  the  Right  Way 
and  the  Wrong  Way.     Weaver.     $1. 

Weaver's  Works.  "  Hopes  and 
Helps,"  "Aims  and  Aids,"  "Ways  of 
Life."     A  great  work,  in  one  vol.     $3.00. 

Wedlock.  Right  Relations  of  the 
Sexes.  Laws  of  Conjugal  Selection.  Who 
may  and  who  may  not  Marry.  For  both 
Sexes.  By  Wells.  Plain,  $1.50  ;  gilt,  2$. 

Capital     Punishment  ;     or,     the 

Proper  Treatment  of  Criminals.  10  cents_ 

Education  of  the  Heart.  Col- 
fax.   10  cents.    Father  Matthew, 

Temperance  Apostle,  Portrait,  Charac- 
ter and  Biography.     10  cents. 

History  ot   Salem    Witchcraft; 

The  Planchette  Mystery  ;  Modern 
Spiritualism,  By  Mrs.  Stowe  ;  and  Dr. 
Doddridge's  Celebrated  Dream.   1  vol.  $1. 


Agents  Wanted.  There  are  many  individuals  in  every  neighbor- 
hood who  would  be  glad  to  have  one  or  more  of  these  useful  Books. 
Hundreds  of  Copies  could  be  sold  tvhere  they  have  never  yet  been  in- 
troduced. A  Local  Agent  is  wanted  in  every  town,  to  whom  liberal  teim9 
will  be  given.  This  is  one  way  to  do  good  and  be  paid  for  it.  Send 
stamp  for  Illustrated  Catalogue,  with  terms  to  Agents. 

Address,  S.  JR.  WELLS,  389  Broadway,  New  York. 


Water-Cure  in  Chronic  Diseases:  an  Exposition  of  the 
Causes,  Progress,  and  Terminations  of  various  Chronic  Diseases  of 
the  Digestive  Organs,  Lungs,  Nerves,  Limbs,  and  Skin,  and  of  their 
Treatment  by  Water  and  other  Hygienic  means.  Illustrated  with  an 
engraved  View  of  the  Nerves  of  the  Lungs,  Heart,  Stomach,  and 
Bowels.     By  J.  M.  Gully,  M.D.     12mo,  405  pp.     Muslin,  $2. 

Domestic  Practice  of  Hydropathy ;  with  Fifteen  Engraved 
Illustrations  of  important  subjects,  from  Drawings  by  Dr.  Howard 
Johnson,  with  a  form  of  a  Report  for  the  assistance  of  Patients  in 
consulting  their  Physician  by  correspondence.  By  Edward  Johnson, 
M.D.    12mo,  467  pp.    Muslin,  $2. 

Children  :  their  Hydropathic  Management  in  Health  and  Disease.  A 
Descriptive  and  Practical  Work,  designed  as  a  Guide  for  Families 
and  Physicians.  Illustrated  with  numerous  cases.  By  Joel  Shew, 
M.D.     12mo,  430  pp.     $1.75. 

Midwifery  and  the  Diseases  of  Women  :  a  Descriptive  and 
Practical  Work.  With  the  General  Management  of  Childbirth, 
Nursery,  etc.  Illustrated  with  numerous  Cases  of  Treatment.  Same 
author.    12mo,  430  pp.    Muslin,  $1.75. 

Hydropathic  Cook- Book  ;  with  Recipes  for  Cooking  on  Hygienic 
Principles.  Containing  also,  a  Philosophical  Exposition  of  the  Re- 
lations of  Food  to  Health,  the  Chemical  Elements  and  Proximate 
Constitution  of  Alimentary  Principles,  the  Nutritive  Properties  of 
all  kinds  of  Aliments,  the  Relative  Value  of  Vegetable  and  Animal 
Substances,  the  Selection  and  Preservation  of  Dietetic  Material,  etc 
By  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D.     12mo,  2-26  pp.    Muslin,  $1.50. 

Philosophy  of  the  Water-Care:  a  Development  of  the  True 
Principles  of  Health  and  Longevity.  By  John  Balbirnie,  M.D.  Il- 
lustrated ;  with  the  Confessions  and  Observations  of  Sir  Edward 
Lytton  Bulwer.     12mo.    50  cents. 

Practice  of  the  Water-Care  ;  with  Authenticated  Evidence  of 
its  Efficacy  and  Safety.  Containing  a  Detailed  Account  of  the  vari 
ous  processes  used  in  the  Water  Treatment,  a  Sketch  of  the  Histor/ 
and  Progress  of  the  Water-Cure,  well  authenticated  cases  of  Cure, 
etc.  By  James  Wilson  and  James  Manby  Gully,  M.D.  12mo,  144 
pp.    Paper,  50  cents. 

Diseases  of  the  Throat  and  Lungs,  including  Diphtheria 
and  their  Proper  Treatment.  By  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D.  With  illustrative 
engravings.     12mo,  pp.  39.     Paper,  25  cents. 

Water-Cure  for  the  Million.  The  Processes  of  Water-Cure 
Explained  in  a  practical  and  popular  manner.     30  cents. 

The  True  Healing  Art ;  or,  Hygienic  vs.  Drug  Medication.  80  cts. 


Sent  prepaid  by  first  post,  at  prices  annexed.    Local  agents  wanted. 
Address    S.  R.  WELLS,  389  Broadway,  New  York. 


How  to  Write —How  to  Talk —How  to 
Behave,  and  How  to  Do  Business. 

COMPLETE  IN  ONE  LARGE  VOLUME. 

This  new  work — in  four  parts — embraces  just  that  practical  matter-of- 
fact  information  whicn  every  one— old  and  young— ought  to  have.  It  will  aid  in  attain- 
ing, if  it  does  not  insure,  "  success  in  life."  It  contains  some  600  pages,  elegantly  bound, 
and  is  divided  into  four  parts,  as  follows : 

low  to  Writes 

As  a  Manual  of  Letter- Writing  and  Composition,  is  par  superior 
to  the  common  "  Letter- Writers."  It  teaches  the  inexperienced  how  to  write  Businese 
Letters,  Fnoiily  Letters,  Friendly  Letters,  Love  Letters,  Notes  and  Cards,  and  News- 
paper Articles,  and  how  to  Correct  Proof  for  the  Press.  The  rewspapers  have  pro- 
nounced it  "Indispensable." 


No  other  Book  contains  so  much  Useful  Instruction  on  the 
subject  as  this.  It  teaches  how  to  Speak  Correctly,  Clearly,  Fluently,  Forcibly,  Elo- 
quently, and  Effectively,  in  the  Shop,  in  the  Drawing-room ;  a  Chairman's  Guide,  to  con- 
duct Debating  Societies  and  Public  Meetings ;  how  to  Spell,  and  how  to  Pronounce  ell 
oorts  of  Words  ;  with  Exercises  for  Declamation.  The  chapter  on  "  Errors  Corrected" 
ta  worth  the  price  of  the  volume  to  every  young  man.    "  Worth  a  dozen  grammars." 


flow  t©  Beluwe: 

This  is  a  Manual  of  Etiquette,  and  it  is  believed  to  be  tbb 

beet  "  MANNERS  BOOK"  ever  written.  If  you  desire  to  know  what  good  manners 
require,  at  Home,  on  the  Street,  at  a  Party,  at  Church,  at  Table,  in  Conversation,  at 
Places  of  Amusement,  in  Traveling,  in  the  Company  of  Ladies,  in  Courtship,  this  book 
will  inform  vou.    It  is  a  standard  work  on  Good  Behavior. 


flew  to  Bo  Business: 

Indispensable  in  the  Counting-room,  in  the  Store,  in  the  Shop, 

on  the  Farm,  for  the  Clerk,  the  Apprentice,  the  Book  Agent,  and  for  Business  Men.  It 
teaches  how  to  Choose  a  Pursuit,  and  how  to  follow  it  with  success.  "  It  teacbes  how 
to  get  rich  honestly,"  and  how  to  use  your  riches  wisely. 

How  to  Write— How  to  Talk— How  to  Behave— How  to  Do  Business,  bound 
in  one  large  handsome  volume,  post-paid,  for  $2  25. 


Agents  wanted.    AddreBB,     &.   R,   WELLS,  389   Broadway,   New  York 


h.      ThlllO  "°* 


k  jh/ILLf 


GRAHAM  CRACKERS 


These  will  be  found  a  most  wholesome  and  nutritious 
article  of  food  for  DYSPEPTICS  and  INVALIDS,  whose 
Digestive  Organs  are  so  weak,  that  the  other  preparations  of 
Wheat  and  other  foods  are  not  easily  digested.  These 
Crackers  will  be  found  exceedingly  palatable  and  very 
nutritious.     Put  up  in  packages  of 


10  lbs.  $1.40.  15  lbs.  $2.10.  20  lbs.  $2.75. 

Barrels  and  Half  Barrels  at  reduced  rates. 


mag  m@w, 
OAT    MEAL    CRACKERS, 

WHOLESOME  AND  PALATABLE.    TRY  THEM. 

All  kinds  of  Crackers   and   Biscuits   supplied   at  lowest 
prices. 

J.  A.  CURRIER,  Sole  Proprietor, 

436  Greenwich  Street.  iV.  Y. 
ASK   YOUR    GROCER    FOR    THEM. 


WORKS    0  N 

HYDROPATHY,  OR  WATER-CURE. 

PUBLISHED  BY 

S.  R.  WELLS,  389  Broadway,  N.  Y. 


In  the  general  plan  and  arrangement  of 
the  work,  the  wants  and  necessities  of  the 
people  have  been  steadily  kept  in  view. 
Whilst  almost  every  topic  of  interest  in  the 
departments  of  Anatomy,  Physiology, 
Pathology,  Hygiene,  and  Therapeutics  is 
briefly  presente.i,  those  of  practical  utility 
are  always  put  prominently  forward.    The 


Hydropathic  Encyclopedia :  a  System  of  Hydropathy  and  11} 
giene.  In  1  large  octavo  volume.  Embracing  Outlines  of  Anatom) 
— illustrated  ;  Physiology  of  the  Human  Body  ;  Hygienic  Agencies, 
and  the  Preservation  of  Health  ;  Dietetics  and  Hydropathic  Cookery  ; 
Theory  and  Practice  of  Water-Treatment ;  Special  Pathology  and 
Hydro-Therapeutics,  including  the  Nature,  Causes,  Symptoms,  and 
Treatment  of  all  Known  Diseases;  Application  of  Hydropathy  to 
Midwifery  and  the  Nursery  ;  with  nearly  1000  pages,  including  a 
Glossary,  Table  of  Contents,  and  a  complete  Index.  Designed  as  a 
Guide  to  Families  and  Students,  and  a  Text-Book  for  Phvs  cians. 
With  300  engraved  illustrations.    By  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D.  $4.50. 

prevailing  conceits  and  whims  of  the  day 
and  age  are  exposed  and  refuted  ;  the  theo- 
ries and  hypotheses  upon  which  tte  popu- 
lar drug-practice  is  predicated  ar*  contro- 
verted, and  the  why  and  wherefon.  of  their 
fallacy  clearly  demonstrated. 

It  is  a  rich,  comprehensive,  ancl  well -ar- 
ranged encyclopedia.—  New  York  Tribune. 

Anatomical  and  Physiological  Plates.  These  Plates  were 
arranged  expressly  for  Lecturers  on  Health,  Physiology,  etc.,  by  R. 
T.  Trail,  M.D.,  of  the  New  York  Hydropathic  College.  They  are  six 
in  number,  representing  the  normal  position  and  life-size  of  all  the 
internal  viscera,  magnified  illustrations  of  the  organs  of  the  special 
senses,  and  a  view  of  the  principal  nerves,  arteries,  veins,  muscles, 
etc  For  popular  instruction,  for  families,  schools,  and  for  profes- 
sional reference,  they  will  be  found  far  superior  to  any  thing  of  the 
kind  heretofore  published,  as  they  are  more  complete  and  perfect  in 
artistic  design  and  finish.  Price  for  the  set,  fully  colored,  backed, 
and  mounted  on  rollers,  sent  by  express,  not  mailable,  (net)  $20. 

The  Hygienic  Hand-Book  :  a  Practical  Guide  for  the  Sick-Room, 
with  Appendix.     By  R.  T.  Trail.     One  vol.  12mo,  price  $2. 
A  new  and  carefully-revised  edition  of  I  should  be  in  the  hands  of  all  who  would 
this  work  has  just    been    issued,  which  |  get  well  and  keep  well  without  drugs. 

Hydropathic  Family  Physician  :  a  Ready  Prescriber  and  Hy- 1 
gienic  Adviser.  Witli  Reference  to  the  Nature,  Causes,  Prevention, 
and  Treatment  of  Diseases,  Accidents,  and  Casualties  of  every  kind. 
With  a  Glossary  and  copious  Index.  By  Joel  Shew,  M.D.  Illustra 
ted  with  nearly  300  engravings.  One  large  volume,  intended  for 
use  in  the  family.  12mo,  816  pp.  Muslin,  $4. 
It  posseses  the  most  practical  utility  of  I  the  reader  an  accurate  idea  of  the  organiza- 

•ny  of  the  author's  contributions  to  popu-    tion  and  functions  of  the  human  frame.— 

lar  medicine,  and  is  well  adapted  to  give  |  New  York  Tribune. 


228    93 


*    «->  -f. 


t""5',  '** 


a.  *♦ 


*Q&®' 


HECKMAN 
BINDERY  INC.        |« 

at    APR  93 


L1BRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  631731  5 


