International 
CbokBook 


ni  *  •  « 

lippini 


1  BERKELEY 
LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY   OF 
CALIFORNIA 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

AGRICULTURE 
BEQUEST 

OF 
ANITA  D.  S.  BLAKE 


THE   INTERNATIONAL  COOK   BOOK 


The 

International  Cook  Book 

Over  3,300  Recipes  gathered  from  all  over  the 
World,    including   many   never   before 
published  in  English.     With  com- 
plete menus  of  the  three  meals 
for  every  day  in  the  year 

By 

ALEXANDER   FILIPPINI 

Formerly  of   Delmonico's,   and  Travelling  Inspector  of  the   International 
Mercantile    Marine    Company.     Author  of  "The  Table" 


GARDEN  CITY        NEW  YORK 

DOUBLEDAY,  PAGE  &  COMPANY 

1911 


Copyright,  1906,  by 
Doubleday,  Page  £  Company 

Published,   April,   1906 
Entered  at  Stationers'  Hall,  London 


All  rights  reserved, 

including  that  of  translation  into  foreign  languages, 
including  the  Scandinavian. 


GIFT 


TX7/5- 


CoP-^ 

Mm, 

INTRODUCTION  ""RAW 

AT  the  time  of  the  publication  of  my  first  work,  "The  Table,"  in 
1889,  my  duties  and  responsibilities  at  Delmonico's  were  such  that  I 
was  only  able  to  write  at  irregular  intervals,  and  so  the  book  was  neces- 
sarily somewhat  hurried  and  contained  many  reference  numbers.  It, 
however,  was  remarkably  successful,  through  the  kind  and  generous 
support  of  the  public,  for  which  I  am  profoundly  grateful. 

This  new  work,  "The  International  Cook  Book,"  is  the  result  of 
years  of  preparation.  No  efforts  were  spared  in  seeking  information 
from  every  source.  A  leave  of  absence  for  several  months  was  obtained 
from  my  superiors  of  the  International  Navigation  Company,  a  tour  of 
the  world  was  made,  and  personal  visits  paid  to  hotels,  restaurants  and 
homes  of  all  countries.  Indeed,  I  have  been  continually  gathering 
new  material  and  travelling  for  the  past  decade,  and  the  work  is  truly 
international  in  its  scope.  It  certainly  is  more  thorough  and  complete 
than  any  work  of  its  kind  to  date,  containing  in  all  over  3,000  recipes, 
each  giving  full  directions. 

It  was  the  many  inquiries  of  acquaintances  in  regard  to  dishes  I  had 
provided  and  the  friendly  suggestions  that  I  should  get  up  a  collection 
of  my  recipes  that  first  showed  me  the  demand  for  a  reliable  book  pointing 
the  way  to  wholesome  and  nourishing  meals.  Things  of  considerable 
interest  in  the  line  of  catering  were  found  throughout  my  travels,  as  is 
attested  by  the  recipes,  and  my  only  regret  is  not  having  undertaken  the 
trip  many  years  earlier. 

Japan,  for  instance,  wras  quite  a  source  of  information  for  valuable 
ways  of  preparing  curries  and  for  excellent  fish  soups.  The  advancement 
made  in  that  country  was  shown  by  the  employment  in  Tokio,  Kyoto 
and  Yokohama  of  experienced  managers  who  had  gained  their  knowl- 
edge of  the  business  in  America,  England  and  France. 

From  the  higher-class  restaurants  of  China  have  been  brought  ideas 
for  stews — for  instance,  Bami  Honkongroise — which  as  modified  make 
tasty  dishes.  Special  inquiries  have  been  made  about  some  of  these 
dishes  by  people  who  have  eaten  them  as  prepared  under  my  direction 
without  realising  that  they  were  Oriental  dishes.  They  have  been 
modified  for  the  American  taste,  as  all  these  adopted  from  Eastern 
countries  are  made  too  rich  as  prepared  in  the  native  homes.  The 
Chinese  have  ways  of  picking  birds  so  finely  by  the  use  of  a  wet  towel 
that  they  look  as  though  they  had  been  shaved,  and  have  a  number  of 
good  ideas  in  using  macaroni  and  in  the  preparation  of  bacon,  ducklings, 
etc.  In  seasoning,  too,  the  Chinese  have  original  ideas.  They  take 
slices  of  ham,  perhaps,  put  it  over  a  range  or  near  the  fire,  char  it,  then 
pound  it  to  powder,  and  it  gives  an  excellent  taste  when  used  as  seasoning. 


150 


vi  IN  TROD  UCTION— Continued 

Menus  for  an  entire  day's  meals  as  prepared  in  a  high-class  Chinese 
home  are  given  in  No.  3317. 

At  Penang  I  found  a  number  of  good  dishes,  particularly  curries  of 
prawns  and  shrimps.  At  Macao,  near  Canton,  the  Portuguese  have 
established  quite  an  industry  in  dried  fish,  a  trade  which  the  Japanese 
also  are  developing.  Fish  of  various  kinds  are  split,  cleaned  and  spread 
out  on  immense  nets  upon  the  ground,  dried  in  the  sun,  salted,  and 
then  packed  in  barrels  and  used  for  boiling,  for  soups,  etc.  This  industry 
is  still  in  its  infancy  in  the  United  States. 

The  Celestials  prepare  whole  lambs,  pigs,  large  geese  or  ducklings 
on  a  spit,  barbecue-like,  and  then  use  them  in  portions  or  slices  as 
required. 

In  the  zealous  search  for  knowledge  of  the  kitchen  in  China,  the 
writer  had  several  very  narrow  escapes  from  the  violence  of  suspicious 
Boxers.  Not  having  been  warned  as  to  how  dangerous  it  is  for  a  traveller 
to  enter  Canton  unaccompanied  by  a  native  guide,  I  boldly  made  my 
way  through  the  old  city  early  one  morning.  Beginning  with  rude 
nudges  from  passers-by,  the  indignities  increased  until  I  was  followed  by 
an1  increasing  horde,  and  then  through  the  narrow  passages  I  hurried1, 
occasionally  warding  off  an  assailant.  My  curiosity  had  evidently  led 
them  to  take  me  for  a  war-tax  collector,  and  when  I  eluded  them  finally 
and  got  to  the  European  quarters  much  surprise  was  expressed  that  I 
had  ventured  there  alone  and  had  been  able  to  get  away. 

I  had  been  advised  of  the  high  class  of  dishes  served  in  the  Chinese 
gambling  quarters  of  Singapore,  and  while  there  a  friendly  warning  voice 
from  a  house  across  the  way  came  when  I  was  again  in  danger. 

As  a  warning  to  travellers  to  China  and  Japan,  the  danger  of  eating 
fresh  vegetables  there  should  be  referred  to.  The  fever  so  easily  con- 
tracted results  from  the  night  soil  that  is  used  for  fertilising,  and  so 
many  cases  have  developed  that  the  Hong  Kong  board  of  health  has 
had  to  compel  restaurant  proprietors  to  put  notices  on  their  bills  of  fare 
that  fresh  vegetables  were  not  allowed  to  be  served,  imported  canned 
vegetables  from  the  Pacific  coast  being  served  instead. 

In  Manila  curried  rice  is  eaten  three  times  a  day,  much  as  in 
China,  and  Spanish  dishes  and  customs  have  also  been  widely  introduced. 
India  provided  ideas  for  curried  eggs,  curried  vegetables,  prawns  and 
other  fish  with  rice.  Indian  cooks  are  clever  and  can  turn  out  excellent 
native  dishes,  which  are  better  appreciated  if  one  is  not  present  to  see 
them  prepared.  Meat  as  a  rule  is  eaten  directly  after  the  cattle  are 
killed,  rendering  the  meat  sinewy,  tasteless  and  exceedingly  coarse. 

Papaya,  a  sort  of  mango,  is  a  fruit  that  furnishes  a  great  treat  to  the 
visitor  to  Bombay.  It  is  very  much  in  use  for  the  cure  of  indigestion. 
Eaten  just  after  a  meal  it  gives  remarkable  relief  to  the  sufferer,  which  I 
observed,  as  I  had  been  on  too  steady  a  rice  diet. 

In  Alexandria  and  Cairo  the  great  consumption  of  cucumbers  was 
interesting,  and  they  were  to  be  seen  growing  to  the  size  of  two  and  a 
half  feet  and  over.  The  people  save  the  liquor  from  them,  and  it  is  used 
by  the  women  as  a  face  lotion  for  the  complexion. 


INTRODUCTION— Continued  vii 

Greece  and  Turkey  have  quite  a  number  of  excellent  native  dishes, 
but  somewhat  too  rich,  as  a  good  deal  of  oil  is  used  for  cooking  in  place 
of  butter.  Both  countries  produce  plenty  of  excellent  vegetables  and 
a  variety  of  fine,  delicious  fruits.  Quite  a  number  of  recipes  for  native 
dishes  of  both  countries  will  be  found  in  the  book. 

Bucharest,  Roumania  and  Buda  Pesth  are  about  the  same  as  Vienna 
in  their  cooking  and  eating  customs,  while  both  Vienna  and  Berlin  are 
much  on  the  order  of  Paris.  Eating  customs,  like  the  mail  systems 
and  standards  of  money,  become  more  universal  as  travel  and  trade 
bind  the  countries  more  closely. 

"Highlander"  is  one  of  the  recipes  representative  of  Scotland; 
Holland,  Belgium,  Spain,  Italy  and  Russia  are  well  represented,  as 
also  my  native  country,  Switzerland.  In  Russia  many  fine  varieties  of 
fish  are  served,  and  at  some  of  the  large  hotels  ornamental  tanks  are 
constructed  in  the  dining  rooms  so  that  the  live  fish  may  be  observed 
swimming  about  and  selected  by  patrons  to  be  caught  and  cooked  to 
order,  while  quantities  of  cold  cooked  fish  decorated  all  around  are 
arranged  on  dishes  in  show  cases.  Thus  the  patrons  desiring  to  have 
fresh  fish  may  select  it  either  alive  or  from  the  cases. 

One  point  of  information  that  I  sought  after  carefully  was  in  regard 
to  how  curry  powder  was  made.  There  are  as  many  ways  of  preparing 
it  as  there  are  dialects  in  China.  Up  to  this  day  the  powder  has  inva- 
riably been  too  sharp  or  heating,  and  I  wanted  to  improve  it  in  this 
respect,  so  experimented  and  finally  discovered  a  powder  that  unques- 
tionably surpasses  any  other  in  existence  in  mildness,  taste  and  per- 
fection, as  explained  in  No.  3318. 

The  memoranda  for  the  meals  of  each  day  in  the  year  are  through- 
out carefully  calculated  to  be  sufficient  in  quantity  for  six  people,  as  the 
amount  can  easily  be  increased  or  diminished  from  this  average.  For 
instance,  where  nine  are  to  be  provided  for  increase  the  quantity  one- 
half,  and  double  the  quantity  if  for  twelve  persons.  Or,  on  the  con- 
trary, use  proportionately  half  the  quantity  if  for  three  persons  only. 
Full  explanations  are  given  for  each  recipe,  without  references,  except 
where  one  is  repeated  in  those  later  on  and  referred  back  to. 

The  articles  on  the  daily  menus  are  not  supposed  to  be  followed  in 
their  entirety,  but  to  give  a  wide  field  to  select  from. 

With  such  a  book  handy  there  need  be  no  perplexity  in  deciding 
what  to  have,  or  doubt  as  to  what  is  in  season,  when  called  upon  to 
entertain  a  party  of  friends.  In  such  a  case,  by  turning  to  the  menus 
of  the  day  on  which  you  wish  to  entertain,  everything  to  be  had  in  the 
market  will  be  seen  immediately  from  the  "memoranda,"  as  the  recipes 
for  the  entire  year  are  arranged  according  to  what  is  in  season ;  that  is, 
any  articles  on  the  menus  are  to  be  had  for  the  date  mentioned. 

No  exact  dates  are  given  to  the  bills  of  fare  for  each  day. 

The  new  year  beginning  on  a  different  day  of  the  week  from  year 
to  year,  the  dates  become  confusing  in  succeeding  years.  To  facilitate 
keeping  track  of  the  days  of  each  month  the  following  system  is  adopted 
at  the  head  of  the  menus. 


x  INTRODUCTION— Continued 

CONSULATE  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA,  NAGASAKI,  JAPAN. 

February  23rd,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

I  was  very  much  pleased  this  morning  on  receiving  a  call  from  Mr. 
Alex.  Filippini,  of  New  York  City,  bearing  letters  of  introduction  and  com- 
mendation from  Mr.  Hay,  Secretary  of  State  of  the  United  States,  and 
Chauncey  M.  Depew,  United  States  Senator  from  the  State  of  New  York, 
also  letters  from  United  States  Diplomatic  and  Consular  Officers. 

Mr.  Filippini  is  the  Travelling  Inspector  for  the  International  Naviga- 
tion Company,  of  New  York,  and  on  his  present  tour  is  very  much  inter- 
ested in  collecting  information  in  culinary  art  as  practised  in  Asiatic  coun- 
tries. I  bespeak  for  him  a  full  measure  of  your  kind  courtesies. 

Very  respectfully, 

CHARLES  B.  HARRIS. 

CONSULAR  SERVICE,  U.  S.  A.,  SHANGHAI, 

Feb.  25,  1902. 

Mr.  Alex.  Filippini  called  on  me  to-day  bearing  letters  of  introduction 
from  Secretary  of  State  Hay  and  others.  Mr.  Filippini  is  studying  the 
culinary  art  of  different  countries,  and  I  bespeak  for  him  the  courtesies  of 
U.  S.  Officials.  JOHN  GOODNOW, 

Consul-General,  U.  S.  A. 

HONG  KONG,  March  5,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

Mr.  Filippini,  Travelling  Inspector  of  the  International  Navigation 
Co.,  having  been  in  Hong  Kong  for  several  days,  during  which  he  has  been 
at  pains  to  acquaint  himself  with  local  methods  of  preparing  food,  I  take 
pleasure  in  stating  that  such  information  as  he  has  procured  about  culinary 
matters  is  undoubtedly  authentic.  Any  assistance  that  can  be  given  him  in 
Hong  Kong  will  facilitate  his  work,  which  I  feel  sure  deserves  to  be  endorsed. 

W.  A.  RUBLER, 

Consul-General. 

CONSULATE  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 

CANTON,  CHINA,  March  I2th,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  say  that  I  received  a  call  to-day  from  Mr. 
Alex.  Filippini,  Travelling  Inspector  of  the  International  Navigation  Co., 
of  New  York,  U.  S.  A.  He  is  on  a  globe-trotting  trip,  taken  solely  for  the 
purpose  of  collecting  reliable  data  on  cooking  as  practised  in  the  different 
countries  of  the  world.  The  results  of  his  experience  will  be  printed  in  a 
book  on  culinary  art  which  he  intends  to  publish.  I  bespeak  for  him  the 
courtesy  of  our  nationals  wherever  he  goes  and  take  delight  in  testifying  to 
his  many  sterling  qualities.  Very  truly  yours, 

ROBERT  M.  MC\¥ADE, 

U.  S.  Consul. 

OFFICE  OF  THE  CIVIL  GOVERNOR  OF  THE  PHILIPPINE  ISLANDS. 

MANILA,  P.  I.,  March  6,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  a  call  from  Mr.  Filippini,  Travelling  Inspector 
of  the  International  Navigation  Company,  who  bears  letters  of  introduction 


INTRODUCTION— Continued  xi 

from  the  Secretary  of  State  and  from  the  Hon.  Chauncey  M.  Depew, 
U.  S.  Senator,  in  which  he  is  endorsed  and  commended  to  the  kind  con- 
sideration of  all  persons  whom  he  may  meet.  Mr.  Filippini  informs  me 
that  he  is  engaged  in  the  preparation  of  a  book  on  culinary  art,  and  for  this 
purpose  is  travelling  and  investigating  extensively. 

Respectfully, 

LUKE  E.  WRIGHT. 

Acting  Civil  Governor. 

CONSULAR  SERVICE,  U.  S.  A. 

SINGAPORE,  24th  March,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

The  bearer,  Mr.  Alex.  Filippini,  an  American  from  New  York,  seeks 
in  the  Orient  information  as  to  food  products  and  their  preparation — espe- 
cially such  as  meet  Oriental  taste  and  requirements. 

Any  favours  shown  Mr.  Filippini  will  be  appreciated  by  this  Consulate. 
Your  obedient  servant, 

O.  F.  WILLIAMS. 

U.  S.  Consul-General. 

CONSULAR  SERVICE  U.  S.  A.  AT  CEYLON, 

COLOMBO,  yth  April,  1902. 

This  is  to  certify  that  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  Mr.  Alex. 
Filippini,  Travelling  Inspector  of  the  International  Navigation  Co.,  and 
enjoyed  his  society  very  much.  Am  sorry  that  I  cannot  afford  him  any 
useful  information  regarding  culinary  affairs,  about  which  he  is  greatly  inter- 
ested; but  he  has  my  best  wishes  in  that  connection,  and  I  heartily  recom- 
mend him  to  the  kind  courtesy  of  whoever  of  my  colleagues  he  may  have  the 
pleasure  of  meeting  hereafter.  W.  MOREY, 

Consul. 

CONSULAR  SERVICE  U.  S.  A. 

CALCUTTA,  I5th  April,  1902. 
ALEX.  FILIPPINI,  ESQ., 

Travelling  Inspector,  International  Navigation  Co.  of  New  York, 

U.  S.  A. 

Dear  Sir:  I  regret  very  much  that  your  short  stay  in  this  city  did  not 
afford  me  the  pleasure  of  being  of  service  to  you.  I  hope,  however,  that 
while  in  this  country  you  will  be  able  to  gather  useful  information  regarding 
the  culinary  affairs  in  which  you  are  interested. 

Trusting  that  your  journey  across  country  to  Bombay  will  be  as  pleasant 
as  the  climate  permits,  and  with  best  wishes  for  the  success  of  the  object  of 
your  travels,  I  remain,  Yours  truly, 

W.  M.  OSWALD, 
Acting  Vice  and  Dep'y  Consul-General. 

CONSULAR  SERVICE  U.  S.  A., 

BOMBAY,  April  2ist,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

It  has  given  me  great  pleasure  to  have  had  a  call  at  the  Consulate  this 
morning  from  Mr.  Alex.  Filippini  of  New  York  City,  who  was  introduced 
by  the  Hon.  John  Hay,  U.  S.  Secretary  of  State,  through  Hon.  Chauncey  M. 
Depew,  U.  S.  Senator  of  the  State  of  New  York.  Mr.  Filippini  is  travelling 


xii  INTRODUCTION— Continued 

in  the  East  for  the  purpose  of  informing  himself  in  the  culinary  art  as  it 
obtains  in  the  Orient,  with  the  purpose  in  view  of  giving  to  the  public  in 
book  form  such  practical  knowledge  thus  secured. 

Mr.  Filippini  is  the  Travelling  Inspector  of  the  International  Naviga- 
tion Co.,  of  New  York.  I  bespeak  for  him  a  good  measure  of  your  cour- 
tesies. WM.  THOS.  FEE, 

Consul  U.  S.  A. 


CONSULAR  SERVICE  U.  S.  A. 
CONSULAR  AGENCY  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES, 

SUEZ,  5th  May,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  a  call  at  this  Agency  from  Mr.  Filippini  of 
New  York,  who  has  shown  me  letters  of  introduction  from  the  Hon.  John 
Hay,  Secretary  of  State,  who  recommends  him  to  the  kind  consideration  of 
us  all,  and  I  have  great  pleasure  in  extending  whatever  help  lies  in  my  power 
to.  this  gentleman,  who  is  making  a  tour  of  the  world  for  the  purpose  of 
collecting  information  in  the  culinary  art. 

Yours  very  obediently, 

O.  MAVRIER, 
Acting  Consular  Agent  U.  S.  A. 


UNITED  STATES  DIPLOMATIC  AGENCY  AND  CONSULATE  GENERAL. 

CAIRO,  EGYPT,  May  I2th,  1902. 

Mr.  Alexander  Filippini  of  New  York,  who  is  now  visiting  Egypt  in 
his  tour  of  the  world,  has  presented  to  me  a  letter  from  the  Hon.  John  Hay, 
Secretary  of  State,  addressed  to  the  Diplomatic  and  Consular  Officers  of  the 
United  States,  who,  at  the  instance  of  Senator  Chauncey  M.  Depew,  com- 
mends Mr.  Filippini  to  the  courtesy  of  the  Representatives  of  the  United 
States  abroad.  Letters  from  other  distinguished  citizens  of  the  United 
States  highly  complimentary  to  this  gentleman  have  been  presented  and 
read,  in  all  of  which  I  concur.  JOHN  G.  LONG, 

Agent  and  Consul-General. 


UNITED  STATES  CONSULAR  AGENCY, 

ALEXANDRIA,  EGYPT,  gth  May,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

It  has  given  me  great  pleasure  to  have  had  a  call  at  this  Consular  Agency 
from  Mr.  Alexander  Filippini,  Travelling  Inspector  of  the  International 
Navigation  Co.,  of  New  York,  bearing  letters  of  introduction  and  com- 
mendation from  the  Hon.  John  Hay,  U.  S.  Secretary  of  State,  and  the  Hon. 
Chauncey  Depew,  U.  S.  Senator  of  the  State  of  New  York. 

Mr.  Filippini  is  travelling  in  the  East  for  the  purpose  of  informing  him- 
self in  the  culinary  art.  The  results  of  his  experience  will  be  printed  in  a 
book  which  he  intends  to  publish,  and  I  bespeak  for  him  such  courtesies  and 
consideration  as  he  desires  by  those  interested  in  the  matter  of  his  inquiry. 

Respectfully, 

J.  W.  ROMEO, 
Acting  U.  S.  Consular  Agent. 


INTRODUCTION— Continued  xiii 

LEGATION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA, 

ATHENS,  I4th  May,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

It  has  given  me  great  pleasure  to  have  had  a  call  from  Mr.  Alex.  Filip- 
pini,  bearing  letters  of  introduction  and  recommendation  from  Hon.  John 
Hay,  Secretary  of  State,  and  the  Hon.  Chauncey  Depew,  U.  S.  Senator  of 
the  State  of  New  York. 

Mr.  Filippini  is  travelling  to  collect  material  for  a  book  on  the  culinary 
art  which  he  is  about  to  publish,  and  I  take  pleasure  in  bespeaking  for  him 
such  courtesies  as  may  assist  him  in  his  inquiries. 
Respectfully, 

CHARLES  S.  WILSON, 

Charge  d'Affaires  ad  interim. 

UNITED  STATES  LEGATION, 

CONSTANTINOPLE,  May  19,  1902. 
This  to  say  that 

Mr.  Filippini  of  New  York  City  has  called  upon  me  with  letters  from 
the  Hon.  Secretary  of  State  commending  him  to  me  and  asking  my  good 
offices  in  facilitating  him  in  his  purposes.  He  comes  to  the  East  to  study 
the  culinary  art  peculiar  to  Oriental  countries,  and  I  bespeak  for  him  such 
courtesies  and  consideration  as  he  desires  by  those  interested  in  the  matter 
of  his  inquiry.  JOHN  R.  LEISHMAN. 

U.  S.  CONSULATE  GENERAL, 

BUCHAREST,  ROUMANIA,  May  21,  1902. 

This  is  to  certify  that  I  have  just  had  the  pleasure  of  a  call  from  Mr. 
Alex.  Filippini,  Inspector  of  the  International  Navigation  Co.,  of  New 
York,  and  was  much  interested  by  what  Mr.  Filippini  narrated  to  me  of  his 
varied  experiences  in  all  parts  of  the  world  during  his  present  trip  round 
the  world,  which  has  already  lasted  five  months  or  so.  The  information 
obtained  by  this  gentleman  in  culinary  questions  will  certainly  be  of  the 
greatest  interest  to  all  those  who  may  have  the  privilege  of  perusing  the 
valuable  book  which  he  intends  publishing.  My  best  wishes  accompany 
Mr.  Filippini  in  his  further  travels  and  I  wish  him  the  fullest  measure  of 
success.  W.  G.  BOXSHALL. 

U.  S.  Vice-Consul-General. 

CONSULAR  SERVICE  U.  S.  A. 

UNITED  STATES  CONSULATE, 
BUDAPEST,  HUNGARY,  May  23rd.  1902. 
ALEXANDER  FILIPPINI,  Esq., 

Hotel  Hungary,  Budapest. 

Dear  Sir:  At  your  request  I  take  pleasure  in  witnessing  herewith  that 
you  called  to-day  at  this  consulate  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  the  names 
of  persons  able  to  give  you  information  as  to  culinary  art  in  Hungary,  on 
which  you  intend  to  publish  a  chapter  in  your  forthcoming  work  on  the 
cuisine  of  the  different  countries  of  the  world. 

Yours  very  sincerely, 

FRANK  DYER  CHESTER, 

U.  S.  Consul. 


xiv  INTRODUCTION— Continued 

LEGATION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA, 

VIENNA,  AUSTRIA,  26th  May,  1902. 
jfo  whom  it  may  concern: 

Mr.  Alex.  Filippini,  of  New  York,  Travelling  Inspector  of  the  Inter- 
national Navigation  Co.,  of  New  York,  U.  S.  A.,  is  making  a  trip  around  the 
world  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  reliable  data  pertaining  to  the  art  of 
cooking  as  practised  in  the  different  countries,  the  result  of  which  he  will 
publish  in  a  book  on  his  return  to  America,  Mr.  Filippini  has  been  known 
to  me  for  a  number  of  years,  and  I  take  pleasure  in  commending  him  to  those 
who  can  assist  him  in  the  object  of  his  tour. 

Very  truly  yours, 

CHANDLER  HALE, 

Secretary  of  Legation. 

LEGATION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES, 

THE  HAGUE,  NETHERLANDS, 

August  yth,  1902. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  say  that  I  have  to-day  received  a  call  from 
Mr.  Alex.  Filippini,  Inspector  of  the  International  Navigation  Company, 
who  has  been  making  a  trip  round  the  world  in  the  interest  of  those  who  'ike 
good  things  to  eat.  He  intends  to  publish  the  results  of  his  experience  in  a 
book  on  culinary  art.  I  bespeak  for  him  the  courtesy  of  Americans  wherever 
he  may  go.  JOHN  W.  CARRETT, 

Charge  d'Affairs  ad  interim. 

EMBASSY   OF   THE    UNITED    STATES    OF   AMERICA, 

BERLIN,  May  2/th,  1902. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving,  this  morning,  a  visit  from  Mr.  Alexander 
Filippini,  who  bore  credentials  from  the  Honourable  Chauncey  M.  Depew. 
I  was  much  interested  by  Mr.  Filippini's  accounts  of  his  discoveries  in 
culinary  science  and  practice  made  in  the  remote  regions  of  the  world  and 
cheerfully  testify  that  I  enjoyed  heartily  my  fifteen  minutes  with  him. 

AND.  D.  WHITE, 

Ambassador. 

CONSULATE-GENERAL  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA, 
36,  Avenue  de  POpera, 

PARIS,  September  4th,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

I  have  just  had  a  call  from  Alex.  Filippini,  Travelling  Inspector  of  the 
International  Navigation  Company,  of  New  York,  who  comes  to  me  recom- 
mended by  Hon.  John  Hay,  Secretary  of  State,  and  Hon.  Chauncey  Vf. 
Depew,  Senator  of  New  York.  He  has  made  a  very  thorough  investigation 
of  the  culinary  art  of  the  different  countries  of  the  world,  and  has  been  in 
Paris  for  several  days  giving  his  entire  attention  to  the  art  of  cooking  as 
practised  in  Paris  and  France. 

I  sincerely  hope  he  has  met  with  success  in  all  his  efforts,  for  the  reason 
it  is  well  known  everywhere  that  the  French  cook  has  no  superior  and  but 
few  equals. 

I  trust  his  investigations  and  earnest  services  will  be  published  to  the 
world  in  order  that  all  may  be  benefited  by  his  experiences. 

JOHN  K.  GOWDY, 

U.  S.  Consul-General,  Paris. 


INTRODUCTION— Continued  xv 

CONSULAR  SERVICE,  U.  S.  A., 

BRUSSELS  (Belgium),  May  zgth,  1902. 
To  whom  it  may  concern: 

It  has  given  me  pleasure  to  have  a  call  this  morning  from  Mr.  Alex. 
Filippini,  who  is  introduced  to  the  U.  S.  officials  abroad  by  the  Honourable 
John  Hay,  Secretary  of  State,  through  Honourable  Chauncey  M.  Depew, 
U.  S.  Senator  of  New  York.  Mr.  Filippini  is  travelling  around  the  world 
for  the  purpose  of  informing  himself  in  the  culinary  art.  I  enjoyed  heartily 
my  twenty  minutes'  conversation  with  him. 

GEO.  W.  ROOSEVELT, 

U.  S.  Consul. 

The  brevity  of  the  above  letters,  as  I  was  privately  informed  by 
some  of  the  representatives  whom  I  knew,  was  due  to  instructions  issued 
from  Washington,  cautioning  representatives  of  the  Government  about 
furnishing  them,  owing  to  previous  misuse  of  such  letters. 


THE   INTERNATIONAL   COOK   BOOK 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

January  ist  (supposedly  Friday) 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes 

Oatmeal  and  Cream 

Shirred  Eggs,  with  Tomato 

Fish  Cakes 

Broiled  Sirloin   Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Wheat  Cakes 

i.    STEWED  PRUNES 

One  pound  fine  prunes,  half  pint  cold  water,  half  pint  claret,  half  a 
stick  cinnamon,  four  ounces  granulated  sugar,  two  bay  leaves,  the  rind 
of  a  small  sound  lemon. 

Place  the  prunes  in  a  vessel  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water  to  soak 
for  twelve  hours.  Thoroughly  drain  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  all  the  above  articles.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  very  gently  on 
the  range  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  pour  into 
a  glass  or  stone  jar,  and  let  it  get  cold.  When  serving  discard  bay 
leaves,  cinnamon  and  lemon  peel.  As  stewed  prunes  should  always 
be  served  cold,  a  larger  quantity  can  be  prepared  and  kept  in  a  covered 
glass  or  stone  jar,  for  they  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  several  days. 

2.  OATMEAL  PORRIDGE 

One-half  pound  oatmeal,  one-half  pint  cold  milk,  one  pint  cold 
water,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Place  the  water,  milk  and  salt  in  a 
saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  oatmeal  and  slowly  boil 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning 
at  the  bottom.  Pour  it  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  cold  cream  or 
cold  milk  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 

3.  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO 

Lightly  butter  the  bottom  of  six  individual  shirred-egg  dishes,  care- 
fully break  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  taking  care  to  keep  the  yolks 
intact.  Equally  season  the  eggs  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cook  them  for  one  minute  on  the  range, 
then  place  them  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven, 
pour  the  tomatoes,  prepared  as  hereunder,  over  the  eggs  of  each  dish, 
evenly  divided,  and  immediately  serve. 

3 


4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

4.    TOMATOES  FOR  EGGS,  OMELETTES,  ETC. 

Select  six  medium,  red,  fresh  but  not  too  ripe  tomatoes,  plunge 
them  in  boiling  water  for  one  minute,  lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  then 
with  a  towel  carefully  skin  them.  Trim  off  the  stems  and  cut  them 
into  even  quarters.  Heat  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan, 
add  two  sound,  peeled,  finely  chopped  shallots  and  gently  brown  them 
for  half  a  minute,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  white  wine, 
lightly  mix,  add  the  tomatoes  with  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  sugar  and 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  let  cook 
for  twelve  minutes,  carefully  stirring  once  in  a  while. 

Mix  on  a  saucer  a  teaspoon  butter  with  half  a  teaspoon  flour,  then 
add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  gently  mix,  and  the  tomatoes  will  be  ready  to 
use  as  directed. 

5.     FISH  CAKES 

Soak  one-half  pound  boneless  codfish  in  cold  water  for  sixteen 
hours,  changing  the  water  three  times  during  that  interval.  Drain, 
place  it  in  a  saucepan  again  with  cold  water  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes; 
drain  and  carefully  pick  out  all  the  little  bones  from  the  cod.  Pass  it 
through  a  chopping  machine  or  pound  it  in  a  mortar. 

Have  one  pound  cooked,  peeled  potatoes.  Press  them  through  a 
sieve.  Add  the  fish  to  the  potatoes.  Break  in  two  whole  raw  eggs,  add 
a  saltspoon  ground  English  mustard,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  anchovy  sauce. 
Mix  the  whole  thoroughly  in  a  bowl  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  three 
minutes. 

Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  flour  on  a  table.  Spread  the  preparation 
nicely  over  the  flour  and  divide  it  into  six  equal  parts ;  neatly  roll  them 
in  the  flour,  giving  them  nice  cake  forms. 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  or  good  fat  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  cakes 
and  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  of  a  good  golden  colour. 
Remove  them  with  a  cake  turner  and  drain  well.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  napkin  and  serve  very  hot. 

6.     BROILED  SIRLOIN  STEAKS,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Have  two  fine,  tender  sirloin  steaks  of  one  pound  and  a  quarter 
each.  Flatten  them  evenly  and  nicely  with  a  cleaver.  Pour  a  table- 
spoon good  oil  on  a  plate,  turn  the  steaks  in  the  oil  several  times,  then 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  light  teaspoon  white  pepper,  evenly 
divided  all  over.  Arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  them  on  a  brisk 
charcoal  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish;  spread  the  maitre  d '"hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  the  steaks  and 
serve  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

7.    MA!TRE  D'HOTEL  BUTTER 

Have  on  a  cold  plate  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  good  table  butter, 
half  a  teaspoon  well-washed,  thoroughly  dried  and  finely  chopped 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  FIRST  5 

parsley,  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  ditto  chervil  (cerfeuil),  half  a  tea- 
spoon juice  from  a  sound  lemon,  one  saltspoon  salt,  and  a  half  salt- 
spoon  white  pepper.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  with  a  fork  and  use 
when  required. 

N.  B. — This  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  should  always  be  kept  in  a  cool 
place  until  required. 

8.    FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Peel,  clean  and  cut  into  pieces  one-half  inch  square  and  two  and  a 
half  inches  long  four  good-sized  sound  potatoes.  Wash  well  in  cold 
water  and  drain  thoroughly. 

Have  some  boiling  fat  in  a  frying  pan;  plunge  in  the  potatoes  and 
fry  for  ten  minutes,  being  very  sure  that  the  fat  is  thoroughly  boiling 
before  the  potatoes  are  plunged  in.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on  a 
dish ;  let  rest  for  one  minute,  replace  in  the  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  three 
minutes  more;  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on  a  kitchen  towel  and  dry 
thoroughly.  Sprinkle  the  equivalent  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  over  them, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

French  fried  sweet  potatoes  are  prepared  exactly  the  same  way,  and 
both  should  be  promptly  served  after  having  been  prepared. 

9.    WHEATEN  CAKES 

One-quarter  pound  flour,  one  raw  egg,  one-half  ounce  powdered 
sugar,  one-quarter  ounce  baking  powder,  one-half  pint  cold  milk  and  a 
saltspoon  salt. 

Place  the  flour  in  a  bowl  with  the  sugar,  baking  powder,  milk  and 
salt,  and  carefully  break  in  the  egg.  Briskly  mix  with  a  whisk  until 
thoroughly  thickened. 

Lightly  butter  the  bottom  of  a  large  black  frying  pan  with  one-half 
ounce  melted  lard,  and  as  soon  as  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  thoroughly 
hot  immediately  pour  in  some  of  the  preparation  with  the  aid  of  a  ladle, 
making  four  cakes  two  inches  and  a  half  in  diameter,  and  cook  for 
two  minutes  on  each  side,  seeing  that  they  are  of  a  nice  golden  colour, 
but  not  black.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  with  a  napkin  and  keep  hot ; 
then  proceed  to  prepare  the  balance  in  the  same  way.  Serve  with  maple 
syrup  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  with  Bacon 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Spaghetti  Italienne 
French  Pancakes  with  Jelly 

10.    STUFFED  CRABS  DIABLE 

One  pound  crab  meat,  half  a  pint  cold  milk,  half  a  gill  cream,  one- 
half  medium,  sound,  chopped  onion,  one-half  bean  chopped  garlic,  one 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  one  ounce  butter,  one  teaspoon  Eng- 


6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOR 

lish  mustard  in  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  one-half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one-half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  three  tablespoons  flour,  two  raw  egg  yolks  and  two 
ounces  bread  crumbs. 

Place  the  milk,  cream,  garlic,  parsley,  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  Worces- 
tershire sauce  and  nutmeg  in  a  saucepan,  and  boil  for  five  minutes, 
lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Place  in  another  saucepan  the  butter  and 
onion,  stir,  and  let  it  get  a  good  golden  colour,  then  add  the  flour ;  mix 
well  with  the  wooden  spoon.  Pour  the  other  preparation  into  this, 
mix  thoroughly,  and  then  allow  to  gently  simmer  for  five  minutes.  Add 
the  two  egg  yolks,  briskly  mix  till  well  thickened;  add  the  crab  meat, 
gently  mixing  for  two  minutes.  Pour  it  over  a  flat  dish  and  let  get 
cold.  Have  six  medium-sized,  well-cleaned  crab  shells  and  equally  fill 
the  shells  with  the  preparation.  Smooth  the  surface  with  the  blade  of 
a  knife.  Equally  divide  the  "devilled  butter"  on  top  of  the  crabs. 
Spread  the  bread  crumbs  over.  Pour  a  very  little  melted  butter  over 
the  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  them  on  a  tin  pan,  and  place  in  the  hot 
oven  for  ten  minutes  to  bake  until  they  obtain  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Remove  from  the  oven  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 
Decorate  with  parsley  greens  and  six  quarters  of  lemons  and  serve 
very  hot. 

ii.     DEVILLED  BUTTER 

Half  an  ounce  good  butter,  two  saltspoons  ground  English  mustard, 
one  teaspoon  good  white  wine  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
sauce,  one  saltspoon  salt,  half  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  egg 
yolk.  Place  all  these  articles  in  a  bowl,  thoroughly  mix  well  together 
with  a  spoon  and  use  as  required. 

12.    BROILED  SPRING  CHICKEN  WITH  BACON 

Procure  two  fine,  tender  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds 
each.  Singe  and  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joints  (keeping  them 
for  soup  stock).  Remove  the  back,  split  through  the  spine,  begin- 
ning at  the  neck,  totally  removing  the  spine  with  neck.  Neatly  draw. 
Remove  the  breast  bones,  wipe  them  with  a  towel  and  nicely  flatten  them 
with  a  cleaver. 

Place  one-half  tablespoon  oil  on  a  flat  dish  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  turn  the  chicken  several  times  in  the 
seasoning.  Arrange  them  on  a  clean  double  broiler,  and  broil  on  a 
brisk  fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove.  Have  six  pieces 
of  fresh  toast  on  a  hot  dish;  dress  the  chicken  on  the  toast. 

Equally  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  prepared  as  per  No.  6,  over 
the  chicken.  Arrange  twelve  slices  of  freshly  broiled  bacon  (No.  13) 
over  them  and  serve. 

13.    BROILED  BACON 

With  a  keen  knife  cut  the  under  bones  off  a  fine  breakfast  bacon; 
pare  both  edges,  also  the  end  (opposite  side  to  the  string  end,  which  is 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  FIRST  7 

used  to  hang  it  up).  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  necessary  number  of 
slices  for  immediate  use.  To  have  it  crispy  and  tasty,  thin  slices  are 
always  preferable,  both  for  broiling  and  frying.  Always  cut  them 
crosswise,  never  lengthwise.  Arrange  the  slices  on  a  broiler,  and  broil 
on  a  moderate  fire  for  two  minutes  on  each  side ;  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  immediately. 

For  frying — fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
little  hot  fat.  Bacon  should  always  be  kept  by  the  string  in  a  dry,  cool 
place;  never  on  the  ice. 

14.  BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Select  six  good-sized,  sound  sweet  potatoes.  Slightly  trim  off  both 
ends,  wipe  and  place  them  on  a  tin  plate,  baking  in  the  hot  oven  for 
forty-five  minutes  and  turning  trrm  over  every  ten  minutes.  Remove 
and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  envelope  a  in  a  folded  napkin. 

15.  SPAGHETTI  A  L'ITALIENNE 

Have  a  pan  on  the  fire  with  three  quarts  water  and  a  tablespoon 
salt ;  when  thoroughly  boiling,  gently  slide  in  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
fine  Italian  spaghetti,  without  breaking  it,  and  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Remove  and  thoroughly  drain. 

Then  place  in  a  sautoire  with  a  good  tablespoon  butter,  a  saltspoon 
salt,  a  good  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  a  light  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg. Toss  gently  on  the  fire  for  four  minutes.  Add  a  light  half-pint 
hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  gently  mix  with  a  fork,  then  add  two  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese  and  mix  well  again  with  the  fork  for 
one  minute  longer.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1 6.    TOMATO  SAUCE 

Two  ounces  butter,  four  ounces  lean,  raw  ham,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  two  sliced  carrots,  two  sliced  onions,  one  chopped  leek,  two 
branches  chopped  parsley,  a  branch  chopped  celery,  two  cloves,  one 
teaspoon  whole  peppers,  one-half  sprig  bay  leaf,  one-half  ditto  thyme, 
a  chopped  green  pepper,  a  bean  of  garlic,  two  quarts  fine,  red,  sound 
tomatoes  cut  into  quarters  (or  two  quarts  canned),  four  tablespoons 
flour,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  a  light  tablespoon  powdered  sugar. 

Place  all  the  above  articles,  except  the  flour  and  tomatoes,  in  a  large 
saucepan ;  set  it  on  a  brisk  fire.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let 
cook  for  twelve  minutes,  or  until  of  a  good  brown  colour,  lightly  mixing 
meanwhile.  Add  the  flour,  mix  well,  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
the  quartered  tomatoes  and  one  quart  cold  water.  Mix  thoroughly; 
cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  very  slowly  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  mixing 
once  in  a  while.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  strain  again 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  vessel.  Use  the  amount  required 
and  place  the  remaining  tomato  sauce  (after  having  been  cooled  off)  in 
bottles;  cork  them  well  and  always  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  future  use. 
This  important  sauce  being  of  such  general  use,  and  at  times  required 
only  in  a  very  small  quantity,  it  would  be  advisable  for  convenience  to 


8  THE    INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

prepare  in  larger  amount  than  is  required  each  time,  as  it  will  keep  in 
perfect  condition  for  a  long  time. 

17.    FRENCH  PANCAKES 

Four  ounces  sifted  flour,  half  ounce  powdered  sugar,  two  whole  raw 
eggs,  one  saltspoon  salt,  three-quarters  pint  good  cold  milk,  eight  drops 
vanilla  essence,  four  drops  orange  flavouring  and  a  tablespoon  Jamaica 
rum. 

Place  the  flour  in  a  vessel,  break  in  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt, 
essences  and  the  milk  gradually.  With  a  wire  whisk  briskly  beat  up 
the  whole  together  for  five  minutes,  or  until  thoroughly  thickened. 
Then  pass  it  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  small  vessel  and 
let  stand  for  thirty  minutes.  Have  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  on  a 
saucer.  Have  a  small  frying  pan,  six  inches  in  diameter  at  the  bottom, 
lightly  greased  with  the  butter  by  means  of  a  small  hair  pastry  brush. 
When  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  thoroughly  hot  pour  the  equivalent  of 
three  tablespoons  of  the  preparation  into  the  pan  (at  once)  and  fry  on  a 
brisk  fire  till  of  a  nice  golden  colour — which  will  take  about  a  minute — 
turn  it  over  and  fry  exactly  the  same.  Be  very  careful  not  to  allow  the 
cakes  to  get  black.  Carefully  turn  the  cake  on  a  hot  plate  on  the  corner 
of  the  range.  Proceed  to  make  eleven  more  exactly  the  same  way. 
Lightly  dredge  with  fine  sugar  the  one  on  top,  roll  it  up  nicely  and 
dredge  just  a  little  more  sugar  over.  Lay  it  on  a  hot  dish.  Proceed 
the  same  way  with  the  others  and  serve  very  hot. 

DINNER 

Blue  Point  Oysters 

Celery  en  Surprise  Olives 

Cream  of  Asparagus — Parisienne 

Striped  Bass  en  Court  Bouillon  Potatoes,  Hollandaise 

Mignons  of  Beef,  Bordelaise  Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Sweetbreads  Braises,  Bearnaise  Green  Peas 

Punch,  Lalla  Rookh  Punch,  Francaise 

Red  Head  Duck  with  Jelly          Chicory  Salad 

Peach  Pudding 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

1 8.     OYSTERS 

Oysters  should  be  kept  in  a  cold  place  and  thoroughly  washed  before 
they  are  opened.  They  should  be  opened  on  the  deep  shell,  so  as  to 
better  preserve  the  liquor,  then  placed  on  finely  chopped  ice  for  a  short 
time — too  long  destroys  their  flavour.  While  they  should  be  kept  as  cold 
as  possible,  they  should  never  be  allowed  to  freeze,  therefore  they  must 
only  be  opened  shortly  before  they  are  needed;  for  once  frozen  they 
quickly  turn  sour.  The  proper  way  to  open  them  is  to  place  the  deep 
shell  in  the  palm  of  the  left  hand  and  break  them  on  one  side.  The 
Boston  stabbing  knife  is  preferable  for  this,  but  if  there  be  none  handy 
use  a  small  block  that  the  oysters  can  fit  into  and  stab  it  on  the  edge; 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  FIRST  g 

or  even  a  chopping  block  and  chopping  knife  may  be  employed  in  case 
of  necessity. 

Serve  six  oysters  for  each  person,  if  small;  if  medium  five;  nicely 
arranged  on  oyster  plates  with  quarters  of  sound  lemon. 

19.     OYSTERS  WITH  ALEXANDRE  DUMAS  £AUCE 

Place  in  a  saucebowl  a  heaping  teaspoon  salt,  three-quarters  tea- 
spoonful  fresh-crushed  very  fine  white  paper,  one  medium-sized,  sound 
shallot,  peeled  and  very  finely  chopped,  one  heaping  teaspoon  very 
finely  chopped  chives,  half  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Gently 
mix  together,  then  pour  in  half  a  teaspoon  olive  oil,  six  drops  of  tobasco 
sauce,  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  light  saltspoon  good  fresh 
mustard,  and  lastly  one  light  gill  good  vinegar;  mix  well,  send  to  the 
table,  and  with  a  teaspoon  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  oyster 
just  before  eating  them. 

20.    CELERY  EN  SURPRISE 

Pare  off  the  green  branches  of  two  stalks  of  fine,  fresh,  white  celery, 
Separate  all  the  branches ;  nicely  trim  the  tender  parts,  as  well  as  the  roots, 
and  place  them  in  a  basin  with  plenty  of  cold  water  and  wash  thoroughly. 
Remove  the  branches  from  the  basin,  lay  them  on  a  towel,  and  then 
with  the  forefinger  gently  spread  a  very  little  green  butter  on  the  inside 
of  each  branch.  Dress  on  a  celery  dish.  Cover  with  chopped  ice 
and  serve.  (Always  keep  the  discarded  celery  for  soups  or  for  other 
useful  purposes.) 

21.     GREEN  BUTTER 

One  sound  peeled  shallot,  one-quarter  bean  peeled  garlic,  two 
branches  well-cleaned  parsley,  one  branch  fresh  watercress,  three- 
quarters  of  an  ounce  fresh  butter,  one  and  a  half  saltspoon s  salt,  one- 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Place  all  these  in  a  mortar,  except  the 
butter,  and  pound  to  a  pulp;  add  now  the  butter  and  pound  again  until 
the  whole  is  well  thickened.  Pass  through  a  strainer  into  a  bowl,  keep 
in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  required. 

22.    CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  medium-sized  saucepan, 
then  add  a  pint  of  drained  canned  asparagus  tips,  keeping  the  liquor, 
and  gently  cook  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  mean- 
while; pour  in  the  liquor  of  the  asparagus  and  two  quarts  hot  water; 
add  one  sliced  white  onion,  two  cloves,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  bay 
leaf  and  two  branches  parsley.  If  any  clean  raw  chicken  bones  are  at 
hand,  add  them.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer  for  forty  minutes.  Dilute  in  a  bowl  five 
tablespoons  rice  flour  with  one  egg  yolk  and  one  pint  of  milk,  and  add 
to  the  broth.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  five 
minutes.  Remove;  strain  the  cream  through  a  fine  sieve,  then  through 


io  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  fried  bread 
croutons  (No.  23.). 

23.    BREAD  CROUTONS  FOR  SOUPS 

Cut  four  slopes  of  bread  into  exceedingly  small  dice-shaped  pieces. 
Thoroughly  heat  in  a  small  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  clarified  butter, 
drop  in  the  bread  and  gently  fry  until  of  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove ; 
drain  well,  and  use  as  required  for  soups,  etc. 

24.    How  To  MARINADE  FISH 

Place  in  an  earthen  basin  one  small,  sound  sliced  white  onion, 
three  chopped  parsley  roots,  half  a  sound  sliced  lemon,  two  cloves, 
one  crushed  bay  leaf,  half  a  teaspoon  ground  thyme,  one  teaspoon  whole 
black  peppers,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  three  tablespoons  vinegar,  one 
tablespoon  salt  and  one  quart  cold  water.  Mix  well;  lay  the  fish  in 
the  basin,  cover  it  well  with  the  mixture  and  let  marinade  for  six  hours. 
Remove,  drain  it  well  and  place  the  fish  in  a  sautoire,  as  hereunder 
explained  (No.  25).  After  the  marinade  has  been  used  place  it  in  a 
stone  jar  for  further  use,  as  in  a  cool  place  it  will  keep  in  good  condition 
for  two  weeks. 

25.    STRIPED  BASS  EN  COURT-BOULLION 

Scale,  cut  off  the  fins,  thoroughly  wash  and  wipe  two  very  fresh 
striped  bass  of  one  and  a  half  bounds  each.  Place  them  in  the  above 
marinade  for  six  hours.  Place  in  a  large  saucepan  or  fish  kettle  a  sliced 
onion,  a  sliced  carrot,  two  parsley  roots,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  bay  leaves 
and  two  cloves. 

Lay  the  fish  over  the  vegetables,  pour  in  half  a  gill  white  wine  and 
just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon 
salt,  half  a  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  vinegar.  Cover  the  pan, 
then  let  come  to  a  boil.  Shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of  the  range  and 
let  gently  simmer  for  thirty  minutes.  Carefully  lift  up  the  fish  with 
the  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  little  melted  butter  separately. 

26.    POTATOES,  HOLLANDAISE 

Boil  six  medium-sized,  sound  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes,  then  peel  and  cut  them 
lengthwise  into  even  quarters.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  a  light 
tablespoon  butter  and  half  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Season 
with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Toss  them 
gently  while  warming  for  five  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

27.  MIGNONS  OF  BEEF,  BORDELAISE 

Have  a  two-pound  piece  of  fine  tenderloin  of  beef  (filet).  Pare 
nicely  all  around,  then  cut  into  six  equal  filets.  Flatten  them  lightly. 
Lay  them  on  a  dish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  light  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Heat  a  tablespoon  of  clarified  butter  in 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  FIRST  ii 

a  large  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  filets  one  beside  another  and  cook  briskly 
for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping 
another.  Pour  the  Bordelaise  sauce  over  them  (prepared  as  per  No.  28) 
and  serve. 

28.    BORDELAISE  SAUCE 

Finely  chop  six  small,  very  sound,  peeled  shallots  and  place  them  in 
a  small  saucepan  with  a  gill  claret,  and  let  reduce  on  the  fire  to  half  the 
quantity.  Then  pour  hi  half  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one 
gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  a  light  saltspoon  salt  and 
a  very  little  cayenne  pepper  and  let  boil  very  slowly  for  eight  minutes. 
Shift  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range,  then  add,  little  by  little,  half 
an  ounce  good  butter,  and  continue  mixing  until  the  butter  is  thoroughly 
dissolved. 

Prepare  a  beef  marrow  as  per  the  following  recipe.  Thoroughly  drain 
and  add  it  to  the  Bordelaise  sauce;  gently  mix  and  serve  as  directed. 

29.    BEEF  MARROW 

Place  a  good-sized  marrow  bone  in  a  warm  place  for  thirty  minutes. 
Then  sharply  knock  the  bone  on  a  table  on  the  large,  open  end,  so  as  to 
have  the  marrow  detach  easily.  Cut  it  into  thin  slices,  gently  drop  it 
into  half  a  pint  boiling  water  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  imme- 
diately remove  the  pan  to  the  table  and  let  stand  in  the  water  for  five 
minutes.  Lift  up  the  marrow  with  a  skimmer  and  use  as  required. 

30.     STUFFED  TOMATOES 

Wash  and  dry  well  six  fine,  sound,  good-sized  red  tomatoes.  Cut 
through  the  top  of  each,  without  detaching,  so  that  it  will  serve  as  a  cover. 
Scoop  out  the  inside  of  each  tomato  with  a  vegetable  scoop,  being  careful 
not  to  cut  the  skins,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate.  Season  the  interior  with 
half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  equally  divided. 
Then  fill  each  tomato  with  a  tomato  stuffing  (No.  31)  and  close  down 
the  covers.  Lightly  butter  a  tin  plate  and  lay  them  on  it ;  spread  half  a 
teaspoon  melted  butter  on  top  of  each;  arrange  them  on  a  roasting  tin 
and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  sixteen  minutes. 

31.     STUFFING  FOR  TOMATOES 

Melt  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  four  sound,  peeled 
and  finely  chopped  shallots,  and  while  cooking  mix  well  rather  briskly 
for  one  minute.  Add  the  scooped-out  "tomato  meat,"  three  good- 
sized  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  the  meat  of  two  raw  sausages,  half  a 
bean  of  garlic  finely  chopped,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  a 
teaspoon  chopped  chives.  Season  with  half  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  half 
saltspoon  white  pepper,  and  two  saltspoons  sugar.  Mix  all  well 
while  cooking  for  three  minutes,  then  add  three  tablespoons 
fresh  bread  crumbs  and  one  raw  egg  yolk.  Thoroughly  mix  for 
two  minutes,  then  place  in  a  bowl  to  cool  off.  Stuff  the  tomatoes 
evenly  with  it. 


12  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

32.    SWEETBREADS  BRAISES,  BEARNAISE  SAUCE 

Six  blanched  sweetbreads,  half  a  medium,  sliced  carrot,  half  ditto 
sliced  onion,  half  a  sliced  leek,  half  a  branch  chopped  celery,  half  a 
branch  parsley,  one  clove,  one  fine,  ripe,  chopped  tomato,  two  allspices, 
half  bay  leaf,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  half  ounce  chopped  lard. 

Melt  a  teaspoon  butter  in  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  easily  hold 
the  breads,  add  the  lard,  as  well  as  all  the  other  articles,  and  braise  on 
the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  mixing  well  once  in  a  while.  Lay  the  sweet- 
breads on  top  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoon  salt.  Pour  in  cold 
water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  sweetbreads.  Cover  them  with  a 
piece  of  buttered  paper.  Then  as  soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil,  place 
them  in  the  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  and  dress  on  a  hot 
dish.  Strain  the  gravy  over  the  breads  and  serve  with  the  Bearnaise 
sauce  in  a  bowl  separately. 

33.    How  TO  BLANCH  SWEETBREADS 

Clean  and  neatly  trim  three  pairs  fine,  heart  sweetbreads.  Soak 
them  for  two  hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  three  times. 
Remove  from  the  water,  drain  well,  and  then  plunge  into  boiling 
water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  drain  thoroughly, 
cover  with  a  napkin,  and  they  will  be  ready  to  use. 

34.    SAUCE  BEARNAISE 

Four  small,  sound,  peeled  and  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  branch 
very  fresh,  chopped  tarragon,  two  tablespoons  good  white-wine  vinegar, 
two  raw  egg  yolks,  two  and  a  half  ounces  hot  fresh  melted  butter  and 
one  teaspoon  freshly  crushed  white  or  black  whole  pepper. 

Place  shallots,  tarragon,  vinegar  and  pepper  in  a  small  saucepan 
and  reduce  on  a  slow  fire  to  one-half  the  quantity.  Press  it  through  a 
napkin  into  another  small  saucepan.  Add  the  two  egg  yolks,  briskly 
mix  with  the  whisk,  with  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range,  for  four 
minutes,  without  allowing  to  boil.  Gradually  add  the  hot  melted 
butter,  continually  mixing  meanwhile  and  keeping  the  pan  on  the  corner 
of  the  range.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  a  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper.  Mix  well  again  for  a  minute.  Add  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley.  Mix  well  and  serve  as  directed. 

35.     GREEN  PEAS,  CANNED 

Thoroughly  drain  a  pint  of  canned  green  peas;  then  plunge  tnem 
into  a  small  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  two  minutes. 
Drain  well  through  a  strainer  and  replace  them  in  the  saucepan;  add 
one  tablespoon  good  butter,"  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  powdered 
sugar  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Shuffle  or  toss  them  well  in  the 
pan  without  cooking  again.  Pour  them  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

36.    PUNCH  FRANCAISE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  half  a  gill  good  rum,  eight  ounces  granu- 
lated sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  sound  orange  and  the  grated  rind  of  a 


FRIDAY,  JANUARY  FIRST  13 

very  sound  lemon,  as  well  as  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  two  lemons,  and 
half  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  (see  for  its  preparation  No.  3232). 

Have  in  a  small  teapot  a  tablespoon  green  tea;  pour  over  it  a  pint 
of  thoroughly  boiling  water  and  allow  to  infuse  for  ten  minutes.  Strain 
the  tea  through  a  clean  cloth  into  the  preparation  and  thoroughly  mix; 
set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire, 
strain  the  punch  through  a  cloth  into  a  small  freezer  and  let  thoroughly 
cool  off.  Carefully  cover  it,  place  the  freezer  in  a  wooden  tub  with 
plenty  chopped  ice  mixed  with  rock  salt  and  then  freeze  for  twenty 
minutes.  Carefully  wipe  off  the  salt  water  from  the  top  of  the  cover,  re- 
move the  cover,  then  divide  the  punch  into  six  sherbet  glasses  and  serve. 

37.     ROAST  REDHEAD  DUCKS 

Pick,  singe,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  two  fine,  fat  redhead  ducks. 
Season  the  inside  of  each  with  a  good  half  teaspoon  salt,  cut  the  neck  of 
each  duck  near  the  carcass,  run  in  the  head  from  the  end  of  the  neck 
to  the  back  of  each  duck  and  nicely  truss.  Place  a  small  branch  of 
celery  inside  of  each  bird,  place  them  on  a  roasting  pan  and  spread 
a  teaspoon  melted  butter  on  the  surface  of  each.  Sprinkle  a  very  little 
salt  over  them.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  roast  for  from  sixteen  to 
eighteen  minutes.  Remove,  untruss  and  take  out  the  celery.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  drop  in  two  table- 
spoons hot  water,  lightly  mix  and  boil  on  the  range  for  one  minute, 
then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  ducks  and  serve  with  six  pieces  of  fried 
hominy  and  currant  jelly  separately. 

3  7 A.     FRIED  HOMINY  FOR  GAME 

Have  one  pint  boiling  water  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  in  a  small 
saucepan;  then  gently  and  gradually  drop  in  four  ounces  hominy,  stirring 
well  with  the  wooden  spoon,  and  let  it  slowly  cook  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  occasionally.  Transfer  the  hominy  into  a  very  small 
tin  and  let  cool  off.  Then  turn  it  on  a  lightly  floured  corner  of  a  table. 
Cut  the  hominy  then  into  six  equal  lozenge  pieces.  Lightly  dip  them 
in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  plunge  and  fry  in 
thoroughly  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes.  Lift  up  with  the  skimmer, 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  towel,  arrange  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

38.  CHICORY  SALAD 

Procure  two  medium-sized  heads  of  very  fresh  white  chicory;  care- 
fully pare  off  the  green  leaves  and  cut  away  the  roots.  Carefully  wash, 
thoroughly  drain  in  a  wire  salad  shaker  or  a  clean  napkin  and  place 
in  a  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing,  as  per  No. 
863.  Thoroughly  mix  and  send  to  the  table. 

39.  PEACH  PUDDING 

Three  slices  white  bread  without  crust;  cut  them  into  pieces  one- 
quarter  of  an  inch  square.  Two  tablespoons  well-cleaned,  small  Sul- 


14  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tana  raisins.  One  pint  can  or  the  equivalent  of  fresh  peaches,  cut  into 
one-quarter-inch  square  pieces,  four  drops  almond  flavouring  and  five 
drops  vanilla  essence. 

Place  all  the  above  articles  in  a  vessel  and  mix  well  together.  Thor- 
oughly clean  six  small  lightly  buttered  individual  pudding  moulds,  then 
fill  them  up  with  the  mixture,  being  careful  not  to  press  the  bread  in 
the  moulds.  Pour  the  custard  preparation  No.  40  in  each  mould, 
equally  divided.  Place  the  moulds  in  a  sautoire  with  hot  water  up  to 
half  their  height.  Place  in  the  hot  oven  and  let  steam  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  unmould,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with 
a  hot  rum  sauce  in  a  saucebowl,  separately. 

40.    VANILLA  CUSTARD  FOR  PUDDINGS 

Two  raw  eggs,  two  ounces  powdered  sugar,  one-half  pint  cold  milk, 
three  drops  vanilla  essence.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  the  sugar 
and  sharply  beat  with  the  wire  whisk  for  three  minutes  or  until  well 
thickened.  Add  the  milk  and  essence  and  briskly  mix  with  a  whisk 
for  two  minutes.  Then  the  custard  preparation  is  ready  for  use. 

41.  HOT  RUM  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  very  small,  clean  saucepan  a  quarter  pint  of  cold  water, 
two  ounces  fine  sugar,  the  rind  of  one  sound  lemon,  three  tablespoons 
good  Jamaica  rum,  one  teaspoon  cognac,  one  teaspoon  good  butter,  four 
drops  vanilla  essence  and  a  very  small  piece  of  cinnamon.  Mix  well, 
then  let  it  come  to  a  simmering  point;  thicken  the  same  with  a  salt- 
spoon  arrowroot,  gently  mix  while  allowing  to  simmer  for  one  minute 
and  a  half.  Remove  the  lemon  rind  and  cinnamon.  Pour  the  sauce 
into  a  saucebowl  and  serve  separately. 

42.    VANILLA  ICE  CREAM,  ONE  QUART 

Six  egg  yolks,  eight  ounces  powdered  sugar,  one  pint  cream,  one  pint 
fresh  milk  and  one  stick  vanilla.  Place  the  egg  yolks  and  sugar  in  a 
small  saucepan  and  mix  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  min- 
utes. Place  the  cream,  milk  and  vanilla  into  another  small  saucepan 
and  let  come  to  a  boil;  then  immediately  pour  it  into  the  eggs 
and  sugar,  little  by  little,  carefully  mixing  with  the  wooden  spoon 
while  heating  for  five  minutes;  but  under  no  circumstances  allow 
it  to  boil. 

Remove  it  from  the  fire,  pour  in  a  bowl  and  let  thoroughly  cool 
off.  Remove  the  vanilla  and  strain  the  cream  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
into  a  small  ice-cream  freezer.  Place  the  freezer  in  a  tub,  see  that  the 
freezer  is  completely  buried  jn  cracked  ice  mixed  with  rock  salt,  then 
briskly  freeze  for  thirty  minutes,  seeing  that  the  ice  cream  is  thoroughly 
firm.  Have  a  cold  dessert  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  ready,  dress  the 
ice  cream  on  the  dish  and  send  to  the  table. 

N.  B.  Wipe,  place  and  keep  the  vanilla  bean  in  a  small  box 
buried  in  powdered  sugar,  and  use  again  for  four  or  six  times  when 
required. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  SECOND  15 

Punch  Lalla  Rookh  is  simply  vanilla  ice  cream  mixed  with  rum. 
Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  preparation,  and  just  before  freezing  add 
half  a  gill  good  rum.  Divide  it  into  six  punch  glasses  and  serve. 

43.    MACAROONS 

Boil  four  ounces  sweet  almonds  in  water  for  three  minutes;  thor- 
oughly drain  and  peel  them  nicely.  Place  them  into  a  sieve  and  lay 
them  at  the  door  of  a  slow  oven  to  dry  for  ten  minutes.  Drop  them 
into  a  mortar,  with  one-half  pound  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  and  two  drops  vanilla  essence.  Pound  all  well  till  of  a  smooth 
paste.  Transfer  into  a  vessel  and  beat  with  the  wooden  spoon  until  of 
a  good  consistency. 

Arrange  a  half-inch  tube  at  the  bottom  of  a  small  pastry  bag.  Drop 
the  paste  into  the  bag.  Have  a  pastry  baking  pan  and  lay  it  in  a  piece 
of  brown  paper  the  full  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Then  gently  press 
the  preparation  down  into  the  papered  pan,  one  inch  in  diameter, 
taking  care  that  each  is  entirely  separated  from  the  others.  Take  a 
damp  towel  and  drop  it  gently  on  the  macaroons,  so  as  to  shape  them 
perfectly.  Place  the  pan  in  a  rather  slow  oven  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes,  so  they  will  obtain  a  good  golden  colour.  Remove  from  the 
oven  and  let  them  cool.  To  remove  them  easily  from  the  paper,  wet 
part  of  a  table,  lay  the  paper  over  this  for  two  minutes,  detach  them, 
dress  on  a  dish  and  serve.  Place  in  jar  or  tin  those  not  needed,  as  they 
will  keep  in  good  condition  for 'several  days. 

January  ad  (supposedly  Saturday) 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples 
Hominy  and  Cream 

Bacon  and  Eggs 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops         Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Cornmeal  Muffins 
Raspberry  Marmalade 

44.    BAKED  APPLES 

Wipe  nicely  and  core  with  an  apple  corer  six  fine,  sound,  not  too  ripe, 
apples.  Lay  them  on  a  tin  with  one-half  gill  hot  water.  Fill  the 
cavity  of  each  with  granulated  sugar  and  baste  the  top  of  each  with  just 
a  little  melted  butter.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five 
minutes,  or  until  nice  and  soft.  Remove  from  the  oven.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  pitcher  of  cream  or  milk. 

45.    HOMINY 

Half  pint  hominy,  one  pint  water,  half  pint  milk,  one  teaspoon  but- 
ter and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Wash  the  hominy  in  cold  water  and  drain 
well.  Boil  the  water  and  milk  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  together,  then 


1 6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

add  the  hominy,  salt  and  butter,  and  slowly  cook  for  forty-five  minutes, 
stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  once  in  a  while  to  prevent  burning  at  the 
bottom.  Pour  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve  with  cream  or  milk  separately. 

46.    BACON  AND  EGGS 

Thoroughly  heat  half  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan. 
Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  on  a  saucer  without  breaking  the  yolks, 
then  slide  them  into  the  pan.  Season  with  just  a  very  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  fry  on  a  slow  fire  for  three  minutes.  Slide  them  on  a  hot  dish. 
Proceed  with  five  other  portions  in  exactly  the  same  way.  Lay  over 
the  eggs  in  each  dish  one  slice  of  bacon  prepared  as  per  No.  13  and  serve 
very  hot. 

47.    FRIED  SMELTS,  TARTARE  SAUCE 

Clean  and  wipe  dry  twelve  medium,  fine,  fresh  smelts*  Season 
evenly  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Gently  roll 
them  in  flour,  then  dip  in  beaten-up  eggs,  lightly  roll  in  fine  bread 
crumbs,  and  plunge  them  into  boiling  fat  to  fry  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on  a  dry  cloth  to  thoroughly  drain.  Dress  on 
a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Decorate  with  parsley  greens  and  six 
small  pieces  of  sound  lemon  in  quarters. 

48.    SAUCE  TARTARE 

Have  on  a  plate  three  small,  very  sound  and  finely  chopped  pickles, 
one  sound,  finely  hashed  shallot,  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley,  one  teaspoon  capers,  finely  hashed,  a  quarter  teaspoon  chopped 
tarragon  and  a  quarter  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chervil  (cerfueil). 

Place  in  a  china  bowl  one  raw  egg  yolk,  one-half  teaspoon  ground 
English  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and 
one  tablespoon  good  vinegar.  Sharply  mix  with  the  wire  whisk;  then 
pour  in,  drop  by  drop,  one  gill  good  olive  oil,  continually  mixing  till  alJ 
the  oil  is  added.  Add  now  all  the  ingredients,  waiting  for  action,  to  the 
sauce,  and  briskly  mix  the  whole  together  with  the  whisk  for  four  min- 
utes. Transfer  into  a  cold  saucebowl  and  serve.  If  any  of  the  sauce 
is  left  over,  place  it  in  a  china  bowl  and  always  keep  it  in  a  cool  place 
for  further  use. 

49.  MUTTON  CHOPS,  BROILED 

Pare  and  neatly  flatten  six  fine,  tender,  thick  mutton  chops.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Lightly  oil  the 
broiler  with  oil.  Place  the  chops  on  the  broiler  and  cook  for  five  min- 
utes on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  crown-shape.  Spread  a  very 
little  butter  over  them.  Decorate  the  dish  with  a  little  fresh  watercress 
and  serve. 

50.  HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES 

Boil  in  a  quart  of  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  six  medium-sized 
potatoes  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Peel,  let  cool  off  and  then  chop  them 
very  fine. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  SECOND  17 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  or  good  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  the 
potatoes.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Gently  toss  them  in  the  pan  while  cooking  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes. 
Give  them  an  omelet  shape  and  let  them  get  a  nice  golden  colour,  which 
will  require  five  or  six  minutes.  Turn  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

51.  CORNMEAL  MUFFINS 

One-quarter  pound  wheat  flour,  half  pound  cornmeal,  half  ounce 
powdered  sugar,  half  ounce  good  butter,  half  pint  cold  milk,  half  ounce 
baking  powder,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  whole  raw  egg. 

Place  all  these  articles  in  a  basin  and  carefully  mix  with  the  hand 
until  thoroughly  thickened,  which  will  require  about  six  minutes. 
Lightly  butter  the  interior  of  six  oval  corn-bread  or  muffin  moulds. 
Place  the  preparation  into  the  moulds  up  to  three-quarters  of  their 
height.  Lay  them  on  a  baking  tin  and  bake  in  the  hot  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

t 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme  in  Cups 

Curried  Scallops 

Veal  Cutlet,  Tomato  Sauce 

Pommes  Fondantes 

Fig  Pudding 

52.  CONSOMME  IN  CUPS 

Two  pounds  raw  beef  from  a  shin,  cut  into  pieces,  any  parings  of 
chicken,  beef  and  bones  of  same  on  hand,  one-medium  sized  sliced 
carrot,  one  medium  ditto  sliced  turnip,  one  ditto  onion,  one  branch 
parsley  chopped  up,  one  clove  sound  garlic  chopped  up,  one  branch 
chopped  celery,  one  ditto  chervil,  one  ditto  leeks,  one  tablespoon  salt, 
ten  whole  black  peppers,  one  clove,  five  allspice,  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and 
one  saltspoon  thyme. 

Place  all  the  above  in  a  saucepan,  then  pour  in  a  little  cold  water 
to  nearly  cover  the  meat,  and  other  ingredients.  Place  the  pan  to  one 
side  and  let  it  stand  to  infuse  for  one  hour.  Then  place  the  pan  on  the 
hot  range  and  gently  stir  the  contents  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cook- 
ing for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  well  again  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  it 
slowly  simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain  the  consomme  through 
a  napkin  into  six  cups  or  a  hot  tureen  and  serve  very  hot. 

N.  B. — When  the  consomme*  is  not  to  be  served  in  cups,  but  with 
vegetables,  pastes  and  so  on,  then  it  should  be  strained  into  another 
saucepan,  as  you  will  be  directed. 

53.  SCALLOPS  IN  CURRY 

Plunge  one  and  a  half  pounds  well-cleaned  fresh  scallops  in  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  two  minutes.  Drain 


i8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

thoroughly  in  a  sieve  and  place  them  in  the  curry  sauce,  as  per  No.  54. 
Cook  the  whole  together  for  two  minutes  and  serve  in  a  hot,  deep  dish. 

54.    CURRY  SAUCE 

Brown  in  a  saucepan  to  a  good  golden  colour  in  one  ounce  butter 
one  medium-sized,  sound,  chopped-up  onion;  add  one  ounce  lean,  finely 
chopped  ham,  half  branch  of  the  white  part  of  celery  chopped,  half- 
chopped  green  pepper,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  clove,  ten  whole  black 
peppers  and  half  a  sliced  leek.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  wooden  spoon 
while  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  adding 
one  liberal  teaspoon  good  curry  powder  and  half  a  tablespoon  flour. 
Mix  well,  then  pour  in  a  good  half  pint  boiling  water  (if  consomme 
or  chicken  broth  is  at  hand,  use  it  in  place  of  the  water).  Gently 
mix  again  and  allow  to  slowly  cook  for  eighteen  minutes,  meanwhile 
lightly  stirring  at  the  bottom  occasionally.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  table- 
spoon cream  and  add  it  to  the  curry  sauce;  mix  well,  but  do  not  allow 
to  boil  again.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  another  saucepan. 

N.  B.  Unless  otherwise  mentioned,  a  "tablespoon  flour"  means 
to  be  about  a  level,  not  a  heaping,  tablespoonful. 

55.    VEAL  CUTLETS,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Pare  nicely  and  flatten  six  rib  veal  cutlets.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Roll  them  in 
beaten-up  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  a  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese. 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  sautoire  and  fry  the  cutlets  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side;  then  place  in  the  hot  oven  for  eight  minutes.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  and  serve  with  a  gill  of  hot  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

56.    POTATOES,  FONDANTES 

Peel  and  cut  into  half-inch  dice-shaped  pieces  six  sound,  medium- 
sized  raw  potatoes.  Wash  well  and  drain.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and 
melt  in  a  small  saucepan  one  ounce  salt  pork,  add  one  sound,  finely 
hashed  onion  and  two  bay  leaves,  and  brown  till  of  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Then  drop  in  the  potatoes,  season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  pour  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover 
them  up  to  three-quarters  of  their  height.  Cover  the  pan,  let  them 
slowly  cook  for  forty  minutes  and  suppress  the  bay  leaves.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  besprinkling  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

57".    FIG  PUDDING 

Soak  four  ounces  California  figs  in  a  quart  lukewarm  water  for  one 
hour.  Remove,  drain  well  on  a  towel.  Cut  them  into  quarter-inch 
pieces;  place  in  a  bowl,  adding  two  ounces  bread  crumbs,  two  ounces 
'powdered  sugar,  one  ounce  flour,  one  tablespoon  rum  and  three  egg 
yolks.  Mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes. 
Then  beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY    SECOND  19 

other  bowl;  lightly  mix  with  the  spoon  for  a  minute.  Lightly  butter 
and  flour  a  quart  pudding  mould,  then  pour  in  the  preparation.  Place 
the  mould  in  a  pastry  tin  and  pour  in  boiling  water  up  to  half  the  height 
of  the  mould.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  sauce 
Sabayon  (prepared  as  per  No.  102)  over  the  pudding. 

DINNER 

Oysters 

Radishes,  Caviare  Canape  Tomato  with  Vermicelli 

Halibut  Steaks,  Anchovy  Butter  Pommes  Persillade 

Leg  of  Lamb,  Jardiniere  Fried  Apples 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce      Celery  Salad,  Mayonnaise 
Cabinet  Pudding 
Babas  au  Rhum 

58.    RADISHES 

Select  two  bunches  of  fine,  round,  red,  sound  and  rather  small  radishes. 
Pare  them  nicely  and  leave  on  each  radish  two  of  the  prettiest  leaves. 
Cut  away  the  roots,  and  also  a  little  of  the  peel  around  the  roots.  Place 
them  in  cold  water  and  wash  well.  Nicely  arrange  them  on  a  flat  dish 
so  that  they  meet  toward  the  centre,  the  green  leaves  lying  outward. 
Serve  with  chopped  ice  over  them. 

59.  CANAPES  OF  CAVIARE 

Cut  out  from  sandwich  bread  six  pieces  one-third  of  an  inch  thick 
and  one  and  a  half  inches  square.  Toast  them  to  a  good  golden  colour. 
Neatly  trim  the  crust,  then  evenly  spread  over  one  teaspoon  Russian 
caviare  on  each  toast.  Hash  very  finely  one  cold  hard-boiled  egg.  Mix 
it  thoroughly  with  one  teaspoon  very  finely  chopped  parsley,  one  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  sound  onion.  Spread  this  over  each  toast,  evenly 
divided.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
of  lemon  and  parsley  and  serve. 

60.  TOMATO  WITH  VERMICELLI 

Melt  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter,  add  one  ounce  finely  chopped 
ham,  one  medium  chopped  carrot,  one  medium  chopped  onion,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  chopped  leek,  ten  whole  black  peppers,  one  clove, 
one  bay  leaf,  one  saltspoon  thyme.  Mix  well  and  brown  nicely  for 
fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  one  quart  canned 
— or  the  equivalent  of  fresh  crushed — tomatoes,  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  white  broth  (No.  701)  or  water.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon 
salt  and  one  light  tablespoon  sugar.  If  there  be  any  bones  on  hand, 
either  of  beef  or  poultry,  add  them  to  the  stock. 

Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  add  two  table- 
spoons flour.  Mix  well  while  browning  for  two  minutes,  then  thicken 
the  soup  with  this,  continuing  to  mix  with  the  wooden  spoon  while  adding 
it.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes  longer  and  strain  through  a  sieve  into  another 


20  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

saucepan.  Boil  one  gill  broken  vermicelli  in  a  pint  of  water  for  eight 
minutes.  Drain  well  and  add  it  to  the  soup.  Boil  again  for  five  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

61.    HALIBUT  STEAKS,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Procure  two  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  halibut.  Cut  into  three  even 
steak-like  pieces;  oil  them  lightly,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
saltspoon  white  pepper.  Arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Lay  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Neatly  spread  the 
anchovy  butter  over  the  dish  and  serve. 

62.    ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Place  in  a  bowl  three-quarters  ounce  butter,  adding  one  tablespoon 
anchovy  sauce  and  the  strained  juice  of  one-quarter  of  a  sound  lemon. 
Mix  well  together  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  general  use. 

63.    POTATOES  PERSILLADE 

Boil  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  quart  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  six  small 
peeled  potatoes.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one-half  ounce  butter. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Sprinkle  over  them  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley;  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Toss  them  gently  while  warming  for  five 
minutes.  Place  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

64.    LEG  OF  LAMB,  JARDINIERE 

Have  a  nice,  tender,  rather  small  leg  of  lamb.  Trim  the  handle 
bone  neatly.  Rub  half  ounce  butter  or  good  fat  all  over  it.  Season 
with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  a  teaspoon  white  pepper  well 
distributed.  Place  it  in  a  roasting  pan.  Pour  four  tablespoons 
cold  water  into  the  pan  and  roast  in  the  oven  for  one  hour,  basting  it 
once  in  a  while.  Remove  it  from  the  oven,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  skim 
off  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  strain  the  gravy  over  the  meat.  Dress 
the  jardiniere  all  around  the  leg  and  serve. 

65.     JARDINIERE 

With  a  small  vegetable  scoop  dig  out  two  medium-sized  carrots  and 
one  good-sized  turnip.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  water 
and  two  saltspoons  salt  and  let  cook  until  soft,  about  thirty  minutes. 
Drain  the  vegetables  on  a  sieve  and  see  that  they  are  thoroughly  dry. 
Put  them  back  in  the  same  saucepan  with  a  light  tablespoon  butter, 
adding  three  tablespoons  canned  green  peas,  three  tablespoons  canned 
string  beans  cut  into  half-inch  pieces,  half  a  teaspoon  fine  sugar  and  a 
light  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon  without  mashing  the  vegetables,  let  slowly  cook  on  the  corner 
of  the  range  for  five  minutes,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  A  piece  of 
cauliflower  and  two  tablespoons  asparagus  tips,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  a  few  very  small  Brussels  sprouts,  all  cooked  separately,  can  be 
added  to  the  jardiniere,  if  at  hand. 


SATURDAY,  JANUARY  SECOND  21 

66.    FRIED  APPLES 

Peel  and  core  three  large,  good,  sound  apples.  Slice  them  into 
slices  half  an  inch  thick.  Dip  them  in  cold  milk,  then  roll  them  in  flour. 
Melt  one-half  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan.  Place  the  apples  in  the 
pan  and  fry  on  a  brisk  fire  until  a  nice  golden  colour  on  both  sides,  or 
two  minutes  for  each  side.  Remove  them  with  a  skimmer  and  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Besprinkle  with  a  little  powdered 
sugar  and  serve. 

67.    ROAST  TURKEY,  CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

Procure  a  nice,  tender  turkey  of  about  eight  pounds.  Remove  the 
three  sinews  in  each  leg  of  the  turkey  by  making  an  incision  with  a  small, 
sharp  knife  on  the  under  part,  beginning  one  inch  above  the  first  leg 
joint  and  cutting  upward  for  two  inches  right  alongside  the  bone.  Turn 
up  the  skin,  then  insert  a  small  ice  pick  beneath  the  sinews  and  twist 
around  until  cleanly  drawn,  but  only  draw  out  one  at  a  time.  Remove  the 
neck  and  cut  the  legs  off  one  inch  from  the  first  joint.  Singe,  draw,  wipe 
dry;  truss  with  a  needle  from  the  wing  to  the  leg.  Season  with  a  table- 
spoon salt,  well  sprinkled  all  over,  and  a  light  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  breasts  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork.  Lay  the  bird  on  a 
roasting  pan,  pour  into  the  pan  four  tablespoons  cold  water.  Place  in 
the  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste 
it  frequently  with  its  own  gravy  while  roasting,  and  turning  it  around  once 
in  a  while  to  let  get  a  good  colour  all  over.  Remove  it  from  the  oven, 
untruss  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Carefully  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy, 
then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  turkey  and  serve  with  cranberry  sauce  in  a 
bowl  separately. 

68.     CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

One  pound  sound  red  cranberries,  one  pound  granulated  sugar, 
half  pint  cold  water.  Wash  the  berries  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and  care- 
fully pick  them,  rejecting  all  those  that  float  on  top  of  the  water,  over- 
ripe or  spoiled.  Place  them  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  with  half  a  pint 
cold  water,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  sugar;  mix 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  mashing 
the  berries  as  much  as  possible  with  the  wooden  spoon  while  cooking. 
Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  let  the  sauce  get  thoroughly  cold,  and 
always  serve  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

N.  B.  The  above  amount  of  cranberry  sauce  will  be  considerably 
more  than  required  for  this  occasion,  therefore  whatever  is  left  over 
should  be  placed  in  a  jelly  jar,  tightly  covered  and  kept  in  a  cool  place, 
as  it  will  keep  in  excellent  condition  for  several  months.  A  larger  quan- 
tity than  the  above  can  be  prepared  if  so  desired. 

69.     CELERY  SALAD,  MAYONNAISE 

Pare  off  the  green  stalks  and  neatly  trim  the  roots  from  two  small 
stalks  of  white,  crisp  celery.  Thoroughly  wash,  drain  well,  then  cut 
into  quarter-inch  pieces.  Dry  well  on  a  clean  cloth,  place  in  a  salad 
bowl  and  season  with  two  tablespoons  dressing  (as  per  No.  863).  Mix 


22  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well,  and,  just  a  minute  before  sending  it  to  the  table,  add  three  table- 
spoons mayonnaise  to  the  celery;  mix  it  well  and  serve. 

70.    MAYONNAISE  SAUCE 

Place  one  fresh  egg  yolk  in  a  small  bowl  with  one  tablespoon  good 
vinegar,  one  saltspoon  ground  English  mustard,  two  saltspoons  salt  and  a 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Briskly  beat  up  the  whole  together  with  a  wire 
whisk  for  two  minutes,  then  add,  drop  by  drop,  three-quarters  of  a  gill  good 
cool  olive  oil,  continually  mixing  while  adding  it,  and  continue  mixing  for 
four  minutes  after  the  oil  has  been  added ;  add  the  juice  of  one-quarter 
of  a  sound  lemon,  mix  for  one  minute  more,  then  use  when  required. 

Place  the  surplus  of  the  mayonnaise  in  a  cup  and  put  in  a  cold  place, 
as  it  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  two  or  three  days. 

71.  CABINET  PUDDING 

Lightly  butter  the  interior  of  a  one  quart  pudding  mould.  Arrange 
a  small  piece  of  white  paper  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  mould.  Cut 
out  from  a  sandwich  loaf  of  bread  thirty  round  pieces  one  inch  in  diame- 
ter and  one-third  inch  in  thickness.  Beat  up  in  a  bowl  two  raw  egg 
yolks  with  a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  and  one  gill  cream  or  good  milk. 
Steep  the  pieces  of  bread  in  the  cream  for  ten  minutes.  Chop  very  fine 
six  small  slices  of  candied  or  canned  pineapple  and  fifteen  peeled  pis- 
taches.  Mix  them  together,  arrange  a  layer  of  the  bread  at  the  bottom 
of  the  mould,  then  a  layer  of  pineapples,  etc.  Continue  the  same 
operation  until  all  are  used,  seeing  that  the  last  is  a  layer  of  bread. 
Gradually  fill  the  mould  up  to  the  height  of  the  bread  with  a  custard  (as 
per  No.  37).  Place  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  in  boiling  water  up  to 
half  the  height  of  the  mould.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake 
for  one  hour.  Remove,  unmould,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  a 
hot  pineapple  sauce. 

72.  PINEAPPLE  SAUCE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  gills  canned  pineapple  liquor  with 
half  gill  granulated  sugar  and  a  small  piece  lemon  peel  (one  quarter). 
Mix  and  let  boil  for  six  minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon  curacao.  Mix  a 
little.  Remove  the  lemon  peel  and  serve. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

^Stewed  Rhubarb 
Farina  with  Milk 

Findon  Haddock  Omelet  with  Parsley 

Lamb  Hash,  Green  Peppers  Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Cinnamon  Cakes 

73.  STEWED  RHUBARB 

Skin  three-quarters  of  a  pound  fresh,  sound,  red  rhubarb.  Cut  it 
into  one-inch-long  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  pound  granu- 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  23 

lated  sugar  and  the  rind  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon.  Set  the  pan  on 
a  brisk  fire  and  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  completely 
dissolved,  which  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  let  cool  off.  Remove  the  lemon  rind.  Transfer  to  a  glass 
dish  and  serve. 

74.    FARINA  WITH  MILK 

Have  a  pint  boiling  milk  in  a  small  enamelled  pan  on  the  fire.  Gradu- 
ally add  two  gills  farina,  sharply  mixing  with  the  whisk  while  adding  it. 
Add  two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Stir  in  one  raw  egg  yolk  and 
serve  with  cold  milk. 

75.     OMELETTE,  PLAIN 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  season  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  adding  half  gill  of  fresh 
milk.  Sharply  mix  the  whole  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Place  in  a 
black  frying  pan  one  good  tablespoon  clarified  butter,  and  when  the  but- 
ter crackles  drop  in  the  eggs  and  with  a  fork  stir  well  for  two  minutes, 
then  let  rest  for  half  a  minute.  Fold  up  with  the  fork — the  side  nearest 
the  handle  first — to  the  centre  of  the  omelette,  then  the  opposite  side, 
so  that  both  sides  will  meet  right  in  the  centre ;  let  rest  for  half  minute. 
Have  a  hot  dish  in  the  left  hand,  take  hold  of  the  handle  of  the  pan  with 
the  right,  bring  both  dish  and  pan  to  a  triangular  shape,  and  with  a 
rapid  movement  turn  the  omelette  over  the  centre  of  the  dish  and  imme- 
diately send  to  the  table.  Always  make  the  omelettes  on  a  brisk  fire 
without  taking  the  lid  off. 

7  5  A.    To  CLARIFY  BUTTER 

Place  half  pound  good  butter  in  a  small,  enamelled  saucepan,  then 
place  the  pan  into  another  pan  containing  boiling  water  and  let  stand  on 
the  corner  of  the  range  until  thoroughly  melted ;  skim  it  well,  then  strain 
through  a  fine  cloth  into  a  bowl;  keep  in  a  moderate  temperature  and 
use  as  required. 

76.    FINDON  HADDOCK,  BROILED 

Lightly  roll  in  oil  one  and  a  half  pounds  fine  thick,  smoked  findon 
haddock.  Arrange  in  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on 
each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  Maitre  d'hotel  butter 
(No.  7),  nicely  spread  over. 

77.    LAMB  HASH  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Detach  and  cut  into  very  small  square  pieces  all  the  meat  from  the 
remaining  leg  of  lamb  of  yesterday.  Have  the  same  quantity  cooked 
potatoes,  chopped  the  same  as  the  lamb,  and  mix  together.  Melt  an 
ounce  butter  in  a  small  pan,  and  one  medium,  sound  and  finely  chopped 
onion  and  a  medium,  finely  chopped  green  pepper. 

Mix  well  until  they  obtain  a  good  golden  colour.  Add  the  lamb 
and  potatoes.  Pour  in  half  pint  hot  broth  or  hot  water  and  two  tables 


24  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoons  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Season  with  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  a  light  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
Mix  all  well  together  and  let  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move, dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  six  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
around  the  dish. 

78.    LYONNAISE   POTATOES 

Boil  in  a  quart  of  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  four  medium,  sound 
potatoes  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  and  let  cool  off;  slice  them  into 
the  thickness  of  a  silver  dollar.  Melt  an  ounce  butter  or  good  fat  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  one  good-sized,  sound,  white,  sliced  onion,  and  gently 
cook  it  for  three  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Then  add  the 
potatoes.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  well  sprinkled  over  the  potatoes,  then  cook  for  seven  minutes, 
gently  tossing  them  once  in  a  while.  Give  the  potatoes  a  nice  omelet 
form,  then  let  them  get  a  very  good  golden  colour  for  about  six  minutes 
Turn  on  a  hot  dish,  besprinkle  with  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and 
serve. 

79.    CINNAMON  CAKES 

Cinnamon  cakes  are  to  be  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  flannel 
cakes  (No.  136),  only  adding  half  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  mixed 
up  in  the  preparation. 

LUNCHEON 

Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  on  Toast 
Squabs,  Sauce  Piquante 

Potatoes,  Anna 
Omelette  Souffle'e,  Vanilla 

80.     CLAM  BROTH 

Open  fifteen  large,  fresh  clams  and  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  all  their  liquor.  Add  one  and  a  half  quarts  cold  water  and  four 
branches  celery.  Place  on  the  fire,  season  with  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper,  adding  one  teaspoon  butter,  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  napkin  into  six  cups  and  serve. 

81.    BROILED  SARDINES  ON  TOAST,  DEVILLED  SAUCE 

Have  twelve  fine,  good-sized  sardines.  Carefully  roll  them,  with- 
out breaking,  in  cracker  dust  (crumbs).  Arrange  them  on  a  double 
broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk, fire  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until 
of  a  good  colour. 

Prepare  six  small  toasts;  place  two  sardines  on  each  slice.  Arrange 
them  on  a  large  dish.  Pour  a  hot  devilled  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

82.    DEVILLED  SAUCE 

Brown  in  a  small  saucepan  in  half  an  ounce  of  butter  four  good- 
sized  sound  and  very  finely  hashed  shallots.  Add  half  teaspoon  ground 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  25 

English  mustard  and  one  teaspoon  flour.  Mix  well  without  cooking. 
Add  four  medium-sized,  fine,  red,,  crushed  and  strained  tomatoes;  mix 
well,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  adding 
a  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  then  allow  to  slowly  boil  for  twelve  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  When  finished,  add  quarter  of  an  ounce  butter.  Mix 
well  again,  without  boiling,  for  a  minute,  and  the  same  is  ready. 

83.    SQUABS,  PIQUANTE  SAUCE 

Singe  and  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joints,  remove  the  heads,  split 
open  through  the  back,  neatly  draw  and  wipe  dry  six  nice  fat  Phila- 
delphia squabs.  Remove  the  breast  bones  and  lightly  flatten  with 
a  cleaver.  Place  them  on  a  dish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  well  divided  all  over. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  large  frying  pan,  lay  in  the 
squabs  one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  them  for  eight  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove;  pour  a  hot  piquante  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No. 
177,  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the  squabs  over  the  sauce,  one  overlapping 
another,  and  send  to  the  table. 

84.    POTATOES,  ANNA 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  four  good-sized,  sound,  raw  potatoes.  Slice 
them  with  a  Saratoga-chip  potato  machine.  If  none  is  at  hand,  slice 
them  as  fine  as  possible.  Grate  two  ounces  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese. 
Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  remove  the  pan  from  the 
fire  and  cover  the  bottom  with  a  light  layer  of  potatoes.  Mix  a  teaspoon 
salt  with  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  sprinkle  a  very  little  over  the 
potatoes,  spread  a  very  little  of  the  cheese  over  the  potatoes,  and 
place  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  over  the  cheese.  Arrange  another 
layer  of  potatoes — and  so  on  till  all  are  employed.  Cover  the  pan 
and  place  on  a  moderate  fire  for  five  minutes.  Turn  them  over 
with  a  cake  turner;  let  them  cook  again  for  three  minutes  and  then 
place  in  the  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  them  from  the  oven. 
Turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

85.     OMELETTE  SOUFFLE"  E,  VANILLA 

Lightly  butter  and  then  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  on  the  bottom 
of  a  rather  deep,  cold-metal  or  china  dish,  about  twelve  inches  long  by 
nine  wide,  that  will  stand  the  heat.  Place  in  a  vessel  three  ounces  pow- 
dered sugar.  Carefully  break  seven  fresh  eggs,  drop  the  whites  into  a 
copper  basin,  and  the  yolks  of  four  into  the  vessel  containing  the  sugar. 
Crush  as  finely  as  you  can  three  macaroons  (as  per  No.  43),  add  them 
to  the  sugar  and  yolks,  then  with  a  whisk  begin  to  beat  the  yolks,  sugar 
and  macaroons  as  briskly  as  you  possiby  can  for  twelve  minutes,  then 
lay  aside. 

Then,  if  handy,  place  the  copper  basin  on  some  ice,  and  with  the 
whisk  beat  up  to  a  very  stiff  froth  the  seven  whites  in  the  copper  basin, 
which  will  take  about  twelve  minutes.  Remove  the  whisk,  then  (with 


26  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

a  skimmer  in  the  right  hand)  with  the  left  take  hold  of  the  vessel  con- 
taining the  preparation  of  yolk,  sugar  and  macaroons  and  gradually 
pour  it  over  the  whites.  Season  with  a  light  saltspoon  salt  and  pour  in 
ten  drops  good  vanilla  essence;  gently  mix  the  whole  well  together  for 
two  minutes  with  the  whisk,  or  until  thoroughly  incorporated.  Now 
take  up  the  preparation  with  the  skimmer  and  drop  it  into  the  centre  of 
the  buttered,  sugared  dish,  taking  special  care  to  pile  it  as  high  as 
possible,  so  as  to  have  it  of  a  perfect  dome-shape;  with  the  blade  of  a 
knife  make  an  opening  on  top  two  inches  and  a  half  long  by  two  and  a 
half  in  depth  and  one  and  a  half  inch  wide.  Turn  the  preparation, 
from  the  centre  of  the  opening  over  on  each  side,  heaping  it  a  little  higher 
at  each  end  of  the  opening.  Neatly  smooth  the  sides'  and  all  around 
with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  giving  it  any  desired  design  to  look  attractive 
when  cooked. 

Heat  the  bottom  of  the  dish  on  top  of  the  range  for  just  a  minute, 
then  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes;  remove  it  to 
the  oven  door,  dredge  powdered  sugar  over  it  liberally,  replace  it  in  the 
oven  and  bake  for  six  minutes  more,  or  until  it  has  obtained  an  exceed- 
ingly good  golden  colour.  Remove  it  from  the  oven,  lay  the  dish  upon 
another  cold  one  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

N.  B.  Special  care  should  be  taken  when  piling  the  preparation 
into  the  dish  and  making  the  opening,  which  should  be  done  as  rapidly 
as  possible.  When  desired,  the  vanilla  essence  can  be  substituted  by 
orange-flavour  water. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

"  Celery        Olives 

Consomme,  Prentanier 

Salmon,  Normande  Potatoes,  Brioches 

Poulet,  Valencienne 
Spring  Lamb  Chops,  Soubise  French    Flageolets 

Punch,  Cardinale 

Roast  Partridge,   sur  Canape's  Salad  Escarole 

Pudding  Espagnole  Glac6  Constantine 

Croquignoles 

86.    CELERY  IN  GLASS 

Pare  off  the  green  stalks  of  one  fine,  large  bunch  of  white,  tender, 
crisp  celery;  neatly  trim  the  roots,  being  careful  to  save  the  clear  white 
hearts.  Cut  each  stalk  lengthwise  into  four  equal  branches.  Wash 
them  well  in  cold  water  and  plunge  in  clean  water  with  a  piece  of  ice 
until  ready  to  serve;  then  arrange  them  in  a  celery  glass  or  a  china  radish 
dish,  with  a  few  pieces  of  ice  in  the  centre,  and  serve. 

87.     CONSOMME"  PRENTANIER 

Prepare  a  consomme  exactly  the  same  as  for  No.  52,  but  strain  it 
into  another  saucepan  instead  of  the  six  cups. 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  27 

SyA.    PRENTANIER  FOR  SOUP 

Cut  into  lozenge-shaped  pieces  two  medium  carrots  and  two  medium 
white  turnips.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  gill  cold  water,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  butter. 
Cover  the  vegetables  with  a  piece  of  buttered  white  paper.  Cover  the 
pan;  let  come  to  a  boil;  place  the  pan  in  the  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove  the  vegetables  from  the  oven  and  add  them  to  the  strained  con- 
somme in  the  pan,  adding  three  tablespoons  canned  French  green  peas, 
three  tablespoons  canned  string  beans  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  three 
tablespoons  canned  asparagus  tips  also  cut  into  small  pieces.  Let  the 
whole  cook  gently  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

88.    SALMON,  NORMANDE 

Have  three  slices  fine,  fresh  salmon,  one  inch  in  thickness.  Marinade 
them  exactly  the  same  as  bass  (No.  24).  Then  place  the  salmon  pieces 
in  a  lightly  buttered  pan,  and  proceed  to  cook  them  precisely  the  same 
as  the  bass  (No.  25). 

Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  Normande  sauce  over.  Decorate 
the  dish  with  bread  croutons,  as  per  No.  90,  and  serve. 

89.    SAUCE  NORMANDE 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  clarified  butter;  add  one 
tablespoon  flour,  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  heated, 
then  add  three-quarters  of  a  gill  white  wine  and  strain  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  of  the  gravy  of  the  fish  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Thoroughly  mix, 
then  briskly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pep- 
per, two  saltspoons  salt,  adding  a  raw  egg  yolk  and  the  juice  of  quarter 
of  a  sound  lemon.  Set  the  pan  on  a  corner  of  the  range  and  mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  well  thickened,  or  for  two  minutes,  being  care- 
ful not  to  allow  it  to  boil.  Strain  through  a  napkin  into  another  sauce- 
pan. 

Have  in  a  small  sautoire  six  small  whole  fresh  oysters,  six  whole 
canned  shrimps,  or  the  equivalent  of  lobster  cut  in  small  dice  pieces, 
six  small  heads  of  canned  mushrooms,  and  six  very  thin  slices  of  truffles. 
Moisten  with  half  gill  of  Maderia  or  white  wine,  then  boil  for  five  min- 
utes. Add  the  sauce  to  this  garnish.  Heat  up  for  four  minutes  longer, 
gently  stirring  meanwhile. 

90.    BREAD  CROUTONS,  HEART  SHAPED 

Cut  six  thin  slices  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread.  Nicely  pare  them, 
then  cut  them  into  small  heart-shaped  croutons.  Lay  them  on  a  tin 
plate,  drip  a  little  clarified  butter  over  them  and  place  in  the  hot  oven 
for  four  minutes,  or  until  they  obtain  a  good  golden  colour.  Take  out 
of  the  oven  and  use  when  required. 

91.    POTATOES,  BRIOCHES 

Peel  eight  medium,  sound  potatoes,  cook  them  in  two  quarts  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  and  press  through  a 


28  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

potato  masher  into  a  bowl.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  white  pepper,  one  light  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  two 
whole  raw  eggs  and  half  ounce  butter.  Thoroughly  mix  with  the 
wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Spread  two  tablespoons  flour  on  a 
corner  of  the  table.  Divide  the  puree  into  six  equal  parts.  Roll 
them  in  the  flour,  giving  them  a  nice  brioche  form.  Place  in  a 
buttered  tin  pan,  spread  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter  over  each 
brioche,  and  bake  in  the  hot  oven  until  of  a  nice  golden  colour,  or 
eight  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

92.     CHICKEN  VALENCIENNE 

Procure  a  nice,  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  roasting  chicken.  Cut 
off  the  head  and  feet;  singe,  draw,  wipe  dry  and  truss  nicely.  Arrange 
a  thin  border  of  lard  over  the  breast  of  the  chicken,  nicely  tied.  Peel 
and  cut  into  half-inch  square  pieces  one  small,  sound  Spanish  onion,  one 
ounce  lean  raw  ham,  cut  the  same  way,  and  one  clove  sound,  chopped 
garlic.  Place  these  in  an  earthen  pot,  if  possible,  sufficiently  large  to 
hold  the  chicken.  Add  one  tablespoon  good  oil.  Lay  the  chicken  over 
and  place  the  pot  in  the  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  till  it  gets  a  nice 
light  golden  colour;  then  draw  the  pot  to  the  oven  door.  Add  two  gills 
raw  Italian  rice,  four  sweet  Spanish  peppers  cut  into  half-inch  squares 
and  two  tablespoons  green  peas.  Season  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  a  very  little  Spanish  saffron  (or  a  saltspoon), 
and  one  stalk  parsley,  finely  chopped.  Moisten  with  a  heavy  pint  hot 
broth  or  water  and  a  good  gill  white  wine.  Cover  the  pot  and  place  in 
the  oven  again  to  cook  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
oven,  take  up  the  chicken  from  the  pot,  dress  the  rice,  etc.,  on  a  hot 
dish,  arrange  the  chicken  on  the  rice  and  send  to  the  table. 

N.  B.  When  drawing  poultry  of  any  kind  split  the  gizzards  in  two, 
then  carefully  remove  the  sandy  pouch,  wash  well  in  clear,  cold  water 
and  add  to  the  white  broth  "stock  pot"  (No.  701),  as  well  as  the  hearts 
and  livers. 

93.     SPRING- LAMB  CHOPS,  SOUBISE 

Have  six  nice  spring-lamb  chops.  Trim  and  neatly  flatten  them. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Lightly 
roll  in  flour,  then  steep  in  beaten-up  eggs  and  gently  roll  in  bread  crumbs. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  clarified  butter  in  a  frying  pan;  lay  the  chops 
in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side.  Pour  the  Soubise  sauce  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the  chops  nicely 
over  the  sauce,  one  overlaying  the  other,  and  serve. 

94.    SOUBISE  SAUCE 

Chop  very  fine  half  a  medium,  sound  white  onion;  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  half  ounce  butter  and  gently  brown  on  the  range  for  five  min- 
utes. Add  two  teaspoons  flour,  mix  well ;  add  one  good  gill  boiling  milk 
and  mix  well  again.  Season  with  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt  and  one 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  29 

saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Add  one  raw 
egg  yolk  and  mix  well  without  boiling.  Strain  the  s?  .ice  through  a 
cheesecloth  over  the  dish. 

95.    FRENCH  FLAGEOLETS 

Open  a  can  of  French  flageolets.  Drain  and  plunge  them  into 
boiling  water  for  six  minutes.  Drain  again.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with 
half  an  ounce  good  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  powdered 
sugar  and  half  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Mix  well  for  one  minute  and 
serve  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish. 

96.    PUNCH,  CARDINAL 

Place  in  a  bowl  half  pound  granulated  sugar,  grate  in  the  rind  of  half 
a  very  sound  lemon  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  three  medium-sized, 
sound  lemons,  the  juice  of  half  an  orange,  adding  one  gill  raspberry 
syrup  and  one  and  a  half  pints  lukewarm  water,  two  teaspoons  Swiss 
kirsch  and  one  teaspoon  maraschino.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  three  minutes,  then  add  four  drops  vegetable  carmine,  if  handy; 
mix  a  little.  Strain  and  place  it  in  a  small  freezer  and  freeze  same  as 
vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Fill  up  six  punch  glasses  and  serve. 

97,    ROAST  PARTRIDGE  SUR  CANAPES 

Singe,  cut  off  the  heads  and  feet,  draw  and  wipe  two  fine,  young 
fat  partridges.  Truss  them  neatly,  cover  the  breasts  with  a  layer  of 
thin  lard,  nicely  tied  around.  Lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan;  pour  in  three 
tablespoons  cold  water  and  roast  them  in  the  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes, 
basting  the  birds  occasionally  with  their  own  gravy.  Remove  from  the 
oven,  suppress  the  lard,  untruss,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  two  bread 
canapes.  Decorate  the  dish  with  a  little  watercress.  Strain  the  gravy 
into  a  saucebowl  and  serve  separately,  also  serving  a  little  bread  sauce 
separately. 

98.     CANAPES  FOR  GAME 

Cut  out  two  canapes  from  a  loaf  of  American  stale  bread  one  and  a 
half  inches  thick.  Trim  neatly,  pare  off  the  crusts;  then  cut  out  a  piece 
in  the  centre  of  each,  from  end  to  end,  so  that  the  cavity  will  hold  the 
bird  nicely  when  sending  to  the  table.  Spread  a  very  little  butter  over 
them,  place  on  a  tin  plate,  then  brown  in  the  hot  oven  until  they  obtain 
a  good  golden  colour.  Remove  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish. 

99.     BREAD  SAUCE 

Boil  half  pint  milk  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  half  gill  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  one  tea- 
spoon butter;  mix  all  well  together  and  let  boil  for  six  minutes,  lightly 
mixing  occasionally,  and  use  as  required. 

100.     SALAD,  ESCAROLE 

Pare  off  the  outer  green  leaves  and  cores  of  two  rather  small  or  one 
large  head  of  fine,  white,  fresh  endive.  If  free  from  sand  and  otherwise 


3o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

thoroughly  clean,  carefully  wipe  it  with  a  cloth  without  washing,  but  if 
washing  is  required,  it  should  be  done  as  rapidly  as  possible ;  that  is,  as 
soon  as  it  is  plunged  into  the  cold  water  quickly  turn  it  all  over  with  the 
hands,  lift  it  up,  let  the  water  run  out,  then  place  it  in  a  wire  salad  basket 
and  sharply  shake  it  till  thoroughly  dry. 

The  long  leaves  can  be  cut  so  as  to  have  them  all  as  near  equal  in  size 
as  possible.  Place  in  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dress- 
ing, as  per  No.  863 ;  thoroughly  mix  at  the  last  moment  and  serve. 

101.    PUDDING  ESPAGNOLE 

Lightly  butter  the  interior  of  a  quart  pudding  mould.  Heat  two 
ounces  clarified  butter  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  one  gill  bread  crumbs  and 
let  get  a  nice  golden  colour;  then  add  half  pint  hot  milk.  Thoroughly 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  thoroughly  thickened,  remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire  and  mix  well  again  for  five  minutes.  Add  two  ounces  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  two  whole  raw  eggs  and  three 
yolks.  Mix  well.  Now  add  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Gently  mix  again  and  then  fill  the  mould  with  the  prepara- 
tion. Place  the  mould  in  a  saucepan,  pour  hot  water  up  to  one-half  the 
height  of  the  mould,  and  bake  in  the  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Re- 
move, unmould  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102). 

102.  SABAYON  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  bowl  two  egg  yolks  and  one  ounce  granulated  sugar. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Boil  in  a  saucepan  one 
gill  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  adding  seven  drops  vanilla  essence ;  as  soon 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  it  very  gradually  over  the  eggs  and  sugar,  con- 
tinually stirring  meanwhile.  Transfer  into  a  saucepan,  set  the  pan  on 
the  fire,  heat  for  three  minutes,  without  ceasing  mixing,  but  do  not  allow 
to  boil.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  saucebowl  and  serve. 

103.     GLACE  CONSTANTINE 

Have  a  well-cleaned  melon  mould  of  one  quart,  three  ounces  choco- 
late, three  ounces  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  hot  water,  half  pint  cream 
whipped,  eight  egg  yolks  and  a  gill  white  syrup.  Place  the  chocolate, 
sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  five  minutes, 
continually  mixing  meanwhile;  set  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range. 
Beat  up  the  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  the  cold  syrup.  Pour,  little  by 
little,  the  chocolate  preparation  into  the  eggs,  constantly  mixing  with 
the  wooden  spoon  while  doing  so.  Transfer  the  preparation  into  the 
same  saucepan,  set  the  pan  -on  the  fire,  gently  mix  until  it  bubbles,  but 
do  not  allow  to  boil.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  add  the  whipped 
cream,  mix  a  little;  then  strain  it  into  the  freezer  and  freeze  the  same  as 
vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Fill  the  mould  with  the  ice  cream  and 
close  it  tightly.  Bury  the  mould  in  a  tub  with  ice  and  rock  salt  and 
let  freeze  for  an  hour.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  send  to  the  table. 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  31 

Monday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges 

Quaker  Oats  with  Cream 
Poached  Eggs,  Calcutta 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel 

Hamburg  Steak  with  Onions 

Stewed  Potatoes 

Queen  Cakes 

104.    ORANGES 

Peel  and  carefully  detach  all  fibres  adhering  to  four  good-sized, 
sound,  juicy,  cold  oranges.  Then  with  a  keen  knife  cut  them  crosswise 
into  thin,  equal  slices.  Lay  them  on  a  dish  with  all  their  juice;  liberally 
dredge  powdered  sugar  over  them.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place,  and  just 
before  serving  pour  in  a  pony  of  curacao,  Swiss  kirsch,  kummel  or  cognac. 
Dress  them  nicely  on  a  dessert  dish  in  crown  shape.  Thoroughly  mix 
the  liquor,  sugar,  etc.,  pour  it  over  the  oranges  and  serve. 

105.     QUAKER  OATS 

Place  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  three-quarters  of  a  pint  cold  milk, 
half  pint  cold  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt  and  let  just  come  to  a  boil,  then 
add  two  gills  Quaker  oats.  Lightly  mix  and  let  boil  rather  slowly  for 
fully  one  hour,  lightly  stirring  at  the  bottom  with  the  wooden  spoon 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning  at  the  bottom.  Pour  into  a  bowl  and 
serve  with  cold  milk  or  cream. 

106.    POACHED  EGGS  ON  TOAST  (12  pieces) 

No.  i.  Have  in  quite  a  wide  and  rather  low-edged  pan  on  the  fire 
(so  that  six  eggs  can  easily  float  at  the  same  time  without  jamming) 
three  and  a  half  quarts  of  water,  seeing  that  the  water  is  no  less  than 
four  inches  deep. 

Have  on  a  dinner  plate  one  tablespoon  cold  water.  When  the  water 
in  the  pan  boils,  pour  in  one  tablespoon  vinegar.  Carefully  crack  six 
fresh  eggs  on  the  wetted  plate,  without  breaking  the  yolks,  and  gently 
slide  them  into  the  boiling  water  and  poach  for  three  minutes.  Lift 
them  up  with  a  skimmer,  neatly  trim  the  edges,  if  there  be  any  adhering; 
lay  them  on  freshly  prepared  buttered  or  unbuttered  toasts,  two  eggs  on 
each,  and  keep  warm.  Repeat  the  same  with  six  more  and  serve.  By 
not  using  salt  in  poaching  the  eggs  they  will  turn  out  whiter  and  more 
brilliant  looking. 

No.  2  (12  eggs).  Have  a  pan  on  the  fire  with  same  quantity  of  water 
as  above,  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  a  tablespoon  vinegar.  Have 
another  saucepan  on  the  fire  with  two  quarts  boiling  water.  Carefully 
drop  in  six  fresh  eggs  and  let  them  just  roll  over  for  fourteen  seconds; 
lift  them  up  and  gently  drop  in  cold  water;  then  repeat  same  process 
with  six  more.  Lift  them  up  from  the  cold  water  and  lay  on  a  plate. 


32  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

When  the  first  seasoned  water  thoroughly  boils  carefully  and  rapidly 
crack  six  of  the  eggs  and  drop  them  right  in  the  centre — as  near  the 
surface  of  the  water  as  the  heat  will  permit.  Poach  for  three  minutes. 
Take  them  up  with  the  skimmer,  neatly  trim  off  any  adhering  superflu- 
ous edges,  lay  them  on  freshly  prepared  toast,  and  proceed  to  prepare 
six  more  in  this  manner  and  serve. 

When  the  eggs  are  absolutely  fresh  the  mode  of  preparing  them 
described  in  No.  i  is  the  best.  When  doubtful,  or  in  winter  months, 
No.  2  is  the  safest. 

107.    BOILED  SALT  MACKEREL 

Cut  away  the  fins  and  soak  in  fresh  water  for  two  hours  a  fine,  good- 
sized  salt  mackerel.  Drain  well  and  then  plunge  it  into  a  pan  with  two 
quarts  boiling  water  and  allow  to  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  drain 
well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with  a  little  hot 
melted  butter  separately. 

1 08.    HAMBURG  STEAK  WITH  FRIED  ONIONS 

Pass  through  a  Salisbury  chopping  machine  two  pounds  lean,  raw 
rump  of  beef,  lay  it  on  a  plate,  add  one  good-sized,  finely  chopped  sound 
onion,  first  fried  in  a  teaspoon  butter  for  three  minutes.  Season  with 
one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one  whole  raw  egg.  Mix 
all  well  together,  then  divide  the  meat  into  six  equal  parts.  Roll  them 
in  flour  and  give  them  a  nice  fish-cake  form.  Heat  three-quarters  of  an 
ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan.  Slide  in  the  steaks  and  fry  them  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
over  their  own  gravy.  Arrange  the  fried  onions  around  the  steak  and 
serve  very  hot. 

109.    FRIED  ONIONS 

Peel  and  slice  round-shaped  four  medium-sized,  sound  white  onions. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  detach  them  at  the  rings,  gently  roll 
them  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  then  plunge  them  in  boiling  fat  and  fry 
for  eight  minutes,  or  until  they  obtain  a  good  golden  colour.  Lift  them 
up  with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  dry  and  use  as 
required. 

no.    STEWED  POTATOES 

Boil  five  good-sized,  sound  potatoes  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes;  peel  and  slice  them  rather  thin. 
Heat  half  ounce  butter  in  "a  saucepan,  add  one  teaspoon  flour,  mixing 
well.  Now  add  one  and  a  half  gills  boiling  milk  and  half  gill  hot  cream. 
Mix  well  with  wire  whisk.  Drop  the  potatoes  into  the  pan.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  also  one-half  teaspoon  butter.  Toss  them  well  and  let 
cook  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  33 

in.     QUEEN  CAKES 

Half  pound  flour,  three  ounces  butter,  four  ounces  powdered  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  gill  milk,  two  tablespoons  currants,  half  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon. 

Knead  the  butter  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  cream  in  a  bowl,  dredge 
in  the  flour,  add  the  sugar  and  currants.  Mix  the  ingredients  well 
together,  then  break  in  the  eggs  and  beat  the  whole  well  together 
for  five  minutes.  Add  the  baking  powder;  gently  mix.  Lightly 
butter  a  small  tin;  pour  the  preparation  into  the  tin  and  set  in  the  hot 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  cut  the  cake  into  six  equal 
pieces  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters  a  1'Indienne 
Navarin  Parmentier 

Tomato  Omelette 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes 

Mince  Pie 

112.     OYSTERS  A  L'!NDIENNE 

Have  in  a  saucepan  half  pint  boiling  water.  Plunge  in  twenty-four 
fairly  good-sized,  freshly  opened  oysters  with  all  their  liquor.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain  them  and 
add  them  to  the  curry  sauce  (as  prepared  in  No.  54).  Let  the  whole 
boil  for  three  minutes.  Arrange  a  rice  as  in  No.  113  around  a  hot  dish, 
crown  shape.  Pour  the  oysters  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  and  serve. 

113.    BOILED  RICE 

Clean  and  wash  well  quarter  of  a  pound  good  rice;  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  cold  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt ;  put  the 
lid  on  and  boil  for  twenty- two  minutes.  Drain  through  a  colander, 
being  careful  to  let  it  drain  thoroughly  without  crushing  the  rice,  other- 
wise it  is  liable  to  spoil.  Return  it  to  the  pan,  put  the  lid  on,  set  it  on 
the  corner  of  the  range  for  five  minutes  and  serve  as  required. 

114.    NAVARIN  PARMENTIER 

Procure  a  nice  neck  of  tender  mutton.  Cut  it  into  two-inch-square 
pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  good  oil  in  a  stewpan,  add  one  clove 
sound  garlic  and  heat  on  the  range  until  a  light  brown,  then  remove  the 
garlic  from  the  pan  and  add  the  mutton.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  turning 
the  pieces  occasionally.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  with  the 
wooden  spoon.  Moisten  with  one  quart  hot  water,  mix  well.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Tie  up  as  a  bouquet  two  leeks,  two 
branches  parsley,  three  branches  chives  and  two  branches  chervil  (cer- 
feuil)  and  add  it  to  the  stew.  Add  also  six  sound,  finely  hashed  shallots. 
Shift  the  pan  a  little  aside  from  the  briskness  of  the  fire  and  let  gently 
simmer  for  forty-five  minutes,  skimming  the  fat  off  the  surface  two  or 


34  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

three  times  during  that  time.  Then  add  two  good-sized,  peeled,  raw 
potatoes,  cut  into  one-inch-square  pieces,  and  half  pint  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6).  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes 
more.  Remove  the  bouquet  of  herbs.  Pour  the  stew  into  a  hot 
deep  dish.  Sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

115.     TOMATO  OMELETTE  .t 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  adding  one-half  gill  cold  milk,  and 
beat  the  whole  thoroughly  for  two  minutes.  Place  in  quite  a  large 
frying  pan  one  heavy  tablespoon  clarified  butter  and  heat  well  without 
browning;  that  is,  when  the  butter  crackles,  pour  in  quarter  of  a  pint 
finely  chopped,  fresh-cooked  stewed  tomatoes,  drawing  off  all  their 
liquor;  mix  lightly  and  cook  for  two  minutes;  then  drop  in  the  beaten 
eggs  over  the  tomatoes  and  with  a  fork  gently  mix  the  whole  for  three 
minutes.  Let  rest  for  one  and  a  half  minutes,  fold  up  the  two  opposite 
sides,  carefully  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  send  to  the  table. 

1 1 6.    FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  four  medium-sized,  sound,  round,  sweet  potatoes.  Cut  them 
into  one-third-inch-thick  slices,  then  cut  each  slice  into  one-third-inch 
strips.  Plunge  them  in  hot,  but  not  boiling,  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Lift 
them  up  with  the  skimmer.  Thoroughly  boil  the  fat,  then  plunge  in  the 
potatoes  again  and  fry  for  three  minutes  longer.  Remove  them  with  the 
skimmer  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 

117.    PASTE  FOR  ONE  PIE 

Sift  half  pound  flour  on  a  table.  Make  a  "fountain"  (hollow  space) 
in  the  centre,  place  into  it  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter,  one  gill  cold 
water  and  one  and  a  half  saltspoons  salt.  Then  with  the  hand  mix  the 
butter,  water  and  salt  briskly  for  three  minutes  and  gradually  and  slowly 
incorporate  the  flour  with  the  rest,  mixing  for  five  minutes.  Lay  the 
paste  on  a  plate,  cover  it  with  a  towel  and  place  in  a  cool  place  to  rest 
for  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  three  ounces  well-washed  butter  in  a 
lump;  return  the  paste  to  the  table,  flatten  it  lightly,  then  place  the 
lump  of  butter  in  the  centre,  fold  over  the  edges  so  as  to  enclose  the 
butter,  roll  it  out  lengthwise  with  the  pastry  roller  and  refold  the 
paste  into  three  folds.  Let  it  rest  again  in  a  cool  place  for  three 
minutes;  then  roll  it  again,  fold  it  as  before  and  set  in  the  ice  box  for 
five  minutes. 

How  to  Make  the  Pie. — Cut  out  half  the  prepared  paste,  roll  it  out 
round,  ten  inches  in  diameter.  Lightly  butter  a  pie  plate  nine  and  a  half 
inches  in  diameter.  Arrange  the  paste  nicely  over  it.  Then  take  up 
from  the  jar  (No.  118)  one  and  a  half  pounds  prepared  mince,  lay  it 
over  the  lined  pie  plate ;  evenly  flatten  it,  leaving  one  inch  clear  around 
the  edge  of  the  plate;  take  the  remaining  half  of  the  paste,  roll  it  out 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  35 

round,  fold  it  in  two  and  with  a  knife  make  three  light  incisions,  each 
half  an  inch  in  the  centre.  Lightly  moisten  the  edge  of  the  plate  with 
beaten  egg,  then  cover  with  the  paste,  pressing  it  down  with  the  hands 
all  around  the  edge  so  as  to  entirely  enclose  the  preparation,  and  then 
lightly  moisten  the  surface  with  beaten  egg. 

Place  it  then  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  forty  minutes.  Remove 
it  to  the  oven  door,  liberally  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over,  return  it  to 
the  oven,  close  the  door  for  two  minutes  so  as  to  have  the  sugar  entirely 
melted.  Remove  from  the  oven,  then  lay  the  pie  on  a  dessert  dish  and 
serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

1 1 8.    MINCE  MEAT  FOR  PIE 

Pour  into  a  large  saucepan  six  quarts  cold  water  and  place  in  it  nine 
pounds  lean,  raw  rump  of  beef;  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  when 
it  comes  to  a  boil  thoroughly  skim  the  scum  from  the  surface  and  then 
allow  it  to  boil  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  lay  it  on  a 
table,  then  with  a  fork  take  up  the  beef,  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  let  thor- 
oughly cool  off.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  sieve  into  another  sauce- 
pan. Have  three  pounds  of  fresh  beef  suet,  carefully  remove  all  the 
sinews  and  then  add  it  to  the  broth ;  place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and 
let  boil  until  the  suet  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  which  will  take  about  five 
minutes;  add  two  pounds  of  well-stoned  and  finely  chopped  Malaga 
raisins  and  let  the  whole  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  add  twenty  fine, 
sound,  medium-sized,  peeled,  cored  and  finely  chopped  apples  and  let 
cook  again  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  transfer  the 
contents  into  a  vessel  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off. 

Chop  the  beef  up  very  fine,  then  place  it  in  a  vessel,  adding  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  finely  chopped-up  candied  citron,  pouring  over  it 
half  pint  good  brandy,  and  let  soak  for  six  hours.  Boil  in  a  saucepan 
for  one  minute  two  quarts  good  cider,  then  lay  it  aside  to  cool  off.  Now 
transfer  the  contents  of  the  two  vessels  to  a  large  saucepan,  adding  one 
pound  powdered  sugar,  one  pound  well-cleaned  currants,  half  pint 
molasses  and  the  cooled-off  cider,  and  with  the  wooden  spoon  mix  the 
whole  well  together  for  three  minutes.  Season  with  three  ounces  salt 
and  quarter  of  an  ounce  black  pepper.  Place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire, 
stir  at  the  bottom  with  the  wooden  spoon  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Remove  it  from  the  fire,  transfer  the  whole 
into  a  vessel  and  let  it  thoroughly  cool  off.  Then  grate  in  the  rind  of 
four  fine,  medium-sized,  sound  lemons,  squeezing  in  the  juice  also  and 
adding  half  ounce  ground  cloves,  half  ounce  ground  cinnamon,  half 
ounce  ground  allspice,  half  ounce  grated  nutmeg  and  half  pint  good 
brandy.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  for  five  minutes.  Then  transfer 
it  into  a  large  stone  jar,  tightly  cover  and  lay  in  a  cool  place.  The  above 
preparation  will  keep  in  perfect  condition  for  any  length  of  time,  even 
as  long  as  six  months. 

N.  B.  Nowadays  excellent  mincemeat  is  sold  by  all  responsible 
grocers,  and  should  it  prove  somewhat  difficult  to  prepare  it  in  your  own 
house  it  can  be  obtained  at  said  grocers. 


36  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Olives 

Chicken  Gumbo,  Louisianaise 

Kingfish,  Sauce  Colbert  Potatoes,  Chassepot 

Squabs  en  Casserole 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  Yorkshire  Pudding 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad 

Pineapple  Pudding 
Genoise  aux  Confitures 

119.    CHICKEN  GUMBO,  LOUISIANAISE 

Half  a  boned  fowl,  one  small  carrot,  one  small  white  turnip,  one  small 
onion,  half  green  pepper,  one  leek,  two  tablespoons  raw  rice,  two  quarts 
and  a  half  hot  broth  (No.  701),  four  small  peeled  tomatoes,  twelve  good- 
sized,  sound,  fresh  okras.  Cut  the  fowl  into  small  square  pieces.  Cut 
also  the  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  green  pepper  and  leeks  into  quarter-inch- 
square  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter. 
Slowly  brown  them  for  ten  minutes,  add  the  rice  and  any  chicken  bones 
on  hand;  lightly  mix,  then  moisten  with  the  hot  broth.  Season  with  one 
level  tablespoon  salt,  cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Cut  the 
tomatoes  and  okras  into  small  pieces  and  add  them  to  the  soup.  Boil 
for  thirty  minutes  more.  Remove  the  bones.  Pour  the  soup  into  a  hot 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

120.    KINGFISH  SAUTE,  COLBERT 

Have  three  medium-sized  kingfish  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each, 
nicely  cleaned.  Wipe  them  neatly.  Turn  them  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  then  roll 
them  in  flour. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  fish  and  fry  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side,  then  place  in  the  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  Colbert  sauce  poured  over. 

121.     COLBERT  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one 
teaspoon  meat  extract  (No.  3170);  then  reduce  it  on  the  fire  to  one-half 
the  quantity.  Then  add,  little  by  little,  one-half  ounce  good  butter, 
briskly  stirring  while  adding  it.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  sound  lemon, 
adding  a  teaspoon  finely  minced  parsley.  Stir  well  and  serve. 

122.    DEMI- GLACE  (HALF- GLAZE) 

Have  quite  a  large  saucepan  with  ten  quarts  cold  water  on  the  hot 
range.  Procure  two  fresh,  white,  calf's  feet;  cut  them  into  small  pieces 
and  place  in  a  small  roasting  pan  with  half  pound  raw  ham,  cut  in  pieces, 
one  pound  veal  bones,  two  sliced  carrots,  two  sliced  onions,  two  sliced 
leeks,  three  branches  parsley  roots,  one  branch  sliced  celery;  add  ten 
cloves,  four  bay  leaves,  twenty  allspices,  two  tablespoons  whole  black 
peppers,  a  teaspoon  thyme  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  salt. 
Spread  a  little  fat— about  four  tablespoons — over  the  vegetables.  Place 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  3j 

the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  let  get  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  from 
the  oven,  take  up  the  feet  and  vegetables  from  the  pan  and  plunge  them 
into  the  pan  with  the  ten  quarts  water;  add  one  pint  canned  or  the  equiv- 
alent of  fresh  tomatoes.  Let  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Set  the 
pan  near  the  corner  of  the  range,  place  the  cover  on  and  let  slightly 
simmer.  When  any  little  parings  of  beef,  veal,  chicken,  ham  and 
vegetables  are  at  hand,  always  place  them  into  this  important  demi- 
glace.  When  opening  cans  of  mushrooms  add  the  mushroom  liquor 
to  this  stock,  also.  Always  keep  the  pan  on  the  hot  range  until  reduced 
to  one-half  the  quantity. 

Heat  in  a  large  saucepan  three  ounces  butter  or  good  melted  lard, 
adding  six  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let 
thoroughly  brown  on  the  fire  for  twenty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring. 
Pour  the  above  preparation  into  this  pan,  mix  well,  shift  the  pan  on  one 
side  of  the  range,  keeping  it  at  a  gentle  simmering  point  for  twelve  hours. 
Then  add  half  pint  sherry;  mix  a  little,  strain  the  demi-glace  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  into  a  stone  jar;  let  cool  off,  then  cover  the  jar.  Keep 
in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  required.  In  winter  it  will  keep  in  good  con- 
dition for  three  or  four  weeks,  but  in  hot  weather  it  would  be  advisable 
to  re-boil  it  once  every  week. 

This  demi-glace  is  of  vast  importance,  and  it  is  necessary  to  always 
have  some  on  hand.  Therefore,  when  the  supply  is  nearly  exhausted, 
repeat  the  same  operation. 

N.  B.  Whatever  quantity  of  demi-glace  is  required  for  each  occa- 
sion, when  taken  up  from  the  jar  always  dilute  it  with  a  little  hot  broth, 
so  as  to  have  it  somewhat  liquid  before  using. 

123.  POTATOES,  CHASSEPOT 

Peel  three  large,  sound,  raw  potatoes.  Cut  them  into  cartridge 
shape  one  and  a  half  inches  long.  Mince  very  finely  an  onion,  one  leek 
and  one  ounce  of  lean  salt  pork. 

Place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter  and  brown  to 
a  good  golden  colour.  Add  the  potatoes  and  one  bay  leaf.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  well  with  the 
wooden  spoon,  add  one  gill  hot  water.  .Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

124.  SQUABS  EN  CASSEROLE 

Singe,  cut  the  heads  and  feet  off,  draw  and  wipe  neatly  six  fine,  fat 
squabs.  Arrange  a  thin  slice  of  lard  on  the  breast  of  each  bird,  tie  them 
well  around  and  lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan.  Sprinkle  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  over  them.  Pour  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  three  tablespoons  cold  water  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast  for 
twenty  minutes,  basting  with  their  own  gravy  occasionally  and  turning 
them  over  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  untie  the  strings,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish.  Skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  add  three  chopped  shallots,  two  table- 
spoons demi-glace  (No.  122),  two  tablespoons  hot  water.  Boil  the 


38  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

gravy  in  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes.  Pour  the  gravy  over 
the  birds.  Arrange  at  each  end  of  the  dish  one  cluster  of  cooked  green 
peas  and  on  the  other  sides  a  cluster  of  glazed  onions  prepared  as  per 
No.  125  and  serve. 

125.     GLAZED  ONIONS 

Carefully  peel  twenty-four  very  small,  white,  sound  onions,  all  of 
about  the  same  size  if  possible.  Place  them  in  a  lightly  buttered  sauce- 
pan, all  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Pour  in  one  gill  cold  wrater,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 
and  half  ounce  butter.  Cover  the  onions  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper. 
Place  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire  and  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  place  the 
pan  in  the  hot  oven  until  the  water  is  completely  evaporated.  Add  two 
tablespoons  of  half  glaze  (demi-glace,  No.  122).  Heat  for  three  min- 
utes and  serve. 

126.    ROAST  RIBS  OF  BEEF 

Procure  from  a  reliable  butcher  a  three-rib  piece  of  fine,  tender, 
mature  rib  of  beef — near  the  short-loin  part.  Saw  off  the  spine,  also 
the  bones  of  the  three  ribs,  to  one  inch  from  the  meat.  Season  with  a 
tablespoon  salt,  equally  divided  all  over,  tie  it  together  and  place  it 
lengthwise  in  a  roasting  pan.  Pour  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  cold 
water  into  the  pan  to  prevent  burning;  place  a  few  small  bits  of  butter 
well  distributed  on  top  of  the  beef.  Set  it  in  a  rather  moderate  oven 
and  let  roast  for  one  hour  and  ten  minutes,  taking  care  to  baste  fre- 
quently with  its  own  gravy  and  to  turn  it  once  in  a  while.  Remove  it 
from  the  oven,  untie,  dress  on  a  very  hot  dish,  skim  the  fat  from  the 
gravy,  pour  two  tablespoons  broth  into  the  gravy,  heat  up  a  little,  strain 
the  gravy  into  a  saucebowl  and  send  to  the  table.  (Keep  all  parings 
from  the  beef  for  soup  stock,  etc.) 

127.     CELERY  AND  APPLE  SALAD 

Have  two  stalks  fresh,  crisp,  white  celery.  Trim  off  the  outer  leaves, 
wash  thoroughly,  drain  well,  then  cut  it  into  small  Julienne-shaped 
strips,  place  on  a  napkin  and  dry  it  thoroughly. 

Peel  three,  medium-sized,  sound  apples;  cut  them  in  quarters,  cut 
away  core  and  seeds,  then  cut  them  in  Julienne  strips,  the  same  as  the 
celery.  Place  both  in  a  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons 
dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

128.    PINEAPPLE  PUDDING 

Four  ounces  fresh  or  preserved  pineapples  cut  into  small  dice  pieces, 
one  gill  hot  milk,  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  one  and  a  half  ounces  but- 
ter, two  eggs,  two  ounces  sugar  and  two  ounces  sifted  flour.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  gradually  stir  in  the  flour,  then  heat  for  one 
minute,  continually  stirring;  pour  in  the  hot  milk  and  thoroughly  heat 
on  the  fire  for  three  minutes.  Take  from  the  stove,  add  the  pineapples 
and  sugar,  stir  for  one  minute.  Add,  one  by  one,  the  yolks  of  the  two 
eggs,  briskly  stir  for  half  a  minute  with  the  wooden  spoon.  Beat  the 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  39 

white  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  to  the  preparation,  mixing 
gently. 

Lightly  butter  a  quart  pudding  mould,  pour  the  preparation  into  the 
mould,  cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  pour 
hot  water  up  to  quarter  the  height  of  the  mould.  Set  in  the  oven  to  steam 
for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  the  paper.  Unmould  the 
pudding  on  a  hot  dish.  Decorate  with  six  thin  slices  of  pineapple  around 
the  dish  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce  preparation: 

Put  two  ounces  sugar  in  a  very  small  saucepan  with  two  gills  cold 
water,  small  piece  of  cinnamon,  piece  of  a  quarter  of  nutmeg  and  the 
rind  of  quarter  of  a  lemon.  Let  gently  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  pour  in  a  tablespoon  rum,  lightly  mix,  then  strain  through 
a  cheesecloth  into  a  saucebowl  and  serve. 

129.     GENOISE  AUX  CONFITURES 

Four  eggs,  quarter  pound  granulated  sugar,  quarter  pound  sifted 
flour,  two  ounces  melted  butter  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Break 
the  eggs  into  a  small  copper  basin,  add  the  sugar;  place  the  bottom  of 
the  basin  into  another  basin  containing  lukewarm  water  two  inches  high. 
Briskly  whip  the  eggs  and  sugar  for  twelve  minutes,  or  until  of  a  good 
consistency.  Remove  the  basin  from  the  water,  add  the  flour,  lightly 
mix  with  a  skimmer,  add  the  butter  and  vanilla,  gently  mix  again.  But- 
ter the  inside  of  a  pastry  pan,  then  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a 
sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper;  pour  all  the  preparation  over  the  paper. 
Place  in  a  slow  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
oven,  lay  the  pan  in  a  cool  place  for  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  it  on  a  table, 
remove  the  paper.  Split  the  cake  in  two,  crosswise.  Spread  two  table- 
spoons currant  jelly  on  top  of  one  half,  place  the  other  half  over  it. 
Dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over.  Cut  it  into  six  even  pieces,  dress 
on  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Remnants  of  any  kind  of  cakes  should  be  placed  in  a  tin, 
covered  up,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place,  and  will  always  come  handy  for 
pudding  purposes,  etc. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit 

Wheaten  Grits 

Eggs,  Cocotte 

Broiled .  Fresh  Herrings 

Country  Sausages 

Saute  Potatoes 

Flannel  Cakes 

130.     GRAPE  FRUIT 

To  have  the  fruit  cold  and  in  excellent  condition  place  them  in  the 
ice  box  during  the  night.     Cut  three  of  them  in  halves,  crosswise; 


40  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

remove  the  pits  and  cores,  after  which  run  the  knife  around  between  the 
peel  and  the  fruit,  just  to  separate  it,  then  make  about  six  cuts  from  the 
centre,  so  that  it  may  be  easily  removed  with  the  spoon.  Serve  them 
with  powdered  sugar. 

131.    WHEATEN  GRITS 

Half  pound  wheaten  grits,  one  pint  cold  water,  half  pint  cold  milk 
and  a  teaspoon  salt.  Place  the  water,  milk  and  salt  in  a  saucepan  and 
let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  wheaten  grits  and  boil  slowly  for  one  and 
a  half  hours,  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning  at  the  bottom.  Pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  cold  cream 
or  milk  and  soft  sugar  separately. 

132.    EGGS  COCOTTE 

Chop  very  finely  one  medium-sized,  sound  onion,  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  brown  to  a  good  golden  colour. 
Add  three  tablespoons  finely  minced  canned  mushrooms,  or  the  equiva- 
lent of  fresh  mushrooms  if  at  hand,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives, 
one  tablespoon  sherry  wine,  three  tablespoons  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
three  tablespoons  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  two  saltspoons  salt.  Mix  well  with  the  wooden  spoon  and  then  let 
slowly  reduce  to  one-half. 

Have  six  clean  and  lightly  buttered  cocottiers  (egg  dishes),  then  divide 
the  preparation  evenly  into  the  six  cocotte  dishes.  Break  two  fresh  eggs 
in  each  dish.  Pour  half  teaspoon  sweet  cream  over  each  dish,  sprinkle 
a  very  little  salt  over  each  egg.  Set  in  the  hot  oven  to  bake  for  five  min- 
utes. Remove  from  the  oven  and  serve. 

133.    BROILED  FRESH  HERRINGS 

Clean  and  thoroughly  wipe  six  good-sized,  very  fresh  herrings. 
Roll  them  in  a  tablespoon  oil  mixed  with  a  teaspoon  salt  on  a  plate. 
Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  slowly  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  over 
them,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  six  quarters  lemon  and 
serve. 

134.  COUNTRY  SAUSAGES 

Arrange  in  a  small  double  broiler  twelve  small  country  sausages, 
prick  each  sausage  with  a  fork  once  in  the  centre  and  broil  on  a  brisk 
fire  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

135.  POTATOES  SAUTEES 

Peel  six  medium-sized  boiled  potatoes,  slice  them  into  rather  thin, 
equal  slices.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Gently  toss  the  potatoes  once  in  a  while,  cooking  for  seven  minutes  on  a 
brisk  fire,  then  give  them  an  omelet  form;  cook  them  for  four  minutes 
longer,  or  until  they  obtain  a  good  golden  colour.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  41 

136.    FLANNEL  CAKES 

One-quarter  pound  sifted  flour,  two  raw  eggs,  half  ounce  powdered 
sugar,  one-quarter  ounce  baking  powder,  one  saltspoon  salt,  half  salt- 
spoon  nutmeg,  and  half  pint  cold  milk. 

Place  the  flour  in  a  bowl.  Crack  in  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt, 
nutmeg,  baking  powder  and  milk.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  whisk 
until  well  thickened.  Lightly  butter  the  bottom  of  a  large  frying  pan 
with  a  little  melted  lard,  and  as  soon  as  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  thor- 
oughly hot  immediately  pour  in  with  the  aid  of  a  ladle  the  preparation, 
two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter,  four  at  a  time,  and  cook  one  and  a  half 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  covered  with  a  napkin; 
proceed  exactly  the  same  till  the  preparation  is  all  used,  and  serve  with 
maple  syrup  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs 
Barni,   Hongkongoise 

String  Beans 
Old-Fashioned  Rice  Pudding 

137.     STUFFED  DEVILLED  CRABS 
These  are  prepared  precisely  the  same  as  in  No.  10. 
138.    BAMI,  HONGKONGOISE 

Cut  into  half-inch-square  pieces  half  pound  lean  raw  rump  of  beef, 
half  pound  lean  fresh  pork  cut  same  way,  and  keep  separately.  Hash 
very  finely  six  medium-sized  sound  shallots,  one  clove  garlic;  mix  shal- 
lots and  garlic  with  a  heaping  tablespoon  finely  fresh-chopped  parsley 
and  keep  on  a  plate. 

Plunge  into  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  in  a  saucepan  and  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes  half  pound  noodles  and  quarter  pound  best  macaroni, 
but  in  separate  water;  drain  thoroughly  and  keep  separate.  Melt  one 
tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  light  tablespoons  flour;  stir 
well,  add  two  small  finely  chopped  onions,  two  finely  chopped  shallots, 
one  clove  crushed  chopped  garlic,  one  clove,  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and  one 
sprig  thyme.  Stir  all  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  while  brown- 
ing for  four  minutes.  Moisten  with  half  pint  hot  broth  or  hot  water, 
mix  well  with  a  whisk ;  then  add  two  good-sized,  ripe,  chopped  tomatoes. 
Season  with  half  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  one  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  adding  one  good 
teaspoon  good  curry  powder.  Stir  all  well  together  and  let  gently  sim- 
mer for  twenty-five  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce  and  keep  it  warm. 

Lightly  butter  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish,  then  evenly  arrange  the 
macaroni  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish ;  spread  a  very  little  of  the  sauce  over 
the  macaroni.  Spread  over  evenly  one-third  of  the  mixed  shallots, 
garlic  and  parsley;  arrange  the  beef  nicely  divided  over  the  macaroni, 
etc.,  then  another  third  of  the  shallot  mixture.  Season  with  a  saltspoon 
salt  and  a  light  snuff  of  white  pepper.  Now  spread  half  the  remaining 


42  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sauce  over.  Neatly  lay  half  the  noodles  evenly  over;  arrange  the  pork 
as  a  layer  over  the  noodles;  sprinkle  the  remaining  shallot  mixture  over 
the  pork.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  white  pepper. 
Evenly  spread  the  balance  of  the  noodles;  sprinkle  one  tablespoon  very 
finely  minced  cooked  lean  ham.  Pour  and  neatly  spread  the  remaining 
sauce  over.  Sprinkle  half  teaspoon  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese 
over  all.  Have  one  teaspoon  butter  divided  into  small  bits  and  placed 
on  the  surface.  Place  it  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  fifty-five  minutes, 
or  until  it  has  obtained  a  good  golden  colour.  Remove  it  from  the  oven, 
place  the  dish  into  another  cold  one  and  send  to  the  table. 
N.  B.  Cut  it  pie-like,  that  is,  from  top  to  bottom. 

139.    STRING  BEANS 

Open  a  pint  can  string  beans,  plunge  them  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling 
water  two  inches  in  depth;  drain  on  a  sieve;  put  them  back  in  the  sauce- 
pan with  half  ounce  butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  salt- 
spoon white  pepper.  Mix  well  with  with  a  fork  while  cooking  for  one 
and  a  half  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

140.     OLD-FASHIONED  RICE  PUDDING 

Wash  in  three  different  cold  waters  half  pound  Italian  rice.  Drain 
well,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  cold  milk,  a  gill  cold  water 
and  a  saltspoon  salt.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boiling  point  shift  the 
pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range,  being  careful  to  mix  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Then  let  slowly  simmer  for  one  hour,  mixing  every  five  minutes 
to  prevent  burning  at  the  bottom.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  range. 
Pour  ten  drops  vanilla  essence  and  the  same  of  orange-water  flavor.  Mix 
well,  then  add  half  pound  granulated  sugar.  Mix  well  again.  Break 
in  four  whole  raw  eggs,  pour  in  a  gill  sweet  cream,  thoroughly  mix  with 
the  wooden  spoon.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  pastry  pan  two  inches 
high,  place  in  a  slow  oven  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lay 
the  pan  on  another  cold  one  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)  Anchovies  on  Toast 

Cream,  St.  Germain 

Codfish,  Whitney 
Larded  Tenderloin  of  Beef,  Parisienne 

Petit  Pois,  Francaise 

Capon  Stuffed  with  Chestnuts  Lettuce  Salad 

Almond  Ice  Cream  Lady  Fingers 

141.    ANCHOVIES  ON  TOAST 

Cut  out  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf  of  bread  six  pieces  bread  one- 
third  of  an  inch  thick,  then  trim  them  nicely  and  cut  into  one-and- 
one-half-inch  squares.  Toast  to  a  good  brown  colour.  Arrange  two 
nice  anchovies  in  oil,  cut  in  half,  on  each  toast.  Hash  very  finely  one 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  43 

hard-boiled  egg,  mix  it  well  with  two  teaspoons  chopped  parsley  and 
place  it  over  the  anchovies.  If  desired,  finely  chopped  white  onions 
can  be  served  with  the  anchovies.  Place  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

142.    CREAM,  ST.  GERMAIN 

Plunge  one  pound  fine  split  green  peas  in  boiling  water  and  let  boil 
for  two  minutes ;  drain  and  replace  them  in  a  saucepan  with  three  quarts 
cold  water,  one  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  tea- 
spoon sugar.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil. 

Chop  very  finely  one  carrot,  one  medium  onion,  one  leek,  three 
branches  parsley,  one  ounce  lean,  raw  ham,  one  branch  celery,  four 
branches  chives,  four  branches  chervil,  and  half  clove  crushed  garlic. 
Place  all  these  articles  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  let  get 
a  light  brown  colour,  gently  mixing  meantime ;  then  add  all  to  the  soup, 
also  adding  two  slices  French  bread  one-half  inch  thick.  Mix  the  whole 
well  with  the  wooden  spoon.  Cover  the  pan  again  and  then  let  very 
slowly  simmer  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Strain  the  soup  through  a  sieve 
into  another  saucepan,  briskly  pressing  the  vegetables  through  the  sieve. 
Skim  off  the  scum.  Shift  the  pan  over  a  brisk  fire  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Add  one  gill  good  cream  mixed  with  two  egg  yolks  and  one-half 
ounce  butter  in  small  bits.  Mix  well  with  the  wooden  spoon,  but  do  not 
allow  to  boil.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  plunge  in  three  tablespoons 
cooked  green  peas  and  serve  very  hot. 

143.     CODFISH,  WHITNEY 

Procure  three  slices  fresh  codfish  one  inch  thick.  Marinade,  boil 
same  as  bass  (No.  25)  and  keep  warm.  Scoop  out  all  you  can  from 
three  large,  peeled  raw  potatoes  with  a  Parisian  potato  scoop;  boil 
them  in  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes  and  keep  till  required. 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  clarified  butter,  add  one 
tablespoon  flour,  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  heated; 
then  add  one  and  a  half  gills  broth  or  hot  water.  Strain  half  a  gill  of 
the  gravy  in  which  the  fish  was  cooked  into  this  pan,  thoroughly  mix 
and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  adding  a  raw  egg  yolk  and  the  juice  of  quarter 
of  a  sound  lemon.  Set  the  pan  at  the  corner  of  the  range  and  mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  well  thickened,  being  careful  not  to  let  it 
boil.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan.  Drain  the 
potatoes  and  add  them  to  the  sauce.  Heat  for  three  minutes,  gently 
mixing  meanwhile.  Dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  the  sauce  over, 
arrange  twelve  small  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  the 
fish.  Sprinkle  a  very  little  chopped  parsley  over,  and  lastly  decorate 
with  six  slices  broiled  bacon,  as  per  No.  13,  and  serve  very  hot. 

144.    FILET  OF  BEEF  LARDED,  PARISIENNE 

Remove  the  outer  muscular  skin  and  sinews  and  trim  nicely  two 
and  a  half  pounds  tenderloin  of  beef.  Carefully  lard  it  with  very  thin 


44  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

strips  of  larding  pork,  using  a  larding  needle.  Place  the  skin  and  par- 
ings of  the  lard  at  the  bottom  of  a  roasting  pan  with  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
half  a  sliced  onion,  one  chopped  branch  celery,  two  chopped  branches 
parsley,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  sprig  bay-leaf,  two  cloves,  four  all- 
spice and  eight  whole  black  peppers.  Lay  the  filet  on  the  bed  of  the 
vegetables,  etc.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  evenly  divided. 
Place  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  over  the  surface  of  the  fillet,  the  equiva- 
lent of  one-quarter  ounce.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons  cold  water  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Place  the  pan  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  roast  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  turn  it  over  and  roast  for  twenty  minutes  more,  carefully 
basting  it  frequently  with  its  own  gravy  while  cooking.  Remove  it  from 
the  oven,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Skim  off  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  of  the  roasting  pan,  then  place  the 
pan  on  a  brisk  fire.  Add  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  and 
a  half  gills  half  glaze  (demi-glace,  No.  122);  reduce  the  sauce  to  one- 
half.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  small  saucepan,  add  twelve  whole 
canned  mushrooms,  one  tablespoon  good  sherry  wine,  and  boil  the  whole 
for  five  minutes,  mixing  well  meanwhile,  and  pour  it  over  the  filet. 
Arrange  six  small  stuffed  tomatoes  (No.  30)  around  the  filet.  Sprinkle  a 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  tarragon  over  all  and  serve. 

145.    PETIT  Pois,  FRAN^AISE 

Have  one  pint,  tender,  shelled  green  peas.  Place  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  gills  cold  water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  one  teaspoon  soft  sugar  and  six  of  the  smallest  peeled  white 
onions  obtainable,  also  a  very  small  head  green,  well-washed  lettuce, 
with  four  branches  parsley  tied  around.  Cover  the  pan,  place  on  a 
brisk  fire  and  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  lettuce 
and  parsley,  add  a  tablespoon  good  butter,  mix  well  and  slowly  cook 
for  three  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

146.     CAPON  STUFFED  WITH  CHESTNUTS 

Procure  a  fine,  tender  capon  of  three  and  a  half  pounds.  Singe, 
cut  off  the  feet  and  head,  drain  and  wipe  dry.  Then  stuff  it  with  a 
chestnut  preparation  (No.  147),  truss  carefully  and  lay  it  in  a  roasting 
pan.  Spread  a  light  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  fat  over  the  surface, 
pour  three  tablespoons  cold  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  sprinkle  a 
good  teaspoon  salt  over  the  bird.  Place  it  in  the  hot  oven  to  roast  for 
one  hour  and  ten  minutes,  turning  it  over  once  in  a  while  and  basting  it 
frequently  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove  it  from  the  oven,  untruss, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  strain  it  through 
a  small  strainer  over  the  capon.  Serve  with  a  little  watercress  placed 
around. 

147.    CHESTNUT  STUFFING 

Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  fifteen  good-sized,  sound  Italian  chest- 
nuts for  thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  peel  them,  then  place  into  a  bowl; 
add  two  small  slices  bread  soaked  in  water  for  five  minutes.  Chop  very 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  45 

finely  half  a  medium-sized  onion,  half  ounce  lean  raw  ham  and  lightly 
brown  these  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter  for  five  minutes  and 
add  to  the  bowl. 

Chop  a  raw  chicken  liver  very  finely  with  four  branches  parsley 
greens  and  half  clove  finely  chopped,  sound  garlic  and  add  it  to  the  bowl, 
also  with  a  saltspoon  thyme  and  one  raw  egg.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly  with  a  wooden 
spoon  and  stuff  the  bird  with  it. 

148.    LETTUCE   SALAD 

Procure  two  fine,  sound,  medium  heads  fresh,  crisp  lettuce.  Trim 
off  the  outer  green  leaves  and  stems.  Cut  the  leaves  in  two.  Plunge 
it  into  plenty  of  cold  water,  turn  it  over  with  the  hands  several  times 
without  pressing  it,  so  that  it  will  be  entirely  free  of  sand. 

Drain  it  thoroughly  in  a  wire  salad  basket  or  cloth,  then  place  it  in 
a  salad  bowl  with  the  hearts  on  top,  and  just  before  serving  season  with 
four  tablespoons  dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Gently  mix  all  over  and 
serve. 

149.    ALMOND  ICE  CREAM 

Plunge  into  boiling  water  four  ounces  freshly  shelled,  sound  almonds 
and  let  boil  for  two  minutes.  Drain  and  peel  them.  Place  them  in  a 
mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste;  add  one  and  a  half  pints  cold  milk  and 
half  pint  fresh  cream.  Mix  thoroughly  together,  then  transfer  to  a 
small  saucepan,  place  on  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Place  in  a  bowl 
six  egg  yolks  and  eight  ounces  powdered  sugar,  drop  in  a  teaspoon  Swiss 
kirsch.  Mix  well  for  five  minutes;  gradually  add  the  almond  milk  to 
the  eggs,  mixing  well  while  adding  it  with  the  wooden  spoon.  Transfer 
it  to  a  saucepan,  place  on  a  slow  fire,  contiunally  mixing  while  heating 
for  five  minutes,  without  boiling.  Then  let  cool  off.  Strain  through 
a  sieve  into  a  freezer,  proceed  to  freeze  as  for  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42) 
and  serve. 

150.    LADY  FINGERS  (BISCUITS  A  LA  CUILLERC) 

Put  four  ounces  powdered  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  into  a 
bowl.  Beat  thoroughly  with  the  spatule  for  five  minutes.  Put  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  copper  basin  and  with  a  wire  whip  beat  them 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  to  the  sugar  and  yolks  four  ounces  flour.  Mix 
gently  together  for  half  a  minute,  and  immediately  add  the  whites;  mix 
for  one  minute  more  and  the  preparation  will  be  ready.  Take  a  well- 
cleaned  pastry  bag,  slide  into  it  a  No.  2  tube,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon 
or  small  skimmer  pour  the  preparation  into  the  bag.  When  it  is  all  in 
close  the  upper  part  of  the  bag  very  firmly  and  lay  it  aside  for  a  moment. 
Take  two  separate  sheets  of  solid  brown  paper,  each  measuring  seven- 
teen inches  long  by  five  inches  wide,  or  the  same  size  as  the  pan,  and  lay 
them  on  the  table  one  beside  the  other.  Take  hold  of  the  lower  part 
of  the  bag  near  the  tube  with  the  left  hand  and  the  upper  part 
with  the  right;  press  with  the  latter  and  drop  the  batter  on  the  paper 


46  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  straight  strips  three  inches  long  by  half  an  inch  wide.  Make  ten  of 
equal  size  on  each  paper,  being  careful  to  leave  an  empty  space  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  between  each.  Then  with  a  sugar  dredge  sprinkle 
them  lightly  with  powdered  sugar  three  times,  at  one-minute  intervals 
between  each  sprinkling.  When  finished  lift  up  one  paper  at  a  time, 
keeping  it  perfectly  straight,  and  shake  off  the  loose  sugar,  being  careful 
not  to  let  the  biscuits  detach  from  the  paper.  Now  lay  them  in  a  pastry 
pan  and  let  rest  for  two  minutes,  place  in  a  slow  oven  and  bake  for 
twenty  minutes  or  until  of  a  light  golden  colour.  Remove  from  the 
oven,  lift  from  the  pan  and  lay  on  a  table  to  cool  off.  Have  ready 
a  dessert  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  then  detach  the  biscuits  gently  from 
the  paper  with  the  hands,  dress  them  on  the  dish  and  send  to  the  table. 


Wednesday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  in  Cream 

Wheatena 

Kippered  Herrings 

Fried  Eggs  with  Brown  Butter 

Calf's  Liver  with  Bacon 

Saratoga  Potatoes 

English  Buns 

151.    BANANAS  SLICED  IN  CREAM 

Peel  three  good-sized,  ripe,  sound  bananas,  then  slice  them  into  thin 
slices.  Dress  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream 
separately. 

152.    WHEATENA 

Have  in  an  enamelled  pan  half  pint  water  and  half  pint  milk;  season 
with  fwo  saltspoons  salt.  Then  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil  on  a  moderate 
fire ;  gradually  dredge  in  five  ounces  wheatena,  continually  mixing  while 
adding  it,  and  allow  it  to  gently  boil  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing 
meanwhile.  Remove,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  send  to  the  table  with 
cream  or  rich  milk,  and  sugar  separately. 

153.    KIPPERED   HERRINGS 

Lightly  butter  a  baking  tin,  then  place  three  fine,  fat  kippered  her- 
rings thereon;  spread  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  over  each  fish.  Set  in 
the  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  on 
toast.  Spread  a  little  melted  butter  over  and  serve  with  quarters  of 
lemons. 

154.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  shirred-egg  dishes.  Break  two  fresh 
eggs  into  each  dish;  place  them  on  the  range  and  cook  for  three  minutes. 
Remove  them  from  the  fire.  Place  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          47 

butter  in  a  frying  pan,  set  it  on  a  brisk  fire  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  colour, 
then  add  one  teaspoon  good  vinegar.  Shuffle  the  pan  slightly  so  that 
the  butter  and  vinegar  will  be  well  mixed,  pour  it  evenly  over  the  eggs 
and  serve. 

155.    CALF'S  LIVER  WITH  BACON 

Have  six  slices  of  fresh,  tender  calf's  liver  one-third  inch  thick. 
Place  on  a  dish  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  one-quarter  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Repeatedly  roll  the  slices  in 
the  seasoning  until  the  oil  is  all  absorbed.  Arrange  the  slices  on  a  double 
broiler  and  broil  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  with  six  slices  of  bacon  (as  per  No.  13)  on  top  and  serve. 

156.    SARATOGA   POTATOES 

Pass  through  a  Saratoga  potato  machine  three  medium-sized,  sound, 
peeled,  raw  potatoes.  Wash  them  in  cold  water,  drain  well  on  a  sieve, 
drop  them  one  by  one  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  until  of  a  good  golden 
colour — which  should  take  about  five  minutes — turning  them  over  with 
a  skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Lift  them  up  with  the  skimmer,  place  in  a 
wire  basket  and  let  thoroughly  dry.  Sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over 
them  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

N.  B.  If  no  Saratoga  potato  machine  is  at  hand,  slice  the  potatoes 
with  a  sharp  knife  as  thin  as  possible. 

157.    ENGLISH  BUNS 

One-quarter  pound  flour,  two  ounces  butter,  two  ounces  sugar,  two 
egg  yolks,  the  white  of  one  egg,  one  ounce  candied  lemon  peel,  half  gill 
hot  milk,  half  saltspoon  powdered  nutmeg  and  two  saltspoons  carbonate 
of  soda.  Place  the  flour  and  butter  in  a  bowl,  work  it  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  the  sugar,  nutmeg,  lemon  peel  and  one  saltspoon  salt.  Pour 
in  the  hot  milk  and  mix  it  lightly  for  two  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  together,  then  add  them  to  the  preparation.  Mix 
lightly,  and  when  well  thickened  add  the  carbonate  of  soda,  gently 
mixing  for  two  minutes.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  lightly  buttered 
tin.  Place  in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool 
off,  then  cut  into  six  even  pieces  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  a  napkin. 


LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Devilled  Broiled  Lobster 

Chicken  Pot  Pie,  American 

Macaroni  au  Gratin 

Apricot  Tartlets 

158.    DEVILLED  BROILED  LOBSTER 

Cut  three  fine,  small,  raw  lobsters  of  one  pound  each  into  two  equal 
halves,  lengthwise.  Remove  the  gravel  from  the  head,  cut  off  the  claws 
and  crack  them  carefully  with  a  cleaver.  Arrange  the  claws  on  a  broiler 


48  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  broil  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  them  and  carefully 
pick  out  all  the  meat;  then  chop  it  into  small  pieces  and  place  on  a  plate. 
Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  two  tablespoons  devilled  butter  (No.  n). 
Mix  all  well  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  required. 

Carefully  place  the  six  half  lobsters  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on 
a  lively  fire  on  the  shell  side  for  ten  minutes;  then  place  in  the  oven  for 
ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  carefully  take  off  the  lobsters 
from  the  broiler.  Spread  the  above  preparation  evenly  over  the  six 
half  lobsters,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over  each,  then  lay  two  little 
bits  of  butter  on  the  surface  of  each.  Arrange  them  on  a  tin  pan,  then 
bake  in  the  oven  until  they  obtain  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  from 
the  oven,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  six  quarters  of  lemon,  and 
parsley  greens  if  handy. 

159.     CHICKEN  Pox  PIE 

Cut  into  twelve  pieces  one  tender  roasting  chicken  of  two  and  a  half 
pounds.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  cold  water.  As  soon  as 
it  comes  to  a  boil  strain  the  water  off.  Then  pour  in  one  quart  boiling 
water,  season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  cook  for  six  minutes.  Then  add  two  small, 
well-cleaned  leeks,  tied  up  with  four  branches  parsley,  a  sprig  of  bay 
leaf,  two  cloves  and  a  sprig  of  thyme;  put  in  the  pan  one  and  a  half 
ounces  salt  pork,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Cover  the  pan  again  and  let 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  twelve  small,  sound,  peeled  onions;  boil  again 
five  minutes.  Add  one  good-sized  raw  potato,  cut  into  small,  half -inch- 
square  pieces.  Skim  the  fat  off  the  surface.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil 
for  ten  minutes  more;  then  shift  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range. 
Mix  two  tablespoons  flour  with  two  gills  cold  milk  in  a  bowl  and  strain 
it  into  the  saucepan;  mix  well  with  the  wooden  spoon  and  let  boil  for 
three  minutes.  Remove  the  leeks,  parsley,  etc.  Pour  the  preparation 
into  a  deep  pie  dish.  Spread  a  little  chopped  parsely  over.  Lightly  egg 
the  border  of  the  dish  all  around.  Cover  the  surface  with  a  pie  paste, 
same  as  mince  pie  (No.  117).  Egg  the  surface  with  a  hair  pastry  brush. 
Make  a  few  incisions  on  the  surface  of  the  paste  to  allow  evaporation. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  obtains  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Remove,  place  the  pie  on  a  plate  and  serve. 

1 60.    MACARONI  AU  GRATIN 

Boil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  three-quarters  of  a  pound  Italian 
macaroni  in  three  quarts  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Drain  well  on  a 
sieve  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  good  butter,  adding  two 
tablespoons  flour.  Mix  well,  then  pour  in  two  light  gills  hot  milk. 
Gently  mix  again,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  light  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Add  one  ounce  grated 
Swiss  cheese  and  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Gently  mix  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  and  when  the  cheese  is  thoroughly  mixed  transfer  the 
macaroni  into  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  a  little  grated  Swiss  cheese  over 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  of  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Remove  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          49 

161.    APRICOT  TARTLETS 

Lightly  butter  six  small,  scalloped  tartlet  moulds.  Have  a  pie  paste 
prepared,  as  for  No.  117.  Then  with  a  paste  cutter  cut  out  six  equal, 
round  pieces  and  neatly  line  the  moulds  with  them.  Gently  press  the 
paste  with  the  thumb  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  moulds,  but  avoid 
pressing  the  paste  at  the  edges.  Fill  the  tartlet  moulds  with  dried 
beans  and  place  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven; 
drop  the  beans  into  a  tin  box,  keeping  them  for  similar  purposes  in  the 
future. 

Open  and  cut  a  pint  can  of  fine  apricots  into  thin,  equal  slices. 
Spread  at  the  bottom  of  each  mould  a  good  teaspoonful  apple  marmalade 
(No.  3190),  then  carefully  fill  the  tartlets  with  the  apricots  equally 
divided;  dredge  a  light  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  over  each;  lay  them 
on  a  baking  sheet,  then  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  sixteen  minutes. 
Bring  them  to  the  oven  door,  besprinkle  the  edges  of  each  mould  with  a 
little  powdered  sugar ;  return  them  to  the  oven  for  two  minutes  to  let  the 
sugar  thoroughly  melt.  Remove  from  the  oven,  let  cool  off,  then  spread 
over  the  apricots  a  teaspoon  currant  jelly.  Dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 


DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Rissolette  Russe 

Consomme",  Tapioca 

Halibut,  Mornay  Potatoes,  Viennoise 

Ribs  of  Lamb,  Prentanier 
Sweet  Peppers,  Saut£  (288) 

Roast  Grouse  with  Jelly  Escarole  Salad 

Fig  Pudding,  Tyrolienne 

162.  RlSSOLETTES   RUSSE 

Prepare  a  noodle  paste  as  follows :  Spread  half  pound  sifted  flour  on 
a  corner  of  the  table,  make  a  small  hole  in  the  centre.  Crack  into  it 
three  whoL  eggs;  add  a  saltspoon  salt,  a  tablespoon  cold  milk.  Mix 
well  with  the  hand  until  a  very  thick  paste,  which  will  take  about  ten 
minutes.  Let  rest  for  five  minutes  on  a  lightly  floured  table.  Then  roll 
it  out  three  times  its  original  size  and  let  rest  for  five  minutes.  Roll  it 
out  to  the  thickness  of  a  fifty-cent  piece  and  let  rest  again  five  minutes. 
Then  with  a  pastry  cutter  two  inches  in  diameter  cut  as  many  pieces  as 
possible,  and  with  a  beaten-up  egg  gently  wret  the  edges  of  each  piece  all 
around.  Neatly  lay  half  teaspoon  Russian  caviare  in  the  centre  of  each 
piece,  fold  them  up  in  two;  lightly  steep  them  in  beaten-up  egg,  roll  in 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  they  have  obtained  a  golden 
colour.  Drain  well.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

163.  CONSOMM£  TAPIOCA 

Prepare  a  consomme  as  per  No.  52.  Strain  it  into  a  saucepan,  and 
as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  four  ounces  thoroughly  washed  tapioca. 
Mix  well,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve. 


50  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

164.    HALIBUT,  MORNAY 

Marinade  and  cook  three  pounds  very  fresh  halibut,  cut  in  three 
slices,  exactly  the  same  as  for  bass  (No.  25).  Have  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan ;  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  mix  and 
heat  well  and  pour  in  one  gill  hot  milk  and  five  tablespoons  "fish  gravy." 
Stir  well,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper; 
add  one  ounce  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  one  raw  egg  yolk.  Briskly  stir 
and  let  slowly  cook  for  three  minutes.  Place  the  halibut  on  a  dish, 
remove  the  spine  bone;  place  six  heads  canned  mushrooms  on  top  of 
the  fish,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  halibut.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  on  the  surface,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  over 
all.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  of  a  golden 
colour.  Remove  it  from  the  oven,  decorate  with  six  heart-shape  croutons 
(No.  90)  around  the  dish.  Sprinkle  a  very  little  finely  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve  hot. 

165.    POTATOES  VIENNOISE 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  potatoes  as  for  potatoes  brioches  (No. 
91).  Divide  the  puree  into  six  equal  parts.  Sift  a  little  flour  on  a  corner 
of  the  table.  Roll  out  each  piece  to  a  nice  oval  form.  Slightly  flatten 
them  with  the  blade  of  a  knife  to  the  forms  of  Vienna  bread ;  then  with 
the  knife  again  make  a  double  incision  lengthwise  on  the  surface  of  each. 
Lightly  butter  a  baking  pan,  lay  the  potatoes  into  the  pan ;  lightly  glaze 
the  surface  of  each  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  place  them  in  a  very 
brisk  oven  to  bake  for  twelve  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

1 66.  RIBS  OF  LAMB,  PRENTANIER 

Procure  a  nice  rib  of  young,  tender  lamb.  Remove  the  bone  opposite 
the  loin.  Neatly  trim  off  the  meat  about  one  inch  from  the  end  bones  of 
the  ribs.  Cut  into  leek  form  two  sound  carrots  and  two  medium  turnips ; 
place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt 
and  one  teaspoon  fine  sugar,  well  sprinkled  over.  Gently  cook  the 
vegetables  until  of  a  nice  light  brown  colour,  tossing  them  well  mean- 
while. Lay  the  lamb  on  top  of  the  vegetables,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  If  by  that  time  it  has  obtained  a  good  colour, 
moisten  with  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine,  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
half  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  adding  to  the  vegetables  ten  very  small, 
sound,  white  onions.  Cover  the  pan  and  place  in  the  oven  again  for 
twenty  minutes  more.  Remove  from  the  oven.  Dress  the  lamb  in  the 
centre  of  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  vegetables  around  the  lamb  and  serve. 

167.  ROAST  GROUSE  WITH  JELLY 

Singe,  cut  the  head  and  feet  off,  draw,  wipe  nicely  and  truss  a  fine, 
tender,  fat  grouse  of  two  and  a  half  pounds.  Rub  a  good  half  tablespoon 
salt  over  the  bird.  Place  it  on  a  small  roasting  pan ;  spread  a  very  light 
tablespoon  melted  butter  over  the  grouse;  pour  into  the  pan  one  table- 
spoon hot  water.  Place  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  for  ten  minutes,  being 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  51 

careful  to  baste  it  with  its  own  liquor  once  in  a  while.  Open  the  door 
of  the  oven,  turn  the  pan,  close  and  roast  for  ten  minutes  again.  Remove 
from  the  oven,  untruss,  dress  the  grouse  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a 
little  watercress  around  the  bird,  strain  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve  with 
two  good  tablespoons  currant  jelly  separately. 

1 68.     FIG  PUDDING,  TYROLIENNE 

Prepare  and  cook  six  puddings  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  39,  only 
adding  four  candied  or  brandied  cherries,  cut  into  small  square  pieces, 
to  each  mould  before  the  custard  preparation  is  poured  over  the  pudding, 
and  serve  the  same  way. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Pears 

Pettijohn 
Omelette  Creole 

Broiled  Beafsteak,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Hashed  Potatoes,  au  Gratin 

Soda  Cake 

169.  STEWED  PRUNES  AND  PEARS 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  prunes  exactly  as  in  No.  i,  but  just 
before  placing  them  on  the  fire  add  six  halves  of  medium,  not  overripe, 
sound  pears,  peeled  and  cored.  If  fresh  pears  are  not  at  hand,  the  same 
quantity  of  preserved  will  answer. 

170.     PETTIJOHN  FOOD 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  pint  cold  water,  half  pint  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  half  pound  Pettijohn.  Mix  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  and  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
at  the  bottom  to  prevent  burning.  Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve 
with  cold  milk  or  cream  and  fine  sugar  separately. 

171.     OMELETTE  CREOLE 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  oil;  add  one  finely  minced 
white  onion  and  a  finely  minced  green  pepper  and  gently  cook  for  six 
minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Then  add  three  medium,  peeled 
and  crushed  ripe  tomatoes,  also  three  finely  minced  canned  mushrooms. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  sugar  and  one  saltspoon 
white  pepper.  Mix  lightly,  then  let  simmer  on  the  range  for  thirty 
minutes.  Finely  chop  together  half  bean  sound  garlic  with  a  branch 
of  parsley  and  a  branch  of  chervil  and  add  to  the  pan,  lightly  mix  and 
let  cook  for  five  minutes  longer.  Add  one  teaspoon  fresh  bread  crumbs ; 
mix  a  little  and  keep  on  the  corner  of  the  range.  Meanwhile  carefully 
crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt 


52    .  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  large  and  very  clean  black 
frying  pan.  Pour  in  the  eggs,  briskly  stir  all  over  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes;  let  rest  for  half  a  minute.  Pour  into  the  centre  of  the  omelette 
half  the  Creole  preparation,  fold  both  ends  up,  let  rest  for  a  minute. 
Then  turn  it  into  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  balance  of  the  Creole  around 
the  omelette  and  serve. 

172.    BROILED  BEEFSTEAKS,  MA!TRE  D 'HOTEL 

Procure  six  small,  tender  beefsteaks  of  five  ounces  each.  Pare 
them  nicely  and  lightly  flatten  them  evenly  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a 
plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Gently  roll  the  steaks  in  the  seasoning,  then  arrange  on  a  broiler  and 
broil  on  a  lively,  clear  coal  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress 
them  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  prepared  as  per 
No.  7,  over  the  steaks,  evenly  divided  and  serve. 

173.    HASHED  POTATOES,  AU  GRATIN 

Finely  hash  six  medium,  peeled  potatoes.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire 
with  one  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper, 
one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  two  gills  cold  milk  and  one  gill  cream. 
Mix  well;  let  the  whole  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a 
while  with  the  wooden  spoon. 

Butter  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  a  teaspoon  butter.  Transfer 
the  potatoes  into  this  dish,  spread  the  surface  with  two  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese,  divide  half  ounce  butter  into  little 
bits  over  the  top  of  the  cheese.  Set  the  dish  in  a  brisk  oven  to  bake  for 
ten  minutes,  or  until  of  a  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

174.     SODA   CAKE 

Half  pound  sifted  flour,  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  two  ounces  butter, 
one  ounce  currants,  half  teaspoon  carbonate  soda,  quarter  of  a  pint 
cold  milk  and  one  raw  egg. 

Place  in  a  basin  the  butter,  flour  and  sugar,  and  knead  thoroughly. 
Mix  the  soda  with  the  milk,  and  then  briskly  mix  all  the  ingredients 
together.  Place  the  mixture  into  a  lightly  buttered  tin.  Set  in  the 
hot  oven  and  bake  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  cut  the  cake  into 
six  equal  pieces  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Fried"  Scallops  with  Bacon 

Pork  Chops,  Piquante  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Apples  with  Rice 

175.    FRIED  SCALLOPS  WITH  BACON 

Procure  one  and  a  half  pounds  fine  fresh  scallops.  Clean  them  well, 
lay  them  on  a  dish  and  season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  53 

white  pepper.  Mix  the  seasoning  will  in.  Sprinkle  two  ounces  flour 
over  them  and  thoroughly  mix  again.  Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  roll 
the  scallops  thoroughly  in  the  eggs,  then  roll  them  well  in  bread  crumbs. 
Have  some  boiling  fat  on  the  range,  place  the  scallops  in  the  frying 
basket,  shake  them  well,  then  fry  until  they  have  obtained  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Take  them  up  and  drain  thoroughly.  Sprinkle  half  teaspoon 
salt  over  equally.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Place 
six  thin  slices  of  bacon  (No.  13)  over  them  and  serve. 

176.    PORK  CHOPS,  PIQUANTE  SAUCE 

Pare  and  flatten  nicely  six  fairly  thick,  fresh  pork  chops.  Season 
on  both  sides  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Keep  them  on  a  plate  for  forty-five  minutes  or  one  hour,  turning  once  in 
a  while.  Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  sautoire.  Place  in  the  chops  and 
cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  seven  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  the  chops 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  piquante  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

177.    PIQUANTE   SAUCE 

Hash  very  fine  six  peeled,  medium-sized  sound  shallots,  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter;  heat  well  without 
browning.  Hash  up  very  fine  six  sound  gherkins,  a  good  tablespoon 
sound  capers,  one  clove  of  garlic,  one  teaspoon  fresh  parsley.  Add  all 
these  to  the  pan,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper.  Moisten  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine  or  the  same  quan- 
tity good  vinegar  if  no  sherry  is  at  hand,  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
and  one  gill  half  glaze  (No.  122).  Stir  all  well,  let  it  gently  reduce  to 
one-half  the  quantity  and  serve. 

178.  MASHED  POTATOES 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  nicely  six  rather  small,  sound  potatoes;  cut 
them  into  quarters,  place  in  a  pan,  cover  with  water  and  boil  for  thirty- 
five  minutes;  drain  well  and  press  them  through  a  puree  sieve  into  an 
enamelled  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper 
and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  add  one  tablespoon  butter  and  a  gill 
and  a  half  hot  milk.  Mix  well  with  the  wooden  spoon,  while  gently 
heating  for  five  minutes.  Turn  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  pass  the  blade 
of  a  table  knife  over  the  surface  to  give  a  delicate  appearance  and  serve. 

179.  APPLES  WITH  RICE 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  rice  as  for  old-fashioned  rice  pudding 
(No.  140) ;  but  when  removing  the  pan  from  the  fire  only  add  two  eggs. 
Dress  your  rice  nicely  on  a  dish,  lay  the  apples  on  top  and  serve. 

1 80.    APPLES  FOR  APPLES  WITH  RICE 

Neatly  peel  and  core  six  medium  apples.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan 
and  boil  in  two  quarts  of  water  with  half  stick  vanilla  and  four  ounces 
sugar  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  very  carefully  with  a  skimmer  with- 
out breaking  them  and  place  upon  the  rice.  Take  up  the  vanilla  bean 
and  put  it  in  sugar  to  keep  for  other  purposes. 


54  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Stuffed  Olives 

Minestra  Milanaise 
Weakfish,  Vert-pre  Potatoes  Anglaise 

Filet  Mignon,  Balthazard 
Roast  Duckling  Apple  Sauce 

Salad,  Doucette 

Chpcolate,  Pudding 

Ice  Cream,  Souveraine 

181.    STUFFED  OLIVES 

Stone  twelve  large  Spanish  olives.  Stuff  the  interior  of  each  with 
very  finely  hashed-up  sweet  peppers  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin. 

182.  MINESTRA,  MILANAISE 

Cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces  one  small  carrot,  one  small  turnip, 
one  small  onion,  two  leeks  and  one  branch  celery.  Place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
carefully  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  occasionally.  Moisten  with 
three  quarts  water.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  adding  half  saltspoon  powdered  saffron.  Drop  in  a  good 
beef  bone  or  chicken  bones;  cook  for  forty-five  minutes.  Now  add  one 
ounce  uncooked  Italian  spaghetti  in  one-and-a-half-inch  equal  pieces 
and  one  ounce  raw  rice.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Peel  and  cut  into 
small  dice-shaped  pieces  a  small,  sound  potato,  and  a  good,  red,  peeled 
tomato,  cut  the  same  way,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Gently  boil  twenty- 
five  minutes  more.  Remove  the  bones,  add  one  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Mix  well,  then  serve. 

183.  WEAKFISH,  VERT-PR£ 

Procure  a  fine,  fresh  weakfish  of  two  and  a  half  pounds,  clean  well, 
remove  the  head  and  split  in  two  lengthwise.  Remove  the  spine  bone 
as  well  as  the  fins.  Place  it  in  a  sautoire,  add  one-half  gill  white  wine, 
one  gill  water,  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half 
ounce  butter.  Cover  the  fish  with  buttered  paper,  let  boil  on  the  range 
for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Re- 
move, take  up  the  paper,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Add  two  tablespoons 
fish  liquor  to  the  vert-pre  sauce;  gently  mix,  then  pour  it  over  the  fish 
and  serve. 

184.      SAUCE    VERT-PRE 

Place  in  a  mortar  one  fine  peeled  shallot,  three  branches  very  fresh 
parsley,  two  branches  chervil,  four  branches  chives  and  half  clove 
sound  garlic.  Pound  them  to  a  paste;  add  one  ounce  butter,  pound 
again  until  the  butter  is  completely  green.  Press  it  through  a  fine  sieve 
into  a  bowl  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  required. 

Place  and  melt  in  a  saucepan  one-half  ounce  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour,  stir  and  heat  well;  pour  in  one  gill  hot  milk;  sharply  mix 
with  a  whisk  till  the  sauce  is  free  from  any  small  lumps.  Season  with 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  55 

good  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Remove  the 
pan  from  the  fire;  immediately  add  the  vert-pre  butter  little  by  little, 
briskly  and  continually  whisking  while  doing  so ;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire 
whisking  it  for  two  minutes.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  sauce- 
bowl  and  serve. 

185.    POTATOES,  ANGLAISE 

Boil  in  two  quarts  water  with  one  tablespoon  salt  six  medium-sized 
peeled  potatoes  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain,  cut  them  in  halves  and 
place  in  a  sautoire.  Season  them  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon 
white  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  gently  with  a 
fork.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish ;  spread  a  very  little  lightly  melted  butter 
over  each  piece.  Besprinkle  with  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and 
serve  very  hot. 

1 86.    FILET  MIGNON,  BALTHAZARD 

Cut  out  from  a  filet  of  two  pounds  six  small,  even  pieces;  neatly 
flatten  them.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper.  Heat  one-half  ounce  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the 
filets,  one  beside  another,  and  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Place  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Boil  in  a  small  saucepan  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  and  let  reduce  to  one-half  on  the  fire.  Plunge  one-half  pint 
French  flageolets  into  a  pint  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain  well, 
replace  them  in  the  saucepan.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and 
one  saltspoon  white  pepper,  adding  half  ounce  good  butter;  mix  well 
with  a  fork  and  heat  for  two  minutes;  then  keep  warm. 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  glazed  onions,  as  per  No.  125.  Place  the 
filets  on  six  round,  toasted  bread  croutons.  Garnish  one  side  of  the 
dish  with  the  flageolets,  the  other  side  with  the  glazed  onions,  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  filets  and  serve  very  hot. 

N.  B.  Sauce,  flageolets  and  glazed  onions  should  be  prepared 
before  the  filets. 

187.    ROAST  DUCKLING,  APPLE  SAUCE 

Cut  off  the  head  and  legs,  singe,  draw,  neatly  wipe  and  truss  a  fine, 
tender  duckling  of  about  five  pounds,  keeping  the  livers.  Place  in  a 
small  roasting  pan  with  half  gill  water,  half  ounce  butter,  well  divided 
over  the  bird ;  sprinkle  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper 
over  it.  Set  it  in  a  moderate  oven  to  roast  for  fifty  minutes ;  turn  it  several 
times  while  roasting  to  get  a  good  brown  colour  all  around,  not  failing 
to  baste  it  occasionally  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove  it  from  the  oven, 
untruss,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy. 
Strain  the  gravy  over  the  duck,  decorate  the  dish  with  watercress,  and 
send  to  the  table  with  apple  sauce  separately. 

1 88.    APPLE  SAUCE 

Core,  peel  and  cut  into  thin  pieces  four  good-sized  green,  sound 
apples.  Place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  ounces  sugar,  one 


56  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

saltspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  powdered  cinnamon  and  half  gill  water; 
cover  the  pan,  place  it  on  the  fire,  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  and 
mash  very  fine.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  strain  through  a  colander, 
let  cool  off  and  serve  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

189.    DOUCETTE  SALAD,  "CORN  MACHE  PETTICUS" 

Procure  a  quart  fine,  fresh,  green  doucette  (corn  salad).  Carefully 
pick  off  all  stale  leaves,  if  any  adhering.  Neatly  pare  the  roots.  Plunge 
it  into  plenty  of  cold  water  and  let  it  float  for  ten  minutes;  turn  it  over 
with  the  hands  and  gently  shake  it  two  or  three  times  meanwhile. 
Change  the  water  and  see  that  no  sand  remains  at  the  bottom  of  the 
vessel.  Replunge  it  in  cold  water,  gently  turn  it  over  in  all  directions  for 
two  minutes,  change  the  water;  repeat  the  same  operation  once  more. 

Lift  it  up  with  the  hands,  let  the  water  run  out,  place  it  in  a  clean 
cloth,  drain  carefully  but  thoroughly  without  mashing  it.  Gently  loosen 
it  with  the  hands,  then  place  it  in  a  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  table- 
spoons dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  in  a  loose  way  and  serve. 

N.  B.  This  salad  being  very  delicate,  it  should  never  be  seasoned 
except  one  minute  before  required.  This  delicious  and  wholesome 
article,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  is  not  sufficiently  known  in  the  United  States. 

190.    CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

Three  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  one  gill  cold  milk,  one  ounce 
powdered  sugar,  half  ounce  melted  butter,  half  ounce  sifted  flour,  two 
egg  yolks,  the  whites  of  two  beaten-up  eggs,  half  ounce  bread  crumbs 
and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Place  the  chocolate  and  milk  in  a 
small  saucepan,  stir  a  little  and  just  let  come  to  a  boil  on  a  slow  fire. 
Mix  in  another  small  saucepan  the  butter  and  flour,  heat  well  without 
browning,  briskly  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  into  this  the  chocolate- 
milk  and  all  other  ingredients  and  stir  well  for  two  minutes. 

Lightly  butter  six  small  pudding  moulds,  fill  them  with  this  prepara- 
tion. Lay  them  in  a  small  pastry  pan;  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  the 
height  of  the  moulds.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Take  from  the  oven.  Unmould  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve  with  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  separately. 

191.    ICE  CREAM  SOUVERAINE 

Prepare  half  the  quantity  of  vanilla  ice  cream  as  per  No.  42.  Crack 
four  egg  yolks  in  a  copper  basin  with  two  ounces  powdered  sugar.  Place 
the  basin  on  the  corner  of  the  hot  range,  add  to  it  half  stick  vanilla  bean, 
then  vigorously  whisk  it  for  fully  ten  minutes,  or  until  well  heated, 
remove  and  place  it  on  the  ice  until  cold,  lightly  mixing  once  in  a  while. 
Add  half  pint  fresh  thick  cream  whipped  as  per  No.  337.  Remove  the 
vanilla  bean  and  gently  mix  for  two  minutes.  Have  a  well-cleaned  ice- 
cream mould  holding  one  quart;  place  the  prepared  pint  of  vanilla  cream 
in  the  mould.  Dip  eight  lady  fingers  in  maraschino  or  rum,  lay  them 
over  the  vanilla,  fill  up  the  mould  with  the  preparation,  tightly  close, 
then  bury  the  mould  in  an  ice-cream  tub  with  plenty  of  cracked  ice  and 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  57 

rock  salt  and  freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove  and  plunge  the  mould  into 
lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds,  take  up,  nicely  wipe  all  around, 
unmould  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  napkin  and  serve. 


Friday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44),  Semoulina  Cream 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Plain 

Shad,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Mutton  Kidneys  with  Bacon 

Potatoes,  Allumette 

Buns 

192.    SEMOULINA 

Boil  in  a  small  saucepan  a  pint  water  and  half  pint  milk  with  a  salt- 
spoon  salt.  Gradually  drop  in  six  ounces  semoulina.  Briskly  mix 
with  the  whisk  while  adding  it  and  gently  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  occa- 
sionally mixing  to  prevent  burning  at  the  bottom.  Pour  into  a  deep 
dish  and  serve  with  cold  milk  or  cream  and  fine  sugar  separately. 

193.  SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  PLAIN 

Carefully  break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  add  half  gill  cold  milk. 
Briskly  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute.  Thoroughly  heat 
in  a  small  saucepan  half  ounce  butter,  then  drop  in  the  eggs,  gently  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  while  briskly  cooking  for  six  minutes.  Turn  them 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

194.  SHAD,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Procure  from  your  fish  dealer  a  small,  fresh  roe  shad  or  half  one  of 
two  pounds,  clean  and  wipe  well,  pare  and  cut  in  two  (if  a  whole  one), 
scale  it  and  remove  the  backbone.  Season  both  sides  with  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  very  little  white  pepper,  nicely  rubbed  in.  Roll  it  well  in  a 
tablespoon  oil.  Arrange  in  a  double  wire  broiler  and  broil  on  a  moderate 
fire  for  eight  minutes  on  the  split  side  and  for  four  minutes  on  the  skin 
side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7) 
over  and  serve  with  a  few  parsley  greens  around  the  dish  and  six  quarters 
of  lemon. 

195.    BROILED  MUTTON  KIDNEYS  WITH  BACON 

Split,  without  separating,  twelve  fine,  fresh,  chocolate-coloured  mut- 
ton kidneys.  Skin  them  nicely.  Have  on  a  soup  plate  one  tablespoon 
good  oil,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  mix  well, 
then  drop  in  the  kidneys  and  roll  them  in  well.  Arrange  them  on  a1 
double  broiler  well  set  and  broil  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  them  on  six  toasts,  with  a  slice  of  bacon  (prepared  as  per  No.  13) 


58  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

each  on  two  kidneys.     Divide  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  on  top  of  the 
kidneys  and  serve. 

196.    POTATOES,  ALLUMETTES 

Peel  and  wash  three  good-sized,  sound,  raw  potatoes  and  carefully 
cut  them  into  match-like  strips.  Wash  again,  drain  well,  then  place  in  a 
wire  frying  basket  and  fry  them  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes,  or  until 
they  attain  a  golden  colour.  Lift  them  up,  drain  thoroughly,  sprinkle 
over  them  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

197.     BUNS 

Half  pound  sifted  flour,  two  ounces  sugar,  one  teaspoon  compressed 
yeast,  half  gill  warm  milk,  two  ounces  melted  butter,  two  ounces 
currants,  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  mixed  spices. 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  spices  and  currants.  Make  a  hole  in  the  centre, 
place  in  it  the  yeast  and  milk;  knead  the  yeast  and  milk  well,  then  add 
the  butter,  another  half-gill  of  cold  milk  and  the  salt.  Sharply  knead 
with  the  hands  until  a  soft  dough.  Divide  the  batter  into  six  equal 
parts;  work  them  up  to  egg  shape.  Lay  them  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin 
pastry  pan ;  place  in  a  warm  place  to  raise  for  thirty  minutes.  Set  them 
in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to  the  oven  door,  wet  the 
surface  of  each  with  a  little  milk,  return  them  to  the  oven  and  bake  for 
two  minutes  longer.  Remove  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder 
Omelette  with  Parsley 

Canape's  of  Lobster 

Calves'  Brains,  Horly 

Apple  Fritters 

198.    FISH  CHOWDER 

Have  three  quarts  water  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Add  one  sliced 
carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  leek,  one  branch  chopped  celery;  two 
branches  parsley,  chopped  up;  half  clove  sliced  garlic,  one  saltspoon 
thyme,  half  sprig  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  one  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  gently  for  thirty  minutes.  Add 
fish  heads,  spines  or  any  parings  at  hand,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for 
thirty  minutes  more.  Chop  one  sound  onion  very  fine,  also  two  leeks, 
adding  one  ounce  lean  salt  pork,  finely  chopped.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  ounce  butter  and  let  get  a  nice  light  brown  colour,  mixing  con- 
stantly with  the  wooden  spoon.  Strain  the  fish  broth  into  this  pan,  stir 
well,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  four  medium-sized  raw  potatoes,  peeled 
and  cut  into  small  dice.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
add  one  saltspoon  thyme  and  one  pound  fresh  codfish,  cut  into  very  small 
dice.  Boil  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  ounces  flour  in  three-quarters  of  a 
pint  fresh  milk  and  add  to  the  broth,  briskly  stirring  while  adding  it. 
Season  again  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Boil 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  59 

slowly  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen,  sprinkle  with  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

199.     OMELETTE  WITH  PARSLEY 

Have  a  tablespoon  well-washed,  thoroughly  drained  and  finely 
chopped  parsley  ready  on  a  saucer.  Carefully  break  eight  fresh  eggs  in 
a  bowl,  pour  in  half  gill  cold  milk.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  add  the  parsley,  beat  up  briskly  with  a 
fork  for  two  minutes.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  sharply  stir  with  the  fork  for  two  minutes, 
let  rest  for  half  minute,  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre, 
let  rest  for  a  minute.  Then  turn  the  omelette  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

200.     CANAPES  OF  LOBSTER 

Cut  out  from  a  sandwich  loaf  of  bread  six  round  slices  half  inch  thick 
and  three  inches  in  diameter;  toast  to  a  golden  colour.  Evenly  divide 
the  lobster  forcemeat  over  the  toasts,  giving  them  a  nice  dome  form. 
Wet  the  tops  of  the  canapes  with  beaten  eggs,  cover  with  bread  crumbs 
-and  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin.  Spread  a  very  little  melted  butter 
over  each ;  set  in  a  slow  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  of  a  golden  colour. 
Dress  on  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

201.    LOBSTER  FORCEMEAT 

Boil  a  three-pound  live  lobster  in  plenty  of  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  it,  let  get  cold;  then  split  it  in  two  and  with  a  fork 
pick  out  all  the  meat  from  the  tail,  body  and  claws.  Hash  it  up  very 
fine  with  twelve  canned  mushrooms.  Chop  very  fine  one  medium  sound 
onion,  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  brown  it 
well;  then  add  two  tablespoons  sifted  flour;  stir  well  for  one  minute. 
Add  three-quarters  of  a  pint  hot  milk,  stir  again  until  it  boils.  Drop  in 
the  lobster  and  mushrooms.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  teaspoon 
English  mustard  in  powder,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  all  well 
with  the  wooden  spoon,  then  let  gently  simmer -for  twenty  minutes. 
Thicken  with  two  egg  yokes  and  slowly  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  pan,  place  in  a  china  vessel,  let  get  cold  and  use  as 
required. 

202.    CALVES'  BRAINS,  HORLY 

Place  three  pairs  calves'  brains  into  cold  water  for  five  minutes ;  take 
them  up,  skin  well,  wash  again  in  cold  water,  drain,  place  in  a  small 
saucepan  and  cover  with  fresh  water,  adding  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
pepper,  two  tablespoons  good  vinegar  and  one  bay  leaf.  Slowly  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Drain  well,  then  roll  them  in  flour,  then  in  beaten 
eggs  and  lastly  in  bread  crumbs.  Place  them  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry 
in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes,  or  till  of  a  golden  colour.  Drain  them 
thoroughly,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  two  gills  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  separately. 


60  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

203.    APPLE  FRITTERS 

Peel  and  core  three  good-sized  sound  apples.  Cut  each  apple  in  four 
even  slices,  lay  them  on  a  plate,  dredge  a  tablespoon  fine  sugar  over,  pour 
in  two  tablespoons  rum,  then  repeatedly  turn  them  in  the  seasoning  and 
let  infuse  for  half  hour,  turning  them  in  the  rum  once  in  a  while.  Dip 
the  slices  of  apples  in  the  frying  batter,  then  gently  drop  them  one  by 
one  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  eight  minutes,  frequently  turning  with  a 
skimmer  meanwhile.  Take  them  up,  and  let  drain  on  a  wire  grater. 
Neatly  trim  them  all  around.  Pour  a  rum  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No. 
41,  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  the  fritters  over  the  sauce,  one  overlapping 
another.  Sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve 

204.    BATTER  FOR  FRITTERS 

Place  half  pound  sifted  flour  in  a  large  bowl;  add  two  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  three  egg 
yolks,  half  gill  cold  water  and  a  gill  cold  milk;  also  a  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence.  Briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Just  before 
serving  beat  the  white  of  the  three  eggs,  add  to  the  batter  and  gently  mix 
for  one  minute;  then  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  (The  same  quantity  of 
butter  can  be  substituted  for  oil  if  preferred.) 

DINNER 

Oysters 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Crabs 
Red  Snapper,  Ancienne  Potatoes,  Chateau 

Chicken  Saute,  Chasseur 
Cauliflower,  Sauce  Mousseline 

Scallops  en  Coquille 

Roast  Snipe  on  Toast 

Romaine  Salad 

Pudding  Saxonne 

205.    BISQUE  OF  HARD  CRABS 

Slice  very  fine  one  medium  carrot,  one  medium  onion,  one  branch 
celery,  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley  and  half  clove  sound  garlic. 
Place  these  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  gently  cook  them 
for  ten  minutes,  mixing  well  meantime.  Have  six  raw  hard  crabs,  well 
cleaned;  pound  them  (shells  and  all)  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  pulp,  then 
add  to  the  pan.  Stir  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes ;  add  two  and  a  half 
ounces  flour.  Stir  well,  moisten  with  one  quart  hot  milk  and  one  and 
a  half  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a  light  tablespoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Slowly  boil  for  forty-five 
minutes.  Strain  the  bisque  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  sauce- 
pan, set  it  on  the  range  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk 
into  half  gill  cold  cream  and  add  it  to  the  bisque;  briskly  mix  with  a 
whisk;  add  half  ounce  butter,  mix  again  for  one  minute.  Pour  into  a 
hot  tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23). 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  61 

206.    RED  SNAPPER,  A  L'ANCIENNE 

Prepare  and  cook  a  fine,  fresh,  three-pound  red  snapper,  exactly 
the  same  as  per  bass  in  Nos.  24  and  25.  When  ready  place  the  fish 
on  a  baking  dish,  then  proceed  according  to  the  following: 

207.  SAUCE  A  L'ANCIENNE 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  tablespoon 
sifted  flour;  stir  well  while  lightly  browning  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in 
one  gill  hot  milk  and  half  gill  fish  stock.  Season  with  one-quarter 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Stir  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  two  minutes.  Add  two  finely  minced  gherkins,  one  table- 
spoon capers  and  six  minced  canned  mushrooms.  Mix  well  while 
cooking  for  three  minutes.  Place  the  fish  in  a.  baking  dish,  then  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  fish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
over  all.  Place  the  fish  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  eight  minutes.  Re 
move  and  serve. 

208.  POTATOES,  CHATEAU 

Peel,  wash  and  boil  four  rather  small,  sound  potatoes.  Cut  them 
into  quarters,  round  the  sides  nicely  to  a  pickle  shape,  wash  again, 
then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  water,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil 
for  ten  minutes;  drain,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  ounce  clarified 
butter.  Toss  them  gently  once  in  a  while  until  of  a  good  golden  colour. 
Remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

209.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  CHASSEUR 

Singe  a  tender  chicken  of  two  and  a  half  pounds.  Cut  it  into  twelve 
pieces.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Heat  well  in  a  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  olive  oil ;  add  the  chicken,  the 
pieces  one  beside  the  other,  and  briskly  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side ; 
remove  all  the  white  meat  from  the  pan,  keeping  it  warm,  and  slowly 
fry  the  legs  for  five  minutes  longer.  Add  the  white  meat  again  to  the 
dark.  Slice  very  fine  six  sound  shallots  and  half  ounce  lean,  raw  ham 
and  add  to  the  chicken.  Toss  all  well  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  moisten 
with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one 
gill  half  glaze  (No.  122),  adding  eight  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  six  pieces  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  the 
chicken,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

210.     CAULIFLOWER,  SAUCE  MOUSSELINE 

Trim  off  the  outer  leaves,  cut  off  the  stalk,  clean  and  wash  well  a  fine 
large,  white  head  of  cauliflower.  Have  a  gallon  of  water  in  a  pan  with 
one  tablespoon  salt  and  half  pint  milk.  When  it  boils  add  the  cauli' 
flower,  cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Drain,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve  with  the  Mousseline  sauce  separately. 


62  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

211.    SAUCE  MOUSSELINE 

Half  gill  sweet  cream,  two  egg  yolks,  one  ounce  butter,  two  saltspoons 
salt,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  the  strained  juice  of  a  sound  lemon. 

Place  cream,  egg  yolks,  salt  and  nutmeg  in  a  saucepan,  place  the  pan 
in  a  "Bain-Marie,"  seeing  that  the  pan  is  fully  half  its  height  in  the  hot 
water;  briskly  beat  it  up  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the 
butter,  little  by  little,  whisking  constantly  until  the  butter  is  dissolved. 
Strain  the  preparation  through  a  napkin  into  a  saucebowl  and  serve  as 
directed. 

212.  SCALLOPS  EN  COQUILLES 

Boil  in  slightly  salted  water  for  five  minutes  one  and  a  half  pounds 
fresh  scallops;  drain.  Hash  very  finely  six  sound  shallots  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter.  Gently  cook  for  five  minutes 
without  browning,  stirring  well,  then  add  four  tablespoons  flour,  stir 
until  well  heated,  add  two  gills  hot  milk  and  one  gill  scallop  liquor. 
Stir  well  until  it  boils.  Drop  in  the  scallops  and  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  adding  two  tablespoons  good  sherry. 
Stir  well  again  and  let  cook  for  three  minutes.  Have  six  clean  individual 
"table  shells"  and  fill  them  with  the  preparation.  Spread  two  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese  over  them  equally,  and  place  in 
a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  eight  minutes.  Dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

213.  ROAST  SNIPE  ON  TOAST 

Pick,  singe,  draw  and  stick  a  toothpick  across  the  legs  under  the 
breasts  of  six  fat,  fresh  snipes  (keep  the  livers  for  further  use).  Pick 
out  the  eyes  of  each  bird.  Rub  well  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper.  Arrange  a  slice  thin,  lean  bacon  around  each. 
Lay  them  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin  and  roast  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Hash  the  six  livers  very  finely  with  two  shallots  and  one  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  neatly  spread  this  preparation  on  top  of  six  small  toasts,  place 
the  toasts  in  the  oven  for  two  minutes.  Remove  both  from  the  oven, 
arrange  the  toasts  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  snipe  on  the  toast.  Pour  one- 
quarter  gill  water  into  the  tin  pan,  cook  it  for  three  minutes  on  the 
range,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  birds  and  serve  with  a  little  watercress 
around  the  dish. 

214.    SALAD  ROMAINE 

Remove  the  outer  green  leaves  of  two  medium  heads  very  fresh 
romaine.  If  free  from  sand  and  other  elements,  detach  the  leaves  and 
wipe  carefully  without  washing.  If  necessary  to  wash  them,  do  so 
rapidly  in  cold  water;  drain  thoroughly  in  a  wire  basket,  then  on  a 
napkin.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Season  at  the  last  moment  with  four 
tablespoons  dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  it  well  and  send  to  the  table. 

215.    PUDDING  SAXONNE 

Two  ounces  sifted  flour,  two  ounces  butter,  two  ounces  fine  sugar, 
half  pint  milk,  four  egg  yolks,  the  white  of  three  eggs  and  half  vanilla 
bean. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  63 

Place  the  milk  and  vanilla  in  a  small  saucepan  and  let  come  to  a 
boil,  then  let  stand  on  the  corner  of  the  range.  Place  the  flour  in  another 
saucepan,  pour  in  the  milk,  little  by  little,  continually  stirring  with  the 
wooden  spoon  meanwhile,  add  half  the  sugar  and  half  the  butter;  stir 
well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens  well.  Transfer 
it  to  a  large  bowl  and  let  cool  off.  Lift  up  the  vanilla  bean,  add  the 
rest  of  the  sugar  and  butter,  as  well  as  the  egg  yolks,  one  by  one,  briskly 
mixing  with  the  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Briskly  beat  up  the  white 
of  three  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add  them  to  the  rest.  Lightly  mix  the  whole 
for  one  minute.  Then  fill  six  well-cleaned  individual  pudding  moulds 
with  the  preparation.  Place  them  on  a  tin  pan;  pour  in  hot  water  up 
to  one-half  the  height  of  the  moulds.  Place  in  the  hot  oven  to  steam 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  deep  dish,  pour 
a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over  them  and  serve  hot. 


Saturday,  First  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears 

Germea 

Omelette  with  Peas 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes 

2 1 6.    BAKED  PEARS 

Neatly  wipe  and  cut  six  medium,  sound  winter  pears  in  halves, 
lengthwise ;  carefully  cut  away  the  cores  with  a  knife.  Place  them  on  a 
tin  with  half  gill  cold  water  and  one  teaspoon  butter;  then  dredge  two 
tablespoons  granulated  sugar  over  them.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake 
for  thirty  minutes  or  till  soft,  being  careful  to  baste  them  frequently 
with  their  own  liquor.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  juice  over 
and  serve.  The  addition  of  a  pony  of  rum,  cognac  or  Swiss  kirsch, 
when  the  water  is  poured  in,  will  give  an  excellent  flavour. 

217.     GERMEA 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  pint  cold  water,  two  gills  cold  milk  and  a 
saltspoon  salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  half  pint  yellow  Germea. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  cold  milk,  cream  and  sugar  separately. 

218.     OMELETTE  WITH  PEAS 

Have  three  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas  or  canned  peas  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  half  pint  water  and  a  saltspoon  salt  and  gently 
boil  for  four  minutes.  Drain  well,  replace  them  in  the  pan  with  half 
teaspoon  butter.  Season  with  a  light  saltspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  sugar 
and  a  very  light  saltspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  toss  till  thoroughly  hot. 


64  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  half  gill  cold 
milk.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Sharply  beat  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  then  add  the  peas;  lightly 
mix.  Proceed  to  finish  the  omelette  as  per  No.  75. 

219.    LAMB  CHOPS  WITH  BACON 

Trim  and  nicely  flatten  six  tender  French  lamb  chops.  Season 
them  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Arrange  them  on  the  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  four  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Place  a  nice  slice  of  freshly  pre- 
pared bacon,  as  per  No.  13,  on  each  chop  and  serve. 

220.    HASHED  POTATOES  IN  CREAM 

Finely  hash  four  medium,  peeled,  boiled  potatoes.  Drop  them  in 
a  small  saucepan,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk  and  half  gill 
cream.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and 
half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  a  teaspoon  butter.  Thoroughly 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon,  gently  cook  for  twelve  minutes,  lightly 
mixing  occasionally.  Turn  them  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

221.    RICE  FLANNEL  CAKES 

Prepare  the  cakes  the  same  as  flannel  cakes  (No.  136),  but  using 
same  quantity  of  rice  flour  instead  of  the  other. 


LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Oysters,  Vaudeville 

Loin  of  Pork  and  Beans 

Rissotto,  Piedmontaise 

Biscuits  au  Cafe          , 

222.     OYSTERS,  VAUDEVILLE 

Procure  from  your  fish  dealer  thirty-six  fresh  Bluepoint  oysters, 
opened.  Plunge  them  into  a  saucepan  containing  half  pint  boiling 
water  with  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  the  oysters  for 
five  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  strainer.  Place  in  another  saucepan 
six  medium,  finely  chopped  shallots  with  one  ounce  butter  and  slowly 
cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  five  minutes  without  browning,  stirring  well 
meanwhile.  Then  add  three  tablespoons  sifted  flour.  Stir  well  with 
a  whisk  until  well  heated,  then  pour  in  half  pint  hot  milk.  Mix  again 
with  the  whisk  until  it  boils.  Now  add  the  oysters  with  two  table- 
spoons of  their  own  juice,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Gently  mix  the  whole  well  together 
with  the  wooden  spoon  and  boil  for  two  and  a  half  minutes.  Remove 
the  pan  from  the  fire,  place  it  on  a  table,  add,  little  by  little,  three- 
quarters  of  an  ounce  butter,  continually  mixing  while  adding  it.  Pour 
into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  65 

223.    LOIN  OF  PORK  AND  BEANS 

Have  a  small  loin  of  tender  pork  of  about  three  pounds.  Place  it  in 
a  roasting  pan.  Sprinkle  over  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Make  an  incision  with  a  knife  in  the  middle  of  the  loin 
about  one  and  a  half  inches  deep.  Immerse  a  sound  bean  of  peeled 
garlic,  then  spread  one  tablespoon  fat  over  the  loin  and  pour  half  gill  cold 
water  into  the  pan.  Set  the  loin  in  the  hot  oven  and  roast  for  one  hour, 
taking  care  to  turn  it  every  ten  minutes  and  to  frequently  baste  it  with 
its  own  gravy.  Remove  the  loin,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  the  fat 
off  the  gravy,  then  add  to  the  pan  one  pound  cooked  and  well-drained 
white  beans,  briskly  toss  them,  place  the  roasting  pan  on  the  fire  and  let 
boil  for  two  minutes.  Arrange  the  beans  around  the  loin  and  serve. 

224.    How  TO  BOIL  WHITE  BEANS 

Soak  one  pound  dried  white  beans  in  two  gallons  cold  water  for 
fourteen  hours.  Drain  well  and  place  them  in  a  rather  small  saucepan 
with  two  quarts  cold  water,  one  medium  carrot  cut  in  quarters,  one 
medium  white  onion  cut  in  half,  and  two  leeks  tied  up  with  two  branches 
parsley.  Add  one-ounce  piece  lean  salt  pork,  one  bean  sound  garlic, 
one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
simmer  on  a  slow  fire  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove  all  the  ingre- 
dients, drain  the  beans  on  a  sieve  and  use  as  required.  Hash  up  the 
ounce  of  salt  pork,  mix  and  use  with  the  beans. 

225.      RlSOTTO,   PlEDMONTAISE 

Heat  half  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  medium,  sound, 
finely  chopped  onion  and  gently  brown  to  a  golden  colour  for  five 
minutes,  stirring  well  meanwhile.  Then  add  half  pound  well-cleaned 
Italian  rice.  Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  rice  has  obtained 
a  good  golden  colour,  then  gradually  moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half 
hot  broth,  as  per  No.  70,  continually  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  one 
small  cervelat  sausage,  one  saltspoon  diluted  and  strained  Spanish 
saffron,  one  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Mix 
well,  cover  the  pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  place  the  pan  in 
a  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  it,  take  up  the  cervelat  sausage. 
Add  three  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese  and  half  ounce 
good  butter;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Dress 
the  rice  on  a  hot  dish.  Slice  the  cervelat  into  thin  slices,  arrange  them 
around  the  rice  and  serve. 

226.     BISCUITS  AU  CAFE1 

Two  ounces  fine  sugar,  one  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  wheat  flour, 
one  whole  egg,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  two  tablespoons  strong-made  coffee  and  one 
ounce  melted  butter. 

Place  the  sugar  in  a  basin,  crack  in  the  whole  egg  and  add  the 
yolks  of  the  three  eggs;  briskly  beat  up  while  heating  for  ten  minutes, 
or  until  thoroughly  thickened.  Beat  up  the  four  whites  to  a  stiff  froth 


66  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  copper  basin  and  add  to  the  first  mixture;  gently  mix  for  one  minute, 
then  add  the  flour;  briskly  mix  again  for  one  minute,  add  the  butter, 
vanilla  and  coffee.  Mix  well  again,  transfer  the  preparation  into  a  pastry 
pan  lightly  buttered.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  the  pan,  cut  the  cake  into  six  equal  pieces.  Dredge 
a  little  powdered  sugar  over  them  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Ox  Tail  a  1'Anglaise 

Broiled  Pompano  Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Fresh  Beef  Tongue,  Gendarme  Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

Sweetbreads  Braise",  Cheron 

Roast  Ruddy  Duck,  Fried  Hominy  Salad,  Doucette  (189) 

American  Pudding 

227.    Ox  TAIL,  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Cut  into  small  square  pieces  half  a  fresh  ox  tail.  Cut  in  the  same 
way  one  medium  red  carrot,  one  small,  sound  turnip,  one  medium 
onion,  one  leek  and  two  branches  celery;  place  these  in  a  saucepan  with 
half  ounce  melted  butter.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking 
rather  briskly  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  they  are  of  nice  golden  colour. 
Then  add  six  tablespoons  well-washed  barley,  two  tablespoons  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  one  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  three 
quarts  hot  water  or  broth  (No.  701).  Mix  well  again.  If  any  clean 
beef  bones  at  hand,  add  to  the  soup,  then  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
shift  the  pan,  so  as  to  let  gently  simmer  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  taking 
care  to  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  soup  while  cooking.  Add 
one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Mix 
and  boil  again  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

228.    BROILED  POMPANO 

Procure  two  very  fresh  medium  pompano  of  about  one  and  a  half 
pounds  each ;  wipe  them  thoroughly.  Roll  in  a  tablespoon  oil  on  a  plate. 
Season  on  both  sides  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  each  side.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish.  Spread  a  little  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over.  Decor- 
rate  the  dish  with  parsley  greens  and  six  small  pieces  of  lemon  and  serve. 

229.    FRESH  B  EEF  TONGUE,  GENDARME 

Wash  well  a  fine,  fresh,  medium  beef  tongue.  Slice  one  medium 
carrot,  one  onion, .  two  branches  celery,  two  ditto  parsley,  one  clove 
sound  garlic  and  one  leek.  Place  all  the  vegetables  in  a  large  saucepan 
with  half  ounce  butter,  adding  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  twelve  allspice, 
eighteen  whole  black  peppers  and  half  teaspoon  thyme.  Brown  the 
vegetables  to  a  good  brown  colour,  stirring  well  with  a  wooden  spoon 
meanwhile,  then  lay  the  tongue  over  the  vegetables,  pour  in  one  quart 
hot  water,  quarter  of  a  pint  claret,  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  67 

two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a 
boil  place  the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours,  being  careful  to 
turn  the  tongue  once  in  a  while.  Take  up  the  tongue  and  drop  it  into 
cold  water  for  a  minute,  remove  the  skin  and  neatly  trim  it  all  around; 
keep  it  warm.  Then  place  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire,  reduce  the  sauce  to 
a  pint.  Strain  the  sauce  into  another  saucepan.  Finely  slice  four 
medium,  sound  pickles,  add  six  minced  canned  mushrooms;  cut  into 
small  squares  one  red  Spanish  pepper  and  half  ounce  lean  cooked  ham, 
add  to  the  strained  sauce,  mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes.  Skim  the 
fat  off.  Place  the  tongue  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

230.     GREEN  PEPPERS,  STUFFED 

Plunge  into  boiling  water  for  two  minutes  one  very  small  and  three 
fine,  large,  sound  green  peppers.  Remove  and  neatly  peel  them  with 
a  towel.  Split  the  three  large  ones  in  even  halves,  lengthwise.  Keep 
the  smaller  one  as  it  is.  Remove  the  seeds,  nicely  clean  the  pods,  then 
fill  with  a  stuffing  prepared  as  per  No.  230A.  Spread  a  tablespoon  fresh 
bread  crumbs  over  their  surface.  Lay  them  on  a  lightly  buttered  pan, 
place  over  each  pepper  a  dot  of  butter,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  or  till  of  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

230A.     STUFFING  FOR  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

Thoroughly  heat  a  teaspoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  three 
finely  chopped,  sound  shallots  and  half  ounce  finely  chopped,  cooked 
lean  ham,  lightly  mix  and  gently  cook  for  two  minutes.  Sprinkle  a 
teaspoon  flour  over,  stir  well  for  half  minute,  then  pour  in  a  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122);  after  removing  the  seeds  from  the  remaining  small 
pepper  finely  mince  it  up  and  add  to -the  pan  with  four  finely  chopped 
canned  mushrooms,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  the  meat 
of  two  raw  sausages.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  one  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  all  well  together  and  cook  for  eight  minutes. 
Remove  the  pan  to  a  table,  add  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
thoroughly  stir,  then  use  as  directed. 

231.    SWEETBREADS  BRAISE",  CHERON 

Blanche  six  sweetbreads,  as  per  No.  33,  and  proceed  to  prepare 
them  precisely  the  same  as  No.  32.  Prepare  also  a  Bearnaise  sauce,  as 
per  No.  34.  Dress  the  breads  on  a  hot  dish,  then  spread  a  tablespoon 
Bearnaise  sauce  over  each  bread.  Arrange  six  canned  artichokes  filled 
on  top  with  a  tablespoon  hot  macedoine  and  serve. 

232.    ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS 

Open  a  pint  can  fresh  artichokes  with  a  can  opener  (there  are  usually 
six  artichokes  to  a  can).  After  draining  off  the  water  dry  the  artichokes 
on  a  cloth.  Heat  well  half  ounce  clarified  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place 
the  artichokes  in  the  pan  and  cook  them  for  three  minutes  on  each  side 


68  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  see  that  they  obtain  a  good  colour.     Remove  them  with  a  skimmer 
and  use  as  directed. 

233.    MACEDOINE  OF  VEGETABLES 

Cut  with  a  very  small  vegetable  scoop  two  medium-sized  carrots 
and  two  ditto  turnips;  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  pint  hot 
water,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain  and 
replace  in  the  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas,  two 
tablespoons  cooked  string  beans  in  half-inch  lengths,  two  tablespoons 
flageolet  beans  and  a  few  small  pieces  cooked  cauliflower  (if  at  hand). 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper,  adding 
half  ounce  good  butter.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  thoroughly 
thickened  and  use  as  directed. 

234.    RUDDY  DUCK,  ROASTED 

Carefully  pick  all  over  two  fine,  fat  ruddy  ducks.  Draw  and  neatly 
wipe  the  inside  of  the  birds  with  a  towel.  Season  the  inside  of  each 
with  two  saltspoons  salt  well  divided.  Run  in  the'head  of  each  from 
the  end  of  the  neck  to  back  with  a  small  branch  celery.  Truss  them 
nicely.  Lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  over 
each.  Spread  a  teaspoon  melted  fat  on  the  breasts  of  the  birds.  Place 
in  the  oven  to  roast  for  eighteen  minutes.  Remove,  untruss,  place 
on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  celery,  throw  a  teaspoon  hot  water  inside 
each  bird,  then  serve  with  six  slices  hominy  around  the  dish  and  cur- 
rant jelly  separately. 

235.    FRIED  HOMINY 

Boil  the  same  quantity  of  hominy  as  per  No.  45.  Pour  it  into  a 
pastry  pan  and  let  get  thoroughly  cold.  Then  cut  the  hominy  into 
two-inch-square  pieces,  half  inch  in  thickness.  Gently  pass  each  piece 
in  flour,  then  in  beaten  eggs  and  lastly  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Plunge 
them  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  until  they  have  obtained  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Lift  them  up,  drain  thoroughly  and  serve. 

236.    AMERICAN  PUDDING 

Two  eggs,  one  ounce  granulated  sugar,  one  ounce  ground  almonds, 
one  ounce  remnants  of  cakes  or  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  cream, 
one  ounce  candied  cherries,  one  gill  preserved  strawberries  and  half 
ounce  melted  butter. 

Place  the  strawberries  in  a  lightly  buttered  china  souffle  dish.  Sepa- 
rate the  yolks  from  the  white  of  the  two  eggs,  place  the  yolks  in  a  basin 
and  the  whites  in  an  egg  -bowl  on  the  ice.  Stir  the  sugar  into  the  yolks 
and  briskly  beat  up  to  a  cream;  add  the  almonds  and  cakes  or  bread 
crumbs  very  gradually,  briskly  beating  meanwhile.  Rapidly  whisk 
up  the  white  of  the  two  eggs  and  then  gradually  add  it  to  the  other  pre- 
paration, add  the  cream  and  butter,  mixing  well  while  doing  so.  Place 
the  preparation  into  the  souffle  dish  containing  the  strawberries.  Nicely 
arrange  the  cherries  on  top.  Place  the  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table. 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  <3o 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Nudeln  with  Cream 

Eggs  au  Miroir 

Codfish  Steaks,    Meuniere 

Corned  Beef  Hash,  American 

German  Fried  Potatoes 

Cocoanut  Gingerbread 

238.    NUDELN  WITH  CREAM 

Half  pound  sifted  flour,  one  cup  milk,  two  ounces  butter,  three  eggs, 
one  saltspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place  all  the 
above  in  a  basin,  then  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  a  firm,  clear 
paste  without  grains.  Lightly  flour  a  corner  of  the  table,  drop  the  paste 
over  it  and  let  dry  for  ten  minutes.  Divide  into  four  equal  parts, 
then  with  a  pastry  roller  roll  out  each  piece  as  thin  as  you  possibly  can. 
Let  dry  again  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  cut  into  two-inch  lozenge- 
shaped  pieces.  Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  pan  with  a  teaspoon 
salt ;  plunge  in  your  nudeln  and  boil  for  six  minutes,  or  till  very  tender. 
Remove  with  a  skimmer,  drain  thoroughly.  Place  on  a  hot  dish,  spread 
a  tablespoon  fresh  butter  over  them  and  serve  with  cream  (cold)  or 
milk. 

239.    EGGS  AU  MIROIR 

Lightly  butter  six  small  shirred  egg  dishes.  Carefully  break  two 
very  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish  without  disturbing  the  yolks.  Season 
them  with  a  light  saltspoon  salt  and  a  very  little  white  pepper,  well 
sprinkled  over  the  eggs  of  each  dish.  Place  them  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  very  hot. 

240.     CODFISH  STEAKS,  MEUNIERE 

Procure  three  nice  slices  fresh  codfish,  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick.  Season  on  both  sides  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  light  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  well  divided.  Have  a  little  cold  milk  on  a  plate,  dip  each 
slice  on  both  sides  in  the  milk,  dredge  them  with  a  little  flour  on  both 
sides.  Have  a  very  clean  frying  pan,  large  enough  to  contain  the  three 
steaks;  oil  the  pan  with  one  tablespoon  olive  oil;  heat  well,  place  the 
fish  in  the  pan  and  fry  them  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  of 
good  golden  colour.  Then  place  the  pan  in  the  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  remove  the  bone  of  each, 
suppress  the  oil  in  the  pan,  then  place  in  the  same  pan  one  and  a  half 
light  tablespoons  butter  and  heat  on  a  brisk  range  until  of  a 
light  brown  colour,  tossing  the  butter  without  ceasing.  Meanwhile 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  mix  a  little,  then  pour  over  the  steaks  and  serve  with  six  small 
squares  of  sound  lemon. 


70  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

241.     CORNED-BEEF  HASH,  AMERICAN  STYLE 

Have  a  tender,  lean  piece  of  corned  beef  from  the  rump  part,  of  one 
pound.  Wash  it  well  in  warm  water,  then  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  quarts  water,  or  see  that  the  water  is  twice  as  high  as  the  top  of  the 
beef  in  the  pan.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  two  hours.  Remove,  drain. 

Finely  hash  the  beef  with  twice  its  quantity  of  boiled  potatoes.  Mix 
both  well  together.  Hash  very  fine  one  medium  onion  and  one  green 
pepper,  and  nicely  brown  these  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter;  then  add  the  beef  and  potatoes.  Moisten  with  two  gills 
hot  broth  (No.  701)  or  hot  water.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  pepper 
but  no  salt.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  until  all  the  water  is  absorbed. 
Dress  the  hash  in  an  omelette  form  on  a  dish.  Arrange  a  few  bread 
croutons  around  the  hash  and  serve. 

242.  GERMAN  FRIED  POTATOES 

With  the  aid  of  a  round  cutter  (Emporte  piece)  one  inch  in  diameter, 
cut  four  good-sized,  sound,  raw,  peeled  potatoes.  Then  take  the 
potatoes  and  cut  them  into  slices  as  thin  as  a  fifty-cent  piece.  Wash 
well  and  drain;  then  plunge  into  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes.  Lift 
them  out,  drain  and  immediately  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce 
clarified  butter  and  gently  fry  on  the  range  until  they  have  obtained  a 
nice  golden  colour,  which  will  take  about  six  minutes.  Drain  them  well, 
sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

243.  COCOANUT  GINGERBREAD 

A  gill  molasses,  one  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  flour,  one  and  a  half 
ounces  rice  flour,  one-quarter  ounce  powdered  ginger,  two  ounces  butter, 
one  ounce  grated  cocoanut,  two  ounces  powdered  sugar  and  the  rind  pf 
half  a  medium,  sound  lemon.  Place  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  the  mo- 
lasses and  butter,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  all  the  other  mate- 
rials, briskly  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Then  with 
a  tablespoon  drop  the  paste  into  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  tin,  to  the 
desired  form  of  the  cake.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  hot 
or  cold. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Lobster,  Haldeman 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Cabaret 

Spinach  a  1'Anglaise 

Peach  Pancakes 

244.    LOBSTER,  HALDEMAN 

With  the  red  part  of  a  medium  carrot,  one  green  pepper,  six  medium, 
sound  shallots  and  half  saltspoon  thyme,  make  a  nice  smooth  hash. 
Boil  two  lobsters  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  each  for  ten  minutes  in  salt 
water.  Drain,  then  split  and  pick  out  all  the  meat  from  each;  cut  the 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  71 

meat  into  one-inch  pieces.  Mix  together  one  tablespoon  very  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  half  clove  sound  chopped  garlic  and  keep  apart. 
Heat  in7  a  large  saucepan  one  tablespoon  good  oil,  drop  in  the  lobster 
and  the  first  hash.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  good  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  mix  all  well  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  the  second  hash,  parsley  and  garlic 
and  pour  in  two  tablespoons  brandy.  Set  fire  with  a  match  to  the  brandy 
and  allow  to  burn  till  burned  out.  Add  then  a  gill  white  wine  and  half 
gill  pure  tomato  juice,  strained.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  again  for  ten 
minutes  on  a  brisk  fire,  gently  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Pour  into  a  hot 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

245.    SIRLOIN  STEAKS,  CABARET 

Mix  on  a  plate  one  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper ;  then  gently  roll  in  six  small,  nicely  flattened  sirloin 
steaks  of  five  ounces  each.  Arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a 
moderate  charcoal  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Cut  three  medium,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  into  half-inch  squares. 
Wash  and  drain  well.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  small  frying  pan; 
add  the  potatoes.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Toss  them  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes;  then 
slowly  cook  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  tossing  them  mean- 
while; then  set  the  potatoes  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  lift 
up  with  a  skimmer,  place  them  around  the  steaks.  Spread  the  cabaret 
sauce  over  the  steaks  evenly  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Prepare  the  sauce  first,  and  when  the  potatoes  are  placed  in 
the  oven  broil  the  steaks,  so  that  both  will  be  ready  at  about  the 
same  time. 

246.    SAUCE  CABARET 

Chop  up  together  very  finely  three  medium-sized,  sound  shallots, 
half  clove  sound  garlic  and  four  branches  fresh  parsley.  Place  all  in  a 
mortar,  add  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  good  butter,  a  tablespoon  meat 
glaze  (No.  3166)  and  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon.  Pound  to  a 
firm  paste  and  use  as  required,  always  cold. 

247.    SPINACH  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Trim  away  the  stale  leaves  and  stalks,  clean  and  wash  carefully  in 
three  different  waters  three  quarts  of  fresh  and  sound  spinach.  Have  in 
quite  a  large  saucepan  one  gallon  boiling  water  with  one  tablespoon  salt. 
When  the  water  is  thoroughly  boiling  plunge  in  the  spinach.  Cover  the 
pan  and  allow  to  thoroughly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Lift  it  up  with  a 
skimmer.  Lay  on  a  sieve  to  drain  well. 

Lightly  brown  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  good  butter,  then  add  the 
well-drained  spinach.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  adding  one  teaspoon  powdered  sugar.  Mix  well  with  a 
fork  occasionally  while  cooking  for  five  minutes. 


72  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

248.    PEACH  PANCAKES 

Prepare  a  French  pancake  batter  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  17.  In 
addition,  add  to  the  batter  two  preserved  peaches  finely  chopped  up. 
Lightly  mix  with  the  batter,  then  proceed  to  finish  the  cakes  the  same  way. 


DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Creme  Egyptienne 
Spanish  Mackerel,  Finnoise 

Potatoes,  Windsor 
Capon  Braise,  Valencienne  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Coffee  Punch 

Roast  Rib  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Biscuit  Venitienne 

249.     CREME  EGYPTIENNE 

Place  a  pint  can  sweet  corn  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  milk  and  one 
quart  and  a  half  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons 
Bait,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Set 
the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Prepare  in  another 
saucepan  a  roux  with  one  ounce  melted  butter  and  two  and  a  half  ounces 
flour,  stirring  briskly  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  the  milk 
and  corn,  stir  well  with  a  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  egg 
yolk  mixed  with  one-half  gill  cream;  stir  wrell  for  five  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  bread 
croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

250.     SPANISH  MACKEREL,  FINNOISE 

Procure  a  fat,  fresh  Spanish  mackerel  of  about  two  and  a  half  pounds. 
Cut  the  head  off,  split  it  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spinal  bone, 
wipe  it  neatly,  slightly  score  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  salt- 
spoon  white  pepper;  oil  the  parts  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange  it  on  a 
broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  eight  minutes  on  the  split  side  and 
four  minutes  on  the  skin  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve 
with  a  Finnoise  sauce  over  it. 

251.    SAUCE  FINNOISE 

Cut  into  very  small,  square  pieces  a  good-sized,  sound  green  pepper. 
Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  one-half  ounce  butter  and  heat  on  a  brisk 
fire  for  two  minutes,  without  browning.  Then  mix  in  one  teaspoon 
flour;  stir  well.  Pour  in  two  gills  very  fresh  red  tomatoes  pressed 
through  a  sieve.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper 
and  three  saltspoons  fine  sugar.  Mix  well  and  let  reduce  to  one-half, 
occasionally  mixing.  Add,  little  by  little,  a  good  half  ounce  good  but- 
ter, continually  mixing  while  doing  so  until  the  butter  is  thoroughly 
melted.  Remove  and  use  as  required. 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  73 

252.    POTATOES,  WINDSOR 

Peel  and  wash  four  sound,  large  potatoes ;  then  with  a  Parisian  potato 
scoop  dip  out  as  many  pieces  as  you  can.  Place  them  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes ;  drain  them  well,  replace  in  the  same  pan  with  half 
ounce  butter,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper 
and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Mix  well  for  a  minute  and 
a  half,  being  careful  not  to  break  them.  Dress  on  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

253.    CAPON  BRAISE",  VALENCIENNE 

Procure  a  fine,  tender  Philadelphia  capon  of  three  and  a  half  pounds. 
Singe,  cut  the  head  and  legs  off,  neatly  draw,  wipe  well  and  truss  it  nicely. 
Lightly  butter  a  saucepan.  Slice  one  small  carrot,  one  small  white  onion 
and  a  sound  clove  of  garlic  cut  into  four  pieces;  place  these  articles  in 
the  pan  and  let  get  a  light  brown,  stirring  well  while  doing  so.  Lay  the 
capon  over  the  vegetables.  Pour  in  one  quart  hot  broth  (No.  701)  or 
hot  water  and  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Tie  together  two  leeks, 
two  branches  celery  and  two  branches  parsley  and  add  to  the  capon. 
Have  in  a  small,  clean  piece  of  cloth  two  sprigs  bay  leaves,  one  clove, 
twelve  allspice,  twenty  whole  black  peppers  and  a  saltspoon  thyme;  tie 
a  string  around  the  cloth  and  add  to  the  capon. 

Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon Spanish  saffron.  Cover  the  pan,  let  come  to  a  boil  on  the  hot 
range,  then  place  the  pan  in  the  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove 
the  carrots  and  onions,  add  four  ounces  well-cleaned  Italian  rice  and 
three  tablespoons  Spanish  red  peppers,  cut  into  very  small  pieces,  and 
also  three  good  tablespoons  cooked  peas.  Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon; 
cover  the  pan  and  place  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes  more. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  take  up  leeks,  spices,  etc.  Dress  the  rice  nicely 
on  a  hot  dish.  Untruss  the  capon,  lay  it  on  top  of  the  rice  and  serve. 

254.     COFFEE  PUNCH 

One  quart  lukewarm  water,  one  gill  very  strongly  made  coffee, 
three  sound  lemons,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar  and 
the  white  of  half  an  egg.  Place  all  the  above  except  the  lemons  in  a 
copper  basin,  grate  the  rind  of  two  lemons  into  the  basin,  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  the  three  lemons.  Sharply  mix  with  the  spatula  for  five 
minutes.  Strain  the  preparation  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  small 
freezer,  then  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  for  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42). 
Fill  six  punch  glasses  with  the  punch  and  serve. 

255.    RIBS  OF  SPRING  LAMB,  ROASTED 

Neatly  trim  a  good-sized  rib  of  spring  lamb.  Lay  it  in  a  small, 
lightly  buttered  roasting  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper,  well  rubbed  in  all  over.  Pour  a  tablespoon  hot 
water  into  the  pan.  Spread  half  ounce  butter  over  the  ribs.  Set  in  a 
brisk  oven  to  roast  for  ten  minutes,  then  turn  it  over,  baste  it  well  and 
let  roast  for  twenty-five  minutes  more.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim 


74  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

the  fat  from  the  gravy.  Strain  the  gravy  over  the  lamb.  Decorate 
the  dish  with  fresh  watercress  and  serve  with  a  gill  of  mint  sauce  in  a 
saucebowl  separately. 

256.     MINT  SAUCE  (for  one  quart). 

Clean  and  wash  well  a  bunch  of  very  fresh,  sound  mint,  drain  well, 
then  pick  off  all  the  leaves  from  the  stalks  and  mince  them  exceedingly 
fine.  Place  the  mint  in  a  large  bowl  with  three  ounces  fine  sugar,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  good  vinegar,  half  pint  cold  water  and  one  tablespoon 
salt.  Mix  thoroughiy  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  place  in  a  large  bottle 
or  jar,  tightly  covered,  and  use  as  required,  always  being  careful  to 
thoroughly  shake  the  bottle  or  jar  just  before  serving. 

257.    BISCUITS,  VENITIENNE 

Four  egg  yolks,  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  two  gills  thick  cream  whipped, 
half  a  vanilla  stick  and  one  and  a  half  ounces  candied  marrons  very  finely 
chopped  up.  Place  the  egg  yolks,  sugar,  marrons  and  vanilla  in  a 
copper  basin.  Set  the  basin  on  the  corner  of  the  hot  range,  and  with 
a  wire  whisk  sharply  beat  it  for  eight  minutes.  Place  the  basin  on  the 
ice  and  continually  whip  it  until  thoroughly  cold.  Remove  the  vanilla, 
add  the  whipped  cream;  gently  mix  writh  a  skimmer  for  one  minute. 
Then  fill  six  individual  paper  ice-cream  cases,  three  inches  long  by  one 
and  a  half  wide ;  neatly  smooth  the  surface  of  each  with  the  blade  of  a 
knife.  Place  them  carefully  into  a  small  freezer  and  put  the  freezer 
in  a  small  ice-cream  tub  with  plenty  of  broken  ice  and  rock  salt;  cover 
the  freezer  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  biscuits,  dress 
on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Monday,  Second  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Green  Peppers 

Fish  Balls  with  Bacon 

English  Mutton  Chops 

Potatoes,  Julienne 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

258.     STRAWBERRIES,  PRESERVED 

Divide  a  pint  of  preserved  strawberries  into  six  small  saucers  and 
serve  with  sugar  separately. 

259.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Plunge  three,  large,  sound,  thick,  green  peppers  in  boiling  water  for 
three  minutes;  remove,  then  take  off  the  skin  with  a  towel  and  cut  them 
into  halves.  Suppress  the  seeds.  Heat  a  teaspoon  oil  in  a  very  small 
frying  pan;  cut  half  a  pepper  in  four  lengthwise  slices;  place  the  slices 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  75 

in  the  pan;  sprinkle  two  saltspoons  salt  over  them  evenly,  then  gently 
fry  for  one  minute  on  each  side.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  on 
the  peppers,  fry  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  the  range,  then  place  in 
the  hot  oven  for  half  a  minute;  remove,  gently  slide  on  a  hot  dish  and 
keep  warm;  then  proceed  with  five  more  in  the  same  way  and  send  to 
the  table  very  hot. 

260.  FISH  BALLS  WITH  BACON 

Have  a  fish-cake  preparation  as  per  No.  5.  Divide  it  into  six  equal 
parts.  Sift  two  tablespoons  flour  on  a  corner  of  the  table,  then-  gently 
roll  each  piece  in  the  flour,  giving  them  nice  ball  forms.  Plunge  them 
into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  eight  minutes,  or  until  of  a  golden  colour. 
Remove,  thoroughly  drain,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Place  a  slice  of  broiled 
bacon  (No.  13)  ontopof  each,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greensand  serve. 

261.  ENGLISH  MUTTON  CHOPS 

Have  six,  fine,  tender,  lean  English  mutton  chops,  half  pound  each; 
neatly  trim,  then  envelop  them  in  a  coarse  towel,  nicely  flatten  with  a 
cleaver  to  round  forms,  roll  on  a  plate  with  one  tablespoon  oil.  Season 
well  all  over  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

262.    POTATOES,  JULIENNE 

Peel  and  wash  well  three  medium,  sound,  raw  potatoes.  If  no 
julienne-shaped  potato  cutter  is  at  hand,  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into 
julienne  match-shaped  strips,  wash  again,  drain  well  in  a  frying  basket, 
then  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  six  minutes.  Take  them  up  in  the  basket, 
drain  thoroughly;  sprinkle  a  good  teaspoon  salt  over  them.  Shake 
them  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Goulash,  Hongroise 
Lamb  Fries,  Tomato  Sauce 

Carrots,  Bourgeoise 
Apricot  Fritters,  Sabayon 

263.    GOULASH,  HONGROISE 

Cut  two  pounds  of  the  rump  part  of  beef  into  one-inch  squares. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  beef;  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika;  stir  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Finely  slice  one  small  carrot  and  two  small,  sound  onions; 
when  the  meat  is  a  light  brown  add  the  vegetables,  stir  well  and  cook 
for  two  minutes.  Add  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well  again,  then  add 
two  gills  hot  water,  one  gill  claret,  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Tie 
in  a  small  piece  of  clean  cloth  twelve  allspice,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves 
and  one  saltspoon  thyme  and  place  in  the  pan.  Peel  two  medium,  raw 
potatoes,  cut  them  into  three-quarters  of  an  inch  squares  and  also  add 
to  the  pan.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Add 


76  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

now  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one  bean  very  finely 
chopped  garlic.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  again  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  the  cloth  with  the  ingredients.  Pour  the  goulash  into  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

264.    LAMB  FRIES,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Neatly  skin  and  cut  into  halves  twelve  fresh  lamb  fries.  Plunge 
them  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  two  minutes, 
drain  well.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper.  Lightly  roll  them  in  flour,  then  in  beaten-up  egg  and  lastly 
in  bread  crumbs.  Plunge  them  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  separately. 

265.     CARROTS,  BOURGEOISE 

Carefully  scrape  and  pare  twelve  small,  sound  carrots;  then  cut 
into  halves,  lengthwise.  Wash  well,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
four  whole  peppers,  one  teaspoon  fine  sugar,  half  ounce  butter,  one  and 
a  half  pints  hot  broth  or  hot  water.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  on  a  very 
brisk  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  carrots  are  thoroughly  soft. 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  butter  with 
one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  and  heat  well,  then  strain  the  liquor  of  the 
carrots  into  this  roux,  adding  a  gill  hot  milk;  mix  well,  and  as  soon  as 
it  comes  to  a  boil  transfer  the  carrots  only  into  this  pan,  adding  one 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Carefully  mix  without  mashing  the  carrots; 
boil  for  five  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

266.    APRICOT  FRITTERS  AU  SABAYON 

Prepare  a  batter  for  fritters  as  per  No.  204.  Place  twelve  preserved 
half  apricots  on  a  plate  with  a  tablespoon  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  kirsch 
wasser;  mix  well  in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  ten  minutes.  Plunge 
the  apricots  into  the  batter  and  roll  well;  then  plunge,  one  by  one,  into 
very  clear  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes,  or  until  of  a  nice  golden  tint, 
frequently  turning  them  meanwhile.  Lift  up  with  the  skimmer,  drain 
on  a  cloth,  neatly  trim  all  around,  dress  on  a  dish.  Dredge  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over.  Pour  a  Sabayon  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  102, 
around  the  apricots  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  Anchovies  on  Toast 

Consomme1,  Julienne 
Pickerel  Sautd  with  Curry  Potatoes,  Bellinzonaise 

Leg  of  Mutton,  Lyonnaise 
Haricot  Vert  au  Beurre  (139) 

Roast  Quails  sur  Canape"  Chicory  Salad 

Cocoanut  Pudding 

267.    CONSOMM£,  JULIENNE 

Strain  the  consomme*,  prepared  as  per  No.  52,  into  another  saucepan. 
Cut  into  julienne-shaped  strips  two  medium,  sound,  red  carrots,  one 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  77 

ditto  turnip,  the  white  part  of  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  one  small 
white  onion  and  a  very  small  piece  white  cabbage.  Spread  all  these 
vegetables  on  a  table,  sprinkle  over  them  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
teaspoons  fine  sugar.  Gently  and  thoroughly  mix  them  with  the  hands 
for  five  minutes.  Lightly  butter  a  small  saucepan,  place  the  vegetables 
in  it,  spread  half  ounce  butter  over  the  vegetables.  Pour  into  the  pan 
one  and  a  half  gills  hot  water,  then  cover  the  vegetables  with  a  buttered 
sheet  of  white  paper.  Cover  the  pan,  place  the  pan  on  a  hot  range, 
and  as  soon  as  it  boils  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove 
and  add  the  vegetables  to  the  consomme,  adding  twelve  small  French 
string  beans,  one  tablespoon  extra  fine  canned  peas  and  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley;  boil  the  whole  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

268.    PICKEREL  SAUT£  WITH  CURRY 

Cut  the  head  off,  split  in  half  through  the  back  and  detach  the  spinal 
bone  from  a  fine,  fresh  two-and-a-half-pound  pickerel.  Sprinkle  half 
teaspoon  good  curry  powder  on  each  cut  part  of  the  fish,  rubbing  it  in 
well  with  the  fingers.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  all  around,  then 
lightly  roll  it  in  flour.  Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  oil, 
lay  the  fish  in  the  pan  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side;  then  bake 
in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Squeeze  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon  over  the  fish,  decorate  with  parsley  greens  and 
serve. 

269.    POTATOES,  BELLINZONAISE 

Boil  four  medium,  sound  potatoes  in  a  quart  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Peel,  then  cut  into  even  quarters.  Place 
in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  melted  butter.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  sprinkle  over  them  one  tea- 
spoon fresh,  finely  chopped  parsley.  Gently  toss  while  heating  nicely 
for  five  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  hot. 

270.    LEG  OF  MUTTON,  LYONNAISE 

Procure  a  tender  seven-pound  leg  of  mutton,  at  least  three  days  old. 
Beat  it  briskly  with  a  flat  cleaver  all  around,  which  will  help  to  render 
the  meat  much  more  tender.  Mix  one  tablespoon  salt  with  a  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  carefully  rub  the  leg  all  over  with  it  five  or  six  hours 
before  the  time  of  cooking  it.  Make  an  incision  with  a  small  knife, 
two  inches  deep,  along  the  shank  bone  (under  the  meat)  and  place  in  it 
a  clove  very  sound  peeled  garlic,  which  will  help  to  give  an  excellent 
appetising  flavour  to  the  meat.  Place  a  mirepoix,  as  per  No.  271,  in  a 
roasting  pan.  Lay  the  leg  over  it,  spread  one  tablespoon  melted 
fat  on  top,  set  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour  and  ten  minutes, 
being  careful  to  pour  one  tablespoon  hot  water  over  the  leg  every 
ten  minutes  and  to  turn  the  meat  over  three  or  four  times  during  that 
time. 


78  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Finely  mince  six  medium,  sound  white  onions,  season  them  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  then  carefully  brown  them  in  a  frying  pan  with 
half  ounce  butter  for  fifteen  minutes,  briskly  tossing  them  meanwhile. 
Place  the  onions  on  a  large,  hot  dish;  lay  the  mutton  over  the  onions. 
Skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  pour  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  into 
the  pan,  reduce  it  on  the  fire  for  three  minutes,  strain  over  the  leg  and 
serve. 

N.  B.     The  remaining  mutton  will  be  used  to-morrow. 

271.     MIREPOIX 

Two  ounces  larding  pork  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  small,  sound, 
sliced  carrot,  one  small,  sound,  sliced  onion,  one  branch  sliced  celery, 
one  stalk  fresh  sliced  leek,  two  branches  chopped  parsley,  one  sound, 
crushed  bean  of  garlic,  twenty  whole  peppers,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  two 
cloves  and  one  saltspoon  thyme;  then  use  as  per  directions. 

272.    QUAIL,  ROASTED,  ON  CANAPES 

Pick,  singe,  cut  the  legs  and  heads  off  six  nice  fat  quail;  draw  and 
wipe  well;  arrange  a  thin  slice  of  lard  on  the  breasts  of  each  bird. 
Sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  evenly  divided.  Lay  them  on  a 
small  roasting  pan.  Set  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  and  roast  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Dress  them  on  six  canape's,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress 
around  the  dish  and  serve. 

273.  BREAD  CANAPES  FOR  SMALL  BIRDS 

Cut  out  from  a  stale  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  slices  one  and  a  half 
inches  thick,  trim  neatly  round  the  corners  of  each  slice,  making  pieces 
two  inches  long  by  one  and  a  half  wide,  then  scoop  out  with  a  keen 
knife  an  oval  piece  (bed-like)  lengthwise  from  end  to  end,  so  as  to 
have  the  birds  lay  firmly  on  them.  Plunge  them  in  boiling  fat 
and  let  get  a  golden  colour.  Remove,  thoroughly  drain  and  use  as 
directed. 

274.     COCOANUT  PUDDING 

Break  into  a  bowl  three  eggs  (keeping  yolks  and  whites  together), 
two  ounces  fine  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Sharply  whisk 
for  two  minutes,  then  pour  in  thres  gills  cold  milk  and  one  gill  cream; 
whisk  again  for  two  minutes,  add  two  ounces  shredded  cocoanut, 
lightly  mix  for  a  minute,  then  pour  the  preparation  into  a  quart 
pudding  mould.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  hot  water  up  to 
one-half  the  height  of  the  mould.  Set  in  a  slow  oven  for  forty 
minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  dish  and  pour  the  following  sauce 
over: 

Place  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  in  a  very  small  saucepan  with 
one  and  a  half  gills  cold  water;  boil  for  two  minutes;  remove  from  the 
fire;  add  one  teaspoon  kirsch  and  one  teaspoon  maraschino.  Lightly 
mix  and  use.' 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  79 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  January 

BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Rice  with  Cream 

Poached  Eggs,  Benedictine 

Smelts  Saute",  Meuniere 

Broiled  Tripe 
Fried  Potatoes  (8) 
Wheat  Cakes  (9) 

275.    RICE  WITH  CREAM 

Wash  well  in  cold  water  three  ounces  rice ;  drain  well,  then  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  gills  cold  water,  three  gills  cold  milk,  a  good  saltspoon 
salt,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  two  level  tablespoons  fine  sugar. 
Place  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while 
with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  burning  at  the  bottom.  Pour  into  a 
hot  dish  and  serve  with  cream  and  fine  sugar  separately. 

276.    POACHED  EGGS,  BENEDICTINE 

Neatly  dress  six  thin  slices  freshly  boiled  ham  on  six  round-shaped 
hot  toasts  placed  on  a  hot  dish.  Lay  on  top  of  the  ham  one  poached 
egg  (No.  106)  on  each.  Then  spread  a  tablespoon  Hollandaise  over 
each  egg.  Sprinkle  a  very  little  chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve 
very  hot. 

277.    BROILED  HAM 

Have  six  very  thin  slices  smoked  ham.  Neatly  trim  off  the  rough 
edges.  Arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  charcoal  fire 
for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side. 

N.  B.  It  would  be  advisable  to  have  always  on  hand  a  nice,  small, 
raw  smoked  ham  of  about  seven  to  eight  pounds,  kept  hung  by  the 
string  in  a  cool  place,  enveloped  in  a  coarse  towel;  also  being  careful 
always  to  cover  again  after  using  some  of  it. 

279.    HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  small  enamelled  pan  one  light  tablespoon  freshly  crushed 
whole  white  pepper,  add  four  tablespoons  good  vinegar  (tarragon 
vinegar  is  the  best),  one  good  teaspoon  fresh  lemon  juice,  four  leaves 
thoroughly  washed  and  drained  parsley  and  four  leaves  well-washed 
and  drained  chervil.  Set  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range  and  let 
slowly  reduce  to  one-half  the  quantity,  gently  mixing  once  in  a  while. 
Then  press  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl,  crack  in  one  fresh  egg 
yolk,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  one  minute;  then  carefully  drop  in 
drop  by  drop  one  gill  hot  melted  (good)  butter,  briskly  and  continually 
mixing  with  the  whisk  while  adding  it.  Season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  briskly  whisk  for  one  minute 
longer.  Press  through  a  cloth  into  a  saucebowl  and  serve. 


8o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

280.    SMELTS  SAUT£,  MEUNIERE 

Wipe  dry  twelve  medium-sized  very  fresh,  fat  smelts.  Season  them 
all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  then 
briskly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  melted  butter  or 
fat  in  a  frying  pan;  lay  in  the  pan,  one  beside  the  other,  and  fry  on  a 
brisk  fire  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  drain  well,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish ;  dry  the  pan  in  which  the  smelts  were  fried,  place  in  it  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter;  briskly  heat  until  a  good  brown  colour,  then  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  toss 
well  for  a  minute,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

281.     BROILED  TRIPE 

After  cutting  six  two-inch-square  pieces  fresh  and  well-cleaned 
honeycomb  tripe,  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper.  Lightly  roll  the  pieces  in  a  tablespoon  oil.  Ar- 
range them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 

Lobster  en  Brochette,  Diable 

Hashed  Mutton  en  Bordure 

Rhubarb  Pie 

282.     LOBSTER  EN  BROCHETTE,  DIABLE 

Plunge  into  plenty  of  boiling  water  two  fresh  lobsters  of  two  pounds 
each  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off.  Separate 
the  tails  and  claws;  carefully  pick  out  all  the  meat  without  breaking; 
then  cut  the  meat  into  thin  one-inch  pieces. 

Cut  an  equal  number  of  pieces  of  bacon  same  size  as  the  lobster 
but  exceedingly  thin.  Arrange  the  lobster  and  bacon  alternately  on  six 
skewers,  evenly  divided.  Season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  gently  roll  each  skewer  in  devilled  butter, 
as  per  No.  10,  then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Lay  them  on  a  double 
broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  of  a  good  golden 
colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  over  six  hot  toasts,  pour  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  over  and  serve. 

283.    MUTTON  HASH,  EN  BORDURE 

Prepare  the  same  way  the  same  quantity  of  potatoes  puree  as  for 
potatoes  brioche  (No.  91).  -Slide  a  small  dentilated  tube  at  the  bottom 
of  a  pastry  bag;  drop  the  mashed  potatoes  into  the  bag,  then  carefully 
press  down  the  puree  all  around  the  border  of  a  flat  baking  dish  large 
enough  to  hold  the  hash. 

Cut  into  small  dice-shaptd  pieces  the  left-over  mutton  from  yesterday. 
Cut  into  same  size  two  medium,  cold,  peeled,  boiled  potatoes.  Brown 
to  a  light-brown  colour  one  medium,  chopped  onion  with  one  tablespoon 
butter,  then  add  the  mutton  and  potatoes.  Season  with  one  teaspoon 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  81 

salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Moisten 
with  two  gills  hot  broth  or  hot  water  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  mixing 
occasionally  meanwhile. 

Drop  the  hash  into  the  centre  of  the  dish  with  the  border.  Sprinkle 
one  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  hash.  Set  in  a  brisk 
oven  for  twelve  minutes.  See  that  it  obtains  a  good  golden  colour. 
Remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

284.    RHUBARB  PIE 

Carefully  scrape  the  skin  of  one  pound  sound,  fresh  rhubarb;  cut 
into  one  inch  pieces,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  four  ounces  granu- 
lated sugar  and  one  teaspoon  cornstarch.  Set  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire, 
stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  let  briskly  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Prepare  a  pie  paste  and  proceed  to 
finish  the  pie  as  per  No.  117. 

DINNER 

Oysters 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Potage,  Westmoreland 

Filets  of  Sole,  White  Wine 

Potatoes,    Hollandaise    (26) 

Cotelettes  of  Tenderloin  of  Beef,  St.  Hilaire 

Oyster  Plants  Saute  au  Beurre 

Roast  Philadelphia  Chicken 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Chocolate  Macaroons 

285.    POTAGE,  WESTMORELAND 

Place  in  a  medium-sized  saucepan  a  mirepoix  prepared  as  in  No.  271 
Add  one  pound  veal  parings  or  bones,  cut  into  small  pieces;  add  one 
ounce  fresh-salted  pork,  cut  into  very  small  pieces  and  one  ounce  butter. 
Place  the  pan  on  a  lively  fire,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  cook 
to  a  nice  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  carefully  mixing  frequently  to  avoid 
burning  at  the  bottom.  Add  two  ounces  flour;  stir  well  while  cooking 
for  ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  hot  broth  or  hot  water, 
adding  one  pint  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  finely  crushed.  Season 
with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  two  salt  spoons  cayenne  pepper.  Then 
as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  well-cleaned  raw  calf's  foot.  Cover 
the  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove  the  calf's 
foot,  bone  it  thoroughly,  then  cut  the  meat  into  small,  square  pieces. 
Cut  also  twelve  small  pickles  into  same  shape,  place  the  two  articles 
in  a  rather  small  saucepan  and  strain  the  broth  through  a  fine  Chinese 
strainer  into  the  pan  with  the  meat  and  pickles.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire, 
pour  in  half  gill  sherry  and  one  tablespoon  brandy  and  let  boil  gently 
for  thirty  minutes.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  soup,  pour  into 
a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


82  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

286.    FILETS  OF  SOLE,  WHITE  WINE 

Cut  off  the  head  from  a  very  fresh  sole  of  three  and  a  half  pounds, 
make  an  incision  on  both  sides,  from  head  to  tail,  right  in  the  centre, 
then  with  a  small  knife  lift  up  the  filets  from  the  bones.  Neatly  skin 
and  free  them  from  any  small  bones  that  may  adhere.  Cut  each  filet 
into  three  equal,  slanting  pieces.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Lay  the  filets  in  a  lightly  buttered  sautoire,  one 
beside  another,  add  a  finely  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
tablespoon  vinegar  and  one  gill  white  wine.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  but- 
tered paper,  set  on  the  range  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then  set  in 
the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  gently  lift  up  the  filets 
with  a  skimmer,  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour. 
Strain  the  fish  gravy  into  this  pan,  add  half  gill  cream,  the  juice  of  quarter 
of  a  sound  lemon,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg ;  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  until  the 
sauce  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
the  filets  and  serve. 

287.       COTELETTES   OF   TENDERLOIN   OF   BEEF,    ST.    HlLAIRE 

Hash  very  finely  one  and  a  half  pounds  raw  tenderloin  of  beef  with 
quarter  of  a  pound  fresh  beef  marrow.  Place  in  a  bowl;  season  with 
one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  v/hite  pepper.  Hash  one  good- 
sized,  sound  bean  of  garlic  with  three  branches  fresh  parsley  and  add 
to  the  hash  with  half  gill  cream ;  mix  briskly  with  a  spoon  for  five  minutes. 

Spread  on  a  corner  of  the  table  two  ounces  fresh  bread  crumbs. 
Divide  the  hash  into  six  eqwJ  parts.  Gently  roll  in  the  crumbs  and 
give  them  nice  cotelette  forms.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter 
in  a  frying  pan.  Place  the  cotellettes  in  the  pan  and  slowly  fry  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  crown- 
like.  Pour  over  them  a  cabaret  sauce  prepared  as  per  No.  121.  Arrange 
six  Spanish  sweet  peppers  over  the  cotelettes  and  serve. 

288.    SPANISH  SWEET  PEPPERS 

Heat  a  teaspoon  oil  in  a  small  frying  pan.  Split  six  Spanish  sweet 
peppers  in  two,  set  them  in  the  pan,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
then  fry  on  a  brisk  fire  for  three-quarters  of  a  minute  on  each  side; 
drain  and  use  as  required. 

289.    OYSTER  PLANTS  SAUT£  AU  BEURRE 

Neatly  scrape  and  trim  well  a  large  bunch  fresh,  sound  oyster  plants. 
Plunge  them  in  cold  water  with  two  tablespoons  vinegar  for  five  minutes. 
Remove,  drain  and  cut  into  one-inch-long  pieces.  Drop  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon 
salt  and  three  pints  cold  water.  Cover  the  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  forty 
minutes.  Drain  well.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  place  the  oyster  plants  in  the  pan ;  season  with  two  salt- 
spoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper,  then  frequently  toss  them 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        83 

while  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon,  adding  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Gently  toss  again  for 
one  minute  and  serve. 

290.    ROAST  PHILADELPHIA  CHICKEN 

Singe,  cut  the  head  and  legs  off,  draw,  wipe  neatly  and  truss  a  tender 
two-and-a-half-pound  roasting  chicken.  Lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan; 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  pour  two 
tablespoons  cold  water  into  the  pan.  Glaze  the  chicken  all  over  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  then  place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  roast  for 
forty-five  minutes,  taking  care  to  baste  it  frequently  with  its  own  gravy, 
turning  it  over  once  in  a  while.  Dress  in  a  hot  dish.  Untruss,  decorate 
the  dish  with  watercress  and  serve. 

291.    CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS 

Prepare  a  macaroon  paste  just  as  per  No.  43,  adding  to  the  paste,  well 
mixed  in,  three  tablespoons  rasped  chocolate,  and  proceed  to  finish  the 
macaroons  in  exactly  the  same  manner. 


Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Omelette  with  Chicken  Livers 

Perch  Saute",  Fines  Herbes 

Broiled  Beefsteak  with  Fried  Onions 

Potatoes  Sautes  (135) 

Waffles 

292.     OMELETTE  WITH  CHICKEN  LIVERS 

Remove  the  galls  from  six  fine  chicken  livers ;  soak  them  in  cold  water 
for  thirty  minutes ;  lift  out  and  neatly  wipe  dry.  Cut  each  one  into  four 
equal  parts. 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  fat ;  drop  in  the 
livers ;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Toss 
them  well  on  the  fire  for  half  a  minute,  and  then  gently  fry  for  eight  min- 
utes, tossing  frequently  meanwhile.  Drain  well  and  replace  in  the  same 
saucepan,  adding  one  tablespoon  good  sherry  wine,  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  tablespoon  demi-glace  (No.  122),  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  salt.  Then  briskly  cook  for 
three  and  a  half  minutes,  tossing  gently,  and  keep  in  a  hot  place  till 
required. 

Prepare  an  omelette  as  per  No.  75,  and  just  before  folding  it  up  place 
half  the  chicken  livers  in  the  centre  of  the  omelette,  fold  up,  turn  it  on  a 
hot  dish,  neatly  arrange  the  other  half  of  the  livers,  etc.,  around  the  base 
of  the  omelette  and  serve. 


84  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

293.    PERCH  SAUTES,  FINES  HERBES 

Procure  six  medium-sized  fresh  perch;  neatly  draw  and  remove  all 
the  fins  with  a  pair  of  scissors.  Wash  well  and  wipe  dry.  Season  all 
over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  then  roll  them 
in  flour.  Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter;  place 
the  fish  in  the  pan  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  See  that  they 
obtain  a  good  golden  colour.  Remove  them  with  a  skimmer.  Dress  on 
a  hot  dish.  Chop  very  fine  ten  branches  chives  (ciboulette),  one  branch 
chervil  and  two  branches  parsley;  sprinkle  all  over  the  six  fish;  squeeze 
the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over  them.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  to  a 
light  brown  colour  half  ounce  butter  and  pour  it  over  the  herb  mixture  on 
top  of  the  perch.  Decorate  the  dish  with  six  sections  of  lemon  and  serve. 

294.    BROILED  BEEFSTEAK  WITH  FRIED  ONIONS 

Mix  on  a  plate  one  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper.  Trim  and  neatly  flatten  six  small  sirloin  steaks  of 
five  ounces  each;  repeatedly  roll  them  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a 
broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  on  a 
dish,  dress  the  onions  on  top  of  the  steaks  and  serve. 

295.    FRIED  ONIONS 

Peel  two  medium-sized,  sound  Spanish  onions.  Slice  them  into  thin, 
equal  slices.  Separate  the  rings  with  the  hands.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  light  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  roll  gently  in  flour, 
then  plunge  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  until  they  have  obtained  a  fine  golden 
colour,  which  will  take  about  five  minutes.  Drain  well;  season  again 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  use  as  required. 

296.    WAFFLES 

Crack  into  a  basin  three  whole  raw  eggs,  adding  two  tablespoons 
sifted  flour,  half  saltspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons cream  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Then  with  a  whisk 
briskly  beat  the  whole  well  together  for  five  minutes.  Lightly  butter 
a  frying  pan  and  heat  it  well  on  the  range,  then  pour  into  the  pan  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  of  the  batter  and  make  a  very  nice  thin  pancake ; 
cook  for  two  minutes  on  each  side;  place  on  a  hot  dish,  dredge  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over  and  proceed  to  make  the  other  five  in  same  way, 
serving  very  hot. 

LUNCHEON 

Corisommd  in  Cups  (52) 

Eeef  Pot  Pie 

Spaghetti.  Paysanne 

Apples,  Richelieu 

298.     BEEF  POT  PIE 

Cut  into  one-inch  squares  two  pounds  raw  rump  of  beef.  Peel  six 
small  white  onions,  two  medium-sized  potatoes,  cut  same  as  the  beef. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        85 

Tie  together  two  branches  celery,  four  branches  parsley  and  two  leeks. 
Place  in  a  small,  clean  cloth  twelve  allspice,  twenty  black  peppers,  two 
bay  leaves,  four  cloves  and  one  saltspoon  thyme ;  tie  the  cloth  up  firmly. 
Heat  well  in  quite  a  large  saucepan  one  ounce  lard,  then  add  the 
meat.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  or  until 
the  meat  obtains  a  good  brown  colour,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Then 
add  one  very  finely  chopped  onion,  one  ditto  carrot  and  one  sound, 
crushed  garlic;  stir  well  and  cook  again  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  six 
small  onions,  potatoes,  celery,  spice,  etc.,  and  one  tablespoon  flour. 
Gently  mix  for  one  minute,  then  add  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and 
two  gills  hot  water.  Cover  the  pan  and  allow  to  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Then  place  the  pan  in  the  hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  it 
from  the  oven ;  remove  the  tied  celery  and  spice ;  pour  the  stew  into  a 
deep  baking  dish.  Cover  nicely  with  a  pie  paste,  prepared  as  in  No. 
117;  trim  the  paste  all  around  the  dish.  Glaze  the  surface  with  an  egg 
yolk.  Make  a  small  chimney  in  the  centre  to  allow  to  evaporate.  Place 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  or  till  of  a  fine  golden  colour 
and  serve. 

299.    SPAGHETTI,  PAYSANNE 

Plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  the 
best  quality  spaghetti.  Season  the  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt;  cover 
the  pan  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  drain  on  a  sieve;  replace  the 
spaghetti  in  the  saucepan ;  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon 
white  pepper,  adding  one  ounce  good  butter  divided  in  small  pieces; 
lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes,  then  place  the  pan  on 
the  fire  and  add  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  ounce  grated 
Swiss  cheese.  Lightly  mix  again  for  five  minutes  while  heating  well. 
Dress 'on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

300.    APPLES,  RICHELIEU 

Core  and  peel  nicely  six  fine,  sound,  even,  round  apples  of  fairly  good 
size.  Have  in  a  medium-sized  saucepan  one-half  pound  powdered  sugar 
with  two  quarts  cold  water  and  half  a  small  stick  of  vanilla;  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boiling  point  carefully  drop  in  the  apples  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  them  over  once  in  a  while.  Remove  the 
apples  only  with  a  skimmer  and  keep  warm.  Let  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  boiled  reduce  to  half  a  pint,  then  add  two  tablespoons  good 
rum. 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  three  ounces  good,  well-cleaned,  raw  rice, 
add  the  vanilla  stick  used  to  boil  the  apples,  etc.,  one  pint  milk,  one  ounce 
powdered  sugar;  place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty- 
five  minutes,  being  careful  to  frequently  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  mean- 
while. Remove  the  vanilla  stick,  nicely  dress  the  rice  on  a  large  dish, 
place  the  apples  on  top  of  the  rice.  Strain  the  syrup  of  the  apples  over 
all  and  serve. 


86  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Canape's  of  Ham 

Puree  Conde",  aux  Croutons 

Black  Bass,  Grand  Due  Potatoes,  Duchesse 

Larded  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Stanley 

Stuffed  Eggplant,  Proven9ale 

Roast  Mallard  Duck,  Currant  Jelly  Salad,  Basto 

Malaga  Pudding 

301.    CANAPES  OF  HAM 

Place  in  a  mortar  three  ounces  cooked,  lean  ham  and  sharply  pound 
it  for  ten  minutes,  that  is,  to  a  smooth  pulp.  Then  add  half  ounce  good 
butter,  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  teaspoon  French  mustard.  Pound  the  whole  well 
together  for  five  minutes  more,  then  place  the  paste  on  a  plate.  Prepare 
six  small,  round  toasts,  two  inches  in  diameter  and  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick.  Divide  the  ham  preparation  evenly  on  the  six  toasts,  and  with  a 
knife  give  the  paste  a  nice  dome  shape.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

302.    PUREE  CONDE",  AUX  CROUTONS 

Soak  in  a  gallon  cold  water  one  pint  dried  red  beans  for  twelve  hours, 
changing  the  water  three  times.  Finely  mince  one  sound  red  carrot,  one 
small,  white  onion,  two  leeks,  two  ounces  salted  pork,  two  branches 
fresh  parsley  and  half  a  clove  sound  garlic.  Place  these  ingredients  in  a 
medium-sized  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter;  set  the  pan  on  a  brisk 
fire,  thoroughly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  then  let  gently 
cook  until  they  attain  a  nice  golden  colour,  or  about  ten  minutes,  being 
careful  to  stir  frequently  meanwhile.  Thoroughly  drain  the  beans  and 
add  them  to  the  pan;  moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts  hot,, water 
and  one  gill  claret.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently 
boil  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  Then  press  the  whole  through  a  sieve, 
then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan.  Boil  again  for 
ten  minutes;  add  one-half  ounce  butter,  divided  into  small  bits,  and  a 
gill  cream;  briskly  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  but  do  not  allow  to 
boil  again.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  small  plate  of 
bread  croutons  (No.  23),  separately. 

303.    BLACK  BASS,  GRAND  DUKE 

Trim,  clean,  wash  and  wipe  well  a  fresh  three-pound  black  bass. 
Place  it  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  good  butter.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika;  add  half  gill  white  wine,  one  and  a 
half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  six  small  heads  well-cleaned  and 
sliced  fresh  mushrooms.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper, 
boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes ;  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper;  arrange  the  fish  on  a  large  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        87 

304.    POTATOES,  DUCHESSE 

Prepare  a  potato  puree  as  per  No.  91.  Divide  it  into  six  equal 
parts.  Spread  a  little  flour  on  a  corner  of  a  table,  roll  each  piece  of 
potato  in  the  flour,  then  give  to  each  a  nice  heart-shaped  form;  nicely 
criss-cross  their  surfaces  with  a  knife.  Butter  a  small  pastry  pan  with 
a  teaspoon  butter,  arrange  the  potatoes  over,  lightly  butter  their  surface. 
Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  of  a  fine 
golden  colour.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  with  a  skimmer  lift  them 
up  and  place  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

305.    LARDED  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF,  STANLEY 

Procure  a  boned,  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  sirloin  of  beef.  Pare 
and  trim  it  nicely.  Then  with  a  small  larding  needle  carefully  lard  the 
top  of  the  beef,  lengthwise,  with  thin  strips  of  lard.  Season  with  a 
very  light  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

Arrange  in  a  small  roasting  pan  a  mirepoix  as  per  No.  271.  Lay 
the  sirloin  over  the  mirepoix;  spread  over  two  tablespoons  hot  fat  and 
three  tablespoons  hot  water.  Set  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  and  roast  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  turning  it  over  once  in  a  while  and  frequently  basting 
it  with  its  own  gravy.  Place  the  sirloin  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  thick  cream  in  a  small  saucepan,  adding  two 
ounces  freshly  grated  horseradish,  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  heat- 
ing for  three  minutes;  then  keep  warm.  Cut  in  half,  lengthwise,  three 
peeled  bananas,  lightly  roll  them  in  flour,  and  then  fry  in  a  pan  with  a 
teaspoon  butter  for  two  minutes  on  each  side. 

Skim  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  of  the  pan,  add  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122) ;  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range.  Strain  the  gravy 
on  the  dish  around  the  sirloin ;  gently  spread  the  horseradish  sauce  over 
it;  then  place  the  six  pieces  of  banana  on  the  beef  around  the  horse- 
radish and  send  to  the  table  as  hot  as  possible. 

306.    STUFFED  EGGPLANT,  PROVENCALE 

Cut  into  even  halves  three  very  small,  sound  eggplants.  Make  a 
few  incisions  inside  each  piece  without  disturbing  the  peels ;  then  gently 
drop  them  into  boiling  fat — inside  parts  downward — and  fry  for  eight 
minutes.  Remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  and  let  drain  on  a  towel  for 
ten  minutes  again  with  cut  parts  downward.  Then  with  a  teaspoon 
scoop  out  all  the  meat  and  mince  it  fine. 

Chop  very  finely  six  medium-sized  sound  shallots,  and  fry  them 
in  a  frying  pan  with  half  teaspoon  butter  for  one  minute,  then  add  the 
scooped-out  chopped  meat,  with  a  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley, 
two  tablespoons  chopped  canned  mushrooms,  half  clove  sound,  finely 
crushed  garlic.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper;  adding  also  half  ounce  fresh  bread  crumbs,  one  gill  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  whole  raw  egg.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  well  thickened.  Then  fill  the  six  eggplant  shells  with  the 
force  meat.  Arrange  on  a  baking  dish ;  spread  over  each  a  small  quantity 


88  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOR 

bread  crumbs,  with  a  few  very  little  bits  of  butter  on  top,  then  set  to  bake 
in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

307.    MALLARD  DUCKS,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Prepare  two  nice,  fat  Mallard  ducks  exactly  the  same  as  redhead 
ducks  (No.  37)  and  serve  with  currant  jelly. 

308.    SALAD,  BASTO 

Cut  into  julienne  strips  one  very  small  stalk  white  celery;  one  sound, 
good-sized  green  pepper,  cut  the  same  way.  Peel  and  core  one  good- 
sized  sound  apple  and  cut  it  into  strips  as  the  others.  Neatly  trim  a 
small  head  fresh,  crisp  escarole  (endive),  detach  the  leaves,  wash  well 
and  thoroughly  drain  and  cut  each  leaf  in  half.  Place  the  four  articles 
in  a  large  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  salad  dressing  as 
per  No.  863.  Carefully  mix,  at  the  very  last  moment,  and  serve. 

309.    MALAGA  PUDDING 

One  and  a  half  ounces  good  butter,  two  egg  yolks,  one  and  a  half 
ounces  of  cake  crumbs  or  bread  crumbs,  one  ounce  of  Malaga  currants 
and  two  tablespoons  Malaga  or  a  similar  wine.  Place  the  butter 
and  egg  yolks  in  a  basin  and  briskly  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar;  beat  for  five  minutes  more;  add  the 
crumbs,  wine  and  currants;  mix  sharply  for  one  minute.  Beat  up  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  preparation,  then  gently  mix  for 
one  minute  with  the  skimmer.  Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding 
moulds,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  inside  of  the  moulds  all  around.  Fill 
them  with  the  preparation,  Place  the  moulds  in  a  small,  square  tin, 
pour  hot  water  into  the  tin  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds.  Place 
in  a  brisk  oven  to  steam  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  care- 
fully on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  separately. 


Thursday,  Second  Week  of  January 


BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  in  Cream  (151) 
Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs  au  Gratin 

Yarmouth  Bloaters 

Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219) 

Potatoes,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

PufT  Cakes 

310.    EGGS  AU  GRATIN 

Boil  ten  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  drop 
them  in  cold  water  to  cool  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  shells  and  cut 
each  into  eight  even  parts. 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          89 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoons  sifted 
flour,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  then  pour  in  two 
gills  hot  milk,  briskly  stir  again  for  five  minutes  and  as  soon  as  it  comes 
to  a  boiling  point  add  the  eggs.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Gently  stir  for 
half  minute.  Place  the  preparation  in  a  baking  dish;  dredge  a  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  eggs  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
eight  minutes — seeing  that  they  attain  a  good  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

311.    YARMOUTH  BLOATERS 

Select  six  fine,  soft,  fat  Yarmouth  bloaters.  Split  them  through 
the  back  without  separating.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil 
for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  of  a  nice  brown.  Dress  on  a  hot 
dish;  spread  a  very  little  melted  butter  over  each.  Decorate  the  dish 
with  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  six  small  quarters  of  lemon. 

312.    POTATOES,  MAIIRE  D 'HOTEL 

Cut  four  fairly  good-sized,  peeled,  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  medium- 
sized  slices.  Have  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  one 
tablespoon  flour ;  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  well  heated,  then  add 
one  gill  hot  milk  and  one  and  a  half  gills  cream.  Season  with  half  a 
teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well,  then  add  the  potatoes,  a  light  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Toss  them  well 
in  the  pan  while  slowly  cooking  for  ten  minutes.  Turn  on  a  hot,  deep 
dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

313.     PUFFS 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  half  pound  sifted  flour,  two  raw  eggs,  half 
saltspoon  salt  and  half  pint  cold  milk.  Briskly  beat  the  whole  together 
with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  or  until  thoroughly  thickened.  Clean 
thoroughly  six  puff  moulds.  Fill  them  up  with  the  preparation  to  half 
their  heights.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes.  Re- 
move, detach  from  the  edges  of  the  moulds  with  a  knife,  and  serve  on  a 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 

Almondigas 

Salad,'  Alsacienne 

Lemon  Custard  Pie 

314.    ALMONDIGAS 

Have  one  pound  lean,  tender,  raw  rump  of  beef,  one  pound  tender 
loin  of  raw  pork.  Chop  both  very  finely  together  with  a  cleaver. 

Hash  very  finely  and  add  to  the  meat  one  bean  sound  garlic  and  one 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  for  five  minutes. 
Lightly  flour  a  corner  of  the  table.  Divide  the  preparation  into  twelve 
equal  parts;  give  them  egg  forms;  gently  roll  in  the  flour  and  keep  till 


90  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

required.  Heat  well  in  a  frying  pan  one  quart  melted  leaf  lard,  then  lay 
the  pieces  in  and  fry  for  twelve  minutes,  turning  over  once  in  a  while. 
Remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on  a  towel  to  drain  for  ten  minutes.  Cut 
two  medium-sized  white  onions  and  one  green  pepper  into  small  square 
pieces ;  place  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter  and  nicely  brown  for 
eight  minutes,  stirring  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Then 
add  the  balls,  pour  in  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122) ;  add  two  tablespoons  green  peas,  two  tablespoons  sweet, 
Spanish  red  peppers  cut  in  square  pieces.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Then  place  the  sautoire  in 
the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Transfer  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

315.    SALAD,  ALSACIENNE 

Plunge  three  frankfurter  sausages  into  one  quart  boiling  water  and 
boil  for  six  minutes.  Remove  and  let  get  cold.  Then  slice  into  thin 
slices.  Slice  also  four  medium-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one  medium- 
sized,  sound  white  onion,  six  medium,  sound  pickles  and  one  very  small, 
thoroughly  cleaned  and  well-drained  head  of  lettuce. 

Place  all  these  articles  in  quite  a  large  bowl.  Season  with  four  table- 
spoons salad  dressing  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

316.  LEMON  CUSTARD  PIE 

Lightly  butter  a  pie  dish  one  and  a  half  inches  deep.  Line  it  with  a 
pie  paste  as  per  No.  117.  Trim  well  all  around  the  edges.  Cover  the 
paste  with  a  buttered  paper;  fill  the  plate  with  dried  white  beans;  set  in 
the  oven  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  paste  is  perfectly  firm 
and  well  browned.  Set  the  dish  on  a  table  to  cool  for  five  minutes,  then 
remove  the  beans  and  paper. 

Place  three  ounces  fine  sugar  in  a  vessel,  break  in  four  whole  eggs 
and  sharply  beat  up  for  five  minutes;  then  add  a  pint  cold  milk,  one 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  the  juice  of  a  good-sized,  sound  lemon; 
briskly  mix  for  three  minutes  longer.  Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
into  the  pie  dish.  Place  in  a  brisk  oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove,  let  get  cold  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Rissolettes,  Moelle" 

Mutton  Broth,  Indienne 

Halibut,  Fleurette  Potato  Noisettes 

Mignons  of  Beef.  Hussarde 

Sweet  Corn,  Saute" 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)  Salad  Escarole  (xoo) 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 
Souffle"  au  Maraschino 

317.  RISSOLETTES,  MOELL£ 

Prepare  twelve  small  rissolettes  exactly  the  same  as  rissolettes  russe 
(No.  162),  but  instead  of  caviare  use  beef  marrow,  as  follows: 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          91 

Procure  from  your  butcher  about  five  ounces  fresh  beef  marrow 
and  cut  into  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Have  a  saucepan 
on  the  fire  with  a  quart  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt.  Care- 
fully slide  the  marrow  into  the  water  and  boil  for  one  minute;  then 
shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of  the  range  and  let  stand  for  five  minutes. 
Carefully  strain  all  the  water  from  the  pan,  without  breaking  the  marrow. 
Season  with  one  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Chop 
up  very  finely  together  the  equivalent  of  a  teaspoon  parsley  with  a 
sound  clove  garlic  and  add  to  the  marrow;  add  also  one  tablespoon 
demi-glace  (No.  122).  Carefully  mix  with  a  fork  without  breaking 
and  it  will  be  ready  to  fill  the  rissolettes;  then  proceed  precisely  as 
per  No.  162. 

318.    MUTTON  BROTH,  INDIENNE 

Cut  into  very  small  dice  pieces  one  medium,  red  carrot,  one  medium, 
sound  turnip,  two  branches  celery,  one  small  white  onion,  two  leeks  and 
one  pound  lean,  raw  mutton  from  the  leg,  cut  also  the  same  way.  Place 
all  these  articles  in  a  large  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Cook  for  ten  minutes,  or  till  they  are  of  a  fine  golden  colour,  being  careful 
to  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Add  one  tea- 
spoon good  curry  powder,  stir  well;  then  pour  in  three  quarts  hot  water. 
Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce. 
(If  any  mutton  bones  on  hand  add  them  to  the  soup,  which  will  give  an 
excellent  additional  flavour.)  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for 
thirty  minutes.  Then  add  one  and  half  ounces  good  rice  and  one  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Cover  the  pan  and  gently  boil  for  forty-five 
minutes.  Remove  the  bones  (if  any);  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface, 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

319.    HALIBUT,  FLEURETTE 

Place  three  slices  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  of  chicken 
halibut  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  two  gills  hot  water, 
half  gill  white  wine  and  a  tablespoon  good  vinegar.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  sheet  of  paper,  boil  for 
five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  the  fish  with  a  skimmer  from  the  pan,  dress  on  a  hot  dish. 
Remove  the  spinal  bones.  Spread  the  Fleurette  sauce  over  the  fish 
and  serve. 

320.    FLEURETTE  SAUCE 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
one  minute,  then  add  one  gill  hot  milk  and  half  gill  of  the  fish  stock 
(broth) ;  mix  well  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes.  Season  with  two  salt- 
spoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  and  one  teaspoon  chopped  chives  (ciboulette).  Mix 


92  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well  again,  add  half  ounce  of  good  butter  by  very  small  bits  and  seven 
drops  lemon  juice.  Mix  well  again  and  use  as  required. 

321.    POTATO  NOISETTES 

.  Peel  four  large,  sound  raw  potatoes.  Scoop  out  with  a  small  Parisian 
potato  scoop  as  many  pieces  as  possible.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  quart  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  eight  minutes. 
Drain  well.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  butter,  place  the  potatoes 
in  the  pan  and  fry  until  they  have  obtained  a  golden  colour,  tossing  quite 
frequently.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

322.    MIGNONS  OF  BEEF,  HUSSARDE 

After  procuring  from  your  butcher  six  nice,  tender,  even  filets  mignons 
of  four  ounces  each,  neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten.  Season  all  over  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Gently  roll  in  flour, 
then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  lightly  in  bread  crumbs,  finally  turning 
them  over  in  two  tablespoons  sweet  oil  on  a  plate.  Arrange  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Have  a  brown  horseradish  sauce 
on  a  hot  dish;  arrange  the  mignons  crown  shape  over  the  horseradish 
sauce.  Decorate  the  dish  nicely  with  glazed,  small  white  onions,  pre- 
pared as  per  No.  125,  and  the  sweet  corn  placed  in  the  centre  of  the 
crown,  then  serve. 

323.    BROWN  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  for  five  minutes  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No. 
1 6),  and  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  with  a  tablespoon  fine,  white, 
freshly  grated  horseradish,  thoroughly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  serve. 

324.    SWEET  CORN,  SAUTE" 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  half  pint 
well-drained  sweet  corn.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon 
white  pepper.  Toss  them  well  in  the  pan  while  cooking  for  six  minutes ; 
then  use  as  directed. 

325.     SOUFFL£  AU  MARASCHINO 

Place  in  a  saucepan  half  ounce  sifted  flour  and  one  gill  cold  milk; 
sharply  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  add  half  ounce  butter,  two  ounces 
powdered  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  Maraschino.  Set  the  pan  on  a 
moderate  fire  and  slowly  boil  for  five  minutes,  constantly  stirring  mean- 
while. Remove  from  the  -fire,  break  in  five  egg  yolks,  one  by  one,  con- 
stantly stirring  while  doing  so,  then  let  get  cold. 

Beat  up  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  and  add  them  to  the 
preparation,  carefully  mixing  for  one  minute.  Lightly  butter  a  souffle* 
dish.  Pour  the  preparation  into  it;  dredge  a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar 
over  all.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and 
immediately  serve. 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  93 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Cornmeal  Mush 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Parsley 

Broiled  Bluefish,  Maltre  d'Hdtel 

Stewed  Smoked  Beef,  in  Cream 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

326.    CORNMEAL  MUSH 

Half  pint  cold  milk,  half  pint  cold  water,  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  and 
a  half  gills  cornmeal,  one  ounce  powdered  sugar  and  the  peel  of  one 
sound  lemon.  Place  all  the  above  in  an  enamelled  saucepan.  Briskly 
stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  all  around  till  the  flour  is  thoroughly  thickened. 
Let  slowly  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes  and  carefully  stir  at  the  bottom 
frequently  to  prevent  burning.  Remove  the  lemon  peel  and  serve  with 
cold  cream  or  milk  and  sugar,  separately. 

327.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  PARSLEY 

Prepare  the  eggs  the  same  way  as  per  No.  193,  but  while  beating  up 
the  eggs  add  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

328.     BROILED  BLUEFISH,  MAITRE  D'HOTEL 

Have  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh  bluefish ;  bone  it  nicely,  trim,  clean 
and  neatly  wipe  dry.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Lightly  oil  the  surface  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange 
on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot 
dish.  Spread  a  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  and  serve  with  quar- 
tered lemons  around  the  dish. 

329.     STEWED  SMOKED  BEEF  IN  CREAM 

Finely  mince  one  pound  and  a  quarter  smoked  beef;  drop  it  in  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Remove  from  the  water  and  thor- 
oughly drain. 

Have  in  a  small  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  briskly  with  a  whisk  for  one  minute,  then 
heat  up  well;  add  one  gill  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  mix  well  until 
boiling.  Drop  in  the  beef;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  thoroughly  mix  and 
allow  to  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

330.    BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

Place  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  buckwheat  flour,  one  ounce  cornmeal 
flour,  one  ounce  wheat  flour,  one  saltspoon  salt,  one  whole  egg,  two  gills 
cold  milk,  half  gill  lukewarm  water,  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  teaspoon 


94  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sugar,  half  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  a  tablespoon  molasses.     Sharply 
mix  the  whole  together  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes. 

Lightly  grease  a  large  frying  pan ;  then  with  the  aid  of  a  small  ladle 
drop  in  sufficient  batter  to  make  at  one  time  four  separate  cakes,  two 
and  a  half  inches  in  diameter,  and  cook  for  one  and  a  half  minutes 
on  each  side,  or  until  they  have  attained  a  good  golden  colour.  Lift 
up  with  a  cake  turner,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  keep  warm;  then  proceed 
to  cook  eight  more  in  the  same  way,  and  send  to  the  table  with 
maple  syrup. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam    Chowder 

Scallops  with  Curry  (53) 

Minced  Turkey  on  Toast 

Noodles  au  Beurre 

Choux,  a  la  Creme 

331.     CLAM  CHOWDER 

Chop  very  fine  two  medium  white  onions,  two  branches  soup  celery, 
two  leeks,  one  ounce  lean  salt  pork.  Heat  up  in  a  saucepan  one  table- 
spoon butter;  add  all  the  above  ingredients  and  stir  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon  while  gently  cooking  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  in  two  and  a  half 
quarts  hot  water  or  broth.  Boil  for  sixteen  minutes.  Peel  and  cut 
into  small,  dice-shaped  pieces  three  good-sized,  sound  raw  potatoes; 
wash  and  drain  well,  then  add  to  the  soup.  Boil  for  six  minutes.  Chop 
very  finely  and  add  to  the  soup  eight  large,  fresh  clams,  saving  the  liquor. 
Cut  into  small  pieces  three  good-sized  peeled  red  tomatoes  and  add  to 
the  soup;  also  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  six  drops  tabasco 
sauce,  two  saltspoons  thyme,  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  pepper; 
pour  in  the  liquor  of  the  clams;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Briskly 
boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  six  crushed  soda  crackers  and  a  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley.  Mix  lightly.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  more.  Pour 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  send  to  the  table. 

332.     MINCED  TURKEY  ON  TOAST 

Mince  very  finely  the  meat  of  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  keep  it  on  a  dish.  Hash  very  finely  six  sound  shallots  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  gently  stirring 
with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  three  minutes;  then  add  two 
tablespoons  flour ;  stir  briskly,  add  two  gills  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cream. 
Stir  briskly  for  one  minute,  then  add  the  turkey.  Mix  all  well  and  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  well  again  for  a  minute, 
then  add  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  mixed  with  half  clove  finely 
hashed  sound  garlic.  Mix  well  again  and  gently  cook  for  eight  minutes 
longer.  Have  six  small,  hot  toasts  on  a  hot  dish.  Divide  the  hash 
equally  on  the  toasts  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  95 

333.    NOODLES  WITH  BUTTER 

Plunge  one  pound  noodles  into  two  quarts  boiling  salted  water  and 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  well,  replace  in  the  same  pan,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  adding  one  ounce 
good  butter.  Gently  mix,  without  breaking  the  noodles,  until  the  butter 
is  thoroughly  dissolved  and  serve. 

334.    How  TO  PREPARE  THE  NOODLE  PASTE 

One  pound  sifted  flour,  five  whole  raw  eggs,  two  saltspoons  salt,  two 
tablespoons  cold  milk.  Place  the  flour  on  a  table;  make  a  small  foun- 
tain in  the  centre;  crack  the  five  eggs  into  the  fountain;  add  the  milk 
and  salt,  then  carefully  and  briskly  knead  the  whole  until  a  firm  paste. 
Roll  it  up  to  a  ball  shape,  then  flatten  to  a  cake  form  and  let  rest  for  ten 
minutes.  Then  roll  out  to  half  inch  in  thickness ;  let  rest  for  five  minutes ; 
then  roll  out  again  to  the  thickness  of  a  sheet  of  paper  and  let  rest 
again  for  five  minutes.  Cut  the  paste  in  two  equal  parts.  Roll  out 
each  half  evenly  to  a  cigar  shape,  but  without  tapering  the  ends,  leaving 
them  straight  at  both  ends.  Then  carefully  slice  the  paste  into  very 
thin  slices.  Place  the  noodles  in  a  piece  of  paper  and  let  get  dry  for 
fifteen  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

335.     CHOUX,  A  LA  CREME 

Place  a  tube  one-third  inch  in  diameter  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag, 
then  drop  in  the  pate-a-choux  and  press  the  paste  carefully  down  on 
a  baking  sheet,  into  six  round  cakes  of  equal  size  two  inches  high.  Set 
the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until 
they  obtain  a  golden  colour.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  let  cool  off  for 
ten  minutes.  Then  with  a  keen  knife  make  an  incision  at  one  side  of 
the  cakes.  Fill  the  inside  of  each  with  vanilla  whipped  cream,  as  per 
No.  337.  Dredge  them  liberally  with  powdered  sugar.  Dress  on  a 
dessert  dish  and  serve. 

336.    PATE-A-CHOUX 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  gill  cold  milk,  one  gill  cold  water,  two  ounces 
butter  and  one  saltspoon  salt.  Place  the  pan  on  the  range,  lightly  mix, 
and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  immediately  add  one-quarter  pound 
sifted  flour  and  sharply  stir  with  the  spatula  for  two  minutes;  then  stand 
the  pan  on  a  table,  break  in  one  egg,  sharply  stir  for  one  minute,  break 
in  another  egg,  stir  again  for  one  minute;  repeat  the  same  with  three 
more  eggs  and  pate-a-choux  is  ready  to  use. 

337.    WHIPPED  CREAM,  A  LA  VANILLE 

Pour  two  gills  thick,  fresh  cream  into  a  well-cleaned  basin.  Place 
the  basin  on  another  larger  one  with  some  broken  ice  and  a  little  cold 
water  at  the  bottom.  Then  with  a  soft  wire  egg  whip  beat  up  the  cream 
rather  slowly  at  the  start,  and  increase  in  briskness  until  it  is  a  firm  froth. 
Sweeten  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  fine  sugar  and  add  one  good  tea- 


96  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  vanilla  essence,  beating  constantly  for  two  minutes,  and  it  will 
be  ready  for  use.  Suppress  all  the  superfluous  milk  which  may  adhere 
to  the  cream  at  the  bottom  of  the  basin  before  using  it. 


DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Oysters 
Planked  Shad  Sliced  Cucumbers 

Chicken  Saute :  Creole 
Peas,  Francaise  (145)  Asparagus,  Hollandaise 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Chestnut  Pudding 

338.    BISQUE  OF  OYSTERS 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  one  quart  and  a  half  water,  add  forty-eight  medium 
freshly  opened  oysters  with  their  liquor  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes; 
shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of  the  range.  Have  in  a  small  saucepan  one 
and  a  half  ounces  butter,  add  two  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  flour,  mix 
thoroughly  with  a  whisk  for  a  minute,  then  add  three-quarters  of  a  pint 
hot  milk  and  strain  in  the  broth  of  the  oysters.  Season  with  two  light 
teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Briskly  mix  with  the  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  let  slowly 
boil  for  ten  minutes. 

Beat  up  two  egg  yolks  with  a  gill  cold  cream  and  add  it  to  the  bisque, 
adding  also  half  ounce  butter  in  small  bits.  Place  the  pan  on  a  table 
and  mix  well  until  the  butter  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Cut  each  oyster 
in  half  and  place  them  in  a  hot  soup  tureen;  then  strain  the  bisque 
through  a  clean  cheesecloth  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 

339.    PLANKED  SHAD 

Procure  a  fine,  fresh  shad  of  three  pounds.  Scale,  wash  \vell  and 
wipe  dry.  Cut  off  the  head,  as  well  as  the  tail,  then  split  it  open  through 
the  stomach  with  a  knife,  without  separating.  Detach  the  spinal  bone; 
season  both  sides  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Have  two  tablespoons  flour  on  a  flat  dish;  repeatedly  turn  over  the  shad 
in  the  flour. 

Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  melted  fat  or  sweet  oil, 
lay  the  shad  in  the  pan,  split  side  downward,  and  rapidly  fry  for  five 
minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown.  Carefully  turn  it  with  a  skimmer  and 
fry  for  five  minutes  on  the-  other  side.  Have  a  nice,  clean  oak  plank 
(board),  lightly  oiled  on  the  surface  with  a  tablespoon  oil;  then  care- 
fully lift  the  fish  with  the  skimmer,  lay  it  on  the  plank  skin  side  down- 
ward. Spread  half  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  the  shad.  Place 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  spread  a  light 
maltre  d'hotel  (No.  7)  over.  Decorate  with  quartered  lemon  and 
parslev  greens  and  serve  on  the  plank. 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  97 

340.    SLICED  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  and  slice  into  very  thin,  even  slices  two  small,  sound,  young> 
cold  cucumbers.  Place  them  in  a  small  flat  glass  dish.  Season  with 
three  tablespoons  dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

341.    CHICKEN  SAUTE,  CREOLE 

Remove  the  head  and  legs  of  a  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  chicken ; 
then  cut  into  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat  in  a  sautoire  two  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  add  the  chicken;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  frequently  tossing  the  chicken  meanwhile. 

Slice  rather  finely  two  medium,  sound,  white  onions,  two  sound 
green  peppers,  and  twelve  very  small,  round,  fresh  mushrooms,  peeled 
and  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  add  all  to  the  chicken.  Mix  well  with  a 
fork  and  cook  on  a  steady  fire  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile. 
Then  moisten  with  a  gill  broth,  as  per  No.  701,  add  four  medium,  sound, 
ripe,  peeled  and  seeded  tomatoes  cut  into  small  pieces;  mix  well,  add 
one  clove  finely  chopped  garlic,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and 
lightly  mix.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  more. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

342.    ASPARAGUS,  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Carefully  open  a  quart  can  fine  asparagus.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  quarts  hot  water,  not  boiling,  and  a  tablespoon  salt;  warm  up 
for  ten  minutes;  carefully  lift  with  a  skimmer,  drain  thoroughly  on  a 
sieve.  Then  place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with 
a  hot  Hollandaise  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  279,  served  in  a  bowl 
separately. 

343.     CHESTNUT  PUDDING 

Two  ounces  raw  beef  marrow,  half  ounce  remnants  cakes  or  bread 
crumbs,  half  ounce  butter,  one  ounce  fine  sugar,  two  whole  raw  eggs, 
three  tablespoons  crushed  candied  marrons  (chestnuts),  one  tablespoon 
corn  flour,  two  tablespoons  picked  dried  currants  and  one  good  table- 
spoon Swiss  kirschwasser. 

Pound  the  marrons  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  then  pass  through  a  sieve 
into  a  bowl.  Add  the  butter,  briskly  stir  for  six  minutes;  add  the  sugar 
and  eggs,  one  by  one;  rapidly  stir  again  for  five  minutes,  or  until  of  a 
creamy  consistency.  Then  add  all  the  other  ingredients;  thoroughly 
mix  for  one  minute.  Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds. 
Fill  them  up  with  the  preparation.  Place  the  moulds  in  a  pastry  tin, 
pour  hot  water  into  the  tin  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds.  Set  the 
tin  in  a  hot  oven  to  steam  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven, 
unmould  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  pineapple  sauce  separately. 

344.    PINEAPPLE  SAUCE 

Have  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a 
half  gills  cold  water  on  a  hot  range  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  lightly 


98  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

mixing  meanwhile.  Then  add  two  slices  pineapple  cut  into  small 
dice  pieces  and  boil  again  for  five  minutes.  Add  one  tablespoon  kirsch ; 
gently  mix  and  serve. 


Saturday,  Second  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Orape  Fruit  (130)  Hominy  (45) 

Eggs,  Renauldt 
Pike  Saute,  Meuniere 

Salisbury  Steak 

Fried  Potatoes,  in  Quarters 

Rice  Cakes 

345.    EGGS,  RENAULDT 

Skin  and  slice  very  fine  three  small  uncooked  country  sausages. 
Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  the  sausages  and  quickly 
cook  for  three  minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  cocotte  egg  dishes,  then 
equally  divide  the  sausages  into  them.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish.  Season  with  half  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  white  pepper 
(each  dish).  Pour  over  the  eggs  one  tablespoon  hot  tomato  sauce  (No. 
1 6);  spread  a  light  teaspoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  each;  place 
on  a  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  five  minutes.  Remove  and  send 
to  the  table. 

346.    PIKE  SAUTE",  MEUNIERE 

Clean  and  well  wipe  six  small,  fresh  pike.  Season  them  equally 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  gently  roll  in  flour. 
Heat  in  a  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  leaf  lard  or  oil,  arrange  the  fish, 
one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  them 
on  a  hot  dish.  Clean  the  pan  of  all  fat,  add  one  ounce  butter,  shuffle 
the  pan  till  the  butter  is  a  good  brown;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  pour  over  the  pike;  arrange  six  quarters  of  lemon  around 
the  dish;  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

347.    SALISBURY  STEAK 

Mince  very  finely  two  pounds  raw  rump  of  beef.  Season  with  one 
and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Break  in  one 
whole  raw  egg,  mix  well  with  the  hand  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the 
hash  into  six  equal  parts;  give  them  a  nice  egg  form;  arrange  on  a  double 
broiler ;  lightly  glaze  with  a  little  sweet  oil  and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on 
each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  giving  them  a  crown  shape,  and  serve. 

348.    FRIED  POTATOES,  IN  QUARTERS 

Peel,  clean  and  cut  into  quarters  five  medium-sized,  sound  potatoes. 
Plunge  them  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  twelve  minutes.  Lift  into  a 
basket,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  shake  well  in  the  basket. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          99 

349.    RICE  CAKES 

One-quarter  pound  rice  flour,  two  eggs,  half  ounce  powdered  sugar, 
half  pint  cold  milk  and  half  ounce  baking  powder.  Place  all  the  ingre- 
dients except  the  powder  in  a  bowl,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  the  baking  powder  and  gently  mix  for  one  minute. 

Lightly  butter  a  large  frying  pan,  making  four  cakes  at  a  time  each 
two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter.  Cook  for  one  and  a  half  minutes 
on  each  side.  Lift  with  a  skimmer;  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Proceed  the 
same  with  the  other  and  serve  very  hot  with  maple  syrup  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Frogs'  Legs,  Poulette 

Veal  Cutlets,  Milanaise 

Spaghetti,  Milanaise 

Lima  Beans 

Pear  Pie 

350.    FROGS'  LEGS,  POULETTE 

Clip  off  with  a  pair  of  scissors  the  claws  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
fresh  frogs'  legs.  Neatly  wash  and  dry  well.  Heat  up  in  a  sautoire  half 
ounce  butter.  Add  the  frogs'  legs  and  season  with  a  good  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  with  a  fork  and  gently 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  four  sound,  very  finely  chopped 
shallots.  Mix  well  again  and  cook  for  six  minutes  more ;  add  one  good 
tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  moisten  with  half  gill  sherry,  one  gill  hot 
milk  and  half  gill  cream,  adding  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Mix 
again  with  a  fork  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes  more.  Add  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  lightly  mix,  cook  for  two  minutes  longer.  Dilute  one 
egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  half  ounce  good  butter;  add  to 
the  frogs'  legs,  continually  toss  while  heating  for  two  minutes  without 
boiling.  Pour  into  a  chafing  dish  or  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

351.    VEAL  CUTLETS,  MILANAISE 

Neatly  trim  and  well  flatten  six  nice  veal  cutlets.  Season  all  over 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  roll  in  a 
little  flour,  then  lightly  dip  in  a  beaten-up  egg  and  roll  lightly  in  fresh 
bread  crumbs. 

Heat  well  in  a  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  leaf  lard,  arrange  in  the 
pan,  one  beside  another  and  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side. 
Have  a  spaghetti  Milanaise  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the 
cutlets  crown-like  over  the  spaghetti  and  serve. 

352.     SPAGHETTI,  MILANAISE 

Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  on  the  range  with  a 
tablespoon  salt.  Break  three-quarters  of  a  pound  best  spaghetti  into 
strips  one  and  a  half  inches  long.  Drop  them  into  the  water  and  boil 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  well  on  a  sieve;  then  place  in  a  sautoire 


ioo  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  half  ounce  butter,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  adding  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  i6),one  medium  truffle  cut 
into  fine  julienne  strips,  eight  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  and  one  ounce 
cooked  smoked  beef  tongue  also  cut  into  julienne  strips;  lightly  mix, 
then  cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
mix  well,  cook  for  two  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

353.    LIMA  BEANS 

Open  a  pint  can  of  lima  beans;  plunge  them  into  boiling  water  for 
five  minutes.  Drain  well,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce 
butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  thoroughly  heat  for 
five  minutes,  tossing  gently  once  in  a  while,  and  serve. 

354.    PEAR  PIE 

Remove  the  stems  and  peel  eight  medium,  good,  sound,  fresh  pears. 
Cut  them  in  halves;  remove  the  seeds,  then  cut  into  slices  and  place 
in  a  bowl.  Season  with  two  ounces  vanilla  sugar  and  half  teaspoon 
ground  cinnamon;  turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning.  Then  proceed  to 
make  the  pie  exactly  as  per  No.  117. 

DINNER 

Canapes,  Moreno-Russe  Radishes  (58) 

Consomme1,  Farina 
Oysters,  Mariniere 

Mutton  Steaks,  Marchand  de  Vin  Celery,  Brais<§ 

Roast  Leg  of  Venison,  Currant  Jelly 

E*clairs,  Chantilly 

355.    CANAPE'S,  MORENO-RUSSE 

Prepare  six  one-and-a-half -inch-square  pieces  of  toast.  Lightly 
and  nicely  spread  a  teaspoon  Russian  caviare  on  top  of  each  toast. 
Chop  very  finely  three  sweet  Spanish  red  peppers  and  evenly  spread 
over  the  caviare.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  few  small  leaves  of  well-cleaned 
and  well-drained  lettuce  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

356.     CONSOMME,  FARINA 

Strain  a  consomme  prepared  as  per  No.  52  into  another  saucepan 
and  set  on  a  hot  range.  Wash  well  in  cold  water  four  ounces  farina, 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  cheesecloth,  and  when  dry  drop  the  farina  into 
the  boiling  consomme  and  continually  mix  with  a  whisk  for  ten  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

357.     OYSTERS,  MARINIERE 

Plunge  twenty-four  unopened  fresh  bluepoint  oysters  into  plenty  of 
cold  water,  brush  them  with  a  coarse  brush  very  carefully,  wash  once 
more  and  drain  thoroughly.  Mince  very  finely  ten  medium,  sound 
shallots  and  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter,  stir  well 
while  cooking  for  three  minutes,  then  add  the  oysters,  with  shells;  add 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        101 

one  gill  white  wine.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add  one 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  half  clove  crushed  garlic.  Season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  adding  a  gill  good  cold 
cream.  Mix  rapidly  for  one  minute.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  again 
for  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  large,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

358.    MUTTON  STEAKS,  MARCHAND  DE  VIN 

Have  your  butcher  saw  off  from  a  tender  leg  of  mutton  three  nice 
mutton  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each.  Neatly  trim  off  the 
skin  all  around  them.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  well  divided  all  over. 

Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  half  ounce  melted  butter,  place  the  steaks 
in  the  pan  and  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  keep  hot.  Add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  half  a  medium-sized,  finely 
minced  white  onion,  stir  and  cook  until  a  nice  light  brown,  then  add  half 
teaspoon  flour,  stir  briskly,  pour  in  half  gill  claret,  half  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  16),  half  gill  demi-glace  (No,  122),  adding  half  teaspoon  chopped 
chives  or  parsley  and  one  clove  sound,  finely  crushed  garlic.  Mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity.  Then  pour 
over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

359.     CELERY,  BRAIS£ 

Place  a  small  mirepoix  in  a  roasting  pan,  as  per  No.  271,  with  one 
ounce  melted  butter.  Let  the  mirepoix  get  a  nice  light  brown,  then 
lay  six  stalks  fine,  well-cleaned  white  celery  over  the  vegetables.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  pour  in  hot  water  or 
broth  to  nearly  cover  the  celery.  Briskly  boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range. 
Cover  the  celery  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper.  Set  the  pan  in  the  oven 
for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  celery  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Place  the  remaining  mirepoix  into  the  demi-glace  pot  (No.  122). 

360.    ROAST  LEG  OF  VENISON,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  a  five-pound  piece  from  a  tender  leg  of  venison.  Divide  the 
meat  into  two  equal  pieces  (keep  one  half  for  Monday's  luncheon). 
Season  the  other  half  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
well  rubbed  over.  Place  it  in  a  roasting  pan ;  spread  two  tablespoons 
hot  leaf  lard  over  it,  set  in  the  hot  oven  to  roast  for  forty  minutes,  turning 
it  over  once  in  a  while,  and  frequently  basting  it  with  its  own  gravy. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy;  strain 
the  gravy  over  the  venison.  Decorate  the  dish  with  watercress  and  serve 
with  three  tablespoons  currant  jelly  on  a  saucer  separately. 

361.    ECLAIRS,  CHANTILLY 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux,  as  per  No.  336.  Slide  a  tube  one-third  of  an 
inch  in  diameter  in  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag.  Drop  the  paste  into  the 
bag.  Have  a  well-cleaned  pastry  pan  ready,  then  carefully  press  down 
the  preparation  on  the  pan,  three  inches  long  by  half  an  inch  wide.  Set 
the  pan  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool 


102  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

off  for  ten  minutes.  Make  an  incision  with  a  knife  at  one  side  only. 
Then  fill  the  apertures  of  the  Eclairs  with  a  vanilla-whipped  cream,  as 
per  No.  337.  Dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  them  all  and  serve. 

Sunday,   Third  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Peaches  (169) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Eggs,  Omar  Pasha 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172) 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 

Scotch  Scones 

362.     STEWED  PRUNES  AND  PEACHES 

Prepare  the  above  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  169,  using  same  quan- 
tity of  peaches  instead  of  the  pears. 

363.    EGGS,  OMAR  PASHA 

Poach  twelve  fresh  eggs,  as  per  No.  106.  Lay  two  on  each  of  six 
individual  shirred-egg  dishes  and  keep  warm.  Heat  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and 
thoroughly  stir  for  one  minute,  then  add  two  gills  hot  milk  and  briskly 
whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  two  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  raw  egg  yolk.  Sharply  whisk  for  two 
minutes,  then  equally  divide  the  same  over  the  eggs.  Sprinkle  half 
teaspoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  eggs  in  each  dish.  Place  in 
a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  three  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

364.    SCOTCH  SCONES 

Half  pound  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  half  pint  cold 
milk  and  two  saltspoons  salt.  Place  the  flour  in  a  bowl,  make  a  small 
fountain  in  the  centre,  place  all  the  ingredients  in  it ;  then  knead  it  thor- 
oughly with  the  hand  to  a  thick  paste.  Roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  an 
inch.  Cut  the  paste  into  six  equal  square  parts.  Lightly  butter  a 
frying  pan,  heat  it  thoroughly,  tb^n  place  the  scones  in  the  pan,  one  beside 
another;  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  when  a  good  golden  colour,  which  will 
take  about  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEQN 

Broiled  Lobster,  Sauce  Ravigote 

Squab  Pot  Pie 

Omelette  with  Parmesan  Cheese 
Angel  Cake      • 

365.    BROILED  LOBSTER,  SAUCE  RAVIGOTE 

Cut  away  the  large  and  small  claws  from  three  live  lobsters  of  one 
and  a  quarter  pounds  each.  Split  each  one  in  two;  arrange  on  a  double 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  103 

broiler;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika  and 
baste  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Crack  the  claws  with  a  cleaver,  place  in  a 
small  tin  and  bake  in  the  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Broil  the  six 
half  lobsters  on  a  brisk  fire,  the  cut  parts  upward,  for  ten  minutes ;  then 
place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes  more.  Nicely  dress  all  the 
lobsters  on  a  large,  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with  a  hot 
Ravigote  sauce  (No.  366)  in  a  bowl  separately. 

366.    SAUCE  RAVIGOTE,  HOT 

Place  in  a  mortar  three  anchovies  in  oil,  two  sound  gherkins,  one 
sound,  medium  shallot,  one  tablespoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  table- 
spoon chopped  tarragon,  half  tablespoon  chervil.  Pound  all  well  for  five 
minutes,  or  until  a  fine  paste ;  then  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Place  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  six  tablespoons  thick,  hot  cream;  briskly  whisk  on 
the  corner  of  the  range  for  two  minutes,  then  add  one  egg  yolk ;  briskly 
stir  for  two  minutes ;  add  another  egg  yolk,  briskly  stir,  then  add  another 
one  and  briskly  whisk  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the  pan  from  the 
range ;  season  with  a  good  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper. 
Stir  for  one  minute  more  and  serve. 

367.    SQUAB  POT  PIE 

Singe,  and  remove  the  heads  and  feet  of  six  fat,  fresh  squabs.  Draw, 
wipe  neatly  and  cut  into  six  pieces  each.  Place  in  a  medium-sized  saucepan 
half  ounce  melted  butter,  two  finely  chopped  white  onions,  half  a  chopped 
green  pepper  and  one  ounce  salt  pork  cut  into  small,  square  pieces ;  stir 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  a  nice  light  brown  colour;  then  add  the 
squabs  and  cook  until  they  attain  a  good  golden  colour,  being  careful  to 
mix  with  the  spoon  once  in  a  while.  Then  gradually  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  briskly  mix  for  two  minutes;  add  one  quart  hot  broth  or 
hot  water  and  mix  well  again  for  two  minutes.  Add  one  carrot  cut  in 
quarters,  three  leeks,  tied  up  with  four  branches  parsley  and  two  bay 
leaves.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
mix  well  for  another  minute;  cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  tied-up  herbs  and  carrots.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth,  etc.  Transfer  the  preparation 
into  a  deep  pie  dish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  over; 
cover  the  pie  with  a  pie  paste  (No.  117);  trim  well  all  around,  then  set 
in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  seventeen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

368.     OMELETTE  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  add  half  gill  cold  milk;  briskly  beat  up 
with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes.  Add  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan 
cheese;  lightly  mix,  then  proceed  to  make  the  omelette  as  per  No.  75, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

369.    ANGEL  CAKE 

Beat  up  to  a  stiff  froth  six  egg  whites;  then  gently  mix  in  three- 
quarters  of  an  ounce  powdered  sugar  and  one  ounce  sifted  flour,  then 


io4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

thoroughly  mix  for  one  minute;  transfer  it  into  a  lightly  buttered  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
oven  and  let  get  cold.  Cut  the  cake  into  six  equal  pieces  and  serve  on  a 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

DINNER 

Blue  Point  Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Mulligatawney,  Manila 
Salmon,  Demidoff  Potatoes,  Lorette 

Tenderloin  of  Beef,  Larded,  Trevise 
Sweetbreads  Braise,  Czarina  Peas  with  Mint 

Punch  aux  Roses 
Roast  Capon  Salad  Romaine  (214) 

English  Pudding 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream 

370.    MULLIGATAWNEY,  MANILA 

Have  the  following  articles  ready:  Half  sliced  carrot,  one  medium 
sliced  onion,  half  medium  sliced  turnip,  one  sliced  leek,  one  branch  sliced 
white  celery,  one  sliced  parsley  root,  quarter  of  medium  sliced  eggplant, 
two  sprigs  bay  leaf,  one  of  thyme,  two  medium,  ripe,  sliced  tomatoes,  two 
sliced  shallots,  one  bean  sound,  crushed  garlic,  one  sound,  sliced  apple, 
one  sliced  green  pepper,  half  ounce  lean  raw  ham  or  bacon  cut  into 
small  dice  pieces,  two  cloves  and  one  piece  lemon  rind. 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  all  the  above  ingredients 
and  gently  brown  them  for  five  minutes,  mixing  well  with  the  spatule. 
Add  one  tablespoon  flour,  mix  all  well  and  allow  to  briskly  cook  for  eight 
minutes,  mixing  with  the  spatule  once  in  a  while.  Moisten  with  two 
and  a  half  quarts  hot  broth  (No.  701).  Mix  well  with  a  spoon;  season 
with  a  light  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  a  light  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  one  good 
teaspoon  curry  powder  diluted  in  a  little  water.  Mix  well  again  with  the 
spoon  and  let  gently  simmer  for  one  hour.  Skim  the  fat  off  the  surface; 
pass  it  through  a  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  add  a  tablespoon 
cocoanut  milk  or  a  tablespoon  sweet  cream,  two  tablespoons  boiled  rice 
and  two  tablespoons  cooked  chicken  cut  into  very  small  dice;  mix 
a  little  while  heating,  but  be  very  careful  not  to  allow  the  soup  to  boil 
again  after  the  cocoanut  has  been  added.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

371.    SALMON,  DEMIDOFF 

Procure  three  slices  fresh  salmon  one  inch  thick;  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  fish  broth  or  water;  half 
ounce  good  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper;  place  the  saucepan  on  the  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and 
bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven;  lift  the  pieces  of  fish 
from  the  pan  with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 


SUNDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  105 

Place  the  pan  with  the  gravy  on  the  fire  and  let  reduce  to  one- 
quarter,  which  will  take  about  five  minutes;  then  strain  through 
a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  adding  three  egg  yolks;  sharply 
mix  with  a  whisk  for  three  minutes  on  the  corner  of  the  range.  Drop 
in,  little  by  little,  two  tablespoons  very  hot  melted  butter,  continually 
stirring  without  allowing  it  to  boil.  Then  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
salmon.  Place  six  very  thin  slices  of  truffles  on  top  of  the  salmon 
and  serve. 

372.     POTATOES,  LORETTE 

Have  the  same  quantity  of  potato  preparation  as  per  potato  brioche 
(No.  91).  Divide  it  into  six  equal  parts.  Roll  out  each  part  on  a 
lightly  floured  table  to  the  thickness  of  a  pencil,  then  cut  into 
pieces  two  inches  long.  Gently  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in 
boiling  fat  for  two  minutes;  lift  up,  thoroughly  drain;  sprinkle  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  over  them;  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

373.  TENDERLOIN  OF  BEEF,  TREVISE 

Have  a  piece  of  tenderloin  of  beef  larded  and  cooked  exactly  the 
same  as  per  No.  144.  When  cooked,  remove  it  from  the  pan,  lay  it 
on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the 
gravy;  place  the  pan  on  the  fire,  pour  in  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
and  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122) ;  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon; 
let  boil  for  five  minutes;  strain  the  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
over  the  filet.  Arrange  six  medium  stuffed  tomatoes  (No.  30)  around 
the  filet  and  serve. 

374.  SWEETBREADS  BRAIS£,  CZARINA 

Blanch  six  heart  sweetbreads  as  per  No.  33.  Neatly  trim  them  all 
round.  Cut  two  ounces  lean  raw  ham  into  thin  strips  one  inch  long; 
then  with  the  aid  of  a  larding  needle  carefully  lard  the  top  of  the  breads. 
Finely  slice  one  small  carrot,  one  small  white  onion,  two  branches  celery, 
two  branches  parsley  and  one  ounce  larding  pork.  Place  these  articles 
in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter;  lay  the  breads  on  top,  sprinkle  over 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and 
nicely  fry  for  six  minutes.  Pour  in  one  gill  white  wine,  then  let  reduce 
to  almost  a  glaze.  Pour  in  two  gills  hot  broth  (No.  701).  Cover  the 
breads  with  a  buttered  paper,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  lift  up  the  breads  with  a  fork,  lay  on  a  baking  dish,  one  beside 
another.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  gravy.  Heat  in  a  small 
saucepan  a  tablespoon  fresh  butter,  add  six  finely  sliced,  freshly  peeled 
mushrooms  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  then  mix  in  one  ounce  flour,  pour 
in  half  gill  cream  and  strain  in  the  gravy  of  the  sweetbreads;  briskly 
mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  add  one  egg  yolk,  sharply  mix  for  one 
minute.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  breads.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over  the  breads.  Set  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
ten  minutes,  or  till  a  good  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 


io6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

375.    PEAS  WITH  MINT 

Open  a  pint  can  of  green  peas;  suppress  the  water,  plunge  them  in 
slightly  salted  boiling  water  and  boil  for  two  minutes.  Drain,  then 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  salt- 
spoon  white  pepper,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  very  fresh, 
finely  chopped  mint.  Toss  all  well  on  the  fire  for  one  minute  and  serve 
in  a  hot  vegetable  dish. 

376.     LEMON  ICE 

Place  in  a  bowrl  half  pound  granulated  sugar,  one  quart  lukewarm 
water;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  three  medium,  sound  lemons,  the  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon  and  the  white  of  an  egg.  Briskly  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  five  minutes.  Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  small 
ice-cream  freezer.  Cover  the  freezer,  place  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice 
mixed  with  rock  salt  all  round ;  then  freeze  for  thirty-five  minutes. 

377.     PUNCH  AUX  ROSES 

Pour  a  tablespoon  rose  flavouring  into  the  freezer  of  the  above  lemon 
water  ice  when  ready;  mix  well  with  the  wooden  spoon,  then  fill  up  six 
sherbet  glasses  and  serve. 

378.    ROAST  CAPON 

Pick  all  the  feathers  out,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet,  draw,  singe  and 
wipe  the  inside  of  a  tender  capon  of  five  and  a  half  to  six  pounds.  Sprinkle 
the  inside  with  a  teaspoon  salt ;  truss  well ;  place  a  thin  piece  larding  pork 
on  the  breasts  of  the  capon,  tying  a  string  around.  Lay  it  in  a  roasting 
pan  with  quarter  gill  cold  water;  place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  roast  for 
thirty  minutes;  then  turn  it  over,  baste  all  over  with  its  own  gravy  and 
roast  for  forty  minutes  more.  Remove  it,  un truss,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
decorate  with  watercress  all  around.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  then 
pour  in  two  tablespoons  broth,  boil  for  two  minutes.  Strain  the  gravy 
over  the  capon  and  serve. 

379.    ENGLISH  PUDDING 

Have  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  granulated  sugar,  three  whole  raw  eggs, 
two  ounces  sifted  flour,  one  ounce  dry  cake  or  bread  crumbs,  half  ounce 
candied  lemon,  one  ounce  picked  currants,*  half  ounce  chopped  raw 
beef  marrow,  half  ounce  chopped  citron,  two  tablespoons  Jamaica  rum, 
one  teaspoon  pounded  allspice,  one  saltspoon  salt  and  one  gill  cold  milk. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  amalga- 
mated. 

Lightly  butter  and  flour  six  small  moulds,  then  fill  them  up  with  the 
preparation.  Place  the  moulds  in  a  baking  tin,  fill  up  with  boiling 
water  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds.  Set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five 
minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven.  Un  mould  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  a 
brandy  sauce  over  and  serve  hot. 

*  To  clean  and  prepare  Sultana  currants  and  raisins  for  pastry,  see  No.  3281. 


MONDAY,   THi^D  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  107 

380.    BRANDY  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  ounces  granulated  sugar,  one  gill 
cold  water,  the  rind  of  one-quarter  of  a  lemon  and  let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  add  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  brandy  and  half  tablespoon  good 
butter,  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  briskly  whisk  the  sauce  till  the 
butter  is  melted.  Remove  the  lemon  peel  and  use  as  directed. 

381.    NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  quart  vanilla  ice  cream  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  42. 
Have  a  well-cleaned  quart  brick  mould  with  the  bottom  lined  with  a 
sheet  of  white  paper.  Place  one-third  the  prepared  vanilla  into  the 
mould  and  keep  it  buried  in  ice.  Have  a  clean,  empty  pint  tin  can  on 
ice,  then  drop  another  third  of  the  vanilla  into  the  can.  Mash  and 
strain  through  a  sieve  six  tablespoons  preserved  strawberries  and  drop 
the  liquor  into  the  freezer  with  the  remaining  third  of  the  vanilla,  adding 
two  drops  strawberry  colouring.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  let  stand  in  the  freezer.  Pour  one  teaspoon  pistache  essence  into 
the  tin  can  containing  one  part  of  the  vanilla.  Mix  briskly  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Remove  and  spread  the  strawberry  ice  cream  from 
the  freezer  over  the  vanilla  in  the  brick,  then  the  pistache  over  the  straw- 
berry cream.  Arrange  a  piece  of  white  paper  on  top  of  the  pistache. 
Close  the  mould  and  bury  it  in  the  tub  in  which  the  vanilla  was  first 
prepared;  then  freeze  for  fully  one  hour.  Remove  the  brick,  dip  the 
tin  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds,  wipe  well;  unmould  on  a  cold 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve.  (As  soon  as  you  begin  to  prepare 
the  Neapolitan  brick,  it  should  be  done  as  rapidly  as  possible  so  as  to 
avoid  melting.) 

Monday,  Third  "Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Eggs,  Cleveland 

Findon  Haddock  (76) 

French  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

382.    EGGS,  CLEVELAND 

Carefully  skin  three  fresh  lamb  kidneys,  then  cut  into  thin  slices. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  add  the  kidneys; 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  toss 
well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  tablespoon  good 
sherry,  two  tablespoons  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  two  tablespoons  demi- 
glace  (No.  122),  adding  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms  and  half  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley;  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for 


io8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

two  minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  individual  shirred-egg  dishes ;  carefully 
break  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  five  minutes. 
Remove  them  from  the  oven;  divide  the  kidneys  evenly  over  the  eggs 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON. 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 
Goulash  of  Venison  with  Dumplings 

Macaroni  a  la  Creme 
Orange  Custard  Pie  (316) 

383.    GOULASH  OF  VENISON  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

Cut  two  pounds  raw  venison  from  a  leg  into  pieces  one  and  a  half 
inches  square.  Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
venison;  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Stir 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a 
good  golden  colour;  then  add  one  tablespoon  flour,  a  sliced  carrot  and 
a  sliced  onion.  Stir  well  again ;  moisten  with  a  gill  claret,  half  pint  broth 
or  hot  water,  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No. 
122),  adding  a  sprig  bay  leaf  and  a  saltspoon  thyme.  Stir  with  the  spoon 
and  let  boil  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  two  medium,  raw  potatoes,  peeled 
and  cut  into  pieces  three-quarters  of  an  inch  square.  Cover  the  pan  and 
slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook 
again  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  take  up  the  bay  leaf, 
skim  the  fat  from  the  surface.  Pour  the  goulash  into  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  six  dumplings  placed  over.  While  the  goulash  is  in  the  oven 
prepare  the  dumplings. 

384.    DUMPLINGS  FOR  STEWS,  ETC. 

Have  in  a  saucepan  half  gill  hot  water,  half  gill  hot  milk  and  a  table- 
spoon butter;  place  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
add  three  tablespoons  sifted  flour.  Stir  well,  then  add  one  raw  egg, 
stir  well  for  two  minutes,  add  another  egg,  stir  well  for  two  minutes, 
then  add  two  tablespoons  plain  mashed  potatoes.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  mix  well  with  the  spoon. 
Have  in  a  pan  two  quarts  boiling  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Drop 
the  preparation  on  a  lightly  floured  plate;  divide  it  into  twelve  equal 
parts;  gently  roll  them  up  to  round  shape,  then  plunge  into  the  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Lift  with  a  skimmer,  drain  well  and  serve. 

385.    How  TO  COOK  MACARONI 

Have  in  a  saucepan  three  quarts  boiling  water.  Season  with  half 
tablespoon  salt.  Plunge  in  half  pound  best  quality  unbroken  macaroni 
and  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Neatly  drain  on  a  sieve  and  use  as  required. 

386.    MACARONI  IN  CREAM 

Place  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  one 
good  tablespoon  flour;  briskly  stir  and  heat  for  two  minutes,  then  add 


MONDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  109 

one  gill  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cold  cream.  Season  with  three  saltspoons 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
stir  well,  then  drop  in  the  macaroni,  as  per  No.  385,  and  gently  cook 
for  two  minutes,  lightly  mixing  with  a  fork;  add  half  ounce  grated  Par- 
mesan and  half  ounce  grated  Swiss  cheese.  Carefully  mix  with  the 
fork  without  breaking  while  cooking  for  one  minute.  Serve  very  hot. 

386A.     ORANGE  CUSTARD  PIE 

Prepare  the  above  pie  exactly  the  same  as  lemon  custard  pie  (No.  316), 
but  using  the  same  quantity  of  orange  flavouring  instead  of  the  lemon 
flavouring. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Paysanne 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Caneton  a  1'Estragon  Potato  Croquettes 

Haricots  Verts,  a  1'Anglaise 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad  with  Mayonnaise 

Ginger  Pudding 

387.    POTAGE,  PAYSANNE 

One  small  sliced  red  carrot,  one  small  sliced  turnip,  one  small 
sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  ont  branch  sliced  white  celery,  four  small 
sliced  cabbage  leaves,  all  sliced  exceedingly  fine;  two  pounds  lean  raw 
rump  of  beef  and  a  few  beef  bones. 

Have  three  and  a  half  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a 
tablespoon  salt  and  a  teaspoon  white  pepper;  add  the  beef  and  the  bones; 
cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Uncover,  skim  off  the 
scum  and  add  the  above  vegetables.  Cover  the  pan  again  and  slowly 
boil  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  beef  and  bones  (keep  the  beef  for 
to-mcrrow).  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth.  Pour  the 
soup  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  add  six  slices  French  bread  toasted  and  serve. 

388.    BROILED  FRESH  MACKEREL 

Neatly  clean  and  wipe  a  fine,  fresh  mackerel  of  three  pounds;  split 
open  through  the  back;  suppress  the  head  as  well  as  the  spine  bone. 
Have  a  very  light  tablespoon  oil  on  a  plate  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  mix  well,  then  repeatedly  roll  the  fish  in  the 
seasoning;  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  moderate  fire  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish;  spread  a  little 
maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over;  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  six  quarters  of  sound  lemon  and  serve. 

389.    CANETON  A  L'ESTRAGON 

Cut  off  the  head  and  legs,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  the  inside  of  a  fat 
five-pound  duckling  (Caneton).  Singe  and  truss;  place  a  mirepoix, 
as  per  No.  271,  in  a  large  saucepan;  lay  the  bird  over  the  mirepoix 


no  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  one  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding 
one  ounce  melted  butter.  Place  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire  and  let  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  over  once  in  a  while.  Add  two  tablespoons 
flour  to  the  mirepoix,  stir  well  with  a  spoon;  pour  in  one-quarter  pint 
claret,  half  pint  beef  broth  (No.  701)  and  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Mix  well  again,  cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

Have  three  branches  fresh  or  preserved  tarragon,  pick  off  all  the 
leaves,  put  them  aside  and  add  the  stalks  to  the  duck.  Place  the  pan 
in  a  hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  turning  the  duck  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  untruss,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm.  Place  the  pan 
on  the  fire,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  sauce  and  briskly  boil 
for  eight  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce  through  a  sieve  into  another  sauce- 
pan, add  the  tarragon  leaves  and  ten  sliced  mushrooms,  then  let  the 
sauce  reduce  to  half  pint,  mixing  occasionally  meanwhile.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  the  duck  and  serve. 

390.     POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Have  a  preparation  ready,  as  per  potato  brioche  (No.  91).  Divide 
it  into  six  equal  parts,  dredge  a  little  flour  on  a  corner  of  the  table,  roll 
out  each  piece  to  cork  shape.  Dip  them  in  a  beaten-up  egg,  then  roll 
lightly  in  bread  crumbs;  arrange  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat 
foi;  five  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  thoroughly  drain,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

391.     STRING  BEANS,  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Open  a  pint  can  of  string  beans;  drain  the  water  off,  plunge  them 
into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve ;  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  one  ounce  butter ; 
divide  into  small  bits,  mix  well  with  a  fork  while  heating  for  a  few 
seconds,  then  serve  on  a  vegetable  dish. 

392.    ROAST  LEG  OF  LAMB,  MINT  SAUCE 

Procure  a  medium-sized,  tender  leg  of  lamb,  from  five  and  a  half 
to  six  pounds.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  "salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  well  rubbed  all  around.  Place  the  leg  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour 
in  three  tablespoons  hot  fat  and  three  tablespoons  cold  water.  Place 
in  a  hot  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  to 
baste  it  quite  frequently  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove  it,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  then  strain  the  gravy 
over  the  leg.  Decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve  with  mint 
sauce  (No.  256)  separately. 

393.     CELERY  AND  APPLE  SALAD  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Scrape,  pare  and  thoroughly  clean  and  drain  well  two  stalks  crisp 
white  celery.  Peel  and  core  three  medium,  sound  apples,  Cut  both 
celery  and  apples  into  thin  julienne-shaped  strips.  Place  them  in  a 
salad  bowl.  Season  with  three  tablespoons  salad  dressing  (No.  863) ; 
gently  mix,  and  just  before  serving  add  two  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
(No.  70) ;  mix  again  and  serve  immediately. 


TUESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  in 

394.  GINGER  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  basin  one  ounce  butter,  two  raw  eggs  and  one  saltspoon 
salt.  Sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Add  one  and 
three-quarter  ounces  granulated  sugar,  one  level  tablespoon  grated, 
preserved  ginger,  one  ounce  remnants  of  cakes  or  bread  crumbs,  two 
gills  cold  milk  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Mix  all  well  together 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Then  fill  up  six  lightly  buttered 
individual  pudding  moulds.  Place  the  moulds  in  a  small  roasting  tin, 
pour  in  boiling  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds,  place  in  a  hot 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a 
Sabayon  sauce  over  them,  prepared  as  per  No.  102,  and  serve. 

Tuesday,   Third  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Green  Omelette 

Broiled  Sausages  (241)  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Cerealine  Cakes 

395.  GREEN  OMELETTE 

Hash  up  together  very  finely  three  branches  thoroughly  washed 
parsley,  same  quantity  very  fresh  watercress  and  the  green  part  of  a 
branch  chervil,  and  place  the  herbs  in  a  bowl.  Carefully  break  in  eight 
fresh  eggs,  adding  half  gill  cold  milk.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoon s  white  pepper;  sharply  beat  up  the  whole  together 
for  two  minutes  with  a  fork,  and  then  proceed  to  make  the  omelette 
same  as  in  No.  75. 

396.  CEREALINE  CAKES 

Place  in  a  basin  quarter  of  a  pound  cerealine  flour,  break  in  two 
egps,  add  half  ounce  powdered  sugar,  half  pint  cold  milk  and  one  salt- 
spoon salt;  briskly  whisk  up  for  five  minutes;  add  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  gently  mix  for  half  minute.  Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  then  drop  in,  with  a  ladle,  batter  to  make 
four  separate  cakes  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  each.  Cook 
for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  then 
proceed  to  prepare  eight  more  in  a  similar  way  and  send  to  the  table 
with  maple  syrup  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Fried  Soft  Clams  with  Bacon 

Mironton  of  Beef 
Spinach  with  Cream 
Apricots  with  Rice 

397.    FRIED  SOFT  CLAMS 

Procure  thirty-six  good-sized,  fine,  fresh,  soft  clams,  without  the 
shells.  Discard  all  stringy  and  sandy  parts,  keeping  nothing  but  the 


H2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

perfect  bodies.  Place  them  on  a  plate;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  paprika;  mix  well  in  the  seasoning,  lightly  roll  in  flour, 
then  dip  lightly  in  beaten  egg  and  lastly  in  bread  crumbs.  Plunge  in 
boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly 
drain,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them  evenly.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish ; 
arrange  six  thin  slices  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  over  them,  decorate  the 
dish  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

398.    MIRONTON  OF  BEEF 

Peel  and  slice  very  finely  three  medium,  sound,  white  onions  and 
place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  ounce  melted  butter  dnd  gently 
brown  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Thicken  with  two 
tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir  for  one  minute,  then  shift  the  pan  on  the 
corner  of  the  range. 

Slice  the  two  pounds  boiled  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  into  pieces 
one-quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness  and  one  and  a  half  inches  square 
and  add  to  the  onions;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Season  with  a 
level  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  two  saltspoons  grated 
nutmeg,  adding  three-quarters  of  a  gill  good  vinegar,  half  pint  hot  broth 
(No.  71),  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122). 
Mix  all  well.  Cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  place  the  pan  in 
a  hot  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven ;  add  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  minced  chives;  mix  a  little,  then  pour 
into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

399.  SPINACH  WITH  CREAM 

Procure  three  quarts  fresh  spinach.  Discard  all  stale  leaves 
or  stalks,  if  any  adhering;  then  wash  in  three  different  fresh 
waters,  take  them  up  and  drop  into  a  pan  with  one  gallon 
boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  well  on  a  sieve  and  completely  squeeze  the  water  out, 
then  hash  up  very  finely.  Have  one  ounce  melted  butter  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  flour;  stir  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon  while  heating  for  one  minute;  then  pour  in  three-quarters 
of  a  gill  cold  cream  and  same  quantity  cold  milk.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  briskly  whisk  for  one  minute.  Add  the  spinach, 
mix  well  with  a  spoon,  cook  for  five  minutes  and  serve  in  a  vege- 
table dish. 

400.  APRICOTS  WITH  RICE 

Wash  and  drain  well  one  gill  best  quality  rice;  place  it  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  one  pint  cold  milk,  one  saltspoon  salt,  three  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  the  rind  of  a  quarter 
of  a  sound  lemon.  Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Set  the  pan  on  the 
fire  and  let  slowly  cook  for  fifty  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while  mean- 
time. Dress  the  rice  on  a  hot  dish. 

Open  a  pint  can  of  apricots,  drop  them  with  the  liquor  into  a  small 


TUESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  113 

saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boiling  point.  Lift  the  apricots  up  with  a 
skimmer,  arrange  on  top  of  the  rice.  Pour  one  tablespoon  Swiss  kirsch 
into  the  liquor  of  the  apricots,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  the  liquor 
over  the  apricots  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Cream  of  Jerusalem  Artichokes 

Halibut  Steaks,  Colbert  Sauce  Potatoes,  Bignon 

Croquettes  of  Lamb,  Mace"doine 

Roast  Chicken,  with  Cress  Doucette  Salad  (i8g) 

Pudding,  Weimar 

401.  CREAM  OF  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Peel  and  wash  well  in  cold  water  twenty-four  medium,  sound,  Jeru- 
salem artichokes;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  half  sliced  carrot,  half 
sliced  onion,  two  well-cleaned  sliced  leeks,  one  sliced  stalk  celery,  one 
chopped  branch  fresh  parsley,  one  quart  broth  or  water,  one  quart 
milk.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and 
one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
thirty  minutes. 

Have  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  melted  butter  and  two  ounces  flour. 
Stir  well  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Strain  the  artichokes,  etc., 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  saucepan  and  briskly  whisk  for 
two  minutes;  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  gill  cold  cream  and 
half  ounce  good  butter;  whisk  briskly  for  two  minutes,  then  strain  the 
cream  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate 
of  bread  croutons  No.  2 3. separately. 

402.  HALIBUT  STEAKS,  COLBERT  SAUCE 

Have  a  teaspoon  olive  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  on  a  plate ;  mix  well,  then  roll  three  halibut  steaks  of  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  each  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for 
six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  hot 
Colbert  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  121,  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

403.    POTATOES,  BIGNON 

Neatly  wipe  six  medium,  round,  sound,  unpeeled  potatoes.  Place 
them  on  a  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  cut  in 
halves,  scoop  out  the  "meat"  and  place  it  in  a  bowl,  keeping  the  shells. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  adding  one  gill  hot  milk,  one  tablespoon  good  butter. 
Lightly  brown  for  two  minutes  in  one  teaspoon  butter,  two  skinned 
and  sliced  country  sausages  and  six  very  finely  chopped  shallots  and  add 
it  to  the  potatoes.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes. 
Then  fill  up  the  potato  shells  with  the  mixture.  Place  on  a  tin ;  sprinkle 
tablespoon  prated  Permesan  cheese  over  them,  equally  divided.  Place 


ii4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Remove,  place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

404.    CROQUETTES  OF  LAMB,  MACE"DOINE 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  into  very  small  dice  pieces.  Hash  very  finely  one  white  onion, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  and  gently  cook 
for  five  minutes;  then  add  two  ounces  of  flour;  stir  well,  pour  in  one  pint 
white  broth;  mix  well,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  lamb;  mix 
well.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  stir  well  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  mixing 
occasionally.  Add  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and  three  raw  egg 
yolks;  briskly  mix  and  cook  again  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire,  add  two  ounces  bread  crumbs,  mix  for  one  minute;  then 
transfer  it  on  a  cold  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Divide  the  preparation  into 
twelve  equal  parts.  Lightly  flour  a  corner  of  a  table,  gently  roll  out 
each  piece  into  croquette  shape,  dip  them  in  the  whites  of  two  beaten 
eggs,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry 
in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  drain  thoroughly.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish  in  crown  form.  Fill  up  the  centre  with  a  hot  macedoine,  pre- 
pared as  per  No.  233,  and  serve. 

404A.    ROAST  CHICKEN  WITH  WATERCRESS 

Prepare  and  roast  a  tender  Philadelphia  chicken  precisely  the  same 
as  per  No.  290.  Dress  it  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress 
and  serve. 

405.  WEIMAR  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  large  bowl  two  ounces  good  butter  and  thoroughly  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
one  by  one,  sharply  stirring  meanwhile;  add  two  ounces  grated  cocoa, 
two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  one  ounce  cake  or  bread  crumbs.  Mix 
well  for  one  minute,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  well  beaten 
up,  and  gently  mix  with  the  skimmer  for  half  minute. 

Fill  six  lightly  buttered  individual  pudding  moulds  with  the  prepara- 
tion; lay  the  moulds  in  a  tin,  pour  boiling  water  up  to  half  their  height; 
set  in  the  hot  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish. 
Pour  a  chocolate  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

406.  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Pour  half  pint  old  milk  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  ounces  grated 
chocolate;  place  the  pan -on  the  fire  and  slowly  boil  for  two  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring.  Have  in  another  small  saucepan  two  ounces 
granulated  sugar  with  two  egg  yolks  and  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  vanilla; 
briskly  whisk  for  two  minutes;  then  gradually  add  the  milk  and  choco- 
late, whisking  constantly  meanwhile.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and 
continually  whisk  for  five  minutes.  Strain  the  same  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  and  use  as  directed. 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          115 
Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples 

Hominy  (45) 
Eggs,  Point  du  Jour 

Fried  Frost  Fish 

Broiled  Mutton  Kidneys  (195) 

Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 

Rice  Cakes  (349) 

407.    SLICED  PINEAPPLES 

Peel,  neatly  trim  and  pick  all  objectionable  eyes  out  of  a  very  small, 
sound  pineapple.  Cut  in  half,  lengthwise;  cut  out  the  hard  part  in  the 
centre,  then  slice  into  thin  slices.  Place  them  in  a  vessel.  Season  with 
three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  Jamaica 
rum.  Mix  well.  Dress  on  a  cold  dish,  pour  the  liquor  over  and  serve. 

408.    EGGS,  POINT  DU  JOUR    • 

Lightly  butter  six  well-cleaned  individual  shirred  egg  dishes.  Break 
two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Divide  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  white  pepper  among  them  evenly.  Place  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes.  Remove,  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  of  truffle  on  top  of  each 
egg  yolk  and  serve. 

409.    FRIED  FROST  FISH 

Clean  and  neatly  trim  three  medium,  fresh  frost  fish.  Have  two 
tablespoons  cold  milk  on  a  plate  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  mix  well,  then  roll  the  fish  in  the  seasoning  and  then  in 
flour.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  place  in  the  fish 
and  fry  on  a  brisk  fire  for  seven  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  decorate  with  parsley  greens  and  six  sections  of  lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Lobster,  Americaine 
Roulade  of  Beef,  Arlequin 
Baked  Potatoes  (683) 
Peach  Pie 

410.    LOBSTER,  AMERICAN  STYLE 

Wash  well  two  fresh  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each;  cut  each  one  into 
twelve  pieces.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
and  when  thoroughly  hot  add  the  lobsters.  Season  with  a  level  table- 
spoon salt  and  a  light  teaspoon  paprika.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  mixing  occasionally. 

Hash  up  very  finely  six  sound  shallots,  half  green  pepper,  the  red 
part  of  a  medium  carrot,  one  bean  garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
saltspoon  thyme,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  and  add  all  to  the  lobster.  Mix  all 
well  for  one  minute,  then  add  half  gill  sherry,  two  tablespoons  brandy 
and  four  medium,  ripe,  peeled,  seeded  tomatoes,  cut  into  small  pieces. 


n6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Mix  well  again,  cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  on  a  rather  brisk  fire  for  fif- 
teen minutes.     Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

411.    ROULADE  OF  BEEF,  ARLEQUIN 

Procure  a  piece  of  the  flank  of  beef,  of  three  pounds,  twice  as  long 
as  wide ;  trim  off  the  fat,  split  it  in  two  in  the  centre,  crosswise,  without 
separating.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

Prepare  a  stuffing  as  follows :  Three  raw  country  sausages,  skinned, 
two  ounces  fresh  bread  crumbs,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  half  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  one  ounce  cooked  lean  ham  cut  into  small  pieces,  two 
raw  eggs,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  one  medium-sized  onion,  finely  chopped  and  lightly 
browned  in  butter.  Thoroughly  mix  the  whole  together  until  well 
amalgamated,  and  then  spread  the  stuffing  evenly  over  the  cut-apart 
beef.  Roll  up  lightly,  tie  all  around  with  a  string.  Place  a  mirepoix, 
as  per  No.  271,  in  a  large  frying  pan,  lay  the  roulade  on  top,  drop  two 
tablespoons  melteo\lard  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  place  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  tint.  Then 
add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  it  well  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a 
spoon ;  add  to  the  pan  one  gill  claret,  half  pint  hot  broth  or  water,  one 
gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Mix  well 
again ;  reset  the  pan  in  the  oven  and  bake  fifty-five  minutes,  turning  the 
beef  occasionally.  Remove,  untie,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 
Strain  the  gravy  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  skim 
off  the  fat  from  the  surface  and  let  the  sauce  reduce  on  the  fire  to  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint;  add  three  good-sized  sliced  pickles  and  three  sweet 
Spanish  peppers  (red)  cut  into  small,  square  pieces.  Briskly  cook  for 
five  minutes  more,  untie  the  roulade,  pour  half  of  the  sauce  over  it. 
Pour  the  other  half  into  a  saucebowl  and  serve  separately. 

412.    PEACH  PIE 

Open  a  pint  can  of  fine  peaches.  Slice  into  thin  slices.  Sprinkle 
three  tablespoons  of  fine  sugar  over  them,  thoroughly  mix.  Prepare  a 
pie  paste  as  per  No.  117  and  proceed  to  finish  the  pie  the  same  way. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives        Anchovies  on  Toast  (41) 

Potage  Sante" 

Baked  Shad,  Madrid  Potatoes,  Dauphine 

Small  Sirloin,  Casserole  Mascotte 

Mousse  of  Ham,  en  Caisse 

Roast  Saddle  of  Venison :  Currant  Jelly 

Watercress  Salad 

Scotch  Pudding 

413.    POTAGE  SANT£ 

Have  in  a  saucepan  three  ounces  lean  salt  pork  cut  into  small  pieces, 
one  sliced  white  onion,  three  small  sliced  leeks,  two  sprigs  bay  leaf  and 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        117 

one  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire,  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  and  cook  until  a  nice  golden  colour;  add  six  large,  peeled, 
well- washed  and  sliced  raw  potatoes ;  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts 
hot  water ;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  all  well  together;  cover  the  pan  and  let 
slowly  simmer  for  forty-five  minutes.  Carefully  clean  and  suppress 
the  stalks  of  one  quart  fresh  sorrel,  cut  into  thin  slices.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter  and  briskly  cook  for  five  minutes,  con- 
tinually mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then  strain  the  pure*e  into  the 
sorrel  pan  through  a  Chinese  strainer;  mix  all  well  together  and  let  boil 
for  thirty  minutes;  add  a  pint  cold  milk;  mix  again  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil;  then  add  one  egg  yolk  beaten  up  in  half  a  gill  cream;  mix  well,  heat 
without  boiling  for  two  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

414.    BAKED  SHAD,  MADRID 

Procure  half  a  fine,  fresh  two-and-a-half-pound  shad.  Scale,  remove 
the  backbone  and  neatly  wipe.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper,  well  rubbed  in  all  over.  Lightly  oil  the  bottom  of 
a  roasting  tin;  place  the  fish  in  the  tin,  spread  a  tablespoon  oil  over  the 
fish,  then  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Draw  the  pan  to 
the  oven  door.  Slice  three  fine,  ripe  tomatoes,  carefully  place  the  slices 
on  top  of  the  fish.  Finely  mix  four  sound  shallots  with  a  small  green 
pepper  and  sprinkle  over  the  tomatoes.  Season  the  top  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron,  well  distributed,  reset  the  pan 
in  the  hot  oven  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Remove,  lift  up  the 
fish  with  a  skimmer,  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  and  serve. 

415.    POTATOES,  DAUPHINE 

Pour  a  gill  cold  milk  into  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  stir  well,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  and  a  half 
ounces  sifted  flour,  stir  well;  break  in  one  whole  egg,  stir  briskly;  add 
another  egg,  briskly  stir.  Now  add  two  quite  large,  freshly  boiled 
potatoes.  Mash,  thoroughly  stir;  break  in  another  egg,  briskly  stir 
again.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and 
half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well  while  cooking  for  two  minutes. 
With  a  tablespoon  take  up  as  much  as  the  spoon  can  hold  of  the  prepar- 
ation and  immediately  drop  it  into  boiling  fat;  rapidly  proceed  in  like 
manner  with  the  rest  of  the  preparation  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  gently 
turning  with  the  skimmer.  Remove,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

416.    SIRLOIN  STEAKS,  CASSEROLE  MASCOTTE 

Have  two  sirloin  steaks  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  each.  Trim 
well  and  flatten  nicely.  Season  with  ay  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Heat  in  an  earthen  pan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter; 
lay  the  steaks  in  the  pan  and  cook  on  a  hot  range  for  seven  minutes  on 
each  side.  Take  them  up  and  keep  warm  on  a  dish. 

Cut  into  halves  and  slice  three  medium,  sound,  white  onions  and 


ii8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

place  in  the  pan  with  the  gravy.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  toss 
well  once  in  a  while  as  they  cook  for  ten  minutes,  then  place  the 
steaks  over  the  onions;  pour  in  half  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and 
quarter  of  a  gill  claret,  adding  half  pint  canned,  drained,  green  peas. 
Arrange  all  around  the  steaks.  Cook  for  five  minutes.  Sprinkle  a 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  over  and  send  the  casserole  to  the  table. 

417.    MOUSSE  OF  HAM  IN  CASES 

Finely  mince  one  pound  lean  cooked  ham,  place  it  in  a  mortar  with 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  pound  to  a  paste;  then  press  through  a  sieve 
into  a  bowl.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  adding  one  tablespoon  sherry  wine;  mix  well  with  a 
spoon,  then  gradually  add  one  gill  cold  cream,  continually  mixing  mean- 
while. Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  three  egg  whites  and  gently  mix  with  the 
preparation.  Fill  up  six  small  paper  cases.  Place  the  cases  in  a  tin 
and  bake  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin  and  send  to  the  table. 

418.    ROAST  SADDLE  OF  VENISON,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  a  nice  small  saddle  of  venison  of  about  four  pounds.  Neatly 
tie  it  with  string  all  around.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  well  rubbed  in.  Lay  the  saddle  on  a  small  roasting 
tin;  pour  a  tablespoon  hot  fat  over  the  saddle  and  two  tablespoons  water 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Set  in  the  oven  and  roast  for  forty-five  minutes, 
being  careful  to  turn  and  baste  with  its  own  gravy  quite  frequently. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  dress  on  a  hot  dish;  skim  the  fat  from  the  sur- 
face of  the  gravy,  then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  venison  and  send  to  the 
table  with  currant  jelly,  separately. 

419.    WATERCRESS  SALAD 

Carefully  discard  any  stale  leaves  and  neatly  trim  the  stalks;  wash 
well  and  thoroughly  drain  two  good-sized  bunches  very  fresh  watercress; 
place  in  a  salad  bowl;  season  with  three  tablespoons  salad  dressing,  as 
per  No.  863.  Gently  but  quickly  mix  and  immediately  serve. 

420.    SCOTCH  PUDDING 

Soak  in  a  cup  of  cold  milk  two  ounces  bread  crumbs  for  five  minutes. 
Take  up  the  bread  with  the  hand,  press  out  the  milk  and  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  ounce  raw  beef  marrow,  chopped  up.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  then  add  one  ounce  granu- 
lated sugar,  one  ounce  picked  currants,  one  tablespoon  rum,  half  tea- 
spoon vanilla  essence  and  three  egg  yolks.  Sharply  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  the  white  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  add  to  other  preparation,  gently  mixing.  Then  fill  up  six 
lightly  buttered  individual  moulds,  place  them  into  a  pastry  tin  with 
boiling  water  up  to  half  their  height.  Place  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  Sabayon 
sauce  (No.  102)  over  the  puddings  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          119 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Apples  with  Butter- Vanille1 

Farina  (74) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Ham 
Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (81) 
Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (IOQ) 
Cocoanut  Cakes 

421.    APPLES  WITH  BUTTER- VANILLA 

Peel  three  large,  sound,  green  apples;  cut  in  halves,  cut  out  the  cores, 
then  cut  each  half  in  four  slices.  Place  in  an  earthen  baking  dish, 
arranged  in  the  form  of  a  crown,  one  overlapping  another;  sprinkle  with 
two  tablespoons  fine  sugar,  drop  two  teaspoons  vanilla  essence  evenly 
over  them.  Divide  a  half  ounce  good  butter  in  small  bits,  and  place 
the  apples;  cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  piece  of  white  paper.  Place 
in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  or  till  soft;  remove,  dress  six 
saucers  with  four  slices  of  apple,  pour  the  liquor  over,  evenly  divided, 
and  serve. 

422.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  HAM 

Cut  two  ounces  lean  cooked  ham  into  very  small,  dice-like  pieces 
and  lightly  brown  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  teaspoon  melted  butter  for 
two  minutes. 

Carefully  break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cold  milk, 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  sharply  beat  up  with 
a  fork  for  one  minute,  then  pour  the  beaten  eggs  over  the  ham.  Stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  while  briskly  cooking  for  six  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

423.    COCOANUT  CAKES 

Have  a  wheat-cake  preparation,  same  as  per  No.  136,  adding  en  plus 
to  the  batter  half  ounce  grated  cocoanut,  then  proceed  to  finish  the 
cakes  in  the  same  manner. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Canape's  Danois 

Irish  Stew 
French  Pancake,  au  Kummel 

424.    CANAPE'S  DANOIS  (DANISH  CANAPE'S) 

Prepare  six  medium-sized  bread  canapes,  rounded  to  two  and  a  half 
inches  in  diameter.  Toast  them  to  a  golden  colour.  Cover  each  with  a 
very  thin  slice  of  cooked  ham  cut  the  same  as  the  canape's.  Spread  a 
very  little  French  mustard  over  the  ham.  Cut  out  six  very  thin  slices 
smoked  salmon,  but  only  half  the  size  of  the  ham,  and  arrange  on  top  of 
half  the  ham;  spread  half  teaspoon  Russian  caviar  over  the  other  half 


120  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

of  the  ham  of  each  canape*.  Hash  up  very  finely  one  cold,  hard-boiled 
egg  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  canape's  evenly.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin.  Decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

425.    IRISH  STEW 

After  procuring  a  small  neck  of  lamb,  cut  it  into  two-inch-square 
pieces,  then  plunge  them  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water  and  boil  for 
five  minutes;  drain  thoroughly,  replace  the  lamb  in  the  same  pan  and 
pour  in  sufficient  hot  water  to  cover  the  meat.  Season  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 

Tie  up  together  two  well-cleaned  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and  one  sprig  thyme.  Cover  the 
pan  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Scoop  out  with  a  Parisian  potato 
scoop  two  medium-sized  red  carrots,  two  sound,  medium  turnips  and 
place  with  above.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth.  Cover 
the  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  add  six  small, 
peeled,  white  onions  and  boil  five  minutes.  Scoop  out  and  add  three 
medium,  peeled,  raw  potatoes.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes  more.  Remove  the  bouquet  of  herbs,  carefully  skim  the  fat 
from  the  surface.  Dilute  one  ounce  flour  with  half  pint  cold  milk, 
pass  it  through  a  strainer  into  the  stew.  Mix  lightly  while  cooking 
for  two  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish.  Sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley.  Arrange  six  small  dumplings,  prepared  as  per 
No.  384,  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

426.    FRENCH  PANCAKES,  AU  KUMMEL 

Have  a  French  pancake  preparation,  the  same  as  No.  17,  adding 
one  tablespoon  kummel  to  the  batter;  mix  well  and  proceed  to  make  the 
cakes  in  exactly  the  same  manner. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Radishes  (58) 

Potage,  Lomballe 

Kingfish,  Trouville  Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Cotelettes  of  Mutton,  Soubise 

String  Beans,  au  Beurre  (139) 

Asparagus,  Sauce  Hollandaise  (342) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187)  Salad  Chicory  (38) 

Pudding,  Diplomatic 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

427.-  POTAGE,  LOMBALLE 

Plunge  one  pint  split  green  peas  into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes; 
drain  well,  then  place  the  peas  in  a  saucepan  with  three  quarts  boiling 
water  and  half  gill  white  wine.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire ;  season  with  two 
teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  half  medium  sliced 
carrot,  half  medium  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  chopped  branches 
parsley,  one  medium  peeled,  raw  minced  potato,  one  clove  crushed 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          121 

garlic,  two  ounces  lean,  raw  ham  and  a  sprig  bay  leaf.  Cover  the  pan 
and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour  and  ten  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine 
sieve  into  another  saucepan.  Place  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes 
to  a  boil  add  one  gill  Brazilian  tapioca.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes ;  then  add  one  gill  cold  milk ;  let  boil 
again  for  two  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Pour  it  into  a  hot 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

428.    KINGFISH,  TROUVILLE 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  well  two  medium-sized  fresh  kingfish  of  one 
and  a  half  pounds  each.  Place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  pint  hot 
water,  half  gill  white  wine,  half  ounce  butter,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Set  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  the  fish  with  a  skimmer, 
lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir,  then  strain  the  fish  gravy  into  this  roux 
and  briskly  whisk  while  heating  for  two  minutes ;  let  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  the  juice  half  sound  lemon  and  add  to  the  sauce ; 
stir  well  again.  Plunge  eighteen  freshly  opened  Little  Neck  clams  into 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  take  up,  drain  and  add  to  the  sauce; 
lightly  mix.  Then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve  very  hot. 

429.      COTELETTES   OF   MUTTON,    SOUBISE 

Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  nice,  tender  mutton  chops.  Sea- 
son with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  in  a 
frying  pan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  then  place  the  cotelettes  in  the 
pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  on  a  range  for  four  minutes  on  each 
side.  Place  on  a  hot  plate  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  a  sauce  Soubise  as  per  No.  94.  Place  the  Soubise  sauce  on 
a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  chops  over  the  sauce,  one  overlapping  another, 
and  serve. 

430.    DIPLOMATIC  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  basin  two  ounces  bread  crumbs,  one  and  a  half  ounces 
fine  sugar,  half  ounce  butter,  one  ounce  picked  currants,  half  ounce 
finely  hashed  sweet  almonds,  three  egg  yolks  and  one  tablespoon  maras- 
chino. Mix  all  well  together  for  two  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
Then  fill  six  lightly  buttered  individual  pudding  moulds  with  the  prepara- 
tion. Lay  the  moulds  in  a  tin  pan,  pour  in  boiling  water  up  to  half  their 
height;  set  in  the  oven,  and  after  thirty  minutes  remove,  unmould  on  a 
hot  dish;  pour  a  hot  rum  sauce,  as  per  No.  41,  over  the  pudding  and  serve. 

431.    STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  half  pint  preserved  strawberries. 
Have  a  vanilla  ice-cream  preparation,  as  per  No.  42,  and  when  removing 
it  from  the  fire  add  the  strawberry  pure*e  (strained);  mix  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve  into  the  freezer  and  proceed 
to  freeze  the  same  as  for  vanilla. 


122  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  in  Cream  (151)  . 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Fried  Eggs,  Turned  Over 

Codfish  Steaks,  with  Brown  Butter 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet 

Jelly  Cakes 

432.    FRIED  EGGS,  TURNED  OVER 

Lightly  butter  a  small  frying  pan ;  carefully  break  in  two  fresh  eggs. 
Season  with  a  very  light  saltspoon  salt,  a  third  of  a  saltspoon  white  pep- 
per; place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  fry  the  eggs  for  two  minutes;  turn  them 
over  by  a  very  rapid  turn  of  the  handle  of  the  pan,  fry  for  one  minute 
more;  slide  on  a  hot  serving  dish  and  keep  warm.  Proceed  to  prepare 
five  more  pair  in  a  similar  way  and  serve. 

433.     CODFISH  STEAKS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  three 
slices  fresh  codfish  steaks  one  inch  in  thickness.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan ;  place  in  the  steaks,  one 
beside  another,  and  slowly  fry  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Removt 
with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  add  half 
ounce  butter,  toss  on  the  fire  until  brown,  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon,  toss  once  more,  pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

434.     BROILED  PIGS'  FEET 

Split  in  two  three  fine,  fat,  cooked  pigs'  feet.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Have  a  table- 
spoon oil  on  a  plate,  lightly  roll  each  half  foot  in  the  oil,  then  in  fresh 
bread  crumbs.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish;  spread  a 
maitre  d'  hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  them  and  send  to  the  table. 

434A.    RICE  JELLY  CAKES 

Prepare  the  cakes  exactly  the  same  as  in  No.  221,  and  as  soon  as  the 
cakes  are  made  spread  a  teaspoon  currant  jelly  over  each  cake  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Stew 
Coquille  of  Lobster,  Parisienne 

Omelette  with  Asparagus 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage 

Sa'varins  Framboise's 

435.     OYSTER  STEW 

Procure  thirty-six  medium  Bluepoint  oysters.  Open  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  their  liquor  and  one  pint  cold  water;  add  one 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  123 

pint  extra  oyster  liquor;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  just  let  come  to  a  boil.  Skim 
the  scum  from  the  surface,  then  add  three  gills  hot  milk  and  half  ounce 
butter;  lightly  mix,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  serve. 

436.    COQUILLE  OF  LOBSTER,  PARISIENNE 

Boil  two  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each  in  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes ;  take  them  up  and  let  cool  off.  Pick  out  all  the  meat  from  the 
shells,  after  splitting  them  and  cracking  the  claws;  then  cut  the  meat 
into  pieces  half  an  inch  long.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  three  level  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  briskly,  then  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  hot  milk.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  briskly  whisk 
and  let  boil  for  two  minutes.  Then  add  the  lobster  and  twelve  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  gently  mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 

Fill  up  six  individual  table  shells  with  the  lobster.  Sprinkle  two  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  preparation.  Place  the  shells 
on  a  tin,  set  in  an  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

437.  OMELETTE,  WITH  ASPARAGUS 

Drop  half  pint  canned  asparagus  tips  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes. 
Drain  well  and  place  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  a  taplespoon  melted 
butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper. 
Toss  them  well  and  cook  for  three  minutes. 

Prepare  a  plain  omelette  as  per  No.  75,  and  just  before  folding  it  up 
place  half  the  asparagus  in  the  centre  of  the  omelette,  well  spread  over. 
Fold  up,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  other  half  of  the  asparagus 
around  the  omelette  and  serve. 

438.  CORNED  BEEF  AND  CABBAGE 

Have  in  a  saucepan  one  two-pound  piece  brisket  of  corned  beef,  with 
one  and  a  half  gallons  cold  water;  place  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  one  and 
a  half  hours.  Cut  a  small  white  cabbage  into  four  equal  parts.  Trim 
off  the  stalk  and  outer  leaves  and  place  cabbage  in  the  pan  with  the 
beef.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  six  medium-sized 
peeled,  raw  potatoes.  Cover  the  pan  again  and  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Lift  up  the  beef;  slice  it  into  thin  slices.  Remove  the  cabbage 
with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  large  hot  dish,  arrange  the  corned  beef  on  top, 
one  slice  overlapping  another,  place  the  potatoes  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

439.  PASTE  FOR  SAVARINS  (CAKES) 

Four  ounces  sifted  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter,  half  ounce 
fine  sugar,  one  gill  lukewarm  milk,  five  whole  eggs,  half  saltspoon  salt, 
quarter  ounce  compressed  yeast,  two  tablespoons  finely  chopped  sweet 
almonds  and  two  tablespoons  cream.  Dilute  the  yeast  in  a  bowl  with 
the  milk.  Sift  the  flour  into  a  small  basin,  make  a  small  fountain  in 
the  centre,  then  pour  the  diluted  yeast  into  the  fountain  and  carefully 


i24  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

knead  with  the  hand  for  five  minutes;  then  gradually  incorporate  half 
the  flour  around  and  place  the  remaining  flour  on  top  of  the  paste.  Cover 
the  basin  with  a  slightly  wetted  cloth  and  lay  in  a  warm  place  for  thirty 
minutes.  Then  add  the  salt,  sugar,  cream,  butter,  eggs  and  almonds. 
Sharply  knead  the  whole  with  the  hand  for  ten  minutes,  in  every  direc- 
tion. Cover  again  with  the  cloth;  lay  it  in  the  same  warm  place  to  raise 
for  twenty-five  minutes. 

Then  fill  up  six  small,  lightly  buttered  savarin  cake  moulds  to  three- 
quarters  of  their  height.  If  any  of  the  paste  is  left  after  filling  the  six 
moulds,  fill  up  one  or  two  other  moulds.  Place  the  moulds  in  a  warm 
place  until  the  paste  is  raised  to  the  brim.  Arrange  into  a  pastry-pan; 
set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  and  let 
get  cold. 

440.    RASPBERRY  SYRUP 

Have  in  a  small  saucepan  two  ounces  granulated  sugar,  one  gill  cold 
water,  one  gill  raspberry  juice  and  one  tablespoon  Jamaica  rum.  Boil 
for  ten  minutes,  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  then  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

441.    SAVARINS,  FRAMBOISE^ 

Plunge  the  savarins,  prepared  as  per  No.  439,  into  the  above  syrup 
for  five  minutes.  Lift  them  up  with  a.  skimmer,  arrange  on  a  cold  dish, 
then  pour  the  remaining  juice  over  the  cakes  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Bisque  of  Pickerel 
Vol-au  Vent,  Mariniere 

Chicken,  Maryland 

Roast  Beef,  Anglaise  Salad  Mace"doine 

Swedish  Pudding 

442.    BISQUE  OF  PICKEREL 

Slice  a  medium-sized  onion,  one  medium-sized  carrot,  two  chopped 
branches  parsley,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  stalks  sliced  celery,  one  bean 
crushed  garlic,  two  saltspoons  thyme,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  two  cloves, 
ten  black  peppers  and  twenty  allspice.  Place  all  these  ingredients  in 
a  saucepan  with  three  quarts  cold  water.  Season  with  one  tablespoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  boil  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Cut  a  fresh  pickerel  of  two  pounds  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  the  broth. 
Cover  the  pan  and  boil  again  for  twenty  minutes. 

Have  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  ounces  melted  butter  with  two 
and  a  half  ounces  flour;  briskly  stir  while  heating  for  two  minutes. 
Then  strain  the  fish  broth  into  the  pan  with  the  flour,  briskly  whisk  for 
a  minute,  add  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  a  little,  boil  for  five  min- 
utes. Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  half  gill  cold  cream,  add  to  the  bisque, 
with  half  ounce  good  butter,  mix  well;  heat  without  boiling  for  five 
minutes.  Strain  the  bisque  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  bread 
croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 


FRIDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  125 

443.    VOL  AU  VENT,  MARINIERE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  twenty-four  large  oysters,  twelve  fresh  shrimps, 
twelve  heads  canned  mushrooms,  twelve  cooked  mussels  and  six  very 
thin  slices  of  truffles.  Pour  in  one  gill  white  wine,  adding  half  ounce 
good  butter.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  place 
it  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven. 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter. . 
adding  two  tablespoons  flour.  Stir  well,  then  strain  the  gravy  of  the 
above  preparation  into  the  pan.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  whisk  briskly  with  the  whisk  for  two  minutes;  boil  for  three 
minutes,  add  a  Hollandaise  sauce,  as  per  No.  279,  mix  well  for  a  minute, 
then  add  all  the  contents  of  the  fish  pan.  Mix  well  again  and  heat  for 
two  minutes  without  allowing  to  boil.  Then  with  the  preparation  fill 
a  vol  au  vent,  prepared  as  per  No.  757.  Dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

444.    CHICKEN  MARYLAND 

Cut  two  fine,  small  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  each 
into  five  pieces  each.  Place  them  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Then  roll  the  pieces  in  a  little 
flour,  lightly  immerse  in  beaten-up  egg  and  then  roll  lightly  in  bread 
crumbs. 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  melted  lard,  add  the  chicken 
and  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Then  place  the  pan  in  a  slack  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  a  cream 
sauce  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the  chicken  over  the  sauce  in 
crown  shape.  Arrange  six  thin  slices  fresh  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  on 
top  of  the  chicken  and,  lastly,  place  six  freshly  prepared  crisp  corn  fritters 
(No.  446)  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

445.     CREAM  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  clarified  butter 
and  two  tablespoons  flour;  briskly  stir  while  cooking  for  two  minutes. 
Pour  in  three-quarters  of  a  gill  hot  milk  and  three-quarters  of  a  gill 
cold  cream.  Season  with  half  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  briskly  whisk  for 
two  minutes,  then  let  gently  boil  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 

446.    CORN  FRITTERS 

Drain  well  half  pint  can  sweet  corn;  place  it  in  a  bowl,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  adding  three  table- 
spoons flour,  two  whole  eggs,  three  tablespoons  cold  milk,  one  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  and  two  saltspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  the  whole 
well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes. 

Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  four  tablespoons  leaf  lard,  then  with  a 
tablespoon  take  up  as  much  of  the  preparation  as  the  spoon  can  hold 
and  drop  into  the  pan,  in  round  shape;  repeat  the  same  process  with  the 
rest  of  the  preparation  and  gently  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth  thoroughly  and  use  as  required. 


126  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

447.    ROAST  BEEF  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Prepare  and  roast  a  piece  of  beef  same  as  per  No.  126,  garnish  the 
dish  with  six  fairly  good-sized,  freshly  boiled  and  peeled  potatoes  and 
serve  a  small  saucer  of  freshly  grated  horseradish  separately. 

448.     MACEDOINE  SALAD 

Prepare  a  macedoine  of  vegetables,  as  per  No.  233.  (If  incon- 
venient to  do  that,  thoroughly  drain  a  pint  of  canned  macedoine.) 
Place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  French  dressing, 
as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

449.    PUDDING,  SUEDOIS  (SWEDISH) 

One  ounce  thick  honey,  two  ounces  bread  crumbs,  one  table- 
spoon fine  sugar,  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  one  whole  egg,  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  half  ounce  butter,  one  ounce  flour,  half  gill  cold  millk  and 
a  tablespoon  Swiss  kirsch. 

Place  all  the  ingredients  except  the  whites  of  the  eggs  in  a  bowl. 
Briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  preparation,  gently  mix,  and  then  fill  six 
lightly  buttered  pudding  moulds.  Place  them  in  a  tin,  pour  boiling 
water  into  the  pan  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds  and  set  in  a  hot 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve 
with  a  gill  hot  maple  syrup  poured  over. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Poached  Eggs,  Sauce  Curry 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham 

Stewed  Mutton  Kidneys,  Madeira  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Mount  Vernon 

Corn  Muffins  (51) 

450.    POACHED  EGGS,  CURRY  SAUCE 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs,  as  per  No.  106.  Have  a  large  hot  dish 
with  six  hot  toasts  on  it;  place  two  eggs  on  each  toast.  Evenly  divide  a 
curry  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  54,.  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

451.    BROILED  DEVILLED  HAM 

Have  six  slices  raw  ham  one-fifth  of  an  inch  thick;  arrange  them  on 
a  broiler  and  broil  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  from  the 
broiler,  then  roll  each  piece  in  a  devilled  butter,  as  per  No.  n,  lightly 
roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  again  on  the  broiler  and  quickly  broil 
again  for  one  minute  on  each  side ;  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

452.    STEWED  MUTTON  KIDNEYS,  MADEIRA  SAUCE. 
Carefully  skin  twelve  very  fresh,  good-sized  mutton  kidneys.     Cut 
each  one  in  even  quarters.     Heat  in  a  black  frying  pan  one  tablespoon 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          127 

melted  lard,  drop  in  the  kidneys,  toss  them  well  for  half  minute;  briskly 
cook  for  three  minutes,  gently  tossing  meanwhile,  and  drain  on  a  sieve. 
Heat  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  a  very  small  saucepan,  add  six 
small,  finely  chopped  shallots  and  cook  for  one  minute  without  brown- 
ing. Add  the  kidneys,  with  half  gill  sherry  and  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122).  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper;  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  briskly  cook  for  five  min- 
utes. Dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  very  little  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

453.    POTATOES,  MOUNT  VERNON 

Peel,  wash  and  dry  well  three  large,  sound  raw  potatoes.  Cut  them 
crosswise  into  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 

Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  leaf  lard;  lay  in  the 
potatoes  carefully,  one  beside  another;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cook  them  for  five  minutes  on  each  side, 
or  until  a  good  golden  colour ;  then  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for 
ten  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  them  crown-shape  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallops,  Provengale 

Roast  Beef  Hash,  Zingara 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 

Plum  Pie 

454.    SCALLOPS,  PROVENCALS 

Plunge  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  scallops  into  half  pint  lightly 
salted  boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  keeping  the 
liquor.  Finely  chop  two  small,  sound  shallots,  one  small  onion,  and 
lightly  brown  in  a  saucepan  writh  one  ounce  butter  for  two  minutes. 
Add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  briskly  stir;  moisten  with  all  the  liquor 
of  the  scallops  and  briskly  whisk  for  a  minute.  Season  with  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  whisk  again,  then  add 
the  scallops,  mix  a  little  and  boil  for  five  minutes;  add  a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  and  half  clove  very  finely  chopped  garlic;  mix  well,  then  dilute 
two  egg  yolks  in  a  tablespoon  cold  milk,  add  it  to  the  preparation,  gently 
mix  and  heat  without  boiling  for  three  minutes.  Pour  the  scallops,  etc., 
into  a  large  baking  dish;  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over;  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for  five  minutes,  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve  with  six  thin  slices  French  bread, toasted. 

455.    ROAST  BEEF  HASH,  ZINGARA 

Carefully  cut  away  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  remaining  from 
yesterday;  discard  all  the  fat,  then  mince  the  beef  into  very  small  disc- 
shaped  pieces.  Mince  the  same  quantity  cold,  boiled  potatoes  the  same 
way  as  the  beef.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  finely  hashed  green, 
sound  pepper,  one  onion  and  one  ounce  lean,  raw  ham,  also  finely  chopped, 
adding  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter;  then  cook  on  a  slow 


128  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

fire  for  eight  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  a  teaspoon 
flour,  stir  well,  then  add  the  beef  and  potatoes;  moisten  with  half  pint 
hot  broth  or  hot  water  and  one  large  peeled  and  crushed  red  tomato. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  thoroughly  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Cover  the  pan,  then  place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  forty  minutes.  Re- 
move, mix  well,  pour  into  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

456.    PLUM  PIE 

Remove  the  stems  from  a  pint  of  canned  or  fresh  plums.  Place 
them  on  a  plate,  dredge  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  over  them, 
mix  well,  then  proceed  to  make  the  pie  as  per  No.  117. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Caviare  (59) 

Puree  of  Tomato,  Andalouse  ,,  .» 

Smelts,  Britannia  Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Fricandeau  of  Veal,  Bourgeoise 

Fried  Eggplant 

Roast  Turkey.  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)  Tomato  Salad 

Beignets  Carnaval 

457.    PURE"E  OF  TOMATO,  ANDALOUSE 

Have  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  lean,  raw  ham,  cut  in  very  small 
pieces,  half  a  small  sliced  carrot,  one  small  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks, 
half  sliced  green  pepper,  one  branch  sliced  celery,  two  branches  chopped 
parsley  and  half  bean  crushed  garlic,  adding  one  ounce  butter;  then  cook 
the  vegetables  to  a  nice  light  brown,  or  about  ten  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile.  Add  two  heavy  tablespoons  flour,  stir  briskly; 
add  one  quart  fresh  crushed  tomatoes,  or  same  quantity  canned  toma- 
toes, and  two  quarts  hot  water;  mix  well,  then  add  one  saltspoon  thyme, 
one  sprig  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  a  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  sugar  and  half  light  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan 
and  let  slowly  simmer  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 

Boil  two  ounces  vermicelli  in  a  little  white  broth  or  hot  water  in  a 
saucepan  for  eight  minutes;  strain  the  tomato  puree  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan.  Drain  the  vermicelli  and  add  to  the 
tomato ;  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

458.     SMELTS,  BRITANNIA 

Remove  the  heads  and  tails  and  thoroughly  clean  one  and  a  half 
pounds  very  fresh,  medium-sized  smelts.  Cut  them  into  half-inch 
pieces,  crosswise.  Cut  the  same  number  very  thin  slices  lean  bacon 
the  same  length  as  the  smelts.  Have  six  clean  skewers;  run  a  skewer 
through  the  centre  of  a  piece  of  bacon,  then  the  same  with  a  piece  of  fish, 
a  piece  of  bacon,  a  piece  of  fish,  and  so  on,  until  the  pieces  of  fish  and 
bacon  are  equally  divided  alternately  on  the  six  skewers,  in  the  centre 
of  same.  Have  on  a  plate  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          129 

one  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  a  tablespoon  olive  oil;  mix  well  with  a 
fork,  carefully  roll  the  skewers  in  the  seasoning,  then  lightly  in  bread 
rumbs.  Place  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon 
over  and  serve. 

459.    FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL,  BOURGEOISE 

Have  a  three-pound  piece  round  of  veal,  sawed  from  a  leg.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat 
two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  saucepan,  place  the  veal  in  the  pan  and 
briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  it  from  the  pan  and 
keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  two  tablespoons  flour;  stir  well,  then  add 
a  gill  claret,  one  pint  hot  broth  or  water,  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122) ;  mix  well,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
add  the  veal  again. 

With  a  Parisian  potato  scoop,  dig  out  as  many  pieces  as  possible 
from  two  medium-sized,  peeled  carrots  and  two  medium-sized  turnips 
and  add  them  to  the  pan.  Tie  up  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches 
celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and  one  sprig  thyme, 
and  add  to  the  pan;  cover  the  pan,  then  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Add  six  very  small,  peeled  white  onions  and  six  sliced 
mushrooms.  Cover  the  pan  and  put  back  in  the  oven  for  fifty  minutes 
longer.  Remove,  place  the  veal  on  a  hot  dish,  removing  the  bunch  of 
vegetables.  Arrange  all  the  vegetables  from  the  pan  around  the  veal, 
pour  the  contents  of  the  pan  over  the  fricandeau,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve. 

460.    FRIED  EGGPLANT 

Peel  a  nice,  firm,  medium-sized  eggplant.  Cut  it  into  twelve  equal 
slices.  Season  them  all  over  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  turn  in  a  little  flour,  lightly  dip  in  a  beaten  egg  and,  lastly, 
roll  gently  in  bread  crumbs.  Plunge  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five  min- 
utes. Drain  well,  sprinkle  just  a  little  salt  over,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

461.    TOMATO  SALAD 

Plunge  four  large  or  six  medium-sized  sound  red  tomatoes  into  boiling 
water  for  half  a  minute.  Lift  them  up,  peel  and  let  get  thoroughly  cold. 
Cut  into  quarters,  place  in  a  salad  bowl,  season  with  four  tablespoons 
French  dressing,  as  per  No.  863,  mix  well  and  serve. 

462.    BEIGNETS  CARNAVAL 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux  as  per  No.  336.  When  the  paste  is  finished 
add  the  rind  of  half  a  medium,  sound  lemon  cut  into  small  pieces,  mixing 
for  two  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then  with  a  tablespoon  drop 
the  paste  into  hot  fat — not  quite  up  to  a  boiling  point — pressing  the 
paste  down  with  a  finger,  giving  nut  forms.  Repeat  until  all  the  paste 
is  used  and  fry  till  they  attain  a  nice  golden  colour,  being  careful  to  turn 
them  once  in  a  while  with  a  skimmer.  Lift  them  up,  drain  well  on  a 


I3o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cloth  and  liberally  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar.     Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream 

Rice  Flour  and  Milk 

Eggs,  Soleil  Codfish  Cakes  (5) 

Mutton  Chops  (49)        French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Grilled  Cakes  (9) 

463.    PEACHES  AND  CREAM 

Open  a  pint  can  fine  peaches.  Place  them  on  a  compotier  dish, 
either  as  they  are  or  sliced,  keeping  the  liquor.  Serve  with  cream  and 
powdered  sugar  separately. 

464.    RICE  FLOUR  AND  MILK 

Pour  half  pint  boiling  water  and  half  pint  boiling  milk  into  a  small 
saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  salt'spoon  grated  nutmeg;  add 
four  ounces  rice  flour,  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  slowly  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile,  and  serve  with  cold  milk  and 
powdered  sugar  separately. 

465.    EGGS,  SOLEIL 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  in 
boiling  water  for  eight  minutes;  take  up  and  drop  into  cold  water  for  a 
minute,  remove  and  shell  them.  Cut  each  one  into  halves,  lengthwise; 
then  cut  each  half  into  three  equal  strips,  also  lengthwise.  Arrange  the 
pieces  evenly  in  the  egg  dishes,  giving  a  sun-like  shape.  Spread  a  cream 
sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  445,  over  the  eggs;  sprinkle  a  teaspoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  eggs  of  each  dish.  Then  place  in  a 
hot  oven  and  bake  for  five  minutes,  or  until  they  obtain  a  nice  colour; 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  in  Cups  (578) 

Canape's  of  Shrimp          Couronne,  Palma 

Kirsch  Omelette 

466.    CANAPES  OF  SHRIMP 

Cut  in  two,  lengthwise,  then  crosswise,  one  pint  fresh,  medium- 
sized  shrimp ;  place  them  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mixing  the  seasoning  well  in. 

Cut  out  of  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  pieces,  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  and  two  and  a  half  inches  square.  Toast  to  a  nice  colour.  Equally 
divide  the  shrimps  over  the  toasts.  Place  in  a  mortar  one  ounce  butter, 
one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one  tablespoon  anchovy  paste  and 
one  saltspoon  paprika ;  pound  the  whole  to  "a  paste,  then  spread  the  paste 
equally  over  the  canapes,  lay  them  in  a  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          i3x 

eight  minutes.     Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

467.  COURONNE,  PALMA 

Prepare  a  risotto  the  same  as  in  No.  225.  Dress  it  on  a  hot,  round 
dish  in  crown  form  and  keep  warm.  Finely  mince  all  the  meat  of  the 
turkey  from  yesterday.  Heat  in  a  small  frying  pan  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter;  add  one  minced  green  pepper,  half  minced  white  onion 
and  six  small,  well-peeled  and  cleaned,  fresh,  sliced  mushrooms.  Mix 
all  well  together  and  gently  cook  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  occa- 
sionally. Add  the  turkey  and  'three  medium,  fresh,  ripe  crushed  toma- 
toes. Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and 
half  teaspoon  sugar.  Mix  well,  then  add  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
lightly  mix  again  and  briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  the  prepara- 
tion in  the  centre  of  the  dish  of  the  risotto  and  serve. 

468.  KIRSCH  OMELETTE 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Season  with  a  table- 
spoon fine  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  gill  cold  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Thoroughly  heat  in  a 
frying  pan  one  tablespoon  good  clarified  butter,  drop  in  the  eggs  and 
sharply  stir  with  a  fork  while  briskly  cooking  for  two  minutes,  then  let 
rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  the  side  nearest  the  handle  first,  then  the 
opposite  side,  so  that  both  sides  will  meet  in  the  centre;  let  rest  for  half  a 
minute  longer,  then  carefully  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish.  Dredge  two  table- 
spoons fine  sugar  over  the  omelette,  then  glaze  the  sugar  on  top  with  a 
red-hot  poker.  Pour  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  Swiss  kirsch  over  it 
and  send  to  the  table.  Set  fire  to  the  kirsch,  and  with  a  tablespoon  keep 
it  burning  on  top  and  sides  of  the  omelette  until  a  nice  colour. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Imperatrice 
Sheepshead,  Chambord  Potatoes  Brioches  (91) 

Sirloin  of  Beef,  Voisin 
Sweetbreads  Braise,  Cocotte 

Punch,  Violette 

Roast  Partridge,  Bread  Sauce  (97)  Salad  Chicory  (38) 

Charlotte  aux  Poires 
Prunelle  Ice  Cream 

469.    CONSOMME,  IMPERATRICE 

Prepare  a  consomme  as  per  No.  52.  Strain  through  a  napkin  into 
a  saucepan,  adding  three  tablespoons  well-drained  canned  asparagus 
tips,  one  quarter  of  small,  previously  cooked  cauliflower  (perfectly  picked- 
off  flower  only)  in  small  pieces,  and  one  teaspoon  fine  sugar.  Boil  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  three  tablespoons  of  the  breast  of  a  cooked  chicken, 
if  at  hand,  cut  into  very  small  dice  pieces.  Heat  up  for  a  minute,  pour 
into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


I3a  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

470.    SHEEPSHEAD,  CHAMBORD 

Procure  a  very  fresh  three-pound  sheepshead;  scale,  wipe  dry  and 
neatly  trim.  Lay  the  fish  in  a  large  sautoire.  Season  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron. 
Moisten  with  one  gill  claret,  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  half 
pint  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper.  Set 
the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes;  then  place  the  pan 
in  the  oven  and  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Draw  the  pan  to  the  oven 
door,  remove  the  paper  and  add  to  the  pan  six  whole  fresh  shrimp, 
six  heads  small  fresh  mushrooms,  twelve  small  fresh  scallops,  six 
large  freshly  opened  oysters  and  six  very  thin  slices  truffles.  Cover 
the  fish  with  the  paper  again,  put  the  pan  back  in  the  oven  and  bake 
for  fifteen  minutes  more.  Remove  from  the  oven,  lift  the  fish  with  two 
skimmers  and  dress  on  a  large  hot  dish.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  boil 
the  gravy  for  ten  minutes,  add  half  ounce  good  butter,  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  the  butter  is  melted  and  pour  the  whole  over  the  fish.  Sprinkle 
a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over.  Arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread 
croutons  as  per  No.  90  around  the  dish  and  send  to  the  table. 

471.     SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF  LARDED,  VOISIN 

Prepare  and  lay  a  mirepoix  on  a  small  roasting  pan  as  per  No.  271. 
Neatly  trim  and  lard  the  surface  of  a  piece  of  tender  sirloin  of  beef  of 
two  and  a  half  pounds,  place  it  over  the  mirepoix,  baste  it  all  over  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  lard  and  pour  two  tablespoons  water  into  the  pan. 
Season  the  beef  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  well  divided  all  over.  Set  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  to  roast 
for  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  the  sirloin  and  frequently  basting  with 
its  own  gravy  meanwhile. 

Peel  three  large,  raw,  ripe,  red  tomatoes,  cut  each  one  into  six  equal 
quarters  and  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper;  briskly  cook  on  the  range  for  three  minutes,  then  place 
the  pan  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  five  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  warm. 
Open  a  pint  can  string  beans  and  plunge  three-quarters  of  them  in  a 
small  saucepan  of  boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and 
put  back  in  the  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  butter.  Season  with  a  light 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper;  mix  well  with  a  fork 
while  cooking  for  one  minute  and  a  half. 

Dress  the  sirloin  on  a  hot  dish,  thoroughly  skim  the  fat  from  the 
surface  of  the  gravy,  then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  sirloin.  Garnish 
one  side  of  the  dish  with  the  string  beans  and  the  other  with  the  tomatoes, 
nicely  arranged,  and  serve. 

472.    SWEETBREADS  BRAIS£,  COCOTTE 

Blanche  and  braise  six  sweetbreads,  as  per  No.  33.  With  a  small 
vegetable  scoop  dig  out  all  you  can  from  two  medium-sized  carrots  and 
two  medium-sized  turnips.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  gills 
water,  one  tablespoon  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          133 

white  pepper.  Set  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  for  two  minutes,  then  place 
the  pan  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  it  from  the  oven,  add 
three  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas  to  the  pan,  gently  mix  with  a  spoon 
and  heat  for  two  minutes  longer. 

Arrange  the  sweetbreads  crown  shape  in  an  earthen  cocotte  dish. 
Drain  the  cooked  vegetables  and  place  them  in  the  centre  of  the  sweet- 
breads ;  strain  the  sweetbread  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  and  pour 
it  around  the  breads.  Then  thoroughly  heat  on  the  range  and  serve 
in  the  cocottiere. 

473.  PUNCH,  VIOLETTE 

Prepare  a  lemon  ice,  as  per  No.  376,  but  adding  to  the  preparation 
before  freezing  two  tablespoons  essence  of  violette. 

474.  PEAR  CHARLOTTE 

Lightly  butter  a  plain  quart  pudding  mould.  Cover  the  bottom 
with  a  slice  of  bread  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  out  of  an  American 
loaf  of  bread  a  piece  the  height  of  the  mould ;  pare  off  all  the  crust,  cut 
into  even  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  then  cut  each  slice  into  three 
equal  strips  lengthwise.  Dip  each  in  clarified  butter  and  arrange  around 
the  mould,  standing  up  and  close  to  one  another. 

Peel,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  the  seeds  from  eight  fairly  good-sized, 
sound,  fresh  pears.  Place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  good 
butter,  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence; 
gently  toss  for  half  a  minute,  then  cook  for  eight  minutes.  With  the  aid 
of  a  spoon  fill  the  mould  with  the  prepared  pears  and  liquor.  Cover 
the  pears  tightly  with  a  quarter-inch  slice  of  bread  dipped  in  butter. 
Should  the  bread  around  the  mould  reach  higher  than  the  height  of  the 
pears  trim  off  all  around.  Place  the  mould  in  a  slow  oven  for  one  and  a 
quarter  hours.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  large  dish,  pour  a  rum  sauce 
as  per  No.  41,  all  around  the  charlotte  and  serve. 

475.    PRUNELLE  ICE  CREAM 

Have  a  vanilla  ice  cream  prepared  as  per  No.  42,  but  just  before 
freezing  add  two  tablespoons  prunelle  liquor. 


Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 
Rice  and  Cream  (275)  Omelette,  Lyonnaise 

Fried  White  Perch  (293) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172)  Potatoes,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (no) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

476.    OMELETTE,  LYONNAISE 

Finely  mince  two  medium-sized,  sound  white  onions.  Place  them  in 
a  black  frying  pan  with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  lightly  brown 
for  six  minutes,  stirring  quite  frequently  meanwhile. 


i34  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  half  gill  cold  milk.  Sharply 
beat  up  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  drop  the  preparation  over  the  onions, 
finish  the  omelette  as  per  No.  75  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters  en  Brochette 

Ragout  of  Lamb,  Solferino 

Fondue,  Suisse  Creme  au  Caramel 

477.     OYSTERS  EN  BROCHETTE 

Procure  thirty-six  very  fresh  medium  oysters  and  have  the  same 
number  of  thin  pieces  lean  bacon  about  an  inch  square.  Arrange 
oysters  and  bacon  alternately  on  six  skewers;  pour  a  tablespoon  oil  on 
a  plate  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Mix  the. season- 
ing well,  roll  the  skewers  in  the  seasoning  and  then  in  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  the  skewers  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  six  freshly 
prepared  toasts.  Spread  a  maitre  d'hdtel  butter,  as  per  No.  7,  over 
the  brochettes  and  serve. 

478.    RAGOUT  OF  LAMB,  SOLFERINO 

Cut  a  neck  of  lamb  into  pieces  one  and  a  half  inches  square.  Heat 
in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  oil,  add  the  lamb  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  briskly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasion- 
ally stirring  meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  moisten 
with  one  pint  white  broth  or  hot  water,  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  gill  claret.  Mix  well,  cover  the 
pan  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Scoop  out  two  medium  carrots  and  two 
turnips  with  a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  and  add  to  the  stew.  Tie 
in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
sprig  thyme  and  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and  place  in  the  stew,  adding  also 
a  quarter  of  the  dried  rind  of  a  lime.  Cover  the  pan  and  gently  cook 
for  twenty  minutes.  Peel  ten  small,  sound  white  onions  and  add  to 
the  stew.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Scoop  out  all  you  can  of  two 
medium,  peeled  raw  potatoes  and  add  to  the  pan,  then  cook  again  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove  the  bunch  of  herbs,  add  three  tablespoons 
canned  green  peas,  lightly  mix,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the 
ragout,  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

479.    FONDUE,  SUISSE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  gill  white  wine.  Cut  into  small,  thin  slices 
eight  ounces  very  rich  Swiss  cheese  and  add  it  to  the  pan ;  season  with  a 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 'and  a  light  saltspoon  salt,  adding  a  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce,  then  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  melted.  Break  in  a  whole  fresh. egg,  briskly  and  rapidly 
stirring  for  half  minute.  Have  six  freshly  prepared  and  lightly  buttered 
toasts  ready.  Place  the  toasts  on  six  hot  plates,  then  carefully  divide 
the  cheese  evenly  over  the  six  toasts  and  serve. 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          135 

N.  B. — Always  have  the  toast  prepared  before  beginning  to  prepare 
the  cheese  and  keep  hot. 

.480.    CREME  AU  CARAMEL 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  one  ounce  powdered  sugar  with  a  quarter 
gill  cold  water;  boil  till  a  light  brown,  then  mask  the  bottom  of  six  indi- 
vidual pudding  moulds  with  it.  Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  bowl  with  the 
yolk  of  another,  adding  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  two  gills  cold  milk,  one 
gill  cold  cream  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Sharply  whisk  up 
for  two  minutes.  Strain  the  preparation  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
into  the  six  moulds,  equally  divided.  Lay  them  in  a  tin,  pour  in  boiling 
water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould  and  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  let  get  cold,  unmould  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  the 
liquor  of  the  caramel. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Potage,  Jackson 

Halibut,  St.  Augustine 

Rack  of  Veal,  Bretonne 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  with  Bacon  (12) 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Economical  Pudding 

481.    POTAGE,  JACKSON 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  half  ounce  butter,  add  three  sliced,  well- 
cleaned  leeks,  half  a  medium  sliced  onion,  two  ounces  lean  salt  pork, 
cut  into  small  squares,  and  two  sprigs  bay  leaves.  Stir  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  and  brown  to  a  nice  light  colour  for  eight  minutes,  occa- 
sionally stirring.  Add  eight  medium,  peeled  and  sliced  raw  potatoes; 
moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  hot  water  and  half  pint  cold  milk. 
Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil 
for  fifty-five  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  another  saucepan, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  add  one  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  good  butter; 
divide  into  small  bits;  mix  well  for  one  minute.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons,  as  per  No.  23. 

482.    HALIBUT,  ST.  AUGUSTINE 

Procure  two  slices  very  fresh  halibut  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each. 
Slice  exceedingly  fine  three  small  white  onions,  place  them  in  a  frying 
pan  with  half  ounce  melted  butter  and  carefully  cook  without  browning 
for  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Place  the  steaks  in  the 
pan  over  the  onions.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Peel  and  cut  into  quarters  four  medium  red  tomatoes 
and  place  around  the  fish.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper, 
cover  the  pan,  place  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Set  the  pan  in 
the  oven  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  take 
up  the  fish  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour  all  the  contents  of  the 
pan  over  the  halibut  and  serve. 


136  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

483.  RACK  OF  VEAL,  BRETONNE 

Trim  nicely  a  rack  of  veal  of  three  pounds  and  place  in  a  small 
roasting  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper.  Spread  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  over  the  veal,  pour  one- 
quarter  gill  cold  water  into  the  pan;  set  in  the  oven  and  roast  for  forty- 
five  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  it  once  in  a  while,  and  frequently 
baste  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  garnish 
with  beans  Bretonne  prepared  as  per  No.  484.  Skim  the  fat  off  the 
gravy,  strain  it  over  the  veal  and  serve. 

484.  WHITE  BEANS,  BRETONNE 

Soak  one  pint  dried  white  beans  in  cold  water  for  twelve  hours. 
Drain  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  cold  water.  Season 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  a  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  two  medium 
white  onions  cut  in  halves,  three  small  branches  parsley  greens  tied  with 
a  sprig  of  bay  leaf;  add  half-pound  piece  salt  pork,  cover  the  pan,  set  on 
the  fire  and  let  slowly  cook  for  two  hours. 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  one  medium 
chopped  onion  and  three  tablespoons  flour;  cook  for  five  minutes,  con- 
tinually stirring  meanwhile.  Then  strain  all  the  gravy  of  the  beans 
into  this  pan.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  two  minutes.  Remove  all  the 
ingredients  from  the  beans,  then  add  the  cooked  beans  to  the  sauce;  add 
a  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  gently  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  serve. 

485.    ECONOMICAL  PUDDING 

Break  two  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and 
briskly  beat  for  five  minutes ;  add  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and  half 
teaspoon  baking  powder;  beat  up  to  a  light  batter;  add  one  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  mix  well.  Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding 
moulds,  then  fill  them  with  the  batter  and  place  in  a  pastry  tin.  Drop  in 
boiling  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds  and  bake  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce, 
prepared  as  per  No.  102,  over  them  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Boiled  Eggs 

Fried  Filets  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce 
Broiled  Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219 
Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 
Apple  Puffs 

486.    BOILED  EGGS 

Carefully  drop  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  three 
minutes.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve,  with  six  egg  cups. 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY          137 

487.    FRIED  FILETS  OF  SOLE,  TARTARS  SAUCE 

Procure  a  fine  fresh  sole  (flounder)  of  three  pounds.  Cut  off  the  head, 
make  an  incision  with  a  small  knife  down  the  back,  open  the  fish  and 
carefully  lift  up  the  filets;  turn  over  and  remove  the  other  filets.  Skin 
them  nicely  then  cut  each  filet  in  two  diagonally.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg,  and  gently  roll  in  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  well,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  decorate  with  six  sections  of  lemon  and  parsley  greens,  and  serve 
with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

488.    APPLE  PUFFS 

Peel  two  fine  medium  apples,  drop  them  into  a  pint  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Take  up 
and  press  through  a  fine  sieve.  Have  a  puff  preparation,  as  per  No.  313. 
Add  the  strained  apples  to  the  preparation  and  proceed  to  cook  exactly 
the  same. 

LUNCHEON 

Radish   Broth  (2164) 

Lobster,  Me  Wade 

Pork  Tenderloin,  Piquant  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes  (178) 

Pumpkin  Pie 

489.     CURRIED  LOBSTER,  McWADE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped 
onion,  one  ditto  green  pepper,  two  ditto  shallots  and  the  red  part  of  a 
medium  carrot.  Stir  all  well  while  browning  for  five  minutes ;  then  add 
two  medium-sized  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each,  cut  into  one-inch 
pieces,  shells  and  all;  mix  well.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  for  ten  min- 
utes, or  until  it  has  obtained  a  good  red  colour,  then  add  one  medium 
chopped,  sound  apple,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  half  bean  crushed  garlic.  Seacon  with  one  and 
a  half  teaspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  teaspoon 
curry  powder,  adding  two  medium  peeled  and  crushed  red  tomatoes  and 
pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  white  wine.  Mix  well,  cover  the  pan  and  let 
reduce  for  twenty  minutes.  Dress  a  boiled  rice,  prepared  as  per  No. 
490,  crown  shape  around  the  hot  dish.  Pour  the  lobster  in  the  centre 
of  the  dish  and  serve. 

490.    BOILED  RICE,  "MALAY,"  FOR  CURRIES 

Carefully  wash  half  pound  good  rice  in  three  fresh  waters.  Drain 
well  on  a  sieve.  Have  plenty  of  boiling  water  in  a  pan  with  a  teaspoon 
salt.  Plunge  the  rice  into  it,  gently  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  cook 
till  about  three-quarters  done,  that  is,  twelve  minutes.  Drain  well,  then 
place  in  a  colander  and  lay  in  a  rather  slow  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  until 
it  is  nicely  dry,  leaving  the  oven  door  open  meanwhile  and  taking  care 
to  mix  it  frequently  with  a  fork  to  prevent  the  rice  from  sticking  together; 
in  other  words,  the  grains  should  be  separated.  Use  as  required. 


138  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

491.    PORK  TENDERLOIN,  PIQUANT  SAUCE 

Split  in  halves,  lengthwise,  three  medium  loins  of  pork.  Heat  in  a 
frying  pan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  the  filets.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  hot  piquant  sauce  (No.  177)  over 
the  loins  and  serve. 

492.    PUMPKIN  PIE 

Neatly  peel  and  trim  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  very  sound 
pumpkin  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Plunge  into  three  pints  boiling 
water.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  well 
and  press  through  a  sieve  intg  a  bowl.  Add  three  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  a  saltspoon  grated  cinnamon,  two  egg  yolks,  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  half  ounce  butter;  briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five 
minutes,  then  proceed  to  make  the  pie  exactly  as  per  No.  117. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)       Olives 

Consomme",  aux  Pates  d 'Italic 

Baked  Bluefish    Florentine 

Squab  en  Casserole,  aux  Raisins 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Biscuit,  Chocolat 

493.    CONSOMME",  WITH  ITALIAN  PASTE 

Strain  a  consomme  prepared  as  per  No.  52  into  another  saucepan. 
Drop  in  two  ounces  Italian  paste,  boil  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 

494.    BAKED  BLUEFISH,  FLORENTINE 

Neatly  clean  and  wipe  well  a  three-pound  piece  boned  bluefish. 
Place  it  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika.  Spread  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  the  fish 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Thoroughly  strain  a  pint  canned  spinach.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  fine  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  then  hash 
up  very  fine  and  spread  over  the  fish.  Bake  for  ten  minutes  longer. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around 
the  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  sound  lemon  over  the  spinach  and  serve. 

495.  SQUABS  EN  CASSEROLE,  WITH  GRAPES 
Carefully  draw  and  wipe  the  inside  of  six  fine  fat  squabs.  Singe, 
truss  and  cover  the  breasts  with  a  thin  slice  of  lard.  Lay  them  in  an 
earthen  casserole  dish,  and  pour  in  one  tablespoon  melted  butter;  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  the  pan  in  the 
oven  and  roast  for  forty  minutes,  turning  over  once  in  a  while.  Remove, 
place  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  lard,  untruss,  skim  the  fat  from  the  sur- 
face of  the  gravy,  place  the  casserole  on  the  fire,  add  six  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Mix  all  well  and  cook  for 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY       139 

one  minute.    Then  arrange  the  squabs  again  in  the  dish,  drop  in  half 
gill  Malaga  wine  or  claret,  and  half  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122). 

Scoop  out  as  much  as  possible  from  two  large  peeled  potatoes  with  a 
small  Parisian  potato  scoop,  cook  in  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  for 
twenty  minutes,  drain,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  place  them  in  a 
cluster  in  the  pan  with  the  squabs,  as  a  bouquet.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  adding  thirty  white  grapes,  and 
cook  them  to  a  nice  golden  colour;  add  them  to  the  squabs,  also  as  a 
bouquet.  Heat  half  a  pint  canned  green  peas  in  a  half  tablespoon  but- 
ter, season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
sugar,  toss  them  well  and  add  as  another  bouquet.  Cover  the  pan  and 
let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Then  send  the  casserole  to  the  table  without 
disturbing  the  bouquets. 

496.    CHOCOLATE  BISCUIT 

Four  ounces  flour,  one  ounce  melted  butter,  four  ounces  fine  sugar, 
one  ounce  grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  three  eggs. 

Place  the  sugar,  vanilla  and  eggs  in  a  copper  basin  and  sharply  whisk 
up  for  eight  minutes,  then  add  the  chocolate  and  flour,  gently  mix  for 
one  minute  with  a  skimmer;  add  the  butter,  mix  again  for  a  minute. 
Then  drop  the  preparation  into  a  lightly  buttered  small  pastry  pan  and 
bake  in  a  slack  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
fine  sugar  over.  Cut  the  cake  into  six  equal  pieces  and  serve  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin. 


Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Hominy  (45) 
Scrambled  Eggs,  with  Tomatoes 

Fried  Porgies 

Veal  Chops,  with  Ham  Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Prussian  Cakes 

497.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  WITH  TOMATOES 
Peel  and  cut  into  small  square  pieces  two  medium  red  tomatoes. 

Place  them  in  a  stewpan  with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter.     Season 

with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  two  saltspoons 

sugar;  toss  them  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes. 

Prepare  the  same  amount  scrambled  eggs  as  per  No.  193,  add  the 

tomatoes  to  the  eggs  in  the  pan,  stir  well  for  one  minute  and  serve. 

498.    FRIED  PORGIES 

Scale,  clean,  trim  and  wipe  dry  six  small,  fresh  porgies.  Heat  three 
tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  fish.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  fry  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  pan, 
place  on  a  brisk  fire  with  half  ounce  butter,  toss  the  butter  in  the  pan 


i4o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

until  a  light  brown;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  adding 
one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley ;  lightly  toss,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

499.    VEAL  CHOPS,  WITH  HAM 

Nicely  trim  and  flatten  six  small  veal  chops.  Season  all  around  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  lightly  roll  in  a  tablespoon  oil. 
Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  six  thin  slices  broiled  ham,  prepared  as  per  No. 
277;  place  the  chops  on  top  of  the  ham,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress 
and  serve. 

500.    PRUSSIAN  CAKES 

Two  ounces  sifted  flour,  three  ounces  fine  sugar,  three  eggs,  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  one  ounce  peeled  and  finely  hashed  sweet  almonds. 

Place  all  ingredients  except  the  flour  in  a  basin  and  briskly  whisk  up 
for  six  minutes,  then  add  the  flour  and  mix  well  with  a  skimmer  for  half 
a  minute.  Transfer  the  batter  into  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  pan.  Set 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  divide  into  six  equal 
pieces  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Mussels,  Mariniere 

Civet  of  Hare,  Chasseur  Macaroni  au  Beurre 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Pears  (169) 

501.    MUSSELS,  MARINIERE 

Scrape  with  a  knife,  briskly  brush  and  wash  in  several  fresh  waters 
forty-eight  large,  fresh  mussels;  then  drain  on  a  sieve.  Finely  mince 
eight  sound  shallots,  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  half  ounce  melted 
butter  and  thoroughly  heat  for  two  minutes  only,  then  add  the  mussels. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  steam  for  five  minutes;  add  one  clove  finely  chopped 
garlic,  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  one  gill  white  wine;  cook  for 
five  minutes  more,  then  add  half  gill  cream  and  one  ounce  fresh  bread 
crumbs.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  boil  for  two  minutes  longer. 
Pour  into  a  large,  deep,  hot  dish  and  serve. 

502.    CIVET  OF  HARE,  CHASSEUR 

Procure  a  medium-sized  hare.  Cut  it  into  pieces  one  inch  square. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  oil  and  add  the  hare.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  and  a  half  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  stir  well  and 
briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing;  then  add  one  ounce 
salt  pork  cut  into  small  square  pieces,  half  ounce  raw  ham  cut  the  same 
way;  stir  well  again  and  cook  for  five  minutes  longer.  Then  add  two 
tablespoons  flour  and  stir  well  for  one  minute.  Moisten  with  a  gill 
claret,  half  pint  hot  broth  (No.  701)  or  hot  water,  and  one  gill  hot  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16);  mix  well.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  three  branches 
parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  branch  thyme,  and  add  to  the  pan.  Then 
cover  the  pan  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Add 
one  clove  finely  chopped  garlic,  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  six  heads 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY       141 

sliced,  canned  mushrooms  and  the  same  amount  small  glazed  onions, 
prepared  as  per  No.  125.  Mix  gently  and  cook  on  the  range  for  five 
minutes  more.  Remove  the  bunch  of  herbs.  Skim  the  fat  from  the 
surface  of  the  same.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  twelve  heart- 
shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

503.    MACARONI  WITH  BUTTER 

Plunge  in  lightly  salted  water  half  pound  best  Italian  macaroni  and 
boil  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve.  Replace  the  macaroni  in  the 
cleared  pan.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pep- 
per and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  add  one  ounce  good  butter,  lightly 
mix  with  a  fork  until  the  butter  is  thoroughly  melted,  add  one  ounce 
grated  Parmesan  and  one  ounce  grated  Swiss  cheese.  Gently  mix  with 
a  fork  while  cooking  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Canape's  of  Caviare  (59)  Olives 

Mutton  Broth 

Sea  Bass,  Matelote        Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 
Fresh  Beef  Tongue,  Creole 

Eggplant,  en  Julienne 

Roast  Duck,  Apple  Sauce  (187)  Salad,  Chicory  (38) 

Apple  Pudding 

504.    MUTTON  BROTH 

After  procuring  one  and  a  half  pounds  neck  of  mutton,  remove  all 
the  bones  and  cut  the  meat  into  small  dice-like  pieces.  Cut  a  small  red 
carrot,  one  small  turnip,  one  small  white  onion,  two  leeks  and  two 
branches  celery  in  same  size  pieces  as  the  meat. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  saucepan, 
add  all  the  ingredients  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  hot  broth  or 
water.  Season  with  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  white  pepper 
and  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  adding  the  bones  of  the  neck. 
Cover  the  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes;  remove  the  bones  and 
skim  all  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

505.    SEA  BASS,  MATELOTE 

Scale,  trim,  wash  and  wipe  dry  two  one-and-a-half-pound  sea  bass. 
Slice  very  finely  two  medium  white  onions,  place  in  a  large  frying  pan 
with  half  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes,  fre- 
quently stirring  meanwhile.  Then  lay  the  two  fish  over  the  onions, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  adding  six  small 
heads  well-cleaned  fresh  mushrooms,  twelve  large  freshly  opened  oysters 
and  six  whole  fresh  shrimp.  Moisten  with  half  gill  claret,  half  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  the 
fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper  and  boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes 
Then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the 
paper,  lift  up  the  fish,  cook  the  contents  of  the  pan  for  five  minutes  more 


H2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

on  the  range,  then  add,  in  small  bits,  half  ounce  good  butter;  stir  well 
until  the  butter  is  melted,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

506.    FRESH  BEEF  TONGUE,  CREOLE 

Prepare  a  fresh  beef  tongue,  as  per  tongue  gendarme  (No.  229),  and 
serve  it  with  a  Creole  sauce  instead  of  the  gendarme  garnishing. 

507.    CREOLE  SAUCE 

Slice  very  finely  one  medium  white  onion,  six  sound,  peeled  shallots 
and  two  green  peppers.  Heat  thoroughly  one  tablespoon  oil  or  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  the  onion,  shallots  and  peppers  and  lightly  brown 
for  eight  minutes,  stirring  well  meanwhile;  then  add  half  a  bean  finely 
chopped  garlic  and  one  tablespoon  flour;  briskly  stir;  add  six  peeled 
and  finely  chopped  red  seeded  tomatoes.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  a  teaspoon  sugar,  adding  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives ;  briskly  stir 
and  let  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while ;  use  when  required. 

508.    EGGPLANT,  EN  JULIENNE 

Peel  and  cut  into  julienne  strips  a  small,  sound  eggplant.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  roll  in  flour, 
then  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  three  minutes. 
Remove,  drain  well  and  serve. 

509.     APPLE  PUDDING 

Two  peeled  and  chopped  sound  apples,  two  ounces  granulated  sugar, 
two  eggs,  half  gill  cold  milk,  two  ounces  flour,  half  ounce  butter  and  one 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence. 

Place  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  the  two  eggs,  milk,  flour  and  vanilla 
essence  in  a  bowl;  sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes, 
add  the  apples  and  gently  mix.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  mixture ;  lightly  stir  for  half  a  minute.  Lightly 
butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds ;  evenly  divide  the  preparation  into 
the  six  moulds,  place  in  a  pastry  tin,  pour  in  boiling  water  up  to  half  the 
height  of  the  moulds  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Remove, unmould  and  serve  with  a  Sabayon  sauce  prepared  as  per  No.  102. 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  and  Cream  (151) 

Germea  (217) 

Poached  Eggs,  Anchovy  Toast,  with  Bacon 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel  Jacket  Potatoes 

Beef  Saute",  a  1'Anglaise 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

510.     POACHED  EGGS,  ANCHOVY  TOAST,  WITH  BACON 
Mix  one  tablespoon  anchovy  paste  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and 
spread  it  evenly  over  six  freshly  prepared  toasts.     Have  twelve  poached 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        143 

eggs,  prepared  as  per  No.  106,  and  arrange  them  on  the  toast,  place  a 
slice  of  freshly  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  on  top  of  the  eggs  and  serve. 

511.    BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL 

Soak  in  plenty  of  cold  water  over  night  two  medium  salt  mackerel. 
Drain  well,  turn  them  in  a  tablespoon  oil,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil 
for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

512.    JACKET  POTATOES 

Plunge  six  medium-sized,  well-cleaned,  unpeeled  potatoes  into  a 
quart  of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt;  cover  the  pan  and  boil  for 
thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  enveloped  in  a 
napkin  and  serve. 

513.    BEEF  SAUTE,  A  L'ANGLAISE 

•Pick  off  all  the  lean  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  Tuesday. 
Cut  into  one-inch  squares,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 

Finely  slice  two  white  onions  and  lightly  fry  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
light  tablespoon  butter  for  eight  minutes,  then  add  the  beef.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper.  Toss  well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes;  add  one  tablespoon 
flour,  briskly  stir;  add  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  a  gill  demi-glace  (No. 
122);  thoroughly  mix,  add  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  gently  mix 
again  and  slowly  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  in  Cups  (2179) 

Oysters,  en  Coquille 

Vienna  Schnitzels 

Succotash 
Pancakes,  Georgette 

514.    OYSTERS,  EN  COQUILLE 

Place  thirty-six  good-sized  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  all  their  liquor  and  half  pint  cold  water.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

Heat  in  another  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir,  add  one  and  a  half  gills  hot 
milk  and  strain  the  brot^h  of  the  oysters  into  the  pan.  Sharply  mix 
while  cooking  for  two  minutes;  pour  in  one  tablespoon  sherry  and  add 
all  the  oysters ;  gently  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute  and  cook 
for  two  minutes  longer.  Divide  the  preparation  equally  in  six  table 
shells,  place  on  a  tin,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  over,  place  a 
very  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  put  in  the  oven  to  bake 
for  ten  minutes,  or/until  a  nice  brown.  Remove  and  serve. 
515.  VIENNA  SCHNITZELS 

After  providing  a  two-pound  piece  from  a  white,  tender  leg  of  veal, 
cut  it  into  six  equal  slices  and  flatten  nicely  with  a  cleaver.  Season  both 


144  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sides  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika;  lightly  roll  in  flour, 
next  in  beaten  egg  and  lastly  in  bread  crumbs. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  pieces  of 
veal  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each 
side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  a  thin  slice  of  lemon,  with  a  twisted 
anchovy  in  oil  placed  over  each  slice  of  lemon,  on  top  of  each  schnitzel. 
Serve  with  one  and  a  half  gills  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.i6)  in  a  separate  bowl. 

516.    SUCCOTASH 

Open  a  pint  can  succotash  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one 
gill  cold  milk,  half  ounce  butter;  season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper;  mix  well  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

517.    PANCAKES,  GEORGETTE 

Prepare  a  plain  pancake  batter,  as  per  No.  248.  Cut  out,  crosswise, 
from  a  small  pineapple  six  slices  as  thin  as  possible,  cut  each  slice^in 
eight  equal  pieces  and  add  them  to  the  batter;  then  proceed  the  same  as 
No.  248,  dredging  a  teaspoon  fine  sugar  over  each  pancake  before  serving. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Puree,  Faubonne 

Weakfish,  Hollandaise  Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Chicken  Braise,  Demi-Deuil 

Spinach  (247) 
Roast  Leg  of  Mutton  with  Currant  Jelly          Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 
Petit  Neapolitan  Cakes 

518.    PUREE,  FAUBONNE 

Soak  in  several  changes  of  water  one  pint  dried  beans  for  ten  hours. 
Drain  well,  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  three  quarts  cold  water, 
adding  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  sliced 
branches  celery,  four  branches  parsley,  one  clove  crushed  garlic,  two 
cloves,  one  bay  leaf  and  three  ounces  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  small  squares. 
Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  hours. 

Carefully  strain  through  a  sieve,  pressing  all  the  ingredients  through ; 
strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan  and  set  on  the 
fire;  add  one  gill  cold  cream  and  half  ounce  butter;  mix  well  and  let  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  bread 
croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

519.    WEAKFISH,  HOLLANDAISE 

Cut  the  head  off  a  very  fresh  two-and-a-half-pound  weakfish,  scale, 
clean  and  wipe  dry;  split  it  in  two  through  the  back  and  lay  in  a  large 
frying  pan  with  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  cold  water  and  half  ounce 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        145 

butter.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake 
for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot 
dish,  arrange  six  quarters  of  lemon  around,  decorate  with  parsley  greens 
and  serve  with  a  hot  Hollandaise  sauce  prepared  as  per  No.  279 — to 
which  you  add  one  tablespoon  of  the  fish  gravy,  well  mixed  in. 

520.    CHICKEN  BRAISE",  DEMI-DEUIL 

Cut  the  head  and  feet  off,  drain,  wipe,  singe  and  truss  a  fine,  tender, 
two-and-a-half-pound  Philadelphia  chicken  and  place  it  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  butter  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  that  is, 
to  a  nice  light  brown;  add  one  gill  sherry,  one  pint  hot  beef  broth  (No. 
701)  or  hot  water.  Place  a  mirepoix,  prepared  as  per  No.  271,  on  the 
sides  of  the  chicken.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  well  distributed.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  for  ten  minutes. 
Then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove 
and  keep  warm.  Heat  in  a  small  pan  half  ounce  melted  butter  with 
two  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stirring  while  cooking  for  two  minutes; 
then  strain  the  chicken  gravy  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  pan 
and  briskly  whisk  while  cooking  for  three  minutes ;  add  twelve  thin  slices 
of  truffles,  six  sliced  heads  canned  mushrooms  and  half  ounce  cooked 
beef  tongue  cut  into  julienne  strips;  boil  for  one  minute,  pour  the  whole 
over  the  chicken  and  serve  with  six  timbales  of  rice  arranged  around 
the  chicken. 

521.    TIMBALES  OF  RICE  FOR  GARNISHING 

Place  four  ounces  of  the  best  rice  in  a  small  saucepan  with  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  beef  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper;  cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  steam  for  twenty  minutes  more.  Remove, 
add  half  ounce  butter  and  mix  well.  Lightly  butter  six  small  pudding 
moulds;  fill  them  up  with  rice,  unmould  and  use  as  required. 

522.    ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON,  WITH  CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  a  leg  of  tender  mutton  of  about  seven  pounds.  Cut  off 
the  shank  bone,  trim  well,  and  lightly  pound  it  with  a  cleaver.  Make  a 
light  incision  on  the  first  joint  and  insert  a  small  bean  garlic.  Season 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  a  teaspoon  pepper,  well  rubbed  over.  Lay 
it  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  three  tablespoons  melted  leaf  lard  all  over, 
place  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour,  turning  it  over  once  in  a  while 
and  frequently  basting  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  strain  it  over  the 
mutton  and  serve  with  currant  jelly  separately. 

523.    CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 

Have  a  vanilla  ice  cream  preparation,  as  per  No.  42,  adding  two 
ounces  grated  chocolate  to  the  preparation,  briskly  mixing;  cook  and 
proceed  to  freeze  and  serve  the  same  way. 


i46  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

524.    SMALL  NEAPOLITAN  CAKES 

Pound  to  a  fine  paste  in  a  mortar  two  ounces  peeled  almonds  with 
two  ounces  fine  sugar.  Sift  three  ounces  flour  on  a  corner  of  the  table, 
make  a  small  fountain  in  the  centre,  place  the  almond  paste  in  the  foun- 
tain, break  in  one  whole  egg  with  a  half  saltspoon  of  salt,  briskly  knead 
the  whole  together  with  the  hand  for  one  minute,  then  place  it  in  a  cool 
place  and  let  rest  for  thirty  minutes. 

Divide  the  preparation  into  six  equal  parts,  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  thick  and  three  inches  in  diameter;  then  with  the  thumb  gently 
press  down  in  the  centre  of  each  piece  to  make  a  small  hollow  one  and  a 
xhalf  inches  in  diameter  and  half  an  inch  deep.  Place  them  in  a  lightly 
buttered  and  floured  pastry  pan,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  fill  the  centre  of  the  cakes  with  whipped 
vanilla  cream,  prepared  as  per  No.  337,  and  serve. 


Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Oatmeal  (2) 

Omelette,  Mornay 

Fried  Smelts,  Tomato  Sauce 

Broiled  Sirloin  Steak,  Maitre  d'H6tel 

Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 

English  Muffins 

525.    OMELETTE,  MORNAY 

Prepare  a  plain  omelette  exactly  as  per  No.  75;  turn  it  into  a  hot 
dish;  pour  a  Mornay  sauce  over  it;  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoon  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese,  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  for  five  minutes;  remove  and  serve. 

526.    MORNAY  SAUCE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add 
two  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  stir  well,  then  add  one  and  a  half  gills  hot 
milk;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 
and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  sharply  whisk  for  two  minutes,  add  one 
ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  whisk  for  two  minutes.  Add  one 
egg  yolk,  briskly  mix  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  without  allowing 
to  boil,  and  use  as  required. 

527.    FRIED  SMELTS,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Prepare  and  fry  the  same  quantity  smelts  as  per  No.  47  and  serve 
on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  with  one  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No. 
1 6)  in  a  separate  saucebowl  in  place  of  the  tartare. 

527A.    BROILED  SIRLOIN  STEAKS,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Have  the  steaks  prepared  as  per  No.  172.  Spread  a  maitre  d'hcHel 
butter  (No.  7)  over  the  steaks  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  147 

528.    ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

Half  pound  sifted  flour,  half  pint  cold  milk,  one  tablespoon  baking 
powder,  one  saltspoon  salt  and  two  ounces  butter. 

Place  the  flour  on  the  corner  of  the  table.  Make  a  fountain  in  the 
centre,  pour  the  milk  into  the  fountain,  add  the  butter,  powder  and  salt 
and  thoroughly  knead  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the  batter  into  six  equal 
parts,  roll  them  into  ball  forms,  lightly  flattening  the  tops  as  you  would 
cakes.  Arrange  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin  pan  and  bake  in  a  slack  oven 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth,  Tomate"  (3123) 

Soft  Clams,  Newburg  Mutton  Pot  Pie,  American 

Poached  Eggs,  Creole 
Apple   Fritters  (203) 

529.    SOFT  CLAMS,  NEWBURG 

Open  thirty-six  good-sized,  fresh,  soft  clams;  discard  all  the  hard 
parts,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies.  Plunge  them  into  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  for  a  minute.  Lift  up,  drain  well;  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  gill  sherry.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  cook  for  one  minute  on 
a  very  brisk  fire;  then  add  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  and  one  gill  cold 
milk  and  slowly  boil  for  five  minutes.  Add  half  ounce  butter  and  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  diluted  in  two  tablespoons  cream.  Shuffle  the  sauce 
by  the  handle  of  the  pan,  while  heating  for  three  minutes,  without  boiling. 
Pour  into  a  chafing  dish  or  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

530.    MUTTON  POT  PIE,  AMERICAN 

Cut  into  one-inch  squares  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  mutton  left  over 
from  yesterday.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  good  melted  lard, 
adding  two  finely  minced  onions,  one  ounce  minced,  lean,  raw  ham  and 
two  finely  minced  green  peppers;  brown  for  five  minutes,  occasionally 
mixing;  then  add  the  mutton  and  four  peeled,  crushed  red  tomatoes. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  a 
little,  then  add  two  gills  of  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Plunge  two  medium 
potatoes,  cut  into  half-inch-square  pieces,  into  boiling  water  for  eight 
minutes.  Drain  and  add  to  the  mutton.  Mix  well  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes  more.  Transfer  the  mutton  to  an  earthenware  baking  dish; 
sprinkle  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  mixed  with  a  clove  chopped 
garlic,  over  the  stew.  Cover  the  top  with  a  pie  paste,  as  per  No.  117. 
Glaze  the  surface  with  a  beaten  egg.  Make  two  small  incisions  on  the 
surface,  in  the  centre,  with  the  point  of  a  knife.  Place  in  the  oven  to 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 

531.    POACHED  EGGS,  CREOLE 

Prepare  the  eggs  as  per  No.  106.  Lay  them  on  toasts  and  pour  a  hot 
Creole  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  507,  over  them.  Sprinkle  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve. 


i48  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Caviare  (59) 

Bisque  of  Crabs 
Broiled  Pompano,  Tartare  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Savoyarde 

Beef  Braise,  a  la  Mode  Broiled  Devilled  Lobster  (158) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Watercress  Salad  (419) 

Hanover  Pudding 

532.    BISQUE  OF  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  melted  butter,  add  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
half  a  sliced  onion,  one  branch  sliced  celery  and  two  branches  parsley; 
stir  well  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  mixing  lightly  occasionally. 

Pound  to  a  pulp  in  a  mortar  eight  live,  thoroughly  washed  soft-shell 
crabs  and  add  to  the  pan;  stir  well  and  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes; 
then  add  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour.  Briskly  stir  and  heat  for  five  min- 
utes; pour  in  one  and  a  half  quarts  hot  milk  and  briskly  whisk  for  two 
minutes.  Season  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
twenty  minutes;  then  add  three  egg  yolks  diluted  with  two  gills  cream; 
briskly  stir  again  for  two  minutes,  without  boiling.  Strain  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

53 2A.    BROILED  POMPANO,  TARTARE  SAUCE 

Prepare  and  finish  the  pompano  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  228  and 
serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  in  a  bowl  separately  in  place  of  the 
maitre  d'hotel. 

533.    POTATOES,  SAVOYARDS 

Peel,  wash  and  slice  four  quite  large,  sound  potatoes  and  place  in  an 
earthen  dish.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper 
and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  one  tablespoon  grated  Swiss 
cheese.  Moisten  with  sufficient  hot  milk  to  cover  them,  gently  mix  with 
a  fork,  sprinkle  one  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  over  and  set  to  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

534.    BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  tender  rump  of  beef,  nicely  trim  all 
around  and  insert  a  few  thin  strips  larding  pork.  Place  the  meat  in  a 
basin,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  adding 
one  gill  vinegar,  one  gill  "claret,  one  bay  leaf,  a  saltspoon  thyme  and  a 
sliced  onion.  Let  them  marinade  for  four  hours,  turning  over  once  in  a 
while.  Take  up  the  beef,  drain  well,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce 
butter  and  let  brown  until  a  nice  colour.  Then  place  it  on  a  hot  dish. 

Add  one  ounce  flour  to  the  butter  of  the  pan,  briskly  stir  and  let  get 
a  nice  brown;  add  the  marinade  liquor,  with  one  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Mix  well  and  let  come  to  a 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY        149 

boil.  Skim  all  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  sauce;  place  the  beef  in 
the  sauce,  add  two  scooped  carrots — in  Parisian  potato  shape — twelve 
very  small  sound  onions,  previously  browned  in  half  a  tablespoon  butter 
for  two  minutes,  and  a  clove  crushed  garlic.  Cover  the  pan  and  place 
in  a  hot  oven  to  braise  for  two  hours.  Remove,  dress  the  beef  on  a  hot 
dish,  carefully  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  arrange  the  carrots  and  onions 
in  groups  around  the  dish,  strain  the  sauce  over  the  beef  and  serve. 

535.    HANOVER  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  good  butter,  beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon 
for  five  minutes,  then  add,  little  by  little,  two  egg  yolks  and  a  whole  egg 
and  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes;  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  three  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  three  tablespoons  finely 
chopped,  candied  lemon  peels,  one  tablespoon  orange  essence,  one  salt- 
spoon  salt,  one  ounce  picked  currants,  two  ounces  bread  crumbs  and  one 
gill  cold  milk.  Mix  well  with  a  skimmer  for  a  minute.  Lightly  butter 
and  flour  six  individual  pudding  moulds;  fill  them  with  the  preparation, 
place  the  moulds  in  a  tin  and  pour  boiling  water  up  to  half  their  height. 
Set  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  and  serve 
a  claret  wine  Sabayon  (No.  587)  separately. 


Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 

Hominy  (45) 
Fried  Eggs  with  Bacon,  Country  Style 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Fried  Pork  Chops,  with  Onions 

Sautee  Potatoes  (135) 

Indian  Cakes 

536.  FRIED  EGGS  WITH  BACON,  COUNTRY  STYLE 
Place  two  thin  slices  bacon  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  half  a  teaspoon 
butter  and  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh 
eggs  in  a  saucer  and  gently  slide  them  on  top  of  the  bacon ;  fry  for  half 
a  minute,  then  place  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  four  minutes;  remove,  slide 
them  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm.  Repeat  the  same  operation  for  five 
more  in  a  similar  way  and  serve. 

537.    PORK  CHOPS,  WITH  ONIONS 

Season  six  nicely  pared  pork  chops  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  good  lard;  lay  in  the  chops,  one 
beside  another,  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve  with  fried  onions,  prepared  as  per  No.  in,  on  top  of  the  chops. 

53  7 A.    INDIAN  CAKES 

Make  a  flannel  rice  cake  preparation,  as  per  No.  221,  mixing  while 
beating  the  batter  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  and  proceed  the  same  way. 


150  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Canape,  Lorenzo 

Hashed  Turkey  on  Toast 

Carrots  and  Peas,  Francaise 

Pommes,  Meringue 

538.    CANAPE,  LORENZO 

Cut  out  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  slices  half  inch  thick,  trim 
them  to  circular  shape,  three  inches  in  diameter.  Toast  them  to  a  nice 
light  colour. 

Prepare  a  crab  forcemeat,  as  per  No.  10,  then  equally  divide  and 
arrange  it  on  top  of  the  canapes  in  dome  form.  Knead  well  together  in 
a  bowl  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  of 
butter.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  then  mask  the  crab  meat  all  around  with  this.  Place  the 
canapes  on  a  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

539.    TURKEY  HASH  ON  TOAST 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
mince  it  into  small  dice  pieces.  Heat  in  a  saucepan,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, adding  one  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  and  cook  for  five  minutes ; 
then  add  two  tablespoons  flour;  briskly  stir,  moisten  with  one  and  a  half 
gills  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cold  cream;  briskly  whisk  it  up,  and  as  soon 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  turkey.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  mean- 
while. Equally  divide  the  hash  on  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  and  serve. 

540.    CARROTS  AND  PEAS,  FRANCAISE 

Scrape,  pare  and  thoroughly  clean  eight  of  the  smallest  carrots 
obtainable;  then  slice  them  into  quarter-of-an-inch  thick  pieces,  and 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  branches  parsley,  two  very  small  onions, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  teaspoon  sugar,  half 
ounce  butter  and  half  pint  white  broth  or  hot  water.  Mix  well  and  let 
gently  cook  for  five  minutes  on  the  range ;  then  place  the  pan  in  the  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  the  onions  and  parsley,  add 
half  pint  cooked,  hot,  green  peas,  with  half  ounce  good  butter;  gently 
mix  while  heating  for  half  minute.  Pour  into  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

541.    APPLE  MERINGUE 

Peel  and  core  six  small,  sound  apples.  Have  in  a  saucepan  one 
quart  water  with  four  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  half  stick  vanilla 
and  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  add  the  apples  and  gently  cook  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  the  apples  with  a  skimmer,  take  up  the  vanilla, 
arrange  the  apples  on  a  baking  dish,  decorate  the  top  and  all  around  the 
apples  with  a  meringue,  as  per  No.  542 ;  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  powdered 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY       151 

sugar  over  all,  set  the  dish  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  of  a  nice  golden 
colour,  or  about  ten  minutes.    Remove  and  serve. 

542.  MERINGUE,  FRANCHISE 

Carefully  break  four  cold,  fresh  eggs ;  place  the  whites  in  a  clean  cop- 
per basin,  lay  the  basin  on  the  ice  and  with  a  thin  wire  whisk  beat  them 
up  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  two  ounces  fine 
sugar.  Carefully  mix  with  a  skimmer  all  over,  but  principally  at  the 
bottom,  and  use  as  required.  This  meringue  should  only  be  made  at 
the  last  moment  before  using. 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Consomme,  Brunoise 

Codfish,  Provencale  Potatoes,  Noisette  (321) 

Cotelettes  of  Venison,  Sauce  Poivrade 

Cucumbers  Sautes,  Lyonnaise 

Roast  Beef  (126)  Salad,  Romaine  (214) 

Pudding,  Geraldina 

543.  CONSOMME",  BRUNOISE 

Strain  a  consomme,  prepared  as  per  No.  52,  into  another  saucepan 
and  keep  warm. 

Have  one  medium  red  carrot,  one  medium  turnip,  one  small  white 
onion,  two  leeks  and  two  branches  celery.  Cut  all  these  vegetables  in 
exceedingly  small  dice-pieces  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  two  gills  hot  water  and  half  ounce  butter. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon;  cover  the  vegetables  with  a  piece  of 
lightly  buttered  paper,  cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range, 
then  place  in  the  oven  to  braise  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the 
paper  and  add  all  the  vegetables  to  the  consomme,  with  three  table- 
spoons boiled  and  well-drained  rice  and  two  tablespoons  fresh  peas; 
boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the 
consomme,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

544.  CODFISH,  PROVENCALE 

Procure  three  very  fresh  codfish  steaks  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  half  gill  white 
wine,  two  gills  hot  broth  or  hot  water,  six  finely  chopped,  sound  shallots, 
one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and  a  bean  sound,  chopped  garlic. 
Cover  the  pan  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Lift  up  the  paper,  place  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish  and 
keep  warm. 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  smelted  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour,  briskly  stir,  then  add  the  gravy  of  the  fish,  stir  well  for  a 
minute;  dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  two  tablespoons  cold  milk  and  add  it  to 
the  sauce;  briskly  whisk  up  for  one  minute.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon,  mix  a  little,  then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 


152  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

545.      COTELETTES   OF  VENISON,   SAUCE   PoiVRADE 

Trim,  flatten  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
paprika  six  fine  venison  chops. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  good  melted  lard  in  a  saucepan, 
lay  the  chops  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  five  minutes  on 
each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  hot  Poivrade  sauce  over  the 
chops  and  serve. 

546.    SAUCE  POIVRADE 

Finely  chop  a  medium-sized  white  onion,  one  carrot,  and  fry  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  level  tablespoon  butter  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  then 
add  half  ounce  finely  minced  raw  ham,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  half  sprig 
bay  leaf,  one  saltspoon  marjoram,  three  cloves  and  a  teaspoon  freshly 
crushed  black  peppers.  Moisten  with  half  gill  tarragon  vinegar,  one  gill 
hot  broth  (No.  701)  or  water  and  reduce  to  one  half  the  quantity.  Then 
add  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper; 
gently  stir  for  one  minute,  then  reduce  for  five  minutes.  Strain  through 
a  cheesecloth  into  a  saucebowl  and  use  as  required. 

547.    CUCUMBERS  SAUTES,  LYONNAISE 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter;  add  a 
medium  sliced  white  onion;  stir  well  while  browning  for  two  minutes, 
then  add  two  large,  peeled  and  sliced  fresh  cucumbers.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  toss  gently  and 
briskly  cook  for  five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile;  then  pour 
in  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  adding  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley; 
toss  them  well  again  while  cooking  for  half  a  minute.  Dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

548.    PUDDING,  GERALDINA 

Pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp  three  ounces  sweet,  peeled  almonds  and 
two  beans  peeled  bitter  almonds.  Place  the  paste  in  a  saucepan  with 
one  pint  cold  milk  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Have  in  another  saucepan 
four  tablespoons  rice  flour  and  drop  in,  little  by  little,  the  boiling  milk 
right  on  top  of  the  flour,  sharply  mixing  continually  while  adding  it. 
Now  add  one  ounce  good  butter  and  continue  to  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  five  minutes,  keeping  it  on  the  range.  Remove  the  pan  on  a 
table,  add  two  ounces  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  two 
egg  yolks  and  a  tablespoon  cold  cream;  briskly  mix  the  whole  well  to- 
together  with  a  skimmer  for  two  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the 
two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  preparation  and  gently  mix  with  the 
skimmer  for  one  minute. 

Lightly  butter  a  quart  pudding  mould,  pour  the  preparation  into  the 
mould,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  boiling  water  up  to  half  the  height 
of  the  mould,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  to  steam  for  forty  minutes.  Re- 
move, unmould  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  hot  apricot  sauce  over  the  pud- 
ding and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  153 

549.    APRICOT  SAUCE 

Press  through  a  sieve  a  pint  fine  canned  apricots  with  their  liquor; 
then  place  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire,  with  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
one  tablespoon  maraschino  and  one  tablespoon  Swiss  kirsch.  Mix 
well  and  gently  heat  for  five  minutes,  being  very  careful  not  to  let  it  boil; 
then  it  will  be  ready  to  use. 

(Always  place  syrups  from  canned  fruits  in  stone  jars  and  utilise  for 
seasoning,  etc.) 

Sunday,  Fifth  Week  of  January 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops,  with  Bacon  (219) 

Hashed  Potatoes,  Sautees  (50) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

550.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Pour  two  tablespoons  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  an  egg  cocotte  dish. 
Carefully  crack  in  two  fresh  eggs.  Season  with  half  saltspoon  salt  and 
one-quarter  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Spread  a  teaspoon  cold  cream 
over  the  eggs;  then  prepare  five  other  cocottes  the  same  as  the  first. 
Place  them  in  a  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes.  Remove  and 
send  to  the  table. 

LUNCHEON 

Mutton  Broth  in  Cups 

Curried  Shrimp 

Beef  Croquettes,  Piquante  Sauce 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Persillade 

French  Pancakes,  au  Curacao 

551.    MUTTON  BROTH  IN  CUPS 

Chop  up  very  finely  with  a  cleaver  one  pound  and  a  half  fresh  neck 
of  mutton,  including  the  bones,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  medium 
sliced  carrot,  one  ditto  turnip,  two  ditto  leeks,  two  branches  chopped 
celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  by  a  leaf,  one  clove  and  one  salt- 
spoon thyme;  pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  cold  water,  season  with  a 
tablespoon  of  salt,  cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour  and 
fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  skim  off  the  fat  every  ten  minutes 
Strain  the  broth  through  a  napkin  into  six  cups  and  serve. 

552.    CURRIED  SHRIMP 

Place  in  a  saucepan  thirty-six  good-sized  cooked  shrimp,  with  two 
tablespoons  of  sherry.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  steam  on  the  range  for 
five  minutes.  Then  pour  in  a  hot  curry  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  54, 


154  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

lightly  mix  and  heat  for  two  minutes,  without  boiling,  and  serve  in  a  hot 
soup  tureen. 

553.  BEEF  CROQUETTES,  PIQUANTE  SAUCE 

Mince  very  finely  all  the  lean  beef  left  over  from  yesterday.  Place 
it  in  a  bowl  and  add  half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs.  Chop  very 
finely  one  medium  white  onion,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon 
melted  butter  and  lightly  brown  for  six  minutes;  add  it  to  the  beef, 
with  a  tablespoon  fresh  chopped  parsley  and  one  bean  chopped 
garlic.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Crack  in  two  raw  eggs  and  add  one 
gill  cream.  Sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Divide 
the  preparation  into  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  them  in  flour,  giving  them 
nice  croquette  forms. 

Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  melted  lard;  place  the 
croquettes  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  four  minutes  on 
each  side.  Drain  well  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  hot  piquante 
sauce  over  them,  prepared  as  per  No.  177,  and  serve. 

554.  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES,  PERSILLADE 

Peel  and  wash  well  eighteen  good-sized  Jerusalem  artichokes;  plunge 
them  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper  and  cook  them  until  a  nice  golden  colour  all  over,  turning  them 
once  in  a  while.  Sprinkle  a  light  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over, 
slightly  toss  and  serve. 

555.    FRENCH  PANCAKES,  AU  CURACAO 

Prepare  a  French  pancake  batter,  as  per  No.  17,  adding  two  table- 
spoons cura9ao  to  the  preparation,  and  proceed  to  make  the  cakes 
exactly  the  same  way. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Gumbo  Creole 
Salmon  Trout,  au  Bleu  Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Poulet  Saute",  Mrs.  Doubleday 
Filet  of  Beef,  Larded,  Bercy  French  Flageolets 

Punch,  Yvette 
Roast  Teal  Duck,  Currant  Jelly  Salad  Escarole  (100) 

Glace,  Romaine 
Croquettes,  Polonaise 

556.    GUMBO,  CREOLE 

Cut  into  small  squares  one  green  pepper,  one  medium  white  onion, 
two  leeks,  one  ounce  lean  raw  ham  and  two  ounces  lean  raw  veal.  Place 
all  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  with  half  ounce  melted  butter;  stir  well  and 
let  cook  for  six  minutes.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  hot  water.  Seasoa 


SUNDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JANUARY  155 

with  two  teaspoons  salt,  cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Skim  the  fat  from  the -surf  ace  of  the  broth,  add  one  tablespoon 
raw  rice,  cover  the  pan  again  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  add 
twelve  sound,  good-sized,  fresh,  neatly  trimmed  okras,  cut  into  pieces 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  two  medium  peeled  red  tomatoes  cut  into 
eight  equal  pieces  each.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes 
longer.  Skim  off  the  fat,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

557.    SALMON  TROUT,  AU  BLEU 

Procure  three  slices,  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  of  fresh  salmon 
trout;  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  good  butter,  half  gill  claret 
and  one  gill  cold  water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon 
paprika,  adding  half  a  sliced  onion  and  two  branches  parsley.  Cover 
the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper  and  place  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minutes.  Remove,  take  off  the  paper,  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  decorate  the  dish  with  six  pieces  of  lemon  and  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279)  in  a  bowl  separately. 

558.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  MRS.  DOUBLED  AY 

Cut  into  six  even  pieces  each  two  tender  spring  chickens  of  one  and 
a  quarter  pounds  each.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter  and  add  the  chicken.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Fry  the 
chicken  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Then  add  eight  sound,  finely  chopped  shallots ;  mix  well,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour,  a  gill  and  a  half  cold  milk ;  half  gill  good  sherry  and  one  gill 
cream;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  briskly 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  twelve  slices  of  canned  mushrooms  and 
twelve  very  thin  slices  of  truffles ;  gently  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes 
more.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  with  six  timbales  of  rice,  prepared  as  per 
No.  521,  around  the  chicken  and  serve. 

559.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  LARDED,  BERCY 

Have  a  filet  of  beef  prepared  and  finished  as  per  No.  144.  Remove 
all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  of  the  filet ;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  with  contents ; 
add  half  gill  claret,  half  gill  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  half  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122).  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  slowly  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Finely  chop  up  one  small  onion  and  lightly  brown  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  melted  butter  for  two  minutes.  Then  strain 
the  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  butter;  lightly  mix  and  boil 
for  two  minutes.  After  the  filet  has  been  dressed  on  the  hot  dish  pour 
the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

560.    PUNCH,  YVETTE 

Prepare  a  quart  of  lemon  water  ice,  as  per  No.  376.  While  the 
punch  is  in  the  freezer  pour  in  two  tablespoons  creme  Yvette.  If  creme 
Yvette  is  not  at  hand  any  other  kind  of  liquor  can  be  substituted.  Freeze 
and  serve  as  per  No.  376. 


156  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

561.    ROAST  TEAL  DUCK,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Pick,  singe,  draw,  neatly  wipe  and  truss  two  nice,  fat  Teal  ducks. 
Place  them  in  a  small  roasting  pan  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt; 
glaze  them  with  half  teaspoon  melted  butter.  Place  in  the  oven  and 
roast  for  fifteen  minutes,  basting  once  in  a  while  with  their  own  gravy. 
Remove,  untruss,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy  over  the  birds, 
and  serve  with  six  pieces  fried  hominy  and  currant  jelly,  separately. 

562.     GLACE,  ROMAINE 

Prepare  and  finish  a  vanilla  ice  cream,  as  per  No.  42,  and  just  before 
taking  it  up  from  the  freezer  pour  in  two  tablespoons  Jamaica  rum; 
mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  and  serve. 

563.    CROQUETTES,  POLONAISE 

Place  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  with  the  whites  of  three 
eggs;  briskly  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
one  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces  dried  chopped 
almonds,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  mix  well  for  two  minutes. 
Lightly  butter  and  flour  a  pastry  pan;  spread  two  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar  on  a  corner  of  the  table,  take  up  a  tablespoon  of  the  preparation 
and  gently  roll  in  the  sugar  to  a  croquette  form ;  place  it  in  the  pastry  pan 
and  proceed  to  prepare  the  others  in  the  same  manner.  When  all  are 
in  the  pan  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

Monday,  First  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Shirred  Eggs 

Filets  of  Sole,  Saute",  Meuniere 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Sweet-Corn  Fritters 

564.    SHIRRED  EGGS 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes  with  one  tablespoon  butter; 
carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Season  with  a  light  tea- 
spoon salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  equally  divided ;  then  place 
the  dishes  in  a  moderate  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven 
and  serve. 

565.    FILETS  OF  SOLE,  SAUTE",  MEUNIERE 

Procure  a  fine,  fresh  flounder  of  two  and  a  half  or  three  pounds. 
Remove  the  filets  with  a  knife  and  neatly  skin  them.  Cut  each  filet 
in  two,  crosswise.  Place  them  on  a  plate;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  turn  well  in  the  seasoning. 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  157 

Heat  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange 
the  filets  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  place  on  a  hot  dish. 
Sprinkle  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over,  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon  over  them;  add  half  ounce  butter  to  the  pan  in  which  the 
filets  were  cooked,  heat  well  on  the  range  until  a  nice  brown  colour, 
pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

566.    SWEET-CORN  FRITTERS 

Hash  very  finely  a  pint  can  well-drained  sweet  corn  and  place  it  in 
a  bowl ;  add  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar,  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  a  saltspoon  ground  cinnamon,  half  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  four  tablespoons  flour,  two  whole  fresh  eggs  and  one  gill  cold 
milk.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  for  two  minutes.  Heat  in  a  large 
black  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  leaf  lard ;  then  drop  the  paste  into  the 
pan  in  six  equal  parts,  keeping  them  apart  from  one  another,  and  gently 
cook  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain 
well  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams 

Beef  Croquettes,  with  Asparagus  Tips 

Green-Gage  Tartlets 

567.    STUFFED  DEVILLED  CLAMS 

Open  twelve  large,  fresh  clams  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
their  own  liquor,  adding  half  pint  cold  water,  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  well,  chop  them  up  very  finely  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Thoroughly 
clean  six  of  the  best  half  shells,  finely  chop  up  one  medium  white  onion 
and  place  it  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  fry  to  a  nice 
light  colour,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour, 
stir  well  and  heat  for  half  minute ;  then  add  half  pint  of  the  clam  liquor, 
mix  well  and  boil  for  two  minutes;  add  the  chopped  clams.  Season 
with  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  a  tea- 
spoon English  mustard  and  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix 
well  and  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes ;  add  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 
and  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic;  mix  a  little  and  cook  for  five  min- 
utes more.  Then  add  four  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  two  egg 
yolks;  mix  thoroughly  and  cook  for  two  minutes  longer.  Transfer  the 
forcemeat  into  a  bowl  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off.  Fill  the  six  cleaned 
half  shells  with  the  preparation,  nicely  rounding  the  top  of  each.  Spread 
evenly  a  devilled  butter,  prepared  as  per  No.  n,  over  them.  Place 
the  shells  in  a  baking  tin,  sprinkle  a  very  little  fresh  bread  crumbs  over 
them ;  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  they  attain  a  good 
golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

568.    BEEF  CROQUETTES  WITH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 
Prepare  six  beef  croquettes  same  as  per  No.  553.     Open  and  thor- 
oughly drain  a  pint  of  asparagus  tips.     Place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with 


158  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

half  ounce  butter;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper  and  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  toss  them  well  while  cooking  for 
five  minutes. 

Arrange  the  croquettes  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another.  Dress 
the  asparagus  around  the  croquettes,  and  serve  with  a  gill  of  hot  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  around  the  asparagus. 

569.    GREEN-GAGE  TARTLETS 

Carefully  split  fifteen  canned  green  gages  and  remove  the  stones. 
Have  three  ounces  powdered  sugar  and  one  gill  cold  water  in  a  saucepan 
and  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  add  the  green  gages  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Place  them  in  a  bowl  and  proceed  to  prepare  the  tartlets 
as  per  No.  161. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Indian  Relishes 

Potage,  Economique 

Red  Snapper,  Mobile  Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Boiled  Capon,  Oyster  Sauce 

Spinach  with  Eggs  (399) 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton  with  Jelly  (522)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Tapioca  Pudding 

570.  POTAGE,  ECONOMIQUE 

Cut  into  julienne  shape  one  medium-sized,  cleaned  red  carrot,  one 
medium,  sound  turnip,  two  leeks  and  two  branches  celery.  Place  them 
in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  clarified  butter  and  gently  brown  for  six 
minutes,  occasionally  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Moisten  with  two 
quarts  and  a  half  of  broth  or  hot  water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  adding 
three  ounces  salt  pork  and  a  few  chicken  bones  or  beef  bones,  if  on  hand. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  being  careful  to 
skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  every  ten  minutes.  Then  add  four  table- 
spoons good  raw  rice  and  two  ounces  Italian  spaghetti  cut  into  pieces 
one  inch  long.  Cover  the  pan  again  and  continually  boil  for  forty  min- 
utes more.  Take  the  pan  off  the  fire  and  place  it  on  a  table;  remove  all 
the  bones  and  pork,  skim  off  the  fat,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  six  small  slices  of  toasted  French  bread,  separately. 

571.  ,RED  SNAPPER,  MOBILE 

Scale,  clean,  split  through  the  back  and  remove  the  bones  from  a 
three-pound  fresh  red  snapper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  large 
frying  pan,  add  one  finely  minced  green  pepper,  six  small,  sound,  minced 
shallots  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile;  then  add 
half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives.  Lay 
the  fish  on  top;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  Spanish 
saffron;  pour  in  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  gill  cream  and  six 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  159 

heads  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  two 
minutes,  then  place  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  all  the  contents  of  the  pan 
over  the  fish  and  serve. 

572.    BOILED  CAPON,  OYSTER  SAUCE 

Singe,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet,  draw,  wipe,  dry  and  truss  a  fine  five- 
pound  capon.  Place  it  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gallons 
cold  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  season  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced 
onion,  one  small  sliced  turnip.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  celery, 
two  branches  parsley  and  two  leeks  and  add  to  the  pan;  add  also  two 
cloves,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  saltspoon  thyme.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
gently  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  dress  the  capon  on  a  hot 
dish,  untruss;  suppress  all  the  broth  from  the  inside  of  the  capon,  dress 
the  capon  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  an  oyster  sauce,  prepared  as 
per  No.  573,  in  a  separate  saucebowl. 

Strain  the  broth  of  the  capon  in  a  stone  jar,  let  cool  off,  and  keep  it 
till  to-morrow. 

573.    OYSTER  SAUCE 

Plunge  thirty  freshly  opened  Bluepoint  oysters  into  a  saucepan  with 
their  liquor  and  one  gill  cold  water;  place  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil  skim  the  scum  from  the  surface.  Mix  in  another  sauce- 
pan two  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour;  strain 
the  broth  of  the  oysters  into  this  saucepan  and  add  one  gill  cold  milk. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix 
well  with  a  whisk  for  one  minute,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  oysters. 
Boil  for  two  minutes  and  the  sauce  is  ready  for  use. 

574.    TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

A  pint  milk,  two  and  a  half  ounces  tapioca,  two  ounces  fine  sugar, 
one  and  a  half  ounces  butter,  four  egg  yolks,  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
whipped  up  to  a  froth,  the  zest  of  the  rind  of  a  sound  lemon,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  half  saltspoon  salt. 

Place  the  milk,  vanilla,  lemon,  salt  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  set  the 
pan  on  the  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  gently  dredge  in  the 
tapioca,  continually  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile;  then 
slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  every  minute.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  egg  yolks,  one  by  one,  briskly  mixing  continually; 
then  add  the  whipped-up  whites,  and  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one 
minute. 

Lightly  butter  and  flour  six  individual  pudiing  moulds,  fill  them 
with  the  preparation,  place  in  a  pastry  tin,  pour  boiling  water  in  the  pan 
up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds,  and  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  cook 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  large  dish ;  pour  a  Sabayon 
sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  102,  over  the  puddings  and  serve  very  hot. 


160  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Tuesday,  First  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Farina  (74) 
Scrambled  Eggs,  with  Cream 

Boiled  Findon  Haddock 

Beefsteak,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (6)  French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Lemon  Cakes 

575.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  WITH  CREAM 

Prepare  the  same  amount  of  scrambled  eggs  exactly  the  same  as  per 
No.  193,  but  adding  half  gill  cream  in  place  of  the  milk  just  before  beating 
up  the  eggs  in  the  bowl. 

576.    BOILED  FINDON  HADDOCK 

Procure  two  pounds  thick  Findon  haddock ;  remove  all  the  bones  and 
skin  and  boil  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  water,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  napkin, 
decorate  the  dish  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  parsley  greens,  and  serve 
with  a  little  hot,  melted  butter,  separately. 

577.    LEMON  CAKES 

Crack  four  eggs  into  a  small  copper  basin,  add  two  ounces  granulated 
sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  sound  lemon  and  briskly  whisk  up  for 
ten  minutes ;  add  three  ounces  sifted  flour,  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for 
half  minute,  then  add  a  saltspoon  baking  powder,  one  gill  cream  and  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter;  gently  mix  again  with  the  skimmer  for  half 
minute.  Lightly  butter  a  small  pastry  pan,  drop  the  preparation  into 
the  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  turn  it 
on  a  table,  divide  into  six  equal  parts  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth 
Fried  Oysters,  Horley 

Curry,  Darjeel 
Souffl^  of  Raspberry 

578.    CHICKEN  BROTH 

Thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  two  pounds  fresh  chicken 
bones.  Chop  very  finely,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  quarts 
cold  water.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire.  Season  with  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoons salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
skim  off  the  scum  from  the  surface.  Add  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced 
onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
bay  leaf,  one  clove  and  a  sprig  thyme.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  sim- 
mer for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  strain  it 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  six  cups  and  serve. 

N.  B.  As  you  have  the  capon  broth  left  over  from  yesterday,  use  it 
in  place  of  the  water,  but  do  not  season  again. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  161 

579.    FRIED  OYSTERS,  HORLEY 

Prepare  a  small  quantity  of  batter  for  fritters,  as  per  No.  245.  Have 
thirty-six  large,  freshly  opened  oysters;  drain  well  and  plunge  half  of 
them  in  the  batter;  lift  with  the  fingers,  one  by  one,  and  plunge  in  boiling 
fat  and  fry  for  seven  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Lift  up  with 
a  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth,  trim  off  the  superfluous  adher- 
ings,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  keep  warm.  Procee^ 
to  prepare  the  other  half  in  the  same  way,  and  serve  with  a  saucebowl 
(one  gill)  of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

580.    KABOB,  MUTTON  CURRY,  DARJEEL 

Cut  into  one-inch-square  pieces  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  lean  raw 
mutton.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  mutton 
and  gently  brown  it  for  ten  minutes ;  add  two  light  tablespoons  flour,  one 
finely  chopped  onion,  two  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  bean  crushed 
garlic,  one  small  turnip  cut  into  small  dices,  one  sound  cored  apple  cut 
the  same  way,  one  seedless,  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  one  finely 
chopped  chili,  one  good-sized,  ripe,  seedless,  finely  chopped  tomato,  and 
half  tablespoon  curry  powder. 

Mix  the  whole  well  together  while  browning  for  six  minutes.  Moisten 
with  a  pint  white  broth  or  hot  water.  Season  with  half  tablespoon  salt, 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding 
one  piece  lemon  rind.  Mix  all  well  together  and  let  cook  gently  for 
forty-five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Remove  the  lemon 
rind ;  dress  half  pound  hot  boiled  rice,  prepared  as  per  No.  490,  on  a  hot 
dish  in  crown  form.  Pour  the  curry  into  the  centre,  sprinkle  a  little  fine 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve  with  chutney. 

581.    SOUFFLE  OF  RASPBERRY 

Place  two  gills  raspberry  jelly  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  sugar  and 
half  teaspoon  orange  essence.  Mix  the  whole  together  for  five  minutes 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  mix  again  for  two 
minutes  more,  add  five  egg  whites,  beaten  up  to  a  stiff  froth;  gently  mix 
with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  souffle  dish 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  sprinkle  a 
little  powdered  sugar  over  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyon  Sausage 

Cream  of  Celery 
Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel  (388)  Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Noix  of  Veal,  Braisee,  Fermiere 

Roast  Grouse  with  Jelly  (167)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Almond  Ice  Cream  (149) 

Gateau,  Lyonnaise 

582.    LYON  SAUSAGE 

Procure  a  small  Lyon  sausage.  Remove  the  silver  paper  from 
about  a  quarter  of  the  length  of  the  sausage.  Remove  the  tip,  then 


162  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  twelve  very  thin  equal  slices,  remove  the  skin 
from  the  slices,  dress  on  a  hors-d'ceuvres  dish,  decorate  the  dish  with  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve.  (Always  keep  the  remaining  sausage  in 
a  cool  place.) 

583.    CREAM  OF  CELERY 

Trim  off  all  the  green  parts  of  three  heads  of  celery.  Cut  them  up 
in  very  small  pieces,  then  thoroughly  wash  in  fresh  water  and  drain 
well  on  a  sieve.  Place  the  celery  in  a  medium-sized  pan  with  half  sliced 
carrot,  two  sliced  leeks  and  one  medium,  sliced  white  onion.  Moisten 
with  two  quarts  cold  water.  Season  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  a 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  if  any  chicken  or  veal  bones  are  at  hand  add 
them  to  the  saucepan.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  rather  slowly  for 
forty-five  minutes;  strain  the  broth  into  a  basin  and  keep  hot. 

Place  all  ingredients  except  the  bones  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a 
paste,  then  add  to  the  strained  broth.  Heat  one  ounce  melted  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  two  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  flour,  briskly  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes;  then  drop  in  the  celery  broth, 
mix  lightly  while  cooking  for  five  minutes;  add  a  pint  good  hot  milk, 
one  gill  cream,  half  ounce  good  butter  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boiling  point,  then  add 
one  gill  cream.  Mix  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  but  do  not 
allow  to  boil  again.  Pass  the  cream  through  a  small  sieve,  then  through 
a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

584.    Norx  OF  VEAL,  BRAISE'S,  FERMIERE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  the  round  part  of  veal.  Heat  in  a 
saucepan  three  tablespoons  good  melted  lard,  add  the  veal  and  cook  it 
for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Take  up 
the  veal  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Add  three  tablespoons  flour  to  the  pan, 
briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon;  then  pour  in  one  gill  claret,  half  pint 
white  broth  (No.  701),  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122) ;  then  place  the  veal  in.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins 
to  boil,  add  two  carrots  cut  into  half-inch  squares. 

Tie  up  in  a  bunch  two  branches  celery,  two  leeks,  three  branches 
parsley,  two  cloves,  one  sprig  bay  leaf  and  add  it  to  the  pan  with  one 
sound  bean  garlic.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  one  hour. 
Remove  it  from  the  oven,  dress  the  veal  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  bunch 
of  herbs  and  garlic.  Arrange  the  carrots  on  one  side  of  the  dish  and 
a  half  pint  can  hot  green  peas  on  the  other  side.  Reduce  the  gravy  to 
half  the  quantity  on  the  fire,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  then  strain 
it  over  the  veal  and  send  to  the  table. 

585.    GATEAU,  LYONNAISE 

Plunge  three  ounces  sweet  almonds  and  two  beans  bitter  almonds 
in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  peel  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  to  a  paste  with  the  white  of  one  egg.  Remove  and  place  in  a 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY        163 

bowl;  add  two  tablespoons  Jamaica  rum  and  two  ounces  granulated 
sugar;  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  add  one 
raw  egg;  mix  well  for  one  minute,  then  add  one  egg  yolk;  mix  again, 
then  add  another;  mix  for  one  minute  longer;  dredge  in  two  ounces 
sifted  flour,  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute.  Beat  up  to  a 
stiff  froth  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs,  carefully  mix  again  with  the  skim- 
mer for  half  minute. 

Lightly  butter  a  large  dome-shaped  mould;  place  the  preparation 
in  the  mould,  then  set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Remove,  let  cool  off;  unmould  the  cake  and  cut  it  into  half -inch 
slices,  crosswise.  Spread  a  tablespoon  creme  Frangipani  (No.  586) 
over  each  slice ;  carefully  arrange  the  slices  on  top  of  one  another,  giving 
the  original  cake  form.  Place  the  cake  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin;  decorate  with  whipped  cream  (No.  337)  and  serve  with  a  claret 
Sabayon  sauce  (No.  587)  in  a  separate  saucebowl. 

586.    CREME  FRANGIPANI  VANILLA 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  four  egg  yolks  and  the  white  of  one;  add 
one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces  fine  sugar;  briskly 
stir  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  dilute  with  three-quarters  of  a 
pint  good  fresh  milk,  adding  one  ounce  butter,  half  stick  vanilla  and  half 
saltspoon  salt.  Set  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range  and  continually 
stir  for  ten  minutes;  remove  the  vanilla  bean.  Brown  to  a  nice  golden 
colour  an  ounce  butter  and  add  it  to  the  preparation;  mix  well  for  one 
minute.  Transfer  to  a  bowl  and  use  when  cold. 

587.    CLARET  SABAYON 

Place  in  a  basin  two  egg  yolks  and  the  white  of  one,  two  ounces  fine 
sugar,  the  zest  of  the  rind  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon  and  one  and  a  half 
gills  claret.  Stir  briskly  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  it 
through  a  napkin  into  a  saucepan;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  stir  con- 
tinually until  it  is  hot,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Remove  and  serve  as 
directed. 


Wednesday,  First  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

,     Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Omelette  with  Smoked  Beef 

Broiled  Smelts,  Maitre  d'H6tel 

Country  Sausages  (134) 

Griddle  Cakes  (9) 

588.    OMELETTE  WITH  SMOKED  BEEF 

Mince  very  finely  two  ounces  smoked  beef  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  pint  cold  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain  well  on  a  sieve. 
Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  adding  one 


164  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tablespoon  flour,  and  stir  well  while  cooking  for  one  minute ;  then  pour 
in  two  gills  hot  milk.  Season  with  two  tablespoons  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  thoroughly  mix,  then 
add  the  drained  beef,  stir  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  mixing  occa- 
sionally. 

Prepare  an  omelette  same  as  per  No.  75,  and  just  before  folding  up 
the  two  sides  of  the  omelette  place  half  the  prepared  beef — but  no  sauce — 
right  in  the  centre  of  the  omelette,  fold  up,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  arrange 
the  beef  and  sauce  around  the  omelette.  Sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

589.    BROILED  SMELTS,  MA!TRE  D'H6xEL 

Thoroughly  wipe  dry  twelve  very  fresh,  good-sized  smelts.  Have  a 
tablespoon  oil  on  a  plate  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon 
paprika;  mix  all  well,  then  gently  roll  the  smelts  in  the  seasoning.  Ar- 
range on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes  on 
each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish;  spread  a  maitre  d 'hotel  butter, 
prepared  as  per  No.  7,  over  them,  decorate  the  dish  with  parsley  greens 
and  six  pieces  of  lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Pot  Pie 

Calf's  Head,  Vinaigrette 

Potatoes,  Bernoise 

Mille  Feuilles 

590.    OYSTER  POT  PIE 

Place  thirty-six  good-sized,  freshly  opened  oysters  with  their  liquor 
and  two  gills  water  in  a  saucepan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Heat  in  another 
saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour, 
briskly  stir,  then  pour  in  two  gills  of  oyster  broth  and  two  gills  hot  milk. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon grated  nutmeg;  thoroughly  mix,  then  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain 
the  oysters  on  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  same ;  stir  briskly,  then  shift  the  pan 
on  the  corner  of  the  range.  Cut  two  ounces  very  lean  bacon  into  quarter- 
of-an-inch-square  pieces  and  fry  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon 
butter  for  five  minutes;  drain  and  add  to  the  oysters.  Mix  well,  then 
boil  for  one  minute.  Pour  the  whole  into  a  deep>  baking  dish.  Roll  out 
on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  of  pie  paste,  prepared  as  per 
No.  117,  exceedingly  thin.  Egg  the  edges  of  the  pie  dish,  then  cover  the 
dish  with  the  paste.  Carefully  press  the  paste  all  around  the  edges, 
trim  well ;  make  four  very  small  incisions  on  top  of  the  paste,  lightly  egg 
the  surface,  then  set  the  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

591.    How  TO  COOK  A  CALF'S  HEAD 

Plunge  a  small,  fresh,  white  calf's  head  into  plenty  of  hot  water  for 
one  minute;  take  it  up,  sharply  and  carefully  rub  it  all  over  with  a  coarse 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY        165 

towel  so  as  to  remove  all  remaining  hairs;  scrape  both  ears,  then  with  a 
sharp  knife  carefully  cut  the  flesh,  starting  from  the  centre  of  the  head 
right  down  to  the  nostrils.  Then  bone  it  from  top  to  base  on  both  sides; 
remove  the  tongue,  place  the  meat  with  the  tongue  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  quarts  cold  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain  and  let  cool. 
Trim  off  the  white  skin  from  the  tongue  and  cheeks  and  cut  the  meat 
into  twelve  as  nearly  equal  pieces  as  possible.  Have  in  a  stewpan  two 
ounces  flour,  three  pints  cold  water,  one  gill  vinegar,  half  bunch  parsley, 
two  carrots  cut  in  quarters,  and  one  sliced  white  onion.  Mix  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  two 
hours.  Remove  from  the  fire,  lift  up  the  pieces  and  drain  on  a  cloth. 
Crack  the  frontal  bone  of  the  head  open,  carefully  remove  the  brain  and 
place  it  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes;  lift  it  up,  and  neatly  remove  all 
the  skin,  etc.,  adhering  to  it.  Have  a  pint  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  gill  vinegar  in  a  saucepan;  drop  in  the  brain  and  boil  for 
ten  minutes;  drain  well  and  use  as  directed. 

59 1 A.    CALF'S  HEAD  VINAIGRETTE 

Have  a  large  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  over  it.  Dress  the  ears, 
one  at  each  end  of  the  dish,  then  place  the  pieces  in  the  centre,  one  over- 
lapping another.  Cut  the  tongue  into  six  equal  pieces,  crosswise,  and 
arrange  on  the  sides  of  the  dish;  place  the  brain  in  the  centre  of  the 
crown,  decorate  with  parsley  greens  all  around  and  serve  with  a  vinai- 
grette sauce  (No.  592)  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

592.  SAUCE,  VINAIGRETTE 

Chop  up  very  finely  half  small,  sound,  white  onion,  two  medium, 
sound  pickles,  one  tablespoon  capers,  two  branches  fresh  parsley,  six 
branches  chives,  two  branches  chervil  and  half  a  cold,  hard-boiled  egg. 
Place  all  these  ingredients  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt, 
one  good  saltspoon  white  pepper,  quarter  gill  tarragon  vinegar  and 
three  quarters  of  a  gill  sweet  oil.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  whisk  for  two 
minutes  and  serve  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

593.  POTATOES,  BERNOISE 

Peel  and  cut  into  half-inch  squares  six  very  sound,  medium-sized, 
dry  potatoes,  wash  thoroughly,  and  plunge  into  a  pint  boiling  water  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  heat 
in  a  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  melted  lard;  add  the  potatoes  and  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile.  Remove  all  the 
fat  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  then  dredge  half  teaspoon  salt  over  them, 
add  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  half  clove  very  finely  chopped 
garlic;  brown  for  a  minute  and  a  half,  tossing  gently  meanwhile.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

594.    MILLE  FEUILLES 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  half  pound  feuilletage,  as  per 
No.  756,  as  thin  as  possible;  then  with  a  round  pastry  cutter  three  inches 


166  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  diameter  cut  out  eighteen  pieces.  Lay  them  on  a  lightly  buttered 
pastry  pan.  Make  a  few  small  incisions  with  a  fork  on  top  of  each,  lightly 
wet  with  the  white  of  an  egg  by  means  of  a  hair  pastry  brush ;  then  spread 
half  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  over  each ;  let  rest  for  half  hour.  Set  the 
pan  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off. 
Spread  half  teaspoon  apricot  jelly  over  six  pieces;  spread  half  teaspoon 
Frangipani  cream  over  six  more  pieces;  then  half  teaspoon  raspberry 
jam  over  the  remaining  six  pieces.  Take  three  pieces,  one  of  each 
kind,  and  arrange  evenly,  one  on  top  of  another;  decorate  with  a  little 
whipped  cream  and  proceed  the  same  with  the  rest.  Arrange  the  six 
mille  feuilles  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Sprinkle  a  little  powdered 
sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Celestine 

Striped  Bass,  Caper  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Dauphine  (415) 

Squabs,  a  1'Estouffade 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Salad.  Doucette  (189) 

Cherry  Pudding 

595.    CONSOMME^  CELESTINE 

Strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme  prepared  as  per  No.  52 
and  keep  hot. 

Place  in  a  bowl  one  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  flour;  add  two  raw  eggs 
and  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt ;  briskly 
mix  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes.  Then  pass  the  preparation  through 
a  strainer  into  another  bowl. 

Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  half  tablespoon  melted  butter,  drop  in 
four  tablespoons  of  the  preparation,  well  spread  all  over  the  pan,  and 
cook  for  two  minutes  on  each  side;  turn  the  pancake  on  a  large  dish  and 
keep  warm;  then  proceed  the  same  with  the  rest  of  the  paste.  Cut  the 
pancakes  into  thin  julienne-shaped  strips  and  drop  them  into  the  con- 
somme; boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

596.    STRIPED  BASS,  CAPER  SAUCE 

Thoroughly  wipe  two  fine,  fresh  striped  bass  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  hot  water  and  half  ounce  but- 
ter. Cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper  and  let  boil 
for  five  minutes ;  then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  and  keep  hot. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour;  stir  well  while  heating  for  a  minute,  then  pour  in  the  liquor  of  the 
fish  with  three-quarters  of  a  gill  hot  milk;  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  then  add  two  tablespoons  capers ;  mix  well  and  boil  for  one  minute. 
Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon  cold  milk  and  add  to  the  sauce ;  mix 
well  for  half  minute  without  boiling.  Dress  the  bass  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauce  over  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         167 

597.    SQUABS,  A  L'ESTOUFFADE 

Singe,  draw,  wipe  and  truss  six  fat  squabs.  Place  them  in  an 
earthen  coccotte  dish,  one  beside  another.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Glaze  the  breasts  with  a  very 
little  melted  butter.  Set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning 
over  once  in  a  while  and  occasionally  basting  with  their  own  gravy. 
With  a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  dig  out  all  you  can  from  two  medium, 
red  carrots,  and  two  medium,  sound,  raw,  peeled  potatoes  and  keep 
separately.  Place  the  carrots  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  ounce 
melted  butter,  adding  one  gill  cold  water.  Season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  boil  for  five  minutes ;  then  set  the 
pan  in  the  oven  to  braise  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  warm 
till  required.  Plunge  the  potatoes  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five 
minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  sprinkle  half  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them 
and  keep  in  a  hot  place.  Prepare  the  same  amount  glazed  onions, 
exactly  as  per  No.  125,  and  also  keep  separately.  Chop  up  very  finely 
four  sound  shallots  and  place  all  around  the  squabs ;  then  place  the  glazed 
onions  in  the  centre  of  the  squabs  and  arrange  the  carrots  and  potatoes, 
alternately,  around.  Pour  one  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122),  on  the 
breasts  of  the  squabs ;  tightly  cover  the  cocottiere  and  place  it  in  the  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table  without  uncovering. 

598.    CHERRY  PUDDING 

Cut  into  dice  pieces  four  ounces  sandwich  bread  and  place  it  in  a  bowl; 
add  two  gills  lukewarm  milk,  mix  well;  then  press  the  bread  between  the 
hands  to  suppress  the  milk.  Replace  the  bread  in  the  same  bowl  with  one 
ounce  good  butter,  a  saltspoon  salt,  three  whole  eggs,  three  ounces  candied 
cherries  cut  in  quarters,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  four  tablespoons 
cream;  mix  all  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes. 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  sprinkle  their  interior 
with  a  little  flour,  then  fill  with  the  preparation.  Place  them  in  a  pastry 
tin  with  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height  and  set  in  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  vanilla 
Sabayon  (No.  102)  over  and  send  to  the  table. 

Thursday,  First  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Fried  Eggs,  Finnoise 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette        Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 
English  Muffins  (528) 

599.    FRIED  EGGS,  FINNOISE 

Finely  chop  one  medium,  green  pepper  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  gently  cook  for  two  minutes 


i68  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

without  browning;  then  add  two  gills  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.i6);  lightly 
stir  and  let  reduce  to  half;  add  half  ounce  good  butter,  bit  by  bit;  stir 
till  the  butter  is  thoroughly  melted,  then  shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of 
the  range. 

Prepare  twelve  fried  eggs  as  per  No.  154.  After  the  eggs  have  been 
dressed  on  the  dish  pour  the  above  sauce  over  and  serve. 

600.  CHICKEN  LIVERS  EN  BROCHETTE 

Remove  the  galls  from  twelve  fine,  fresh  chicken  livers  and  neatly 
wipe  them  all  over  with  a  clean  towel.  Cut  each  liver  in  half  and  place 
on  a  plate.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper;  turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning.  Cut  twenty-four  small,  thin 
pieces  lean  bacon  of  about  the  same  size  as  the  livers;  then  arrange  on 
six  skewers  "brochettes"  alternately.  Pour  a  tablespoon  oil  on  the 
same  plate  as  the  seasoning;  roll  the  livers  in  the  oil,  then  lightly  roll 
in  fresh  bread  crumbs;  place  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk 
fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  over 
six  freshly  prepared  toasts.  Spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.y) 
over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Fried  Scallops  (175),  Tartare  Sauce  (48) 

Broiled  Devilled  Roast  Beef 

Baked  Potatoes 
Mace'doine  Tartlets 

6ooA.    FRIED  SCALLOPS,  TARTARE  SAUCE 

Prepare  the  same  amount  fried  scallops  exactly  the  same  as  per  No. 
175  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  as  per  No.  48  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

601.  BROILED  DEVILLED  ROAST  BEEF 

Cut  into  thin  slices  all  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday.  Have 
a  devilled  butter,  prepared  as  per  No.  n;  spread  a  very  little  of  the 
butter  on  both  sides  of  each  slice  of  beef,  gently  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  two  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

6oiA.     BAKED  POTATOES 

Neatly  wipe  and  place  six  good-sized,  sound,  unpeeled  raw  potatoes 
on  a  tin  plate  and  set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes, 
taking  care  to  turn  them  over  once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  serve. 

602.    MACE'DOINE  TARTLETS 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  tartlet  moulds.  Roll  out  very  thin  on 
lightly  floured  table  half  pound  pie  paste,  prepared  as  per  No.  .117. 
Cut  out  six  round  pieces  of  equal  size,  half  an  inch  larger  in  diameter 
than  the  moulds.  Nicely  arrange  the  paste  in  the  moulds,  pressing 
well  around  the  edges,  then  fill  them  with  white  beans  (dried);  place 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          169 

them  in  a  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.     Remove,  let  cool 
off,  remove  the  beans  and  detach  the  tartlets  from  the  moulds. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  one  sound,  peeled  and  seeded  apple,  one  sound, 
peeled  and  seeded  orange,  six  strawbcriics,  twelve  stewed  canned 
cherries,  one  peach  and  two  plums;  place  in  a  bowl  with  three  table- 
spoons currant  jelly,  one  tablespoon  good  maraschino  and  two  table- 
spoons fine  sugar;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes,  then 
fill  the  tartlets  with  the  fruit  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  (141) 

Mock  Turtle,  a  1'Anglaise 

Baked  Shad,  Soubise  Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Lamb  Tongues,  Bergere 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Dandelion  Salad 

Neselrode  Pudding        Petites  Bouche"es  de  Dames 

603.  MOCK  TURTLE  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Have  in  a  large  saucepan  two  pounds  cracked  veal  bones,  also  a  few 
cracked  ham  bones  if  at  hand,  one  sliced  carrot,  two  sliced  onions, 
one  sliced  stalk  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  two 
cloves,  one  tablespoon  black  whole  pepper,  half  teaspoon  thyme,  one 
sprig  marjoram,  one  teaspoon  allspice  and  one  ounce  butter.  Place 
the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  brown 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  one  ounce  flour,  briskly  stir  for  a  minute 
and  let  brown  again  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  which  will  take  about 
twenty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Moisten  with  four  quarts  broth 
or  hot  water.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Any  remnants  of  beef  or  chicken 
bones  on  hand  can  be  added  to  the  soup.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  three  hours,  being  very  careful  to  skim  off  the  fat  once  in  a  while. 

Strain  the  soup  through  a  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  then  add 
one  gill  of  sherry,  two  tablespoons  brandy,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  two  ounces  cooked  calf's  head 
(No.  591)  cut  into  small  dice  pieces.  Boil  for  forty-five  minutes  more, 
being  careful  to  skim  off  the  fat  once  in  a  while.  Add  half  peeled  lemon 
cut  into  four  slices,  one  finely  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  one  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives;  gently  mix 
and  boil  for  five  minutes  longer,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

604.  BAKED  SHAD,  SAUCE  SOUBISE 

Finely  chop  one  white  onion  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  half 
pint  cold  milk.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  gently  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour;  stir  well,  pour  the  milk  into  this  pan  and  briskly  stir  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  two  tablespoons  cold  milk, 


170  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

add  it  to  the  same,  stir  for  one  minute  and  remove  to  the  corner  of  the 
range,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  again. 

After  procuring,  remove  the  principal  bones  from  half  a  fresh  six- 
pound  shad;  wipe  nicely  and  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  pan.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika;  spread  half  tablespoon 
melted  butter  over  the  surface  of  the  fish,  cover  with  a  sheet  of  lightly 
buttered  paper  and  set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  lift  up  the  paper,  then  pour  the  Soubise  sauce 
over  the  shad,  dredge  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  it, 
reset  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  longer,  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Remove  from  the  oven,  carefully  lift  up  the  fish  with  two 
skimmers,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  decorated  all  around  with  very  thin 
slices  of  lemon  and  serve. 

605.    LAMB  TONGUES,  BERGERE 

Have  in  a  saucepan  one  quart  boiling  water  with  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Plunge  in  twelve  fine,  fat,  fresh  lamb's  tongues  and  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve,  remove  the  skins,  trim  nicely,  split  in  two  and  keep 
on  a  plate.  Remove  the  stalks  from  two  quarts  very  fresh  sorrel,  wash 
in  three  changes  of  fresh  water,  lift  up  with  the  hands  and  carefully 
press  out  the  water.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  the  drained  sorrel,  cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  mixing  with  a  fork  meanwhile.  Press  through  a  wire  sieve 
and  replace  in  the  pan.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon 
sugar  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper,  adding  half  ounce  good  butter; 
gently  heat  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile;  shift  to  the 
corner  of  the  range  and  keep  hot. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan ;  add  the  tongues,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side. 
Dress  the  sorrel  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  tongues  on  top, 
pour  a  hot  piquante  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  177,  over  all  and  serve. 

606.    DANDELION  SALAD 

Procure  a  quart  very  fresh,  tender  dandelions.  Carefully  remove 
the  roots  and  stale  leaves,  thoroughly  wash  in  three  changes  of  fresh 
water,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth  or  wire  basket  and  place  in  a 
salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing,  as  per  No.  863, 
mix  well  and  serve. 

607.    NESELRODE  PUDDING 

Have  a  vanilla  ice  cream,  prepared  as  No.  42.  Then  place  in  a  bowl 
half  pint  candied  chestnuts,  add  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  mix  well 
and  let  incorporate  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  chestnuts,  etc.,  to  the 
vanilla  ice  cream  and  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Fill 
six  well-cleaned  individual  pudding  moulds  with  the  ice  cream,  place 
the  moulds  in  the  same  freezer,  cover  and  let  freeze  for  one  hour.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin ;  arrange  half  a  chestnut  on  top 
of  each  Neselrode  and  serve  with  a  kirsch  sauce  separately. 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  171 

608.    KIRSCH  SAUCE 

Gently  mix  a  tablespoon  good  kirschwasser  in  a  gill  and  a  half,  only, 
whipped  cream  (No.  337)  and  serve  in  a  cold  saucebowl  separately. 

609.    PETITES  BOUCHE'ES  DE  DAMES 

Place  four  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  fine  sugar  and  briskly 
whisk  up  with  a  whisk  for  six  minutes,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  four 
eggs  beaten  up  to  a  stiff  froth  and  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  with  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  pastry  bag  in  which 
a  tube  quarter  of  an  inch  in  diameter  has  previously  been  adjusted  at 
the  bottom.  Then  carefully  press  the  preparation  down  on  a  slightly 
buttered  and  floured  pastry  pan  to  round  form  one  inch  in  diameter, 
which  ought  to  turn  out  about  twenty-four.  Set  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  to 
bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  till  a  nice  colour.  Remove  the  pan  and  let  cool  off. 

Detach  the  cakes  from  the  pan,  lay  them  upside  down  on  a  table; 
then  with  a  knife  spread  a  little  raspberry  jelly  over  the  top  of  each  cake 
and  fasten  two  by  two.  Arrange  the  twelve  bouchees  on  a  small  iron 
grating  with  a  pan  underneath.  Have  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  glazed 
sugar  and  the  white  of  one  egg;  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five 
minutes;  add  a  teaspoon  rum,  mix  well,  then  gently  spread  this  prepa- 
ration over  the  bouchees.  Let  dry  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin. 

Friday,  First  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas,  Cream  (151)  Wheatena  (1298) 

Poached  Eggs,  Bangalore 

Broiled  Bluefish  (328) 

Hamburg  Steaks  (108)         Potatoes,  Failles 
Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

6 10.  POACHED  EGGS,  BANGALORE 

Peel  and  core  three  large  sound  apples.  Cut  each  one  into  four 
even  slices,  lightly  dip  in  cold  milk  and  roll  in  flour.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  the  apples  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another, 
and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up,  drain  on 
a  cloth,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  curry  powder  over  on  both  sides,  evenly 
divided.  Place  them  on  a  large  dish. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs,  as  per  No.  106;  place  an  egg  on  each 
slice  of  apple,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top  and  serve. 

611.  POTATOES,  PAILLES  (STRAW,) 

Peel  three  medium,  sound  potatoes.  Cut  them  into  thin  match- 
shaped  strips;  wash  well  in  cold  water,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  plunge 
them  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  or  till  a  nice  golden  colour, 
frequently  turning  them  over  with  the  skimmer.  Lift  up,  drain  well  in 
a  frying  basket,  dredge  half  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  gently  shake  in 
the  basket,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


172  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331)  Canapes  of  Lobster  (200) 

Pilaff  of  Tenderloin,  au  Risotto 

Eggs,  au  Beurre  Noir 

Rice  Pancakes 

612.    PILAFF  OF  TENDERLOIN,  AU  RISOTTO 

Finely  chop  one  medium,  white,  sound  onion  and  a  sound  green 
pepper,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter; 
cook  for  three  minutes  without  browning,  gently  stirring  meanwhile; 
then  add  four  ounces  good,  well-cleaned  rice;  stir  well  while  cooking 
for  one  minute.  Moisten  with  two  gills  white  broth  (No.  701)  or  hot 
water,  one  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  hot  demi-glace 
(No.  122).  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron 
and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  a  hot  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  hot.  Cut  one  pound  and 
a  half  raw  tenderloin  of  beef  into  half-inch-square  pieces.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  beef,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  and  let  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes,  gently  tossing 
occasionally.  Take  up  the  beef  with  a  skimmer  and  add  it  to  the  risotto. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  place  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

613.  EGGS,  AU  BEURRE  NOIR  (BROWN  BUTTER,) 
Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs 
into  each  dish.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  evenly  divided  over  them.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  four 
minutes.  Remove  to  a  table.  Place  one  ounce  good  butter  in  a  small 
black  frying  pan  and  toss  on  a  brisk  fire  until  it  attains  a  nice  brown 
colour,  then  pour  in  a  teaspoon  good  vinegar,  lightly  toss  and  then 
pour  it  over  the  eggs,  evenly  divided,  and  serve. 

614.    RICE  PANCAKES 

Place  in  a  bowl  three  ounces  rice  flour  with  half  saltspoon  salt,  three 
eggs,  three  gills  cold  milk  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Sharply 
mix  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  strain  the  preparation  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  into  another  bowl  and  proceed  to  make  the  cakes 
exactly  as  per  No.  17. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Olives  Caviare  (59) 

Bisque  of  Shrimp  Kingfish,  Comtesse 

Breaded  Mutton  Chops,  Bruxelloise 

•Macaroni,  au  Gratin  (160) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

College  Pudding 

615.    BISQUE  OF  SHRIMP 

Procure  four  dozen  fresh  shrimp;  wash  in  several  changes  of  fresh 
water  and  drain  well.  Pound  in  a  clean  mortar  to  a  paste,  remove, 
place  on  a  plate  and  keep  till  required. 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  173 

Have  in  a  saucepan  half  medium,  sliced  carrot,  half  ditto  white  onion, 
two  branches  parsley,  two  branches  chopped  celery,  two  sliced  leaks 
and  one  ounce  butter.  Gently  cook  the  vegetables  for  fifteen  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Then  add  the  shrimp;  stir  well  for  a 
minute,  then  let  cook  for  ten  minutes  more,  lightly  mixing  with  a  wooden 
spoon  occasionally.  Add  two  ounces  flour,  thoroughly  mix  for  two 
minutes;  moisten  with  a  quart  hot  milk  and  one  quart  white  broth 
(No.  701).  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  one  egg  yolk  diluted 
in  half  gill  cream;  mix  well  for  two  minutes  without  boiling.  Pass 
through  a  sieve  first,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen, 
and  serve  very  hot  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

6 1 6.      KlNGFISH,    COMTESSE 

Procure  two  small  fresh  kingfish  of  one  pound  each.  Split  in  two 
through  the  back,  remove  all  the  bones  and  cut  the  fish  in  equal  one- 
inch  pieces.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  half  gill  sherry.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  a 
little,  then  cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper.  Set  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  lift  up  the  paper,  place  the 
pan  on  the  fire,  add  half  gill  cream,  one  gill  hot  milk  and  twelve  sliced 
heads  canned  mushrooms.  Boil  the  whole  for  five  minutes.  Dilute 
two  egg  yolks  in  two  tablespoons  cold  milk  and  add  to  the  fish;  gently 
stir  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Equally 
divide  the  prepared  fish  into  six  paper  cases,  arrange  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

617.    BREADED  MUTTON  CHOPS,  BRUXELLOISE 

Trim  the  bones  and  neatly  flatten  six  fine  tender  mutton  chops. 
Season  them  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper;  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then  in  beaten-up  egg  and  lastly  in  fresh 
bread  crumbs.  Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan.  Arrange 
the  chops  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  for  iive  minutes 
on  each  side;  then  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  drain 
well,  pour  in  half  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  the  centre  of  a  hot 
dish,  dress  the  chops  around  crown  shape.  Place  the  Brussels  sprouts 
in  the  centre  of  the  chops  and  serve. 

618.  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Carefully  remove  all  stale  outer  leaves  from  a  quart  fresh  Brussels 
sprouts.  Wash  in  two  different  changes  of  water,  then  plunge  into  a 
quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve  and  place  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  good 
butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper; 
gently  toss  them  while  cooking  for  two  minutes  and  use  as  required. 

619.  COLLEGE  PUDDING 

Three  ounces  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces  finely  chopped  beef  kidney 
suet,  two  ounces  thoroughly  picked  currants,  half  ounce  finely  chopped 


174  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

candied  orange  peel,  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  half  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg, two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  good  brandy. 

Place  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  basin,  add  all  the  other  ingredients  and 
briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Lightly  butter 
six  individual  pudding  moulds.  Fill  them  with  the  mixture,  place  in  a 
tin,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height  and  set  in  the  oven  to  steam 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  claret 
Sabayon  sauce  (No.  587)  over  them  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 


Saturday,  First  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Pears        Oatmeal  Porridge   (2) 

Eggs,  Molet          Broiled  Sardelles  on  Toast 

English  Mutton  Chops  with  Bacon 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

620.    STEWED  PEARS 

Peel  and  cut  into  quarters  six  medium,  sound,  fresh  pears;  remove 
the  seeds,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  three  ounces  granulated  sugar, 
one  gill  claret,  one  gill  cold  water  and  half  stick  cinnamon.  Cover  the 
pan  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  cinnamon,  pour  into  a  dish 
and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

621.    EGGS,  MOLET 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Lift  them 
up  and  gently  drop  them  in  cold  water  for  half  minute.  Shell  them,  dress 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

622.    BROILED  SARDELLES  ON  TOAST 

Neatly  wipe  six  large  or  twelve  small  pickled  sardelles;  roll  them  in  a 
tablespoon  oil,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  toast, 
pour  a  little  hot  melted  butter  over  them  and  serve. 

623.  ENGLISH  MUTTON  CHOPS  WITH  BACON 

Prepare  and  broil  six  English  mutton  chops  same  as  per  No.  261. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  twelve  thin  slices  bacon,  prepared  as  per 
No.  13,  on  top  of  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallops  Brochette  with  Ham 

Veal  Cutlets,  Neapolitan 

Lambs'  Tongues  and  Potato  Salad 

Mince  Pie  (117) 

624.  SCALLOPS  EN  BROCHETTES  WITH  HAM 

Procure  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  medium-sized  scallops  and 
arrange  equally  on  six  skewers,  running  the  skewers  right  through  the 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          175 

centre  of  each  scallop.  Have  on  a  plate  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  oil;  mix  well,  roll  the  scallops  in  the  sea- 
soning and  then  lightly  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  the  skewers  on  a 
double  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and 
keep  warm. 

Broil  for  two  minutes  on  each  side  six  very  thin  slices  ham.  Dress 
the  ham  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  scallops  on  top  and  serve. 

625.    VEAL  CUTLETS,  NEAPOLITAN 

Trim  and  neatly  flatten  six  veal  cutlets  and  place  on  a  plate.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  spread  a  very  little 
melted  butter  on  both  sides  of  the  cutlets,  then  roll  nicely  in  two  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  large 
frying  pan,  place  the  cutlets,  one  beside  another,  in  the  pan  and  fry 
gently  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side;  then  keep  warm  on  a  corner  of 
the  range. 

Plunge  half  pound  macaroni  into  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a 
tablespoon  salt  and  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve, 
place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  two  gills  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  gently 
mix  with  a  fork  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  two  ounces  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  and  toss  well  for  one  minute.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange 
the  cutlets  over  the  macaroni  and  serve. 

N.  B.    The  macaroni  should  be  prepared  before  the  cutlets. 

626.  LAMBS'  TONGUES  AND  POTATO  SALAD 

Trim  well  and  round  six  pickled  lambs'  tongues;  slice  them  length- 
wise into  very  thin  slices.  Slice  also  very  thin  six  small,  cold,  boiled 
potatoes.  Place  both  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  as  per  No.  863.  Mix 
well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Stuffed  Olives  with  Cheese 

Tomato  with  Rice 

Filets  of  Sole  au  Gratin      Potatoes  Chateau  (208) 
Spring  Lamb  Steaks,  Bearnaise 

Cauliflower,   Saute's 

Roast  Suckling  Pig,  Apple  Sauce 

Dandelion  Salad  with  Eggs 

Charlotte  aux  Pornmes 

627.    STUFFED  OLIVES  WITH  CHEESE 

Stone  carefully  twelve  queen  olives.  Place  in  a  bowl  half  ounce 
cream  or  Neufchatel  cheese,  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  one  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  a  perfect  paste  and  with  it 
fill  the  twelve  stoned  olives.  Place  them  on  a  hors  d'ceuvres  dish  and  serve. 

628.    TOMATO  WITH  RICE 

Prepare  a  tomato  puree,  as  per  No.  457,  but  instead  of  vermicelli  use 
the  same  quantity  fresh,  hot,  boiled  rice.  Boil  for  five  minutes  and  serve. 


176  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

629.    FILETS  OF  SOLE  AU  GRATIN 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  one  small,  sound, 
white  onion  and  cook  for  five  minutes  without  browning,  occasionally 
stirring;  add  six  good-sized,  well-peeled  and  thoroughly  cleaned  fresh 
mushrooms;  stir  well  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes;  then  add  one  and  a 
half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122);  stir  well  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Thicken  with  one  egg  yolk  diluted  in  a  tablespoon  cold  milk;  stir  well 
while  heating  for  one  minute  without  boiling  and  keep  warm  on  the 
corner  of  the  range. 

Lift  up  and  skin  the  filets  from  a  fresh  three-pound  flounder ;  cut  each 
filet,  crosswise,  into  three  equal  pieces,  arrange  in  a  sautoire,  adding  one 
teaspoon  salt,  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine  and  a  gill  cold  water. 
Cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper.  Boil  on  the  range 
for  one  minute  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove, 
lift  up  the  paper,  place  the  filets  on  a  hot  baking  dish,  pour  the  above 
sauce  over  the  fish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
over  all,  reset  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  for  five  minutes  more.  Remove, 
decorate  the  dish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  serve. 

630.    SPRING  LAMB  STEAKS,  BEARNAISE 

Procure  three  even  slices,  about  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  and 
one  inch  in  thickness,  from  a  leg  of  spring  lamb;  neatly  flatten  with  a 
cleaver  and  make  a  few  small  incisions  on  the  skin  all  around  the  steaks. 
Season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  the  steaks  in 
the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  on  the  range  for  six  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and 
serve  with  a  hot  Bearnaise  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  34,  in  a  saucebowl 
separately. 

631.    CAULIFLOWER  SAUTES 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  of  a  good-sized,  firm,  white  cauliflower. 
Drop  it  into  a  saucepan  containing  half  gallon  boiling  water  with  a  table- 
spoon salt  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  sieve, 
then  carefully  detach  all  the  branches  with  the  flowers  from  the  main 
stalk. 

Heat  in  a  small  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  add 
the  cauliflower.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper;  toss  well  once  in  a  while,  while  cooking  on  the  fire  for  five  min- 
utes. Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

632.    SUCKLING  PIG,  APPLE  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  large  roasting  pan  half  a  very  small  suckling  pig.  Dredge 
one  tablespoon  salt  and  one  teaspoon  white  pepper  over  it;  spread  three 
tablespoons  melted  lard  over  the  surface,  pour  one  gill  cold  water  into 
the  pan.  Set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes, 
turning  it  over  once  in  a  while  and  basting  it  with  its  own  gravy  quite 
frequently.  Remove  from  the  oven.  Dress  on  a  large  hot  dish,  decorate 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          177 

with  a  little  watercress  and  send  to  the  table  with  an  apple  sauce,  pre- 
pared as  per  No.  188,  separately. 

633.    DANDELION  SALAD  WITH  EGGS 

Carefully  pick  off  all  stale  leaves  from  a  quart  very  fresh,  white  dan- 
delion and  neatly  pare  the  roots.  Thoroughly  wash  in  three  different 
changes  of  fresh  water.  Carefully  drain  in  a  wire  basket  or  on  a  dry 
cloth,  then  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing 
(No.  863).  Mix  well;  just  a  minute  before  serving  finely  mince  two  cold 
hard-boiled  eggs,  lightly  sprinkle  them  all  over  the  dandelion;  gently 
mix  again,  see  that  the  eggs  are  thoroughly  mixed  in  and  serve. 

634.    CHARLOTTE  AUX  POMMES 

Lightly  butter  a  large  pudding  mould.  Have  in  a  bowl  four  ounces 
clarified  butter.  Cut  a  slice  of  stale  bread  to  fit  the  bottom  of  the  mould 
and  gently  dip  it  in  the  clarified  butter,  then  place  it  at  the  bottom  of  the 
mould.  Cut  a  few  strips  of  bread  of  the  height  of  the  mould,  about  one 
and  a  half  inches  wide  by  one-quarter  inch  in  thickness.  Dip  in  the 
clarified  butter  and  set  up  around  the  inside  of  the  mould,  as  close  to 
one  another  as  possible  to  prevent  escape  of  apple  juice. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  eight  fine,  sound  apples;  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
an  ounce  good  butter,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  cover  the  pan  and 
let  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  occasionally.  Add 
four  ounces  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Mix  well  for  one 
minute,  fill  up  the  mould  with  the  apples  and  cover  with  a  round  piece 
of  bread.  Place  the  mould  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  to  a  nice  light 
colour,  which  will  take  about  forty  minutes.  Remove  it  from  the  oven ; 
turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  dredge  a  little  fine  sugar  over  the  top  of  the  char- 
lotte. Have  half  pint  of  apricot  jam  spread  all  around  the  charlotte  and 
serve. 

Sunday,   Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Hominy  (44) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Tomatoes 

Fried  Butternsh 

Sirloin  Steaks   (6) 

Hashed  Saute'e  Potatoes  (50) 

Waffles  (296) 

635.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATOES 

Plunge  three  good-sized,  sound  red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for 
half  minute,  lift  them  up,  skin  nicely,  slice  each  into  four  equal  slices 
and  place  on  a  plate.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  fine 
sugar  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  white  pepper;  then  lightly  turn  them 
in  flour.  Heat  in  a  small  frying  pan  one  teaspoon  melted  butter: 


178  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

place  two  slices  tomatoes  in  the  pan  and  briskly  fry  for  one  minute 
on  each  side.  Set  the  pan  a  little  away  from  the  brisk  fire,  then 
carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs,  one  on  top  of  each  slice  of  tomato,  and 
set  the  pan  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  four  minutes.  Remove  and  gently 
slide  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Proceed  to  prepare  five  more  in  a  similar 
manner  and  serve. 

636.    FRIED  BUTTERFISH 

Neatly  wipe  six  very  fresh,  medium-sized  butterfish;  place  them 
on  a  dish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  then  baste  with  a  gill  cold  milk  and  briskly  roll  in  flour. 
Heat  three  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  them 
in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with 
thin  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 


LUNCHEON 

Consomme  in  Cups  (52) 
Broiled  Devilled  Lobster  (158)     ' 
Turkey  Hash  au  Gratin 
Macaroni  in  Cream  (386) 
Riz  au  Lait  d'Amandes 

637.    TURKEY  HASH  AU  GRATIN 

Peel  ofi;  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  from  Friday  night  and 
mince  very  finely.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  then  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  hot  milk;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix 
well  with  a  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  minced 
turkey,  with  half  ounce  good  butter,  mix  well  and  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  deep  baking  dish;  sprinkle 
a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  hash  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

638.    Riz  AU  LAIT  D'AMANDES 

Plunge  two  and  a  half  ounces  sweet  almonds  in  hot  water  for  five 
minutes.  Drain  well,  peel  and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste;  remove 
and  place  the  paste  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  and  a  half  cold  milk  and 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain  the  milk  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
another  saucepan;  add  four  ounces  well- washed  fine  rice,  two  ounces 
powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  then  slowly  cook  for  fifty  minutes,  lightly  stirring  every  five  min- 
utes..  Add  then  two  egg  yolks,  mix  for  two  minutes,  transfer  it  into  a 
deep  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          179 
DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Green  Turtle,  Parsons 
Broiled  Pompano,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (228) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Filet  of  Beef  Larded,  Madeira  Sauce 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 
Sweetbreads,  Alice  Peas,  Francaise  (145) 

Punch  au  Curacao 
Roast  Redhead  Duck,  Currant  Jelly  (37) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Madeleine  au  Caf6  Pistache  Ice  Cream 

639.    GREEN  TURTLE,  PARSONS 

Procure  and  open  a  pint  can  green  turtle,  thoroughly  heat  it  in  a 
bain-marie,  then  cut  the  meat  into  half-inch-square  pieces  and  keep  it 
in  the  broth  of  the  turtle. 

Have  one  and  a  half  quarts  hot,  strained  beef  consomme,  prepared  as 
per  No.  52,  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  turtle,  half  gill  sherry  and  a  tablespoon 
brandy;  season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  slowly  boil  the  soup 
for  twenty  minutes.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  add  three  table- 
spoons arrowroot  diluted  in  two  tablespoons  sherry;  lightly  mix,  boil 
for  one  minute  longer,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Excellent  green  turtle,  already  prepared,  can  now  be  obtained 
at  almost  any  reliable  fish  dealer's ;  still  I  deem  it  proper  to  give  the  sub- 
joined explanations  of  how  to  prepare  it. 

How  TO  PREPARE  A  GREEN  TURTLE 

Procure  a  small  live  green  turtle  of  about  twenty-five  pounds.  Hang 
it  up  with  the  head  downward,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off 
the  head  and  let  bleed  for  twelve  hours.  Separate  the  upper  from  the 
lower  shell  with  the  knife,  being  careful  to  avoid  cutting  the  gall  bladder. 
Remove  the  intestines,  cut  the  flesh  away  from  the  shells,  as  well  as 
bones,  etc.  Cut  each  shell  into  four  equal  pieces,  plunge  in  boiling  water 
and  blanch  for  three  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  drain  well,  then  with  a 
small  knife  detach  all  the  horny  skin  around  the  shells. 

Place  in  a  large  saucepan  five  pounds  bones  or  parings  of  veal,  also 
about  two  pounds  lean  parings  of  beef,  as  well  as  a  few  beef  bones. 
Pour  in  seven  gallons  cold  water.  Season  with  six  tablespoons  salt  and 
one  tablespoon  white  pepper  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Carefully  remove 
the  scum  from  the  surface.  Add  six  small  peeled  carrots,  six  medium, 
white  onions,  four  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  one  bunch  parsley.  Tie 
in  a  cloth  four  sprigs  bay  leaf,  a  teaspoon  thyme,  half  teaspoon  sage,  two 
tablespoons  whole  black  peppers,  a  tablespoon  allspice,  six  cloves,  two 
blades  mace  and  add  to  the  broth ;  then  slowly  boil  for  six  hours.  Strain 
the  broth  through  a  sieve  into  another  large  saucepan  on  the  range;  add 
one  gallon  cold  water  and  all  the  shells  and  fins  and  briskly  boil  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  fins  and  keep  them  on  a  dish  and 


i8o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

slowly  cook  the  shells,  etc.,  for  forty-five  minutes.    Remove  the  shells 
and  place  them  with  the  fins. 

Strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  on  the  range.  Remove  all  the  meat  from  the  shells  and  fins  and 
cut  the  green  part  of  the  meat  into  half -inch-square  pieces  and  keep  on  a 
plate.  Reduce  the  broth  to  one  gallon  and  a  half,  then  add  the  meat 
pieces  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Transfer  it  into  a  stone  jar,  let  thor- 
oughly cool  off  and  place  the  jar  in  the  ice  box  till  the  next  day. 

Lightly  melt  in  a  frying  pan  four  ounces  leaf  lard  and  carefully  spread 
it  over  the  surface  of  the  broth  to  prevent  souring,  and  always  keep  in  a 
cool  place. 

The  lean  part  of  the  turtle  can  be  cut  into  thin  slices  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick;  then  breaded  and  fried  in  butter  for  six  minutes  and 
served  as  steaks  with  tomato  sauce,  or  finely  minced  and  prepared 
Creole  style. 

640.    FILET  OF  BEEF  LARDED,  MADEIRA  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  larded  filet  of  beef  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  144.  Dress 
it  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve  with  a  hot 
Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

641.    MADEIRA  SAUCE 

Place  half  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  three-quarters  of  a  gill 
hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  a  small  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Then  add  two  tablespoons  good  Madeira  wine,  half  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper;  mix  well,  then  gently  boil  for  five  minutes  more. 
Pour  into  a  hot  saucebowl  and  serve. 

642.    SWEETBREADS,  ALICE 

Soak  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Lift  them 
up  and  plunge  into  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  to 
blanch  for  five  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  well  on  a  cloth,  then  neatly  trim 
all  around.  Cut  twenty-four  very  thin  strips  larding  pork,  and  with  a 
very  small  larding  needle  carefully  lard  the  top  of  each  sweetbread  with 
four  strips  of  the  lard.  Lay  the  breads  in  a  sautoire,  one  beside  another. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  of  grated  nutmeg,  adding  three-quarters  of  a  pint  cold  cream  and 
one  pint  very  fresh  milk.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  on  the  range  for  ten 
minutes,  then  add  twelve  good-sized  peeled  and  well-cleaned  fresh 
mushroom  heads  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Knead  well 
half  ounce  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour  in  a  bowl  and  carefully  add, 
little  by  little,  to  the  breads ;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking 
for  one  minute,  without  breaking  the  breads.  Remove  the  pan  to  the 
table.  Have  six  small  individual  mushroom  glass  bells.  Cut  six  round 
pieces  bread  to  the  diameter  of  the  bottom  of  the  bells;  lightly  toast 
them.  Place  each  toast  in  a  shirred-egg  dish,  then  place  a  sweet- 
bread on  top  of  each  toast,  nicely  arrange  two  heads  of  mushrooms  on 
top  of  each  sweetbread,  then  cover  them  with  the  glass  bells.  Divide 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         181 

the  sauce  of  the  breads  evenly  in  the  six  dishes  around  the  bells.  Place 
on  the  range,  and  as  soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil  place  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  place  on  six 
plates  and  serve  with  the  bells,  that  is,  do  not  remove  the  bells  till  they 
are  on  the  table. 

643.  PUNCH  AU  CURACAO 

Prepare  a  lemon  ice,  as  per  No.  376,  and  when  ready  add  two  and  a 
half  tablespoons  good  curacao;  mix  well  for  one  minute  and  serve  in  six 
sherbet  glasses. 

644.  MADELEINE  AU  CAFE" 

Break  four  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces  sugar  and 
sharply  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  four  ounces 
sifted  flour  with  three  tablespoons  very  strong-made  coffee,  gently  mix 
with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute;  then  add  three  ounces  melted  butter 
and  a  saltspoon  baking  powder;  gently  mix  again  for  half  minute,  then 
pour  into  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  tin  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  to 
bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  cut  the  madeleine 
into  six  equal  pieces,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

645.  PISTACHE  ICE  CREAM 

Peel  and  pound  gently  one-quarter  a  pound  fresh  pistachios;  then 
add  to  it  a  vanilla  ice-cream  preparation  before  cooking.  Proceed  to 
cook  and  finish  the  cream  exactly  the  same  as  per  vanilla  ice  cream 
(No.  42).  Pour  in  one  tablespoon  maraschino,  half  teaspoon  almond 
essence  and  one  teaspoon  kirsh;  mix  well  and  serve  as  you  do  vanilla. 


Monday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Germea  (217) 

Poached  Eggs,  Lyonnaise 

Country  Sausages  (134) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf 

Griddle  Cakes  (136) 

646.    POACHED  EGGS,  LYONNAISE 

Cut  in  half  and  slice  very  finely  two  medium-sized,  sound  white 
onions,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  onions  with  a  sheet  of  but- 
tered paper,  cook  on  the  range  for  two  minutes  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper  and  dress  the  onions  on  a 
large,  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  as  per  No.  106.  Carefully  lay  them 
over  the  onions.  Spread  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  the  surface 
of  the  eggs,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve. 


i82  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

647.  POTATOES,  PONT  NEUF 

Peel  four  quite  large,  sound  potatoes;  wash  and  cut  them  lengthwise 
into  pieces  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  the  full  length  of  the  potatoes ;  wash 
again  and  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  well  on  a  towel, 
dredge  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Bordelaise 

Croquettes  of  Beef,  Horseradish  Sauce  (1867) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Pineapple  Tartlets 

648.  OYSTERS,  BORDELAISE 

Carefully  open  twenty-four  large,  fresh  Rockaway  oysters  and  leave 
them  on  the  deep  shells.  Arrange  in  a  roasting  pan.  Season  with  a 
level  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  equally  distributed. 
Divide  two  light  tablespoons  finely  chopped,  sound  shallots  over  the 
twenty-four  oysters;  pour  one  gill  claret  over  them  and  carefully  sprinkle 
three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Place  in  the  oven  to  bake 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  all  the  gravy  from 
the  pan  over  the  oysters  and  serve. 

649.  PINEAPPLE  TARTLETS 

Peel,  carefully  remove  all  the  eyes  and  pare  the  stalks  of  a  small, 
sound  pineapple.  Cut  into  quarters,  then  into  very  fine  slices.  Place 
the  pieces  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  sugar,  two  tablespoons  good 
Jamaica  rum  and  three  gills  cold  water.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  mix 
well  for  half  minute,  then  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  let  cool  off. 

Prepare  six  individual  tartlets,  as  per  No.  161.  Fill  with  the  pine- 
apple preparation.  Finely  chop  up  a  quarter  pound  peeled  almonds 
and  sprinkle  over.  Place  the  tartlets  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  five 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Anchovies 

Oilla   Espagnole 

Sheepshead,  Oyster  Sauce          Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 
Balotine  of  Veal,  Braise",  Puree  of  Sorrel 

Fried  Eggplants  (460) 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Maraschino  Pudding 

650.    SALTED  ANCHOVIES 

Place  eighteen  half-salted  anchovies  on  the  lightly  moistened  half  of 
a  clean  towel;  with  the  dry  half  of  the  towel  neatly  wipe  the  anchovies 
all  over,  then  dress  nicely  on  a  hors  d'ceuvre  dish;  dredge  half  a  hard- 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         183 

boiled  egg,  finely  chopped  up,  and  half  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped 
parsley  over  them;  decorate  all  round  with  parsley  greens  and  a  few 
very  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  serve. 

651.      OlLLA  ESPAGNOLE 

Neatly  peel  six  small,  very  sound  white  onions.  Cut  them  into 
halves,  then  finely  mince  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter;  gently  brown  to  a  golden  colour,  which  will  take  about 
fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  once  in  a  while.  Add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  heat  for  five  minutes. 
Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  or  hot  water;  any  chicken  or 
beef  bones  on  hand  can  be  added.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  fifty 
minutes.  Lift  up  the  bones,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  add  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  and  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Serve 
with  six  slices  French  bread  toasted  to  a  nice  golden  colour. 

652.    SHEEPSHEAD,  OYSTER  SAUCE 

Scale,  wash  and  neatly  wipe  a  fine,  fresh  sheepshead  of  three  pounds. 
Place  it  in  a  large  sautoire  with  one-half  sliced  carrot,  half  sliced 
onion,  two  branches  parsley.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  a 
teaspoon  white  pepper,  half  gill  good  vinegar,  half  gill  white  wine  and  a 
pint  hot.  water.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper.  Set  on  a 
hot  range  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  place  it  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  with  a  skimmer,  dress  the  fish 
only  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Prepare  an  oyster  sauce  as  per  No.  573.  Pour  two  tablespoons  fish 
broth  in  the  oyster  sauce,  mix  well,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

653.    BALOTINE  OF  VEAL  BRAISE,  PUR£E  OF  SORREL 

Carefully  remove  all  the  bones  from  a  small  breast  of  veal.  Season  it 
all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  keep  on  a  dish. 

Skin  three  raw  pork  country  sausages,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  one 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  one 
raw  egg,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  half  gill  cream  and  one  ounce 
bread  crumbs;  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute, 
then  spread  the  preparation  evenly  over  the  inside  of  the  veal.  Roll  up 
the  breast  and  firmly  tie  it  with  string  all  its  length. 

Heat  three  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  braising  pan;  place  the 
balotine  in  the  pan  and  cook  on  the  range  until  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Then  place  a  mirepoix,  prepared  as  per  No.  271,  around  the  balotine. 
Moisten  with  a  pint  hot  water,  one  gill  claret,  two  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  two  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 

Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  the 
pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  set  in  the  oven  to  braise  for  one 
hour  and  a  quarter.  Remove  from  the  oven,  untie  the  balotine,  dress  it 
on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  reduce 
the  gravy  on  a  brisk  fire  to  about  half  a  pint,  then  strain  it  through  a  fine 


i&4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

strainer  over  the  balotine.     Neatly  arrange  a  sorrel  puree,  prepared  as 
per  No.  654,  at  both  sides  of  the  dish  and  serve. 

654.    PUREE  OF  SORREL 

Remove  the  stalks  and  also  all  stale  leaves,  if  any  adhering,  then 
thoroughly  wash  in  three  different  changes  of  cold  water  two  quarts 
very  fresh  sorrel;  lift  it  up  with  the  hands  and  drain  well.  Heat  half 
ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  and  add  the  sorrel.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  fine  sugar. 
Cover  the  pan,  and  gently  cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  ten  minutes, 
lightly  mixing  once  in  a  while;  drain  off  all  the  water,  then  press  the 
sorrel  through  a  small  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  a  few  bits  of  butter,  mix 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  serve  as  required. 

655.    MARASCHINO  PUDDING 

Cut  into  half-inch-square  pieces  four  ounces  bread  or  remnants 
of  cakes  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  three  ounces  picked,  dried  raisins,  one 
ounce  seeded  Malaga  raisins  and  six  canned  cherries  cut  into  quarters. 
Season  with  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  then  mix  well  for  two  minutes. 
Lightly  butter  and  dredge  with  powdered  sugar  six  individual  pudding 
moulds;  fill  them  with  the  mixture  up  to  three-quarters  of  the  height. 

Crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  two  gills  cold  milk  and  two 
ounces  fine  sugar.  Sharply  beat  for  five  minutes  and  then  divide  the 
preparation  equally  over  the  six  uncooked  puddings.  Place  the  moulds 
in  a  pastry  tin,  pour  in  lukewarm  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the 
moulds  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  large  dish  and  serve  with  a  Sabayon  sauce,  prepared  as 
per  No.  102,  with  a  tablespoon  maraschino  mixed  in. 


Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Cracked  Wheat 
Omelette,  Milanaise 

Panfish  Santa's 

Veal  Chops,  Breaded,  Tomato  Sauce  (55) 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Corn  Pancakes 

656."    CRACKED  WHEAT 

Have  a  pint  cold  water  and  half  pint  cold  milk  in  a  saucepan ;  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  half  pint  cracked 
wheat,  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  gently  cook  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, lightly  mixing  occasionally  to  prevent  burning  at  the  bottom. 
Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve  with  cold  milk  or  cream  and  sugar 
separately. 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         185 

657.    OMELETTE,  MILANAISE 

Boil  three  ounces  macaroni  in  a  quart  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for 
forty  minutes;  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  cut  into  half-inch  pieces. 
Place  in  a  small  sautoire,  with  a  light  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  gill 
hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  saltspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper;  gently  toss  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  two  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese;  mix  gently  with  a  fork  while  cooking  for  a 
minute,  shift  the  pan  on  the  corner  of  the  range  and  keep  warm. 

Prepare  an  omelette  exactly  as  per  No.  75,  and  just  before  folding  it 
up  spread  one-third  of  the  macaroni  well  over  the  flat  omelette.  Then 
fold  up,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  balance  of  the  macaroni  around 
the  omelette  and  serve. 

658.  PANFISH  SAUTES 

Procure  six  medium,  very  fresh,  fat  panfish.  Neatly  wipe  and  place 
on  a  plate  with  three  tablespoons  cold  milk,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  mix  a  little  and  gently  roll  in  the  mixture,  then 
lightly  turn  in  flour. 

Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  fish,  one  beside 
another,  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Lift  up  with  the  skimmer,  drain  well  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a 
large,  hot  dish,  decorate  with  parsley  greens  and  six  sections  of  sound 
lemon,  spread  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  over  and  serve. 

659.  CORN  PANCAKES 

Prepare  the  cakes  the  same  as  per  No.  17,  but  using  same  quantity 
corn  flour  instead  of  wheat  and  suppressing  the  vanilla  essence. 

LUNCHEON 

Canape*,  Victoria 

Epigramme  of  Lamb  with  Curry 

Green  Peas  au  Beurre  (35) 

Custard  Fritters 

660.    CANAPE",  VICTORIA 

Plunge  two  medium-sized  live  lobsters  into  two  gallons  boiling  water 
for  twenty  minutes;  lift  them  up  and  let  cool  off.  Crack  all  the  shells, 
without  injuring  the  meat,  carefully  remove,  and  cut  the  meat  into 
thin  slices.  Cut  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  slices  half  an  inch 
thick  and  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter;  toast  them  to  a  nice  golden 
colour,  lightly  butter  the  surface,  then  evenly  divide  the  lobster  on  top 
of  each  toast.  Mix  a  teaspoon  of  salt  with  two  saltspoons  paprika  and 
sprinkle  it  over  the  lobster. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  one  table- 
spoon flour;  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  one  and  a  half  gills  hot 
milk  and  one  and  a  half  gills  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Season  with 
two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  mix  well  and  let 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing.  Then  divide  the  prepara- 
tion evenly  on  top  of  each  lobster  canape  and  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  of 


186  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

truffle  in  the  centre  of  each.  Neatly  decorate  all  around  with  six  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  then  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  all;  place  in  a  baking  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
eight  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  parsley  and  serve. 

66 1.    EPIGRAMME  OF  LAMB  WITH  CURRY 

Carefully  pare  six  fine  French  lamb  chops.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  lightly  roll  in  melted  butter, 
then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  keep  on  a  plate. 

Boil  a  breast  of  lamb  in  two  gallons  boiling  water,  containing  a 
mirepoix  prepared  as  per  No.  271  and  two  tablespoons  salt,  for  one 
hour  and  a  half.  Remove  the  breast,  pick  out  all  the  bones,  then 
place  the  meat  between  two  dry,  clean  towels,  put  a  heavy  weight  on  top 
and  let  remain  in  that  condition  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  weight 
and  towels  and  cut  the  breast  in  six  equal  heart-shaped  pieces.  Lightly 
roll  in  melted  butter,  then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  four  table- 
spoons melted  lard  in  a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  chops  and  the 
breasts,  one  beside  another,  in  the  pan  and  gently  cook  on  the  range  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain 
on  a  cloth.  Pour  a  hot  curry  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  54,  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  arrange  the  chops  and  breasts  in  crown  shape,  one  overlapping 
another,  upon  the  curry,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  the  end  of  each  chop 
and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

662.    CUSTARD  FRITTERS 

Break  five  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  three  ounces  powdered  sugar,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  cold  milk  and  one  teaspoon  juice  from  a  sound  lemon. 
Briskly  beat  up  the  whole  together  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  strainer  into  a  lightly  buttered  tin  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  let  get  cold. 
Turn  it  then  on  the  lightly  floured  part  of  a  table  and  cut  the  custard 
into  lozenge-shaped  pieces;  turn  each  piece  in  the  flour,  then  in  beaten 
eggs,  after  this  in  bread  or  cake  crumbs.  Arrange  them  in  a  frying  bas- 
ket and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes,  lift  up,  thoroughly  drain  on  a 
cloth  and  sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  over,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters,  Dumas  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Caviare  (59) 

Consomm£  with  Noodles 
Black  Bass,  Mousseline  Potatoes,  aux  Fines  Herbes 

Tournedos  of  Beef,  with  Marrow 

Peas  with  Lettuce        Baked  Tomatoes 

Roast  Quail  sur  Canap£  (272)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Petites  Precieuses 

663.    CONSOMM£  WITH  NOODLES 

Prepare  and  strain  into  a  saucepan  a  consomme,  as  per  No.  52. 
Plunge  into  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  two  ounces 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         187 

noodles  about  two  inches  long.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Drain  on  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  consomme",  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  the  soup  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  send  to  the  table  with  about 
three  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

664.    BLACK  BASS,  MOUSSELINE 

Clean,  trim  and  neatly  wipe  two  fresh  black  bass  of  one  and  a  half 
pounds  each.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill 
white  wine,  three  gills  cold  water,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper, 
place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  place  in  a  brisk 
oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  take  up  the 
fish  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  parsley  greens 
and  six  sections  of  lemon.  Prepare  a  sauce  mousseline,  as  per  No.  211, 
adding  to  it  one  tablespoon  fish  gravy;  thoroughly  mix  and  serve  in  a 
saucebowl  separately. 

665.    POTATOES,  AUX  FINES  HERBES 

Mix  together  in  a  bowl  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives,  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chervil.  Boil  in 
a  quart  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  one  pint  Parisian  potatoes  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  frying  pan,  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  add  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  the  chopped  herbs ;  gently  turn  with  a  skimmer, 
while  heating  for  a  minute.  Transfer  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

666.    TOURNEDOS  OF  BEEF  WITH  MARROW 

Procure  six  small  tournedos  (filets)  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick 
and  two  inches  in  diameter;  place  them  on  a  plate,  season  well  all  around 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  in  a 
black  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard,  add  the  tour- 
nedos, one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 

Prepare  six  round  toasts  of  the  size  of  the  tournedos  and  place  them 
on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the  tournedos  on  the  toasts.  Arrange  two  small 
pieces  boiled  marrow  on  top  of  each  filet,  pour  a  hot  Madeira  sauce,  as 
prepared  in  No.  641,  around  the  tournedos  and  serve. 

666A.    BOILED  MARROW 

Carefully  and  sharply  split  with  a  cleaver  a  fresh  marrow  bone,  or 
have  your  butcher  do  it.  Pick  out  all  the  marrow  without  breaking 
and  cut  it  into  twelve  even  slices.  Have  a  pint  boiling  water  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  salt.  Gently  drop  the  marrow  into  the  boiling 
water,  immediately  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  let  the  marrow 
blanch  for  five  minutes.  Remove  it  with  a  skimmer  and  use  as  directed. 

667.    PEAS  WITH  LETTUCE 

Shell  a  quart  young,  tender  green  peas;  plunge  them  into  a  quart 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sieve.  Finely  chop  a  medium  white  onion  and  lightly  brown  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter.  Then  add  the  white  part  of  a 


i88  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

small  head  of  sound  lettuce  very  finely  chopped  up.  Mix  well  with  a 
fork  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  then  add  the  peas.  Season  with  a  level 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  also 
sprinkling  two  teaspoons  flour  over;  toss  well,  then  add  half  gill  cold 
water.  Allow  to  gently  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  tossing 
meanwhile.  Pour  into  a  deep,  hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve.  If  green 
peas  are  not  obtainable,  a  pint  of  canned  peas  can  be  employed  in  place 
of  the  fresh  and  cooked  the  same  way. 

667A.    BAKED  TOMATOES 

Neatly  wipe  six  medium,  sound,  red  tomatoes  and  cut  off  a  small 
piece  of  top  of  each.  Place  on  a  tin,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one 
teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Divide 
half  ounce  butter  evenly  on  top  of  the  tomatoes.  Set  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with 
a  small  saucer  for  each  person. 

668.    PETITES  PRECIEUSES 

Three  ounces  powdered  sugar,  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  one  ounce 
peeled  and  finely  chopped  almonds,  four  egg  yolks,  the  whites  of  the  four 
eggs,  the  rind  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  finely  grated,  and  half  teaspoon  salt. 

Place  all  these  ingredients  except  the  egg  whites  in  a  bowl  and  sharply 
beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  beat  up  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  to  the  bowl  and  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute. 
Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds;  fill  them  up  with  the 
preparation.  Place  the  moulds  in  a  pastry  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  five  minutes,  unmould,  then  with  a 
knife  or,  rather,  a  Parisian  potato  scoop  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre  of 
each  cake  down  to  half  the  depth  and  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  diame- 
ter on  top  of  the  thinner  side.  Press  six  preserved  half  apricots  through 
a  sieve,  then  place  in  a  bowl  with  the  scooped-out  pieces  of  cake ;  add  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  maraschino  and  one  teaspoon  kirsch- 
wasser;  mix  for  one  minute.  Then  fill  the  empty  spaces  of  the  cakes  with 
the  apricot  preparation,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 
Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Sausage         Smelts,  Saut£  Meuniere  (280) 

Chicken  Livers,  en  Brochette  (600)  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Sponge  Buns 

669.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SAUSAGE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  one  gill  cold  milk,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up 
with  a  fork  for  two  minutes. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY      189 

Cut  two  country  sausages  into  quarter-inch  slices  and  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter;  gently  brown  for  two  minutes,  then 
drop  in  the  eggs  and  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon,  while  slowly 
cooking  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

670.    SPONGE  BUNS 

Sift  quarter  pound  flour  on  a  corner  of  table,  make  a  fountain  in 
the  centre,  place  in  the  fountain  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  ounce 
butter,  one  beaten-up  egg,  two  gills  fresh  milk,  one  ounce  powdered 
sugar,  one  saltspoon  salt  and  two  ounces  raisins.  Knead  the  whole  well 
together  briskly  for  ten  minutes.  Divide  the  paste  into  six  equal  parts 
and  round  each  piece  in  cake  form.  Arrange  on  a  lightly  buttered 
pastry  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Spareribs  with  Cabbage 

Poached  Eggs,  Seville 

Toasts,  Princess 

671.  SPARERIBS  WITH  CABBAGE 

Procure  six  pieces  salted  spareribs.  Plunge  in  plenty  of  cold  water 
for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  outer  leaves  of  a  medium-sized  white 
cabbage  cut  into  even  quarters,  suppress  the  stalks,  and  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  gallon  hot  water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five 
minutes,  then  add  the  ribs,  cover  the  pan  again,  and  let  slowly  cook  for 
forty-five  minutes  longer.  Add  six  medium,  sound,  peeled  raw  potatoes 
and  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Lift  up  the  cabbage,  arrange  on  a  large  dish, 
place  the  potatoes  around  the  cabbage,  then  the  ribs  on  top  and  serve. 

672.  POACHED  EGGS,  SEVILLE 

Cut  into  small  julienne  strips  one  small  carrot,  one  medium  white 
onion,  one  green  pepper,  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  one  saltspoon  pepper,  adding  one  gill  cold  water  and  a  table- 
spoon butter;  mix  well,  cover  with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper,  then 
set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  add  six 
sliced  heads  canned  mushrooms  and  six  cooked  shrimps  cut  into  halves. 
Moisten  with  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Arrange 
twelve  poached  eggs,  prepared  as  per  No.  106,  on  a  large  dish.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  and  serve. 

673.    TOASTS,  PRINCESS 

Crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  briskly  beat  with  a  whisk  for  one 
minute,  add  one  ounce  sugar,  two  gills  milk  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence.  Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  French  bread  twelve  thin  slices.  Heat 
in  a  large  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  melted  butter;  steep  each  slice  of 


190  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

bread  in  the  custard  for  half  minute,  then  place  in  the  frying  pan,  one 
beside  another,  and  brown  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  with  a 
skimmer,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  towel  for  two  minutes,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve  hot. 

DINNER 

.  Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Soubise-Bretonne 

Salmon  Trout,  Hollandaise  Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 

Broiled  Squabs.  Africaine 

Celery  Braise  (359) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Tomato  Salad  (461) 

Gelde  a  la  Creme  de  Cocoa 

674.    POTAGE,  SOUBISE-BRETONNE 

Have  a  pint  white  beans  soaked  in  fresh  water  for  twelve  hours  and 
ready  for  use.  Finely  chop  five  medium-sized  sound  white  onions,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  melted  butter  and  cook  for  ten  minutes 
without  browning,  occasionally  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Moisten 
with  a  pint  milk  and  two  quarts  of  broth  or  hot  water.  Season  with  two 
teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Thoroughly  drain  the 
beans  and  add  to  the  broth  with  one  sliced  carrot,  two  sliced  leeks,  one 
sliced  branch  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf  and 
one  ounce  lean  salt  pork  cut  into  small  squares.  Cover  the  pan,  then 
let  slowly  simmer  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  being  very  careful  to  mix  with 
a  wooden  spoon  every  ten  minutes.  Uncover  the  pan,  skim  the  fat  from 
the  surface,  then  press  the  whole  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  then  through 
a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan ;  let  slowly  boil  for  five  minutes ; 
add  one  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  butter  divided  in  small  bits,  mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  half  minute,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and 
send  to  the  table  with  bread  croutons,  as  per  No.  23,  separately. 

675.  SALMON  TROUT,  HOLLANDAISE 

Procure  six  slices  fresh  salmon  trout  half  inch  thick  and  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  one  gill  white  wine,  a  teaspoon  salt, 
one  gill  water  and  one  tablespoon  vinegar.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet 
of  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for  two  minutes  on  the  fire,  then  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  dress  the 
fish  on  a  hot  dish,  one  piece  overlapping  another.  Reduce  the  gravy  on 
the  fire  to  half  gill,  then  pour  in  a  hot  Colbert  sauce,  prepared  as  per 
No.  121,  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

676.  BROILED  SQUABS,  AFRICAINE 

Split  open  through  the  back  six  fresh,  fat  Philadelphia  squabs. 
Neatly  draw,  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joints,  wipe  dry,  gently  flatten 
with  a  cleaver ;  lightly  roll  in  a  tablespoon  oil  on  a  plate,  then  arrange  on 
a  double  broiler;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  six 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       191 

freshly  prepared  toasts  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
butter  in  a  black  frying  pan, add  three  minced  green  peppers, cook  for  one 
minute,  tossing  them  well  meanwhile;  mince  and  add  three  canned  sweet 
red  peppers.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  cook  for  one  minute,  lightly 
tossing  again.  Dress  the  garnishing  on  one  side  of  the  dish  of  squabs. 
Cut  a  small  eggplant  into  julienne  strips,  lightly  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
in  boiling  fat  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain 
on  a  towel,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over  and  arrange  on  the  opposite 
side  of  the  first  garnishing,  pour  a  hot  Perigueux  sauce  over  the  squabs 
and  serve. 

677.    SAUCE,  PERIGUEUX 

Place  one  good-sized  (or  two  small)  finely  chopped  truffles  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  three  tablespoons  sherry,  one  teaspoon  glace  de  viande, 
meat  extract  (No.  3170),  half  a  light  saltspoon  finely  crushed  white  pep- 
per, a  little  salt  and  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Mix  well,  boil  for  five 
minutes  and  use  as  required. 

N.  B.  When  opening  a  bottle  of  truffles  always  be  careful  to  pour 
in  a  little  sherry  to  prevent  spoiling. 

678.    GEL£E  A  LA  CREME  DE  COCOA 

Melt  one  and  a  half  ounces  gelatine — leaves  are  the  best — with  one 
and  a  half  pints  warm  water  in  a  saucepan ;  add  half  pound  granulated 
sugar,  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  mix  well  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten  up;  mix  again  for  one  minute.  Set  the 
pan  on  the  fire,  gently  stir  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  gill 
cold  water.  Shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of  the  range  and  let  slowly  sim- 
mer for  ten  minutes.  Skim  off  the  white  froth  and  strain  the  jelly 
through  a  jelly  bag  or  fine  cloth  into  a  bowl.  Add  one-quarter  gill  creme 
de  cocoa,  mix  well  for  half  minute  and  let  cool  a  little,  then  fill  a  quart 
mould  with  this  jelly.  Place  the  mould  on  the  ice  and  let  freeze  for  one 
hour,  or  until  the  jelly  is  well  set.  Carefully  immerse  the  mould  in  luke- 
warm water,  immediately  lift  up,  wipe  all  around,  turn  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 
Farina  with  Milk  (74) 
Shirred  Eggs,  Kandy 

Fried  Filets  of  Flounder,  Remoulade  Sauce 

Broiled  Bacon,  Diable      Baked  Potatoes 

Puff  Cakes  (313) 

679.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  KANDY 

Finely  slice  two  medium-sized  white  onions.  Have  six  shirred-egg 
dishes  with  a  level  teaspoon  butter  in  each  and  thoroughly  heat  on  the 
range.  Evenly  divide  the  onions  into  the  six  dishes  and  brown  them  to  a 


I92  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

nice  colour,  or  about  five  minutes,  turning  with  a  fork  once  in  a  while. 
Sprinkle  with  a  teaspoon  curry  powder,  evenly  divided;  gently  mix. 
Carefully  break  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  third  of  a  teaspoon  white  pepper,  evenly  divided. 

Set  dishes  in  a  hot  oven  for  three  minutes,  then  remove.     Peel  three 

ripe  bananas  and  cut  in  four  pieces  lengthwise;  lightly  roll  in  flour, 

then  fry  in  boiling  fat  or  butter  for  one  minute.  Remove,  drain  on  a  towel, 

then  arrange  two  strips  around  the  side  of  each  dish,  ring-like,  and  serve. 

680.    FRIED  FILETS  OF  FLOUNDER,  REMOULADE  SAUCE 

Make  an  incision  on  both  sides  of  a  fresh  three-pound  flounder;  care- 
fully lift  up  the  filets,  skin  well  and  cut  into  three  equal  slanting  pieces. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  roll  well  in 
the  seasoning,  lightly  turn  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  finally  in  bread 
crumbs.  Place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes. 
Lift  up  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth.  Dredge  half  teaspoon  salt  over/ 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  parsley  greens 
and  six  sections  of  lemon  and  serve  with  a  remoulade  sauce,  prepared 
as  per  No.  68 1,  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

68 1.    REMOULADE  SAUCE 

Chop  very  fine  two  branches  fresh  parsley,  two  of  chives,  twelve 
capers,  two  anchovies  in  oil,  one  medium  vinegar  pickle,  one  shallot  and 
one-quarter  bean  garlic.  Place  all  in  a  bowl,  adding  half  teaspoon  French 
mustard,  a  saltspoon  salt  and  one  egg  yolk;  pour  in  one  tablespoon  tar- 
ragon vinegar.  Briskly  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  a  whisk,  then 
drop  in,  little  by  little,  one  gill  olive  oil,  briskly  whisking  while  adding  it. 
See  that  the  sauce  is  of  same  consistency  as  mayonnaise.  Use  as  required. 
682.  BROILED  BACON,  DIABLE 

Cut  from  a  piece  of  bacon  twelve  equal  slices  one-fifth  inch  thick. 
Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  two  minutes  on 
each  side.  Remove  and  let  slightly  cool  off.  Then  with  the  aid  of  a  table 
knife  lightly  spread  a  little  devilled  butter  (half  the  quantity, as  per  No.  1 1) 
on  both  sides  of  each  slice.  Lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  rearrange  on  the 
broiler  and  broil  for  one  minute  on  each  side,  dress  on  hot  dish  and  serve. 
683.  BAKED  POTATOES 

Neatly  wipe  and  place  six  good-sized,  unpeeled,  raw  potatoes  on  a  tin 
plate.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes,  taking  care  to 
turn  once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

-Chicken  Broth  (578) 
Oyster  Crabs,  Bonne  Bouche 

Veal  Cutlets,  Philadelphia      Roast  Potatoes  in  Quarters 
Baba  au  Rhum 

684.    OYSTER  CRABS,  BONNE  BOUCHE 

Thoroughly  wash  a  pint  very  fresh  oyster  crabs  and  drain  on  a  sieve, 
Place  on  a  lighted  chafing  dish  with  a  gill  good  sherry,  half  ounce  good 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY        193 

butter,  a  level  teaspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  paprika;  lightly  mix,  set 
fire  to  the  sherry  and  let  burn  for  two  minutes,  continually  tossing  the 
contents  meanwhile.  Place  the  chafing  dish  in  the  oven  for  one  minute 
only.  Remove,  spread  a  Bearnaise  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  34,  to 
cover  all  the  crabs,  then  serve  without  mixing.  If  no  chafing  dish  at 
hand,  use  an  earthen  cocotte  dish. 

685.  VEAL  CUTLETS,  PHILADELPHIA 

Neatly  flatten  six  tender  veal  cutlets.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
lard  in  a  large  black  frying  pan;  lay  the  cutlets  in  the  pan,  one  beside 
another,  and  rapidly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and 
keep  on  a  plate.  Finely  slice  three  medium  white  onions  and  place  in 
an  earthen  casserole  with  two  tablespoons  butter;  set  on  the  fire  and  cook 
for  three  minutes,  gently  mixing,  then  arrange  the  cutlets  on  top  of  the 
onions;  add  two  peeled  and  shredded  red  tomatoes.  Season  with  one 
and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  three-quarters  of  a  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Place  six  very  thin  slices  raw  ham,  one  on  each  cutlet.  Cover  the  pan 
tightly,  place  in  a  brisk  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove,  uncover, 
sprinkle  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives  over  all,  cover  the  casserole  again 
and  send  to  the  table. 

686.  ROAST  POTATOES  IN  QUARTERS 

Peel  and  cut  four  medium,  sound,  raw  potatoes  into  six  square  pieces 
each;  wash  and  drain  well,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons 
melted  lard  and  fry  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  good  golden 
colour,  occasionally  turning  with  a  skimmer ;  then  place  in  a  small  roast- 
ing tin.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Evenly 
spread  one  ounce  butter  on  the  surface  of  the  potatoes,  then  place  in  a 
brisk  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  place 
on  a  dish  and  serve. 

687.    BAB  A  AU  RHUM 

Sift  in  a  large  bowl  three  ounces  wheat  flour,  make  a  small  fountain 
in  the  centre,  place  in  it  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  yeast,  dilute  with  one 
and  a  half  gills  warm  milk;  briskly  knead  with  the  hand,  gradually  incor- 
porating all  the  flour  until  a  light  dough,  then  set  the  bowl  in  a  warm 
place  to  raise  for  thirty-five  minutes. 

Sift  on  a  corner  of  a  table  five  ounces  flour.  Make  a  small  fountain 
in  the  centre,  place  in  it  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  gill  cold  milk,  two 
ounces  butter  (not  cold)  and  break  in  three  eggs.  Vigorously  knead 
with  the  hand  for  ten  minutes,  lifting  the  batter  from  the  table  several 
times  during  the  operation.  Add  now  the  first  preparation  to  this  bat- 
ter; knead  well  for  five  minutes  with  the  hand.  Place  the  batter  in  a 
bowl,  cover  with  a  wet  towel  and  lay  it  in  a  warm  place  of  about  75°  to 
raise  for  two  hours.  Add  then  three  tablespoons  Sultana  raisins,  well 
picked,  and  a  gill  cream;  thoroughly  mix  with  the  hand.  Lightly  butter 
a  quart  pudding  mould,  drop  in  the  batter,  then  let  rest  for  fifteen  min- 
utes. Set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove,  let  cool  off  and 
unmould  on  a  deep  dish. 


i94  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  four  ounces  granulated  sugar  with  half 
pint  cold  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes ;  remove  from  the  fire,  adr^. 
three  tablespoons  good  rum,  mix  a  little,  then  with  a  spoon  gradually 
baste  and  rebaste  the  sauce  over  the  baba  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Caviare  (59) 

Consomme,  Flamande 
Spanish  Mackerel,  Broiled,  with  Bacon 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Lamb  Steaks,  Grand  Mere 

Roast  Saddle  of  Venison,  Jelly  Salad,  Romaine  (214) 

Pudding,  Renaissance  Biscuit  Glace 

688.    CONSOMM£,  FLAMANDE 

Prepare,  strain  in  a  saucepan  and  keep  hot  a  consomme*  prepared  as 
per  No.  52.  Clean  and  scrape  a  medium  red  carrot,  one  medium  turnip; 
wash  well  quarter  of  a  small,  well-trimmed  white  cabbage.  Cut  all 
these  into  small  dice  pieces.  Finely  mince  a  medium  white  onion,  place 
in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  sugar,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  ounce 
butter  and  half  pint  cold  water;  mix  thoroughly,  cover  the  vegetables 
with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  cover  pan  and  boil  on  the  range  for  forty- 
five  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  the  paper  and  add  the  vegetables  to  the 
consomme  with  six  well-washed,  drained  and  minced  sorrel  leaves,  if 
handy.  Boil  the  consomme  for  ten  minutes.  Have  six  small  slices 
lightly  toasted  French  bread,  place  them  in  a  soup  tureen,  pour  the  con- 
somme* over  and  serve. 

689.  BROILED  SPANISH  MACKEREL 

Cut  the  head  off  and  split  open  a  fresh  three-pound  Spanish  mackerel; 
neatly  trim  the  fins.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika ;  repeatedly  turn  the  fish  in  the  seasoning, 
then  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Re- 
move, dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  very  little  melted  butter  over  the  fish 
and  serve. 

690.  LAMB  STEAKS,  GRAND  MERE 

Procure  three  tender  lamb  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each. 
Make  a  few  light  incisions  on  the  skin  all  around.  Season  with  one 
and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Thoroughly 
heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan ;  place  them  in  the  pan, 
one  beside  another,  and  cook  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes  on  each  side. 
Take  up  the  steaks  and  lay  them  in  a  cocotte  (earthen)  dish.  Remove 
all  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  pour  in  one  gill  of  cold  water  and 
let  boil  for  three  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the  steaks.  Cut  from  a  loaf 
of  sandwich  bread  three  slices  an  inch  thick,  cut  each  slice  into  one-inch 
squares  and  fry  in  a  black  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter 
until  a  good  golden  colour  and  add  to  the  steaks.  Cut  two  ounces  salt 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OP  FEBRUARY       195 

pork  into  quarter-inch  squares,  place  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  a  tea- 
spoon melted  lard  and  fry  for  three  minutes;  drain  well,  and  add  to  the 
steaks.  Cut  one  large,  raw,  peeled  potato  into  quarter-inch  squares, 
wash  and  drain  well,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes;  lift  up, 
drain  and  add  to  the  steaks.  Pour  half  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
over,  dredge  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives  over  all.  Cover  the  pan, 
and  let  steam  on  the  fire  slowly  for  three  minutes.  Serve  without 
uncovering. 

691.    ROAST  SADDLE  OF  VENISON,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  a  small,  rather  stale  saddle  of  venison  of  about  four  pounds. 
Neatly  tie  it  around  with  string.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  well  rubbed  all  over. 

Lay  the  saddle  on  a  small  roasting  pan,  pour  a  tablespoon  hot  fat 
over  the  saddle  and  two  tablespoons  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Set 
in  the  oven  and  roast  for  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  and 
frequently  baste  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove  from  the  oven,  dress  it  on 
a  hot  dish,  untie  the  string,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy, 
strain  the  gravy  over  the  venison  and  send  to  the  table  with  currant  jelly 
separately. 

692.    PUDDING,  RENAISSANCE,  HOT 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  two  ounces  cake  renaissance  and  place  in  a 
bowl  with  six  candied  maroons;  also  cut  up  one  ounce  candied  cherries 
cut  into  quarters,  two  candied  pears  cut  in  small  squares,  two  preserved 
apricots  cut  into  squares  and  one  teaspoon  good  maraschino.  Mix  them 
well  together  with  the  hand.  Lightly  butter  and  sugar  six  individual 
pudding  moulds;  fill  them  with  the  preparation  up  to  three-quarters  of 
their  height.  Sharply  mix  in  a  bowl  four  egg  yolks,  two  ounces  sugar  and 
two  gills  cream;  then  divide  this  evenly  into  the  six  moulds.  Place  in  a 
pastry  tin,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height  and  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon 
sauce  (No.  102)  over  and  serve. 

693.    BISCUIT  GLACE 

Carefully  crack  six  egg  yolks  in  a  small  copper  basin,  add  two  ounces 
granulated  sugar  and  half  a  stick  vanilla.  Set  the  basin  on  the  corner 
of  the  range  and  with  the  whisk  beat  all  well  together  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  the  basin  from  the  range  to  a  table,  take  up  the  vanilla  bean, 
beat  up  for  five  minutes  more;  then  set  the  basin  on  the  ice  and  stir  with 
a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  cold.  Add  two  gills  cream  whipped 
as  per  No.  337.  Gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute.  Fill  up 
six  paper  ice-cream  biscuit  cases  and  neatly  smooth  with  the  blade  of  a 
knife  all  around.  Have  a  small  freezer  in  an  ice-cream  tub  with  broken 
ice  mixed  with  rock  salt.  Arrange  the  cases  in  the  freezer  and 
freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove,  place  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 


I96  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs  a  la  Coque 
Findon  Haddock  (576) 
Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172) 
Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

694.    EGGS  A  LA  COQUE 

Carefully  drop  twelve  fresh  eggs  into  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  three  minutes ;  remove  with  a  skimmer,  place 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with  six  egg  stands. 

N.  B.  When  eggs  are  brought  to  the  table  with  shells  black  with 
dirt,  etc.,  they  make  an  exceedingly  unsightly  appearance.  To  avoid 
this  have  a  coarse  towel,  pour  a  little  vinegar  and  salt  on  a  small  part  of 
the  towel,  hold  it  in  the  palm  of  the  hand  and  gently  rub  the  eggs  with  it. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Mulligatawney,  Benares 

Crabs,  St.  Laurent 

Haricot  of  Lamb 

Pumpkin  Pie  (492) 

695.    FISH  MULLIGATAWNEY,  BENARES 

Have  the  head  of  a  large  fresh  fish,  or  two  small  ones  if  preferred, 
then  procure  two  pounds  fresh  codfish.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  quarts  cold  water.  Season  with  one  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Add  four  slices  carrot, 
one  small  sliced  apple,  one  sliced  leek,  four  slices  turnip,  half  sliced  green 
pepper  (all  vegetables  cut  in  dice  pieces),  two  beans  crushed  garlic,  one 
whole  parsley  root,  two  cloves,  one  small  sliced  onion,  half  small  branch 
celery,  one  chopped  ripe  tomato,  half  sprig  bay  leaf  and  the  same  of 
hyme.  Let  them  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Should  codfish  be  used 
remove  it  after  having  cooked  for  twenty-five  minutes  so  it  can  be  used 
for  dinner  fish,  but  allow  the  broth  to  boil  for  one  hour. 

Prepare  the  following:  Melt  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  stir  in  two  level  tablespoons  flour,  mix  well  for  three  minutes; 
add  one  tablespoon  curry  powder,  mix  well  again  with  a  whisk.  Strain 
the  fish  broth  and  gradually  add  it  to  this  roux,  gently  mixing  with  a 
whisk  meanwhile.  Add  a  piece  of  lemon  rind,  one  heaping  tablespoon 
raw  rice,  and  let  slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes. 

Cut  into  very  small  pieces  a  small  piece  of  codfish,  about  a  tablespoon; 
add  it  to  the  soup,  pour  in  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  mix 
well.  (Small  canned  quenelles  may  be  employed  in  default  of  codfish.) 
Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


.    FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          *ft 

696.    CRABS,  ST.  LAURENT 

Heat  one  ounce  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  ounces  flour, 
stir  well  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  then  add  one  pint  hot  milk; 
thoroughly  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  add  one  pound  fresh  crab 
meat.  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne, 
one  level  teaspoon  ground  English  mustard  and  one  tablespoon  Worces- 
tershire sauce.  Mix  all  well  together  while  cooking  for  two  minutes 
and  then  let  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes  more.  Add  three  egg  yolks, 
briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  a  minute,  and  finally 
add  one  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  mix  well  again,  transfer  to 
a  dish  and  let  cool  off. 

Prepare  six  pieces  toast  two  inches  square  and  one-quarter  inch 
thick.  Equally  divide  the  preparation  on  top  of  each  toast  and  nicely 
shape  dome-like  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  Arrange  the  toasts  on  a  tin 
and  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  Parmesan  cheese  over  all.  Set  to  bake 
in  the  oven  for  eight  minutes,  or  till  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon 
and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

697.  HARICOT  OF  LAMB 

Cut  a  small  breast  of  lamb  into  one-and-a-half -inch  squares.  Heat 
three  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  medium-sized  saucepan,  add  the 
lamb  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  occasionally 
turning  the  pieces  with  a  spoon.  Transfer  the  meat  only  to  a  dish; 
place  four  tablespoons  flour  in  the  pan,  stir  well  until  a  perfect  roux; 
then  replace  the  meat  in  the  pan,  pour  in  a  quart  of  hot  white  broth  and 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes. 

Cut  three  medium,  sound,  peeled  potatoes  into  one-inch  squares  and 
add  them  to  the  haricot.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  gently  mix.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  leeks,  four  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  two  cloves 
and  half  sprig  thyme ;  add  it  to  the  stew.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly 
cook  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove  the  " bouquet"  of  herbs;  pour 
the  haricot  into  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  chopped  chives  over 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Clams 

Planked  Shad,  Finnoise 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Mace"doine 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton  (522)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Cake,  Louisiana 

698.  BISQUE  OF  CLAMS 

Carefully  open  thirty-six  medium-sized  fresh  clams  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  all  their  liquor,  adding  one  and  a  half  quarts  hot  water. 
Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes;  drain  and  keep  the  liquor. 


198  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Place  the  clams  in  a  mortar  and  pound  them  to  a  paste,  then  replace  the 
paste  in  the  clam  liquor.  Heat  in  another  saucepan  one  ounce  melted 
butter,  add  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  stir  briskly  with  a  wooden  spoon 
for  one  minute;  then  pour  in  the  clam  liquor,  etc.,  into  this  pan,  add  half 
pint  hot  milk  and  two  gills  cream.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well 
with  the  whisk  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  half  ounce  of  good 
butter,  divided  in  small  bits;  whisk  till  the  butter  is  melted.  Strain 
through  a  sieve,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  bread  croutons  prepared  as  per  No.  23. 

699.    PLANKED  SHAD,  FINNOISE 

Procure  half  a  fresh  three-pound  shad;  wipe  thoroughly  and  season 
all  around  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Care- 
fully oil  the  surface  of  an  oak  plank  sixteen  inches  long  by  seven  wide 
with  a  tablespoon  oil;  place  the  half  shad  on  top,  skin  side  downward. 
Set  in  a  rather  slack  oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove 
and  keep  on  a  table. 

Prepare  a  potato  puree  as  per  potato  Duchesse  (No.  304).  Have  a 
pastry  bag  with  a  dentilated  tube  at  the  bottom.  Then  drop  the  potatoes 
into  the  bag  and  carefully  press  down  the  puree  all  around  the  shad. 
Wipe  and  slice  two  good-sized  red  tomatoes  and  evenly  arrange  on  top 
of  the  fish.  Slice  two  sound  green  peppers  and  neatly  place  them  over 
the  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over  them  and  divide  half 
ounce  butter  in  very  small  bits  over  all.  Place  the  plank  in  the  oven 
and  bake  for  twelve  minutes,  or  until  the  potatoes  have  attained  a  nice 
brown  colour.  Remove,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  all  and  send 
to  the  table. 

700.     CHICKEN  CROQUETTES,  MACEDOINE 

Carefully  pick  all  the  meat  from  a  tender  fowl  boiled  early  in  the 
morning  and  cut  it  into  very  small  square  pieces.  Cut  the  same  way  one 
ounce  cooked  ham  and  twelve  canned  mushrooms.  Have  one  table- 
spoon freshly  chopped  shallots  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter 
and  fry  for  three  minutes,  stirring  well  meanwhile;  add  two  ounces 
flour,  mix  till  well  thickened  without  browning,  then  dilute  this  with  a 
pint  white  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  stir  and  let 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  three  egg  yolks,  stir  well,  then  add  the 
chicken,  ham  and  mushrooms,  also  half  gill  sherry.  Mix  well  and  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire,  place  the  preparation  on  a  dish 
and  let  cool  off. 

Dredge  three  tablespoons  flour  on  a  corner  of  a  table.  Divide  the 
force  meat  into  six  equal  parts,  roll  up  to  pyramid  shape  on  the  flour,  dip 
each  one  in  beaten-up  egg  and  gently  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Lay  in  a 
frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes.  Lift  up  and 
thoroughly  drain.  Pour  one  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  on  a  hot 
dish  and  neatly  arrange  the  croquettes,  one  overlapping  another,  crown- 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY        199 

like.     Fill  up  the  centre  with  a  hot  macedoine  prepared  as  per  No.  233. 
Adjust  a  paper  frill  at  the  end  of  each  and  serve. 

701.    WHITE  BROTH  (BOUILLON  BLANC) 

Place  on  the  fire  in  a  large  saucepan  three  pounds  veal  bones  and 
any  scraps  of  same  on  hand,  also  any  remnants  of  raw  beef  or  bones,  as 
well  as  scraps  of  raw  poultry.  Pour  in  five  gallons  cold  water,  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  carefully  skim  off  every  particle  of  the  scum.  Then  add 
four  medium,  whole,  peeled  carrots,  two  small  whole,  peeled  turnips, 
two  peeled  onions,  one  parsley  root,  three  leeks  and  two  stalks  celery. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  four  hours.  Then  strain  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  a  stone  jar  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  When  thoroughly 
cooled  off  place  it  in  the  ice  box  and  use  as  required.  When  nearly  used 
renew  preparation. 

702.     CAKE,  LOUISIANA 

Plunge  six  ounces  sweet  almonds  and  two  bitter  ones  in  boiling  water  for 
five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  peel  and  pound  four  ounces  of  them 
in  the  mortar  to  a  paste;  place  in  a  bowl  with  four  egg  yolks,  two  gills  of 
milk,  three  ounces  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoon  kirsch  and  half  tea- 
spoon vanilla  essence;  briskly  mix  with  a  spatule  for  one  minute,  add 
two  ounces  butter,  mix  again  briskly  for  one  minute,  add  two  ounces 
flour  and  mix  well.  Add  two  ounces  raisins,  half  ounce  chopped  citron 
and  half  teaspoon  baking  powder;  gently  mix  for  half  minute. 

Lightly  butter  a  large  pudding  mould.  Split  the  peeled  almonds  in, 
two:  decorate  the  bottom  of  the  mould  with  them,  then  fill  the  mould 
with  the  preparation.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  forty  minutes.  Re- 
move, let  cool  for  five  minutes,  unmould  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Cheese  Omelette 
Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  (47) 

Mutton  Chops  (49)  , 

Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 
Sweet  Crumpets 

703.     CHEESE  OMELETTE 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  fresh 
milk,  one  and  a  half  ounces  grated  Parmesan  and  one  ounce  Swiss 
cheese.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  drop  the  mixture  in  the  pan,  stir  well 
with  a  fork  until  well  thickened,  let  rest  for  half  minute,  then  fold  up 
the  two  sides ;  let  rest  half  minute,  turn  it  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


200  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

704.    SWEET  CRUMPETS 

Heat  a  pint  milk  in  a  saucepan,  adding  half  ounce  concentrated  yeast 
and  a  saltspoon  salt.  Mix  well  until  the  yeast  is  thoroughly  dissolved-, 
then  add  four  ounces  sifted  flour  and  thoroughly  stir  till  well  thickened. 
Place  the  pan  in  a  warm  plac<>  to  raise  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  three 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Heat  in 
a  large,  lightly  buttered  frying  pan,  pour  the  preparation  into  the 
pan  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes  on  the  fire;  turn  it  over,  then  set 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  cut  into  six  equal  pieces 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Codfish,  Coudert 
Pork  and  Boston  Baked  Beans 
Apple  Dumplings ,  Hard  Sauce 

705.     CODFISH,  COUDERT 

Have  a  piece  of  fresh  codfish  one  and  a  half  pounds.  Cut  into  thin 
slices,  place  on  a  dish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce;  repeatedly  turn  the 
slices  in  the  seasoning. 

Finely  slice  three  medium,  raw,  peeled  potatoes,  plunge  them  in 
boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  and  keep  till  required.  Heat  in  a 
saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour,  stir  well  and  pour  in  half  pint  boiling  milk.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  tablespoon  tomato  catsup  and  one  light  tablespoon 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix  well  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  then 
pour  half  the  quantity  of  the  sauce  into  a  deep  baking  dish.  Place  one- 
third  of  the  codfish  as  a  layer  over  the  sauce,  then  one  third  of  the  po- 
tatoes, another  third  of  the  codfish,  another  layer  of  the  potatoes,  the 
other  third  of  codfish  and  the  last  of  the  potatoes,  and  cover  with  the 
balance  of  the  sauce.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  over  the 
surface,  divide  half  ounce  of  butter  in  bits  on  top.  Set  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  bake  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  send  to  the 
table  in  the  same  dish. 

•  706.    PORK  AND  BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

Plunge  a  pint  large,  dried  white  beans  in  a  gallon  cold  water  to  soak 
for  twelve  hours.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  place  in  an  earthen  baked-bean 
pot.  Pour  one  and  a  half  quarts  cold  water  into  a  basin,  add  two  gills 
molasses,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  a  heavy  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Mix 
well  with  a  whisk  for  a  minute.  Pour  this  over  the  beans.  Place  over 
the  beans  a  one-pound  piece  salt  pork,  tightly  cover  the  pot  and  lay  in 
a  roasting  tin,  containing  a  gallon  cold  water.  Set  in  the  oven  and  let 
steam  for  six  hours,  carefully  watching  not  to  let  the  water  dry  up  in  the 
pan;  if  it  should  dry  up  add  some  more  hot  water.  Remove,  clean  the 
pot  all  around  with  a  towel  and  send  to  the  table  without  uncovering. 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       aoi 

707.    APPLE  DUMPLINGS,  HARD  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  pie  paste  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  117.  Roll  it  on  a 
lightly  floured  table  to  the  thickness  of  one-fifth  inch.  Cut  out  six 
pieces,  each  three  inches  square. 

Peel  and  core  six  small  apples,  lay  each  apple  right  side  up  on  top  of 
each  piece  of  paste  in  the  centre.  Fill  the  hollow  from  which  the  core 
has  been  scooped  with  granulated  sugar,  mixed  with  half  teaspoon 
ground  cinnamon,  then  fold  up  the  corners  of  the  paste  on  top  of  each 
apple  so  as  to  entirely  close  them.  Cut  from  the  remaining  paste  six 
round  pieces  about  one  inch  in  diameter;  arrange  each  piece  on  top  of 
each  apple.  With  a  small  pastry  brush  gently  moisten  the  tops,  edges 
and  sides  with  a  beaten  egg.  Lay  them  on  a  baking  pan  and  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
dish  and  serve  with  a  hard  sauce  (No.  708)  separately. 

708.    HARD  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  cold  bowl  one  ounce  good  butter,  two  ounces  fine  sugar, 
half  saltspoon  ground  mace,  and  five  drops  vanilla  essence.  Set  the 
bowl  on  broken  ice  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five 
minutes;  then  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  required. 

DINNER 

Rissolettes  Russe  (162)         Olives 

Potage,  Mongole 
Striped  Bass,  Mariniere         Potatoes,  Parisienne 

Beef  Braise",  Monaco 

Roasted  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Pudding 

709.    POTAGE,  MONGOLE 

Soak  in  plenty  of  fresh  water  half  pint  dried,  split  green  peas  for 
twelve  hours.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
half  sliced  carrot,  half  sliced  white  onion,  one  sliced  leek,  one  branch 
sliced  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  ounce  lean 
ham  .cut  into  small  pieces,  or  a  ham  bone.  Moisten  with  one  and  a  half 
quarts  cold  water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  and  a  teaspoon  sugar.  Let  come  to  a  boil  on  the  range,  re- 
move scum,  cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  one  hour.  Meanwhile 
mince  half  carrot,  half  onion,  one  leek  and  one  branch  celery.  Place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  butter,  and  brown  to  a  light  colour 
for  eight  minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Add  one  tablespoon  flour, 
lightly  mix;  pour  in  a  pint  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  crushed,  with  a 
pint  broth  (No.  701),  and  let  simmer  very  slowly  for  one  hour. 

Cut  into  fine  julienne  strips  one  small  carrot,  one  small  turnip, 
one  leek  and  one  branch  celery  and  place  these  vegetables  in  a 
very  small  saucepan  with  three  gills  water.  Season  with  a  salt- 
spoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  sugar  and  slowly  cook  for  thirty 
minutes. 


202  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

After  an  hour  of  simmering  strain  through  a  sieve  both  pea  and 
tomato  soups  into  another  saucepan,  adding  the  vegetables  of  the  third 
pan.  Add  two  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas  and  boil  the  whole 
together  for  ten  minutes.  Carefully  skim  off  the  scum,  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

710.    STRIPED  BASS,  MARINIERE 

Neatly  trim  and  wipe  two  fresh  striped  bass  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill  hot 
water.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper.  Boil  for  five 
minutes  on  the  range,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  lift  up  the  paper,  add  six  freshly  opened  medium 
oysters  or  fresh  mussels,  six  cooked  shrimp,  six  heads  canned  mush- 
rooms. Cover  again  with  the  same  paper  and  replace  the  fish  in  the 
oven  for  ten  minutes  more.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  remove  the  fish 
with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  large  dish,  pour  the  contents  of  the  pan  over 
the  fish  and  serve. 

711.    POTATOES,  PARISIENNE 

Peel  six  good-sized  potatoes,  and  with  a  Parisian  potato  scoop  dig 
out  as  many  pieces  as  you  possibly  can;  wash  well,  drain  and  place  in  a 
sautoire  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  leaf  lard.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  light  teaspoon  white  pepper;  then  set  in  a  brisk 
oven  for  thirty  minutes,  carefully  turning  over  occasionally  to  let  get  a 
nice  colour  all  around.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

712.    BEEF  BRAISED  MONACO 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  rump  of  beef.  Cut  sufficient  very 
thin  slices  of  larding  pork  to  lard  the  beef  all  around.  Chop  very  finely 
together  one  bean  sound  garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  two  branches 
chervil  and  four  branches  chives.  Carefully  sprinkle  these  fine  herbs 
on  the  surface  of  the  slices  of  lard,  on  one  side  only.  Arrange  the  lard 
neatly  over  the  beef,  the  herb  side  downward;  tie  well  with  string  all 
around;  place  the  beef  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced 
onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  a  saltspoon  thyme  and 
two  tablespoons  melted  lard.  Set  the  pan  on  a  brisk  fire  to  brown  for 
ten  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour  and 
lightly  mix  with  a  spoon.  Moisten  with  a  wine  glass  claret  or  white 
wine,  one  pint  white  broth  (No.  701)  or  hot  water  and  two  gills  hot 
demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  a  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  a  branch  tarragon.  Cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove, 
uncover,  take  up  the  beef  and  keep  warm.  Reduce  the  gravy  to  a  half 
pint  on  the  fire.  Strain  the  sauce  through  a  small  sieve  into  another 
saucepan,  add  twelve  stoned  olives  and  two  ounces  cooked,  lean  harn 
cut  into  half-inch  squares;  boil  the  sauce  for  five  minutes  more.  Dress 
the  beef  on  a  large,  hot  dish;  untie,  remove  the  fat  all  around,  then  pour 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          203 

the  contents  of  the  pan  over  the  beef.     Garnish  with  six  stuffed  tomatoes, 
as  per  No.  30,  around  the  beef  and  serve. 

713.    RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  bread  crumbs,  two  ounces  picked  cur- 
rants, four  tablespoons  raspberry  jam,  two  ounces  granulated  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  Maraschino,  half  ounce  flour,  one  gill  milk  and  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  Briskly  mix  for  five  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then 
beat  up  the  three  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  preparation; 
gently  mix  for  a  minute.  Fill  up  six  small  lightly  buttered  pudding 
moulds,  place  them  in  a  pastry  tin  and  pour  boiling  water  up  to  half 
the  height  of  the  moulds.  Set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  dish,  pour  a  raspberry  sauce  (No.  714)  over  them  and  serve. 

714.    RASPBERRY  SAUCE 

Have  in  a  small  saucepan  four  tablespoons  raspberry  jam  with  one 
ounce  sugar,  one  gill  water  and  one  teaspoon  kirschwasser;  mix  well  for 
one  minute,  then  boil  on  the  range  for  two  minutes,  occasionally  mixing, 
and  use  as  directed. 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Hominy  (45) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Celery 

Broiled  Perch 

Mutton  Hash,  Singapore 

Potatoes,  Delmonico 

Griddle  Cakes  (9) 

715.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CELERY 

Cut  four  branches  of  the  perfect  white  of  celery  into  very  small  dice 
pieces,  wash  and  drain  well,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  cold 
water  and  two  saltspoons  salt  and  let  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
and  drain  well.  Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  pour  in  half  gill  fresh  milk. 
Sharply  beat  up  the  whole  together  for  half  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  drop  in  the  eggs  and  celery,  thoroughly  mix  with 
a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  six  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot,  deep 
dish  and  serve. 

716.    BROILED  PERCH 

Mix  on  a  plate  one  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  mix  well.  Roll  six  small  perch,  well-trimmed  and  wiped, 
in  the  seasoning  till  it  is  all  absorbed.  Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil 
for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread 
a  tablespoon  melted  butter  over,  decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 


204  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

717.    MUTTON  HASH,  SINGAPORE 

Finely  hash  all  the  mutton  left  over  from  the  day  before  yesterday. 
Peel,  core  and  cut  into  very  small  dice  pieces  two  good-sized  green  apples. 

Place  in  a  small  pan  one  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  one  finely 
chopped  white  onion  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and 
cook  to  a  nice  light  brown  colour,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile;  add  half 
teaspoon  curry  powder,  gently  stir;  then  add  the  mutton,  half  ounce 
lean  grated  (rasped)  ham,  the  apples  and  half  pint  hot  white  broth 
(No.  701).  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper;  mix  all  gently  together  and  let  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  lightly 
mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

718.    DELMONICO  POTATOES 

Place  four  good-sized  boiled  and  finely  hashed  potatoes  in  a  frying 
pan  with  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk,  half  gill  cream,  two  saltspoons 
salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix 
well  and  cook  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  occasionally. 
Then  add  one  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  lightly  mix  again. 
Transfer  the  potatoes  into  a  gratin  dish,  sprinkle  another  light  tablespoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes, 
or  until  they  have  obtained  a  good  golden  colour;  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme  in  Cups  (52) 

Toasted  Lobsters,  Mrs.  Potter  (2358  ] 

Lamb  Chops,  Reforme 

Green  Peas  (35) 
Pineapple  au  Rhum 

719.    LAMB  CHOPS,  REFORME 

Trim  and  neatly  flatten  six  French  lamb  chops.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then 
in  beaten  egg,  and  afterward  gently  roll  in  one  ounce  finely  grated,  lean 
ham.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  place 
the  chops  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  slowly  fry  for  seven  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove, dress  on  a  hot  dish, one  overlapping  another,  crown- 
like,  adjust  a  fancy  paper  frill  at  the  end  boneof  each  chop  and  keep  warm. 

Cut  into  julienne  strips  two  vinegar  gherkins,  one  small  truffle,  the 
white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  six  heads  canned  mushrooms  and  half  ounce 
of  cooked,  smoked  beef  tongue.  Place  all  these  articles  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  a  tablespoon  sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122); 
lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour 
the  sauce  in  the  centre  of  the  chops  and  serve. 

720.    PINEAPPLE  WITH  RUM 

Trim  and  neatly  peel  a  small  ripe  pineapple.  Cut  it  into  quarters 
lengthwise,  cut  out  the  stalk  in  the  middle,  then  slice  each  quarter  into 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          205 

fine  slices;  place  in  a  bowl,  add  three  ounces  powdered  sugar,  half  gill 
good  rum  and  half  gill  cold  water;  gently  turn  in  the  seasoning  without 
breaking  for  five  minutes.  Cover  the  bowl  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  thirty  minutes,  being  careful  to  mix  in  the  rum  meanwhile.  Trans- 
fer into  an  edged  dessert  dish,  pour  all  the  seasoning  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Celery,  au  Lait  d'Amandes 

Salmon,  Baltimore 
Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Capon  Braise",  Ecossaise         Peas  with  Lettuce  (667) 
Noisettes  of  Beef,  Foyot 

Punch,  Andalouse 
Ruddy  Duck  with  Jelly  (234)         Fried  Hominy  (235^ 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream 

Petites  Espagnoles 

721.    POTAGE,  CELERY,  AU  LAIT  D'AMANDES 

Pare  off  all  stale  and  green  leaves  from  two  stalks  crisp  celery.  Cut 
it  into  fine  pieces,  plunge  in  cold  water  and  thoroughly  wash ;  drain  well 
on  a  sieve,  then  place  in  a  large  saucepan  two  quarts  cold  water;  season 
with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  one  teaspoon  fine  sugar  and  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  forty 
minutes.  Strain  the  celery  broth  into  another  saucepan.  Pound  the 
cooked  celery  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp  and  replace  it  in  the  broth,  then  have 
it  come  to  a  simmering  point  on  the  range. 

Plunge  half  pound  almonds  into  a  pint  boiling  water  for  five  minutes ; 
drain,  peel  and  pound  in  the  mortar  to  a  paste ;  then  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  pint  milk  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  celery,  mix  well 
and  boil  all  together  for  ten  minutes.  Mix  in  another  saucepan  one 
ounce  butter  with  three  tablespoons  flour,  thoroughly  heat  for  two 
minutes,  then  pour  the  soup  over  this  roux  and  briskly  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  while  boiling  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with 
half  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  potage;  lightly  mix  for  two  minutes  with- 
out boiling.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

722.    SALMON,  BALTIMORE 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each,  in 
a  frying  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  adding  a  gill  white  wine,  a  gill  cold  water  and  half  ounce 
butter.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  fire  for 
two  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  the  salmon  on  a  hot  dish,  then  take  out  bones  from  the  centre 
and  keep  warm. 

Add  eighteen  freshly  opened  oysters  to  the  fish  liquor,  boil  for  three 
minutes  on  the  range;  lift  up  the  oysters  with  the  skimmer  and  place 


206  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

six  on  top  of  each  slice  of  fish.  Reduce  the  fish  gravy  to  about  half  gill, 
then  pour  in  one  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Mix  well  and  let  briskly 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Strain  the  gravy  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

723.  CAPON  BRAISE,  ECOSSAISE 

Remove  the  head  and  feet  of  a  small,  tender  capon  of  four  pounds; 
singe,  draw  and  wipe  neatly.  Soak  two  ounces  bread  crumbs  in  one 
and  a  half  gills  cold  milk  for  two  minutes ;  take  up  and  squeeze  out  the 
milk  and  lay  on  a  plate.  Add  one  ounce  finely  chopped  raw  beef 
marrow  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  all  thoroughly  with  a  spoon  until  well 
thickened,  then  stuff  the  capon  with  it.  Truss  neatly  and  place  in  a 
small  brazing  pan.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  around  the  capon, 
adding  four -tablespoons  flour  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter;  mix  a  little  with  the  mirepoix.  Pour  in  sufficient  hot  water  to 
cover  the  vegetables.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan,  let  boil  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  then 
set  in  the  oven  to  braise  for  one  hour.  Remove,  transfer  the  capon 
to  a  large,  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Reduce  the  gravy  on  the  fire  to  three-quarters  of  a  pint,  then  strain 
it  through  a  fine  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  add  six  heads 
canned  mushrooms  cut  in  half,  two  ounces  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue 
cut  into  quarter-inch  squares  and  one  egg  yolk;  then  briskly  stir  while 
cooking  for  two  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  capon  and  serve. 

724.  NOISETTES  OF  BEEF,  FOYOT 

Procure  six  small  filets  of  beef  one  inch  thick  by  one  and  a  half  inches 
in  diameter.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pep- 
per, well  divided  all  around.  Heat  in  a  black  frying  pan  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  add  the  filets,  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  for 
three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  place  them  on  six  freshly 
prepared  toasts  of  the  same  size  as  the  filets.  Reduce  two  gills  tomato 
sauce  in  a  saucepan  to  half  gill.  Prepare  a  Bearnaise  sauce  as  per 
No.  34.  Strain  the  tomato  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  B£ar- 
naise.  Mix  a  little  with  a  whisk  and  pour  it  over  the  filets.  Garnish 
the  filets  all  around  with  spinach,  prepared  as  per  No.  247,  and  send 
to  the  table. 

725.    PUNCH,  ANDALOUSE 

Cut  three  good-sized  oranges  into  equal  halves,  and  with  a  spoon 
remove  all  the  pulp  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Cut  off  a  piece  of  the  skin  at 
the  bottom  of  each  half  orange  so  they  will  stand  on  a  dish  without 
rolling.  Squeeze  the  pulp  of  the  oranges  into  a  bowl,  as  well  as  the 
juice  of  three  lemons;  add  half  pound  granulated  sugar  and  one  quart 
lukewarm  water.  Sharply  mix  with  the  spatula  for  five  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  an  ice-cream  freezer.  Set  the  freezer  in  a  tub 
with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  all  around.  Cover  the  freezer  and  pro- 
ceed to  freeze  for  thirty  minutes.  When  ready  pour  in  two  tablespoons 


MONDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  207 

of  curacao  and  lightly  mix.  With  a  small  knife  make  dentilated  incis- 
ions all  around  the  brim  of  each  half  orange  shell.  Divide  the  punch 
equally  into  the  six  shells.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and 
serve. 

726.    TUTTI-FRUTTI  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  and  finish  a  vanilla  ice  cream  as  per  No.  42.  Chop  up 
very  finely  six  candied  cherries,  two  candied  pears,  two  candied  apricots, 
two  candied  prunes,  two  candied  figs,  one  ounce  angelica  and  four 
candied  marrons;  place  all  these  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  a  tablespoon 
kirsch,  one  tablespoon  rum  and  one  tablespoon  maraschino;  mix  well 
and  let  infuse  for  ten  minutes.  Then  add  to  the  vanilla  ice  cream. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Carefully  fill  a  quart 
brick  ice-cream  mould  with  the  cream,  cover  both  sides  with  lightly 
buttered  paper,  then  cover  it  and  bury  the  mould  in  broken  ice  and 
rock  salt  and  let  freeze  for  one  hour.  Remove  the  mould,  immerse  in 
tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds,  remove  the  cover  and  paper,  unmould 
on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  send  to  the  table. 

727.    PETITES  ESPAGNOLES 

Place  in  a  basin  half  pound  fine  sugar,  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  and  add 
two  tablespoons  orange  flavouring.  Set  the  basin  on  the  corner  of  the 
range  and  briskly  beat  up  with  the  whisk  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove 
the  basin  to  a  table  and  gradually  add  half  pound  sifted  flour,  continually 
mixing  with  a  skimmer  while  adding  it.  Slide  a  tube  an  inch  in  diameter 
to  the  bottom  of  a  clean  pastry  bag  and  drop  the  preparation  in.  Lightly 
butter  and  flour  a  pastry  pan,  then  with  the  hand  press  down  the  prepa- 
ration in  the  pan  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  fifty-cent  piece,  keeping  them 
an  inch  apart  from  each  other;  proceed  in  the  same  way  until  the  batter 
is  used  up.  Dredge  one  ounce  shredded  cocoanut  over  them  and  set 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  o'ff  and  serve. 

N.  B. — These  cakes  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  two  weeks  when 
kept  in  a  tin  placed  in  a  cool  place,  and  can  be  employed  for  cake  crumbs, 
etc. 

Monday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Poached  Eggs,  Soubise 

Porterhouse  Steak 

Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 

Sweet-Corn  Fritters  (566) 

728.    POACHED  EGGS,  SOUBISE 

Peel,  cut  in  half  and  finely  slice  two  medium-sized  white  onions, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  slowly  fry  for 
seven  minutes,  mixing  well  meanwhile.  Add  a  level  tablespoon  flour, 


208  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

stir  briskly,  pour  in  half  pint  hot  milk  and  briskly  mix.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix,  then  let  gently  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 
Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  as  per  No.  106.  Strain  the  sauce 
through  a  strainer  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

729.  PORTERHOUSE  STEAK 

Mix  on  a  dish  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  light 
tablespoon  oil.  After  procuring  a  nice,  tender  porterhouse  steak  one 
and  a  quarter  inches  thick,  cut  from  the  short  loin,  lightly  flatten  and 
trim,  then  turn  in  the  seasoning  repeatedly  all  over.  Arrange  on  a 
broiler  and  broil  on  brisk  charcoal  fire  for  twelve  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7) 
over,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters  au  Gratin 

Shoulder  of  Mutton,  Etuvee,  with  Potatoes 
Apple  Meringue  Pie 

730.  OYSTERS  AU  GRATIN 

Plunge  twenty-four  large,  freshly  opened  oysters  in  three-quarters 
pint  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  three  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve  and  keep  the  liquor.  Briskly  knead  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan one  tablespoon  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour  for  a  minute. 
Place  the  pan  on  the  fire,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  oyster  broth  and 
two  gills  hot  milk.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper;  gently  mix.  Cut  each  oyster  in  four  pieces  and  add  to 
the  pan,  lightly  mix,  then  let  boil  for  two  minutes.  Transfer  the  prepara- 
tion into  a  deep,  baking  dish,  dredge  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and 
serve. 

731.    SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON,  ETUV£E,  WITH  POTATOES 

Procure  a  small,  tender  shoulder  of  mutton.  Carefully  bone  it  all 
over,  then  cut  the  meat  into  as  thin  slices  as  possible  and  place  on  a  dish. 
Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  one 
teaspoon  chopped  chives,  half  teaspoon  chopped  chervil,  half  bean  finely 
chopped  garlic  and  three  finely  chopped  shallots.  Carefully  mix  the 
meat  with  the  ingredients  and  keep  on  the  dish  till  required. 

Finely  mince  three  medium,  raw,  peeled  potatoes:  wash  and  drain 
well.  Lightly  butter  a  cocptte  dish  (earthen  pan),  cover  the  bottom 
with  a  layer  of  one-quarter  of  the  potatoes,  lightly  season  the  potatoes 
with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  pepper;  arrange  a  quarter  of 
the  meat  over  the  potatoes,  well  spread,  then  another  quarter  of 
mutton,  and  so  on  until  all  finished.  Then  pour  in  two  gills  boiling 
water,  boil  for  two  minutes  on  the  range;  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove  and  serve. 


MONDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  209 

732.    APPLE  MERINGUE  PIE 

Roll  out  quarter  pound  pie  paste,  as  prepared  in  No.  117,  making  it 
circular  in  shape,  half  inch  wider  than  the  pie  plate.  Lightly  butter  a 
pie  plate,  arrange  the  paste  over  the  plate,  press  it  down  all  around  the 
edges  with  the  fingers  and  neatly  trim  all  around. 

Peel  and  core  six  good-sized  apples.  Cut  into  halves,  slice  very  fine, 
place  in  a  bowl  with  one  ounce  sugar,  half  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 
and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  gently  mix,  then  evenly  arrange  over 
the  plate.  Set  the  pie  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
and  lay  on  a  table.  Beat  up  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  two 
ounces  granulated  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  lightly  mix 
with  a  skimmer  for  half  a  minute,  then  nicely  spread  the  preparation 
over  the  apples  with  the  aid  of  a  knife  blade;  sprinkle  a  tablespoon 
fine  sugar  over  all,  reset  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes  longer,  or 
till  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Stuffed  Olives  with  Caviare 

Consomme,  Milanais 
Fish  Croquettes,  Cream  Sauce 

Veal  Cutlets,  Chasseur  Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Gateau,  Chambord 

733.    STUFFED  OLIVES  WITH  CAVIARE 

Stone  twelve  large  Queen  olives  and  fill  with  Russian  caviare.  Dress 
on  a  hors  d'ceuvres  dish  with  a  few  leaves  of  lettuce  and  serve. 

734.    CONSOMM£,  MILANAIS 

Strain  a  consomme,  prepared  as  per  No.  52,  into  another  saucepan 
and  keep  on  the  corner  of  the  range.  Break  three  ounces  spaghetti  into 
one-inch  pieces,  plunge  them  into  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  add  two  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  to  the  consomme;  briskly  mix  with  a  whisk 
while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  gill  cream 
and  add  to  the  consomme,  lightly  mix  for  a  minute,  then  add  the  cooked 
spaghetti.  Pour  the  soup  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve. 

735.    FISH  CROQUETTES,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Procure  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  halibut,  cod  or  any  kind  of  fresh 
fish.  Cut  it  into  very  small  square  pieces  and  plunge  into  a  pint  boiling 
water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  a  minute.  Drain  and  keep 
the  fish  on  a  plate  and  the  liquor  separate. 

Finely  chop  a  medium,  white  onion,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  slowly  cook  for  eight 
minutes,  stirring  well  once  in  a  while;  then  add  three  tablespoons 
flour,  briskly  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute;  pour  in  half  pint  hot  milk 


210  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  one  gill  fish  liquor,  mix  thoroughly  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  salt- 
spoon  ground  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  ground  English  mustard  and  one 
teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce;  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  let  cook  for  two  minutes;  add  two  egg  yolks  and  continually  mix 
while  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  fish,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for 
three  minutes.  Transfer  the  preparation  into  a  bowl  and  let  thoroughly 
cool  off.  Divide  the  force  meat  into  six  equal  parts,  dredge  a  little 
flour  on  the  corner  of  the  table;  roll  out  the  pieces  into  cork  forms, 
lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  pour  a 
cream  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  croquettes  over  the  same  and 
serve. 

N.  B.  If  any  left-over  fish  is  on  hand  employ  it  in  place  of  the  fresh 
fish. 

736.    CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  GENERAL  USE 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir,  then  pour  in  a  gill  hot  milk  and  half 
gill  cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg.  Sharply  whisk  for  one 
minute,  then  let  boil  for  two  minutes  and  use  as  directed. 

737,    VEAL  CUTLETS,  CHASSEUR 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  veal  cutlets.  Season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  well  divided  all  around. 
Thoroughly  heat  one  tablespoon  leaf  lard  in  a  large  frying  pan,  arrange 
the  cutlets  one  beside  another  in  the  pan  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  pan, 
then  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  gill  white  wine,  six  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16);  gently  mix,  let  the  sauce  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  it  over  the  cutlets,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over  all 
and  serve. 

738.    GATEAU,  CHAMBORD 

Four  ounces  fine  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  two  ounces 
sifted  flour,  five  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separate,  and  half  a  saltspoon 
salt.  Place  the  egg  yolks,  vanilla,  sugar  and  salt  in  a  bowl  and  briskly 
mix  for  ten  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Beat  up  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  add  to  the  mixture;  mix  well  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute, 
add  the  flour  and  sharply  mix  for  one  minute.  Lightly  butter  a  large 
dome-shaped  pudding  mould,  drop  in  the  preparation  and  set  the  mould 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off  and 
unmould. 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  two  egg  yolks,  one  ounce  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon flour;  dilute  these  ingredients  with  two  gills  cold  milk,  then  add 


TUESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  211 

half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence ;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  stir  the  prepara- 
tion with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the  pan  from  the 
fire,  add  two  ounces  peeled  and  finely  chopped  almonds  and  stir  until  cold. 
Then  add  one  ounce  good  butter  and  mix  well.  Slice  the  cake  into  quar- 
ter-inch slices,  spread  a  teaspoon  almond  preparation  on  each  slice  and 
carefully  place  the  slices  in  position  so  as  to  give  the  cake  its  original 
form.  Arrange  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Eggplants  (739) 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast 

Country  Sausages  (134) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

739.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  EGGPLANTS 

Neatly  peel  a  small  eggplant,  cut  it  into  six  equal  slices  and  place  on  a 
soup  plate.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
adding  half  gill  cold  milk;  turn  well  in  the  seasoning,  then  in  flour. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  large  black  frying  pan,  lay  the 
eggplants,  one  beside  another,  in  the  pan,  and  gently  fry  for  three  min- 
utes on  each  side.  Carefully  crack  twelve  eggs  over  the  slices.  Season 
the  eggs  evenly  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper; 
then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  care- 
fully slide  on  a  large,  round,  hot  dish  and  serve. 

740.    BOILED  SARDINES  ON  TOAST 

Arrange  twelve  good-sized  boneless  sardines  on  a  double  broiler  and 
broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on 
six  freshly  prepared  toasts,  spread  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  evenly  over 
them,  decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON       . 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 
Chicken  Pot  Pie  (159) 

String  Bean  Salad 
French  Pancakes  with  Jelly  (17) 

741.    STRING  BEAN  SALAD 

Open  a  pint  can  string  beans,  suppress  all  the  water  and  thoroughly 
dry  on  a  cloth.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  two  cold  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  into  quarters  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  as  per  No.  863. 
Thoroughly  mix  and  serve. 


212  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)         Anchovies  (141) 

Cockie  Leekie 

Codfish,  Espagnole 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Broiled  Squabs,  Celery  Sauce 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)          Salad  Chicory  (38) 
Pudding,  Boissy 

742.    COCKIE  LEEKIE 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet,  singe,  draw  and  cut  a  small,  tender  fowl 
into  quarter-inch-square  pieces.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  adding  the  fowl  and  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occa- 
sionally mixing  meanwhile;  drain  off  the  butter  from  the  pan,  keeping 
it  for  any  other  purpose.  Moisten  the  fowl  with  three  quarts  hot  water 
and  let  come  to  a  boil  on  the  fire.  Then  add  the  white  part  only  of  four 
leeks  cut  into  thin  slices.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper;  add  then  a  small  bunch  fresh,  well-washed  parsley. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Then  add  two 
ounces  raw  rice,  cover  the  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes  more. 
Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  soup,  take  up  the  parsley, 
pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

743.    CODFISH,  ESPAGNOLE 

Procure  three  slices  fresh  codfish,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each. 
Place  in  a  frying  pan  two  small,  finely  minced  green  peppers  and  one 
finely  minced  white  onion  with  half  ounce  butter  and  let  gently  brown 
for  three  minutes,  lightly  stirring  with  a  fork;  then  place  the  fish  over. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  a  saltspoon 
Spanish  saffron  diluted  in  a  tablespoon  water.  Peel  and  cut  into  quar- 
ters three  good-sized  red  tomatoes  and  place  all  around  the  fish;  cover 
with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  place  the  fish  on  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  spinal  bones,  pour  the  contents  of  the  pan  over  the 
fish,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve. 

744.    BROILED  SQUABS,  CELERY  SAUCE 

Cut  open  through  the  back  six  fresh  fat  squabs.  Draw,  singe,  wipe 
dry  and  nicely  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler ;  sea- 
son all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  oil 
on  both  sides,  then  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  lay  on  a  hot  dish  with  six  freshly  prepared  toasts,  pour  a  celery 
sauce  over  and  serve. 

745.    CELERY  SAUCE 

Cut  into  very  small  dice  pieces  four  branches  white  celery  and  place 
in  a  small  saucepan  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  cold  water  and  half 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       213 

teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.     Drain  on  a  sieve  and  keep 
the  water  and  celery  separate. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  while  heating  for  two  minutes;  then 
pour  in  half  the  quantity  of  celery  water.  Season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt,  one  saltspoon  'cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg,  add- 
ing one  light  gill  cream;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  add  the 
celery ;  lightly  mix,  slowly  boil  for  five  minutes  and  use  as  required. 

746.     PUDDING,  BOISSY 

Place  in  a  saucepan  three  ounces  arrowroot  flour  with  a  pint  cold 
milk;  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute;  then  place  the  pan 
on  the  fire  and  continually  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Remove,  place 
on  a  table,  add  two  egg  yolks,  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one 
minute,  then  add  one  ounce  well-picked  currants,  six  candied  cherries 
cut  in  quarters,  one  peeled  and  cored  apple  cut  in  small  square  pieces, 
one  preserved  peach  cut  in  small  squares;  then  pour  in  one  tablespoon 
Swiss  kirschwasser  and  one  ounce  fine  sugar;  gently  mix  for  one  minute. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  preparation; 
gently  mix  for  one  minute.  Lightly  butter  six  pudding  moulds  and  fill 
with  the  mixture;  place  in  a  baking  tin  with  hot  water  up  to  half  their 
height  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  un- 
mould  on  a  dish,  pour  a  kirsch  sauce,  as  per  No.  608,  over  them  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Firenzi 

Fried  Scallops  with  Bacon  (175) 

f  Broiled  Lamb  Chops 

Hashed  Saute  Potatoes  (50) 
English  Muffins  (528) 

747.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  FIRENZI 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left-over  from  Monday.  Place 
in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp ;  then  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl 
and  add  two  gills  cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon 
ground  nutmeg;  mix  well  with  a  whisk.  Divide  the  preparation  equally 
into  six  cocotte  dishes,  then  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish. 
Mix  half  teaspoon  salt  with  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  equally 
season  the  eggs  with  it.  Place  the  cocottes  on  a  tin  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  bake  for  eight  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

748.    PLAIN  BROILED  LAMB  CHOPS 

Trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  French  lamb  chops.  Season  all  around 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Arrange  on  a 


214  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

broiler  and  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.     Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Meuniere 

Veal  Chops,  Finnoise 

Salad,  Alsacienne 

French  Cream  Pie 

749.    OYSTERS,  MEUNIERE 

Wipe  dry  thirty-six  good-sized  freshly  opened  oysters  and  place  in 
a  bowl.  Season  with  half  teaspooon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  adding  half  gill  cold  milk ;  mix  well,  then  roll  the  oysters  in  flour. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  black  frying  pan,  lay  the  oysters  on 
the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each 
side;  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Thoroughly  dry  the  pan,  replace  on  the  fire 
withoneounce  butterand  toss  the  butteruntil  a  nice  brown  colour;  squeeze 
in  the  juice  half  lemon,  add  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  toss  a  little  and 
pour  over  the  oysters;  decorate  the  dish  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  serve. 

750.    VEAL  CHOPS,  FINNOISE 

Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  veal  chops.  Season  evenly  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  the  chops  in  the  pan,  one  be- 
side another,  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side. 

Then  add  one  finely  chopped  green  pepper;  mix  a  little  and  cook  for 
two  minutes  longer;  with  a  spoon  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  pan;  pour 
over  the  chops  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16); 
lightly  mix.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
arrange  the  chops  on  a  large  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

751.    SALAD,  ALSACIENNE 

Finely  mince  three  cold,  boiled,  peeled  potatoes,  a  quarter  of  \  very 
small  white  cabbage,  one  medium,  white  onion  and  two  small  well- 
trimmed  pickled  lamb  tongues.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Finely  chop 
together  two  branches  fresh  parsley,  one  branch  fresh  tarragon,  one 
branch  chervil  and  add  to  the  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons 
dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

752.    FRENCH  CREAM  PIE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  four  egg  yolks,  two  ounces  sifted  flour,  half  pint 
cold  milk,  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  one  ounce  good  butter. 
Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes,  place  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil  place  in  a  bowl  and  let  cool  off.  Then  add  two 
ounces  peeled  and  finely  chopped  almonds  and  a  tablespoon  orange- 
flower  water.  Arrange  a  thin  layer  of  feuilletage,  prepared  as  per  No. 
756,  so  as  to  entirely  cover  a  pie  plate,  neatly  press  the  paste  around  the 
edges,  trim  off  any  superfluous  paste  adhering  and  lightly  wet  the 
edges.  Cut  out  a  round  piece  of  feuilletage  half  inch  wide  and  place 


WEDNESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       215 

it  all  around  the  edges  of  the  pie  plate;  lightly  egg  the  border.  Pou* 
the  preparation  in  the  centre  of  the  plate,  spreading  well.  Make  a  few 
light  incisions  around  the  ring,  then  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  dredge  a  little  fine  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Italian  Paste  with  Milk 

Smelts  Saute1,  aux  Fines  Herbes  Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Chicken  Vol  au  Vent,  Hay 
Risotto,  Piedmontaise  (225) 

Ribs  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255)         Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Vanilla  Souffte 

753.    ITALIAN  PASTE  WITH  MILK 

Boil  a  quart  and  a  half  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg,  adding  two 
ounces  Italian  paste  with  an  ounce  of  butter;  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add  to  the 
milk;  gently  mix  while  heating,  without  boiling,  for  two  minutes.  Pour 
into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
separately. 

754.    SMELTS  SAUTE",  AUX  FINES  HERBES 

Thoroughly  wipe  twelve  good-sized  fresh  smelts.  Have  on  a  plate 
a  tablespoon  milk  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper; 
mix  well,  gently  roll  the  smelts  in  the  seasoning,  then  in  flour.  Heat 
one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  smelts  in  the  pan, 
one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove 
with  a  skimmer  and  arrange  on  a  large  dish.  Sprinkle  over  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  chives,  a  very  little  chopped  chervil  and  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over  them.  Re- 
move the  grease  from  the  pan  in  which  the  fish  was  fried  and  add 
half  ounce  butter;  toss  the  butter  in  the  pan  on  the  fire  until  well  browned, 
pour  over  the  smelts  and  serve. 

755.     CHICKEN  VOL  AU  VENT,  HAY 

Carefully  skin  and  bone  a  tender,  raw  chicken  of  two  and  a  half  to 
three  pounds  and  cut  all  the  meat  into  inch-square  pieces.  Heat  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan  and  add  the  chicken. 
Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper; 
gently  cook  on  the  range  for  eight  minutes,  occasionally  tossing.  Add 
six  peeled,  well-cleaned,  sliced  heads  fresh  mushrooms;  lightly  toss 
again  and  let  slowly  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dredge  in  a  teaspoon  flour, 
lightly  mixing  while  doing  so.  Pour  in  half  pint  cold  milk,  gently  mix 
and  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  a  small  sliced  truffle,  one  gill 
cream  and  a  tablespoon  Madeira  wine;  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five 
minutes ;  add  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives ;  dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  a  table- 
spoon milk  and  add  to  the  chicken;  lightly  mix  while  heating,  without 


216  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

boiling,  for  two  minutes.     Remove  and  fill  up  a  vol  au  vent  with  the 
preparation.     Cover  it  and  serve. 

756.    FEUILLETAGE  (PUFF  PASTE) 

Sift  one  pound  flour  on  a  small  table;  make  a  fountain  in  the  centre 
pour  into  it  half  pint  ice  water,  adding  half  teaspoon  salt.  Briskly 
knead  with  the  hand,  gradually  incorporating  the  flour  until  a  perfect 
dough;  then  let  rest  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Wash  well  a  pound  good  butter  in  a  quart  ice  water;  then  knead 
the  butter  on  the  table  with  the  hand,  give  a  square  flat  form  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  Flour  the  table,  roll  out  the  paste  to  one-third  larger 
than  the  butter,  place  the  butter  on  top,  fold  up  the  four  corners  to 
completely  envelop  the  butter;  then  with  the  pastry  roller,  roll  out  to 
one-inch-thick  square  form.  Then  fold  up  the  paste  in  three  folds 
without  separating.  Roll  it  out  from  the  top  with  the  roller  to  one 
inch  longer  only,  of  a  square  form;  this  operation  is  usually  termed 
"turn."  Give  the  paste  half  a  turn  to  the  right  with  the  hand  and  roll 
it  out  to  the  same  thickness  as  before;  fold  up  the  same  as  before — then 
the  paste  will  have  two  "turns."  Place  it  on  a  tin  enveloped  in  a  towel 
and  let  rest  in  a  cool  place  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  give  two  more 
turns  as  before;  let  rest  for  twenty  minutes  again.  Give  two  similar 
turns  and  let  rest  in  a  cool  place  until  required,  always  enveloped  in  a 
clean  lightly  wetted  towel. 

757.    How  TO  MAKE  THE  VOL  AU  VENT 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  one  pound  feuilletage,  prepared 
as  per  No.  756,  to  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness;  then  with  a 
round  six-inch  pastry  cutter  cut  out  a  piece.  Lightly  wet  a  small  cold 
pastry  pan,  place  the  cut-out  piece  of  feuilletage  in  the  pan  upside  down; 
lightly  egg  the  surface;  then  with  the  point  of  a  knife  carefully  cut  a 
ring  on  the  surface  of  the  paste  half  an  inch  deep  and  one  inch  from 
the  outer  edge.  Be  very  careful  not  to  exceed  the  depth  of  half  an  inch 
in  cutting,  leaving  quarter  of  an  inch  uncut.  Make  four  incisions, 
lengthwise,  on  the  centre  piece  of  the  paste  in  the  pan  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  moderately  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven, 
lift  up  the  cover  of  the  vol  au  vent,  carefully  remove  all  the  uncooked 
paste  from  the  interior  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until  required. 

758.    VANILLA  SOUFFLE" 

Cut  half  vanilla  bean  into  very  small  pieces  and  boil  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  pint  milk  for  five  minutes;  remove  the  pan  to  the  table,  cover  it 
and  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes.  Place  in  another  small  saucepan  three 
ounces  sifted  flour,  three  ounces  granulated  sugar;  then  strain  the  vanilla 
milk  into  this  pan  and  briskly  mix  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes.  Set 
the  pan  on  the  fire  and  continually  stir  with  a  spatula  until  it  comes  to 
a  boil.  Remove  to  a  table,  then  add  one  by  one  three  egg  yolks,  briskly 
stirring  while  adding.  Beat  up  the  white  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  to  the  batter  and  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute. 
Lightly  butter  a  large  souffle*  dish  and  drop  in  the  preparation.  Smooth 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         217 

the  surface  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  powdered 
sugar  over,  and  set  to  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

N.  B.  Place  the  pieces  of  vanilla  used  in  the  milk  in  a  glass  jar  and 
keep  for  further  requirements. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (463) 

Wheatena  (1298) 
Shirred  Eggs,  Robert 
Broiled  Bluefish  (328) 
Pork  Chops,  with  Fried  Apples 
Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

759.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  ROBERT 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  butter,  adding  one  medium, 
finely  chopped  white  onion;  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  half  tea- 
spoon ground  English  mustard  and  stir  while  heating  for  half  minute; 
pour  in  one  tablespoon  vinegar  with  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Finely 
chop  three  medium-sized  vinegar  pickles  and  add  to  the  same;  boil  for 
five  minutes,  then  keep  warm. 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  shirred-egg  dishes  and  carefully  break 
two  fresh  eggs  into  each.  Mix  half  teaspoon  salt  with  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper  and  equally  season  the  eggs  with  it.  Evenly  divide  the 
sauce  over  the  eggs  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

760.    PORK  CHOPS,  WITH  FRIED  APPLES 

Lightly  flatten  six  fresh  pork  chops.  Season  all  round  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one 
tablespoon  good  lard,  place  the  chops  in  the  pan,  one -beside  another, 
and  slowly  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  keep  warm.. 

Peel  and  core  three  apples,  cut  each  apple  into  four  even  slices;  dip 
in  cold  milk,  slightly  roll  in  flour,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten 
minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain,  arrange  around 
the  pork  chops  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (So) 

Broiled  Lobster 

Saute  of  Lamb,  Chasseur 

Potatoes,  Bretonne 
Compote  of  Apricots 

761.    BROILED  LOBSTER,  PLAIN 

Procure  three  live  lobsters  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  each ;  cut  off  the 
claws,  crack  the  large  ones  with  a  cleaver,  then  split  the  bodies  in  two; 


2i8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

clean  off  the  heads  and  arrange  the  lobster  halves  on  a  double  broiler. 
Season  evenly  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Baste 
with  a  tablespoon  oil  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire,  cut  part  upward,  for  ten 
minutes;  remove  and  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  more. 

When  the  lobsters  are  placed  on  the  broiler  have  the  claws  on  a  tin 
and  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  both,  arrange  on  a 
large  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and 
serve  with  half  gill  melted  butter  separately. 

762.     SAUTF!  OF  LAMB,  CHASSEUR 

Procure  two  pounds  lamb  from  a  tender  leg  and  cut  into  half-inch- 
square  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the 
lamb,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper; 
gently  toss  and  let  slowly  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  occasionally  tossing 
meanwhile.  Add  ten  finely  chopped  shallots,  lightly  toss,  add  half  gill 
white  wine  and  let  reduce  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  one  and  a  half 
gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  twelve 
heads  finely  minced  canned  mushrooms;  lightly  mix  and  gently  cook 
on  the  range  for  fifteen  minutes.  Finely  chop  together  two  branches 
of  parsley  with  half  clove  sound  garlic  and  add  to  the  lamb ;  mix  a  little, 
pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

763.    POTATOES,  BRETONNE 

Finely  chop  one  good-sized  white  onion  and  lightly  fry  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  ounce  butter  for  three  minutes;  add  one  tablespoon  flour, 
gently  stir  while  cooking  for  five  minutes ;  moisten  with  a  pint  hot  white 
broth  (No.  701)  and  thoroughly  mix;  then  add  six  medium-sized, 
peeled,  raw  potatoes  cut  into  even  quarters.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly 
simmer  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

764.     COMPOTE  OF  APRICOTS 

Open  a  pint  can  fine,  firm  apricots.  Place  on  a  compote  dish  and 
their  liquor  in  a  small  saucepan ;  pour  two  tablespoons  maraschino  with 
a  tablespoon  fine  sugar  into  the  liquor  and  boil  on  the  range  for  five 
minutes;  pour  over  the  apricots  and  serve. 

DINNER. 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)        Tomatoes 

Pot  au  Feu,  Mexicaine 

Halibut,  Aurore  Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Filets  Mignons,  Mushroom  Sauce 

French  String  Beans  (139) 
Roast  Grouse  with  Jelly  (167)  Celery  Mayonnaise  (69) 

Pudding,  Comtesse 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (42) 

765.    TOMATOES  FOR  SIDE  DISH 

Remove  the  stems  and  neatly  wipe  three  small,  sound  red 
tomatoes  and  slice  into  medium-sized  pieces;  dress  on  a  hors 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         219 

d'oeuvres  dish,  qour  two  tablespoons  dressing,  as  per  No.  863,  lightly 
over  them;  mix  and  serve. 

766.    Pox  AU  FEU,  MEXICAINE 

Have  three  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  table- 
spoon salt,  adding  half  pound  fresh  lean  rump  beef,  one  beef  marrow 
bone  and  any  chicken  or  veal  bones  at  hand.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Carefully  skim  the  scum  from  the  sur- 
face of  the  broth;  add  one  small,  peeled,  red  carrot,  one  medium-sized 
white  turnip,  one  onion  with  a  clove  stuck  in  it,  one  small  green  pepper, 
two  leeks  tied  up  with  two  branches  of  white  celery,  also  adding  one  bean 
garlic.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  simmer  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Remove  from  the  range,  take  the  beef,  carrot,  turnip,  onion  and  leeks 
from  the  pan;  cut  all  these  vegetables  and  the  beef  into  small 
square  pieces  and  place  in  a  soup  tureen,  adding  two  Spanish  sweet 
peppers  cut  into  small  squares.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  surface 
of  the  broth,  then  pass  through  a  cheesecloth  over  the  vegetables  and 
serve  with  six  thin  slices  of  toasted  French  bread. 

767.    HALIBUT,  AURORE 

Place  three  slices  fresh  halibut  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each 
in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill 
water.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper ;  cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  range 
for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Re- 
move, lift  up  the  paper,  and  with  a  skimmer  take  up  the  fish,  place  on  a 
hot  dish,  remove  the  spinal  bones,  and  keep  hot  till  required. 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  butter,'  add 
and  stir  in  two  tablespoons  flour  and  heat  for  one  minute.  Then  strain 
in  the  fish  liquor,  adding  half  gill  hot  milk ;  mix  gently  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil.  Add  two  finely  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  and  boil  for  a  minute 
longer,  lightly  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

768.    FILETS  MIGNONS,  MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

Neatly  flatten,  trim  and  place  on  a  plate  six  small  filets  of  four  ounces 
each.  Season  all  around  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  the  filets  in  the 
pan,  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  round  bread  croutons,  pour  a 
mushroom  sauce  over  and  serve. 

769.    MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

Finely  mince  twelve  heads  canned  mushrooms.  Place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  half  a  gill  sherry,  let  boil  for  three  minutes,  then  add 
one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122);  lightly  mix,  let  boil  for  five  minutes 
and  serve 


2*>  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

770.    PUDDING,  COMTESSE 

Lightly  butter  a  large  pudding  mould.  Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of 
sandwich  bread  eight  slices  quarter-inch  thick;  round  them  to  two  and 
a  half  inches  in  diameter.  Spread  a  teaspoon  raspberry  jelly  over  each 
slice.  Finely  chop  up  together  one  ounce  candied  lemon  peel,  one  ounce 
well-picked  currants  and  one  peeled  and  cored  apple.  Place  all  these 
fruits  in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  rum;  mix  well  together,  spread  the 
mixed  fruits  equally  over  the  eight  slices  of  bread  and  lay  in  the  mould, 
one  on  top  of  another. 

Mix  in  a  bowl  three  raw  eggs,  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  pint  cold  milk.  Strain  this  preparation  over  the  bread  in 
the  mould.  Place  the  mould  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  up  to  half 
the  height  of  the  mould.  Set  in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Re- 
move, unmould  on  a  large  dish.  Pour  a  groseille-maraschino  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

771.    GROSEILLE-MARASCHINO  SAUCE 

Dilute  in  a  small  saucepan  four  tablespoons  currant  jelly  with  one 
tablespoon  fine  sugar,  two  tablespoons  maraschino  and  half  gill  water. 
Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  let  slowly  boil  for  three  minutes,  and  use  as  di- 
rected. 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Oranges  (237)  .- 

Farina  (74) 

Omelette  with  Anchovies 

•  Kingfish  Saute,  Meuniere 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 
Hashed  Creamed  Potatoes  (220) 
Rice  Griddle  Cakes  (221) 

772.  OMELETTE  WITH  ANCHOVIES 

Cut  twelve  oil  anchovies  into  quarter-inch  even  pieces  and  place 
in  a  bowl.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  the  same  bowl,  add 
half  gill  cold  milk  and  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs 
and  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes;  let  rest  for  half  minute,  then  fold 
the  two  opposite  sides;  let  rest  for  half  a  minute  longer;  turn  it  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

773.  KINGFISH  SAUTE",  MEUNIERE 

Draw,  trim  and  wipe  well  two  very  fresh  kingfish  one  and  a  half 
pounds  each.  Have  two  tablespoons  milk  on  a  plate  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  fish  in  the 
mixed  milk  and  then  roll  in  flour. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  fish  and  cook 
for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  221 

dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  lemon  over.  Sprinkle 
a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  pan,  add 
half  ounce  butter;  toss  the  butter  in  the  pan  until  a  nice  brown  colour, 
pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Curried  Soft  Clams 

Poached  Eggs,  Swiss 

Minced  Beef,  with  Spanish  Peppers 

Bavarois  Chocolate 

774.  CURRIED  SOFT  CLAMS 

Prepare  a  curry  sauce  as  per  No.  54  and  keep  it  hot.  Have  thirty-six 
freshly  opened  soft  clams,  thoroughly  clean  them,  carefully  removing 
all  sandy  parts  and  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies.  Plunge  them 
in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  one  minute;  drain  on  a 
sieve  and  add  to  the  prepared  curry  sauce;  gently  mix  and  let  boil  on 
the  range  for  one  minute.  Remove,  pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

775.  POACHED  EGGS,  Swiss 

Cut  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  twelve  pieces  quarter-inch  thick 
and  round  to  two  inches  in  diameter.  Lightly  toast  and  spread  a  very 
little  butter  over.  Cut  twelve  thin  slices  rich  Swiss  cheese  about  the  same 
size  as  the  toasts  and  lay  a  slice  on  each  toast.  Set  them  in  the  oven 
on  a  tin  for  five  minutes,  or  until  well  melted.  Remove  and  keep  warm. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  as  per  No.  106.  Lay  them  over  the 
toasts.  Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  half  gill  white  wine  with  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper,  adding  one  and  a  half  ounces  very  finely  grated  Swiss 
cheese;  briskly  stir  on  the  fire  until  thoroughly  melted,  evenly  divide 
over  the  twelve  eggs  and  reset  the  pan  in  a  brisk  oven  for  two  minutes. 
Remove,  place  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  serve. 

776.    MINCED  BEEF,  WITH  SPANISH  PEPPERS 

Cut  from  a  tender,  lean  sirloin  of  beef  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
twelve  even,  thin  slices.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  white  pepper. 

Cut  six  Spanish  red  peppers  in  halves.  Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  adding  the  peppers  and  fry  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  with  a  fork  and  keep  hot  on  a  plate. 
Place  the  beef  in  the  same  pan  and  briskly  cook  for  one  minute  on  each 
side.  Remove  the  slices  with  a  fork,  arrange  on  a  large  dish,  one  over- 
lapping another,  place  the  peppers  over  them  and  sprinkle  with  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  parsley.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  pan,  add 
half  gill  red  wine  and  half  gill  water.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  toss  well  and  let  briskly  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  beef  and  serve. 

777.    BAVAROIS  CHOCOLATE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  pint  milk  with  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence 
and  two  ounces  grated  chocolate;  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  mix  with  a 


222  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Have  three  egg  yolks  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  three  ounces  fine  sugar  and  gradually  mix  with  the  milk; 
stir  gently  on  the  fire  while  heating,  but  not  boiling,  for  five  minutes. 
Add  one  ounce  leaf  gelatin  and  continually  stir  until  dissolved ;  then  pass 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  clean  copper  basin;  set  the  basin  on 
the  ice  and  briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  add  two  gills  whipped  cream  and  gently  mix  for  a  minute.  Pour 
the  preparation  into  a  jelly  mould.  Tightly  cover  the  mould  and  bury 
it  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  for  two  hours.  Remove,  im- 
merse the  mould  in  water  for  one  minute;  unmould  the  bavarois  on 
a  cold  dish  with  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  .        Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque,  Harriman 

Boiled  Skate,  Brown  Butter          Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 
Chicken  Legs,  Devilled  with  Bacon 

French  Peas  au  Beurre 

Crab  Meat  au  Gratin  Cucumbers,  Espagnole 

Suckling  Pig,  Apple  Sauce  (632) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Eclairs  aux  Praises 

778.    BISQUE,  HARRIMAN 

Pound  in  a  mortar  a  fresh  lobster  of  three  pounds,  shells  and  all,  to 
a  pulp.  Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  lobster,  stir  well 
for  one  minute  on  the  fire,  let  briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons  brandy,  set  fire  to  the 
brandy,  burn  long  as  flame  lasts,  then  add  two  gills  of  white  wine 
and  let  boil  for  five  minutes;  add  one  pint  fresh  or  canned  crushed 
tomatoes  and  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701)  or  water.  Season  with 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Mix 
well  for  a  minute  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  two  ounces  raw 
rice  and  mix  lightly. 

Heat  in  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  butter,  add  half  sliced  carrot,  half 
sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  celery  and  two  branches 
parsley;  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  tossing,  then  add  to 
the  bisque,  lightly  mix  and  gently  simmer  for  forty-five  minutes,  being 
very  careful  to  mix  at  the  bottom  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Press  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
into  another  saucepan;  add  half  pint  cold  milk,  mix,  and  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boiling  point  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

779.    BOILED  SKATE,  BROWN  BUTTER 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh  skate,  pare  and  cut  off  the  fins 
and  cut  into  six  equal  square  pieces.  Wash  and  thoroughly  wipe. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  clove,  one  bay  leaf,  half  gill  good  vinegar  and  one  quart 


FRIDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  223 

water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes, 
add  the  fish  and  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a 
skimmer,  lay  on  a  cloth  and  remove  the  skin.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish; 
pour  two  tablespoons  capers  over  and  sprinkle  with  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  toss  till  a  light 
colour,  pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

780.    CHICKEN  LEGS,  DEVILLED  WITH  BACON 

Procure  three  small,  tender  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Cut  off  the  legs  and  breasts  without  detaching  the  small  filets 
from  the  breasts.  Cut  off  the  feet  and  bones  at  the  second  joint  of 
the  six  legs,  remove  all  the  breast  bones  and  cut  the  wings  at  the  middle 
joints.  Place  the  six  legs  on  a  plate,  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  then  rub  well  with  a  tablespoon 
oil.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove.  Have  a  devilled  butter  (No.  1 1)  on  a  plate ;  roll  each  leg  in  the 
butter,  then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs;  replace  on  the  broiler  and  broil  for 
four  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  six  thin 
slices  broiled  bacon,  prepared  as  per  No.  13,  over  the  legs  and  serve. 

Place  the  breasts  in  a  stone  jar  with  two  gills  white  wine,  one  gill 
water,  half  sliced  carrot,  half  sliced  onion,  one  branch  celery,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove.  Season 
with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  mix  well,  cover 
the  jar,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  until  Sunday. 

N.  B.  Neatly  clean  all  the  remaining  bones  and  keep  separately 
for  Sunday. 

781.    FRENCH  PEAS  AU  BEURRE 

Open  a  pint  can  French  peas,  suppress  all  the  water,  plunge  in  a 
pint  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  three  minutes; 
thoroughly  drain,  place  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  two  salt- 
spoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper; 
gently  toss  while  cooking  for  two  minutes.  Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 

782.    CRAB  MEAT  AU  GRATIN 

Heat  half  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  level  table- 
spoons flour  for  one  minute,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile;  pour  in  one  and 
a  half  gills  hot  milk  and  half  gill  cream;  briskly  mix  with  a  whisk  and 
let  come  to  a  boil. 

Place  three-quarters  of  pound  fresh  crab  meat  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  half  gill  good  sherry.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg;  gently  mix  with  a 
spoon  and  let  slowly  cook  for  five  minutes.  Strain  the  above  cream 
sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  the  crab-meat  pan,  adding  six 
sliced  canned  mushrooms;  lightly  mix  and  allow  to  slowly  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  deep  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a 
tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake 
for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 


224  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

783.    CUCUMBERS,  ESPAGNOLE 

Neatly  peel  and  cut  into  even  quarters,  lengthwise,  three  medium- 
sized  cucumbers;  carefully  suppress  all  the  seeds,  then  cut  into  half-inch 
pieces.  Plunge  into  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
boil  for  eight  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve.  Heat  in  a  small  frying  pan 
a  teaspoon  oil,  adding  half  finely  minced  green  pepper  and  half  finely 
minced  white  onion ;  gently  toss  while  cooking  for  two  minutes ;  add  half 
bean  finely  chopped  garlic  and  two  peeled,  crushed  red  tomatoes;  mix 
well  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) ; 
add  the  cucumbers.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cay- 
enne pepper  and  half  teaspoon  sugar;  lightly  mix  the  whole  together 
and  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Re- 
move, pour  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

784.    £CLAIRS  AUX  FRAISES 

Place  twenty-four  well-picked  and  washed  fresh  strawberries  in  a 
bowl  with  one  tablespoon  fine  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  Swiss  kirsch- 
wasser;  mix  well  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  required. 

Prepare  six  eclairs  Chantilly  as  per  No.  361.  Arrange  four  straw- 
berries in  each  cake  with  the  whipped  cream.  Dredge  a  little  fine  sugar 
over  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Hominy  (45) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  with  Tarragon 
Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Hamburg  Steaks* 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Vanilla  Buns 

785.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  WITH  TARRAGON 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  cold  milk 
and  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  fresh  tarragon.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a 
fork  for  one  minute,  then  proceed  to  cook  the  eggs  exactly  as  per  No.  193. 

786.    VANILLA  BUNS 

Sift  half  pound  flour  on-  a  corner  of  the  table,  make  a  fountain  in  the 
centre,  pour  into  it  two  gills  cold  milk,  add  a  teaspoon  compressed  yeast 
and  one  saltspoon  salt.  Knead  all  well  together  with  the  hand  for  five 
minutes,  or  until  a  light  dough.  Place  the  dough  in  a  large  bowl  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty  minutes.  Then  add  two  eggs,  two  ounces 
well-picked  currants,  half  ounce  finely  chopped  candied  lemon  peel  and 

*  Prepare  the  steaks  the  same  as  per  No.  108,  but  serve  without  the  onions. 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY        225 

a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  briskly  beat  up  with  the  hand  for  five  minutes. 
Divide  the  paste  into  six  equal  parts.  Roll  each  piece  into  cake  form 
and  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin.  Let  rest  for  fifteen  minutes.  Moisten 
the  surface  of  each  with  a  beaten  egg  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  fortwenty 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Pan-roast  Oysters 

Rabbit  Pie 

Stewed  Corn 

Beignets,  Italienne 

787.    PAN-ROAST  OYSTERS 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  shirred  egg  dishes.  Place  a  toast  two 
inches  in  diameter  in  each  dish.  Lay  six  good-sized  freshly  opened 
oysters  on  the  toast.  Evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika.  Pour  the  liquor  on  the  oysters  around  the  dish 
and  spread  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  over  them.  Divide  half 
ounce  butter  and  place  it  in  little  pieces  over  the  top  of  each;  place  in 
the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  till  a  nice  brown  colour.  Remove 
and  serve. 

788.    RABBIT  PIE 

Cut  into  eighteen  even  pieces  a  fine,  fresh,  skinned,  well-cleaned 
rabbit  of  about  three  and  a  half  pounds.  Heat  in  a  black  frying  pan 
two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  and  add  the  rabbit.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  let  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  turning  the  pieces  with  a  fork.  Lift  up  with  a  fork  and 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  briskly  cook  on  the 
range  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing.  Add  six  finely  chopped  shallots, 
half  bean  finely  crushed  garlic  and  mix  for  one  minute;  sprinkle  a  heavy 
tablespoon  flour  over  the  meat  and  thoroughly  stir.  Moisten  with  a  gill 
white  wine,  half  pint  water  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives;  add  one  bay  leaf 
and  one  clove;  lightly  mix;  cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Place  twelve  very  small  white  onions  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  lard  and  briskly  fry  for  ten  minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown 
colour,  frequently  tossing,  and  add  to  the  rabbit;  add  also  two  scooped- 
out  raw  potatoes  and  one  ounce  salt  pork  cut  into  small  dice  pieces. 
Lightly  mix  the  whole  well  together  and  cover  the  pan.  Set  in  the  oven 
to  bake  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  uncover,  transfer  to  a  baking  dish, 
egg  the  edges  of  the  dish  and  cover  with  a  pie  paste  as  per  No.  117. 
Press  the  paste  with  the  thumb  around  the  edges,  neatly  trim,  make  a 
few  small  incisions  on  top,  lightly  egg  the  surface  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

789.    STEWED  CORN 

Thoroughly  drain  a  pint  can  corn;  then  place  in  a  small  frying  pan 
with  half  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  butter;  season  with 


226  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Gently  mix  and  let  slowly  cook  for  eight  minutes. 
Remove;  pour  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

790.    BEIGNETS,  ITALIENNE 

Prepare  a  pate  a  choux  as  per  No.  336.  Mix  in  a  tablespoon  fine 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Heat  well,  but  not  to  a  boiling 
point,  one  quart  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  then  with  a  tablespoon  drop  in  the 
paste  in  walnut-like  shape  and  slowly  fry  until  a  nice  golden  colour, 
which  will  take  about  fifteen' minutes,  being  very  careful  to  turn  with  a 
skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  towel, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  vanilla  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Caviare  (59) 

Consomme,  Macaroni 

Broiled  Kingfish  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Sirloin  of  Beef    with  Fried  Tomatoes 

Eggplant,  Saute,  aux  Fines  Herbes 

Roast  Rail  Birds 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Rhubarb  Tartlets 

791.    CONSOMME",  MACARONI 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  prepared  as  per  No.  52  into  a  hot 
soup  tureen. 

Cut  four  ounces  macaroni  into  pieces  one  inch  long  and  plunge  into 
a  quart  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  add  the  macaroni  to  the 
consomme,  lightly  mix  and  serve  with  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese. 

792.    BROILED  KINGFISH 

Drain  and  neatly  wipe  two  fresh  kingfish  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Cut  off  the  heads,  split  open  through  the  belly,  without  separat- 
ing, remove  the  spinal  bones  and  neatly  trim  all  around.  Season  evenly 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  pepper  and  rub  with  half  tablespoon 
oil ;  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  over.  Deco- 
rate the  dish  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  serve. 

793.     SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF  WITH  FRIED  TOMATOES 

Procure  a  piece  of  tender  sirloin  of  beef  of  two  and  a  half  pounds, 
neatly  trim  off  a  little  of  the  fat  all  around,  leaving  some.  Season  with 
a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

Lay  a  mirepoix  in  a  small  roasting  pan,  as  per  No.  271,  and  place 
the  sirloin  over.  Arrange  a  very  thin  slice  larding  pork  over  the  beef, 
pour  half  gill  cold  water  into  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  frequently  turning  and  basting  meanwhile.  Re- 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         227 

move  the  beef,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm.  Remove  all  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  pour  in  half  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  gill  of 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  and  boil  slowly  on 
the  range  for  five  minutes;  then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  sirloin. 

Cut  four  fresh  red  tomatoes  into  four  even  slices  each.  Season  all 
around  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in 
a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  tomatoes  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another, 
and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side;  remove,  arrange  all 
around  the  sirloin,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

794.    EGGPLANT,  SAUT£,  AUX  FINES  HERBES 

Remove  the  stem  and  neatly  peel  a  medium,  sound  eggplant.  Cut 
it  into  four  even  quarters,  then  into  pieces  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Heat  in  a  black  frying  pan  two  light  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  add 
the  eggplant.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  fry  for  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  toss  quite  frequently 
meanwhile.  Mix  together  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  with 
quarter  teaspoon  chopped  chervil  and  quarter  teaspoon  chopped  chives, 
and  sprinkle  it  equally  over  the  eggplants;  gently  toss  a  little  longer. 
Dress  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

795.  ROAST  RAIL  BIRDS 

Cut  off  at  the  first  joint  the  legs  of  six  nice,  fat,  picked,  rail  birds. 
Tear  the  skin  from  the  neck  and  head  of  each  bird  and  pick  out  the  eyes 
with  the  point  of  a  small  knife.  Remove  the  intestines,  keeping  the 
livers  and  hearts  on  a  plate;  press  the  legs  of  each  bird  under  the  breasts, 
and  place  on  a  small  roasting  tin.  Season  inside  and  all  around  with 
one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  pour  a  tablespoon 
water  over  the  tin.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  roast  for  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move and  keep  warm.  Finely  chop  the  livers  and  hearts  with  half  a 
very  small  white  onion  and  two  branches  well-washed  parsley.  Have 
six  small  freshly  prepared  toasts  two  inches  square  and  quarter-inch 
thick.  Evenly  spread  the  mixture  over  the  toasts.  Dredge  with  a 
tablespoon  bread  crumbs,  divide  a  teaspoon  butter  in  very  small  pieces 
over  and  place  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot 
dish,  place  the  birds  on  top,  decorate  the  dish  with  a  little  watercress 
and  serve. 

796.  RHUBARB  TARTLETS 

Neatly  trim  one  pound  fresh  rhubarb,  remove  the  fibres,  wash  in 
cold  water,  drain  and  cut  into  pieces  one  inch  long.  Place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  four  ounces  fine  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  cover  the  pan,  set  on  the  fire  and  let 
gently  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  being  careful  to  frequently  stir  at  the 
bottom  meantime. 

Prepare  six  tartlet  crusts  as  per  No.  161  and  fill  with  the  rhubarb 
preparation.  Dredge  a  little  fine  sugar  over  and  serve. 


228  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 
Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs,  Rockaway 

Fresh  Herring,  Anchovy  Butter 
Broiled  Devilled  Bacon  (682) 

Potatoes,  Julienne 
Griddle  Cakes  (136) 

797.    EGGS,  ROCKAWAY 

Finely  mince  six  medium,  freshly  opened  clams.  Place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  one  gill  milk;  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper;  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Divide 
this  preparation  evenly  into  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  place  on  a  tin.  Care- 
fully crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish;  mix  together  two  saltspoons 
salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
evenly  sprinkle  it  over  the  eggs  and  finally  pour  over  each  dish  one  tea- 
spoon cold,  thick  cream.  Set  the  tin  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  serve. 

798.    FRESH  HERRING,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Neatly  trim,  draw  and  wipe  three  fresh,  medium  herrings.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  then  roll  in  a  table- 
spoon oil;  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  an  anchovy  butter,  prepared  as  No. 
62,  over  the  fish,  decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  serve. 

799.    POTATOES,  JULIENNE 

Peel  and  wash  well  three  medium,  raw  potatoes.  Cut  with  a  sharp 
knife — if  no  julienne-shaped  potato  cutter  is  at  hand — into  even  juli- 
enne, match-like  strips;  wash  again,  drain  thoroughly,  place  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  six  minutes.  Take  up  in  the  basket, 
drain  thoroughly,  sprinkle  a  good  teaspoon  salt  over,  shake  well,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice 

Oysters  in  Shells  with  Curry 

Broiled  Family  Rack  of  Lamb 

Charlotte,  Genoise 

800.    CHICKEN  BROTH  WITH  RICE 

Thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  the  chicken  bones  from 
the  day  before  yesterday;,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  quarts  cold 
water  and  set  on  the  fire;  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  remove  all  the 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  22$ 

scum  from  the  surface;  then  add  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  turnip, 
one  sliced  white  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  one  clove  and  one  saltspoon  thyme.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain  the  broth 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan  and  skim  all  the  fat  from 
the  surface. 

Plunge  two  ounces  raw  rice  into  a  pint  boiling  water  and  cook  for 
twenty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  add  the  drained  rice  to  the 
chicken  broth  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Remove,  pour 
into  six  cups  and  serve. 

N.  B.  When  no  chicken  bones  are  on  hand  for  preparing  the  chicken 
broth,  procure  from  your  butcher  about  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh 
chicken  bones. 

801.     OYSTERS  IN  SHELLS  WITH  CURRY 

Open  twenty-four  large  fresh  oysters,  leaving  them  in  their  deep 
shells;  lay  the  oysters  and  shells  on  a  large  tin.  Season  evenly  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Knead  well  in  a  bowl  one 
ounce  butter,  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon  curry 
powder  and  evenly  cover  the  oysters  with  this.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  for 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
large  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

802.    BROILED  FAMILY  RACK  OF  LAMB 

Procure  a  rack  of  tender  lamb  of  about  three-pounds  weight  with 
full  breast  bones;  entirely  remove  the  spinal  bone  and  neatly  trim  all 
around.  Carefully  crack  the  bones  in  the  middle  of  the  rack  without 
cutting  the  meat.  Then  with  a  knife  make  criss-crosses  all  over  the 
surface  of  the  skin.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  and  a  tablespoon  oil;  thoroughly  roll  the  rack  in  the  seasoning 
till  all  absorbed.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  rather  slow 
fire  for  fifteen  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  place  on  a  large  dish 
and  keep  hot. 

Plunge  twelve  small  peeled  potatoes  into  a  quart  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan;  add  the 
potatoes,  fry  all  around  until  a  nice  golden  colour  and  arrange  all 
around  the  rack.  Spread  a  cabaret  sauce,  prepared,  as  per  No.  246, 
over  and  serve. 

N.  B.     Potatoes  and  cabaret  sauce  can  be  prepared  before  the  rack. 

803.    CHARLOTTE,  GENOISE 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces 
powdered  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Place  the  bottom 
of  the  basin  in  a  pail  with  lukewarm  water  and  briskly  whisk  up  for 
fifteen  minutes;  remove  the  basin  from  the  pail,  add  four  ounces  flour, 
gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute,  add  two  ounces  melted 
butter  and  gently  and  carefully  mix  for  half  minute.  Lightly  butter 


230  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

six  individual  pudding  moulds.  Fill  them  up  to  three-quarters  of 
their  height  with  the  preparation,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off.  With 
a  scoop  empty  the  middle  of  each  charlotte,  then  fill  up  the  cavity 
with  a  whipped  cream,  prepared  as  per  No.  337.  Unmould  on  a 
dish,  decorate  with  the  balance  of  the  cream  and  six  candied  cherries 
one  on  each  pudding,  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)          Olives 

Cream  of  Cucumbers,  Reine 

Striped  Bass,  Parisienne         Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 
Poitrines  de  Poulets,  Loubet 

Cauliflower,  Polonaise 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)         Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Magenta  Iced  Pudding 

804.    CREAM  OF  CUCUMBERS,  REINE 

Peel  four  medium,  sound,  rather  green  cucumbers,  cut  into  quarters, 
remove  all  the  seeds  and  slice. 

Have  in  a  saucepan  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  butter  and  add  the 
cucumbers.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  one  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg;  mix  the  cucumbers  well  in 
the  seasoning.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  smother  on  the  range  for 
ten  minutes.  Then  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  hot  broth  (No. 
701)  or  hot  water  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes. 

Heat  in  another  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  two  ounces 
flour,  briskly  stir  for  one  minute,  pour  the  cucumber  broth  into  this  pan, 
adding  one  and  a  half  gills  cream;  briskly  whisk  for  two  minutes  and 
as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  gradually  add  half  ounce  butter,  contin- 
ually mixing  until  it  is  melted.  Strain  the  cream  through  a  sieve,  then 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  bread 
croutons,  as  per  No.  23,  separately. 

805.    STRIPED  BASS,  PARISIENNE 

Procure  a  small,  fresh  striped  bass  of  three  and  a  half  pounds;  cut 
off  the  head,  trim  the  fins,  scale  and  wipe  well,  split  in  two  through  the 
back  and  remove  the  spinal  bone.  Slice  exceedingly  fine  two  small 
onions,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  lay  the  fish 
on  top.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover 
the  fish  with  a  plate,  set  on  a  brisk  range  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes. 
Lift  up  the  plate,  add  all  round  the  fish  two  peeled  and  crushed  red 
tomatoes,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  gill  white 
wine.  Cover  again  and  set  the  fish  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  carefully  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  garnishing  around, 
decorate  with  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons,  as  per  No.  90,  and 
serve. 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY  231 

806.      POITRINES  DE   POULETS,    LOUBET 

Take  from  jar  all  the  chicken  breasts  left  over  from  day  before 
yesterday  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth.  Place  the  marinade  of 
the  chicken  in  a  saucepan  and  reduce  on  the  range  to  one-third  the 
quantity.  Then  strain  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl.  Place  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  cocotte  dish  on  the  fire  and 
when  the  butter  is  thoroughly  hot  add  the  chicken  and  let  brown  to  a 
nice  golden  colour,  turning  the  pieces  once  in  a  while.  Remove  all 
the  butter  from  the  pan,  add  two  tablespoons  good  cognac,  set  fire  to  it 
and  burn  as  long  as  it  lasts;  then  pour  in  the  reduced  marinade;  add 
one  very  small,  peeled,  red  carrot,  one  branch  white  celery,  four  peeled, 
well-washed  and  dried  fresh  mushrooms  and  one  truffle,  all  cut  into 
very  thin  julienne  strips,  also  adding  two  medium,  crushed  red  tomatoes. 
Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  chervil,  one  branch  parsley,  one  clove 
and  half  bean  sound  garlic  and  add  to  the  chicken.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  lightly  mix;  cover  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take 
up  the  tied  herbs  and  send  to  the  table  covered. 

807.  CAULIFLOWER,  POLONAISE 

Trim  off  the  outer  leaves  and  stalk  of  a  good  sized  white  cauliflower. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  boiling  water  and  a  gill  hot  milk. 
Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  three  tablespoons  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  then  gently  toss  until  a  good  golden  colour.  Pour  over 
the  cauliflower  and  serve. 

808.  MAGENTA  ICED  PUDDING 

Chop  very  finely  six  candied  cherries,  two  candied  pears,  two  candied 
figs,  two  plums  and  half  a  preserved  peach.  Place  in  a  bowl  with  three 
tablespoons  of  maraschino,  mix  well  and  let  infuse  till  required. 

Press  half  pint  fresh-picked  or  preserved  strawberries  through  a 
sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  one  ounce  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence; 
mix  well,  add  two  gills  whipped  vanilla  cream,  as  per  No.  337,  and 
gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute.  Have  twelve  lady-fingers 
on  a  plate  and  wet  the  surface  of  them  with  a  tablespoon  Swiss  kirsch- 
wasser.  Set  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice  and 
rock  salt.  Place  one-third  of  the  preparation  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould, 
nicely  arrange  six  lady-fingers  over,  then  spread  half  the  quantity  of 
fruits  over  the  lady-fingers;  add  another  third  of  the  preparation  over 
fruits,  then  arrange  the  other  two  lady-fingers  and  spread  the  balance 
of  fruits  over,  then  finally  spread  the  preparation  remaining.  Cover 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  put  the  cover  on,  entirely  bury  the  mould 
in  ice  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove,  immerse  the  mould 
in  tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds,  thoroughly  wipe  all  around,  unmould 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


232  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 
Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Eggs,  Washington 
Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (740) 

Calf's  Liver,  Minute  French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Puff  Cakes  (313) 

809.    EGGS,  WASHINGTON 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes.  Remove,  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  a  minute,  lift  up  and  shell  them;  cut  a  piece  off  the  thicker  end 
of  each  so  they  will  stand  up ;  cut  a  quarter  of  the  white  from  the  top  so 
as  to  enable  you  to  easily  scoop  out  the  yolks.  When  all  scooped  out 
place  the  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  one  ounce  finely  grated  Virginia  ham, 
one  saltspoon  chopped  parsley,  one  saltspoon  chopped  chives,  one  salt- 
spoon  chopped  chervil,  a  tablespoon  good  butter  and  two  tablespoons 
thick  cream.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  the  whole  together  to 
a  puree,  place  in  a  paper  cornet  and  carefully  press  into  the  scooped-out 
eggs.  Cut  twelve  round  pieces  of  bread  quarter-inch  thick  and  one 
and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  and  toast  to  a  nice  golden  colour;  lay  an 
egg  on  each  toast  and  place  on  a  tin.  Cover  the  eggs  with  the  cut-off 
tops.  Prepare  a  Mornay  sauce  as  per  No.  526  and  spread  it  evenly  over 
the  eggs.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

810.     CALF'S  LIVER,  MINUTE 

Cut  twelve  very  thin  slices  from  a  fresh  piece  of  calf's  liver;  place 
on  a  plate  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  then  lightly  turn  the  pieces  in  flour.  Thoroughly  heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  lard  on  a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  slices  in  the  pan, 
one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  a  minute  and  a  half  on  each  side.  Lift 
up  with  a  fork,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Baked  Lobster,  Potomac 

Delmonico  Steaks,  Bordelaise 

Mashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Custard  Pis 

811.    BAKED  LOBSTER,  POTOMAC 

Procure  three  live  lobsters  of  a  pound  each.  Cut  off  the  claws, 
split  the  lobsters  in  two  and  remove  the  gravel.  Crack  the  claws  with  a 
cleaver  and  lay  the  half  lobsters  and  claws  on  a  large  roasting  tin.  Sea- 
son with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  well  divided ;  lightly 
butter  the  meat  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Set  in  the  oven  to 
bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  dress  on  a  large,  hot  dish. 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         233 

Place  six  thin  slices  bacon  prepared  as  per  No.  13  over  the  lobster. 
Decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  send  to 
the  table  with  following  sauce  separately: 

Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan  and  as  soon  as  melted 
add  two  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  two  tablespoons  chili  sauce  and 
one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce;  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  into  a  saucebowl  and  serve. 

812.     DELMONICO'S  STEAKS,  BORDELAISE 

Nicely  trim  and  lightly  flatten  with  a  cleaver  two  tender  sirloin 
steaks  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  each.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  with  a  tablespoon  oil  and  gently  roll 
the  steaks  in  the  seasoning;  arrange  on  the  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk 
fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish. 
Pour  hot  Bordelaise  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  28,  over  and  serve. 

813.    MASHED  BROWNED  POTATOES 

Prepare  same  quantity  mashed  potatoes  as  per  No.  178.  Place  in  a 
baking  dish  and  with  the  blade  of  a  knife  neatly  smooth  all  around. 
Lightly  egg  the  surface  with  the  knife,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten 
minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

814.     CUSTARD   PIE 

Roll  out  on  the  corner  of  a  table  a  quarter  pound  pie  paste,  prepared 
as  per  No.  117,  to  half  inch  wider  than  the  pie  plate.  Lightly  butter  a 
deep  pie  plate,  lay  the  paste  over,  press  it  down  with  the  thumbs  all 
around  the  edge,  trim  off  any  superfluous  paste  and  with  the  aid  of 
pincers  pinch  all  around  the  border.  Line  the  inside  of  the  paste 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  fill  up  with  dried  white  beans,  egg 
the  board  all  around  and  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
to  a  table.  Carefully  crack  four  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  four  ounces 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  three-quarters  of  a  pint  cold  milk 
and  two  gills  cold  cream ;  thoroughly  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  two  min- 
utes. Remove  the  beans  and  paper  from  the  pie  plate  and  wipe  the 
inside  of  the  plate.  Then  press  the  preparation  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  the  pie  plate.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  (141) 

Gumbo  Lie",  Parmentier          Terrapin,  Newburgh 

Sweetbreads  en  Estouffade  Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Strawberry  Punch 
Broiled  Squab  Turkey  with  Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes 

Celery  Salad 
Plum  Pudding  Mousse  au  Maraschino 

815.     GUMBO,  LIE"  PARMENTIER 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  two  tablespoons  butter,  adding  two  sliced 
leeks,  one  ounce  salt  pork  cut  into  small  pieces  and  one  bay  leaf;  stir 


234  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  slowly  brown  for  five  minutes.  Moisten 
with  a  pint  of  broth  or  hot  water,  add  three  medium-sized,  peeled,  well- 
washed  and  sliced  potatoes.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Press  through  a  sieve,  then  strain  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  pan  and  keep  on  the  corner  of  the  range  without 
boiling. 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  one  onion,  two  green  peppers,  two  leeks, 
two  ounces  lean,  raw  ham,  a  boned  leg  of  fowl,  if  handy,  and  two  ounces 
lean,  raw  veal.  Place  these  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter;  stir 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  cook  for  eight  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring;  then  pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  or  hot  water  and  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  three  tablespoons  raw  rice  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Then  add  twelve  well-trimmed  fresh  okras,  cut  in  half -inch 
slices,  and  two  medium,  peeled,  red  tomatoes,  each  cut  into  eight  pieces. 
Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Slowly 
boil  for  forty  minutes.  Pour  the  potato  puree  into  this  pan,  mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  boil  for  five  minutes  more,  pour 
into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve. 

8 1 6.    TERRAPIN,  NEWBURGH 

Plunge  a  large  diamond-back  terrapin  in  boiling  water  for  two 
minutes,  take  it  up  and  with  a  coarse  towel  pull  off  the  skin  from  the 
head,  neck  and  feet.  Place  the  terrapin  in  a  saucepan  with  two  gallons 
boiling  water  and  one  tablespoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  one  hour,  or  until 
the  feet  are  soft  to  the  touch.  Lift  it  up  with  a  skimmer  and  let  drain 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove  both  shells,  cut  off  the  nails  with  a  pair  of 
scissors,  remove  the  intestines  and  gall  bag  from  the  liver,  being 
very  careful  not  to  break  the  gall  bag,  otherwise  terrapin  will  be 
spoiled.  Cut  the  liver  into  small  squares  and  keep  on  a  plate  with 
the  eggs  until  required. 

Cut  all  the  meat  and  bones  of  the  terrapin  into  half-inch  pieces  and 
place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  gill  sherry,  two  tablespoons  port  and 
two  tablespoons  brandy.  Tie  in  a  small  cheesecloth  half  a  sprig  thyme, 
one  crushed  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  a  blade  mace  and  twelve  whole  spice 
and  add  to  the  terrapin.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  cook  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Take  up  the  cloth  with  the  herbs,  add  one  truffle 
and  cut  into  very  small  squares  the  livers  and  eggs.  Mix  in  a  bowl 
three  egg  yolks,  two  gills  cream,  half  ounce  fresh  butter  and  the  juice 
of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  then  add  to  the  terrapin ;  gently  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  well  thickened,  being  careful  not  to  allow  to  boil. 
Transfer  to  a  chafing  dish  or  a  silver  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

817.    SWEETBREADS  EN  ESTOUFFADE 

Cut  from  a  small  piece  of  larding  pork  twenty-four  julienne-shaped 
strips,  and  with  the  aid  of  a  small  larding  needle  lard  the  tops  of  six 
medium,  fresh,  heart  sweetbreads,  blanched  as  per  No.  33.  Lightly 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         235 

butter  a  cocotte  dish  (earthen  pan)  and  lay  in  the  breads,  one  beside 
another. 

With  a  very  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  dig  out  as  many  pieces  as 
you  can  from  two  medium,  peeled  carrots,  two  peeled  turnips  and  two 
peeled  potatoes.  Chop  very  finely  one  white  onion.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one 
branch  parsley,  one  of  chervil,  half  bean  sound  garlic,  one  bay  leaf  and 
one  clove.  Arrange  all  the  vegetables  around  the  breads  and  lay  the 
bouquet  in  the  centre.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Divide  half  ounce  butter  into  very  small  bits 
and  distribute  it  evenly  over  the  breads  and  vegetables.  Cover  the 
cocottiere,  set  on  the  range  and  let  gently  cook  for  five  minutes.  Then 
set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Bring  the  pan  to  the  oven  door, 
carefully  drain  all  the  fat  from  the  bottom  and  pour  in  one  gill  white 
wine;  re-cover  the  cocottiere,  reset  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove,  take  up  the  bouquet,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives 
over,  cover  and  send  to  the  table. 

818.    STRAWBERRY  PUNCH 

Prepare  a  lemon-water  ice  as  per  No.  376.  Press  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  a  bowl  half  pint  preserved  strawberries,  add  two  drops  carmine 
colouring  and  one  tablespoon  Swiss  kirschwasser  and  add  the  mixture 
to  the  water  ice  in  the  freezer.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
let  rest  for  ten  minutes  and  serve  in  six  sherbet  glasses. 

819.    BROILED  SQUAB  TURKEY  WITH  GRILLED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Procure  a  fine,  tender  squab  turkey  of  five  pounds.  Cut  off  the  legs 
at  the  first  joints,  singe,  draw,  split  in  half  through  back  and  cut  off 
the  neck.  Open  the  bird,  tear  out  the  breast  bone  and  thoroughly  wipe 
the  inside.  Season  well  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper.  Gently  crack  the  bones  between  the  second  joint 
and  body.  Thoroughly  rub  the  turkey  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange 
on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
have  six  freshly  prepared,  lightly  buttered  toasts  on  a  large  hot  dish; 
place  the  turkey  over  the  toasts  and  arrange  the  grilled  sweet  potatoes 
around.  Spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  and  serve. 

820.    GRILLED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Plunge  four  medium  sweet  potatoes  into  two  quarts  boiling  water 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain,  skin, 
then  cut  each  one  into  four  even  slices,  lengthwise.  Oil  the  inside  of  a 
double  broiler,  arrange  the  potatoes  on  the  broiler  and  broil  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  lightly  roll  in  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  and  serve. 

821.    PLUM  PUDDING 

Carefully  remove  the  fibres  and  strings  from  half  pound  fresh  beef- 
kidney  suet;  finely  chop  with  two  tablespoons  flour  and  place  in  a  large 
bowl,  adding  half  pound  well-picked  and  washed  currants,  half  pound 


236  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

seeded  Malaga  grapes,  quarter  pound  fresh  bread  crumbs,  two  ounces 
chopped  candied  lemon  peel,  half  pound  fine  sugar,  half  teaspoon  ground 
cinnamon,  one  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg,  half  pint  good  rum  and  three 
eggs.  Briskly  mix  the  whole  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five 
minutes.  Dip  a  piece  of  cloth  in  cold  water  and  wring  it  out.  Spread 
the  cloth  on  a  table,  lightly  butter  it  with  the  hand  and  sprinkle  a  little 
flour  over  it;  shake  the  cloth  to  remove  the  excess  of  flour.  Place  the 
contents  of  the  bowl  in  the  centre  of  the  cloth,  bring  up  the  four  corners 
together  so  as  to  entirely  enclose  the  pudding  and  tightly  tie  it  around. 
Have  plenty  of  boiling  water  in  a  large  pan  and  plunge  in  the  pudding. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  two  and  a  half  hours.  Remove  it  from 
the  water  and  hang  up  for  ten  minutes.  Cut  the  string  and  carefully 
turn  it  on  a  hot  dish  without  breaking.  Dredge  with  three  tablespoons 
sugar,  pour  over  one  gill  of  rum,  set  it  on  fire  and  immediately  serve 
with  a  hard  sauce  separately,  prepared  as  per  No.  708. 

N.  B.  The  above  pudding  will  be  considerably  more  than  enough 
for  one  dinner,  and  whatever  is  left  over  can  be  wrapped  in  a  clean  cloth 
and  put  away  in  a  cold  place,  as  it  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  three 
weeks. 

822.    MOUSSE  AU  MARASCHINO,  ICED 

Line  a  clean  quart  pudding  mould  with  white  paper  and  imbed  it 
in  salted  ice.  Place  four  egg  yolks  in  a  copper  basin  with  three  ounces 
fine  sugar;  set  on  the  fire  and  rapidly  whisk  up  for  five  minutes;  remove 
from  the  fire,  set  the  basin  on  the  ice,  add  two  tablespoons  maraschino, 
one  tablespoon  kirsch  and  continually  stir  until  thoroughly  cold;  then 
add  one  pint  whipped  cream  as  per  No.  337;  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer, 
then  fill  up  the  mould,  tightly  cover,  bury  in  a  pail  of  broken  ice  with 
rock  salt  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  cold 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  remove  the  paper  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Semolina  (192) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Mushrooms 

Codfish  Tongues  with  Brown  Butter 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172)         Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

823.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Have  the  same  amount  of  eggs  and  other  ingredients  in  a  bowl  as 
per  No.  193,  adding,  en  plus,  four  canned  mushrooms  very  finely  minced; 
beat  up  the  whole  together  and  proceed  to  finish  the  eggs  exactly  the  same. 

824.    CODFISH  TONGUES  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 
Soak  one  pound  salt  codfish  tongues  in  fresh  water  for  two  hours. 
Drain,  then  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.     Drain 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         237 

well,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over  and 
dredge  one  ounce  capers  on  top.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  black 
frying  pan  and  toss  on  the  fire  until  it  gets  a  nice  brown  colour,  pour 
in  a  tablespoon  good  vinegar,  toss  well  for  three  seconds,  pour  over 
the  tongues  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Devilled  Scallops  en  Brochette 

Goulash..  Hongroise  (263) 

Peach  Meringue  Pie 

825.    DEVILLED  SCALLOPS  EN  BROCHETTE 

Place  a  pound  and  a  half  fresh  scallops  on  a  plate.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Mix  well  in  the  seasoning. 
Cut  from  a  piece  of  lean  salt  pork  the  same  number  of  pieces  as  there 
are  scallops,  exceedingly  thin  and  half  inch  square.  Arrange  the  scal- 
lops and  pork  alternately  and  evenly  on  six  skewers.  Roll  in  a  table- 
spoon oil,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove  from  the  broiler,  spread  a  devilled  butter  over  them 
evenly;  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  replace  on  the  broiler  and 
broil  again  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  place  on  a  hot 
dish.  Decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

826.    PEACH  MERINGUE  PIE 

Roll  out  half  inch  wider  than  the  pie  piate  quarter  pound  pie  paste 
as  per  117.  Lightly  butter  a  pie  plate,  place  the  paste  over,  press  down 
with  the  thumbs  all  around  the  edges,  neatly  trim  any  superfluous 
paste  around  the  border,  pinch  it  all  around  with  a  pincers  and 
lightly  egg  the  border.  Open  a  pint  can  peaches,  drain  well  and  cut 
into  slices  quarter-inch  thick;  place  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoons  sugar 
and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  mix  well  and  evenly  arrange  on  the 
pie  plate.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  twenty  minutes.  Remove  to  a  table. 
Beat  up  in  a  basin  to  a  stiff  froth  three  egg  whites,  add  two  ounces  granu- 
lated sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence ;  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer; 
place  the  preparation  over  the  peaches,  nicely  smooth  the  surface  with 
the  blade  of  a  knife;  sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  over,  reset  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve  either 
hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Pure"e  of  Tomato  with  Tapioca 
Bluefish,  Bombay  Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Veal  Chops,  Deleier 

String  Beans,  Poulette 

Roast  Squab  au  Cresson 

Pudding,  Olga 

827,    PURE"E  OF  TOMATO  WITH  TAPIOCA 

Have  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  lean,  raw  ham  cut  into  small  pieces, 
half  small  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks, half  sliced  green 


238  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pepper,  one  branch  sliced  celery,  two  branches  chopped  parsley  and  half 
bean  finely  crushed  garlic,  adding  one  ounce  good  butter ;  then  cook  the 
vegetables  to  a  nice  light  brown,  or  about  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir ;  add  one  and  a  half 
pints  fresh,  crushed  red  tomatoes  or  same  quantity  canned  tomatoes 
and  two  quarts  hot  broth  or  water;  mix  well,  then  add  one  saltspoon 
thyme,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  a  heavy  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  tablespoon  fine  sugar  and  half  light  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  simmer  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 
Plunge  two  ounces  tapioca  into  half  pint  boiling  broth.  Mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
occasionally  mixing.  Strain  the  tomato  puree  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add  the  tapioca  with  broth  to  the  tomato ; 
gently  mix,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

828.    BLUEFISH,  BOMBAY 

Make  six  light  incisions  on  the  skin  side  of  half  a  fine  fresh  bluefish 
of  three  pounds.  Evenly  dredge  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence  over; 
place  the  fish  on  a  cold  dish,  cover  it  with  another  and  let  infuse  for  one 
and  a  half  or  two  hours  in  a  cool  place.  Arrange  it  on  a  lightly  oiled 
double  broiler.  Place  over  a  charcoal  fire  where  the  fish  is  to  be  broiled 
the  shredded  meat  of  a  fresh  cocoanut;  then  place  the  fish  right  over; 
cover  the  fish  to  prevent  the  smoke  of  the  cocoanut  from  escaping  and 
broil  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Pre- 
pare an  anchovy  butter  as  per  No.  62  and  spread  it  over  the  fish.  Deco- 
rate with  six  pieces  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

829.    VEAL  CHOPS,  DELEIER 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  veal  chops.  Season  all  around 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  the  chops  one  beside  another  and  cook  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side  on  a  brisk  fire,  then  add  one  finely  minced  red 
carrot,  one  minced  onion  and  a  good-sized  red  tomato  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Moisten  with  two  gills  white  broth,  cover  the  pan  and  slowly 
cook  for  ten  minutes.  Finely  hash  a  branch  white  celery,  the  rind  of  a 
quarter  of  an  orange  and  one  blade  foelie  of  nutmeg.  Reduce  this  in  a 
small  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  for  five  minutes  on  the  fire; 
add  one  tablespoon  flour,  mix  lightly,  add  half  gill  sherry,  thoroughly 
mix  and  add  to  the  chops;  mix  a  little.  Cook  the  whole  for  ten  minutes 
longer.  Dress  the  chops  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  garnishing  over  and  serve. 

830.    STRING  BEANS,  POULETTE 

Open  and  drain  well  a  pint  can  string  beans.  Plunge  in  boiling 
water  for  two  minutes;  remove,  drain  and  place  in  a  frying  pan.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  very  small  saucepan,  add  a  tablespoon  flour, 
mix  well,  then  pour  in  half  gill  cold  milk  and  half  gill  cream.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon 
ground  nutmeg;  thoroughly  mix  and  let  boil  on  the  fire  for  one  minute. 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY     239 

Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  milk  and  gradually  add  to  the 
sauce,  continually  mixing  while  doing  so.  Then  strain  the  sauce  into 
the  beans.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  sprinkle  over  half 
teaspoon  fresh  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  and  slowly  heat,  without  boil- 
ing, for  two  minutes.  Transfer  the  beans  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

831.    ROAST  SQUABS  WITH  WATERCRESS 

Cut  off  at  the  first  joint  the  legs  and  necks  of  six  fat,  tender  squabs. 
Singe,  draw,  neatly  wipe  and  truss;  lay  a  very  thin  slice  larding  pork 
on  the  breasts  of  the  birds.  Place  in  a  roasting  tin.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Pour  two  tablespoons 
cold  water  into  the  pan ;  then  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  eighteen  minutes, 
turning  over  once  in  a  while,  at  the  same  time  basting  with  their  own 
gravy.  Remove,  untruss  and  place  on  a  large  dish.  Decorate  with  a 
little  fresh  watercress,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  strain  over  the  squabs 
and  serve. 

832.    PUDDING,  OLGA 

Boil  a  pint  milk  with  a  clove  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  ounces  butter 
and  mix  well  until  the  butter  is  melted ;  remove  the  pan  to  the  table,  take 
up  the  clove,  add  three  ounces  sugar  and  three  ounces  flour.  Mix  again 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  add  three  egg  yolks  one  by  one, 
mixing  for  a  minute  at  one-minute  intervals.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the  pan,  gently  mixing  with  skimmer 
meanwhile.  Add  six  crushed  macaroons  (No.  43),  one  ounce  finely 
chopped  cedrat  and  one  tablespoon  kirsch ;  lightly  mix  with  the  skimmer. 
Lightly  butter  and  sugar  a  quart  pudding  mould  and  drop  in  the  prepar- 
ation. Lay  the  mould  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  up  to  half  the 
height  of  the  mould.  Set  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  an  apricot  sauce  prepared  as  per  No.  549 
over  the  pudding  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Hominy  (45) 

Poached  Eggs  in  Tomato  Sauce 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Baked  Sausages  with  Apples 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Corn  Pancakes  (659) 

833.    POACHED  EGGS  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Have  a  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan  with  half  pint 
broth  and  when  it  thoroughly  boils  carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs  at  a 
time;  poach  for  three  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on 
freshly  prepared  toasts,  two  eggs  on  each.  Prepare  six  more  in  exactly 
the  same  way  and  serve.  Strain  the  tomato  sauce  in  which  the  eggs  were 


24o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

poached  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl,  let  get  cold,  and  then  return 
to  the  original  jar  with  the  others. 

834.    BAKED  SAUSAGES  WITH  APPLES 

Peel,  cut  in  halves  and  core  six  medium,  sound  apples;  cut  into 
very  fine  slices  and  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  earthen  pan.  Lightly 
prick  with  a  fork  twelve  fresh,  fat,  stringless  sausages  and  lay  them  over 
the  apples.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  divide  half  ounce  butter  in  small  bits  over  the  sausages,  pour 
two  tablespoons  white  wine  over  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five 
minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Casino 

Curry  of  Mutton,  Tartare 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Gateaux  Religieuses 

835.    OYSTERS,  CASINO 

Open  twenty-four  large  fresh  oysters,  completely  detach  and  keep 
in  the  deep  shells  with  their  own  liquor.  Finely  chop  six  sound  shallots 
with  one  green  pepper  and  evenly  divide  over  the  oysters.  Cut  from  a 
piece  of  lean  bacon  twenty-four  thin,  square  pieces  and  arrange  one 
piece  over  each  oyster.  Dredge  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs 
over,  place  on  a  roasting  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  large  hot  dish,  decorate  with  parsley 
greens  and  six  pieces  lemon  and  serve. 

836.    CURRY  OF  MUTTON,  TARTARE 

Cut  two  pounds  fresh  neck  of  mutton  into  pieces  one  inch  square. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  leaf  lard  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  the  mutton  and  let 
gently  brown  all  over  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  quite  fre- 
quently meanwhile.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  remove  all  the  fat.  Return 
the  mutton  to  the  pan,  dredge  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir 
well  for  a  minute;  moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half  hot  water,  mix  for  a 
minute  longer  and  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  whole,  medium  onion 
with  one  clove  stuck  in  it,  one  medium  carrot  cut  in  half,  one  bean  sound 
garlic.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper; 
then  add  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  saltspoon  sage,  one  minced 
apple  and  a  heavy  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Mix  all  well  together,  cover 
the  pan  and  let  boil  very  slowly  for  one  hour  and  a  quarter.  Prepare  a 
rice  for  curries  as  per  No.  490.  Arrange  the  rice  crown-shape  on  a  large 
hot  dish.  Pick  up  all  the  pieces  of  mutton  with  a  fork  and  place  in 
the  centre  of  the  crown.  Reduce  the  sauce  on  the  range  to  half  the 
quantity,  then  press  through  a  cheesecloth  over  the  mutton  and  serve. 

837.    GATEAUX  RELIGIEUSES 

Peel,  cut  in  halves,  core  and  slice  six  sound  apples;  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  three  ounces  sugar,  half  vanilla  bean  and  one  ounce  good 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY     241 

butter;  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  cover  the  pan  and  slowly  cook  for 
thirty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Remove  from  the  fire,  briskly 
press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  cool  off.  Place  and  keep  the 
vanilla  in  sugar.  Roll  out  a  pound  puff  paste  (feuilletage)  (No.  756) 
on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  the  thickness  of  a  half  dollar.  Cut  out 
twelve  pieces  three  inches  square.  Lightly  wet  the  surface  of  six  with 
beaten  eggs;  evenly  divide  the  apple  preparation  on  top,  in  the  middle; 
neatly  smooth  the  surface,  cover  each  with  the  other  six  pieces  and  lightly 
press  the  top  paste  down  against  the  edges  of  the  first.  Lightly  egg  the 
surface  of -each,  lay  on  a  roasting  tin  and  dredge  two  tablespoons  granu- 
lated sugar  over.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyon  Sausage  (582) 

Potage  Cousinette 

Broiled  Shad,  Ravigote  Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Filets  Mignon,  Sauce  Minute 

Baked  Tomatoes 
Potatoes  Fondantes  (56) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Savarins,  Chantilly 

838.    POTAGE  COUSINETTE 

Finely  mince  a  quarter  of  a  very  small,  well-trimmed  and  thoroughly 
washed  white  cabbage,  ten  leaves  fresh,  well- washed  spinach,  one  small 
carrot,  one  medium-sized  white  onion,  two  leeks,  four  branches  parsley 
and  one  bean  sound  garlic. 

Have  three  and  a  half  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and  half 
sprig  marjoram.  Add  all  the  above  vegetables,  with  a  small  cervela 
sausage  and  one  ounce  butter.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
two  hours.  Uncover,  remove  the  sausage,  majoram  and  bay  leaf,  add 
two  small  raw  potatoes  cut  in  small  squares  and  slowly  cook  again  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Cut  the  sausage  in  very  thin  slices,  add  to  the 
soup  and  serve. 

839.    BROILED  SHAD,  RAVIGOTE 

Neatly  scale,  trim  and  remove  the  principal  bones  of  half  a  very  fresh 
roe  shad  of  three  pounds.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  roll  the  fish  all  over  in  the 
seasoning.  Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  send  to  the  table 
with  a  ravigote  sauce  prepared  as  per  No.  366  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

840.    FILETS  MIGNON,  SAUCE  MINUTE 

Cut  from  a  two-pound  piece  of  well-trimmed  filet  of -beef  six  equal 
filets.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat 
one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  filets,  one  beside  another 
briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  large 


24*  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  ROOK 

dish  on  top  of  six  round  pieces  of  toasted  bread  and  keep  warm.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  gravy  of  the  pan,  add  one  teaspoon  flour;  stir  well, 
moisten  with  half  gill  claret  and  half  gill  white  broth  (No.  701),  adding 
half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  chives;  mix  well  and  briskly  boil  until 
reduced  to  half  the  quantity.  Pour  over  the  filets  and  serve. 

841.    BAKED  TOMATOES 

Remove  the  stems  and  thoroughly  wipe  six  fresh  red  tomatoes.  Cut 
a  small  cover  from  the  top  of  each  and  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin. 
Season  all  round  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Arrange  a  little  butter  on  top  of  each  tomato,  place 
the  covers  on  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes  or  till  soft,  basting 
once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  serve  on  six  separate  saucers. 

842.    SAVARINS,  CHANTILLY 

Prepare  six  savarins  exactly  as  per  No.  441.  Remove  the  rasp- 
berries altogether.  When  you  remove  the  savarins  from  the  oven,  let 
them  cool  off  on  a  table;  unmould  them. 

Have  in  a  small  saucepan  three  ounces  granulated  sugar,  half  pint 
cold  water  and  three  tablespoons  of  Madeira  wine.  Boil  for  five  min- 
utes, stirring  well  meanwhile.  Remove  to  a  table,  plunge  the  savarins 
into  the  sauce  for  five  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  arrange  on  a  dish.  Pour 
half  a  teaspoon  of  Madeira  wine  over  each;  fill  up  the  centre  of  each 
cake  with  half  pint  whipped  cream,  prepared  as  per  No.  337,  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Omelette,  Pure*e  of  Asparagus 

Fried  Oysters,  Tartare  Sauce 

French  Mutton  Chops  with  Bacon 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Rice  Cakes  (349) 

843.    OMELETTE  WITH  PUR£E  OF  ASPARAGUS 

Plunge  a  pint  of  drained,  canned  asparagus  tips  into  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  for  two  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  then  with  the  aid  of  a  puree 
brush  press  the  asparagus  "through  a  small  sieve  into  a  small  saucepan. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half 
teaspoon  fine  sugar;  add  half  ounce  butter.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  for 
five  minutes.  *  Then  proceed  to  prepare  an  omelette  as  per  No.  75,  and 
just  before  folding  it  up  spread  one-third  of  the  asparagus  pure*e  over 
the  omelette,  fold  up,  let  rest  for  a  minute;  turn  on  to  a  hot  dish.  Ar- 
range the  balance  of  the  asparagus  at  both  ends  of  the  fish  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       243 

• 

844.    FRIED  OYSTERS,  TARTARE  SAUCE 

Place  twenty-four  large  freshly  opened  oysters  on  a  plate.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  turn  them  well 
in  the  seasoning ;  then  lightly  roll  in  flour,  slightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and 
lastly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in 
thoroughly  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  drain  on  a  towel ; 
sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  a 
Tartare  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  48,  in  a  sauce  bowl  separately. 

845.  FRENCH  MUTTON  CHOPS  WITH  BACON 
Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  tender,  French  mutton  chops. 
Mix  on  a  plate  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a 
tablespoon  of  oil;  gently  roll  the  chops  in  the  seasoning,  arrange  them 
on  a  broiler,  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Re- 
move, place  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another.  Arrange  six  thin 
slices  of  bacon  on  top  of  the  chops  and  serve. 

Cut  out  and  arrange  six  very  thin  slices  of  bacon,  broil  them  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams,    Garrett 

Chicken  Croquettes  with  Flageolets 

Pear  Fritters 

846.    SOFT  CLAMS,  GARRETT 

Procure  twenty-four  opened  very  fresh,  good -sized  soft  clams;  clean 
thoroughly,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies.  Plunge  in  boiling 
water  for  two  minutes,  remove  and  drain  well  on  a  sieve.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  briskly 
with  a  wooden  spoon;  moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  white  broth  (No.  701). 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  red  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
ground  nutmeg.  Pour  in  half  gill  sherry,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  and  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives.  Mix  well  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon 
cream  and  add  it  to  the  sauce,  carefully  mixing  it.  Now  add  the  clams, 
gently  mix  a  little,  then  heat  without  boiling  for  one  minute.  Pour 
into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese  and 
bake  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

847.    CHICKEN  CROQUETTES  WITH  FLAGEOLETS 
Carefully  pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yester- 
day and  mince  it  exceedingly  fine.     Then  proceed  to  prepare  the  cro- 
quettes exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  700,  substituting  the  following 
flageolets  for  the  macedoine: 

Open  a  pint  can  flageolets,  drain  and  plunge  in  boiling  water  for 
five  minutes.  Drain  again,  heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan 
and  add  the  flageolets.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  white  pepper  and  let  slowly  cook  for  five  minutes,  frequently 
tossing  them  meanwhile.  Dress  the  croquettes  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a 


244  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  around  them,  place  the  flageolets  at  both 
ends  of  the  dish  and  serve. 

848.    PEAR  FRITTERS 

Peel,  cut  in  halves,  remove  the  seeds  from  six  ripe,  sweet,  medium- 
sized  pears,  place  on  a  plate,  add  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  half  a 
teaspoon  ground  cinnamon  and  one  tablespoon  maraschino,  turn  well 
in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes.  Prepare  a  frying 
batter  as  per  No.  204.  Roll  the  pears  in  the  batter  and  drop,  one  by 
one,  in  boiling  fat  and  gently  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  with  a  skimmer 
occasionally.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  lightly  trim  them,  sprinkle  over 
a  little  powdered  sugar,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  laid  over 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Rissolettes  of  Caviare  (162) 

Cream  of  Barley 

Halibut,  Caper  Sauce  Potatoes,  Normande 

Plovers  in  Cases          Cauliflower,  Hollandaise 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Marron  Ice  Cream 

849.    CREAM  OF  BARLEY 

Wash  a  half  pound  barley  in  several  cold  waters  and  rub  with  the 
hands  until  the  water  is  clear.  Then  drain  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  and  a  half  quarts  beef  broth  (No.  701);  add  one  sliced  carrot, 
one  sliced  onion  and  two  sliced  leeks.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  cook  for  two  hours.  Press  it  through  a 
sieve  and  return  it  to  the  pan;  add  one  pint  milk,  two  gills  cream  and 
half  ounce  butter;  whisk  the  whole  well  together  for  one  minute,  boil 
again,  skim  off  the  scum,  add  a  teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  whisk  again 
for  a  minute,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

850.    HALIBUT,  CAPER  SAUCE 

Procure  two  pieces  of  fresh  halibut  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each, 
place  in  a  frying  pan,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  and  a  half  gill  white  wine,  a  gill  water  and  a  half  ounce  butter. 
Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  range  for  five 
minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
lift  up  the  paper,  carefully  place  the  fish  on  a  dish;  remove  the  spinal 
bones  and  keep  warm.  Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  half  ounce  butter, 
mix  in  a  heavy  tablespoon  flour,  then  pour  in  the  fish  liquor  with  half  a 
gill  of  cream.  Mix  well, -boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk 
with  a  tablespoon  cream,  add  to  the  sauce,  then  continually  mix  for  half 
minute.  Strain  the  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  small  pan, 
add  three  tablespoons  capers,  mix  well,  then  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

851.    POTATOES,  NORMANDE 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  twelve  very  small  round  potatoes.  Heat  in  a 
saucepan  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add  the  potatoes  and  let 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       245 

briskly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  turning  over  once  in  a  while;  sprinkle 
over  a  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan,  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  deep  dish  and 
serve. 

852.    PLOVERS  IN  CASES 

Cut  off  the  necks,  wings  and  feet  from  six  fat  picked  and  singed 
plovers ;  cut  open  through  the  back,  remove  the  intestines  and  keep  the 
livers  and  hearts.  Remove  all  the  bones,  without  cutting  the  skin. 
Place  the  bones,  hearts,  livers,  necks,  wings  and  feet  in  a  saucepan  with 
one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  adding 
one  bay  leaf,  a  saltspoon  thyme,  half  saltspoon  sage,  one  branch  parsley 
and  one  branch  chervil.  Mix  a  little,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  simmer 
for  thirty-five  minutes;  add  one  tablespoon  of  sherry;  lightly  mix;  let 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl,  and 
keep  warm  till  required. 

Chop  very  finely  two  ounces  lean  raw  veal,  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar 
with  yolk  of  one  egg,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  a  half  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg  to  a  fine  paste.  Divide  this  paste 
in  the  centre  of  the  six  boned  plovers,  spread  over  evenly,  then  give  them 
their  original  forms,  tie  around  with  a  string;  lay  on  a  roasting  tin,  place 
a  very  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  over  the  breasts  of  each.  Set  in  the  oven 
to  roast  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  oven,  remove  the  pork, 
untie,  then  place  in  oval  paper  cases;  spread  a  teaspoon  of  the  sauce 
over  each  breast;  arrange  the  cases  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  parsley  and  serve  with  the  rest  of  the  sauce  separately. 

853.    CAULIFLOWER,  HOLLAND AISE 

Cut  off  the  stalk  and  outer  branches  of  a  fresh,  good-sized  white 
cauliflower.  Neatly  trim  all  around.  Have  half  a  gallon  water  with 
a  gill  of  milk  and  a  tablespoon  salt  in  a  large  saucepan,  and  when  boiling 
add  the  cauliflower.  Cover  the  pan  and  briskly  boil  for  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  drain,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  the 
Hollandaise  sauce  separately. 

853  A.    SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE 

Place  two  egg  yolks  in  a  small  saucepan  on  the  range  with  a  tea- 
spoon good  vinegar  and  eight  drops  lemon  juice  from  a  very  sound 
lemon.  Sharply  stir  with  a  wire  whisk  for  one  minute,  then  place  the 
pan  into  another  larger  one  containing  very  hot,  but  not  boiling,  water 
and  briskly  stir  for  three  minutes.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  water, 
then  add  little  by  little  two  ounces  of  the  very  best  butter,  continually 
stirring  while  adding  it.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  half  salt- 
spoon cayenne  pepper.  Stir  well  again  for  one  minute  and  serve. 

854.    MARRON  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  as  per  No.  42.  Finely  chop  two  ounces 
candied  marrons  and  add  to  the  ice  cream  in  the  freezer  with  two  table- 
spoons maraschino.  Mix  well  and  serve. 


246  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
'  BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Germea  (217) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Tarragon  Butter 

Smelts,  Meuniere  (280) 

Lamb  Hash,  Browned 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

855.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  TARRAGON  BUTTER 

Thoroughly  heat  half  teaspoon  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan;  care- 
fully crack  in  two  fresh  eggs.  Season  with  half  saltspoon  salt  and 
a  third  of  a  saltspoon  white  pepper ;  fry  on  the  range  for  two  minutes, 
then  place  in  a  brisk  oven  for  one  minute.  Remove,  carefully  glide  the 
eggs  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Repeat,  making  five  more  similar 
operations.  When  all  on  the  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  very  finely 
chopped  fresh  tarragon. 

Place  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan  on  the  range;  toss 
until  it  gets  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  pour  in  a  tablespoon  good  tarragon 
vinegar;  lightly  mix  and  immediately  pour  it  over  the  eggs,  evenly 
divided,  and  serve. 

N.  B.     If  convenient,  use  two  small  pans  at  a  time  in  place  of  one. 

856.    LAMB  HASH,  BROWNED 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday. 
Cut  it  into  small  square  pieces.  Cut  half  the  quantity  of  cold,  boiled 
potatoes  to  the  same  size  as  the  lamb  and  mix  both  together.  Finely 
chop  up  one  medium  white  onion  and  lightly  brown  it  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  a  light  tablespoon  butter,  frequently  mixing  with  the  wooden 
spoon.  Add  the  lamb  and  potatoes.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg.  Moisten 
with  a  pint  of  white  broth  (No.  701);  thoroughly  mix.  Cover  the  pan, 
cook  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty 
minutes.  Remove,  uncover;  heat  a  tablespoon  lard  in  a  large  frying 
pan;  place  the  hash  in  this  pan,  give  it  an  omelette  form,  and  let  slowly 
brown  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Turn  upon  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Canapes,  Lorenzo  (538) 

Broiled  'Venison  Steaks,  Currant  Jelly 

Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 
Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

857.    BROILED  VENISON  STEAKS,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  six  small  steaks  of  four  ounces  each  from  a  tender  leg  of 
venison;  neatly  flatten  them  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  table- 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          247 

spoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  repeatedly 
roll  the  steaks  in  the  seasoning;  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  four 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  send  to  the 
table  with  currant  jelly  separately. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Mussels,  Jardiniere 

Filet  of  Sole  au  Gratin  (629)  Potatoes,  Macaire 

Ham  Braise,  Piquante  Sauce 

Spinach  a  1'Anglaise  (247) 
Omelette  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  on  Toast  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Apple  Praline"es 

858.    BISQUE  OF  MUSSELS,  JARDINIERE 

Procure  forty-eight  fresh  large  mussels.  Plunge  in  cold  water  and 
wash  thoroughly.  Drain  and  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  three  pints 
water  and  half  a  small  bunch  of  parsley.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Drain  on  a  colander  and  save  the  broth.  Remove 
the  mussels  from  the  shells  and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp.  Heat  one 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  ounces  flour,  stir  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  then  add  the  mussels  and  broth,  with  a  pint  of  milk  in 
addition.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 
and  one  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg.  Mix  for  two  minutes,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil.  Skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  add  half  ounce  butter,  divide 
into  very  small  bits,  mix  until  melted,  then  strain  the  bisque  through  a 
Chinese  strainer,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan; 
add  a  jardiniere  garnishing,  as  per  No.  65;  boil  for  five  minutes  more. 
Remove,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

859.    POTATOES,  MACAIRE 

Finely  mince  a  medium,  sound,  white  onion;  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes;  then  add 
four  cold,  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  thick  slices.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  toss  them  a  little,  and  let  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes;  lightly  toss  once  in  a  while.  Transfer  into  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve. 

860.    HAM  BRAISE"  ,  PIQUANTE  SAUCE 

Saw  off  a  four-pound  piece  from  a  tender  raw  ham;  skin  and  neatly 
trim  all  around.  Heat  a  tablespoon  leaf  lard  in  a  medium  saucepan, 
lay  in  the  ham  and  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up 
the  ham  and  place  on  a  plate.  Arrange  a  mirepoix,  as  per  No.  271, 
at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  let  brown  for  five  minutes  on  the  fire, 
occasionally  mixing;  then  add  the  ham;  moisten  with  a  gill  claret,  one 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one-half  gill  tomato  sauce.  Season  with 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Strain  through 


248  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  add  six  medium,  vinegar 
pickles,  finely  minced,  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  capers,  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley  and  a  tablespoon  vinegar;  lightly  mix,  then  boil 
for  two  minutes.  Pour  over  the  ham  and  serve. 

861.     OMELETTE  WITH  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Peel  and  thoroughly  wash  six  medium,  sound  fresh  mushrooms; 
drain  well,  then  finely  mince  them.  Place  in  frying  pan  with  a  table- 
spoon butter  and  cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  six  minutes,  tossing  once 
in  a  while. 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  milk. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply 
beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Pour  the  beaten  eggs  over  the 
mushrooms,  mix  with  a  fork  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  then  let 
rest  for  half  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre; 
let  rest  for  a  minute.  Carefully  turn  upon  a  large  hot  dish  and  serve 

862.    BROILED  SPRING  CHICKEN  ON  TOAST 

Cut  off  the  necks  and  legs  up  to  the  first  joint  and  split  open  through 
the  back  two  very  tender  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds 
each;  draw,  remove  the  breast  bones,  neatly  wipe.  Season  all  around 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Lightly  oil  them 
with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  ten 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove.-  Place  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  on 
a  large,  hot  dish,  lay  the  chickens  over  the  toast,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  over  them,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

863.    SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  ONE  QUART 

Have  in  a  cold  soup  plate  a  level  teaspoon  Oriental  curry  powder, 
half  a  teaspoon  best  French  mustard,  a  light  saltspoon  English  ground 
mustard,  a  light  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped, 
thoroughly  washed  and  drained  fresh  parsley,  half  a  teaspoon  finely 
chopped,  sound,  fresh  chives  (ciboulette),  two  medium,  very  sound, 
freshly  peeled  and  finely  chopped  shallots  (e*chalote),  one-fourth  of  a 
small  bean  of  sound,  peeled  garlic  finely  crushed,  four  teaspoons  salt 
and  one  light  teaspoon  very  fresh,  finely  ground  white  pepper,  the  rind 
of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  finely  chopped.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
well  together  with  a  fork,  then  add  a  tablespoon  good  cool  olive  oil  and 
with  a  fork  sharply  mash  the  whole  until  almost  to  a  pulp,  gradually 
add  four  tablespoons  good  white  wine  vinegar,  briskly  mix  again,  then 
transfer  the  whole  into  a  vessel,  add  oil  and  vinegar — two-thirds  oil  to  one- 
third  vinegar — to  make  up  one  quart  in  all;  thoroughly  mix  again,  and 
then  press  through  a  strainer  into  a  glass  or  stone  jar  and  use  as  re- 
quired, being  very  careful  always  to  sharply  shake  the  dressing  before 
pouring  it  over  the  salad.  The  dressing  should  always  be  kept  in  a 
cold  place,  covered. 

864.    APPLE  PRALINE" ES 

Peel  and  core  six  sound  apples.  Have  four  ounces  granulated  sugar 
and  a  pint  and  a  half  water  in  a  saucepan,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       249 

boil  add  the  apples  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  them  with  a 
skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  let  cool  off. 
Plunge  two  ounces  of  almonds  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  two  minutes. 
Drain  and  peel,  then  finely  chop  them;  place  in  a  copper  basin  with 
three  ounces  granulated  sugar,  half  gill  of  water  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence.  Stir  the  mixture  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a  half  minute.  Place 
the  basin  on  a  brisk  fire  and  continually  stir  until  of  a  nice  brown  colour, 
then  remove  from  the  fire.  Arrange  the  apples  on  a  dish,  fill  their 
cavities  with  currant  jelly,  evenly  spread  the  almond  preparation  over 
the  apples  and  let  cool  off.  Trim  off  any  superfluous  preparation  at 
the  base  of  the  apples  and  serve. 


Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Lyonnaise 

Fried  Scallops 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette  (600) 
Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 
Oatmeal  Cakes 

865.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  LYONNAISE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  two  finely  minced 
white  onions ;  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pep- 
per; lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  with  a  plate  and  let  slowly  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes;  take  off  the  plate,  add  a  tablespoon  good  vinegar  and  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  mix  a  little;  then  divide  the  onions  into  six 
shirred-egg  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish. 
Season  them  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
equally  divided.  Set  the  eggs  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove 
and  serve. 

866.  FRIED  SCALLOPS 

Place  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  very  fresh  scallops  on  a  plate. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  mix  well  in 
the  seasoning,  then  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  lightly  roll 
in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for 
eight  minutes.  Remove,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  towel,  sprinkle  over 
two  saltspoons  salt,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate 
with  six  pieces  of  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

867.  OATMEAL  CAKES 

Boil  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  milk  three  ounces  oatmeal  with 
saltspoon  salt  for  twenty  minutes;  let  cool  off.  Then  add  three  ounces 
sifted  flour,  two  ounces  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Knead 
with  the  hand  for  five  minutes;  then  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table, 


250  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

to  the  thickness  of  three-quarters  of  an  inch.  Then  cut  into  six  equal 
round  pieces.  Place  on  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  pan,  lightly  wet  the 
surface  with  a  little  milk.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove,  split  open  without  separating,  lightly  butter  the 
interior  of  each  and  serve  hot. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Sausages  with  Lentils,  Bretonne 

String  Bean  Salad  with  Eggs 

Mince  Pie  (117,   118) 

868.    SAUSAGES  WITH  LENTILS,  BRETONNE 

Soak  in  fresh  water  for  twelve  hours  a  pint  of  lentils.  Drain  well 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  pints  cold  water,  a  teaspoon 
salt,  one  medium  carrot,  cut  in  quarters,  one  branch  of  celery  and 
branch  of  parsley,  the  celery  and  parsley  tied  up  together.  Cover  the 
pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  hours.  Uncover,  remove  all  the  vegetables. 
Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  half  ounce  of  butter,  adding  two  tablespoons 
flour ;  briskly  stir,  then  add  one  small  white  onion  finely  chopped  up ; 
stir  again  and  let  get  a  light  brown  colour.  Pour  in  all  the  liquor  of  the 
lentils  in  this  pan,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the 
lentils,  mix  a  little  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  more,  then  keep  warm. 
Lightly  prickle  with  the  prongs  of  a  fork  twelve  stringless  fresh  sausages. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  in  the  sausages  and  fry  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove.  Dress  the  lentils  on  a  large  hot 
dish,  arrange  the  sausages  on  top  of  the  lentils,  crown-shape,  and  serve. 

869.    STRING  BEAN  SALAD  WITH  EGGS 

Open  a  pint  can  string  beans,  wash  well  in  cold  wrater,  then  thoroughly 
drain  on  a  cloth.  Place  in  a  bowl,  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into 
eight  pieces  each,  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  tarragon.  Season 
with  three  and  a  half  liberal  tablespoons  of  dressing  as  per  No.  863. 
Mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Petite  Marmite 

Kingfish  Saute",  Fines  Herbes 

Potatoes,  Chateaubriand 

Fowl  au  Riz,  Menagere 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  au  Cresson  (126) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Tutti  Frutti  Jelly 

870.    PETITE  MARMITE 

Have  in  a  large  saucepan  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  with  a  table- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Tie  up  two  pounds  of 
buttock  beef  with  strings  and  add  to  the  pan,  with  any  beef,  chicken 
or  veal  bones  on  hand;  let  slowly  come  to  a  boiling  point.  Carefully 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY       251 

remove  the  scum  from  the  surface  with  a  skimmer.  Peel  and  wash  well 
two  medium  carrots,  two  small  turnips  and  add  to  the  s6up.  Cover  the 
pan  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Tie  together  two  leeks,  three  branches 
of  parsley  and  three  branches  of  celery  and  add  to  the  pan.  Also  add 
one  small  white  onion,  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  of  thyme, 
six  pepper  corns  and  quarter  of  a  small,  well- washed  cabbage;  let  very 
slowly  simmer  for  two  and  a  half  hours.  It  is  very  important  that  during 
the  two  and  a  half  hours  it  should  simmer  exceedingly  slowly  but  con- 
tinuously; by  so  doing  you  will  be  able  to  obtain  a  clear,  strong,  excellent 
broth. 

Remove  the  meat  and  all  the  vegetables.  Carefully  skim  the  fat 
from  the  surface  of  the  broth.  Cut  the  meat  into  half -inch  square 
pieces,  and  the  vegetables — except  the  parsley — into  quarter-inch-square 
pieces,  and  place  in  a  hot  soup  tureen.  Strain  the  broth  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  the  tureen;  place  in  tureen  six  slices  of  freshly  toasted 
French  bread;  sprinkle  over  half  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  and 
serve. 

871.    KINGFISH  SAUT£,  FINES  HERBES 

Neatly  draw,  cut  off  the  heads  and  split  open  two  very  fresh  kingfish ; 
remove  the  spinal  bones;  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  wet  with  a  tablespoon  milk  and  gently 
roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  fish, 
cut  side  downward ;  fry  for  six  minutes,  turn  over  with  the  skimmer  and 
.set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  add 
half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  a 
saltspoon  of  chopped  chervil  to  the  pan ;  lightly  mix,  then  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

872.  POTATOES,  CHATEAUBRIAND 

Neatly  peel  and  wash  eighteen  of  the  smallest  potatoes  obtainable. 
Give  them  queen  olive  forms.  Heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  the  potatoes  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  tossing  occasion- 
ally, which  will  require  about  fifteen  minutes.  Then  place  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  drain  off  the  fat.  Dredge  over  half  teaspoon 
salt,  adding  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  a  very  light  tablespoon 
butter,  toss  them  well  and  serve. 

873.  FOWL  AU  Riz,  MENAGERE 

Neatly  singe  a  tender,  fat  fowl  of  about  three  and  one-half  pounds. 
Pick  out  the  eyes,  remove  the  skin  from  the  head  and  neck.  Clip  off 
the  nails  from  the  toes.  Dip  the  feet  in  boiling  water  up  to  the  first 
joint  for  two  minutes,  then  with  a  coarse  towel  remove  the  skin  from  the 
feet.  Neatly  draw;  remove  the  gallbag  from  the  liver,  separate  the 
heart  from  the  intestines  and  fat  as  well.  Finely  chop  the  liver  and 
heart  with  half  a  medium  white  onion.  Place  the  hash  in  a  frying  pan 
with  a  teaspoon  butter  and  cook  for  five  minutes;  then  transfer  it  into  a 
bowl,  adding  to  it  four  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one  ounce  finely 


2S2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

chopped  beef  marrow,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  chervil,  half  a  bean 
finely  crushed  garlic.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon 
white  pepper;  crack  in  one  fresh  egg  and  pour  in  one  tablespoon  cold 
milk,  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes  and  then  stuff  the  fowl 
with  the  preparation.  Sew  up  the  aperture,  then  nicely  truss  the  fowl. 
Finely  chop  all  the  giblets,  place  in  a  large  saucepan,  adding  three 
branches  chopped  celery,  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  two  finely 
chopped  leeks.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Add  the  fowl  to  the  pan,  moisten  with  a  quart  of  hot 
water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper. 
As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  four  ounces  Carolina  rice,  cover  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove  the  fowl  from  the  pan, 
untruss,  dress  the  rice  on  a  large  dish,  place  the  fowl  on  top  and  serve. 

874.    TUTTI  FRUTTI  JELLY 

Prepare  a  gele*e  a  la  creme  de  cocoa  (No.  678).  Finely  chop  up 
six  candied  cherries,  one  candied  pear,  two  candied  apricots,  two  can- 
died plums  and  a  candied  lemon  peel.  Place  these  articles  in  a  cylinder- 
shaped  mould,  embed  the  mould  in  ice,  then  pour  the  jelly  over  the 
fruits;  briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  begins  to  freeze; 
tightly  cover  the  mould,  totally  bury  it  in  ice  for  thirty  minutes;  remove, 
dip  in  tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds,  unmould  upon  a  cold  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  February 
.  BREAKFAST 

Peaches  (463) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Sweet  Peppers 

Broiled  Porgies,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Smoked  Beef  in  Cream  (329) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Small  Brioches 

875.  SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SWEET  PEPPERS 
Cut  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers  into  quarter-inch  square  pieces, 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  cook  for  five 
minutes;  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  of  milk,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat 
up  for  one  minute,  then  pour  the  eggs  over  the  peppers,  mix  well  with  the 
wooden  spoon  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  very  frequently,  in  fact  almost 
continually,  stirring  them.  .  Dress  on  a  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

876.    BROILED  PORGIES,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Scale,  neatly  trim  and  wipe  dry  six  small,  very  fresh  porgies.  Mix 
in  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper;  roll  the  porgies  repeatedly  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a 
broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish. 
Spread  a  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  them  evenly  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY          253 

877.    BRIOCHE  PASTE 

Sift  on  a  table  twelve  ounces  of  the  best  flour;  place  three  ounces  of 
it  into  a  bowl,  make  a  fountain  in  the  centre,  place  in  it  one-half  ounce 
concentrated  yeast  and  half  gill  lukewarm  water;  dilute  the  yeast  with 
the  water,  then  knead  the  whole  together  for  five  minutes;  then  fill  up 
the  bowl  with  lukewarm  water  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise  for 
thirty  minutes.  Make  a  fountain  in  the  flour  on  the  table,  put  in  it 
half  an  ounce  fine  sugar,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  milk,  four 
ounces  butter  and  two  eggs.  Briskly  knead  with  the  hand  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  two  more  eggs;  knead  with  the  hand  for  five  minutes 
more,  then  add  one  more  egg.  Knead  again  to  mix  the  egg.  Lift  the 
batter  up  from  the  table  with  the  hand,  and  sharply  throw  it  against  the 
table  as  hard  as  possible;  repeat  this  five  times  more.  Thoroughly 
drain  the  water  from  the  other  bowl  of  dough,  add  it  to  this  paste;  sharply 
mix  with  the  hand  for  five  minutes.  Place  the  dough  in  a  large  basin, 
cover  with  a  damp  towel  and  place  in  the  ice  box  for  four  hours.  Knead 
the  dough  on  a  table  for  five  minutes,  replace  it  in  the  basin,  cover  it, 
reset  in  the  ice  box  for  another  hour. 

878.    SMALL  BRIOCHES 

Divide  the  brioche  paste  into  twelve  equal  pieces,  gently  roll  out  to 
small  dome  shapes,  arrange  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  tin;  lightly 
egg  the  surface  with  a  hair  pastry  brush ;  set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  hot. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Souffle  of  Lobster 
Noisette  of  Lamb,  Sauce  Bearnaise 

Tomatoes  en  Ragout 
Cream  Fritters,  Strawberry  Sauce 

879.    SOUFFLE"  OF  LOBSTER 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour,  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  one  minute, 
add  two  gills  milk  and  a  gill  cream;  thoroughly  mix  and  let  boil  for  five 
minutes,  then  remove  the  pan  to  the  table. 

Split  in  two  and  crack  the  claws  of  two  live  lobsters  of  one  pound 
each.  Pick  out  all  meat  from  the  shells  and  body,  place  it  in  a  mortar 
and  pound  to  a  puree,  then  add  three  egg  yolks  to  the  sauce;  briskly 
whisk  it,  then  gradually  add  the  same  to  the  lobster  in  the  mortar,  mixing 
unceasingly  while  adding  it.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  of  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix.  Press 
the  puree  through  a  sieve  into  a  large  bowl.  Beat  up  the  white  of  the 
three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gently  mix  it  with  the  preparation.  Place 
the  puree  into  a  lightly  buttered  souffle*  dish,  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 


254  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

880.  NOISETTE  OF  LAMB,  SAUCE  BEARNAISE 
Procure  six  small,  round  pieces  of  three  ounces  each,  cut  from  a 
tender  leg  of  lamb,  neatly  flatten  and  trim  all  around.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Place  half  ounce  butter 
in  a  black  frying  pan,  and  when  it  obtains  a  nice  light  brown  add  the 
noisettes,  one  beside  another,  and  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  arrange  a  hot  Bearnaise  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  34,  on  a 
not  dish;  dress  the  noisettes  over  crown-like  and  serve. 

88 1.    TOMATOES  EN  RAGOUT 

Plunge  four  good-sized,  red,  sound  tomatoes  in  the  boiling  water  for 
one  minute,  lift  them  up,  skin,  cut  them  into  quarters;  place  in  a  small 
saucepan,  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  three  saltspoons  sugar,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  and  half  a  bean  of  finely  chopped  garlic;  lightly  mix,  place  on 
the  fire,  cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  pour  into 
a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

882.    CREAM  FRITTERS,  STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Have  one  and  a  half  pints  cold  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  four  ounces 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Dilute  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  corn  starch  in  one  gill 
cream  and  add  to  the  milk,  then  briskly  stir  with  the  wooden  spoon 
while  boiling  for  three  minutes;  add  two  egg  yolks,  mix  while  cooking  for 
two  minutes  more.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  the  preparation  into  a 
lightly  buttered  tin  and  let  cool  off.  Turn  the  preparation  upon  a  lightly 
buttered  part  of  the  table,  then  cut  into  twelve  even  lozenge  pieces. 
Dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs; 
place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
drain  on  a  towel,  dredge  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  over  them.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  strawberry  sauce  around  the  fritters  and  serve. 

883.    STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Press  one  gill  preserved  strawberries  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan, 
adding  one  ounce  sugar  and  half  a  gill  water;  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Potage  Pilaff.  Turque 

Salmon,  Provencale          Potatoes,  Bateau 

Filet  of  Beef,  Lyonnaise 
Sweetbreads  en  Coquilles  French  Peas  (781) 

Punch,  Menth 
Redhead  Ducks  with  Fried  Hominy  (37) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (42)  Langues  de  Chats 

884.    POTAGE  PILAFF,  TURQUE 

Wash  well  in  cold  water  and  drain  on  a  sieve  a  quarter  pint  Italian 
rice.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  half 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  FEBRUARY         255 

pint  broth,  half  ounce  butter,  a  few  very  small  pieces  raw  chicken  (the 
equivalent  of  the  leg  of  a  chicken),  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  half  saltspoon 
Spanish  saffron.  Cover  and  set  the  pan  on  a  slow  fire  and  let  cook  for 
thirty  minutes. 

Plunge  six  very  fresh  chicken  livers  in  boiling  water  for  one  minute, 
remove,  then  cut  into  small  square  pieces  and  add  to  the  rice.  Moisten 
with  one  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6).  Boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of 
the  soup.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  little  grated 
Swiss  cheese  separately. 

885.    SALMON,  PROVEN^ALE 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each,  in  a 
frying  pan.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  paprika. 
Pour  in  half  gill  white  wine  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122);  boil 
for  five  minutes,  then  add  twelve  anchovies  in  oil,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  three  peeled  and  well-cleaned  fresh  mushrooms  cut  into  very  thin 
slices.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper.  Set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  salmon  on  a  hot 
dish.  Remove  the  spinal  bones,  pour  the  sauce  over,  sprinkle  half  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  chives  over  and  serve. 

886.    POTATOES,  BATEAU 

Roll  out  very  thin  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  feuille- 
tage  (No.  756).  Cut  it  into  six  oval  parts,  then  line  six  small  boat- 
shaped  tartlet  moulds;  trim  well  around  the  edges. 

Prepare  a  potato  preparation  as  per  No.  91,  and  with  it  evenly  fill  up 
the  six  moulds;  neatly  smooth  the  surface  with  the  blade  of  a  knife; 
lightly  egg  the  surface  of  each,  arrange  on  a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

887.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  LYONNAISE 

Slit  on  both  sides  twelve  large,  sound  Italian  raw  chestnuts;  plunge 
in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  skin  with  a  towel.  Peel 
twelve  very  small  white  onions  and  fry  in  a  pan  with  a  tablespoon  lard 
to  a  light  brown.  Place  a  two-and-one-half-pound  piece  of  fine  filet  of 
beef  in  a  small  roasting  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  pour  a  half  tablespoon  melted  butter  on  the 
surface  of  the  filet  and  two  tablespoons  cold  water.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  it  to  the  oven  door,  then  add  the  chestnuts 
and  onions.  Moisten  with  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  one  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  a  half  gill  sherry.  Reset  it  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes,  add  two  artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  quarters  (if  at  hand), 
then  roast  for  five  minutes  longer.  Remove,  dress  the  filet  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  the  garnishing  around  the  filet  and  serve. 

888.    SWEETBREADS  EN  COQUILLES 

Plunge  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two  hours;  lift  them 
up  and  drop  them  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes;  remove,  drain,  trim 


256  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well,  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  add  the  sliced  breads  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  tossing  them  well 
meanwhile.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  keep  warm.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  mix  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  add  one  gill 
milk,  one  gill  cream  and  a  half  gill  port  wine.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg; 
thoroughly  mix,  add  the  sweetbreads,  lightly  mix  and  cook  gently  for 
five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  grad- 
ually add  to  the  rest,  lightly  mixing  while  cooking  for  two  minutes  more. 
Remove,  then  evenly  divide  the  preparation  into  six  well-cleaned  "table 
shells."  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them; 
place  on  a  baking  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
place  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

889.  PUNCH,  MENTH  (MINT  PUNCH) 

Prepare  a  lemon-water  ice,  as  per  No.  376,  and  just  before  serving 
add  two  tablespoons  mint  liquor.  Mix  well  and  serve  in  six  sherbet 
glasses. 

890.    LANGUES  DE  CHATS 

Place  in  a  basin  four  ounces  sugar  with  two  eggs,  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  add  two  more  eggs;  briskly  stir  for  five 
minutes  more.  Then  add  six  ounces  sifted  flour  with  four  tablespoons 
melted  butter;  mix  for  one  minute.  Slide  a  quarter-inch  tube  at  the 
bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop  in  the  preparation ;  lightly  butter  and  flour 
a  pastry  tin,  then  press  down  the  preparation  into  finger  forms.  Set 
in  the  oven  and  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  and  serve  when  cold. 


February  2gth  (supposedly  Monday) 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Hominy  (45) 

Omelette  aux  Croutons 

Broiled  Kippered  Herring  (153) 

Mutton  Kidneys  with  Bacon  (195) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

891.    OMELETTE  AUX  CROUTONS 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk;  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  sharply  beat  up 
with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  out  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread 
three  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  trim  off  the  crust  and  cut  the  bread 
into  quarter-inch  square  pieces.  Place  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  on  a 
plate  and  lightly  roll  in  the  croutons. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
the  croutons  and  fry  to  a  good  light  colour,  then  pour  the  beaten  eggs 
into  the  pan;  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  minute j 


MONDAY,  FEBRUARY  TWENTY-NINTH  257 

fold  up  both  ends  to  meet  right  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute, 
turn  upon  a  large  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Finnoise 
Minced  Beef,  Creole 

Carrots,  Vichy 
French  Pancakes  (17) 

892.    OYSTERS,  FINNOISE 

Open  twenty-four  fresh,  large  oysters;  detach  them  entirely  from 
the  deep  shells,  but  leave  them  in  the  same  deep  shells  with  their  own 
gravy.  Finely  chop  up  two  medium,  green  peppers  and  evenly  divide 
them  on  top  of  the  twenty-four  oysters.  Squeeze  two  fresh  red  toma- 
toes through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  pour  the  juice  over  the  oysters. 
Cut  twenty-four  very  thin  pieces  bacon  one  inch  square,  and  arrange  a 
piece  on  top.  of  each  oyster.  Dredge  a  tablespoon  fresh  bread  crumbs 
over  all.  Place  them  on  a  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve.  Should  any  of  the  juice  from 
the  oysters  drop  in  the  pan  pour  it  over  them  before  serving. 

893.    MINCED  BEEF,  CREOLE 

Cut  away  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  left  over  from  Saturday  and 
finely  mince  it.  Prepare  a  Creole  sauce  as  per  No.  507.  Add  the  beef 
to  the  sauce.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper;  mix  well  and  cook  for  twelve  minutes.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

894.    CARROTS,  VICHY 

Neatly  scoop  and  wash  in  cold  water  twelve  small,  sound  carrots; 
cut  them  into  slices  a  quarter  inch  thick;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half 
an  ounce  butter  and  a  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar,  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  add 
two  branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil;  lightly  mix,  cover  the 
pan,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Re- 
move, take  out  the  parsley  and  chervil,  pour  the  carrots  into  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyon  Sausage  (582) 

Pure"e  Faubonne 
Sea  Bass,  Shrimp  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Demidoff 

Squabs,  Saute",  with  Tarragon  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (.30) 

Ribs  of  Mutton    Currant  Jelly 

Dandelion  and  Doucette  Salad 

Pudding,  Venus 

895.    PURE"E  FAUBONNE,  CHIFFON ADE 

Have  a  pint  of  white  beans  soaked  in  cold  water  for  ten  hours 
Drain  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  two 


258  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

small  chopped  onions,  one  sliced  carrot,  two  leeks,  four  branches  parsley, 
one  ounce  lean  salt  pork  and  one  ounce  of  lean  raw  ham.  Moisten 
with  six  pints  of  hot  water.  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer 
for  two  hours.  Then  press  all  through  a  sieve,  then  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan  on  the  range,  and  boil  for  two  minutes. 
Finely  slice  four  clean  lettuce  leaves,  two  clean  spinach  leaves;  place 
them  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  saltspoon  butter  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile,  and  then  add  to  the  soup; 
stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  boil  for  one  minute  longer.  Pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

896.    SEA  BASS,  SHRIMP  SAUCE 

Trim  and  neatly  wipe  two  very  fresh  sea  bass  of  one  and  one-half 
pounds  each.  Place  in  a  frying  pan,  season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  add  half  an  ounce  butter,  half  gill 
white  wine  and  a  gill  of  water.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper, 
boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  bass  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  the  shrimp 
sauce  over  and  serve. 

897.    SHRIMP  SAUCE 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  flour  with  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  and  heat  for  half  a  minute;  then  pour  a  gill  of  the  fish  liquor  into 
this  roux  with  three-quarters  gill  cream.  Mix  well,  then  drain  the  sauce 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  add  eight  shrimps, 
cut  into  small  pieces,  and  two  tablespoons  of  sherry;  season  with  a  salt- 
spoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix,  then  let  boil 
for  two  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon  milk  and  add  to 
the  sauce;  lightly  mix  while  heating  for  one  minute  and  serve. 

898.    POTATOES,  DEMIDOFF 

Peel  and  wash  eight  medium,  sound  potatoes;  plunge  them  in  two 
quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  twenty  minutes ;  drain  and 
slice  them  into  very  thin  slices,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat  five  minutes.  Lift 
up,  drain  on  a  towel,  dredge  a  half  teaspoon  salt  over  them.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

899.    SQUAB,  SAUTE,  WITH  TARRAGON 

Cut  the  feet  and  necks  off  six  fat,  fresh  squabs.  Split  open  through 
the  back,  empty,  and  remove  the  breast  bones.  Envelope  them  in  a 
coarse  towel  and  gently  -flatten  them  with  a  cleaver.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  squabs,  one  beside  another. 
Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Fry 
them  for  six  minutes,  turn  them  over,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  cook  for  six  minutes  on  this  side 
as  well.  Take  them  off  the  pan  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Have  six  very 
thin  slices  of  lean  raw  ham,  place  them  in  the  pan  in  which  the  squabs 
were  cooked  and  fry  on  a  brisk  fire  for  one  minute  on  each  side.  Arrange 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  259 

the  ham  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the  squabs  over.  Have  four  tarragon 
leaves  placed  on  top  of  each  squab.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface 
of  the  gravy,  add  a  half  gill  white  wine  to  the  gravy,  a  half  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  tarragon.  Boil  for  five 
minutes,  pour  over  the  squabs  and  serve. 

900.     RIBS  OF  MUTTON,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  a  small  rack  of  mutton  of  about  three  and  a  half  pounds. 
Break  the  end  bones  and  neatly  trim  the  red  skin  from  the  top.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Lay  it  in  the 
roasting  tin,  pour  a  tablespoon  water  into  the  tin,  then  set  in  the  oven 
to  roast  for  forty  minutes,  turning  and  basting  it  quite  frequently  mean- 
while. Remove,  dress  the  mutton  on  a  large,  hot  dish,  skim  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  rack  and  send  to  the  table  with 
currant  jelly  separately. 

901.    DANDELION  AND  DOUCETTE  SALAD 

Thoroughly  trim  and  pick  off  all  stale  leaves  from  a  pint  of  fresh 
dandelion  and  one  pint  of  doucette  (corn  salad).  Wash  both  well  in 
fresh  water,  then  thoroughly  drain  in  a  wire  basket  or  on  a  cloth; 
place  in  a  salad  bowl,  well  mixed.  Pour  over  four  light  tablespoons 
dressing,  as  per  No.  863.  Mix  well  and  serve. 

902.    PUDDING,  VENUS 

Butter  a  quart  mould.  Ornament  with  two  ounces  candied  ginger 
cut  into  thin  strips. 

Mix  together  in  a  bowl  four  yolks  and  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  pint 
milk  or  cream,  two  tablespoons  rum  and  four  ounces  sugar;  strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  mould.  Place  the  mould  in  a  pan,  with 
hot  water  up  to  half  its  height.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  let  thoroughly  cool  off  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Poached  Eggs,  Cream  Sauce 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel,  Butter  Sauce 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261) 

Potatoes  Copeaux 
Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

903.    POACHED  EGGS,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  tablespoons  vinegar.  Crack  in  six  fresh  eggs,  one  by  one,  and 
poach  for  three  minutes.  Have  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  on  a  large 


26o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

dish.     Lift  up  the  eggs  with  a  skimmer  and  place  two  on  each  toast; 
poach  six  more  in  a  similar  way  and  place  on  the  toasts. 

Prepare  a  cream  sauce,  exactly  as  per  No.  445,  pour  it  over  the  eggs 
and  serve. 

904.    BOILED  SALT  MACKEREL,  BUTTER  SAUCE 

Soak  in  cold  water  during  night  two  salt  mackerel;  remove  the  spinal 
bones.  Place  them  in  a  sautoire  with  a  quart  hot  water  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate 
with  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  a  little  melted  butter 
separately. 

905.    POTATOES  COPEAUX 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  two  large,  sound,  raw  potatoes,  then  cut  into 
four  even  slices,  crosswise,  and  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife  cut  them 
copeau-like  to  the  thickness  of  a  half  dollar.  Plunge  them  in  cold  water, 
wash  well,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat  to  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Remove  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain,  dredge  a  teaspoon  of  salt 
over,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fried  Frogs'  Legs,  Tartare  Sauce 

Almondigas  (314) 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Pear  Pie,  with  Cinnamon 

906.    FRIED  FROGS'  LEGS,  TARTARE  SAUCE 

Cut  off  the  feet  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh,  fat  frogs'  legs;  re- 
move any  other  adherings,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  hind  legs; 
place  them  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  well  spread  all  over;  lightly  roll  them  in  flour,  then  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  and  finally  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  six  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  thoroughly 
drain,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  salt  over,  dress  on  a  dish,  decorate  with 
six  quarters  of  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

907.    PEAR  PIE,  WITH  CINNAMON 

Peel  and  cut  in  half  eight  medium,  sound  pears,  remove  the  seeds, 
then  finely  slice  them  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  one  ounce 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  .ground  cinnamon.  Mix  well.  Line  a  lightly 
buttered  pie  plate  with  a  thin  pie  paste,  as  per  No.  117.  Place  the  pears 
in  the  pie  plate,  lightly  egg  the  edges  of  the  plate;  cover  the  pears  with 
another  similar  layer  of  pie  paste;  make  a  few  small  incisions  on  the 
surface,  press  down  the  two  layers  of  paste  around  the  border  of  the  plate; 
lightly  egg  the  surface.  Set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove,  let  rest  on  a  table  for  five  minutes,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered 
sugar  over  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  261 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)     Oysters  (18)     Caviare  (159) 

Consomme",  with  Rice 
Pompano  Saute",  Brown  Butter 
Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 
Lamb  Steaks,  Devilled 

Flageolets  (95) 

French  Artichokes,  Poivrade 

Roast  Chicken  (290) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Marrow  Pudding 

908.    CONSOMME,  WITH  RICE 

Prepare  a  consomme  as  per  No.  52,  strain  it  into  another  saucepan 
and  keep  hot.  Boil  in  a  quart  of  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  three  ounces 
rice  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  add  it  to  the  consomme, 
then  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  it  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

909.    POMPANO  SAUTE",  BROWN  BUTTER 

Neatly  wipe  two  fresh  pompano  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Wet  them 
with  a  tablespoon  milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  a  light  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  the  fish  in  the  pan  and  fry  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  and  take  all  the  fat 
from  the  pan;  place  in  it  three-quarters  of  an  ounce  butter  and  toss  on 
the  fire  till  of  a  brown  colour;  pour  over  the  fish,  decorate  with  six 
"quarters"  of  lemon  and  serve. 

910.    LAMB  STEAKS,  DEVILLED 

Procure  six  small  lamb  steaks,  cut  from  a  tender  leg  of  lamb,  of  four 
ounces  each.  Neatly  flatten  them.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  oil;  repeatedly  roll  the 
steaks  in  the  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  four 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  over 
them,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  replace  on  the  broiler  and  broil  again 
for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  a  devilled  sauce  (No.  82)  over  a 
hot  dish,  place  the  steaks  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

911.    FRENCH  ARTICHOKES,  POIVRADE 

Cut  off  the  stalks  and  all  stale  leaves  and  neatly  trim  the  under  part 
of  three  medium-sized  fresh  -French  artichokes.  Rub  the  under  part 
of  each  with  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  to  prevent  getting  black,  cut  each  into 
half,  dress  on  a  hors  d'oeuvres  dish  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce : 
Place  in  a  bowl  a  teaspoon  French  mustard,  two  tablespoons  vinegar 
and  three  tablespoons  oil.  Briskly  mix  the  whole  together  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  a  saucebowl  and  serve  separately. 

912.    MARROW  PUDDING 

Finely  chop  up  three  ounces  raw  beef  marrow;  place  it  in  a  basin 
with  three  ounces  bread  crumbs  and  briskly  mix  both  with  a  wooden 


262  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  for  two  minutes,  then  add  two  egg  yolks,  with  two  ounces  sugar; 
mix  again  for  two  minutes  longer;  add  half  ounce  candied  lemon  or 
orange  peel,  one  tablespoon  rum  and  one  tablespoon  sherry;  mix  again 
for  a  minute.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gently 
add  to  the  mixture,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Lightly  butter  six  small 
pudding  moulds,  then  fill  them  up  with  the  preparation;  place  the 
moulds  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  hot  water  into  the  pan  up  to  half  the 
height  of  the  moulds;  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes; 
remove,  unmould  upon  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  rum  sauce,  prepared  as 
per  No.  41,  over  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 
Rice  Flour  and  Milk  (464) 
Shirred  Eggs,  Heckscher 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 
Pigs'  Feet  on  Toast  (434) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 
Griddle  Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

913.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  HECKSCHER 

Plunge  two  medium,  sound,  fine  red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for 
one  minute,  take  up  and  peel  them,  then  cut  into  pieces  and  keep  on  a 
plate.  Finely  mince  four  medium,  fresh  mushrooms,  neatly  peeled, 
washed  and  thoroughly  drained,  and  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  finely  minced  green  pepper  and  half  an  ounce  raw  ham  cut  into 
very  small  dice  pieces ;  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  place  the  pan  on  the 
fire  and  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  mixing  with  the  wooden 
spoon  meanwhile.  Add  the  tomatoes;  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt 
and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper;  lightly  mix.  Finely  chop  up  together 
a  quarter  bean  sound  garlic,  one  branch  well-washed  and  drained  pars- 
ley and  one  branch  chervil,  and  add  to  the  tomato  pan.  Lightly  mix 
and  let  briskly  cook  for  six  minutes.  Pour  this  preparation  into  a  large 
baking  dish;  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  the  tomatoes.  Mix 
half  teaspoon  of  salt  with  two  saltspoons  of  white  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  ground  nutmeg,  and  evenly  sprinkle  the  seasoning  over  the  eggs. 
Arrange  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream  over  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Set 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  place  the  baking  dish  on 
another  cold  one  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Curried  Scallops  (53) 

Entrec6tes    Pojarsky 

Gateau.  Carmelite 

914.    ENTRECOTES,  POJARSKY 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  two  tender  sirloins  beef  of  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  each.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  263 

Heat  a  light  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the  steaks  in  the 
pan,  one  beside  another,  and  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Re- 
move, place  on  a  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  steaks  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  noodles  as  per  No.  333  and  arrange 
around  the  sirloins.  Place  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan, 
with  two  tablespoons  of  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  toss  on  the  fire  until 
a  nice  golden  colour;  pour  over  the  steaks  and  noodles  and  serve. 

915.    GATEAU,  CARMELITE 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux  as  per  No.  336.  Slide  a  quarter-inch  tube 
to  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop  the  paste  into  the  bag,  then  have 
a  clean  baking  tin;  press  down  the  paste  into  large  olive  shape  in  the 
tin  and  set  them  to  bake  in  a  slack  oven  for  twelve  minutes.  Remove, 
let  cool  off. 

Place  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  in  a  copper  basin,  set  on  the  ice 
and  whisk  up  to  a  thick  frost,  then  add  two  ounces  fine  sugar  and  one 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  whisk  again  for  a  minute.  Thoroughly  wash 
and  dry  the  bag  used  before,  then  drop  the  whipped  cream  into  the  bag, 
with  the  tube  at  the  bottom  as  before.  With  a  small  stick  the  size  of  a 
pencil  make  a  small,  round  opening  in  the  centre  and  bottom  of  the  cakes 
and  insert  cream  in  the  opening  of  each  cake.  Have  a  clean  melon- 
shaped,  quart  pudding  mould.  Then  carefully  line  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  mould  with  the  cakes  and  fill  the  interior  of  the  mould  with 
the  rest  of  the  cream.  Carefully  turn  the  cake  into  a  cold  dish,  dredge 
a  little  fine  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Veal  Broth  aux  Racines 
Pickerel,  Horseradish  Sauce 

Potatoes  Persillade  (63) 
Salmi  of  Duckling,  Parisienne 
String  Beans  au  Beurre  (139) 

Asparagus,  B6arnaise  Sauce 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)        Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Macaroon  Ice  Cream 

916.    VEAL  BROTH  AUX  RACINES 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  one  medium  red  carrot,  one  white  turnip, 
two  leeks,  two  branches  white  celery,  one  medium,  white  onion,  two 
ounces  lean  raw  veal  from  a  leg,  and  one  ounce  lean  raw  ham.  Heat 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  above 
articles,  stir  well  with  the  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  then  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  let  come  to  a  boil ; 
skim  the  fat  from  the  surface.  If  there  be  raw  meat  bones  of  any 
kind  on  hand  add  them  to  the  pan.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  then  add  two  tablespoons  of  raw  Italian  rice. 
Season  with  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  re-cover  the  pan  and 


264  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes  more.    Remove  all  the  bones  from  the 
pan,  skim  off  the  fat,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

917.    PICKEREL,  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Trim  off  the  fins,  cut  off  the  head  and  neatly  wipe  a  three-pound 
very  fresh  pickerel.  Split  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spinal 
bone,  place  fish  in  a  sautoire  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  paprika.  Moisten  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  a  gill 
water,  adding  half  an  ounce  butter.  Cover  with  a  lightly  buttered 
paper,  boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  bake  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  hot. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  two  level 
tablespoons  flour;  stir  briskly  while  heating  for  half  minute,  then  pour 
in  one  gill  hot  milk  and  three-quarters  gill  of  the  fish  liquor ;  season  with 
a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  pepper,  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
then  add  two  tablespoons  freshly  grated  horseradish ;  lightly  mix.  Dress 
the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

918.    SALMI  OF  DUCKLING,  PARISIENNE 

Singe  and  neatly  draw  a  fat  duckling  of  about  four  to  five  pounds, 
keeping  the  heart  and  liver  freed  from  the  gall  bag  on  a  plate.  Place 
in  a  small  roasting  pan  a  quarter  sliced  carrot,  half  a  sliced  onion,  one 
sliced  branch  celery,  one  clove  and  a  sprig  of  bay  leaf;  then  place  the 
duck  on  top.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  pour  two  tablespoons  water  in  the  pan,  neatly  spread  a 
half  tablespoon  melted  butter  on  top  of  the  bird.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until  of  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  it 
from  the  oven.  Then  cut  away  the  legs  and  breast  from  the  duck,  and 
cut  each  leg  and  the  breast  in  three  pieces.  Place  the  pieces  in  a  sautoire 
with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  a  tablespoon  brandy  and  keep  warm. 

Place  all  the  vegetables  from  the  pan  in  a  mortar,  add  the  whole 
carcass,  liver  and  heart,  and  sharply  pound  the  whole  to  a  pulp ;  transfer 
into  a  small  saucepan  with  two  gills  of  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one 
gill  tomato  sauce;  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  this 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  pan  with  the  duck;  lightly  mix,  let  slowly 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes  on  the  range.  Dress  the  pieces  of  duck  on  a  hot 
dish,  one  overlapping  another.  Pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

919.    ASPARAGUS,  BE"AXNAISE  SAUCE 

Open  a  can  of  fine  asparagus,  and  carefully  lay  them  in  a  sautoire 
with  their  liquor;  add  a  half  pint  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt,  set  on  the 
fire,  and  as  soon  as  it 'comes  to  a  boil  lift  up  the  asparagus  with  a 
skimmer  and  lay  on  a  napkin  over  a  hot  dish  and  send  to  the  table 
with  a  freshly  prepared  B^arnaise,  as  per  No.  34,  separately. 

920.    MACAROON  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  macaroons  as  per  No.  43.  Place  twelve 
of  them  on  a  tin  and  thoroughly  dry  them  in  the  open  oven.  Remove 
and  finely  crush  them. 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  265 

Have  a  vanilla  ice-cream  preparation  as  per  No.  42,  and  just  after 
straining  the  preparation  into  the  freezer  add  the  crushed  macaroons. 
Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  proceed  to  finish  the  ice  cream  in  the 
same  manner,  and  serve  with  twelve  macaroons  around  it. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Pears  (169) 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 
Poached  Eggs  with  White  Wine 
Picked-up  Codfish  in  Cream 

Beef  Hash 
Rice  Cakes  (221) 

921.    POACHED  EGGS  WITH  WHITE  WINE 

Have  a  quart  of  water  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  the  juice 
of  a  sound  lemon  and  one  gill  white  wine,  and  when  it  briskly  boils 
carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs  and  poach  for  three  minutes.  Carefully 
remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  neatly  trim  and  place  them  on  three 
freshly  prepared  toasts.  Poach  six  more  in  a  similar  way,  arrange  them 
on  three  other  toasts  and  serve  very  hot. 

922.    PICKED-UP  CODFISH  IN  CREAM 

Neatly  shred  a  pound  of  boneless  codfish,  and  plunge  into  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  care- 
fully press  the  cod  with  a  spoon,  so  as  to  get  it  as  dry  as  possible.  Mix 
in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  .of  melted  butter  with  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  of  flour;  pour  in  one  gill  of  hot  milk  and  one  gill  of 
cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  of  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
of  grated  nutmeg.  Lightly  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the 
codfish;  lightly  mix,  cook  for  five  minutes  longer,  lightly  mixing  once 
in  a  while,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

923.    BEEF  HASH 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  it  into  small  dice  pieces.  Have  half  that  quantity  of  finely 
chopped,  cold,  boiled  potatoes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  cook  to  a  light  brown, 
occasionally  stirring.  Add  the  beef  and  potatoes.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  a  saltspoon  ground 
nutmeg.  Moisten  with  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701).  Lightly  mix, 
cover  the  pan  and  cook  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle 
a  teaspoon  of  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 


266  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  in  Cups 

Oyster  Saute,  Meuniere  (749) 

Veal  Chops,  Piedmontaise 

Omelette  Souffle  au  Rhum 

CHICKEN  BROTH  IN  CUPS 

Prepare  the  broth  as  per  No.  578,  adding  a  tender,  well-cleaned 
fowl,  which  will  be  used  for  dinner  to-night. 

924.    VEAL  CHOPS,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped 
onion,  one  ounce  finely  chopped  lean  raw  ham  and  half  a  finely  chopped 
green  pepper;  slowly  cook  for  five  minutes  or  until  a  light  brown,  fre- 
quently stirring  meanwhile.  Add  four  ounces  Italian  rice,  gently  stir 
and  cook  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  at  the  bottom  meanwhile; 
moisten  with  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half  salt- 
spoon  Spanish  saffron.  Mix  again,  cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  warm. 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  veal  chops.  Season  them  all  around  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper ;  lightly  roll  them  in  flour,  then 
in  beaten  egg  and  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  the  chops,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  eight  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  the  rice  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  dome  shape,  arrange 
the  veal  chops  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

925.     OMELETTE  SOUFFLE  AU  RHUM 

Place  four  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  three  ounces  granulated  sugar 
and  two  tablespoons  good  rum;  sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
eight  minutes.  Beat  up  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  add  to 
the  yolks,  and  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute.  Arrange 
three-quarters  of  the  preparation  on  a  large  baking  dish  in  omelette 
form.  Place  the  rest  of  the  preparation  in  a  pastry  bag,  with  a  fancy 
tube  previously  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the  bag,  then  decorate  the  top 
and  all  around  the  omelette  with  the  contents  of  the  bag.  Dredge  two 
tablespoons  sugar  all  over  the  omelette,  place  the  dish  on  a  hot  range 
a  minute,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and 
immediately  send  to  the  table. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Caviare  (59) 

Consomme",  Deslignac 

Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'H6tel         Potatoes,  Bignons  (403) 

Chicken  Patties,  Parisienne       Green  Peas  with  Mint  (375) 

Roast  Quails,  sur  Canapes  (272) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Babas  aux  Fruits 

926.    CONSOMM£,  DESLIGNAC 

Prepare  a  consomme*  as  per  No.  52,  straining  it  into  another  saucepan; 
keep  it  simmering.  Crack  in  a  bowl  one  egg,  adding  the  yolk  of  another 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  267 

diluted  with  a  gill  hot  consomme*.  Lightly  butter  two  small  pudding 
moulds;  strain  this  preparation  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  two 
moulds,  place  them  in  a  small  tin  with  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height 
and  bake  in  the  open  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off, 
unmould,  cut  the  custard  into  thin  slices,  then  add  them  to  the  consomme*; 
add  also  three  tablespoons  of  canned  or  cooked  green  peas,  heat  up  a 
minute,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

927.    BROILED  WEAKFISH,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Cut  the  head  off,  trim  and  split  in  two  through  the  back,  a  very  fresh 
weakfish  of  three  pounds.  Remove  the  spinal  bone,  season  with  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Rub  it  all  around  with  a 
teaspoon  oil,  place  it  on  the  broiler,  cut  side  downward,  and  broil  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  spread  a  maitre  d'h6tel 
butter,  as  per  No.  7,  over  and  serve. 

928.    CHICKEN  PATTIES,  PARISIENNE 

Remove  all  the  meat  from  the  fowl  of  this  morning,  and  cut  into 
quarter-inch  square  pieces.  Cut  in  same  shape  six  canned  mushrooms 
and  one  truffle.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  two 
level  tablespoons  flour;  stir  a  little,  then  moisten  with  a  half  pint  white 
broth;  mix  well.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix  and  reduce  the 
sauce  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  with  the  wooden  spoon.  Then 
add  the  chicken,  mushrooms  and  truffles,  with  a  tablespoon  sherry. 
Mix  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  more,  lightly  mixing  occasionally. 
Dilute  an  egg  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add  to  the  rest,  continually 
stirring  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Place  six  patties  on  a  hot  dish, 
fill  them  up  with  the  preparation,  cover  them,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

929.    How  TO  PREPARE  PATTIES 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  half  pound  fueilletage  (No.  756) 
to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter  inch ;  then  with  a  round  pastry  (dentilated) 
cutter  three  inches  in  diameter  cut  out  six  pieces  and  turn  them  on  a 
clean,  cold,  lightly  wetted  baking  sheet,  and  with  a  plain  round  cutter 
of  one  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  make  an  incision  in  the  centre  of 
each  down  to  three-quarters  of  the  height  of  the  paste,  being  very 
careful  not  to  cut  through.  With  a  hair  pastry  brush  lightly  wet  the 
surface  of  each,  and  with  the  back  of  a  fork  make  a  few  light  lines  in 
the  centrepiece  of  each.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move, carefully  lift  up  the  covers  without  breaking  them  and  empty 
them  with  a  fork.  Place  them  on  a  plate,  cover,  and  keep  warm 
until  required. 

930.    BABAS  AUX  FRUITS 

Prepare  the  paste  and  bake  six  babas  as  per  No.  687. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  three-quarters  pint  water  with  four  ounces 
sugar  and  two  tablespoons  kirsch,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  drop  the  babas 


268  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  the  syrup  and  infuse  for  three  minutes,  but  only  three  at  a  time.  Lift 
up  with  a  skimmer,  stand  on  a  dish,  pour  the  fruit  sauce  over  them  and 
serve. 

931.    FRUIT  SAUCE 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  half  a  peeled,  seeded  pear,  quarter  of  a 
peeled  and  cored  apple,  half  a  canned  apricot,  six  preserved,  stoned 
cherries,  two  slices  of  peeled  and  cored  pineapple  and  any  other  fruit  at 
hand.  Place  all  these  fruits  in  a  small  pan  with  two  ounces  sugar,  one 
gill  water,  one  tablespoon  kirsch  and  one  tablespoon  maraschino; 
boil  for  five  minutes  and  use  as  required. 


Friday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  en  Surprise 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  ( 108) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Cornmeal  Pancakes  (659) 

932.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  EN  SURPRISE 

Stick  a  needle  in  the  thick,  round  end  of  eight  fresh  eggs,  then  care- 
fully clip  off  a  small  piece  at  the  thin  ends.  Shake  out  the  inside  of  the 
eggs  into  a  bowl,  keeping  both  shells  and  covers.  Season  the  eggs  with 
a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  pour  in  a  half  gill 
milk  and  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
on  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  the  beaten  eggs,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon 
for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  then  stir  again  while  cooking 
for  three  minutes.  Prepare  six  small,  round  toasts  of  one  and  a  half 
inches  in  diameter  and  cut  out  a  small,  round  piece  in  the  centre  of  each. 
Place  them  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  then  fill  the  six  shells  with 
scrambled  eggs,  set  the  eggshells  on  the  cavity  of  the  toasts,  cover  them 
with  their  covers  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Shell  Clams,  Vaudeville 
Pork  Chops,  Bucharest 

Eggs,  Crimmins 
Pumpkin  Pie  (492) 

933.    SOFT  SHELL  CLAMS,  VAUDEVILLE 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter,  adding 
six  finely  chopped  shallots;  cook  for  five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile,  then  mix  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  pour  in  one  gill  hot  milk, 
one  gill  cream  and  two  tablespoons  sherry.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
then  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Thoroughly  clean  thirty- 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  269 

six  good-sized  fresh,  soft  clams,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies, 
totally  cleared  of  sand.  Plunge  them  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  for 
one  minute.  Thoroughly  drain  and  add  them  to  the  sauce;  gently  mix, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  bodies;  cook  for  one  minute.  Pour  into 
a  baking  dish,  dredge  a  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  over  them  and  arrange 
a  few  small  bits  of  butter  over  the  surface.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

934.    PORK  CHOPS,  BUCHAREST 

Trim  off  the  stalk  and  outer  leaves  of  a  very  small,  red,  sound  cab- 
bage, then  cut  it  into  quarters  and  remove  the  inside  stalk  and  finely 
slice  it.  Sprinkle  over  it  one  tablespoon  salt,  then  repeatedly  turn  over 
with  the  hands  until  free  from  water.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  with  a 
carrot  cut  in  quarters,  one  onion  cut  in  half  and  a  two-ounce  piece  of 
salt  pork.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  moisten  with  a  pint 
of  water;  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Set  to  bake  in  the 
oven  for  one  hour.  Remove,  take  up  the  pork,  carrot  and  onion,  keep- 
ing the  pork  for  to-morrow.  Drain  off  the  water,  then  add  two  table- 
spoons freshly  grated  horseradish;  mix  well  and  keep  hot. 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  pork  chops;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  then  roll  the  chops  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  eggs 
and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  lard, 
place  the  chops,  one  beside  another,  in  the  pan  and  fry  for  eight  minutes 
on  each  side.  Place  the  cabbage  in  the  centre  of  a  large  dish;  arrange 
the  chops  over,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

935.    EGGS,  CRTMMINS 

Finely  chop  a  sound,  green  pepper  and  place  it  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  or  until  it  attains 
a  nice  light  brown;  pour  in  two  gills  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  lightly 
mix;  then  add  six  finely  minced  mushrooms,  six  shelled,  fresh  shrimps 
cut  into  small  pieces,  one  truffle  very  finely  minced  and  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley ;  lightly  mix  and  let  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes. 
Pour  the  preparation  into  a  large  baking  dish.  Carefully  crack  twelve 
fresh  eggs  over  the  preparation;  mix  a  half  teaspoon  salt  with  a  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  two  saltspoons  curry  powder  and  evenly 
season  the  eggs  with  it.  Divide  two  tablespoons  cream  on  top  of  the 
eggs.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  place  the  dish  on 
another  cold  one  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Codfish  White  Perch,  St.  Gothard 

Beef  a  la  Mode  (534)        Spaghetti  Polonaise 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Charlotte  Russe 

936.    BISQUE  OF  CODFISH 

Boil  two  quarts  water  in  a  saucepan  with  tablespoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper;  add  one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two 


270  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cloves,  one  medium,  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one  leek,  two  branches 
celery,  two  branches  parsley,  all  sliced.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  one  pound  fresh  codfish  cut  into  pieces, 
and  bones.  Re-cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Heat  in  a 
saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  adding  three  table- 
spoons flour;  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Strain  the  fish  broth 
into  this  roux  and  briskly  whisk  for  a  minute.  Then  add  one  gill  milk 
and  two  gills  cream.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper;  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  boiling  for  five 
minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  milk  and  add  to  the 
bisque,  constantly  mixing  while  heating,  without  boiling,  for  one  minute. 
Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

937.    WHITE  PERCH,  ST.  GOTTHARD 

Trim,  scale  and  neatly  wipe  six  very  fresh  white  perch;  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Slice 
exceedingly  fine  four  medium,  peeled  and  washed  raw  potatoes.  Season 
with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  turn  them 
well  in  the  seasoning.  Lightly  butter  an  enamelled,  low-edged,  small 
roasting  pan.  If  not  at  hand,  use  a  well-cleaned  buttered  tin.  Arrange 
a  layer  of  potatoes  all  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan ;  sprinkle  a  half  table- 
spoon grated  Swiss  cheese  over,  arrange  a  few  very  little  bits  of  butter 
over,  lay  another  similar  layer  of  potatoes,  cheese  and  butter,  and  so  on 
until  all  the  potatoes  are  used.  Set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove,  arrange  the  six  perch  on  top  of  the  potatoes,  pour  half  gill 
white  wine  over  them  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over,  spread  a  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  over  all,  and  send  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 

938.    SPAGHETTI,  POLONAISE 

Plunge  a  half  pound  spaghetti  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and 
place  on  a  large  dish.  Have  one  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  with  three 
tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs;  toss  well  on  the  fire  until  the  crumbs 
have  attained  a  nice  golden  colour.  Spread  over  the  spaghetti  and 
serve. 

939.     CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Prepare  the  same  amount  of  ladyfingers  as  per  No.  150,  then  line 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  quart  pudding  mould  with  some  of  the  pre- 
pared ladyfingers.  Place  half  a  pint  of  thick,  sweet  cream  into  a  basin, 
set  the  basin  on  ice,  and  w'ith  a  pastry  wire  whisk  up  the  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  let  rest  for  two  minutes,  then  remove  all  the  whipped  cream  with 
the  skimmer  and  place  in  another  cold  basin;  add  three  ounces  fine  sugar 
and  two  teaspoons  vanilla  essence,  and  briskly  whisk  it  up  again  for  five 
minutes.  Slide  a  fancy  tube  to  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop  in  the 
cream,  fill  up  the  mould;  then  turn  the  charlotte  upon  a  cold  dish,  and 
with  the  remaining  cream  in  the  bag  neatly  decorate  the  top  and  all 
around  the  charlotte  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  271 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 

Hominy  (45) 
Fried  Eggs,  Anchovy  Butter 

Halibut  Steaks  (61) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochettes  (600) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

940.    FRIED  EGGS,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  lightly  buttered,  small  frying  pan.  Season 
with  a  half  saltspoon  salt  and  quarter  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  fry 
for  three  minutes.  Glide  them  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm;  proceed 
to  prepare  five  other  portions  in  the  same  way.  When  all  are  on  the 
dish  place  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  toss  well  on  the  fire 
until  of  a  light  brown,  then  pour  in  a  teaspoon  anchovy  essence  and  a 
teaspoon  good  vinegar;  toss  lightly  again,  then  pour  over  the  eggs  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Coquilles  with  Celery 

Ragout  of  Mutton,  Fermiere 

German  Pancakes 

941.    OYSTER  COQUILLES  WITH  CELERY 

Cut  a  well-trimmed  and  cleaned  stalk  of  fine,  crisp  white  celery  into 
quarter-inch  square  pieces  and  boil  in  a  pint  of  water  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  and  keep  one  and  a  half 
gills  of  the  celery  broth.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with 
two  tablespoons  flour ;  briskly  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute ;  pour  in 
the  one  and  a  half  gills  celery  broth,  adding  one  gill  cream.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  paprika  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
mix  well  and  let  gently  simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Plunge  twenty- 
four  large,  fresh-opened  oysters  with  their  liquor  into  a  half  pint  water 
and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  add  the  oysters  and  celery  to  the 
sauce,  with  a  half  gill  of  the  liquor;  lightly  mix,  then  evenly  divide  the 
preparation  in  six  table  shells.  Sprinkle  over  them  two  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  place  the  shells  on  a  tin,  then  set  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes  or  till  of  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Unless  otherwise  mentioned,  a  tablespoon  flour  means  about 
a  "level,"  not  a  "heaping,"  tablespoonful. 

942.    RAGOUT  OF  MUTTON,  FERMIERE 

Cut  four  pounds  of  mutton,  from  the  neck  part,  into  pieces  one  and 
a  half  inches  square.  Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  mutton,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  and  cook  to  a  light  brown.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  the 


272  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pan  and  sprinkle  three  tablespoons  flour  over  the  meat;  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  two  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  half 
pint  water  and  a  pint  pure  tomato  juice;  lightly  mix  and  briskly  boil 
for  three  minutes.  Pick  up  the  pieces  of  mutton  with  a  fork  and  place 
in  another  saucepan.  Strain  in  the  gravy  and  set  the  pan  on  the  fire. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  add  two  finely  minced  carrots,  six  very 
small  onions  lightly  browned  in  butter,  the  two  ounces  of  cooked  pork 
left  over  from  yesterday,  cutting  it  in  small  quarter-inch  square  pieces; 
two  medium,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  cut  in  large  olive  forms.  Tie  together 
two  branches  of  parsley,  two  branches  of  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves 
and  one  bean  sound,  peeled  garlic  and  add  to  the  ragout;  gently  mix. 
Cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour. 
Remove,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  take  out  the  tied  herbs,  add 
three  tablespoons  of  cooked  green  peas,  mix  a  little,  pour  into  a  deep, 
hot  dish  and  send  to  the  table. 

943.    GERMAN  PANCAKES 

Crack  four  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  six  tablespoons  flour  and  one  salt- 
spoon  salt.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes,  then  grad- 
ually add  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk,  continually  mixing  for  five  min- 
utes more.  Lightly  butter  two  large  frying  pans  and  thoroughly  heat 
them  on  the  fire.  Divide  the  batter,  spreading  it  all  over  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  the  pans.  Cook  on  the  fire  for  one  minute,  then  place  in 
the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove  to  the  oven  door,  sprinkle  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over  them,  return  to  the  oven  for  three  minutes 
more.  Remove,  glide  them  on  two  different  dishes,  and  serve  with  six 
" quarters"  of  sound  lemon  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyon  Sausage  (582) 

Sorrel  Soup 
Sheepshead,  Caroline 

Potatoes,  Vauban 
Veal  Tongue  Braise*  with  Spinach 

Hindustan  Vegetables 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Fig  Pudding  (57) 

944.    SORREL  SOUP 

Remove  the  stalks  from  a  pint  of  very  fresh  sorrel.  Wash  well  in 
running  cold  water,  take  up  with  the  hands  and  carefully  press  out  all 
water.  Then  cut  it  into  julienne  strips.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  the  sorrel,  cover  the  pan  and  steam  on  a  slow  range  for 
ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile ;  then  mix  in  two  tablespoons 
flour,  moisten  with  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701)  or  water  and  one 
pint  milk.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper 
and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar;  mix  a  little,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  273 

minutes.  Add  the  white  of  one  egg  and  a  half  gill  of  cream ;  boil  for  one 
minute.  Dilute  the  egg  yolk  with  two  tablespoons  milk  and  add  to  the 
soup.  Continually  mix  while  cooking  for  five  minutes  more.  Pour 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

945.    SHEEPSHEAD,  CAROLINE 

Cut  off  the  head,  scale,  trim  and  wipe  well  a  fresh  sheepshead  of 
three  and  a  half  pounds.  Split  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the 
spinal  bone  and  lay  in  a  small  tin.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika;  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  a  gill  of  water; 
place  six  finely  chopped  shallots  on  top  of  the  fish,  spread  half  ounce  of 
butter  over  the  surface;  place  two  branches  parsley  in  the  pan.  Cover 
the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  range  for  five 
minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter 
with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  then  strain  in  the  fish  gravy,  add- 
ing half  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16);  mix  well,  boil  for  two  minutes, 
pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

946.    POTATOES,  VAUBAN 

Cut  four  medium,  peeled  and  washed  potatoes  into  dice-square 
pieces,  plunge  them  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve; 
heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  add  the  potatoes, 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and 
gently  fry  them  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  good  golden  colour,  frequently 
tossing  them  meanwhile.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

947.    VEAL  TONGUE  BRAIS£  WITH  SPINACH 

Place  a  mirepoix,  prepared  as  per  No.  271,  at  the  bottom  of  a  brais- 
ing pan,  with  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard,  and  lightly  brown  on  the  fire 
for  ten  minutes.  Add  three  well-trimmed,  fresh  veal  tongues;  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Moisten  with  half 
pint  broth  (No.  701),  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  a  half  gill  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Cover  the 
pan,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifty  minutes. 
Remove,  skin  the  tongues;  cut  them  into  halves,  lengthwise.  Place  a 
spinach,  prepared  as  per  No.  399,  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the  tongues 
over  the  spinach,  strain  the  gravy  around  and  serve. 

948.    HINDUSTAN  VEGETABLES 

Cut  off  the  ends  and  stalks  of  twelve  very  good-sized  fresh  okras; 
plunge  and  keep  them  in  cold  water  until  required.  Cut  in  half  and 
finely  slice  one  medium,  white  onion  and  fry  it  in  a  tablespoon  butter 
for  five  minutes,  adding  half  a  small,  peeled  eggplant  cut  into  half-inch- 
square  pieces ;  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  six  minutes ;  then  add  the  okras 
well  drained,  and  one  peeled,  red,  crushed  tomato.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  curry 
liowder;  mix  a  little.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  on  range  for  five  minutes, 


274  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.     Remove,  pour  into  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Germea  (217) 

Omelette  Jardiniere 

Spanish  Mackerel  (689) 

Broiled  Squabs  on  Toast 

Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 

Puffs  (313) 

949.     OMELETTE  JARDINIERE 

Place  in  a  small  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas  with 
two  tablespoons  canned  string  beans,  cut  into  very  small  pieces,  and  one 
tablespoon  canned  asparagus  tips;  add  one  tablespoon  butter.  Season 
with  three  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  let  cook 
on  the  range  for  five  minutes.  Dredge  over  a  teaspoon  flour,  toss  a 
little,  add  half  gill  milk  and  half  gill  cream,  also  a  few  little  bits  of  butter ; 
mix  well  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes. 

Prepare  an  omelette,  as  per  No.  75,  and  just  before  folding  up  spread 
half  the  prepared  vegetables  over  the  omelette;  fold  up  both  sides,  let 
rest,  turn  out  upon  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  balance  of  the  vegetables 
around  the  dish  and  serve. 

950.    BROILED  SQUABS  ON  TOAST 

Cut  off  the  heads  of  six  fat  squabs;  remove  feet  at  the  first  joint, 
split  open  through  the  back,  draw  and  remove  their  breast  bones; 
envelope  squabs  in  a  coarse  towel  and  flatten  them  with  a  cleaver. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper  and 
one  tablespoon  oil.  Repeatedly  roll  the  birds  in  the  seasoning. 
Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  on  freshly  prepared  toasts,  spread  a  little 
butter  over  them  and  serve  with  watercress  around  the  dish. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth 

Plain-Baked  Live  Lobsters 

Turkey  Hash  en  Bordure 

Cream  of  Caramel  (480) 

951.    CELERY  BROTH 

Have  three  medium  stalks  fresh  celery.  Pick  off  all  leaves  and 
roots,  keeping  only  the  perfect  hearts  for  to-night's  dinner.  Cut  the 
branches  into  small  pieces,  and  the  roots  as  well,  then  thoroughly  wash 
in  cold  water,  drain  well  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  275 

pounds  finely  chopped  lean,  raw  shin  of  beef,  two  branches  of  well- 
cleaned  parsley,  one  branch  of  chervil  and  a  fine  branch  of  chives.  Add 
two  egg  whites;  season  with  two  teaspoons  of  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper;  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  gradually 
pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  continually  stirring  while  adding 
it ;  place  the  pan  on  the  open  fire  and  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil.  Shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of  the  range  and  let  gently  simmer  for 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  six  cups 
and  serve.  If  any  of  the  broth  is  left  over,  strain  it  into  the  white  broth 
(No.  701). 

952.    PLAIN-BAKED  LIVE  LOBSTERS 

Cut  off  near  the  body  the  large  and  small  claws  of  three  small  lobsters, 
one  pound  each.  Split  the  bodies  into  two  even  halves,  crack  the  claws 
with  a  cleaver  and  remove  the  stony  pouch;  season  the  bodies  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  paprika;  spread  a  tablespoon  oil 
over  the  bodies;  place  the  large  claws  and  bodies  on  a  roasting  tin  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  lobsters  on  a 
large  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  six  "quarters"  of 
lemon  and  serve. 

953.  TURKEY  HASH  EN  BORDURE 

Detach  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut 
into  very  small,  square  pieces;  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Mix  in  a 
small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
flour;  stir  well  while  heating  for  half  a  minute;  pour  in  a  gill  cream  and 
a  gill  milk.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  turkey. 
Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  keep  hot.  Slide  a  fancy  tube  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry 
bag,  then  drop  in  a  brioche  potato  preparation,  as  per  No.  95,  and  nicely 
decorate  the  border  of  a  baking  dish  with  it.  Pour  the  hash  in  the  centre 
of  the  dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese  over  it  and  place  in 
the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)          Salted  Devilled  Almonds 

Okra,  Richmond 

Red  Snapper,  Demi-deuil     Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Filet  of  Beef,  Ecossaise        String  Beans  au  Beurre  (139) 

Sweetbreads  Braise,  Bercy  Stuffed  Sweet  Red  Peppers 

Siberian   Punch 

Roast  Chicken  (290)          Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381) 
Small  Nougats  of  Oranges 

954.  SALTED  DEVILLED  ALMONDS 

Shell  a  half  pound  fine  large  almonds,  then  plunge  them  in  a  quart 
boiling  water,  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  for  four  minutes.  '  Drain  on  a 


276  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sieve;  neatly  peel  and  wipe  dry  on  a  cloth.  Lightly  butter  a  pie  plate, 
place  the  almonds  in  the  plate  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  turning  them  over  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Pour 
over  them  one  tablespoon  very  hot  melted  butter,  repeatedly  turn  them 
with  the  spoon,  sprinkle  a  light  teaspoon  fine  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  over  them,  lightly  mix  again,  return  them  to  the  oven  and  roast 
for  twenty  minutes  or  until  they  are  of  a  nice  golden  colour,  being  very 
careful  to  mix  them  frequently  with  the  wooden  spoon.  Remove  from 
the  oven,  drop  them  on  a  clean  towel  to  drain,  dredge  over  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  one  light  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  then  briskly  shake  them 
in  a  folded  cloth  or  tin  can.  Dress  on  a  glass  dish  with  a  fancy  paper 
over  it  and  serve  hot. 

Peanuts  or  any  other  kind  of  nuts  may  be  prepared  in  this  way. 

955.     OKRA,  RICHMOND 

Cut  into  small  dice-pieces  one  and  a  half  ounces  raw,  lean  veal;  cut 
in  same  way,  but  a  little  smaller,  two  leeks,  one  medium  onion,  one 
green  pepper  and  one  ounce  raw,  lean  ham;  place  these  articles  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Moisten  with 
five  pints  water  and  half  pint  pure  tomato  juice.  Season  with  a  table- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  about  a  pound  of  raw 
veal  bones;  let  gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Trim  and  wash  twelve 
fresh  okras,  cut  them  into  pieces  a  quarter-inch  thick  and  add  to  the 
soup;  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes  more.  Add  two  tablespoons 
canned  sweet  corn  and  two  tablespoons  canned  lima  beans ;  boil  for  five 
minutes  longer.  Remove  the  bones,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface, 
pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

956.  RED  SNAPPER,  DEMI-DEUIL 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  red  snapper,  bone  it,  trim  and 
neatly  wipe.  Place  it  in  a  sautoire,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  paprika,  moisten  with  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill 
water;  add  two  branches  parsley.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered 
paper,  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons flour;  heat  for  half  minute,  then  strain  the  fish  gravy  into  this; 
add  half  gill  cream  and  a  tablespoon  sherry;  mix  well.  Cut  into  julienne 
strips  four  heads  canned  mushrooms,  half  ounce  smoked  beef  tongue, 
one  very  small  truffle,  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Mix  a  little;  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream,  add  to  the  sauce, 
continually  mixing  while  adding.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and 
serve. 

957.  FILET  OF  BEEF,  ECOSSAISE 

Lay  a  mirepoix  into  a  small  roasting  pan,  as  per  No.  271.  Neatly 
trim  a  twq-and-a-half-pound  piece  filet  of  beef.  Season  all  around 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  lay  the  filet  over 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  277 

the  mirepoix,  spread  a  tablespoon  melted  lard  over  it,  pour  two  table- 
spoons water  in  the  pan;  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes, 
turning  and  basting  it  occasionally.  Remove,  pour  a  poivrade  sauce, 
as  per  No.  546,  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the  filet  over  and  serve. 

958.    SWEETBREADS,  BERCY 

Soak  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  plenty  of  fresh  water  for  two  hours; 
drain.  Then  plunge  the  sweetbreads  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  then  place  in  cold  water 
for  five  minutes;  drain  well  again.  Lard  their  surfaces  with  six  thin 
strips  of  larding  pork.  Finely  slice  half  a  carrot,  half  an  onion,  two 
branches  of  parsley,  one  branch  of  celery  and  one  leek.  Place  all  the 
vegetables  at  the  bottom  of  a  frying  pan,  adding  all  the  skin  and  parings 
of  the  piece  of  pork  cut  out  for  the  larding  strips.  Arrange  the  sweet- 
breads over  the  vegetables.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper;  add  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  to  the  pan,  place 
on  the  fire  for  six  minutes;  moisten  with  one  gill  white  broth  (No.  701), 
one  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  the 
breads  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  them  up,  lay  over  six  small,  round  toasts 
and  keep  warm.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  small,  finely  chopped 
onion  with  a  level  tablespoon  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Strain 
the  sweetbreads  gravy  into  this,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  and  add 
half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  chives ;  reduce  the  sauce  on  the  fire  to  one 
gill  and  take  off  the  fire.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one-quarter  lemon,  add 
half  ounce  butter,  little  by  little,  pour  sauce  over  sweetbreads  and  serve. 

959.    STUFFED  SWEET  RED  PEPPERS 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  one  finely 
chopped  white  onion  and  half  ounce  finely  chopped  raw,  lean  ham  and 
cook  for  five  minutes,  frequently  stirring;  then  add  three  tablespoons 
raw  rice,  lightly  stir  and  cook  for  one  minute.  Moisten  with  half  gill 
broth  and  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  two  saltspoons  curry  powder;  lightly 
mix,  cover  the  pan,  boil  •  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds, 
place  a  sweet  pepper  in  each  mould,  then  fill  up  the  peppers  with  the 
preparation;  trim  off  any  superfluous  adherings  on  the  brim  of  the 
peppers  with  a  knife.  Cover  the  tops  with  a  round  piece  of  pepper 
and  lay  them  in  a  tin,  pour  hot  water  in  the  tin  up  to  half  the  height  of 
the  moulds,  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  unmould 
upon  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

960.    SIBERIAN  PUNCH 

Prepare  a  quart  and  a  half  vanilla  ice  cream  as  per  No.  42.  Beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  in  a  basin.  Boil  a  gill  of  water 
with  two  ounces  sugar  for  five  minutes  and  gradually  add  to  the  egg  froth, 
briskly  whisking  while  adding  it;  then  add  a  pint  of  the  vanilla  ice  cream 


278  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

to  this  preparation  with  two  tablespoons  rum;  gently  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon.     Divide  the  punch  into  six  sherbet  glasses  and  serve. 

N.  B.  To  avoid  double  work,  in  preparing  the  punch  and  Neapoli- 
tan ice  cream  prepare,  as  above  explained,  three  pints  in  place  of  the  usual 
quart;  the  other  pint  will  be  served  later  on. 

961.    SMALL  NOUGATS  OF  ORANGES 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  half  pound  of  pie  paste,  as  per 
No.  117,  to  a  fifth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  three  inches  wide  and  twelve 
inches  long.  Place  the  paste  in  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  pan ;  with  two 
fingers  raise  up  all  around  the  edges  of  the  bowl  half  an  inch  high.  Then 
spread  all  over  the  interior  four  tablespoons  thick  orange  marmalade. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  till 
required.  Beat  up  four  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  ounces  sugar 
and  three  ounces  peeled  and  finely  shredded  almonds ;  gently  mix  with  a 
skimmer.  Spread  the  preparation  over  the  orange  marmalade,  neatly 
smooth  with  a  knife  and  reset  in  the  oven  until  it  has  attained  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Remove,  cut  the  cake  crosswise  into  twelve  equal  pieces 
and  serve  when  cool. 

Monday,  First  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151)  Wheatena  (1298) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Calf's  Brains 

Fin  don  Haddock  (76) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  (748)  Potatoes,  Alumette  (196) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

962.    SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  CALF'S  BRAINS 

Procure  a  very  fresh  calf's  brain,  plunge  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes. 
Carefully  remove  all  fibres,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  water, 
a  teaspoon  salt,  a  tablespoon  vinegar  and  one  sprig  of  bay  leaf;  boil  for 
five  minutes,  then  drain.  Cut  the  brain  into  twelve  even  slices.  Lightly 
butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper 
evenly  divided  over  the  twelve  eggs.  Place  two  slices  of  calf's  brain 
in  each  dish,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove,  lightly 
brown  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  add  one  tablespoon 
vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley;  mix  a  little,  pour  over 
the  eggs  evenly  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Sardine  Toasts,  Devilled 
•  Minced   Tenderloin,   Point  du  Jour 

Macaroni  in  Cream  (386) 
Prune  Pie 

963.    SARDINE  TOASTS,  DEVILLED 

Prepare  six  lightly  buttered  toasts.  Place  two  medium,  split  sar- 
dines over  each  toast.  Spread  a  very  little  French  mustard  over  the 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MARCH  279 

sardines.  Dredge  over  a  tablespoon  bread  crumbs;  divide  a  tablespoon 
butter  over  the  top;  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes. 
Remove,  and  serve  in  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  with  six  "quarters'* 
of  lemon  around  the  dish. 

964.  MINCED  TENDERLOIN,  POINT  DU  JOUR 
Cut  a  pound  of  tenderloin  into  twelve  even  slices.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  beef,  and  briskly  cook  for  one 
minute  on  each  side.  Remove  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping 
another,  and  keep  warm.  Add  four  finely  chopped  shallots  to  the  pan, 
cook  for  a  minute,  then  add  half  gill  claret,  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
and  half  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives;  then  let  briskly  reduce  for 
five  minutes.  Pour  over  the  beef  and  serve. 

965.    PRUNE  PIE 

Soak  one  pound  dry  prunes  in  plenty  of  cold  water  for  ten  hours. 
Remove  stones,  drain  well,  wipe  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  bowl  with 
four  ounces  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon;  mix  well  for  a 
minute,  then  proceed  to  finish  the  pie  as  per  Nos.  117-118. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Caviare  (59) 

Creme  Soubise 
Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel  (388) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Breast  of  Veal,  Marseillaise          Fried  Oyster  Plants 

Roast  Grouse  (167) 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad  (127) 

Strawberry  Souffle" 

966.    CREME  SOUBISE 

Finely  slice  four  medium  onions,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  and  a 
half  pints  milk  and  one  and  a  half  pints  white  broth  (No.  701).  Season 
with  two  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg;  boil  rather  slowly  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Heat  in 
another  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  mix  in  four 
tablespoons  flour ;  stir  well  while  heating  for  a  minute.  Pour  in  the  milk 
and  briskly  mix  with  the  whisk  for  three  minutes,  let  boil  for  five  minutes, 
add  a  half  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  butter.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with 
a  tablespoon  milk  and  add  to  soup.  Stir  while  heating  without  boiling 
for  two  miuntes.  Strain  soup  through  a  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

967.    BREAST  OF  VEAL,  MARSEILLAISE 

Procure  a  fresh  breast  of  veal  of  three  pounds.  Cut  into  twelve 
equal  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  black  frying  pan.  Ar- 
range veal  in  pan  and  brown  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Transfer 
into  a  saucepan,  without  the  fat;  add  one  carrot  cut  in  half  and  finely 
sliced .  a  medium  onion  and  one  branch  celery  cut  the  same  way,  and 


28o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

one  tablespoon  butter.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper;  lightly  mix;  cover  pan  and  set  on  side  of  range  to  sweat 
for  ten  minutes.  Add  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  pour  in  one  gill 
hot  water,  half  a  gill  claret  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Cover 
pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 

Prepare  a  smooth  hash,  with  two  branches  well-cleaned  parsley, 
two  branches  chervil,  four  branches  chives  and  one  clove  garlic,  then 
add  half  of  this  hash  to  the  pan,  mix  a  little  and  keep  hot.  Cut  two 
fresh,  peeled,  red  tomatoes  into  three  slices  each.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  turn  over  the  tomatoes 
in  the  remaining  herb  hash,  then  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  in  the  tomatoes  and  fry  for  two  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  the  pieces  of  veal  in  centre  of  a  large  dish,  pour 
over  the  sauce,  arrange  the  tomatoes  around  and  serve. 

968.  FRIED  OYSTER  PLANTS 

Cut  off  the  stalks  and  thoroughly  scrape  a  bunch  very  fresh  oyster 
plants.  Plunge  in  cold  water  with  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  thoroughly 
wash  and  drain.  Cut  in  half,  then  each  half  into  two.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  quart  cold  water,  half  a  sliced  lemon  and  a  teaspoon 
salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve, 
place  on  a  plate,  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  mix  well  in  the  seasoning  and  let  incorporate  for  ten  minutes. 
Have  a  frying  batter  ready  (No.  204).  Take  up  and  roll  the  oyster  plants 
in  the  batter  and  rapidly  plunge  in  boiling  fat,  one  by  one,  and  fry  for  ten 
minutes  or  until  a  good  golden  colour.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer, 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth,  neatly  trim,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

969.  STRAWBERRY  SOUFFL£ 

Place  in  a  small  basin  four  ounces  strawberry  jelly,  add  two  ounces 
fine  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  maraschino.  Set  the  basin  on  ice,  add 
two  egg  yolks,  and  sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spcon  for  ten  minutes. 
Beat  up  five  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  strawberry  jelly; 
lightly  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  half  minute.  Pour  the  preparation  into 
a  souffle  dish.  Sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  over,  set  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Poached  Eggs,  Celery  Sauce 

Yellow  Perch,  Saute" 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451)      Baked  Potatoes  (683) 
Rice  Cakes  (221) 

970.  POACHED  EGGS,  CELERY  SAUCE 

Cut  four  branches  well  cleaned  white  celery  into  very  small  square 
pieces;  place  in'a  saucepan  with  half  pint  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH  281 

and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Mix  in  another  pan  one  tablespoon  butter 
with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour.  Add  the  celery  and  liquor,  with 
half  gill  cream.  Season  with  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  for  one  minute  and  let  boil  for  four 
minutes. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  pour  over  the 
sauce  and  serve. 

971.    YELLOW  PERCH,  SAUT£ 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  six  small,  very  fresh  yellow  perch.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  lightly  wet  with 
milk,  then  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  frying 
pan,  add  the  perch,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each 
side  or  till  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  squeeze 
over  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  pour  the  butter  from  the  pan 
over  the  fish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Ancienne 
Lamb  Fries,  Poulette 

Lima  Beans  (353) 
Rice  au  Lait  de  Cocoa 

972.    OYSTERS,  ANCIENNE 

Open  twenty-four  large,  fresh,  salty  oysters,  detach  from  but  leave 
in  shells  with  their  own  liquor.  Place  on  a  roasting  tin;  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  equally  divided.  Cut 
twenty-four  thin  pieces  lean  bacon  in  one-inch  square  pieces.  Place 
one  piece  on  top  of  each  oyster.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese 
over  all,  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  squeeze 
the  juice  of  half  a  small  lemon  over  them,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

973.    LAMB  FRIES,  POULETTE 

Split  in  two  and  skin  twelve  small,  very  fresh  lamb  fries;  plunge  in 
quart  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain  and  cut  each  half  in  two. 
Heat  in  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  six 
finely  chopped  shallots  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Mix  in  two  level 
tablespoons  flour.  Moisten  with  one  gill  white  broth  (No.  701)  and 
half  gill  cream;  mix  for  half  minute  then  add  the  fries.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg 
and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives;  lightly  mix,  pour  in  a  tablespoon 
sherry,  mix  again  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  a 
tablespoon  cream  and  add  to  the  saucepan,  stir  while  heating  for  a 
minute,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

974.    RICE  AU  LAIT  DE  COCOA 

Take  out  the  milk  from  two  good-sized  cocoanuts  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  pint  cold  milk,  adding  the  well  shredded  fibres — the 
white  part — of  one  only,  with  three  ounces  raw  rice,  two  ounces  sugar,  a 


282  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  a  saltspoon  salt.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire 
and  let  slowly  cook  for  forty  minutes,  frequently  mixing  at  the  bottom 
with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  burning.  Crack  in  one  fresh  egg,  stir 
while  heating  for  one  minute.  Remove,  add  two  gills  vanilla  whipped 
cream  (No.  337).  Thoroughly  mix  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)         Olives 

Cabbage  Soup 

Codfish.  Hollandaise 

Small  Steaks,  Bearnaise 

Baked  Tomatoes  (841)  Celery  Braise*  (359) 

Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Bombe  Printaniere 

975.    CABBAGE  SOUP 

Remove  all  outer  leaves  and  core  of  a  very  small  green  cabbage.  Cut 
into  small  pieces,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  drain.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  ounce  butter,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  cook  till  the  moisture 
is  nearly  evaporated,  or  about  ten  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile. 
Moisten  with  three  quarts  white  broth  or  water.  Season  with  two  light 
teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  add  a  two-ounce  piece 
salt  pork,  one  medium  carrot  and  one  onion.  Cover  pan  and  let  boil 
for  thirty  minutes.  Peel  and  wash  two  large,  raw  potatoes.  Cut  in 
quarters,  finely  slice  and  add  to  the  soup.  Re-cover  the  pan  and  let  boil 
for  one  hour.  Remove  the  pork,  carrot  and  onion.  Pour  the  soup 
into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

976.    CODFISH  HOLLANDAISE 

Remove  bones  from  a  three-pound  piece  of  very  fresh  codfish.  Place 
in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  cut  two  peeled,  raw  potatoes  into  olive 
shapes,  arrange  around  the  fish ;  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Sprinkle  four  sound,  finely  chopped  shal- 
lots over  the  fish,  pour  half  gill  white  wine  around.  Set  in  the  oven  to 
bake  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  and  serve. 

977.    SMALL  STEAKS,  BE'ARNAISE 

Procure  six  small  sirloin  steaks  of  four  ounces  each.  Mix  on  a  plate 
one  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper; 
repeatedly  turn  over  the  steaks  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  on  broiler 
and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Spread  a  hot  Bearnaise  sauce 
(No.  34),  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  steaks  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

978.    BOMBE  PRINTANIERE 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  and  keep  in  the 
freezer  until  required. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH         283 

Bury  a  bomb-shaped  mould  in  the  ice.  Place  four  egg  yolks  in  a 
copper  basin  with  two  ounces  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  maraschino; 
set  on  corner  of  range  and  whisk  up  for  eight  minutes.  Remove,  place 
basin  on  ice  and  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  cold. 
Add  a  half  pint  whipped  cream,  mix  for  one  minute,  and  keep  the  basin 
on  the  ice  until  required.  Finely  chop  up  four  ounces  candied  fruits 
and  place  in  a  bowl  with  a  teaspoon  rum.  Remove  mould  from  ice, 
wipe  the  inside  and  line  the  mould  with  the  chopped  fruits.  Place  the 
vanilla  ice  cream  all  around  the  mould,  then  fill  up  the  mould  with  the 
cream  preparation.  Lay  a  sheet  of  white  paper  on  top  of  the  cream. 
Cover  the  mould  very  tightly,  so  as  to  prevent  water  from  getting  in. 
Bury  the  mould  in  the  vanilla  ice  cream  tub  for  two  hours.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Force  and  Milk 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Grand  Pere 

Broiled  Smelts,  Maitre  d'Hdtel  (589) 

Tripe,  Lyonnaise 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

979.    FORCE 

The  above  article  is  usually  served  on  individual  saucers  with  cream 
or  rich  cold  milk,  poured  to  one  side  of  the  force,  and  eaten  without 
mixing;  that  is  to  say,  a  little  force  and  a  very  little  cream  or  milk,  but 
by  keeping  separate  on  the  saucers  it  is  always  kept  crisp. 

980.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  GRAND  PERE 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk, 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  tarragon,  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
chervil.  Beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  adding  one  ounce  lean,  raw  bacon  cut  into  small 
dice  pieces,  half  a  finely  chopped  onion  and  one  slice  of  sandwich  bread 
cut  into  pieces  a  quarter-inch  square,  and  let  briskly  cook  for  eight 
minutes  or  until  of  a  light  brown;  then  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile. 
Pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

981.    TRIPE,  LYONNAISE 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  honey-comb  tripe  into  julienne 
strips  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Cut  two  white  onions  in  halves,  then  finely 
slice  them.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  black 


284  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

frying  pan,  add  the  tripe  and  onions.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper;  mix  well  and  cook  on  the  fire  to  a  good  brown 
colour,  which  will  take  about  twelve  minutes,  taking  special  care  to 
frequently  mix  with  a  fork  meanwhile.  Add  one  tablespoon  good 
vinegar,  three  tablespoons  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  teaspoon  very 
fresh  chopped  parsley ;  lightly  mix,  cook  for  two  minutes,  then  dress  on 
a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallops  with  Bacon  (175) 
Mousoka  Persane 
Lemon  Pie  (316) 

982.    MOUSOKA  PERSANE 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  into  small  square  pieces.  Cut  the  same  way  half  a  medium, 
peeled  eggplant.  Peel  and  cut  two  fresh  red  tomatoes  into  small 
squares;  place  and  keep  the  articles  on  a  plate. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  half  a  finely  chopped  green  pepper;  let  lightly  brown  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  articles  on  the  plate.  Moisten  with  a  half  gill 
white  wine  and  gill  of  white  broth.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  paprika ;  adding  one  finely  chopped  bean  garlic ;  mix  a  little, 
cover  the  pan,  cook  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  set  to  bake  in  the 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a 
tablespoon  fresh  bread  crumbs  over,  reset  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Pure"e  of  Peas,  Almond  Milk 

Salmon  Trout,  Francaise 

Potatoes,  Dijonnaise 
Tenderloin  Cutlets,  Cardinal 

Flageolets  au  Beurre  (95) 
Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 
Watercress  Salad  (419) 
Pudding,  Portugal 

983.    PUR£E  OF  PEAS,  ALMOND  MILK 

Prepare,  strain  and  keep  hot  in  a  saucepan  a  pure*e  St.  Germain, 
prepared  as  per  No.  142. 

Peel  and  pound  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds  to  a  paste.  Place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  cold  milk  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  strain  this  milk  into  the  puree;  boil  for  ten  minutes  more.  Skim 
the  scum  from  the  surface  and  serve  very  hot. 

984.    SALMON  TROUT,  FRANCAISE 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon  trout,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  each, 
in  a  frying  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  adding  a  half  ounce  butter, 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH         285 

a  half  gill  red  wine  and  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Boil 
for  five  minutes,  then  add  six  small,  freshly  opened  oysters,  six  canned 
mushrooms  and  six  shrimps.  Mix  a  little.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  little 
buttered  paper,  place  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  dress 
the  slices  of  fish,  one  overlapping  another,  boil  the  sauce  for  five 
minutes,  pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

985.    POTATOES,  DIJONNAISE 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  one  tablespoon  flour, 
moisten  with  three  gills  broth,  add  one  ounce  grated,  raw  lean  ham,  one 
bay  leaf  and  five  medium,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  cut  into  thin  slices. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  teaspoon 
French  mustard.  Mix  a  little,  then  boil  for  five  minutes.  Cover  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  transfer 
them  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

986.    TENDERLOIN  CUTLETS,  CARDINAL 

Finely  chop  up  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  tenderloin  of  beef  with 
four  ounces  fresh  beef  marrow.  Place  the  hash  in  a  tureen,  adding  a 
gill  of  cream.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the  preparation  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  into  six  equal  parts,  give  them  nice  cutlet  forms,  dip  them  in 
beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
lard  on  a  frying  pan,  add  the  cutlets,  one  beside  another,  and 
slowly  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  crown-shaped 
on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Place  six  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in 
the  pan  and  briskly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side;  arrange  a 
pepper  over  each  cutlet.  Pour  a  gill  of  hot  reduced  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  around  the  cutlets,  adjust  a  red,  fancy-paper  frill  at  the 
end  of  each  cutlet  and  serve. 

987.    PUDDING,  PORTUGAL 

Place  two  tablespoons  ground  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  half  pint  milk 
and  two  ounces  butter;  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  remove,  and  let  cool 
off.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  two  ounces  sugar,  two  tablespoons  seeded 
Malaga  raisins  and  one  tablespoon  Madeira  wine;  briskly  mix  for  five 
minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  gently  mix  with  the  preparation.  Drop  this  into  a  well- 
buttered  quart  pudding  mould,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water 
up  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould,  then  bake  in  the  oven  for  forty  min- 
utes. Remove,  unmould  upon  a  large  dish.  Peel  a  nice,  sound,  juicy 
orange,  separate  in  sections,  neatly  trim  them  and  arrange  around  the 
base  of  the  pudding.  Pour  a  raspberry  sauce,  as  per  No.  714,  over 
the  pudding  and  serve  hot. 


286  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Omelette  Proven^ale 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Calf's  Liver,  Meuniere  Potatoes,  Failles  (611) 

Cornmeal  Pones 

988.    OMELETTE  PROVENCALS 

Finely  slice  three  medium,  peeled  and  well-cleaned  fresh  mushrooms; 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  good  butter  and  cook  for  five  min- 
utes. Add  a  peeled,  red,  sound  tomato,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Season 
with  three  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Mix  a  little 
and  let  cook  for  five  minutes. 

Finely  chop  together  a  half  bean  sound  garlic  and  two  branches 
freshly  washed  and  dried  parsley  and  add  to  the  pan;  lightly  mix  and 
cook  for  five  minutes  longer.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a 
bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  well 
{with  a  fork  for  a  half  minute,  then  pour  in  the  preparation;  mix  for  a 
minute  with  the  fork,  let  rest  for  one  minute;  fold  up  the  two  opposite 
sides,  let  rest  for  a  minute  more,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

989.    CALF'S  LIVER,  MEUNIERE 

From  a  pound  of  very  fresh  calf's  liver,  cut  out  twelve  even  slices. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Lightly  turn  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  fat  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  the  liver,  one  slice  beside  another,  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Remove  the  fat  from  the 
pan,  add  one  ounce  butter,  toss  well  until  the  butter  is  a  light  brown; 
add  a  tablespoon  good  vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley, 
lightly  toss  the  whole,  then  pour  over  the  liver  and  serve. 

990.    CORNMEAL  PONES 

Put  one  pound  yellow  Indian  cornmeal  flour  in  a  basin  with  two  gills 
boiling  water,  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  let  raise  for 
fifteen  minutes  or  until  dry.  Crack  in  a  fresh  egg,  add  a  tablespoon 
butter  and  half  teaspoon  salt  and  briskly  beat  up  for  five  minutes.  Pour 
in  a  gill  of  milk,  adding  half  teaspoon  soda;  briskly  mix  again  until  very 
smooth.  Lightly  butter  a  small  pastry  tin,  spread  the  preparation 
over  the  tin,  neatly  smooth  the  surface  and  lightly  butter  the  top;  place 
in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  cut  into  six  equal  pieces  and 
serve. 

(While  in  New  Orleans  I  noticed  that  cornmeal  pones  were  never 
absent  from  the  breakfast  tables  of  the  hotels,  and  was  informed  that 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH          287 

they  are  considered  excellent,  and  are  very  popular  breakfast  delicacies 
in  private  families,  not  only  in  New  Orleans  but  all  over  the  state.) 

LUNCHEON 

Crab  Meat,  White  Wine 

Chicken  Curry,  Curzon 

Frangipane 

991.    CRAB  MEAT,  WHITE  WINE 

Place  one  pound  very  fresh  crab  meat  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg. Pour  in  a  gill  white  wine,  lightly  mix,  then  let  cook  for  ten  min- 
utes. Add  a  half  gill  milk  and  half  gill  cream;  mix  a  little  and  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream  and  add 
to  the  crab  meat,  mix  with  the  wooden  spoon  while  heating  but  not 
allowing  to  boil  for  three  minutes.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

992.    CHICKEN  CURRY,  CURZON 

Singe,  draw  and  cut  the  head  and  legs  off  a  tender  roasting  chicken 
of  two  and  a  half  pounds.  Cut  it  into  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat  in  a  sauce- 
pan one  heavy  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  the  chicken  and  let  nicely 
brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  turning  the  pieces  over.  Season 
with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  teaspoon 
curry  powder;  mix  well,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  flour  over,  stir  lightly. 
Have  one  small  carrot,  half  a  small  turnip,  half  a  small  onion,  half  a 
green  pepper,  one  branch  white  celery,  one  peeled  and  cored  apple  and 
one  bean  sound  garlic.  Cut  all  these  articles  into  small  julienne-shaped 
strips  and  add  to  the  chicken.  Moisten  with  a  pint  hot  water,  mix  well 
and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one  branch  parsley,  one 
branch  chervil,  half  sprig  thyme,  one  of  bay  leaf  and  a  clove;  add  to  the 
pan,  cover  it  and  let  slowly  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Peel  and  finely 
crush  a  good-sized,  sound  red  tomato,  one  ounce  fresh  cocoanut  very 
finely  shredded,  with  Ijalf  gill  of  the  milk,  and  add  to  the  chicken;  mix  a 
little  and  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  at  the 
oven  door.  Prepare  a  rice  for  curries  as  per  No.  490.  Arrange  it  as  a 
border  around  the  dish.  Remove  the  bunch  of  herbs,  pour  the  chicken 
into  the  centre  of  the  rice  and  serve. 

992 A.  FRANGIPANE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  four  egg  yolks,  two  ounces  sifted  flour,  half  pint 
cold  milk,  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  one  ounce  good  butter. 
Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes.  Set  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil  place  in  a  bowl  and  let  cool  off.  Add  two  ounces 
peeled  and  finely  chopped  almonds  and  a  tablespoon  orange-flower 
water.  Arrange  a  thin  layer  of  feuilletage,  prepared  as  per  No. 
756,  to  entirely  cover  a  pie  plate,  neatly  press  around  the  edges,  trim 
off  any  superfluous  paste,  lightly  wet  the  edges.  Cut  out  a  round 


288  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

piece  feuilletage  half  an  inch  wide  and  place  it  all  around  the  edges  of 
the  pie  plate;  lightly  egg  the  border;  pour  the  preparation  in  the  centre 
of  the  plate,  spread  well,  make  a  few  light  incisions  around  the  ring, 
then  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dredge 
a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Caviare  (50) 

Sago,  Turinoise 

Halibut,  Bangor 

Potatoes,  Voisin 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  Beatrice 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Plover 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Chocolate  Ice  Pudding 

Petites  Fauchonnettes 

993.    SAGO,  TURINOISE 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  into  another  pan  as  per  No.  52. 
Sprinkle  in  three  ounces  well-cleaned  sago,  mix  well  and  let  slowly  boil 
for  thirty  minutes.  Scald  for  five  minutes  twelve  sound,  large  Italian 
chestnuts,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  neatly  peel  them;  plunge  them  in  a  half 
pint  boiling  white  broth  (No.  701)  for  thirty-five  minutes;  lift  up  with  a 
skimmer  and  add  to  the  soup.  Pour  in  a  gill  of  cream,  mix  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  tureen  and  serve 
with  a  little  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

994.  HALIBUT,  BANGOR 

Place  in  a  mortar  one  sound,  peeled  shallot,  two  branches  parsley 
and  a  branch  chervil,  pound  these  to  a  pulp,  add  a  half  ounce  good 
butter,  pound  again  for  a  minute,  then  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  required.  Place  three  three-quarter-pound 
halibut  steaks  in  a  frying  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  moisten  with  a  gill  good,  strong  cider;  add  half  ounce 
of  butter.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the 
steaks  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  a  table- 
spoon of  flour.  Add  the  fish  gravy  to  this  with  a  half  gill  hot  milk.  Mix 
with  the  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Then  add  the  green 
butter,  bit  by  bit,  continually  mixing  while  adding  it;  add  a  good  table- 
spoon fresh,  finely  grated  Horseradish,  mix  a  little,  then  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  fish  and  serve. 

995.  POTATOES,  VOISIN 

Peel  and  wash  four  medium,  sound  potatoes,  then  finely  slice  them. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  salt  with  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  two 
saltspoons  grated  nutmeg.  Lightly  butter  a  round  earthen  dish,  arrange 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH          289 

half  the  quantity  potatoes,  sprinkle  half  the  mixed  seasoning  and  dredge 
two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them;  arrange  balance 
potatoes  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  the  rest  of  the  seasoning.  Moisten 
with  a  gill  of  white  broth,  tightly  cover  the  dish,  place  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table  without  uncover- 
ing. 

996.    SADDLE  OF  MUTTON,  BEATRICE 

Tear  off  the  skin  that  covers  the  fat,  remove  the  kidneys  and  inside 
fat  of  four  to  five  pounds  tender  saddle  of  mutton.  Hash  up  very  finely 
two  ounces  lean,  raw  veal,  six  medium,  well-peeled  and  cleaned  fresh 
mushrooms,  one  clove  garlic,  half  ounce  larding  pork,  two  branches 
washed  parsley,  one  of  chervil  and  four  of  chives,  place  in  a  mortar 
with  two  egg  yolks,  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  a  salt- 
spoon  of  mixed  ground  spices;  then  pound  the  whole  to  a  smooth  pulp. 
Add  half  gill  cream,  pound  for  half  minute  more. 

Season  the  saddle  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Carefully  spread  the  force  all  over,  on  top  and  inside  as 
well.  Cover  the  surface  with  exceedingly  thin  slices  larding  pork. 
Tightly  tie  the  saddle  around  and  totally  envekp  in  well-oiled  white 
paper.  Place  it  in  a  small  roasting  pan  and  roast  in  the  oven  for  one 
hour.  Remove,  take  off  the  paper,  untie,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep 
hot.  Boil  in  a  small  saucepan  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122)  with  one 
tablespoon  cognac  for  five  minutes,  pour  the  sauce  around  and  serve. 

997.    ROAST  PLOVER 

Pick,  singe,  draw  and  neatly  wipe,  then  pick  out  the  eyes,  tear  off 
the  neck  skin  and  truss  the  legs  together;  skewer  with  the  bill  through 
the  legs  under  the  breast.  Lay  a  very  thin  slice  of  pork  over  the  breast 
of  each  bird.  Season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  white 
pepper.  Arrange  on  a  roasting  tin  and  roast  in  a  brisk  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  six  freshly  prepared  toasts,  decorate  with  a 
little  watercress  and  serve. 

998.  CHOCOLATE  ICE  PUDDING 

Place  six  egg  yolks  in  a  copper  basin  with  four  ounces  granulated 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Place  the  basin  on  a  corner  of 
the  range  and  briskly  whisk  up  for  ten  minutes ;  remove  to  a  table,  add 
four  ounces  grated  chocolate,  then  set  the  basin  on  ice  and  constantly 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  cold.  Mix  in  two  gills 
whipped  cream,  fill  up  with  the  preparation  a  quart  pudding  mould  and 
tightly  cover ;  bury  the  mould  in  a  pail  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  for 
two  hours.  Remove,  wipe  it  all  around,  unmould  upon  a  cold  dish  with 
napkin  and  serve. 

999.  PETITES  FAUCHONNETTES 

Place  in  a  bowl  two  egg  yolks,  one  and  a  half  ounces  sugar,  with 
half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  stir  well  for  two  minutes,  add  one  and  a 


290  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

half  ounces  sifted  flour,  thoroughly  mix,  gradually  pdd  one  and  a  half 
gills  milk,  continually  mixing  while  adding  it.  Strain  into  a  small  sauce- 
pan, heat  on  the  range  for  eight  minutes,  continually  mixing  without 
boiling.  Remove  and  let  cool  off.  Evenly  divide  the  preparation  into 
six  individual  pudding  moulds.  Set  them  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  unmould  and  serve. 


Friday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (720) 

Pettijohn  Food  (176) 

Poached  Eggs,  Demi-Careme 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel  (107) 

Beefsteaks  (172) 

Potatoes,  Be"arnaise 

Buns  (197) 

1000.    POACHED  EGGS,  DEMI-CAREME 

Mix  well  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  and  a 
half  tablespoons  flour;  heat  for  half  a  minute,  then  pour  in  one  gill  hot 
milk  and  a  half  gill  cold  cream;  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Lightly 
mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes  and  keep  on  a  corner  of  the  range. 
Evenly  spread  an  anchovy  butter,  prepared  as  per  No.  62,  on  six  freshly 
prepared  toasts  and  place  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Prepare  twelve  poached 
eggs,  as  per  No.  106;  arrange  them  over  the  toasts;  pour  the  sauce, 
equally  divided,  over  the  eggs.  Lay  a  very  thin  slice  of  truffle  on  top  of 
each  egg  and  serve. 

i oo i.    POTATOES,  BE"ARNAISE 

Peel  and  wash  three  large,  sound  potatoes.  Cut  them  into  quarter- 
inch-square  pieces,  wash  again  and  drain,  then  plunge  in  boiling  fat 
and  fry  for  six  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  drain  and  place  in  a  frying  pan 
with  one  tablespoon  butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper;  gently  toss  them,  then  brown  to  a  nice  colour  for  ten 
minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile;  then  add  half  a  bean  finely 
chopped,  sound  garlic  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley;  toss 
while  cooking  for  three  minutes  more  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder,  Tokio 

Shrimps,  Creole 

Loin  of  Pork  with  Potatoes 

Farina  Pudding 

1002.    FISH  CHOWDER,  TOKIO 

Lift  up  four  filets  from  a  small,  well-cleaned,  fresh  flounder.  Skin 
the  filets,  cut  the  meat  into  pieces  one-half-inch  square  and  keep  on  a 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH  291 

plate.  Place  all  the  bones  and  skin  in  a  saucepan  with  five  pints  water 
and  boil  for  twenty  minutes;  strain  the  broth  into  a  basin,  wipe  the  pan 
and  place  it  on  the  fire  with  one  tablespoon  butter.  Cut  in  half  and 
finely  slice  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  onion  and  two  leeks,  add  to  the 
pan,  then  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Mix  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  add  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  chopped  very 
fine,  then  pour  in  the  fish  broth.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper  and  one  heavy  teaspoon  curry  powder;  mix  well  and 
boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  one  good-sized,  peeled,  raw  potato  cut  into 
small  dice  pieces,  two  tablespoons  raw  rice  and  one  dry  chili  pepper 
cut  in  small  pieces;  then  boil  for  twenty  minutes  more.  Add  the  cut 
fish  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  finely  shredded,  dried,  salt  codfish,  lightly 
mix,  then  let  boil  for  twenty  minutes  more.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

1003.    SHRIMPS,  CREOLE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  oil,  add  one  finely  minced  green 
pepper  and  one  small  minced  white  onion ;  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
stirring  once  in  a  while.  Mix  in  one  teaspoon  flour,  adding  two  peeled 
crushed  red  tomatoes  and  a  half  bean  crushed  garlic.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  a  little,  add  twenty- 
four  fresh-cooked  shrimps  with  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  a 
tablespoon  sherry ;  mix  again,  then  slowly  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour 
into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

1004.    LOIN  OF  PORK  WITH  POTATOES 

Place  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  loin  of  pork  in  a  small  roasting  pan. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Peel, 
wash  and  lightly  drain  twelve  small,  raw  potatoes  and  place  around  the 
pork;  pour  a  gill  of  water  in  the  pan,  spread  a  tablespoon  butter  over 
the  pork  and  potatoes  and  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour.  Remove, 
dress  the  pork  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  potatoes  around  the  pork  and 
serve. 

1005.    FARINA  PUDDING 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  saucepan,  gradually  add  one  ounce  farina, 
being  careful  to  continually  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  adding  it, 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  once  in  a  while ;  take  from 
the  fire,  add  three  ounces  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence,  two  tablespoons  well-picked  currants  and  three  egg  yolks;  mix 
for  two  minutes.  Sharply  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  add  and  gently  mix  with  the  preparation.  Lightly  butter  and 
sugar  six  small  pudding  moulds,  fill  them  with  the  preparation, 
place  in  a  roasting  tin  with  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height;  set 
in  the  oven  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on 
a  hot  dish;  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce,  prepared  as  per  No.  102,  over 
them  and  serve. 


292  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Lyons  Sausage  (582)         Olives 

Bisque  of  Lobster  with  Celery 

Fried  Codfish.  Egg  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Polonaise 

Squabs,  Valencienne 

Omelette  with  Truffles 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Plane  Anglaise 

1006.    BISQUE  OF  LOBSTER  WITH  CELERY 

Trim  off  the  green  part  from  a  head  of  celery.  Cut  into  very  small 
pieces,  thoroughly  wash  in  fresh  water,  drain  well  on  a  sieve;  place  the 
celery  in  a  saucepan  with  two  pints  water  and  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
boil  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  keep  this  broth.  Place 
the  celery  in  a  mortar  with  a  well-washed  live  lobster,  shell  and  all,  and 
pound  the  whole  to  a  paste.  Place  the  paste  in  a  saucepan  with  one 
ounce  butter,  stir  well  for  one  minute  on  the  fire,  then  let  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  frequently  meanwhile;  then  add  two  ounces 
flour,  mix  for  a  minute,  let  cook  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  a  quart  hot 
milk,  the  above  celery  liquor  and  one  gill  cream.  Season  with  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes,  then  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon  milk  and  add  to  the 
soup;  mix  while  heating  without  boiling  for  two  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

1007.    FRIED  CODFISH,  EGG  SAUCE 

Place  three  one-pound  slices  fresh  codfish  in  a  frying  pan.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  light  teaspoon  pepper,  adding  half  an 
ounce  butter;  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill  water.  C  ver 
the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  slices  on  a  hot 
dish  and  keep  hot.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  and  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  flour;  heat  for  half  minute,  strain  the  fish  liquor 
into  this  pan,  lightly  mix;  add  one  hard-boiled  egg,  finely  chopped  up; 
mix  again.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  two  tablespoons  cream  and  add 
to  the  pan;  continually  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Pour  sauce 
over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1008.    POTATOES,  POLONAISE 

Peel  and  wash  six  medium,  sound  raw  potatoes;  plunge  them  in  a 
quart  of  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  forty  minutes;  drain, 
arrange  on  a  vegetable  dish.  Place  a  half  ounce  butter  in  a  small  frying 
pan  with  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  toss  until  a  nice  brown  colour, 
pour  over  the  potatoes  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH  293 

1009.    SQUABS,  VALENCIENNE 

Cut  off  the  heads  and  feet  from  six  fresh,  fat  squabs.  Draw,  wipe 
and  truss.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  braizing  pan,  add  one  finely 
chopped  onion  and  one  chopped  green  pepper;  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Nicely  arrange  the  squabs,  one  beside  another,  in  the  pan.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  a  saltspoon  Spanish 
saffron.  Moisten  with  a  pint  broth  or  hot  water  and  one  gill  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16) ;  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  three  ounces  raw  rice, 
two  Spanish  sweet  peppers  cut  in  small  squares,  two  artichoke  bottoms 
and  three  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas;  lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan 
and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  untruss  the  squabs,  arrange  the  rice  on  a  hot  dish,  dome-like, 
place  the  squabs  around  the  rice  and  serve. 

1010.    OMELETTE  WITH  TRUFFLES 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream, 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  add  one 
exceedingly  fine-chopped  truffle.  Beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes. 
Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in 
the  eggs.  Stir  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  minute,  fold 
up  the  two  opposite  ends  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute, 
then  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

ion.    FLANC  ANGLAISE 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  half  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117). 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate,  lightly  buttered,  press  down  the  paste  around 
the  edges  of  the  dish,  trim  well  all  around.  Spread  four  tablespoons 
apple  marmalade  at  bottom  of  plate.  Peel,  cut  into  halves  six  sound 
apples,  remove  the  cores  and  finely  slice  them;  place  nicely  over  the 
marmalade.  Mix  one  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon  with  two  ounces  fine 
sugar  and  sprinkle  over  the  apples ;  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove,  spread  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly  over  the  surface  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 

Hominy  (45) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Fermiere 

Lamb  Kidneys  au  Beurre 

White  Perch  Sautes 
Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1012.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  FERMIERE 

Cut  an  ounce  of  lean  salt  pork  into  dice  pieces,  add  one  medium 
white  onion.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  cook 
to  a  light  brown,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Remove  the  grease  from 


294  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

the  pan,  then  divide  the  pork  and  onions  equally  into  six  shirred-egg 
dishes,  lightly  buttered.  Season  all  around  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Place  the  dishes  in  the 
oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley  over  them  and  serve. 

1013.    WHITE  PERCH  SAUTES 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  six  small,  white  perch.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper;  roll  in  flour.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  the  fish,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  pieces 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1014.    LAMB  KIDNEYS  AU  BEURRE 

Split  in  two  twelve  very  fresh  lamb  kidneys,  remove  all  the  skin  and 
place  them  on  a  plate.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  repeatedly  roll  in  the  seasoning.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  in  the  kidneys  and  briskly  cook  for  three 
minutes  on  each  side;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon, 
mix  a  little  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tartines  of  Oysters 

Bitokes,  Moscovitte 

Potatoes,   Sautes  (135) 

Pancakes,  Georgette  (517) 

1015.    TARTINES  OF  OYSTERS 

Cut  six  slices  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread,  each  a  quarter-inch  thick, 
toast  to  a  light  golden  colour;  trim  neatly.  Mix  a  tablespoon  anchovy 
essence  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  spread  evenly  over  the  six  toasts. 
Plunge  twenty-four  large,  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  pint  boiling  water 
for  two  minutes;  drain  on  a  sieve,  place  on  a  board.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  French 
mustard.  Finely  chop  them,  divide  the  hash  proportionately  over 
the  six  toasts,  neatly  smooth  the  surface  with  the  blade  of  a  knife. 
Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  over  them.  Divide  a 
light  teaspoon  butter  on  top  of  the  tartines,  place  in  a  tin  and  set  in  oven 
to  bake  for  eight  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1016.    BITOKES,  MOSCOVITTE 

Hash  three  sound,  peeled,  shallots  exceedingly  fine,  with  a  clove  of 
garlic.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  butter,  fry  till 
a  nice  golden  colour,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  mix  well;  pour  in  one  gill 
white  broth  (No.  701) ;  add  one  tablespoon  grated  nutmeg  and  the  rind 
of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  finely  chopped,  and  thickened  with  two 
egg  yolks:  mix  while  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Add  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  cooked  beef,  cut  into  small  dice  pieces,  two  ounces  lean  cooked 
ham,  cut  the  same  way,  six  finely  chopped  mushrooms  and  one  teaspoon 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH  295 

freshly  chopped  parsley.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper.  Mix  all  well  while  cooking  for  two  minutes  more. 
Transfer  the  preparation  to  a  cold  dish  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off. 
Divide  the  force  into  twelve  even  parts.  Give  them  nice  cutlet-like 
shape,  Hamburg  steak,  or  any  desired  form.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll 
in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  two  tablespoons  melted 
lard,  arrange  the  bitokes  in  the  pan  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side, 
or  till  of  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  pour  a  poivrade  sauce  (No. 
546)  on  a  dish,  arrange  the  bitokes  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  (141) 

Potage,  Printanier 
E5  Kingfish  Saute".  Colbert  (120) 

Potatoes,  Lorette  (372) 
Lamb  Steaks,  Puree  of  Chestnuts 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Gelee  aux  Cerises 

1017.    POTAGE  PRINTANIER 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  another  saucepan. 
With  a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  take  out  all  you  can  from  two 
medium,  scraped  carrots  and  two  peeled,  sound  turnips,  and  place  in 
a  small  saucepan  with  half  pint  of  the  consomme'  and  half  pint  hot 
water.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes, 
then  add  all  the  contents  of  the  pan  to  the  consomme;  add  also  two 
tablespoons  of  cooked  green  peas,  two  tablespoons  of  cooked  string 
beans,  cut  into  half -inch  pieces,  two  leaves  of  clean  lettuce  and  two  leaves 
of  clean  sorrel,  both  cut  into  julienne  strips;  lightly  mix,  then  boil  for 
ten  minutes  and  serve. 

1018.    LAMB  STEAKS,  PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Have  three  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  cut  from  a  tender 
leg  of  lamb.  Make  a  few  incisions  around  the  skin.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  steaks,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  a  puree  of  chestnuts  on  a  hot 
dish,  pyramid  shape,  arrange  the  steaks  around.  Free  the  pan  from  all 
fat,  then  add  a  tablespoon  sherry  and  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122); 
boil  for  two  minutes  and  pour  around  the  steaks. 

1019.    PUR£E  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Slit  on  one  side  thirty-six  good-sized,  sound  Italian  chestnuts  and 
plunge  them  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  and  peel  them. 
Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  and  a  half  gills  cold  water.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cover  the 
pan,  boil  for  a  minute,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 


296  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Remove,  place  the  whole  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  half  ounce  butter  and  two  tablespoons  cream.  Mix  well,  heat 
for  two  minutes  and  use  as  required. 

1020.     GELEE  AUX  CERISES 

Clarify  and  strain  a  jelly  (No.  678).  Add  to  the  jelly  two  tablespoons 
maraschino,  lightly  mix  and  let  cool  without  freezing.  Open  a  pint 
can  preserved  cherries,  drain  and  stone  them.  Set  a  quart  jelly  mould 
in  broken  ice,  pour  jelly  into  the  mould  one  inch  high  and  let  freeze. 
Arrange  a  third  of  the  cherries  over  the  layer  of  jelly,  pour  another 
similar  amount  of  jelly  over  the  fruits,  let  freeze — and  so  on  until  all 
are  employed.  When  the  jelly  is  thoroughly  firm  take  the  mould  up, 
carefully  dip  it  in  lukewarm  water  a  few  seconds,  unmould  upon  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  in  Cream  (151) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Fried  Eggs,  Duxcelle 

Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (328) 

Chicken  Hash  on  Toast  (539) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

102 1.    FRIED  EGGS,  DUXCELLE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter,  add  half  a  finely  chopped 
onion  and  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes;  then  add  ten  finely  chopped 
mushrooms,  pour  in  a  tablespoon  sherry,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
and  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Mix  a  little,  and  let  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  lightly  buttered  frying 
pan,  season  with  a  light  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  white  pep- 
per, fry  for  three  minutes,  glide  the  eggs  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Proceed  in  a  similar  manner  to  prepare  five  more  pairs,  and  when  all 
are  on  the  dish  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Broiled  Lobster,  Butter  Sauce 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261) 

Macaroni,  Sauveterre 

Babas  au  Kirsch 

1022.    BROILED  LOBSTER,  BUTTER  SAUCE 

Thoroughly  wipe  three  live  lobsters  of  one  pound  each,  cut  off  all 
the  claws  and  split  the  bodies  in  two.  Crack  the  claws  with  a  cleaver, 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH  297 

place  them  on  a  roasting  tin  and  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  the  stony  pouch  from  the  heads.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  and  broil  with 
the  cut  parts  upward  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  bodies  and  claws  on  a  large  dish,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a 
little  melted  butter  separately. 

1023.    MACARONI  SAUVETERRE 

Plunge  a  pound  of  Italian  macaroni  into  a  gallon  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  cook  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a 
sieve.  Mix  two  ounces  grated  Swiss  cheese  with  an  ounce  Parmesan 
cheese.  Lightly  butter  a  cocotte  dish;  place  one-third  of  the  macaroni 
in  the  pan,  well  spread  over,  and  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  salt- 
spoon  white  pepper.  Dredge  over  a  third  part  of  the  cheese,  divide 
a  half  tablespoon  fresh  butter  in  small  bits  over,  place  another  layer 
of  macaroni,  season  the  same  as  the  first,  dredge  the  same  quantity 
cheese,  and  so  on  until  finished.  Pour  a  half  gill  cream  over  all,  set  in 
the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1024.  BABAS  AU  KIRSCH 

Prepare  six  plain  babas  (No.  687).  Place  three-quarters  of  a  pint 
water  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  ounces  sugar  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Remove  and  lay  the  pan  on  a  table;  pour  in  two  tablespoons 
of  kirsch.  Dip  the  babas  in  the  sauce  for  three  minutes.  Dress  on  a 
dish,  pour  a  tablespoon  pure  kirsch  over,  pour  a  gill  of  the  sauce  around 
them  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)          Olives 

Consomme",  Royal 

Pompano,  1905 

Noisettes  of  Beef— Chateaubriand 

Sweetbreads,  Braise1,  Montebello 

Peas,  Francaise  (145) 

Kummel  Punch 

Roast  Partridge,  Bread  Sauce  (97) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Coupe  St.  Andre" 

Eugenics 

1025.  CONSOMME",  ROYAL 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  another  saucepan. 
Crack  in  a  bowl  one  egg  and  the  yolk  of  another,  beat  with  a  whisk  for 
one  minute,  then  add  a  gill  of  the  consomme*;  lightly  mix.  Season  with 
a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  half  saltspoon  white  pepper,  mix  again,  then  strain 
the  preparation  through  a  cheesecloth  into  three  lightly  buttered  pud- 
ding moulds;  lay  into  a  small  frying  pan,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their 
height,  set  in  the  oven  with  the  door  opened  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 


298  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

take  up  the  mould,  let  cool  off.  Unmould,  then  cut  the  royal  into  thin 
slices  and  add  to  the  consomme,  boil  for  one  minute,  pour  into  a  tureen 
and  serve. 

1026.    POMPANO,  1905 

Neatly  wipe  three  very  fresh  pompanos  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each. 
Lightly  criss-cross  on  both  sides  with  a  small  knife.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika,  and  rub  in  a  tablespoon  anchovy- 
butter  (No.  62).  Place  on  a  plate  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  required. 

Place  in  a  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  butter,  half  a  sliced  green  pepper, 
two  sliced,  peeled  and  well-cleaned,  medium,  fresh  mushrooms  and  four 
finely  sliced  sound  shallots.  Cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Lay  the  pompanos  over,  with  all  the 
anchovy  butter,  pour  in  half  a  gill  white  wine.  Cover  the  fish  with  a 
lightly  buttered  paper,  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  take  up  the  paper,  slide  carefully,  fish  and  all,  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

1027.    NOISETTES  OF  BEEF,  CHATEAUBRIAND 

Cut  out  from  a  two-pound  piece  of  filet  of  beef  six  equal  noisettes. 
Neatly  flatten  and  place  on  a  plate.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cut  three  large,  peeled  and  washed 
potatoes  into  olive  forms,  wash  and  drain.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  gently  brown  for  twenty-five  minutes,  frequently  turning  mean- 
while. Pour  the  butter  of  the  pan  into  another  frying  pan,  thoroughly 
heat,  place  the  noisettes  into  this  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  briskly 
fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish, 
crown-like,  place  the  potatoes  in  the  centre,  pour  a  Chateaubriand 
sauce  around  the  noisettes  and  serve. 

id28.    CHATEAUBRIAND  SAUCE 

Place  one  gill  and  a  half  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  a  small  pan,  with 
one  tablespoon  port  wine,  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  a  teaspoon 
currant  jelly,  a  saltspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  saltspoon  chopped 
chives,  one  saltspoon  chopped  chervil  and  a  half  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper.  Mix  all  well  together,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  use  as  required. 

1029.    SWEETBREADS,  BRAIS£,  MONTEBELLO 

Plunge  and  keep  in  cold  water  six  very  fresh  heart  sweetbreads  for 
two  hours.  Drain  them,  plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  six  minutes,  drain  again  and  nicely  trim  all  around. 
Place  in  a  small  frying  pan  a  teaspoon  melted  butter,  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
half  a  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  leek,  a  branch  sliced  celery,  one  branch 
parsley  and  a  few  parings  larding  pork.  Lay  the  breads  over  the  vege- 
tables. Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and 
cook  on  the  fire  for  six  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  gill  and  a  half  broth 
and  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  with  a  buttered  paper  and 
place  in  a  brisk  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  breads  on 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MARCH  299 

six  freshly  prepared  round  toasts,  pour  a  hot  Montebello  sauce  over  the 
breads  and  serve. 

(Place  all  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  the  demi-glace  pan.) 

1030.    SAUCE,  MONTEBELLO 

Prepare  a  Bearnaise  sauce,  as  per  No.  34.  Reduce  one  and  a  half 
gills  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  half  a  gill, 
then  add  it  to  the  Bearnaise,  mix  well  and  use  as  required. 

1031.    KUMMEL  PUNCH 

Prepare  a  lemon-water  ice  as  per  No.  376.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons 
kiimmel  in  the  freezer,  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  serve  the 
punch  in  six  sherbet  glasses. 

1032.     COUPE  ST.  ANDRE" 

Prepare  a  pint  (only)  of  vanilla  ice  cream  as  per  No.  42. 

Cut  in  dice-pieces  one  peeled  and  cored  sound  pear,  one  slice  of  fresh 
peeled  and  cored  pineapple,  half  a  skinned  banana,  six  stoned  mar- 
aschino cherries,  half  a  preserved  peach  and  half  a  peeled  orange.  Place 
these  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  rum,  one  tea- 
spoon kirsch  and  a  teaspoon  curacao.  Mix  well,  evenly  divide  the 
mixed  fruits  into  six  punch  glasses,  then  fill  up  with  the  vanilla  ice 
cream  and  serve. 

1033.     EUGENIES 

Plunge  in  boiling  water  three  ounces  almonds  for  three  minutes; 
drain,  shell  and  place  in  a  mortar  with  a  tablespoon  cold  water  and 
two  ounces  sugar  and  pound  to  a  fine  paste.  Add  another  ounce 
of  sugar,  with  an  egg,  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  another  egg, 
mix  for  two  minutes,  then  add  the  yolk  of  another  egg;  mix  again. 
Add  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  a  half  saltspoon  salt  and  a  tablespoon 
curacao.  Mix  well  for  five  minutes.  Fill  six  lightly  buttered  tartlet 
moulds  with  the  preparation,  lay  them  on  a  tin,  set  to  bake  in  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  dish,  dredge  a  little  vanilla 
sugar  (No.  3234)  over  and  serve. 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)          Wheaten  Grits  (131) 
Egg  Cocotte,  Espagnole 
Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Sliced  Ham,  Sautd         Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 
Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1034.    EGG  COCOTTE,  ESPAGNOLE 

Prepare  a  Creole  sauce,  as  per  No.  507,  and  divide  it  into  six  cocotte 
dishes  evenly.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Season 


300  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  evenly  divided 
over  the  eggs  in  the  six  dishes.  Evenly  spread  two  tablespoons  hot 
tomato  sauce  over  them,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes. 
Remove  and  serve. 

1035.    SLICED  HAM,  SAUT£ 

Cut  out  from  a  ham  six  thin  slices  and  trim  the  skin  off  nicely.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  slices,  one  beside  another, 
and  briskly  fry  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  place 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Beef  en  Daube 
Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

1036.    BEEF  EN  DAUBE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  beef  from  the  rump,  with  a  little  fat 
on.  Heat  a  tablespoon  lard  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  the  beef  and 
brown  on  the  range  to  a  nice  colour  for  about  twelve  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  pan  and  lay  on  a  plate.  Mix  two  tablespoons  flour  in  the  pan, 
pour  a  half  pint  water,  one  gill  red  wine,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
and  a  tablespoon  brandy.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  beef.  Scrape 
two  small  carrots,  peel  and  clean  two  turnips,  cut  both  in  quarters,  peel 
six  small  onions  and  six  very  small,  sound,  raw  potatoes;  add  all  these 
vegetables  to  the  pan.  Cover,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven 
for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  the  pan  to  the  oven  door. 
Finely  chop  up  one  bean  garlic,  two  branches  parsley  and  a  branch 
chervil  and  add  to  the  pan.  Dress  the  beef  on  a  hot  dish,  lightly  mix  the 
vegetables  in  the  pan,  carefully  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour 
all  over  the  beef  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Pure*e  of  Tomato,  Parmentier 
Coquilles  of  Scallops,  Indienne 

Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 
C6telettes  of  Venison,  Poivrade  Sauce  (545) 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Apple  Fritters  with  Rum 

1037.    PURE"E  OF  TOMATO,  PARMENTIER 

Have  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Slice  finely 
half  a  peeled  carrot,  half  each  an  onion,  leek,  branch  of  celery  and 
green  pepper,  one  branch  chopped  parsley  and  half  ounce  raw,  lean 
ham;  add  all  these  to  the  pan,  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  fre- 
quently stirring  meanwhile.  Mix  in  three  tablespoons  flour,  pour 
in  a  quart  fresh,  crushed  or  canned  tomatoes  and  two  quarts  of  white 


TUESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  301 

broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Mix  well  and  let  gently  simmer 
for  one  hour.  Cut  two  medium,  raw,  peeled  potatoes  into  small  dice 
pieces,  cook  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  water  and  a  half  teaspoon  salt  for 
twenty  minutes,  then  drain.  Strain  the  soup  into  a  tureen,  add  the  pota- 
toes and  serve. 

1038.      COQUILLES  OF  SCALLOPS,  INDIENNE 

Place  a  pound  and  a  half  very  fresh  scallops  in  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  and 
keep  a  gill  of  the  liquor  for  further  use. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour. 
Moisten  with  a  gill  milk,  the  liquor  from  the  scallops  and  a  half  gill  cream. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  half 
teaspoon  curry  powder;  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  the 
drained  scallops,  mix  a  little,  then  cook  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the 
preparation  evenly  into  six  table  shells, lay  them  on  a  tin,  spread  two  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

1039.    APPLE  FRITTERS  WITH  RUM 

Prepare  a  batter  for  fritters  as  per  No.  204.  Peel  and  core  three 
medium,  sound  apples.  Cut  each  into  four  even  slices  and  place  them 
on  a  plate  with  an  ounce  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  rum,  mix  well  and  let 
infuse  for  fifteen  minutes.  Dip  the  apples  in  the  batter,  turn  over  for 
a  half  minute,  then  drop,  one  by  one,  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten 
minutes,  frequently  turning  them  with  a  skimmer  meanwhile.  Lift  up, 
drain  well  on  a  towel,  neatly  trim,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Omelette  with  Capers 

Butterfish,  Saut£  (636) 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Corn  Pancakes  (659) 

1040.    OMELETTE  WITH  CAPERS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  a  half  gill  milk,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  add  two  tablespoons 
capers  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Sharply  beat  up 
for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop 
in  the  preparation,  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  one 
minute ;  fold  up  two  opposite  sides  right  in  the  middle,  let  rest  for  half 
minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


302  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Canapes  of  Crab  Meat,  Lorenzo  (538) 
Saute  of  Hare,  Chasseur  (502) 

Potatoes,  Fondantes  (56) 
Sago  Pudding  with  Currants 

1041.    SAGO  PUDDING  WITH  CURRANTS 

Boil  a  pint  milk  in  a  small  saucepan,  sprinkle  evenly  three  ounces 
sago  and  continually  mix  while  cooking  for  eight  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  three  ounces  powdered  sugar,  two  ounces  picked 
currants,  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  three  egg  yolks.  Sharply  mix 
for  three  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  gently  mix  with  the  other  preparation  for  half  minute. 

Butter  and  sugar  six  pudding  moulds,  fill  up  with  the  preparation, 
lay  in  a  tin,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  and  unmould  upon  a  hot 
dish,  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over  them  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)          Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Potage  au  Calves'  Feet 
Red  Snapper,  Court  Bouillon 

Potatoes,  Marquise  Veal  Chops,  San  Francisco 

String  Beans  and  Peas,  Panache's  Roast  Beef  a  1'Anglaise  (447) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Peach  Ice  Cream 
Macaroons  aux  Pistache 

1042.    POTAGE  AU  CALVES'  FEET 

Wash  in  cold  water  two  fresh  calves'  feet,  then  place  in  a  stock  pot, 
with  a  pound  knuckle  of  veal,  a  beef  marrowbone  and  any  scraps  of 
raw  veal,  beef  and  chicken  on  hand.  Moisten  with  three  and  a  half 
quarts  water.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  place  the  pot  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
skim  off  the  scum.  Add  a  sliced  carrot,  two  sliced  onions,  two  sliced 
leeks,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  four  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil, 
one  clove,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  one  saltspoon  thyme  and  one  bean  sound 
garlic.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  very  slowly  simmer  for  two  hours.  Lift 
up  the  calves'  feet,  plunge  them  into  cold  water  for  two  minutes;  bone 
them  and  cut  the  meat  into  half-inch-square  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  melted  butter,  add  one  ounce  flour,  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  a  nice  light  brown,  then  strain  broth  into  the 
pan;  add  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Mix  well  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes;  add  the  meat  from 
calves'  feet,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  half  a  peeled  and  seeded 
sound  lemon,  finely  sliced.  Mix  a  little  and  serve. 

N.  B.  All  meat,  bones  and  vegetables  left  remaining  from  the  soup 
add  to  the  demi-glace  pot  (No.  122). 


TUESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  303 

1043.    RED  SNAPPER,  COURT  BOUILLON 

Finely  slice  a  peeled  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  onion,  two  branches 
parsley;  add  two  cloves,  two  bay  leaves  and  one  sprig  of  thyme;  place 
all  these  articles  in  a  fish  kettle,  with  a  gallon  of  water,  a  half  gill  white 
wine,  half  gill  vinegar,  half  a  sliced  lemon,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper;  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Plunge  in  a  three-pound 
piece  fresh  boiled  red  snapper  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with  a  little 
melted  butter  separately. 

1044.    POTATOES,  MARQUISE 

Prepare  a  potato  brioche  preparation  as  per  No.  91.  Slide  a  denti- 
lated  fancy  tube  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop  the  potato  prepara- 
tion into  it.  Have  a  lightly  buttered  tin  ready  and  press  down  the  potato 
preparation  in  the  tin  to  six  rose-like  forms ;  set  them  in  the  oven  to  bake 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1045.    VEAL  CHOPS,  SAN  FRANCISCO 

Have  eighteen  dried  California  prunes  soaked  in  fresh  water  over 
night.  Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  fresh,  white  veal  chops.  Place  on  a 
plate  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  an 
earthen  cocotte  dish.  Place  the  chops  in  the  cocotte,  one  beside  another, 
with  a  sound  bean  garlic  and  two  whole,  peeled  shallots  and  briskly 
fry  them  for  five  minutes  on  each  side;  take  up  the  chops  and  keep  on 
a  plate.  Remove  the  garlic  and  shallots  from  the  pan,  then  mix  in  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  flour;  add  a  gill  Zinfandel  wine,  a  half  gill  of  hot 
water,  one  teaspoon  currant  jelly,  one  ounce  finely  chopped  lean,  raw 
ham,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  two  tablespoons  cognac. 
Mix  well  and  place  the  chops  again  in  the  pan.  Thoroughly  drain  the 
prunes  and  add  to  the  pan  with  the  chops.  Tightly  cover  the  cocotte  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  with  the  cover  on. 

1046.    STRING  BEANS  AND  PEAS,  PANACHE'S 

Plunge  a  half  pint  canned  string  beans  and  half  pint  canned  green 
peas  into  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  five 
minutes;  drain  on  a  sieve  and  place  both  on  a  hot  dish.  Place  an  ounce 
butter  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  and 
toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  light  brown ;  pour  over  beans  and  peas  and  serve. 

1047.    PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

Press  through  a  sieve  a  pint  preserved  peaches  into  a  bowl.  Have  a 
vanilla  cream  preparation,  and  when  strained  into  the  freezer  add  the 
peach  puree ;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  wooden  spoon  and  proceed  exactly 
the  same  as  in  vanilla  ice  cream  and  serve. 

1048.    MACAROONS  AUX  PISTACHE 

Plunge  three  ounces  sweet  almonds  into  half  a  pint  boiling  water  for 
three  minutes.  Drain,  peel  and  place  in  a  mortar  with  an  egg  white, 


304  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  pound  to  a  paste.  Transfer  into  a  bowl,  add  another  egg  white, 
three  ounces  sugar,  one  teaspoon  orange-flower  water  and  three  ounces 
finely  chopped,  peeled  pistachios ;  then  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon 
for  five  minutes.  Slide  a  quarter-inch  tube  into  a  pastry  bag,  drop  the 
preparation  into  the  bag  and  press  down  the  paste  on  a  sheet  of  white 
paper  placed  over  a  pastry  pan  to  the  size  and  form  of  walnuts.  Lightly 
dampen  the  surface  of  the  cakes  by  means  of  a  well  wetted  towel.  Place 
in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off.  Lift  up  the 
paper  from  the  pan,  lightly  wet  the  pan,  replace  the  paper  in  its  former 
position,  let  stand  for  five  minutes.  Pick  up  the  macaroons,  arrange 
them  on  a  compotier  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Farina  (74) 

Eggs,  Gratin 
Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172)  Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 

Griddle  Cakes  (136) 

1049.    EGGS,  GRATIN 

Boil  eight  eggs  for  eight  minutes  in  plenty  of  boiling  water.  Remove, 
drop  into  cold  water  for  one  minute,  then  shell  them  and  keep  on  a  plate. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons flour,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  hot  milk,  and  half  gill  cream. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and 
grated  nutmeg;  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Cut  the  eggs  into 
small  square  pieces  and  add  them  to  the  sauce;  mix  lightly.  Transfer 
into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over 
all,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  eight  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table 
in  the  same  dish. 

LUNCHEON 

Curried  Oyster  Patties 

Beef  Hash,  Colbert 

Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

Blanc  Manger 

1050.    CURRIED  OYSTER  PATTIES 

Prepare  six  patties  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  928  and  keep  hot. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  small  saucepan;  add  half 
a  finely  minced  onion  and  half  a  sound,  peeled,  minced  apple;  let  cook 
for  eight  minutes,  occasionally  stirring,  then  mix  in  two  tablespoons 
flour,  moisten  with  a  half  pint  broth  and  half  gill  cold  milk.  Season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  half  teaspoon 
curry  powder.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan. 


WEDNESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH          305 

Plunge  twenty-four  large,  fresh-opened  oysters  with  their  OWE  liquor 
and  a  half  pint  water  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain  and 
keep  a  half  gill  of  the  liquor.  Add  the  oysters  and  the  half  gill  liquor  to 
the  same;  mix  a  little  and  cook  for  five  minutes  more.  Arrange  the  six 
hot  patties  on  a  hot  dish,  then  pour  four  oysters  into  each  patty,  divide 
the  sauce  equally  over  them  and  serve. 

1051.    BEEF  HASH,  COLBERT 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
remove  all  the  fat.  Cut  into  small  dice  pieces;  cut  also  three  cold  boiled 
potatoes  into  same  shape  and  keep  both  on  a  plate. 

Finely  chop  one  small  white  onion  and  a  small  green  pepper  and  fry 
in  a  small  saucepan,  with  a  tablespoon  butter,  to  a  light  brown;  then  add 
the  beef  and  potatoes.  Moisten  with  half  pint  broth  and  half  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Mix  well.  Cook  for  five  minutes  on  the  range.  Cover 
the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  to  the  oven  door. 

Put  two  quarts  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoon  vinegar  and  teaspoon 
salt,  in  a  saucepan.  Crack  in  six  fresh  eggs  and  boil  for  three  minutes;  lift 
them  up  with  a  skimmer.  Dress  the  hash  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  eggs 
on  top,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1052.    BLANC  MANGER 

Plunge  a  half  pound  sweet  almonds  and  six  single  bitter  almonds  in  a 
pint  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  drain  and  shell,  then  place  in  a 
mortar  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste.  Transfer  and  dilute  the  paste  in  a 
pint  cold  milk,  in  a  small  saucepan,  and  boil  for  two  minutes.  Strain 
the  almond  milk  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  gelatin  with  a  half  pint  water  and 
five  ounces  sugar;  mix  on  the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Add  the  milk,  with  two  tablespoons  orange  essence;  mix 
well  while  boiling  for  two  minutes.  Strain  this  into  a  bowl  and  let  cool. 
Then  transfer  it  into  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould,  cover  it,  then  set  in 
cracked  ice  and  let  stand  for  one  hour.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Gumbo  with  Sorrel 
Weakfish,  Paysanne 

Potatoes,  Savoyardes  (533)          Balotine  of  Lamb,  Macddoine 
Cauliflower,  Hollandaise  (853)          Roast  Capon  (378) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Eclairs,  Chantilly  (361) 

1053.    GUMBO  WITH  SORREL 

Cut  into  small  dice-pieces  one  onion,  one  green  pepper,  two  leeks,  one 
ounce  raw,  lean  ham  and  two  ounces  of  raw,  lean  veal;  place  these 
articles  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  brown  for 
ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  five  pints 


306  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

water  or  white  broth,  add  one  pound  beef  or  veal,  clean  bones  and  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoons  raw  rice  and  slowly  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  more.  Trim  twelve  good-sized  fresh  okras,  wash  them 
well,  then  cut  in  quarter-inch-thick  pieces  and  add  to  soup,  adding  also 
two  peeled,  fresh  red  tomatoes  cut  into  eight  pieces  each.  Boil  for  five 
minutes.  Trim  off  the  stalks  and  thoroughly  wash  fifteen  leaves  of  very 
fresh  sorrel,  finely  slice  them  in  julienne  strips  and  add  to  the  soup. 
Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  lightly  mix  and  slowly  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  more,  remove  the  bones, pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1054.    WEAKFISH,  PAYSANNE 

Cut  off  the  head  of  a  fresh  three-pound  weakfish.  Split  in  two  and 
remove  the  spinal  bone ;  place  in  a  roasting  tin,  cut  part  upward.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  dredge  four  finely 
chopped,  sound  shallots  and  divide  an  ounce  of  butter  in  small  bits  over  the 
fish ;  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  squeeze  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon  over,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  butter  over  and  serve. 

1055.    BALOTINE  OF  LAMB,  MACEDOINE 

Carefully  bone  entirely  a  shoulder  of  lamb;  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place 
in  a  mortar  two  skinned  sausages,  two  chopped  shallots,  half  bean 
chopped  garlic,  one  ounce  raw,  chopped  beef  marrow,  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one  egg  yolk, 
half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  ground  thyme;  pound  the  whole  together  for  five  minutes;  then 
evenly  spread  this  force  over  the  inside  part  of  the  shoulder.  Neatly 
fold  it  up  and  tie  all  around.  Place  in  a  roasting  pan  a  sliced  carrot, 
sliced  onion,  sliced  leek  and  an  ounce  of  lard  trimmings.  Lay  the 
balotine  on  top,  pour  half  a  gill  cold  water  into  the  pan,  spread  a  table- 
spoon melted  lard  over  the  balotine  and  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  fifty 
minutes,  frequently  basting  with  its  own  gravy  and  turning  it  over  once 
in  a  while.  Remove,  untie  and  dress  on  a  large  dish.  Place  a  mace- 
doine,  prepared  as  per  No.  233,  at  each  end  of  the  dish,  arrange  the 
balotine  in  the  centre,  pour  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  over  the 
balotine  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Boiled  Rice  and  Milk  (464) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  McKay  Fish  Fritters 

Sausage,  with  Fried  Bananas  Potatoes,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (312) 

Seed  Cakes 

1056.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  McKAY 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl  with  a  half  gill  sweet  cream.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  sharply  beat  up  for 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  307 

a  minute.  Place  two  gills  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  frying  pan  and 
reduce  on  the  fire  to  a  half  gill.  Drop  in  the  eggs,  add  one  teaspoon 
fresh  butter  and  constantly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  six  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  equally  divide  over  six  freshly  prepared 
buttered  toasts,  arranged  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

1057.    FISH  FRITTERS 

Plunge  a  half  pound  shredded  salt  codfish  in  water  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  and  totally  squeeze  out  the  water  with  the  hands.  Place  it  in  a 
bowl,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  two  fresh  eggs,  one  tablespoon  milk, 
a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley  and 
baking  powder;  briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  large  frying  pan,  drop  the  fish  preparation 
into  the  pan,  in  twelve  even  forms,  and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on 
each  side.  Remove  with  the  cake  turner,  place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1058.    SAUSAGE,  WITH  FRIED  BANANAS 

Prickle  with  a  fork  twelve  stringless,  fresh  sausages,  place  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Split  lengthwise  six  sound,  peeled  bananas.  Lightly  roll  them  in 
flour,  place  and  fry  in  the  same  pan  as  the  sausages  for  two  minutes  on 
each  side,  arrange  around  the  sausages  and  serve. 

1059.    SEED  CAKES 

Place  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  bowl,  briskly  beat  it  with  a  spatula 
for  five  minutes,  then  add  four  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  thoroughly 
beat  for  three  minutes;  add  three  eggs,  one  by  one,  then  stir  in  very 
gradually  half  pound  sifted  flour  and  a  few  caraway  seeds.  Place  the 
preparation  in  a  tin  lined  with  a  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  detach  from  the  paper,  cut  the  cake  into 
six  equal  pieces  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallops  au  Gratin 
Pilaff,  Qua  Pun  Ming 
Baked  Tomatoes  (841) 
Chartreuse  de  Pommes 

1060.    SCALLOPS  AU  GRATIN 

Mix  and  heat  for  half  a  minute  two  light  tablespoons  melted  butter 
and  three  tablespoons  flour.  Pour  in  a  half  pint  cold  milk  and  mix  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil.  Plunge  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops 
into  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Take  up  a  gill  of  this  scallop  broth  and  pour  it  into  the  sauce. 
Drain  the  scallops  on  a  sieve  and  add  them  to  the  sauce.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  and  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry.  Mix  well,  cook  for  five 


3o8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

minutes.  Pour  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  divide  half  ounce  of  butter  in  little  bits  on  top 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1061.  PILAFF,  QUA  PUN  MING 

Cut  two  pounds  of  lean,  raw  mutton  into  half -inch  squares.  Place 
in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  and  gently  brown 
for  ten  minutes,  frequently  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon;  add  a  sound, 
finely  chopped  onion ;  stir  and  brown  for  five  minutes  longer.  Add  four 
ounces  raw  rice,  stir  well  and  cook  for  three  minutes.  Moisten  with 
a  pint  white  broth  (No.  701),  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  a  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  teaspoon  curry  powder,  then  add  half 
ounce  preserved  ginger  cut  into  very  small  dices.  Mix  well,  cover  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  pour  into  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

1062.  CHARTREUSE  DE  POMMES 

Neatly  peel  eight  sound  apples,  and  with  the  aid  of  a  thin  tube  cut 
out  as  many  strips  as  you  can.  Trim  the  strips  so  as  to  have  them  of 
equal  size.  Place  them  on  a  dish  until  required.  Place  all  residue  of 
the  apples  in  a  small  saucepan  with  four  ounces  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  essence,  a  half  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon  and  one  gill  water. 
Cover  the  pan  and  slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  let  cool  off. 

Have  three  small  saucepans  on  a  table,  place  three  ounces  sugar 
and  a  half  pint  water  in  each  pan,  then  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  small, 
sound  lemon  in  one  pan  only.  Add  one  saltspoon  ground  Spanish 
saffron  to  another  pan,  and  a  saltspoon  of  cochineal  in  the  third  pan; 
set  them  on  the  fire,  and,  as  soon  as  all  come  to  a  boil  add  the  apple 
strips  to  the  pans,  evenly  divided,  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  let  cool  off. 

Lightly  wet  a  plain  charlotte  mould,  line  the  bottom  and  sides  with 
the  apple  strips,  then  fill  up  the  mould  with  the  apple  puree.  Turn  on 
a  dish,  then  let  stand  for  five  minutes  with  the  mould  on  the  charlotte. 
Lift  up  the  mould  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)         Olives 

Consomm£  aux  Profiteroles 

Pickerel,  Albert         Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Boiled  Beef,  Robert.  Sauce  Fried  Eggplants  (460) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Salad,  Chicory  (38) 

Plombiere,  Marguerite 

Coquettes,  Polonaise  (563) 

1063.    CONSOMME  AUX  PROFITEROLES 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  and  keep  hot.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk,  one  ounce  butter  and  a  saltspocn 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  309 

salt,  and  let  boil;  add  three  ounces  sifted  flour,  briskly  stir  with  the 
wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes,  then  stand  the  pan  on  the  table;  break 
in  one  egg,  sharply  mix  for  a  minute,  break  in  another  egg,  sharply  mix 
again,  repeat  with  another  egg,  add  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one 
ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  mix  for  one  minute.  Make  a  cornet 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  drop  the  paste  in  the  cornet  and  cut  off  a  small 
piece  of  the  paper  at  the  point  to  make  an  opening  one-fifth  inch  in  diam- 
eter. Press  down  the  preparation  into  a  pastry  tin,  to  the  form  of  dried 
white  beans ;  place  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  place  in  a  soup 
tureen,  pour  the  consomme  over  and  serve. 

1064.    PICKEREL,  ALBERT 

Trim,  cut  off  the  head,  split  in  two  and  remove  the  spinal  bone  of  a 
three-pound  fresh  pickerel.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  fish  in  the  season- 
ing. Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 

Pour  a  brown  horseradish  sauce  (No.  383)  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress 
the  fish  over  the  same  and  serve. 

1065.    BOILED  BEEF,  ROBERT  SAUCE 

Procure  a  four-pound  piece  of  short  rib  of  beef.  Tie  with  a  string, 
lay  in  a  saucepan  with  four  quarts  boiling  water.  Season  with  a  table- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  adding  four  small  scraped 
carrots,  four  small  peeled  white  turnips,  two  medium-sized  white  onions, 
two  stalks  well-cleaned  celery,  three  leeks  tied  in  a  bunch  with  a  clove 
of  garlic,  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme  anc"  fou:  branches 
tied-up  parsley.  Cover  the  pan,  then  let  gently  simmer  for  two  and  a 
half  hours.  Remove  and  place  the  beef  on  a  large  dish,  untie,  arrange 
the  vegetables  around,  except  parsley  and  garlic,  untie  the  leeks,  dress 
them  around  the  beef  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  sauce  Robert  (No. 
1066)  separately. 

N.  B.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth,  then  strain  it  into 
the  white-broth  pan  (No.  701). 

1066.    SAUCE,  ROBERT 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  five  finely  chopped 
shallots,  one  tablespoon  flour,  and  stir  while  cooking  for  five  minutes. 
Pour  in  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  two  light  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
adding  eight  finely  chopped,  sound  vinegar  pickles,  one  tablespoon 
chopped  capers,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives,  a  teaspoon  French 
mustard  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well,  let  slowly 
boil  for  eight  minutes  and  serve  as  required. 

1067.    PLOMBIERE,  MARGUERITE 

Prepare  a  pint  (only)  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  adding  four  ounces 
preserved  pineapple,  cut  into  small  dices,  two  tablespoons  maraschino 
and  a  half  pint  whipped  cream.  Mix  these  ingredients  with  the  vanilla 
for  five  minutes. 


3io  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Line  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould  with  white  paper,  and  fill  it  up 
with  the  mixed  ice  cream ;  lay  a  sheet  of  paper  on  top  of  the  mould,  cover 
very  tightly,  then  bury  it  in  cracked  ice  and  rock  salt  and  let  freeze  for 
two  hours.  Remove,  uncover,  turn  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
take  off  the  paper,  and  serve. 


Friday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Barley  with  Cream 

Fried  Eggs  with  Chicken  Livers 

Broiled  Fresh  Herrings,  Anchovy  Butter  (798) 

Calf's  Liver,  Minute  (810) 

Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1068.    BARLEY  WITH  CREAM 

Immerse  four  ounces  of  the  best  barley  in  a  pint  boiling  water  for 
ten  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Replace  in 
the  pan,  add  a  pint  water,  half  pint  fresh  milk  and  half  teaspoon  salt, 
lightly  mix  and  let  slowly  simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  being  careful 
to  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  at  the  bottom  every  eight  minutes,  to 
prevent  burning.  Remove,  and  serve  with  cream  and  powdered  sugar 
separately. 

1069.  FRIED  EGGS  WITH  CHICKEN  LIVERS 

Cut  eight  fresh  chicken  livers  into  quarter-inch  pieces.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  livers  and  fry  for  five  minutes; 
pour  over  a  tablespoon  sherry,  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  season  with 
two  saltspoons  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix  and 
cook  for  two  minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Carefully 
crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Set  in  the  oven  for  three 
minutes.  Remove,  evenly  divide  the  preparation  on  top  of  the  eggs 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Coquilles  of  Eggs  and  Oysters 

Civet  of  Venison 

Spinach  in  Cream  (399) 

Gateau  de  Plomb 

1070.  COQUILLES  OF  EGGS  AND  OYSTERS 

Cut  six  hard-boiled  eggs  into  eight  even  pieces  each.  Plunge  twelve 
large  very  fresh-opened  oysters  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  two 
minutes.  Drain,  cut  each  in  half  and  place  them  with  the  eggs.  Mix 
and  heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  of  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons flour;  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  white  broth  and  a  gill  of 
cream;  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  eggs 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  '3*1 

and  oysters.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix  and  slowly  cook 
for  two  minutes.  Divide  the  eggs,  etc.,  into  six  table  shells,  sprinkle 
a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1071.    CIVET  OF  VENISON 

Cut  two  pounds  tender  venison,  from  a  leg,  into  inch-square  pieces. 
Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  venison; 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  once  in  a  while.  Then  add 
two  ounces  lean,  salt  pork  cut  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces  and  twelve 
very  small,  peeled  white  onions;  brown  for  ten  minutes  longer,  besprinkle 
with  two  tablespoons  flour  over  the  meat  and  gently  stir;  moisten  with 
one  gill  red  wine,  half  pint  of  broth  and  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No. 
122).  Tie  in  a  bunch  three  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one 
leek,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bean  sound  garlic, 
and  add  to  the  venison.  Mix  a  little,  cover  the  pan,  then  set  in  the  oven 
for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  the  bouquet  of  herbs,  add  six 
finely  minced  mushrooms,  lightly  mix  and  serve  with  six  heart-shaped 
bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  the  civet. 

1072.     GATEAU  DE  PLOMB 

Sift  a  half  pound  flour  on  a  table  with  a  fountain  in  the  centre,  place 
in  it  a  saltspoon  salt,  three  ounces  sugar,  quarter  pound  butter,  two  egg 
yolks  and  one  gill  fresh  milk;  knead  the  whole  well  together  until  of  a 
soft  dough.  Transfer  into  a  lightly  buttered  pie  plate  and  set  to  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  sprinkle  a  little  pow- 
dered sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)         Sliced  Tomatoes  (765) 

Bisque  of  Crabs,  Kioto 

Black  Bass,  Grand  Duke  (303) 

Potatoes,  Italienne          Broiled  Squab,  Turkey  (819) 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Cream  Sauce 
Omelette  Mousseline  au  Beui-">  Noir 
Roast  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Chestnut  Pudding  (343) 

1073.    BISQUE  OF  CRABS,  KIOTO 

Procure  six  hard,  live  crabs,  clean  well,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound 
to  a  paste.  Thoroughly  heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
paste  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  mean- 
while; then  add  two  tablespoons  brandy,  set  fire  to  the  brandy,  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  the  flame  goes  out,  then  add  one  finely  minced 
carrot,  one  finely  minced  onion,  two  minced  leeks,  one  branch  minced 
celery,  two  branches  parsley  and  three  ounces  of  raw  rice.  Stir  the 
whole  well  together  once  in  a  while  while  cooking  for  five  minutes. 


312  •  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Moisten  with  three  quarts  water.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Mix 
well,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Place  in  a  bowl  one 
ounce  rice  flour,  one  gill  cream  and  one  egg  yolk;  whisk  up  well  with  a 
whisk  for  two  minutes,  pour  this  into  the  soup  and  stir  while  heating 
for  two  minutes.  Remove,  strain  through  a  sieve,  then  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  a  tureen,  and  serve. 

1074.    POTATOES,  ITALIENNE 

Boil  six  medium,  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  then  cut  them  into  quarter-inch-thick 
slices.  Nicely  brown  in  a  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons  lard 
for  ten  minutes,  tossing  them  once  in  a  while.  Place  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  crown-like,  and  keep  warm. 

Place  three  finely  chopped  shallots  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  brown  for  three  minutes;  moisten  with  a  gill  of  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  add  six  finely  chopped  mushrooms  and  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley;  mix  a  little  and  let  cook  for  eight  minutes,  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  potatoes  and  serve. 

1075.    JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Peel  and  wash  twelve  sound  raw  Jerusalem  artichokes ;  plunge  them 
into  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Drain,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736) 
over  them  and  serve. 

1076.    OMELETTE  MOUSSELINE  AU  BEURRE  NOIR 

Place  eight  fresh  eggs  yolks  in  a  bowl  and  the  whites  in  a  copper  basin. 
Season  the  yolks  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper 
and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Briskly  mix  the  yolks  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  two  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  for  four  minutes,  add  them 
to  the  yolks  and  lightly  mix ;  heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  large  frying 
pan,  pour  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  a  half 
minute,  fold  up  the  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute; 
turn  into  a  hot  dish. 

Place  an  ounce  butter  in  the  same  pan,  toss  the  butter  on  the  fire 
until  a  light  brown ;  pour  in  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  toss  a  little,  pour  over 
the  omelette  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)          Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Omelette  with  Bacon 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

Corned  Beef  au  Gratin 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1077.    OMELETTE  WITH  BACON 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  fresh  milk, 
season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper. 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  313 

Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  ounce  bacon  cut  into  small  dice-pieces  and 
gently  brown  for  five  minutes.  Drain  half  the  fat  from  the  pan, 
then  drop  in  the  eggs.  Mix  for  two  minutes  with  a  fork,  let  rest  for  a 
minute,  fold  up  both  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre ;  let  rest  for  a  half  minute, 
turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1078.    CORNED  BEEF  AU  GRATIN 

Brown  in  a  saucepan  for  five  minutes  one  sound  white  onion  with 
one  tablespoon  butter.  Add  one  pound  of  cooked  and  finely  chopped 
corned  beef  and  four  cold,  boiled  potatoes  chopped  same  way  as  the  beef; 
moisten  with  a  good  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well, 
cover  the  pan,  cook  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  mix,  then  set 
to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  transfer  it  into  a  baking  dish. 
Mix  on  a  plate  two  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs  with  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  divide  it  on  the  hash,  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  again 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Eels  au  Saffron 

Ham,  Mexicaine 

Sweet  Potato  Pure"e 

Lamb  Salad  with  Tarragon 

Peach  Pie  (412) 

1079.  EELS  AU  SAFFRON 

Cut  the  heads  from  two  very  fresh  eels  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each, 
then  skin  and  cut  them  into  two-inch-long  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate. 
Lightly  brown  in  a  frying  pan  a  finely  minced  Spanish  onion  with  a 
tablespoon  butter  for  five  minutes;  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  flour  over,  lightly 
stir,  add  the  fish  on  top.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  Spanish  saffron,  diluted  in  two  tablespoons 
of  water;  add  three  peeled  and  crushed  red  tomatoes  around  the  eels; 
moisten  with  half  gill  white  wine,  cover  the  pan,  and  slowly  cook  on 
the  range  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  transfer  into  a  hot  dish, 
sprinkle  a  little  fresh  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1080.  HAM,  MEXICAINE 

Take  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  ham,  trim  well  all  around, 
heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  slices,  one  beside 
another,  and  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  keep  hot. 

Finely  mince  two  green  peppers  and  two  Spanish  sweet  peppers ;  add 
to  the  pan  and  brown  for  five  minutes.  Drain  the  fat  from  the  pan, 
then  add  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley;  cook  for  five  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile. 
Dress,  dome-shape,  a  sweet  potato  puree  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  ham 
over  the  potatoes,  pour  the  sauce  and  garnishing  over  all  and  serve. 


3i4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1081.    SWEET  POTATO  PUR£E 

Boix  six  medium,  sweet  potatoes  for  forty  minutes  in  two  quarts  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt;  drain,  peel  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  small 
pan.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  add 
half  ounce  of  butter  and  one  and  a  half  gills  hot  milk.  Mix  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  two  minutes  and  serve  as  required. 

1082.    LAMB  SALAD  WITH  TARRAGON 

Cut  away  all  the  meat  from  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
cut  into  very  thin  slices.  Place  in  a  bowl,  add  one  very  finely  sliced 
small  onion,  two  branches  of  celery  finely  sliced  and  half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  tarragon.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  two  tablespoons  oil  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  tarragon 
vinegar.  Mix  weU  together  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Potage  au  Pain 

Sole,  Loomis 

Potatoes  with  Butter 

Mignons  of  Mutton,  Sauce  Porto 

String  Beans  au  Beurra  (.139) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Apple  Charlotte  (634) 

1083.    POTAGE  AU  PAIN 

Toast  twelve  thin  slices  French  bread  to  a  nice  golden  colour  and 
place  them  in  a  soup  tureen,  adding  half  teaspoon  very  finely  chopped 
parsley  and  the  leaves  of  two  branches  chervil.  Prepare  and  strain  a 
consomme  (No.  52)  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 

1084.    SOLE,  LOOMIS 

Carefully  lift  up  the  four  filets  from  a  three-and-a-half-pound  sole 
and  neatly  skin  them,  then  cut  each  filet  into  three  slanting,  equal  pieces; 
lay  them  on  a  plate,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  squeezing  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over.  Prepare  a 
smooth  hash  with  one  branch  fresh  parsley,  two  bay  leaves  and  a  sprig 
of  thyme;  add  to  the  fish,  thoroughly  mix  the  filets  in  the  seasoning  and 
keep  in  a  cold  place  until  required. 

Place  in  a  mortar  a  quarter  pound  of  fresh  cod  or  halibut,  adding 
one  egg  yolk,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and 
grated  nutmeg;  pound  to  a  pulp,  then  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl. 
Finely  chop  three  medium,  fresh-peeled  and  neatly  cleaned  mushrooms, 
brown  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon  butter  for  five  minutes,  add  to  the 
bowl  with  the  fish  force  and  briskly  mix.  With  knife  blade  carefully 
spread  the  force  on  both  sides  of  the  filets,  then  dip  the  filets  in  beaten 
egg  and  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  315 

butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  filets  one  beside  another  and  fry 
for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve  with  a  Tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

1085.    POTATOES  WITH  BUTTER 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  twelve  small,  even-sized  potatoes  and  boil  in  a 
quart  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain, 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  level  tablespoon  butter,  gently  turn  them  over 
for  two  minutes  and  serve. 

1086.    MIGNONS  OF  MUTTON,  PORTO  SAUCE 

Neatly  flatten  six  four-ounce  mignon  steaks  cut  from  a  leg  of  tender 
mutton.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thor- 
oughly heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  mignons 
and  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  six  freshly 
prepared  round  toasts,  pour  a  port  wine  sauce  over  and  serve. 

1087.    SAUCE,  PORTO 

Place  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half 
a  gill  port  wine,  thoroughly  mix,  add  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the  lemon 
rind  and  use  as  required. 


Sunday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Apricots  in  Cream  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Fried  Eggs  on  Toast 

Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Lamb  Chops  (748)  Potatoes,  Saute"s  (135) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1088.    APRICOTS  IN  CREAM 

Open  and  drain  a  pint  can  apricots.  Dress  on  a  fruit  dish  and  serve 
with  thick  cream  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 

1089.    FRIED  EGGS  ON  TOAST 

Prepare  six  round  toasts  three  inches  in  diameter  of  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Broil  six  thin  slices  of  lean  raw  ham  for  a  minute 
on  each  side,  arrange  one  slice  on  each  toast,  and  trim  to  fit  the 
toasts  nicely. 

Heat  in  a  small  frying  pan  a  teaspoon  butter,  carefully  crack  in  two 
fresh  eggs,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  pepper  and 
fry  for  three  minutes,  then  dress  the  two  eggs  on  one  toast;  repeat  the 
same  five  times  and  serve  very  hot 


316  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth  in  Cups 

Lobster  en  Brochette,  with  Bacon  (282) 

Veal  Chops  Braise",  Puree  of  Sorrel 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Lyonnaise 

Pear  Marquise 

1090.    OYSTER  BROTH  IN  CUPS 

Open  thirty-six  large,  fresh  oysters;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
their  liquor  and  an  extra  pint  oyster  juice,  adding  a  pint  water,  four 
branches  cleaned  white  celery,  and  two  branches  well-washed  parsley. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and 
let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  remove 
the  celery  and  parsley,  strain  the  broth  into  six  cups  and  serve.  A  very 
little  butter  and  sweet  cream  can  be  added  to  each  cup  if  desired.  Place 
the  thirty-six  oysters  in  a  bowl  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  to-morrow. 

N.  B.     Lay  aside  six  of  the  deepest  equal-sized  shells  for  to-morrow. 

1091.    VEAL  CHOPS  BRAISE,  PUR£E  OF  SORREL 

Flatten  and  trim  six  nice,  tender  veal  chops.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon  fat  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  the  chops  and  nicely  brown  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Add  half 
a  sliced  carrot,  half  a  sliced  onion,  half  bean  garlic,  a  few  trimmings 
larding  pork,  two  branches  parsley,  one  clove,  one  bay  leaf;  let  brown  for 
ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16);  lightly  mix,  boil  for  two 
minutes,  then  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress  a 
puree  of  sorrel  prepared  as  per  No.  654  on  a  hot  dish;  arrange  the  chops 
crown-like,  over  the  sorrel,  skim  the*  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy 
boil  for  three  minutes,  then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  chops  and  serve. 

1092.    SWEET  POTATOES,  LYONNAISE 

Boil  four  good-sized  sweet  potatoes  in  a  quart  water  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  for  forty  minutes;  drain,  peel  and  slice  them.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  finely  sliced  onion 
and  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  potatoes.  Season  with  a 
quarter  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  toss  them  well 
once  in  a  w^ile,  cooking  for  five  minutes,  give  a  nice  omelette  form, 
brown  for  five  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

1093.    PEAR  MARQUISE 

Neatly  peel  six  medium,  even-sized,  fresh  pears,  without  cutting 
away  the  stems.  Have  a  pint  water  in  a  saucepan  with  four  ounces 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  place  on  the  fire  and  as  soon  as  it 
boils  drop  in  the  pears.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Lift  up  the  pears  with  a  skimmer  and  keep  on  a  plate; 
add  two  tablespoons  maraschino  to  the  syrup  and  let  reduce  on  the  fire 
to  a  good  gill. 


SUNDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  317 

Have  in  another  saucepan  one  pint  boiling  milk,  add  three  ounces 
sugar,  three  ounces  raw  rice  and  the  chopped  rind  of  quarter  of  a  lemon ; 
let  gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  at  the  bottom  to 
prevent  burning.  Dress  the  rice  on  a  large  dish,  arrange  the  pears  on 
top,  pour  the  sauce  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Peanuts  (954) 

Creme,  Amazone 

Salmon,  Verdoyant 

Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Chicken,   Marengo 
Tournedos  of  Beef,  Madere  Sauce 
Green  Peas  (35) 
Punch,  Stanley 

Mallard  Ducks,  Currant  Jelly  (307) 
Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Glace,  Mogador 

1094.    CREME,  AMAZONE 

Peel  and  cut  into  small  pieces  three  fresh,  alligator  pears  and  place 
in  saucepan  with  two  branches  parsley,  two  branches  sliced  celery, 
four  pints  cold  milk.  Season'  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Set  the  pan 
on  the  fire  and  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Strain  milk  into  a 
basin,  place  ingredients  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  smooth  paste,  and 
return  to  the  milk.  Heat  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two 
ounces  flour,  stir  for  a  minute  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  pour  contents 
of  basin  into  this  pan.  Sharply  whisk  for  two  minutes,  and,  as  soon 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  gill  cream  and  one  egg  yolk  diluted  with 
a  tablespoon  milk.  Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  three  minutes,  being 
careful  not  to  allow  to  boil  again ;  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into 
a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

1095.  SALMON,  VERDOYANT 

Place  three  slices  of  fresh  salmon  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each 
in  a  frying  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper;  pour  in  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  gill  water,  add  half  ounce 
butter,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
one  overlapping  another,  and  keep  warm. 

Place  in  a  rnortar  two  branches  fresh  parsley,  one  branch  chervil, 
one  branch  watercress  and  one  shallot,  and  pound  to  a  paste;  then  add 
half  ounce  butter,  thoroughly  mix  together,  and  press  through  a  sieve 
into  a  bowl. 

Prepare  a  Hollandaise  Sauce  (No.  279);  gradually  add  to  the  Hol- 
landaise  all  the  green  butter,  continually  mixing  until  thoroughly  amal- 
gamated. Pour  the  sauce  over  the  salmon  and  serve. 


3i8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1096.  CHICKEN,  MARENGO 

Singe,  draw,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet  at  the  first  joint  of  a  tender 
three-pound  chicken,  and  cut  into  twelve  as  nearly  even  pieces  as  possi- 
ble. Season*  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thor- 
oughly heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  pieces  in 
the  pan,  and  briskly  fry  for  six  minutes.  Drain  off  half  the  quantity 
of  the  oil.  Add  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  mix  a  little  and  cook  for  one 
minute.  Then  pour  in  half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No. 
1 6);  lightly  mix,  add  twelve  finely  sliced,  canned  mushrooms,  six  thin 
slices  of  truffles,  and  let  cook  twenty  minutes.  Arrange  the  chicken  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over.  Garnish  the  dish  around  the  chicken 
with  six  freshly  fried  eggs  in  oil,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

1097.  FRIED  EGGS  IN  OIL 

Thoroughly  heat  one  gill  of  oil  in  a  very  small  frying  pan,  crack  in 
one  fresh  egg,  and  fry  for  two  minutes ;  carefully  close  up  the  white  with  a 
skimmer.  Lift  up  with  the  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth,  prepare  five 
more  in  a  similar  way,  and  use  as  directed.  The  eggs  should  be  well 
fried  around,  but  rather  soft  in  the  centre. 

Save  the  oil  in  which  the  eggs  were  cooked  for  any  other  cooking 
purposes. 

1098.      TOURNEDOS   OF   BEEF,   MADERE   SAUCE 

Procure  six  pieces  of  round  filet  four  ounces  each.  Neatly  flatten 
and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the  filets  in  the  pan, 
one  beside  another,  and  cook  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  six  freshly  prepared  round  toasts,  placed  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour 
a  Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  over  and  serve. 

1099.    PUNCH,  STANLEY 

Prepare  a  lemon  water  ice  (No.  376)  and  keep  in  the  freezer  till 
required.  Boil  one  ounce  best  ground  coffee  with  two  gills  water  and 
half  a  vanilla  stick,  split  in  two,  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool 
off,  then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  lemon  ice  freezer,  adding 
a  tablespoon  kirsch  and  a  tablespoon  maraschino.  Thoroughly  mix 
with  the  spatula  and  serve  in  six  sherbet  glasses.  (Keep  the  vanilla  in 
sugar  for  further  use.) 

i  TOO.     GLACE,  MOGADOR 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  exactly  the  same  as  No.  42.  Pour  in 
two  tablespoons  rum,  adding  two  ounces  candied  cherries  and  two 
ounces  chopped  marrons.  Mix  well  together  for  one  minute.  Place  six 
macaroons  on  a  plate,  divide  a  tablespoon  of  kirsch  over  them  evenly. 
Line  the  bottom  of  a  quart-brick  mould  with  a  sheet  white  paper,  fill 
the  mould  up  with  half  the  vanilla,  then  arrange  the  macaroons  on  top; 
fill  up  with  balance  of  ice  cream.  Line  the  top  with  another  sheet  of 


MONDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MARCH  319 

paper,  cover  the  mould  tightly,  bury  in  cracked  ice  and  rock  salt  and  let 
Freeze  for  one  hour.  Remove,  dip  in  tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds, 
unmould  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Monday,  Third  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Hominy  (45) 

Poached  Eggs  en  Surprise 

Porterhouse  Steaks  (729) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Cocoanut  Ginger  Bread  (253) 

HOT.    POACHED  EGGS  EN  SURPRISE 

Plunge  six  medium,  sound,  green  peppers  in  boiling  water  for  two 
minutes,  lift  up  and  skin  with  a  coarse  towel;  cut  out  a  small  piece  at 
bottom  of  each,  and  through  it  scoop  them  out  entirely  without  disturb- 
ing the  sides.  Place  in  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  cut  side  upward, 
one  in  each. 

Heat  a  teaspoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  half  a  chopped  small 
white  onion  and  brown  for  three  minutes,  then  add  three  finely  chopped, 
well-cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms  and  cook  for  three  minutes  more;  moisten 
with  a  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  reduce  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes; 
add  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs.  Stir  while  cooking  for  one  minute, 
remove  and  let  cool  off. 

Lightly  line  the  inside  of  the  peppers  with  this  preparation,  crack 
an  egg  into  each  pepper,  season  each  one  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half 
saltspoon  pepper.  Arrange  the  cut-away  piece  of  peppers  on  top. 
Place  the  moulds  in  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height 
of  the  moulds,  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  dish,  pour  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  around  them 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Oysters 

Smoked  Pig  Jowl  with  Spinach 
Banana  Fritters 

1 102.    STUFFED  OYSTERS 

Hash  very  finely  the  thirty-six  oysters  saved  from  yesterday's  broth. 
Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  cook  for  three  minutes,  then  mix  in  half  ounce  flour  and 
briskly  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Moisten  with  two  gills  milk 
and  one  gill  cream,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper,  one  saltspoon'  grated  nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  French  mustard  and  a 
tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce ;  thoroughly  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Add  the  oysters,  six  finely  chopped  canned  mushrooms,  half  teaspoon 


320  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic.  Mix  the 
whole  well  together,  then  let  gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  in  a  tablespoon  cream  and 
add  to  the  force,  and  stir  while  cooking  for  two  minutes  more.  Transfer 
the  force  upon  a  dish  and  let  cool  off. 

Plunge  the  six  deep,  half -shells  into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes; 
remove  and  replunge  in  cold  water;  remove  and  wipe  them  thoroughly. 
Then  evenly  divide  the  preparation  into  six  shells,  neatly  smooth  the 
surface  with  a  knife,  evenly  spread  a  teaspoon  French  mustard  on  them, 
sprinkle  a  few  bread  crumbs  over,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1103.     SMOKED  PIG  JOWL,  WITH  SPINACH 

Procure  half  a  smoked  pig  jowl  and  plunge  it  into  two  gallons  boiling 
water  and  boil  for  two  hours.  Lift  up,  tear  off  the  skin  and  neatly  trim 
all  around.  Prepare  a  spinach  a  1'Anglaise  as  per  No.  247,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  arrange  the  jowl  over  the  spinach  and  serve. 

1104.    BANANA  FRITTERS 

Prepare  a  batter  for  fritters  as  per  No.  204. 

Cut  six  peeled,  sound  bananas  in  two  crosswise  pieces,  roll  them  in 
the  batter,  then  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning 
with  a  skimmer  once  in  a  while;  lift  up,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  towel 
and  neatly  trim  all  around.  Pour  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  on  a  hot 
dish,  place  the  bananas  over,  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  on  top  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyon  Sausage  (582) 

Potage,  Pepper  Pot 
Broiled  Perch,  Mustard  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 
Noix  of  Veal,  Braise,  Fermiere  (584) 

Cucumbers,  Bechamel 

Roast  Gosling,  Apple  Sauce 

Dandelion  with  Eggs  (633) 

Cocoanut  Pudding  (274) 

1105.    POTAGE,  PEPPER  POT 

Finely  chop  two  each  medium,  white  onions,  green  peppers  and 
leeks.  Place  these  in  a  medium-sized  saucepan  with  half  ounce 
butter  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile;  then  add 
four  ounces  fresh  tripe,  cut  into  small  dice-pieces,  and  two  ounces  raw 
Italian  rice.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701) 
or  hot  water,  then  add  one  pound  of  raw,  clean  veal  bones.  Season 
with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  the  pan 
and  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Peel  and  cut  into  eight  pieces 
each  three  medium,  red  tomatoes  and  add  to  the  soup,  lightly  mix,  then 
let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  bones,  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  321 

1106.    BROILED  PERCH,  MUSTARD  SAUCE 

Neatly  trim  and  wipe  dry  six  very  fresh,  small  perch.  Mix  on  a  plate 
a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  repeatedly 
roll  the  perch  in  the  seasoning,  then  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for 
six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  mustard 
sauce  over,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

1107.    MUSTARD  SAUCE 

Place  three  tablespoons  of  good  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  a  bowl  with 
a  good  teaspoon  French  mustard,  a  saltspoon  each  finely  chopped  chives 
and  a  chervil.  Mix  all  well  together  and  use  as  required. 

1108.    CUCUMBERS,  BECHAMEL 

Peel  three  good-sized  fresh  cucumbers.  Cut  them  into  quarters, 
lengthwise,  remove  the  seeds,  then  cut  them  into  half-inch  pieces.  Mix 
in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons flour,  pour  in  a  gill  milk  and  a  half  gill  cream,  mix  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil  and  keep  hot  on  a  corner  of  the  range. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  cucumbers,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  gently  toss  and  briskly 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  add  to  the  sauce  with  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg;  mix  a  little,  boil  for  five  minutes  more,  pour  into  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

„  1109.    ROAST  GOSLING,  APPLE  SAUCE 

Cut  off  the  feet  and  neck  of  a  fat  six-pound  gosling  at  the  first  joint. 
Singe,  draw  and  truss,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan,  season  with  a  tablespoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Spread  two  tablespoons  fat  over  the 
breast,  pour  two  tablespoons  water  into  the  pan,  set  in  the  oven  to  roast 
for  one  and  a  half  hours,  turning  it  quite  frequently  and  basting  it  with 
its  own  gravy  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  untruss,  dress  on  a  large  dish, 
skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  bird.  Decorate 
with  a  little  watercress  and  send  to  the  table  with  an  apple  sauce  (No.  188) 
separately. 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 

Pettijohn  (170) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Reforme 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  (47) 

Brochette  of  Lamb,  Tomato  Sauce 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Curry  Cakes 

1 1 10.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  REFORME 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  sharply  beat  them 


322  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

up  for  a  minute.  Cut  in  julienne  shape  four  gherkins,  six  heads  canned 
mushrooms,  half  ounce  cooked  ham  and  a  very  small  truffle.  Place 
these  ingredients  in  a  large  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and 
gently  cook  for  three  minutec;  pour  in  the  beaten  eggs  with  a  tablespoon 
sherry,  mix  a  little  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  cook  for  six  minutes, 
briskly  mixing  meanwhile.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

mi.  BROCHETTE  OF  LAMB,  TOMATO  SAUCE 
Cut  out  a  pound  and  a  half  tender  leg  of  lamb  in  half-inch-square 
thin  pieces;  cut  out  also  the  same  quantity  and  size  salted  pork.  Season 
the  lamb  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  evenly  run 
alternately  the  pork  and  lamb  pieces  on  six  skewers,  lightly  roll  in  a 
tablespoon  oil,  then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler 
and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  pour  a  gill  of  hot 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  on  a  dish,  arrange  the  brochette  over  and  serve. 

1 1 12.    CURRY  CAKES 

Quarter  pound  sifted  flour,  two  raw  eggs,  half  ounce  fine  sugar, 
quarter  ounce  baking  powder,  saltspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  nutmeg, 
teaspoon  Indian  curry  powder  and  half  pint  cold  milk. 

Place  the  flour  in  a  bowl,  crack  in  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  salt, 
nutmeg,  curry,  baking  powder  and  milk,  and  mix  with  a  whisk  until 
thoroughly  thickened.  Lightly  butter  the  bottom  of  a  large  frying  pan 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  and  as  soon  as  the  pan  is  thoroughly  hot  pour 
in  the  preparation  with  a  two-and-a-half-inch  ladle,  four  cakes  at  a  time, 
and  fry  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish 
covered  with  a  napkin,  proceed  exactly  the  same  till  the  batter  is  fin- 
ished, and  serve  with  maple  syrup  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Crab  Meat,  Maryland 

Small  Goose  Patties 

Lima  Beans  (353) 

Chocolate  Omelette 

1113.    CRAB  MEAT,  MARYLAND 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  crab-meat  flakes  in  a  frying 
pan  with  half  gill  good  sherry;  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper,  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  place  the  pan  on  the 
fire  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  with  a  wooden 
spoon;  then  pour  in  two  gills  cream  and  a  half  gill  milk,  mix  a  little  and 
let  gently  boil  for  three  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  in  two  table- 
spoons cream  and  add  to  -the  crab  meat,  continually  mixing  with  a 
wooden  spoon  for  three  minutes  longer,  being  careful  not  to  allow  to 
boil;  remove  from  the  fire,  pour  in  a  tablespoon  good  brandy,  lightly 
mix,  and  serve  in  a  chafing  dish  or  a  soup  tureen. 

1114.    SMALL  GOOSE  PATTIES 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  patties,  prepared  exactly  as  per  No.  929. 
Pick  out  all  the  meat  you  can  from  the  goose  left  over  from  yesterday* 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  323 

cut  the  meat  into  small  dice-pieces;  cut  also  six  heads  canned  mushrooms 
and  one  very  small  truffle  into  small  squares.  Place  these  three  articles 
in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  or  port  wine.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  cook 
for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  of  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
and  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Mix  a  little,  then  gently  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes  longer.  Remove,  arrange  the  six  patty  crusts  on  a 
large  dish,  divide  the  stew  evenly  in  the  six  crusts,  place  the  covers  on 
top,  decorate  the  dish  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  immediately. 

1115.     CHOCOLATE  OMELETTE 

Place  three  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl,  add  three  ounces  sugar,  three  ounces 
grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  one  teaspoon  kirsch. 
Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  eight  fresh 
egg  whites,  with  a  well-cleaned  whisk  in  a  copper  basin,  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  add  the  whites  to  the  yolks ;  gently  mix  both  for  two  minutes.  Dress 
three-quarters  of  the  preparation  in  a  large,  cold  dish  to  an  omelette 
form.  Slide  a  fancy  dental  tube  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop 
the  rest  of  the  preparation  into  the  bag  and  with  it  nicely  decorate  the 
omelette.  Dredge  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  over  and  all  around 
it  and  set  the  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Re- 
move and  immediately  send  to  the  table.  (This  omelette  should  be  made 
only  at  the  very  last  moment.) 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Pure"e,  Crecy 

Baked  Bluefish,  au  Paprika 

Potatoes,  Polonaise  (1008) 

Capon,  Kabhul  French  Flageolets  (95) 

Cordons  Gratin,  Swiss 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Rice.  Orange  Pudding 

Candied  Oranges 

1116.    PURE"E,  CRECY 

Scrape  and  thoroughly  wash  six  medium,  very  red  fresh  carrots, 
finely  slice  and  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  two  sliced  onions,  two 
leeks  and  one  ounce  butter;  place  the  pan  on  the  range  and  let  gently 
brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  stir  frequently  with  a  spoon,  then  besprinkle 
with  two  ounces  flour;  stir  while  heating  for  three  minutes.  -  Moisten 
with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  add  two  branches  of  parsley 
and  one  branch  chervil,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  a  little  and  let  gently  boil 
for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  press  the  whole  through  a  sieve  into 
another  saucepan,  place  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  again,  then  add  half 
ounce  butter  and  one  gill  cream;  thoroughly  mix  while  boiling  for  two 


326  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

branch  chervil  and  two  branches  chives ;  add  to  the  shrimps,  mix  lightly. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  in  a 
deep,  hot  dish. 

1125.    CALF'S  TONGUE,  ITALIENNE 

Slice  and  place  in  a  braising  pan  half  a  carrot,  half  an  onion,  two 
sliced  leeks,  one  branch  each  celery  and  parsley,  with  one  bay  leaf 
and  one  clove,  adding  a  tablespoon  melted  lard;  gently  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Place  three  very  fresh  calves' 
tongues  over  the  vegetables.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a 
teaspoon  pepper.  Moisten  with  half  pint  water,  one  gill  demi-^lace 
(No.  122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  the  tongues,  carefully  skin  them, 
trim  neatly  and  split  in  two  lengthwise.  Arrange  in  a  baking  dish. 
Boil  the  sauce  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  a  saucepan,  adding  ten  finely  chopped,  canned  mush- 
rooms, two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  and  a  tablespoon  sherry;  thoroughly  mix,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  tongues.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  and  send  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 

1126.     CHESTNUTS  AU  FEU  DE  LUCIFER 

Slit  on  both  sides  thirty-six  large,  sound  Italian  chestnuts,  place  on 
a  roasting  pan  and  roast  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  and 
peel  them,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  two  ounces  sugar,  and  three  tablespoons 
rum.  Set  fire  to  rum  and  stir  with  a  spoon  until  the  flame  goes  out. 
Then  serve  in  the  same  bowl. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Consomme",  Ravioli 
Curried  Smelts  Hollandaise  Potatoes  (126) 

Oyster  Plant,  Poulette 
Tenderloin  Cutlets,  St.  Hilaire  (287)  Roast  Leg  of  Mutton  (552) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Charlotte  Russe  (939) 

1127.    CONSOMME",  RAVIOLI 

Strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  add  the  ravioli 
and  serve. 

H27A.    RAVIOLI 

Remove  the  stalks  and  thoroughly  wash  a  pint  fresh  spinach,  plunge 
in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  for  eight 
minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  finely  chop  them;  place 
them  in  a  bowl,  adding  one  ounce  very  finely  chopped,  cooked,  lean  ham. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg  and  one  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese; 
mix  well  for  a  minute,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  required. 

Sift  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  on  a  table,  make  a  fountain  in  the 
centre,  place  in  two  egg  yolks,  three  tablespoons  water  and  a  saltspoon 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH          327 

salt.  Knead  the  whole  well  for  ten  minutes,  then  let  rest  for  Jive  minutes. 
Roll  out  the  paste  on  a  lightly  floured  table,  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
with  a  round  pastry  cutter  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar  stamp  out  as  many 
as  you  can.  Arrange  a  teaspoon  of  the  spinach  preparation  in  the 
centre  of  one  piece,  lightly  wet  the  edges  with  cold  water  and  cover  it 
with  another  round  of  paste,  then  carefully  press  both  edges  together 
to  tightly  close  them.  Proceed  the  same  with  the  rest.  When  all  are 
finished  carefully  drop  them  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  up  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly 
drain  and  use  as  required. 

1128.    CURRIED  SMELTS 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  curry  sauce  (No.  54).  Cut  off  the  heads  of 
two  pounds  of  small  fresh  smelts  and  cut  them  into  half  inch  pieces; 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  a  gill  white  wine,  half  ounce  butter,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika.  Mix  them  gently.  Cover 
with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper;  place  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
pour  the  curry  sauce  over  smelts,  lightly  mix,  cook  on  range  for  five 
minutes,  and  serve  in  a  hot,  deep  dish. 

1129.    OYSTER  PLANT,  POULETTE 

Neatly  scrape,  remove  the  stalks  and  trim  well  a  bunch  of  fresh 
oyster  plants;  immerse  in  cold  water  with  two  tablespoons  vinegar  for 
five  minutes.  Remove,  drain,  and  cut  into  one-inch-long  pieces.  Place 
in  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  a  tablespoon  flour,  a  tablespoon 
salt  and  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Cover  the  pan  and  slowly  boil 
for  forty  minutes;  drain  on  a  sieve. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  four 
finely  chopped  shallots  and  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  mix 
in  two  tablespoons  flour;  moisten  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  broth  (No. 
701)  and  half  a  gill  of  milk.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Add  the  oyster  plants  and  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives. 
Mix  well  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile. 
Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add  to  the  oyster  plant, 
lightly  mix  and  serve  in  a  deep  vegetable  dish. 


Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Farina  (74) 

Omelette,  Soubise 
Fried  Oysters,  Tomato  Sauce 

Beef  Hash,  Zingara  (455)  Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Corn  Fritters  (566) 

1130.     OMELETTE,  SOUBISE 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely 
minced  white  onion  and  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes;  dredge  in  two 


328  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tablespoons  flour,  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  pour  in  one  gill 
milk  and  a  gill  cream,  constantly  mixing  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add 
to  the  sauce,  mix  well  and  keep  hot.  Prepare  a  plain  omelette  (No.  75), 
turn  on  a  baking  dish,  pour  the  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over;  place  in  a  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

1131.    FRIED  OYSTERS,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Lightly  roll  in  flour  twenty-four  large,  fresh-opened  oysters,  dip 
them  in  beaten  egg,  lightly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  towel, 
sprinkle  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six 
quarters  of  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  gill  of  hot 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Mussels,  Ancienne 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Cabaret  (245) 

Beignets  Souffle's  (790) 

1132.    MUSSELS,  ANCIENNE 

Thoroughly  scrub  and  wash  in  running  cold  water  sixty  very  fresh 
mussels,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt, 
cover  the  pan  and  let  steam  on  the  range  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove, 
drain  and  pick  them  out  from  the  shells,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  sprinkle  over  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives; 
arrange  six  thin  slices  of  raw,  lean  bacon  over  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  all.  Set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Olives  Caviare  (59)  ;/  » 

Puree  of  Lima  Beans 
Halibut,  Mornay  (164) 

Potatoes,  Indienne 

Squabs  Saute",  Sauce  Finnoise 

Green  Peas  with  Mint  (375) 

Roast  Saddle  of  Venison,  Currant  Jelly  (418) 

"Celery  Mayonnaise  (69) 
Chocolate  Ice  Cream  (523)         Ladyfingers  (150) 

1133.    PUR£E  OF  LIMA  BEANS 

Place  a  quart  of  drained,  canned  lima  beans  in  a  saucepan  with 
four  and  a  half  pints  water,  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  carrot,  two 
branches  parsley,  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  half  ounce  butter,  one  level 
tablespoon  salt,  and  briskly  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  329 

and  keep  the  broth.  Remove  the  onion,  carrot,  parsley,  clove  and 
bay  leaf.  Place  the  lima  beans  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp ;  replace 
them  in  the  saucepan  with  their  broth,  season  with  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  an  ounce  but- 
ter; lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  ounces  rice 
flour  in  one  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup;  lightly  mix  while  boiling 
for  two  minutes.  Remove,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23). 

1134.    POTATOES,  INDIENNE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  finely  chopped 
onion  and  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  add  one  teaspoon  curry  powder; 
stir  briskly  and  moisten  with  a  pint  water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  add  twelve  small,  peeled,  well-washed  pototoes,  cover  the  pan  and 
boil  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1135.    SQUABS  SAUTE,  SAUCE  FINNOISE 

Cut  off  the  necks  and  feet  of  six  fresh  squabs.  Split  open  through 
the  back  and  gently  flatten  with  a  cleaver  while  covered  with  a  coarse 
towel.  Season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  black  frying  pan,  place  the  squabs 
in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  them  for  eight  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  hot  Finnoise  sauce  (No.  251) 
over  them  and  serve. 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)         Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Madeira 

Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 

Devilled  Calf's  Liver  with  Bacon 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  (14) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1136.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  MADEIRA 

Place  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoons  good  sherry  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the 
sauce  into  six  cocotte  egg  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish, 
evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  place 
on  a  tin  and  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1137.  DEVILLED  CALF'S  LIVER  WITH  BACON 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  ou  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Roll  in  repeatedly  six  slices  fresh  calf's  liver  a  third  of  an  inch 
thick,  arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  three  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove  to  a  table,  evenly  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  on 
both  sides  of  each  piece,  arrange  on  the  broiler  again  and  broil  for  two 
minutes  more  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  place  six  thin  slices 
of  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  over  and  serve. 


330  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 
Eggs  Molet,  Bdarnaise 

Mutton  Saute",  Anglaise        Potatoes,  Fondantes  (56^ 
Apple  Yanssens 

1138.    EGGS  MOLET,  B^ARNAISE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  then  drop  them 
in  cold  water,  take  up  and  shell. 

Dress  the  eggs  on  a  deep,  hot  dish.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  over 
the  eggs  and  serve. 

1139.    MUTTON  SAUTE",  ANGLAISE 

Pick  all  the  lean  meat  from  the  leg  of  mutton  left  over  from 
Wednesday.  Cut  it  into  one-inch  squares  a  quarter-inch  thick.  Finely 
slice  two  white  onions  and  lightly  fry  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 
butter  for  eight  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  the  mutton. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg ;  toss  while  cooking  for  five  minutes ;  add  one  tablespoon 
flour,  briskly  stir,  add  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  half  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122).  Thoroughly  mix,  then  add  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
gently  mix  again  and  let  slowly  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

1140.    APPLE  YANSSENS 

Neatly  wipe  six  medium,  sound,  even-sized  apples.  Cut  them  into 
even  halves,  remove  the  seeds  and  stems,  lightly  prickle  the  inside  with  a 
fork  and  place  on  a  deep  dish ;  season  with  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoon vanilla  essence  and  two  tablespoons  rum ;  mix  well  in  the  season- 
ing and  let  infuse  for  thirty  minutes,  turning  once«in  a  while.  Arrange 
on  a  tin,  cut  side  upward,  spread  over  evenly  with  a  knife  blade  a  half 
tablespoon  good  butter  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  from  the  dish  on  which 
they  were  infused  over  them,  set  fire  to  the  rum  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Oyster,  Nassau 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel  (689)          Potatoes,  Persillades  (63) 
Lamb  Steaks,  Bordelaise  String  Beans,  Paloise 

Golden    Buck 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 
Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Malaga  Pudding  (309) 

1141.    BISQUE  OF  OYSTER,  NASSAU 

Finely  chop  three  medium  Bermuda  onions  and  boil  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  pint  milk  for  twenty  minutes.  Place  twenty-four  large,  freshly 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH    331 

opened  oysters  with  their  liquor  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  quart  and  a 
half  water,  three  branches  chopped  celery  and  two  branches  parsley, 
then  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  the  milk  pan.  Place  the  oysters  and  celery  in  a  mortar, 
pound  to  a  pulp  and  add  to  the  broth. 

Knead  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour  in  a  saucepan  with  one 
ounce  butter  and  heat  on  the  range  for  one  minute,  then  pour  the 
oyster  broth  into  this  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  a  gill  cream  and  half  an  ounce 
good  butter;  mix  well  for  two  minutes,  strain  through  a  sieve  into 
a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1142.    LAMB  STEAKS,  BORDELAISE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  steaks  from  a  tender  leg  of 
lamb.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  then  rub  them  with  a  teaspoon  of  oil,  arrange  on  the  broiler 
and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish, 
pour  a  hot  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28)  over  the  steaks,  sprinkle  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1143.    STRING  BEANS,  PALOISE 

Carefully  string  a  pint  and  a  half  fresh,  tender  string  beans; 
cut  in  two,  wash  thoroughly,  drain,  then  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling 
water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  boil 
for  forty  minutes.  Remove  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  place 
in  a  bowl,  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  add  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
chervil,  half  a  bean  finely  chopped  garlic  and  one  egg  yolk.  Mix 
well  with  a  fork  for  three  minutes,  place  them  in  a  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 

1144.    GOLDEN  BUCK 

Finely  chop  one  pound  very  rich,  soft  American  cheese.  Prepare 
six  very  fresh  poached  eggs  (No.  106)  and  keep  them  in  lukewarm  water 
until  needed. 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  toasts.  Pour  one  and  a  half  gills 
Bass'  ale  in  a  small  enamelled  pan  with  a  tablespoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  a  good  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  boil  drop  in  the  cheese  and  briskly  and  continually 
stir  with  a  small,  clean  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  thickened. 
Place  six  very  hot  shirred-egg  dishes  on  a  plate,  place  a  toast  in 
each  dish,  evenly  pour  the  preparation  over  the  six  toasts,  then  care- 
fully lay  a  poached  egg  on  top  of  each  and  immediately  send  to 
the  table. 


332  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges    (104) 
Oatmeal    Porridge  (2) 

Eggs,    Virginia 

Picked-up  Codfish  in  Cream  (922) 

Country  Sausages  (134) 

Griddle  Cakes  (136) 

1145.    EGGS,  VIRGINIA 

Boil  two  peeled,  sound,  small  potatoes  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  pint, 
water  with  half  teaspoon  salt.  Drain  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a 
bowl,  adding  a  gill  cream,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg and  a  teaspoon  fresh  butter;  thoroughly  mix  with  a  spoon.  Lightly 
butter  the  exterior  of  six  paper  cases,  lay  them  on  a  tin.  Divide  the  puree 
evenly  into  six  cases,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  case,  spread 
a  tablespoon  of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  over  each  case.  Set  them  in 
the  oven  to  bake  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  dress  them  on  a  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Jacques 

Minced  Turkey,  Creole 

Mashed  Brown  Potatoes  (813) 

Apricot   Tartlets  (161) 

1146.    OYSTERS,  JACQUES 

Cut  out  from  stale  sandwich  bread  six  quarter-inch  slices,  trim  the 
crusts  off,  then  cut  each  slice  into  four  even,  oval  pieces.  Lightly  toast, 
spread  a  little  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  over  each  and  place  on  a  dish. 
Broil  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  so  as  to  have  very  crisp,  six  very  thin 
slices  of  lean  bacon ;  cut  each  slice  into  six  equal  pieces,  arrange  a  piece 
on  top  of  each  toast  and  keep  hot 

Roll  twenty-four  large,  fresh-opened  oysters  in  flour,  heat  two  table- 
spoons of  oil  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  oysters  and  fry  for  three  minutes 
on  each  side.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  then  place  one  oyster  over  each  toast 
on  top  of  the  bacon.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over  the  oysters, 
place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  toss  until  a  light  brown,  then  pour 
over  the  oysters  and  serve. 

1147.    MINCED  TURKEY,  CREOLE 

Prepare  a  Creole  sauce  (No.  507)  and  keep  hot.  Pick  all  the  meat 
from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  slice  it  into  very  thin  slices, 
then  add  to  the  Creole  sauce.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  adding  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  lightly 
mix,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  into  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OP  MARCH          333 
DINNER 

Olives  Sardines 

Ministra,  Piedmontaise 

Broiled  Shad,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (194) 

Potatoes,  Villageois 
Boned  Leg  of  Mutton,  Don  Quichotte 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Gateau,  Charles 

1148.    SARDINES  FOR  HORS  D'OEUVRE 

Carefully  open  a  box  French  sardines  with  about  twelve  in  the  box. 
Place  six  nice  white  leaves  well-cleaned  lettuce  on  a  side  dish,  then 
arrange  the  sardines  on  the  leaves,  and  send  to  the  table  with  six  quarters 
lemon  arranged  on  the  leaves  as  well. 

1149.    MINISTRA,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Cut  in  very  small  square  pieces  one  small  red  carrot,  one  small  turnip, 
one  onion,  two  leeks  and  two  branches  of  celery  (white  part),  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  set  on  the  fire  and  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  water,  add  a  pound  shin  of  beef  and  a  pound  veal  bones,  season 
with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  Italian 
saffron.  Cover  the  pan,  let  gently  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes,  and  add 
one  ounce  raw  rice  and  two  ounces  raw  macaroni  cut  into  half-inch 
pieces.  Boil  again  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add  two  peeled  and  crushed, 
fresh  red  tomatoes  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  take  out  the 
beef  and  veal  bones,  cut  quarter  of  the  beef  into  same  shape  as  the  vege- 
tables and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley. 
Mix  a  little,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  send  to  the  table  with  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

1150.    POTATOES,  VILLAGEOIS 

Peel,  wash  and  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares  four  good-sized  potatoes; 
place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  pint  white  broth,  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  tie 
in  a  bunch  two  branches  parsley  and  a  clove  garlic  and  add  to  the 
potatoes;  cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  place  in  the  oven 
for  twenty  minutes  more.  Remove,  take  up  the  bouquet,  add  a  half 
tablespoon  good  butter  and  three  tablespoons  cream,  gently  mix  for  a 
minute,  pour  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1151.    BONED  LEG  OF  MUTTON,  DON  QUICHOTTE 

Entirely  bone  a  leg  of  tender  mutton  of  five  to  six  pounds;  season 
all  around  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Finely  chop  one  ounce  raw  veal  and  one  ounce  lean 
raw  pork,  place  both  in  a  clean  mortar,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  ground  allspice,  add  one 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  one  finely  chopped  bean  garlic  and  one  egg 


334  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

yolk.  Pound  to  a  very  smooth  paste,  then  spread  this  force  all  over 
the  inside  of  the  leg ;  tie  all  around  with  strings.  Heat  in  a  large  braizing 
pan  two  tablespoons  lard,  place  in  the  leg  and  brown  it  to  a  nice  colour 
all  over,  then  add  one  finely  minced  carrot,  two  sliced  onions,  one  clove 
garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  two  cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  twelve  allspice, 
one  sprig  thyme  and  half  a  tablespoon  whole  black  peppers.  Brown 
for  ten  minutes  more,  moisten  with  a  pint  of  water,  one  gill  red  wine, 
two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  braize  for 
one  hour.  Turn  it  over  and  baste  frequently  meanwhile.  Remove, 
arrange  the  leg  on  a  hot  dish,  untie  it  and  keep  hot.  Skim  the  fat 
from  the  surface  of  the  sauce  and  let  it  reduce  on  an  open  fire  for  twenty 
minutes;  strain  the  sauce  through  a  cloth  into  another  saucepan,  add 
twelve  finely  chopped  candied  cherries  and  half  gill  port;  boil  for  five 
minutes  more,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  leg  and  serve  very  hot. 

1152.     GATEAU,  CHARLES 

Shell  twelve  walnuts,  place  them  in  a  mortar  with  three  ounces  fine 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  an  orange;  pound  to  a  fine  pulp,  then  place 
in  a  tureen  with  four  egg  yolks;  beat  well  with  a  whisk  for  five  minutes. 
Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  yolks  and 
gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  a  half  minute;  add  two  ounces  of  sifted 
flour  and  mix  the  whole  together  for  one  minute  more.  Lightly  butter 
a  small  square  pastry  tin,  line  the  bottom  with  a  buttered  piece  white 
paper,  pour  in  the  preparation  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  pour  over  a  tablespoon  maraschino  and  a  table- 
spoon kirsch.  Let  cool  off  in  the  tin,  unmould,  tear  off  the  paper  and 
place  it  on  a  pastry  grill  with  a  tin  underneath  the  cake.  Place  in  a 
small  saucepan  two  ounces  glazed  sugar,  one  egg  white  and  a  tablespoon 
strawberry  syrup;  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  place  the  pan  on  the 
fire  and  heat  for  one  minute,  stirring  meanwhile.  Remove,  spread  this 
preparation  all  over  the  surface  of  the  cake,  let  cool  off,  dress  the  cake 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  '          Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Petits  Pains  au  Scrambled  Eggs 
Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (388) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347) 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 

Brioches  (878) 

1153.    PETIT  PAINS  AU  SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

Cut  the  covers  from  six  oval  French  breakfast  rolls,  scoop  out  the 
insides  without  disturbing  the  crusts;  place  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot, 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  335 

with  covers  on  the  plate  also.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add 
a  half  gill  milk,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Beat  them  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  stirring 
meanwhile ;  then  equally  divide  the  eggs  into  the  six  rolls,  place  the  covers 
on  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Lobster  Cutlets,  Ravigote 

Entrecote,  Soyer 
Sweet  Potato  Souffles 
Creme  au  Caramel  (480)  , 

1154.    LOBSTER  CUTLETS,  RAVIGOTE 

Prepare  a  lobster  force  meat  (No.  201),  divide  the  force  into  twelve 
equal  parts;  lightly  roll  in  flour  and  give  them  nice  cutlet  forms,  then 
dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  lay  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry 
in  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  pour  a  hot 
Ravigote  sauce  (No.  366)  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  cutlets,  one  over- 
lapping another,  over  the  sauce,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  the  end  of  each 
cutlet  and  serve. 

1155.  ENTRECOTE,  SOYER 

Procure  two  one-and-a-half-pound  entrecotes  of  the  sirloin  with 
bone  adhering.  Neatly  trim  and  gently  flatten  with  a  cleaver,  season  all 
around  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley.  Lightly  rub  with  a  tablespoon  butter,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side ;  re- 
move, place  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour  a  beefsteak  sauce  around  and  serve. 

1156.  BEEFSTEAK  SAUCE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122),  two  branches  each  freshly  chopped  parsley  and 
chervil,  four  branches  chives,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon;  lightly  mix 
and  let  boil  for  six  minutes,  add,  little  by  little,  half  ounce  good  butter, 
mix  well  and  use  as  directed. 

1157.    SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE'S 

Peel  six  even-sized,  sound,  dry  sweet  potatoes  and  neatly  trim  them 
into  even  squares;  then  cut  them  into  lengthwise  slices  the  thickness  of 
a  silver  dollar  and  plunge  them  into  hot  but  not  boiling  fat.  Lightly 
turn  with  a  skimmer  and  fry  for  seven  minutes,  occasionally  turning 
them;  remove,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  let  cool  off,  then  plunge 
again  in  boiling  fat  and  continually  turn  while  cooking  for  three  minutes ; 
remove,  thoroughly  drain,  place  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Sweet  potatoes  should  never  be  washed  when  prepared  this 
way,  and  special  care  should  be  taken  to  cut  them  in  as  near  even  slices 
as  possible. 


336  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)          Olives 

Consomme",  Talma 
Shad  Roes,  Blackford 

Chicken  Saute",  Monaco  Beignets  of  Cauliflower 

Aiguillettes  of  Beef,  Milady 

Punch,  Anisette 
Roast  Grouse,  Currant  Jelly  (167) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Raspberry  Ice  Cream  Langue  de  Chats  (890) 

1158.    CONSOMME",  TALMA 

Prepare  and  strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme  (No.  52)  and 
keep  hot.  Plunge  two  ounces  sweet  almonds  and  two  single  bitter  ones 
in  a  pint  boiling  water  for  five  minutes;  drain,  peel  and  pound  them  in 
the  mortar  to  a  paste.  Pour  in  two  gills  cold  milk,  mix  well,  then  strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl.  Place  one  egg  in  another  bowl, 
adding  two  other  yolks;  briskly  beat  up  for  a  minute,  then  gently  mix 
in  the  almond  milk.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  mix  for  a  minute,  then  pour  the  preparation  into  three 
small,  lightly  buttered  pudding  moulds,  place  in  a  small  frying  pan, 
pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height  and  set  in  the  oven  with  door  open 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  unmould,  cut  into  thin  slices, 
add  to  the  consomme*  and  boil  for  a  minute.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

1159.    SHAD  ROES,  BLACKFORD 

Season  all  over  two  very  fresh  shad  roes  of  one  pound  each  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  then  gently  roll  them  in  flour. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  roes,  one  beside  another, 
and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Re- 
move with  a  skimmer  and  lay  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish. 

Cut  two  peeled  potatoes  into  small  dice  pieces,  wash  and  drain  well, 
then  arrange  around  the  roes.  Finely  chop  six  well-cleaned,  fresh 
mushrooms,  two  branches  chervil,  one  branch  parsley,  half  bean  sound 
garlic,  three  shallots  and  half  a  green  pepper.  Sprinkle  this  mixture 
evenly  over  the  roes,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  moisten  with  a  gill  white  wine  and  half  gill  water;  cover 
the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  set  on  the  range  for  two  minutes, 
then  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  divide  a  half 
ounce  fresh  butter  in  small  bits  over  the  roes,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a 
quarter  lemon  over  all  and  serve. 

1 1 60.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  MONACO 

Cut  necks  and  feet  off  two  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Singe  and  draw  and  cut  each  into  six  even  pieces.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  oil  in  a  large  frying  pan,  add  the  chicken,  season  with  a 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  337 

teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  briskly  brown  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Add  two  ounces  of  lean,  raw  ham  cut  into 
small  squares,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes  more.  Remove 
the  oil  from  the  pan,  moisten  with  a  half  gill  claret,  let  reduce  for  six 
minutes,  then  pour  in  a  gill  of  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  mix  a  little  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  one  finely 
sliced,  small  truffle,  twelve  fresh  tarragon  leaves,  and  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  chives;  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes  more, 
remove  from  the  fire,  take  up  the  chickens  with  a  fork  and  place  on  a 
large  dish;  boil  the  sauce  for  five  minutes  more  and  pour  it  over  the 
chickens;  arrange  six  heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  90)  around  the. dish 
and  serve. 

1161.    BEIGNETS  OF  CAULIFLOWER 

Pare  off  the  stalk  and  green  leaves  of  a  large,  fresh  white  cauliflower; 
place  it  in  a  large  saucepan,  cover  with  water,  add  a  tablespoon  salt  and 
a  gill  of  milk;  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain,  detach  the  flowers 
from  the  main  stalk  and  place  them  on  a  plate,  add  a  tablespoon  oil,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  in  the 
seasoning  and  let  stand  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Prepare  a  batter  for  fritters  (No.  204).  Carefully  turn  each  piece  of 
cauliflower  into  the  batter  and  drop,  one  by  one,  into  boiling  fat  and 
fry  for  ten  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  them  with  a  skimmer  once  in 
a  while.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth,  trim  them  well,  place 
on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

Il62.      AlGUILLETTES   OF  BEEF,   MlLADY 

Cut  out  from  a  two-pound  filet  of  beef  six  equal  pieces ;  remove  the  fat, 
neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten;  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  carefully  lard  the  top  of  each  with  four  very 
thin  strips  larding  pork;  thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  an 
earthen  pan,  place  the  aiguillettes  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and 
cook  briskly  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Cut  three  medium,  red 
tomatoes  into  quarters.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  and  arrange  them  all  around  the  aiguillettes. 
Finely  chop  two  branches  of  parsley  with  half  a  bean  sound  garlic  and 
dredge  it  over  the  beef  and  tomatoes.  Cover  the  pan  and  briskly  cook 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  on  the  same  dish. 

1163.    PUNCH,  ANISETTE 

Prepare  a  lemon  water  ice  (No.  376).  Pour  two  tablespoons  anisette 
into  the  lemon  ice  in  the  freezer,  mix  well  with  the  spatula  and  serve  in 
six  sherbet  glasses. 

1164.    RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

Have  a  vanilla  preparation  (No.  42),  and  when  cooked  remove  from 
the  fire.  Press  through  a  sieve  into  the  preparation  a  half  pint  preserved 
raspberries,  mix  well,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  freezer,  then 
proceed  to  finish  freezing  as  per  vanilla  ice  cream  and  serve  the  same. 


338  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Rice  and  Milk  (464) 

Fried  Eggs,  Robinson 

Kippered  Herring  (153) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

Sweet  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Waffles  (296) 

1165.    FRIED  EGGS,  ROBINSON 

Remove  the  gall  from  six  chicken  livers  and  cut  them  into  small 
squares.  Heat  a  light  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan.  Season  with 
two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  brown  for  five 
minutes;  drain  off  the  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  pour  in  two  table- 
spoons sherry,  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6) ;  boil  for  five  minutes.  Lightly  butter  a  small  frying  pan,  then 
carefully  crack  in  two  fresh  eggs.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half 
saltspoon  white  pepper  and  fry  for  three  minutes.  Glide  on  a  large,  hot 
dish  and  proceed  to  prepare  five  more  portions  in  same  manner.  Pour 
the  liver  preparation  over  them  and  serve. 

1 1 66.    SWEET  POTATOES  IN  CREAM 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  five  medium,  sweet  potatoes;  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  quart  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the  pan  and  boil 
for  forty  minutes,  drain,  cut  into  quarter-inch  squares;  place  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  half  ounce  good  butter,  one  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream,  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  a  saltspoon  each  salt  and  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallops  en  Brochettes,  with  Ham  (624) 
Veal  Pot  Pie,  Hongroise 
Orange  and  Apple  Salad 

1167.    VEAL  POT  PIE,  HONGROISE 

Cut  into  inch-square  pieces  three  and  a  half  pounds  shoulder  of  veal, 
place  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika  and 
saltspoon  ground  thyme;  repeatedly  turn  the  pieces  in  the  seasoning; 
heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  the  veal  and  briskly 
brown  for  ten  minutes.  Add  a  bean  sound  garlic,  one  carrot  and  one 
white  turnip,  cut  into  quarter-inch  squares,  and  twelve  very  small  white 
onions  previously  lightly  browned  in  a  little  butter;  let  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  besprinkle  with  two  tablespoons 
flour;  stir  a  little,  moisten  with  a  pint  water  and  a  pint  pure  tomato  juice. 
Tie  together  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley  and 
two  bay  leaves  and  add  to  the  stew.  Cut  two  medium,  washed  and 
peeled  potatoes  into  half-inch-square  pieces  and  also  add  to  the  stew; 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH          339 

lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  fifty  minutes;  remove, 
take  up  the  herbs,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface.  Cut  an  ounce  lean, 
raw  bacon  into  thin  squares  and  fry  in  a  pan  with  a  teaspoon  lard  to  a 
nice  brown;  drain  and  add  to  the  veal;  lightly  mix.  Transfer  the  veal 
into  a  large  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley 
over,  roll  out  very  thin  a  half-pound  pie  paste  (No.  117),  lightly  egg  the 
edges  of  the  dish,  arrange  the  paste  over  and  press  down  with  the  fingers 
around  the  edges;  trim  well,  make  a  few  incisions  with  a  knife  in  the 
centre,  lightly  egg  the  surface,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

1 1 68.    ORANGE  AND  APPLE  SALAD 

Peel  and  core  three  sound  apples  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices; 
place  them  in  a  bowl.  Peel  and  carefully  skin  three  medium,  juicy 
oranges,  cut  into  thin  slices,  remove  the  seeds  and  place  them  with  the 
apples.  Season  with  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  a  tablespoon  each 
rum,  kirsch  and  maraschino;  mix  well,  then  keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
needed.  Mix  well  again  just  before  serving. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Caviare  (59) 

Pure"e  of  Tomato  and  Celery 

Broiled  Pompano,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (228) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Rump  of  Beef,  Bernoise 

Fried  Eggplants  (460) 
Roast  Goose,  Apple  Sauce  (I'IOQ) 
Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Rum  Jelly 

1169.    PURE"E  OF  TOMATO  AND  CELERY 

Cut  two  small  stalks  celery  into  small  pieces,  wash  thoroughly  and 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  four  pints  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes;  strain  the  liquor  into  a  basin,  then  pound 
the  celery  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp  and  return  it  to  the  broth.  Place  a 
mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
butter  and  brown  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring; 
sprinkle  over  one  ounce  flour,  mix  well,  add  a  pint  fresh  crushed  or 
canned  tomatoes  and  pour  in  the  celery  broth,  etc.  Season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  tablespoon  sugar;  mix  well, 
cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Remove,  strain  through 
a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  basin,  add  an  ounce  butter,,  lightly  mix,  then 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

1170.    RUMP  OF  BEEF,  BERNOISE 

Procure  a  three-pound  slice  round  of  beef,  season  it  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  keep  on  a  dish. 

Plunge  a  quarter  pound  spaghetti  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes;  drain,  cut  into  small 


340  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pieces  and  return  them  to  the  same  pan,  but  without  water.  Place  an 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  with  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  toss 
on  the  fire  until  a  light  brown  colour,  and  pour  it  over  the  spaghetti 
with  an  ounce  grated  Swiss  and  half  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese; 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  mix  well. 

Plunge  six  even-sized  green  peppers  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes, 
lift  up,  cut  a  small  round  piece  off  at  the  bottom  of  each ;  scoop  out  the 
interiors  and  fill  them  up  with  spaghetti,  place  the  covers  on  and  lay 
them  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin ;  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove 
and  keep  warm. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan, 
lay  the  beef  in  it  and  cook  for  twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
place  it  on  a  large  dish.  Place  in  the  same  pan  one  finely  chopped  onion 
and  six  well-trimmed  fresh  okras  cut  into  slices;  cook  them  for  eight 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Pour  half  gill  claret  and  one  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  over,  add  half  a  sound,  crushed  bean  garlic  and  one 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley;  mix  a  little,  boil  for  seven  minutes, 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  rump  of  beef,  arrange  the  peppers  around  and 
serve  very  hot. 

1171.    RUM  JELLY 

Melt  one  ounce  gelatin  leaves  with  one  and  a  half  pints  warm  water 
in  a  saucepan,  add  half  pound  granulated  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
and  mix  well  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  whites  of  three  beaten  eggs ; 
mix  for  a  minute,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  gently  stir,  and  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  a  gill  cold  water;  shift  the  pan  on  a  corner  of  the 
range  and  let  slowly  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  skim  the  white  scum 
from  the  surface  and  strain  the  jelly  through  a  jelly  bag  of  fine  cloth 
into  a  bowl,  add  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  rum,  mix  for  half  a  minute 
and  let  cool  off.  Fill  up  a  quart  mould  with  the  jelly  and  place  the  mould 
on  the  ice  and  let  freeze  for  one  hour,  or  until  the  jelly  is  well  set ;  care- 
fully immerse  the  mould  in  lukewarm  water,  immediately  lift  it  up,  wipe 
well  all  around,  turn  it  upon  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Fifth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Compote  of  Pears 

Hominy  (45) 
Omelette,  Italienne 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Tomato  Sauce  (55) 
Puffs  (313) 

1172.    COMPOTE  or  PEARS 

Open  a  pint  can  of  preserved  pears.  Arrange  them  on  a  compotier. 
Pour  the  syrup  into  a  small  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
one  ounce  sugar  and  half  a  cinnamon  stick;  let  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
remove  the  cinnamon,  pour  the  syrup  over  the  pears  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  341 

1173.    OMELETTE,  ITALIENNE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  half  a  finely  chopped 
onion  and  brown  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile;  pour  in  a 
teaspoon  sherry,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6).  Finely  chop  up  six  heads  canned  mushrooms  and  add  to  the 
sauce  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley;  lightly  mix  and  let 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Prepare  a  plain  omelette  (No.  75),  turn  it  upon 
a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Villeroi 

Gosling  Hash  en  Bordure 

Brussels  Sprouts  Salad 

Pumpkin  Pie  (492) 

1174.    OYSTERS,  VILLEROI 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons flour;  pour  in  two  gills  milk,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  half 
ounce  finely  chopped,  cooked  lean  ham,  half  ounce  finely  chopped, 
cooked  beef  tongue,  two  chopped  canned  mushrooms,  half  a  finely 
chopped  truffle,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil 
and  let  cook  for  five  minutes ;  shift  the  pan  to  a  corner  of  the  range. 

Thoroughly  wipe  twenty-four  large,  fresh-opened  oysters,  then 
plunge  them  into  the  sauce ;  place  the  pan  on  the  table  and  let  stand  for 
five  minutes,  lift  up  one  by  one  with  a  larding  needle,  arrange  one  beside 
another  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin  and  let  cool  off.  Roll  in  flour,  then  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  gently  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes,  remove,  thoroughly  drain, 
dredge  half  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them  and  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded 
napkin.  Decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1175.    GOSLING  HASH  EN  BORDURE 

Detach  all  the  meat  from  the  gosling  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
cut  it  into  small  dice  pieces.  Peel  and  core  two  green,  good-sized  apples, 
cut  them  in  pieces  same  size  as  the  meat,  and  place  both  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  a  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122). 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and 
grated  nutmeg;  place  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  occasion- 
ally mixing  meanwhile.  Finely  chop  together  two  branches  chervil 
and  the  leaves  from  a  branch  of  tarragon  and  add  to  the  hash;  lightly 
mix  and  remove  to  the  table. 

Prepare  a  brioche  potato  preparation  (No.  91).  Slide  a  dentilated 
fancy  tube  to  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag;  drop  the  potatoes  into  the  bag 
and  make  a  nice  border  around  the  edge  of  a  baking  dish  by  pressing  the 
pure*e  down  with  the  hands.  Place  the  hash  in  the  centre  of  the  dish, 


342  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  fresh  bread  crumbs  over,  place  half  an  ounce 
butter  in  little  bits  over  the  hash  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1176.    BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SALAD 

Trim  the  outer  leaves  off  a  pint  of  fresh  Brussels  sprouts,  thoroughly 
wash  and  keep  in  a  quart  cold  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  for  thirty 
minutes;  drain  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts 
boiling  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for 
forty  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  let  them  stand  on  it  in  a  cool  place — 
not  on  the  ice — until  cooled  off.  Place  them  in  a  salad  bowl,  season 
with  four  tablespoons  of  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives  Salted  Devilled  Almonds  (954) 

Cressoniere,  Illinoise 
Filet  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce  (487) 

Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Mutton  Chops,  Sauce  Fermiere  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Bombe  Souveraine 

1177.    CRESSONIERE,  ILLINOISE 

Remove  all  the  leaves  from  a  bunch  of  fresh  watercress,  plunge  and 
keep  them  in  fresh  water  till  required.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce 
melted  butter,  adding  one  pound  raw  chicken  bones,  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
one  small  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  the  water- 
cress stalks,  two  cloves  and  one  bay  leaf;  brown  very  gently  for  fifteen 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  quarts 
hot  water  or  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix 
and  let  boil  for  fifty  minutes.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter, 
drain  and  add  the  watercress  leaves,  then  continually  stir  while  cooking 
for  three  minutes.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan, 
add  two  ounces  raw  rice  and  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes  more.  Dilute 
one  egg  yolk  in  one  gill  cream,  add  to  the  soup,  and  constantly  mix  with 
the  spatula  while  heating  without  boiling  for  three  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  soup  tureen,  add  six  small  slices  toasted  French  bread  and  serve. 

1178.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  SAUCE  FERMIERE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  mutton  chops.  Season  all  over 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  chops,  one  beside  another,  and 
fry  rather  slowly  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one 
overlapping  another,  crown-like,  pour  a  hot  Fermiere  sauce  over  them 
and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH        343 

1179.    FERMIERE  SAUCE 

Neatly  peel  and  finely  chop  four  sound  shallots,  and  hash  also  very 
finely  half  an  ounce  very  lean,  raw  bacon;  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  brown  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring 
meanwhile;  drain  the  fat  from  the  pan;  add  a  gill  demi-glace  (No. 
122),  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  and  a  tablespoon  of  capers ;  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Remove  and  use  as  stated. 

Il8o.      BOMBE   SOUVERAINE 

Prepare  a  pint  only  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Boil  a  gill  water  in  a 
small  enamelled  pan,  add  half  ounce  best  quality  tea,  cover  the  pan  and 
let  stand  on  a  table  to  infuse  until  required.  Place  five  egg  yolks  in  a 
copper  basin  with  two  ounces  sugar;  place  the  basin  on  a  corner  of  the 
range  and  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  eight  minutes.  Take  from  the  range, 
set  the  basin  on  the  ice,  and  briskly  mix  with  the  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  cold.  Then  strain  the  tea  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this 
basin,  mix  a  little,  then  add  a  half  pint  whipped  cream  and  gently  mix 
with  a  skimmer.  Set  a  bomb-shaped  quart  mould  on  the  ice.  Line 
the  bottom  and  sides  with  the  prepared  vanilla  ice  cream,  fill  up  the 
interior  with  the  tea  preparation,  line  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper, 
tightly  cover;  bury  it  in  the  vanilla  ice-cream  pail,  with  plenty  of  ice  and 
rock  salt  around,  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Take  up,  dip  in  lukewarm 
water  for  a  few  seconds,  unmould  upon  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Fifth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Pettijohn  (170) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Sweet  Corn 

Haddock,  Meuniere 

Mutton  Kidneys  Saute,  Madeira  Sauce  (452) 

Potatoes,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (312) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1181.    SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  SWEET  CORN 

Open  a  pint  can  sweet  corn,  place  half  the  quantity  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  half  gill  cream  and  one  light  tablespoon  good  butter.  Season 
with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  gently  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  evenly  divide  the  corn  into 
six  shirred-egg  dishes;  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish, 
season  them  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  place  the  dishes  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove  and  serve 
very  hot. 

1182.    HADDOCK,  MEUNIERE 

Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  three 
three-quarter-pound  slices  fresh  haddock.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one 


342  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  fresh  bread  crumbs  over,  place  half  an  ounce 
butter  in  little  bits  over  the  hash  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1176.    BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SALAD 

Trim  the  outer  leaves  off  a  pint  of  fresh  Brussels  sprouts,  thoroughly 
wash  and  keep  in  a  quart  cold  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  for  thirty 
minutes;  drain  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts 
boiling  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for 
forty  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  let  them  stand  on  it  in  a  cool  place — 
not  on  the  ice — until  cooled  off.  Place  them  in  a  salad  bowl,  season 
with  four  tablespoons  of  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives  Salted  Devilled  Almonds  (954) 

Cressoniere,  Illinoise 
Filet  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce  (487) 

Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Mutton  Chops,  Sauce  Fermiere  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Bombe  Souveraine 

1177.    CRESSONIERE,  ILLINOISE 

Remove  all  the  leaves  from  a  bunch  of  fresh  watercress,  plunge  and 
keep  them  in  fresh  water  till  required.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce 
melted  butter,  adding  one  pound  raw  chicken  bones,  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
one  small  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  the  water- 
cress stalks,  two  cloves  and  one  bay  leaf;  brown  very  gently  for  fifteen 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  quarts 
hot  water  or  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix 
and  let  boil  for  fifty  minutes.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter, 
drain  and  add  the  watercress  leaves,  then  continually  stir  while  cooking 
for  three  minutes.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan, 
add  two  ounces  raw  rice  and  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes  more.  Dilute 
one  egg  yolk  in  one  gill  cream,  add  to  the  soup,  and  constantly  mix  with 
the  spatula  while  heating  without  boiling  for  three  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  soup  tureen,  add  six  small  slices  toasted  French  bread  and  serve. 

1178.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  SAUCE  FERMIERE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  mutton  chops.  Season  all  over 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  chops,  one  beside  another,  and 
fry  rather  slowly  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one 
overlapping  another,  crown-like,  pour  a  hot  Fermiere  sauce  over  them 
and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH        343 

1179.    FERMIERE  SAUCE 

Neatly  peel  and  finely  chop  four  sound  shallots,  and  hash  also  very 
finely  half  an  ounce  very  lean,  raw  bacon;  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  brown  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring 
meanwhile;  drain  the  fat  from  the  pan;  add  a  gill  demi-glace  (No. 
122),  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  and  a  tablespoon  of  capers ;  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Remove  and  use  as  stated. 

Il8o.      BOMBE   SOUVERAINE 

Prepare  a  pint  only  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Boil  a  gill  water  in  a 
small  enamelled  pan,  add  half  ounce  best  quality  tea,  cover  the  pan  and 
let  stand  on  a  table  to  infuse  until  required.  Place  five  egg  yolks  in  a 
copper  basin  with  two  ounces  sugar;  place  the  basin  on  a  corner  of  the 
range  and  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  eight  minutes.  Take  from  the  range, 
set  the  basin  on  the  ice,  and  briskly  mix  with  the  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  cold.  Then  strain  the  tea  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this 
basin,  mix  a  little,  then  add  a  half  pint  whipped  cream  and  gently  mix 
with  a  skimmer.  Set  a  bomb-shaped  quart  mould  on  the  ice.  Line 
the  bottom  and  sides  with  the  prepared  vanilla  ice  cream,  fill  up  the 
interior  with  the  tea  preparation,  line  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper, 
tightly  cover;  bury  it  in  the  vanilla  ice-cream  pail,  with  plenty  of  ice  and 
rock  salt  around,  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Take  up,  dip  in  lukewarm 
water  for  a  few  seconds,  unmould  upon  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Fifth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Pettijohn  (170) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Sweet  Corn 

Haddock,  Meuniere 

Mutton  Kidneys  Saute,  Madeira  Sauce  (452) 

Potatoes,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (312) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1181.    SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  SWEET  CORN 

Open  a  pint  can  sweet  corn,  place  half  the  quantity  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  half  gill  cream  and  one  light  tablespoon  good  butter.  Season 
with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  gently  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  evenly  divide  the  corn  into 
six  shirred-egg  dishes;  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish, 
season  them  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  place  the  dishes  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove  and  serve 
very  hot. 

1182.    HADDOCK,  MEUNIERE 

Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  three 
three-quarter-pound  slices  fresh  haddock.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one 


344  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  a  half  tablespoons  butter,  lightly  roll  the  steaks  in  flour  and  add  to 
the  pan  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up  with  the 
skimmer,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  spinal  bones,  squeeze  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  over,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  all 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Onion  Soup  au  Gratin 

Coquille  of  Frogs'  Legs 
Epigrammes  of  Lamb  with  Peas 
Pineapple  Fritters  au  Maraschino 

1183.    ONION  SOUP  AU  GRATIN 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  a  bowl  and  keep  hot. 
Cut  three  medium  onions  in  halves  and  finely  slice  them.  Heat  an 
ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  onions  and  brown  for  fifteen  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Then  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and 
a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  lightly  mix,  pour  in  the  consomme,  mix  a 
little,  then  let  gently  simmer  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Transfer  the  soup 
into  an  earthen  soup  tureen  and  arrange  six  slices  lightly  toasted  French 
bread  on  top.  Dredge  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan,  mixed  with  an 
ounce  grated  Swiss  cheese,  over  all.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1184.      COQUILLES   OF   FROGS '   LEGS 

Neatly  trim  off  the  claws  and  bodies,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect 
legs,  of  two  pounds  very  fresh  frogs'  legs.  Cut  each  leg  in  two  and 
keep  on  a  plate.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  pour  in  one  gill  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cream. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper. 
Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  keep  hot.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  legs,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  pepper  and  "cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
ten  minutes,  frequently  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
the  legs,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  mix  well  and  cook 
for  five  minutes  more.  Divide  the  legs  into  six  table  shells,  evenly 
dredge  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  divide  a  half  tablespoon 
butter  in  small  bits  over  them;  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

1185.    EPIGRAMMES  OF  LAMB  WITH  PEAS 

Carefully  pare  six  fine  French  lamb  chops.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  turn  them  in  melted  butter, 
then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Boil  a  breast  of  lamb 
in  two  gallons  water,  add  a  mirepoix  (No.  271),  season  with  two  table- 
spoons of  salt  and  cook  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Lift  up  the  breast, 
pick  out  all  the  bones  from  the  meat,  place  the  breast  between  two  coarse 
towels,  lay  a  heavy  weight  on  top  of  the  meat  and  let  stand  in  that  condi- 
tion for  thirty  minutes ;  remove  the  weight  and  towels,  then  cut  the  breast 


WEDNESDAY,   FIFTH   WEEK  OF  MARCH          345 

into  six  equal  heart-shaped  pieces,  slightly  roll  them  in  melted  butter, 
then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  four  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a 
large  frying  pan,  place  the  chops  and  breasts,  one  beside  another,  in  the 
pan  and  gently  cook  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up  with  a 
skimmer,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth,  pour  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  on  a  hot  dish;  arrange  the  chops  and  breasts  alternately,  one 
overlapping  another,  crown-like,  on  the  tomato  sauce;  adjust  a  paper 
frill  at  the  end  of  each  chop,  place  green  peas  (No.  35)  in  the  centre  of 
the  crown  and  serve. 

1 1 86.    PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS  AU  MARASCHINO 

Remove  the  stalks,  peel  and  cut  out  all  the  eyes  of  a  small,  sound 
pineapple.  Core  and  cut  into  even  slices,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two 
ounces  sugar  and  three  gills  water;  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  take  up  the 
slices  with  the  skimmer  and  drain  them  on  a  cloth,  reduce  the  sauce  to 
half  the  quantity  on  the  range,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  of  maraschino 
and  keep  warm. 

Prepare  a  batter  for  fritters  (No.  204).  Roll  the  pineapples  in  the 
batter,  then  plurfge  in  boiling  fat,  one  by  one,  and  fry  for  ten  minutes, 
turning  once  in  a  while  with  a  skimmer.  Lift  them  up,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
neatly  trim,  pour  the  maraschino  sauce  on  a  dish  and  dress  the  pine- 
apples over;  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 


DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Caviare  (159) 

Potage,  Allemande 

Carp,  Sauce  Genevoise  Potatoes,  Bordelaise 

Loin  of  Veal,  Champeau 

String  Beans  (139) 

Redhead  Duck,  Currant  Jelly  (37) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Pudding,  Menagere 

1187.    POTAGE,  ALLEMANDE 

Cut  one  medium  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  onion,  two  leeks  and  two 
branches  of  celery  into  extremely  small  square  pieces.  Place  these  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  hot  water,  one  ounce  butter,  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan,  set  on  the 
range,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  place  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  add  two  tablespoons  of  asparagus  tips  and  three 
tablespoons  of  barley  (boiled  in  a  pint  of  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
for  forty  minutes  and  drained)  and  keep  hot. 

Knead  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  ounces  flour;  heat 
for  one  minute,  then  add  one  pint  milk  and  two  and  a  half  pints  white 
broth  (No.  701).  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes,  then  add 
the  above  vegetables;  boil  for  ten  minutes,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  again  and  serve. 


346  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1188.     CARP,  SAUCE  GENEVOISE 

Scale,  trim  the  fins  and  neatly  wipe  a  three  to  three-and-a-half  pound 
carp.  Place  in  a  large  saucepan  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one 
sliced  leek,  two  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme,  two 
cloves,  a  gill  vinegar,  one  gallon  water  and  a  tablespoon  salt;  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  fish.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for 
forty  minutes.  Lift  up  the  carp  with  two  skewers,  place  on  a  large 
hot  dish,  drain  the  water  from  the  dish,  and  if  any  of  the  vegetables, 
etc.,  adhere  to  the  fish  also  remove  them.  Pour  a  Genevoise  sauce  over 
the  fish  and  serve. 

1189.    SAUCE,  GENEVOISE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  half  a  sliced  carrot,  half  a  sliced  onion,  half  ounce 
raw,  lean  ham,  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme,  one 
clove,  a  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper,  one  clove  garlic  and  two  branches 
parsley,  adding  one  tablespoon  butter;  neatly  brown  the  vegetables  for  ten 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Add  one  gill  claret  and  one  gill  of  the  fish 
broth.  Let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122) ;  mix  a  little  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
strain  the  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl  and  use  as  required. 

1190.    POTATOES,  BORDELAISE 

Peel  four  medium,  sound,  raw  potatoes.  Finely  slice  them  and 
wash  in  cold  water;  drain,  plunge  them  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five 
minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth.  Heat  one. light  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  adding  one  finely  chopped  white  onion  and  cook  for 
three  minutes.  Add  the  potatoes,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper,  toss  well  and  slowly  fry  them  for  twenty  minutes, 
frequently  turning  them  meanwhile.  Dredge  over  half  a  teaspoon  of 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  toss  a  little,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1191.    LOIN  OF  VEAL,  CHAMPEAU 

Procure  a  fine  piece  loin  of  veal  with  kidney.  Trim  off  the  spine 
bone  as  well  as  the  fat,  fold  up  the  flap  over  the  kidney,  firmly  tie  with 
string,  place  in  a  braizing  pan,  with  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  garlic,  one  ounce  finely  sliced  salt  pork 
and  one  tablespoon  freshly  crushed,  whole  black  pepper;  add  two  table- 
spoons melted  lard.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  let  brown  on  the 
fire  for  ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  pint  broth  and  two  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122).  Boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  braize  for  one 
hour  and  ten  minutes,  turning  and  basting  it  quite  frequently  meanwhile. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  untie,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  then 
strain  the  gravy  into  another  saucepan;  add  to  it  twelve  finely  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  reduce  it  for  ten  minutes,  range  a  puree  of  chestnuts 
(No.  1019)  at  each  end  of  the  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  veal  and  serve. 

1192.    PUDDING,  MENAGERE 

Peel,  core  and  mince  three  medium,  sound  apples.  Place  in  a  vessel 
with  three  ounces  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces  sugar,  two  ounces  well- 


THURSDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  347 

picked  currants,  one  ounce  chopped  candied  lemon  peel,  two  tablespoons 
brandy  and  half  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon.  Mix  all  well.  Crack  in 
three  fresh  eggs,  pour  in  two  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream;  mix  well  with 
the  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Lightly  butter  and  sugar  a  quart 
pudding  mould,  pour  in  the  preparation,  lay  it  in  a  saucepan  with  hot 
water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould.  Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
forty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  coffee  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

1193.     COFFEE  SAUCE 

Pound  one  ounce  best  quality  fresh  roasted  coffee  beans  in  a  mortar 
to  a  fine  dust.  Have  a  gill  boiling  milk  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  the 
coffee,  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  two  minutes;  remove  the  pan  from 
the  fire,  let  stand  on  a  table  for  ten  minutes,  place  three  egg  yolks  in  a 
small  saucepan  and  add  two  .ounces  of  fine  sugar.  Strain  the  coffee 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  egg  pan,  pour  in  a  light  gill  cream,  briskly 
mix  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  continually 
mix  for  five  minutes  while  heating  without  boiling,  remove,  strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  and  use  as  required. 


Thursday,   Fifth  Week  of  March 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Wheatena  (1298) 

Poached  Eggs,  Argenteuil 
Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Pig's  Feet  (434)  Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

Cinnamon  Cakes 

1194.    POACHED  EGGS,  ARGENTEUIL 

Open  a  pint  can  of  asparagus  tips.  Drain  off  the  liquor  and  plunge 
the  asparagus  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Drain,  then 
press  them  through  a  sieve  into  the  same  saucepan,  but  dry.  Add  one 
tablespoon  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  a  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper.  Stir  well  while  heating  on  the  fire  for  three 
minutes  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs,  as  per  No.  106,  but  no  toasts.  Arrange 
the  pure*e  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  poached  eggs  on  top  and  serve. 

1195.    CINNAMON  CAKES 

Half  pound  sifted  flour,  two  raw  eggs,  half  ounce  powdered  sugar, 
quarter  ounce  baking  powder,  one  saltspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  ground 
cinnamon  and  half  pint  cold  milk.  Place  the  flour  in  a  bowl,  crack  in 
the  eggs,  add  sugar,  salt,  cinnamon,  baking  powder  and  milk.  Mix 
with  a  whisk  until  thoroughly  thickened. 

Lightly  grease  a  large  frying  pan  with  a  little  melted  lard,  and  as  soon 
as  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  thoroughly  hot  immediately  pour  in  the 


548  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

preparation  using  a  two-and-a-half-inch  ladle,  making  four  at  a  time,  and 
cook  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  cover 
with  a  napkin,  proceed  to  prepare  the  others  in  exactly  the  same  way, 
and  serve  with  maple  syrup  and  sugar  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (3134) 
Stewed  Crabs,  Creole 

Sans  Gene 

Potato  Souffles 

Mince  Pie  (117-118) 

1196.    STEWED  CRABS,  CREOLE 

Prepare  a  Creole  sauce  (No.  507)  and  keep  hot.  Place  one  and  a 
half  pounds  very  fresh  crab  meat  in  a  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons 
sherry  and  half  ounce  butter.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Lightly  mix  and  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Pour  the  Creole  sauce  over  the  crab  meat,  mix  a  little 
and  let  gently  boil  for  ten  minutes,  dress  on  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

1197.    SANS  GENE 

Cut  into  very  small  dice  pieces  one  pound  raw  beef,  half  pound  raw 
lean  veal  and  a  quarter  pound  raw,  lean  ham.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  two  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  hashed 
carrot,  a  branch  chopped  celery  and  cook  on  the  fire  to  a  light  brown. 
Place  the  hashed  meat  in  the  pan.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  blade  of  foelie.  (Foelie  is  the  leaf  of  a 
dried  nutmeg,  much  used  in  Holland  and  other  lowland  countries.) 
Moisten  with  pint  and  a  half  white  broth  (No.  701),  lightly  mix.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  gently  cook  for  one  hour.  Place  four  egg  yolks  in  a 
bowl,  mix  well  with  a  whisk,  then  gradually  strain  the  broth  of  the 
meat  over  the  eggs.  Mix  well  with  the  whisk  for  a  minute,  then  pour 
this  into  the  hash;  mix  well,  lightly  butter  a  large,  flat  pudding  mould, 
pour  the  preparation  into  the  mould,  place  the  mould  on  a  pastry  tin, 
pour  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould.  Set  in  the  oven 
for  thirty  minutes,  remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1198.    POTATO  SOUFFLES 

Carefully  select  six  medium,  flat,  oval-shaped,  dry,  raw  potatoes; 
neatly  peel,  trim  square,  then  cut  into  lengthwise  slices  the  thickness  of  a 
silver  dollar.  Plunge  them  one  by  one  into  hot  fat,  but  far  from  being 
up  to  a  boiling  point,  and  fry  them  for  four  minutes,  taking  care  to  turn 
them  with  a  skimmer  meanwhile.  Remove  with  the  skimmer,  place 
them  in  a  frying  basket  and  let  stand  for  five  minutes.  Thoroughly 
heat  the  fat,  that  is,  see  that  it  thoroughly  boils,  then  plunge  the  potatoes 
in  the  basket  and  constantly  shake  while  frying  for  two  minutes.  Take 
up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MARCH  349 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyon  Sausage  (582) 

Semolina  and  Sorrel 
•»  Smelts,  Toulouse 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Larded  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Tomato  Sauce 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Capon  (378) 
Celery  Mayonnaise  (69) 
Neselrode  Pudding  (607) 

1199.    SEMOLINA  AND  SORREL 

Prepare  and  strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme*  (No.  52). 
Remove  the  stalks  and  stale  leaves,  if  any,  from  a  quart  fresh  sorrel; 
thoroughly  wash,  drain  and  cut  into  julienne  strips;  gradually  sprinkle 
two  ounces  of  semolina  into  the  consomme,  briskly  mixing  while  adding 
it;  drop  in  the  sorrel,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  occasion- 
ally mixing  meanwhile.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1200.    SMELTS,  TOULOUSE 

Neatly  wipe  twelve  good -sized,  fresh  smelts,  place  them  in  a  sautoire 
with  half  ounce  butter  and  a  light  gill  white  wine.  Season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper;  boil  for 
three  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  keep 
hot. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  and  heat  for  a  half  minute.  Pour  the  fish  liquor 
into  this  pan  with  a  gill  of  cream  and  a  half  gill  milk.  Season  with  a 
saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Add  six  sliced, 
canned  mushrooms,  six  very  thin  slices  truffles  and  twelve  round  fish 
quenelles ;  lightly  mix  and  let  gently  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  a  table- 
spoon sherry,  mix  a  little,  dress  the  smelts  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

1 201.    FISH  QUENELLES  FOR  GARNISHING 

Place  one  and  a  half  ounces  fresh  codfish  or  halibut  in  a  mortar  with 
an  egg  white  and  pound  to  a  paste ;.  remove  from  the  mortar,  press 
through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl,  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  salt- 
spoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  with  a  table- 
spoon, add  little  by  little  a  half  gill  cream,  continually  mixing  while 
adding  it.  With  a  sheet  of  white  paper  make  a  cornet,  then  drop  the 
preparation  into  the  cornet ;  cut  off  a  very  small  piece  of  the  cornet  at  the 
bottom  as  an  opening,  press  down  the  force  into  a  lightly  buttered  tin  to 
the  size  and  form  of  small  cranberries,  pour  in  sufficient  hot  water  to 
cover  them  entirely  and  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt;  place  the  tin  on 
the  fire  and  let  boil  for  half  a  minute,  remove  from  the  tin.  drain,  keep 
on  a  plate  and  use  as  directed. 


350  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1202.    LARDED  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Prepare  and  place  a  mirepoix  in  a  small  roasting  pan  (No.  271). 
Neatly  trim  and  lard  the  top  of  a  two-and-a-half-pound  sirloin  of  beef. 
Place  it  over  the  mirepoix  in  the  pan,  baste  it  all  over  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  lard,  pour  two  tablespoons  water  into  the  pan.  Season  the  beef 
with  a  light  tablespoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Set  the 
pan  in  a  brisk  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  and  basting  it  fre- 
quently. Remove,  dress  the  sirloin  on  a  large  dish,  decorate  with  a 
little  watercress;  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy;  remove  and  place  the 
vegetables  jn  a  small  saucepan,  pour  in  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Mix  a  little,  boil  briskly  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a 
sauce  bowl  and  send  to  the  table  with  the  sirloin  separately. 

Friday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 

Semolina  (192) 

Baked  Eggs,  Lucernoise 

Spanish  Mackerel,  aux  Fines  Herbes 

Broiled  Devilled  Bacon  (682) 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1203.    BAKED  EGGS,  LUCERNOISE. 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  remove,  drop  in  cold  water 
for  one  minute,  take  up,  then  shell  them.  Cut  each  into  four  even  slices 
lengthwise.  Mix  and  heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  add  two  gills  hot  milk,  two  ounces  grated 
Swiss  cheese,  half  an  ounce  fresh  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Place  half  the  quantity  of  the  eggs  at  the  bottom  of  a  lightly 
buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  half  of  the  sauce  over  the  eggs,  spreading 
it  well;  arrange  the  rest  of  the  eggs  over  the  cream  sauce,  then  cover  with 
the  balance  of  the  sauce.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 
on  top.  Divide  half  ounce  of  butter  in  little  bits  over  the  crumbs.  Set 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1204.     SPANISH  MACKEREL,  AUX  FINES  HERBES 

Neatly  trim,  cut  the  head  off  of  a  two-pound  fresh  Spanish  mackerel. 
Split  in  two,  remove  the  spinal  bone.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Lightly  wet  with  a  little  milk,  roll 
in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place 
in  the  fish  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  small  lemon  over. 
Dredge  over  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  a  quarter  teaspoon 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  3^1 

chopped  chervil  and  a  quarter  teaspoon  chopped  chives.     Pour  the 
butter  from  the  pan  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Omelette  with  Spinach 

Fresh  Codfish  Tongues,  Poulette 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage  (438) 

Strawberry  Tartlets 

1205.    OMELETTE  WITH  SPINACH 

Remove  stalks  and  stale  leaves  from  a  pint  fresh  spinach,  thoroughly 
wash  and  drain,  plunge  into  a  pint  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  press  out  all  the  water  with  the 
hands,  and  chop  up  exceedingly  fine.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
half  ounce  butter,  half  a  gill  cream,  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  a  teaspoon 
sugar  and  a  saltspoon  white  pepper;  stir  well  while  heating  for  two 
minutes. 

Prepare  a  plain  omelette  (No.  75),  and  just  before  folding  up  spread 
over  a  third  of  the  quantity  of  the  spinach;  fold  up,  turn  the  omelette 
upon  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  rest  of  the  spinach  at  both  ends  of  the  dish, 
and  serve. 

1206.    FRESH  CODFISH  TONGUES,  POULETTE 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  codfish  tongues  in  frying  pan 
with  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  water,  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Lightly  mix,  then  cover  with  a 
sheet  of  buttered  paper  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Set  in  the  oven  for 
ten  minutes.  Heat  half  teaspoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  lightly  brown  for  three  minutes,  adding  two  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Stir  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  strain 
liquor  of  the  tongues  into  this  pan,  adding  half  gill  hot  milk  and  half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  olives;  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes, 
then  pour  sauce  into  the  pan  with  the  tongues.  Mix  a  little  and  let  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  egg  yolk  with  half  gill  cream  and 
a  tablespoon  sherry  and  add  to  the  tongues;  carefully  stir  while  heating 
for  one  minute,  pour  into  a  deep,  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1207.    STRAWBERRY  TARTLETS 

Prepare  and  bake  six  small  tartlet  crusts  exactly  as  per  No.  161. 
Pick  off  the  stems  and  rapidly  wash  and  drain  on  a  cloth  forty-eight 
medium,  fresh  strawberries,  place  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  fine  sugai 
and  a  quarter  gill  rum.  Turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning,  then  place 
eight  strawberries  in  each  crust.  Pour  the  remaining  seasoning  over 
the  tartlets  evenly,  place  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  spread 
a  teaspoon  strawberry  jelly  over  each  tartlet,  take  up  from  the  mould, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


352  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Mussels 

Shad  Roe,  Seville 

Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Boiled  Fowl,  Indienne 

Artichokes,  Barigoule 

Apple  Omelette 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Cocoanut  Pudding  (274) 

1208.  BISQUE  OF  MUSSELS 

Procure  forty-eight  large  fresh  mussels,  wash  thoroughly  and  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  quarts  water  and  six  branches  parsley, 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  keep  the  broth.  Remove 
the  mussels  from  the  shells  and  finely  chop  them  up.  Heat  one  ounce 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  ounces  flour,  stir  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  then  add  the  mussels,  broth  and 
a  pint  and  a  half  milk.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  for  two  minutes, 
then  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  add 
half  ounce  butter  in  small  bits  and  a  half  gill  cream ;  mix  well  for  two 
minutes,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  basin,  then  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

1209.  SHAD  ROE,  SEVILLE 

Cut  into  very  fine  one-inch  julienne  strips  a  small,  very  red  carrot, 
one  medium,  white  onion  and  one  green  pepper;  place  in  a  large  frying 
pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  place  the  roes  on  top  of  vegetables,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cover  the  roes 
with  a  plate,  and  let  sweat  beside  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Moisten 
with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  adding  a  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron.  Cover  again 
with  the  plate  and  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
take  up  the  roes  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  add  six  finely 
minced  canned  mushrooms  and  six  cooked  shrimps  cut  in  small 
pieces  to  the  sauce,  lightly  mix,  boil  for  four  minutes;  add  half  ounce 
good  butter  in  small  bits,  lightly  mix  again,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  roes 
and  serve. 

1 2 10.    BOILED  FOWL,  INDIENNE 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  of  a  tender,  three-and-a-half-pound 
fowl.  Singe,  draw,  keeping  the  liver  and  heart.  Brown  in  a  small 
frying  pan  half  a  small  white  onion,  finely  chopped  up,  with  a  teaspoon 
butter,  then  place  the  onion  in  a  bowl.  Finely  chop  the  liver  and  heart, 
and  add  to  the  bowl  with  half  ounce  finely  chopped  fresh  beef  marrow, 
three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  milk  and  one  raw 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  353 

egg.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  three  saltspoons  salt 
and  a  saltspoon  thyme.  Mix  well,  stuff  the  fowl  with  this  force,  neatly 
truss,  lay  it  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the 
bird,  adding  one  carrot,  one  onion,  two  leeks,  three  branches  celery  and 
two  branches  parsley.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  a  teaspoon 
curry  powder,  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  one  hour.  Remove  all  the 
vegetables  from  the  pan,  add  six  ounces  raw  rice,  cover  the  pan  again 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  rice  on  a  large 
hot  dish,  untruss  the  fowl  and  lay  it  on  the  rice,  pour  a  curry  ^sauce 
(No.  54)  over  and  serve. 

1 21 1.    ARTICHOKES,  BARIGOULE 

Cut  off  the  stalks  and  under  leaves  of  three  good-sized  young  French 
artichokes.  Trim  the  sharp  points  with  scissors,  then  plunge  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  a  quart  water  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a 
sieve  and  let  cool  off.  Remove  the  inner  leaves  and  scoop  out  the 
artichokes.  Brown  six  finely  chopped  shallots  in  a  teaspoon  butter  for 
three  minutes.  Grate  two  ounces  larding  pork  and  hash  six  heads  of 
mushrooms.  Place  shallots,  pork  and  mushrooms  in  a  bowl,  adding  a 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  quarter  teaspoon  chopped  chives; 
add  one  level  teaspoon  flour  and  a  tablespoon  butter,  season  with  two 
saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg. Mix  well,  and  with  this  fill  up  the  artichokes  evenly.  Arrange  a 
thin  slice  fat  pork  on  top  of  each,  tie  them  with  string  to  their  perfect 
forms,  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  saucepan  with  thin  slices  larding 
pork,  lay  in  the  artichokes,  pour  a  teaspoon  oil  on  top  of  each  and  add 
to  the  pan  two  branches  parsley  and  a  clove  sound  garlic.  Season 
with  two  saltspoons  each  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with  a  gill  white 
wine  and  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701).  Cover  the  pan  and  set 
in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes,  frequently  basting  with  its  juice. 
Remove,  dress  the  artichokes  on  a  hot  dish,  untie  and  remove  the  slices 
of  lard.  Strain  the  gravy  into  another  saucepan,  skim  all  the  fat 
from  the  surface  and  add  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122). 
Reduce  the  sauce  on  an  open  fire  to  one  gill,  then  pour  it  over  the 
artichokes  and  serve. 

1 21 2.    APPLE  OMELETTE 

Peel,  core  and  cut  into  small  dice  pieces  two  very  sound  apples. 
Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  season  with 
a  saltspoon  salt  and  a  tablespoon  sugar.  Beat  up  with  a  fork  for 
two  minutes.  Heat  a  teaspoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the 
apples  and  briskly  fry  them  for  five  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while; 
drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a 
minute ;  fold  up  the  two  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for 
one  minute,  then  turn  it  out  on  a  hot  dish;  sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
sugar  and  pour  a  good  quarter  gill  rum  over,  set  fire  to  the  rum  and 
serve. 


354  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 
Rice  Flour  and  Milk  (464) 
Scrambled  Eggs,  Bordelaise 

Oyster  Fritters 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172) 

Saratoga  Chips  (156) 

Honey  Cakes 

1213.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  BORDELAISE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a 
fork  for  one  minute. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  four  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  gently  brown  for  three  minutes,  pour  in  half  gill  claret  and 
half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Reduce  on  the  range  until  nearly  dry, 
then  drop  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  mixing 
with  the  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Pour  them  into  a  hot,  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

1214.     OYSTER  FRITTERS 

Finely  chop  twenty-four  large,  freshly  opened  oysters.  Place  in  a 
bowl,  add  two  ounces  flour,  half  teaspoon  each  baking  powder  and 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  crack  in  two  eggs,  adding  three  tablespoons 
cold  milk;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  mix  for  five  minutes.  Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  a  large 
frying  pan,  and  with  the  aid  of  a  spoon  drop  the  preparation  into  the  pan 
in  round  cake  forms  of  two  inches  in  diameter;  fry  for  three  minutes 
on  each  side,  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth. 
Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  over,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

1215.    HONEY  CAKES 

Quarter  pound  sifted  flour,  two  raw  eggs,  one  tablespoon  honey, 
half  ounce  powdered  sugar,  quarter  ounce  baking  powder,  one  saltspoon 
salt,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  pint  of  cold  milk. 

Place  the  flour  in  a  bowl,  crack  in  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  honey, 
salt,  nutmeg,  baking  powder  and  milk.  Mix  with  a  whisk  until  thor- 
oughly thickened.  Lightly  grease  the  bottom  of  a  large  frying  pan  with 
a  little  melted  lard  and,  as  soon  as  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  thoroughly 
hot,  with  a  two-and-a-half-inch  ladle  immediately  pour  in  the  prep- 
aration, making  four  at  a  time,  and  cook  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on 
each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  cover  with  a  napkin,  then  proceed 
exactly  the  same  till  the  preparation  is  finished,  and  serve  with  maple 
syrup  separately. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  355 

LUNCHEON 

Canap^  Lorenzo  (538) 

Mironton  of  Beef  (398) 

Potatoes  au  Lard 

Creme  au  The 

1216.    POTATOES  AU  LARD 

Cut  into  small  squares  two  ounces  salt  pork  and  one  white  onion, 
place  both  in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  butter  and  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile;  add  six  medium,  peeled  and  washed 
raw  potatoes,  cut  into  half-inch  squares,  and  one  bay  leaf;  moisten  with 
a  half  pint  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  the  pan  in  the  hot  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1217.    CREME  AU  THE 

Place  two  tablespoons  best  quality  tea  in  a  hot  teapot,  pour  over  a 
gill  boiling  water  and  let  infuse  for  twenty  minutes. 

Place  two  egg  yolks  and  a  whole  egg  in  a  bowl,  add  three  ounces 
sugar,  mix  a  little,  then  strain  the  tea  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this 
bowl,  adding  two  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream.  Briskly  whisk  for  two 
minutes,  strain  the  preparation  through  the  cheesecloth  into  six  individual 
pudding  moulds,  place  in  a  roasting  tin,  pour  hot  water  in  the  tin  up 
to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds,  and  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Ambassadeur 

Whitefish,  Saute* 

Potatoes,  Brabant 

Beef  Tongue  Braise1,  Gendarme  (229) 

Cauliflower,  Cream  Sauce 
Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (127) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Choux  a  la  Creme  (335) 

1218.    POTAGE,  AMBASSADEUR 

Plunge  half  pint  split  green  peas  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes. 
Thoroughly  drain,  replace  in  the  pan  with  three  quarts  water,  add  one 
sliced  carrot,  one  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two 
peeled  potatoes,  one  bean  garlic,  two  branches  parsley  and  a  two- 
ounce  piece  salt  pork.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer  for  one 
and  a  half  hours.  Cut  a  small  carrot,  small  turnip,  the  white  part  one 
leek  and  one  small  white  onion  in  exceedingly  small  squares.  Place 
them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  three  tablespoons  raw  rice,  a  pint  water, 
half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  lightly 


356  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

mix,  cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for 
thirty  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  hot.  Strain  the  puree  of  peas 
through  a  sieve  into  another  saucepan,  add  the  contents  of  the  vegetable 
pan  to  the  soup,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Remove  the 
stalks  and  wash  half  pint  fresh  sorrel,  cut  into  thin  julienne  strips,  add 
to  the  soup  with  a  tablespoon  sugar  and  half  ounce  good  fresh  butter; 
mix  well,  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  more,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

1219.    WHITEFISH,  SAUTE" 

Pare  off  the  fins  and  cut  off  the  head  of  a  very  fresh  whitefish  of  three 
pounds.  Split  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spine  bone,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Baste  all  around 
with  two  tablespoons  cold  milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  the  fish  in  it  and  fry  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon  over,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  on  top,  pour  the  butter 
from  the  pan  over  the  fish  and  serve  with  a  little  parsley  greens. 

1220.    POTATOES,  BRABANT 

Peel,  wash  and  cut  into  half-inch  squares,  four  medium,  sound  pota- 
toes, wash  again  and  drain.  Place  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  add  three  tablespoons 
melted  lard,  place  them  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes,  turning 
over  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

1 22 1.     CAULIFLOWER,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Trim  off  the  outer  leaves,  cut  off  the  stalk,  clean  and  wash  well  a 
fine,  large,  firm  head  white  cauliflower.  Have  a  gallon  of  water  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  a  gill  of  milk  and  a  tablespoon  salt,  and  as  soon  as 
the  water  boils  add  the  cauliflower,  cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  for  forty 
minutes.  Remove,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish,  pour  a  hot 
cream  sauce  (No.  736)  over  and  serve. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 
Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs,  Ravigote 

Fried  J3melts,  Tomato  Sauce  (527) 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1222.    EGGS,  RAVIGOTE 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  exactly  the  same  as  No.  106.  When 
placed  on  the  toasts  pour  a  hot  ravigote  sauce  (No.  366)  over  them 
and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  357 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Lobster  Saut£  in  Cream 

Broiled  Squabs  on  Toast  (950) 

Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 

Madeleine  au  Rhum 

1223.    LOBSTER  SAUTE"  IN  CREAM 

Plunge  three  live  lobsters  of  one  pound  each  into  a  gallon  boiling 
water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool 
off.  Crack  the  shells  from  the  bodies  and  claws,  pick  out  all  the  meat 
you  can  and  cut  the  meat  into  half-inch  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  lobster,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  paprika  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  then  cook  the  lobster 
for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Besprinkle  with  two 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  for  a  minute,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
one  and  a  half  gills  cream  and  half  gill  milk.  Carefully  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  pour  into  a  deep  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

N.  B.  Thoroughly  clean  the  body  shells  and  save  for  Wednesday 
luncheon. 

1224.    MADELEINE  AU  RHUM 

Break  four  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces  sugar  and 
sharply  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  four  ounces  sifted 
flour  with  three  tablespoons  rum  and  gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one 
minute.  Add  two  ounces  clarified  butter,  a  saltspoon  baking  powder,  and 
mix  again  for  half  a  minute.  Lightly  butter  a  pastry  tin,  line  the  bottom 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  then  pour  in  the  preparation  and  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  turn  the  madeleine 
upon  a  table,  take  off  the  paper,  cut  it  into  six  even  pieces,  sprite  a 
little  powdered  sugar  over,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and 
serve. 

DINNfcR 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Creme  Aurore 

Brook  Trout  au  Bleu  Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Filets  Mignons,  Wright 

Baked  Tomatoes  (841) 

Sweetbreads  Braise,  with  New  Carrots 

Green  Peas  (35) 

Orange  Punch 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Tutti  Frutti  (726) 

1225.    CREME  AURORE 

Open  a  pint  can  green  asparagus  tips,  drain  and  save  the  liquor 
Place  the  tips  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  melted  butter  and  cook  for 


358  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

ten  minutes,  then  mash  the  tips  with  a  wooden  spoon  in  the  pan.  Mois- 
ten with  one  and  a  half  quarts  broth  or  water  and  the  liquor  of  the 
asparagus,  adding  one  minced  onion,  two  cloves  and  two  branches 
parsley.  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  slowly  boil  for 
thirty  minutes;  add  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16);  mix  a  little.  Mix 
in  another  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  ounces  flour  for  two 
minutes,  then  add  the  soup  to  this  pan,  with  half  pint  milk,  mix  well 
and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon 
sugar  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper;  mix  well.  Dilute  two  egg 
yolks  with  one  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup  with  half  ounce  butter. 
Mix  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  remove,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a 
basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1226.    BROOK  TROUT  AU  BLEU 

Procure  three  medium,  live  brook,  trout  and  keep  in  a  basin  with 
plenty  fresh  water.  Have  in  a  saucepan  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced 
onion,  two  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  two  gills  good  vinegar  and  one  gallon 
cold  water.  Season  with  one  tablespoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  With  the  left  hand  take  hold  of  a  trout,  by  the  head  only, 
hold  it  down  on  a  board  and  close  the  eyes  with  the  fingers,  then  with 
the  point  of  a  knife  in  the  right  hand  break  the  spinal  bone  at  the  end 
of  the  body  near  the  tail.  With  the  knife  cut  it  open  through  the  belly 
and  remove  the  intestines,  still  holding  the  fish  by  the  head  and  being 
careful  never  to  touch  the  body  of  the  fish  with  the  fingers.  Lay  the 
trout  on  a  plate,  pour  a  good  tablespoon  of  vinegar  over,  then  proceed 
the  same  with  the  two  others.  Put  the  trout  in  boiling  water  and  let 
boil  for  five  minutes,  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  let  rest  on  a  table 
for  five  minutes.  Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  the  dish  with  parsley  and  six  quarters 
lemo$  and  serve. 

1227.    FILETS  MIGNONS,  WRIGHT 

Cut  out  from  two-pound  filet  of  beef  six  equal  pieces;  lightly  flatten 
and  neatly  trim,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper 
and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Finely  chop  ten  peeled  and  thor- 
oughly cleaned  medium,  fresh  mushrooms;  place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  and  lightly  brown  for  eight  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  a  tablespoon  flour  and  stir 
well ;  pour  in  one  gill  cream  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  season  with  two 
teaspoons  salt,  one  saltspopn  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  keep  hot.  Prepare 
six  tartlet  crusts  (No.  161),  evenly  divide  the  mushroom  preparation 
into  them  and  lay  on  a  hot  dish.  Briskly  fry  the  six  filets  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  for  three  minutes  on  each  side,  then  place 
them  on  top  of  the  tartlet  crusts.  Pour  a  freshly  prepared  hot  Bearnaise 
sauce,  as  per  No.  34,  over  the  filets,  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  of  truffle  on 
top  of  each  and  serve  hot. 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  359 

1228.    SWEETBREADS  BRAISE",  WITH  NEW  CARROTS 

Soak  in  cold  water  for  two  hours  six  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33). 
Lay  a  thin  slice  larding  pork  on  top  of  each  and  tie  with  string.  Scrape 
and  wash  twelve  new  carrots,  place  them  in  an  earthen  cocotte  dish 
with  six  finely  chopped  shallots  and  half  ounce  butter ;  lay  the  breads  on 
top,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and 
cook  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  gill  white  wine  and 
a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Turn 
and  baste  the  breads  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  untie,  take  off  lard  and 
skim  fat  from  surface  of  gravy.  Finely  chop  a  quarter  bean  garlic, 
one  branch  parsley,  one  branch  of  chervil  and  add  to  the  breads;  lightly 
mix,  then  cook  for  four  minutes  longer  and  serve  in  the  same  cocotte 
dish. 

1229.    ORANGE  PUNCH 

Place  in  a  basin  half  pound  granulated  sugar  and  one  quart  luke- 
warm water.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  of  two  each  lemons  and  oranges,  add 
the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
five  minutes.  Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  small  ice-cream 
freezer,  cover  the  freezer,  bury  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt 
and  freeze  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Divide  into  six  sherbet  glasses  and 
serve. 

Monday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Chevreuse 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  in  Milk 

Country  Sausages  (134) 

Mashed  Potatoes  (178) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330 

1230.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  CHEVREUSE 

Split  on  both  sides  fifteen  large,  sound  Italian  chestnuts,  place  in  a 
roasting  pan  and  roast  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and 
skin  with  a  coarse  towel,  place  in  saucepan  with  half  pint  water,  cover 
the  pan  and  briskly  cook  for  twenty  minutes;  drain,  press  through  a 
sieve  into  a  frying  pan,  adding  a  gill  cream  and  a  tablespoon  sherry. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and 
half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Divide  this  puree  into  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  evenly.  Crack  two  fresh 
eggs  into  each  dish.  Season  them  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove 
and  serve. 

1231.    BOILED  SALT  MACKEREL  IN  MILK 

Soak  a  good-sized  salt  mackerel  in  fresh  water  over  night.  Drain 
on  a  cloth  and  place  in  a  sautoire  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  milk 


360  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  gently  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Small  Clam  Patties 

Garnished  Sauerkraut 

Rice  Imperatrice 

1232.    SMALL  CLAM  PATTIES 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  patties,  exactly  the  same  as  per  No.  929. 
Place  thirty-six  freshly  opened  little  neck  clams  in  a  small  saucepan,  with 
their  own  liquor,  half  pint  water,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches 
parsley  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  boil  for  six  minutes. 
Remove  the  celery  and  parsley,  strain  the  broth  into  a  bowl  and  keep 
the  clams  on  a  plate.  Wipe  the  saucepan  in  which  the  clams  were 
boiled,  place  in  a  half  ounce  melted  butter  and  one  ounce  flour,  set  on 
the  fire  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  two  minutes, 
then  pour  in  one  gill  clam  broth,  one  gill  milk,  one  gill  cream,  two  salt- 
spoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  constantly  mix  with  the  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boiling  point, 
then  add  the  clams,  mix  a  little  and  cook  for  five  minutes  more.  Dilute 
one  egg  yolk  with  two  tablespoons  cold  cream,  add  the  clams  and  mix 
while  heating  for  two  minutes  more.  Remove,  dress  the  patties  on  a 
large  dish,  evenly  divide  the  clams  into  them,  place  the  covers  on  and 
serve  very  hot. 

1233.    GARNISHED  SAUERKRAUT 

Wash  in  two  different  fresh  waters  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  imported 
sauerkraut,  strain  on  a  sieve,  press  the  sauerkraut  between  the  hands 
so  as  to  remove  the  water  entirely  from  it.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  brais- 
ing pan  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  place  in  two  small,  red,  sound 
peeled  carrots,  one  small  white  onion  and  six  peeled,  well- washed  medium 
potatoes.  Arrange  half  the  quantity  of  sauerkraut  on  top  of  the  vege- 
tables, lay  a  pound  piece  lean  salt  pork  and  one  small  cervela  sausage 
on  top  of  the  sauerkraut.  Cover  them  with  the  rest  of  the  sauerkraut. 
Tie  in  a  small  cloth  twenty-four  allspices,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  bean 
garlic,  then  place  it  on  top  of  all.  Arrange  a  few  thin  slices  larding  pork 
on  top.  Moisten  with  one  pint  sweet  cider,  half  pint  white  wine  and 
half  pint  water;  tightly  cover  the  pan,  place  on  the  range  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  Remove, 
lift  up  the  cover,  take  up  the  lard  (and  cloth)  on  top ;  place  all  the  sauer- 
kraut (but  not  the  other  ingredients)  in  a  dome-shaped  mould,  pressing 
it  a  little,  then  turn  upon  a  large  hot  dish.  Cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices 
and  arrange  on  top  of  the  sauerkraut.  Cut  the  carrots  and  cervela  in 
slices,  then  place  them  one  beside  another  alternately  against  the  sauer- 
kraut, at  the  bottom,  and  arrange  three  potatoes  at  each  end  of  the  dish. 
Plunge  six  frankfurter  sausages  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  for  five 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  361 

minutes,  drain,  arrange  them  all  around  the  dish,  pour  a  little  gravy 
from  the  pan,  if  any,  over  all  and  serve  very  hot. 

1234.    RICE  IMPERATRICE 

Thoroughly  wash  three  ounces  of  good  rice  in  several  changes  of 
fresh  water,  drain  it  thoroughly,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  pint  and 
a  half  cold  milk,  a  saltspoon  salt,  one  vanilla  stick  and  five  ounces  of 
granulated  sugar.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  at  the  bottom  with  a  wooden 
spoon  frequently  to  prevent  burning;  shift  the  pan  to  the  corner  of  the 
range.  Cut  in  small  dice  pieces  six  candied  cherries,  two  candied 
apricots,  two  candied  pears,  and  add  them  to  the  rice  with  two  table- 
spoons kirsch;  mix  well,  then  add  two  egg  yolks  and  mix  well  again  for 
five  minutes.  Remove  to  the  table,  take  up  the  vanilla  bean  (wipe  it 
and  keep  in  fine  sugar  for  further  use),  add  one  gill  of  whipped  cream 
to  the  rice  and  gently  mix.  Lightly  wet  a  quart  pudding  mould  with 
cold  water,  drop  in  the  rice,  then  set  the  mould  in  a  basin  with  cracked 
ice  around  and  let  cool  off  for  two  hours.  Remove,  wipe  the  mould, 
unmould  upon  a  cold  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  (141) 

Soup  au  Lard,  Me'nagere 

Bass  a  la  Biere 
Potatoes  Parisienne  (711) 
Tendrons  of  Veal  with  Glazed  Onions 

Spinach  in  Cream  (399) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce 

Celery  Mayonnaise  (69) 

Cream  Cake 

1235.    SOUP  AU  LARD,  MENAGERE 

Cut  three  ounces  bacon  in  quarter-inch  squares,  plunge  them  in  a 
pint  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Boil 
three  and  a  half  quarts  water  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  one  pound  salt 
pork,  half  a  head  clean  cabbage  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  each  peeled, 
sliced  carrots  and  turnips,  the  whites  of  two  each  sliced  leeks  and  white 
onions;  season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour,  then  add  the  pieces  of 
bacon,  one  crushed  bean  sound  garlic  and  three  peeled,  well-washed, 
sliced  potatoes.  Boil  again  for  another  hour,  remove,  take  off  the  piece 
of  pork  and  keep  for  further  use.  Pour  the  soup  in  a  large,  hot  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  French  bread,  toasted,  separately. 

1236.    BASS  A  LA  BIERE 

Procure  a  nice  fresh  bass  of  three  and  a  half  pounds,  trim  off  the 
fins,  scale  and  wipe  well.  Finely  slice  two  medium,  white,  peeled 
onions,  place  in  a  braising  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  place  on  the  fire 
and  cook  for  three  minutes;  lay  the  bass  over  the  onions,  add  one  tea- 


362  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  chervil  and 
chives,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika. 
Moisten  with  three-quarters  pint  light  beer,  cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly 
buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  arrange  the  bass  on  a  large  dish, 
place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  for  three  minutes.  Knead  in  a 
bowl  a  half  ounce  butter  with  half  ounce  flour  and  add  little  by  little 
to  the  boiling  sauce,  continually  mixing  meanwhile ;  boil  for  two  minutes 
more,  remove,  pour  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve  with  six  heart-shaped 
bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  the  fish. 

1237.    TENDRONS  OF  VEAL  WITH  GLAZED  ONIONS 

Have  three  and  a  half  pounds  tender  breast  of  veal,  cut  it  into  three- 
inch-square  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper 
and  rub  the  pieces  well  in  the  seasoning.  Slice  one  carrot,  one  onion, 
two  leeks,  one  branch  celery  and  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan  with 
two  branches  parsley,  one  bean  garlic,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove  and  one 
sprig  thyme.  Cover  each  piece  of  veal  with  a  small,  very  thin  slice 
larding  pork,  lay  the  veal  over  the  vegetables,  pork  side  upward,  pour 
a  gill  water  into  the  pan  and  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  turn- 
ing it  over  once  only.  Remove,  arrange  the  pieces  of  veal  in  a  braising 
pan,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  add  a  half  gill  white 
broth  (No.  701),  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  16);  lightly  mix,  then  boil  for  five  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  veal,  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  thirty  minutes  more.  Remove,  dress  the  veal  on  a  hot  dish, 
one  overlapping  another,  and  pour  the  gravy  over.  Arrange  the  glazed 
onions  (No.  125)  around  the  dish,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
chives  over  and  serve. 

ROAST  TURKEY,  CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

Prepare  the  turkey  as  per  No.  67,  saving  the  neck,  heart,  liver,  gizzard 
and  wings  for  to-morrow. 

1238.    CREAM  CAKE 

Sift  one  pound  flour  on  a  table,  make  a  small  fountain  in  the  centre, 
pour  in  half  pint  of  double  cream  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  ounces 
sugar,  then  gradually  incorporate  flour  with  the  cream;  knead  well  for 
five  minutes,  place  the  paste  on  a  cold  plate  and  keep  in  a  cool  place 
for  thirty  minutes. 

Wash  well  in  ice  water  a- quarter  pound  butter;  remove  and  squeeze 
out  all  water  from  it,  roll  out  the  paste  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  half 
inch  in  thickness,  spread  the  butter  in  the  centre  of  the  paste ;  fold  up  the 
four  corners  of  paste  to  meet  right  in  the  centre,  so  as  to  entirely  cover 
the  butter,  place  it  on  a  tin  and  keep  in  the  ice  box  for  ten  minutes. 
Roll  it  out  again  to  a  square  form  half  inch  in  thickness,  wet  one-half 
the  surface  with  ice  water,  fold  in  two  and  place  in  the  ice  box  for  ten 
minutes;  roll  it  out  same  way,  and  fold  up  as  before;  repeat  the  exact 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  363 

operation  three  times  more.  Give  a  square  form  half  inch  in  thickness, 
egg  the  surface  and  borders,  sprinkle  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  on 
top,  place  on  a  lightly  wetted  pastry  pan  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Pettiiohn  Food  (170) 

Omelette,  Demi-Souffl£ 

Fish  Balls  with  Bacon  (260) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108) 

Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

1239.    OMELETTE,  DEMI-SOUFFLE 

Place  the  yolks  of  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  the  whites  in  a 
copper  basin.  Stir  the  yolks  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes. 
Beat  up  the  whites  with  a  whisk,  but  not  quite  to  a  froth,  and  add  to 
the  yolks  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  gill  thick  cream.  Mix  well  with  a  spoon. 
Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix 
with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute,  fold  up  the  two 
opposite  sides  to  meet  right  in  the  centre.  Let  rest  for  half  minute, 
turn  upon  a  hot  dish  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Oyster  Croquettes 

Turkey  Hash  on  Toast  (539) 

Fried  Eggplants  (460) 
Semolina  Pudding  with  Almonds 

1240.    OYSTER  CROQUETTES 

Plunge  forty  large,  fresh-opened  oysters  (saving  their  liquor)  in  a 
pint  boiling  water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  for  five  minutes ;  drain  on  a 
colander  and  cut  the  oysters  into  small  square  pieces.  Cut  also  a  small 
truffle  into  same  size,  add  to  the  oysters  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat 
one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  three 
finely  chopped  canned  mushrooms,  and  gently  cook  for  three  minutes; 
add  one  ounce  flour,  stir  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  pour  in  liquor 
of  the  oysters  and  one  pint  broth  (No.  701);  add  half  teaspoon  each 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  chervil,  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cay- 
enne pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  teaspoon  French  mustard; 
mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  boiling  for  five  minutes,  then  reduce 
the  sauce  on  a  brisk  fire  for  thirty  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  at  the 
bottom  to  prevent  burning.  Dilute  three  egg  yolks  with  a  half  gill 
cream  and  add  to  the  pan.  Mix  while  cooking  for  five  minutes  again. 


364  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Add  the  oysters  and  truffles,  mix  again  while  cooking  for  two  minutes, 
remove,  place  on  a  large  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Divide  the  force  into 
twelve  even  parts,  roll  out  each  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  cork  shapes, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  them  in  a 
frying  basket,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  five  minutes;  lift  up, 
thoroughly  drain,  dredge  half  teaspoon  salt  over,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1241.    SEMOLINA  PUDDING  WITH  ALMONDS 

Plunge  two  ounces  almonds  in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes;  drain, 
peel  and  chop  very  finely,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  milk,  two 
ounces  fine  sugar,  one  ounce  butter,  the  zest  of  a  rind  of  lemon,  one 
teaspoon  almond  essence,  and  half  saltspoon  salt.  Set  the  pan  on  the 
fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  slowly  dredge  in  two  and  a  half 
ounces  of  semolina,  continually  mixing  with  a  wooden  spoon  while 
adding  it.  Slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing;  remove 
from  the  fire,  add  three  egg  yolks,  one  by  one,  continually  mixing  while 
adding  them.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  froth  and  gently 
mix  in  the  preparation  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute.  Lightly  butter 
and  flour  six  individual  pudding  moulds  and  fill  with  the  preparation, 
place  them  in  a  pastry  tin,  pour  hot  water  into  the  pan  up  to  half  the 
height  of  the  mould,  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
unmould  on  a  large  dish,  spread  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Giblets  &  1'Anglaise 

Halibut,  Italienne 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce 

Oyster  Plants,  Sautds  with  Butter  (289) 

Red  Beans,  Bourgignonne 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Biscuits  Glacis,  Parisiennc 

1242.    GIBLETS  A  L'ANGLAISE 

Cut  the  wings,  neck,  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  left  over  from  yesterday 
into  half-inch  pieces.  Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  one  peeled  carrot,  one 
peeled  turnip,  one  white  onion,  two  leeks  and  two  branches  of  celery. 
Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  soup  pot,  add  the 
meat  and  vegetables  and  let  gently  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile,  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water  and  half  pint  of 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce.  Tie  in  a  bunch 
four  branches  parsley,  two  branches  chervil,  one  bean  garlic,  one  bay 
leaf,  one  clove,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  add  to  the  pan.  Let  slowly  cook 
for  one  hour,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice  and  let  slowly  boil  again  for 
another  hour.  Remove  the  bunch  of  herbs,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  365 

1243.    HALIBUT,  ITALTENNE 

Place  two  slices  fresh  halibut  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each  in  a 
frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  water, 
half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika.  Cover  the  fish  with  a 
lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  hi  the 
oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  place  the  halibut  in  a  baking  dish, 
take  out  the  spine  bone,  pour  a  sauce  Italienne  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  again  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  decorate  all  around  the  fish  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  serve. 

1244.    SAUCE  ITALIENNE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  half  a  finely 
chopped  white  onion,  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  add  one  teaspoon 
flour  and  stir  for  half  a  minute.  Moisten  with  one  gill  of  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  half  a  gill  white  wine, 
adding  twelve  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  each  pepper  and  grated  nut- 
meg. Mix  well,  then  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  gently  mixing  quite 
frequently  meanwhile,  and  use  as  directed. 

1245.    BOILED  LEG  or  MUTTON,  CAPER  SAUCE 

Procure  a  tender  six-pound  leg  of  mutton.  Gently  pound  the  meat 
with  a  cleaver,  place  in  a  large  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  add 
two  sliced  carrots,  one  sliced  turnip,  two  sliced  onions,  one  sliced  leek, 
two  branches  celery,  two  bay  leaves,  one  sprig  thyme,  two  cloves,  one 
bean  sound  garlic,  oneJ&eavy  tablespoon  salt  and  a  teaspoon  pepper. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  one  hour  and  ten  minutes.  Remove  the 
leg,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  caper  sauce  separately. 

1246.     CAPER  SAUCE 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  with 
two  tablespoons  flour,  then  pour  in  a  pint  white  broth  (No.  701).  Sea- 
son with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  for 
two  minutes,  then  let  the  sauce  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  occasionally 
mixing  meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  capers,  mix  a  little  and  let 
boil  for  two  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream  and  add 
to  the  sauce,  constantly  mixing  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Remove, 
pour  into  a  sauce  bowl  and  serve. 

N.  B.  The  same  quantity  of  mutton  broth  can  be  employed  instead 
of  the  white  broth,  but  without  any  salt. 

1247.    RED  BEANS,  BOURGIGNONNE 

Soak  a  pint  red  beans  in  plenty  of  cold  water  during  night.  Drain 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  cold  water  one  medium  onion  with 
three  cloves  stuck  in  it  and  one  carrot.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  few  branches  chives  and  a  bean  garlic; 
add  to  the  pan,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Cut 


366  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

half  the  piece  of  pork  left  from  yesterday  into  small  dice  pieces,  add  to 
the  beans  with  a  gill  claret,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  thirty  minutes 
longer.  Take  up  the  carrots,  onion  and  herbs.  Knead  in  a  bowl  a  half 
ounce  butter  with  tablespoon  flour  and  add  to  the  beans;  mix  well,  cook 
for  five  minutes,  dress  the  beans  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1248.    BISCUITS  GLACIS,  PARISIENNE 

Place  six  egg  yolks  in  a  copper  basin,  add  two  ounces  granulated 
sugar  and  half  bean  vanilla.  Set  the  basin  on  corner  of  the  range  and 
with  a  whisk  beat  up  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  basin  from  the 
range,  take  up  the  vanilla  bean  and  beat  for  five  minutes  more ;  then  set 
the  basin  on  the  ice,  add  six  finely  chopped  candied  marrons,  six  chopped 
candied  cherries  and  one  tablespoon  of  kirsch.  Stir  with  the  wooden 
spoon  until  thoroughly  cold,  then  add  a  half  pint  whipped  cream;  mix 
for  a  minute,  fill  up  six  ice-cream  paper  cases  with  the  preparation  and 
neatly  smooth  the  surface  of  each  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  Have  a 
small  freezer  in  an  ice-cream  tub  with  broken  ice  mixed  with  rock  salt. 
Arrange  the  cases  in  the  freezer  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours,  remove, 
dress  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  over  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Hominy  (45) 

Poached  Eggs,  Florentine 
Butternsh,  Meuniere  (636? 

Broiled  Pig's  Feet  (434)        Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 
Waffles  (296) 

1249.  POACHED  EGGS,  FLORENTINE 

Remove  the  stalks  and  thoroughly  wash  a  pint  and  a  half  very  fresh 
spinach,  and  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  press  out  all  the  water 
and  chop  very  finely.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter, 
half  a  gill  cream,  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Dress  the  spinach  on  a  hot  dish. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106)  without  toasts.  Lay  them 
over  the  spinach  and  serve. 

. LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Lobster 

Kofta  Curry  Fresh  Asparagus  Tips 

Jelly  Fritters 

1250.  STUFFED  DEVILLED  LOBSTER 

Prepare  a  lobster  forcemeat  (No.  201).  Cut  the  shells  of  the  three 
lobsters  saved  from  Sunday,  into  equal  halves,  lengthwise;  lightly 


WEDNESDAY,   FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  367 

trim  all  around  with  scissors,  carefully  seeing  that  they  are  thoroughly 
clean.  Divide  the  force  in  the  six  shells  equally,  lightly  smooth  the 
surface  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  Evenly  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No. 
n)  over  them,  lightly  roll  in  bread  cruYnbs,  place  on  a  tin,  and  arrange  a 
few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Set  in  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes, 
remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six 
quarters  of  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1251.    KOFTA  CURRY 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday, 
mince  finely,  and  keep  in  a  large  bowl.  Chop  very  finely  one  medium 
onion,  one  bean  sound  garlic,  enough  parsley  to  make  one  teaspoon, 
one  ripe  tomato,  half  a  seedless  green  pepper,  adding  a  tablespoon 
good  curry  powder,  and  place  all  these  articles  with  the  beef.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
a  saltspoon  thyme  and  a  saltspoon  bay  leaf.  Crack  in  a  fresh  egg,  pour 
in  also  a  half  gill  cream.  Knead  the  whole  well  together  until  thoroughly 
mixed.  Divide  the  preparation  into  twelve  even  pieces.  Sprinkle  a 
very  little  flour  over  and  give  them  a  nice  cake  form.  Have  in  a  sautoire 
four  tablespoons  very  hot  fat,  drop  in  the  cakes  and  fry  for  seven  minutes 
on  each  side.  Melt  half  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  table- 
spoon flour,  stir  for  one  minute,  moisten  with  two  gills  hot  broth.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  add  a  piece  lemon  rind,  one  very 
small  crushed  tomato,  one  finely  chopped  shallot,  one  bean  crushed 
garlic,  a  sprig  each  bay  leaf  and  thyme.  Mix  well,  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Place  boiled  rice  (No.  490)  on  a  large  dish,  crown- 
like,  arrange  the  meat  cakes  in  the  centre,  strain  the  sauce  over  and 
serve. 

1252.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  a  large  bunch  fresh  green,  sound,  asparagus, 
wash  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  water, 
a  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar,  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Re- 
move and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve.  Heat  half  an  ounce  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  the  tips.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Toss  gently,  and  cook  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  them  once  in  a  while.  Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

(If  no  fresh  asparagus  is  at  hand,  use  canned  asparagus,  but  boil  for 
five  minutes  instead  of  twenty,  and  prepare  the  same  way.) 

1253.     JELLY  FRITTERS 

Cut  out  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  twelve  slices  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  then  cut  each  slice  into  two  even,  round  pieces,  place  on  a  large 
dish  and  pour  one  tablespoon  rum  and  one  tablespoon  kirsch  evenly 
over  them.  Spread  a  teaspoon  strawberry  or  raspberry  jelly  on  each  of 
twelve  of  them  only,  and  cover  with  the  twelve  without  jelly.  Prepare 
a  frying  batter  for  fritters,  as  per  No.  204.  Carefully  dip  each  couple 
into  the  batter,  gently  drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes, 


368  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

turning  once  in  a  while  with  the  skimmer.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
neatly  trim,  arrange  on  a  tin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  them. 
Set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Forage,  Clothilde 

Filet  of  Sole,  Trovatore  Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Chicken  Etuve,  Meridional 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392)  Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Apple  Charlottes  (634) 

1254.    POTAGE,  CLOTHILDE 

Slit  twenty-four  large  Italian  chestnuts,  place  on  a  tin  and  roast  in 
the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  shell  them  with  a  coarse 
towel;  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  ounce  chopped  lean  salt  pork, 
two  sliced  leeks,  one  minced  onion,  four  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  two  bay  leaves  and  one  clove.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  hot  white  broth  or  water.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for 
one  hour,  strain  the  broth  into  a  basin,  place  the  chestnuts  and  vegetables 
in  a  mortar,  pound  to  a  smooth  paste  and  return  the  paste  to  the  broth. 
Mix  in  the  same  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  and  one  and  a  half  ounces 
flour,  place  on  the  fire  for  two  minutes,  then  pour  the  broth  with  the 
chestnuts  into  this  saucepan;  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Peel  and  cut  in  julienne  strips  two  small  parsnips,  place  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
sugar  and  one  gill  water:  mix  a  little,  cover  the  pan,  set  in  oven  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot.  Add  two  gills  cream  to  the 
soup,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  strain  the  soup  through  a  sieve 
into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen.  Add  the 
parsnips,  with  a  few  bits  of  butter,  gently  mix,  and  serve  with  two  ounces 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

1255.    FILET  OF  SOLE,  TROVATORE 

Procure  a  very  fresh  sole  of  three  and  a  half  pounds.  Lift  up  the 
filets,  skin  them,  then  cut  each  filet  into  three  slanting,  equal  pieces 
and  fold  up  each  piece.  Split  six  red  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  two, 
arrange  in  a  lightly  buttered  sautoire  and  lay  a  filet  on  each  pepper. 
Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  paprika  and  half  salt- 
spoon  Spanish  saffron,  adding  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine  and 
two  tablespoons  port  or  Malaga.  Cover  the  filets  with  a  lightly  buttered 
paper,  boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  take  off  the  paper,  dress  the  filets  on  a  hot  dish, 
crown  shape,  and  arrange  one  piece  pepper  on  top  of  each  filet.  Pour  a 
gill  tomato  sauce  into  the  fish  gravy,  briskly  boil  for  eight  minutes,  then 
pour  the  gravy  over  the  filets  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  369 

1256.    CHICKEN  ETUVE",  MERIDIONAL 

Singe,  draw,  cut  the  head  and  feet  off  a  fine  tender,  three-pound 
chicken,  cut  it  into  twelve  even  pieces,  season  with  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoons salt  and  one  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  two  table- 
spoons good  oil  in  an  earthen  casserole  dish,  add  the  chicken  and  fry 
on  the  range  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  once  in  a  while. 
Lift  the  chicken  up  with  a  fork  and  place  on  a  dish.  Slice  exceedingly 
fine  two  medium,  white  onions,  add  to  the.  casserole  and  fry  for  three 
minutes.  Place  the  chicken  on  top  of  the  onions  with  a  peeled  bean 
garlic;  peel  and  cut  into  quarters  three  medium,  ripe  tomatoes.  Season 
with  two  saltspoons  each  salt  and  white  pepper;  arrange  the  tomatoes 
around  the  chicken,  pour  in  half  a  gill  each  claret  and  water;  tightly  cover 
the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes 
longer.  Remove  and  serve  without  uncovering. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Eggs  Molet,  Cream  Sauce 

Codfish  Steaks,  Meuniere  (240) 

Mutton  Hash  en  Bordure  (283) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1257.  EGGS  MOLET,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  lift  up  and 
gently  drop  them  in  cold  water  for  half  a  minute,  shell  and  place  on  a 
deep,  hot  dish,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Shad  Roes,  Maryland 

Spare  Ribs  and  Cabbage -(671) 

Mince  Pie  (117-18) 

1258.  SHAD  ROES,  MARYLAND 

Procure  two  fresh  shad  roes  about  one  to  one  and  a  half  pounds  each. 
Place  them  in  a  lightly  buttered  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons  each 
white  wine  and  sherry,  half  ounce  good  butter,  and  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  the 
fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper.  Place  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper, 
carefully  arrange  the  roes  without  breaking  on  a  large  dish,  place  the 
pan  on  the  fire  and  add  one  and  a  half  gills  good  cream;  season  with  a 
saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes; 


370  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream  and  add  to  the  pan, 
constantly  mixing  with  a  whisk  while  heating  for  three  minutes,  but 
not  allowing  to  boil.  Remove,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth 
over  the  roes  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Oysters  (18) 
Cream  of  Cauliflower 

Sheepshead,  Cracovienne  Potatoes,  Vaudoise 

Filets  Mignons,  Shallots  Sauce 

New  Carrots,  Colbert 

String  Beans  (139) 

Roast  Goose,  Apple  Sauce  (1109) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Cafe"  au  Parfait 

1259.     CREAM  OF  CAULIFLOWER 

Pick  off  the  green  leaves  of  a  large  head  of  sound  white  cauliflower. 
Drop  it  into  three  quarts  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes;  remove  and 
drain;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  of 
butter,  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  moisten 
with  one  quart  broth  (No.  701)  and  three  pints  of  water,  add  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  onion  with  two  cloves 
stuck  in  it  and  one  bay  leaf.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
then  let  boil  very  slowly  for  one  hour. 

Mix  in  another  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces 
flour;  heat  while  stirring  for  two  minutes,  then  strain  the  cauliflower 
broth  over  this  roux  and  mix  well.  Pound  the  cauliflower  very  finely 
in  the  mortar  and  return  to  the  soup,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes,  pour  in  half  pint  each  milk  and  cream,  mix  well  and  boil  for 
five  minutes  more.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  three  tablespoons  cream, 
add  to  the  soup  with  a  half  ounce  butter  and  continually  mix  while 
heating  for  two  minutes.  Remove,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread 
croutons  separately. 

1260.    SHEEPSHEAD,  CRACOVIENNE 

Take  a  piece  fresh  sheephead  of  three  pounds,  free  it  from  all  the 
bones,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  water, 
half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Cover 
the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper, 
carefully  dress  the  fish  on  a  dish.  Finely  chop  up  one  hard-boiled  egg, 
sprinkle  it  over  the  fish  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley; 
and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over  the  sheepshead;  place 
half  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  toss  until  it  obtains  a  nice  brown 
colour,  then  pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  APRIL  371 

1261.    POTATOES,  VAUDOISE 

Peel  and  thoroughly  wash  four  good-sized  potatoes,  cut  them  in 
quarter-inch  slices,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  roll  well  the  potatoes  in  the 
seasoning  and  arrange  a  third  part  in  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish;  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over 
them,  arrange  another  third  potato  on  top,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
grated  Swiss  cheese  over  their  surface  and  arrange  a  few  bits  of  butter 
on  top.  Finish  by  adding  the  rest  of  the  potatoes  on  top  of  the  cheese, 
sprinkle  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  over,  add  half  ounce  butter 
in  small  bits  on  top  and  set  the  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  fifty 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1262.    FILETS  MIGNONS,  SHALLOTS  SAUCE 

Cut  two  pounds  beef  tenderloin  in  six  even  pieces,  neatly  flatten 
them  and  nicely  trim  all  around ;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  well  divided  all  over.  Heat  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  on  the  mignons  and  briskly  fry  for 
three  minutes  on  each  side;  arrange  six  toasts  of  bread  on  a  hot 
dish,  dress  the  filets  on  top,  pour  a  shallots  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

1263.    SHALLOTS  SAUCE 

Chop  up  very  finely  eight  peeled  shallots,  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently meanwhile;  pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  two  tablespoons  sherry;  add  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  lightly  mix,  then  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve  as  directed. 

1264.    NEW  CARROTS,  COLBERT 

Scrape  and  thoroughly  wash  twenty-four  even-sized  new  carrots; 
drain,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  gills  water,  one  ounce  butter, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
Gently  roll  them  in  the  seasoning.  Cover  the  pan,  place  it  on  the  fire 
for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifty  minutes.  Remove  (the 
juice  must  be  nearly  evaporated),  add  half  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  half  teaspoon  of  freshly  chopped 
parsley;  carefully  mix  without  breaking,  dress  them  with  a  skimmer 
on  a  vegetable  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

1265.    CAF£  AU  PARFAIT 

Prepare  and  keep  in  the  freezer  a  pint  (only)  vanilla  ice  cream  (No. 
42). 

Place  one  ounce  good  ground  coffee  in  a  small  coffee  pot,  pour  over 
one  gill  boiling  water  and  let  infuse  for  twenty  minutes,  then  strain  it 
through  a  fine  cheesecloth  into  the  vanilla  ice  cream;  add  at  the  same 
time  half  pint  whipped  cream,  mix  well  with  a  spatula  and  let  stand  in 


372  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

the  tub  for  fifteen  minutes  more;  then  fill  up  six  cafe  parfait  or  sherbet 
glasses,  decorate  the  top  with  a  little  whipped  cream,  arrange  four  halved 
candied  cherries  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 


Friday,   Second  Week  of  April  (supposedly  Good  Friday) 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Poached  Eggs,  Riga 

Broiled  Boned  Smelts,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Brochette  of  Lamb,  Tomato  Sauce  (mi) 

Hashed  Potatoes,  Sautees  (50) 

Grape-Nuts  Cakes 

1266.    POACHED  EGGS,  RIGA 

Cut  out  from  a  sandwich  loaf  twelve  round  pieces  a  quarter-inch 
thick  and  two  inches  in  diameter,  toast,  lightly  butter,  then  spread  half 
teaspoon  caviare  over  each  and  place  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 
Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  exactly  the  same  as  No.  106,  trim  them 
a  little,  place  one  on  top  of  each  toast,  decorate  the  dish  with  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1267.    BROILED  BONED  SMELTS,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Neatly  wipe  twelve  fresh  large  smelts,  split  open  through  the  stomach 
without  separating  them,  then  remove  the  bones,  being  careful  not  to 
cut  them  through.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  one  tablespoon  oil;  carefully  roll  the  smelts  into  the 
seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  four  minutes  on 
each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot,  large  dish,  pour  a  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  (No.  7)  over  them  and  serve. 

1268.    GRAPE-NUTS  CAKES 

Prepare  a  flannel-cake  preparation  (No.  136),  adding  two  table- 
spoons grape-nuts  in  the  batter,  mix  well  and  proceed  to  make  the  cakes 
exactly  the  same. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 
Bouillabaisse,  Marseillaise 
Pears  of  Goose,  with  Peas 
Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 

Omelette,  Ivica 
Green-Gage  Tartlet  (569) 

1269.    BOUILLABAISSE,  MARSEILLAISE 

Procure  a  one-pound  live  lobster,  two  very  fresh  eels  and  one  very  small 
sea  bass.  Cut  the  head  and  small  claws  from  the  lobster,  then  cut  it, 
shells  and  meat,  in  six  even  pieces.  .  Remove  the  head,  trim  the  fins  and 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  373 

skin  the  two  eels,  then  cut  each  one  in  pieces  of  two  inches  long.  Cut 
off  the  head  and  trim  the  bass,  then  cut  it  crosswise  in  six  equal  slices. 
Place  all  these  fishes  on  a  plate  and  keep  in  a  cold  place  until  required. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  three  tablespoons  oil,  add  two  chopped  white  onions 
and  three  chopped,  well-cleaned  leeks,  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally;  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  mix  well  while  cooking 
for  two  minutes,  then  pour  in  one  pint  fresh  crushed  or  canned  tomatoes, 
one  pint  water,  the  fish  heads  and  skins  of  eels,  half  teaspoon  Spanish 
saffron,  one  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  two  crushed 
beans  garlic  and  three  branches  parsley.  Mix  with  a  spoon  for  three 
minutes,  then  let  briskly  boil  for  forty  minutes,  mixing  occasionally 
meanwhile.  Remove,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  strainer  in  another 
saucepan,  reset  on  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  fish; 
lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  ^or  thirty  minutes.  Remove, 
arrange  the  fish  in  a  large,  deep  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  arrange  six 
slices  French  bread  toasts  around,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

1270.    PEARS  OF  GOOSE,  WITH  PEAS 

Divide  the  goose  force  in  six  even  parts,  roll  on  a  lightly  floured  table 
and  give  them  a  nice  smooth  pear  form;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  gently  roll 
in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying  basket,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  . 
and  fry  for  ten  minutes.  Lift  up,  thoroughly  drain,  pour  a  gill  hot  demi- 
glace  sauce  (No.  122)  on  a  hot  dish  and  arrange  the  pears  over;  dress 
green  peas  (No.  35)  around  them,  adjust  a  fancy  frill  on  top  of  each 
pear  and  serve. 

1271.    GOOSE  FORCEMEAT 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  goose  left  over  from  yesterday,  cut 
into  small  dice  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Cut  one  ounce  cooked  lean 
ham,  six  canned  mushrooms,  and  place  on  the  plate  with  the  goose 
meat. 

Heat  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  small,  finely  chopped 
onion  and  gently  brown  for  eight  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  mean- 
while, then  add  one  ounce  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes. 
Pour  in  three  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  gills  of  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6).  Mix  well  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  add  the  meat, 
ham  and  mushrooms,  season  with  a  teaspoon  cayenne  and  one  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well  and  let  gently  cook  for  twenty  minutes, 
mixing  occasionally.  Dilute  two  egg-yolks  with  two  tablespoons  sherry 
and  add  to  the  force ;  mix  well  while  cooking  for  three  minutes,  remove, 
place  on  a  plate,  let  cool  off,  and  use  as  required. 

1272.    OMELETTE,  IVICA 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a 
fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  oil  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one 
finely  minced  onion  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  adding  then  three  red 


374  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Spanish  sweet  peppers  cut  into  small  squares;  toss  all  well  and  fry  for 
three  minutes.     Drop  in  the  beaten  eggs,  mix  with  the  fork  for  two 
minutes  and  let  rest  a  half  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet 
in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  upon  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 
For  a  special  Good-Friday  bill  of  fare,  see  No.  3320^-3321. 


DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Gumbo  with  Frogs'  Legs 
Salmon,  en  Court  Bouillon  Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Ribs  of  Lamb,  aux  Racines 
Fresh  Asparagus,  Sauce  Mousseline 

Crab-Meat  Flakes  in  Cases 

Fresh*  Mushrooms  with  Butter 

Roast  Squabs  (831)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Chocolate  Eclairs 

1273.    GUMBO  WITH  FROGS'  LEGS 

Cut  into  small  squares  two  white  onions,  the  white  parts  two  leeks, 
two  sound,  green  peppers,  three  branches  well- washed  celery;  place 
these  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 
and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten 
with  three  quarts  water,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Add  two  heads  fresh  fish,  salmon,  cod,  sheepshead,  or  any 
other  kind,  cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Remove 
the  heads  with  a  skimmer,  then  add  four  small,  fresh,  peeled  red  toma- 
toes cut  into  eight  pieces  each,  twelve  fresh,  sound,  trimmed  okras  cut 
into  quarter-inch  pieces,  and  two  tablespoons  raw  rice.  Cover  the  pan 
again  and  let  cook  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Plunge  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  fresh  frogs'  legs  into  boiling  water  for  three  minutes;  remove, 
drain,  pick  off  all  the  meat  from  them  and  add  to  the  soup,  with  a  tea- 
spoon of  freshly  chopped  parsley;  mix  a  little,  boil  for  ten  minutes  and 
serve  in  a  soup  tureen. 

1274.  SALMON,  EN  COURT  BOUILLON 

Finely  slice  one  medium  carrot,  one  onion,  two  branches  celery  and 
one  leek;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water,  two  branches  pars- 
ley, one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  gill-good  vinegar,  one 
tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  boil  on  the  range  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Lift  up  with  the  skimmer,  lay  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  over,  remove  the  bones,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens,  and  serve  with  a  little  melted  butter  separately. 

1275.  RIBS  OF  LAMB,  AUX  RACINES 

Procure  three  pounds  rack  of  lamb.  Season  it  well  with  a* teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  rub  in  the  seasoning  all  around.  Cover 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  375 

the  surface  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  tie  it  around,  lay  in  a  small 
roasting  tin,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  water,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for 
fifteen  mintues.  Remove  and  transfer  to  a  small  braising  pan,  scoop 
out  with  a  very  small  scoop  from  a  large,  well-scraped  carrot  and  a  turnip 
all  you  can  and  add  to  the  pan. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  twelve  very  small, 
peeled  white  onions,  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  the 
lamb.  Tie  in  a  bunch  and  add  two  branches  parsley,  one  clove 
garlic,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove;  place  the  pan  on  the  fire,  pour  in  a 
half  gill  white  wine  and  let  reduce  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  in  one  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  gill  water.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  untie,  dress  the  lamb  on  a  large  dish, 
take  up  the  bunch  of  herbs,  pour  all  the  contents  of  the  pan  over  the 
lamb  and  serve. 

1276.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS,  SAUCE  MOUSSELINE 

Neatly  scrape,  cut  off  the  ends  of  stalks  and  wash  a  large  bunch 
fresh  asparagus ;  tie  in  two  bunches,  plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Carefully  lift 
them  up  without  breaking,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  napkin  over  it, 
and  serve  with  a  mousseline  sauce  (No.  211)  separately. 

1277.    CRAB-MEAT  FLAKES  IN  CASES 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  crab-meat  flakes  in  a  frying  pan 
with  half  a  gill  sherry,  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  cook  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  occasion- 
ally mixing.  Pour  in  two  gills  cream  and  one  finely  sliced  truffle,  lightly 
mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  table- 
spoons milk  and  add  to  the  crab  meat  with  a  half  ounce  butter;  gently 
mix  while  heating  without  boiling  for  three  minutes,  Remove,  divide 
the  preparation  into  six  paper  cases  evenly,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1278.    FRESH  MUSHROOMS  WITH  BUTTER 

Cut  away  the  end  of  stems  of  a  pound  white,  sound,  fresh  mushrooms; 
peel,  wash  and  drain  well  on  a  cloth.  Heat  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  the  mushrooms,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  ayd 
two  saltspoons  pepper;  gently  toss  them,  cover  and  fry  for  ten  minutes 
tossing  them  once  in  a  while.  Have  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  on  a  hot 
dish  and  evenly  divide  the  mushrooms  over.  Squeeze  the  juice  of 
quarter  of  a  lemon  into  the  pan,  lightly  mix  and  pour  over  the 
mushrooms,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1279.    CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux  (No.  336).  Slide  a  tube  one-third  of  an 
inch  in  diameter  to  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag.  Have  a  clean  pastry 
pan  ready.  Drop  the  paste  into  the  bag  and  press  down  in  shapes 
three  inches  long  by  half  an  inch  wide.  Set  in  the  oven  for  twenty 


376  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  for  ten  minutes.  Make  an  incision  length- 
wise in  each  eclair  at  one  side  only,  then  fill  the  aperture  with  a  creme 
patissiere;  place  them  on  a  grill  with  a  pan  underneath,  carefully  pour  a 
glace  au  chocolate  over  the  top  of  the  eclairs,  let  cool  off,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1280.  CREME  PATISSIERE 

Place  three  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  sugar  and  half  ounce 
flour.  Stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Place  on  the 
range  in  a  small  saucepan  one  and  a  half  gills  milk,  and  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  half  gill  cream  and  pour,  little  by  little,  over  the 
yolks,  constantly  mixing  while  adding  it,  and  return  the  whole  to  the  pan; 
boil  for  three  minutes,  continually  mixing,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  a 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  essence  (No.  3232)  and  briskly  whisk  for  two 
minutes,  let  cool  off  and  use  as  required. 

1281.  GLACE  AU  CHOCOLATE 

Place  two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  in  a  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  keep  at  the  oven  door  until  melted;  then  add  three 
ounces  glazed  sugar  and  the  white  of  half  an  egg,  place  on  the  fire,  mix 
with  a  small  wooden  spoon  until  just  warm,  remove,  and  immediately 
use  as  directed. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Eggs,  Brown 
Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (328) 

Stewed  Tripe,  Creole 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1282.    EGGS,  BROWN 

Cut  twelve  cooked  shrimps  into  small  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  with  a  tablespoon  sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  two  salt- 
spoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg; 
lightly  mix,  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Evenly  divide  this  prepara- 
tion into  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish  and  season  equally  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Pour  a  tablespoon  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  over  the  eggs 
in  each  dish,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

1283.    STEWED  TRIPE,  CREOLE 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  honey-comb  tripe  into  julienne 
strips  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  two  finely  minced  green  peppers,  two  small,  finely  sliced  onions, 
and  brown  them  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Add  four  peeled 
and  crushed  red  tomatoes,  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar.  Mix 


SATURDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  APRIL  377 

all  well  and  let  gently  cook  for  thirty  minutes,  frequently  mixing  mean- 
while, and  keep  hot.  Heat  a  tablespoon  oil  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the 
tripe,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  mix  a 
little  and  briskly  fry  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Drain  the  tripe  on  a  sieve  and  add  it  to  the  Creole  sauce,  mix  well,  cook 
for  five  minutes  more,  dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Coquilles  of  Fish 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261) 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  (14) 

Banana  Fritters  (1104) 

1284.    COQUILLES  o^  FISH 

Remove  the  bone  and  skin  of  a  one-and-a-half-pound  piece  very 
fresh  halibut.  Cut  it  into  half -inch  pieces,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
a  half  gill  white  wine,  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  teaspoon 
paprika ;  mix  a  little,  cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for 
five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  keep  hot. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  with  two  and 
a  half  tablespoons  flour.  Moisten  with  one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and 
one  gill  cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  half  saltspoon 
cayenne,  strain  the  fish  gravy  into  this  pan,  mix  well  for  two  minutes, 
then  let  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  fish,  carefully  mix  without 
breaking,  then  divide  equally  into  six  table  shells;  dredge  two  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  divide  a  half  ounce  butter  on  top  of  the 
six  shells,  place  on  a  pastry  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Any  kind  of  left-over  white  fish  can  be  used  instead  of  fresh 
cooked  fish. 

DINNER 

Salted  Peanuts  Olives 

Cream  of  Spinach 

Butterfish,  Meuniere  (636)  Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Casserole         Tomatoes  on  Crusts 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Rice  Pudding  a  1'Orange  (1120) 

1285.    CREAM  OF  SPINACH 

If  there  be  any  stale  stalks  or  leaves  from  a  quart  of  very  fresh 
spinach  remove  them,  otherwise  use  everything;  thoroughly  wash  and 
plunge  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  on  a 
sieve,  then  chop  very  fine  and  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  ounce 
butter  and  cook  on  the  range  until  all  the  moisture  is  evaporated.  Sprinkle 
over  two  ounces  flour,  mix  well  with  the  wooden  spoon,  moisten  with 
one  quart  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  pint  milk.  Season  with  a 
level  tablespoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Mix  well,  and  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks 
with  two  gills  cream,  add  to  the  soup  with  half  ounce  good  butter  and 


378  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

mix  well  while  heating  without  boiling  for  five  minutes.  Strain  the  soup 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup 
tureen,  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

1286.    SIRLOIN  STEAKS,  CASSEROLE 

Neatly  flatten  and  trim  two  sirloin  steaks  of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds 
each.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  an  earthen  casserole  pan.,  arrange  the 
steaks  in  it  and  fry  on  the  range  for  three  minutes  on  each  side;  drain 
off  the  fat,  then  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  a  gill  white  wine 
and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Arrange  the  same  amount  Parisian 
potatoes  (No.  711)  on  one  side  of  the  steaks,  the  same  amount  glazed 
onions  (No.  125)  on  the  other  side,  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  a  brisk  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  in  same  pan. 

1287.    TOMATOES  ON  CRUSTS 

Neatly  wipe  six  even-sized,  sound  red  tomatoes;  cut  them  in  halves 
crosswise,  season  the  cut  sides  evenly  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper  and  teaspoon  sugar.  Finely  chop  two  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil  and  half  bean  garlic.  Sprinkle  the  mixed  herbs 
over  the  tomatoes  evenly  and  lightly  roll  them  in  flour.  Heat  one  and 
a  half  teaspoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  arrange  the  toma- 
toes in  the  pan  one  beside  another,  and  fry  on  the  cut  side  for  three 
minutes  and  on  the  uncut  side  for  one  minute  only. 

Prepare  twelve  small,  round  toasts  of  the  same  size  as  the  tomatoes, 
a  quarter-inch  thick;  place  a  piece  of  tomato  on  top  of  each  toast,  cut 
side  downward,  arrange  on  a  baking  tin,  place  a  very  little  bit  of  butter 
on  top  of  each  tomato,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  eight  minutes.  Re- 
move, dress  the  crusts  on  a  large  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  April 

BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)  Barley  in  Cream  (1068) 

Fried  Eggs,  Italienne          Broiled  Shad,  Anchovy  Butter 

Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219)         French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Brioches  (878) 

1288.    FRIED  EGGS,  ITALIENNE 

Prepare  an  Italian  sauce  (No.  1244)  and  keep  hot.  Crack  two 
fresh  eggs  in  a  lightly  buttered  frying  pan,  season  with  a  light  saltspoon 
salt  and  half  saltspoon  pepper  and  fry  on  the  range  for  one  minute  only ; 
carefully  glide  them  into  a  baking  dish,  then  proceed  to  prepare  five 
more  portions  in  the  very  same  way.  When  all  are  on  the  dish  pour 
the  sauce  over,  then  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  set 
in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1289.    BROILED  SHAD,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Procure  half  a  very  fresh  shad  of  about  three  pounds.  Scale,  trim 
oH  the  bones,  neatly  wipe.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  and  half 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  379 

teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper ;  repeatedly  roll  the  shad  in  the  seasoning, 
arrange  on  the  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  an  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  over  the  fish, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578)  Curried  Scallops  (53) 

Boulettes  of  Turkey,  Finnoise 

Rum  Omelette 

1290.    BOULETTES  OF  TURKEY,  FINNOISE 

Pick  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday.  Cut 
it  into  very  small  dice  pieces.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  butter  with  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  pour  in  two 
gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  salt- 
spoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  add  the  turkey, 
with  one  ounce  chopped,  lean,  cooked  ham,  cut  into  small  dices  and  one 
ounce  of  smoked  beef  tongue  cut  same  way.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  add  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  two  egg  yolks, 
one  tablespoon  sherry  and  mix  well  while  heating  for  five  minutes. 
Remove,  place  the  hash  on  a  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Divide  and  make 
twenty-four  equal  balls  out  of  the  preparation,  lightly  roll  in  melted 
butter,  then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in 
boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes.  Lift  up,  thoroughly  drain,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve 
with  a  Finnoise  sauce  (No.  251)  separately. 

1291.    RUM  OMELETTE 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk, 
season  with  a  saltspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  sharply  beat  up 
with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  drop  in  the  egg,  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for 
a  minute;  fold  up,  let  rest  for  a  half  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and 
sprinkle  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar  over  the  omelette;  glaze  the  surface 
with  a  red-hot  poker,  pour  a  half  gill  good  Jamaica  rum  over,  set  fire  to 
the  rum  and  send  to  the  table. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Andalouse 

Trout,  Meuniere  Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Filet  of  Beef  Larded,  Moderne 
Sweetbreads,  Perigneux  French  Peas  (145) 

Sorbet,  Favourite 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Suzanne  Ice  Cream 

1292.     CONSOMM£,  ANDALOUSE 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52)  and  keep  simmering.  Place  two  gills 
of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  small  frying  pan  and  let  reduce  on  the 


380  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

range  to  a  third  the  quantity,  then  place  in  a  bowl,  adding  one  gill  cream, 
half  a  gill  milk  and  three  egg  yolks.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  with  a  whisk,  then  strain  it 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  three  small  lightly  buttered  pudding  moulds, 
place  in  a  tin,  pour  boiling  water  into  the  tin  up  to  half  their  height  and 
set  in  oven  with  the  door  open  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool 
off,  unmould,  cut  into  thin  slices  and  place  them  in  a  soup  tureen.  Peel 
and  slice  a  small,  sound  cucumber,  plunge  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  for  ten  minutes.  Drain,  and  place  in  the  tureen, 
Strain  the  consomme  through  a  cheesecloth  on  top  and  serve. 

1293.    TROUT,  MEUNIERE 

Draw  from  the  base  of  the  head  (gills)  three  medium,  very  fresh 
brook  trout.  Wipe  neatly,  make  three  small  incisions  on  each  side  of 
the  trout,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
lightly  wet  with  milk  and  roll  them  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the  fish  one  beside  another  in  the  pan,  and 
briskly  fry  them  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over  them;  add  a  tablespoon  butter  to  the  pan,  toss  it 
on  the  range  until  brown,  pour  it  over  the  trout  and  serve. 

1294.    FILET  OF  BEEF  LARDED,  MODERNS 

Neatly  trim  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  filet  of  beef  and  lard  the 
surface  with  a  few  small  thin  strips  of  larding  pork.  Place  in  a  roasting 
pan  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  any  little  lard  parings  on  hand 
and  place  the  filet  on  top.  Spread  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  on  top 
of  the  filet,  pour  a  half  gill  cold  water  into  the  pan  and  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  turning  over  once  in  a  while  and  basting  it  with  its- 
own  gravy.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  the  fat  from  the 
surface  of  the  gravy,  add  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  to  the  pan,  let 
boil  for  five  minutes  and  strain  the  gravy  over  the  filet.  Dress  a  cauli- 
flower saute  (No.  631)  on  one  side  of  the  dish,  three  stuffed  tomatoes 
(No.  30)  cut  in  halves  on  the  other  side,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  over  ah  and  serve. 

1295.    SWEETBREADS,  PERIGNEUX 

Have  six  fine,  blanched  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33)  ready.  Finely 
slice  half  a  carrot,  half  an  onion,  one  branch  celery,  one  branch  parsley 
and  place  the  vegetables  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove  and 
any  trimmings  of  lard  on  hand.  Lay  the  breads  over  the  vegetables. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Spread  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter  over  the  breads  and  cook  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes. 
Moisten  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  white  broth  and  one  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  the  breads  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  breads 
on  a  large  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  boil 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  381 

on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  into  another  saucepan;  add 
one  finely  chopped  truffle  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  boil  for  five  min- 
utes longer,  then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  breads  and  serve. 

1296.  SORBET,  FAVOURITE 

Prepare  a  lemon  water  ice  (No.  376).  Press  a  pint  of  well  picked 
and  washed  fresh  or  canned  strawberries  through  a  sieve  into  the  freezer 
with  the  lemon  ice,  adding  two  tablespoons  good  rum;  thoroughly  mix 
and  let  freeze  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  divide  the  punch  into  six  sherbet 
glasses  and  serve. 

1297.  SUZANNE  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  and  finish  a  quart  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Press 
two  peeled  bananas  through  a  sieve  in  a  bowl,  adding  two  tablespoons 
good  kirsch  and  one  ounce  sugar;  thoroughly  mix,  add  to  the  vanilla 
and  mix  well  with  the  spatula. 

Place  twelve  lady-fingers  on  a  plate  and  pour  evenly  two  tablespoons 
maraschino  over  them.  Line  a  quart  brick  mould  with  a  sheet  of  white 
paper,  place  half  the  ice  cream  in  the  mould,  then  arrange  the  twelve 
lady-fingers  on  top,  fill  up  with  the  rest  of  the  ice  cream  and  tightly  cover. 
Bury  the  mould  in  a  tub  well  packed  with  ice  and  rock  salt  and  let  freeze 
for  two  hours,  remove,  lightly  dip  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds, 
wipe  all  around,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  napkin  over  and  serve. 


Monday,  Second  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Wheatena 
Omelette,  Col.  O'Brien 

Fish  Balls  (260) 
Calf's  Liver,  Minute  (810) 

Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 
Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

1298.    WHEATENA 

Have  in  an  enameled,  small  pan  a  half  pint  water  and  half  pint  milk. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  then  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil  on  a 
moderate  fire ;  gradually  dredge  in  five  ounces  of  Wheatena,  continually 
mixing  while  adding  it,  and  allow  to  gently  boil  for  five  minutes,  fre- 
quently mixing  meanwhile.  Remove,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  send 
to  the  table  with  cream  or  rich  milk  and  fine  sugar  separately. 

1299.     OMELETTE,  COL.  O'BRIEN 

Split  three  very  fresh  lamb  kidneys  in  "halves,  skin  and  cut  each  half 
in  two.  Cut  three  country  sausages  into  half-inch  pieces,  place  both 
in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  season  with  two  salt- 
spoons  salt  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  place  in  a  small  frying  pan 
with  six  heads  mushrooms  cut  in  halves,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one 


382  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.     Mix  a 
little  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  keep  hot. 

Prepare  an  omelette  (No.  75),  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Casino  (835) 
Beefsteaks,  Etuve"e  with  Potatoes 

String  Beans  (139) 
Beignets,  Italienne  (790) 

1300.    BEEFSTEAKS,  STUVE'E  WITH  POTATOES 

Cut  from  a  two-pound  piece  (hip  part)  of  beef  very  thin  slices.  Season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Peel  and 
slice  very  finely  three  medium,  sound,  raw  pototoes  and  season  with  half 
teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper.  Lightly  butter  an  earthen  baking  dish, 
arrange  a  layer  of  the  potatoes  (one-fourth)  at  the  bottom  of  dish,  then 
a  third  of  the  beef  over  potatoes,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  over  the  beef,  then  arrange  another  fourth  of  the  potatoes,  then 
another  third  of  the  beef,  half  teaspoon  parsley,  and  so  on  until  finished. 
Cover  the  top  with  two  thin  slices  larding  pork,  pour  half  gill  water  over 
all,  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  remove  and 
serve  in  the  same  dish. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyon  Sausage  (582) 

Garbure  au  Gratin 

Kingfish,  Colbert  (120) 

Potatoes,  Persillades  (63) 

Squabs  en  Crapaudine 
Corn  Fritters  (446)  Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Beef  (126) 
Escarole  Salad  (too) 

1301.    GARBURE  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  one-half  a  very  small  cabbage  in  quarters,  remove  the  core  and 
outer  stale  leaves  and  slice  it  exceedingly  fine.  Slice  also  one  carrot, 
one  turnip,  one  onion,  two  leeks  and  two  branches  celery;  place  them  in 
a  saucepan  with  three  and  a  half  quarts  water,  adding  one  ounce  of 
good  butter,  a  half-pound  piece  salt  pork  and  a  cervela  sausage.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  the  pan  and  let 
simmer  for  two  hours,  then  pick  up  the  lard  and  cervela.  (Keep  the 
pork  for  further  use.)  Cut  the  cervela  in  slices  and  add  to  the  soup, 
pour  the  soup  into  an  earthen  soup  dish,  arrange  six  slices  toasted  French 
bread  on  top  of  the  soup,  'sprinkle  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
over;  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1302.     SQUABS  EN  CRAPAUDINE 

Cut  off  necks  and  feet,  singe,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  six  fat,  tender 
squabs.  Split  them  through  the  back  without  separating,  remove 
breast  bones,  crack  legs  and  wing  bones  with  a  cleaver;  place  between 
a  towel  and  lightly  flatten  them,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  383 

teaspoon  pepper,  roll  well  in  a  little  melted  butter,  then  in  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  on  double  broiler  and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  pour  a  Piquante  sauce  (No.  177)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  the  squabs, 
one  overlapping  another,  and  serve. 

1303.    MAC£DOINE  JELLY 

Finely  chop  six  candied  cherries,  one  each  candied  pear,  apricot, 
peach,  and  one  ounce  candied  angelica.  Place  these  articles  in  a 
bowl  with  a  tablespoon  rum  and  mix  well.  Prepare  a  rum  jelly  (No. 
1171),  and  when  you  strain  the  jelly  into  the  freezer  add  the  contents  of 
•the  bowl.  Mix  well  and  let  set,  turn  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  April  f 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Poached  Eggs,  Bayonnaise 

Whitebait  with  Bacon 

Beef  Hash,  Polonaise 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1304.    POACHED  EGGS,  BAYONNAISE 
Cut  one  ounce  cooked,  lean  ham  in  small  dice  pieces  and  place  in 

small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  one  gill  demi-glace 

(No.  122);  boil  for  five  minutes  and  keep  hot. 

Cut  three  well-wiped  tomatoes  in  four  slices  each,  season  with  half 

teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  lightly  roll  in  flour.    Heat  two 

tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  the  tomatoes  in  a  pan, 

one  beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 

Remove  with  a  skimmer  and  place  on  a  large  hot  dish. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106),  trim  a  little,  arrange  on  the 

tomatoes,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

1305.  WHITEBAIT  WITH  BACON 

Have  in  a  small  basin  one  pound  very  fresh,  well  cleaned  and  wiped 
whitebait;  pour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  repeatedly  turn  in  the  milk,  then 
place  on  a  sieve;  sprinkle  six  tablespoons  cornmeal  over,  shake  well, 
"place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up, 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  pepper,  turn  them  over  and  place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin.  Arrange  six  slices  freshly  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  over, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  and  serve. 

1306.  BEEF  HASH,  POLONAISE 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  into  small  dice  pieces;  cut  half  the  quantity  cold,  boiled  potatoes 
into  small  shape.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
adding  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  one  finely  chopped  green  pepper; 
gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  add  the 


384  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

beef  and  potatoes,  with  half  pint  white  broth,  one  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  well,  cover  the  pan,  cook  for  five 
minutes  on  range,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty  minutes;  remove,  dress  on  a 
hot,  deep  dish.  Place  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and 
three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  in  a  frying  pan,  toss  on  the  fire  until 
a  nice  brown,  drain  off  the  butter  (saving  it  for  other  occasions),  sprinkle 
the  bread  crumbs  over  the  hash  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Navarin  Parmentier  (114) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Apple  Meringue  Pie  (732) 

DINNER   • 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Puree  Soubise 

Fried  Pompano,  Horly 

Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Mutton  Steaks,  Sauce  Poivrade 

Fried  Eggplants  (460) 

Spinach  with  Cream  (399)  ^ 

Roast  Snipes  (213) 
Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Pineapple  Pudding  (128) 

1307.  •  PUR£E  SOUBISE 

Finely  slice  six  sound,  peeled  onions,  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with 
one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile;  add  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and  stir  well  while 
heating  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth 
(No.  701)  and  a  pint  and  a  half  milk;  add  two  branches  each  parsley  and 
celery,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  simmer  for  forty  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  add 
half  ounce  good  butter,  lightly  mix,  and  serve. 

1308.    FRIED  POMPANO,  HORLY 

Lift  up  the  filets  from  two  medium,  fresh  pompano  of  one  pound 
each.  Skin  them,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon 
pepper,  roll  in  flour,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  fresh  bread 
crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes, 
lift  up,  drain,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with 
six  quarters  lemon,  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  one  gill  hot 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

1309.    MUTTON  STEAKS,  SAUCE  POIVRADE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  steaks  from  a  tender  leg  of 
mutton.  Make  a  few  incisions  around  the  skin  of  each,  season  with  a 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL          385 

teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  neatly  rub  with  a  tablespoon 
oil,  arrange  on  the  broiler  and  broil  for  seven  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour  a  poivrade  sauce  (No.  546)  over  the 
steaks  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Eggs  Molet,  Tomato  Sauce 

Fried  Perch  (293) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108) 
Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1310.    EGGS  MOLET,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  one  minute,  then  take  up  and  shell  carefully.  Arrange  on  a 
deep  dish,  place  three  gills  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan  and 
reduce  on  the  range  to  one  gill,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Crab  Meat,  au  Gratin  (782) 

Veal  Chops,  Philadelphia  (685) 

Noodles  with  Brown  Butter 

Potatoes,  Fondante  (56) 

French  Pancake  (17) 

1311.    NOODLES  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  noodles  as  in  No.  334,  plunge  in  two 
quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sieve,  then  place  on  a  dish,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  mix  well  with  the  seasoning.  Place 
an  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  toss  it  on  the  fire  until  of  a  nice 
brown  colour,  then  pour  over  the  noodles  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)          Caviare  (so) 

Potage,  Lyon 

Broiled  Shad,  Vert-pr£ 

Potatoes,  Bohemienne 

Roulade  of  Beef,  Nivernaise 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (8z8) 

Roast  Chicken  (290) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Babas,  au  Rhum  (687) 

1312.    POTAGE,  LYON 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  chop  very  finely  two  sound  white 
onions  and  brown  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  for  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring;  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  one  tablespoon 


386  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

good  curry  powder.  Strain  the  consomme*  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
this  pan,  mix  well  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  one  raw  egg  yolk  with 
a  half  gill  cream  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  add  to  the 
soup,  mix  well  while  heating  without  boiling  for  three  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

1313.    BROILED  SHAD,  VERT-PRE" 

Procure  half  a  very  fresh  shad  of  three  pounds.  Scale,  trim  and 
thoroughly  wipe.  Make  four  small  incisions  on  the  skin  side,  rub  the 
fish  all  around  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Ar- 
range on  the  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  large,  hot  dish,  spread  a  green  butter  over  (No.  21), 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1314.    POTATOES,  BOHEMIENNE 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  six  medium,  raw  potatoes.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  place  on  a  roasting  tin 
with  six  thin  slices  larding  pork,  one  piece  on  each  potato.  Set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes,  frequently  turning  them  over 
meanwhile;  remove,  take  each  one  between  a  towel  and  with  the  aid  of 
an  apple-corer  scoop  out  lengthwise  from  one  end  to  the  other  as  you 
would  apples.  Skin  three  country  sausages  and  with  the  meat  carefully 
stuff  the  hollows  of  the  six  potatoes,  close  both  sides  of  each  potato  with 
a  piece  of  the  scooped-out  pieces  of  same,  place  in  the  same  roasting 
pan  and  lightly  butter  the  top  of  each  with  a  very  little  melted  butter. 
Place  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes  more,  remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1315.     ROULADE  OF  BEEF,  NIVERNAISE 

Procure  a  three-pound-piece  flank  of  beef  twice  as  long  as  wide, 
trim  off  the  fat  and  split  it  crosswise  without  separating.  Season  all 
around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place  till  the  following  stuffing  is  prepared: 

Finely  chop  up  two  ounces  lean,  raw  pork,  one  ounce  lean,  raw  veal, 
and  one  ounce  cooked  lean  ham  and  place  these  articles  in  a  mortar; 
pound  to  a  paste,  add  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  a  bean  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon  each  grated  nutmeg  and  thyme, 
half  a  gill  cream  and  one  raw  egg;  pound  the  whole  well  together  for 
five  minutes,  remove  from  the  mortar  and  evenly  spread  all  over  the  cut 
part  of  the  beef.  Roll  up  tightly,  firmly  tie  with  string  all  around,  place 
a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  at  the  bottom  of  a  braizing  pan,  lay  the  roulade 
on  top,  spread  two  tablespoons  of  melted  lard  over  the  beef  and  set  in 
the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes  or  until  a  golden  colour.  Then  add 
two  tablespoons  flour  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  stir  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  pour  in  half  gill  claret,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
one  gill  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  water.  Reset  the  pan  in 
the  oven  for  fifty-five  minutes  longer,  turning  the  beef  occasionally; 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  387 

remove,  untie,  place  the  beef  on  a  dish  and  keep  warm.  Skim  the 
fat  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan  and  boil  the  sauce  on  the  range  for  fifteen 
minutes,  strain  the  sauce  over  the  beef,  pour  a  Nivernaise  garnishing 
around  the  beef  and  serve. 

1316.    NIVERNAISE  GARNISHING 

Scrape  and  wash  twenty-four  very  small  spring  carrots.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  pour  in  three  gills  water,  cover  the 
pan,  set  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  place  in  the  oven  for  forty-five 
minutes,  drain  off  the  water  and  use  as  required. 


Thursday,  Second  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream 

Farina  (74) 
Poached  Eggs,  Brown  Butter 

Smelts,  Meuniere  (280) 

Broiled  Sirloin  Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (6) 

Potatoes  Saute"es  (135) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

1317.    STRAWBERRIES  AND  CREAM 

Pick  off  the  stems  very  carefully  and  thoroughly  wash  a  quart  fresh 
strawberries;  carefully  drain  on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  fruit  compotier  and 
serve  with  thick  cream  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 

1318.    POACHED  EGGS,  BROWN  BUTTER 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106)  and  place  on  a  dish. 
Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  brown  on  the  fire  to  a  nice 
brown  colour  and  remove  from  the  fire;  pour  in  a  tablespoon  of  good 
vinegar  and  a  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  mix  all  well  together, 
pour  it  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Boston  Oyster  Stew 

Broiled  Lobster,  Chili  Sauce 

Sirloin  of  Beef  Cutlets,  Tarragon  Sauce 

Lima  Beans  in  Cream 
Compote  of  Pears  with  Maraschino 

1319.    BOSTON  OYSTER  STEW 

Open  thirty-six  large  box  oysters,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  their 
own  liquor  and  a  pint  fresh  oyster  juice  extra;  add  a  pint  water,  four 
branches  well-cleaned  celery,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne,  place  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  five  minutes;  remove  the  celery, 
skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  add  one  pint  hot  milk,  one  gill  cream 
and  one  ounce  good  butter,  mix  well,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  separately. 


3S8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1320.    BROILED  LOBSTER,  CHILI  SAUCE 

Cut  the  claws  from  three  one-pound  live  lobsters,  crack  them 
with  a  cleaver,  place  in  a  small  roasting  tin  and  set  to  bake  in  the  oven 
for  twenty  minutes.  Split  the  bodies  of  the  three  lobsters  in  even  halves, 
lengthwise,  remove  the  gravel  from  the  heads,  then  arrange  on  a  double 
broiler.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tablespoon  paprika, 
evenly  spread  two  tablespoons  oil  over  the  six  bodies  and  broil  on  the 
shell  side  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  cut  parts 
upward.  Remove,  dress  the  bodies  and  claws  on  a  large  dish,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  chili  sauce 
separately. 

1321.    CHILI  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  two  tablespoons  cold  water,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one  saltspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika;  place  on 
the  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  four  tablespoons  chili  sauce, 
one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  sauce  bowl  and  serve. 

1322.    SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF  CUTLETS,  TARRAGON  SAUCE 

Finely  chop  up  one  and  a  half  pounds  lean  sirloin  of  beef  with  four 
ounces  of  fresh  beef  marrow  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Finely  chop  together 
three  branches  well-washed  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  half  bean  garlic 
and  add  to  the  beef,  with  half  gill  cream,  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  until  thoroughly  amalga- 
mated, divide  the  preparation  into  six  equal  parts,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
then  give  them  a  nice  cutlet  form.  Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing pan,  arrange  the  cutlets  one  beside  another  in  the  pan  and  gently  fry 
for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  a  tarragon  sauce  on  a  hot  dish, 
dress  the  cutlets  crown-like  over  and  serve. 

1323.    TARRAGON  SAUCE 

Place  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoons  sherry  and  the  leaves  from  two  branches  tarragon ;  mix 
a  little,  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  use  as  required, 

1324.    LIMA  BEANS  IN  CREAM 

Open  a  pint  can'  lima  beans,  drain  off  the  water  and  plunge  them  in 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  half  gill  milk,  gill  cream,  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  saltspoon  cayenne.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Knead 
in  a  saucepan  a  half  tablespoon  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  then  add  the 
butter  little  by  little  to  the  lima  beans,  continually  mixing  while  adding 
it.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1325.    COMPOTE  OF  PEARS  WITH  MARASCHINO 

Open  a  pint  can  preserved  pears,  drain  the  syrup  into  a  saucepan 
and  arrange  the  pears  on  a  compotier  dish.  Add  one  ounce  of  sugar, 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  APRIL  389 

a  tablespoon  maraschino  and  a  vanilla  bean  to  the  syrup,  let  reduce  on 
the  fire  to  half  the  quantity,  then  strain  the  syrup  over  the  pears  and 
serve.  (Wipe  the  vanilla  bean  and  put  back  in  the  sugar  for  further  use.) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Okra,  Milanaise 

Sheepshead  a  1'Aurore 

Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 

Chicken  Saute",  Bordelaise  Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  (392) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  (523) 

Small  Neapolitan  Cakes  (524) 

1326.    OKRA,  MILANAISE 

Finely  chop  a  good-sized  white  onion,  the  white  part  of  three  leeks, 
one  sound  green  pepper  and  two  ounces  of  raw,  lean  ham;  place  these  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  butter,  brown  for  fifteen  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile;  moisten  with  one  quart  broth  and  one 
and  a  half  quarts  water.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  add  one  pound  of  beef  or  veal  bones,  cover  the  pan  and 
let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  three  tablespoons  raw  rice,  two 
ounces  spaghetti  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  ounce  of  cooked  smoked 
beef  tongue.  Cut  into  small  squares  twelve  trimmed,  fresh  okras 
into  quarter-inch  pieces  and  two  peeled  fed  tomatoes  in  eight  pieces 
each ;  lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  one  hour.  Remove  the 
bones,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1327.    SHEEPSHEAD  A  L'AURORE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  sheepshead,  scale,  trim,  remove 
the  bones  and  thoroughly  wipe.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  ounce 
butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  water,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  boil 
on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  place  the  fish  in  a  baking  dish.  Mix  in  a  saucepan 
one  tablespoon  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour  and  heat  for  half 
minute,  then  pour  the  fish  gravy  into  the  pan  with  a  gill  of  hot  milk; 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  finely 
chopped  hard-boiled  egg  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well, 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over.  Set-  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  decorate 
the  dish  all  around  with  half  slices  lemon  and  serve. 

1328.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  BORDELAISE 

Cut  the  head  and  feet  off  a  three-pound  tender  chicken,  singe,  draw, 
and  wipe.  Cut  it  into  twelve  even  pieces  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  large 


390  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

frying  pan,  add  the  chicken  with  a  bean  sound  garlic  and  briskly  fry 
for  eight  minutes  on  each  side;  drain  off  the  oil  from  the  pan,  remove  the 
garlic,  then  add  eight  finely  chopped  shallots;  stir  well  and  cook  for  one 
minute,  pour  in  a  gill  of  claret,  eight  finely  minced  mushrooms,  and  let 
the  wine  reduce  to  half  the  quantity.  Pour  in  one  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  16)  and  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  lightly  mix  and  let  slowly  cook 
for  thirty  minutes  more.  Remove  from  the  fire,  dress  the  chicken  on  a 
hot  dish,  boil  the  sauce  for  five  minutes  more,  add  half  an  ounce  good 
butter  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  mix  well,  pour  it  over 
the  chicken,  decorate  with  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90) 
and  serve. 

1329.     CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN 

Trim  off  the  green  leaves,  cut  away  the  stalk  and  clean  a  large  head 
fine  white  cauliflower;  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  plenty  water  to 
cover  it,  with  quarter  pint  milk  and  tablespoon  salt;  boil  for  forty  minutes, 
drain  and  separate  the  branches  from  the  main  stalk.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  cauliflower,  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon each  salt  and  pepper,  then  gently  fry  for  ten  minutes,  frequently 
turning  the  pieces  meanwhile,  being  careful  not  to  break  them,  and 
arrange  on  a  baking  dish.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter 
with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  heat  for  a  half  minute,  add  one 
and  a  half  gills  hot  milk,  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and 
mix  until  boiling,  then  pour  over  the  cauliflower.  Sprinkle  a  half  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 


Friday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 
Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs,  Fowler 

Filets  of  Sole,  Tartare  (487) 

Lamb  Kidneys  en  Brochette 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (1092) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1330.    EGGS,  FOWLER 

Drain  a  half  pint  fine  asparagus  tips,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  and 
mash  with  a  wooden  spoon;  add  a  half  ounce  good  butter,  a  half  gill 
cream,  half  gill  milk,  three  saltspoons  each  salt  and  sugar,  half  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  gently  boil 
for  ten  minutes,  then  press  through  a  cheesecloth  into  six  egg-cocotte 
dishes,  evenly  divided.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish, 
evenly  season  them  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
lay  them  on  a  tin  and  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
and  serve. 


FRIDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  APRIL  391 

1331.  LAMB  KIDNEYS  EN  BROCHETTE 

Skin  twelve  very  fresh  lamb  kidneys,  then  cut  them  into  thin  slices 
crosswise.  Cut  the  same  number  of  thin  slices  of  lean  bacon,  half  inch 
square,  and  evenly  arrange  them  alternately  on  six  skewers.  Season  all 
over  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  them  in  a  table- 
spoon oil,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil 
on  a  brisk  fire  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder,  Tokio  (1002) 
Cases  of  Oysters,  au  Gratin 

Omelette,  Varsovie 

Mironton  of  Lamb,  Paysanne 

Peach  Pie  (412) 

1332.  CASES  OF  OYSTERS,  AU  GRATIN 

Carefully  oil  the  outside  of  six  paper  cases.  Cut  twenty-four  large, 
freshly  opened  oysters  into  four  quarters  each,  place  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  their  own  liquor  and  a  half  gill  white  wine.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  then  boil  for  two  minutes. 
Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely 
chopped  green  pepper  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  mix  in 
two  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour  while  heating  for  half  a  minute.  Strain 
the  oyster  liquor  into  this  pan,  adding  one  gill  cream,  half  gill  milk,  two 
tablespoons  sherry,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and 
grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the 
oysters.  Mix  well,  cook  gently  for  two  minutes,  then  divide  evenly  the 
preparation  into  the  six  cases.  Sprinkle  evenly  over  a  tablespoon  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  place  the  cases  on  a  tin  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
ten  minutes,  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1333.    OMELETTE,  VARSOVIE 

Crack " eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  sharply  beat  with  a  fork 
for  two  minutes.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  toss  well 
until  it  attains  a  nice  light  brown.  Drop  in  the  eggs,  briskly  mix  with 
a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  one  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite 
sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

1334.    MIRONTON  OF  LAMB,  PAYSANNE 

Detach  all  meat  from  the  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
cut  into  half-inch  square  slices.  Cut  in  the  same  way  half  the  quantity 
peeled  boiled  potatoes.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add- 
ing two  finely  sliced  white  onions,  and  fry  to  a  nice  light  brown;  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  mix  well,  then  add  the  lamb  and  potatoes.  Moisten 


392  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  a  half  gill  vinegar  and  a  pint  white  broth  (No.  701),  add  two  peeled 
and  crushed  red  tomatoes,  one  finely  chopped  bean  garlic,  one  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Mix  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Cover  the  pan,  set  it  in  the 
oven  for  fifty-five  minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

•      DINNER 

Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Canape  of  Smoked  Salmon 

Bisque  of  Lobster  aux  Croutons 

Smelts,  Britannia  (458) 

Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Terrapin,  Newburgh  (816) 

Tournedos  of  Beef,  Sauce  Bercy 

String  Beans  and  Peas  Panache's  (1046) 

Roast  Squabs  (831) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Apple  Charlotte  (634) 

1335.    CANAP£  or  SMOKED  SALMON 

Cut  out  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf  of  bread  six  slices  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  then  cut  each  into  two-inch  square  pieces.  Toast  them  to  a 
nice  golden  colour  and  lightly  butter;  cover  them  with  very  thin 
slices  of  smoked  salmon,  nicely  trim,  dress  on  a  side  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  six  quarters  lemon  and  a 
hard-boiled  egg,  finely  chopped ;  sprinkle  this  over  them  and  serve. 

1336.  BISQUE  or  LOBSTER  AUX  CROUTONS 

Cut  the  head  off  from  a  three-pound  live  lobster,  then  cut  in  pieces. 
Thoroughly  heat  an  ounce  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  lobster 
and  briskly  cook  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile.  Place  it  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste,  then  return  it  to 
the  same  saucepan,  add  one  each  finely  minced  carrot,  onion  and  leek, 
two  finely  minced  small  branches  celery  and  two  branches  parsley ;  pour 
in  three  tablespoons  brandy  and  set  it  on  fire,  let  burn  as  long  as  it  lasts, 
continually  stirring  while  burning.  Add  a  half  gill  white  wine,  one  quart 
broth  (No.  701),  a  pint  of  tomatoes,  either  fresh  or  canned,  and  three 
pints  water.  Season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika. 
Mix  well,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  three  ounces  rice  and  let 
slowly  simmer  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  through  a  sieve 
into  a  basin,  return  to  the  pan,  add  one  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  good 
butter  and  mix  on  the  fire  until  coming  to  a  boil;  then  pass  through  a 
strainer  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons 
(No.  23)  separately. 

1337.  TOURNEDOS  OF  BEEF,  SAUCE  BERCY 

Cut  out  from  a  two-pound  piece  of  tenderloin  six  even  filets.  Neatly 
flatten,  lightly  trim  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  filets  and 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  APRIL  393 

briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  six 
bread  croutons  same  size  as  tournedos,  pour  a  Bercy  sauce  over  and 
serve. 

1338.    SAUCE  BERCY 

Finely  chop  four  sound  shallots;  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
a  teaspoon  butter  and  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a 
while;  then  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  let  reduce  to  one-half  the 
quantity,  add  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half  teaspoon 
of  chopped  chives.  Mix  a  little  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  add  half 
ounce  good  butter,  lightly  mix  and  use  as  required. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)        Hominy  (45) 

Omelette,  Tiflis 

Perch  Saute1,  Anchovy  Butter 

Sausage  Baked  with  Apples  (834) 

Potatoes,  Saratoga  (156) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1339.     OMELETTE,  TIFLIS 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  two 
tablespoons  Russian  caviar  and  two  saltspoons  each  salt  and  white 
pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  one  table- 
spoons butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  stir  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes,  let  rest  for  a  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  join  in  the 
centre,  let  rest  for  half  a  .minute,  then  turn  upon  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1340.    PERCH  SAUTE,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  six  small,  even-sized  fresh  perch.  Season 
them  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  then  roll  in  flour.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  perch,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  spread  an  anchovy  butter  (No. 
62)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Shrimp  Patties 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Smothered  Onions 
Broiled  Potatoes 
Vanilla  Custard 

1341.    SHRIMP  PATTIES 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  patties  (No.  929).  Place  thirty-six  shelled, 
cooked  shrimps  in  a  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter 
with  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour  and  heat  for  half  minute.  Pour  in 
one  gill  eachmilkand  cream, season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, two  saltspoons 


394  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  until  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  then  add  the  shrimps  to  pan,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes 
more.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add  to  the  shrimps 
and  mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  large  dish, 
divide  the  shrimps  evenly  into  the  six  patties,  arrange  the  covers  on  top 
and  serve. 

1342.    PORTERHOUSE  STEAK  WITH  SMOTHERED  ONIONS 

Procure  a  nice,  tender  one-and-a-quarter-inch-thick  porterhouse 
steak.  Lightly  flatten  and  trim  all  around.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  tablespoon  oil;  repeatedly  turn  the  steak 
in  the  seasoning,  arrange  it  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the 
smothered  onions  over  the  steak  and  serve. 

1343.    SMOTHERED  ONIONS 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  four  good-sized  white  onions,  slice  very  fine, 
then  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  the  onions,  cover 
the  pan  with  a  plate,  cook  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the 
oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  use  as  required. 

1344.  BROILED  POTATOES 

Peel  six  medium,  even-sized  cooked  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  half. 
Have  on  a  plate  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  tablespoon  melted  butter,  well 
mixed;  repeatedly  turn  the  potatoes  in  the  seasoning,  carefully  arrange 
them  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1345.  VANILLA  CUSTAJRD 

Crack  four  fresh  eggs  into  a  basin  with  two  additional  yolks,  add 
five  ounces  sugar  and  two  teaspoons  vanilla  essence.  Sharply  stir  with  a 
whisk  for  two  minutes,  then  add  one  and  a  half  pints  milk  and  half  pint 
cream;  briskly  whisk  again  for  three  minutes,  then  strain  the  preparation 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  deep  China  baking  dish.  Place  the  dish  in 
a  tin,  pour  hot  water  to  cover  half  the  height  of  the  dish  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off  and  serve. 

• 

DINNER 

Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Puree  of  Lentils 
Fresh  Mackerel,  Italienne  Potatoes  Failles  (Cm) 

Boiled  Turkey,  Demi-Deuil 

Spinach  a  1'Anglaise  (247)         Roast  Beef  (126) 
Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Cherry  Pudding  (598) 

1346.  PURE"E  or  LENTILS 

Soak  a  pint  of  lentils  in  plenty  of  cold  water  during  the  night.  Drain 
on  a  sieve,  then  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced 


SATURDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  APRIL  395 

onion,  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bean 
garlic,  two  raw  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes  and  half  pound  lean  salt  pork. 
Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Place  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes 
to  a  boil  skim  scum  from  the  surface  and  add  one  ounce  butter. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  pork 
and  keep  it.  Press  the  soup  through  a  sieve,  then  add  half  pint 
hot  milk  and  mix  a  little;  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into 
a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

1347.  FRESH  MACKEREL,  ITALIENNE 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  an  Italienne  sauce  (No.  1244).  Cut  off  the 
head,  neatly  trim  and  wipe  a  nice,  fat,  fresh  mackerel  of  three  pounds. 
Split  it  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spinal  bone,  and  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Place  it  in  a  lightly 
buttered  tin,  skin  side  downward,  place  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top 
of  the  fish,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  place  in  a 
baking  dish,  pour  the  Italienne  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over;  set  in  the  oven  again  for  fifteen  minutes, 
remove,  decorate  the  dish  all  around  with  thin  half  slices  lemon 
and  serve. 

1348.  BOILED  TURKEY,  DEMI-DEUIL 

Singe,  and  cut  the  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  turkey  of  about  seven 
pounds.  Draw,  wipe  and  truss,  then  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  two 
medium  carrots,  two  turnips,  two  white  onions,  one  leek,  one  branch 
celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves  and  a  sprig  of 
thyme.  Moisten  with  one  and  a  half  gallons  water,  season  with  a  heavy 
tablespoon  salt  and  teaspoon  white  pepper,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  cover 
it  and  let  boil  slowly  for  two  hours.  Remove  the  turkey,  cut  the  legs 
off,  then  cut  each  leg  in  three  pieces  and  place  on  a  large  dish.  Remove 
the  skin  from  the  breast,  cut  the  breast  into  very  thin  slices  and  neatly 
dress  them  over  the  legs.  Pour  a  demi-deuil  sauce  over  all  and  serve. 
Save  the  broth  for  to-morrow. 

N.  B.  A  boiled  rice  (No.  113)  can  be  served  around  the  turkey  if 
desired. 

1349.     SAUCE  DEMI-DEUIL 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter,  adding  two 
tablespoons  flour,  and  mix  while  heating  for  one  minute;  then  strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  a  pint  of  the  turkey  broth  into  this  pan,  mix  well 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity.  Add  three- 
quarters  gill  cream,  mix  well  and  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
another  saucepan.  Cut  into  julienne  strips  one  small  truffle  and  one 
ounce  cooked,  smoked  beef  tongue  and  add  to  the  sauce  with  two  table- 
spoons sherry;  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  fiVe  minutes,  remove  and 
serve  as  required. 


396  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Wheatena  (1298) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Green  Peppers 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  (748) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

English  Muffins  (51) 

1350.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  a  minute.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  a  very  finely  chopped  green 
pepper  and  brown  it  for  six  minutes ;  drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  in  Cups 

Fried  Soft-Shell  Crabs  on  Toast 

Spring  Lamb  Steaks,  Bretonne 

Lemon  Custard  Pie  (316) 

CHICKEN  BROTH  IN  CUPS 

Take  two  and  a  half  quarts  of  the  turkey  broth  from  yesterday, 
strain  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  same  quantity  of  chicken  bones  and 
vegetables  as  in  No.  578,  but  no  seasoning  whatever;  then  proceed  to 
finish  the  broth  exactly  the  same.  Place  the  remaining  turkey  broth 
with,  the  white  broth  (No.  701). 

1351.    FRIED  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS  ON  TOAST 

Remove  the  spongy  parts  under  the  side  joints  and  the  aprons  from 
twelve  medium,  fresh  soft-shell  crabs.  Wash  in  cold  water  to  entirely 
free  them  from  sand,  drain  on  a  cloth,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  dip  in  cold  milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then 
plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  seven  minutes,  or  until  of  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over, 
arrange  on  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  and  decorate  with  six  quarters  of 
lemon  and  a  little  fried  or  green  parsley. 

1352.    SPRING  LAMB  STEAKS,  BRETONNE 

Prepare  and  keep  hdt  the  same  amount  of  beans  as  in  No.  484. 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  steaks  from  a  leg  of  tender  spring 
lamb.  Make  a  few  incisions  all  around  the  skin  and  season  all  over 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  steaks,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  the  steaks,  dress  the  beans  on  a  large 
dish  and  arrange  the  steaks  over.  Pour  a  gill  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 


SUNDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  APRIL  397 

in  the  pan  in  which  the  steaks  were  cooked,  add  half  teaspoon  fresnly 
chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  over  the 
steaks  and  serve. 


DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  en  Surprise  (20)  Canape"  of  Caviare  (59) 

Green  Turtle,  English  Style 

Filet  of  Sole,  Higgins 
Noisettes  of  Beef,  Sauce  Remi 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 
Sweetbreads,  Root  French  Peas  with  Butter  (781) 

Sorbet  Anisette  (1163) 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Iced  Pudding,  Portugais 

Petites  Surprises 

1353.    GREEN  TURTLE,  ENGLISH  STYLE 

Prepare  a  green  turtle  (No.  639),  adding  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
and  a  half  gill  good  sherry.  Briskly  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add 
a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  finely  chopped  hard-boiled 
egg  and  a  sliced,  peeled  and  seeded  lemon;  mix  well,  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

1354.    FILET  OF  SOLE,  HIGGINS 

Lift  up  the  filets  from  a  three-pound  fresh  sole,  skin  and  cut  each 
filet  into  three  slanting  equal  pieces,  neatly  flatten  a  little,  then  fold  them. 
Arrange  in  a  frying  pan,  add  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine, 
half  gill  water,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika;  cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil 
on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  press  a  spinach  in  cream  (No.  399)  on  a  baking  dish;  arrange 
the  filets,  one  overlapping  anotner,  crown-like,  over  the  spinach;  place 
one  canned  mushroom  on  top  of  each  filet.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan 
one  tablespoon  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour,  heat  for  one  minute, 
then  pour  in  the  fish  gravy;  add  a  half  gill  cream  and  two  tablespoons 
grated  Swiss  cheese  and  mix  with  a  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Pour  the  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  over  the  filets, 
set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  decorate  all  around  with 
thin  half  slices  lemon  and  serve. 

1355.    NOISETTES  OF  BEEF,  SAUCE  REMI 

Neatly  trim  six  four-ounce  round  pieces  tenderloin  of  beef  and 
season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  place  a 
tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  as  soon  as  it  obtains  a  light  brown 
add  the  noisettes  and  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress 
on  six  round,  small,  freshly  prepared  toasts,  pour  the  sauce  Remi  over 
the  noisettes  and  serve. 


398  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1356.    SAUCE  REMI 

Prepare  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  and  add  a  half  teaspoon  very 
fresh,  freshly  chopped  leaves  of  mint  and  six  sliced,  stoned  olives. 
Gently  mix  with  a  spoon  and  use  as  required. 

1357.    SWEETBREADS,  ROOT 

Have  six  heart  blanched  sweetbreads  (No.  33)  ready.  Cut  a  medium 
truffle  into  one-fifth-inch  square  strips  the  length  of  the  truffle,  then 
with  the  aid  of  a  larding  needle  evenly  insert  the  strips  of  truffles  through 
the  breads.  Finely  slice  half  a  sound  carrot,  half  an  onion,-  one  branch 
each  celery  and  parsley,  half  ounce  larding  pork  and  one  bay  leaf,  and 
place  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  good  butter;  arrange  the 
breads  on  top  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  moisten  with  a 
half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  tablespoons 
port  wine;  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes, 
remove  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  a  pure*e  of  chestnuts  (No.  1019).  Dress  the  puree  on  a 
crown-shaped,  hot,  large  oval  dish,  then  neatly  arrange  the  sweetbreads 
in  the  centre  and  also  keep  warm.  Finely  mince  six  peeled  and  well- 
cleaned  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  and  fry  for  six  minutes,  tossing  them  occasionally.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  gravy  of  the  sweetbreads,  then  strain  the  sauce 
through  a  strainer  into  the  mushroom  pan,  mix  a  little,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  then  pour  over  the  breads  and  serve. 

1358.    ICED  PUDDING,  PORTUGAIS 

Prepare  a  pint  only  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  adding  in  the  freezer 
a  half  gill  Malaga  wine.  Thoroughly  pick  and  soak  in  water  for  fifteen 
minutes  two  ounces  Malaga  grapes,  drain,  remove  the  seeds,  and  add 
to  the  vanilla  with  an  ounce  of  candied,  chopped  orange  peel  and  half 
pint  whipped  cream.  Mix  well  with  the  spatula,  then  fill  up  a  quart 
mould  with  the  preparation ;  tightly  cover  the  mould,  bury  it  in  the  same 
ice  cream  pail  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove,  dip  in  lukewarm 
water  for  a  few  seconds,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

1359.    PETITES  SURPRISES 

Place  in  a  basin  three  ounces  peeled  and  finely  chopped  almonds, 
three  ounces  sugar,  three  ounces  flour,  two  ounces  melted  butter,  two 
whole  eggs,  the  yolk  of  another  and  the  rind  of  quarter  of  a  lemon  finely 
chopped  up.  Mix  all  well  with  the  spatula  for  five  minutes.  Lightly 
butter  six  individual  tartlet  moulds,  then  pour  in  some  of  the  prepara- 
tion up  to  half  their  capacity.  Press  through  a  sieve  two  preserved 
apricots  and  evenly  divide  over  the  six  moulds,  then  fill  up  with  the 
balance  of  the  preparation.  Arrange  them  on  a  tin,  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  let  cool  off,  unmould  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 


MONDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  APRIL  399 

Monday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 

Farina  (74) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Finnoise 
Kippered  Herrings  (53) 
Stewed  Lamb  Kidneys  with  Mushrooms 
Potatoes  Sautes  (135) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1360.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  FINNOISE 

Finely  chop  one  sound,  green  pepper  and  brown  in  a  frying  pan 
with  a  tablespoon  butter  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  fresh  red  tomato  juice,  three  saltspoons  each  salt  and  sugar,  a  half 
ounce  butter  and  lightly  mix;  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  evenly  divide 
into  six  cocotte-egg  dishes  and  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish.  Season 
all  equally  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  place  on 
a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1361.     STEWED  LAMB  KIDNEYS  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Skin  and  finely  slice  twelve  very  fresh  lamb  kidneys.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  kidneys,  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Drain  off  the 
butter,  add  two  tablespoons  sherry,  six  finely  minced  canned  mushrooms, 
a  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  a  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  a  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix 
well  and  briskly  cook  on  the  open  fire  for  five  minutes,  tossing  them 
frequently,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Fritters 

Goulash  of  Beef,  Hongroise  (263) 
Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 
Farina  Pudding  (1005) 

1362.    CLAM  FRITTERS 

Finely  chop  ten  large,  very  fresh,  freshly  opened  clams,  place  in  a 
bowl  with  three  ounces  of  flour,  two  fresh  eggs,  three  tablespoons  milk, 
a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  salt- 
spoons white  pepper  and  half  teaspoori  baking  powder.  Mix  all  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in 
a  large  frying  pan,  and  with  a  tablespoon  drop  in  the  batter  to  round- 
cake  forms  two  inches  in  diameter;  gently  fry  them  for  four  minutes  on 
each  side,  remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  then  proceed 
the  same  until  the  preparation  is  all  used.  Decorate  the  dish  with  a 
little  parsley  and  serve. 


400  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Pim-Olas  Radishes  (58) 

Pumpkin  Soup 

Broiled  Shad,  Maitre  d'H&tel  (194)  Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Leg  of  Mutton,  Lyonnaise  (270)     Jerusalem  Artichokes  (554) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Cabinet  Pudding  (71) 

1363.    PUMPKIN  SOUP 

Peel  and  seed  a  three-pound,  sound,  ripe,  fresh  pumpkin,  cut  it  into 
small  pieces,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  onion,  two  sliced 
leeks,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  one  bean  garlic,  two  quarts  broth,  one  quart  water,  two  teaspoons 
salt,  a  tablespoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and 
let  boil  very  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  add  half  ounce  good 
butter  and  half  pint  hot  milk.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a 
soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Allemande 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (6)         Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 
Scotch  Scones  (364) 

1364.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  ALLEMANDE 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  of  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons flour,  heat  for  half  minute,  then  pour  in  one  pint  white  broth 
(No.  701).  Season  with  half  saltspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  continually  mix  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  then  reduce  to  half  the  quantity.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  raw  egg 
yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  add  to 
the  sauce;  mix  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  strain  the  sauce 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan  and  keep  hot.  Lightly 
butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish,  equally  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper.  Set  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove,  pour  the  sauce  over 
them  equally  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

"Celery  Broth  (951) 
Scallops  Provencale  (454) 

Curry  of  Veal,  Johore-Malay  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Pancake  Georgettes  (517) 

1365.    CURRY  OF  VEAL,  JOHORE-MALAY 

Cut  three  pounds  white  fresh  shoulder  of  veal  into  twelve  even  pieces 
and  keep  on  a  dish.  Finely  mince  one  onion,  two  shallots,  one  bean 


TUESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  APRIL  401 

sound  garlic,  one  green  pepper,  one  peeled  and  cored  apple,  three  slices 
egg  plant  and  one  branch  cleaned  white  celery.  Heat  one  ounce  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  the  veal  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  turning 
the  pieces  once  in  a  while.  Gradually  add  two  tablespoons  flour, 
briskly  mix  while  browning  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  above  articles, 
with  a  tablespoon  curry  powder;  mix  well,  moisten  with  a  pint  hot 
water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  one  salt- 
spoon  each  grated  nutmeg,  thyme,  powdered  bay  leaf  and  a  piece  of 
lemon  rind.  Mix  well,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  cook  on  the  range  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Add  half  a  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  two 
tablespoons  of  raw  rice,  mix  well,  re-cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven 
for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Potage,  Pure"e  Colbert 
Brook  Trout  with  White  Wine 

Potato  Croquettes  (390) 
Fresh  Beef  Tongue  with  Risotto 

Flageolets,  Creole 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Ice  Cream  Praline 

1366.    POTAGE,  PURE"E  COLBERT 

Separate  the  leaves  from  the  stalks  of  two  heads  green  chicory,  wash 
well  and  drain,  then  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  for  five  minutes; 
drain,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter,  set  on  the 
fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile;  dredge 
in  two  ounces  flour  and  stir  well  while  heating  for  three  minutes.  Mois- 
ten with  three  quarts  water,  adding  one  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it, 
two  branches  each  celery  and  parsley.  Season  with  a  light  tablespoon 
salt,  a  saltspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  gently  simmer  for  one  and  a  half 
hours,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  replace  in  the  saucepan, 
add  a  gill  milk  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with 
a  half  gill  cream,  add  to  the  pure*e,  mix  while  heating  without  boiling, 
for  five  minutes,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve  with  six  poached  eggs  separately. 

1367.    BROOK  TROUT  WITH  WHITE  WINE 

Carefully  draw  through  the  gills  three  fresh  brook  trout,  clean  well  and 
wipe ;  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  two  branches  pars- 
ley, the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  a  gill  white  wine,  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for 
five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  arrange 
on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  parsley,  pour  the  gravy  over  and  serve. 


402  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1368.    FRESH  BEEF  TONGUE  WITH  RISOTTO 

Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  braising  pan  and  lay  a  small  fresh 
beef  tongue  over.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  adding  half  pint  water,  half  pint  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  half 
pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour  and  forty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
plunge  the  tongue  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes,  take  up,  remove  the 
skin  with  a  coarse  towel  and  neatly  turn  all  around.  Prepare  and  dress 
a  risotto  (No.  225)  on  a  large  hot  dish,  place  the  tongue  on  top  of  the 
rice,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  strain  the  gravy  over  the 
tongue  and  serve. 

1369.  FLAGEOLETS,  CREOLE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  finely  minced 
green  pepper  and  one  finely  minced  onion,  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  a  little  meanwhile,  then  add  one  pint  well-drained  canned  flageo- 
lets. Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  half 
teaspoon  sugar  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  tossing  them  well  meanwhile. 
Then  add  two  peeled  and  crushed  red  tomatoes  and  one  tablespoon 
butter.  Mix  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  more,  occasionally  mixing, 
dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1370.  ICE  CREAM  PRALINE 

Place  three  ounces  almonds,  shells  and  all,  in  a  copper  basin  with 
three  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  water;  place  on  the 
fire  and  constantly  stir  with  a  spatula  until  a  nice  brown  colour.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  pour  into  a  lightly  oiled  tin,  let  get  cold,  then  place 
and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  dust. 

Prepare  a  quart  of  vanilla  preparation  (No.  42),  strain  ice  cream 
into  freezer,  add  the  pounded  almonds,  mix  well  with  spatula,  then  pro- 
ceed to  freeze  same  as  the  vanilla  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Grape-Nuts 

Fried  Poached  Eggs 

Whitebait  with  Bacon,  Farm  Style 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  on  Toast  (434) 

Hashed  Potato  Saut<§es  (50) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1371,     GRAPE-NUTS 

Place  four  heaping  teaspoons  Grape-Nuts  on  six  saucers,  pour  a 
little  thick  milk  or  cream  on  the  side,  but  not  over,  and  serve. 

1372.    FRIED  POACHED  EGGS 

Have  three  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  salt 
and  a  half  gill  vinegar;  when  thoroughly  boiling  carefully  crack  six  fresh 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  APRIL  403 

eggs  into  the  water  and  poach  for  four  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer 
and  immediately  drop  them  into  cold  water;  poach  six  more  in  same  way. 
Take  them  up,  neatly  trim  all  around,  lay  on  a  cloth,  carefully  turn  in 
melted  butter,  then  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  gently  drop  in  boil- 
ing fat  for  one  minute;  take  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1373.  WHITEBAIT  WITH  BACON,  FARM  STYLE 
Dip  one  pound  very  fresh,  picked,  washed  and  drained  whitebait 
in  a  little  cold  milk,  place  on  a  sieve,  dredge  six  tablespoons  of  cornmeal 
flour  over  them  and  shake  well.  Cut  two  ounces  of  raw,  lean  bacon 
into  small,  thin  strips.  Place  both  fish  and  bacon  in  a  frying  basket 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  over,  shake  well  in  the  seasoning, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Vaudeville  (222) 

Chicken  Pot  Pie,  American  Style  (159) 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad  (127) 

Croutes  aux  Ananas 

1374.    CROUTES  AUX  ANANAS 

Cut  from  a  loaf  stale  sandwich  bread  six  slices  a  half  inch  thick, 
then  cut  each  slice  in  two-and-a-half-inch  circles.  Thoroughly  mix  in  a 
bowl  one  fresh  egg,  two  gills  milk,  one  ounce  fine  sugar  and  a  half  tea- 
spoon vanilla  essence.  Dip  each  piece  of  bread  into  the  custard,  two 
at  a  time.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place 
the  slices  of  bread  in  pan  and  gently  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side, 
or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
place  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Trim,  peel  and  pick  out  the  eyes  of 
a  medium  pineapple,  cut  it  in  half  and  remove  the  stalk,  then  cut  into 
thin  slices.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  water,  two  ounces  sugar, 
and  a  tablespoon  Swiss  kirschwasser.  Boil  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
drain,  then  cut  into  exceedingly  small  square  pieces.  Evenly  divide 
the  pieces  over  the  six  crusts,  pour  a  teaspoon  of  kirsch  into  the  liquor, 
lightly  mix,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  crusts  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Consomme^  Sago  Pompano,  San  Juan 

Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304)       Terrine  of  Squabs,  Bonne  Femme 

Fried  Oyster  Plant  (968) 

Leg  of  Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce       Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Victoria  Cakes 

1375.    CONSOMM£,  SAGO 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  a  saucepan  and  let  boil. 
Thoroughly  wash  in  fresh  water  four  ounces  sago,  drain  on  a  sieve  and 


404  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sprinkle  into  the  consomme,  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a 
while,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1376.    POMPANO,  SAN  JUAN 

Trim  and  wipe  two  very  fresh  pompano  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine, 
half  gill  water,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Cover  with  a 
buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  with  two  and  a  half  tablespoons 
flour  and  heat  for  half  minute ;  pour  in  the  fish  liquor  and  one  and  a  half 
gills  milk,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  chives,  six  minced  canned  mushrooms,  three  sweet  red  peppers 
cut  into  fine  julienne  strips,  a  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic  and  a 
small,  finely  sliced  truffle.  Mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  fish,  decorate  with  six  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around 
the  dish  and  serve. 

1377.  TERRINE  OF  SQUABS,  BONNE  FEMME 

Singe,  draw,  cut  off  heads  and  feet  from  six  tender  squabs,  place  on 
a  tin  and  spread  a  teaspoon  fat  over  each  bird.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  of  a  nice  colour  all  around,  remove  and  cut 
them  in  halves.  Finely  mince  a  good-sized  white  onion,  a  green  pepper 
and  an  ounce  raw,  lean  ham;  place  these  in  an  earthen  cocotte  dish  with 
one  light  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring 
meanwhile.  Add  the  squabs,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  add  half  pint  uncooked  fresh  green  peas,  half  pint  broth 
(No.  701)  and  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove, 
one  bean  garlic  and  add  to  the  squabs.  Mix  lightly,  tightly  cover  the 
pan  and  set  in  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove,  lift  up  the  bouquet  and 
send  to  the  table  in  same  dish. 

1378.  LEG  OF  SPRING  LAMB,  MINT  SAUCE 

Procure  a  nice  leg  of  spring  lamb,  neatly  trim  the  small  handle-bone, 
season  it  all  around  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Place  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  over  two  tablespoons  melted  lard,  pour 
two  tablespoons  of  water  into  the  pan  and  set  in  oven  to  roast  for 
one  hour,  being  careful  to  turn  and  baste  it  with  its  gravy  once  in  a  while. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress,  skim  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  then  strain  the  latter  over  the  lamb  and  serve  with  a  mint 
sauce  (No.  256)  separately. 

1379.    VICTORIA  CAKES 

Plunge  two  ounces  of  almonds  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  drain, 
skin,  place  in  a  mortar  with  two  tablespoons  kirsch  and  half  the  white 
of  an  egg;  pound  to  a  paste,  remove  and  place  in  a  bowl,  with  three 
ounces  fine  sugar,  a  half  saltspoon  salt  and  one  raw  egg;  briskly  mix  with 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK   OF  APRIL  405 

a  wooden  spoon  for  three  minutes,  then  add  three  egg  yolks,  two  ounces 
flour  and  mix  again  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the  bowl,  lightly  mixing  mean- 
while. Lightly  butter  six  individual  savarin  moulds  and  evenly  divide 
the  preparation  in  them,  lay  in  a  pastry  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Remove,  pour  a  teaspoon  rum  over  each  cake,  let  cool 
off  and  unmou/d  on  a  cold  dish. 

Beat  up  two  gills  double  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence,  two  ounces  powdered  sugar  and  a  half  pint  small,  well-picked, 
washed  and  dried  fresh  strawberries;  mix  well  with  a  spoon,  then  divide 
the  cream  in  the  centre  of  the  cakes  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Third  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Bananas  in  Cream  (151) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Omelette  with  Cucumbers 

Codfish  Cakes,  Meuniere  (240) 

Mutton  Chops  with  Bacon  (845) 

Potatoes,  Failles  (611) 
Cornmeal  Pancakes  (659) 

1380.    OMELETTE  WITH  CUCUMBERS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  briskly  beat  up  for  two  minutes. 

Peel  and  finely  slice  a  sound,  fresh  cucumber.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  cucumber,  season  with  three 
saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  gently  brown  for 
six  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile.  Drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  well 
with  a  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  a  minute ;  fold  up  the 
opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Steamed  Soft  Clams 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage  (438) 

Tomatoes  en  Ragout  (881) 

Creme  au  Caramel  (480) 

1381.    STEAMED  SOFT  CLAMS 

Plunge  thirty-six  fresh  soft  clams  in  fresh  water,  thoroughly  brush 
and  wash  them  several  times,  drain  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  gill 
water.  Cover  the  pan,  place  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Take  from  the  oven,  lift  up  the  upper 
shell  of  each,  arrange  them  on  a  large  dish  over  a  folded  napkin,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens;  strain  the  gravy 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  small  tureen  and  send  all  to  the  table 
with  a  little  melted  butter  separately. 


406  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Potage,  Artois 

Filet  of  Bass,  Bostonienne 

Potatoe  s,  Anglaise  (185) 

Chicken,  Haag 
Fresh  Asparagus,  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Roast  Beef  (126) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  (523) 

1382.    POTAGE,  ARTOIS 

Prepare  a  cream  St.  Germain  (No.  142),  strain  through  a  sieve  into 
a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  adding  one 
pint  white  broth,  with  two  ounces  of  raw  rice;  mix  lightly  and  let  simmer 
for  forty  minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1383.    FILET  OF  BASS,  BOSTONIENNE 

Scale,  trim,  cut  the  head  off  and  split  in  two  a  fresh  three-pound  striped 
bass.  Remove  the  spinal  bone,  skin  it,  then  cut  each  half  in  three 
slanting  equal  pieces.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  then  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  lightly  roll  in  bread 
crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying  basket,  plunge  in  boiling  fat,  fry  for  ten 
minutes,  take  up,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  arrange  on  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin.  Place  six  thin  slices  of  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  over  the  fish, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1384.    CHICKEN,  HAAG 

Singe,  draw,  cut  the  head  and  feet  off  and  truss  a  fine  tender  chicken 
of  three  pounds.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  four  quarts  water,  season 
with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  add  three  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil,  one  bean  garlic,  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  one 
bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme  and  two  cloves.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for 
one  hour  and  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  chicken,  place  on  a 
dish  and  keep  hot.  Strain  the  stock  into  another  saucepan. 

Boil  three  ounces  of  macaroni  in  salted  water  for  forty  minutes, 
drain,  place  in  a  vessel,  mix  in  an  ounce  each  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  good  butter  and  shuffle  the  pan.  Pound  in  the  mortar  an  ounce 
lean  raw  veal,  three  ounces  lean  raw  bacon,  finely  hashed,  and  an  egg 
yolk.  Prepare  a  roux  with  one  ounce  butter  and  two  ounces  flour,  then 
moisten  with  a  quart  of  the  chicken  broth,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil  and  let  reduce  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off.  Grad- 
ually add  the  force.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  two  egg  yolks  and 
briskly  mix  for  five  minutes.  Lightly  butter  a  two-quart  pudding  mould, 
line  it  all  over  with  the  macaroni  and  spread  three-quarters  of  the  force 
around  the  macaroni.  Cut  the  chicken  into  small  dice  pieces,  arrange 
them  in  the  centre  of  the  mould,  place  the  balance  of  the  force  over  and 
cover  the  mould,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  hot  water  to  half  the 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH   WEEK  OF  APRIL  407 

height  of  mould  and  set  in  the  oven  for  one  and  a  half  hours.    Remove, 
unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  over  and  serve. 

1385.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS,  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Neatly  scrape,  cut  off  the  ends  of  the  stalks  and  wash  a  large  bunch 
of  fresh  asparagus,  tie  them  in  two  bunches  and  plunge  in  two  quarts 
boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Carefully  remove  without  breaking,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  napkin 
over  it  and  serve  with  a  hot  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279)  separately. 


Friday,   Fourth  Week  of  April 

BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 

Boiled  Rice  (113) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Grated  Ham 

Fried  Oysters,  Tartare  Sauce  (844) 

Roast  Beef,  Zingara  (455) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1386.    SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  GRATED  HAM 

Grate  two  ounces  lean,  cooked  ham  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  a  tea- 
spoon French  mustard,  a  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  half  gill 
demi-glace,  half  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg; 
mix  well  with  a  spoon,  then  evenly  spread  this  into  six  shirred-egg 
dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  evenly  distributed,  set  in 
the  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Lobster  en  Brochette  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 
Veal  Cutlets,  Philadelphia  (685) 

Omelette  with  Mint 
Rice  Croquettes  with  Currants 

1387.    LOBSTER  EN  BROCHETTE  WITH  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Plunge  two  one-and-a-half -pound  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon 'boiling 
water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  let  get 
cold.  Crack  all  the  shells,  pick  out  the  meat  and  cut  into  quarter-inch 
pieces.  Have  the  same  number  small  heads  well  picked  and  cleaned 
fresh  mushrooms.  Place  the  mushrooms  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  half 
tablespoon  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  eight  minutes,  tossing  well  mean- 
while. Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  lemon,  mix  well  and  remove. 
Arrange  the  lobster  and  mushrooms  alternately  on  six  skewers  evenly, 
and  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  with  the  juice 
of  half  lemon,  lightly  turn  the  brochettes  in  it,  just  to  flavour  a  little, 
then  lightly  roll  in  oil  and  finally  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  on  a  double 


4o8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.    Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  and  serve. 

1388.     OMELETTE  WITH  MINT 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  tablespoon  of  freshly  chopped,  fresh 
mint  leaves  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  for  two  minutes 
and  let  rest  for  a  minute ;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre, 
let  rest  for  half  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1389.    RICE  CROQUETTES  WITH  CURRANTS 

Place  five  ounces  well-cleaned  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  pint 
water,  two  saltspoons  salt  and  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
add  a  pint  milk,  four  ounces  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  sound  lemon  and  a 
vanilla  bean;  lightly  mix  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty  minutes  longer. 
Add  two  ounces  well-picked  currants,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  sharply  mix  for  two  minutes,  remove  the 
pan  from  the  fire,  take  up  the  lemon  peel  and  vanilla  bean,  wipe  the 
var,  ilia  and  place  it  in  sugar.  Place  the  rice  on  a  dish,  let  get  cold  and 
divide  into  twelve  even  parts,  giving  them  nice  cake  forms.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  boiling  fat  for 
six  minutes  and  drain  on  a  cloth.  Thoroughly  mix  in  a  bowl  three 
tablespoons  currant  jelly  with  a  half  ounce  sugar  and  gill  strawberry 
syrup;  pour  the  sauce  on  a  dish,  arrange  the  croquettes  and  sprinkle  a 
little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Halibut 
Bluefish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (328) 

Potatoes,  Ancienne 

Ribs  of  Lamb,  Puree  of  Cauliflower 

String  Beans  (139) 

Crab-Meat,  Poulette 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Pudding,  Espagnole  (101) 

1390.    BISQUE  OF  HALIBUT 

Cut  into  small  pieces  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  halibut.  Finely 
slice  a  good-sized  peeled  onion,  two  leeks,  four  branches  each  celery 
and  parsley,  a  branch  chervil  and  bean  sound  garlic;  place  these  articles 
in  a  large  saucepan  with  a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  any 
heads,  tails  or  bones  of  fresh  whitefish  on  hand.  Moisten  with  two 
and -a  half  quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  one  hour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  large 
saucepan,  add  the  cut  halibut  and  cook  for  ten  minutes;  besprinkle 
with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  mix  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes, 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  409 

strain  the  fish  broth  into  this  pan,  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  constantly  stir 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper 
and  grated  nutmeg,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  half  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup  with  half 
ounce  good  butter.  Mix  well  while  heating  for  five  minutes  without 
boiling,  remove,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1391.    POTATOES,  ANCIENNE 

Wipe  six  medium,  even-sized  raw  potatoes,  place  in  an  ordinary 
earthen  pot  with  two  gills  water  and  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the  potatoes 
with  a  wet,  clean,  coarse  towel  and  place  the  cover  on  the  pot.  Set  the 
earthen  pot  beside  the  red  fire  on  the  range  and  let  steam  for  an  hour, 
remove,  lift  up  the  towel,  dress  the  potatoes  on  a  hot  dish  in  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

1392.    RIBS  OF  LAMB,  PUREE  OF  CAULIFLOWER 

Neatly  trim  off  the  fat  and  red  skin  on  a  tender  rib  of  lamb ;  remove 
also  the  small  spinal  bone.  Season  it  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lay  it  on  a  tin  with  a  mirepoix  (No.  271),  arrange 
a  thin  slice  larding  pork  on  the  surface  and  pour  half  gill  water  into  the 
pan.  Set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  forty  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while 
and  basting  with  its  own  drippings.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  large  dish, 
skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  then  place  the  vegetables  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  boil 
for  ten  minutes.  Arrange  in  pyramid  form  a  puree  of  cauliflower  on 
one  side  of  the  rib,  strain  the  sauce  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

1393.    PUREE  OF  CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  and  thoroughly  wash  a  large  head  white 
cauliflower  without  cutting  off  the  stalk.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  quarts  water,  quarter  pint  milk  and  teaspoon  salt  and  let  boil  for 
fifty  minutes.  Lift  up  and  thoroughly  drain,  then  press  through  a 
sieve  into  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  ounce  good  butter,  two  saltspoons 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
mix  while  heating  for  five  minutes t  remove  and  use  as  required. 

1394.    CRAB-MEAT,  POULETTE 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes;  add  two  light  table- 
spoons flour,  mix  a  little,  then  pour  in  one  gill  white  broth,  one  gill  each 
milk  and  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  salt- 
spoon grated  nutmeg;  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
then  let  reduce  for  ten  minutes.  Add  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh 
crab  meat,  flake  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  lightly  mix  and  let  gently 
cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon 
cream  and  add  to  the  crab  meat,  mix  while  heating  for  one  minute,  pour 
into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve. 


4io  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)        Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Sweet  Peppers         Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172)  French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

1395.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  SWEET  PEPPERS 

Cut  six  sweet  Spanish  peppers  into  halves.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  peppers  and  fry  for  two  minutes 
on  one  side  only;  turn,  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  them, 
evenly  sprinkle  over  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper 
and  fry  for  one  minute  on  the  range,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes.  Remove,  carefully  glide  them  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (137) 
Cassoulet,  Toulousaine 
German  Pancakes  (943) 

1396.    CASSOULET,  TOULOUSAINE 

Soak  a  quart  white  beans  in  plenty  water  during  night;  drain,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes;  drain 
and  place  in  a  large  earthen  pot.  Roast  a  five  to  six  pound  piece  shoulder 
of  mutton  and  half  a  duck  together  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes  or 
until  a  nice  brown  colour;  remove,  cut  into  six  even  pieces  both  duck 
and  mutton,  and  add  to  the  beans  with  a  two-ounce  piece  lean  raw  pork, 
one  small  cervela  sausage,  three  country  sausages,  one  carrot  cut  in 
quarters,  one  onion  with  three  cloves  stuck  in  it.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bean  garlic,  one  bay  leaf  and 
a  sprig  thyme ;  add  to  the  pot,  season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  of  water,  lightly 
cover  the  pot  and  set  in  the  oven  for  eight  hours.  Remove,  take  up 
the  bunch  of  herbs,  onion  and  carrots,  cut  the  cervelas  and  the  piece  of 
pork  into  slices,  dress  the  rest  of  the  pot  on  a  large  dish,  arrange  the 
bacon  and  cervela  on  top,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Consomme"  Tomate" 

Kingfish,  Comtesse  (616)  Potatoes  in  Brown  Butter 

Fricandeau  of  Veal  with  Sorrel       Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)          Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Madeleine  with  Almonds 

1397.    CONSOMME"  TOMATE" 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  into  a  saucepan  (No.  52).  Place  a 
pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  small  saucepan  and  let  reduce  on  the 
range  to  half  the  quantity,  then  strain  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the 
consomme,  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  411 

1398.    POTATOES  IN  BROWN  BUTTER 

Peel,  wash  and  cook  six  medium  potatoes  in  two  quarts  cold  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  forty  minutes.  Drain,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and 
sprinkle  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over.  Place  a  half  ounce  butter 
in  a  frying  pan  and  toss  on  the  fire  until  a  light  brown,  pour  over  the 
potatoes  and  serve. 

1399.    FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL  WITH  SORREL 

Procure  a  three-pound  round  of  tender  veal,  detach  the  skin  from 
around,  then  with  the  aid  of  a  small  larding  needle  lard  the  surface  with 
small  strips  of  pork.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  the  veal  and  fry  it  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side  on  the 
range  and  place  the  veal  on  a  dish.  Place  a  mirepoix  at  the  bottom  of 
the  pan  (No.  271),  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  brown  on  the  fire  for 
five  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  gill  claret,  a  half  pint  water,  half  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  three-quarters  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122). 
Mix  well  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  veal,  the  larded  side 
upward,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Cover  the  pan,  place  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  one  hour,  remove  and  dress  the  veal  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  a 
puree  of  sorrel  (No.  654)  around  the  veal,  skim  the  fat  from  the  sur- 
face of  the  sauce,  strain  a  little  of  the  gravy  over  the  veal,  the  balance 
into  a  saucebowl,  and  send  to  the  table  separately. 

1400.     MADELEINE  WITH  ALMONDS 

Break  four  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  two  ounces  finely  chopped,  peeled 
almonds.  Briskly  beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  fifteen  minutes  and  add 
very  gradually  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  continually  mixing  meanwhile. 
Add  three  ounces  clarified  butter,  a  half  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and 
gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  a  half  minute.  Line  the  bottom  of  a 
small  pastry  tin  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  drop  the  preparation  into 
the  tin,  neatly  smooth  the  surface,  then  set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  turn  upon  a  table,  lift 
up  the  paper,  cut  the  madeleine  into  six  even  pieces,  sprinkle  a  little 
fine  sugar  over,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  April 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Oranges  (237)  Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Eggs,  Vert-Pre        Fried  Smelts,  Tomato  Sauce  (527) 

Turkey  Hash  with  Green  Peppers       Potatoes,  Saratoga  (156) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1401.    EGGS,  VERT-?R£ 

Drop  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Remove, 
plunge  in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  take  up  and  shell  them;  place  on  a 
deep  dish,  pour  a  hot  sauce  vert-pre  (No.  184)  over  them  and  serve. 


412  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1402.    TURKEY  HASH  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday.  Cut 
it  into  small  square  pieces.  Finely  chop  a  green  pepper  and  brown  it 
with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan  for  five  minutes, 
then  add  one  tablespoon  flour;  stir  well,  add  the  turkey,  moisten  with 
one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  season  with  three  saltspoons 
salt  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  gently  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Remove,  arrange 
six  freshly  prepared  and  well-trimmed  toasts  on  a  hot  dish,  evenly  divide 
the  hash  over  the  six  toasts  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Scallops  in  Curry  (53) 

Brace  English  Mutton  Chops 

Stuffed  Potatoes 
Beignets  Fourrds  with  Cream 

1043.    BRACE  ENGLISH  MUTTON  CHOPS 

Have  three  double  one-inch-thick  English  mutton  chops  from  a 
tender  saddle  of  mutton.  Remove  the  red  skin  over  the  fat,  carefully 
fold  the  flanks  inside  the  breast,  place  between  a  towel  and  gently  flatten 
with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper ;  repeatedly  roll  the  chops  in  the  season- 
ing, then  arrange  on  the  broiler  and  briskly  broil  them  for  seven  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot.  Carefully  skin  three 
mutton  kidneys,  split  in  two,  roll  in  the  same  seasoning  as  the  chops, 
arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each 
side.  Dress  the  kidneys  on  top  of  the  chops,  decorate  with  a  little 
watercress  and  serve. 

1404.    STUFFED  POTATOES 

Neatly  wipe  eight  even-sized,  large  raw  potatoes;  place  them  in  a 
roasting  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes;  remove,  cut 
in  two  lengthwise,  then  with  a  teaspoon  scoop  out  the  interiors  into  a 
bowl  and  keep  six  shells  apart.  Season  the  potatoes  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  half 
ounce  butter  and  half  gill  cream.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then 
fill  up  the  six  half  shells  with  the  puree,  neatly  smooth  the  surface  with 
the  blade  of  a  knife,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
evenly  divided  over  them,  place  on  a  roasting  tin  and  arrange  a  very 
little  bit  of  butter  over  each  potato.  Set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1405.    BEIGNETS  FOURRE"S  WITH  CREAM 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux  (No.  336).  Mix  in  a  tablespoon  fine  sugar 
and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Heat  well,  but  not  to  a  boiling  point, 
one  quart  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  then  with  a  teaspoon  drop  in  the  paste 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  413 

in  walnut-like  bits  and  slowly  fry  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  which  will 
take  about  fifteen  minutes,  being  very  careful  to  turn  with  the  skimmer 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  towel,  then  with  the 
aid  of  a  small  knife  make  a  small  aperture  in  each.  Beat  up  one  and  a 
half  gills  cream  with  a  whisk  to  a  thick  froth,  add  one  ounce  sugar,  a 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  mix  well.  Make  a  cornet  with  a  piece  of 
white  paper,  drop  the  cream  into  the  cornet,  cut  off  a  very  small  piece 
of  the  paper  at  bottom  of  cornet,  then  fill  the  beignets  with  the  cream, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 

Celery  with  Roquefort  Salted  Devilled  Almonds  (954) 

Cream  of  Lettuce 

Salmon,  Boitel 
Potatoes,  Persillades  (63) 

Filet  of  Beef,  Vitt£ 
Eggplant  and  Tomato.  Athenienne 

Punch  Cardinal  (96) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Imperial  Iced  Pudding 

1406.    CELERY  WITH  ROQUEFORT 

Remove  the  outer  branches  from  a  large  stalk  of  crisp  celery.  De- 
tach all  the  branches ;  thoroughly  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  a  mortar 
one  ounce  of  Roquefort  cheese  with  a  quarter  ounce  butter  and  half 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  thoroughly  pound  it,  then  evenly  spread  the 
cheese  on  inside  of  celery  branches,  dress  on  a  side  dish,  cover  with 
cracked  ice  and  serve. 

1407.  CREAM  OF  LETTUCE 

Detach  the  leaves  from  two  heads  large  green  lettuce,  thoroughly 
wash  and  drain,  keeping  the  hearts  for  salad.  Heat  an  ounce  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  the  lettuce  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  lightly 
meanwhile;  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  add  one 
peeled  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
branch  chervil,  two  branches  celery,  one  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  one  level 
tablespoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  fifty-five  minutes.  Place 
three  ounces  rice  flour  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  one  gill  each  cream  and  milk, 
mix  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes,  then  add  to  the  soup.  Continually 
mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  remove  from  fire,  press  cream  through  a 
sieve  into  a  basin,  then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

1408.  SALMON,  BOITEL 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  very  fresh  salmon,  place 
in  a  frying  pan  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  gill  water, 
the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  lemon,  two  branches  parsley,  half  teaspoon  each 
salt  and  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for 


414  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress 
the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  remove  the  spine  bones 
and  keep  warm. 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  the  fish  gravy  into  this  with  a  half  gill  cream ; 
mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
chervil  and  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Mix  well,  cook  for  five  min- 
utes, pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1409.    FILET  or  BEEF,  VITTE 

Trim  off  the  skin  from  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  tenderloin  of 
beef.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  a 
mirepoix  in  a  braising  pan  (No.  271),  lay  the  filet  over  it,  pour  two  table- 
spoons melted  lard  over  the  filet  and  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  fifteen 
minutes;  pour  in  a  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  half  pint  demi- 
glace  (No.  122).  Cover  the  pan,  reset  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes, 
take  out,  dress  the  filet  on  a  dish  and  keep  warm.  Skim  the  fat  from 
the  gravy,  add  two  tablespoons  freshly  grated  horseradish,  lightly  mix, 
then  boil  until  reduced  to  half  the  quantity.  Strain  the  sauce  into  a 
small  saucepan,  add  eight  anchovies  in  oil  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  a 
tablespoon  capers;  mix  well,  boil  for  two  minutes  more,  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  filet  and  serve. 

1410.    EGGPLANT  AND  TOMATO,  ATHENIENNE 

Peel  a  small  eggplant,  then  cut  into  six  even  slices.  Neatly  trim 
all  around,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper 
and  lightly  roll  them  in  flour.  Heat  a  tablespoon  lard  in  a  frying  pan, 
arrange  the  eggplant  slices  one  beside  another  in  the  pan,  and  fry  for 
three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  place  on  a  lightly  buttered 
tin.  Place  in  a  mortar  two  skinned,  raw  sausages,  half  a  teaspoon  each 
chopped  parsley  and  chives,  half  bean  chopped  garlic,  two  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs,  half  gill  cream,  one  egg  yolk,  two  saltspoons  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  then  pound  the  whole 
well  together  to  a  smooth  paste  and  evenly  spread  over  the  six  slices 
eggplant.  Cut  three  medium,  red  tomatoes  into  halves  crosswise. 
Evenly  season  the  cut  part  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  arrange  a  piece  of  tomato  on  top 
of  each  eggplant,  cut  side  downward.  Spread  a  half  teaspoon  melted 
butter  over  the  tomatoes,  evenly  divided,  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  for 
twenty  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1411.    IMPERIAL  ICED  PUDDING 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  adding  to  the  freezer  two 
ounces  peeled  and  finely  chopped  almonds,  twelve  candied  cherries  cut 
in  halves,  four  slices  candied  pineapple  cut  into  very  small  dices,  and 
two  tablespoons  good  kirsch.  Mix  well  with  the  spatula,  then  transfer 
the  cream  into  a  dome-shape  quart  mould,  cover  with  a  sheet  of  paper, 
then  lightly  close  the  mould.  Bury  it  in  the  ice-cream  pail  for  one 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  415 

hour,  remove,  dip  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds,  wipe  it,  un- 
mould  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Poached  Eggs    Tampa 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  in  Milk  (1231) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108) 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

1412.    POACHED  EGGS,  TAMPA 

Peel  and  place  in  a  saucepan  six  small  bananas  with  a  half  ounce 
butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  two  table- 
spoons cream.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  press  though  sieve  into  a  bowl,  mix  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  neatly  smooth  the  top. 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106),  trim  a  little  all  around,  then 
dress  on  the  puree  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Broiled  Oysters  on  Toasts 

Pork  Chops,  Limburg 

Spaghetti,  italienne  (15) 

Flan  aux  Apricots 

1413.    BROILED  OYSTERS  ON  TOASTS 

Open  thirty-six  large  fresh  oysters,  drain  on  a  colander  and  neatly 
wipe  with  a  clean  towel.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper,  roll  in  oil,  then  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil 
on  a  brisk  fire  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  over  six  freshly  prepared  toasts,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over, 
decorate  with  six  sections  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1414.    PORK  CHOPS,  LIMBURG 

Neatly  flatten  six  pared,  fresh  pork  chops.  Season  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Place  two  sound,  finely  minced 
onions  in  an  earthen  baking  dish  and  place  the  chops  over  them.  Finely 
slice  two  medium,  raw,  peeled  potatoes  and  lay  them  on  top  of  the  chops. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  each  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  over  one 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic. 
Arrange  six  thin  slices  raw  ham  on  top  of  all,  moisten  with  half  pint 
white  wine  or  cider,  tightly  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  fifty- 
five  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table  in  the  same  dish. 


416  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1415.    FLAN  (CUSTARD)  AND  APRICOTS 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  half-pound  pie  paste  (No.  117) 
and  with  it  line  a  deep  pie  plate;  trim  all  around  the  edges,  line  the 
inside  with  a  piece  of  paper,  fill  up  with  dried  beans  and  set  in  the  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  the  beans  and  paper.  Open  a 
pint  can  apricots,  place  on  a  plate  and  Lie  syrup  in  a  small  saucepan. 
Sprinkle  two  ounces  sugar  over  the  apricots,  pour  in  two  tablespoons 
maraschino,  turn  the  apricots  into  the  seasoning,  then  place  in  the  flan 
(custard)  cut  side  downward  and  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move, add  three  tablespoons  currant  jelly  to  the  syrup  in  the  pan,  with 
two  tablespoons  kirsch.  Mix  well,  let  reduce  on  the  fire  until  well 
thickened,  pour  over  the  apricots,  let  get  cold  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Canapes  of  Caviare  (59) 

Chicken  Okra,  Cocoanut 

Eels  in  Matelote 
Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 

Gosling.  Mount  Vernon 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 

Leg  of  Mutton  Roasted,  Currant  Jelly  (522) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Babas  au  Maraschino 

1416.    CHICKEN  OKRA,  COCOANUT 

Half  a  boned  fowl,  one  each  small  carrot,  white  turnip  and  onion, 
half  a  green  pepper,  two  leeks,  two  tablespoons  raw  rice,  three  quarts 
hot  water,  four  small,  peeled  red  tomatoes  and  twelve  good-sized,  fresh 
okras. 

Cut  the  fowl  into  small  square  pieces;  cut  also  the  carrot,  turnip, 
onion,  green  pepper  and  leeks  into  half-inch-square  pieces,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  slowly  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  once  in  a  while;  then  add  the  rice  and  any  raw  chicken 
bones  on  hand,  lightly  mix  and  moisten  with  the  hot  water.  Season 
with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  thirty  minutes. 
Cut  the  tomatoes  and  okras  into  small  pieces  and  add  them  to  the  soup, 
then  boil  for  thirty  minutes  more.  Remove  the  bones,  add  the  milk 
and  the  shredded  meat  of  a  medium  cocoanut,  mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes  more,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1417.    EELS  IN  MATELOTE 

Skin  two  pounds  of  very'  fresh  eels,  cut  the  heads  off,  thoroughly 
wipe,  cut  into  two-inch-long  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add  twelve  very  small 
peeled  onions,  one  bean  sound  garlic,  and  brown  them  for  ten  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  once  in  a  while;  besprinkle  with  two  tablespoons  flour, 
stir  well,  brown  for  five  minutes,  and  moisten  with  a  half  pint  claret. 
Tie  together  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chives,  one  bay  leaf,  one 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  417 

clove,  a  sprig  thyme  and  add  to  the  pan;  mix  a  little  and  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  fish  with  twelve  canned  mushrooms,  mix  a  little, 
cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  forty  minutes.  Take  up  the  bouquet 
of  herbs  and  garlic,  pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over,  arrange  six  heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  90) 
around  and  serve. 

1418.    GOSLING,  MOUNT  VERNON 

Singe,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet  of  a  tender,  small  gosling  of  about 
six  pounds.  Neatly  draw,  wipe  dry  and  keep  the  fat  on  a  plate.  Place 
three  freshly  boiled,  peeled  potatoes  in  a  mortar,  with  one  finely  minced 
white  onion  fried  in  a  teaspoon  of  butter  for  five  minutes,  two  egg  yolks, 
half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper  and 
saltspoon  nutmeg;  pound  to  a  paste,  then  stuff  the  gosling  with  the 
mixture,  tightly  truss,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Place  the  gosling  on  a  roasting  tin  with  its  own  fat, 
pour  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  on  the  surface  of  the  bird  and  set  in 
the  oven  for  thirty  five  minutes.  Peel  and  core  six  medium  apples. 
Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Arrange  the  apples  around  the  gosling  in  the  pan  and 
roast  for  thirty  minutes  more;  turn  and  baste  with  its  own  drippings 
occasionally.  Remove,  dress  the  gosling  on  a  large  hot  dish,  untruss 
and  arrange  the  apples  on  the  sides  of  the  dish.  Place  one  and  a  half 
gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  with  two  tablespoons  each  sherry  and  currant 
jelly  in  a  small  saucepan,  mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  it 
over  the  goose  and  serve. 

1419.    BABAS  AU  MARASCHINO 

Prepare  exactly  the  same  as  No.  930,  but  substituting  the  same 
quantity  of  maraschino  for  the  rum. 


Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Grape-Fruit  (130)  Force  (979) 

Omelette  with  Chives  Whitebait,  Virginia 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1420.    OMELETTE  WITH  CHIVES 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  one  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  fresh  chives,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  a  whisk  for 
two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to 
meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 


418  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1421.  WHITEBAIT,  VIRGINIA 

Dip  in  a  little  cold  milk  one  pound  very  fresh  whitebait,  place  on  a 
sieve,  sprinkle  six  tablespoons  cornmeal  flour  over  and  shake  well.  Cut 
two  ounces  of  lean,  raw  Virginia  ham  into  thin  strips  half  an  inch 
long.  Place  both  fish  and  ham  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling 
fat  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  season  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Shake  the  seasoning  well  in, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Plain  Baked  Live  Lobster  (952) 

Hochepot  Gantoise 
Apple  Dumplings  (707) 

1422.  HOCHEPOT  GANTOISE 

Cut  into  half-inch-square  pieces  half  pound  each  raw  breast  of 
mutton,  beef,  and  lean  pork,  one  raw  pig's  tail  and  quarter  pound 
salt  pork.  Place  them  in  a  large  saucepan  with  three  quarts  of 
water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teapsoon  white  pepper  and  two 
saltspoons  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  on  the  range 
for  thirty  minutes.  Add  then  a  very  small,  well-cleaned  green  cabbage 
cut  into  quarters,  eight  small,  peeled  white  onions,  two  carrots,  two 
turnips,  cut  into  julienne  strips,  and  two  crushed  beans  sound  garlic 
and  four  branches  of  parsley  tied  together.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  add  two  peeled  raw  potatoes  cut  into 
half-inch  squares,  and  boil  for  forty-five  minutes  more.  Mix  in  another 
saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter  with  one  ounce  flour,  stir  well  while  cook- 
ing for  a  minute,  then  strain  the  broth  into  pan.  Mix  well  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  then  pour  the  contents  of  this  into  the  original  pan.  Mix  a 
little,  take  up  the  parsley,  pour  into  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Osol  Polonaise 

Sheepshead,  Hongroise         Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 
Chicken  Saute,  Florentine 
Peas  with  Lettuce  (667) 

Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381) 

1423:    OSOL  POLONAISE 

Bone  half  a  fresh  fowl  and  cut  into  half-inch  pieces.  Cut  into 
same  size  half  pound  raw  beef,  two  ounces  each  raw  veal  and  salt  pork 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  seven  pints  cold  water.  Season  with  a 
level  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  set  on  the  fire,  and  as 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  off  the  fat;  then  add  one  carrot,  one 
turnip,  two  onions  and  three  branches  celery.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks, 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  419 

two  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  one  sprig  thyme  and  a 
bean  garlic;  add  to  the  pan,  cover,  and  let  gently  simmer  for  two  hours. 
Remove  the  vegetables  and  bouquet,  skim  off  the  fat,  dredge  in  two  ounces 
sago,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  at  the 
bottom.  Add  a  gill  cream,  mix  a  little,  let  boil  for  two  minutes,  pour 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1424.    SHEEPSHEAD,  HONGROISE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh  sheepshead,  scale,  suppress 
the  bones,  neatly  trim  and  make  a  few  light  incisions  on  the  skin.  Mix 
on  a  plate  a  half  ounce  butter,  with  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  a  teaspoon 
anchovy  paste,  briskly  rub  it  into  the  fish,  place  on  a  dish,  and  let  infuse 
for  thirty  minutes.  Lay  it  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  half  gill  white  wine 
and  three  saltspoons  salt.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper, 
cook  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes  and  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  lift  up  the  paper,  carefully  dress  the  fish  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  the  fish  liquor  with  a  half  gill  milk  and  six 
finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Mix  a  little  and  let  boil  for  five  min- 
utes. Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  sauce. 
Mix  well  while  heating  without  boiling  for  two  minutes,  pour  the  sauce 
and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1425.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  FLORENTINE 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  of  a  tender  three-pound  chicken.  Singe, 
draw  and  cut  into  twelve  even  pieces.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  two  table- 
spoons oil  and  a  bean  garlic;  thoroughly  heat  for  five  minutes,  remove 
the  garlic,  place  in  the  chicken,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  gently  fry  for  twenty  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  quite 
frequently.  Drain  out  the  oil,  then  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots  and 
one  finely  chopped,  seeded  green  pepper  Stir  well  and  cook  for  five 
minutes  longer,  stirring  lightly  meanwhile.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  sherry, 
one  gill  each  fresh  tomato  juice  and  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  of  chopped  chives.  Mix  well 
and  cook  on  the  range  for  twenty  minutes  more,  lightly  mixing  once  in  a 
while,  and  dress  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish.  Reduce  the  sauce  for  five  min- 
utes, squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  pour  the  sauce  over  chicken, 
arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

1426.    ROAST  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF 

Trim  off  a  little  of  the  fat  from  around  a  two-and-a-half-pound 
boned  piece  tender  sirloin  of  beef.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  place  it  in  a  roasting  tin,  spread  a 
little  fat  over,  pour  two  tablespoons  water  in  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven 
to  roast  for  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  and  baste  it  once  in 
a  while.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  off  the  fat  from  the  surface 
of  the  gravy,  then  pour  gravy  over  the  beef,  decorate  with  a  little 
watercress  and  serve. 


420  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)        Wheatena  (1298) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Bradshaw 

Filet  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce  (487) 

Calves'  Liver  and  Bacon  (155) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Cinnamon  Cakes  (1195) 

1427.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  BRADSHAW 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  half  a  finely  chopped 
onion,  half  a  chopped  green  pepper,  and  gently  brown  for  five  min- 
utes, occasionally  stirring ;  then  add  two  finely  crushed,  peeled  tomatoes, 
a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  gill  broth,  two  saltspoons 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  sugar.  Mix  well  and  let  gently  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Divide  the  sauce  evenly  into  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  carefully 
crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish  and  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  evenly  divided  over  them.  Pour  a  teaspoon 
thick  cream  over  each  dish,  place  them  on  a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  in  Cups  (578) 

Oyster  Patties,  Be'chamel 

Entrecotes,  Pojarski  (914) 

Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

1428.    OYSTER  PATTIES,  BE'CHAMEL 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  patties  (No.  929).  Plunge  thirty-six 
freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
for  five  minutes,  then  drain.  Mix  and  heat  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce 
butter  with  an  ounce  flour,  then  pour  in  one  gill  each  hot  milk  and  cream, 
a  half  gill  of  the  oyster  broth,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  with  a  whisk  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  oysters  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  gently 
mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Place  the  patties  on  a  hot  dish,  divide 
the  oysters  in  them,  place  the  covers  on  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Pure"e,  Jerusalem 
Trout  Saute",  Meuniere  (1293)  Potatoes,  Italienne  (1074) 

Lamb  Chops,  Versaillaise 
String  Beans  au  Beurre  (139) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Malaga  Pudding  (309) 

1429.    PUREE,  JERUSALEM 

Peel  and  thoroughly  wash  twenty-four  Jerusalem  artichokes,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  one  sliced  onion;  two 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL          421 

branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  three  branches  celery,  one  bean 
crushed  garlic,  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  then 
add  a  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Knead  in  a  bowl  a  half  ounce 
butter  with  one  ounce  flour  and  add,  little  by  little,  to  the  soup,  con- 
stantly mixing  while  adding  it.  Boil  for  five  minutes  more,  press 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  soup 
tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  123)  separately. 

1430.    LAMB  CHOPS,  VERSAILLES 

Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  nice,  tender  lamb  chops.  Mix  on  a 
plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper;  repeatedly  roll  the  chops  in  the  seasoning  and  keep  on  the  plate. 

Peel  and  wash  six  heads  large  fresh  mushrooms  and  place  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one 
saltspoon  white  pepper,  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side  and  keep 
hot.  Arrange  six  thin  slices  broiled  ham  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the 
chops  on  broiler,  and  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove 
and  lay  the  chops  over  the  slices  of  ham,  arrange  the  mushrooms  over 
chops,  the  whole  crown-like,  one  overlapping  another;  add  half  an 
ounce  butter  to  the  mushrooms  pan,  thoroughly  heat,  squeeze  the  juice 
of  a  half  lemon  into  the  butter,  adding  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  lightly  mix,  pour  over  the  chops  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (131?)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Sausage        Kippered  Herring  (153) 

Corned  Beef  Hash,  Arrlerican  (241) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1431.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  SAUSAGE 

Split  six  country  sausages  in  halves,  lengthwise,  and  place  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Fry  for  three  minutes  on  one  side, 
turn,  and  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  them,  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  evenly  divided  over 
the  eggs,  fry  for  one  minute,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Re- 
move, carefully  glide  them  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Crabs,  Manhattan 

Veal  Chops,  Deleir  (829) 

Spaghetti,  Napolitaine 

Apple  Pie 

1432.    CRABS,  MANHATTAN 

Hash  up  together  six  sound  shallots,  half  a  green  pepper,  the  red 
part  of  a  small  carrot,  a  half  bean  garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  one 


422  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

branch  chervil  and  four  branches  chives.  Place  these  articles  in  a 
frying  pan  with  a  half  ounce  butter  and  gently  fry  for  ten  minutes,  occa- 
sionally stirring  meanwhile.  Add  a  half  gill  sherry,  one  tablespoon 
brandy,  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  two  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122).  Mix  well  and  let  reduce  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes, 
then  add  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  fresh  crab-meat  flakes.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon 
ground  thyme.  Mix  well  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  evenly  divide 
the  preparation  into  six  well-cleaned  crab  shells,  arrange  on  a  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1433.    SPAGHETTI,  NAPOLITAINE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter  with  a  few  mushroom  trim- 
mings and  brown  for  five  minutes,  tossing  well  meanwhile.  Pour  in 
two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
adding  a  half  pound  raw  shin  of  beef,  one  bean  crushed  garlic,  four 
minced  shallots,  one  branch  parsley  and  five  dried  mushrooms.  Lightly 
mix,  cover  the  pan,  and  place  in  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove,  strain 
the  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  and  keep  hot.  Plunge  a  half 
pound  spaghetti  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  in  a  frying 
pan  on  the  fire  and  add  the  sauce,  mix  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes. 
Add  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  mix  well  with  a  fork,  pour 
into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

1434.    APPLE  PIE 

Peel,  core  and  slice  six  apples,  place  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  sugar 
and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning,  then 
proceed  to  prepare  and  bake  the  pie  (Nos.  117-118). 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Pim-Olas 

Consomme,  Villageoise 

Planked  Shad,  Colbert 

Vol  au  Vent  of  Godiveaux 

Spinach  with  Eggs  (399) 
Roast  Duckling  with  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Iced  Pudding,  Romanoff 

1435.     CONSOMM^,  VILLAGEOISE 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  and  keep  hot.  Cut  with  a 
half -inch  vegetable  cutter  two  carrots  and  two  turnips.  Finely  slice 
the  white  parts  of  two  leeks  and  two  small  white  onions  and  cut  half  a 
very  small  white  cabbage  into  half-inch  squares.  Place  all  these 
vegetables  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  one  gill  of  the 
strained  consomme,  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  well, 
cover  the  pan,  set  in  the  oven  for  fifty-five  minutes,  remove,  add  the 
contents  of  the  pan  to  the  consomme,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a 
tureen  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  423 

1436.    PLANKED  SHAD,  COLBERT 

Scale  and  neatly  trim  half  a  fresh  three-pound  shad.  Season  all 
over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  rub  all  over 
with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Oil  the  top  of  an  oak  shad  plank,  lay  on  the 
shad,  skin  side  downward  and  place  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 
Remove,  prepare  a  brioche  potato  preparation  (No.  91),  drop  into  a 
pastry  bag  with  a  fancy  tube  at  the  bottom,  then  with  it  make  a  nice 
border  all  around  the  edge  of  the  plank.  Reset  in  the  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes  more,  remove,  pour  a  Colbert  sauce  (No.  121)  over  the  fish 
and  serve. 

1437.    VOL  AU  VENT  OF  GODIVEAUX 

Prepare  a  vol  au  vent  (No.  757)  and  keep  hot.  Finely  chop  a  pound 
and  a  half  lean,  raw,  sinewless  veal  with  a 'pound  of  well-picked,  fresh 
beef-kidney  suet;  place  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  bury  it  in  ice 
for  one  hour.  Place  the  hash  in  a  cold  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg  and  saltspoon  ground  mixed  allspice,  adding  three  egg- 
yolks;  pound  again  for  five  minutes,  place  on  a  lightly  floured  table, 
then  make  small  balls  the  size  of  cherries  and  plunge  in  a  pint  and  a  half 
boiling  broth;  boil  for  two  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  keep  the  broth. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter  with  one  ounce  flour  and  heat 
for  a  half  minute.  Strain  the  broth  into  this  pan,  add  a  half  gill  cream, 
season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper 
and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream,  add  to  the  sauce,  and 
mix  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Add  the  godiveaux,  lightly  mix, 
cook  for  one  minute  more;  dress  the  vol  au  vent  on  a  large  dish  and 
pour  into  the  vol  au  vent,  place  the  cover  on  and  serve. 

1438.    ICED  PUDDING,  ROMANOFF 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  marron  ice  cream  (No.  854),  adding  twelve 
cracked  and  finely  chopped  walnuts,  one  ounce  chopped  candied  citron, 
two  tablespoons  maraschino,  a  half  pint  whipped  cream  (No.  337)  and 
mix  well  with  the  spatula.  Line  a  quart  mould  with  a  sheet  of  white 
paper,  then  fill  with  the  preparation,  line  with  a  piece  of  paper  on  the 
surface,  cover  and  bury  it  in  the  ice  with  rock  salt  for  two  hours.  Re- 
move, wipe  well  all  around,  unmould  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

Friday,  Fifth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)         Hominy  (45) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Sardines         Bluefish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (328) 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  (49)         Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

1439.     SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  SARDINES 

Neatly  skin,  bone  and  cut  in  small  pieces  twelve  small  sardines. 
Evenly  divide  them  in  six  shirred-egg  dishes  with  their  own  oil  poured 


424  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

over  them;  place  on  the  fire  for  one  minute,  carefully  crack  two  fresh 
eggs  into  each  dish  and  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper  evenly  divided.  Set  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Mulligatawney,  Benares  (695) 

Oyster  Ravigote 

Pieds-Paquet,  Marseillaise          Omelette  with  Chervil 
Farina  Pudding  (1005) 

1440.    OYSTER  RAVIGOTE 

Drain  thirty-six  fresh  opened  oysters  on  a  cloth,  lightly  roll  in  flour, 
then  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  and  lastly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a 
frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes.  Drain  thoroughly 
on  a  cloth,  dredge  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens,  and 
serve  with  a  cold  ravigote  sauce  separately. 

1441.    COLD  RAVIGOTE  SAUCE 

Place  a  cold,  fresh  egg  yolk  in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  good  vinegar, 
three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoon 
French  mustard;  briskly  mix  with  a  small  wire  whisk  for  one  minute, 
then  add,  drop  by  drop,  a  gill  of  oil,  continually  mixing  briskly  while 
adding  and  for  four  minutes  after  it  has  been  added.  Finely  chop 
together  one  small  branch  parsley,  one  of  chervil,  two  of  chives,  four 
of  tarragon  leaves  and  one  shallot;  add  to  the  sauce  with  the  juice  of  a 
quarter  very  sound  lemon,  sharply  mix  again  for  one  minute,  transfer 
the  sauce  into  a  cold  saucebowl  and  serve  as  required. 

1442.      PlEDS-PAQUET,   MARSEILLAISE 

Plunge  four  mutton  feet  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Drain, 
then  detach  all  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  cut  the  meat  into  very  small 
square  pieces.  Cut  two  ounces  raw,  lean  pork  into  the  same  size,  also 
an  ounce  larding  pork;  place  these  articles  in  a  bowl,  adding  four  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  one  finely  chopped  bean  garlic.  Season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  a  half  saltspoon  mace.  Mix  well.  Cut  two  pounds  well- 
drained  fresh  honey-comb  tripe  into  three-inch-square  pieces.  Divide 
the  preparation  evenly  in  the  centre  of  each  piece  of  tripe,  fold  up  the 
four  corners,  then  tie  all  around  with  string.  Place  in  an  earthen  dish  a 
half  ounce  butter  with  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  bay  leaves, 
two  cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  the  tied-up  tripe,  and  cook  on  the  range 
for  fifteen  minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown  colour.  Moisten  with  a  pint 
broth,  one  and  a  half  gills  white  wine  and  two  tablespoons  brandy. 
Tightly  cover  the  pan,  set  in  the  oven  to  braize  for  three  hours  and  a 
half,  remove,  arrange  the  packages  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  untie.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  pot,  add  to  the  sauce  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
reduce  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  strain  the  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  parsley  over  the  package  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  425 

1443.    OMELETTE  WITH  CHERVIL 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  the  leaves  of  two  branches  chervil,  and 
sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  a 
fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  a  minute ;  fold  the  opposite 
sides  up  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives  Caviare  (59) 

Bisque  of  Fresh  Scallops 

Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927)       Potatoes,  Savoyard  (533) 
Chicken  Croquettes,  Tomato  Sauce  Green  Peas  (35) 

Lobster,  American  (410) 

Shoulder  of  Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce 

Douce tte  Salad  (189) 

Pudding,  Boissy  (746) 

1444.    BISQUE  OF  FRESH  SCALLOPS 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  pints  water,  four  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  three  peppercorns, 
one  blade  mace,  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspocns  cayenne  pepper  and  the 
head  of  a  clean,  fresh  whitefish.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  the 
fish  heads  and  parsley,  strain  the  broth  into  a  basin  and  keep  till  required. 
Place  the  scallops  in  a  mortar,  pound  to  a  paste  and  return  to  the  broth. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  two  ounces  flour; 
mix  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  add  the  broth  and  scallops 
with  a  pint  hot  milk  to  this  pan;  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then 
let  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  gill  milk  and 
add  to  the  soup  with  a  half  ounce  butter.  Mix  well  while  heating  for 
two  minutes,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Prepare  the  chicken  croquettes  (No.  700)  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin.  Adjust  a  fancy  frjll  at  the  end  of  each  croquette, 
decorate  with  a  little  green  parsley,  and  serve  with  one  gill  hot  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucebowl  separately. 

1445.    SHOULDER  OF  SPRING  LAMB,  MINT  SAUCE 

Carefully  remove  the  blade  bone,  neatly  trim  all  around  and  season 
a  nice  shoulder  spring  lamb  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Fold  up  and  firmly  tie  with  string,  place  in  a  roasting  pan  with 
two  tablespoons  water  and  spread  over  one  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  forty  minutes,  turning  and  frequently  basting 
with  its  own  gravy.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  untie,  skim  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  then  pour  the  gravy  over,  decorate  with  a  little  water- 
cress and  serve. 


426  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,   Fifth  Week  of  April 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Boiled  Rice  (113) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Mint 

Perch  Saute\  Meuniere  (293) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  on  Toast  (434) 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1446.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  MINT 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  season  with 
a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  adding  one  heavy  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped,  very  fresh  mint  leaves,  and  briskly  beat  up  with 
a  fork  one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in 
the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  mixing  meanwhile,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 
Haricot  of  Mutton,  Paysanne 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Pancakes  with  Chocolate 

1447.    HARICOT  OF  MUTTON,  PAYSANNE 

Cut  a  tender  neck  of  mutton  into  two-and-a-half -inch  pieces.  Cut 
also  three  ounces  lean,  raw  bacon  into  one-inch-square  pieces.  Thor- 
oughly heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  mutton  and 
bacon  and  gently  brown  for  twenty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  mean- 
while. Remove  fat  from  the  pan,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  flour  over, 
stir  well,  moisten  with  a  pint  water  and  half  pint  pure  tomato  juice. 
Add  to  the  stew  one  sliced  carrot,  two  sliced  onions,  two  sliced  branches 
celery,  one  bean  garlic,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme, 
one  sprig  mace  and  two  cloves.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well,  cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes  more,  mixing  with  a  wooden 
spoon  twice  meanwhile.  Remove,  lift  up  the  bouquet,  skim  the  fat 
from  the  surface,  pour  into  a  large,  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

1448.    PANCAKES  WITH  CHOCOLATE 

Prepare  the  French  pancakes  (No.  17),  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep 
hot.  Pour  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two 
ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  five 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Have  in  another  small  saucepan  two 
ounces  granulated  sugar,  two  egg  yolks  and  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence;  briskly  mix  for  two  minutes,  then  gradually  add  the  milk  and 
chocolate,  continually  mixing  meanwhile.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire, 
mix  for  five  minutes,  remove,  strain  the  sauce  over  the  pancakes  and 
serve. 


SATURDAY,   FIFTH  WEEK  OF  APRIL  427 

DINNER 

Russian  Rissolettes  (162)  Olives 

Potage,  Parisienne 

Codfish,  Canadian  Style  Potatoes,  Lorettes  (372) 

Roulade  of  Veal,  Bourgeoise 

Roast  Capon  (378) 

Cold  Asparagus,  Vinaigrette 

Date  Pudding 

1449.    POTAGE,  PARISIENNE 

Cut  into  small  squares  four  well-cleaned,  sound  leeks  and  one  small 
white  onion;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Moisten  with  three 
quarts  water,  adding  a  half-pound  piece  salt  pork.  Tie  in  a  bunch  four 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,  and  add  to  the  pan.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  then  let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Cut  in 
half  four  rather  small  peeled,  well -washed  potatoes,  then  slice  them  very 
fine  and  add  to  the  soup  with  a  bean  chopped  garlic.  Mix  well  and 
boil  for  forty-five  minutes  more.  Take  up  the  lard  and  bouquet,  then 
with  a  wooden  spoon  lightly  mash  the  potatoes.  Pour  the  soup  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1450.    CODFISH,  CANADIAN  STYLE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  codfish  steaks,  season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  adding  one  finely  minced  onion  and  the 
steaks.  Gently  fry  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  dress  on  a 
dish.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  flour  in  the  frying  pan,  mix  well,  add  a 
half  gill  each  white  wine  and  water,  half  teaspoon  fresh  chopped  parsley 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1451.    ROULADE  OF  VEAL,  BOURGEOISE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  flank  of  veal  twice  the  length  of  width, 
trim  off  the  fat,  split  in  two  without  separating,  and  season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Place  in  a  mortar  three 
skinned  raw  sausages,  one  ounce  fresh  bread  crumbs,  one  saltspoon 
thyme,  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  ounce  cooked  lean 
ham  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  raw  egg,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  six  finely  chopped 
shallots ;  pound  all  these  articles  to  a  paste  and  evenly  spread  the  paste 
all  over  the  inside  of  the  veal,  roll  it  up  and  firmly  tie  with  string.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  braising  pan,  lay  the  veal  in  pan  and  gently 
brown  on  the  range  for  twenty  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour, 
turning  it  once  in  a  while.  Scoop  out  with  a  Parisian  potato  scoop 
three  medium,  scraped  carrots  and  two  peeled  white  turnips,  add  to  the 
veal,  with  twelve  small,  peeled  white  onions,  brown  for  five  minutes 
more,  then  moisten  with  a  half  pint  each  white  broth  and  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No,  122).  Tie  in  a  bunch  three 


428  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bean  garlic,  two  cloves,  one 
sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  and  add  to  the  pan.  Cover  and  set  in  the  oven 
for  forty  minutes,  turning  and  frequently  basting  it.  Remove,  dress  the 
veal  on  a  large  hot  dish ;  untie,  then  add  three  tablespoons  of  canned  green 
peas  to  the  pan,  reduce  for  ten  minutes,  lift  up  the  bouquet,  pour  all  the 
contents  of  the  pan  over  the  veal,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1452.     COLD  ASPARAGUS,  VINAIGRETTE 

Carefully  scrape  and  clip  off  the  ends  of  two  branches  fine,  fresh 
asparagus;  thoroughly  wash,  then  tie  in  three  bunches  and  plunge  in 
three  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  thoroughly  drain  and  let  get 
cold.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin.  Untie  and  serve  with  a 
gill  of  salad  dressing  (No.  863)  in  a  saucepan  separately. 

1453.     DATE  PUDDING 

Carefully  stone  a  half  pound  dates,  finely  chop  with  four  ounces  of 
fresh  beef  marrow  and  place  in  a  bowl,  add  four  ounces  sugar,  four  ounces 
fresh  bread  crumbs,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
half  gill  cold  milk,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
and  briskly  mix  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs 
to  a  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the  bowl,  lightly  mixing  while  adding  it. 
Lightly  butter  and  sugar  a  quart  pudding  mould,  drop  in  the  prepara- 
tion, lay  in  a  saucepan,  and  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the 
mould.  Set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour  and  twenty-five  minutes,  remove, 
unmould  on  a  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over  and  serve. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317)          Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs  Molet,  Bordelaise  Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel  (689) 

Pork  Chops  with  Fried  Apples  (760) 

Cerealine  Cakes  (396) 

1454.    EGGS  MOLET,  BORDELAISE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  take  up  and 
drop  them  in  cold  water  for  one  minute,  lift  up,  shell  them  carefully 
and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28),  but  without 
marrow,  over  the  eggs,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Fried  Scallops,  Finnoise  Sauce 

Porterhouse  Steak,  Marchand  de  Vin 

Gateau  Mille-feuilles  (594) 

1455.    FRIED  SCALLOPS,  FINNOISE  SAUCE 

Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  one  and  a 
half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops.  Roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  429 

roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  plunge  in  boiling  fat  to  fry  for  six  minutes. 
Lift  up  and  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  deco- 
rate with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve 
with  a  Finnoise  sauce  (251)  separately. 

1456.  PORTERHOUSE  STEAK,  MARCHAND  DE  VIN 
Procure  a  porterhouse  steak  from  the  short  loin,  one  and  a  half  inches 
thick.  Lightly  flatten  and  trim  evenly  all  around.  Season  with  a  good 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  steaks,  and  gently  fry  for 
twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Add  six  finely  chopped  shallots  to  the  pan  and  lightly  brown  for  three 
minutes,  pour  in  a  gill  claret,  let  reduce  on  the  fire  to  half  the  quantity, 
then  add  a  half  gill  each  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
one  bean  finely  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon  each  freshly  chopped  parsley 
and  chives;  lightly  mix,  let  boil  for  eight  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Wash, 
peel  and  cut  three  large  raw  potatoes  into  small  square  strips  one  inch 
long;  wash  again,  drain  and  plunge  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes,  remove, 
drain,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  then  arrange  around  the  steaks, 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Celery  (86)  Canape  Moreno-Russe  (355) 

Creme,  Duchesse 

Pompano,  Villeroi 

Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 

Chicken  Braisd,  Santiago 

Patties  of  Lamb  Sweetbreads 

French  Flageolets  (95) 

American  Punch 
Roast  Squabs  (831)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (42) 
Macaroons  aux  Pistachios  (1048) 

1457.    LITTLE  NECK  CLAMS 

Little  neck  clams  should  always  be  thoroughly  cold  before  they  are 
opened,  and  never  open  them  except  about  the  time  of  sending  to  table, 
so  as  to  retain  both  juice  and  sweet  flavour. 

Cover  six  deep  plates  with  finely  shaved  ice ;  neatly  arrange  six  clams 
on  each  plate  and  serve  with  a  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon  on  each  plate. 

1458.    CREME,  DUCHESSE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  five  ounces  well-washed  barley  with  one  minced 
onion,  two  minced  leeks,  two  branches  each  celery  and  parsley  and  one 
chervil  also  minced,  one  clove  and  one  bay  leaf.  Moisten  with  three 
and  a  half  quarts  water  and  season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well, 
cover  the  pan,  and  let  slowly  simmer  for  two  hours.  Place  in  a  mortar 
a  half  pound  chopped  fresh  lean  veal  and  pound  to  a  paste,  then  add  it 
little  by  little  to  the  soup,  stirring  while  adding  it.  Add  one  pint  milk, 


430  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

mix  well,  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty  minutes  longer.  Dilute  two  egg 
yolks  with  a  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup,  continually  stirring  for  five 
minutes.  Press  the  cream  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through 
a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  a  half  ounce  good  butter  in  small 
bits,  mix  a  little  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

1459.      POMPANO,   VlLLEROI 

Lift  up  the  filets  from  two  fresh  one-and-a-half-pound  pompanos, 
skin  them,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  then  turn  the  filet  in  the  Villeroi 
sauce  and  gently  roll  them  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  the  filets  one  beside  another  in 
the  pan  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1460.     SAUCE,  VILLEROI 

Heat  a  half  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  three-quarters 
ounce  flour,  mix  well  white  heating  for  a  minute,  then  add  two  light  gills 
milk,  one  ounce  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  one  ounce  chopped  cooked 
beef  tongue,  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  a  light  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix 
with  a  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  let  slowly  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  add  two  egg  yolks,  briskly  mix  while  heating  for  one  minute, 
remove  and  use  as  required. 

1461.    CHICKEN  BRAISE",  SANTIAGO 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  of  a  tender  three-pound  chicken.  Singe, 
draw  and  truss,  cover  with  very  thin  slices  larding  pork  and  firmly  tie 
around  with  string.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  place  in  a  roasting  pan,  set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  roast  for  twenty 
minutes  and  turn  once  in  a  while,  then  remove.  Heat  in  a  saucepan 
two  tablespoons  oil,  add  two  seeded  green  peppers  cut  into  quarters, 
one  small  peeled  and  finely  sliced  Bermuda  onion,  three  red  sweet 
peppers  cut  in  halves  and  one  bean  sound  garlic.  Lay  the  chicken  over 
the  vegetables,  add  three  peeled,  crushed  red  tomatoes,  a  half  pint  white 
broth  (No.  701),  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  saltspoon 
of  diluted  saffron.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  the  chicken  on  a  large  dish,  untie,  remove  the  lard  and 
untruss.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  sauce,  add  a  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  parsley,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  the  contents 
of  the  pan  over  the  chicken  and  serve. 

1462.    PATTIES  or  LAMB  SWEETBREADS 

Plunge  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  lamb  sweetbreads  into  two  quarts 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  drain 
and  neatly  trim,  then  cut  them  in  half.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
lard  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  breads,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  each 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  431 

salt  and  pepper,  then  briskly  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and 
keep  warm.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  with  three  tablespoons  flour,  pour  in  three-quarters  pint  broth 
(No.  701),  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  sweet- 
breads. Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an 
egg  yolk  with  half  gill  cream,  add  to  the  breads,  and  mix  with  a  spoon 
while  heating  for  one  minute.  Arrange  six  patties  (No.  929)  on  a  large 
dish  and  divide  the  preparation  into  them,  place  the  covers  on  and  serve. 

1463.    AMERICAN  PUNCH 

Prepare  an  orange-water  ice  (No.  1229),  adding  while  in  the  freezer 
a  half  gill  each  claret  and  champagne  cider  and  one  tablespoon  each 
kirsch  and  maraschino.  Mix  well  with  the  spatula  and  let  freeze  for 
fifteen  minutes  more,  fill  up  six  sherbet  glasses  and  serve. 


Monday,  First  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Hominy  (45) 

Eggs,  Ideal 

Devilled  Sardines  on  Toast  (963) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette  (600) 

Broiled  White  Potatoes  (1344) 

Wheat  Cakes  (136) 

1464.    EGGS,  IDEAL 

Cut  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  two,  crosswise,  scoop  out  the  yolks 
and  place  them  in  a  bowl,  adding  two  teaspoons  of  caviar,  one  tablespoon 
each  butter  and  bread  crumbs,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley, 
one  tablespoon  cream,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  well 
amalgamated,  then  fill  up  the  empty  half  whites  with  it.  Join  together 
as  in  their  original  forms,  roll  gently  in  melted  butter,  then  in  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Little  Neck  Clams,  De"sire" 

Veal  Cutlets,  Milanaise  (331) 

Potatoes  au  Lard  (1316) 

Green-Gage  Pie 

1465.    LITTLE  NECK  CLAMS,  DE'SIRE' 

Open  thirty-six  very  fresh  little  neck  clams,  and  drop  them  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  their  liquor.  Add  a  half  pint  water,  place  on  the  fire, 


432  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

ind  as  soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil ;  strain  and  save  the  liquor.  Finely 
chop  the  clams  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat  a  half  ounce  butter  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  three  finely  chopped  shallots  and  six  finely  chopped 
canned  mushrooms  and  fry  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  three  tablespoons 
flour,  mix  well,  pour  in  two  gills  of  the  clam  liquor  and  one  gill  cream. 
Mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  chopped  clams,  one  chopped 
bean  garlic,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chervil,  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  two  saltspoons 
salt,  and  one  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix 
well  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  add  two  egg  yolks,  sharply  mix  while 
heating  for  five  minutes,  remove,  place  the  force  in  a  bowl  and  let  get 
cold.  Thoroughly  wash  and  dry  thirty-six  of  the  half  shells,  fill  them 
up  with  the  preparation  and  neatly  smooth  the  surface  with  a  knife. 
Carefully  wet  the  surface  of  each  with  beaten  egg,  then  turn  them  in 
bread  crumbs,  lay  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  six  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1466.    GREEN- GAGE  PIE 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  one  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  in 
two  separate,  equal  parts  about  the  thickness  of  a  fifty-cent  piece  at 
least.  Lightly  butter  a  pie  plate,  then  line  the  plate  with  one  of  the 
parts  of  paste,  press  it  well  all  around  the  edges  and  trim. 

Remove  the  stones  from  a  quart  of  green-gages,  place  them  in  a 
bowl,  season  with  one  ounce  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  mix 
well,  then  arrange  them  in  the  pie  plate ;  lightly  egg  the  edges  all  around, 
arrange  the  other  layer  of  paste  over  and  press  both  edges  together  all 
around.  Make  a  few  incisions  on  the  surface,  and  with  a  hair  pastry 
brush  lightly  glaze  the  top  with  beaten  egg.  Set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for 
thirty  minutes,  remove,  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Consomme,  Semoule 
Red  Snapper,   Mobile  (571) 

Potatoes  Brioches  (91) 

Boiled  Turkey,  Demi-deuil  (1348) 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Beef  (126) 
.   Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Apple  Charlotte  (634) 

1467.    CONSOMME,  SEMOULE 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52)  and  strain  it  into  a  saucepan.  Thor- 
oughly wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  well  four  ounces  semolina,  then 
dredge  it  into  the  consomme;  mix  well  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
mixing  occasionally,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  433 

Tuesday,  First  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Poached  Eggs  with  Sorrel 

Plain  Broiled  Shad  Roes 

Small  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Lemon  Cakes  (577) 

1468.  POACHED  EGGS  WITH  SORREL 

Prepare  a  puree  of  sorrel  (No.  654).  Dress  on  a  hot  dish;  nicely 
smooth  the  surface.  Carefully  crack  six  fresh  eggs  into  three  quarts 
boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar ;  poach 
for  three  minutes,  lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  trim  a  little,  arrange 
them  on  the  sorrel;  prepare  six  others  in  the  same  way,  dress  and  serve. 

1469.    PLAIN  BROILED  SHAD  ROES 

Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper;  repeatedly  roll  in  the  seasoning  two  shad  roes  of  about 
one  pound  each.  Arrange  them  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  eight  minutes 
on  each  side,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them, 
decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  six  quarters  lemon  and  serve. 

1470.    SMALL  STEAKS  WITH  FRIED  ONIONS 

Procure  six  small,  tender  steaks  of  five  ounces  each.  Season  all 
around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  steaks  and 
gently  fry  them  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep 
hot. 

Finely  slice  two  Spanish  onions,  detach  the  rings,  and  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  mix  well  in  the 
seasoning,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  them  in  boiling  fat  for  five 
minutes.  Lift  them  up,  drain,  place  them  over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Lobster,  Mayonnaise  (1471) 

Chicken  Croquettes,  St.  Germain 

Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding 

1471.    COLD  LOBSTER,  MAYONNAISE 

Plunge  three  live  lobsters  of  one  pound  each  into  a  gallon  of  boiling 
water  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  and  let  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
and  let  cool  off,  cut  off  the  claws  and  split  the  bodies  in  two  lengthwise, 
remove  the  gravel  from  the  heads  and  crack  the  claws.  Arrange  the 
bodies  and  claws  neatly  on  a  large  dish,  decorate  the  fish  all  around 
with  a  few  leaves  of  lettuce,  fill  up  the  empty  heads  with  capers,  and 
serve  with  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  in  a  cold  sauce  bowl  separately. 


434  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1472.  CHICKEN  (OR  TURKEY)  CROQUETTES,  ST.  GERMAIN 
Carefully  pick  all  the  meat  off  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  it  into  very  small  square  pieces.  Cut  in  the  same  way  one  ounce 
cooked  ham  and  twelve  canned  mushrooms.  Have  one  tablespoon 
sound,  freshly  chopped  shallots  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and 
fry  for  three  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile;  add  two  ounces  flour,  stir 
well  until  well  thickened,  moisten  with  two  gills  white  broth  (No.  701), 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  stir,  and  let  boil  for  three  minutes.  Add  two 
egg  yolks,  stir  well,  then  add  the  chicken,  ham  and  mushrooms,  and  also 
half  a  gill  sherry;  mix  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  remove  from 
the  fire,  place  on  a  dish  and  let  cool  off. 

Dredge  three  tablespoons  flour  on  a  corner  of  the  table,  divide  the 
force  into  six  equal  parts  and  roll  them  out  to  croquette  forms.  Dip  each 
one  in  beaten  eggs,  gently  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in 
boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  thoroughly  drain,  dress  a 
pur£e  of  peas  on  a  large  dish,  dress  the  croquettes  on  top,  pour  a  gill 
of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around,  adjust  a  fancy  frill  at  the  end  of 
each  and  serve. 

1473.    PURE"E  OF  PEAS  FOR  GARNISHING 

Plunge  a  pint  dried  split  green  peas  into  a  quart  boiling  water  for  five 
minutes.  Drain,  replace  them  in  the  saucepan  with  a  quart  water, 
one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  leek,  one  sliced  branch 
celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  bean  garlic  and  half  a  pound  raw  ham 
bones.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
cover  the  pan,  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour 
and  a  half.  Remove,  lift  up  the  ham  bones,  then  press  the  puree 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  adding  half  an 
ounce  butter;  stir  well  while  heating  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  remove 
and  use  as  required. 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Hong  Kong  Chicken  Okra 

Porgies  Saute",  Senart 

Potato  Croquettes  (390) 

Squabs  Saute*  with  Tarragon  (899) 

String  Beans  (139) 
Ribs  of  Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Bombe  Printaniere  (978) 

1474.    HONG  KONG  CHICKEN  OKRA 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  half  a  boned  tender  fowl,  one  sound  green 
pepper,  two  leeks,  one  white  medium  onion,  one  ounce  raw,  lean  bacon, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes,  turning  quite  frequently  meanwhile;  add  one 
tablespoon  curry  powder,  stir  well,  and  moisten  with  three  quarts 
water.  Add  the  uncut  half,  with  the  bones  and  two  peeled,  crushed 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  435 

tomatoes,  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Season  with 
a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper,  add  two  ounces 
raw  rice,  three  thin  slices  peeled  eggplant  cut  into  small  dice  pieces, 
one  small  peeled  and  cored  apple  cut  the  same  way,  and  twelve  small, 
well-trimmed  fresh  okras  cut  into  small  pieces.  Mix  a  little  and  then 
boil  rather  slowly  for  thirty  minutes  longer.  Then  add  the  milk  and 
shredded  white  of  a  medium,  sound  cocoanut,  mix  well  and  slowly  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes  more.  Remove,  lift  up  the  half  fowl  and  bones, 
skim  off  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve. 

1475.    PORGIES  SAUTE",  SENART 

Cut  off  the  fins,  trim  and  wipe  six  fresh  fat  porgies.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  them  with  a  little 
cold  milk  and  roll  in  flour. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
the  fish,  gently  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  and  dress  on  a  dish. 
Pick  off  the  leaves  from  two  branches  parsley,  well  washed,  and  add  to 
the  pan,  toss  on  the  fire  for  a  minute,  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon,  lightly  mix,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  First  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Bananas  in  Cream  (151)  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Shinkle 
White  Perch  Saute"  (1013) 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451)       Potatoes  Delmonico  (718) 
Shrewsbury  Cakes 

1476.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  SHINKLE 

Finely  chop  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers,  place  in  a  frying  pan 
with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt,  and  gently 
fry  for  five  minutes.  Evenly  divide  them  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes, 
season  evenly  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
and  pour  a  tablespoon  fresh  cream  over  the  eggs  of  each  dish.  Dredge 
a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  equally  divided,  over  them,  set 
in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  send  to  the  table. 

1477.    SHREWSBURY  CAKES 

Place  four  ounces  butter  in  a  basin  with  four  ounces  sugar  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  sifted  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  half 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  fresh  eggs  and  two  ounces  well  picked 
currants.  Knead  all  well  together  until  thoroughly  amalgamated. 
Roll  out  the  paste  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  the  thickness  of  a  quarter 
of  an  inch.  Cut  into  equal-sized  round  pieces  of  three  inches  in 
diameter.  Lightly  egg  the  surface  of  each,  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve, 


436  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 

Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Creole 

Beefsteak  Pot  Pie  (298) 

Cherry  Pie 

1478.    SOFT  SHELL  CRABS,  CREOLE 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  Creole  sauce  (No.  507).  Remove  the 
spongy  part  underneath  the  side  points,  tear  off  the  aprons  and  thor- 
oughly wash  and  wipe  twelve  fresh  soft  shell  crabs.  Season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  a  teaspoon  paprika,  lightly  baste  them  with  cold 
milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  frying  pan, 
arrange  the  crabs  in  the  pan  one  beside  another,  and  nicely  fry  for  four 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  Creole  sauce  over 
and  serve. 

1479.    CHERRY  PIE 

Remove  the  stems  and  stone  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sound,  ripe 
fresh  cherries;  place  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  two 
tablespoons  kirsch,  mix  well,  then  proceed  to  prepare  and  bake  the 
pie  as  per  No.  117. 

DINNER 

Filet  of  Smoked  Herring  in  Oil  Olives 

Potage,  Basque 

Spanish  Mackerel  Saute1,  Brown  Butter 

Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Entrec6tes,  Bordelaise 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Fig  Pudding  (57) 

1480.    FILET  OF  SMOKED  HERRING  IN  OIL 

Open  a  small  box  of  smoked  herrings  in  oil.  Neatly  trim,  wash  and 
drain  four  leaves  of  lettuce,  place  them  on  a  side  dish,  then  dress  six 
pieces  of  herring  on  the  lettuce,  decorate  with  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

1481.    POTAGE,  BASQUE 

Soak  half  a  pint  dried  white  beans  in  cold  water  for  seven  hours. 
Remove  the  outer  leaves  of  a  very  small,  sound  green  cabbage,  cut 
it  in  half,  remove  the  stalk  and  finely  slice  it.  Place  in  a  large  saucepan 
with  a  finely  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leaks,  two  beans  crushed  garlic  and 
half  an  ounce  butter,  place  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add  the  drained  beans  and  four  sliced, 
medium,  sound,  peeled  raw  potatoes,  moisten  with  three  and  a  half 
quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  adding  two  ounces  lean,  raw  bacon  and  one  cervela  sausage. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  simmer  for  two  hours,  remove  the  bacon 
and  cervela,  pour  the  soup  into  a  hot  tureen,  cut  the  cervela  into  thin 
slices,  place  them  on  a  dish  and  serve  both  separately. 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  437 

1482.  SPANISH  MACKEREL  SAUTE",  BROWN  BUTTER 
Trim,  draw,  wipe  and  cut  the  head  off  a  three-pound  fresh  Spanish 
mackerel.  Split  in  two  through  the  back  and  remove  the  spinal  bone, 
season  well  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  baste  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  lightly  roll  it  in  flour.  Heat  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the  fish  in 
the  pan,  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
drain  off  the  butter  from  the  pan,  add  half  ounce  butter  and  toss  on  the 
fire  until  of  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  pour  a  tablespoon  good  vinegar  in, 
toss  lightly  and  pour  it  over  the  fish,  decorate  with  one  lemon  cut  in 
quarters  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1483.     ENTRECOTES,  BORDELAISE 

Lightly  flatten  and  trim  two  tender  sirloin  steaks  of  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  each.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  tablespoon  oil,  one  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  steaks  in  the  seasoning, 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28)  over  the  steaks,  sprinkle 
a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

Thursday,  First  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Grape -Fruit  (130)          Semolina  (192) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Provengale 

Salt  Codfish  an  Gratin         Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Fried  Potatoes  en  Quarters  (348) 

Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

1484.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  PROVENCALS 

Finely  slice  four  cepes  (dried  mushrooms).  Heat  a  tablespoon  oil 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  cepes,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  one 
saltspoon  white  pepper,  and  nicely  brown  for  six  minutes,  frequently 
tossing  them  meanwhile.  Finely  chop  a  half  bean  garlic  with  two 
branches  parsley  and  add  to  the  cepes,  toss  a  little,  then  pour  in  a  gill  of 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the  sauce 
into  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
evenly  divided.  Set  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1485.    SALT  CODFISH  AU  GRATIN 

Rub  between  the  hands  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  shredded  salt 
codfish,  plunge  it  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain 
on  a  sieve  and  press  out  the  water.  Heat  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  one  ounce  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  a  minute,  pour  in 
two  and  a  half  gills  hot  milk,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add 
the  codfish,  season  with  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated 
nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes  longer.  Pour  it  into  a 
baking  dish,  dredge  two  tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over, 


438  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

divide  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  very  small  bits  on  top,  set  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Bonne  Bouche 

Mussaka  of  Beef,  Oriental 

Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

Swiss   Fritters 

1486.     OYSTERS,  BONNE  BOUCHE 

Place  thirty-six  medium,  drained,  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  gill  port  wine  or  sherry.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  lightly 
mix,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  poach  for  six  minutes.  Transfer  to  a  chafing 
dish,  pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  over  the  oysters  and  serve. 

1487.    MUSSAKA  OF  BEEF,  ORIENTAL 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  Monday 
njght,  cut  into  small  dice  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Remove  the 
stems  and  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise,  three  very  small,  fresh,  sound  egg- 
plants. With  the  point  of  a  small  knife  make  a  few  incisions  inside, 
without  touching  the  skin,  lay  them  on  a  tin  and  bake  in  the  oven  for 
thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  scoop  out  the  meat  without  cutting  the 
skin,  and  cut  the  scooped-out  meat  into  small  dice  pieces.  Heat  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  finely 
chopped  onion  and  a  green  pepper  and  brown  for  five  minutes ;  add  the 
cut  eggplant  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  lightly  mixing  with  a  spoon 
occasionally.  Add  the  beef  with  a  pint  broth  (No.  701),  a  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  a  chopped  bean  garlic,  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  curry  powder;  mix  well  and  cook 
on  the  range  for  thirty  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  meanwhile.  Add 
three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  one  egg  yolk,  mix  well  while 
cooking  for  three  minutes,  remove,  divide  the  hash  into  six  eggplant 
half  shells,  neatly  smooth  the  surface  with  a  knife  and  sprinkle  a  little 
bread  crumbs  over.  Arrange  them  on  a  tin,  place  a  few  bits  of  butter 
over  them,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  a  gill 
of  tomato  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  eggplants  over  and  serve. 

1488.     Swiss  FRITTERS 

Place  a  pint  fresh  milk  in  a  small  saucepan,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils 
add  one  gill  white  wine  and  four  ounces  sugar,  then  boil  for  two  minutes. 
Dredge  in  three  ounces  farina  and  half  teaspoon  cinnamon  powder, 
sharply  mix  with  a  spoon  for  two  minutes  and  let  gently  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  mix  again  while  heating  for  three  minutes. 
Remove,  transfer  it  into  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  neatly  smooth  the  surface 
and  let  cool  off.  Turn  it  upon  a  lightly  floured  table,  then  cut  into  equal 
lozenge  pieces,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  lightly  roll  them  in  cake  or 
bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  five 
minutes.  Lift  them  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve, 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  439 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Salted  Almonds  (954)    . 

Cream  of  Sorrel 

Black  Bass,  Montebello  Potatoes,  Gastronome 

Mignons  of  Lamb,  Ham  Sauce         Butter  Beans 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Cream  Sauce 

Roast  Turkey  with  Cranberry  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Parfait  au  Chocolat 

1489.    CREAM  OF  SORREL 

Discard  all  stale  leaves  from  three  pints  of  fresh  sorrel,  thoroughly 
wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  on  a  cloth.  Heat  one  and  a  half  ounces 
melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  sorrel,  cover  the  pan  and  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  quite  frequently  mean- 
while. Add  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  flour  and  stir  well  while  heating 
for  two  minutes.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  of  white  broth  (No.  701)  and 
one  pint  of  milk,  adding  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a 
good  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoon  sugar 
and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix,  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
thirty  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  half  a  gill  of  cream  and  add 
to  the  soup,  lightly  mix  while  heating  without  boiling  for  five  minutes, 
press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1490.    BLACK  BASS,  MONTEBELLO 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  a  fresh  black  bass  of  three  pounds;  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  and  a  half 
gills  water,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Cover  the  fish 
with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes  on  the  range,  then  set 
in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a 
Montebello  sauce  (No.  1030)  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1491.    POTATOES,  GASTRONOME 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  eight  medium,  sound  raw  potatoes,  lay  them 
on  a  towel,  cut  side  downward,  then  with  a  column  cutter  half  inch  in 
diameter  cut  out  as  many  round  pieces  as  you  can ;  wash  and  drain  well, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  cold  water  and  a  teaspoon 
salt,  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  out  the  water  from  the  pan, 
then  add  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  two  tablespoons  sherry,  two 
saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  one  very  small  and 
exceedingly  fine  chopped  truffle;  gently  mix.  Cover  the  pan,  set 
in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

1492.    MIGNONS  OF  LAMB,  HAM  SAUCE 

Neatly  flatten  and  trim  six  small  steaks,  cut  from  a  tender  leg  of 
lamb.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon 
pepper.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 


440  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

add  the  mignons,  one  beside  another,  and  gently  cook  them  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Prepare  six  round  pieces  of  toast,  quarter-inch 
thick  and  same  size  as  the  mignons,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the 
mignons  over  the  toast,  pour  a  ham  sauce  over  and  serve. 

1493.    HAM  SAUCE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  three  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  brown  for  two  minutes;  then  add  two  ounces 
cooked  lean  ham  cut  into  small  dice  pieces,  half  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  half .  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  chives,  one  gill 
of  claret,  and  let  reduce  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122);  let  reduce  for  ten  minutes.  Mix  half  tablespoon 
melted  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  and  add  little  by  little  to  the  sauce, 
continually  mixing  while  adding,  then  use  as  required. 

1494.    BUTTER  BEANS 

Break  the  blossom  end,  pull  it  backward,  removing  the  string,  and 
trim  off  the  thin  strip  from  the  other  end  of  a  quart  of  very  fresh  butter 
beans.  Thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water,  drain  well,  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  add  a  teaspoon  salt, 
cover  the  pan,  and  cook  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  all  the  water  from 
the  pan,  then  add  one  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  with  a 
fork.  Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1495.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Carefully  scrape  and  clip  off  the  ends  of  two  bunches  of  fine  fresh 
asparagus,  thoroughly  wash,  tie  in  three  bunches  and  plunge  in  three 
quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  boil 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove,  thoroughly  drain,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  a  hot  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  separately. 

1496.    PARE  AIT  AU  CHOCOLAT 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  chocolate  ice  cream  (No.  523).  Pour  into 
the  freezer  two  tablespoons  best  Swiss  kirsch,  a  half  pint  whipped 
cream  (No.  337),  and  mix  well  with  the  spatula.  Fill  up  six  parfait  or 
sherbet  glasses,  decorate  the  tops  of  the  glasses  with  a  little  more 
whipped  cream  and  serve. 

Friday,  First  Week  of  May 
.BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)         Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Fried  Eggs,  Meyerbeer  Smelts,  Bay  Shore 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347)        Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Buns  (197) 

1497.    FRIED  EGGS,  MEYERBEER 

Cut  six  fresh  lamb  kidneys  in  halves;  skin  them  neatly.  Cut  also 
three  sausages  in  two  and  place  both  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  441 

melted  butter  and  briskly  fry  them  for  five  minutes;  add  six 
canned  mushrooms,  six  thin  slices  truffles,  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  three  saltspoons  salt 
and  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  let  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Prepare  twelve  fried  eggs  (No.  154),  place  them  on  a 
hot  dish,  arrange  the  garnishing  around,  pour  the  sauce  over  and 
serve. 

1498.    SMELTS,  BAY  SHORE 

Place  twelve  very  fresh,  good-sized  smelts  on  a  plate.  Season  with 
half  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  two  saltspoons  paprika 
and  one  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Repeatedly  turn  the  smelts  in  the 
seasoning,  then  lightly  roll  them  in  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
place  them  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes. 
Remove,  drain  thoroughly  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Stuffed  Devilled  Lobster  (1250) 

Chicken  Fricassee,  Hollandaise 

Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 

Apricots  au  Curacao 

1499.    CHICKEN  FRICASSEE,    HOLLANDAISE 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  three-pound  chicken;  singe, 
draw  and  cut  into  twelve  even  pieces;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced 
carrot  and  a  sliced  onion.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  add  to  the  chicken  with  a  quart  water,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  boil  for  forty  minutes. 
Take  up  all  the  vegetables.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter 
with  an  ounce  flour,  then  strain  the  chicken  broth  into  the  pan.  Add 
twelve  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
then  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  gill 
of  cream,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  to  the  sauce ;  mix  while 
heating  for  two  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  into  the  chicken,  carefully  mix 
for  two  minutes,  dress  on  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

1500.    APRICOTS  AU  CURACAO 

Drain  a  pint  of  canned  apricots  and  place  on  a  compotier  dish, 
with  their  liquor  in  a  saucepan.  Add  to  the  liquor  an  ounce  sugar 
and  the  rind  of  an  orange,  boil  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  remove 
the  rind,  add  two  tablespoons  cura9ao,  lightly  mix,  then  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  apricots  and  serve. 


442  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Radishes  Olives  (58) 

Bisque  of  Oysters,  Capucine 

Baked  Bluefish,  Paysanne         Potatoes,  Dauphine  (415) 

Beef  a  la  Mode  (534) 

Cauliflower,  Mousseline  (210)  Omelette  with  Sorrel 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Strawberry  Pudding  Souffle" 

1501.  BISQUE  OF  OYSTERS,  CAPUCINE 

Place  thirty-six  freshly  opened  oysters  with  their  juice  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  pint  of  extra  oyster  liquor,  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  and 
let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Lift  up  the  oysters  with  the  skimmer  and 
chop  very  finely,  return  them  to  the  broth,  add  two  sliced  onions, 
one  sliced  leek,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  sprig  thyme,  four  ounces 
raw  rice,  one  pint  milk,  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 
and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  one  hour  and  twenty-five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  mean- 
while. Rub  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  replace  it  in  the  same 
saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  one  gill  cream, 
add  to  the  soup  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  and  stir  well  while  heating 
for  two  minutes.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  add 
four  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas,  gently  mix  and  serve. 

1502.  BAKED  BLUEFISH,  PAYSANNE 

Neatly  trim  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh  bluefish.  Place  on  a  plate 
half  an  ounce  melted  butter,  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  chopped 
bean  garlic,  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon 
chopped  chives  and  a  saltspoon  thyme.  Mix  the  whole  well  together 
and  carefully  rub  the  bluefish  all  over  with  it.  Place  the  fish  on  the 
plate  and  let  stand  for  fifteen  minutes.  Finely  slice  two  medium  sound 
onions,  place  them  in  a  baking  dish  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  lay  the 
fish  on  top  and  spread  all  the  butter  over  the  fish.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  arrange  two  peeled,  red,  raw 
tomatoes  around  the  fish,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes, 
remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

1503.     OMELETTE  WITH  SORREL 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  puree  of  sorrel  (No.  654).  Carefully  crack 
eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,"  add  half  a  gill  cream,  half  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes.  Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs, 
mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute ;  spread  a  third 
of  the  sorrel  in  the  centre  of  the  omelette,  fold  up  the  two  opposite  sides 
to  meet  in  the  middle,  let  rest  for  one  minute.  Turn  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  half  a  gill  of  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  around  the  omelette  and 
serve. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  MAY  443 

1504.    STRAWBERRY  PUDDING  SOUFFLE" 

Pick  off  the  hulls  and  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  pint  fresh  straw- 
berries; place  in  a  basin  with  half  a  gill  cream  and  three  ounces  granu- 
lated sugar,  then  mash  them  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  a  puree;  add 
two  ounces  cake  or  bread  crumbs,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  ounces 
rice  flour,  half  an  ounce  butter  and  a  tablespoon  good  rum.  Mix  well 
until  thoroughly  amalgamated.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the  mixture,  gently  stining  meanwhile. 
Lightly  butter  and  sugar  a  quart  pudding  mould,  drop  the  preparation 
into  it,  place  on  a  tin,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  a  fresh  strawberry  sauce  and 
serve. 

1505.  FRESH  STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  small  saucepan  a  half  pint  picked  fresh 
strawberries;  add  two  ounces  sugar,  one  tablespoon  kirsch  and  one  gill 
water  and  let  boil  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile. 
Remove  and  use  as  required. 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)         Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Omelette,  Cream  Sauce 

Broiled  Shad  (194)         Country  Sausages  (134) 

Potatoes  Saute  (135) 

Queen  Cakes  (in) 

1506.  OMELETTE,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork 
for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  the 
eggs,  mix  briskly  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute ;  fold  up  the 
two  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute.  Turn 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  hot  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  around  the  omelette 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallop  Patties 
Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage  (438) 

Spaghetti  au  Gratin 
German  Pancake  (943) 

1507.     SCALLOP  PATTIES 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  patties  (No.  929).  Plunge  one  and  a  half 
pounds  very  fresh  scallops  into  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half  a  tea- 
spoon salt  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  and  save  a  gill  of  the  liquor.  Mix 
in  a  saucepan  half  an  ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  flour,  heat  for  one 
minute,  then  pour  in  the  gill  of  scallop  liquor  and  one  and  a  half  gills 
milk.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 


444  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it 'comes 
to  a  boil,  then  add  the  scallops  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  lightly  mix 
and  let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  half  a  gill  cream, 
the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  add  to  the  scallops,  and  stir 
well  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  patties  on  a 
large  dish,  then  fill  them  up  with  the  scallop  preparation,  place  the 
covers  on,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1508.  SPAGHETTI  AU  GRATIN 

Plunge  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  spaghetti  into  three  quarts 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  well 
on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  good  butter,  adding  two 
light  tablespoons  flour ;  mix  well  with  a  fork,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cream.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt, 
a  light  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix 
well  for  two  minutes,  let  cook  for  five  minutes  longer,  then  add  one 
ounce  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese; 
stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  thoroughly  mixed.  Transfer  the 
spaghetti  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  very  little  grated  Swiss  cheese 
over  and  set  to  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Sardines  (1148) 

Consomme",  Bourgeoise 
Kingfish  Saute",  Fines  Herbes  (871) 

Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Leg  of  Mutton  Potpourri         Spinach  a  1'Anglaise  (247) 

Roast  Beef  (126)         Salad  Doucette  (189) 

Gateau,  Lyonnais  (585) 

1509.  CONSOMME",  BOURGEOISE 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  into  another  saucepan,  as  per  No.  52. 
Scoop  out  with  a  very  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  two  carrots  and 
two  turnips,  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  three  saltspoons  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar,  one  saltspoon  white 
pepper  and  one  gill  water;  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  forty 
minutes.  Remove  and  add  to  the  consomme  with  three  tablespoons 
cooked  string  beans  cut  into  small  pieces,  adding  one  teaspoon  sugar. 
Mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1510.    LEG  OF  MUTTON  POTPOURRI 

Cut  a  three-pound  piece  tender  leg  of  mutton  into  two-inch-square 
pieces.  Place  them  in  an  earthen  pot,  with  a  half  pound  lean  raw  pork 
cut  in  one-inch-square  pieces,  one  ounce  raw  lean  ham  cut  in  half-inch 
squares,  one  carrot  and  one  turnip  cut  in  half-inch  squares,  four  small 
peeled  white  onions,  the  rind  of  an  orange  cut  in  small  squares,  two 
beans  crushed  garlic,  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  chives,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  chervil, 
one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  clove,  one  bay  leaf,  one  teaspoon  salt,  half 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  445 

teaspoon  white  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  one-half  gill  white 
wine,  two  tablespoons  brandy,  one  pint  water,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No. 
122)  and  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16);  mix  well,  then 
cover  the  pan.  Knead  on  a  table  three  ounces  flour  with  three  table- 
spoons water,  so  as  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Place  this  paste  all  around 
the  edges  of  the  cover  of  the  pot,  so  as  to  prevent  evaporation,  set  the 
pan  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  two  and  a  half  hours.  Remove 
and  send  to  the  table  without  uncovering  it. 


Sunday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapple  (407)          Cornmeal  mush  (326) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Benares 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123)         Broiled  Spring  Chicken  (862) 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1511.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  BENARES 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cocoanut 
milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  teaspoon 
curry  powder,  and  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  one  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  gently  brown  for  five  minutes, 
then  drop  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  stirring  mean- 
while with  a  wooden  spoon.  Remove,  prepare  six  pieces  of  toast  two 
inches  square,  place  them  on  a  dish,  evenly  dress  the  scrambled  eggs 
over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme  in  Cups  (52) 

Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Maryland 

Beef  Saute",  Bohemienne 

Fried  Eggplant  (460) 

Floating  Island 

1512.    SOFT  SHELL  CRABS,  MARYLAND 

Remove  the  spongy  part  underneath  the  side  points,  and  the  aprons 
from  twelve  fres"h  medium-sized  soft  shell  crabs.  Wash  them  and  drain 
on  a  cloth.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  arrange  the  crabs  in  it,  and  briskly  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each 
side;  then  pour  in  half  gill  sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  one  gill 
cream,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper, 
one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  let  boil  for  eight  minutes.  Dilute  two 
egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoons  cream,  add  them  to  the  crabs, 
and  continually  but  gently  shuffle  the  pan  while  heating  for  three  minutes 
without  allowing  to  boil.  Remove,  pour  them  into  a  chafing  dish  or  in 
a  large  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


446  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1513.    BEEF  SAUTED  BOHEMIENNE 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  it  into  half -inch-square  pieces.  Cut  two  scraped  carrots  and 
two  peeled  onions  in  halves  and  slice  them  very  finely.  Heat  half  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  carrots  and  onions,  and  gently  brown  for 
ten  minutes,  lightly  stirring  once  in  a  while;  then  add  two  finely  sliced 
peeled  raw  potatoes,  brown  for  five  minutes,  add  the  beef,  one  bean 
crushed  garlic,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  three  peeled 
crushed  red  tomatoes  and  a  pint  white  broth.  Mix  well,  cover  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

1514.    FLOATING  ISLAND 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs,  place  the  whites  in  a  copper  basin 
and  the  yolks  in  a  bowl.  Set  the  copper  basin  on  ice  and  gently 
beat  them  up  with  a  thin  wire  whisk  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  three 
ounces  fine  sugar,  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  gently  mix  with  the 
skimmer  for  one  minute.  Place  a  quart  milk  in  a  sautoire  with  four 
ounces  sugar  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  drop  a  tablespoon  of  the  froth 
in  the  milk  the  size  and  form  of  an  egg,  continue  to  pour  it  in  until  half 
the  froth  has  been  added,  then  boil  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Carefully  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth,  then  proceed 
the  same  with  the  other  half. 

Place  four  of  the  egg  yolks  in  a  small  saucepan,  gradually  adding 
half  the  quantity  of  the  boiling  milk,  with  half  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence ; 
lightly  mix  on  the  range  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  five 
minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a 
bowl  and  let  cool  off,  pour  the  sauce  into  a  cold  dish,  arrange  the 
floating  island  over,  sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  on  top  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Tomatoes  en  Surprise  Olives 

Potage,    Creme    Reine 
Salmon  Hollandaise  Potatoes  Persillade  (63) 

Filet  of  Beef,  Bruxelleoise 
Coquilles  of  Sweetbreads  (388)       Fresh  Peas  with  Butter 

Chocolate  /  Punch 

Roast  Capon  (378)         '  Lettuce  Salad  (148)    , 
Biscuit,  Tortoni 

1515.    TOMATOES  EN  SURPRISE 

Peel  six  small  equal-sized  red  tomatoes.  Clip  off  the  top  of  each 
and  carefully  scoop  out  the  meat  without  disturbing  the  shells;  season 
the  interior  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  salt- 
spQons  white  pepper,  evenly  divided,  and  keep  them  on  ice  until  needed. 
Cut  one  stalk  of  crisp  white  celery  into  very  small  square  pieces.  Thor- 
oughly wash  and  carefully  drain,  then  place  in  a  bowl,  adding  two  good 
tablespoons  salad  dressing  (No.  863).  Mix  it  well  in  the  seasoning, 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  447 

add  two  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise  (No.  70),  mix  well  again,  then  fill  up 
the  six  tomatoes,  place  the  covers  on,  dress  on  a  side  dish  with  a  few 
leaves  of  lettuce  around  and  serve. 

N.  B.     Place  the  scooped  tomato  meat  into  the  demi-glace  pot  (No. 

122). 

1516.  POTAGE,  CREME  REINE 

Cut  the  head  off  a  small  fowl,  draw  and  wipe,  then  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  ounces  raw  bacon  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  sliced 
carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  three  branches  parsley,  one 
branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  two  cloves,  three 
quarts  water,  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 
and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil 
for  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes.  Take  up  the  fowl,  skin  and  bone  it, 
place  in  a  mortar  with  two  ounces  bread  crumbs,  one  ounce  peeled 
almonds  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter 
with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and  heat  for  two  minutes,  stirring 
meanwhile.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth  and  strain  it 
through  a  strainer  into  the  roux  pan  (butter  and  flour)  and  continually 
mix  until  it  boils,  then  gradually  add  the  pounded  fowl,  briskly  mix 
while  adding  it,  boil  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  one  pint  milk, 
lightly  mix  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  half 
gill  cream,  add  to  the  cream,  mix  while  heating  without  boiling  for 
three  minutes  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1517.  SALMON,  HOLLANDAISE 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each, 
in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill 
water,  the  juice  of  quarter  lemon,  two  branches  parsley,  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly 
buttered  paper,  boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  to  bake  in 
the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  slices  on  a  hot 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  remove  spinal  bones  and  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  greens.  Prepare  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279),  add  two  table- 
spoons fish  liquor  to  it,  mix  well,  pour  into  a  sauce  bowl,  and  send  to 
the  table  separately. 

1518.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  BRUXELLEOISE 

Skin  and  neatly  trim  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  tenderloin  of 
beef.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  small  roasting  pan,  lay  the  filet 
over,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  spread 
a  half  teaspoon  melted  butter  on  the  surface  of  the  beef,  pour  two  table- 
spoons water  into  the  pan,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  thirty-five 
minutes,  turning  and  basting  it  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  the  filet 
on  a  dish  and  keep  ho't.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  place  the 
contents  of  the  pan  in  a  small  saucepan,  with  two  tablespoons  sherry 
and  one  and  a  half  light  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  boil  on  the  range 
for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  filet. 


448  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Have  the  same  amount  of  Brussels  sprouts  (No.  618),  arrange  them  at 
the  opposite  ends  of  the  dish  and  serve. 

1519.    FRESH  PEAS  WITH  BUTTER 

Place  a  pint  of  fresh,  tender,  young,  shelled  peas  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  white  onion  having  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  one  small  head  well-washed 
green  lettuce,  three  pints  water,  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar,  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  half  ounce  good  butter.  Cover  the  pan  and 
gently  boil  for  one  hour,  drain  on  a  sieve,  remove  the  lettuce  and 
onion,  and  replace  the  peas  in  pan.  Knead  on  a  saucer  half  ounce 
butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour ;  add  to  the  peas  with  two  saltspoons  sugar 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  well  on  the  fire  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  two  minutes,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1520.  CHOCOLATE  PUNCH 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  half  pound  granulated  sugar,  four  ounces 
grated  sweet  chocolate,  one  quart  lukewarm  water,  the  juice  of  three 
medium  lemons,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence.  Set  on  the  fire  and  briskly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
for  five  minutes,  remove,  let  cool  off  and  strain  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  a  small  ice-cream  freezer.  Cover  the  freezer,  pack  with 
broken  ice  mixed  with  rock  salt,  and  freeze  for  thirty-five  minutes,  re- 
move, fill  up  six  sherbet  glasses  and  serve. 

1521.  BISCUIT,  TORTONI 

Carefully  break  six  fresh  eggs,  place  the  yolks  in  a  copper  basin,  add 
two  ounces  granulated  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  place  the 
basin  on  a  corner  of  the  range  and  briskly  whisk  it  up  for  ten  minutes; 
remove  from  the  range  to  a  table  and  whisk  up  for  five  minutes,  then 
set  the  basin  on  the  ice  and  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thor- 
oughly cold.  Then  add  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  one  ounce  crushed 
macaroons  (No.  43)  and  a  half  pint  vanilla  whipped  cream  (No.  337); 
gently  mix  with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute,  then  divide  the  prepara- 
tion into  six  round  paper  cases,  giving  dome  shapes.  Evenly  sprinkle 
two  ounces  finely  crushed  macaroons  over  them,  arrarge  the  cases 
in  the  freezer,  cover  and  let  freeze  for  two  hours.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317)         Wheatena  (1298) 

Eggs  Molet,  au  Gratin  Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Corned  Beef  Hash  (241) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1522.    EGGS  MOLET,  AU  GRATIN 

Plunge  twelve  fresh  eggs  in -plenty  of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  drop  them  in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  take  up  and  shell 
them,  then  place  in  a  baking  dish. 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  449 

Prepare  a  sauce  Italienne  (No.  1244),  pour  it  over  the  eggs,  sprinkle 
a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them,  set  in  the  oven  for 
five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Mutton  Curry,  Tartare  (836)         Macaroni,  Jaauveterre  (1223) 
Apple  Dumplings  (707) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Oloronnaise 

Shad  Roe,  Bearnaise         Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 
Duckling  Braise"  with  Cherries 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Swiss 

Suckling  Pig,  Apple  Sauce  (632) 

Pudding,  Weimar  (405) 

1523.  POTAGE,  OLORONNAISE 

Finely  slice  three  white  onions  and  the  white  parts  of  three  leeks, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter,  and  lightly  fry  to  a  nice 
light  brown;  then  add  one  bean  crushed  garlic  and  one  ounce  flour, 
mix  well  and  brown  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  three  and  a  half 
quarts  water,  add  two  pounds  knuckle  of  veal,  one  small  beef  marrow- 
bone, a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  hours,  remove  the  bones,  add  one 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives,  the 
leaves  from  two  branches  chervil  and  the  white  of  one  egg;  lightly  mix, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  six  slices  of  toasted 
French  bread  and  serve. 

1524.  SHAD  ROE,  BEARNAISE 

Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  two  pairs  shad  roes  of  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  each  in  the  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  eight 
minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  on  a  hot 
dish,  dress  the  roes  over  the  same  and  serve. 

1525.    DUCKLING  BRAISE  WITH  CHERRIES 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  from  a  fine  tender  duckling  of  four  pounds; 
singe,  draw,  wipe  and  truss.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  two  saltspoons  ground  cinnamon  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Cover  the  bird  all  around  with  very  thin  slices  of  lard- 
ing pork.  Tie  it  around  with  string  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Finely  slice 
one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  onion,  two  branches  celery,  one  bean  garlic, 
two  branches  parsley  and  one  ounce  raw  lean  ham;  place  these  in  a 
braising  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  sprig  each 
thyme  and  mace;  then  lay  the  duck  over,  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for 
thirty  minutes,  turning  it  once  in  a  while.  Pour  over  one  gill  white 


450  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

wine,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6).  Lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan,  reset  in  the  oven  for  twenty- 
five  minutes  longer,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  untie,  remove  the  lard, 
untruss  and  keep  hot.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy, 
strain  it  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan  and  let  boil. 

Remove  the  stems  and  stones  from  a  pint  of  fresh  cherries,  add  the 
cherries  to  the  sauce  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  then  briskly  boil  for 
ten  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  duckling,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

N.  B .    Place  the  left-over  vegetables  into  the  demi-glace  pot  (No.  122). 

1526.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS,  Swiss 

Scrape  and  clip  off  the  ends  of  two  bunches  of  fresh  asparagus, 
thoroughly  wash  and  tie  them  up  in  three  bunches,  plunge  them  in 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove  and  drain  well. 

Mix  on  a  plate  one  ounce  grated  Swiss  and  one  ounce  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese.  Lightly  butter  a  baking  dish,  arrange  a  third  of  the 
asparagus  as  a  layer  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  sprinkle  a  third  of  the 
cheese  over,  then  another  third  of  the  asparagus,  a  third  of  the  cheese, 
then  the  rest  of  the  asparagus  and  cheese  on  top.  Place  an  ounce  butter 
in  a  frying  pan  with  half  a  very  finely  chopped  white  onion,  toss 
until  a  very  light  brown,  and  pour  over  the  -asparagus.  Set  in  the  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  in  Cream 
Boiled  Grits  (131)          Eggs,  Zurichoise 

Broiled  Bluefish  (328) 

Mutton  Kidneys  with  Bacon  (195)  Hashed  Brown  Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Cocoanut  Cakes  (423) 

1527.     CHERRIES  IN  CREAM 

Thoroughly  wash,  drain,  pick  off  the  stems  and  stone  a  quart  of 
fine  fresh  sweet  cherries.  Dress  them  on  a  compotier  and  serve  with 
double  cream  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 

1528.    EGGS,  ZURICHOISE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs,  place  the  whites  in  a  copper  basin  and  the 
yolks  in  a  bowl.  Beat  up  the  whites  for  eight  minutes,  adding  two  table- 
spoons flour  and  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  then  add  the  whites 
to  the  yolks  with  two  ounces  Swiss  cheese,  cut  in  very  small  dice  pieces, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  mix  well  with  a  skimmer  for  two  minutes.  Toast  six  slices 
fresh  bread  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  lightly  butter  them,  then  lay  them  one 
beside  another  at  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  and  carefully  drop  the  eggs 
over  the  toast.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  451 

1529.    HASHED  BROWN  LYONNAISE  POTATOES 

Finely  hash  up  six  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  finely  chopped  onion  and 
lightly  brown  for  three  minutes,  then  add  the  potatoes.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  evenly  sprinkled 
over,  then  nicely  brown  them  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  tossing  them 
meanwhile.  Give  them  a  nice  omelette  form,brown  for  eight  minutes  more, 
turn  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Lobster  en  Brochette,  Devilled  (282) 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Pittsburg 
Okras,  Saute  Creole  Vanilla  Souffle's  (758) 

1530.    BREADED  LAMB  CHOPS,  PITTSBURG 

Neatly  flatten  six  tender  lamb  chops.  Season  them  all  around  with 
three  saltspoons  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Broil  fifteen 
very  thin  slices  bacon  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  take  them  off  and 
let  get  cold.  Then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  dust,  take  up  and  place 
on  a  plate.  Lightly  butter  both  sides  of  the  chops  with  melted  butter, 
then  roll  in  the  bacon  dust,  lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  lastly  in  cracker 
dust.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
lay  in  the  chops,  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  crown  like,  one  overlapping  another,  and  keep  hot. 

Finely  chop  two  peeled  and  seeded  red  tomatoes,  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  light  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  a  saltspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  white  pepper,  and  boil  for  five 
minutes;  lightly  mix,  pour  around  the  chops  and  serve. 

1531.    OKRAS,  SAUT£  CREOLE 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  Creole  sauce  (No.  507).  Trim  both  ends  of 
twenty-four  tender,  fresh,  sound  okras.  Heat  a  tablespoon  fresh  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  okras,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
three  saltspoons  white  pepper;  gently  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  tossing 
quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Pour  in  the  Creole  sauce,  lightly  toss 
while  cooking  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Little  Neck  Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)  Canape's  of  Caviare  (59) 

Pure"e,  Parmentier 
Trout,  Meuniere  (1293)         Potatoes,  Vauban  (946) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Oswald        Spinach,  Martha 

Roast  Guinea  Fowls          Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Choux  Pralines 

1532.    PUR£E,  PARMENTIER 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  finely  minced 
onion,  six  sliced  leeks,  half  pound  lean  salt  pork  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  brown  for  ten  minutes.  Add  then  ten  medium,  peeled  and  washed 


452  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

potatoes  cut  into  slices,  moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
lightly  mix.  Cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven 
for  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  press  it  through  a  sieve  into 
a  basin,  replace  it  in  the  saucepan,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  half  pint 
of  milk,  half  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  fresh  butter.  Mix  well  while 
heating  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate 
of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

1533.    VEAL  CUTLETS,  OSWALD 

Finely  chop  up  one  and  a  half  pounds  raw  lean  veal  with  four  ounces 
fresh  beef  marrow,  place  in  a  mortar,  add  one  finely  chopped  bean  garlic, 
a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  a  half  gill  cream  and  two  egg  yolks ;  pound  all  well  together  for 
five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  mortar,  divide  the  preparation  into  six 
even  parts,  roll  them  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  cutlet  forms,  then 
dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  finely  shredded  cocoanut. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the  cutlets 
one  beside  another  and  gently  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot.  Plunge  two  green  peppers 
into  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  remove  and  peel,  cut  in  halves, 
remove  the  seeds,  then  fry  them  in  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up  with  a  fork  and  arrange  over 
the  veal  cutlets.  Cut  three  slices  of  peeled  eggplant  in  quarter-inch- 
square  pieces  and  add  them  to  the  pan  in  which  the  peppers  were 
cooked;  brown  them  for  six  minutes,  add  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper;  mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  cutlets, 
sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1534.    SPINACH,  MARTHA 

Trim  off  the  stalks  of  three  quarts  of  fresh  spinach,  discarding  the 
stale  leaves  if  any.  Thoroughly  wash  and  rapidly  drain,  plunge  them 
in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  sieve,  press  out  all  the  water, 
and  chop  very  finely,  then  place  them  in  a  saucepan.  Cut  three  slices 
of  sandwich  bread  in  one- third-inch  square  pieces  and  place  on  a  plate, 
pour  over  them  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  then  brown  them  in  a  small 
frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  to  a  good  golden  colour  and 
add  them  to  the  spinach,  with  two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  eight  pieces 
each,  half  an  ounce  butter,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar, 
one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  a  half  gill  cream.  Mix  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  once  in  a  while, 
dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1535.    ROAST  GUINEA  FOWLS 

Singe,  draw,  cut  off  heads  and  feet  from  two  small,  tender  guinea 
fowls;  neatly  truss,  season  equally  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  453 

white  pepper  and  two  saltspoons  ground  allspice.  Cover  the  breasts 
with  very  thin  slices  of  larding  pork.  Lay  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  a  half 
gill  of  water  into  the  pan,  then  set  in  oven  to  roast  for  forty  minutes, 
turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
untruss,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy, 
pour  over  the  birds  and  serve. 

1536.     CHOUX  PRALINES 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux  (No.  336).  Slide  a  tube  half  an  inch  in 
diameter  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  then  drop  in  the  pate-a-choux 
and  carefully  press  the  paste  down  into  a  pastry  sheet,  in  six  equal  cakes 
two  inches  high.  Finely  chop  two  ounces  shelled  almonds  and  sprinkle 
over  the  cakes.  With  the  blade  of  a  small  knife  very  lightly  press  the 
almonds  in  the  cake  on  the  surface,  set  the  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and  let  cool  off  for  ten  minutes.  Then 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  make  an  incision  at  one  side  of  each  cake,  fill 
each  cavity  with  a  vanilla  whipped  cream  (No.  337),  sprinkle  a  little 
powdered  sugar  over,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)         Farina  with  Milk  (74) 

Poached  Eggs,  Hollandaise  . 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311)         Steaks  with  Onions  (294) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Cinnamon  Cakes  (1195) 

1537.    POACHED  EGGS,  HOLLANDAISE 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106),  dress  on  a  hot  dish  on 
the  toasts,  pour  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279)  over,  sprinkle  with  a  half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups 

Crab  Meat  Fritters          Almondigas  (314) 

Fried  Oyster  Plants  (968) 

Apricot  Tartlets  (161) 

1538.    VEAL  BROTH  IN  CUPS 

Cut  two  pounds  shin  of  veal  into  very  small  pieces  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  two  each  sliced  onions,  leeks,  branches 
celery,  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two 
cloves  and  whites  of  two  eggs.  Sharply  mix  with  the  spatula  for  three 
minutes,  pour  in  three  quarts  cold  water,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt 
and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  then  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  add  one  pound 
knuckle  raw  veal,  cover  pan,  shift  it  to  corner  of  range  and  let  slowly 
simmer  two  hours,  strain  through  a  double  dampened  cheesecloth  into 
six  cups  and  serve. 


454  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1539.     CRAB  MEAT  FRITTERS 

Place  in  a  bowl  six  ounces  flour,  crack  in  three  fresh  eggs,  add  one 
and  a  half  gills  cold  milk,  a  half  teaspoon  baking  powder,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of  quarter  sound  lemon, 
and  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  three  minutes.  Add  one  pound  fresh 
crab  meat  flakes  and  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  three  minutes. 
Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  a  large  frying  pan,  take  up  a  tablespoon 
of  the  preparation  and  drop  in  the  pan  in  cake  form,  and  proceed  in 
same  way  until  preparation  is  all  dropped  in  the  pan,  then  gently  fry 
until  a  nice  golden  colour,  or  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with 
six  quarters  of  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Canapes  of  Ham  (301) 

Consomme1,  C  route  au  Pot 

Striped  Bass,  Parisienne  (805)         Potatoes,  Bignon  (403) 

Squabs  en  Crapaudine  (1302)  Rice,  Valencienne 

Roast  Leg  of  Spring  Lamb  (1378) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 

Gateau,  Constantine 

1540.     CONSOMM£,  CROUTE  AU  POT 

Prepare  and  strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme  (No.  52). 
Cut  into  very  small  square  strips  two  each  small  red  carrots  and  white 
turnips.  Cut  a  quarter  of  a  small  cabbage  into  one-inch  strips.  Finely 
slice  one  leek  and  two  small  white  onions.  Place  these  articles  in  a  small 
saucepan,  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
sugar,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  two  gills  of  the  consomme;  mix 
well,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove, 
add  all  the  contents  of  the  pan  to  the  consomme",  add  the  leaves  of  two 
branches  chervil,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  an  earthen  soup 
tureen,  adding  six  slices  of  toasted  French  bread  to  the  soup  and  serve. 

1541.    RICE,  VALENCIENNE 

Finely  chop  a  sound  green  pepper  with  a  medium  white  onion  and 
lightly  brown  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  oil  for  five  minutes. 
Add  six  ounces  raw  rice  and  brown  eight  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Moisten  with  a  pint  of  broth  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  add  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers  cut  into  small  squares,  three 
tablespoons  cooked  green  peas,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron.  Mix  well,  cover  pan 
and  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 

1542.    GATEAU,  CONSTANTINE 

Place  in  a  bowl  four  ounces  fine  sugar,  adding  five  egg  yolks,  one 
teaspoon  orange-flower  water,  two  ounces  finely  chopped  peeled  pis- 


THURSDAY,   SECOND   WEEK  OF  MAY  455 

tachios,  and  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  ten  minutes.  Beat  up  the 
whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  yolks,  with  three 
ounces  sifted  flour  and  a  saltspoon  salt,  gently  mixing  with  the  skimmer 
meanwhile.  Lightly  butter  a  small  square  pastry  pan,  line  bottom  with 
a  sheet  of  paper,  then  drop  in  preparation,  neatly  smooth  surface,  and  set 
in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off,  turn 
on  a  pastry  grill  with  a  pan  underneath,  and  remove  paper.  Place  three 
ounces  glazed  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  very  strong-made 
coffee,  the  white  of  half  an  egg,  and  briskly  stir  on  the  fire  while  heating 
for  three  minutes.  Remove,  pour  in  a  tablespoon  good  kirsch,  mix  well, 
then  spread  this  glaze  over  the  cake,  let  cool  off,  dress  on  a  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Bananas  in  Cream  (151)         Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Egg  Cocotte,  Egyptienne  Fin  don  Haddock  (76) 

English  Mutton  Chops  (262)         Potatoes,  Failles  (611) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1543.    EGG  COCOTTE,  EGYPTIENNE 

Thoroughly  drain  a  half  pint  sweet  corn,  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  half  ounce  butter,  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  two  saltspoons  salt, 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  then  evenly  divide  in 
six  egg-cocotte  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish, 
season  equally  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
evenly  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them,  then 
set  in  oven  to  bake  for  five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Canape's,  Lorenzo  (538) 

Brochette  of  Lamb  Diable,  Buchan 

Boiled  Onions,  Cream  Sauce 

Cocoanut  Pie 

1544.    BROCHETTE  OF  LAMB  DIABLE",  BUCHAN 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  raw  lamb  from  a  leg  into  inch-square  pieces 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
paprika,  and  turn  them  well  in  seasoning.  Cut  same  quantity  of  lean 
raw  bacon  into  same  size  but  exceedingly  thin,  and  arrange  on  six 
skewers  alternately,  evenly  divided.  Turn  well  in  a  tablespoon  of  oil 
on  a  plate,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each 
side,  then  remove,  evenly  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  around 
them,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  broil  again  for  two  minutes  on  each  side, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 


456  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1545.    BOILED  ONIONS,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Carefully  peel  twenty-four  small  white  onions,  plunge  in  two  quarts 
boiling  water  with  a  table  spoon  salt  and  boil  for  fifty  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736), 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1546.     COCOANUT  PIE 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  of  pie  paste 
(No.  117)  to  a  very  thin  round  layer.  Lightly  butter  a  deep  pie  plate, 
arrange  the  paste  over  the  plate,  neatly  pressing  it  down  at  the  bottom 
and  all  around  the  edge.  Trim  the  edges,  then  line  the  inside  of  the 
paste  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  fill  up  with  dried  (already  used) 
beans,  egg  border  all  around,  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
to  a  table.  Crack  four  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  four  ounces  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  three-quarters  pint  of  cold  milk  and  a  gill 
cold  cream.  Mix  well  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes,  press  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  a  bowl,  add  three  ounces  freshly  grated  cocoanut,  and 
mix  a  little.  Remove  beans  and  paper  from  the  pie  plate,  wipe  inside 
of  plate,  pour  in  preparation,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
let  cool  off,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Little  Neck  Clams  (1457) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Gumbo  Lid  with  Asparagus 
Pickerel,  Cavour         Potatoes,  Poulettc 

Tournedos  of  Beef,  Imperial 

Fresh  Mushrooms  with  Butter  (178) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Walnut  Ice  Cream 

1547.    GUMBO  Li£  WITH  ASPARAGUS 

Thoroughly  wash  a  bunch  of  green  asparagus,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  water,  one  sliced  onion, 
two  branches  parsley,  one  clove,  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  one  teaspoon 
sugar;  lightly  mix,  then  let  boil  forty-five  minutes,  press  through  a 
sieve  into  a  small  saucepan  and  keep  hot. 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  one  onion,  two  green  peppers,  two  leeks, 
two  ounces  lean  raw  ham,  a  boned  raw  leg  of  a  fowl  (if  handy),  and  two 
ounces  lean  raw  veal;  place  these  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter 
and  lightly  brown  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring,  then  pour  in  three 
pints  broth  (No.  701),  one  quart  water;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  add  three 
tablespoons  raw  rice,  boil  ten  minutes.  Then  add  twelve  well-trimmed 
fresh  okras  cut  in  half -inch  pieces,  and  two  medium,  fresh  red  tomatoes, 
each  cut  in  eight  pieces.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  and  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Pour  the  asparagus 
pure*e  into  this  pan,  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  for  a  minute,  then 
boil  five  minutes  more,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  457 

1548.    PICKEREL,  CAVOUR 

Procure  a  three-pound  fresh  pickerel,  trim  well  and  wipe,  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  six  stoned  and  sliced  queen  olives,  six  sliced  canned 
mushrooms,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  ounce  butter  and  a  half  tea- 
spoon salt;  mix  lightly,  cover  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on 
range  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up 
paper,  carefully  dress  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  boil  sauce  five  minutes,  then 
add  two  tablespoons  freshly  grated  horseradish ;  lightly  mix,  pour  sauce 
over  fish,  decorate  with  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90) 
around  dish  and  serve. 

1549.    POTATOES,  POULETTE 

Boil  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  twelve  even-sized, 
small  potatoes  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  peel  and  keep  hot. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
three  finely  chopped  shallots  and  brown  three  minutes,  then  add  three 
tablespoons  flour  and  mix  well  while  heating  half  a  minute;  pour  in  one 
gill  hot  milk,  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  the 
juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden 
spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  one  egg  yolk,  sharply  mix  for  one 
minute,  then  add  the  potatoes;  gently  turn  them  in  the  sauce  without 
boiling,  for  two  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  break  them,  dress  on  a 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1550.      TOURNEDOS   OF  BEEF,   IMPERIAL 

Cut  six  equal  pieces  from  a  well-trimmed  two-pound  filet  of  beef, 
neatly  flatten,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Prepare  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  and  divide  in  half.  Place  a  gill 
of  tomato  sauce  in  a  saucepan  and  let  it  reduce  to  a  quarter  of  the  quan- 
tity, and  mix  this  tomato  in  one  part  of  the  Bearnaise. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  the  filets  in 
one  beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Dress  them  on  six  round  bread  croutons,  of  same  size  as  the  tournedos, 
on  a  large  hot  dish.  With  a  tablespoon  spread  the  plain  Bearnaise 
sauce  on  half  of  the  surface  of  each  tournedo,  and  the  Be"arnaise  with 
the  tomato  on  other  half  of  same,  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  of  truffle  on 
top  of  each  and  serve. 

1551.    WALNUT  ICE  CREAM 

Crack,  pick  out  and  finely  chop  the  meat  of  eighteen  large  or  twenty- 
four  medium-sized  sound  walnuts. 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  preparation  (No.  42),  and  when  strained 
into  the  freezer  add  the  chopped  walnuts,  with  two  tablespoons  maras- 
chino, lightly  mix  with  a  spatula,  then  proceed  to  freeze  the  same  as 
vanilla. 


458  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Germea  (217) 

Eggs,  Cienfuegos 

Porgies  Saute  with  Fines  Herbes 

Broiled  Devilled  Bacon  (682) 

Mashed  Browned  Potatoes  (813) 

Jelly  Cakes 

1552.    EGGS,  CIENFUEGOS 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  one  green 
pepper  and  a  half  onion,  finely  chopped;  lightly  brown  five  minutes, 
then  add  three  finely  chopped  peeled  red  tomatoes  and  three  finely 
sliced  vinegar  pickles.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  three  salt- 
spoons  sugar  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper ;  mix  well  and  let  cook  eight 
minutes,  lightly  stirring  occasionally.  Add  half  ounce  good  butter, 
mix  a  little  and  divide  into  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Carefully  crack 
two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  set  in  oven  to  bake  three  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

1553.    PORGIES  SAUT£  WITH  FINES  HERBES 

Neatly  scale,  trim  and  wipe  six  nice  small,  fresh,  fat  porgies.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  lightly  baste  with 
a  little  fresh  milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish  one  beside  another,  and 
gently  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle 
a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  them,  a  saltspoon  each 
chopped  chives  and  chervil;  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  a  half 
lemon  and  place  half  ounce  butter  in  the  pan  in  which  they  were  fried, 
toss  well  on  the  fire  until  of  a  light  brown,  then  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

1554.     JELLY  CAKES 

Prepare  the  cakes  exactly  the  same  as  (No.  136),  and  as  soon  as  taken 
out  of  the  pan  spread  a  half  teaspoon  currant  jelly  over  each  cake  and 
serve  with  maple  syrup  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Stew  with  Celer}- 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (74°) 

Chicken  Hash,  Moreno  au  Gratin 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 

Omelette  Souffld 

1555.    CLAM  STEW  WITH  CELERY 

Cut  a  well-cleaned  white  celery  stalk  in  small  dice  pieces  and  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  and  a  half  water,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  and 
let  boil  forty  minutes.  Then  add  forty-eight  little  neck  clams  with  their 


FRIDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  MAY  459 

liquor,  season  with  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Pour  in  a  pint  and  a  half  hot  milk,  half  gill  cream  and  one  ounce  good 
butter;  mix  well,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  off  the  scum, 
pour  in  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  oysterettes. 

1556.  CHICKEN  (OR  TURKEY)  HASH,  MORENO  AU  GRATIN 
Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut 
into  small  dice  pieces.  Cut  also  two  boiled  cold  potatoes  and  four 
Spanish  sweet  peppers  same  way.  Mix  in  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon 
butter  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour  and  heat  for  half  minute, 
then  pour  in  two  gills  hot  milk.  Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  chicken,  potatoes  and  peppers,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  paprika  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
lightly  mix  and  let  cook  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile, 
then  add  half  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  good  butter.  Mix  well,  pour 
into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top,  set  in  oven  fifteen 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Lobster,  Julienne 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Mignonette         Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 
Balotine  of  Lamb,  Macedoine  (1055) 

Spinach  in  Cream  (399) 

Broiled  Lobster,  Chili  Sauce  (1320) 

Roast  Beef  (126)         Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Jelly,  Yvette 

1557.    BISQUE  or  LOBSTER,  JULIENNE 

Cut  into  small  julienne  strips  two  small  carrots,  one  white  turnip, 
two  leeks,  one  medium  white  onion,  two  branches  celery  and  a  quarter 
of  a  very  small  white  cabbage.  Mix  them  together,  then  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar 
and  two  gills  water.  Mix  well,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  fifty  minutes, 
remove  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  a  {risque  of  lobster  (No.  1336)  and  add  the  above  prepared 
vegetables,  mix  a  little,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1558.    FRESH  MACKEREL,  MIGNONETTE 

Cut  the  head  off  and  split  in  two  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh  mack- 
erel, remove  spinal  bone  and  wipe  neatly,  then  place  in  a  lightly  buttered 
baking  dish.  Place  in  a  bowl  one  ounce  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour, 
three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  four  finely  chopped  shallots,  a  half  bean 
chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  one  teaspoon  curry  powder,  a  teaspoon  paprika,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  grated  nutmeg,  one  saltspoon  thyme  and 
one  saltspoon  crushed  bay  leaf;  mix  well  with  a  spoon  two  minutes, 
then  spread  this  mixture  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over 
the  mackerel,  set  in  oven  to  bake  forty  minutes,  remove  and  send  to 
table  in  same  dish. 


46o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1559.     JELLY,  YVETTE 

Prepare,  freeze  and  serve  a  rum  jelly  (No.  1171),  only  substituting 
the  same  quantity  of  creme  yvette  for  the  rum. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)         Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Fried  Eggs,  Sauce  Robert 

oiled  Fresh  Herrings,  Anchovy  Butter  (798) 

Pigs'  Feet  on  Toast  (434) 

Potatoes,  Bdarnaise  (1001) 

Puffs  (313) 

1560.    FRIED  EGGS,  SAUCE  ROBERT 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  Robert  sauce  (No.  1066).  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  carefully  crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs, 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  fry  on 
fire  one  minute,  then  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  slide 
them  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour  the  Robert  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Shad   Roes,  Newburgh 
Coquilles  of  Beef  with  Curry 

Plain  Welsh  Rarebit 
Apple  Me'ringue  Pie  (732) 

1561.    SHAD  ROES,  NEWBURGH 

Plunge  two  shad  roes  of  a  pound  and  a  quarter  each  in  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  and 
boil  ten  minutes;  lift  them  up,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  cut  in  one-inch  pieces. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  care- 
fully place  in  the  pieces  one  beside  another,  without  breaking  them, 
and  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
one  tablespoon  brandy,  one  gill  milk,  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Gently  toss  them  and  let  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg 
yolks  with  a  quarter  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  roes;  shuffle  the  pan 
while  heating  without  boiling  for  two  minutes,  place  in  a  chafing  dish 
or  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1562.     COQUILLES  OF  BEEF  WITH  CURRY 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday 
and  cut  it  into  inch-square  slices. 

Slice  to  the  same  size  two  cold  boiled  potatoes,  add  to  the  beef  and 
keep  on  a  plate.  Cut  in  halves  one  medium  onion  and  one  green 
pepper,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce  butter  and  fry  five 
minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham  cut  in  quarter-inch  squw 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  MAY  461 

pieces,  and  half  a  peeled  eggplant  cut  the  same  way;  cook  ten  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  meanwhile,  add  the  beef  and  potatoes,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Moisten  with  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  lightly  mix,  then  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove.  Mix  on  a  plate  half  a  tablespoon  butter  with  a  tablespoon 
flour  and  add  little  by  little  to  the  beef,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile. 
Divide  preparation  into  six  table  shells,  dredge  four  tablespoons  fresh 
bread  crumbs  over  them,  evenly  divided,  arrange  on  a  roasting  tin,  set 
in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1563.    PLAIN  WELSH  RAREBIT 

Place  a  gill  of  Bass's  ale  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  as  soon  as 
it  briskly  boils  add  one  pound  very  rich,  fresh,  finely  chopped  American 
cheese,  and  continually  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  melted 
Have  six  freshly  prepared  slices  of  toast  on  six  very  hot  egg  dishes  on 
range,  evenly  divide  the  cheese  over  the  six  slices  of  toast  and  send  to 
the  table  as  hot  as  possible. 

DINNER 

Olives  Radishes  (58 

Consomme",  Chatelaine  Broiled  Kingfish  (792) 

Potatoes,  Vert-pre" 

Mutton  Chops,  Bouchere  Cauliflower,  Saute*  (631) 

Roast  Goose,  Apple  Sauce  (1109) 

Dandelion  Salad  (606) 
Maraschino  Pudding  (655) 

1564.    CONSOMME",  CHATELAINE 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  another  saucepan. 
Place  one  finely  minced  white  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  half  pint  milk, 
three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Place  one  whole  egg  and  the  yolk  of  another 
in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  cream;  sharply  mix  with  the  whisk,  then 
gradually  add  the  milk  and  onions,  whisking  meanwhile.  Strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  three  lightly  buttered  pudding  moulds,  place 
in  a  small  frying  pan,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height,  then  set  in 
oven  with  the  door  open  ten  minutes.  Remove,  let  get  cold,  unmould, 
then  cut  in  slices  a  fifth  of  an  inch  thick,  place  in  a  soup  tureen  with 
three  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas  and  three  tablespoons  cooked  string 
beans  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  pour  the  boiling  consomme*  over  and  serve. 

1565.    POTATOES,  VERT-PR^ 

Remove  the  stalks  and  thoroughly  wash  a  pint  of  very  fresh  spinach 
leaves,  drain,  and  plunge  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  press  out  all  the  water,  then  chop 
them  exceedingly  fine.  Prepare  a  mashed  potato  preparation  (No.  178), 
add  and  mix  well  the  spinach  with  the  potatoes,  dress  on  a  vegetable 
dish,  neatly  smooth  all  around  with  the  blade  of  a  knife  and  serve. 


462  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1566.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  BOUCHERE 

Lightly  flatten  without  trimming  six  tender  mutton  chops.  Mix 
on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  the  chops  in  the  seasoning,  then  roll 
in  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  broil  on  a  brisk  charcoal  fire  five  minutes  on 
each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  crown  shape,  adjust  a  curled  paper 
at  end  of  each  chop  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 
Cornmeal  Mush  (326)         Omelette,  Piora 

Smelts  Sautes,  Fines  Herbes  (754) 

Lamb  Chops  (748)  French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

1567.     OMELETTE,  PIORA 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  one 
ounce  rich  Swiss  cheese  in  very  small  dice  pieces,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
three  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half  a  teaspoon  French  mustard. 
Sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  one  ounce  raw  lean 
bacon  into  small  dice  pieces,  and  fry  the  bacon  in  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan  five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  it  meanwhile. 
Drop  in  the  beaten  eggs,  mix  with  the  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for 
a  half  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for 
one  minute,  then  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 
Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Meuniere 

Pilaff  of  Goose 
Creme  au  Caramel  (480) 

1568.    SOFT  SHELL  CRABS,  MEUNIERE 

Remove  the  spongy  parts  underneath  the  side  points  and  the  aprons 
from  twelve  fresh  soft  shell  crabs,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain,  season  all 
around  with  a  teaspoon1  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  lightly  baste 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  roll  in  flour  gently.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  crabs  in  pan  one 
beside  another,  and  briskly  fry  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  sprinkle  half  a  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over. 
Drain  the  butter  from  pan  in  which  crabs  were  cooked,  add  a  half  ounce 
butter,  toss  well  on  fire  till  of  a  light  brown,  pour  over  crabs  and  serve. 

1569.    PILAFF  OF  GOOSE 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  goose  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut 
into  small  square  pieces.  Heat  half  an  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan, 


SUNDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  463 

add  one  finely  chopped  onion,  one  very  finely  chopped  green  pepper, 
and  lightly  brown  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Then  add 
four  ounces  raw  rice  and  the  meat,  mix  well  and  cook  five  minutes, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  half  teaspoon 
curry  powder.  Moisten  with  a  half  pint  broth,  two  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Mix  well,  cook  on  range 
for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  forty  minutes.  Remove,  place  in  a 
lightly  buttered  pudding  mould,  press  down  the  pilaff  in  the  mould  and 
carefully  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  gill  of  hot  demi-glace  around 
and  serve. 

N.  B.  Cut  the  goose  bones  into  small  pieces  and  add  them  to  the 
demi-glace  stock  pot  (No.  122). 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)  Canape's,  Souvaroff 

Crerae  of  Chicken,  Chevreuse 
Brook  Trout,  Cauterets         Potatoes,  Brioche  (91) 

Filets  Mignon,  Fin  de  Siecle 

Fresh  String  Beans  with  Butter 

Sweetbreads,  Hongroise  Punch  au  Kirsch 

Roast  Capon  (378)          Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Hazel-Nut  Ice  Cream 

1570.     CANAPES,  SOUVAROFF 

Cut  from  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  round  pieces  quarter-inch 
thick  and  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter;  toast  to  a  nice  golden  colour, 
lightly  butter,  then  spread  a  teaspoon  Russian  caviare  over  each  toast. 
Finely  chop  up  the  whites  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  evenly  sprinkle 
them  over  the  six  round  pieces,  then  arrange  one  anchovy  in  oil,  ring- 
shape,  on  the  centre  of  each,  fill  the  inside  of  the  anchovy  ring  with  a 
little  freshly  chopped  parsley,  dress  on  a  side  dish,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  greens,  six  quarters  lemon  and  serve. 

1571.     CREME  OF  CHICKEN,  CHEVREUSE 

Cut  head  off,  draw  and  wipe  a  fowl  of  about  three  pounds;  place  it  in 
a  large  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  two  sliced  onions,  three  sliced 
leeks,  three  sliced  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  one  clove  garlic,  one  ounce  raw  lean  bacon,  one  ounce  raw  lean 
ham,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  clove,  twelve  allspice,  four 
quarts  water,  one  level  tablespoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 
and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  two 
hours  and  a  half. 

Finely  slice  three  ounces  well-cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  and  brown  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  meanwhile;  lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  place  in 
mortar,  and  keep  butter  in  pan  on  corner  of  range  until  required.  Remove 
fowl  from  broth,  skin  and  bone  it,  place  meat  in  the  mortar  with  mush- 
rooms and  thoroughly  pound  both  to  a  smooth  paste,  place  and  keep 
on  a  plate.  Add  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour  to  mushroom  butter,  mix 


464  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  strain  broth  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  this  roux;  gradually  add  the  fowl  and  mushrooms,  mixing 
on  range  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  gill  cream ;  and  let  boil 
twenty-five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  quarter  gill  cream  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  to  the  soup,  mixing  while  heating  for  three 
minutes,  but  not  allowing  to  boil.  Remove,  strain  through  a  sieve  into 
a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  three  table- 
spoons boiled  rice,  mix  a  little  and  serve. 

1572.    BROOK  TROUT,  CAUTERETS 

Trim,  draw  by  the  gills  and  wipe  three  medium  very  fresh  brook 
trout.  Place  in  a  bowl  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  one  branch  chopped  chervil,  one  teaspoon  anchovy  paste  and 
juice  of  a  quarter  lemon.  Mix  all  well  together  and  equally  divide  it 
in  the  inside  of  the  three  trout,  arrange  them  in  a  frying  pan,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  of  white  pepper,  add  half  ounce 
good  butter,  a  half  gill  white  wine,  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon  and  six  minced 
shallots.  Cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  set  in  oven  thirty  minutes, 
remove  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon 
butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour,  heat  for  half  a  minute,  then  strain  the 
fish  liquor  into  this  pan ;  add  a  half  gill  hot  milk  and  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  boil  eight  minutes,  occasionally 
mixing.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  two  tablespoons  cream,  add  to  the 
sauce,  mixing  while  heating  one  minute  longer,  strain  over  fish  and 
serve. 

1578.    FILETS  MIGNON,  FIN  DE  SIECLE 

Cut  from  two  pounds  of  filet  six  equal  pieces,  lightly  flatten  them, 
season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Finely  chop  two  ounces  raw  veal,  half  a  green  pepper  and  half  a  bean 
garlic;  place  in  a  mortar  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  each 
cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  pound  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  one  egg 
yolk,  one  tablespoon  of  cream,  and  mix  well.  Evenly  spread  this  force 
on  both  sides  of  the  filets  and  carefully  roll  filets  in  melted  butter,  then  in 
bread  crumbs. 

Peel  and  thoroughly  wash  six  heads  fresh  mushrooms  and  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each  side, 
lift  them  up  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Arrange  the  filets  in  the  mushroom 
pan,  one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Have  six  round,  freshly  prepared  pieces  of  toast  placed  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  the  filets  over  them,  then  place  a  mushroom  on  top  of  each  filet. 
Pour  a  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28)  around  the  filets  and  serve. 

1579.    FRESH  STRING  BEANS  WITH  BUTTER 

Break  the  blossom  end,  pull  it  backward  to  remove  string,  and  trim 
off  the  thin  strips  from  the  other  eiid  of  a  quart  of  very  fresh,  tender 
string  beans.  Thoroughly  wash  in.  cold  water  and  let  stand  in  the  water 
ten  minutes,  drain,  then  plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a 


M6NDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  465 

teaspoon  of  salt,  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  replace  in 
saucepan,  adding  half  ounce  good  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  mix  well  with  a  fork,  dress  on  a  vegetable 
dish  nd  serve. 

1580.    SWEETBREADS,  HONGROISE 

Have  six  heart  sweetbreads  blanched  (No.  33).  Place  a  mirepoix 
(No.  271)  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter  and  place  breads 
on  top.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  paprika, 
place  pan  on  fire  five  minutes,  then  moisten  with  three  gills  water  and 
two  tablespoons  sherry,  cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  set  in  oven 
forty  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot.  Mix  in  a  small 
saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour,  and 
heat  for  half  minute ;  remove  fat  from  sweetbreads  gravy,  strain  into  the 
roux,  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  let  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  three  saltspoons  paprika  and  half  gill  cream,  mix 
well  and  let  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon 
cream,  add  to  sauce,  mix  lightly  while  heating  for  one  minute,  strain 
sauce  over  breads,  arrange  six  timbales  of  rice  (No.  521)  around  breads 
and  serve. 

1581.    PUNCH  AU  KIRSCH 

Prepare  a  lemon  water  ice  (No.  376),  adding  when  in  the  freezer  two 
and  a  half  tablespoons  Swiss  kirsch,  mix  with  the  spatula  and  serve  in 
six  sherbet  glasses. 

1582.    HAZEL-NUT  ICE  CREAM 

Shell  a  pint  of  hazel  nuts  and  finely  chop  without  skinning  them, 
place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  with  door  open  and  let  get  a  nice  brown  colour, 
tossing  them  once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  let  cool  off. 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice-cream  preparation  (No.  42).  Strain  it  into  the 
freezer,  then  add  chopped  nuts  and  proceed  to  freeze  and  serve  the  same. 


Monday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407)         Sago  with  Cream 
Scrambled  Eggs,  Manchester 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochettes  (600) 

Parisian  Potatoes  (711) 

Fried  Corn  Cakes 

1583.    SAGO  WITH  CREAM 

Place  in  a  small  enamelled  saucepan  a  half  pint  water  and  half  pint 
milk,  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt;  place  on  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a 
boil  add  six  ounces  sago.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  boil 
twenty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  pour  into  a  deep  hot 
dish  and  serve  with  cold  cream  or  milk  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 


466  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1584.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  MANCHESTER 

Prepare  six  English  muffins  (No.  528).  With  a  teaspoon  scoop  out 
all  the  interior,  so  as  to  form  regular  patties.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs 
into  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  milk,  two  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  a  minute.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  twelve  anchovies  in  oil  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  gently  cook  three  minutes,  drop  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  cook 
six  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Dress  muffins  on  a  large  dish,  evenly 
divide  the  scrambled  eggs  into  them  and  serve. 

1585.    FRIED  CORN  CAKES 

Place  in  a  bowl  half  a  pound  cornmeal  flour  with  two  tablespoons 
butter,  two  saltspoons  baking  powder,  one  egg  and  three  tablespoons 
milk.  Beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  two  minutes.  Lightly  butter  a  large 
frying  pan.  Take  a  tablespoon  of  the  cornmeal  preparation  and  drop 
into  pan;  continue  doing  so  till  all  finished,  keeping  them  a  little  apart 
from  one  another,  and  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each  side  or  until  of  a 
nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  plate  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Souffle"  of  Lobster  (879) 

Pork  and  Beans,  New  York  Style 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Apple  Pancakes 

1586.    PORK  AND  BEANS,  NEW  YORK  STYLE 

Soak  a  pint  of  large  white  beans  in  plenty  of  water  over  night,  or  six 
hours  at  least.  Drain,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water  one 
and  a  half  pounds  salt  pork,  one  carrot  cut  in  quarters,  one  onion  with 
two  cloves  stuck  in  it.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley, 
one  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  thyme,  and  add  to  pan  with  half  a  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  cover  and  let  boil  two  and  a  half  hours,  remove,  drain 
on  a  sieve,  remove  carrots,  onions  and  bunch  of  herbs.  Replace  the 
beans  in  same  pan,  add  one  ounce  good  butter  with  a  gill  molasses,  mix 
well,  then  place  in  a  baking  dish.  Cut  pork  in  thin  slices  and  arrange 
them  over  the  beans,  one  overlapping  another,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
fresh  bread  crumbs  over,  place  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

1587.    APPLE  PANCAKES 

Prepare  a  French  pancake  batter  (No.  17).  Peel  and  core  two 
medium  apples  cut  in  quarters,  then  finely  slice  them.  Heat  half 
ounce  good  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  apples  with  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  toss  them  well  and 
place  in  batter,  mix  well,  and  proceed  to  make  and  serve  the  cakes  as 
per  No.  17. 


MONDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  467 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage  Sorrel  with  Rice 

Codfish  Saute",  Lyonnaise         Potato  Croquettes 
Calves'  Tongues  en  Papillotes         Celery  Braise"  (359) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 
Lettuce  Salad  (148)         Banana  Pudding 

1588.  POTAGE  SORREL  WITH  RICE 

Remove  stalks  of  a  quart  of  very  fresh  sorrel.  Wash  well  in  running 
cold  water,  drain,  press  out  water  with  hands,  then  cut  it  into  julienne 
strips.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  sorrel, 
cover  pan  and  let  steam  on  a  slow  fire  ten  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoons 
flour,  mix  well  with  spoon,  moisten  with  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701) 
and  one  pint  milk.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper  and  a  teaspoon  sugar,  mix  a  little,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice, 
then  let  slowly  boil  forty  minutes;  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  gill 
cream,  and  boil  one  minute.  Dilute  the  two  egg  yolks  with  a  half  gill 
milk,  add  to  soup,  continually  mix  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  re- 
move, pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1589.  CODFISH  SAUTE",  LYONNAISE 

Season  three  fresh  codfish  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  two  finely  sliced  white 
onions,  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  place  in  the  steaks  one  beside 
another,  and  briskly  fry  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Set  in  oven  to  bake 
for  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  in  pan,  mix  well, 
pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

1590.    CALVES'  TONGUES  EN  PAPILLOTES 

Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  saucepan  and  lay  over  it  three  fresh 
calves'  tongues.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  adding  a  tablespoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan,  and  let  gently  boil  on  range 
for  one  hour  and  ten  minutes.  Take  up  the  tongues,  skin,  neatly 
trim,  and  cut  each  in  two  lengthwise.  Prepare  an  Italian  sauce  (No. 
1244),  adding  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  mix  well  and  keep  on 
table. 

Broil  twelve  very  thin  slices  ham  two  minutes  on  each  side  and  keep 
on  a  plate.  Have  six  sheets  white  paper  sixteen  inches  square,  fold  in 
two,  then  cut  in  heart  shape  the  length  and  width  of  pan,  and  lightly  oil 
both  sides.  Place  a  slice  of  ham  on  one  side  of  paper,  spread  a  table- 
spoon Italian  sauce  and  lay  a  piece  of  tongue  on  top  of  same; 
spread  another  tablespoon  of  sauce  over  the  tongue,  arrange  another 
piece  of  ham  on  top,  and  fold  up  the  two  edges  together  firmly,  so  as  to 
entirely  envelop  articles.  Proceed  the  same  with  others,  place  on  a 
roasting  tin,  set  in  oven  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  sei\e. 


468  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1591.    BANANA  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  bowl  four  ounces  granulated  sugar,  one  ounce  butter, 
three  egg  yolks,  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  five  minutes.  Add  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  three  finely  sliced, 
peeled,  sound  bananas,  and  gently  mix.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  three  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  gradually  add  to  mixture,  place  preparation  in  a 
lightly  buttered  pudding  mould,  set  to  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
forty  minutes,  remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  raspberry  sauce 
(No.  714)  over  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)         Malta  Vita 

Eggs  Molet,  Baltimore         Kippered  Herring  (153) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Onions  (108) 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Griddle  Cakes  (136) 

1592.    MALTA  VITA 

Place  a  small  quantity  of  Malta  on  the  saucers,  pour  a  little  cream  or 
fruit  juice  one  side  of  saucer  and  moisten  article  as  eaten. 

1593.    EGGS  MOLET,  BALTIMORE 

Cut  six  large  raw  oysters  in  four  pieces  each,  place  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  a  finely  chopped  truffle,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  and  a  half 
gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and 
half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  five  minutes,  take  up  and  plunge  in  cold  water 
for  one  minute,  shell,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52)  Soft  Clams,  Grant 

Virginia  Ham  Glac6  with  Spinach 

Orange  Fritters 

1694.    SOFT  CLAMS,  GRANT 

Discard  all  sandy  parts  of  thirty-six  large,  very  fresh,  soft  clams, 
keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies.  Plunge  in  boiling  water  for  one 
minute,  drain  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  three  sound,  very  finely  chopped 
shallots,  half  a  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  two  white,  crisp  branches 
celery  also  finely  chopped,  and  brown  to  a  nice  light-brown  colour, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile ;  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stirring  while 
heating  for  one  minute.  Pour  in  one  gill  cream,  one  gill  milk,  two  table- 
spoons sherry,  a  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  clams; 
carefully  mix  without  breaking  them.  Pour  into  a  baking  dish,  arrange 


TUESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  469 

six  thin  slices  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  on  top,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  divide  half  ounce  good  butter  in  small  bits  on  top, 
set  in  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove 
and  serve. 

1595.    VIRGINIA  HAM  GLAC£  WITH  SPINACH 

Procure  a  very  small  raw  Virginia  ham,  soak  in  cold  water  for  six 
hours,  then  boil  in  plenty  of  boiling  water  for  three  hours.  Remove, 
tear  off  skin  and  neatly  trim  all  the  black  adherings  and  lay  in  a  roast- 
ing tin;  dredge  two  ounces  granulated  sugar  over,  pour  three  table- 
spoons good  sherry  in  the  pan,  then  set  in  the  oven  to  glaze  for  twenty- 
five  minutes,  frequently  basting  meanwhile.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  arrange  the  same  amount  of  spinach  (No.  247)  around  the  ham. 
Pour  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  in  the  roasting  pan,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  pour  the  sauce  around  the  dish,  adjust  a  curled  paper  at  the 
end  bone  and  serve. 

1596.    ORANGE  FRITTERS 

Peel,  skin  and  divide  three  sound,  juicy  oranges  in  sections,  place  in 
a  bowl  with  an  ounce  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  rum,  turn  well  in 
seasoning,  and  let  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204) ,  roll  the  oranges  in  the  batter,  then 
drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar 
over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Olives  Tunny  Fish,  Pickled 

Pure"e  of  Peas  with  Vermicelli 

Weakfish  Saut£  au  Cerfeuil  Potato  Noisettes  (321) 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Sauce  Perigueux  Fresh  Asparagus  Tips  in  Cream 

Roast  Beef  (126)         Chicory  Salad  (38, 

Chocolate  Biscuits  with  Jam 

1597.    TUNNY  FISH,  PICKLED 

Open  a  small  can  of  tunny  fish,  cut  six  very  thin,  small  slices,  dress  on 
a  side  dish  with  a  few  leaves  green  lettuce  and  six  slices  lemon  and  serve. 

1598.     PUR£E  OF  PEAS  WITH  VERMICELLI 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  puree  St.  Germain  (No.  142).  Crack  four 
ounces  vermicelli,  plunge  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  add  to  the  puree, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1599.    WEAKFISH  SAUT£  AU  CERFEUIL 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  a  very  fresh  weakfish  of  three  pounds.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  frying  pan,  season  fish  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  add  it  to  the  pan  and  gently  fry  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  free  the  pan  of  oil,  add  half  ounce  good  butter, 
then  toss  on  the  fire  until  of  a  nice  brown  colour.  Add  the  leaves  of 


470  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

three  branches  chervil  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  lightly  toss, 
pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1600.    CHICKEN  (OR  TURKEY)  CROQUETTES,  SAUCE  P£RIGUEUX 

Pick  out  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  cut 
into  small  dice,  then  proceed  to  finish  the  croquettes  exactly  as  No.  700. 
Dress  on  a  dish,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  end  of  each  croquette,  pour  a 
hot  sauce  perigueux  (No.  677)  around  and  serve. 

1601.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS  IN  CREAM 

Cut  all  tender  parts  of  a  large  bunch  of  fresh  green  asparagus  in 
one-inch-long  pieces.  Plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar,  boil  twenty  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Mix 
in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter  with  one  ounce  flour,  heat  for  a  half 
minute,  then  pour  in  one  gill  hot  milk,  one  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  tips  with  half 
ounce  good  butter;  mix  well,  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve 

1602.     CHOCOLATE  BISCUITS  WITH  JAM 

Place  four  ounces  powdered  sugar  in  a  bowl  with  five  egg  yolks,  one 
saltspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  mix  well  with  a 
wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  yolks  with  three  ounces  sifted  flour,  and  lightly 
mix  with  a  skimmer.  Line  a  lightly  buttered  small  square  pastry  pan 
with  lightly  buttered  paper,  drop  in  the  preparation,  neatly  smooth 
the  surface,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  and  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  turn  the  cake  on 
a  clean  table,  lift  up  the  paper  and  spread  three  tablespoons  raspberry 
jam  over  surface  of  cake. 

Prepare  a  glace  au  chocolate  (No.  1281),  spread  evenly  over  the  jam 
and  let  cool  off.  Cut  the  cake  in  twelve  even  pieces,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  seconds,  remove  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Cream  of  Wheat 

Eggs,  Calcutta         Broiled  Bluefish  (328) 

Calves'  Liver  with  Bacon  (155)          Potatoes  au  Gratin  (672^ 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1603.    CREAM  OF  WHEAT 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  half  pint  each  water  and  milk  with  three 
saltspoons  salt,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  a  half  cup  cream  of 
wheat;  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  and  let  gently  boil  for  thirty 
minutes,  stirring  at  the  bottom  occasionally,  pour  into  a  hot  deep  dish 
and  serve  with  cream  and  powdered  sugar  separately. 


WEDNESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  471 

1604.    EGGS,  CALCUTTA     * 

Plunge  four  ounces  raw  rice  into  a  pint  boiling  water  and  boil  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  in  a  large 
baking  dish,  adding  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  or  rich  milk,  half  ounce 
good  butter,  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon 
each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg ;  mix  well  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
carefully  crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  set  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Radish  Broth  (2164) 

Frogs'  Legs,  Saute"  Meuniere 

Pieds-Paquet,  Marseillaise  (1442) 

Macaroni,  Suisse  Gateaux  Religieuses  (837) 

1605.    FROGS'  LEGS,  SAUT£  MEUNIERE 

Clip  off  with  scissors  the  claws  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  frogs' 
legs,  thoroughly  wipe  them,  place  on  a  plate,  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  milk,  then  roll 
in  flour  and  briskly  shake  them  on  a  sieve  to  remove  all  superfluous  flour. 

Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
the  legs  and  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  gently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Dress  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Place  half  ounce  butter  in  pan,  toss  on 
fire  until  a  light  brown,  pour  over  the  legs  and  serve. 

1606.    MACARONI,  SUISSE 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  best  macaroni  in  three  quarts  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  return  to  the 
saucepan,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper 
and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  one  ounce  good  butter  and  two 
ounces  grated  Swiss  cheese;  carefully  mix  with  a  fork  until  well  amal- 
gamated, transfer  to  a  deep  dish.  Nicely  brown  a  very  finely  chopped 
white  onion  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  for  eight  minutes, 
frequently  mixing  meanwhile,  then  pour  over  macaroni  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)        Devilled  Almonds  (954) 
Consomme  Chiffonnade,  aux  Fines  Herbes 

Planked  Pompano,  Breslin 
Squabs  en  Estouffade  (59?)         Asparagus,  Sauce  Mousseline 

Roast  Ribs  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255) 
Romaine  Salad  (214)  Honey  Pudding 

1607.  CONSOMM£  CHIFFONNADE,  AUX  FINES  HERBES 
Prepare  and  strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme*  (No.  52), 
then  let  it  gently  simmer  until  required.  Cut  in  very  thin  julienne 
strips  six  well-cleaned  green  lettuce  leaves,  six  well-trimmed,  clean 
leaves  spinach  and  twelve  thoroughly  washed  leaves  of  sorrel;  place 
these  green  vegetables  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  ounce  good  butter 


472  THE    INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  a  teaspoon  sugar ;  mix  well,  cover  pan,  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
with  fork  once  in  a  while;  drain  on  sieve,  add  to  consomme  with  two  table- 
spoons each  cooked  asparagus  tips,  green  peas  and  string  beans  cut  in 
short  pieces,  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  chopped 
chives,  leaves  from  two  branches  chervil,  season  with  teaspoon  sugar, 
lightly  mix,  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  consomme  in  tureen  and  serve. 

1608.    PLANKED  POMPANO,  BRESLIN 

Procure  two  very  fresh  pompanos  one  and  a  half  pounds  each .  Neatly 
trim  and  wipe,  make  a  few  incisions  on  both  sides  of  the  skin  of  each, 
evenly  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  half  tea- 
spoon curry  powder.  Completely  oil  the  surface  of  an  oak  plank  (board), 
lay  the  fish  one  beside  another  on  the  plank,  baste  with  a  little  melted 
butter,  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes  and  remove  to  a  table. 
Have  a  brioche  potato  preparation  (No.  91).  Place  the  potatoes  in 
a  pastry  bag  with  a  dentilated  tube  at  the  bottom,  and  by  carefully 
pressing  it  down  make  a  nice  border  around  the  edges  of  the  plank. 
Finely  slice  ten  medium-sized,  peeled  and  thoroughly  cleaned  fresh 
mushrooms,  one  green  pepper  and  four  sound  shallots,  and  lightly  brown 
these  articles  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  sweet  oil  for  five  minutes, 
then  place  them  on  top  of  the  pompanos.  Neatly  arrange  two  finely 
sliced,  peeled  raw  red  tomatoes  around  the  fish,  sprinkle  over  half 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley,  one  tablespoon  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1609.    HONEY  PUDDING 

Place  four  ounces  honey  in  a  bowl  with  four  ounces  stale  cakes  or 
bread  crumbs,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  three  minutes,  then  add  two 
ounces  rice  flour,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  half  teaspoon  ground  ginger, 
one  gill  milk,  one  ounce  butter,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  sharply 
mix  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  gradually  add  to  mixture,  and  gently  mix  with  the  skimmer 
for  a  minute.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  lightly  buttered  pudding 
mould,  set  in  oven  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  unmould  on  a 
dish,  pour  a  Groseille-maraschino  sauce  (No.  771)  over  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 

Cero  Fruto         Poached  Eggs,  Tarragon 

Broiled  Shad.  Anchovy  Butter  (1289) 

Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172)        Potatoes  Saute"  (135) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

1610.    CERO  FRUTO 

Place  two  ounces  Cero  Fruto  in  a  clean  tin,  set  in  the  oven  to  heat 
for  five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile.  Remove,  evenly  divide 
into  six  saucers,  and  serve  with  cream  or  thick  cold  milk  separately. 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  473 

1611.  POACHED  EGGS,  TARRAGON 

Place  three  quarts  water  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and 
two  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  care- 
fully crack  six  fresh  eggs  and  poach  them  for  three  minutes.  Carefull) 
lift  up  with  the  skimmer  and  arrange  over  three  freshly  prepared  pieces 
of  toast.  Prepare  six  more  in  a  similar  way,  and  sprinkle  over  all  two 
teaspoons  freshly  chopped  tarragon  leaves.  Have  an  ounce  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  and  toss  on  the  fire  until  of  a  nice  light  brown  colour,  pour 
over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Lobster  Patties,  Augusta 

Goulash,  Hungarian  (263) 

String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579) 

French  Pancakes  au  Kummel  (426) 

1612.  LOBSTER  PATTIES,  AUGUSTA  4 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  small  patties  (No.  929).  Plunge  two  live 
lobsters,  one  and  a  half  pounds  each,  in  a  gallon  boiling  water  with  a 
tablespoon  salt  for  twenty  minutes.  Lift  up,  let  cool  off,  crack  the 
shells,  pick  out  all  the  meat  and  cut  in  half-inch  pieces. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  ounces  good  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  half 
a  finely  chopped  onion,  four  chopped  branches  celery,  one  scund, 
seedless  green  pepper,  and  gently  brown  for  eight  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Add  the  lobsters,  with  eighteen  freshly  opened  little 
neck  clams,  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  cook 
for  five  minutes,  sprinkle  over  two  ounces  flour,  and  stir  well  while 
cooking  for  one  minute.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  gill  hot 
milk  and  one  gill  cream,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  two  tablespoons  cream, 
the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  and  add  to  the  lobster;  mix  while  heating 
for  two  minutes,  remove,  dress  the  patties  on  a  hot  dish,  fill  with  the 
preparation,  cover  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Little  Neck  Clams  (1457) 
Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Potage  Veal,  Indienne 

Chicken  Halibut,  Caper  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Brabant  (1220)         Mutton  Steaks,  Carozzi 

Fried  Eggplant  (460) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)          Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Coffee  Ice  Cream       Lady  Fingers  (150) 

1613.    POTAGE  VEAL,  INDIENNE 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  half  pound  raw  lean  veal,  one  medium 
red  carrot,  one  white  medium  onion,  two  well-cleaned  leeks,  one 
medium  green  pepper  and  three  branches  crisp,  white  celery.  Place 
these  in  a  large  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce  clarified  butter  and  brown 
for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Moisten 
with  three  quarts  hot  water  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) ;  add  one 


474  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pound  knuckle  of  veal,  one  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
one  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Mix  well  and  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  add  three  ounces 
raw  rice,  three  slices  peeled  eggplant  and  two  peeled  and  cored  apples  cut 
in  small  squares,  lightly  mix,  then  boil  for  forty  minutes  longer.  Remove 
bone,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve. 

1614.     CHICKEN  HALIBUT,  CAPER  SAUCE 

Procure  three  slices  fresh  chicken  halibut  of  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  each.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill 
white  wine,  one  gill  water,  two  branches  parsley,  juice  of  a  quarter 
lemon,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  fish 
with  lightly  buttered  paper,  then  cook  on  range  five  minutes  and  set  in 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes  and  remove,  lift  up  paper,  take  up  fish 
with  a  skimmer  v  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  remove  spinal  bone. 

Prepare  a  caper  sauce  (No.  1246),  add  two  tablespoons  of  the  fish 
liquor  to  the  caper  sauce,  mix  well,  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

1615.    MUTTON  STEAKS,  CAROZZI 

Cut  three  steaks  from  a  tender  leg  of  mutton,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  each,  evenly  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon white  pepper  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  an  earthen  casserole,  place  steaks  in  it,  and  briskly 
fry  on  each  side  for  five  minutes  on  range.  Take  up  with  fork  and  keep 
on  a  plate,  then  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots  to  pan  with  chopped 
rind  of  a  sound  lemon,  cook  three  minutes,  then  mix  in  a  tablespoon 
flour.  Moisten  with  a  gill  claret  and  one  and  a  half  gills  water,  mix  well, 
then  add  half  pint  raw,  fresh,  tender  peas,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  a  bean  chopped  garlic,  the  leaves  from  a  branch  of  chervil, 
three  saltspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  sugar.  Mix  well,  let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  add  steaks,  tightly  cover  pan,  set  in  oven  one  hour,  remove  and  serve 
without  uncovering. 

1616.     COFFEE  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  vanilla  preparation  (No.  42).  Strain  one  gill  freshly 
made  strong  coffee  into  preparation,  mix  it  well,  strain  into  freezer  and 
proceed  to  freeze  and  serve  as  the  vanilla. 


Friday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)         Hominy  (45) 

Eggs,  Wingfield         Codfish,  Meuniere  (240) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434)  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  (14) 

Vanilla  Buns 

1617.    EGGS,  WINGFIELD 

Finely  slice  a  medium  white  onion,  place  in  small  saucepan  with  one 
and  a  half  gills  milk,  three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  475 

one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  lightly  mix,  then  boil  twenty-five  minutes. 
Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  ounce 
good  butter  and  a  half  gill  cream;  mix  well.  Divide  this  preparation 
into  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish,  evenly  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  lay  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1618.    VANILLA  BUNS 

Sift  a  half  pound  flour  on  corner  of  table,  make  a  fountain  in  centre, 
pour  in  it  two  gills  cold  milk,  add  a  teaspoon  compressed  yeast  and  one 
saltspoon  salt,  and  knead  all  well  together  with  the  hand  for  five  minutes, 
or  until  a  light  dough.  Place  dough  in  large  bowl,  and  set  in  cool  place 
thirty  minutes,  then  add  two  eggs,  two  ounces  well-picked  currants,  half 
an  ounce  candied  lemon-peels,  finely  chopped,  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence  (No.  3232),  then  briskly  beat  up  with  the  hand  five  minutes. 
Divide  paste  into  six  equal  parts,  roll  out  each  piece  into  cake  form  and 
place  in  lightly  buttered  tin  to  rest  fifteen  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  beaten 
egg  the  surface  of  each,  then  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes,  or  till  of  a  nice 
golden  colour,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 

Golden  Buck  (1144) 

Lobster  Croquettes,  Sauee  Italienne 

Mutton  Liver,  .Loraine 

Boston  Cream  Pie 

1619.    LOBSTER  CROQUETTES,  SAUCE  ITALIENNE 

Prepare  a  lobster  forcemeat  (No.  201).  Divide  forcemeat  in  six 
equal  parts  and  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  nice  croquette  forms. 
Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying  basket 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat  ten  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  well  on  cloth,  pour 
an  Italian  sauce  (No.  1244)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  croquettes  over,  adjust 
a  fancy  frill  paper  at  end  of  each  croquette  and  serve. 

1620.     MUTTON  LIVER,  LORAINJC  3 

Cut  a. very  fresh  mutton  liver  in  twelve  slices  and  evenly  season  all 
around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Thor- 
oughly heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add 
the  liver,  and  briskly  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and 
keep  on  a  plate.  Add  one  each  finely  minced  onion,  green  pepper  and 
bean  of  garlic  to  the  pan  and  gently  brown  for  eight  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  three  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well, 
and  brown  three  minutes  more.  Pour  in  two  gills  pure  tomato  juice, 
a  half  gill  white  wine,  a  half  gill  water,  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  half  salt- 
spoon cayenne  pepper  and  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Contin- 
ually mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the 
mutton  liver,  cover  pan,  and  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


476  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1621.    BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 

Place  four  ounces  sugar  in  a  copper  basin  with  four  eggs  and  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  place  basin  on  range,  and  sharply  whisk  for 
twelve  minutes.  Take  from  range  and  add  four  ounces  sifted  flour, 
gently  mix  with  skimmer  two  minutes,  add  two  ounces  melted  butter, 
lightly  mix  a  minute  more,  drop  preparation  in  a  buttered  deep  pie 
plate  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  split 
pie  in  half,  crosswise,  spread  a  creme  patissiere  (No.  1280)  on  the 
split  side  of  both  half  cakes,  join,  close  again,  dredge  powdered  sugar 
over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?) 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Shad  Roes         Kingfish,  Mornay 

Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 
Tenderloin  Cutlets,  Newport         Flageolets  with  Butter  (95) 

Omelette,  Gibbons 

Roast  Duckling  with  Apple  Sauce  (187) 
Chicory  Salad  (38)         Jelly,  Moscovite 

1622.    BISQUE  OF  SHAD  ROES 

Cut  in  half-inch  pieces  two  shad  roes  of  about  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  each  and  keep  on  plate  until  required. 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  one  each  finely 
sliced  carrot  and  white  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil, 
one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove;  gently  brown  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  shad 
roes;  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  and  cook  ten  minutes,  then  sprinkle 
over  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour;  mix  two  minutes,  moisten  with  two 
and  a  half  quarts  boiling  water,  season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well 
while  boiling  for  three  minutes,  then  let  gently  boil  forty-five  minutes ;  add 
one  pint  cold  milk,  let  cook  fifteen  minutes  more;  dilute  two  egg  yolks 
with  one  gill  cream,  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  two  tablespoons 
sherry;  add  to  the  soup,  mix  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  but  do  not 
allow  to  boil;  add  half  ounce  good  butter  in  small  bits,  mix  well,  remove, 
press  bisque  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1623.    KINGFISH,  MORNAY 

Neatly  trim  and  wipe  two  fresh  kingfish  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each ;  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine, 
two  branches  parsley,  juice  of  a  sound  quarter  lemon,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  lightly  buttered 
paper,  boil  five  minutes  on  range,  then  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  lay  in  baking  dish.  Pour  a 
sauce  Mornay  (No.  526)  and  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
over  the  fish,  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  cut  a 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  MAY  477 

sound  lemon  in  half,  then  slice  it  finely,  arrange  slices  around  fish 
and  serve. 

1624.    TENDERLOIN  CUTLETS,  NEWPORT 

Chop  exceedingly  fine  one  pound  tenderloin  of  beef,  half  a  pound 
raw  lean  veal,  four  ounces  raw  beef  marrow  and  place  these  in  a  bowl 
on  the  ice.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  one  saltspoon  mixed  allspice,  and  stir  with 
wooden  spoon  five  minutes.  Peel,  wash  carefully,  drain  and  cut  in  small 
squares  six  fresh,  sound  mushrooms,  and  brown  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  butter  five  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  add  to 
the  bowl,  with  one  ounce  cooked  ham  cut  in  small  squares,  one  tablespoon 
brandy,  one  tablespoon  sherry,  a  half  gill  cream,  and  thoroughly  mix 
with  wooden  spoon  three  minutes.  Divide  this  preparation  into  twelve 
equal  parts  and  give  them  nice  cutlet  forms,  roll  in  melted  butter,  then 
in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  cutlets  one  beside  another,  and 
gently  fry  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  a  Be*arnaise  sauce  (No. 
34)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  the  cutlets,  one  overlapping  another,  crown- 
like,  over  the  sauce;  adjust  a  white  frill  of  paper  at  the  end  of  each 
cutlet  and  serve. 

1625.    OMELETTE  GIBBONS 

Neatly  trim  a  thick,  white,  medium  cauliflower,  plunge  it  in  three 
quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  a  gill  milk,  and  boil 
forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  thoroughly  drain,  then  carefully  press  it 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  small  pan,  add  half  an  ounce  good  butter, 
two  egg  yolks  and  one  gill  cream.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  sharply  whisk  while 
heating  for  six  minutes,  and  shift  pan  on  corner  of  range. 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with 
fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in 
the  eggs,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  half  a  minute,  fold  up 
opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  quarter  of  a  minute.  Turn 
into  a  hot  dish,  pour  cauliflower  preparation  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  set  in  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes,  re- 
move and  serve. 

1626.    JELLY,  MOSCOVITE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  ounce  clear  gelatine,  with  juice  of  a 
lemon,  one  and  a  half  pints  water,  a  half  pound  sugar,  and  mix  on  fire 
with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  melted.  Strain  through  cloth 
into  a  copper  basin  on  the  ice,  add  a  half  gill  sherry,  and  when  the  jelly 
begins  to  congeal  whisk  it  to  a  froth.  Pour  jelly  into  a  quart  mould, 
lay  mould  on  ice  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  firm,  remove,  carefully 
immerse  in  tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds,  wipe  all  around,  unmould 
on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


478  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  with  Cream  (1527) 
Rice  Flour  and  Milk  (464)         Eggs,  Aigredoux 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  (107) 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets,  Tomato  Sauce  (55) 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Bread-Crumb  Cakes 

1627.    EGGS,  AIGREDOUX 

Cut  six  small,  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  small  squares,  place  in  sauce- 
pan with  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  tarragon,  half  teaspoon  chopped 
chervil  and  half  gill  good  vinegar,  cover  pan  and  let  reduce  five 
minutes.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  table- 
spoon sherry,  lightly  mix,  re-cover  pan  and  let  boil  six  minutes  longer. 
Pour  sauce  into  a  large  baking  dish  and  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs 
over  it,  evenly  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  pour  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  over,  set  in  hot  oven  six 
minutes,  then  remove  and  serve. 

1628.    BREAD-CRUMB  CAKES 

Prepare  a  wheatcake  preparation  (No.  136).  Put  in  a  saucepan  half 
ounce  butter  with  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  place  on  fire  and 
toss  until  crumbs  are  a  nice  brown  colour.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth, 
then  add  to  the  wheat-cake  preparation,  lightly  mix  and  proceed  to 
finish  cakes  the  same  way. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Coquilles  (1284) 

Irish  Stew  (425)         Norfolk  Salad 

Chestnut  Fritters 

1629.    NORFOLK  SALAD 

Cut  in  thin  slices  two  medium-sized  red  tomatoes,  one  peeled 
cucumber,  four  branches  crisp  white  celery  and  six  vinegar  pickles ; 
place  in  a  salad  bowl,  adding  two  chopped  cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  lightly 
mix  the  vegetables,  then  season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863), 
thoroughly  mix  and  serve. 

1630.    CHESTNUT  FRITTERS 

Slit  both  sides  of  thirty  large  chestnuts,  place  on  a  roasting  pan, 
roast  in  oven  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  carefully  shell  them  with  a 
coarse  towel.  Place  in  a  saucepan  four  ounces  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence,  a  tablespoon  rum  and  one  pint  cold  water,  and  as 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  drop  in  the  chestnuts  and  boil  thirty  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire  and  let  cool  off  in  the  syrup,  lift  chestnuts  up  with 
a  skimmer  and  thoroughly  drain  them,  then  boil  syrup  fifteen  minutes. 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OP  MAY  479 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  roll  chestnuts  in  the  batter, 
then  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  ten  minutes,  turning  with  skimmer 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  strain  syrup  into  a  dish, 
arrange  chestnuts  over,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  all  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyons  Sausage  (581) 

Consomme",  Colbert 

Filet  of  Sole,  White  Wine  (286)  Potatoes,  Bernoise  (593) 

Porterhouse  Steak,  Bordelaise 

Butter  Beans  (1494) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)          Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Cabinet  Pudding  (71) 

1631.    CONSOMME",  COLBERT 

Prepare  and  strain  in  a  saucepan  a  consomme  (No.  52),  then  keep  it 
simmering  until  required.  Cut  in  thin,  one-inch-long  julienne  strips 
one  red,  peeled  medium  carrot  and  one  turnip,  two  small  white 
onions,  the  white  parts  of  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery  and  one  sound 
seeded  green  pepper;  place  these  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  half  saltspoon  sugar,  half  ounce  butter  and  one  gill  of  the  consomme; 
mix  well,  cover  vegetables  with  lightly  buttered  paper,  cover  the  pan,  set 
in  oven  forty-five  minutes,  remove,  pour  all  the  contents  of  the  pan  into 
the  consomme  with  the  leaves  of  two  branches  of  chervil,  boil  five  minutes, 
pour  into  soup  tureen,  add  six  freshly  prepared,  well-trimmed  poached 
eggs  and  serve. 

1632.    PORTERHOUSE  STEAK,  BORDELAISE 

Procure  a  porterhouse  steak  from  the  short  loin,  one  and  a  half 
inches  thick,  trim  off  fat  a  little,  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  neatly  rub  both  sides  with  a  tablespoon  oil; 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  charcoal  fire  twelve  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  place  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour  a  Bordelaise  sauce 
(No.  28)  over,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)         Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 

Fried  Eggs,  Nicoise 

Fried  Whitebait  with  Bacon  (1305) 

Turkey  Hash  en  Bordure  (953*) 

Puffs  (313) 

1633.    FRIED  EGGS,  NICOISE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  good  olive  oil  in  a  large  frying  pan,  add  six  finely 
sliced  cepes  (dried  mushrooms),  six  stoned,  sliced  olives,  and  lightly 
brown  for  five  minutes,  tossing  lightly  meanwhile,  then  add  two  peeled, 

*  Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  then  proceed  to  prepare  the 
hash  exactly  as  per  No.  953. 


4So  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

crushed,  red  tomatoes.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper  and  three  saltspoons  sugar,  gently  toss  and  cook  five  min- 
utes longer.  Crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  equally  with  half  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  set  in  oven  six  minutes. 
Remove,  carefully  slide  them  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Tartines  of  Shrimp.  Mrs.  Curtiss 

Mutton,  Mix-Grilled         Plain  Broiled  Tomatoes 

Fresh  Strawberry  Omelette 

1634.    TARTINES  OF  SHRIMP,  MRS.  CURTISS 

Shell  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  cooked  shrimps  and  cut  them  in  small 
pieces.  Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  each 
finely  chopped  onion  and  sound  green  pepper,  and  brown  to  a  light 
colour  six  minutes,  then  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while 
heating  two  minutes,  pour  in  two  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream.  Season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  one  teaspoon  French 
mustard,  then  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  the  shrimps,  with 
two  tablespoons  raw  rice,  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one- 
quarter  of  a  bean  of  finely  chopped  garlic  and  the  leaves  of  a  branch  of 
chervil;  mix  well  and  let  gently  cook  forty-five  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Remove  and  thoroughly  pound  it  in  a  mortar, 
remove  from  the  mortar  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl. 

Prepare  six  pieces  of  toast,  quarter-inch  thick  and  three  inches  square. 
Trim  evenly  all  around,  spread  neatly  a  very  little  anchovy  butter  over 
each,  divide  the  shrimp  force  and  sprinkle  evenly  a  tablespoon  finely 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them.  Divide  a  half  ounce  good  butter 
in  little  bits  over  the  tartine,  place  them  on  a  tin,  and  set  to  bake  in  the 
oven  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  send  to  table. 

1635.    MUTTON,  MIX-GRILLED 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  thick  mutton  chops  and  skin  six  very  fresh 
mutton  kidneys.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  one  good  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  repeatedly  turn  both  chops  and 
kidneys  in  seasoning.  Arrange  and  broil  chops  on  a  brisk  fire  six  minutes 
on  each  side,  remove  and  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot.  Arrange 
kidneys  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  three  minutes  on  each  side,  then 
arrange  them  on  dish  with"  the  chops. 

Broil  six  very  thin  slices  ham  two  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  over 
the  chops,  spread  a  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  all  and  serve. 

1636.    PLAIN  BROILED  TOMATOES 

Wipe  neatly  and  cut  crosswise  six  firm,  medium,  raw  red  tomatoes. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  half  a 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  481 

teaspoon  sugar.  Oil  a  double  broiler,  then  arrange  tomatoes  on  broiler 
and  broil  over  a  brisk  fire  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1637.    FRESH  STRAWBERRY  OMELETTE 

Pick  off  the  stems,  carefully  wash  and  thoroughly  drain  a  pint  of 
fresh,  ripe  strawberries.  Place  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  powdered 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  (No.  32),  a  teaspoon  rum  and 
two  tablespoons  water,  mix  well  in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  two 
saltspoons  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for 
two  minutes.  Heat  half  an  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs, 
mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  half  minute;  place  one-fourth  of 
the  strawberries  in  centre  of  omelette,  fold  up  the  two  opposite  sides  to 
join  in  centre,  let  rest  for  half  minute  only.  Turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle 
two  tablespoons  sugar  over  the  omelette,  glaze  surface  with  a  red  iron, 
arrange  balance  of  the  strawberries  and  juice  around  omelette  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Creme,  Prince  sse 
Broiled  Blackfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel       Potatoes,  Bohemienne  (1314) 

Larded  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Jardiniere 

Sweetbreads  Saut£  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 

French  Peas  with  Butter  (1519) 

Punch  aux  Roses  (377) 

Roast  Capon  (378)         Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Fresh  Cherry  Coupes 

1638.    CREME,  PRINCESSE 

Boil  for  thirty  minutes  a  pint  fresh  asparagus  tips  in  two  quarts 
water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt;  thoroughly  drain  and  keep  the  water. 
Place  the  tips  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  fire 
for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile ;  then  add  the  asparagus 
liquor,  one  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  one  pound  well- cleaned 
raw  chicken  bones,  four  ounces  raw  rice,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck 
in  it,  two  branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil;  mix  well  and  let 
slowly  boil  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove,  press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a 
basin,  return  it  to  same  pan,  reset  on  fire,  add  one  pint  hot  milk,  gently 
mix  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  half  gill 
cream  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  a  quarter  ounce  good  butter ;  mix  with 
wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil. 
Strain  through  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1639.    BROILED  BLACKFISH,  MA!TRE  D'H6TEL 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  two  fresh  blackfish  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 

each.    Make  three  small  incisions  on  skin  of  both  sides  of  each.     Mix 

on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  white 

pepper;  repeatedly  turn  fish  in  seasoning,  then  place  on  broiler  and  broil 


482  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

on  a  brisk  fire  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish, 
pour  a  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  (No.  7)  over,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

1640.  LARDED  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF,  JARDINIERE 
Neatly  trim  a  little  fat  from  top  of  the  lean  part  of  a  two-and-a- 
half -pound  piece  tender  sirloin  of  beef.  With  the  aid  of  a  larding 
needle  lard  the  surface  with  a  few  small  strips  larding  pork.  Place  a 
mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay  beef  and  spread  two  table- 
spoons melted  lard  on  top,  pour  two  tablespoons  water  into  the  pan, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Set  in  oven  to 
roast  forty-five  minutes,  turning  it  over  and  basting  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  fat  from  pan  gravy,  pour  in  one 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  tablespoons  sherry;  mix  a  little,  boil 
five  minutes,  then  strain  gravy  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  sirloin. 
Dress  a  jardiniere  garnishing  (No.  65)  at  each  end  of  dish  and  send  to  table. 

1641.  SWEETBREADS  SAUT£  WITH  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 
Blanch  and  trim  six  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33),  then  cut  them  in 
quarter-inch-thick  slices.  Finely  slice  ten  peeled  and  thoroughly  cleaned 
medium,  fresh  mushrooms.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  breads  and  mushrooms,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg, and  lightly  brown  ten  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  occa- 
sionally stirring  meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while 
heating  for  half  minute,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  one  gill 
cream,  mix  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  boil  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing 
meanwhile.  Remove,  pour  into  a  deep,  hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1642.    FRESH  CHERRY  COUPES 

Pick  off  stems  and  carefully  stone  a  pint  fresh,  ripe,  sweet  cherries; 
place  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  sugar,  two  tablespoons  kirsch  and  one 
tablespoon  curajao,  turn  well  in  seasoning  and  keep  on  ice  until  required. 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Evenly  divide 
the  cherries  and  liquor  into  six  champagne  glasses,  then  fill  up  with  the 
vanilla  ice  cream,  neatly  smooth  the  surface,  arrange  a  maraschino 
or  candied  cherry  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Barley  in  Cream  (1068 

Omelette  with  Green  Peppers 

Yellow  Perch  Saute,  Fines  Herbes-(g7i) 

Smoked  Beef  in  Cream  (329)     Potatoes  Allumettes  (196) 

Saffron  Cakes 

1643.    OMELETTE  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  sharply  beat  up  with 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  483 

fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  in  halves  two  large,  sound  green  peppers, 
remove  the  seeds,  then  finely  slice  them.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  frying  pan,  add  peppers  and  fry  six  minutes,  occasionally 
tossing  meanwhile.  Drop  in  the  eggs,  add  half  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  half  minute; 
fold  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  a  minute,  turn  on  a  dish 
and  serve. 

1644.    SAFFRON  CAKES 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  136).  Dilute  a  saltspoon  Spanish 
saffron  in  a  tablespoon  lukewarm  water  and  let  infuse  ten  minutes, 
strain  through  a  cloth  into  the  batter,  mix  well,  then  proceed  to  make 
cakes  in  same  manner. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Shell  Crabs  Fried  with  Bacon 

Blanquette  of  Veal 

Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

1645.    SOFT  SHELL  CRABS  FRIED  WITH  BACON 

Remove  the  spongy  parts  under  the  side  points  and  pull  off  the 
aprons  from  twelve  fresh  soft  shell  crabs.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  milk,  then  roll  in  flour, 
drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  six  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  wire  skimmer, 
drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  six  freshly  prepared  pieces  of  toast,  arrange 
six  thin  slices  freshly  boiled  bacon  on  top  of  crabs,  decorate  with  six 
quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1646.    BLANQUETTE  OF  VEAL 

Cut  a  three-pound  breast  of  white,  tender  veal  in  two-inch  square 
pieces.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  one  hour,  drain  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  veal.  Add  one  carrot  cut  in  quar- 
ters and  two  white  medium  onions.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek,  two 
branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme, 
one  sprig  sage,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  bean  of  garlic,  and  add  to  the 
veal.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  mix  a  little,  cover  pan  and  let  gently  boil  forty-five  minutes, 
being  careful  to- skim  off  scum  once  in  a  while.  Strain  broth  into  a  basin, 
remove  carrots,  onion  and  bunch  of  herbs  from  the  veal.  Mix  in  a 
saucepan  a  half  ounce  butter  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  and  heat 
a  minute,  then  pour  in  three-quarters  of  the  veal  broth  and  mix  with 
wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Dilute  in  a  bowl  two  egg  yolks 
with  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  half  a  gill'  milk  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  add  to  sauce,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  three  minutes, 
then  strain  sauce  through  cheesecloth  upon  veal,  gently  toss,  pour  in  a 
large,  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 


4S4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Salted  Walnuts 

Potage  Lentils,  Montagnarde 
Porgies,  Monastere         Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (a6) 

Chicken,  Maryland  (444) 
Oyster  Plants  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton  (522) 
Escarole  Salad  (100)  Vanilla  Eclairs 

1647.    SALTED  WALNUTS 

Carefully  crack,  without  mashing,  twenty-four  good-sized  sound 
walnuts;  pick  them  out  from  shells  without  breaking,  separate  in  sections, 
and  proceed  to  prepare  in  same  manner  as  salted  almonds  (No.  954). 

1648.    POTAGE  LENTILS,  MONTAGNARDE 

Soak  one  and  a  half  pints  lentils  in  cold  water  six  hours  at  least; 
drain.  Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely  sliced 
onion,  four  sliced  leeks  and  half  pound  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces; 
mix  well  and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile;  then  add  the 
drained  lentils  with  four  medium,  peeled,  sliced  potatoes,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bean  sound  garlic,  two  bay  leaves,  two 
cloves  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  crushed  allspice;  moisten  with  three 
quarts  hot  water,  season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  mix  well,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  for  two  hours.  Remove, 
press  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  replace  in  same  saucepan  with  half  pint 
hot  milk,  one  gill  cream  and  a  quarter  ounce  good  butter;  mix  well,  let 
boil  ten  minutes,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen, 
and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

1649.    PORGIES,  MONASTERE 

Scale,  trim  and  neatly  wipe  six  very  fresh,  fat  porgies.  Season  all 
over  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  a  saltspoon  ground 
thyme;  place  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoon  very 
finely  chopped  parsley,  squeeze  juice  of  one  sound  lemon  and  arrange 
a  few  little  bits  butter  over  the  surface.  Pour  a  half  gill  white  wine  into 
the  tin,  set  in  oven  to  bake  twenty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  occa- 
sionally baste  them  with  their  own  gravy.  Remove,  take  up  with  a 
skimmer  and  place  in  a  baking  dish.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon 
butter  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour;  heat  for  half  minute. 
Strain  the  fish  liquor  through  a  cloth  into  this  pan,  add  one  gill  cream, 
the  white  of  a  hard-boiled,  chopped  egg,  briskly  mix  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  and  pour  sauce  over  the  fish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  then  place  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
finely  chop  the  egg  yolk,  dredge  it  over  fish  and  serve. 

1650.    OYSTER  PLANTS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Mix  in  a  basin  two  tablespoons  flour  with  two  quarts  water  and 
three  tablespoons  vinegar.  Remove  the  stems  and  scrape  a  large 
bunch  fresh  oyster  plants,  then  plunge  in  the  prepared  water  and  thor- 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  485 

oughly  wash;  drain  and  replunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water,  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  lemon,  and  boil  forty-five  minutes.  Lift  up 
with  a  skimmer,  then  cut  into  one-inch  pieces  and  place  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  and  half  an  ounce  good  butter. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  a  saltspoon  pepper,  mix  well, 
cover  pan,  and  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  vege- 
table dish  and  serve. 

1651.    VANILLA  ECLAIRS 

Prepare  the  Eclairs  exactly  the  same  as  chocolate  Eclairs  (No.  1279) 
substituting  a  glace  vanilla  for  the  chocolate. 

1652.    GLACE  VANILLA 

Place  four  ounces  glazed  sugar  in  a  small  enamelled  pan,  adding  an 
egg  white  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  place  pan  on  range  and  stir 
with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  or  until  lukewarm, 
and  use  as  required. 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151)          Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Cheese 
Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (963) 

Mutton  Hash,  Singapore  (71?)  Delmonico  Potatoes  (718) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

1653.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  fork 
one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs  and 
cook  four  minutes,  stirring  with  wooden  spoon  meanwhile;  add  a  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  tablespoon  grated  Swiss  cheese, 
gently  stir  and  cook  lightly  for  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951)         Oyster  Pot  Pie  (590) 

Pork  Chops,  Mulhouse 
Beignets  Foures  with  Cream  (1405) 

1654.    PORK  CHOPS,  MULHOUSE 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  from  a  medium  head  of  white  cabbage, 
cut  it  in  quarters,  remove  core,  and  plunge  in  boiling  water  for  fifteen 
minutes;  remove  and  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  chop  up  with  two  ounces 
larding  pork,  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham,  one  bean  garlic,  one  medium 
white  onion,  two  branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg, and  mix  well.  Place  half  of  cabbage  into  an  earthen  casserole. 


486  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Finely  slice  three  medium,  peeled  raw  potatoes,  place  half  of  the  potatoes 
over  the  cabbage.  Season  six  nicely  flattened  pork  chops  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper ;  arrange  chops  over  potatoes, 
lay  balance  of  potatoes  over  chops,  then  rest  of  the  cabbage.  Cover 
cabbage  with  the  larding  pork,  pour  two  gills  white  wine  over, 
tightly  cover  the  casserole,  set  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours,  remove,  take 
up  lard  from  surface,  re-cover,  and  send  to  table  in  same  dish. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?) 
Celery  (86)  Sardines  (1148) 

Gombo,  Egyptienne 
Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (328) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Ribs  of  Lamb  with  New  Potatoes 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Swiss  (1526) 

Broiled  Squabs  on  Toast  (950) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Pudding,  Saxon  (215) 

1655.    GOMBO,  EGYPTIENNE 

Cut  in  small  dice  pieces  a  boned,  raw  half  fowl,  quarter  of  a  pound 
raw  veal,  three  well-cleaned  leeks,  one  medium  sized  white  onion,  one 
seedless  green  pepper  and  two  branches  well-cleaned,  crisp  celery.  Place 
these  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  brown  for 
ten  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  once  in  a  while. 
Moisten  with  three  quarts  hot  water  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
add  the  left-over  half  fowl,  season  with  one  and  a  half  good  teaspoons 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  pan  and  let  simmer  forty- 
five  minutes,  then  add  two  crushed,  peeled  tomatoes  and  twelve  trimmed 
fresh  okras  cut  in  quarter  of  an  inch  pieces.  Open  and  thoroughly  drain 
on  a  sieve  a  third  of  a  pint  corn,  add  to  the  soup  with  one  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  bean  finely  chopped  garlic,  mix  well  and 
let  boil  for  fifty  minutes  longer.  Remove  fowl  and  keep  for  further 
use,  skim  fat  from  soup,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  very  hot 

1656.    RIBS  OF  LAMB  WITH  NEW  POTATOES 

Saw  off  the  spiny  parts,  pare  and  neatly  trim  a  tender  rack  of  lamb. 
Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  place 
it  in  a  roasting  pan  with  twelve  even-sized,  peeled,  raw  Bermuda  potatoes. 
Season  the  potatoes  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  spread  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter  over  lamb  and  potatoes,  add  a  bean  of  peeled  garlic  and 
one  sliced  onion  to  the  pan.  Set  in  oven  to  roast  for  forty  minutes, 
turning  and  basting  both  lamb  and  potatoes  quite  frequently.  Pour 
in  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one 
tablespoon  sherry,  and  replace  in  oven  for  ten  minutes  more.  Remove, 
dress  lamb  on  a  large  dish,  arrange  potatoes  around,  skim  fat  from 
gravy,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  over  and  sprinkle  a  little  freshly 
chopped  parsley  on  lamb  and  potatoes  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  487 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73)         Farina  (74) 
Eggs  Molet,  Demi-Deuil  Broiled  Weakfish  (927) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108)        German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 
Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

1657.    EGGS  MOLET,  DEMI-DEUIL 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  sauce  demi-deuil  (No.  1349).  Carefully 
plunge  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  remove  and 
keep  in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  shell  and  place  on  a  deep  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Crab  Meat,  American 

Broiled  Tenderloin  with  Parisian  Potatoes 
String  Bean  Salad  (741) 
Lemon  Custard  Pie  (316) 

1658.    CRAB  MEAT,  AMERICAN 

Make  a  smooth  hash  with  six  shallots,  the  red  part  of  a  medium 
carrot,  one  saltspoon  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  a  half  bean  garlic,  two  branches 
parsley  and  one  branch  chervil.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 
butter,  and  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  a  gill  claret,  then  let 
reduce  five  minutes.  Add  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  crab-meat 
flakes,  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  a  tablespoon  brandy, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Mix  well  and  let  slowly  cook  twenty  minutes,  gently  mixing  once  in  a 
while,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

1659.  BROILED  TENDERLOIN  WITH  PARISIAN  POTATOES 
Neatly  trim  and  flatten  two  tenderloins  of  one  pound  each.  Mix 
on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Repeatedly  turn  the  filets  in  seasoning,  arrange  and  broil  them  over  a 
brisk  fire  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange 
the  same  quantity  of  Parisian  potatoes  (No.  711)  around  the  filets, 
spread  a  little  maitre  d'h6tel  butter  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Mutton  Soup,  Charcutiere 
Sem  Bass,  Parsley  Sauce  Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Ham,  Bourguignonne 
Cauliflower,  Cream  Sauce  (1221) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290)         Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Macedoine  Jelly  with  Cream 

1660.    MUTTON  SOUP,  CHARCUTIERE 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  half  pound  raw  lean  mutton,  two  ounces 
raw  lean  ham,  two  ounces  raw  lean  bacon,  one  each  medium  carrot 


488  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  turnip,  one  white  onion,  two   leeks,  two  branches   well-cleaned, 
crisp  celery  and  one  sound  seeded  green  pepper. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  the  above 
ingredients  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts  hot  water,  add  two  pounds  well- 
cleaned  raw  mutton  bones,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pap- 
rika. Mix  lightly  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes ;  skim  fat  from 
surface  once  in  a  while,  then  add  two  peeled  medium  potatoes  cut  in 
similar  way  to  the  other  vegetables,  three  saltspoons  raw  rice  and  one 
country  sausage  cut  in  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  let  boil  forty- 
five  minutes  more.  Remove  bones,  skim  fat  from  surface,  pour  soup 
into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1661.    SEA  BASS,  PARSLEY  SAUCE 

Scale,  trim  and  wipe  two  fresh  sea  bass  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each. 
Marinade  and  cook  as  per  Nos.  24  and  25,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  parsley 
sauce  separately. 

1662.    PARSLEY  SAUCE 

Plunge  three  branches  well-washed  parsley  into  one  and  a  half  gills 
boiling  milk  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour  and  cook  for 
half  minute.  Strain  the  parsley  water  into  this  pan  and  stir  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  three 
saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk 
with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  a  teaspoon  vinegar,  add  to  sauce  with 
three-quarters  of  an  ounce  butter,  briskly  mix  one  minute,  pour  into 
a  sauce  bowl  and  use  as  directed. 

1663.    HAM,  BOURGUIGNONNE 

Trim  a  nice  piece  ham  of  three  pounds,  place  in  a  saucepan  and  cover 
with  cold  water,  then  let  come  to  a  boil,  remove  pan  to  a  table  and  let 
stand  one  hour.  Take  up  ham  and  place  in  a  braising  pan  with  a  sliced 
carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  one  leek,  one  bean  crushed  garlic,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme,  one  sprig  marjoram,  one  bay 
leaf,  two  cloves  and  a  teaspoon  allspice.  Moisten  with  a  half  pint  claret 
and  a  pint  white  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  cover  pan,  let  boil  twenty-five  minutes,  and 
set  in  oven  two  hours,  remove,  dress  ham  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Pour  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  half  gill  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  into  the"  gravy,  briskly  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  strain 
sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  ham  and  serve. 

1664.    MACEDOINE  JELLY  WITH  CREAM 

Prepare  a  macedoine  jelly  (No.  1303).  Beat  up  in  a  copper  basin 
placed  on  ice  two  gills  thick  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  to  the  cream 
two  ounces  powdered  sugar,  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  a  tablespoon 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  489 

macaroons,  and  briskly  beat  two  minutes  more.  Unmould  jelly  on  a 
cold  dish,  drop  cream  into  a  pastry  bag  with  a  dentilated  tube  at  bottom, 
then  carefully  decorate  jelly  all  around  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Eggs  Cocotte  with  Anchovies 

Spanish  Mackerel,  aux  Fines  Herbes  (1204) 

Broiled  Mutton  Kidneys  on  Toast 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

1665.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  WITH  ANCHOVIES 

Cut  twelve  anchovies  in  oil  in  very  small  pieces,  then  place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  one  tablespoon 
sherry  and  a  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  mix  well  and  let  gently  boil 
ten  minutes.  Evenly  divide  sauce  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes.  Carefully 
crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  equally  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  lay  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven  five 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1666.    BROILED  MUTTON  KIDNEYS  ON  TOAST 

Split  open  without  separating  twelve  very  fresh  mutton  kidneys  and 
nicely  skin  them.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  a  teaspoon  white  pepper,  then  repeatedly  turn  kidneys  in  seasoning. 
Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  over  a  brisk  charcoal  fire  for  three 
minutes  on  each  side,  rapidly  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  on  which  had  been 
previously  placed  six  freshly  prepared  pieces  of  toast,  lightly  baste 
with  a  little  good  melted  butter  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth 

Vol  au  Vent  of  Little  Neck  Clams 

Veal  Cutlets,  Philadelphia  (685) 

Tartlets,  Valencienne 

1667.    CELERY  BROTH 

Thoroughly  wash  a  large  bunch  exceedingly  fresh  parsley,  roots 
included,  drain  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pound  finely  chopped 
fresh  shin  of  beef,  two  branches  sliced,  well-cleaned  celery,  one  branch 
chervil  and  a  few  branches  chives,  adding  two  egg  whites.  Season  with 
two  teaspoons  salt,  stir  with  wooden  spoon  five  minutes,  pour  in  two  and 
a  half  quarts  cold  water,  place  pan  on  open  fire  and  continually  mix 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Shift  pan  to  corner  of  range  and  let  slowly 
simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  six  cups  and  serve. 


490  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1668.    VOL  AU  VENT  OF  LITTLE  NECK  CLAMS 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  vol  au  vent  (No.  757).  Place  forty-eight 
freshly  opened  little  neck  clams  in  a  small  saucepan  with  their  own 
liquor,  add  half  a  pint  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Skim  scum 
from  surface,  then  strain  broth  into  a  bowl. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  ounces  flour  and  con- 
tinually stir  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
of  the  clam  broth  with  half  gill  milk,  a  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  clams,  mix  a 
little  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  table- 
spoons cream"  and  add  to  the  clams  with  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon. 
Continually  mix  while  heating  without  boiling  for  two  minutes,  remove, 
dress  the  vol  au  vent  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour  the  clams  into  it,  cover 
and  serve. 

1669.    TARTLETS,  VALENCIENNE 

Prepare  six  tartlet  crusts  (No.  161).  Place  four  ounces  raw  rice  in  a 
saucepan  with  four  ounces  sugar,  one  pint  milk,  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence  and  a  half  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  for 
forty-five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  at  bottom  with  wooden  spoon 
to  prevent  burning.  Remove,  add  six  candied  cherries  cut  in  quarters, 
two  ounces  angelica  cut  in  small  squares,  one  egg  yolk  and  a  half  gill 
thick  cream.  Sharply  mix  two  minutes,  divide  the  rice  into  the  six 
tartlets  evenly,  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  set  to  bake  in  oven 
five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Canapes  of  Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Tourin-Bordelais 

Fresh  Broiled  Devilled  Haddock 

Tournedos  of  Beef  with  Olives         Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Haricots  Verts,  Anglaise  (1579) 

Roast  Guinea  Hen  (1535)          Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream  (645)  Macaroons  (43) 

1670.    POTAGE  TOURIN-BORDELAIS 

Heat  one  tablespoon  good  oil  in  a  large  earthen  soup  pot,  add  four 
finely  chopped  medium  onions,  brown  twenty  minutes  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour,  occasionally  stirring;  then  add  two  finely  chopped  beans 
garlic,  moisten  with  one  quart  finely  crushed  fresh  tomatoes  and  two 
and  a  half  quarts  water;  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  two  bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  a  sprig 
thyme  and  a  sprig  marjoram;  add  to  the  soup,  mix  a  little,  cover  pan, 
and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove  bunch  of  herbs, 
skim  off  fat,  add  a  half  ounce  fresh,  good  butter,  mix  until  well  melted, 
pour  soup  into  a  hot  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  of  toasted  French 
bread. 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  491 

1671.  FRESH  BROILED  DEVILLED  HADDOCK 

Neatly  trim  and  split  in  two  through  the  back  a  fine  fresh  three- 
pound  haddock,  remove  spinal  bone  and  thoroughly  wipe.  Mix  on  a 
plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Repeatedly  turn  fish  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  four 
minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  on  both 
sides  of  fish,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  place  on  a  double  broiler 
and  broil  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with 
six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1672.  TOURNEDOS   OF   BEEF   WITH   OLIVES 

Cut  two  pounds  well-trimmed  filet  of  beef  in  six  even  pieces,  lightly 
flatten,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  filets  one  beside  another  in 
pan,  and  briskly  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
dish,  pour  an  olive  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and 
serve. 

1673.  OLIVE  SAUCE 

Carefully  stone  twenty-four  small  olives,  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  a  half  gill 
tomato  sauce,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper;  mix  well,  let  boil  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  occasion- 
ally, and  use  as  required. 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 
Hominy  (45)         Eggs,  Romeo 
Salted  Codfish  in  Cream  (922) 

Country  Sausages  (134) 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (1092) 

Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

1674.  EGGS,  ROMEO 

Broil  four  thin  slices  lean  raw  ham  two  minutes  on  each  side,  re- 
move, and  chop  exceedingly  fine.  Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  table- 
spoon butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  mix  well  while  heating  half 
minute.  Pour  in  half  gill  milk,  one  gill  cream,  season  with  a  saltspoon 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  ham,  with  a  half  tablespoon  grated  Swiss 
cheese,  mix  a  little,  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Cut 
from  a  sandwich  loaf  twelve  pieces,  quarter-inch  thick  and  two  inches 
in  diameter,  toast  them  to  a  good  golden  colour,  spread  a  very  little 
anchovy  butter  on  top  of  each,  and  arrange  on  a  tin.  Prepare  twelve 
poached  eggs  (No.  106)  and  lay  over  the  toast,  spread  the  sauce  over 
each  egg  evenly,  dredge  a  little  Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  set  in  oven 
three  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 


492  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331)  Prawn  Curry,  Penang 

Breast  of  Mutton  Braise,  Nivernaise 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

1675.    PRAWN  CURRY,  PENANG 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped 
onion,  two  chopped  shallots,  one  crushed  bean  sound  garlic,  half  a 
branch  chopped  celery,  one  chopped  parsley  root,  one  small  chopped 
carrot,  one  medium  chopped  apple,  one  chopped  green  pepper,  one 
chopped  chili,  one  sprig  bay  leaf,  one  of  thyme,  two  whole  cloves,  one 
saltspoon  dried  mint,  one  saltspoon  marjoram,  one  saltspoon  dried  basil, 
one  saltspoon  fenouil  (fennel  green),  and  two  tablespoons  flour.  Mix 
whole  together  while  browning  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  one  quart 
hot  water,  season  with  half  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
half  saltspoon  cayenne,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  one  large 
ripe  chopped  tomato,  one  tablespoon  diluted  curry  powder,  one  piece 
lemon  rind,  thoroughly  mix  with  spatula,  and  let  gently  simmer  for 
fifty-five  minutes. 

Strain  sauce  into  another  saucepan,  and  add  to  it  one  pint  shelled, 
cooked  prawns,  mix  well  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  Arrange  half- 
pound  hot  boiled  rice  (No.  490)  ring-like  on  a  hot  dish,  leaving  a  hollow 
space  in  centre.  Pour  the  preparation  into  the  hollow  space,  sprinkle 
a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1676.    BREAST  OF  MUTTON  BRAIS£,  NIVERNAISE 

Cut  a  tender  breast  of  mutton  into  two-inch-square  pieces.  Thor- 
oughly heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  braising  pan,  add  the  mutton  and 
brown  fifteen  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  with  fork  once  in  a  while, 
then  drain  off  fat  and  add  a  tablespoon  butter  with  twelve  new,  scraped 
carrots  and  brown  five  minutes  longer,  lightly  mixing;  sprinkle  with  a 
tablespoon  flour.  Stir  well,  moisten  with  a  gill  claret,  a  gill  broth  (No. 
701),  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  a  gill  tomato  juice,  and  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek, 
two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay 
leaf,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  cloves,  a  bean  garlic,  and  add  to  the  pan. 
Mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  fifty-five 
minutes,  remove,  pick  up  mutton  and  carrots  with  a  skimmer,  and 
dress  them  on  a  dish.  Boil  sauce  for  ten  minutes,  strain  over  mutton, 
sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1677.    STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

Carefully  remove  stems,  wash  and  drain  a  quart  very  fresh,  ripe 
strawberries,  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  three  ounces  powdered  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  rum  and  a  tablespoon  kirsch.  Mix  well  in  seasoning 
and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  required,  turning  in  the  seasoning 
once  in  a  while. 

Crack  four  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces  sugar,  then 
set  basin  on  range  and  briskly  whisk  twelve  minutes ;  remove  from  range, 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  493 

add  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  a  quarter 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  gently  mix  with  skimmer  one  minute. 
Add  three  ounces  melted  butter,  mix  a  minute  longer.  Lightly  butter 
a  ten-inch-square  pastry  tin,  line  bottom  with  a  buttered  white  paper, 
drop  in  the  preparation  and  neatly  smooth  surface.  Set  in  oven  to  bake 
twenty  minutes,  remove  and  let  cool  off,  turn  cake  on  a  table,  tear 
off  paper  and  split  in  two  crosswise.  Have  a  half  pint  vanilla  whipped 
cream  (No.  337)  ready,  and  spread  one-third  of  the  cream  over  surface, 
cut  side,  of  one-half  of  cake,  then  carefully  arrange  all  the  strawberries 
over  the  cream.  Pour  liquor  of  strawberries  in  bowl  over  half  of  cake 
and  place  other  half  on  top  of  the  strawberries.  Then  cut  the  cake 
in  six  even  pieces,  decorate  the  surface  of  each  with  rest  of  whipped 
cream,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)          Olives 

Salted  Almonds  (954)          Bisque  of  Anchovies 

Fried  Halibut  Steaks,  Tartare         Potatoes,  Laure 

Chicken  Saute"  with  Tarragon         Lobster,  Newburgh 

Ribs  of  Beef,  Anglaise  (447)         Celery  Salad  (69) 

Tutti  Frutti  Pudding 

1678.    BISQUE  OF  ANCHOVIES 

Place  in  a  saucepan,  finely  sliced,  one  carrot,  one  white  onion, 
two  leeks,  two  branches  each  celery  and  parsley,  one  sprig  thyme, 
one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove ;  pour  in  two  quarts  and  a  half  water,  let 
boil  thirty  minutes,  then  add  one  pound  clean  raw  fish  bones  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika  and  let  boil  thirty  minutes  longer.  Mix  in  another 
saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  heat 
it  for  two  minutes,  strain  fish  broth  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into 
this  roux,  add  one  and  a  half  pints  milk,  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  boil  thirty  minutes  longer,  then  add,  little  by  little, 
two  ounces  anchovy  paste  and  two  gills  cream,  mixing  meanwhile ;  boil 
five  minutes,  remove  and  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  hot  soup 
tureen;  cut  six  anchovies  in  oil  in  very  small  pieces,  add  to  the  bisque, 
lightly  mix  and  send  to  table. 

1679.    FRIED  HALIBUT  STEAKS,  TARTARE 

Procure  three  one-pound  chicken  halibut  steaks,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  steaks  one  beside  another  and  gently 
fry  six  minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

.1680.    POTATOES,  LAURE 

Finely  slice  six  raw,  peeled,  medium  potatoes.  Wash,  drain  and 
plunge  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  drain  on  a  cloth. 


494  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Lightly  butter  a  baking  dish,  arrange  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  the  dish, 
season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Sprinkle 
a  teaspoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  place  a  few  little  bits  butter 
on  top,  arrange  another  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  cheese  as  before, 
repeat  until  the  potatoes  are  all  finished,  then  set  in  oven  to  bake  thirty 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

*       1 68 1.     CHICKEN  SAUTE  WITH  TARRAGON 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  of  a  tender  three-pound  chicken.  Singe, 
draw  and  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Pick  leaves  off  two 
branches  tarragon,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  and  keep  branches 
separately. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  chicken 
and  gently  brown  for  twelve  minutes,  turning  pieces  once  in  a  while ;  add 
the  tarragon  branches,  six  finely  sliced  shallots,  two  ounces  raw  lean 
ham  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  half  bean  garlic,  one  branch  each  parsley 
and  chervil.  Mix  all  well  and  brown  five  minutes,  moisten  with  a 
gill  white  wine  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well  and  let 
slowly  cook  thirty  minutes,  occasionally  tossing  meanwhile.  Pick  up 
chicken  with  a  fork  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  the  tarragon  leaves, 
strain  sauce  on  the  chicken,  lightly  mix,  cook  five  minutes  more,  dress 
chicken  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1682.    LOBSTER,  NEWBURG 

Plunge  two  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon 
salt  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  drain  and  let  cool  off,  crack 
large  claws  and  tails,  carefully  pick  out  meat  without  breaking  and 
cut  in  half -inch  pieces. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
lobster,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  carefully  tossing  meanwhile.  Add 
two  tablespoons  sherry,  a  tablespoon  brandy,  and  cook  three  minutes. 
Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  a  half  gill  milk,  lightly  mix,  and  let 
boil  six  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  milk  and 
add  to  lobster,  gently  mix  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  without 
boiling  two  minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  chafing  dish  or  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

1683.    TUTTI  FRUTTI  PUDDING 

Cut  into  small  dice  pieces  six  candied  cherries,  two  candied  figs,  one 
candied  apricot,  two  candied  pears,  three  vanilla  marrons,  one  candied 
lemon  peel,  one  ounce  candied  citron  and  one  ounce  well-picked  currants; 
place  in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  rum,  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  one 
saltspoon  ground  cinnamon,  four  egg  yolks  and  three  ounces  granulated 
sugar;  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  five  minutes,  add  two  ounces  cake 
or  bread  crumbs  and  three  ounces  flour.  Stir  for  two  minutes.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the  rest, 
gently  mixing  meanwhile.  Pour  preparation  into  a  lightly  buttered 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH   WEEK  OF  MAY  495 

quart  pudding  mould,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  to  bake  forty  minutes, 
remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over 
and  serve. 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151)         Quaker  Oats  (105) 
Eggs,  Matelote         Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Calf  s  Liver.  Minute  (810) 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1684.    EGGS,  MATELOTE 

Cut  in  halves  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat  in 
a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  finely  sliced  white  onion  and 
brown  five  minutes ;  add  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  while  heating  one 
minute,  then  pour  in  a  half  gill  claret,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  eggs  to  sauce,  gently  mix  with  wooden 
spoon,  cover  pan,  let  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  pour  into  a  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Patties,  Bechamel  (1428) 

Calf's  Head,  Fribourgoise 

Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 

Vanilla  Custard  (1345) 

1685.     CALF'S  HEAD,  FRIBOURGOISE 

Prepare  and  cook  a  calf's  head  (No.  591)  and  dress  on  a  dish,  the 
tongue  excepted.  Place  in  a  saucepan  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
a  half  gill  white  wine,  six  sliced  vinegar  pickles,  a  tablespoon  capers, 
the  tongue  cut  into  small  squares,  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  half 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  sauce 
over  calf's  head  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Consomme,  Nivernais 

Flounders,  American        Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 
Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (1245) 

Spinach  Martha  (1534) 

Roast  Turkey.  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Maraschino  Jelly 

1686.     CONSOMME",  NIVERNAISE 

Prepare  and  strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme*  (No.  52)  and 
keep  it  simmering  until  required. 

With  the  aid  of  a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  lift  out  all  you  can  from 
three  peeled,  medium  white  turnips.  Place  these  in  a  small  saucepan 


496  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  half  ounce  butter  and  one 
gill  water;  mix  a  little,  cover  vegetables  with  lightly  buttered  paper, 
place  cover  on  pan  and  set  in  oven  fifty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up 
paper,  drop  contents  into  the  consomme,  boil  ten  minutes  more,  pour 
consomme  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1687.    FLOUNDERS,  AMERICAN 

Lift  the  filets  from  a  fresh  flounder  of  three  and  a  half  pounds,  and 
carefully  skin  and  cut  each  filet  in  three  slanting  equal  pieces.  Place 
in  a  frying  pan  a  sliced  onion,  a  saltspoon  thyme  and  two  bay  leaves; 
arrange  filets  on  top,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper;  add  half  an  ounce  butter,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  moisten 
with  one  and  a  half  gills  water,  cover  the  fish  with  lightly  buttered 
paper  and  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  filets  with 
skimmer,  dress  on  a.  hot  dish  and  keep  warm. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  six  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoon 
flour;  stir  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  then  add  three  good-sized  finely 
chopped,  peeled  red  tomatoes.  Strain  the  fish  liquor  through  a  cheese- 
cloth over  the  tomatoes,  mix  well  and  briskly  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour 
sauce  over  fish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1688.    MARASCHINO  JELLY 

Prepare  a  jelly  as  per  No.  678,  substituting  the  same  quantity  of 
maraschino  for  the  cocoa,  and  serve  the  same. 


Sunday,  Fifth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  and  Cream  (1527) 

Semolina  (192)         Shirred  Eggs,  Costa  Rica 

Broiled  Weakfish  (927)         Mutton  with  Curry 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Kiimmel  Cakes 

1689.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  COSTA  RICA 

Peel  and  press  three  very  sound  bananas  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a 
small  saucepan,  adding  a  half  gill  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  juice  of  a 
quarter  lemon,  half  ounce  butter,  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  with 
wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  then  let  boil  five  minutes  and  divide 
equally  in  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  inter 
each  dish,  season  with  -half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  equally  divided,  set  in  oven  three  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

1690.    MUTTON  WITH  CURRY 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  mutton  left  over  from  yesterday  in  half- 
inch-square  pieces.  Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one 
finely  sliced  onion  and  brown  three  minutes,  then  add  one  tablespoon 


SUNDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  497 

flour;  stir  well,  moisten  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  701), 
and  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  the  mutton  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  half  bean  firtfely  chopped  garlic.  Mix  well, 
cover  pan  and  let  cook  for  thirty-five  minutes,  pour  in  a  teaspoon  vine- 
gar, mix  well  and  serve. 

1691.    KUMMEL  CAKES 

Prepare  a  griddle-cake  preparation  (No.  136),  and  one  teaspoon 
kummel  seeds,and  proceed  to  make  the  cakes  inexactly  the  same  manner. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578)         Frogs'  "Legs,  Finnoise 

Broiled  Squabs  with  Bacon 

Griddle  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 

Glazed  Omelette  with  Rum  (1291) 

1692.    FROGS'  LEGS,  FINNOISE 

Cut  off  the  feet  up  to  the  first  joint  from  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh 
frogs'  legs.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  finely 
chopped  seedless  green  pepper,  lightly  brown  three  minutes  and  add 
the  legs.  Season  wfth  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  a 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  fry  eight  minutes,  lightly  tossing  mean- 
while. Pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  let  reduce  five  minutes;  add 
two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley 
and  mix  well;  cook  ten  minutes;  gradually  add  half  an  ounce  good 
butter  in  little  bits,  continually  mixing  while  adding  it,  pour  in  a  deep 
dish  and  serve. 

1693.    BROILED  SQUABS  WITH  BACON 

Cut  off  the  head  and  feet  at  the  first  joints  of  six  tender,  fat  squabs. 
Split  open  through  back  without  separating,  draw,  remove  breast  bone 
of  each,  wrap  in  a  coarse  towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  table- 
spoon oil,  then  repeatedly  roll  birds  in  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a  double 
broiler,  broil  six  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  and  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  over  six  freshly  prepared  pieces  of  toast.  Broil  six  thin  slices  bacon 
two  minutes  on  each  side,  arrange  over  squabs,  decorate  with  a  little 
watercress  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Pim-Olas         Clams  (1457)         Celery  (86) 

Cream  of  French  Artichokes 

Brook  Trout,  Genevoise         Potatoes,  Parmentier 
Chateaubriand  Grille"         Fresh   Mushrooms  au  Gratin 

Mousse  of  Ham  in  Cases  (417) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cresses  (290)  Chicory  Salad  (138) 

Neselrode  Pudding  (607) 

1694.    CREAM  OF  FRENCH  ARTICHOKES 

Drop  two  large  French  artichokes  in  boiling  water  for  twenty  minutes, 
thoroughly  drain,  then  detach  all  leaves  from  the  bottoms,  remove 


498  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

stems  from  hearts,  cut  bottoms  in  small  squares,  and  keep  them  on  a 
plate. 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  "leaves,"  cover  pan  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  mix  with 
wooden  spoon  two  minutes,  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  white 
broth  (No.  701),  add  one  white  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and 
one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  one  hour. 
Remove,  pass  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  another  saucepan,  add  one  pint  milk,  the  artichoke  bottoms, 
lightly  mix  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  half 
gill  cream  and  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  add  to  soup,  sharply  mix  with 
wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes,  pour  cream  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1695.    BROOK  TROUT,  GENEVOISE 

Neatly  trim  the  fins  of  three  medium  brook  trout  and  pull  out  the 
intestines  at  the  gills.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  one 
branch  parsley,  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  a  half  gill  white  wine,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with 
a  lightly  buttered  paper,  let  boil  for  five  minutes  ^on  range,  then  set  in 
oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Genevoise  sauce  (No.  1189)  over  them,  arrange 
six  heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  90)  around  fish  and  serve. 

1696.  POTATOES,  PARMENTIER 

Plunge  four  medium-sized,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  in  two  quarts 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  thirty  minutes,  drain  and 
press  through  a  potato  masher  into  a  bowl.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan,  add  half  a  finely  chopped  white  onion  and  gently 
brown  four  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  two 
peeled  and  seeded,  crushed  red  tomatoes,  mix  a  little  and  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Then  add  the  potatoes  with  two  egg  yolks,  a  tablespoon  thick 
cream,  half  an  ounce  good  butter,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  eight  minutes,  and  remove  pan  to  a  table. 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  carefully  sprinkle  a 
little  very  finely  chopped  parsley  over  the  interior  of  each,  and  fill  with 
the  potato  preparation.  Lay  moulds  on  a  small  tin,  pour  hot  water  into 
the  tin  up  to  half  their  height,  cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  sheet  of 
paper,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  unmould  potatoes  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around  them  and  serve. 

1697.  CHATEAUBRIAND  GRILL£ 

Carefully  trim  off  skin  from  two  and  a  half  pounds  tenderloin  of  beef. 
Envelop  it  in  a  clean  towel  in  standing-up  position  and  neatly  flatten 
to  thickness  of  an  inch  and  a  half  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  table- 
spoon oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly 
turn  beef  in  seasoning,  then  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  lively 
charcoal  fire  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Place  on  a  clean  roasting  pan, 


MONDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  499 

pour  a  Chateaubriand  sauce  (No.  1028)  over  it,  then  set  in  oven  ten 
minutes  longer,  being  careful  to  turn  and  baste  once  in  a  while  with  the 
sauce.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

1698.    FRESH  MUSHROOMS  AU  GRATIN 

Clip  off  a  little  of  the  tips  of  stalks  of  a  pound  very  fresh,  white, 
even-sized,  medium,  fresh  mushrooms.  Thoroughly  wash  them  in 
plenty  of  cold  water  and  thoroughly  dry  them  on  a  cloth.  Heat  one 
ounce  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  add  the  mushrooms,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  gently  brown  ten 
minutes,  lightly  tossing  meanwhile.  Lift  up  the  mushrooms  with  a 
skimmer  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Add  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour  to  the 
mushroom  butter  in  pan,  briskly  stir  while  heating  one  minute,  pour  in 
one  gill  hot  milk,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  gill  cream,  half  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  mushrooms  and  slowly  cook  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Transfer  to  a  baking  dish,  dredge  a 
tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  place  a  few  little  bits  of  butter 
on  top,  set  to  bake  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 


Decoration  Day — Fifth  Week  of  May,  Supposedly  Monday 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 
Oatmeal  Porridge  (2)         Eggs,  Carnegie 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  (748)         French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 
Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1699.    EGGS,  CARNEGIE 

Detach  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  Saturday  night  and  cut 
in  very  small  square  pieces — the  white  part  only — and  place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  two  sweet  peppers  cut  in  small  squares,  six  finely  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  a  tablespoon  sherry, 
half  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
lightly  mix,  boil  ten  minutes,  then  evenly  divide  it  into  six  egg-cocotte 
dishes,  place  them  on  a  tin,  and  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into 
each  dish.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  evenly  divided,  pour  a  teaspoon  tomato  sauce  over  the  eggs  of 
each  dish,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (gsO        Crab  Meat,  Dewey 

Broiled  Devilled  Squab  Turkey  with  Bacon 

Fresh  String  Beans  with  Butter 

Coffee  Pancakes 

1700.    CRAB  MEAT,  DEWEY 

Have  one  pound  of  crab  meat  flakes  on  a  plate  with  a  pint  of  very 
fresh  oysters  crabs.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  one 


500  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

small  seeded  green  pepper  and  six  sliced,  peeled  and  well-cleaned  fresh 
mushrooms,  then  gently  brown  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile. 
Add  crab  meat  and  oyster  crabs,  season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  adding  also 
one  small  sliced  truffle  and  one  gill  sherry ;  gently  mix,  cover  pan  and 
let  cook  five  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  milk  and  one  and  a  half  gills 
cream,  carefully  mix  with  wooden  spoon  and  slowly  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream  and  add 
to  pan.  Lightly  mix  with  spoon  while  heating  without  boiling  for  three 
minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  chafing  dish  or  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1701.  BROILED  DEVILLED  SQUAB  TURKEY  WITH  BACON 
Procure  a  fine,  tender  squab  turkey  of  five  pounds,  cut  off  legs  at 
first  joint,  singe,  open  bird  through  back,  cut  off  neck,  remove  breast 
bone  and  thoroughly  wipe  the  inside.  Season  well  all  around  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  carefully  crack  bones  between 
second  joint  and  body,  thoroughly  rub  turkey  with  a  tablespoon  oil, 
arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  on  both  sides  of  the  bird,  then  lightly 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  replace  on  broiler  and  broil  two  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  with  six  thin  slices  broiled  bacon 
(No.  13),  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

1702.    COFFEE  PANCAKES 

Prepare  the  pancakes  same  as  French  pancakes  (No.  17),  pour  a 
coffee  sauce  (No.  1193)  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Canapes  of  Caviare  (59)          Olives 

Potage  Bresilien  with  Cherries 

Iron  con  of  Salmon,  Mousseline 

Philadelphia  Potato  Rolls          Sweetbreads,  Lafayette 

Green  Peas  with  Mint 
Fresh  Asparagus,  Sauce  Bearnaise 

Roman  Punch 

Roast  Capon  (378)          Celery  Mayonnaise  (69) 
Bombe  Printaniere  (978) 

1703.    POTAGE  BRESILIEN  WITH  CHERRIES 

Crack,  remove  and  carefully  peel  thirty  Brazil  nuts.  Pound  in  a 
mortar  to  a  fine  pulp,  transfer  to  a  large  saucepan  with  six  finely  chopped 
shallots,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  three  branches  sliced 
crisp  white  celery  and  one  pound  very  clean  raw  chicken  bones ;  moisten 
with  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  quart  milk;  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Place  on  fire  and  gently  boil  one  hour,  remove,  press  soup 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another 
saucepan. 

Remove  stems  and  stones  from  a  pint  fresh,  ripe  cherries,  add 
them  to  the  soup  with  half  gill  good  sherry,  a  half  pint  milk,  and  boil 


MONDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  501 

forty  minutes  more.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream,  add  to 
soup  with  a  half  ounce  good  fresh  butter,  mix  while  heating  for  five  min- 
utes but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  remove,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1704.    TRON^ON  OF  SALMON,  MOUSSELINE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  salmon,  place  it  in  an  earthen 
basin,  add  one  sliced  white  onion,  three  chopped  parsley  roots,  half  a 
sound  sliced  lemon,  two  cloves,  one  crushed  bay  leaf,  a  half  teaspoon 
ground  thyme,  one  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper,  a  teaspoon  allspice, 
one  gill  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  quart  cold  water,  and  let 
fish  marinade  for  six  hours  if  possible.  Remove,  drain  and  place  in  a 
saucepan,  with  a  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil,  one  gill  vinegar,  half  gill  white  wine,  a  tablespoon 
salt,  and  pour  in  enough  water  to  cover  fish.  Cover  pan,  place  on  fire 
and  let  slowly  come  to  boiling  point,  then  simmer  two  minutes.  Remove 
pan  to  a  table  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Carefully  lift  up  salmon  with 
a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  large  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  both 
sides  with  well-cleaned  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  a  mousseline 
sauce  (No.  211)  separately. 

1705.     PHILADELPHIA  POTATO  ROLLS 

Wipe  and  roast  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty-five  minutes  six  good- 
sized  white,  raw,  unpeeled  potatoes.  Remove,  scoop  out  all  the 
insides,  and  with  the  aid  of  a  wooden  spoon  press  the  scooped  potatoes 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  small  saucepan,  adding  half  an  ounce  good 
butter,  two  egg  yolks,  a  half  gill  cream,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Set  pan  on  range  and 
sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  five  minutes.  Remove, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the 
potatoes,  mixing  well  meanwhile.  Dip  two  tablespoons  in  melted 
butter,  with  one  take  up  as  much  of  the  preparation  as  it  can  hold, 
and  repeatedly  turn  the  potato  from  one  spoon  to  the  other,  so  as  to 
give  a  nice  smooth  roll  form,  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  and  proceed 
the  same  with  balance  of  the  potato  preparation.  Set  in  a  brisk  oven 
until  a  nice  golden  colour,  or  about  eight  or  ten  minutes,  remove,  take 
up  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

1706.     SWEETBREADS,  LAFAYETTE 

Finely  slice  a  small  carrot,  a  small  onion,  one  branch  celery,  one  leek, 
one  branch  parsley  and  a  branch  chervil,  and  place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
half  ounce  butter.  Have  six  blanched  and  trimmed  heart  sweetbreads 
(No.  33),  lay  them  one  beside  another  over  the  vegetables,  and  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Set  on  fire  to 
brown  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  gill  white  wine  and  let  reduce  till 
nearly  dry,  then  pour  in  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  breads 
with  sheet  buttered  paper,  then  set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes,  remove, 
lift  up  breads  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Finely  chop  and  keep  separately 
four  branches  blanched  parsley,  the  whites  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 


502  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  three  canned  sweet  red  peppers.  Then  carefully  distribute  the 
chopped  parsley  over  one-third  the  surface  of  each  sweetbread,  cover 
central  part  with  chopped  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  finish  by  covering 
the  other  third  of  the  surface  with  the  chopped  sweet  peppers.  Carefully 
place  sweetbreads  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan,  adding  one  finely  chopped  truffle,  two 
tablespoons  sherry,  and  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  sauce 
around  the  breads,  finely  slice  a  small  truffle  and  arrange  it  around 
base  of  the  edge  of  dish  and  serve. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  MINT 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  fresh  peas  as  in  No.  1519,  adding 
when  in  the  pan  one  teaspoon  very  finely  chopped  fresh  mint  leaves, 
toss  well  while  heating  for  a  minute  and  serve. 

1707.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS,  SAUCE  BE"ARNAISE 

Clip  off  the  ends  and  neatly  scrape  two  branches  very  fresh  asparagus, 
thoroughly  wash  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  tie  in  three  bunches,  then 
plunge  in  a  gallon  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Cover  pan  and 
boil  twenty-five  minutes,  lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  lay  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  over,  and  serve  with  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34) 
separately. 

1708.     ROMAN  PUNCH 

Prepare  a  lemon- water  ice  (No.  376),  pour  in  three  tablespoons 
good  Jamaica  rum,  thoroughly  mix  with  the  spatula,  fill  up  six  sherbet 
glasses,  make  a  small  hollow  in  the  centre,  fill  up  with  a  little  rum  and 
serve. 

Tuesday,  Fifth  Week  of  May 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 

Boiled  Rice  and  Cream  (275) 

Omelette  with  Eggplant 

Blackfish,  Brown  Butter  * 

Corned  Beef,  American  (241) 

English  Buns  (157) 

1709.    OMELETTE  WITH  EGGPLANT 

Cut  in  small  dice  pieces  half  of  a  peeled  medium  eggplant.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  eggplant,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  gently  brown  eight 
minutes,  occasionally  tossing  meanwhile;  add  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  half  bean  sound  chopped  garlic,  and  toss  well  again. 
Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  a 
fork  for  two  minutes,  drop  eggs  into  pan,  mix  with  fork  for  two 
minutes,  let  rest  for  a  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre, 
let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  MAY  503 

1710.     BLACKFISH,  BROWN  BUTTER 

Scale,  trim  off  fins  and  thoroughly  wipe  two  small  blackfish  of  one 
and  a  half  pounds  each;  make  three  slanting,  light  incisions  on  both  sides 
of  the  skin.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper. 
Baste  with  a  little  cold  milk,  then  lightly  turn  in  flour.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish,  fry  five  minutes  on  each  side, 
then  set  in  oven  ten  minutes,  remove,  and  dress  fish  on  a  dish.  Add  a 
half  ounce  butter  to  pan,  toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  brown,  then  add  half  a 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  squeeze  in  juice  of  a  lemon,  toss  a  little 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Little  Neck  Clams  Desire  (1465) 

Ox  Tail  en  Compote 

Macaroni  in  Cream  (386) 

Charlotte  Russe  (939) 

1711.  Ox  TAIL  EN  COMPOTE 

Cut  two  very  fresh  medium  ox  tails  in  two-inch  pieces;  thoroughly 
heat  three  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  braising  pan,  add  the  ox  tails.  Season 
with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  gently  brown  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  once  in  a  while.  Dredge  in  four 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  and  brown  five  minutes.  Add  one  and  a 
half  gills  claret,  a  half  pint  white  broth  (No.  701),  half  pint  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  half  pint  pure  tomato  juice;  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  add  two  medium  carrots  cut  in  half-inch  squares,  two  medium, 
white  turnips  and  twelve  very  small  white  onions  previously  browned  to 
a  light  colour.  Tie  in  a  bunch  four  branches  parsley,  two  branches 
chervil,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  sage,  two  sprigs  marjoram,  one  bay  leaf, 
two  cloves,  a  bean  garlic  and  add  to  pan;  lightly  mix,  cover  pan,  then 
set  in  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Cut  three  medium,  well- washed, 
peeled,  raw  potatoes  in  quarter-inch  squares  and  add  to  pan,  reset  in 
oven  forty-five  minutes  longer,  remove,  lift  up  meat  and  vegetables 
only  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  sauce,  then  strain 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  ox  tail,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Longchamps 

Red  Snapper,  Hunter  Style        Potatoes,  O'Brien 

Squabs,  Valencienne  (1009)  Fried  Cucumbers 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)       Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Babas  au  Madere 

1712.  POTAGE,  LONGCHAMPS 

Heat  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  three  finely 
sliced  leeks,  one  finely  sliced  onion,  two  ounces  salt  pork  cut  in  small 
pieces,  two  bay  leaves,  one  clove  and  two  branches  parsley,  then  brown 
for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile;  add  one  pint  well- 


504  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

picked  and  thoroughly  washed  leaves  of  sorrel,  cook  for  five  minutes 
longer,  stirring  meanwhile;  then  add  three  large  peeled,  sliced  sound 
cleaned  potatoes,  moisten  with  one  quart  broth  and  two  and  a  half 
quarts  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
mix  well,  cover  pan  and  gently  cook  for  two  hours,  mixing  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  press  puree  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan,  reset  on  fire,  crack  in  two  ounces  vermi- 
celli, lightly  mix  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  half  pint  milk, 
a  half  gill  cream  and  a  half  ounce  good  butter,  boil  five  minutes  more, 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1713.    RED  SNAPPER,  HUNTER  STYLE 

*» 

Neatly  trim  and  bone  a  three-pound  piece  very  fresh  red  snapper, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Finely  chop 
six  very  small  sound  shallots,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  half  ounce  of 
butter,  and  gently  brown  three  minutes.  Arrange  fish  on  top,  pour  in 
a  gill  white  wine,  two  branches  parsley  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon; 
let  reduce  on  fire  until  the  liquor  is  nearly  evaporated,  add  six  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  half  gill  tomato 
sauce.  Cover  fish  with  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then 
set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  fish  on  a  hot  dish, 
remove  parsley,  pour  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

1714.  POTATOES,  O'BRIEN 

Cut  four  good-sized,  well-washed,  peeled  sound  potatoes  into  one- 
third-inch-square  pieces,  wash  again  and  drain.  Plunge  in  boiling  fat 
and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  lift  up,  drain  well,  place  them  in  a  frying  pan 
with  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  three  sweet  red  peppers  cut  in  small 
squares  and  half  teaspoon  salt ;  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently 
tossing  meanwhile,  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1715.  FRIED  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  two  large  fresh  cucumbers,  then  cut  them  crosswise  in  one-inch 
pieces,  and  cut  each  piece  in  quarters.  Remove  the  spongy  part  and 
seeds,  place  in  one  quart  cold  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  let  soak  for 
thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  half  ounce 
butter,  two  gills  water,  a  teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  two  saltspoons  salt, 
a  tablespoon  vinegar,  half  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  one  white  onion 
cut  in  quarters.  Cover  pan  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain, 
roll  in  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  then  drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten 
minutes,  remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dredge  a  teaspoon  salt  over  them, 
dress  on  a  cloth  with  folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  one  gill  hot  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

1716.    BABAS  AU  MADERE 

Prepare  babas  the  same  as  No.  687,  but  substitute  same  quantity  of 
Madeira  wine  for  the  rum. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  505 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  and  Cream  (1527) 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Fresh  Asparagus  Tips 

Fish  Balls  with  Bacon  (260) 

Chicken  Livers    Saute,  with  Mushrooms 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Raisin  Cakes 

1717.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  FRESH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  a  bunch  of  fresh,  ripe  asparagus  into  half -inch 
pieces,  thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  well.  Place  in  a  small 
saucepan,  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar  and  one  quart  water, 
boil  twenty-five  minutes  and  drain.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  the  asparagus  tips  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile. 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  sharply  beat  with  fork  for  one 
minute,  drop  eggs  into  pan  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  gently  stirring 
meanwhile,  pour  in  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

1718.     CHICKEN  LIVERS,  SAUT£,  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Cut  a  pound  of  very  fresh  chicken  livers  into  halves,  and  see 
that  they  are  completely  freed  from  the  gall  bag.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  in  livers,  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes,  tossing 
meanwhile  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Wipe  pan,  replace  livers,  add  six  finely 
sliced  canned  mushrooms,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper; 
mix  well,  cook  six  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile,  transfer  livers 
to  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1719.     RAISIN  CAKES 

Cut  two  ounces  seeded  California  raisins  in  small  pieces.  Prepare 
a  wheaten  cake  batter  (No.  136),  add  raisins  to  preparation,  mix  thor- 
oughly and  proceed  to  finish  and  serve  cakes  exactly  the  same. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Croquettes,  Cream  Sauce  (535) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Milanaise  (331) 

Turnips  Glazed,  Spanish  Style 

Blanc  Manger  with  Strawberries 

1720.    TURNIPS  GLAZED,  SPANISH  STYLE 

Peel  six  white,  medium  turnips  and  cut  in  quarters,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon 
sugar,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  a  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron 
and  two  gills  white  broth ;  mix  a  little,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  one 
hour,  being  careful  to  baste  them  with  their  own  liquor  once  in  a  while, 
pour  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve* 


506  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1721.    BLANC  MANGER  WITH  STRAWBERRIES 

Plunge  half  pound  sweet  almonds  in  a  pint  boiling  water  for  three 
minutes,  drain,  shell,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  firm  paste. 
Transfer  to  a  saucepan,  then  press  half  pint  well-picked  fresh  straw- 
berries through  a  wire  sieve  into  the  almond  pan,  pour  in  a  pint  cold 
milk,  mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  strain  milk  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  bowl. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  gelatine  leaves  with  a  half  pint 
water  and  five  ounces  sugar,  mix  on  fire  with  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  dissolved,  add  milk  with  two  tablespoons  kirsch,  mix  well 
while  boiling  two  minutes,  strain  into  a  bowl  and  let  cool  off.  Pour 
into  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould,  cover,  set  in  cracked  ice  and  let  stand 
for  one  hour,  remove,  unmould  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Chicken  Gumbo,  Piedmontaise  Olives 

Lyons  Sausage  (582)  Baked  Fresh  Mackerel,  Creole 

Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 
Balotine  of  Lamb  Stuffed  with  Spinach 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (818) 

Roast  Goose,  Apple  Sauce  (1109) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148)         Brioches,  Vanilla 

1722.     CHICKEN  GUMBO,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Cut  off  the  head,  draw  and  wipe  a  small  tender  fowl,  totally  bone  it, 
free  meat  from  skin,  then  cut  fowl  in  half-inch  square  pieces;  cut  also  in 
small  squares  two  white  medium  onions,  two  seedless  green  peppers, 
two  well-cleaned  leeks,  two  ounces  raw  ham  and  four  branches  crisp, 
well-cleaned  celery.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  the  above  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
with  wooden  spoon.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  hot  water,  add  the 
fowl  bones,  one  level  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and 
let  boil  thirty  minutes.  Cut  two  ounces  good  raw  Italian  macaroni  in 
half-inch  pieces,  add  to  soup,  boil  twenty  minutes  more,  then  add  two 
ounces  Piedmont  raw  rice,  two  peeled,  crushed  tomatoes  and  twelve 
small  trimmed  fresh  okras  cut  in  half-inch  pieces;  lightly  mix  and  let 
boil  for  forty  minutes  longer,  remove  bones,  add  leaves  from  two  branches 
chervil,  boil  for  five  minutes  more,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1723.    BAKED  FRESH  MACKEREL,  CREOLE 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  Creole  sauce  (Ng.  507).  Cut  the  head  off 
and  neatly  trim  a  three-pound  fresh  mackerel,  split  in  two  through 
back,  remove  spinal  bone,  place  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika;  glaze  surface  of  mackerel 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove,  arrange  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  the  Creole  sauce  over,  sprinkle 
a  little  Parmesan  cheese  on  top,  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes 
more.  Remove,  decorate  all  around  with  half  a  lemon  finely  sliced  and 
a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  507 

1724.     BALOTINE  OF  LAMB  STUFFED  WITH  SPINACH 

Remove  the  stalks  and  stale  leaves  from  a  quart  fresh  spinach,  thor- 
oughly wash  and  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
for  ten  minutes,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  completely  press  out  all  the 
water  with  the  hands,  and  finely  chop.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
two  egg  yolks,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  half 
teaspoon  sugar  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place  pan  on  fire 
and  sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  keep  on  a  table  till  required. 

Carefully  bone  a  shoulder  of  lamb,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Spread 
spinach  on  inside  part  of  shoulder,  neatly  fold  up  and  tie  all  around. 
Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  tin,  lay  the  balotine  on  top, 
then  pour  half  a  gill  water  in  the  pan.  Spread  a  tablespoon  melted 
lard  over  the  balotine  and  set  to  roast  in  oven  fifty  minutes,  turning  and 
frequently  basting  meanwhile.  Remove,  untie,  dress  on  a  large  dish, 
skim  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
boil  five  minutes,  strain  sauce  over  the  balotine  and  serve. 

1725.    BRIOCHES,  VANILLA 

Place  four  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  fine  sugar  and  briskly 
whisk  with  a  wire  whisk  six  minutes,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and  a  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence.  Place  mixture  in  a  pastry  bag,  with  a  quarter-inch  tube 
at  bottom  and  carefully  press  the  preparation  into  a  lightly  buttered 
and  floured  pastry  pan  in  twelve  even  round  forms.  Set  pan  in  a  brisk 
oven  for  twelve  minutes,  remove  and  let  cool  off.  Detach  cakes  from 
pan,  lay  them  upside  down  on  a  table,  then  with  the  blade  of  a  knife 
spread  a  little  strawberry  jelly  over  each  flat  side  and  fasten  two  by  two. 
Neatly  trim  to  even  size  and  arrange  on  a  small  iron  grating  with  a  pan 
underneath.  Spread  a  glace  vanilla  (No.  1652)  over  them,  place  half 
a  candied  cherry  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)          Wheatena  (1298) 
Fried  Eggs  with  Salt  Pork 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1726.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  SALT  PORK 

Cut  from  a  piece  of  lean  salt  pork  twelve  very  thin  slices;  trim  off  the 
skin  of  each  piece,  arrange  on  a  large  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  lard,  fry  two  minutes  on  one  side  only,  then  turn  carefully  and 


508  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  them.  Equally  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  fry  for  one  minute,  then  set  in 
oven  for  four  minutes,  remove,  carefully  slide  them  on  a  large  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Broiled  Soft  Shell  Crabs 

Goose  Pears  with  Peas  (1270) 

Tapioca  Pudding  (574) 

1727.    BROILED  SOFT  SHELL  CRABS 

Remove  the  spongy  parts  under  the  side  points  and  the  aprons  from 
twelve  very  fresh  soft  shell  crabs,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  on  a 
cloth.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double 
broiler  and  broil  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  freshly  prepared 
pieces  of  toast  placed  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon 
and  a  little  fried  parsley  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Mutton,  Indienne       Pickerel,  Castillane 

Chicken  Saute1,  Hongroise 

Jerusalem  Artichokes  (554) 

Leg  of  Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (1378) 

Romaine    Salad    (214). 

Strawberry  Coupes 

1728.    MUTTON,  INDIENNE 

One  pound  lean  shoulder  of  mutton,  one  medium  carrot,  one  turnip, 
one  medium  onion,  one  leek,  rind  of  one  lemon  and  one  green  pepper. 
Cut  the  above  articles  in  quarter-inch  square  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  ounce  butter,  set  on  fire  and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
meanwhile;  then  add  one  teaspoon  curry  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two 
tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  three  quarts  water  and  one  pound 
cleaned  raw  mutton  bones  and  boil  forty  minutes ;  add  two  ounces  raw 
rice,  three  slices  peeled  eggplant,  cut  in  small  squares,  three  peeled, 
crushed  tomatoes,  and  boil  forty-five  minutes  more. 

Chop  up  together  finely  a  half  ounce  cooked  lean  ham,  one  bean  garlic, 
two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  and  add  to  soup.  Boil  for 
ten  minutes  more,  and  remove  bones.  Dilute  four  tablespoons  arrow- 
root with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  two  table- 
spoons milk,  and  add  it"  to  the  soup;  mix  well,  cook  for  ten  minutes 
more,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1729.    PICKEREL,  CASTILLANE 

Trim  off  the  fins  and  wipe  a  very  fresh  pickerel  of  three  and  a  half 
pounds.  Place  in  a  dish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  a  teaspoon  anchovy 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  509 

essence  and  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Repeatedly  turn  fish 
in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  until  required.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
olive  oil  in  a  braising  pan,  then  add  four  peeled  and  thoroughly  washed 
raw  potatoes  scooped  out  with  a  Parisian  potato  scoop,  two  sound, 
seeded  green  peppers  cut  in  small  squares,  half  a  sound  medium 
Spanish  onion,  gently  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  carefully  stirring  mean- 
while, then  add  two  sweet  red  peppers  cut  in  small  squares.  Place 
fish  on  top  of  these  articles,  pour  over  marinade  with  a  half  gill  claret 
and  let  reduce  on  range  for  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  in  a  gill  each  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  and  tomato  sauce,  lightly  mix,  cover  pan  and  set  in 
oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove,  lift  up  fish,  dress  on  dish,  pour 
contents  of  pan  over  and  serve. 

1730.     CHICKEN  SAUTE,  HONGROISE 

Cut  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  Philadelphia  chicken  of  three  pounds, 
singe,  draw  and  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter 
in  a  large  frying  pan,  add  chicken  pieces  one  beside  another  and  gently 
fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Dredge  a 
tablespoon  flour  over,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  each 
milk  and  broth.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
paprika,  mix  well  two  minutes,  then  slowly  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Lift  up  chicken  with  a  fork  and  place  in  another  frying  pan,  adding 
ten  finely  sliced  mushrooms  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  lightly  mix 
and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  half  gill  cream, 
half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  add  to  sauce.  Sharply  whisk  while 
heating  for  five  minutes,  strain  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  over  chicken, 
mix  well.  Dress  chicken  on  a  large  dish,  pour  sauce  over,  arrange 
six  timbales  of  rice  (No.  521)  around  chicken  and  serve. 

1731.     STRAWBERRY  COUPES 

Pick  off  stems,  wash  and  thoroughly  drain  a  pint  fine,  fresh  red  straw- 
berries, place  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  a  tablespoon  each 
kirsch,  maraschino  and  rum,  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  then 
turn  strawberries  in  seasoning  and  let  infuse  until  required.  Prepare  a 
pint  (only)  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  evenly  divide  strawberries  and 
liquor  in  six  coupes  or  champagne  glasses,  then  divide  vanilla  ice  cream 
in  coupes,  neatly  smooth  surface  to  dome-like  shape  and  serve. 

Friday,  First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)          Boiled  Grits  (131) 

Eggs,  Turinoise       Broiled  Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Steaks,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (172)          Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

1732.    EGGS,  TURINOISE 

Cut  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  quarter-inch  slices.  Mix  in  a  sauce- 
pan one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  and  a  half  table- 


510  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoons  flour,  heat  a  half  minute,  pour  in  two  gills  hot  milk,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then 
add  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  mix  well  for  one  minute. 
Broil  twelve  thin  slices  bacon  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  then  cut 
in  half-inch  pieces  and  add  to  sauce  with  eggs.  Mix  well,  pour  into  a 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  very  little  Parmesan  cheese  over,  divide  half  an 
ounce  butter  in  very  little  bits  on  top,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Sardine  Omelette  Highlander 

Spaghetti  au  Gratin  (1508)  Cocoanut  Pie  (1546) 

1733.    SARDINE  OMELETTE 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  with  fork 
for  two  minutes.  Remove  skin  and  bones  from  six  sardines  in  oil  cut  in 
small  pieces,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  tablespoon  butter  and  brown 
for  two  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Drop  in  eggs,  briskly  mix  with 
fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides 
to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1734.    HIGHLANDER 

Cut  in  half-inch-square  pieces  a  half  pound  pig's  liver,  four  skinned 
fresh  mutton  kidneys,  two  pounds  raw,  lean  mutton  and  four  ounces  raw, 
lean  salt  pork.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  braising  pan, 
add  a  finely  chopped  onion  and  sound,  seeded,  chopped  green  pepper, 
gently  brown  for  four  minutes,  add  all  the  meat  and  moisten  with 
a  quart  of  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  bean  garlic, 
one  sprig  each  thyme,  sage,  marjoram,  a  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves,  add 
to  pan,  cover  and  let  slowly  cook  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Add  four 
peeled,  crushed  red  tomatoes  and  two  medium,  peeled  raw  potatoes 
cut  in  half-inch  squares,  mix  well,  then  set  in  oven  for  one  hour,  bast- 
ing top  with  its  own  gravy  occasionally.  Remove,  lift  up  the  bouquet  of 
herbs,  dress  highlander  in  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Clams,  Clamart 

Kingfish,  Meuniere  (773)  Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Sirloin  Steaks,  'Be"arnaise  Cucumbers,  Romaine 

Baked  Live  Lobster  (952) 

Roast  Sqaabs  (831)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Weimar  Pudding  (405) 

1535.    BISQUE  OF  CLAMS,  CLAMART 

Soak  a  half  pint  split  green  peas  in  cold  water  for  six  hours,  drain, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  each  carrot,  onion,  two  sliced  each 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  511 

leeks  and  branches  celery,  half-pound  piece  salt  pork,  a  bay  leaf,  clove, 
two  quarts  water,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Set  pan 
on  range  and  let  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  remove,  strain  pure*e 
through  sieve  into  a  basin  and  keep  in  tureen  until  required. 

Place  fifteen  freshly  opened  large  clams  in  a  saucepan  with  their 
liquor  and  one  and  a  half  pints  water,  add  two  branches  parsley  and  one 
branch  chervil,  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce 
butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  heat  a  minute,  then  strain 
clam  broth  into  pan;  also  add  peas  puree  and  a  pint  milk.  Contin- 
ually mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  finely  chop  clams 
and  add  to  soup,  with  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Lightly  mix  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  then  add  a  half  gill 
cream  and  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well  for  two  minutes,  remove,  strain 
soup  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of 
bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

1736.     SIRLOIN  STEAKS,  B£ARNAISE 

Lightly  flatten  and  trim  two  tender  sirloin  steaks  of  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  each.  Mix  on  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  steaks  in  it,  then  broil  on  brisk 
fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34) 
on  a  hot  dish,  dress  steaks  over  and  serve. 

1737.     CUCUMBERS,  ROMAINE 

Peel  two  good-sized  sound  cucumbers,  cut  in  halves,  remove  spongy 
parts,  finely  slice,  place  in  a  quart  cold  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for 
thirty  minutes  and  drain  thoroughly  on  a  sieve.  Lightly  butter  a 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese 
and  arrange  a  layer  of  half  the  quantity  of  cucumbers  over,  season 
with  three  saltspoons  each  salt  and  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg, and  dredge  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese  over  all.  Divide  a  half 
ounce  butter  in  very  little  bits  on  top,  place  balance  cucumbers  in 
layer  on  top,  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  pepper. 
Sprinkle  a  light  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese,  arrange  again  a  few  bits 
of  butter  on  top  of  all,  pour  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  all  around, 
set  to  bake  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 


Saturday,  First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407)  Farina  (74) 

Poached  Eggs,  Chasseur 

Kippered  Herrings  (153)  Country  Sausages  (134) 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1738.    POACHED  EGGS,  CHASSEUR 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  and 
brown  for  three  minutes  four  medium,  peeled  shallots.     Moisten  with 


512  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

a  half  gill  white  wine,  tablespoon  sherry  and  one  and  a  half  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122);  add  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  an  ounce 
ham  cut  in  small  julienne  strips,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives 
and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  exactly  the  same  as  in  No.  106,  dress  on  a 
dish  without  any  toast,  pour  sauce  over  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tartines  of  Shrimps 

Mutton  Pot  Pie  (530)  Eggplant,  Saut(§  Minute 

Floating  Island  (154) 

1739.    TARTINES  OF  SHRIMPS 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  four  finely 
chopped  shallots,  a  half  bean  garlic,  also  finely  chopped,  and  gently 
cook  for  three  minutes,  then  add  a  level  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  well 
while  heating  for  a  half  minute.  Pour  in  a  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  milk, 
tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  teaspoon  each  French  mustard  and 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  saltspoon  each  grated  nutmeg  and  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  and  continually  mix  while  boiling  for  two  minutes.  Add 
one  and  a  half  pounds  shelled,  cooked  shrimps,  mix  well  and  let  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  two  egg  yolks, 
sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  place  in 
mortar,  pound  to  a  fine  pulp,  remove  and  press  pulp  through  sieve  into 
a  bowl.  Brown  six  fresh  pieces  toast,  a  quarter-inch  thick  by  three 
inches  square,  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  lightly  butter,  then  evenly  spread 
shrimp  preparation  over.  Neatly  smooth  surface,  lightly  butter  top  of 
each;  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1740.    EGGPLANT,  SAUTE  MINUTE 

Peel  a  medium,  sound  egg  plant  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  turn  well  in  seasoning  and  lightly 
roll  in  flour.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  large  frying  pan,  place 
slices  one  beside  another  in  pan  and  fry  briskly  for  one  minute  on  each 
side,  dress  on  a  dish,  squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over,  sprinkle 
a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over  all  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Consomme,  Argenteuil 
Halibut  Steaks  with  Brown  Butter 

Potatoes,  Brabant  (1220) 
Timbale  of  Sweetbreads,  New-Yorkaise 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 
Guinea  Hens  (1535)          Chicory  Salad  (38)          Rum  Jelly  (1171) 

1741.    CONSOMME",  ARGENTEUIL 

Prepare,  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep  hot  a  plain  consomme 
(No.  52).  Cut  tender  part  only  of  a  bunch  fresh  asparagus  in  half -inch- 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  513 

long  pieces,  thoroughly  wash  in  plenty  cold  water,  drain,  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  quart  water,  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar,  then  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  sieve,  drop  tips  into  the  consomme, 
add  teaspoon  sugar,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  consomme*  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve  very  hot. 

1742.     HALIBUT  STEAKS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  chicken  halibut  steaks,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  lightly  baste  with  a  little  cold 
milk  and  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  melted  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  arrange  the  steaks  in  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side, 
then  set  in  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  divide  a 
half  tablespoon  butter  on  top.  Pour  a  tablespoon  vinegar  in  fish  pan, 
add  a  very  little  butter,  toss  well  on  fire  until  a  nice  brown  colour,  pour 
over  fish  and  serve. 

1743.    TIMBALE  OF  SWEETBREADS,  NEW-YORKAISE 

Bone  and  skin  breasts  of  a  tender  fowl,  finely  chop  with  half  pound 
tender,  raw  veal,  place  in  mortar,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon 
each  cayenne,  grated  nutmeg  and  ground  mixed  spice.  Thoroughly 
pound  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  two  ounces  bread  panade,  four  egg  yolks, 
and  pound  again  until  thoroughly  amalgamated.  Rub  through  sieve 
into  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  ice,  gradually  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  cold 
cream,  sharply  mixing  with  wooden  spoon  while  adding,  then  keep  on 
ice  till  required. 

Have  six  blanched  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33),  place  a  mirepoix 
(No.  271)  at  bottom  of  frying  pan,  lay  breads  on  top,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Moisten  with  a 
quart  white  broth  and  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes,  take  up 
breads,  cut  each  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  finely  slice  twelve  canned 
mushrooms,  one  small  truffle,  cut  an  ounce  cooked  lean  ham  in  squares, 
and  place  these  four  articles  on  a  plate  until  required. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with 
two  tablespoons  flour,  strain  the  sweetbread  broth  into  this  pan,  mix 
well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  reduce  to  a  third  of  the  quantity, 
frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  four  articles  on  plate  to  sauce 
with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  a  half  gill  cream,  mix  well,  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  remove  to  a  table.  Lightly  butter  a  quart  pudding 
mould,  cut  two  slices  truffles  in  alphabetic  letters,  one  "N,"  the  other 
"Y,"  and  arrange  letters  "N.  Y."  at  bottom  of  mould. 

Carefully  line  bottom  and  sides  with  three-quarters  of  force  in 
bowl,  pour  bread  preparation  into  mould,  cover  with  balance  of 
force,  neatly  smooth  surface,  cover  with  a  sheet  buttered  paper,  place 
mould  in  a  saucepan,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the 
mould,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up 
paper,  unmould  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736) 
around  and  serve. 


Si4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Cream  of  Wheat  (1603) 

Fried  Poached  Eggs,  Montebello 

Whitebait  with  Bacon  (1305) 

Stewed  Mutton  Kidneys  with  Madeira  (452) 

Potatoes,    Julienne     (799) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (130) 

1744.    FRIED  POACHED  EGGS,  MONTEBELLO 

Poach  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  four  minutes  in  three  quarts  boiling  water, 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  gill  vinegar.  Lift  with  a  skimmer,  neatly 
trim,  carefully  roll  in  melted  butter,  then  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  one  minute.  Lift  up 
drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  hot  Monte- 
bello sauce  (No.  1030)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Clam  Patties  (1232) 
Broiled     Squabs    on     Toast     (950) 

New  London  Salad 
,  Strawberry  Shortcake  (1677) 

1745.    NEW  LONDON  SALAD 

Place  in  a  salad  bowl  two  peeled  tomatoes  cut  into  eight  pieces  each, 
one  sound,  seeded,  fat  green  pepper  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares,  one 
stalk  crisp  white  celery  cut  same  size  as  the  pepper,  two  cold,  medium, 
boiled  potatoes  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares,  and  twenty-four  good-sized, 
sound  hazel  nuts  cracked  and  cut  in  halves.  Season  with  two  table- 
spoons seasoning  (No.  863),  gently  mix,  add  two  tablespoons  mayon- 
naise (No.  70),  gently  but  thoroughly  mix,  neatly  wipe  bowl  all  around 
and  immediately  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)  Canapes  of  Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Cream  of  Almonds 
Salmon,  Bateliere  Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 

Sirloin  Larded,  Stanley  (305) 

Spring  Lamb  Chops,  Sauce  Pe"rigueux 

Fresh  Peas  with  Tarragon 

Punch  au  Curacao  (643) 

Roast  Capon  aux  Cresson  (378) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381) 

1746.    POTAGE,  CREAM  or  ALMONDS 

Place  in  a  large  saucepan  one  pound  clean,  raw,  lean  veal  bones,  one 
pound  fresh  chicken  bones,  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  four  sliced 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  515 

branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil.  Moisten 
with  three  and  ?,  half  quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and 
simmer  two  hours,  being  careful  to  skim  off  scum  once  in  a  while.  Plunge 
Half  pound  sweet  and  .our  single  bitter  almonds  in  boiling  water  for 
three  minutes,  drain  and  peel,  pound  in  mortar  to  a  fine  paste,  transfer 
them  to  '\  saucepan  with  one  pint  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Mix  in  a 
saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  heat  two 
minutes,  then  strain  the  broth  through  a  strainer  over  this  roux,  add  the 
almond  milk,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  sharply  mix  with  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  cook 
twenty  minutes  more.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream 
and  halt  ounce  fresh  butter,  add  to  soup,  continually  mix  while 
heating  foi  three  minutes,  remove,  strain  cream  through  cheesecloth 
into  a  Si  up  tureen  and  serve. 

1747.    SALMON,  BATELIERE 
\ 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  on  a 
dish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon,  teaspoon  anchovy  essence  and  leaves  of  two  branches 
chervil,  repeatedly  turn  salmon  in  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  until 
required. 

Have  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
twelve  even-sized,  very  small  white  onions,  brown  a  nice  golden  colour, 
then  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  lightly  stir  and  cook  for  one  minute. 
Pour  in  cne  gill  claret  and  two  gills  pure  tomato  juice,  mix  well, 
let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  place  salmon  and  seasoning  in  a  frying 
pan  and  add  twelve  cooked,  shelled  shrimps.  Take  up  onions  with 
a  skimmer  from  jauce,  place  them  with  salmon,  strain  sauce  over, 
cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  "boil  for  five  minutes  on  range, 
then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  paper, 
dress  salmon  on  a  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  pour  contents  of 
pan  over  and  serve. 

1748.    SPRING  LAMB  CHOPS,  SAUCE  P^RIGUEUX 

Neatly  trim  six  nice  spring  lamb  chops,  season  well  all  around 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Heat 
tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  in  chops  one  beside 
another  and  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  a  pe*rigueux 
sauce  (No.  677)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  chops  one  overlapping  another 
crown-like  over  same,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  end  of  each  chop 
and  serve. 

1749.    FRESH  PEAS  WITH  TARRAGON 

Prepare  peas  same  as  in  No.  1519,  adding  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  fresh  tarragon  leaves,  toss  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes 
pour  into  a  hot  deep  di§h  and  serve. 


516  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,   First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  (1527) 
Barley  with  Cream  (1068) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Molet 

Bluefish,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (328) 

Broiled  Pig's  Feet  (434) 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

1750.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  MOLET 

Plunge  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  lift  up,  clip 
off  a  piece  of  shell  at  end  of  each  and  with  a  very  small  spoon  scoop 
insides  into  a  frying  pan ;  add  an  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  a  half  gill  cream,  place  pan  on  fire  and  gently 
cook  for  two  minutes,  continually  stirring  meanwhile ;  dress  on  a  deep 
dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Lobster  (1250) 

Ragout,  Dutch 

Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

Beignets  Souffles,  Italienne  (790) 

1751.    RAGOUT,  DUTCH 

Cut  in  one-inch-square  slices  one  and  a  half  pounds  tenderloin  of 
beef,  then  cut  two  fresh  veal  kidneys  in  same  size  pieces.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  one  finely  sliced  onion,  a 
finely  sliced  green  pepper,  and  brown  three  minutes,  then  add  the  beef 
and  kidneys  and  briskly  cook  for  eight  minutes, occasionally  tossing  mean- 
while. Pour  in  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  one  gill  of  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  two  tablespoons  sherry,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  and  toss  well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes.  Finally  slice 
two  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  plunge  in  boiling  fat  for  five  minutes,  drain 
on  a  cloth,  add  potatoes  to  the  stew,  mix  well,  cook  for  two  minutes,  pour 
in  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Beef  Broth,  Anglaise 

Sheepshead,  Celery  Sauce 

Potatoes,   Bignon  (403) 

Fricandeau  of  Veal  with  Cepes 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Polonaise 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Pudding  Malaga  (309) 

1752.    BEEF  BROTH,  ANGLAISE 

,   Cut  in   quarter-inch-square  pieces  one  pound  lean  raw  beef  from 
the  rump  or  flank,  one  medium  carrot,  one  medium  white  turnip,  one 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  517 

sound  onion,  two  well-cleaned  leeks,  and  three  branches  crisp  white 
celery.  Place  all  these  in  a  large  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  set  on  fire  and  gently  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  three 
and  a  half  quarts  water,  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  one 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  one  pound  beef  bones  and  one  marrow  bone. 
Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Let  slowly 
boil  for  forty  minutes,  then  add  three  ounces  well-washed  and  thoroughly 
drained  barley,  lightly  mix  and  continually  simmer  for  one  hour  and 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  bones,  skim  fat  from  surface,  add  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chervil,  boil 
for  five  minutes  longer,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1753.    SHEEPSHEAD,  CELERY  SAUCE 

Neatly  trim  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  sheepshead,  remove  bones, 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  a  half  gill  white  wine,  a  gill 
water,  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  two  branches  parsley,  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  lightly  buttered  paper, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and 
dress  on  a,  dish.  Have  a  celery  sauce  (No.  745),  pour  two  tablespoons 
fish  liquor  in,  mix  well,  then  pour  over  fish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

1754.    FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL  WITH  CEPES 

Cut  a  three-pound  piece  round  of  veal  from  leg,  season  with  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  two  table- 
spoons leaf  lard  in  a  saucepan,  place  veal  in  pan  with  a  mirepoix  (No. 
271)  and  briskly  cook  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  from  pan 
and  keep  warm.  Add  to  the  gravy  two  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir, 
then  add  quarter  of  a  pint  claret,  half  pint  hot  broth  or  water,  one  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well,  and  as 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  veal  again,  with  a  tablespoon  dried  cepes 
or  dried  mushrooms.  Cover  pan  and  set  in  moderate  oven  one  hour  and 
forty-five  minutes,  remove,  dress  veal  on  a  large  hot  dish,  reduce 
gravy  to  half  pint,  skim  fatoff  surface  and  strain  it  over,  arrange  a 
cepes  provencale  around  veal  and  serve. 

1755.    CEPES  PROVENCALE 

Open  a  pint  can  of  cepes,  take  them  up  and  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  cut 
in  quarters.  Heat  a  tablespoon  oil  in  frying  pan,  add  the  cepes  with  a 
finely  chopped  onion,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
pepper  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Finely 
chop  a  sound  bean  garlic,  two  branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil 
and  add  to  the  cepes,  toss  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  squeeze 
in  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  toss  lightly  and  use  as  required. 

1756.    FRESH  ASPARAGUS   POLONAISE 

Trim  off  ends,  carefully  scrape  and  thoroughly  wash  two  bunches 
sound,  fresh  asparagus,  tie  in  three  bunches,  then  plunge  in  three 


$18  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

quarts  boiling  water  with  tablespoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Place  one 
ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  with  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  toss 
on  fire  until  a  light  brown,  pour  butter  over  asparagus  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Sarkey 
Fried  Soft  Clams  with  Bacon  (397) 

Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes,  Moreno 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

1757.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  SARKEY 

Cut  two  ounces  raw  ham  in  exceedingly  small  pieces,  place  in  small 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  gently  brown  for  four 
minutes ;  add  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  leaves  from  a  branch  chervil  and  three  gills  tomato  sauce.  Mix 
well,  let  reduce  to  half  quantity  and  add  little  by  little  half  an  ounce 
butter,  mixing  while  adding.  Divide  this  sauce  into  six  egg-cocotte 
dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  evenly  season  eggs  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  pour  a  teaspoon  cream  over 
the  eggs  of  each  dish,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

1758^    HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES,  MORENO 

Finely  chop  six  medium,  cold  peeled  potatoes  and  three  Spanish 
sweet  peppers;  heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  good  fat  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  potatoes  and  peppers,  season  with  teaspoon  salt,  three  salt- 
spoons  white  pepper  and  gently  toss  in  pan  while  cooking  on  a  brisk 
fire  for  ten  minutes.  Roll  up  to  omelette  form  and  let  get  a  nice  golden 
colour,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Canap6  Lorenzo  (538) 

Cutlets  of  Turkey.  Esperance 

Fried  Oyster  Plant  (968) 

Lemon  Custard  Pie  (316) 

1759.    CUTLETS  OF  TURKEY,  ESPERANCE 

Pick  off  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  in 
very  small  dice,  with  two  ounces  cooked  ham  cut  same  way  and  twelve 
canned  mushrooms,  also  cut  same  way.  Have  a  tablespoon  freshly 
chopped  shallots  in  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  fry  for  three 
minutes,  stirring  well  meanwhile;  dredge  in  two  ounces  flour,  stir  while 
heating  for  two  minutes,  pour  in  a  pint  white  broth,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix 
well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JUNE  519 

occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  mix  well,  then  add 
the  chicken,  ham  and  mushrooms,  also  half  a  gill  sherry.  Mix  well 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile,  remove, 
place  the  force  in  a  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Lightly  flour  corner  of 
table,  divide  the  force  into  six  even  parts  and  neatly  roll  out  to  cutlet 
forms,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  gently  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  lay  in 
frying  basket,  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes  and  thoroughly  drain. 
Pour  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  cutlets  over,  one 
overlapping  another  crown-like,  arrange  fresh  string  beans  (No.  1579) 
in  centre  of  the  crown,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  end  of  each  cutlet  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Celery  (86)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Pure"e  of  Tomatoes,  aux  Pates 

Pickerel,  Creole 

Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 

Capon  au  Gros  Sel  Spinach  au  Veloute" 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  (392)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Matron  Ice  Cream  (854) 

1760.    PURE"E  OF  TOMATOES,  AUX  PATES 

Plunge  three  ounces  Italian  paste  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  three 
saltspoons  salt,  boil  ten  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Prepare  a 
tomato  puree  (No.  457),  but  substitute  Italian  paste  for  the  vermicelli, 
boil  five  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1761.    PICKEREL,  CREOLE^ 

Cut  head  off  and  neatly  trim  a  fresh  pickerel  of  about  three  pounds, 
split  in  two  and  remove  spinal  bone.  Lay  fish  on  a  lightly  buttered 
tin,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  divide 
half  ounce  butter  in  little  bits  over  surface,  squeeze  over  juice  of  half 
a  sound  lemon,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  transfer  fish  to 
a  baking  dish.  Pour  a  Cre*ole  sauce  (No.  507)  and  sprinkle  a  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese  over  fish,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes  more,  remove,  cut  half  a  lemon  in  thin  slices,  arrange  around 
fish  and  serve. 

1762.    CAPON  AU  GROS  SEL 

Cut  off  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  three-and-a-half -pound  capon, 
singe,  draw,  wipe  and  trus^.  Cover  all  around  with  thin  slices  larding 
pork,  tie  around  firmly  with  string,  lay  in  a  saucepan  with  six  small 
carrots,  six  small  round  white  turnips,  four  branches  parsley  and  two 
branches  chervil,  tied  together.  Pour  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  capon, 
season  with  good  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan  and 
gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Add  six  medium  white  onions,  let 
slowly  boil  for  one  hour,  lift  up  capon,  untie,  remove  lard  and  untruss. 
Place  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  vegetables — except  parsley  and  chervil — 
around,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  coarse  salt  over  and  serve.  Remove  fat 
from  surface  of  capon  broth  and  strain  it  into  white  broth  pot  (No.  701). 


520  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1763.     SPINACH  AU  VELOUT£ 

Pick  off  stalks,  remove  stale  leaves  and  thoroughly  wash  three  quarts 
fresh  green  spinach  plunge  in  a  gallon  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  boil  ten  minutes,  thoroughly  drain  on  sieve;  with  a  skimmer  press 
out  water,  chop  very  finely,  then  place  in  a  saucepan.  Mix  in  another 
saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  level  table- 
spoons flour.  Pour  in  three-quarters  of  a  pint  white  broth  (No.  701), 
mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  reduce  to  half,  then  strain  sauce 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  spinach,  adding  half  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  sugar,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and 
half  ounce  good  butter.  Mix  well,  place  pan  on  fire  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  remove,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish, 
smooth  all  around  to  dome  form,  arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons 
around  and  serve. 

Wednesday,   Second  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Force  (979) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Mushrooms  Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Fried  Calves'  Brains  French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Puffs  (313) 

1764.     SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Finely  slice  twelve  canned  mushrooms,  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
one  gill  tomato  sauce  and  half  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix 
and  boil  for  eight  minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  crack 
two  fresh  eggs  into  each,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Set  in  oven  three  minutes,  remove, 
divide  sauce  evenly  over  eggs  and  serve. 

1765.    FRIED  CALVES'  BRAINS 

Have  three  pairs  of  calves'  brains,  wash  in  running  cold  water  for 
thirty  minutes,  discard  blood  sinews,  drain  well,  then  plunge  in  two 
quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  gill  vinegar  and  slowly 
boil  for  two  minutes.  Drain,  split  in  two  lengthwise,  lightly  roll  in  flour, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a 
frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  six  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Remove,  drain  well,  dredge  a  half  teaspoon  salt  over,  dress  on  a 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon,  a  little 
parsley  greens,  and  serve. . 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 
Lamb  Saute"    German  Style  Spatzeles 

Lobster  Salad,  Mayonnaise  Banana  Fritters  (1104) 

1766.    LAMB  SAUTE",  GERMAN  STYLE 

Cut  meat  from  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday  in  half-inch 
pieces.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  two  finely  sliced  white  onions  with  two 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  521 

tablespoons  melted  lard  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while, 
then  add  the  lamb.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  toss  a  little,  then  cook  ten  minutes,  occasionally  tossing  mean- 
while. Add  two  tablespoons  good  vinegar,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No. 
122),  twelve  medium,  sliced  vinegar  pickles  and  a  half  teaspoon  chopped 
chives,  mix  well  and  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  mixing, 
transfer  stew  to  a  deep  dish,  arrange  spatzeles  around  lamb  and  serve. 

1767.    SPATZELES 

Place  in  a  bowl  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  gradually  add  one  gill  cold 
water  and  sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  adding  it.  Crack  in 
one  fresh  egg,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  sharply  stir  for  five  minutes. 
Have  a  quart  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  take 
a  tablespoon  of  batter  and  with  a  finger  drop  in  pan  as  rapidly  as  pos- 
sible. Proceed  in  same  way  till  batter  is  all  used,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
lift  up  with  skimmer  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  half  a  finely  chopped  onion,  brown 
for  two  minutes,  arrange  spatzeles  one  beside  another  in  pan  and  fry 
to  a  nice  golden  colour  on  both  sides,  drain  and  use  as  required. 

1768.    LOBSTER  SALAD,  MAYONNAISE 

Plunge  two  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each  in  a  gallon  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  lift  up  and  let  thor- 
oughly cool  off.  Crack  and  pick  out  meat  from  claws  and  tails,  all 
perfect  white  meat  from  bodies,  and  cut  in  half -inch-square  pieces. 
Cut  also  in  same  size  two  stalks  perfect,  white,  tender,  crisp  celery,  wash 
in  cold  water  and  carefully  drain  on  a  cloth.  (It  is  absolutely  necessary 
that  the  celery  should  be  as  dry  as  possible.) 

Place  both  lobster  and  celery  in  quite  a  large  salad  bowl,  season 
with  three  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  thoroughly  mix  and  give 
a  dome-shaped  form.  Gently  spread  a  mayonnaise  dressing  (No.  70) 
and  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  capers  over  salad.  Cut  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  in  quarters,  arrange  crown-like  over  mayonnaise,  place  six  small 
lettuce  leaves  around  edge  of  bowl,  clean  head  of  one  of  the  lobsters,  place 
in  centre  of  salad  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Dublin 
Spanish  Mackerel,  Piquante  Sauce 

Potato  Croquettes  (390) 

Ham  Braise",  Londonderry 

Tomatoes  on  Crusts  (1287) 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  with  Cress  (12) 

Chicory  Salad  (38)         Cold  Maraschino  Pudding 

1769.    POTAGE,  DUBLIN 

Cut  a  pound  lean  mutton  in  half-inch  squares,  heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add  mutton  and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occa- 


522  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  adding 
two  pounds  cleaned  mutton  bones,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Cut 
four  good-sized,  peeled  raw  potatoes  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces  and 
add  to  soup.  Finely  chop  together  three  branches  well- washed  parsley 
two  branches  chervil  and  six  branches  chives,  add  to  soup,  mix  a  little 
and  simmer  for  forty-five  minutes.  Lift  up  bones  from  soup,  skim  off 
fat  from  surface,  add  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well,  pour  in  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

1770.    SPANISH  MACKEREL,  PIQUANTE  SAUCE 

Trim  fins  and  cut  off  head  of  a  very  fresh  three-pound  Spanish 
mackerel,  split  in  two,  remove  spinal  bone  and  lay  on  a  lightly 
buttered  tin.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
paprika,  squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over,  lightly  baste  with 
melted  .butter,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  large  dish,  pour  a  piquante  sauce  (No.  177)  and  sprinkle  a 
little  chopped  parsley  over,  then  serve. 

1771.  HAM  BRAISE",  LONDONDERRY 

Soak  a  three-pound  piece  ham  in  cold  water  for  one  and  a  half  hours, 
drain  and  neatly  trim.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  at  the  bottom  of  a 
braising  pan,  add  two  tablespoons  good  lard  and  gently  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Lay  ham  on  top,  pour  in  one 
gill  port  wine,  two  tablespoons  brandy,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  four  tablespoons  currant  jelly. 
Cover  pan,  set  in  oven  for  two  hours,  being  careful  to  baste  once  in  a 
while  with  its  own  gravy.  Remove,  place  ham  on  a  large  dish,  boil 
sauce  on  range  ten  minutes,  then  strain  it  over  ham  and  serve. 

1772.  COLD  MARASCHINO  PUDDING 

Cut  in  small  squares  four  ounces  stale  cakes  or  bread  remnants, 
two  fresh  or  preserved  seeded  pears,  two  fresh  or  preserved  seeded 
peaches,  two  preserved  apricots,  a  half  pint  stoned  fresh  or  maraschino 
cherries,  one  ounce  well-picked  dried  currants  and  mix  all  together. 
Lightly  butter  and  sugar  a  quart  pudding  mould,  place  above  prepara- 
tion in  it.  Place  three  fresh  eggs  and  yolks  of  two  in  a  bowl,  adding 
four  ounces  powdered  sugar,  briskly  stir  with  whisk,  then  add  a 
pint  milk,  two  gills  cream,  a  half  gill  maraschino,  mix  briskly  with  whisk 
for  two  minutes.  Strain"  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  the 
pudding  mould,  place  in  a  saucepan,  pour  hot  water  in  pan  up  to 
half  the  height  of  mould  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  lay  mould  on  ice  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off.  Prepare  a  Sabayon 
sauce  (No.  102),  let  get  cold,  then  mix  in  two  gills  vanilla  whipped 
cream  and  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  unmould  pudding  on  a  cold 
dish,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  523 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  and  Cream  (1527)         Oatmeal  Porridge  (a) 

Fried  Eggs,  Tomato  Sauce 

Panfish,  Saute"  (658)         Corn  Beef  Hash,  American  (241) 
Corn  Fritters  (566) 

1773.  FRIED  EGGS,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Heat  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan, 
crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  fry  for  one  minute,  then  set  in  oven  for  four 
minutes,  carefully  slide  on  a  large  dish,  pour  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Shell  Crabs  in  Cream 
Shoulder  of  Mutton,  Etuvee  with  Potatoes  (731) 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 
Charlotte  Russe  with  Strawberries 

1774.  SOFT  SHELL  CRABS  IN  CREAM 

Pick  out  the  spongy  parts  underneath  side  points  and  remove  aprons 
from  twelve  very  fresh  soft  shell  crabs,  wash  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a 
cloth.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
arrange  crabs  in  pan  one  beside  another,  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes 
on  each  side,  lift  up  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required.  Add  two  table- 
spoons flour  to  same  pan  and  briskly  whisk  while  heating  for  half 
minute,  then  pour  in  one  gill  milk,  one  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  sharply 
mix  with  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  crabs  and  gently  cook 
for  eight  minutes,  shuffling  pan  once  in  a  while,  pour  in  a  chafing  dish 
or  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1775.  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  WITH  STRAWBERRIES 
Pick  off  stems,  wash  and  thoroughly  drain  thirty-six  medium,  fine 
fresh  sound  strawberries,  place  in  a  bowl,  season  with  two  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  rum,  and  carefully  turn  in  seasoning.  Prepare  and 
decorate  six  charlottes  russe  (No.  939),  arrange  six  strawberries  around 
base  of  each  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?)  Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Lamb  Broth  with  Barley 

Halibut,  Hollandaise         Potatoes,  Chdteau  (208) 
Squabs  en  Casserole  (124)  Eggplant,  Sacramento 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)     Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Gele"e  Angelique 

1776.    LAMB  BROTH  WITH  BARLEY 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  one  pound  raw  lean  lamb  from  leg  or 
shoulder,  two  medium  carrots,  one  sound  turnip,  two  leeks,  three  branches 


524  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Oelery,  one  medium  onion,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  nicely  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  add  two  pounds 
lamb  or  beef  bones,  season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  three  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add  three  ounces 
well  washed  and  drained  barley,  cover  pan,  let  simmer  one  and  a  half 
hours,  remove  bones  from  soup,  skim  fat  off  surface,  add  two  gills  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16),  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  boil  ten  minutes, 
pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1777.  HALIBUT,  HOLLANDAISE 

Place  three  slices  fresh  halibut  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  in 
a  frying  pan,  add  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  a  half  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  water,  two  branches  parsley  and 
juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon.  Cover  fish  with  lightly  buttered  paper, 
boil  on  range  for  five  minutes,  then  bake  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  take  up  fish  with  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  one  table- 
spoon fish  liquor  in  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279),  mix  a  little,  pour 
sauce  over  fish  and  serve. 

1778.  EGGPLANT,  SACRAMENTO 

Cut  in  halves  lengthwise  three  very  small  even-sized,  sound  eggplants, 
and  with  a  small  pointed  knife  make  a  few  criss-cross  incisions  in  meat 
without  touching  skins,  place  on  a  tin,  then  set  in  oven — cut  side  up — 
to  bake  for  thirty  minutes,  remove  and  with  a  Parisian  potato  scoop 
take  out  the  meat  without  disturbing  skins.  Finely  chop  meat  and  place 
in  a  bowl,  adding  one  ounce  finely  chopped,  lean  raw  ham,  one  ounce 
chopped,  cooked  beef  tongue,  one  bean  chopped  garlic,  two  peeled,  finely 
chopped  red  tomatoes,  half  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  three 
tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  two  egg  yolks,  half  gill  cream,  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Thoroughly  mix  with  wooden 
spoon  until  well  amalgamated,  evenly  divide  preparation  in  the  six  half 
shells,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  butter 
on  top  of  each,  evenly  divided,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  over  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with 
a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1779.     GEL£E  ANGELIQUE 

Prepare  a  rum  jelly  preparation  (No.  1171),  imbed  a  quart  pud- 
ding mould  up  to  its  level  in  ice,  and  cut  sufficient  lozenge-shaped  half- 
inch  strips  of  angelica  to  complete  a  crown  at  bottom  of  mould. 
With  a  larding  needle  take  a  piece  of  lozenge,  steep  in  the  jelly,  and 
place  it  at  bottom  near  the  edge,  then  another  one,  and  so  on  till 
the  crown  is  completed.  Cut  twelve  strips,  one-fifth-inch  wide  and  the 
height  of  mould,  and  arrange  against  sides  of  same.  Place  a  round 
piece  of  angelica  the  size  of  a  silver  fifty-cent  piece  in  centre  of  mould, 
then  fill  mould  with  the  rum  jelly  and  let  stand  on  ice  until  well  set,  or  for 
about  an  hour  and  a  half,  by  which  time  it  should  be  quite  firm.  Remove, 
carefully  immerse  in  tepid  water,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish  and  serve^ 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  525 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)       Farina  with  Milk  (74) 

Omelette,  Financiere 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

Beef  Saut£,  Anglaise  (513) 

Potatoes  en  Failles  (611) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1780.    OMELETTE,  FINANCIERE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  with  fork  for  two 
minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  three 
raw,  well-cleaned  chicken  livers  cut  in  halves  and  gently  fry  two  minutes 
on  each  side.  Add  two  tablespoons  sherry,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No. 
122),  half  saltspoon  cayenne,  six  small  stoned  olives,  six  canned  mush- 
rooms, six  very  thin  slices  truffles,  three  pickles  cut  in  three-quarter-inch 
pieces,  quarter  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  mix  well  and  cook  for 
six  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter 
in  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  beaten  eggs,  briskly  mix  with  fork  for  two 
minutes  and  let  rest  half  a  minute,  fold  the  two  opposite  sides  to  meet 
in  centre  and  let  rest  one  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  garnishing 
and  sauce  around  omelette  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stewed  Clams,  Parisienne 

Lamb  Fries,  Horly 
Herring  Salad,  Wilmington 

Tartlet  of  Eggs 
Chocolate  E"clairs  (1279) 

1781.    STEWED  CLAMS,  PARISIENNE 

Finely  chop  three  well- washed  leeks,  place  in  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoon butter  and  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile,  pour  in  a  quart  and  a  half  white  broth  (No.  701),  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cut  four  well- 
washed,  peeled  raw  potatoes  in  quarter-inch  squares,  add  to  broth,  and 
let  gently  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Carefully  open  thirty-six  little  neck 
clams,  add  to  soup  with  their  liquor,  one  pint  water,  and  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  being  careful  to  skim  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  two  gills  hot 
milk,  one  ounce  butter  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  mix  well,  pour  stew  into 
a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1782.    LAMB  FRIES,  HORLY 

Cut  in  halves  and  remove  skin  from  twelve  very  fresh  lamb  fries, 
plunge  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  lift  up  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a 
cloth.  Place  in  a  bowl,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper, 


526  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  thoroughly  mingle  fries  in  seasoning. 
Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  roll  lamb  fries  in  the  batter,  then 
immediately  drop  one  ]?y  one  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turn- 
ing with  skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve 
with  gill  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

1783.    HERRING  SALAD,  WILMINGTON 

Cut  in  quarter-inch  squares  and  place  in  a  bowl  two  skinned  and 
boned,  sound  smoked  herrings,  two  boiled,  peeled,  cold,  medium  pota- 
toes, two  peeled  and  cored  sound  apples,  two  cold  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
pickled  red  beet.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix 
well,  wipe  the  bowl  all  around  and  serve. 

1784.    TARTLET  OF  EGGS 

Prepare  six  tartlet  crusts  (No.  161),  neatly  wipe  insides  without  re- 
moving from  moulds,  then  carefully  crack  one  fresh  egg  into  each  crust. 
Season  the  eggs  evenly  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  pour  a  tablespoon  cream  over 
each  egg,  set  in  oven  for  four  minutes,  remove,  carefully  lift  tartlets  from 
mould,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?) 
Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Bisque,  Mariniere 
Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d 'Hotel  (328) 

Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 
Mignons  of  Beef,  Sauce  Poivrade 

String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579)  Cauliflower,  Cream  Sauce  (1221) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Diplomatic  Pudding  (436) 

1785.    BISQUE,  MARINIERE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  twelve  medium,  fresh  opened  oysters,  four  large 
freshly  opened  hard  clams,  twelve  uncooked  shelled  shrimps,  twenty- 
four  freshly  opened  raw  mussels,  half  a  pound  fresh  whitefish  cut  in 
small  pieces,  four  branches  parsley,  two  branches  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme, 
two  bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  greated  nutmeg,  half  pint  white  wine,  one 
and  a  half  quarts  water,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  thirty  minutes. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour, 
heat  for  a  minute,  strain  broth  into  pan  and  continually  stir  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil.  Finely  chop  all  the  different  fish  and  add  to  boil- 
ing soup  with  a  pint  milk,  mix  well  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Dilute 
two  egg  yolks  with  a  half  gill  cream  and  a  half  ounce  butter  and  add 
to  soup,  mix  while  heating  for  three  minutes,  strain  soup  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  into  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons 
(No.  23)  separately. 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  527 

1786.  MIGNONS  OF  BEEF,  SAUCE  POIVRADE 
Cut  two  pounds  trimmed  tenderloin  of  beef  in  six  equal  filets,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  lightly  baste  with  a  little 
oil,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side. 
Arrange  six  freshly  prepared  slices  of  toast  a  quarter  inch  thick  and  of 
same  size  as  filets  on  a  hot  dish,  place  filets  on  toast,  then  pour  a  hot 
poivrade  sauce  (No.  546)  over  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317)  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Swiss  Fish  Fritters  (1057) 

Sausage,  Porto  Rico  Potatoes,  Foultees 

Orange  Wheaten  Cakes 

1787.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  Swiss 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  briskly  beat  with  fork  a  minute. 
Cut  in  exceedingly  small  square  pieces  two  ounces  lean,  raw  salt  pork 
and  two  slices  sandwich  bread.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  pork  and  neatly  brown  for  three  minutes,  then  add  the  bread 
and  toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  golden  colour;  drop  in  the  eggs,  add  quarter 
teaspoon  very  fresh  chopped  tarragon  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly 
stirring  frequently,  Add  two  tablespoons  grated  Swiss  cheese,  stir  a 
little,  pour  into  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1788.    SAUSAGE,  PORTO  Rico 

Peel  and  core  two  sound  apples  and  finely  slice  them,  also  slice  four 
peeled  sound  bananas  the  same  way.  Place  in  saucepan  with  ounce 
butter,  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon,  cover  pan,  then  set  in 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  press  through  a  wire  sieve  into 
another  saucepan  and  keep  hot.  With  a  needle,  prickle  the  skin  of 
twelve  raw  country  sausages,  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  sausages  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Nicely  dress 
the  purde  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  sausages  over  pure*e,  remove  fat  from 
sausage  pan,  pour  in  a  half  gill  port  wine,  boil  three  minutes,  pour 
over  sausages  and  serve. 

1789.    POTATOES,  FOULTEES 

Neatly  wipe  eight  even-sized,  medium,  sound,  unpeeled  raw  potatoes, 
place  on  roasting  pan,  and  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Re- 
move, clip  off  a  small  piece  lengthwise  to  serve  as  covers,  then  with  a 
teaspoon  scoop  out  insides,  press  the  potatoes  through  a  sieve  into  a  small 
saucepan,  add  one  green  pepper  chopped  and  browned  in  a  little  butter 
for  three  minutes,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  one  ounce  butter  and  a  half  gill  cream.  Sharply 
stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  four  minutes,  remove,  fill  up 


528  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

six  of  the  potato  shells  with  preparation,  arrange  covers  on,  reset  in  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1790.  ORANGE  WHEATEN  CAKES 

Prepare  a  flannel  wheaten  cake  preparation  (No.  136).  Finely  chop 
the  rind  of  a  sound  fresh  orange  and  boil  the  rind  in  two  gills  water  for 
eight  minutes,  drain,  add  rind  to  the  preparation  with  a  tablespoon  of 
orange  flavouring,  mix  well,  then  proceed  to  finish  cakes  exactly  the  same. 

LUNCHEON 

Hard  Crabs.  Mayonnaise 

Mutton  Feet.  Poulette        Fresh  Peas  with  Butter  (1519) 
Madeleine  au  Rhum 

1791.  HARD  CRABS,  MAYONNAISE 

Finely  slice  a  carrot,  onion,  leek,  two  branches  celery,  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  sprig  mar- 
joram, two  dozen  allspice,  two  blades  mace,  two  bay  leaves,  tablespoon 
salt,  a  teaspoon  white  pepper,  gill  vinegar  and  gallon  of  water,  then  boil 
for  thirty-five  minutes.  Plunge  in  six  live  crabs  and  let  them  boil  just 
ten  minutes;  take  up  and  let  get  cold,  strip  off  "  dead-men's  "  fingers, 
crack  claws  without  breaking  open,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  all  around  with  thoroughly  cleaned  and  drained  lettuce  leaves, 
and  send  to  table  with  a  mayonnaise  (No.  70)  separately. 

1792.    MUTTON  FEET,  POULETTE 

Scald  twenty-four  fresh  mutton  feet  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes 
and  drain.  If  any  vestige  of  wool  adheres  to  them  carefully  remove  it. 
Place  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  half  a 
lemon,  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  enough  water  to  cover, 
cover  pan  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  feet  on  a  sieve  and 
keep  the  broth,  remove  principal  bones  of  each  and  keep  feet  warm. 
Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two 
tablespoons  flour,  heat  for  a  half  minute,  then  pour  in  mutton  broth 
and  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  a  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  chives,  mix  well,  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute 
two  egg  yolks  with  half  gill  cream,  add  to  sauce  and  sharply  mix  while 
heating  for  three  minutes.  Add  feet  to  sauce,  lightly  mix,  then  heat 
without  boiling  for  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives  Stuffed  with  Cheese  (627) 

Consomme1.   Imperial  Baked  Weakfish.  Venitienne 

Turkey.   Agriculteur       Potatoes,  Dauphine  (415) 

String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579) 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb.  Mint  Sauce  (392)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Pudding    Espagnole  (101) 

1793.     CONSOMME",  IMPERIAL 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering.  Plunge  twelve  cocks'  kidneys  in  boiling  water  for  two 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  529 

minutes,  remove  and  add  to  consomme*,  with  a  small  truffle  cut  in 
julienne  strips,  three  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas,  a  quenelles  gar- 
nishing, boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1794.     CHICKEN  QUENELLE  FOR  GARNISHING. 

Remove  all  the  sinews  from  a  half  pound  of  raw  white  chicken  meat. 
Finely  chop,  place  in  a  cold  mortar  and  thoroughly  pound  it,  then  add 
two  ounces  bread  panade,  mix  well,  add  three  egg  yolks  one  by  one  and 
sharply  pound  for  five  minutes.  Remove  and  carefully  rub  through  a 
fine  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  ice,  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  sharply 
stir  with  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Whisk  one  and  a  half  gills 
thick  cream  to  a  froth,  then  gradually  add  to  bowl  and  mix  well  for 
one  minute.  With  a  sheet  of  heavy  white  paper  make  a  small  cornet, 
cut  away  the  tip  end,  drop  chicken  force  in  and  press  out  preparation 
into  a.  lightly  buttered  tin  to  the  size  and  form  of  medium  cranberries. 
Pour  in  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
boil  for  two  minutes,  drain  and  use  as  required. 

1795.     BREAD  PANADE 

Soak  two  ounces  stale  bread  in  cold  milk  for  three  minutes, 
take  up  bread  and  with  the  hands  completely  squeeze  out  the  milk. 
Place  bread  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  and  with  a 
small  spatula  sharply  work  until  of  a  smooth  consistency,  so  that  it 
will  not  stick  either  to  pan  or  spatula,  transfer  to  a  plate,  cover  with 
a  sheet  of  buttered  paper  and  use  only  when  completely  cold. 

1796.    BAKED  WEAKFISH,  VENITIENNE 

Place  in  a  mortar  three  sound,  peeled  shallots,  a  half  bean  sound 
garlic,  four  branches  well-washed  parsley,  two  branches  chervil  and 
ten  branches  chives;  thoroughly  pound  three  minutes,  then  add  one 
ounce  good  butter  and  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  pound  again  till  well 
amalgamated,  then  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl. 

Scale,  trim  fins  and  cut  off  head  of  a  very  fresh  three-pound  weakfish, 
split  in  two,  remove  spinal  bone,  season  all  around  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  lay  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin  cut  side  up. 
Evenly  spread  green  butter  over  surface  of  the  halves,  then  set  in 
oven  to  bake  for  thirty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  frequently 
with  the  butter,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour  butter  over  and  serve 

1797.    TURKEY,  AGRICULTEUR 

Procure  a  small,  tender  turkey  of  about  six  or  seven  pounds,  cut  off 
head  and  feet,  singe,  draw  and  wipe.  Cut  the  liver,  heart,  gizzard  and 
lungs  in  small  square  pieces.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
of  chopped  raw  ham  and  a  small  chopped  white  onion,  pour  in  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter  and  briskly  brown  for  six  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  two  ounces  raw  rice,  a  bean  chopped 
garlic,  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  a  crushed,  peeled, 


530  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

fresh  red  tomato,  two  gills  water,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  ground  thyme.  Mix  all  well  together 
and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  an  egg  yolk  and  sharply  mix 
again  for  a  minute.  Remove,  stuff  turkey  with  the  force,  truss, 
place  it  in  a  large  saucepan  with  six  each  small  new  carrots  and 
turnips,  six  small  white  onions  and  two  small,  clean  stalks  celery. 
Tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  two 
bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  a  sprig  thyme,  and  add  to  turkey.  Pour  in 
enough  water  to  cover,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  cover  pan  and  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  add  six 
even-sized,  small,  peeled  potatoes  and  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes 
longer.  Lift  up  turkey,  place  on  a  large  dish,  untruss,  dress  vegetables 
around,  except  the  bouquet,  pour  a  little  of  the  broth  and  sprinkle  a 
little  parsley  over,  and  serve  with  one  and  a  half  gills  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  separately. 

N.  B.     Strain  the  broth  into  a  stone  jar  and  use  for  white  broth. 


nday,  Second   Week   of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapple  (407)  Hominy  (45) 

Eggs  Molet,  Piedmontaise 
Whitebait  with  Bacon  (1305) 
Mutton  Chops  (49)  Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

1798.    EGGS  MOLET,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  three  finely 
chopped  shallots,  two  ounces  finely  chopped  lean  raw  ham,  and  gently 
brown  for  five  minutes.  Add  a  light  tablespoon  flour,  mix  well  while 
heating  for  half  minute,  then  pour  in  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  a 
tablespoon  sherry,  six  finely  chopped,  canned  mushrooms  and  mix  well 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  boil  for  five  minutes.  Plunge  twelve 
fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  take  up  and  drop  in  cold 
water  for  a  minute,  remove,  shell  and  place  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set 
in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomm6  in  Cups  (52) 

Baked  Live  Lobster  (952) 

Croquettes  of  Lamb,  Mace"doine  (404) 

Omelette,  Celestine 

1799.     OMELETTE,  CELESTINE 

Crack  a  fresh  egg  in  a  small  pan,  adding  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a 
neavy  teaspoon  flour,  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar  and  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence.  Sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes,  then 
pour  in  two  gills  milk  and  half  ounce  good  butter,  place  pan  on  fire  and 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  531 

sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  well  thickened 
and  very  smooth.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half 
gill  cream,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  tablespoon  fine  sugar,  and  sharply  beat 
with  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  good  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  briskly  stir  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for 
half  minute,  carefully  spread  preparation  over  omelette,  fold  up  oppo- 
site sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  then  turn  on  a  hot 
dish.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar  over,  carefully  glaze  surface 
with  a  red  poker  or  salamander,- pour  a  groseilles-maraschino  sauce 
(No.  771)  around  the  omelette  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)  Canapes  of  Caviare  (59) 

Celery  (86)  Cream  of  Cucumbers 

Brook  Trout,  Vallee  d'Aspe 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (126) 

Filet  of  Beef,  Larded,  with  Stuffed  Mushrooms 
Sweetbreads  en  Cocotte,  au  Porto 

Punch,  Yvette  (560) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Ice  Cream,  Estelle 

1800.     CREAM  OF  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  four  medium  cucumbers,  cut  in  pieces  and  remove  seeds,  plunge 
in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  remove,  wash  in  cold  water,  then 
thoroughly  drain.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  cook 
on  fire  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with 
two  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth,  add  half  pound  fresh  bread 
crumbs,  two  white  onions  kwith  three  cloves  stuck  in,  a  level  tablespoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well 
and  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  skimming  once  in  a  while, 
strain  through  a  sieve  into  another  saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  one  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup,  lightly 
mix  while  heating  without  boiling  for  five  minutes,  strain  cream  through 
cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1801.    BROOK  TROUT,  VALLE"E  D'ASPE 

Neatly  trim  the  fins  of  three  very  fresh,  medium  brook  trout  and 
empty  them  by  the  gill  without  splitting;  place  in  a  deep  dish,  add  juice 
of  a  sound  lemon,  one  gill  white  wine,  one  crushed  bay  leaf,  one  salt- 
spoon  thyme,  two  cloves,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white 
pepper,  turn  well  in  seasoning  and  lay  aside  to  infuse  for  forty-five 
minutes.  Chop  finely  together  the  leaves  from  two  branches  tarragon, 
two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  six  chives  and  a  half  bean 
garlic,  place  these  greens  in  corner  of  a  clean  cloth  and  press  out  the 
water,  then  place  on  a  plate.  Take  up  trout  from  marinade,  roll  in  the 
herbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  trout  in  and 
gently  fry  six  minutes  on  each  side,  Dress  on  a  dish,  add  a  half  ounce 


532  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

butter  to  pan,  toss  well  on  fire  until  a  light  brown,  pour  in  a  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence,  squeeze  in  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  toss  well,  pour  over 
trout  and  serve  very  hot. 

1802.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  LARDED,  WITH  STUFFED  MUSHROOMS 

Trim  off  the  fat  and  skin  from  two  and  a  half  pounds  tender  filet 
of  beef.  With  the  aid  of  a  larding  needle  lard  surface  of  filet  with  a 
few  strips  of  larding  pork,  season  all  around  with  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 

Lay  a  mirepoix  at  the  bottom  of  a  roasting  pan,  prepared  as  per 
No.  271,  lay  filet  on  top,  pour  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  over  surface  of 
filet,  and  a  half  gill  of  water  into  pan,  set  in  a  brisk  oven  to  roast  for  thirty- 
five  minutes,  turning  and  frequently  basting  meanwhile.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  dish,  arrange  a  fresh  mushroom  garnishing  around  the  beef, 
skim  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  boil  for  five  minutes,  strain 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  filet  and  serve. 

1803.    STUFFED  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Remove  the  tails  (and  keep  them)  from  a  pound  of  very  fresh,  good- 
sized,  sound  mushrooms,  wash  in  cold  water  and  carefully  drain  on  a 
cloth.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  them  in 
pan  one  beside? another  and  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Squeeze 
over  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  toss 
well  and  ke<*p  on  a  plate  till  required.  Thoroughly  wash  the  mushroom 
tails,  chop  very  fine,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  an  ounce  of  butter, 
three  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  ounce  *  chopped  raw  ham,  a  half 
bean  chopped  garlic,  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Add  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  pour  in  a  gill  cream, 
three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  two 
tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  one  egg  yolk,  and  mix  well  while  heating 
for  three  minutes.  Transfer  this  preparation  to  a  plate  and  let  get  cold, 
then  stuff  mushrooms  with  the  preparation,  neatly  smooth  tops,  carefully 
dip  in  melted  butter,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven 
for  eight  minutes  remove  and  use  as  directed. 

1804.     SWEETBREADS  EN  COCOTTE,  AU  PORTO 

Blanch  and  trim  six  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33)  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills  broth,  a  few  tarragon 
leaves,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  a  half  ounce 
butter,  cover  pan  and  let  simmer  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
place  breads  in  six  cocotte  dishes,  then  divide  a  gill  of  port  wine  evenly 
in  the  six  cocottes.  Mix  on  a  plate  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  evenly  sprinkle  over  the 
breads,  cover  with  a  little  cream,  arrange  dishes  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven 
to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve, 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  533 

1805.    ICE  CREAM,  ESTELLE 

Prepare  a  pint  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Pick  off  stems,  wash 
and  drain  a  pint  of  fresh  strawberries,  press  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a 
copper  basin  and  add  five  egg  yolks,  four  ounces  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoons curacao.  Set  the  basin  on  range  and  briskly  whisk  for  ten  minutes, 
remove  from  fire,  place  basin  on  ice  and  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  cold,  then  add  a  half  pint  whipped  cream  and  gently  mix 
with  skimmer  for  two  minutes.  Remove  stem  and  stones  from  half  pint 
fresh  sweet  cherries,  place  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
a  tablespoon  maraschino,  and  mix  well.  Set  a  dome-shaped  quart 
mould  on  broken,  salted  ice,  line  mould  all  around  with  a  pint  of 
vanilla,  arrange  cherries  against  vanilla,  then  fill  up  mould  with  straw- 
berry preparation,  place  a  sheet  of  white  paper  on  top,  cover  tightly, 
bury  mould  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  and  freeze  for 
two  hours.  Remove,  immerse  mould  in  tepid  water,  wipe  all  around, 
unmould  on  a  cold  dish,  decorate  all  around  with  whipped  cream  and 
serve. 

Monday,  Second   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Rice  Flour  (464) 

Omelette  with  Sweet  Peppers 

Filet    of     Sole,    Tartare     Sauce     (487) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette  (600) 

Hashed  Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1806.    OMELETTE  WITH  SWEET  PEPPERS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  beat  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes. 
Finely  slice  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  lightly  brown  for  five  minutes,  tossing  them 
meanwhile ;  drop  in  eggs,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  half 
minute ;  fold  up  the  two  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  one  minute,  turn 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fried  Soft  Shell  Crabs  (1351) 

Ragout  of  Lamb,  Faubonne 

Macaroni,  Sauveterre  (1023) 

Vanilla  Souffle's  (758) 

1807.    RAGOUT  OF  LAMB,  FAUBONNE 

Soak  a  half  pint  white  beans  in  cold  water  at  least  seven  hours  and 
keep  in  water  till  required.  Cut  a  three-pound  neck  of  lamb  in  inch- 
square  pieces,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  a  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  large  saucepan,  add 
the  lamb  and  gently  fry  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  a  light  brown,  dredge  in 
two  tablespoons  flour,  moisten  with  a  quart  water,  a  pint  pure  tomato 


534  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

juice  and  mix  well.  Drain  beans  and  add  to  the  lamb  with  a  carrot 
cut  in  quarters  and  two  medium  onions.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two 
branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bean 
garlic,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  one  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  marjoram  and 
a  sprig  mace,  add  to  the  rest  and  lightly  mix.  Season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  and  mix  again.  Cover  pan 
and  set  in  oven  two  hours,  remove,  take  up  carrots,  onions  and  bouquet 
of  herbs,  pour  ragout  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Devilled  Peanuts  (954) 

Veal  Broth  with  Rice 
Croquettes  of  Salmon,  Tartare  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Mutton  Steaks,  Colbert  Spinach,  Anglaise  (»47> 

Roast  Gosling,  Apple  Sauce  (1109) 

Watercress    Salad    (419) 

Apple  Pudding  (509) 

1808.    VEAL  BROTH  WITH  RICE 

Cut  a  pound  of  lean  raw  veal  into  quarter-inch-square  pieces, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  lightly  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts 
water,  add  two  pounds  of  shin  or  knuckle  of  veal,  season  with  a  level  table- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Finely  slice  two  leeks,  chop  two 
medium-sized  white  onions,  and  add  to  the  soup,  cover  pan  and  slowly 
simmer  for  one  hour.  Chop  finely  a  bean  sound  garlic,  four  branches 
parsley,  two  branches  chervil,  and  add  to  the  soup  with  four  ounces 
raw  rice.  Cover  pan  and  gently  boil  for  forty  minutes  more,  lift  up  the 
shin  of  veal,  skim  fat  from  surface,  transfer  the  soup  to  a  tureen 
and  serve. 

1809.    CROQUETTE  OF  SALMON,  TARTARS  SAUCE 

Place  a  one-and-a-half-pound  piece  of  fresh  salmon  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills  water,  one  branch  parsley,  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Cover  the  pan,  let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  boil  for  two  minutes,  re- 
move to  a  table  and  let  cool  off  in  the  broth.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one 
ounce  melted  butter  with  two  ounces  flour,  heat  for  one  minute,  then  pour 
in  one  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream,  and  one  gill  of  the  fish  broth.  Season 
with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  let 
reduce  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile,  add  two  egg  yolks 
and  briskly  mix  for  two  minutes.  Remove  skin  and  bones  from  salmon, 
pick  meat  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  the  sauce,  lightly  mix,  pour  pre- 
paration into  a  dish,  spread  a  very  little  butter  over  surface,  then  let 
thoroughly  cool  off.  Sprinkle  a  very  little  flour  on  a  table,  divide  the 
fish  preparation  in  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  out  to  cork  forms,  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket 
0  nd  fry  eight  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove,  drain,  dress 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JUNE  535 

on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  one  on  top  of  another,  decorate  with  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  148)  separately. 

1 8 10.    MUTTON  STEAKS,  COLBERT 

Procure  three  mutton  steaks  from  a  tender  leg  of  mutton,  of  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  each,  make  a  few  incisions  around  the  skin,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  in  the  steaks  one  beside  another 
and  cook  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up,  dress  on  a  hot  dish , 
skim  off  fat  from  pan,  then  pour  a  Colbert  sauce  (No.  121)  into  the 
gravy,  mix  well,  pour  sauce  over  steaks  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Second    Week   of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317)        Sago  with  Milk  (1583) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Edmund  Fried  Porgies  (498) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  with  Bacon  Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

1811.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  EDMUND 

Finely  chop  one  medium  onion,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a 
half  gills  milk,  half  ounce  butter,  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  let  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Pour  in  a  gill  cream,  lightly  mix,  then  divide  this  milk  in  six  cocotte 
dishes;  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  evenly  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  sprinkle  a  teapsoon  freshly 
chopped  chives  over  them,  dredge  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  or  Swiss 
cheese  on  top,  evenly  divided,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

1812.    BROILED  BEEFSTEAKS  WITH  BACON 

Procure  six  small,  tender  beefsteaks  of  five  ounces  each,  pare 
nicely  and  lightly  flatten  them  evenly  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  a 
tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  gently  roll 
steaks  in  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  lively  charcoal 
fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  spread  a  very 
little  melted  butter  and  arrange  six  slices  freshly  broiled  bacon  (No.  13) 
over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667)  Stuffed  Clams  (567) 

Broiled  Devilled  Spareribs 

Salad,  Waldorf-Astoria 

Prune  Pie  (965) 

1813.    BROILED  DEVILLED   SPARERIBS 

Procure  six  very  fresh  spareribs,  evenly  season  them  all  around  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  rub  with  a  little  oil, 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  slowly  broil  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Re- 


536  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK   BOOK 

move,  evenly  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  1 1)  on  both  sides  of  them,  then 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  replace  on  broiler,  briskly  broil  for  two  minutes  on 
each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  Robert  sauce  (No.  1066) 
separately. 

1814.    SALAD,  WALDORF-ASTORIA 

Cut  into  julienne  strips  one  good-sized  pickled  beetroot,  two  medium, 
sound  peeled  and  cored  apples,  two  very  tender  well-cleaned  stalks  white 
celery,  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers,  and  place  all  in  a  bowl.  Crack 
and  carefully  pick  out  the  perfect  meats  from  thirty-six  sound  hazel  nuts, 
cut  each  one  in  quarters  and  place  with  the  rest,  toss  them  well  in  bowl, 
season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No,  963),  mix  well,  wipe  fhe 
bowl  all  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Celery  (86)       Pim-Olas 

Puree  of  Turnips,  Tomate"e 

Sea  Bass,  Etuvee         Potatoes,  Gastronome  (1491) 

Squabs,  American        Fresh  Asparagus,  Hollandaise  (1385) 

Roast  Beef  (126)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Orange  Rice  Iced  Pudding 

1815.    PUREE  OF  TURNIPS,  TOMATE"E 

Peel  eight  medium,  white  turnips,  finely  slice  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  an  ounce  melted  butter  and  gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  occasion- 
ally stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  two  medium,  peeled  raw  potatoes  cut 
in  small  pieces  and  two  finely  sliced  onions.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  cloves, 
and  add  to  the  pan.  Moisten  with  a  quart  of  broth  (No.  701)  and  two 
quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  two  teaspoons  pepper, 
sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  slowly  boil 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Press  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through 
a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  a  pint  of 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  into  a  hot 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1816.     SEA  BASS,  ETUVE"E 

Scale,  cut  off  fins  and  wipe  two  fresh  sea  bass  of  a  pound  and  a  half 
each,  cut  in  inch  pieces  crosswise  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required. 
Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two 
tablespoons  flour  and  cook  until  a  light  brown,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Add  twelve  small  white  onions,  mix  a  little,  brown  for  five  minutes, 
moisten  with  one  gill  claret,  two  gills  white  broth,  mix  well  and  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Add  the  fish",  with  a  finely  chopped  bean  garlic,  a  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper, 
gently  mix,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  lift 
up  fish  and  onions  with  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  then  boil  sauce  for 
ten  minutes;  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  half  ounce 
butter  by  little  bits,  mix  a  little,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over 
the  fish  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE  537 

1817.    SQUABS,  AMERICAN 

Cut  off  heads  and  feet  from  six  fat,  tender  squabs,  singe,  draw 
and  neatly  wipe,  then  fill  with  a  stuffing  a  1'Americaine.  Truss, 
arrange  a  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  on  the  breast  of  each  bird,  season 
evenly  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Place  on  a  tin,  baste  each  bird  with  a  very  little  melted  butter,  set 
in  oven  to  roast  for  forty  minutes,  remove,  untruss,  arrange  six  pieces 
fried  hominy  (No.  235)  on  hot  dish  and  lay  squabs  on  top.  ^  Broil  six  thin 
slices  bacon  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  place  over  squabs,  pour  a  gill 
hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  around  and  serve. 

1818.    STUFFING  A  L'AMERICAINE 

Soak  four  ounces  stale  bread  in  cold  milk  ten  minutes,  press  out 
the  milk  and  place  bread  in  a  bowl.  Add  two  ounces  finely  chopped 
raw  beef  marrow,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  a  saltspoon 
powdered  thyme,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Chop  finely  half  a  medium,  white  onion  and  brown  in  a  teaspoon  melted 
butter  to  a  nice  colour,  add  to  the  bowl  with  an  egg  yolk.  Stir  the 
whole  together  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  amalgamated,  then 
use  as  required. 

1819.    ORANGE  RICE  ICED  PUDDING 

Place  in  quite  a  large  saucepan  four  ounces  raw  rice,  chopped  rind 
of  an  orange,  one  quart  milk,  five  ounces  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence,  the  strained  juice  of  the  orange,  mix  well  and  gently  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Dilute  six  egg  yolks  with  a  gill  cream,  add  to  rice 
with  a  teaspoon  orange-flower  water  and  mix  well  while  heating,  without 
boiling,  for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  place  pan  in  a  basin  with 
cold  water  up  to  half  its  height  and  stir  until  thoroughly  cold,  pour  prepa- 
ration into  an  ice-cream  freezer,  then  proceed  to  freeze  same  as  vanilla  ice 
cream  (No.  42).  Place  the  frozen  ice  cream  in  a  quart  mould,  tightly 
cover,  then  re-bury  it  in  same  tub  and  let  freeze  for  an  hour.  Remove, 
immerse  in  tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds,  wipe  all  around,  unmould  on 
cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  and  Cream  (1527)         Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 
Poached  Eggs  with  Spinach 

Broiled  Butterfish, 

Beef  Hash,  Polonaise  (1306)  Potatoes,  Copeaux  (905) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

1820.    POACHED  EGGS  WITH  SPINACH 

Prepare  half  the  quantity  only  of  spinach  in  cream  (No.  399).  Ar- 
range on  a  hot  dish,  smooth  the  surface  neatly,  lay  twelve  poached 
eggs  (No.  106)  on  top  of  the  spinach  and  serve. 


538  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1821.    BROILED  BUTTER  FISH 

Thoroughly  wipe  six  very  fresh  butterfish.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  table- 
spoon oil  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  repeatedly 
roll  in  the  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on 
each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams  Flip 
Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Montmorency 

Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 
Creme  au  Caramel  (480) 

1822.    SOFT  CLAMS  FLIP 

Remove  all  sandy  parts,  keeping  nothing  but  perfect  bodies  of  forty- 
eight  very  fresh  soft  clams,  plunge  in  boiling  water  for  one  minute, 
then  drain.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  clams  and  briskly  fry  two  minutes.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  a  tablespoon  brandy  and  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  three 
minutes.  Dilute  three  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream,  add  to 
the  clams  and  gently  toss  while  heating  for  two  minutes  without  boiling — 
the  sauce  must  be  thick  and  smooth — remove,  take  up  clams  with  a 
skimmer  and  chop  them,  but  not  too  fine,  add  to  the  sauce  again  with 
a  teaspoon  French  mustard  and  gently  mix.  Toast  to  a  nice  golden 
colour  six  pieces  of  bread  one-fifth  inch  thick  by  three  inches  square, 
lightly  butter,  then  with  a  knife  blade  evenly  spread  prepared  clams 
over  the  six  pieces  toast.  Arrange  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  very  little 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  place  in  oven  with  the  door  open  for  five  minutes, 
remove,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

1823.    SHOULDER  OF  LAMB,  MONTMORENCY 

Remove  blade  bone  from  a  tender,  small  shoulder  of  lamb  and  cut  the 
end  bone  off  one  inch  from  first  joint.  Season  all  over  with  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  place  in 
small  roasting  pan,  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  pour  two  tablespoons 
water  in  the  pan,  then  set  in  oven  to  roast  for  forty-five  minutes,  being 
careful  to  turn  and  baste  once  in  a  while.  Arrange  Montmorency  vege- 
tables on  a  large  hot  dish,  place  shoulder  over  vegetables,  pour  a  gill 
hot  demi -glace  (No.  122)  and  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over 
all  and  serve. 

1824.    MONTMORENCY  VEGETABLES 

Cut  with  a  Saratoga  potato  machine  or  slice  exceedingly  fine  two 
medium  carrots,  two  white  turnips,  a  white  onion,  one  small  peeled  egg- 
plant, three  medium,  peeled  raw  potatoes,  one  green  pepper  and  the 
head  of  a  very  small,  sound,  cored  white  cabbage.  Finely  chop  a  bean 
garlic,  three  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  leaves  of  a  branch 


WEDNESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE  539 

of  tarragon  and  add  to  the  vegetables.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  and  mix  them  well.  Lightly  butter  a  small  square  tin 
of  about  eight  inches  square,  arrange  vegetables  in  the  tin  by  layers, 
sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  half  ounce  butter, 
arrange  over  each  layer  alternately,  cover  with  a  sheet  of  buttered 
paper,  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  one  hour  and  ten  minutes,  remove  and  use 
as  required. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)        Olives 
Chicken  Gumbo,  St.  Germain 
Bluefish,  Creole  Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Tournedos,  Sauce  Finnoise 

Celery  B  raise1  (359) 

Roast  Capon  (378)    Escarole  Salad  (roo) 
Strawberry  Shortcake  (1677) 

1825.    CHICKEN  GUMBO,  ST.  GERMAIN 

Totally  bone  and  remove  skin  from  a  small,  tender  fowl  and  cut  meat 
into  half-inch-square  pieces.  Chop  two  medium  white  onions,  two  leeks, 
two  seeded,  sound  green  peppers  and  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham,  place 
these  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  gently  brown 
for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three 
quarts  water,  add  bones  only  of  fowl,  season  with  a  teaspoon  and  a  half 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  half 
pint  shelled  green  peas  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  cut- 
up  meat,  two  ounces  raw  rice,  twelve  fresh,  trimmed  okras  cut  in  half- 
inch  pieces  and  two  peeled,  seeded  tomatoes  cut  the  same  size.  Slow- 
ly boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  take  up  bones,  skim  fat  from  surface,  pour 
the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1826.    BLUEFISH,  CREOLE 

Remove  bones  from  a  fresh  three-pound  bluefish,  place  in  a  lightly 
buttered  tin,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika, 
baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  twenty-five 
minutes,  remove  and  dress  on  a  baking  dish.  Pour  a  Creole  sauce  (No. 
507)  and  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over  the  fish,  place  in  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  remove,  cut  a  sound  lemon  in  half,  finely  slice,  arrange  it 
around  dish  and  serve. 

•    1827.    TOURNEDOS,  SAUCE  FINNOISE 

Cut  a  well-trimmed,  two-pound  filet  of  beef  in  six  even  filets  and  sea- 
son all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  filets  one  beside  an- 
other in  pan  and  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on 
six  round-shaped  pieces  of  toast  placed  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Finnoise 
sauce  (No.  251)  over  them  and  serve. 


540  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Thursday,  Third   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  Hominy  (45) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Jean  de  Luz 

Broiled  Kingfish  (792) 

Frizzled  Beef  in  Cream  (329) 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1828.  SLICED  PEACHES  AND  CREAM 

Carefully  peel  twelve  medium,  sound,  ripe  peaches,  then  cut  them 
from  the  stone  into  quarter-inch  pieces,  place  on  a  compotier,  sprinkle 
a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve  with  thick  cream  and  fine  sugar 
separately. 

1829.  SHIRRED  EGGS,  JEAN  DE  Luz 

Broil  six  thin  slices  ham  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Lightly  butter 
six  shirred-egg  dishes,  arrange  a  slice  of  ham  in  each  dish,  then  crack 
two  fresh  eggs  into  each.  Season  all  around  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Set  in  oven  three 
minutes.  Remove,  divide  a  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  over  them, 
sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consommd  in  Cups  (52) 
Vol  au  Vent  of  Frogs'  Legs 

Borneo  Curry 
French  Pancakes  (17) 

1830.    VOL  AU  VENT  OF  FROGS'  LEGS 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  vol  au  vent  (No.  757).  Trim  off  feet  from 
one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  frogs'  legs.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  legs.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  gently  mix  with  fork  and  cook  five  minutes, 
add  four  sound  very  finely  chopped  shallots,  mix  well  and  copk  six  min- 
utes more,  occasionally  tossing  meanwhile.  Add  one  good  tablespoon 
flour,  stir  well,  then  moisten  with  a  half  gill  sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills 
hot  milk  and  a  half  gill  cream,  adding  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms; 
mix  with  the  fork  and  cook  five  minutes  more,  add  a  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  mix  lightly  and  cook  two  minutes  longer.  Dilute  one 
egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  half  ounce  good  butter  and  add 
to  the  frogs 'legs,  continually  tossing  while  heating  without  boiling  for 
two  minutes.  Place  the  vol  au  vent  on  a  hot  dish,  fill  up  with  the 
preparation,  place  the  cover  on  and  serve. 

1831.    BORNEO  CURRY 

Cut  the  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  chicken  of  two  and  a  half  pounds. 
Singe,  draw  and  cut  it  in  twelve  even  pieces.  Cut  also  in  one-inch 
pieces  three  fresh,  skinned  mutton  kidneys  and  two  ounces  lean  bacon, 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE  541 

and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required.  Finely  slice  a  medium  carrot,  one 
small  onion  and  a  bean  of  garlic;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  cloves, 
one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  thyme,  one  parsley  root  and  one  tablespoon  gutter; 
lightly  brown  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Then  add 
two  light  tablespoons  flour,  a  tablespoon  curry  powder  and  thoroughly 
mix  while  cooking  two  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  quart  water,  add  rind 
of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  a  small  sliced  apple,  two  light  teaspoons  grated  co- 
coanut,  two  ripe  cut-up  tomatoes,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  a  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes,  then  strain  the  sauce 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  tureen  and  keep  hot.  Heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  chicken,  kidney  and  bacon 
and  lightly  brown  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Add 
three  slices  of  peeled  eggplant,  cut  in  half-inch  squares,  a  small  car- 
rot cut  in  quarter-inch  squares,  one  chopped  green  pepper  and  twelve 
picked,  uncooked  string  beans,  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes.  Pour 
in  the  sauce  and  boil  thirty-five  minutes.  Dress  the  chicken  and  all 
the  contents  of  the  pan  on  a  large  dish,  arrange  a  rice  (No.  490) 
around  the  dish  as  a  crown  and  serve  with  chutney,  separately. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)         Anchovies  on  Toast  (141) 

Garbure  with  Cucumbers 

Halibut,  Fleurette  (319)       Potatoes,  Bretonne  (763) 
Rack  of  Veal  Brais<£    with  Glazed  Onions 

Baked  Tomatoes  (841) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Charlotte  PlombieVe 

1832.     GARBURE  WITH  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  two  large  and  rather  green  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters,  remove 
the  seeds,  then  cut  in  one-inch-long  strips  and  plunge  in  boiling  water  for 
three  minutes.  Drain,  heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  cucumbers,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  sugar  over  and  brown 
a  light  colour,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two  quarts 
broth  and  a  pint  of  water,  add  an  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it. 
Tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley  and 
one  branch  chervil;  add  to  the  soup.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon 
talt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  slowly  boil  one  hour,  then  remove  the 
.herbs  and  onions.  Cut  six  slices  from  a  loaf  of  French  bread,  place 
them  on  a  tin.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  soup,  pour  over  the 
slices  of  bread  and  set  them  in  oven  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove, 
place  the  slices  in  a  hot  soup  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  and  serve  with 
two  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese,  separately. 

1833.    RACK  OF  VEAL  BRAIS£  WITH  GLAZED  ONIONS 
Neatly  trim  off  the  spinal  bone  from  a  three-pound  tender  white 
rack  of  veal.    Arrange  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  at  bottom  of  a  braising  pan, 


542  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

lay  veal  over,  season  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg ;  pour  in  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  at  bottom 
of  the  pan.  Cover  pan,  set  on  fire  ten  minutes,  add  a  quarter  pint  white 
wine  and  let  reduce  to  a  third  of  the  quantity,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Cover 
pan,  set  in  oven  fifty  minutes.  Remove,  place  veal  on  a  large  dish, 
arrange  a  glazed  onion  garnishing  (No.  125)  around  veal.  Skim 
fat  from  sauce.  Reduce  the  sauce  ten  minutes  on  range,  then  strain  it 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  veal  and  serve. 

1834.  CHARLOTTE  PLOMBI£RE 

Prepare  the  same  amount  of  lady-fingers  (No.  150)  and  with  them 
carefully  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  plain  quart  pudding  mould,  then 
fill  up  the  mould  with  a  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Unmould  on  a  cold 
dish,  decorate  the  top  and  all  around  with  a  half  pint  whipped  cream 
(No.  337)  and  serve. 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73)     Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Fried  Eggs,  Luganese  Broiled  Smoked  Salmon 

Lamb  Kidneys  en  Brochettes  (1331) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

1835.  FRIED  EGGS,  LUGANESE 

Lightly  butter  an  enamelled  shirred-egg  dish, line  the  bottom  with  very 
thin  slices  Swiss  cheese,  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  the  cheese,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Pour  a  gill  cream  over,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  on  top,  then  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove  and 
place  dish  on  fire  one  minute.  Remove  to  a  table,  place  in  a  frying  pan 
one  ounce  butter  and  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  toss  on  fire  until  a 
nice  light  brown,  pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

1836.    BROILED  SMOKED  SALMON 

Cut  twelve  slices  from  a  piece  of  smoked  salmon  one-fifth  of  an  inch 
thick,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler,  lightly  baste  slices  with  a  little  melted 
butter,  then  broil  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour 
a  very  little  melted  butter  over,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Potage,  Bouillabaisse          Scallops  en  Coquilles  (212) 

Banana  Omelette 

Turkey  Hash  en  Bordure  (953) 

Farina  Pudding  (1005) 

1837.    POTAGE,  BOUILLABAISE 

Finely  mince  three  leeks  and  two  white  onions,  place  in  a  saucepan 
With  two  tablespoons  oil  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes,  then  add  two 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE     .  543 

beans  crushed  garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  three  tablespoons  flour, 
and  stir  well  while  heating  two  minutes.  Pour  in  a  quart  fresh,  ripe, 
crushed  tomatoes,  two  quarts  water,  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  two  saltspoons  Spanish  saffron,  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  thyme  and 
one  clove.  Mix  well  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  and  a  half 
pounds  fresh  fish  bones,  boil  twenty-five  minutes  longer.  Strain  the 
soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into 
another  saucepan.  Break  two  ounces  spaghetti  in  inch-long  pieces, 
add  to  the  soup  and  let  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1838.    BANANA  OMELETTE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  fork  two 
minutes.  Finely  slice  two  peeled  bananas,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  five  minutes,  briskly  tossing  mean- 
while. Drop  in  the  eggs,  sharply  mix  with  fork  two  minutes,  let  rest 
a  half  minute,  fold  up  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  one  minute, 
then  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)      Olives 

Tomatoes  en  Surprise  (1515)  Creme,  Na.ntua 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel  (689) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Porterhouse  Steak,  Marchand  de  Vin  (1456) 

Oyster  Plant  in  Cream 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Swiss  (1526) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)     Escarole  Salad  (roo) 

Biscuit,  Mousseline 

1839.    CREME,  NANTUA 

Heat  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  one  finely 
sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  a  half 
tablespoon  whole  black  peppers  and  one  and  a  half  pounds  live  lobsters 
cut  in  small  pieces,  gently  brown  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  one  pound 
fresh  halibut  cut  in  small  pieces.  Moisten  with  quarter  pint  white 
wine,  one  pint  crushed  tomatoes  and  two  quarts  water.  Season 
with  two  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  adding  three  ounces  raw  rice,  mix  well,  and  slowly  cook  one 
hour,  stirring  at  bottom  once  in  a  while.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a 
basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  add  two 
gills  cream,  one  tablespoon  brandy,  a  half  ounce  good  butter,  briskly 
mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

1840.    OYSTER  PLANT  IN  CREAM 

Place  in  a  basin  two  ounces  flour,  two  quarts  water  and  half  gill 
vinegar;  mix  well.  Scrape  a  large  bunch  sound,  fresh  oyster  plants,  cut 
off  stems  and  immediately  plunge  in  the  prepared  water  and  thoroughly 


544  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

wash,  drain  and  plunge  in  three  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  adding  a  sound  lemon  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  forty  minutes  or  until 
soft.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  cut  in  half-inch  pieces.  Prepare  a  cream 
sauce  (No.  736).  Drop  the  oyster  plant  in  the  sauce,  squeeze  in  juice 
of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  lightly  mix,  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  into  a 
vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1841.     BISCUIT,  MOUSSELINE 

Place  in  a  bowl  six  egg  yolks,  the  grated  rind  of  a  sound  lemon,  juice 
of  half  of  the  lemon  and  four  ounces  sugar.  Sharply  beat  with  a  whisk 
ten  minutes;  beat  up  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to 
the  yolks  with  an  ounce  and  a  half  arrowroot  flour  and  gently  mix  with 
skimmer  one  minute.  Line  bottom  of  an  eight-inch-square  lightly 
buttered  pastry  pan  with  sheet  buttered  paper,  drop  preparation  into 
pan,  neatly  smooth  surface.  Sprinkle  two  ounces  unpeeled  sweet 
almonds  and  a  tablespoon  sugar  over  surface  of  preparation.  Set  in  oven 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  evenly  pour  half  gill  good  Jamaica  rum 
over  surface  of  cake  and  let  cool  off.  Turn  cake  on  the  table,  lift  up 
paper,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over.  Cut  biscuit  in  twelve  equal 
pieces,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Saturday,  Third   'Week   of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 
Quaker  Oats  (105)  Eggs.  Schiff 

Perch  Saute\  Meuniere  (1013) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434)  Garfield  Potatoes 

Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

1842.    EGGS,  SCHIFF 

Heat  two  tablespoons  good  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add 
six  finely  sliced,  good-sized,  peeled  and  thoroughly  cleaned  fresh  mush- 
rooms and  gently  brown  five  minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoon  flour;  mix 
well  while  heating  one  minute,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  and 
a  half  gills  cream  and  a  gill  milk.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  with  wooden  spoon  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  finely  chopped  truffle,  four  anchovies  in 
oil  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  mix  well.  Cut  eight  hard-boiled  eggs  in 
quarters,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  gently  mix,  drop  the  eggs  into  a  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over.  Set  in  oven 
to  bake  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1843.-    GARFIELD  POTATOES 

Peel  ten  small  new  potatoes,  then  cut  in  lengthwise  slices  a  sixth 
of  an  inch  thick.  Wash  and  thoroughly  dry,  then  place  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  six  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour; 
lift  up,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE  545 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 

Goulash  of  Beef,  Hungarian  Style  (263) 

Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

German  Pancakes  (943) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Thon  Marine"  (i597> 
Consomme  with  Spaghettini 
Baked  Weakfish    with  Bacon 

Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 
Fowl  with  Rice,  Me"nage"re  (373) 

Spinach,  Martha  (1534) 

Leg  of  Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (1378) 

Watercress  Salad  (419) 

Ginger  Pudding  (394) 

1844.      CONSOMMg   WITH   SPAGHETTINI 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52).  Strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and 
let  simmer.  Break  three  ounces  spaghettini  into  inch  pieces,  add  to 
the  consomme,  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
send  to  table  with  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

1845.    BAKED  WEAKFISH  WITH  BACON 

Scale,  trim  fins  and  cut  head  off  a  fresh  three-pound  weakfish, 
split  in  two,  remove  spinal  bone,  then  lay  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  cut 
side  up.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  lightly 
baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Bring 
it  to  oven  door,  place  six  thin  slices  raw  lean  bacon  over  the  fish, 
sprinkle  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  over  all,  reset  in  oven  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes  more.  Remove,  then  by  means  of  a  skimmer  lift 
up  the  fish  and  the  rest,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens.  (If  any  gravy  is  left  in  the  pan,  pour 
it  over  the  fish  and  serve.) 


Sunday,  Third  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  with  Cream  Semolina  (192' 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Bretonne 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Rice  Cakes  (221) 

1846.    RASPBERRIES  WITH  CREAM 

Carefully  pick  out  all  stems,  if  any  adhering,  from  a  quart  of  fresh 
raspberries.  Place  berries  in  a  compotier  and  serve  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cream  separately. 


546  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1847.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  BRETONNE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Beat  up  with  fork  one  minute. 
Heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  three  skinned  raw 
sausages  cut  in  half-inch  pieces  and  fry  two  minutes;  add  two  slices 
bread  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares,  and  two  tablespoons  cooked  green 
peas  and  gently  cook  five  minutes,  occasionally  tossing  meanwhile. 
Drop  in  eggs,  let  rest  for  two  minutes,  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until 
thoroughly  thickened.  Turn  into  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  in  Cups 
Broiled  Devilled  Lobster  (158) 

Coquilles  of  Chicken  au  Gratin          Eggplant  Saute,  Bordelaise 
Souffl^  of  Strawberries  (968) 

CHICKEN  BROTH  IN  CUPS  (578) 

Cut  feet  and  head  from  a  good -sized  tender  fowl;  singe,  draw 
and  wipe,  then  boil  this  fowl  with  the  broth.  Take  up  fowl  and 
keep  for  further  use. 

1848.     COQUILLES  OF  CHICKEN  AU  GRATIN 

Skin  and  totally  bone  the  boiled  fowl.  Cut  meat  in  half-inch 
pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  and  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  heat  two  minutes,  then  pour 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  white  broth  (No.  701) ;  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  two 
minutes  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Add 
six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  one  small,  finely  sliced  truffle,  half 
gill  cream  and  one  egg  yolk;  sharply  mix  while  heating  one  minute. 
Then  add  chicken  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  let  cook 
five  minutes,  remove  and  evenly  divide  in  six  table  shells.  Sprinkle 
a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  divide  half  ounce  butter  in  little 
bits  over  them.  Set  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1849.    EGGPLANT  SAUTE",  BORDELAISE 

Peel  and  cut  in  half-inch  squares  a  medium,  sound  eggplant.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  eggplant.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire 
five  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Add  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  toss 
well  and  cook  three  minutes,  then  add  half  a  bean  chopped  garlic  and 
half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  pour  in  a  half  gill  claret,  mix 
well,  then  let  reduce  till  nearly  dry.  Pour  in  one  gill  of  demi-glace 
(No.  122).  Mix  well  and  let  cook  five  minutes,  occasionally  tossing 
meanwhile.  Pour  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE,  $47 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)       Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Cream  of  Fresh  Mushrooms 

Salmon,  Valois  Potatoes,  Lisbonne 

Filet  Mignons,  Saute,  Hussarde  (322) 

Sweetbreads,  Senora  Diaz 
Fresh  Peas  with  Butter  (1519) 

Punch  a  I1  Anisette  (1163) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Iced  Pudding,  Fontainebleau 

1850.    CREAM  OF  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Wash  in  plenty  cold  water  three-quarters  of  a  pound  fresh  mush- 
rooms, drain  on  a  cloth  and  finely  slice  them.  Heat  one  ounce  butter 
in  a  large  saucepan,  add  the  mushrooms  and  gently  fry  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Lift  them  from  pan  with  a  skimmer 
and  pound  to  a  pulp  in  a  mortar.  Add  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour 
to  the  mushroom  butter  in  pan;  stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating 
two  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  quart  and  a  half  broth  (No.  701)  and  a 
pint  milk,  add  mushrooms  with  a  medium,  sliced  white  onion,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  mix  well  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Let  boil  thirty-five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two 
gills  cream  and  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  add  it  to  the  soup  with  half 
ounce  good  butter,  mix  while  heating  without  boiling  five  minutes. 
Remove,  strain  cream  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1851.    SALMON,  VALOIS 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  a  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  two  branches  parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  cay- 
enne. Cover  fish  with  lightly  buttered  paper,  then  boil  on  range  five 
minutes.  Set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  fish  with 
skimmer,  place  on  a  hot  dish;  boil  sauce  for  five  minutes.  Lightly  roll 
six  freshly  opened  oysters  (if  at  hand)  in  flour  and  plunge  in  boiling  fat 
three  minutes,  take  them  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over,  arrange  around  fish,  as  well  as  half  a  small  bunch  fresn  fried 
parsley.  Strain  sauce  over  fish  and  serve. 

1852.    POTATOES,  LISBONNE 

Peel  and  wash  twelve  even-sized,  new,  sound  potatoes  and  keep  in 
cold  water  until  required.  Finely  slice  one  medium,  white  onion,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while;  add  one  teaspoon  flour,  stir  well,  add  three  crushed 
fresh  red  tomatoes,  a  sprig  thyme,  one  clove,  one  bay  leaf,  one  gill  broth, 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  well  and  let 
boil  twenty  minutes.  Strain  sauce  into  another  saucepan,  drain  and 


S48  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

add  potatoes,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  forty  minutes.    Remove, 
pour  into  a  dish  and  serve. 

1853.    SWEETBREADS,  SENORA  DIAZ 

Blanch  and  trim  six  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33).  Cut  twenty-four 
pieces  raw  ham  one  inch  long  by  a  sixth  of  an  inch  thick,  tnen  with  a 
larding  needle  insert  the  strips  of  ham  through  the  sweetbreads.  Line 
bottom  of  a  frying  pan  with  a  sliced  white  onion,  one  sliced  leek  and 
two  sliced  branches  celery,  add  half  ounce  butter  and  lightly  fry  five 
minutes.  Lay  breads  on  top.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper  and  three  saltspoons  curry  powder.  Moisten  with 
three-quarters  pint  of  broth  (No.  701).  Cover  breads  with  buttered 
paper  and  set  in  a  lively  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Have  six  tartlet 
crusts  (No.  161).  Remove  breads  from  oven,  place  one  in  each  tartlet 
on  a  dish,  cut  six  sweet  Spanish  peppers  in  half  and  lightly  fry  in  a  tea- 
spoon butter  two  minutes  on  each  side,  then  arrange  them  on  top  of  the 
breads  and  keep  hot.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  with  a  tablespoon  flour.  Strain  the  sweetbread  gravy  into  this 
pan,  add  a  half  gill  cream  and  two  ounces  peeled  and  lightly  browned 
sweet  almonds,  mix  well  and  let  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  sauce  over 
sweetbreads  and  serve. 

1854.    ICED  PUDDING,  FONTAINEBLEAU 

Prepare  a  quart  of  coffee  ice  cream  (No.  1616).  Press  quarter 
pound  candied  marrons  through  a  sieve  into  the  coffee  ice  cream,  add 
also  three  slices  candied  pineapple  cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces,  six  can- 
died marrons  cut  in  quarters,  and  two  tablespoons  good  Jamaica 
rum.  Mix  thoroughly  with  spatula.  Line  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould 
with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  then  fill  up  with  the  coffee  preparation. 
Tightly  cover  and  bury  it  in  tub  with  plenty  of  ice  and  rock  salt  to  freeze 
one  hour.  Remove,  wipe  all  around,  unmould  it  on  a  cold  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  over,  lift  up  the  paper.  Arrange  twelve  large,  fresh, 
well-picked  strawberries  around  the  pudding  and  serve. 


Monday,  Third   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)     Oatmeal  Porridge  (a) 

Eggs  Molet,  Ravigote 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel  (388) 

Chicken  Livers,  Saute",  with  Bacon 

"Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Kiimmel  Cakes  (169) 

1855.    EGGS  MOLET,  RAVIGOTE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  five  minutes,  take  up  and  plunge  in  cold  water 
for  a  minute,  remove  shell,  and  arrange  on  a  deep  dish.  Pour  a  hot 
Ravigote  sauce  (No.  366)  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 


MONDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE  549 

1856.    CHICKEN  LIVERS,  SAUTE",  WITH  BACON 

Remove  the  gall  bag  from  twelve  fresh  chicken  livers;  wash  and  drain 
on  a  cloth.  Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
livers,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
briskly  fry  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up,  place  on  a  dish,  arrange 
six  slices  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Scallops,  Brestoise 
Mutton  Steaks,  Plum  Sauce 

Okra  Salad 
Pancakes,  Georgette    (517) 

1857.     SCALLOPS,  BRESTOISE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops  with 
gill  white  wine,  gill  water,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper.  Cover  pan  and  boil  five  minutes.  Place  a  finely  chopped 
white  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  five 
minutes.  Add  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  then  strain  liquor  of  the 
scallops  into  this  pan,  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Add  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  a  half  bean  chopped  garlic 
and  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley;  mix  well.  Finely  chop  scallops, 
add  to  sauce  with  an  egg  yolk,  sharply  mix  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Pour  preparation  into  a  dish  and  let  get  cold.  Divide  the  scallops  into 
six  large  scallop  shells,  smooth  surface  to  dome-shaped  forms,  sprinkle 
a  little  bread  crumbs  and  arrange  a  few  little  bits  butter  over  them; 
place  in  a  tin  and  bake  in  oven  twelve  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

1858.    MUTTON  STEAKS,  PLUM  SAUCE 

Have  three  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  cut  from  a  tender 
leg  of  mutton ;  make  a  few  incisions  on  the  skin  all  around  steaks.  Neatly 
flatten,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  steaks  one  beside 
another  in  the  pan  and  fry  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  place  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  a  plum  sauce  over  and  serve. 

1859.  PLUM  SAUCE 

Soak  a  half  pound  California  prunes  in  cold  water  eight  hours ;  drain 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  good  gill  claret,  two  ounces  sugar  and  two 
saltspoons  ground  cinnamon.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  ten  minutes; 
'carefully  lift  up  prunes  with  the  skimmer  and  keep  them  on  a  plate 
until  required.  Add  one  and  a  half  gills  of  demi-glace  (No.  122)  to 
the  syrup  and  let  reduce  on  a  brisk  fire  twenty  minutes,  add  prunes, 
boil  five  minutes  more  and  use  as  required. 

1860.  OKRA  SALAD 

Clip  off  stems  from  a  pint  and  a  half  of  very  fresh,  sound,  medium 
okras.  Plunge  in  cold  water,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain,  then  place 


550  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  boiling  water,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Cover  pan  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Remove, 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve  and  let  get  cold.  Place  in  a  bowl,  season 
with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives       Caviare  (59) 
Oignon  Soup,  Bourgeoise 

Blackfish,  Saute",  Fines  Herbes         Potatoes,  Dijonnaise  (985) 
Duckling  Braise"  a  1'Orange 

Boiled  Green  Corn 

Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Gateaux,  Jeanne 

1861.    OIGNON  SOUP,  BOURGEOISE 

Cut  four  medium,  white  onions  in  half,  then  finely  slice  them.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  onions  and  cook 
until  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  add  two  tablespoons  flour;  stir  well  while 
heating  one  minute,  pour  in  two  quarts  milk,  mix  with  wooden  spoon 
until  it  comes  to  boiling  point  then  let  slowly  boil  forty  minutes, 
season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg  and  mix  well.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  gill 
cream,  add  to  soup  with  half  ounce  good  butter,  mix  while  heating  two 
minutes;  remove,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  six 
slices  of  French  bread,  toasted. 

1862.    BLACKFISH,  SAUT£,  FINES  HERBES 

Scale,  trim  fins  and  wipe  a  three-pound  fresh  blackfish.  Season 
all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Lightly 
baste  with  a  little  milk,  then  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish  and  nicely  brown  ten  minutes  on  each 
side.  Set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish.  Add 
half  ounce  butter  to  pan  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley 
one  branch  chopped  chervil,  chopped  leaves  from  a  branch  of  tarragon, 
then  toss  on  fire  until  a  light  brown,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon,  toss  a  little,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1863.     DUCKLING  BRAISE",  A  L'ORANGE 

Cut  off  head  and  feet  from  a  five-pound  duckling.  Singe,  draw, 
wipe  and  truss.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  at  the  bottom  of  a  braising 
pan  with  an  ounce  butter,  lay  duck  over  it.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  lightly  baste  the  duck  with  a  little  melted 
butter.  Set  in  oven  to  roast  twenty-five  minutes.  Draw  the  duck  to 
oven  door,  carefully  peel  and  skin  two  sound  juicy  oranges,  add  the 
rinds  to  the  duck  with  four  tablespoons  currant  jelly,  two  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122),  and  one  gill  broth  (No.  701).  Cover  pan  and  reset 
in  oven  forty-five  minutes  longer.  Remove,  dress  bird  on  a  large  dish, 
untruss,  then  cut  the  peeled  oranges  in  halves  and  finely  slice  them, 
remove  seeds,  and  arrange  around  the  dish,  one  overlapping  another. 


TUESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JUNE  551 

Reduce  sauce  on  a  brisk,  open  fire  ten  minutes.    Skim  fat  from  sur- 
face.    Strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  duck  and  serve. 

1864.    BOILED  GREEN  CORN 

Pare  off  stems,  remove  leaves  and  silk  from  six  sound,  tender  ears 
green  corn.  Boil  in  a  saucepan  three  quarts  water,  a  gill  milk,  a  table- 
spoon salt  and  a  half  ounce  butter,  then  plunge  in  the  corn  and  boil 
twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up,  thoroughly  drain,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
enveloped  in  a  napkin  and  serve  with  a  little  melted  butter  separately. 

1865.    GATEAUX,  JEANNE 

Beat  up  in  a  copper  basin  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  add 
four  ounces  fine  sugar,  mix  a  little  with  a  skimmer,  then  add  half  pint 
whipped  cream,  four  ounces  sifted  flour  and  two  tablespoons  curacao. 
Mix  well  with  the  skimmer.  Drop  preparation  in  a  lightly  buttered  and 
floured  pastry  tin,  eight  inches  square  and  one  and  a  half  inches  high. 
Set  in  oven  to  bake  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off,  turn  on  a 
table  and  cut  cake  into  quarter-inch-thick  slices.  Prepare  a  cream 
frangipane  (No.  586)  and  spread  it  on  both  sides  of  the  sliced  pieces, 
then  stick  the  cakes  one  against  another,  so  as  to  have  them  of  the 
original  form.  Spread  a  glace  au  chocolate  (No.  1579)  over  the  cakes, 
let  cool  off,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Third   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 
Malta  Vita  (1592)       Eggs,  Pondicherry 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Breakfast  Bacon,  Devilled  (682)      Potatoes  en  Quartiers  (686) 
Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

1866.    EGGS,  PONDICHERRY 

Boil  a  pint  of  white  broth  (No.  701)  in  a  saucepan,  add  three  ounces 
raw  rice,  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  one  ounce  freshly 
grated  fresh  cocoanut.  Mix  well  and  gently  boil  thirty-five  minutes. 
Cut  eight  shelled  hard-boiled  eggs  in  quarters  and  add  to  the  rice  with  a 
gill  cream,  half  ounce  butter  and  three  saltspoons  salt;  mix  well,  and 
cook  for  five  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Dress  the  eggs  in  a 
deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80)         Crab  Meat  au  Gratin  (782) 

Croquettes  of  Beef,  Horseradish  Sauce 

New  Carrots  and  Peas 

Rice  Imperatrice  (1234) 

1867.    CROQUETTES  OF  BEEF,  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 
Mince  very  finely  all  the  beef  left  over  from  yesterday,  place  in  a 
bowl  and  add  half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs.    Chop  very  finely  one 


552  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

medium,  white  onion  and  fry  in  a  saucepan  with  two  teaspoons  melted 
butter  six  minutes,  add  to  the  beef  with  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  and  a  bean  finely  chopped  garlic.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Crack  in 
two  raw  eggs,  add  two  tablespoons  cream,  sharply  mix  with  wooden 
spoon  five  minutes.  Divide  preparation  in  twelve  equal  parts,  lightly 
roll  in  flour,  giving  nice  croquette  form.  Heat  in  a  large  frying  pan  two 
tablespoons  melted  lard,  place  croquettes  in  pan  one  beside  another, 
and  gently  fry  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Drain  well,  place  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  a  horseradish  sauce  (No.  323)  around  and  serve. 

1868.    NEW  CARROTS  AND  PEAS 

Cut  the  stems  off  and  scrape  twelve  small  new  carrots.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely  sliced  onion  and 
brown  four  minutes,  then  add  the  carrots,  one  pint  fresh  peas,  a  small 
head  lettuce  finely  sliced,  one  chopped  bean  garlic,  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  a  half  pint  broth,  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar 
and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  well,  cover  pan  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  then  set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  add  a  half 
ounce  butter,  mix  well,  pour  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Salted  Almonds  (954)  Clams  (1457)  Celery  (86) 

Potage,  Mikado 

Sheepshead,  Charleston 

Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 

Noix  of  Beef  Braise,  Bourgeoise 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Hollandaise  (1385) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 
Neselrode  Pudding  (607) 

1869.    POTAGE,  MIKADO 

Cut  half  of  a  small  breast  of  chicken,  quarter  of  a  pound  lean  raw 
veal  and  quarter  pound  of  lean  raw  mutton  into  small  dice  pieces, 
place  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  with  one  ounce  butter  and  cook  for  five 
minutes,  stirring  with  the  spatula  meanwhile.  Then  moisten  with  two 
and  a  half  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701),  add  a  finely  chopped,  medium 
onion,  one  green  pepper  chopped  the  same  way  and  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons diluted  curry.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek,  two  branches  celery 
two  ditto  parsley,  one  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  clove 
and  one  bean  garlic,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  slowly  forty  minutes,  add  three 
tablespoons  raw  rice,  cook  thirty  minutes  longer.  Remove  the  herbs, 
etc.,  skim  fat  from  surface,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1870.    SHEEPSHEAD,  CHARLESTON 

Scale,  trim  fins  and  remove  bones  from  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh 
sheepshead.  Cut  in  fine  julienne  strips  two  parsley  roots,  one  leek, 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE          553 

two  branches  celery,  four  medium,  fresh,  well  peeled  and  cleaned  mush- 
rooms and  one  medium  white  onion.  Place  these  in  a  frying  pan  with 
an  ounce  of  melted  butter  gently  brown  six  minutes  and  place  fish 
over  them.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika,  pour 
in  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Cover  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  range  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  oven  thirty  minutes.  Dress  the  fish  on  a  large  dish.  Reduce 
sauce  for  eight  minutes  on  the  fire,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1871.    Noix  OF  BEEF  BRAISE",  BOURGEOISE 

Procure  a  four-pound  piece  from  a  tender  rump  of  beef,  with  all  the 
fat  on  one  side.  With  a  large  larding  needle  insert  across  the  lean  part 
of  the  beef  four  oblong  shreds  of  larding  pork.  Heat  one  ounce  lard 
in  a  braising  pan,  add  beef  and  nicely  brown  on  range  fifteen  minutes, 
turning  it  once  in  a  while;  lift  up  the  beef  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Add 
twelve  small,  peeled  white  onions  to  the  pan  with  twelve  new  scraped 
carrots  and  two  ounces  salt  pork  cut  in  half-inch  squares  and  gently 
brown  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile;  sprinkle  with  a 
tablespoon  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  two  minutes,  add  the  beef,  pour 
in  two  gills  of  demi-glace  (No.  122),  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  two 
gills  broth,  half  gill  claret,  a  tablespoon  brandy,  a  teaspoon  and  a  half 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  well,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  thirty 
minutes.  Tie  together  a  branch  tarragon,  a  branch  chervil,  a  branch 
parsley  and  one  bean  garlic  and  add  to  pan  with  half  pint  cooked  fresh 
peas.  Cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  one  hour  and  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  arrange  the  beef  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  fat  from  sauce,  pour  it 
over  beef,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Fourth   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Cornmeal  Flour  (328) 

Poached  Eggs,  Parmentier 

Picked-up  Codfish  in  Cream  (922) 

Mutton  Chops    with  Bacon  (845) 

Potatoesau  Gratin    with  Anchovies 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1872.    POACHED  EGGS,  PARMENTIER 

Prepare  a  potato  gastronome  (No.  1491)  spread  on  a  hot  dish  and 
smooth  well.  Poach  twelve  fresh  eggs  (No.  106),  neatly  trim  and  lay 
them  one  beside  another  on  the  potato  pure*e,  sprinkle  a  very  small 
finely  chopped  truffle  over  them  and  serve. 

1873.     POTATOES  AU  GRATIN  WITH  ANCHOVIES 

Finely  hash  six  peeled,  medium,  boiled  potatoes,  place  in  a  sautoire 
with  an  ounce  butter,  two  gills  cold  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 


$$4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well,  then  cook  five 
minutes.  Cut  into  small  pieces  eight  anchovies  in  oil,  add  them  to 
the  potatoes,  mix  well  and  let  cook  five  minutes.  Mix  with  a  spoon 
once  in  a  while.  Transfer  to  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  surface  with  two 
tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  arrange  a  few  little  bits 
butter  on  top  of  the  cheese,  then  set  to  bake  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Vol  au  Vent,  Mariniere  (443) 
Pilaff  of  Turkey.  Noni 

Salad,  Interlacken 
Blanc  Manger  (1052) 

1874.    PILAFF  OF  TURKEY,  NONI 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  into  half-inch 
pieces.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  a  sound,  seeded  green  pepper,  also  finely  chopped, 
and  brown  to  a  nice  light  colour,  add  four  ounces  of  raw  beef  marrow 
cut  into  small  squares,  one  peeled  and  cored  apple  cut  in  same  way, 
brown  five  minutes,  then  add  five  ounces  raw  rice,  the  turkey,  a  pint 
broth,  two  gills  pure  tomato  juice,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper;  lightly  mix,  cover  pan  set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  add  two  egg  yolks  and  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  drop  preparation  in  a  lightly  buttered  plain  pudding  mould 
and  mix  well.  Set  mould  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  up  to  half 
its  height,  then  set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on 
a  dish,  pour  a  port  wine  sauce  (No.  1087)  around  and  serve. 

1875.    SALAD,  INTERLACKEN 

Carefully  cut  in  lozenge  shape  and  the  thickness  of  a  fifty-cent  piece 
one  good-sized,  peeled,  pickled  beetroot,  two  stalks  tender,  crisp,  white 
celery,  one  sound,  rather  green  apple,  one  peeled  and  seeded  sound 
cucumber,  one  small,  peeled,  sound  apple  and  two  cold,  boiled,  peeled 
medium  potatoes.  Place  these  articles  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  three 
tablespoons  of  dressing  (No.  863).  Mix  well,  then  add  leaves  of  a  small, 
fresh  bunch  watercress,  lightly  mix,  and  just  a  moment  before  going  to 
table  add  two  tablespoons  mayonnaise  dressing,  rapidly  and  gently  mix 
again  and  immediately  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)     Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Potage  Gumbo,  Glasgow 

Pompano,  Maitre  d'H&tel  (228)       Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 
Balotine  of  Lamb,  Mace'doine  (1055) 

Spaghetti  au  Gratin  (1508) 

Roast  Capon  with  Cress  (378)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Malaga  Pudding  (309) 

1876.    POTAGE  GUMBO,  GLASGOW 

Cut  into  small  dice  one  pound  raw  lean  mutton,  one  medium  carrot, 
one  white  turnip,  one  white  onion,  one  leek  and  one  sound,  peeled,  green 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  555 

pepper,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  brown  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  tossing  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts 
water,  add  one  pound  mutton  bones,  three  ounces  well-washed  barley, 
two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  two  teaspoons  salt  and  a  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  slowly  boil  one  hour.  Then  add 
twelve  trimmed  fresh  okras  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  and  two  peeled, 
sound  red  tomatoes  cut  in  eight  pieces  each.  Boil  forty-five  minutes 
longer,  but  rather  slowly.  Take  up  bones,  skim  fat  from  surface, 
pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Fourth   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317)         Wheatena  (1298) 
Eggs  Cocotte,  Bonne  Femme 

Fish  Fritters  (1057) 

Tripe  Saute\  Creole  (1283) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (243) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1877.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  BONNE  FEMME 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  four  finely 
chopped  shallots,  the  scraped  red  part  of  a  small  carrot  and  fry  five 
minutes,  then  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  ten  branches 
chopped  chives,  one  finely  peeled  and  chopped  tomato,  three  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  three  saltspoons  salt  and 
saltspoon  white  pepper,  mix  well  and  let  cook  five  minutes.  Evenly 
divide  preparation  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in 
each  dish.  Season  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Cut  one  ounce  lean  salt  pork  in  dice,  brown  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  teaspoon  butter  to  nice  golden  colour,  distribute  it  equally 
over  the  eggs,  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Broiled  Soft  Shell  Crabs  (1727) 

Galantine  of  Fowl,  Jelly 

Potato  Salad 
Golden  Toast  with  Raspberries 

1878.     GALANTINE  OF  FOWL 

Cut  the  head  off  near  the  body  and  the  feet  below  the  first  joint  of  a 
good-sized,  tender  fowl.  Singe,  split  down  back  without  separating, 
carefully  remove  all  bones  without  cutting  skin ,  spread  bird  on  a  table, 
cut  away  thin  slices  of  breast  and  legs  and  place  them  where  there  is  no 
meat  on,  so  as  to  have  it  of  equal  thickness.  Season  interior  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Finely  chop  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  lean  raw  veal,  the  same  quantity 
fresh  fat  pork ,  place  these  two  articles  in  a  cold  mortar  and  pound  to  a 


556  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

smooth  pulp.  Remove  and  place  in  a  cold  earthen  tureen,  and  keep  on 
ice.  Cut  four  ounces  larding  pork  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  plunge  in 
boiling  water  two  minutes,  take  up,  place  on  a  plate  and  let  cool  off. 
Cut  four  ounces  red,  cooked  beef  tongue  in  same  shape  as  the  lard ,  cut 
also  three  truffles  in  same  way.  Remove  skins  from  an  ounce  of  pistachios, 
then  add  these  four  articles  to  the  bowl  with  the  force,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  saltspoon 
of  grated,  mixed  allspice  and  mix  well  with  the  spatula.  Place  in  a  small 
saucepan  three  chopped  shallots,  one  branch  parsley,  one  branch  chervil, 
four  tarragon  leaves,  one  and  a  half  gills  sherry  and  two  tablespoons 
truffle  liquor.  Cover  pan  and  let  reduce  to  a  third  of  the  quantity. 
Remove,  let  cool  off,  then  strain  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  bowl , 
add  two  tablespoons  rum,  thoroughly  stir  until  well  amalgamated,  then 
fill  fowl  with  the  force.  Roll  fowl  in  oblong  shape,  sew  it  up,  wrap  it  in 
a  strong  cloth,  tightly  tie  both  ends  and  in  the  centre.  Place  into  a 
long  saucepan  with  all  the  bones  from  the  fowl,  two  calf's  feet,  a  table- 
spoon salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cover  it  with  plenty  cold 
water,  place  lid  on  and  let  slowly  boil  one  hour  and  forty-five  minutes, 
being  careful  to  skim  off  fat  once  in  a  while.  Remove  from  pan,  lay  on 
a  dish,  let  stand  ten  minutes,  unwrap,  wash  cloth  in  cold  water 
and  wrap  fowl  again  in  same  cloth.  Place  it  between  two  boards,  lay  a 
weight  of  three  pounds  on  top  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  cold,  then 
unwrap,  take  off  the  string,  and  the  galantine  is  ready  to  use.  Always 
keep  the  galantine  enveloped  in  a  cloth  and  always  keep  in  the  ice  box. 

1879.    JELLY  FOR  GENERAL  USE 

Strain  the  galantine  stock  into  a  basin.  Skim  fat  from  surface, 
add  three  ounces  clear  gelatine  leaves  and  mix  with  a  whisk  until  well 
dissolved.  Place  in  a  saucepan  one  pound  finely  chopped ,  lean,  raw 
veal,  a  finely  sliced  carrot,  one  ditto  onion,  two  ditto  leeks,  one  branch 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  branch  tarragon,  half  a  sprig  thyme, 
one  bay  leaf,  one  clove  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Sharply  stir  with 
spatula  two  minutes ,  then  with  a  ladle  gradually  pour  in  the  galantine 
stock  with  the  jelly,  and  continually  mix  briskly  while  adding  it.  Place 
pan  on  fire  and  let  it  come  to  boiling  point,  carefully  mixing  meanwhile, 
pour  in  a  gill  cold  water,  shift  pan  to  the  corner  of  range  and  very  slowly 
simmer  one  and  a  half  hours.  Pour  in  gill  sherry,  boil  for  five  minutes 
more.  Carefully  press  through  a  dampened,  double  cheesecloth 
into  an  ordinary  clean  stone  jar,  let  cool  off,  then  place  in  the  ice  box 
until  hard.  Arrange  a  sheet  of  paper  over,  cover,  and  always  keep  it 
in  the  ice  box. 

N.  B.  When  the  jelly  is  nearly  finished  and  no  galantine  stock  is 
on  hand  use  strong  white  broth  instead  (No.  701),  but  always  have  some 
jelly  on  hand  in  hot  weather. 

1880.     GALANTINE  WITH  JELLY 

Take  up  four  tablespoons  jelly  from  the  jar,  cut  it  into  quarter-inch- 
square  pieces  and  arrange  jelly  on  a  dish.  Take  the  galantine  and  cut 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  557 

twelve  thin,  equal  slices.  Arrange  them,  one  overlapping  another, 
on  the  dish  over  the  jelly,  decorate  with  six  cleaned  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve. 

1 88 1.    POTATO  SALAD 

Place  six  sound  potatoes  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  plenty  cold 
water,  add  a  tablespoon  salt  and  cook  forty  minutes,  drain,  let  cool  off, 
then  peel,  slice  rather  finely,  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Cut  a  small 
white  onion  in  half,  then  slice  it  very  fine  and  add  the  potatoes  with  a 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing 
(No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

1882.     GOLDEN  TOAST  WITH  RASPBERRIES  « 

Cut  six  slices  from  a  stale  loaf  of  French  bread,  quarter-inch  thick. 
Place  in  a  bowl  two  fresh  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  a  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  one  gill  milk.  Sharply  mix  with  whisk  two  minutes. 
Dip  the  slices  of  bread  into  this  custard,  heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  bread  and  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Lift  up,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Remove  stems  from  a  half  pint  sound  raspberries,  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  gill  water  and  a  tablespoon 
kirsch;  boil  five  minutes,  then  pour  raspberries  over  the  toast  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Celery  (86)          Olives 

Soup,  Suisse  Pickerel,  Caper  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Persillade  (63)  Entrecotes  Casserole  (1286) 

Fresh  Asparagus,  Be"arnaise  (1708) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)   Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Mousse  au  Chocolat 

1883.    SOUP,  SUISSE 

Procure  a  two-pound  piece  short  ribs  of  beef,  tie  it  with  string  and 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  small  beef  marrow  bone;  pour  in  five  quarts 
cold  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Set  on  fire  and  let  slowly  come  to  boil- 
ing point,  skim  fat  from  surface,  then  add  two  medium  carrots,  two 
sound  white  turnips,  two  onions  and  two  branches  celery,  cover  pan 
and  let  simmer  on  corner  of  range  two  hours.  Finely  slice  two  well- 
washed  leeks,  add  them  to  the  soup  and  slowly  boil  half  hour  longer; 
then  remove  the  beef  bone,  carrots,  turnips,  onions  and  celery.  Chop 
up  together  three  branches  fresh  parsley,  one  branch  chervil  and  half  a 
sound  bean  garlic;  add  this  hash  to  the  soup  with  four  ounces  good  raw 
rice,  lightly  mix  and  continually  simmer  forty  minutes.  Skim  fat 
from  surface  of  soup,  transfer  it  to  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  two 
ounces  of  grated  Swiss  or  Parmesan  cheese,  separately. 

1884.    PICKEREL,  CAPER  SAUCE 

Trim  off  the  fins  and  neatly  wipe  a  very  fresh  pickerel  of  three  pounds. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  water,  a  half  gill  vinegar,  a  teaspoon 


$$8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

salt  and  two  branches  parsley.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  twenty  min* 
utes.  Take  up  fish,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  caper  sauce  (No.  1246) 
over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1885.    MOUSSE  AU  CHOCOLAT 

Place  four  ounces  grated  chocolate  in  a  copper  basin  with  a  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence,  four  ounces  sugar  and  two  gills  water.  Continually  stir 
on  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  remove 
and  let  cool  off.  Beat  a  half  pint  thick  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  grad- 
ually add  to  the  chocolate,  gently  mixing  meanwhile.  Line  a  dome- 
shaped  mould  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper;  drop  preparation  into  mould, 
Rightly  cover.  Bury  in  a  tub  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  and  let  freeze 
'one  and  a  half  hours.  Take  up,  thoroughly  wipe,  unmould  on  a  cold 
dish  over  a  folded  napkin,  pull  off  the  paper  and  serve. 

Friday,  Fourth   Week   of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (4°?)        Grape-Nuts  (1371) 
Omelette  with  Calves'  Brains 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Small  Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172)        Potatoes,  Be"arnaise  (1001) 
English  Muffins  (528) 

1886.    OMELETTE  WITH  CALVES'  BRAINS 

Plunge  two  fresh  calves'  brains  in  cold  water  for  thirty  minutes.  Re- 
move all  the  sinews,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  a 
teaspoon  salt,  one  bay  leaf  and  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  then  boil 
five  minutes.  Drain  well  and  cut  each  half  in  two.  Lightly  roll  in  flour, 
heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  in  the  brains 
and  briskly  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  and  keep  hot. 
Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Briskly  beat  with  fork  for  two  minutes. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  stir 
with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  a  half  minute,  fold  up  two  opposite 
sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange 
the  brains  around  the  omelette ;  add  an  ounce  butter  to  the  pan  of 
brains,  toss  on  fire  until  a  light  brown ;  pour  in  a  teaspoon  vinegar,  toss 
a  little,  pour  over  the  omelette  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tokio  Fish  Chowder  (1002) 
Little  Neck  Clam  Patties  (1232) 
Country  Captain  Eggs,  Belle  Helene 

•  Baba  au  Rhum  (687) 

1887.    COUNTRY  CAPTAIN 

Cut  the  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  three-pound  chicken.  Singe, 
draw  and  cut  it  in  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted 


FRIDA  Y,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  559 

butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  chicken  and  gently  fry  ten  minutes,  occa- 
sionally turning  the  pieces.  Add  one  finely  sliced  onion,  one  ditto  green 
pepper  and  a  bean  sound  garlic  finely  chopped ;  then  brown  ten  minutes, 
stirring  meanwhile,  and  moisten  with  two  gills  water.  Season  with  a 
good  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoons 
curry  powder,  stir  well,  then  add  six  finely  crushed  peeled  red  tomatoes, 
half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  saltspoon  powdered  thyme. 
Stir  well,  cover  pan,  then  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes,  remove  and 
keep  hot.  Scald,  peel  and  roast  to  a  nice  golden  colour  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  almonds,  add  to  the  chicken  with  three  tablespoons  picked  dried 
currants,  lightly  mix;  cook  five  minutes,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange 
a  rice  for  curry  (No.  490)  around  the  chicken.  Place  six  thin  slices 
crisp,  freshly  broiled  bacon  over,  and  serve  with  Indian  chutney,  separ- 
ately, and  Bombay  ducks  if  at  hand. 

1888.     EGGS,  BELLE  HELENE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  five  minutes,  take  them  up  and  plunge  in  cold 
water  one  minute;  remove  and  shell  them.  Clip  off  a  small  piece  at  the 
thick  end  of  each.  Cut  from  sandwich  bread  twelve  pieces  one  and  a 
half  inches  in  diameter  and  quarter-inch  thick;  toast  them  to  a  nice 
golden  colour,  then  carefully  spread  a  half  teaspoon  caviare  on  the 
toast  and  place  them  on  a  dish;  arrange  the  eggs  on  the  toast  standing 
up.  Cut  a  small  truffle  in  twelve  star-shaped  pieces  and  arrange  one 
piece  on  top  of  each  egg.  Pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  around  the 
eggs  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?)  Pim-Olas 

Canapes  of  Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Felicie 

Spanish  Mackerel,  Reick 

Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Rack  of  Mutton,  Puree  of  White  Beans 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 

Roast  Guinea  Hens  (1535) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Huckleberry  Pudding 

1889.    POTAGE,  FELICIE 

Slice  and  place  in  a  saucepan  one  carrot,  two  onions,  one  leek  and 
two  branches  parsley,  add  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  gently 
brown  on  fire  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile;  pour 
in  a  quarter  pint  white  wine,  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  then  pour 
in  three  quarts  water,  add  two  pounds  very  fresh  clean  fish  bones,  one 
bay  leaf,  one  clove,  one  sprig  thyme,  twelve  allspice,  twelve  whole  black 
peppers,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil  and  two  teaspoons 
salt;  let  simmer  forty-five  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  two  and  a  half 
ounces  flour  with  one  ounce  butter  for  one  minute,  strain  the  fish  broth 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  mix  on  fire  with  wooden  spoon  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  slowly  boil  thirty  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  pint 


560  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cream  and  a  half  gill  good  sherry,  mix  well  and  boil  five  minutes.  Dilute 
one  egg  yolk  in  a  bowl  with  half  gill  milk,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  to  the  soup;  continually  mix 
while  heating  three  minutes,  strain  the  potage  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  soup  tureen,  add  a  garnishing  of  fish  quenelles  (No.  1201)  in  the 
soup  tureen,  lightly  mix  and  serve. 

1890.     SPANISH  MACKEREL,  REICK 

Trim  fins,  cut  head  off  and  neatly  wipe  a  nice,  very  fresh  Spanish 
mackerel  of  three  and  a  half  pounds ;  split  in  two  through  back  and  cut 
into  six  even  pieces.  Heat  a  tablespoon  good  butter  in  a  round  earthen 
cocotte  dish,  add  six  very  small  green  onions  and  gently  brown  five 
minutes,  then  add  a  half  pint  picked,  tender,  fresh  peas,  three-quarters  of 
a  pint  broth  (No.  701),  and  briskly  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  a  tablespoon 
currant  jelly,  mix  well,  lay  the  mackerel  on  top  of  the  peas,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  paprika  and  half  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence.  Place  in  a  bowl  a  teaspoon  flour,  a  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
one  finely  chopped  red  Spanish  sweet  pepper,  half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  the  leaves  of  a  branch  chervil.  Thoroughly  mix 
with  spoon,  then  divide  in  little  bits  over  the  fish.  Squeeze  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon  over  all.  Tightly  cover  the  cocotte,  set  in  a  slow 
oven  forty  minutes,  remove  and  send  to  table  without  uncovering. 

1891.    RACK  OF  MUTTON,  PUR£E  or  WHITE  BEANS 

Trim  off  spinal  bone  from  a  tender  rack  of  mutton,  trim  off  skin  and 
a  little  of  fat  from  top,  shorten  end  ribs  one  inch.  Season  all  around 
with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  a  mirepoix  at  the 
bottom  of  a  roasting  pan,  as  No.  271,  lay  the  rack  over,  lightly  baste 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  pour  two  tablespoons  of  water  in  the  pan, 
then  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes,  turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish.  Prepare  and  dress  a  puree  of  beans  on  one 
side  of  the  mutton,  skim  fat  from  gravy,  add  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  boil  five  minutes,  then  strain  gravy  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
over  the  rack  and  serve. 

1892.  PUR£E  OF  WHITE  BEANS 

Soak  a  pint  of  white  beans  over  night,  drain,  place  in  a  saucepan 
vith  a  half  pound  piece  salt  pork,  one  carrot  cut  in  quarters,  one  white 
onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in,  two  branches  parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  quart  water.  Cover  pan,  boil  thirty 
minutes,  then  set  in  oven  .one  hour.  Remove,  free  beans  from  all  the 
ingredients,  then  press  through  a  sieve  into  another  saucepan,  add  half 
ounce  good  butter,  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for 
four  minutes,  remove  and  use  as  required. 

1893.  HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING 

Remove  fibres  from  a  half  pound  fresh  beef  suet  and  chop  very  fine. 
Sift  half  pound  flour  on  a  table,  make  a  small  fountain  in  centre;  place 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  561 

suet  with  a  half  pint  water  into  the  fountain,  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
knead  the  whole  well  together  to  a  perfect  paste;  roll  it  out  on  comer 
of  a  lightly  floured  table  to  a  fifth  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Butter  a 
quart  bowl  and  line  the  interior  with  the  paste. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  wipe  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  huckleberries, 
place  them  in  a  bowl  with  half  pound  sugar,  two  ounces  flour,  one  egg,  a 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  two  tablespoons  rum.  Mix  well,  then  fill 
the  bowl,  wet  the  edge,  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  rolled-out  paste  and 
gently  press  the  edges  together.  Wrap  in  a  strong,  clean  buttered  cloth, 
plunge  into  boiling  water  for  one  hour,  remove,  unwrap,  turn  it  on  a 
dish,  pour  a  rum  sauce  (No.  41)  over  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Fourth   Week   of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  (131?) 
Wheaten  Grits  (131)          Shirred  Eggs,  Reine 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  in  Milk  (1231) 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219) 

Julienne  Potatoes  (799)  Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1894.     SHIRRED  EGGS,  REINE 

Cut  six  very  thin  slices  of  galantine  (No.  1878)  and  place  a  slice  at 
bottom  of  six  lightly  buttered  shirred-egg  dishes.  Place  on  range  two 
minutes,  turn  slices  over,  then  pour  teaspoon  sherry  over  each  slice. 
Crack  two  fresh  eggs  over  each  dish.  Season  eggs  evenly  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper;  pour  a  gill  sweet  cream 
evenly  over  the  eggs  of  the  six  dishes,  then  set  in  oven  for  three  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams,  Bourguignonne 

Beef,  Rotterdam         Egg  Plant  en  Julienne  (508) 
Rice  Croquettes  (1389) 

1895.    SOFT  CLAMS,  BOURGUIGNONNE 

Open  thirty-six  medium  soft  clams,  remove  all  sandy  parts,  keeping 
nothing  but  perfect  bodies,  and  keep  on  half  shells  until  requir,  d. 
Place  in  a  mortar  three  peeled  shallots,  half  a  bean  garlic,  two 
branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil  and  pound  to  a  fine  pulp; 
add  one  ounce  hard  butter  and  thoroughly  pound  until  well  amalga- 
mated, then  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl;  add  four  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs;  mix  well  with  spoon  and  evenly  spread  this  butter  over 
the  clams;  arrange  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  to  bake  five  minutes.  -  Remove, 
arrange  on  a  dish;  pour  the  butter  from  pan  over  clams,  decorate  with 
six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1896.    BEEF,  ROTTERDAM 

Have  a  nice,  tender  four  pounds  of  beef  from  the  rump  with  all  fat 
on  one  side.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  salt- 


562  T&E  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  grated  nutmeg,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  add 
four  medium  sound  carrots,  four  white  onions,  all  cut  lengthwise  in 
quarters,  two  cloves,  two  nutmeg  leaves  (foelie),  one  branch  celery, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  three  medium  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  in  quarters. 
Pour  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  beef  entirely,  place  lid  on,  and  as 
soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  two  ounces  semolina,  and  then  slowly  cook 
in  oven  two  hours.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  add  a  quarter  pint 
Rhine  wine.  Remove  from  oven,  place  beef  on  a  dish  and  garnish  all 
around  with  contents  of  the  pan  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Consomme",  Russe  Bluefish,  Havanaise 

Potato  Croquettes  (390)        Chicken  Saute,  Paysanne 

Fresh  String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579) 

Roast  Beef  (126)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Fig  Pudding  (57) 

1897.    CONSOMME^  RUSSE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  but  when  cutting  the  vegetables, 
have  in  addition  three  medium  beetroots  and  two  tablespoons  freshly 
grated,  very  fresh ,  sound  horseradish.  Strain  the  consomme  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan. 

With  a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop,  scoop  out  all  you  can  from  a 
good-sized  Russian  turnip,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  sugar  and  a  pint  of  the  consomme,  and  boil  until  soft,  or 
thirty-five  minutes ;  then  add  to  the  consomme,  add  the  leaves  from  two 
branches  chervil,  boil  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1898.    BLUEFISH,  HAVANAISE 

Scale,  remove  head  and  fins  from  a  three-and-a-half-pound  fresh 
bluefish.  Split  in  two  through  the  back  and  remove  spinal  bone.  Finely 
slice  two  thick,  sound  green  peppers  and  lightly  fry  in  a  pan  with  a 
teaspoon  good  oil,  then  place  in  a  mortar  with  a  small  branch  of  tarragon 
and  pound  exceedingly  fine,  add  a  half  ounce  butter,  pound  again 
until  well  amalgamated,  then  press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Season 
fish  with  teaspoon  salt  and  carefully  rub  butter  on  the  cut-side  parts  of 
fish.  Place  in  a  baking  dish ,  squeeze  over  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon, 
let  stand  in  a  moderate  temperature  to  infuse  for  thirty  minutes. 

Finely  slice  three  peeled  bananas,  arrange  them  one  beside  another 
over  the  bluefish  so  as  to  entirely  cover  it.  Cut  two  sweet  Spanish 
peppers  in  julienne  strips  and  arrange  crosswise  on  the  bananas,  squeeze 
juice  of  the  other  half  lemon  over,  cover  with  lightly  buttered  paper. 
Set  in  ove»  to  bake  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  fish  with  its 
juice  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paper  and  send  to  table  in 
same  dish. 

1899.    CHICKEN  SAUT£,  PAYSANNE 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  three-pound  chicken, 
draw  and  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  563 

frying  pan,  add  the  chicken  with  the  liver  and  heart ,  season  with  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  gently  brown  fifteen  minutes, 
turning  the  pieces  once  in  a  while.  Add  two  ounces  lean  bacon  cut 
in  quarter-inch  squares,  and  two  finely  chopped  onions ;  stir  well  and  let 
brown  ten  minutes  more.  Sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  flour,  add  one 
chopped  bean  of  garlic,  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and 
shuffle  pan  one  minute.  Moisten  with  a  pint  broth  and  a  tablespoon 
vinegar,  mix  well  and  let  cook  thirty  minutes.  Transfer  chicken  to  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth   Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Cherries  (1527)  Barley  and  Cream  (1068) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Crab  Meat 

Fried  Filets  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce  (487) 

Broiled  Squabs  with  Bacon  (1693) 

Grilled  White  Potatoes  (1344) 

Fried  Cornmeal  Cakes  (1585) 

1900.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CRAB  MEAT 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  briskly  beat  with  fork  one 
minute.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  crab  meat,  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  half 
saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  cook  five  minutes, 
stirring  with  fork  meanwhile.  Drop  in  the  eggs  with  a  tablespoon 
sherry  and  cook  rather  briskly  six  minutes,  stirring  briskly  once  in  a 
while.  Transfer  to  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme"  in  Cups 

Lobster  Curry,  McQuade  (489) 

Delmonico  Steaks,  Bordelaise  (812) 

Potatoes  Souffle  (1189) 
Strawberry  Shortcakes  (1677) 

1901.    COLD  CONSOMME"  IN  CUPS 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  pounds  finely  chopped  shin  of  beef,  one 
medium-sized  sliced  carrot,  one  ditto  turnip,  one  ditto  onion,  one  ditto 
branch  celery,  one  bean  garlic,  one  branch  chervil,  one  branch  parsley, 
one  branch  tarragon,  two  sliced  leeks,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  clove, 
one  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  thyme  and  two  raw  eggs.  Sharply  stir  with 
spatula  five  minutes,  then  gradually  pour  in  three  quarts  and  a  half 
boiling  water,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it.  Set  pan  on  the  fire  and  let 
slowly  come  to  a  boil,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile,  then  pour  in  gill 
cold  water.  Shift  pan  to  corner  of  range  and  let  simmer  two  hours. 
Strain  through  a  damp,  doubled  cheesecloth  into  a  stone  jar.  Let  cool 
off,  place  jar  in  a  basin  with  ice  around,  let  thoroughly  set,  fill  up  six  cups 
and  serve. 


564  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Clams  (1547) 
Olives       Tomatoes  en  Surprise  (1515) 

Potage,  Artagnan 

Cold  Brook  Trout,  Green  Sauce 

Mignons  of  Lamb,  Traviata 

Sweetbreads  en  Casserole 
Green  Peas  with  Butter  CiSio) 

Punch,  Siberian  (960) 
Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Almond  Ice  Cream  (149)        Lady-Fingers  (150) 

1902.    POTAGE,  ARTAGNAN 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  sliced  carrots,  one  sliced  turnip,  one  sliced 
onion,  one  sliced  leek,  one  sliced  branch  celery,  two  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil,  a  spring  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  sprig 
marjoram,  two  ounces  raw  ham,  one  piece  knuckle  of  veal,  one  calf's 
foot.  Moisten  with  six  quarts  water  and  half  pint  white  wine,  season 
with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan  and 
slowly  boil  three  hours.  After  it  has  cooked  for  an  hour  remove  the 
calf's  foot  and  plunge  in  cold  water,  remove  and  bone  it,  place 
the  meat  between  two  boards  with  a  weight  of  four  pounds  on  top  and 
let  stand  thirty  minutes,  then  cut  meat  into  half-inch-square  pieces 
and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  three  ounces  of  tapioca  pearls  in  a  quart 
boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  gently  boil  forty  minutes,  occa- 
sionally mixing  meanwhile.  Place  on  a  sieve  and  thoroughly  wash  in 
cold  water.  Strain  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan, 
skim  fat  from  surface,  then  add  calf's  foot  meat  and  tapioca. 
Boil  ten  minutes.  Transfer  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1903.    COLD  BROOK  TROUT,  GREEN  SAUCE 

Clip  off  fins  with  scissors,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  three  medium,  fresh 
brook  trout.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  gill  white  wine,  a  tablespoon 
good  vinegar,  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  one  and  a  half  gills  water,  two 
branches  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  gently  boil  on  fire  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  let  cool  off  in 
same  pan  with  broth,  dress  fish  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  deco- 
rate with  twelve  well-cleaned  small  leaves  fresh  lettuce  around  the  dish 
and  serve  with  a  green  sauce  separately. 

1904.    GREEN  SAUCE 

Plunge  six  well-washed,  very  green  leaves  spinach  in  a  little  boiling 
water  five  minutes.  Remove,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  press  out  water. 
Then  place  in  a  mortar  one  sound,  peeled  shallot,  one  branch  parsley, 
half  a  branch  chervil  ar»d  six  leaves  tarragon  and  pound  to  a  pulp,  then 
add  the  spinach,  pound  again  till  smooth  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve  upon 
a  plate.  Prepare  a  mayonnaise  dressing  (No.  70)  add  the  green  puree  to 
the  mayonnaise,  little  by  little,  continually  mixing  meanwhile,  pour 
into  a  saucebowl  and  serve. 


MONDA  F,   FOURTH   WEEK  OF  JUNE  565 

1905.    MIGNONS  OF  LAMB,  TRAVIATA 

Procure  six  nice,  tender  mignons  of  four  ounces  each  from  a  leg  of 
lamb,  neatly  trim,  lightly  flatten  evenly,  and  season  all  around  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  salt  spoons  white  pepper.  Spread  a  very  little 
French  mustard  on  both  sides  of  each,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  slightly  turn  in  finely  grated  cooked  lean  ham.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  the  mignons  in, 
one  beside  another,  gently  fry  four  minutes  on  each  side  and  dress  on  a 
hot  dish.  Prepare  and  dress  a  tomato  crust  (No.  1287)  around  the  dish. 
Pour  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  over  the  mignons  and  serve. 

1906     SWEETBREADS  EN  CASSEEOLE 

Blanch  and  trim  six  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33).  Place  in  an  earthen 
casserole  dhh  with  twelve  very  small  green  white  onions  around  the 
breads.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
spread  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  all.  Set  in  oven  to  braise 
forty  minutes,  turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  drain  off  a 
little  of  the  butter,  then  pour  in  a  gill  white  wine  and  let  reduce  to  half  the 
quantity.  Arrange  a  cooked  potato  noisette  (No.  321)  around  the 
sweetbreads.  Squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over  and  serve  in 
same  casserole. 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  and  Cream  (1846) 

Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Eggs  Molet,  Lyonnaise  Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Beef  Hash    Zingara  (455) 

Cocoanut  Cakes  (423) 

1907.    EGGS  MOLET,  LYONNAISE 

Cut  in  half  and  finely  slice  two  medium,  white  onions,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  tablespoon  melted  butler  and  fry  eight  minutes,  stirring 
with  fork  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No. 
122),  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper;  mix  well  and  boil  five  minutes.  Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs 
five  minutes,  take  up  and  drop  in  cold  water  one  minute.  Shell  them 
and  place  on  a  deep  hot  dish.  Pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Eels.  Emstel 

Chicken  Pot  Pie  (159) 

String  Bean  Salad  (741) 

Compote  of    Peaches  with  Cream 

1908.    EELS,  EMSTEL 

Tear  off  skin,  draw  and  wipe  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  eels. 
Cut  in  two-inch-long  pieces  and  keep  on  plate  until  required.  Heat  one 


half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  beat  for  a  minut 
peaches.  Transfer  to  a  compotier,  arrange  si? 
around  the  compotiers  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Salted  Peanuts  (95 

Potage  aux  Pates,  Tomate' 
Sea  Bass,  Saute",  Meunie"re  Brioches  Pots 

Broiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (i 

Green  Corn  (1864) 

Roast  Turkey.  Cranberry  Sauce  (67 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Prune  Pudding 

1910.  POTAGE  AUX  PATES,  Toa 

Prepare  and  strain  the  consomme  into  anotl 
No.  52,  add  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  anc 
Then  add  three  ounces  Italian  paste  and  boil  agair 
Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1911.  SEA  BASS,  SAUTE,  MEUN 

Scale,  trim  off  fins  and  neatly  wipe  two  small  s 
half  pounds  each.  Make  three  light  incisions  in 
both  fish.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  1 
Lightly  baste  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  roll  in  a 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish,  and  fry 
ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Then  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  dish,  place  a  half  ounce  butter  in  the  pan  and  toss  until  a 
light  brown,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  juice  of  half 
a  sound  lemon,  toss  a  little,  then  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1912.    PRUNE  PUDDING 

Soak  a  pint  sound  prunes  in  cold  water  seven  hours,  drain  and  remove 
stones.  Place  in  a  basin  two  ounces  finely  chopped  beef  marrow  free 
from  all  sinews,  four  ounces  sugar,  four  ounces  flour,  four  eggs,  halt 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OP  JUNE  567 

gill  good  rum,  saltspoon  ground  cinnamon  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Thoroughly  stir  with  wooden  spoon  five  minutes.  Add  half 
gill  thick  cream  and  two  ounces  bread  crumbs.  Mix  well,  then  add 
the  prunes  and  lightly  mix.  Butter  and  flour  lightly  a  strong  cloth,  drop 
preparation  in  the  centre,  fold  up  the  four  corners  and  tightly  tie  the 
pudding.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  filling  it  to  twice  the 
height  of  pudding  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half.  Lift  up  and  hang  it 
for  ten  minutes.  Untie,  turn  on  a  dish,  dredge  two  tablespoons  fine 
sugar  around,  pour  a  quarter  gill  good  brandy  over,  set  fire  to  it  and 
send  to  table. 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Huckleberries  and  Cream  Germea  (217) 

Eggs    Moscovite 
Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 

Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

Potatoes.  Saute"  (135) 

Almond  Cakes 

1913.    HUCKLEBERRIES  AND  CREAM 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  quart  very  fresh  sound  huckleberries. 
Place  them  on  a  compotier  and  serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  thick 
cream  separately. 

1914.    EGGS,  MOSCOVITE 

Cut  away  a  small  piece  at  both  ends  of  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs.  Cut 
them  in  half  crosswise,  scoop  out  the  yolks  and  place  them  in  a  bowl 
with  a  tablespoon  caviare  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives,  then 
mash  well  with  wooden  spoon  and  fill  up  the  half  eggs  with  it.  Arrange 
on  a  baking  dish,  cut  side  up.  Evenly  spread  over  a  Mornay  sauce 
(No.  526).  Sprinkle  a  little  Parmesan  cheese  over,  then  set  in  the  oven 
six  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

1915.    ALMOND  CAKES 

Plunge  three  ounces  shelled  almonds  in  boiling  water  three  minutes, 
drain,  peel,  then  chop  very  fine.  Roast  to  a  nice  golden  colour  in  the 
oven.  Prepare  a  griddle  cake  preparation  (No.  136),  add  the  almonds, 
lightly  mix,  then  proceed  to  finish  the  cakes  in  same  manner. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Clam  Broth 

Canape's  of  Lobster  (200) 

Croutes,  New  Century,  Salad  Caroline 

Apricot  Fritters  (266) 

1916.    COLD  CLAM  BROTH 

Open  twelve  large ,  fresh  clams  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  all  their 
liquor,  add  three  pints  cold  water,  four  branches  celery,  two  saltspoons 


568  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cayenne  pepper  and  boil  five  minutes.  Strain  through  a  double  cheese- 
cloth into  a  stone  jar,  place  jar  in  a  basin  with  ice  around  and  let  get 
cold.  Pour  into  six  cups  and  send  to  table. 

1917.    CROUTES,  NEW  CENTURY 

Cut  off  a  piece  lengthwise — about  a  quarter — from  the  top  of  six 
French  rolls,  then  scoop  out  all  the  soft  part,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  the 
oven  (with  the  covers)  and  let  get  a  nice  golden  colour  and  keep  hot. 
Pick  all  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut 
in  quarter-inch-square  pieces.  Cut  also  in  same  way  two  ounces  cooked 
ham  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped,  seeded  green 
pepper  and  nicely  fry  three  minutes;  add  six  well-cleaned  fresh  mush- 
rooms cut  in  small  squares,  and  brown  five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring. 
Add  a  level  tablespoon  flour,  mix  a  little.  Moisten  with  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  a  gill  white  broth.  Mix  well  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  in 
one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  mix  a  little,  then  add  the  turkey  and  ham 
with  the  leaves  of  two  branches  chervil,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  then  slowly  cook 
fifteen  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yoke  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add 
to  the  pan.  Mix  while  heating  two  minutes.  Arrange  rolls  on  a  dish, 
fill  them  with  the  preparation,  place  covers  over  and  serve. 

1918.    SALAD,  CAROLINE 

Cut  three  slices  from  a  sandwich  loaf,  remove  the  crusts,  then  cut 
in  quarter-inch-square  pieces  and  fry  in  a  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  to  a  nice  golden  colour.  Drain  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Peel 
and  remove  the  spongy  parts  of  a  sound  cucumber  and  cut  in  small 
square  pieces.  Cut  also  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers  into  same  shape. 
Then  cut  an  ounce  of  rich  Swiss  cheese  into  similar  pieces  and  add 
all  to  the  bowl  with  a  half  pint  of  freshly  cooked  green  peas.  Shell 
thirty  hazel  nuts,  cut  in  halves  and  add  to  the  rest.  Mix  a  little  and 
season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863).  Mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)          Olives 

Cream  of  Beetroots 

Turban  of  Sole,  Champeau 

Potatoes,  Savoyarde  (533) 

Beef  Braise",  au  Pain  Perdue 

Cold  Fresh  Asparagus,  Mayonnaise 

Roast  Squabs  (831) 

Escarole  Salad  (too) 

Raspberry  Coupe 

1919.     CREAM  OF  BEETROOTS 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  small  knuckle  veal  with  three  quarts  water, 
boil  five  minutes,  remove  water  and  pour  in  four  quarts  fresh  water, 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  569 

add  two  medium  carrots,  one  white  onion,  one  turnip,  two  leeks,  two 
branches  celery,  one  clove  and  six  good-sized,  peeled  red  beets.  Season 
with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pan  and 
slowly  simmer  two  hours.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two 
ounces  flour;  stir  while  heating  one  minute.  Skim  fat  from  surface 
of  soup,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  pan,  mix  well, 
pound  beets  in  a  mortar,  then  add  again  to  the  soup.  Lightly  mix  and 
boil  thirty-five  minutes  more.  Pour  in  a  half-pint  cream,  let  come  to  a 
boil;  mix  well,  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve. 

1920.    TURBAN  OF  SOLE,  CHAMPEAU 

Lift  up  filets  from  a  very  fresh  three-and-a-half-pound  flounder. 
Skin  and  cut  each  filet  in  slanting  halves.  Twist  up  each  piece  in  cork- 
screw form,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  a  gill  white 
wine,  a  branch  parsley,  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon  and  half  teaspoon  salt. 
Cover  with  lightly  buttered  paper  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  lift  up  filet  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Remove  parsley  from  pan 
and  reduce  gravy  to  about  the  quantity  of  a  tablespoon,  place  in  a 
bowl,  add  one  egg  yolk,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk,  then  add,  drop  by 
drop,  one  ounce  hot  melted  butter,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it. 

Prepare  half  the  quantity  of  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28),  pour  over 
half  the  fish  only  and  pour  the  other  sauce  over  other  half  of  fish.  Sprin- 
kle a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1921.    BEEF  BRAISE",  AU  PAIN  PERDUE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  tender  rump  of  beef  with  all  fat  on  one 
side.  Cut  from  a  piece  of  larding  pork  four  long  strips  fourth  of  an  inch 
thick.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  with  half  a 
bean  chopped  garlic.  Roll  pork  strips  in  the  parsley,  etc.,  then  with  a 
large  larding  needle  insert  the  strips  into  the  lean  part  of  beef.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
lard  in  a  braising  pan,  add  beef  and  brown  fifteen  minutes,  turning  it 
once  in  a  while,  lift  up  beef,  lay  on  a  plate.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour 
to  the  pan,  stir  well,  then  moisten  with  half  pint  claret  and  pint  water, 
mix  well  and  add  the  beef.  Scrape  twelve  small  new  carrots,  peel  twelve 
small  white  onions  and  brown  in  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan  for  eight  minutes,  or  till  a  nice  brown,  and  add  to  beef.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  branches  parsley,  one  of  chervil,  one  of  garlic,  a  sprig  thyme, 
one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove,  add  to  beef.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan  and  boil  ten  minutes,  then  set  in 
moderate  oven  two  hours.  Remove,  dress  beef  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  off 
fat  from  surface  of  sauce,  boil  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  bunch  of  herbs, 
pour  contents  of  pan  over  beef,  arrange  twelve  slices  of  pain  perdue 
around  beef  and  serve. 

1922.    PAIN  PERDUE 

Crack  one  fresh  egg  on  a  plate,  add  one  gill  milk  and  one  gill  cream. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  salt- 


570  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Briskly  beat  with  fork  two  minutes.  Cut 
twelve  slices  stale  French  bread,  quarter-inch  thick,  dip  each  slice  in 
preparation.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan, 
drop  slices  of  bread  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  three  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove  and  use  as  required. 

1923.    COLD  FRESH  ASPARAGUS,  MAYONNAISE 

Scrape  and  clip  off  ends  of  two  bunches  fresh,  sound  asparagus, 
thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water,  tie  in  three  bunches,  plunge  in  three 
quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt.  Cover  pan  and  gently 
boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Take  up  and  replunge  in  cold  water  until 
thoroughly  cold.  Drain  well,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and 
serve  with  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  separately. 

1924.    RASPBERRY  COUPE 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Place  a  pint 
sound,  fresh  raspberries  in  a  bowl,  season  with  two  tablespoons  fine 
sugar,  a  tablespoon  kirsch  and  a  tablespoon  maraschino.  Mix  all  well 
in  seasoning,  then  evenly  divide  berries  into  six  champagne  coupes. 
Evenly  arrange  the  vanilla  cream  in  the  glasses,  nicely  smooth  surface, 
dome-shape,  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Fifth  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberries  and  Cream  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Poached  Eggs,  Mexicaine 
Fried  Butter  Fish  (636) 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451)  Sweet  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

1925.  BLACKBERRIES  AND  CREAM 

Plunge  a  quart  sound,  fresh  blackberries  in  cold  water  for  five 
minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  place  on  a  compotier  and  send  to  table 
with  fine  sugar  and  cream  separately. 

1926.  POACHED  EGGS,  MEXICAINE 

Cut  twelve  quarter-inch-thick  slices  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf, 
then  cut  each  slice  two  inches  in  diameter.  Toast  a  nice  golden  colour 
and  lightly  butter  them.  Finely 'chop  four  sweet  Spanish  red  peppers 
and  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  heat  five 
minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Evenly  spread  over  the  slices  of  toast, 
arrange  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Plunge  three  sound  green  peppers  in  boiling  water  three  minutes, 
take  up  and  with  a  coarse  towel  remove  skin.  Cut  in  quarters  and  fry 
in  a  frying  pan  with  teaspoon  melted  butter  to  a  nice  light  brown  colour. 
Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106),  lay  them  on  the  toast,  then  ar- 
range a  piece  of  green  pepper  on  top  of  each  egg  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY.  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  571 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Shrimp  Patties  (1341) 

Boned  Turkey  with  Jelly 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Rice  au  lait  d'Amande  (638) 

1927.    BONED  TURKEY 

Finely  chop  two  pounds  raw  lean  veal,  the  same  quantity  fresh  fat 
pork,  place  in  a  mortar  and  sharply  pound.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  pound 
again,  then  rub  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  large  earthen  basin  and 
keep  on  ice.  Cut  six  ounces  larding  pork  in  half-inch-square  pieces, 
plunge  in  boiling  water  two  minutes,  drain  and  keep  on  a  plate  to  cool  off. 

Cut  six  ounces  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue  in  half-inch  squares 
and  four  medium  truffles  in  quarters.  Scald  and  peel  three  ounces 
pistachios  and  add  these  four  articles  to  the  force  in  the  bowl.  Place 
in  a  saucepan  six  chopped  shallots,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  six  tarragon  leaves,  a  quarter  pint  sherry.  Let  reduce  on 
fire  to  half  quantity,  then  let  cool  off.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
bowl,  add  a  gill  good  rum,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  two  saltspoons  mixed  ground 
allspice  and  two  tablespoons  truffle  liquor;  thoroughly  mix  until  well 
amalgamated  and  keep  till  required.  Singe  a  tender  turkey  hen  of  about 
eight  pounds,  cut  off  neck,  wings  and  legs.  Split  through  back  without 
separating  and  carefully  bone  without  cutting  skin.  Cut  away  slices 
from  breast  and  legs  and  place  them  where  there  is  no  meat,  so  as  to 
have  same  thickness  inside.  Season  with  good  teaspoon  salt,  one  salt- 
spoon  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place  force  in  centre 
of  the  cut  side  of  turkey,  fold  to  oblong  shape,  sew  up,  wrap  in  a  strong 
cloth  and  tightly  fasten  both  ends  and  the  centre.  Place  in  a 
braising  pan  with  all  bones  from  turkey,  two  calves'  feet,  two  tablespoons 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  with  plenty  cold  water,  place  lid 
on  and  slowly  boil  two  hours  and  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to 
skim  off  fat  once  in  a  while.  Remove  from  pan,  lay  on  a  dish  and  let 
stand  twenty  minutes.  Unwrap,  wash  cloth  in  cold  water,  tightly 
wrap  galontine  in  same  cloth,  place  between  two  boards,  place  a 
weight  of  six  pounds  on  top  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  cold.  Unwrap, 
take  off  string,  and  the  boned  turkey  is  ready  to  use. 

N.  B.  Always  keep  turkey  enveloped  in  a  cloth  in  ice  box. 
Utilize  the  turkey  broth  for  making  jelly,  etc.,  as  explained  in 
No.  1879. 

1928.    BONED  TURKEY  WITH  JELLY 

Cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces  six  tablespoons  jelly  (No.  1879).  Arrange 
pieces  on  a  cold  dish.  Cut  six  slices  boned  turkey  a  fifth  of  an  inch 
thick,  dress  them,  one  overlapping  another,  over  jelly.  Decorate  with  six 
leaves  of  lettuce  and  serve. 


572  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Chicken  Okra,  Turque 

Kingfish  Saute",  Danois  Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Cotes  of  Beef,  Romaine 

Timbales  of  Macaroni 

Cauliflower,  Hollandaise  (853) 

Roast  Capon  (378)      Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Cold  Maraschino  Pudding  (1772) 

1929.  CHICKEN  OKRA,  TURQUE 

Singe,  draw  and  bone  a  small,  tender  fowl.  Cut  meat  in  half-inch 
pieces,  cut  also  liver  and  heart.  (If  another  chicken  liver  is  on  hand, 
cut  it  and  add  to  the  other.)  Cut  white  parts  of  three  leeks  in  very 
small  squares,  also  two  white  onions  and  two  seeded  green  peppers  in 
same  way.  Place  above  articles  in  a  saucepan  with  ounce  butter  and 
nicely  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring.  Add  half  teaspoon 
curry  powder,  stir  well,  moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  271),  a  pint 
and  a  half  water  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  good 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Add 
the  carcass  of  the  fowl,  except  head,  cover  pan  and  boil  thirty  minutes. 
Add  three  ounces  raw  rice,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  twelve  trimmed, 
sound,  fresh  okras,  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  and  one  peeled  tomato,  cut  in 
eight  pieces.  Boil  forty  minutes,  remove  carcass,  skim  fat  from 
surface,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1930.  KINGFISH  SAUTE",  DANOIS 

Scale  and  wipe  two  fresh  kingfish  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each.  Cut 
heads  off,  then  split  open  through  front,  remove  spinal  bones  and  season 
all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper ;  lightly  baste  with 
a  little  milk,  then  roll  in  flour. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
fish — cut  side  downward — and  fry  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Set  in 
oven  ten  minutes,  remove,  place  on  a  dish,  arrange  twelve  small 
anchovies  in  oil  over  them.  Add  one-half  ounce  butter  in  same  pan, 
toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  brown,  add  the  leaves  from  two  branches  pars- 
ley, the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  a  half  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence,  toss  well  and  pour  over  the  fish,  then  serve. 

1931.  COTES  OF  BEEF,  ROMAINE 

Procure  two  single  ribs  of  beef,  trim  off  a  little  of  the  fat.  Season 
all  over  with  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  braising  pan,  lay  in  the  cotes  one  beside  another 
and  gently  brown  fifteen  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
remove  all  fat  from  pan,  then  pour  in  one  gill  claret  and  let  reduce  on 
range  until  nearly  dry,  then  pour  in  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  a  bean  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives  and  twelve 'sliced  canned  mushrooms;  lightly  mix  and 


THURSDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JUNE  573 

boil  eight  minutes.     Pour  sauce  over  beef,  arrange  six  timbales  macaroni 
(No.  1932)  around  the  beef  and  serve. 

1932.    TIMBALES  OF  MACARONI 

Plunge  four  ounces  macaroni  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  forty  minutes,  drain  on  sieve,  then  cut  in  half- 
inch  pieces.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  gill  milk,  a  half  gill 
cream,  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  then  cook  five  minutes,  add  an  ounce  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  two  egg  yolks.  Briskly  mix  with  spoon  while  heating  for  two 
minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  then  fill  with 
the  macaroni,  lay  on  a  tin,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height,  set  in 
iven  ten  minutes,  remove,  and  unmould  as  directed. 


Thursday,  Fifth  Week  of  June 
BREAKFAST 

Malta  Vita  (1592) 
Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 
Eggs  Cocotte,  Hackett 

Fresh  Herring  (133) 

Mutton  Chops,  with  Bacon  (845) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Puffs  (313) 

1933.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  HACKETT 

Open  a  small  can  pate*  de  foie  gras,  dip  a  tablespoon  in  lukewarm 
water,  then  scoop  out  three  tablespoons  of  the  pate*,  discard  all  fat,  then 
press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  dilute  with  a  gill  and  a  half  good 
cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  and 
half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  then  divide  evenly  in  six  egg- 
cocotte  dishes.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Evenly  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  place  on  a  tin,  then 
place  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove;  finely  chop  one  small  truffle, 
place  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  boil  five  minutes, 
then  divide  over  the  eggs  in  the  six  dishes  and  serve. 

i 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Lobster  Coquilles,  Indienne 

Tripe,  Montecello 

New  Carrots,  Maitre  d'H6tel 

Milles  Feuilles  (584) 

1934.    LOBSTER  COQUILLES,  INDIENNE 

Boil  two  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each  in  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes,  take  up  and  let  cool  off;  crack  shells,  pick  out  meat  from 
them,  and  cut  meat  in  half-inch  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  three  level  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir,  then 


574  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  ROOK 

add  three-quarters  of  a  pint  hot  milk.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  curry  powder,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
briskly  whisk  and  boil  two  minutes.  Add  the  lobster  and  twelve  sliced 
canned  mushrooms,  lightly  mix  and  cook  five  minutes.  Fill  six  individual 
table  shells  with  preparation,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  Parmesan  or 
Swiss  cheese  over  them,  set  in  oven  on  a  tin  to  bake  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1935.    TRIPE,  MONTECELLO 

Cut  two  pounds  fresh  honeycomb  tripe  in  one-inch  squares  and  keep 
on  a  plate.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablepoons  melted  butter, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  a  pint  hot  milk,  mix 
well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  twelve  small  peeled  white  onions 
and  the  tripe.  Season  with  level  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  lightly  mix.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  cook 
forty  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons 
sherry  and  twelve  medium,  freshly  opened  oysters,  lightly  mix,  then 
boil  ten  minutes,  pour  in  a  half  gill  cream;  mix  a  little,  pour  into  a 
deep  dish  and  serve. 

1936.    NEW  CARROTS,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Trim  off  stems,  neatly  scrape  and  thoroughly  wash  twenty-four 
medium,  new  carrots.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  two  branches  parsley,  one  medium  white  onion  with  one 
clove  stuck  in,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  a  half  ounce  butter  and  half  pint  water.  Cover  pan, 
let  boil  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take 
up  the  parsley  and  onion,  then  let  reduce  on  range  until  nearly  dry. 
Squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  one  ounce  butter  and  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley;  toss  well,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)  Radishes  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Consomme",  Printemps 

Halibut,  Fleurette  (319)     Potato  Croquettes  (390) 
Lamb  Steaks,  Grande  Mere  (690) 

Fresh  Lima  Beans 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290)     Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Ice  Cream,  Chambord 

1937.    CONSOMM£,  PRINTEMPS 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering.  Cut  tender  parts  of  a  very  small  bunch  green  aspara- 
gus in  half-inch  pieces,  boil  in  a  pint  water  with  teaspoon  salt  twenty- 
five  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  the  consomme;  add  also  three  tablespoons 
cooked  green  peas,  three  tablespoons  cooked  string  beans,  cut  in  half- 
inch  pieces,  leaves  from  two  branches  chervil  and  leaves  from  a  branch 
parsley  and  half  teaspoon  sugar;  boil  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve, 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  s>$ 

1938.    FRESH  LIMA  BEANS 

Plunge  a  pint  fresh,  shelled  lima  beans  in  two  quarts  boiling  water 
with  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve. 
Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  a  half  ounce  butter;  toss  till  well  thickened,  dress  on  a  vege- 
table dish  and  serve. 

1939.    ICE  CREAM,  CHAMBORD 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Peel  and  remove 
stones  from  six  good-sized  ripe,  sound  peaches.  Press  them  through 
a  sieve  into  the  vanilla  freezer,  add  two  tablespoons  maraschino;  briskly 
mix  with  spatula  three  minutes.  Beat  up  two  gills  thick  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  to  the  vanilla  cream;  gently  mix  until  well  amalgamated. 

Place  twelve  lady  fingers  (No.  150)  on  a  plate,  lightly  baste  with  a 
little  rum.  Line  bottom  of  a  quart  brick  mould  with  white  paper,  then 
fill  the  brick  half  full  with  the  preparation.  Arrange  lady  fingers  cross- 
wise over  cream,  then  fill  the  brick  with  the  rest  of  the  preparation;  line 
with  another  sheet  of  paper,  place  lid  on,  bury  in  the  ice  cream  tub  and 
freeze  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish,  take  off 
papers,  arrange  a  raspberry  au  kirsch  around  cream  and  serve. 

RASPBERRIES  AU  KIRSCH 

Place  a  pint  fresh  raspberries  in  a  bowl,  add  two  tablespoons  kirsch 
and  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar,  mix  well  and  use. 


Friday,  First  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  and  Cream  (1317) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Mace"doine 

Picked-up  Codfish  (822) 

Lamb  Kidneys  en  Brochette  (1331) 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

1940.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  MACE"DOINE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  a  tablespoon  flour, 
stir  well  while  heating  for  half  minute,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
milk  and  mix  with  a  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Plunge  a  half  pint 
macedoine  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve, 
then  add  to  the  cream  sauce.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  half 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  mix  and  let 
boil  for  six  minutes  and  evenly  divide  into  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Crack 
two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  set  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 


576      T&E  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Crabs,  Ravigote 

Omelette  with  Shrimps 

Veal  Cutlets,  Milanaise  (351) 

Cherry  Pie  (1479) 

1941.    CRABS,  RAVIGOTE 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  crab  meat  flakes  in  a  bowl,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  a  teaspoon  French 
mustard  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley;  add  one  finely 
chopped  hard  boiled  egg,  three  tablespoons  vinegar,  a  tablespoon  oil 
and  mix  well.  Neatly  clean  six  hard  crab  shells,  then  evenly  divide 
the  preparation  in  the  shells,  give  them  a  nice,  dome  form  and  evenly 
spread  a  ravigote  (No.  366)  over  them.  Cut  four  anchovies  in  oil  into 
four  lengthwise  strips  each,  arrange  over  the  crabs,  dress  on  a  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  and  serve. 

1942.     OMELETTE  WITH  SHRIMPS 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  a  fork 
for  two  minutes.  Cut  twelve  cooked  shrimps  into  quarter-inch  pieces, 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  three 
minutes.  Drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for 
half  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a 
minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  around  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Little  Neck  Clams  (145?)        Olives         Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Marie  Louise 
Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 
Potatoes,  Persillade  (63)          Balotine  of   Lamb,  Soubise 
Asparagus,  Sauce  Mousseline  (1276) 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Gosling,  Apple  Sauce  (1109) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

St.  Honor^  Cake 

1943.    POTAGE,  MARIE  LOUISE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  each  sliced  carrot  and  onion,  two  each 
sliced  leeks  and  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  pounds  clean  fish 
bones,  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan 
one  ounce  butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  thoroughly  stir  and 
let  heat  for  one  minute.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
this  pan,  add  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  teaspoon  curry  powder, 
mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes, 
being  careful  to  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  and  mixing  quite 
frequently  meanwhile.  Open  twenty-four  fresh  mussels  and  place  them 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  577 

with  their  liquor  in  a  saucepan  with  one  gill  white  wine.  Boil  for  five 
minutes,  strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  soup,  add  one 
gill  cream,  mix  a  little  and  boil  for  five  minutes ;  dilute  one  egg  yolk  with 
a  quarter  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup ;  mix  well  while  heating  for  three 
minutes.  Cut  the  mussels  in  two,  add  to  soup,  pour  into  a  tureen  and 
serve. 

1944.     BALOTINE  OF  LAMB,  SOUBISE 

Carefully  bone  a  shoulder  of  lamb  entirely.  Season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place 
in  a  mortar  two  skinned  sausages,  two  chopped  shallots,  a  half  bean 
chopped  garlic,  one  ounce  raw,  chopped  beef  marrow,  a  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one  egg  yolk, 
a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and 
ground  thyme.  Pound  the  whole  well  for  five  minutes,  spread  the  force 
on  the  inside  part  of  the  shoulder,  fold  up  and  tightly  tie  around  with 
strings.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  each  sliced  carrot,  onion  and  leek, 
a  bean  garlic,  branch  parsley,  bay  leaf,  clove,  sprig  thyme,  tablespoon 
allspice  and  sprig  marjoram.  Cover  the  balotine  with  cold  water, 
season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  the  pan 
and  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes.  Lift  up  the  balotine, 
untie  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Pour  a  Soubise  sauce  (No.  94)  and  sprinkle 
a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  the  balotine  and  serve. 

1945.    ST.  HONOR£  CAKE 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  feuilletage  (No. 
756)  to  a  round  piece  eight  inches  in  diameter,  place  on  a  lightly  wetted 
pastry  pan  and  wet  the  edges  of  paste  a  little.  Prepare  a  pate*-a-choux 
(No.  336),  place  it  in  a  pastry  bag,  with  a  quarter-inch  tube  at  the 
bottom,  press  three-quarters  of  the  pate  around  the  wet  edges,  making  a 
nice  border,  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  With  the 
balance  of  the  pate  make  small  balls  the  size  of  hickory  nuts  on  a  small 
pastry  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  three  ounces  granulated  sugar  with  a  half 
gill  water,  boil  for  eight  minutes,  then  drop  in  the  small  balls,  one  by  one, 
and  roll  them  in  the  syrup.  Arrange  one  beside  another  on  the  border, 
place  half  a  candied  cherry  over  each  ball,  then  fill  up  the  centre  with  a 
St.  Honore  cream,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

1946.    ST.  HONOR£  CREAM 

Place  in  a  saucepan  five  ounces  sugar  with  four  egg  yolks,  one  ounce 
flour,  the  chopped  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence.  Mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  for  a  minute,  then  pour  in  a  gill 
cream  and  one  and  a  half  gills  cold  milk.  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for 
two  minutes,  set  pan  on  the  fire,  constantly  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil  and  let  slowly  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stir- 
ring meanwhile.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to 'a  stiff  froth  and 
add  to  the  preparation,  gently  mix,  cook  for  five  minutes  longer,  con- 
tinually stirring  meanwhile,  remove,  let  cool  off  and  use  as  required. 


578  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Satuiday,  First  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  (1846) 
Sago  with  Cream  (1583) 

Fried  Eggs,  Pirane"es 

Boiled  Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Frizzled  Beef  in  Cream  (329) 

Delmonico  Potatoes  (718) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

1947.  FRIED  EGGS,  PIRANEES 

Cut  three  green  peppers  into  halves  and  remove  the  seeds.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  olive  oil  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  the  peppers  and  fry  for 
two  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  and  keep  on  a  plate. 

Cut  six  thin  slices  of  raw,  lean  ham  and  fry  in  the  same  pan  for  one 
minute  on  each  side.  Arrange  half  a  green  pepper  on  each  slice  of  ham 
in  the  pan  and  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  them.  Evenly 
season  the  eggs  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  over 
a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  then  set  them  in  the  oven  for 
six  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  glide  on  a  large  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Small  Goose  Patties 

String  Beans  Salad  (741) 

Apple  Pancakes  (1587) 

1948.  SMALL  GOOSE  PATTIES 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  goose  left  over  from  yesterday,  cut  into 
half-inch  squares,  and  finely  slice  twelve  canned  mushrooms.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  chopped  medium 
onion  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Add 
the  goose  and  mushrooms,  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  a  gill  each 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  tomato  sauce,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  a 
saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  together 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Prepare  six  patties  (No.  929),  place  on  a 
dish,  evenly  distribute  the  goose  into  them,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over,  place  covers  on  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Thon  Marind   (159?)        Radishes  (58) 

Consomme,  Neapolitan 

Sea  Bass  a  1'Italienne     Potato  Lorettes  (372) 
Boiled  Turkey,  Anglaise  Tomatoes,  Carolina 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)     Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Madelein  au  Chocolat 

-   1949.    CONSOMME",  NEAPOLITAN 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  a  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering.  In  another  saucepan  plunge  four  ounces  macaroni  in  a  quart 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  57$ 

boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt,  boil  thirty-five  minutes,  drain,  then 
plunge  in  cold  water.  Finely  chop  two  ounces  raw  veal,  then  pound  in  a 
mortar;  add  one  egg  yolk,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  half  saltspoon  each 
cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  and  two  tablespoons  cream;  pound 
until  well  amalgamated  and  place  in  a  paper  cornet.  Drain  the  maca- 
roni, and  cut  in  half-inch  pieces.  Break  off  a  small  piece  of  cornet  at 
the  point,  then  press  force  into  interior  of  the  macaroni  and  plunge  in 
boiling  water  for  three  minutes.  Drain  and  add  the  macaroni  to  the 
consomme,  boil  for  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1950.     SEA  BASS  A  L'ITALIENNE 

Scale,  trim  off  the  fins  and  neatly  wipe  two  sea  bass  of  one  and  a  half 
pounds  ,each.  Cut  the  heads  off,  split  in  two  through  the  back  and 
remove  spinal  bones.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  butter,  a 
half  gill  white  wine,  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  set  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  lift  up  and  lay  them  on  a  baking  dish. 
Prepare  an  Italian  sauce  (No.  1245),  pour  the  fish  liquor  into  sauce, 
mix  well,  then  pour  over  the  fish.  Sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove, 
decorate  all  around  the  fish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon,  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

1951.    BOILED  TURKEY,  ANGLAISE 

Singe,  cut  the  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  turkey  of  seven  or  eight 
pounds.  Draw,  wipe  and  truss,  place  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  three 
scraped  medium  carrots  and  three  medium,  white  turnips.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  branches  celery,  one  leek,  two  branches  parsley,  a  sprig 
thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  and  add  to  the  turkey.  Pour  in  sufficient 
water  to  completely  cover,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  cover  the  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour.  Trim  off 
the  stalk  and  outer  leaves  from  a  head  of  cauliflower,  then  divide  it  in 
small  bouquets,  add  to  the  turkey  and  let  boil  again  for  forty  minutes. 
Lift  up  the  turkey,  untruss  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Cut  the  carrots  and 
turnips  in  one-inch  pieces  and  with  the  cauliflower  bouquets  dress  around 
the  turkey.  Have  six  boiled,  peeled  new  potatoes,  also  arrange  them 
around  the  dish  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Strain  the  remaining  turkey  broth  in  the  white  broth  vessel 
(No.  701). 

1952.    TOMATOES,  CAROLINA 

Neatly  wipe  six  even,  medium,  fresh  red  tomatoes.  Cut  off  a  piece 
from  the  top  of  each  as  a  cover,  scoop  out  the  interior,  and  place  the 
scooped-out  meat  in  the  demi-glace  pot  (No.  122).  Season  the  inside 
of  tomatoes  with  a  half  teaspooa  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  three  salt- 
spoons  sugar,  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required. 

Place  two  ounces  of  raw  Carolina  rice  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  one 
ounce  finely  chopped,  lean,  raw  ham,  a  teaspoon  finely  chopped  onion, 
and  moisten  with  three  gills  white  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  three 


58o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  lightly  mix,  cover  the 
pan?  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  add  an  ounce  butter  and  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  Mix  well  and  with  this  preparation  fill  up  the  six  scooped 
tomatoes.  Cover  them,  arrange  on  a  tin,  lightly  baste  the  surface  with 
a  litth  melted  butter.,  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on 
a  dish  and  serve, 

1953,    MADELEDT  AIT  CHOCOLAT 

Break  four  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces  sugar,  one  ounce 
grated  chocolate  and  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Sharply  beat  up 
with  a  whisk  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  gently  stir 
with  a  skimmer  for  one  minute,  add  three  ounces  melted  butter,  a  salt- 
spoon  baking  powder  and  lightly  mix.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  pastry 
tin  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  drop  in  the  preparation  and  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  turn  on  a  grating, 
lift  up  the  paper,  evenly  spread  a  glace  au  chocolat  (No.  1281)  over,  let 
cool  off,  cut  into  six  even  pieces  and  serve. 


Sunday,  First  Week  of  July 

BREAKFAST  < 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170)  Omelette  Ecarlate 

Fried  Whitebait  with  Bacon   (1305) 

Roast  Beef  Hash   (923) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

1954.    OMELETTE  ECARLATE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  :  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Place  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
in  a  frying  pan  and  let  reduce  on  the  fire  to  three  tablespoons,  then  add 
to  the  eggs  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  two 
ounces  cooked,  smoked  beef  tongue  in  julienne  strips,  place  in  a  frying 
pan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  fry  for  three  minutes,  then 
drop  in  the  eggs  and  briskly  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes;  let  rest 
for  half  a  minute,  turn  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let 
rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Broiled  Devilled  Soft  Shell  Crabs 

Couronne  of  Turkey  *,  Palma  (467) 

Compote  of  Raspberries  with  Wine 

1955.    BROILED  DEVILLED  SOFT  SHELL  CRABS 

Remove  spongy  parts  under  side  points,  tear  off  aprons,  wash  thor- 
oughly and  drain  on  a  cloth  twelve  fresh  soft  shell  crabs.    Mix  on  a 
*  For  Couronne  Palma  use  the  Turkey  left  over  from  yesterday. 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  581 

plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Repeatedly  roll  crabs  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and 
briskly  broil  for  two  minutes  on  each  side ,  remove,  evenly  spread  on 
both  sides  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n),  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  broil  again  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  dress 
on  six  freshly  prepared,  trimmed  toasts,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1956.     COMPOTE  OF  RASPBERRIES  WITH  WINE 

Place  a  quart  fresh  raspberries  in  a  bowl,  season  with  two  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  kirsch  and  mix  well.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan 
one  and  a  half  gills  claret,  with  one  ounce  powdered  sugar  and  a  half 
stick  cinnamon.  Reduce  on  fire  to  half  the  quantity,  let  cool  off, 
strain  through  a  cheesecloth  over  the  raspberries,  mix  well,  transfer  into 
a  compotier  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)         Olives         Canape's,  Souvaroff    (157) 

Cream  of  String  Beans 

Salmon,  Hollandaise  (1517)          Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Filet  Mignons,  Cafe"   Riche  Fresh  Peas,  Vielle  Mode 

Roast  Guinea  Fowl  (1535)     Escarole  Salad  (too) 

Iced  Lemon  en  Surprise 

1957.    CREAM  OF  STRING  BEANS 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  quart  fresh  string  beans,  plunge  them 
in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two 
ounces  butter,  set  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally 
stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  add  a 
white  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  and  add  to  the 
soup.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix,  then  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour. 
Dilute  three  ounces  rice  flour  with  a  pint  milk  and  add  to  the  soup, 
constantly  stirring  while  boiling  for  five  minutes;  add  half  ounce  good 
butter,  mix  till  well  melted,  strain  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then 
through  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1958.    FILET  MIGNONS,  CAFE"  RICHE 

Cut  two  pounds  well-trimmed  filet  of  beef  into  six  even  pieces,  neatly 
round,  lightly  flatten  and  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  arrange  the 
filets  in  a  frying  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  three  minutes  on 
each  side.  Prepare  six  round  pieces  toast,  place  on  a  dish  and  dress 
the  filets  on  them.  Place  six  stuffed  green  peppers  (No.  959)  around  the 
filets,  pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  and  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  of 
truffle  over  and  serve. 

1959.    FRESH  PEAS,  VIELLE  MODE 

Cut  two  ounces  lean  salt  pork  into  small  squares  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  finely  chopped  white  onion,  one  teaspoon  melted 


582  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

butter  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden  colour;  add  a  pint  fresh,  shelled  peas 
and  moisten  with  a  half  pint  white  broth.  Tie  in  a  bunch  six  green 
lettuce  leaves  with  two  leeks,  add  to  the  pan,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let 
boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  remove  the  lettuce  and  leeks.  Mix  on  a 
plate  a  tablespoon  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  then  add  little  by  little 
to  the  peas,  tossing  well  meanwhile,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

1960=    ICED  LEMON  EN  SURPRISE 

Prepare  one  pint  (only)  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  add  two  gills 
whipped  cream,  one  teaspoon  lemon  essence  and  mix  well  with  the 
spatula.  Cut  six  good-sized,  even  lemons  in  halves,  scoop  out  the  interiors 
without  disturbing  skins,  then  fill  with  the  vanilla  cream.  Join  them 
together,  place  in  the  freezer  for  one  hour,  tie  a  fancy  ribbon  around  the 
centre  with  a  fancy  knot,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Place  in  a  bowl  and  keep  the  soft  parts  of  the  six  lemons  in 
the  ice  box  for  to-morrow's  use. 


Fourth  of  July  (supposedly  Monday) 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries  in  Cream  (1317)          Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Lakewood 
Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel  (689) 

Squabs  on  Toast  (950)       French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 
Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

1961.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  LAKEWOOD 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for 
one  minute. 

Cut  three  ounces  of  raw  beef  marrow  into  small  pieces,  then  plunge 
and  keep  in  hot  water  for  five  minutes  without  boiling.  Lift  with  a 
skimmer,  chop  up  and  evenly  spread  over  six  freshly  prepared  two-inch- 
square  toasts.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  dredge  a  very  little  salt  over  each 
and  keep  in  oven  with  the  door  open  until  required.  Finely  mince 
six  peeled  and  cleaned  fresh  mushrooms  and  lightly  fry  in  a  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter  for  five  minutes.  Drop  in  the  beaten  eggs 
and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  briskly,  arrange  evenly 
over  the  six  toasts  and  send  to  table. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme*  (1901)    Lobster  Saute",  Colbert 
Lamb  Chops,  Versaillaise  (143°) 

Nassau  Salad 
Omelette  Glace  au  Rhum  (1291) 

1962.    LOBSTER  SAUTE",  COLBERT 

Plunge  two  two-pound  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  with  a 
tablespoon  salt  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  let  cool  off,  crack  the 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  583 

shells  from  tails  and  claws,  carefully  pick  out  all  the  meat  and  cut  into 
three-quarter-inch  pieces. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  lobster 
and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper. 
Gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  tossing  quite  frequently  meanwhile. 
Add  a  half  teaspoon  each  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  extract  of  beef, 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a 
lemon.  Mix  well,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  add  a  half  ounce  butter  in 
small  bits,  tossing  a  little  while  adding,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

1963.    NASSAU  SALAD 

Trim  a  small  head  of  fresh  escarole,  wash  and  thoroughly  drain. 
Finely  slice  two  branches  sound,  well-cleaned  celery,  two  seeded  green 
peppers,  and  place  these  three  articles  in  a  bowl.  Plunge  two  medium, 
red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  one  minute,  remove,  peel,  let  cool  off, 
cut,  when  thoroughly  cold,  into  quarters  and  add  to  the  rest.  Place 
in  a  bowl  two  tablespoons  thick  cream  and  whisk  it  up  to  a  stiff  froth, 
Add  two  tablespoons  mayonnaise,  one  tablespoon  good  vinegar,  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  whisk  again  for  one 
minute,  pour  dressing  over  salad,  mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1447) 
.      Radishes  (58)       Salted  Almonds  (954)       Olives 

Consomme,  American 

Troufc,  Rochambeau  Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Roosevelt 
Flageolets,  Sautes  au  Tarragon 

Sweetbreads  au  Gratin 
Fresh  Asparagus,  Mousseline  (1276) 

Roman  Punch  (1708) 

Roast  Snipes  on  Toast  (213)     Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Greater  New  York  Ice  Cream 

Lady  Fingers  (150) 

1964.  CONSOMME",  AMERICAN 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering.  Cut  into  small  star-shaped  pieces  one  each  peeled  red 
carrot,  white  turnip,  small  truffle  and  Spanish  sweet  pepper,  with  the 
wrhite  of  a  hard-boiled  egg.  Place  carrots  and  turnips  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  a  pint  of  the  consomme  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  pour  into  the  consomme,  add  the  other  articles  and  two  tablespoons 
cooked  green  peas.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  sherry,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1965.  TROUT,  ROCHAMBEAU 

Trim,  draw  by  the  gills  and  wipe  three  very  fresh  medium  brook 
trout.  Place  on  a  deep  dish,  add  one  and  a  half  gills  claret,  six  minced 
shallots,  a  branch  parsley,  six  tarragon  leaves,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound 


584  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

lemon,  a  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  sprig  thyme,  one  crushed  bay 
leaf,  one  sprig  marjoram,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika. 
Mix  well  and  let  marinade  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Place 
the  trout  and  all  the  marinade  in  a  frying  pan  with  two  fresh,  crushed 
red  tomatoes,  cover  the  pan  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes 
on  range,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up 
the  fish,  place  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Strain  the  sauce  into  a 
saucepan,  add  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  twelve  finely  sliced,  canned 
mushrooms,  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity. 

Mix  on  a  plate  one  ounce  good  butter  with  one  teaspoon  flour  and 
gradually  add  it  to  the  sauce,  continually  stirring  meanwhile,  pour  sauce 
over  the  fish  and  serve. 

1966.    CHICKEN  CROQUETTES,  ROOSEVELT 

Detach  the  legs  and  breast  of  a  two-and-a-half-pound  tender  chicken, 
remove  skin,  place  legs  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  white  broth,  and 
a  half  teaspoon  salt  then  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain,  remove 
meat  from  the  legs  and  cut  into  quarter-inch  squares.  Cut  also  two 
ounces  cooked  lean  ham,  one  ounce  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue,  one 
good-sized  truffle  and  place  them  in  a  small  tin.  Cut  six  well  peeled 
and  cleaned  fresh  mushrooms  into  quarter-inch  pieces,  fry  in  a  table- 
spoon butter  for  five  minutes,  lightly  tossing  meanwhile,  and  add  to  the 
tin.  Remove  all  the  sinews  from  breast  of  chicken,  and  with  a  small 
knife  scrape  off  the  meat  and  place  it  in  a  clean  mortar;  pound  it  until 
smooth,  then  add,  one  by  one,  three  egg  yolks,  thoroughly  pounding 
while  adding  them;  pour  in  two  gills  thick  cream,  a  tablespoon  mush- 
room liquor  and  two  tablespoons  sherry.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  a  half  salt- 
spoon  mixed  grated  allspice  and  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  two 
minutes,  then  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  the  tin  with  other 
articles,  mix  all  well  together,  and  cover  the  preparation  with  a  lightly 
buttered  white  paper.  Place  the  tin  in  a  larger  one,  then  pour  in  hot 
water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  tin.  Set  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open 
for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  let  cool  off,  divide  the  chicken  into  twelve 
equal  parts,  roll  into  croquette  form,  and  dip  each  in  melted  butter,  then 
roll  them  in  freshly  prepared  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
clarified  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  croquettes  one  beside  another 
and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up,  dress  on  a  dish  crown- 
like,  one  overlapping  another,  adjust  a  fancy  frill  at  the  end  of  each, 
decorate  the  centre  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  Supreme 
sauce  separately. 

1967.    SAUCE  SUPREME 

Cut  off  the  head  of  chicken,  neatly  clean  the  carcass  and  cut  the 
bones  into  small  pieces.     Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  onion, 
the  white  of  one  sliced  leek,  one  each  branch  parsley,  chervil  and  celery, 
one  quart  water,  one  gill  white  wine,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  , 
cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty- 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  585 

five  minutes,  being  careful  to  skim  off  the  scum  once  In  a  while.  Mix  in 
a  saucepan  an  ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  and  a  half  flour  and  heat  for 
half  minute.  Strain  half  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan, 
mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity, 
lightly  mixing  at  bottom  once  in  a  while.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a 
gill  cream  and  add  to  the  sauce,  mix  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  press 
the  sauce  through  a  double  cheesecloth  into  a  sauce  bowl  and  serve. 

1968.    FLAGEOLETS,  SAUTE  AU  TARRAGON 

Open  a  pint  can  extra  fine  French  flageolets,  remove  all  the  waterv 
then  plunge  in  boiling  water  for  six  minutes.  Drain  and  place  *n  a 
saucepan  with  a  half  ounce  good  butter,  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
tarragon  leaves,  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar  and  a  half  saltspoon 
pepper.  Toss  well  while  heating  for  a  minute,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 

1969.    SWEETBREADS  AU  GRATIN 

Blanch  and  trim  six  sweethreads  (No.  33),  then  cut  crosswise  into 
quarter-inch  pieces.  Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  the  sweetbreads  and  briskly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Finely  chop  six  ounces 
raw,  lean  veal,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  fine  pulp,  then  add 
three  egg  yolks,  thoroughly  pound  again  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve 
into  a  bowl.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  then  gradually  pour  in  one  and  a 
half  gills  cream,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it.  Place  three-quarters 
of  the  force  in  a  pastry  bag,  then  press  in  a  round  baking  dish  to  crown- 
shape  forms  one  inch  high,  arrange  sweetbread  pieces  on  top,  one 
overlapping  another  and  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  salt- 
spoon pepper.  Spread  balance  of  force  over  sweetbreads,  pour  a  light 
gill  sherry  around  and  in  the  centre  of  the  crown.  Set  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes,  frequently  basting  with  the  sherry 
meanwhile.  Pour  two  gills  demi-glace  in  a  saucepan,  let  reduce  to  half 
the  quantity,  then  pour  over  the  breads  and  reset  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes  longer.  Remove,  baste  with  the  sauce  and  serve. 

1970.     GREATER  NEW  YORK  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  pint  (only)  of  almond  ice  cream  (No.  149).  Press  four 
ounces  candied  vanilla  marrons  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  copper  basin, 
add  three  ounces  sugar  and  five  egg  yolks,  set  basin  on  the  range 
and  whisk  up  for  ten  minutes;  place  on  the  ice  and  stir  with  a  spatula 
until  thoroughly  cold,  then  add  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  two 
tablespoons  curacao  or  benedictine.  Mix  well,  add  a  half  pint  whipped 
cream  without  sugar  ana  gently  mix  until  well  amalgamated.  Line  the 
bottom  of  a  quart-brick  mould  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  then  line 
bottom  and  sides  with  three-quarters  of  the  almond  ice  cream.  Place 
a  half  pint  fresh,  sound  raspberries  in  a  bowl,  with  :*,  tablespoon  each 
fine  sugar  and  kirsch,  thoroughly  mix,  then  arrange  three-quarters  at  the 


586  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

bottom  and  sides  of  mould.  Pour  in  the  marron  preparation,  place  the 
remaining  raspberries  on  top  and  fill  the  mould  with  balance  ice  cream. 
Cover  wiJi  a  sheet  of  paper,  place  cover  on  mould  (lightly  butter  edges 
of  cover  all  around  to  prevent  any  water  getting  into  the  mould),  bury 
in  the  ice-cream  tub  to  freeze  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  remove,  unmould, 
lift  up  the  paper  and  turn  upon  a  cold  dish.  From  a  one-inch-square 
piece  of  angelica  cut  out  even  alphabetic  strips,  G.  N.  Y.,  and  place 
them  in  centre  of  brick.  Arrange  all  around  the  surface  of  the  cream 
half-candied  cherries  and  decorate  base  of  brick  with  whipped  cream, 
then  chop  an  ounce  of  pistachio,  sprinkle  over  the  cream  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)    Boiled  Grits  (131) 

Eggs  Molet,  Villeroi  Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  (904) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochettes  (600) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

1971.    EGGS  MOLET,  VILLEROI 

Prepare  a  Villeroi  sauce  (No.  1460),  pour  in  a  half  gill  hot  milk,  mix 
well  and  keep  hot.  Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  five  minutes,  take  up  and 
plunge  again  in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  shell,  arrange  on  a  deep  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Salmon  Patty 
Lamb  Breast,  Hongroise 

Green  Corn  (1864) 
Choux,  a  la  Creme  (335) 

1972.    COLD  SALMON  PATTY 

Cut  two  pounds  fresh  halibut  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  mortar, 
thoroughly  pound,  add  two  ounces  bread  panade  (No.  1795),  an  egg>  a 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  each  grated  nut- 
meg and  mixed  ground  allspice.  Thoroughly  pound  again,  then  add  one 
by  one  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  continually  pounding  meanwhile,  remove 
and  press  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl,  and  keep  on  the  ice  until 
required. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a  two-pound  piece  of  fresh  salmon 
and  cut  into  strips  two  inches  long  by  a  half  inch  thick.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots  and 
gently  brown  for  three  minutes.  Moisten  with  one  and  a  half  gills  white 
wine,  add  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes;  drop  in  the  salmon  and  again  boil 
for  five  minutes,  remove  and  let  cool  off.  Prepare  two  pounds  pie  paste 
(No.  117),  and  roll  out  three-quarters  of  amount  on  a  lightly  floured  table 
to  a  quarter  inch  in  thickness.  Lightly  butter  a  medium  patty  mould, 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  587 

place  on  a  pastry  tin  and  line  interior  with  the  paste.  Spread  a 
quarter  of  the  force  at  bottom  of  mould,  carefully  spread  a  half  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence  and  sprinkle  a  very  little  finely  chopped  truffles  over. 
Arrange  a  third  of  the  salmon,  another  layer  of  force,  a  half  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence  and  sprinkle  a  little  more  truffles  over  them,  then  another 
layer  of  salmon,  and  so  on  until  finished.  Neatly  smooth  the  last  layer 
of  force  to  dome  shape,  arrange  a  bay  leaf  in  the  centre  on  top  and 
spread  two  ounces  of  butter  over  the  surface.  Roll  out  the  remaining 
paste  to  a  quarter-inch  thick,  cover  top  with  it  and  carefully  press  the 
two  edges  of  paste  together.  With  a  pastry  pincers  pinch  the  edges  all 
around,  make  a  deep  incision  in  the  centre  on  top,  egg  surface,  then 
set  in  oven  for  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes.  Bring  it  to  oven 
door,  strain  the  salmon  broth  and  pour  it  through  aperture  in  the 
centre  of  patty,  reset  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes  more,  remove  and 
let  stand  for  thirty  minutes. 

Melt  three-quarters  pint  jelly  (No.  1879)  and  with  it  fill  up  the  patty, 
place  in  a  cool  place  and  let  thoroughly  cool.  Dress  on  a  cold  dish  with 
a  folded  napkin,  arrange  three  ounces  chopped  jelly  around  the  base  of 
the  patty,  decorate  with  a  few  lettuce  leaves  and  serve. 

N.  B.  If  any  of  the  patty  is  left  over,  wrap  it  in  a  clean  cloth  and 
keep  in  the  ice  box. 

1973.    LAMB  BREAST,  HONGROISE 

Cut  two  and  a  half  pounds  breast  of  lamb  into  one-inch  squares. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  paprika,  place  in  a  small 
roasting  pan,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  set  in  a  brisk  oven 
for  forty  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  being  careful  to  turn 
the  pieces  once  in  a  while,  remove  and  keep  hot. 

Place  four  ounces  raw  rice  in  a  saucepan,  moisten  with  a  pint  broth, 
add  one  ounce  butter,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  saltspoon 
paprika.  Cover  and  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove, 
pour  in  a  half  gill  cream  and  two  saltspoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
briskly  stir,  then  dress  on  a  dome-shaped  hot  dish  and  arrange  the  lamb 
on  top  of  rice.  Skim  fat  from  gravy  in  pan,  pour  in  a  gill  pure 
tomato  juice,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  over  the  breast, 
sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Olives          Sardines  (1148) 
Cream  St.  Germain  (142)  au  lait  d'Amande 

Sheepshead,  Mariniere 
Duckling  Saute,  Italienne  Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 

Saddle  of  Mutton  with  Currant  Jelly 

Romaine  Salad  (214)     Raspberry  Ice  Cream 

1974.    CREAM  ST.  GERMAIN  AU  LAIT  D'AMANDE 

Scald,  peel  and  thoroughly  pound  a  quarter  pound  almonds,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  pint  milk  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain 


588  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  St.  Germain,  mix  well,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1975.    SHEEPSHEAD,  MARINIERE 

Scale  and  bone  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  sheepshead,  place  in  a 
sautoire,  add  one  ounce  butter,  one  gill  white  wine,  the  juice  of  quarter 
of  a  lemon,  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover 
the  fish  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes,  set  in 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  bring  it  to  the  oven  door.  Add  twelve 
freshly  opened  mussels,  six  freshly  opened  oysters,  six  shrimps  (cooked) 
and  six  canned  mushrooms.  Reset  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  more, 
remove,  lift  fish  with  a  skimmer,  place  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  two 
tablespoons  flour,  strain  the  fish  liquor  into  pan,  add  a  gill  cream,  mix 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  garnishing;  lightly  mix,  cook  for 
two  minutes,  pour  over  the  fish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley 
over  all  and  serve. 

1976.     DUCKLING  SAUTE,  ITALIENNE 

Singe,  cut  off  head,  also  the  feet  at  first  joint,  of  a  tender  four-pound 
duck,  draw  and  neatly  wipe,  then  cut  into  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat 
one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoir,  add  the  duck, 
one  piece  beside  another,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  nicely  fry  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Add  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  six  well- washed  and 
sliced  fresh  mushrooms,  and  brown  for  five  minutes  more;  add  ten 
stoned,  sliced,  large  olives,  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  one  gill  pure  tomato 
juice,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  ounces  cooked  ham  cut  in 
small  squares;  gently  toss,  cover  pan  and  slowly  cook  for  forty 
minutes,  dress  duck  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  all  the  contents  of  pan  over 
and  serve. 

1977.    SADDLE  OF  MUTTON  WITH  CURRANT  JELLY 

Pare  a  small  saddle  of  mutton,  remove  the  red  skin  from  surface, 
make  a  few  crisscross  incisions  on  top  of  fat  and  remove  kidneys  and  all 
inside  fat.  Firmly  tie  it  to  keep  in  perfect  shape,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan, 
lightly  baste  the  surface  with  melted  butter,  pour  two  tablespoons  of 
water  into  the  pan,  season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  an  hour  and  ten  minutes, 
turning  and  basting  it  with  its  gravy  occasionally.  Remove,  let  stand 
for  ten  minutes,  untie,  dress  on  a  dish,  skim  fat  off  surface  of  gravy, 
then  pour  it  over  the  saddle  and  serve  with  currant  jelly  separately. 

1978.    RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

Press  a  pint  fresh,  clean  raspberries  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl. 
Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  preparation  (No.  42)  and  when  strained 
into  the  freezer  add  the  raspberry  puree,  with  two  tablespoons  Swiss 
kirsch,  thoroughly  mix  with  the  spatula,  then  proceed  to  freeze  and 
serve  same  as  vanilla. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  589 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 
Farina  with  Milk  (74)  Eggs,  Marquise 

Fish  Balls  with  Bacon  (260) 

Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

1979.    EGGS,  MARQUISE 

Cut  away  the  tender  parts  of  a  bunch  green,  fresh  asparagus, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  boiling  water,  half  teaspoon  each 
salt  and  sugar,  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain,  then  press 
through  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  adding  half  ounce  butter  and  two  table 
spoons  cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  three  saltspoons 
sugar,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  briskly  stir  on  the  fire 
while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Spread  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  twelve 
poached  eggs  (No.  106)  on  top,  pour  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme"  (1901) 

Soft  Clams,  Vaudeville  (932) 

Nasi  Goreng  Pontianak 

Peach  Meringue  Pie 

1980.    NASI  GORENG  PONTIANAK  (DRY  CURRY) 

Have  on  a  dish  one  hashed  onion,  one  bean  crushed  garlic,  one 
finely  chopped  green  pepper,  one  ounce  finely  chopped,  cooked  ham, 
two  ripe,  seedless,  chopped  tomatoes,  one  teaspoon  curry  powder,  two 
small  crushed  cloves,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  of  thyme. 

Cut  two  pounds  raw  lean  beef  into  three-quarter-inch-square  pieces, 
heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  beef  and  fry 
for  ten  minutes,  then  add  all  the  above  articles.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Moisten  with  a  quart  hot  broth  or  water,  mix  lightly  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  four  ounces  raw  rice  and  mix  well.  Cover 
the  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,,  remove,  dress  on  a 
dish,  remove  the  bay  leaf  and  thyme,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley over  and  serve. 

PEACH  ME"RTNGUE  PIE 
Same  as  No.  826,  but  using  fresh  peaches  in  place  of  canned. 


590  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Canapes  of  Caviare  (59)  Olives 

Chicken  Okra,  Chasseur 

Pompano.  MeunieVe         Potatoes,  Voisin  (995) 
Noix  of  Beef,  Bourgeoise  (1871)          Asparagus,  Swiss  (1526) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Cold  Pudding,  Maraschino  (1772) 

1981.    CHICKEN  OKRA,  CHASSEUR 

Cut  off  head  and  feet  of  a  small,  tender  fowl,  draw,  tear  off  meat 
from  breast  and  legs,  remove  skin  and  bone,  then  cut  meat  into  half- 
inch  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  raw  ham,  one 
good-sized  white  onion,  one  green  pepper,  two  leeks  and  fci  well  peeled 
and  cleaned  fresh  mushrooms,  all  cut  in  small  squares.  Add  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  briskly  brown  on  the  range  for  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  once  in  a  while.  Moisten  with  four  pints  water  and  one 
and  a  half  pints  pure  tomato  juice,  add  the  fowl  carcass  and  let  boil  for 
thirty-five  minutes;  add  one  ounce  cooked,  smoked  beef  tongue,  twelve 
trimmed  fresh  okras  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  two  ounces  Carolina  rice, 
a  bean  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  level 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper;  let  slowly  simmer  for 
forty-five  minutes  more,  take  up  the  carcass,  skim  the  fat  from  the 
surface,  pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

1982.    POMPANO,  MEUNIERE 

Trim  off  the  fins  and  wipe  two  fresh  one-and-a-half -pound  pompanos, 
make  a  few  small  incisions  on  both  sides  of  the  skin,  season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  milk, 
then  gently  turn  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  fish,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon  over,  then  sprinkle  with  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  frying  pan,  toss  on  the 
fire  until  of  a  light  brown  colour,  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Huckleberries  (1913)    Hominy  (45) 

Omelette,  Navarraise 

White  Perch  Saute"  (1013)        Broiled  Pigs*  Feet  (434) 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Orange  Cakes 

1983.    OMELETTE,  NAVARRAISE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
tarragon  leaves,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  JULY  591 

in  a  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  add  three  finely  sliced  cepes 
and  two  ounces  very  fresh  calf's  liver  cut  into  half-inch-square  pieces. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  pepper,  and  gently  brown 
for  five  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Add  a  half  bean  finely  chopped 
garlic,  lightly  toss,  then  drop  in  eggs,  stir  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and 
let  rest  for  half  minute ;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre, 
let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

1984.    ORANGE  CAKES 

Cut  the  rind  of  an  orange  into  exceedingly  small  square  pieces  and 
boil  in  two  gills  of  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  replace  the  rind  in 
the  pan,  squeeze  in  all  the  orange  juice  and  cook  until  nearly  dry.  Pre- 
pare a  flannel  griddle  cake  preparation  (No.  136),  pour  orange 
juice  and  peel  into  preparation,  lightly  mix,  then  proceed  to  prepare 
cakes  exactly  the  same. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Celery  Broth 

Little  Neck  Clams.  Bordelaise 

Boulettes  of  Turkey,  Finnoise  (1290) 

Beetroot  and  Potato  Salad 

Pear  Fritters 

1985.    COLD  CELERY  BROTH 

Have  two  medium  stalks  of  fresh  celery,  thoroughly  wash  in  cold 
water,  drain  and  finely  slice,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a 
half  pounds  finely  chopped  lean  shin  of  beef,  two  branches  well-cleaned 
parsley,  a  branch  chervil  and  a  few  branches  chives,  adding  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
three  minutes,  then  gradually  pour  in  two  quarts  water  and  constantly 
stir  while  adding.  Place  pan  on  the  open  fire,  continually  mix  till 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  shift  the  pan  to  a  corner  of  range  and  let  very  slowly 
simmer  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  strain  the  broth  through  cheesecloth 
into  a  stone  vessel,  let  thoroughly  cool  off,  pour  into  six  cups  and  serve. 

1986.    LITTLE  NECK  CLAMS,  BORDELAISE 

Open  forty-eight  fresh  little  neck  clams,  and  keep  detached  on  the 
half  shell.  Lay  them  on  a  tin,  finely  chop  together  four  shallots,  a  half 
bean  garlic  and  two  branches  parsley,  evenly  divide  this  hash  on  the 
clams,  pour  a  half  teaspoon  claret  and  arrange  a  thin  piece  lean  raw 
bacon  over  each.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour 
gravy  from  pan  over  and  serve. 

1987.    BEETROOT  AND  POTATO  SALAD 

Boil  three  medium,  red  beetroots  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  remove,  plunge  in  cold  water  and  pull  off 
skin  with  the  fingers  while  in  water.  Lift  up,  lightly  drain,  cut  in  halves, 
then  finely  slice  and  place  them  in  a  salad  bowl  with  three  medium. 


592  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

peeled   boiled   potatoes   cut  in  same   way  as  the  beets.     Season  with 
four  tablespoons  French  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

1988.    PEAR  FRITTERS 

Peel,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  seeds  from  six  ripe,  sweet,  medium 
pears,  place  on  a  plate,  add  a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  half  teaspoon 
ground  cinnamon  and  tablespoon  maraschino,  turn  well  in  the  seasoning 
and  let  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes.  Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204), 
roll  pears  in  and  drop  one  by  one  in  boiling  fat.  Gently  fry  for  ten 
minutes,  turning  with  a  skimmer  once  in  a  while,  lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth 
and  lightly  trim,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  dress  on  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (i4S7)  Radishes  (58) 

Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Consomm6  aux  Lazagnes 

Spanish  Mackerel  with  Paprika 

Potatoes,  Duchfcsse  (304) 

Appetizing  Lamb  Chops  Roast  Capon  (37!) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Parfait  au  Cafe  (1265) 

1989.    CONSOMME"  AUX  LAZAGNES 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering.  Plunge  four  ounces  lazagnes  into  a  quart  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  drain  well  on  a  sieve,  then 
add  to  the  consomme;  boL  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

1990.    SPANISH  MACKEREL  WITH  PAPRIKA 

Trim  and  cut  the  head  off  a  fresh  Spanish  mackerel  of  three  pounds, 
split  in  two  through  the  back,  then  remove  spinal  bone  and  lay  on  a 
lightly  buttered  tin,  cut  side  up.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon paprika  and  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  spread  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  over  the  surface,  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over  and  set  in 
the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the 
gravy  (if  any)  over,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

1991.    APPETIZING  LAMB  CHOPS 

Neatly  tr::n  and  flatten  six  small  French  lamb  chops,  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  six  thin  slices  lean  bacon  one 
beside  another  in  the  pan  and  briskly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  keep  on  a  plate,  then  place  chops  in  same  pan  and  fry  for  three 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish  crown-like,  one  overlapping 
another,  place  bacon  on  top  of  chops,  fill  the  centre  with  green  peas 
(No,  1519)  and  serve  very  hot. 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  593 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  and  Cream  (1846) 

Grape-Nuts  (1371)     Eggs,  Muzaffer-ed  Din 

Whitebait,  Fines  Herbes  (1373) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (34?) 

Hashed  Potato  Saute"es  (50) 

Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

1992.    EGGS,  MUZAFFER-ED  DIN 

Remove  the  galls  from  six  white  chicken  livers  and  place  them  in  a 
bowl.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  one  saltspoon  ground  mixed  allspice; 
pour  in  a  half  gill  sherry  and  tablespoon  rum,  add  hall  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  quarter  bean  finely  chopped  garlic;  turn  well  in  the 
seasoning  and  let  infuse  in  a  cool  place  for  thirty  minutes.  Place  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  it  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  transfer  to  a 
mortar  and  thoroughly  pound  to  a  paste.  Rub  through  a  sieve  into  a 
saucepan;  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  add  one 
small,  finely  chopped  truffle  and  let  boil  for  eight  minutes,  lightly  mining 
meanwhile.  Evenly  divide  this  preparation  into  six  egg-cocotte  dishes, 
carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Pour  a  teaspoon  cream 
on  top  of  each  dish,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder  (198) 

Stuffed  Devilled  Lobster  (1-50) 

Mutton  Pot  Pic  (530) 

Omelette,  Ilousseuse 

Vanilla  Custard  (1345) 

1993.    OMELETTE,  MOUSSEUSE 

Place  a  gill  of  thick  cream  in  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  the  ice  and  whisk 
it  up  to  a  froth.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  the  cream>  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg, 
and  whisk  for  two  minutes.  Heat  one  ounce  fresh  butter  in  a  clean 
frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest 
for  half  a  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest 
for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Canape's,  Moreno  Russ  (355)         Olives 
Potage,  St.  Nazaire     Blackfish  en  Matelote 

Potatoes,  T/indsor  (252) 

Chicken  Braise"  au  Risotto 

Eggplant  Stuffed,  Provencale  (306) 

Roast  Beef  (126)    Escarole  Salad  (ioc^ 

Raspberry  Shortcake 


594  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

1994.    POTAGE,  ST.  NAZAIRE 

Brown  two  finely  chopped  white  onions  in  a  large  saucepan  with  two 
ounces  butter  for  eight  minutes,  add  two  sliced  leeks,  one  branch  each 
parsley  and  chervil,  a  sprig  each  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  a  clove,  sprig 
marjoram,  and  brown  for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile;  then 
add  one  ounce  flour,  mix  well,  moisten  with  one  and  a  half  quarts  white 
broth  (No.  701),  one  quart  fresh,  crushed  tomatoes  and  one  pint  water. 
Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well 
and  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Add  two  pounds  clean,  fresh  fish 
bones  and  let  slowly  cook  for  forty  minutes,  press  through  sieve  into  a 
basin  and  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan.  Place  on  the 
fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  dredge  in  three  ounces  of  tapioca, 
continually  mixing  while  adding  it,  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  mix  at 
the  bottom  once  in  a  while,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

1995.    BLACKFISH  EN  MATELOTE 

Procure  a  three-and-a-half-pound  fresh  blackfish,  scale,  cut  off  the 
head,  fins  and  tail.  Cut  into  inch  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  clove  garlic,  sliced  onion  and  two 
branches  parsley.  Cover  the  dish  with  two-thirds  water  and  one-third 
claret,  place  cover  on  and  let  gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Lift  up  fish 
with  skimmer  and  place  in  another  saucepan.  Knead  a  half  ounce 
butter  with  an  ounce  flour,  add  little  by  little  to  the  sauce,  continually 
mixing  while  adding  it,  then  let  boil  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar  over  and  gently 
brown  until  a  nice  golden  colour  and  thoroughly  soft.  Drain  and  add 
to  the  fish,  with  six  cooked  shrimps  and  six  canned  mushrooms,  strain 
the  fish  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  pan,  add  a  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence  and  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon;  carefully  mix,  cook  for  five 
minutes,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and 
serve. 

1996.    CHICKEN  BRAISE  AU  RISOTTO 

Singe,  draw,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet  at  the  first  joint,  and  neatly  wipe 
a  two-and-a-half -pound  tender  chicken.  Truss  and  cover  the  breast 
with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  at  the  bottom 
of  a  braising  pan,  lay  the  chicken  over  it,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  lightly  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter. 
Set  in  the  oven  to  roast  for  thirty-five  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  then  pour  in  a  gill  white  wine,  one  tablespoon  brandy  and  one  gill 
demi -glace  (No.  122),  place  the  lid  on  the  pan  and  reset  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove,  djess  a  Piedmontaise  risotto  (No.  225)  on  a 
large  dish,  untruss  the  chicken  and  lay  it  on  top  of  the  rice.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  it 
over  the  chicken  and  serve. 

1997.    RASPBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

Place  a  quart  well  picked  and  cleaned  raspberries  in  a  bowl,  with  two 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  a  tablespoon  each  kirsch  and  maraschino 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  595 

and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Carefully  mix  the  cherries  in 
the  seasoning  without  mashing  them,  then  proceed  to  make  the 
shortcake  exactly  the  same  as  strawberry  shortcake  (No.  1677)  and 
serve  the  same  way. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberries  and  Cream  (1925) 

Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Colbert 

Porgies,  Sautees,  Fines  Herbes  (1553) 

Beef  Hash  (923) 

Puffs  (313) 

1998.  SHIRRED  EGGS,  COLBERT 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes  and  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into 
each  dish.  Season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove,  pour  a 
Colbert  sauce  (No.  121)  evenly  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Herrings,  Nordenfjold 

Tendrons  of  Lamb  Braise1  with  Vegetables 
Farina  Pudding  (1005) 

1999.  HERRINGS,  NORDENFJOLD 

Remove  the  skin  from  four  pickled,  fat  female  herrings,  then  soak 
them  in  cold  water  over  night.  Drain,  split  open  through  the  stomach, 
remove  the  roes  and  place  them  in  a  small  bowl  with  enough  fresh  cold 
milk  to  cover  them.  Cut  off  the  heads,  split  the  four  herrings  in  two, 
remove  the  spinal  bones,  then  cut  each  half  in  two  diagonally  and  lightly 
wash  with  a  little  white  vinegar.  Cut  two  medium  white  onions  in  thin 
rings  and  place  them  at  bottom  of  a  hors  d'ceuvre  dish,  arrange  the 
herring  filets  on  top  and  keep  in  a  cold  place  until  required. 

Drain  roes  from  the  milk,  finely  chop  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Add  two 
very  finely  chopped,  sound  shallots,  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  chives 
and  parsley,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well,  then  pour  in  one  tablespoon  each  good  white  vine- 
gar and  thick  cream.  Thoroughly  mix  again  for  one  minute,  spread 
prepared  roes  over  herrings,  decorate  all  around  dish  with  thin  slices 
of  lemon  and  serve. 

2000.    TENDRONS  OF  LAMB  BRAISE"  WITH  VEGETABLES 

Cut  three  pounds  breast  of  lamb  into  two-and-a-half-inch-square 
pieces.  Place  in  a  roasting  pan  six  new  carrots  cut  in  halves,  six  small, 
peeled  white  onions,  and  twelve  small,  peeled ,  raw  new  potatoes.  Ar- 
range the  lamb  in  the  centre  and  the  vegetables  around.  Season  all 
over  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  saltspoon 


596  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

grated  nutmeg,  half  saltspoon  ground  thyme  and  half  saltspoon  mixed 
allspice.  Lightly  baste  with  melted  butter,  pour  a  half  gill  water  in  the 
pan,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  the  lamb  and 
vegetables  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  pure  tomato  juice,  one 
and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  reset  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minutes  more.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Consomme,  Rachel 

Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Bluefish  Etuve"  with  Tomatoes 

Entrecotes,  Sauce  Poivrade          String  Beans  with  Corn 
Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 
Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Pear  Charlotte  (474) 

2001.    CONSOMME",  RACHEL 

Prepare,  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep  hot  a  consomme 
(No.  52).  Cut  the  tender  part  of  a  bunch  fresh  asparagus  in  half -inch 
pieces,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain,  plunge  into  a  quart  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve  and 
add  to  consomme.  Prepare  some  chicken  quenelles  (No.  1894),  drain 
and  add  also  to  the  consomme,  boil  for  three  minutes,  pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2002.    BLUEFISH  ETUV£  WITH  TOMATOES 

Neatly  trim  and  remove  bones  from  a  three-pound  fresh  bluefish  and 
place  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  curry  powder  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cut  into  slices 
four  ripe,  fresh,  medium  tomatoes,  place  them  on  top  and  around  the 
fish  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  ounce  butter  with  a  half 
teaspoon  anchovy  paste,  three  very  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Equally  divide 
the  mixture  over  the  fish  and  tomatoes,  cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered 
paper  and  set  in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the 
paper  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

2003.     ENTRECOTES,  SAUCE  POIVRADE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  two  one-and-a-quarter-pound  cuts  sirloin  of 
beef.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  repeatedly  turn  steaks  in  tj^e  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  a  Poivrade  sauce  (No.  546)  over  and  serve. 

2004.    STRING  BEANS  WITH  CORN 

Break  the  blossom  ends,  pull  backward  and  remove  the  strings  of  a 
pint  fresh,  tender  string  beans,  neatly  pare  the  thin  strips  from  other 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  597 

end  of  beans,  cut  in  two,  plunge  them  into  a  quart  water  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  gently  boil  for  forty  minutes.     Drain. 

Cut  away  the  stalks,  remove  the  leaves  and  silk  from  three  good- 
sized  tender  ears  of  green  corn;  drop  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two 
quarts  boiling  water,  a  quarter  pint  milk,  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  and  let  slightly  cool  off,  then  with  the 
back  of  a  knife  blade  detach  grains  from  the  cobs.  Heat  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  beans  and  corn,  season  with 
three  saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  cook  for  eight  minuteSj 
tossing  well  meanwhile,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Hominy  (45) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 
Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2005.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Peel,  wash  well  and  finely  slice  six  medium,  fresh  mushrooms,  then 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper,  and  lightly  fry 
for  three  minutes,  lightly  tossing  them.  Evenly  spread  the  mushrooms 
in  pan,  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  and  fry  for  one  minute, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  glide  on  a 
dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Chicken  Broth 
Lobster  Saute,  Finnoise 

Fritadelles,  Alexandra  Fresh  Peas  (15*9) 

Omelette,  Celestine  (1799) 

2006.    COLD  CHICKEN  BROTH 

Thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  one  pound  fresh  chicken 
bones,  chop  up  very  finely  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  cold  water,  set  pan  on  fire  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim 
scum  from  surface,  then  add  one  each  sliced  carrot,  onion,  turnip  and 
two  leeks,  two  branches  each  celery  and  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove 
and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Cover  pan  and  let  simmer  for  one  and  a  half 
hours,  skim  fat  from  surface,  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a 
stone  jar,  place  jar  in  a  basin  with  cracked  ice  around  and  let  get  thor- 
oughly cold,  then  pour  into  six  cups  and  serve. 


598  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2007.  LOBSTER  SAUTE",  FINNOISE 

Boil  two  two-pound  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon  water  with  a  tablespoon 
salt  for  twenty  minutes.  Lift  up  and  let  cool  off,  crack  shells  from  claws 
and  tails,  carefully  pick  out  all  the  meat  and  cut  into  half-inch  pieces. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  finely  chopped, 
seeded  green  pepper  and  gently  brown  for  two  minutes,  then  add  the 
lobster.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
brown  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  two  gills  pure,  fresh  tomato  juice, 
lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  eight  minutes.  Knead  an  ounce  butter  with 
three-quarters  ounce  flour,  then  gradually  add  to  the  lobster,  continually 
mixing  while  doing  so,  cook  for  five  minutes  more,  place  in  a  chafing 
dish  or  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2008.  FRITADELLES,  ALEXANDRA 

Skin  a  two-and-a-half-pound  tender  chicken,  pick  off  all  the  meat, 
finely  chop  it  with  two  ounces  raw,  lean  veal  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Sea- 
son with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper,  grated 
nutmeg  and  ground  mixed  allspice,  gradually  pour  in  two  gills  thick 
cream,  and  sharply  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  adding.  Divide 
the  preparation  into  six  even  parts,  lightly  roll  in  freshly  prepared  bread 
crumbs  and  give  them  nice  cake  forms. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  in  it  the 
fritadelles,  one  beside  another,  and  slowly  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange 
the  fritadelles  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Salted  Almonds  (954)       Clams  (1457)       Olives 

Pure"e  Crecy,  Faubonne 

Salmon,  London  Style 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Tournedos,  Rossini 
Beignetsof  Cauliflower  (1161) 
Mousse  of  Ham  in  Cases  (417) 

Claret  Punch 

Roast  Capon  (378)     Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Iced  Diplomatic  Pudding 

2009.  PUR£E  CRECY,  FAUBONNE 

Soak  a  pint  white  beans  in  plenty  cold  water  over  night,  drain,  place 
in  a  large  saucepan  with  fifteen  scraped,  sliced  new  carrots,  two  sliced 
medium  onions,  one  bean  garlic,  two  sliced  leeks,  half  pound  raw  lean 
salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  bay  leaf  and  sprig  of  thyme.  Moisten 
with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  place  lid  on  pan,  boil  for  forty  minutes,  then  set  sauce- 
pan in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  press  pure*e  through  a 
sieve  into  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan, 
set  on  the  fire,  add  one  pint  broth  and  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well,  let 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  599 

boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of 
bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2010.    SALMON,  LONDON  STYLE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  salmon,  tail  part,  split  in  two, 
remove  spinal  bone,  and  cut  each  half  into  three  even  strips  length- 
wise. With  a  larding  needle  and  thin  strips  of  larding  pork  neatly 
lard  the  surface  of  each  piece,  then  place  fish  in  a  lightly  buttered 
baking  dish,  larded  side  up.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  pepper,  squeeze  over  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  pour 
in  one  gill  white  wine,*  cover  the  salmon  with  a  sheet  buttered  paper 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  then  remove.  Mix  in  a  sauce- 
pan a  level  tablespoon  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  then  strain  fish  gravy 
into  pan  and  stir  on  range  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  sauce  over  fish 
and  serve. 

201 1.      TOURNEDOS,   ROSSINI 

Cut  from  a  two-pound  piece  well-trimmed  tenderloin  of  beef  six  even 
slices,  trim  and  neatly  flatten  them,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  lightly  baste  with  oil.  Arrange  on  broiler 
and  broil  over  a  brisk  charcoal  fire  for  three  minutes  on  each  side, 
remove  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  round  pieces  freshly  prepared 
toasts.  Dip  a  teaspoon  in  lukewarm  water  and  scoop  six  thin  pieces 
of  pate  de  foie  gras  from  a  small  tureen,  arrange  a  piece  on  top  of  each 
filet,  pour  a  hot  Perigueux  sauce  (No.  677)  over  the  filets,  set  in  oven  for 
two  minutes  and  serve. 

2012.    CLARET  PUNCH 

Prepare  a  lemon-water  ice  preparation  (No.  376).  Pour  in  one  gill 
claret,  a  saltspoon  cinnamon,  one  gill  raspberry  syrup  and  two  tablespoons 
kirsch.  Strain  the  preparation  into  the  ice-cream  freezer  and  proceed 
to  freeze  and  serve  in  same  way. 

2013.    ICED  DIPLOMATIC  PUDDING 

Cut  into  small  squares  one  ounce  peeled  almonds,  half  a  candied 
lemon  peel,  two  candied  apricots,  six  candied  cherries  and  two  sliced 
candied  pineapples;  place  them  in  a  bowl,  add  two  tablespoons  well- 
picked  Sultana  rasins,  pour  in  three  tablespoons  good  rum,  mix  all  well 
in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  an  hour. 

Prepare  three  half  pints  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  add  to  the  vanilla 
a  half  pint  whipped  cream  and  the  infused  fruits.  Mix  well  with  spatula, 
place  the  cream  in  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould,  lay  sheet  white  paper 
over,  cover  mould  and  bury  in  the  tub  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  for 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  dip  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds, 
wipe  well,  then  unmould  on  a  cold  dish.  Mix  in  a  bowl  a  gill  straw- 
berry syrup  with  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  pour  over  the  pudding 
and  serve. 


600  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  and  Cream  (1846) 
Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Poached  Eggs,  Ct.  Jean 
Calves'  Liver  and  Bacon  (155) 

Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2014.    POACHED  EGGS,  ST.  JEAN 

Prepare  six  fish  cakes  (No.  5),  arrange  on  a«  dish,  place  a  poached 
egg  on  top  of  each,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  over,  evenly  divided, 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 

Boned  Turkey  with  Jelly  (1928) 

Escarole  Salad  with  Eggs 

Peach  Shortcake 

2015.    ESCAROLE  SALAD  WITH  EGGS 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  from  a  large  white  head  of  escarole  and 
detach  leaves  from  stalk.  If  tolerably  clean  carefully  wipe  it  without 
washing.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl  with  six  thoroughly  cold,  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  into  quarters,  season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863), 
mix  well  and  serve. 

2016.  PEACH  SHORTCAKE 

Peel  twelve  medium,  ripe,  sweet,  fresh  peaches.  Cut  off  from  the 
stones  in  quarter-inch  slices,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  a  tablespoon  powdered 
sugar  and  two  tablespoons  maraschino.  Mix  well  together,  then  pro- 
ceed to  make  exactly  the  same  as  strawberry  shortcake  (No.  1677). 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)         Caviare  (59) 

Venitienne  Soup 

Bonito,  Polonaise      Potatoes  Persillade  (63) 
Ham,  Londonderry  (1771) 

Spinach  in  Cream  (339) 

Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Sliced  Tomatoes  (461)     Jelly,  Moscovite  (1626) 

2017.  VENITIENNE  SOUP 

Prepare  a  veal  broth  exactly  the  same  as  No.  1538  and  let  cool  off. 
Beat  up  in  a  bowl  three  egg  yolks  with  one  and  a  third  gills  cream,  add 
to  the  soup,  mix  well,  set  on  the  fire  and  continually  mix  until  near 
boiling  point,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  six  slices  of  toasted  French  bread  and  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  separately. 


TUESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  JULY  601 

2018.    BONITO,  POLONAISE 

Trim  off  the  fins,  remove  the  head  and  split  in  two  through  the  back, 
then  remove  the  spinal  bone  from  a  three-pound  fresh  bonito.  Season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper,  evenly  spread  an  anchovy 
butter  (No.  n)  over  the  fish,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  bonito  and  gently  fry  for 
ten  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  dish,  squeeze  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
and  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over.  Place  half  an  ounce 
of  butter  in  the  pan  and  toss  on  the  fire  till  brown,  then  pour  over  the 
fish  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  (1828) 

Barley  with  Cream  (1068) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Provencale 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Lfcnb  Hash  with  Green  Peppers  (77) 

Curry  Cakes  (1112) 

2019.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  PROVENCALE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one 
minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  two 
cepes  cut  into  small  squares  and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes,  then  add 
three  finely  chopped  shallots  and  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley;  lightly  toss,  drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  stirring 
with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Crayfish,  Bordelaise 

Mutton  Chops  with  Mashed  Potatoes 

Cold  Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

2020.     CRAYFISH,  BORDELAISE 

Procure  thirty-six  large  fresh  crayfish  and  keep  them  in  running 
water  for  one  hour.  Drain,  remove  the  intestines  by  pinching  the 
extreme  end  of  the  central  fin,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  cold 
water,  a  gill  good  vinegar,  teaspoon  salt,  bunch  parsley,  sliced  onion, 
sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves.  Cover  the  pan,  set  on  the  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  drain  on  a  sieve. 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter,  add  six  finely  chopped, 
sound  shallots  and  the  red  parts  of  three  new  carrots  finely  chopped  up, 
then  gently  brown  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  crayfish  with  a  quarter 
pint  claret  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  cover  the  pan  and  let  cook  for 
twenty  minutes.  Add  one  finely  chopped  bean  garlic,  one  teaspoon 


602  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

finely  chopped  parsley,  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  tarragon 
leaves,  toss  well  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  dress  on  a  hot,  deep 
dish  and  serve. 

2021.    MUTTON  CHOPS  WITH  MASHED  POTATOES 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  mutton  chops.  Mix  on  a  plate  a 
tablespoon  oil  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly 
turn  the  chops  in  the  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  cook  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  mashed  potatoes  (No.  178)  on  a  hot  dish, 
pyramid-like,  arrange  the  chops  one  overlapping  another  around  the 
potatoes  and  serve, 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)        Olives         Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Mulligatawny,  Osaca 
Halibut,  Vert-Pre  Potatoes,  Snow 

Boned  Squabs  with  Jelly 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Macaroon  Ice  Cream  (920) 

2022.    MULLIGATAWNY,  OSACA 

Cut  in  quarter-inch  squares  one  pound  lean  raw  mutton.  Cut  also 
into  smaller  squares  two  each  new  carrots  and  white  turnips,  the  white 
parts  of  two  leeks,  a  green  pepper  and  bean  garlic.  Place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  gently  brown  for 
fifteen  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two  and 
a  half  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  lightly 
mix  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Add  six  fresh  okras 
trimmed  and  cut  into  quarter-inch  pieces,  one  large  peeled  and  cored 
apple,  three  peeled  slices  eggplant  and  four  small,  peeled,  fresh  red 
tomatoes,  all  cut  into  small  pieces.  Let  them  gently  boil  for  thirty 
minutes  longer,  lightly  mixing  once  in  a  while,  then  add  the  milk  and 
shredded  white  fibres  (meat)  of  a  small  fresh  cocoanut.  Lightly  mix, 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2023.     HALIBUT,  VERT-PRE" 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  fresh  chicken  halibut  and 
place  them  in  a  frying  pan. with  an  ounce  butter,  a  gill  white  wine, 
branch  parsley,  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil  on  range  for  five 
minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  carefully 
lift  up  fish  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  reduce  gravy  to 
half  the  quantity  on  the  fire.  Have  a  vert-pre  sauce  ready  (No.  184), 
strain  the  fish  liquor  into  it,  mix  well,  then  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

2024.    POTATOES,  SNOW. 

Boil  twelve  new,  medium  potatoes  with  jackets  on  in  two  quarts  water 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  peel,  season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  rub  them  through 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  603 

a  sieve  into  a  serving  dish  and  serve,     (Carefully  avoid  touching  the 
potatoes  after  dropping  from  the  sieve.) 

2025.     BONED  SQUABS  A  LA  JEL£E 

Remove  heads,  feet  and  wings  from  six  fine  fat  squabs.  Split  open 
without  separating  through  back,  and  carefully  bone^without  spoiling 
skin.  Lay  them  on  a  table,  open  side  up.  Evenly  season  with  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  keep 
till  required. 

Finely  chop  a  half  pound  lean  raw  veal  with  a  half  pound  fresh  fat 
pork,  pound  both  in  a  mortar  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  one  by  one 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  briskly  pound  while  adding  them.  Press 
this  force  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Place  the  bowl  on  ice,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg and  half  saltspoon  ground  mixed  allspice,  and  thoroughly  mix  with 
wooden  spoon.  Cut  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces  one  ounce  larding 
pork,  one  ounce  cooked  lean  ham,  one  ounce  cooked,  smoked  beef  tongue 
and  one  medium  truffle,  and  add  to  the  force  in  the  bowl  with  an  ounce 
peeled  pistachios.  Mix  well.  Place  in  a  saucepan  three  minced  shallots, 
one  branch  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  six  tarragon  leaves,  a  gill  sherry,  a 
tablespoon  rum  and  a  tablespoon  truffle  liquor.  Let  reduce  on  fire  to 
half  quantity.  Remove,  let  cool  off.  Then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  the  bowl;  thoroughly  mix.  Then  evenly  divide  force  in  centre  of 
the  six  squabs.  Fold  up  sides  to  entirely  envelop  the  squabs.  Wrap 
each  squab  in  a  strong  piece  of  cloth  and  fasten  the  two  ends  tightly. 
Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  braising  pan  with  the  squabs,  pour  in 
enough  broth  or  water  to  cover.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pan  and  let  boil  one  hour  on  range. 
Remove  squabs,  place  and  let  stand  on  a  plate  five  minutes.  Unwrap, 
wash  cloths  in  cold  water  and  tightly  wrap  again  in  the  same  cloths. 
Place  between  two  boards,  arrange  a  two-pound  weight  on  top  and 
let  stand  in  that  condition  till  thoroughly  cold.  Unwrap,  and  neatly  trim. 
Cut  four  tablespoons  jelly  (No.  1879)  in  small  square  pieces.  Spread 
on  a  cold  dish.  Then  dress  squabs  over  jelly,  decorate  all  around  with 
lettuce  leaves.  Place  a  very  thin  slice  truffle  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73)  Wheatena  (1298 

Eggs  Croquette,  Mignonette 

Fish  Fritters  (1057) 
Beef  Saute",  Anglaise  (513) 
Hashed  Creamed  Potatoes  (220) 
Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

2026.    EGGS  CROQUETTE,  MIGNONETTE 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  adding  three  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  brown  three  minutes.     Add  one  tablespoon  flour, 


604  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

mix  a  little,  pour  one  gill  cream  over,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  one  saltspoon  chopped  chervil  and  one  saltspoon  chopped  tarra- 
gon, and  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 

Cut  eight  hard-boiled  eggs  in  squares  and  add  to  pan.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg , 
mix  well  and  let  cook  five  minutes.  Add  an  ounce  butter  and  two  table- 
spoons sherry,  mix  well.  Transfer  to  a  dish  and  let  get  cold.  Divide 
in  twelve  even  parts,  then  roll  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  cork  forms, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  five  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Shrimps    with  Mayonnaise 

Ragout  of  Lamb  (478) 

Noodles  with  Butter  (333) 

Raspberry  Tartlets 

2027.     SHRIMPS  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Shell  one  and  a  half  pounds  cooked  fresh  shrimps  and  place  in  a  bowl. 
Season  with  three  tablespoons  salad  dressing  (No.  863).  Mix  well  in 
seasoning.  Garnish  sides  of  a  compotier  dish  with  well  washed  and 
drained  (cold)  lettuce  leaves.  Dres.j  shrimps  in  centre,  dome-like,  then 
spread  a  mayonnaise  (No.  70)  over  the  shrimps,  sprinkle  teaspoon  capers 
over  all,  arrange  two  cold  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters  around  the 
bottom  against  the  shrimps  and  serve. 

2028.    RASPBERRY  TARTLETS 

Prepare  six  tartlet  crusts  (No.  161).  Place  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces 
sugar,  with  two  gills  water,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  three  table- 
spoons brandy,  add  a  pint  fresh,  well-picked  raspberries,  mix  well  and 
let  boil  five  minutes.  Lift  up  raspberries  with  a  skimmer,  arrange  them 
on  the  crusts,  evenly  divided.  Reduce  syrup  on  fire  to  half  the  quantity, 
then  divide  over  tartlets,  sprinkle  a  little  shredded  cocoanut  over  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)         Olives 

Puree  of  Oyster  Plant 

Kingfish,  Meuniere  (773) 

Potatoes    Viennoise  (165) 

Beef  Tongue  en  Papillottes          Tomatoes,  Bock 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Cold  Peach  Pudding 

2029.    PURE"E  OF  OYSTER  PLANT 

Trim  off  stems,  scrape  and  thoroughly  wash  two  medium  bunches 
of  oyster  plants.  Drain  and  slice  very  fine,  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
one  ounce  butter  and  gently  fry  until  tender,  stirring  once  in  a  while, 
then  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  mix  well  while  heating  two  minutes. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  605 

Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  or  water,  add  two  finely  sliced  medium 
onions,  two  finely  sliced  leeks  and  one  branch  parsley.  Season  with  one 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  one  hour.  Remove,  press  the  soup 
through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  the 
same  saucepan  previously  wiped,  pour  in  one  pint  milk  and  two  gills 
cream;  add  at  the  same  time  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter.  Continually  mix 
with  wooden  spoon  while  boiling  five  minutes.  Pour  soup  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2030.    BEEF  TONGUE  EN  PAPILLOTTES 

Pare  and  neatly  trim  a  medium,  fresh  beef  tongue.  Arrange  a  mire- 
poix  (No.  271)  in  a  braising  pan,  and  lay  the  tongue  over.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper ,  spread  two  tablespoons 
lard  over  the  vegetables,  then  cook  on  fire  ten  minutes.  Moisten 
with  a  quart  water,  one  gill  claret,  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one 
gill  tomato  sauce,  place  lid  on,  boil  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  two 
hours,  turning  tongue  in  gravy  every  half  hour.  Remove,  lift  up  tongue, 
plunge  in  cold  water,  then  peel  off  skin  with  a  coarse  towel ,  then  cut 
in  twelve  even  slices  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required.  Skim  fat  from 
surface  of  sauce,  then  let  reduce  on  the  fire  to  one  pint.  Strain  sauce 
into  another  saucepan,  add  twelve  finely  chopped ,  canned  mushrooms 
and  four  tablespoons  bread  crumbs ,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry ,  and 
boil  ten  minutes.  Remove  to  a  table.  Cut  from  a  raw  ham  twelve 
thin  slices  same  size  as  the  tongue.  Cut  six  pieces  white  paper  fifteen 
inches  square,  fold  in  two,  then  cut  each  piece  in  semi-heart-shape  length 
and  width  of  the  paper,  open  and  lightly  oil  both  sides.  Place  one  slice 
of  ham  in  centre  of  one-half  of  paper,  spread  a  little  sauce  on  top  of  ham, 
then  place  a  piece  of  tongue  over  sauce.  Spread  a  little  more  sauce  over 
tongue,  then  another  piece  of  tongue,  more  sauce,  and  finally  a  piece  of 
ham.  Envelop  the  tongue,  etc.,  by  twisting  both  edges  of  the  paper. 
Place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2031.    TOMATOES,  BOCK 

Wipe  and  cut  in  halves  six  fine,  good-sized,  ripe,  fresh  tomatoes. 
Place  in  a  baking  dish,  cut  side  up.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoon s  white  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  squeeze  over  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Arrange  a  few  little 
bits  butter  over  them.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  bread  crumbs,  evenly 
divided,  over,  then  set  in  oven  to  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and 
serve  on  the  same  dish. 

2032.    COLD  PEACH  PUDDING 

Peel  twelve  good-sized,  sound,  fresh  peaches,  cut  from  the  stones  in 
quarter-inch  slices,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  six  ounces  remnants  of  cakes  or 
bread  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares,  two  ounces  well-picked  currants,  and 
gently  mix.  Lightly  butter  and  sugar  a  quart  pudding  mould,  and 
place  in  these  articles.  Crack  four  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  four 


6o6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

ounces  sugar,  two  tablespoons  kirsch  or  maraschino  and  a  half  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Sharply  whisk,  then  gradually  pour  in  a  pint  cold  milk 
and  a  gill  cream,  whisk  for  two  minutes,  and  pour  it  into  the  pudding 
mould.  Place  mould  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  up  to  half  its 
height.  Set  in  oven  forty  minutes.  Remove,  place  mould  in  a 
basin  with  cold  water  and  ice  up  to  half  its  height  and  let  get  thoroughly 
cold.  Unmould  on  a  cold  dish.  Pour  a  sweet  mousseline  sauce  over 
and  serve. 

2033.    COLD  SWEET  MOUSSELINE  SAUCE 

Place  two  egg  yolks  and  two  ounces  sugar  in  a  copper  basin ,  briskly 
stir  on  range  five  minutes.  Remove,  lay  basin  on  ice  and  stir  till  thor- 
oughly cold.  Beat  up  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
to  the  eggs  with  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Whisk  all  well  for  two 
minutes,  then  use  as  required. 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pears  in  Cream 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Poached  Eggs  with  Mint 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Broiled  Beefsteak  (172)          Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 
Raisin  Griddle  Cakes  (1719) 

2034.  SLICED  PEARS  IN  CREAM 

Remove  stems  and  peel  six  good-sized,  sound,  sweet  pears,  cut  in 
halves,  remove  seeds  and  cores.  Slice  them  in  thin  slices,  crosswise,  place 
on  a  compotier,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  lightly 
mix,  and  serve  with  thick  cream  and  sugar  separately. 

2035.  POACHED  EGGS  WITH  MINT 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast,  exactly  as  in  No.  106. 
Sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoon  very  finely  chopped  fresh  mint 
leaves.  Place  one  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  toss  on  fire 
until  a  nice  light  brown,  then  pour  in  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  toss  a 
little,  pour  over  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme  in  Cups  (1901) 

Soft  Shell  Crabs  au  Cerfeuil 

Turkey  Hash  with  Clams         Green  Corn  (1864) 
Floating  Island  (1514) 

2036.    SOFT  SHELL  CRABS  AU  CERFEUIL 

Procure  twelve  very  fresh,  medium,  soft  shell  crabs.  Remove  the 
spongy  parts  under  side  points,  pull  off  the  aprons,  wash  well  in  cold 
water  and  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth.  Place  on  a  dish,  season  with  a 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  JULY  607 

teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  in  a  gill  cold  milk, 
repeatedly  turn  in  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  thirty  minutes.  Lift  up 
and  gently  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  the  crabs  and  briskly  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Add 
leaves  of  two  branches  chervil,  toss  well.  Dress  on  a  dish,  one  over- 
lapping another,  pour  all  the  contents  of  pan  and  -squeeze  juice  of  half 
a  sound  lemon  over  then  serve. 

2037.    TURKEY  HASH  WITH  CLAMS 

Detach  all  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces.  Plunge  twenty-four  freshly  opened 
small  clams  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  three  minutes,  drain,  then  cut 
each  in  quarters. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  seedless 
chopped  green  pepper  and  six  finely  chopped  shallots  and  brown  three 
minutes,  pour  in  a  pint  milk,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the 
turkey,  clams,  and  one  finely  chopped,  cold,  boiled  potato.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
lightly  mix  and  cook  twelve  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Add  one  gill  cream  and  a  half  ounce  good  butter,  mix  well,  cook  five 
minutes  more,  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives         Clams  (1457)         Tomatoes,  Surprise  (765) 

Pepper  Pot,  Country  Style 
Filet  of  Spanish  Mackerel,  Fin  de  Siecle 

Potatoes,  Dauphine  (415) 
Saddle  of  Mutton,  Grecienne 

Purde  of  Cucumbers 

Roast  Chicken  (290)         Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Pistachio  Parfait 

2038.    PEPPER  POT,  COUNTRY  STYLE 

Place  one  pound  fresh  tripe  and  two  calf's  feet  in  a  soup  pot.  Pour 
in  three  quarts  cold  water,  add  two  medium  carrots,  two  white  turnips, 
two  medium  onions  and  one  sound  red  pepper;  tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek, 
two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf, 
one  clove,  one  sprig  marjoram  and  one  sprig  mace ;  add  this  bouquet  to 
the  soup  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pot 
and  let  slowly  boil  one  hour  and  a  half.  Lift  up  the  tripe,  calf's  feet, 
vegetables  and  bunch  of  herbs.  Remove  meat  from  calf's  feet,  cut  in 
small  square  pieces,  also  the  tripe,  the  carrots,  turnips,  pepper  and  onions. 
Remove  fat  from  surface  of  soup,  add  above  articles  to  the  pot ;  add  also 
two  medium,  peeled  potatoes,  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  and  a  half  gill 
white  wine.  Boil  slowly  thirty  minutes,  pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and 
serve. 

2039.    FILET  OF  SPANISH  MACKEREL,  FIN  DE  SIECLE 

Trim  off  fins,  cut  head  off,  split  in  two  and  remove  the  spine  bone 
from  a  fresh  Spanish  mackerel  of  three  pounds.  Cut  each  filet  in  three 


608  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

slanting,  even  pieces,  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish.  Season 
with  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Finely  chop  together  one  sound  green  pepper,  six  shallots,  six 
well-washed  and  peeled  fresh  mushrooms  and  ten  leaves  tarragon; 
sprinkle  this  mixture  over  the  fish.  Divide  hali  an  ounce  of  butter  in 
little  bits  and  lay  them  evenly  over  fish,  poui  gill  white  wine  into  the  dish. 
Cover  with  buttered  paper,  then  set  in  oven  to  bake  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  lift  up  paper,  squeeze  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon  over  and  send  to 
table  in  same  dish.  4 

2040.    SADDLE  OF  MUTTON,  GRECIENNE 

Procure  a  four-rib  piece  tender  saddle  of  mutton.  Remove  red  skin 
from  top  and  all  fat  from  inside,  fold  up  flanks  inside  and  firmly  tie  all 
around.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  small  braising  pan,  lay  the 
saddle  over.  Season  with  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  green 
pepper,  and  lightly  baste  the  saddle  with  a  little  melted  lard.  Set  in  oven 
to  roast  twenty-five  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Bring  it  to  the  oven 
door,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  brandy  and  a  half  gill  sherry ,  then  set  fire 
to  brandy  and  continually  baste  saddle  until  the  fire  goes  out.  Add  four 
tablespoons  currant  jelly,  one  gill  demi-glace  and  one  and  a  half  gills  pure 
tomato  juice;  reset  in  oven  twenty  minutes  more.  Remove,  dress  saddle 
on  a  hot  dish,  untie  and  keep  hot.  Strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  a  small  saucepan,  skim  fat  from  surface,  add  two  ounces 
well-picked  Corinth  raisins,  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  sauce  over  saddle 
and  serve. 

2041.    PUR£E  OF  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  four  medium,  sound  ripe  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters,  remove 
spongy  parts,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  broth  and  half  teaspoon 
salt.  Cover  pan  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  then  rub 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  a  tablespoon  and 
a  half  flour,  beat  for  a  half  minute,  add  a  gill  cream,  sharply  stir  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  puree  with  three  saltspoons  salt ,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne,  half  ounce  butter,  and  sharply  stir  while  heating  five  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  the  puree  on  a  vegetable  dish,  neatly  smooth  both  sides 
to  a  dome  shape,  arrange  six  heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and 
serve. 

2042.    PISTACHIO  PARFAIT 

Prepare  a  pint  of  pistachio  ice  cream  (No.  645).  Whisk  two  gills 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  add" half  the  quantity  to  the  ice  cream,  mix  well 
with  spatula  until  well  amalgamated,  then  add  tablespoon  powdered 
sugar  and  a  few  drops  vanilla  essence  to  balance  of  the  cream  and  whisk 
one  minute.  Divide  the  parfait  in  six  parfait  or  sherbet  glasses,  decorate 
top  of  each  with  whipped  cream,  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped 
pistachio  on  surface,  arrange  half  a  candied  cherry  on  top  of  each 
and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  609 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberries  and  Cream  (1995) 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 

Eggs  Cocotte  with  Clams 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451) 

Pried  Potatoes  en  Quartiers  (686) 

Kummel  Cakes  (1691) 

2043.    EGGS  COCOTTE  WITH  CLAMS 

Plunge  eighteen  little  neck  clams  in  a  half  pint  boiling  water  for  three 
minutes.  Drain,  and  cut  in  small  squares,  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  half  gill  cream  and  a  gill  milk.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt, 
a  light  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  light  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  a 
teaspoon  butter,  lightly  mix,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Divide  this  cream 
evenly  in  six  individual  egg-cocotte  dishes  and  carefully  crack  two  fresh 
eggs  into  each  dish.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  equally  divided,  lay  them  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  five 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder  (198) 
Canape's,  Loronzo  (538) 
£ntrec6tes.    Soyer  (1155) 

Omelette,  Chambery 
Pineapple  Fritters  (1186) 

2044.    OMELETTE,  CHAMBERY 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  7x>wl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  saltspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  c,  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 
sharply  beat  with  fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  in  exceedingly  small  square 
pieces  a  medium-sized,  peeled  raw  potato  and  one  medium,  peeled  white 
onion  cut  same  way;  place  both  in  a  jurying  pan  with  tablespoon  melted 
butter  and  gently  fry  a  nice  golden  coloiu^  frequently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Sprinkle  over  a  saltspoon  salt,  toss  r,  little,  then  drop  in  the  eggs,  briskly 
stir  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  hair  a  minute ;  fold  opposite 
sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)       Clams  (1457)       Anchovies  (141) 

Cream,  Japanese 
Broiled  Pompano,  Mr.itre  d'Hotel  (228) 

Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 

Mignons  ot  Lamb,  Sauce  "Lyonnaise 

String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579) 

Broiled  Devilled  Lobster  (158) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)     Lettuce  (148) 

American  Pudding 


610  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2045.    CREAM,  JAPANESE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  pound  clean,  raw  chicken  bones,  one  pound 
knuckle  of  veal  and  three  and  a  half  quarts  water;  set  on  fire  and  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  skim  fat  from  surface,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  add  one  minced  white  onion,  two  sliced 
leeks,  two  branches  celery,  also  sliced,  one  branch  parsley,  one  sprig 
thyme  and  one  clove.  Boil  forty  minutes,  then  add  fifteen  fresh,  clean, 
crushed  okras  and  allow  to  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  longer. 

Mix  in  another  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  and  a  half  ounces 
flour,  heat  one  minute,  then  strain  broth  through  a  strainer  into  this  pan, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  curry,  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg;  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  cook 
for  thirty  minutes,  then  pour  in  two  gills  cream,  add  half  ounce  good 
butter,  mix  until  it  boils  and  keep  hot.  Plunge  three  ounces  Japanese 
pearls  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  forty 
minutes,  and  stir  at  bottom  once  in  a  while.  Drain  pearls  on  a  sieve  and 
wash  under  cold  water  until  they  do  not  stick  to  the  fingers.  Strain 
cream  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  pearls,  lightly  mix, 
boil  for  two  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2046.    MIGNONS  OF  LAMB,  SAUCE  LYONNAISE 

Procure  six  mignons  of  four  ounces  each,  cut  from  a  tender  leg  of 
lamb,  neatly  flatten,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  the  mig- 
nons, one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  arrange  six  round,  freshly  prepared  slices  of  toast  on  a  hot 
dish,  place  mignons  on  top,  pour  a  Lyonnaise  sauce  over  and  serve. 

2047.    LYONNAISE  SAUCE 

Cut  in  quarters,  then  finely  slice,  a  Spanish  onion,  brown  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  then  pour  in 
one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  one  gill  demi-glace.  Add  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  parsley,  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  two  salt- 
spoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix,  then  boil 
for  twelve  minutes  and  use  as  required. 


Saturday,  Third  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)    Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Fried  Eggs,  Colbert          Fried  Little  Neck  Clams 

Lamb"  Kidneys  en  Brochette  (1331) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Corn  Muffins  (51) 

2048.    FRIED  EGGS,  COLBERT 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and 
carefully  crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs.     Evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon 


SATURDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OP  JULY  611 

salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  fry  for  one  minute,  then  set  in  oven  for  five 
minutes.  Remove,  carefully  slide  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour  a  Colbert 
sauce  (No.  121)  over  and  serve. 

2049.    FRIED  LITTLE  NECK  CLAMS 

Roll  forty-eight  freshly  opened  fresh  clams  in  flour,  then  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  gently  roll  in  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs,  plunge  in  boiling 
fat  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Scallops  au  Gratin 

Terrine  of  Ham  and  Veal 

Fresh  Mace"doine  Salad 

Creme  au  Caramel  (480) 

2050.    FISH  SCALLOPS  AU  GRATIN 

Peel  off  skin,  remove  the  bones  and  cut  in  half-inch-square  pieces 
one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  halibut,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  gill 
white  wine,  half  ounce  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Cover  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  boil  on  range  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  oven  six  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  ounces 
butter  with  two  ounces  flour  and  heat  for  one  minute,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Pour  in  the  fish  liquor,  one  gill  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  thoroughly  mix 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  boil  for  five  minutes ;  add  fish  with  two  table- 
spoons sherry,  one  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  and  gently  mix  and  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Pour  the  whole  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

N.  B.    Any  left-over  fish  can  be  utilized  instead  of  the  fresh. 

2051.    TERRINE  OF  HAM  AND  VEAL 

Finely  chop  a  half  pound  raw  lean  veal  with  half  pound  of  fresh 
raw  fat  pork,  place  in  a  mortar  with  two  egg  yolks,  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  one  teaspoon  rum,  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg  and  saltspoon  ground  mixed  spice;  thoroughly 
pound  five  minutes,  then  press  through  a  sieve  and  keep  on  a  plate. 
Procure  three  slices  quarter  of  a  pound  each  from  a  leg  of  veal ;  neatly 
flatten  them.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper;  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter,  fry  three 
minutes  on  each  side,  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Have  three  slices  cooked 
ham  same  thickness  as  the  steaks  and  place  on  plate  with  the  veal.  Line 
interior  of  an  oval  cocotte  tureen  with  thin  slices  larding  pork,  arrange 
a  layer  of  the  preparation  at  bottom  and  all  around  sides  of  the  tureen, 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  a  slice  veal  at  bottom,  spread  a  little 
force  over  the  veal,  then  a  slice  of  ham,  a  little  more  force,  another  slice 
of  veal,  etc.,  until  finished.  Arrange  a  Day  leaf  on  top.  Cover  with  thin 
slices  larding  pork;  pour  in  half  gill  sherry,  cover  tureen,  then  place 


612  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  small  braising  pan,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  tureen, 
set  in  oven  one  hour.  Bring  tureen  to  oven  door,  lift  up  cover,  pour  in 
two  tablespoons  brandy,  re-cover,  set  in  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour 
more.  Remove,  place  tureen  in  a  cool  place,  lay  a  board,  oval  shape, 
of  same  size  as  tureen,  over  the  pate,  place  a  pound  weight  on  top  until 
thoroughly  cold,  lift  up  board,  remove  fat  from  top,  pass  a  clean  knife 
all  around  edges  so  as  to  detach  it.  Turn  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  remove  lard  from  top  and  all  around. 

Cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces  four  tablespoons  jelly  (No.  1879),  arrange 
around  the  tureen.  Finely  slice  lengthwise  twelve  medium  vinegar 
pickles,  arrange  them,  one  overlapping  another,  on  top  around  as  a  crown, 
place  a  thin  slice  of  truffle  in  centre  and  serve. 

.   N.  B.     A  little  finely  chopped  truffle  sprinkled  over  each  layer  of 
force  in  the  tureen  will  improve  the  flavour  considerably,  if  so  desired. 

2052.    FRESH  MACE"DOINE  SALAD 

With  a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop,  scoop  out  all  you  can  from  six 
medium,  scraped  carrots  and  four  peeled  medium,  white  turnips;  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  thirty- 
five  minutes.  Drain  well  on  sieve,  then  place  in  a  cool  place  and  let 
cool  off.  Add  then  four  tablespoons  cooked  cold  green  peas,  four 
tablespoons  cold  cooked  string  beans,  cut  in  short  pieces,  two 
tablespoons  cold  cooked  fresh  or  canned  asparagus  tips  and  half  a  small 
cold  cooked  cauliflower  (but  nothing  but  the  perfect  flower)  in  small 
pieces.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  gently  mix 
all  well  together  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives         Lyons  Sausage  (58  2) 

Chicken,  Pectoral  Porgies,  West  Point 

Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Potpourri,  Bonne  Famille 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Peach  Pudding  (35) 

2053.    CHICKEN,  PECTORAL 

Skin  and  thoroughly  bone  a  small  tender  fowl,  cut  breast  in  half- 
inch  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Remove  sinews  from  legs  and  finely 
chop  same  with  two  ounces  of  raw  lean  beef  and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a 
smooth  paste,  then  add  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  two  egg 
yolks  and  pound  again  until  well  amalgamated.  Remove  from  mortar 
and  roll  out  the  force  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  cranberry-like  balls. 
Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  breast 
of  the  chicken  with  three  finely  sliced  leeks  and  one  chopped  white  onion ; 
gently  brown  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten 
with  one  quart  broth  and  two  quarts  water;  add  the  fowl  carcass,  head 
excepted,  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  boil 
thirty-five  minutes;  add  then  three  ounces  raw  rice  and  cook  thirty 
minutes  more.  Plunge  the  meat  balls  in  a  pint  boiling  water  two  minutes, 


SUNDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  613 

drain  on  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  soup.     Remove  bones  from  the  soup, 
skim  fat  from  surface,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2054.    PORGIES,  WEST  POINT 

Scale,  trim  off  fins  and  cut  off  heads  from  six  even-sized  fresh  fat 
porgies.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  sliced  onion,  one  branch  parsley, 
a  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  an 
ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  half  pint  water,  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper  and  slowly  boil 
on  range  twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up  porgies  with  skimmer,  remove 
skin  from  each  fish  and  keep  hot.  Strain  gravy  into  a  saucepan  and 
boil  ten  minutes. 

Soak  two  ounces  bread  crumbs  in  gill  cold  milk,  squeeze  out  milk 
and  add  bread  to  the  saucepan,  mix  well,  and  boil  five  minutes.  Knead 
on  plate  a  teaspoon  butter  with  teaspoon  flour  and  add  it,  little  by  little, 
to  sauce;  mix  well  while  boiling  two  minutes.  Strain  sauce  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  over  the  porgies,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

2055.    POTPOURRI,  BONNE  FAMILLE 

Cut  in  one-inch  square  pieces  half  pound  raw  lean  beef,  half  pound 
ditto  veal,  half  pound  ditto  mutton,  and  half  pound  ditto  fresh  lean  pork. 
Then  cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces  half  pound  raw  lean  ham;  place  above 
articles  in  a  roasting  pan,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  melted  lard,  then  set 
in  a  brisk  oven  twenty  minutes  or  until  it  obtains  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Remove,  take  up  meat  and  place  in  an  earthen  pot.  Cut  in  half-inch 
pieces  two  medium  carrots,  two  medium  turnips,  two  white  onions,  two 
raw  sound  potatoes  and  two  medium  parsnips,  and  add  to  pot  with 
chopped  rind  of  a  lemon,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half 
teaspoon  chopped  chervil  and  a  chopped  sound  bean  garlic.  Season 
with  good  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  saltspoon  thyme, 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  two  saltspoons  ground  mixed  allspice. 
Moisten  with  a  pint  cider,  a  pint  of  broth,  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No. 
122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce;  lightly  mix  with  spoon,  place  cover  on. 
Make  a  stiff  dough  with  quarter  pound  flour  and  half  gill  water,  and 
arrange  around  joints  of  cover  and  pan  to  prevent  evaporation.  Set  in 
a  moderate  oven  two  and  a  half  hours.  Remove  and  serve  without 
uncovering. 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  July 

BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  Farina  Gruel  (74) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Cream 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  (107) 

Beefsteaks  with    Fried  Apples 

Brioches  (878) 

2056.    MUSKMELONS 

The  best  muskmelons  are  now  undoubtedly  raised  in  the  tablelands 
of  Colorado,  having  almost  entirely  superseded  those  of  New  Jersey, 


614  THE  1N-TERNAT1ONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Delaware  and  Maryland.    The  Jenny  Lind,  Rocky  Ford,  Nutmeg  and 
Christiana  are  considered  the  best. 

Place  three  medium  muskmelons  in  the  ice  box  over  night,  and 
just  before  serving  cut  them  in  even  halves.  Carefully  remove  all  spongy 
parts  and  seeds,  place  them  on  a  hors  d'ceuvres  dish  and  serve  with 
powdered  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  separately. 

2057.     SHIRRED  EGGS   WITH  CREAM 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  pour  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
sweet  cream  into  each  dish.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each. 
Evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2058.     BEEFSTEAK^  WITH  FRIED  APPLES 

Procure  six  small  tender  sirloin  steaks  of  four  ounces  each,  neatly 
flatten.  Mix  on  a  plate  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  steaks  in  seasoning,  then  arrange  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Peel  and  core  three  good-sized  sound  apples,  then  cut  each  in  four 
even  slices,  dip  in  milk,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and 
fry  in  boiling  fat  four  minutes.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  arrange  around  steaks, 
spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  in  Cups 

Stuffed  Devilled    Clams  (567) 

Combination  Lamb  Chops 

Lemon  Custard  Pie  (316) 

2059.    TOMATO  BROTH  IN  CUPS 

Cut  in  thin  pieces  one  medium  carrot,  pne  onion,  two  leeks,  one  green 
pepper  and  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham.  Place  these  articles  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes,  occasionally 
mixing  meanwhile,  then  add  one  branch  parsley,  one  sound  bean  crushed 
garlic,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  one  and  a  half  quarts 
broth  (No.  701),  one  quart  well-cleaned  fresh  crushed,  red  tomatoes,  one 
teaspoon  salt  and  one  teaspoon  sugar.  Lightly  mix,  then  slowly  boil 
one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  Press  broth  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  six  cups  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  oyster- 
ettes,  separately. 

2060.    COMBINATION  LAMB  CHOPS 

Neatly  trim  six  tender  lamb  chops,  season  all  around  with  half  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Cut  in  even  halves — 
lengthwise — three  very  fresh  lamb  kidneys.  Season  with  three  salt- 
spoons salt  and.  saltspoon  pepper.  Arrange  both  kidneys  and  chops 
on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  six  slices  broiled  bacon  (No.  13) 
over  them. 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  615 

Cut  away  a  small  round  piece  at  both  ends  of  three  fresh  sound  red 
tomatoes,  cut  them  in  halves,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler 
and  broil  three  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  them  around  the  chops 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (i4S7) 
Radishes  (58)          Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Consomme,  Infante 

Cold  Trout,  Green  Sauce  (1903)   Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Filet  of  Beef,  Griscom  Timbales  of  Spinach 

Punch,  Anisette  (1163) 

Broiled   Squab  Turkey  with  Bacon  (1701) 
Lettuce  Salad  (148)  Biscuits  Glace"  a  1'Orange 

2061.    CONSOMME^  INFANTE 

Prepare  and  strain  into  another  saucepan  a  consomme  (No.  52) 
and  keep  simmering  until  required.  Reduce  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire 
two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  to  one-third  of  the  quantity,  then  remove 
to  the  table,  pour  in  one  gill  cream,  one  whole  egg  and  the  yolk  of  two. 
Sharply  rnix  with  a  whisk  one  minute,  then  strain  this  preparation 
through  a  cloth  into  four  lightly  buttered  individual  pudding  moulds; 
place  moulds  in  a  tin  with  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height  and  set  in 
oven  ten  minutes  with  the  door  open,  remove  and  let  cool  off,  then  cut  in 
slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  place  in  a  soup  tureen.  Cut  from 
four  thin  slices  of  sandwich  bread  round  pieces  one-half  inch  in  diameter, 
dip  in  a  little  cream,  then  in  beaten  egg,  fry  in  a  little  melted  butter 
to  a  nice  golden  colour,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  add  to  the  soup  tureen. 
Cut  in  quarter  inch  square  pieces  two  sweet  Spanish  red  peppers, 
add  them  to  the  consomme  with  three  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas, 
boil  five  minutes,  pour  the  consomme  into  the  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2062.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  GRISCOM 

Neatly  trim  a  three-pound  piece  filet  of  beef.  Cut  two  ounces  lean 
ham  in  small  strips,  then  with  a  larding  needle  insert  these  strips  on  the 
surface  of  the  filet.  Lay  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan;  lay  the 
filet  on  top,  season  all  around  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  lightly  baste  the  filet  with  a  little  melted  butter;  pour  half  a  gill 
water  into  pan,  then  set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  and  basting 
once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  keep  hot  in  the  pan. 

Carefully  wipe  three  good-sized,  but  not  too  ripe,  sound  red  tomatoes, 
cut  them  in  even  halves,  crosswise.  With  a  small  keen  knife  cut  away  a 
very  little  of  the  soft  part  of  each  half  from  the  top  "cut  part"  without 
disturbing  the  skin.  Evenly  season  them  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three* 
saltspoons  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Place  in  a  mortar 
one  ounce  raw  beef  marrow,  one  sound  good-sized  chopped  shallot,  one 
branch  very  fresh  parsley,  one  branch  fresh  chervil  and  two  branches 
tarragon.  Season  with  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
thoroughly  pound  to  a  nice  smooth  paste,  then  press  the  paste  through 
a  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  a  tablespoon  fresh  bread  crumbs,  strain  in 


616  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  stir  till  well  mixed,  then  spread 
the  force  evenly  over  the  six  half  tomatoes — cut  side.  Arrange  the 
tomatoes  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  set  in  the  oven  fifteen  minutes,  re- 
move and  use  as  directed.  Peel  and  thoroughly  wash  twelve  medium, 
sound  fresh  mushrooms  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden  colour  in  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt.  Have  six  timbales 
of  spinach  ready. 

Place  filet  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  alternately  arrange  the  garnishing 
around  the  filet;  that  is  to  say,  a  timbale  of  spinach,  a  fresh  mushroom,  a 
tomato,  another  mushroom,  timbale,  and  so  on  until  finished.  Skim 
fat  from  surface  of  the  gravy;  pour  in  half  gill  good  sherry,  one  good 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  tablespoon  truffle  liquor;  lightly  mix,  then 
briskly  boil  eight  minutes.  Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the 
filet,  and  serve  very  hot. 

2063.    TIMBALES  OF  SPINACH 

Remove  stalks  and  any  stale  leaves  adhering,  from  two  quarts  fresh 
spinach,  thoroughly  wash  in  several  changes  of  water,  drain,  then 
plunge  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  ten 
minutes;  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  with  a  skimmer  press  out  water.  Then 
finely  chop,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
sugar,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  three 
egg  yolks,  place  pan  on  fire  and  stir  with  wooden  spoon  while  heat- 
ing five  minutes.  Remove,  lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds, 
then  fill  with  the  spinach,  lay  moulds  in  a  sautoire,  cover  with  a  sheet  of 
buttered  paper,  set  in  oven  ten  minutes,  remove,  unmould  and  use  as 
required. 

2064.    BISCUITS  GLACE"  A  L'ORANGE 

Crack  six  egg  yolks  in  a  copper  basin,  add  two  ounces  granulated 
sugar,  chopped  rind  and  juice  of  a  fresh  orange,  set  basin  on  corner 
of  range  and  briskly  whisk  while  heating  ten  minutes;  remove  to  a 
table,  beat  five  minutes  longer,  then  set  basin  on  ice,  and  briskly 
stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  cold.  Add  half  pint  whipped 
cream  (No.  337),  gently  mix  with  skimmer  one  minute.  With  this 
preparation  fill  six  paper  ice  cream  boxes,  neatly  smooth  surface  with 
blade  of  a  knife  all  around.  Have  a  small  freezer  in  an  ice  cream  tub 
with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt,  place  the  cases  in  the  freezer  and  let  freeze 
for  two  hours,  remove,  place  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Monday,  Third  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73)          Semolina  (192) 

Omelette,  Madeira  Sauce 

Kingfish  Saute,  Meuniere  (773) 

Calf's  Liver  with   Bacon  (155) 

German  Pried  Potatoes  (242) 

English  Muffins  (528) 


MONDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  617 

2065.     OMELETTE,  MADEIRA  SAUCE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  a  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  fork  two  minutes. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  briskly 
mix  with  fork  two  minutes,  let  rest  half  a  minute,  fold  up  opposite  sides 
to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  one  minute,  then  turn  on  a  hot  dish;  pour  a 
Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  over  the  omelette  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Crab  Meat  with  Mayonnaise 

Goulash  of  Beef,  Hongroise  (263) 

Macaroni  in  Cream  (386) 

Blanc  Manger  (1052) 

2066.     CRAB  MEAT  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Place  in  a  bowl  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  crab  meat  flakes ,  season 
with  three  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well.  Arrange  six 
well-cleaned  lettuce  leaves  around  a  compotier,  dress  crab  meat  on  top, 
spread  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  over.  Sprinkle  a  light  tablespoon 
capers  on  top ,  then  arrange  two  cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  quarters, 
around  mayonnaise  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives         Thon  Marine"  (1597) 

Potage  du  Lundi 

Red  Snapper,  Mobile  (571) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Broiled  Duckling,  Orange  Marmalade 

String  Beans,  Paloise 
Roast  Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Escarole  (100) 
Victoria  Pudding 

2067.     POTAGE  DU  LUNDI 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  Spanish 
onions  finely  sliced,  two  ditto  leeks  and  one  crushed  bean  garlic, 
gently  brown  for  twenty  minutes  or  until  a  good  brown  colour,  stirring 
once  in  a  while,  then  add  two  tablespoons  flour;  constantly  stir  on  fire  five 
minutes.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  gently  boil  forty-five  minutes. 
Add  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese;  mix  well,  sharply 
beat  two  whole  eggs  on  a  plate,  add  them  to  soup;  mix  while  cooking 
two  minutes,  pour  potage  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices 
French  bread,  toasted. 

2068.    BROILED  DUCKLING,  ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Remove  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  medium  duckling,  split  open 
without  separating,  draw,  then  envelop  it  in  a  coarse  towel  and  gently 
flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  pepper 
and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Rub  all  around  with  a  tablespoon  oil, 


6x8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

then  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  twelve  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  freshly  prepared  slices  of  toast, 
spread  a  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over,  and  serve  with  six  tablespoons 
orange  marmalade,  separately. 

2069.     STRING  BEANS,  PALOISE 

Break  blossom  end  and  pull  backward,  removing  string  and  pare 
strip  from  other  end,  from  one  quart  of  fresh,  tender  string  beans.  Cut 
in  two  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  pints  water,  teaspoon  salt 
and  tablespoon  vinegar,  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a 
sieve,  then  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  a  teaspoon 
vinegar,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  one  egg  yolk. 
Carefully  mix  by  lifting  up  from  under  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

2070.    VICTORIA  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  pints  milk,  half  pint  cream  and  a 
vanilla  bean  or  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence;  let  boil  five  minutes.  Mix 
in  a  bowl  four  ounces  sugar  with  six  egg  yolks  and  a  tablespoon  arrow- 
root, sharply  mix  with  whisk,  then  pour  in,  little  by  little,  the  boiled  milk , 
briskly  mix  while  adding  it.  Strain  this  into  a  lightly  buttered  quart 
pudding  mould,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  its 
height,  then  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  let  stand  for  ten 
minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  three  tablespoons  currants  with  a  table- 
spoon maraschino,  set  on  fire  until  melted,  unmould  pudding  on  a 
large  dish,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  in  Cream  (1846)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Scrambled  Eggs  on  Anchovy  Toast 

Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 

Fritadelles  of  Lamb,  Me"nagere 

Stewed  Potatoes  (no)  Waffles  (296) 

2071.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  ON  ANCHOVY  TOAST 
Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  sharply  beat  with 'fork  one  minute. 
Evenly  spread  a  tablespoon  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  on  six  freshly  pre 
pared  slices  of  toast,  dress  on  a  dish,  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  cook  six  minutes,  frequently  mixing 
meanwhile;  dress  eggs  over  the  six  slices  of  toasts,  evenly  divided,  and 
serve. 

2072.    FRITADELLES  OF  LAMB,  ME"NAGERE 

Cut  all  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday  in 
small  square  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.    Cut  in  same  shape  one  cold, 


TUESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  619 

medium,  boiled  potato.  Heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  a  finely  chopped,  medium  white  onion  and  fry  five  minutes,  lightly 
stirring  meanwhile.  Add  the  lamb  and  potatoes,  pour  in  one  pint  of 
broth  (No.  271),  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  mix  well.  Cover  pan  and  let  cook  twenty  minutes,  frequently 
mixing  meanwhile.  Add  four  tablespoons  freshly  prepared  bread 
crumbs  and  two  egg  yolks,  sharply  stir  while  heating  five  minutes, 
pour  preparation  into  a  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Divide  into  twelve  even 
parts,  roll  into  oval-shaped  cake  forms,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread 
crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange 
in  the  fritadelles  and  fry  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  one  and  a  half 
gills  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  on  a  dish,  dress  the  fritadelles,  one  over- 
lapping another,  crown-like  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth,  Chantilly 

Fried  Soft  Shell  Crabs  (1351) 

Country  Captain  (1887) 

Chocolate  Souffle 

2073.    CLAM  BROTH,  CHANTILLY 

Place  fifteen  freshly  opened  clams  with  their  own  liquor  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  quart  water,  two  branches  soup  celery  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper.  Set  on  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim 
froth  from  surface,  boil  five  minutes,  remove,  strain  through  a  damp 
double  cheesecloth  into  six  cups,  but  fill  the  cups  only  to  three-quarters 
their  height.  Beat  one  and  a  half  gills  thick  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  evenly 
spread  it  over  the  six  cups  of  clam  broth  and  serve,  either  hot  or  cold. 

2074.     CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE 

Place  three  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  in  a  bowl  with  one  and  a  half 
ounces  fine  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  yolk  of  two  eggs. 
Sharply  mix  five  minutes,  then  beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  to  yolks  and  gently  mix  with  skimmer  one  minute.  Pour  the  prepar- 
ation into  a  souffle  dish,  then  set  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  immediately  send  to 
table. 

DINNER 

Clams  (i4S7) 
Radishes  (58)      Caviare  (59) 

Lamb  Broth,  Esperance 
Salmon,  Sauce  Fleurette  Potatoes  Chateau  (208) 

Cotelettes  of  Mutton,  Avignonnaise 

Roast  Capon  (378)          Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Fresh  Peach  Coupes 

2075.    LAMB  BROTH,  ESPERANCE 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  one  pound  raw,  lean  lamb,  one  small 
carrot,  one  ditto  turnip,  one  ditto  onion  and  two  ditto  leeks.  Place  these 


620  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  saucepan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  gently  fry  ten  minutes, 
stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  pour  in  one  quart  broth,  a  pint  tomato 
juice  and  quart  and  a  half  water,  adding  one  beef  marrow  bone. 
Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper ,  let 
boil  twenty-five  minutes,  add  two  ounces  well-washed  barley,  let 
boil  thirty  minutes  more,  then  add  half  pint  fresh  green  peas,  half  pint 
fresh  string  beans  cut  in  short  pieces  and  two  tablespoons  Worcester- 
shire sauce.  Lightly  mix  and  boil  fifty  minutes  longer.  Remove  bone, 
skim  fat  from  surface,  pour  soup  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2076.    SALMON,  SAUCE  FLEURETTE 

Procure  three  slices  fresh  salmon,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each; 
place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  butter,  one  gill  white  wine,  a  branch 
parsley,  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  salmon  with  buttered  paper,  then  set  in  oven 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  fish  on  a  dish,  prepare  a  sauce  Fleur- 
ette  (No.  320),  reduce  the  fish  liquor  to  half  the  quantity  on  fire, 
strain  into  sauce,  lightly  mix,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2077.      COTELETTES   OF   MUTTON,   AviGNONNAISE- 

Trim  and  neatly  flatten  six  French  mutton  cotelettes,  season  all 
around  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lightly  roll  in 
melted  butter,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping 
another,  crown-like. '  Place  green  peas  Avignonnaise  in  the  centre  of 
the  crown,  pour  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  around  the  chops  and 
serve. 

2078.     GREEN  PEAS,  AVIGNONNAISE 

Place  a  pint  fresh ,  tender,  shelled  peas  in  a  saucepan  with  quart  boil- 
ing water,  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons  pepper 
and  a  teaspoon  butter.  Cover  pan,  boil  forty  minutes,  thoroughly 
drain  on  a  sieve,  heat  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
two  ounces  very  finely  chopped  cooked  ham  and  gently  brown  five 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile;  add  peas  with  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  teaspoon  French  mustard,  one  ounce  butter,  three 
saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  white  pepper,  and  sprinkle  over  teaspoon 
flour,  lightly  toss  on  fire  while  cooking  three  minutes.  Remove  and 
use  as  required. 

2079.    FRESH  PEACH  COUPES 

Peel  twelve  medium,  sound,  fresh  ripe  peaches,  cut  off  the  stones  in 
quarter-inch  slices,  place  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 
tablespoon  rum  and  one  tablespoon  maraschino;  carefully  turn  in  season- 
ing, then  let  stand  on  ice  until  required. 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Divide  the  peaches 
in  six  champagne  glasses,  fill  with  the  vanilla  cream,  neatly  smooth 
surface,  then  place  a  maraschino  cherry  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  JULY  621 

Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  July 

* 

BREAKFAST 

Watermelon 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326)          Eggs.  Bateliere 
.        Kippered  Herrings  (153) 
Corned  Beef  Hash  (241) 
Cinnamon  Cakes  (1195) 

2080.    WATERMELON 

Cut  a  cold,  medium,  sound,  ripe  watermelon  in  six  even  pieces. 
Dress  on  a  large  cold  dish  and  serve  with  powdered  sugar  separately. 

2081.     EGGS,  BATELIERE 

Have  three  quarts  wrater  with  quarter  gill  vinegar  and  tablespoon 
salt,  and  as  soon  as  it  thoroughly  boils  carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs 
and  poach  four  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  gently  drop  them 
in  cold  water.  Poach  six  more  in  same  way,  lift  from  the  cold  water, 
neatly  trim  and  drain  on  a  cloth. 

Finely  chop  twelve  anchovies  in  oil,  place  on  a  plate  with  a  teaspoon 
anchovy  paste,  mix  well,  and  spread  paste  over  eggs  equally;  turn  lightly 
in  Parmesan  cheese,  then  drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  one  minute.  Lift 
up,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of 
lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Lobster,  Cardinal  Nepaul  Curry 

Coffee  Cream 

2082.     LOBSTER,  CARDINAL 

Cut  away  the  large  and  small  claws  from  three  small  live  lobsters  of 
one  pound  each,  split  in  two,  remove  gravel  pouch  from  heads.  Sea- 
son bodies  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  then 
lightly  baste  with  oil.  Arrange  on  a  roasting  pan,  crack  claws  with 
cleaver  and  place  on  pan  with  rest,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move the  bodies  only  from  pan  and  keep  on  a  dish.  Set  claws  in  oven 
five  minutes  more,  remove,  let  cool  off,  then  pick  out  meat  from 
shells,  cut  in  dice,  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Cut  two  Spanish  red  peppers 
and  six  canned  mushrooms  in  small  dice  and  add  to  the  cut  lobster;  add 
half  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoon  French  mustard,  one  egg 
yolk,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  pepper.  Mix  all  well 
together,  then  spread  the  force  over  bodies  of  the  lobster.  Arrange 
on  a  tin,  reduce  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
to  half  quantity,  add  two  egg  yolks ,  sharply  mix  with  whisk  while  heating 
three  minutes.  Let  cool  off  a  little.  Evenly  pour  sauce  over  the  six 
pieces  of  lobster,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over, 
set  in  oven  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 


622  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2083.  NEPAUL  CURRY 

Cut  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  two-pound  chicken,  entirely  bone 
it  and  cut  meat,  liver  and  heart  in  half-inch  square  pieces.  Cut  also  in 
same  shape  one  ounce  lean  raw  ham,  one  medium  onion,  one  bean  garlic, 
one  chili  pepper,  one  tomato,  one  apple — cored%  and  peeled — and  one 
medium,  seeded  green  pepper;  place  all  in  a  bowl.  Soak  a  piece 
white  bread  in  milk  three  minutes,  press  out  milk  and  add  to  above. 
Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper, 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  saltspoon  dried  bay  leaf ,  saltspoon  thyme 
and  a  heavy  teaspoon  curry  powder;  mix  all  ingredients  together,  press 
through  a  chopping  machine,  place  in  a  mortar,  add  two  egg  yolks 
and  thoroughly  pound  to  a  paste.  Divide  this  preparation  in  six  even 
parts,  then  roll  each  piece  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  fine  cake  forms. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  cakes  in  pan,  one 
beside  another,  and  gently  cook  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  a  rice 
(No.  490)  on  a  dish,  flatten  surface  to  a  smooth,  round  form.  Arrange 
meat  on  top,  pour  a  curry  sauce  (No.  54)  over  all  and  serve  with 
Indian  chutney  separately. 

2084.  COFFEE  CREAM 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  one  pint  milk,  a  pint  cream  and  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  for  one  minute.  Place  five  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  four 
ounces  sugar  and  briskly  mix  with  whisk  until  well  amalgamated,  then 
gradually  pour  milk,  etc.,  over  eggs  and  sharply  whisk  while  adding. 
Pour  in  saucepan  again,  set  pan  on  fire  and  thoroughly  mix  five  minutes, 
but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Remove  to  a  table.  Place  an  ounce  very 
strong  freshly  ground  coffee  in  a  small  coffee  pot,  then  pour  over  a  gill 
boiling  water,  cover  and  let  infuse  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain  through  a 
double  cheesecloth  into  the  cream.  Strain  cream  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  a  bowl  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off.  When  entirely  cold  send 
to  table  in  the  bowl  with  six  saucers  and  i  plate  of  any  kind  of  small 
cakes  on  hand. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Gumbo,  Arlequin 

Filet  of  Sole,  Mornay  Potatoes,  Bignon  (403) 

Balotine  of  Lamb  Stuffed  with  Spinach  (1724) 

Baked  Tomatoes,  (841) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Jelly,  Macedoine  (1303) 

2085.     GUMBO,  ARLEQUIN 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  half  a  pound  raw 
veal,  one  sound  green  pepper,  one  Spanish  onion,  two  leeks  and  two 
ounces  of  raw  ham,  all  cut  in  quarter-inch-pieces,  and  gently  brown 
ten  minutes,  mixing  well  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth 
(No.  701)  one  quart  tomato  juice,  adding  one  pound  clean,  raw 
chicken  bones  (if  at  hand).  Season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt,  a  tea- 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  623 

spoon  sugar,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  saltspoon  of  Spanish  saffron, 
lightly  mix  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes.  Add  two  ounces  raw  rice 
and  boil  twenty  minutes  more.  Trim  and  cut  twelve  fresh  okras  in 
quarter-inch  pieces  and  add  to  soup  with  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers 
cut  in  lozenge  pieces,  then  boil  forty-five  minutes  longer.  Remove 
chicken  bones,  pick  off  leaves  from  two  branches  chervil  and  add  to 
soup,  lightly  mix.  Pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2086.    FILET  OF  SOLE,  MORNAY 

Lift  up  the  filets  from  a  three-pound  fresh  flounder,  skin,  then  cut 
each  filet  in  three  slanting,  even  pieces ;  place  in  a  sautoir  with  half  ounce 
butter,  a  gill  white  wine,  branch  parsley,  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon, 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  buttered 
paper,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  and  arrange 
filets  on  a  baking  dish.  Place  twelve  canned  mushrooms  in  the  fish  liquor, 
then  reduce  the  fish  gravy  on  the  fire  to  half  the  quantity.  Arrange  one 
mushroom  on  top  of  each  filet.  Prepare  a  Mornay  sauce  (No.  526), 
pour  the  fish  liquor  into  the  sauce,  lightly  mix,  then  pour  the  sauce  over 
fish,  sprinkle  a  little  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  and  Cream  (1846) 

Wheatena  (1298) 

Poached  Eggs,  Trovatore 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel  (689) 

Mutton  Chops  with  Bacon  (845) 

Stewed     Potatoes     in     Cream     (no) 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes  (221) 

2087.  POACHED  EGGS,  TROVATORE 

Finely  chop  four  sweet  red  peppers  and  place  in  a  small  frying  pan 
with  a  teaspoon  butter  and  three  saltspoons  salt.  Cook  for  five  minutes, 
gently  tossing  meanwhile.  Prepare  twelve  round  pieces  of  toast,  two 
inches  in  diameter  and  a  quarter  inch  thick,  lightly  butter.  Evenly 
spread  the  sweet  peppers  over  the  toast.  Place  on  a  hot  dish.  Prepare 
twelve  poached  eggs  (No.io6)  and  place  over  the  toast.  Reduce  two  gills 
of  tomato  sauce  to  half  the  quantity  on  the  fire.  Arrange  a  very  thin 
slice  of  truffle  over  each  egg,  pour  the  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams  en  Brochette 

Beef  Saut£  with  Tomatoes  Succotash 

Cold  Maraschino  Pudding  (1772) 

2088.  SOFT  CLAMS  EN  BROCHETTE 

Carefully  open  forty-eight  fresh,  medium,  soft  clams.  Remove  all 
sandy  parts,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies,  plunge  in  boiling 


624  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

water  one  minute  and  drain.  Cut  forty-eight  thin  three-quarter-inch- 
square  pieces  lean  bacon,  then  arrange  clams  and  bacon  alternately  on  six 
skewers.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
lightly  roll  in  oil,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and 
broil  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  tablespoon 
maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  them  and  serve. 

2089.    BEEF  SAUT&  WITH  TOMATOES 

Cut  the  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  into  half-inch  squares.  Peel 
and  cut  in  pieces  five  good-sized,  fresh  red  tomatoes.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  an  enamelled  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped  white 
onion  and  gently  brown  three  minutes.  Add  beef  and  cook  ten  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  tomatoes  with  a  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  chives  and  one  teaspoon  tarragon  vinegar.  Season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  of  grated 
nutmeg,  and  mix  well .  Cover  pan  and  cook  thirty-five  minutes,  occasion- 
ally mixing.  Remove,  transfer  to  a  deep  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

2090.    SUCCOTASH 

Plunge  a  half  pint  shelled  lima  beans  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve  and  place  in  a 
saucepan.  'Remove  stalks,  leaves  and  silk  from  four  good-sized,  sound, 
tender  ears  green  corn.  Place  in  three  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  gill 
milk,  and  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Drain,  and  with  back 
of  a  knife  blade  detach  grains  from  the  cob  and  add  to  beans, 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Pour  in  a 
half  gill  cream  and  one  gill  milk.  Mix  well,  then  briskly  cook  five 
minutes.  Knead  on  a  saucer  one  ounce  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour, 
and  gradually  add  to  the  succotash.  Mix  well  while  heating  five  minutes. 
Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives          Clams  (1457)  Sardines  (1148) 

Potage,  Argentina 
Black   Bass,  Bretonne  Potatoes,  Colbert 

Sirloin  of  Beef,  Orlando 

Cauliflower  Fried  with  Cheese 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (818) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Ice  Cream,  Chambord  (939) 

2091:    POTAGE,  ARGENTINA 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  veal  knuckle,  one  beef  marrow  bone 
and  a  gallon  cold  water.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  let  come  to  a  boil,  skim  scum  from  surface,  then  add 
two  medium  carrots,  one  turnip,  two  onions,  two  leeks,  one  bay  leaf,  a 
sprig  thyme  and  one  clove.  Cover  pan  and  let  simmer  two  and  a  half 
hours.  Skim  fat  from  surface,  then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  JULY  625 

into  another  saucepan,  set  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
dredge  in  three  ounces  tapioca.  Mix  well  with  a  whisk,  then  let  slowly  boil 
fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  milk  and  grated 
white  (meat)  of  a  medium,  fresh  cocoanut,  mix  well,  boil  ten  minutes 
longer,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2092.    BLACK  BASS,  BRETONNE 

Procure  a  fresh  black  bass  of  three  pounds.  Scale,  trim  off  fins  and 
thoroughly  wipe.  Cut  in  short  julienne  strips  two  small  red  carrots 
and  two  branches  celery,  place  in  a  large  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  butter 
and  cook  five  minutes.  Lay  fish  on  top,  and  season  with  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  and  a 
half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  add  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms. 
Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper,  boil  five  minutes  on  range,  then  set  in 
oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  take  off  paper,  dress  fish  on  a  hot  dish. 
Boil  sauce  five  minutes,  pour  it  over  fish,  arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread 
croutons  around  the  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

2093.    POTATOES,  COLBERT 

Boil  six  medium  potatoes  thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  peel,  then  cut 
in  half-inch-square  pieces,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Drain,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  toss  well  on  fire  and  cook  six 
minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2094.    SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF,  ORLANDO 

Trim  off  a  little  of  the  fat  on  surface  of  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece 
tender  sirloin  of  beef.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay 
beef  over,  season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Spread 
two  tablespoons  melted  lard  over  beef,  pour  a  half  gill  water  in  the  pan. 
Set  in  brisk  oven  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while. 
Remove  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  fat  from  pan,  place  vegetables 
in  a  small  saucepan,  pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  table^ 
spoons  sherry,  lightly  mix  and  boil  five  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  over  the  beef,  arrange  a  fried  cauliflower  with  cheese 
around  and  serve. 

2095.     CAULIFLOWER  FRIED  WITH  CHEESE 

Cut  off  stalk  and  remove  outer  branches  of  a  firm  white  cauliflower. 
Drop  it  in  three  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  boil 
thirty-five  minutes.  Drain,  then  divide  cauliflower  in  small  bouquets. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  roll 
in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  lightly  roll  in  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  eight  minutes  or 
until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Drain  on  a  cloth  and  use  as  directed. 


626  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  (1828)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs  en  Cocotte  with  Sardines 

White  Perch  Saute",  Meuniere 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347)  Julienne  Potatoes  (790) 

Puffs  (313) 

2096.  -  EGGS  EN  COCOTTE  WITH  SARDINES 

Skin,  bone  and  cut  in  small  pieces  six  medium  sardines,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  little 
freshly  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  and  boil  five  minutes.  Divide  the 
sauce  into  six  cocotte-egg  dishes.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish. 
Evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over,  lay  in  a  tin,  set  in  oven  five 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2097.    WHITE  PERCH  SAUTE,  MEUNIERE 

Trim  off  fins  and  thoroughly  wipe  six  fresh,  fat  white  perch.  Make 
three  slight  incisions  on  both  sides  of  fish.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  cold  milk,  then  roll  in 
flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying 
pan,  place  in  perch,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley 
over  and  squeeze  juice  of  half  a  lemon  on  them.  Place  an  ounce  butter 
in  the  frying  pan  and  toss  on  fire  until  a  light  brown  colour,  pour  over 
the  fish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 

Shrimps  with  Cream 

Boulettes  of  Turkey,*  Finnoise  (1290) 

Egg  Salad 
Gateaux  Religieuse  (837) 

2098.      SHRIMPS  WITH  CREAM 

Shell  one  and  a  half  pounds  cooked  shrimps  and  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  gill  milk,  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  lightly  mix,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Knead  on  a  plate 
an  ounce  butter  with  a  tablespoon  flour  and  add  it,  little  by  little,  to 
the  shrimps,  lightly  mixing  while  adding,  cook  two  minutes  longer,  pour 
into  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2099.    EGG  SALAD 

Cut  eight  cold,  hard-boiled  eggs  in  quarters  and  place  in  a  bowl. 
Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  adding  half  teaspoon 
French  mustard,  mix  well  and  serve. 

*Use  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday 


FRIDAY,   FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  627 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)          Clams  (145?)  Olives 

Clear  Green  Turtle,  Tomate 

Blue  fish,  Norwegienne  Timbales  of  Potatoes 

Lamb  Steaks,  Colbert 

Okra,  Andalouse 
Lobster  Patties,  Augusta  (1612) 

Roast  Guinea  Fowl  (1535)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Gateaux,  Polonaise 

2100.     CLEAR  GREEN  TURTLE,  TOMATE 

Open  a  pint  can  of  green  turtle,  thoroughly  heat  it  in  a  bain-marie, 
then  cut  meat  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  place  both  meat  and  broth  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  pints  strained  consomme  (No.  52),  add 
half  gill  sherry,  a  tablespoon  brandy  and  slowly  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Pour  in  a  pint  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2101.    BLUEFISH,  NORWEGIENNE 

Neatly  trim  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  bluefish,  place  in  a  large  frying 
pan  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  juice  of 
quarter  of  a  lemon,  one  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper,  boil  five  minutes  on 
range,  then  set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  fish  on  a 
dish.  Strain  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  saucepan,  boil  five 
minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoon  freshly  grated  horseradish,  two  table- 
spoons capers,  four  anchovies  in  oil  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  parsley;  niix  well,  boil  three  minutes,  pour  over 
fish  and  serve  with  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90),  around 
the  fish. 

2102.  TIMBALES  OF  POTATOES 

Boil  in  two  quarts  water  six  medium,  peeled  potatoes  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty  minutes;  thoroughly  drain,  then  press  through  a  potato 
masher  into  a  saucepan,  add  two  egg  yolks,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Set  pan  on  fire  and 
sharply  stir  with  spatula  while  heating  five  minutes.  Remove,  lightly 
butter  six  individual  moulds,  then  fill  with  the  puree,  neatly  smooth 
surface,  spread  a  very  little  butter  over,  set  in  oven  to  bake  ten  minutes. 
Remove,  unmould  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

2103.  LAMB  STEAKS,  COLBERT 

Cut  three  nice  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  from  a 
tender  leg  of  lamb.  Make  a  few  light  incisions  around  the  skin  of  each, 
evenly  season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the 
steaks  one  beside  another  in  pan  and  gently  fry  eight  minutes  on  each 
side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  a  sauce  Colbert  (No.  121)  over  the 
steaks  and  serve. 


628  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2104.      OKRA,  ANDALOUSE 

Trim,  wash  and  drain  twenty-four  good-sized  fresh,  tender,  sound 
okras.  Peel  and  cut  in  slices  four  good-sized  fresh  peeled  red  tomatoes. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely 
chopped  white  onion  and  gently  brown  five  minutes,  then  add  the  okras 
and  tomatoes.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper 
and  half  teaspoon  parsley.  Carefully  mix.  Cover  pan,  then  set  in  oven 
one  hour.  Remove,  pour  into  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  three  freshly  pre- 
pared slices  of  toast,  cut  in  half,  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

2105.    GATEAUX,  POLONAISE 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  pound  of  feuilletage  (No.  756) 
to  thickness  of  quarter  of  an  inch  and  cut  six  even  pieces  two  and  a 
half  inches  square.  Lightly  baste  with  a  little  water  (on  top  only),  fold 
the  four  corners  to  meet  in  the  centre,  arrange  them  on  a  lightly  wetted 
pastry  sheet,  lightly  egg  the  surface,  sprinkle  a  little  granulated  sugar 
over  and  set  to  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
then  fill  the  four  open  lines  with  currant  jelly  so  as  to  form  a  cross, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Fresh   Plums  Cero-Fruto  (1610) 

Shirred  Eggs,  San  Sebastian 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123)  Tripe,  Lyonnaise  (981) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 
Lemon  Griddle  Cakes  (577) 

2106.    FRESH  PLUMS 

Select  twenty-four  thoroughly  ripe,  sound,  fresh  sweet  plums,  neatly 
wipe,  dress  on  a  compotier,  and  send  to  table  with  powdered  sugar 
separately. 

2107.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  SAN  SEBASTIAN 

Cut  in  very  small  squares  one  large  green  pepper,  place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  three  sound,  chopped,  small  shallots,  a  teaspoon  melted 
butter,  and  fry  for  three  minutes.  Add  one  Spanish  sweet  pepper 
cut  same  shape,  and  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  lightly 
mix,  cook  for  five  minutes.  Evenly  divide  the  sauce  into  six  shirred- 
egg  dishes  and  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Finely 
chop  one  ounce  cooked  lean  ham  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  six  dishes  of 
eggs,  set  in  oven  four  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Croquettes 

Irish  Stew  (425) 

Spaghetti  au  Gratin  (1508) 

Pear  Tartlets 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  629 

2108.    CLAM  CROQUETTES 

Open  twelve  large  fresh  clams,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  their  liquor 
and  a  half  pint  cold  water,  boil  for  five  minutes,  drain  and  finely  chop. 
Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  medium,  finely  chopped 
onion  and  fry  to  a  ligfyt  colour,  then  add  two  ounces  flour ;  stir  well  while 
heating  half  a  minute,  then  add  a  half  pint  of  the  clam  liquor,  mix  well, 
boil  two  minutes  and  add  the  clams.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne, 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  teaspoon  French  mustard  and  a  tablespoon 
Worcestershire  sauce ,  mix  well  and  slowly  cook  ten  minutes.  Add  a  half 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  juice  of  quarter  'of  a  sound  lemon,  two  table- 
spoons cream  and  two  egg  yolks ,  thoroughly  mix  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Transfer  the  force  into  a  bowl  and  let  thoroughly  cool.  Divide  it  in  six 
equal  par  cS,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  cork-shaped  forms,  dip 
them  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and 
fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin ,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

2109.    PEAR  TARTLETS 

Remove  stems  and  peel  six  fresh,  ripe,  good-sized  pears,  cut  in 
halves,  remove  seeds,  cut  in  quarter-inch  slices  and  place  on  a  plate. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  sugar,  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  table- 
spoon kirsch  or  maraschino,  turn  well  in  seasoning  and  let  infuse  till 
required. 

Prepare  six  tartlet  crusts  (No.  161).  Remove  the  beans  from  the 
crusts  and  thoroughly  wipe  them.  Evenly  divide  the  pears  into  the  six 
tartlets,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  spread  a  teaspoon 
currant  jelly  over  each.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141)  Radishes  (58) 

Potage,  Mousquetaire 
Small  Flounder,  Sur  le  Plat 

Potatoes,  Brabant  (1220) 
Broiled  Chicken  with  Mushrooms 

Green  Corn  on  the  Cob  (1864) 
Ribs  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255) 

Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 
Creme  au  The"  (Cream  of  Tea) 

2 1 10.     POTAGE,  MOUSQUETAIRE 

Finely  slice  eight  medium,  sound,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  pint  well  trimmed  and  cleaned  sorrel,  one  pound  fresh 
mutton  bones,  a  bay  leaf,  one  bean  garlic,  one  quart  broth  (No.  701) 
and  two  quarts  water.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Lightly  mix  and  slowly  boil  one 
and  a  half  hours.  Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  add  half  pint  cooked  green  peas  and 
the  leaves  of  two  branches  chervil,  lightly  mix,  boil  five  minutes,  pour 
soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 


630  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

21 1 1.    SMALL  FLOUNDER,  SUR  LE  PLAT 

Peel  off  skin  on  both  sides  of  three  small  flounders  of  a  pound  each 
and  make  an  incision  from  head  to  tail  on  thick  side  of  each  fish.  Then 
with  a  knife  lift  up  filets  from  bone  of  each  fish  without  separating  from 
the  bodies.  Knead  in  a  bowl  one  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  extract  of 
beef,  three  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley 
and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Evenly  divide  this  under  the  filets  of  each 
fish,  well  spread  over.  Place  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  pour 
one  gill  white  wine  around  fish.  Sprinkle  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread 
crumbs  over.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then 
set  to  bake  in  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  table  in 
same  dish. 

21 12.    BROILED  CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  three-pound  chicken.  Split 
through  back  without  separating,  remove  spine  bone,  draw  and  wipe  dry, 
take  out  breast  bone  and  neatly  flatten  it,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  rub  it  well  all  over  with  tablespoon  oil. 
Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  gently  broil  eight  minutes  on  each  side, 
then  set  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  squeeze 
juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon  over  and  keep  hot. 

Place  twelve  sliced  canned  mushrooms  in  a  saucepan  with  two  table- 
spoons sherry  and  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  let  boil  ten 
minutes,  pour  sauce  over  chicken  and  serve. 

2113.     CREME  AU  TH£ 

Place  half  ounce  Oolong  tea  in  a  teapot,  pour  over  a  pint  of  boiling 
cream  and  let  infuse  fully  one  hour.  Then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  small  saucepan,  add  a  pint  milk,  half  saltspoon  salt,  eight  egg 
yolks  and  four  ounces  sugar.  Thoroughly  mix  with  a  whisk  one  minute, 
then  press  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  quart  pudding  mould  and 
place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould. 
Set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  place  mould  in  a  basin  with 
ice  water  around  and  let  cool  off,  take  it  up,  wipe  it,  unmould  on  a  cold 
dish  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  in  Cream  (1846) 
Pettijohn  Pood_(i7o)         Fried  Eggs  with  Curry 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Lamb  Chop  with  Bacon  (219) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2114.     FRIED  EGGS  WITH  CURRY 

Heat  a  half  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  small  black  frying  pan,  dredge 
in  half  saltspoon  curry  powder,  then  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  631 

the  pan.  Season  with  one  saltspoon  salt,  half  saltspoon  pepper  and  half 
iialtspoon  curry  powder.  Fry  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  one  side, 
turn  over  by  a  rapid  movement  of  the  handle  of  the  pan  and  fry  one  and 
a  half  minutes  again,  then  slide  on  a  hot  dish.  Proceed  to  prepare  five 
ether  portions  in  the  same  way,  then  send  to  table. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth 

Fish  Coquilles  (1284) 

Terrine  of  Duckling,  Hicks 

Kirsch  Fruits 

2115.    OKRA  BROTH 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  raw  ham  cut  in  small  pieces,  two 
ounces  raw  lean  veal,  two  ounces  of  raw  lean  beef,  one  pound  clean ,  raw, 
cracked  chicken  bones,  slice  half  a  green  pepper,  one  carrot,  one  white 
onion,  two  leeks  and  twenty-four  fresh,  sound  okras.  Moisten  with 
four  quarts  water.  Season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  gently 
boil  two  and  a  half  hours,  skimming  off  scum  once  in  a  while,  then 
strain  it  through  a  damp  double  cheesecloth  into  six  cups  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold. 

2116.    TERRINE  OF  DUCKLING,  HICKS 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  feet  of  a  tender  duckling  of  four  pounds ,  split 
open,  without  separating,  through  back,  draw,  remove  all  bones,  season 
inside  of  bird  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  saltspoon  ground  mixed  allspice.  Sprinkle 
two  ounces  peeled  pistachios  inside  of  duck,  fold  up  to  its  original  form. 
Place  bones  of  the  duck  in  a  roasting  pan  with  a  small  sliced  carrot,  three 
sliced  shallots,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove.  Spread  a  teaspoon  melted 
butter  over  the  bones,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  place 
in  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Remove  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  gills  tomato  sauce  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  and  let  reduce 
on  fire  to  half  the  quantity.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  mortar 
and  let  cool  off.  Finely  chop  half  pound  raw  lean  veal  with  haK 
pound  of  fresh  fat  pork,  place  both  in  mortar,  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  one  saltspoon 
ground  allspice,  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  one  tablespoon  good  old 
Jamaica  rum,  add  two  egg  yolks  and  thoroughly  pound  all  well  together, 
then  rub  it  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  an  oval  earthen  cocotte  terrine  with  very  thin  slices  of  larding  pork. 
Arrange  three-quarters  of  the  force  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  terrine, 
place  the  duck  in  the  centre,  spread  the  remaining  force  over  the  duck, 
pour  over  two  tablespoons  sherry,  cover  with  thin  slices  larding  pork, 
place  a  bay  leaf  on  top  in  the  centre.  Prickle  the  patty  from  top  to 
bottom  four  or  five  times  with  a  needle,  place  cover  over,  place  the 
terrine  on  a  roasting  pan,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  a  third  of  the  height 
of  mould,  and  set  in  oven  one  hour.  Bring  to  oven  door,  lift  up  cover, 


632  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pour  in  quarter  gill  brandy,  re-cover  and  re-set  in  oven  thirty-five 
minutes  more.  Remove,  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  minutes. 
Place  an  oval  board  on  top  of  patty,  then  lay  a  pound  weight  on  top  of 
the  board,  and  keep  it  in  that  condition  until  thoroughly  cold.  Un- 
mould  on  a  dish,  remove  all  the  lard  around  the  terrine,  neatly  wipe 
the  inside  of  same,  then  set  on  ice.  Melt  eight  tablespoons  jelly  (No. 
1879)  in  a  small  saucepan;  pour  one-third  of  the  jelly  into  the  terrine, 
let  thoroughly  set;  sprinkle  over  a  minced  truffle.  Replace  the  pate  in 
the  terrine,  pour  balance  of  the  jelly  all  around  between  the  terrine  and 
patty,  then  let  thoroughly  congeal.  Carefully  immerse  in  cold  water  a 
few  seconds,  unmould  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  aU 
around  with  a  few  cleaned  lettuce  leaves  and  serve. 

2117.    KIRSCH  FRUITS 

Two  sound,  juicy  oranges,  two  good-sized  pears,  two  peaches,  four 
plums,  half  pint  raspberries,  two  sound  bananas,  three  slices  pineapple 
and  one  sound  apple.  Peel,  core  and  slice  the  fruits.  Place  in  a  bowl 
with  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar,  one  tablespoon  Curasao  and  three  table- 
spoons Swiss  kirsch.  Turn  well  in  seasoning  and  serve.  If  any  fresh 
cherries  are  at  hand  remove  the  stalks,  stone  and  add  to  the  other  fruits. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?) 
Salted  Almonds  (954)  Olives 

Consomme,  Massina 

Gold  Salmon,  Alaska  Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Filet  Mignons  with  New  Potatoes  Rissole"es 
Sweetbread  Cutlets,  Sauce  Perigueux 
Fresh  Peas  with  Butter  (1519) 

Punch,  Creme  Yvette  (560) 
Roast  Squabs  with  Cress  (831) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Muskmelon  Ice  Cream 

21 18.    CONSOMM£,  MASSINA 

Prepare,  strain  and  keep  simmering  in  a  saucepan  a  consomme 
(No.  52).  Have  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  in  a  small  saucepan,  place  on 
the  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boiling  point  dredge  in  three  table- 
spoons chestnut  flour,  sharply  whisk  while  adding  it,  then  let  boil  five 
minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile;  remove  to  the  table,  season 
with  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons 
sherry;  mix  well  one  minute.  Lightly  butter  four  individual  pudding 
moulds,  strain  preparation  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  moulds,  place 
them  in  a  small  tin,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  with  the  door  open  ten  minutes.  Remove,  let  stand  in  a 
cool  place  five  minutes,  unmould,  cut  in  slices  quarter-inch  thick,  and 
place  in  a  soup  tureen.  Pour  two  tablespoons  good  sherry  and  one 
tablespoon  truffle  liquor  in  the  consomme*,  boil  two  minutes,  pour  in 
the  soup  tureen  over  the  chestnut  custard  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  633 

2119.    COLD  SALMON,  ALASKA 

Place  three  slices  salmon  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  in  a 
sauteuse  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  a  pint  water,  two  tablespoons  vinegar, 
one  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove  and  a 
heavy  teaspoon  salt ;  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil ,  then  place  pan  in  a  cold 
place  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off. 

Prepare  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279),  add  to  it  half  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence,  beat  with  a  whisk  until  thoroughly  cold.  Whisk 
a  half  gill  thick  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  sauce ,  gently  mix  with 
spoon,  then  place  it  in  a  sauce  bowl,  Dress  salmon  on  a  cold  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  send  to  table 
with  the  sauce  separately. 

2120.    FILET  MIGNONS  WITH  NEW  POTATOES  RISSOLE"ES 

Neatly  trim  top  of  a  two-pound  piece  filet  of  beef,  then  cut  in  six  even 
pieces.  Mix  on  a  plate  one  tablespoon  oil,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper;  repeatedly  turn  filets  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  twelve  small  potatoes  rissolees  around  the  filets,  spread  a 
maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  them  and  serve. 

2121.    POTATOES  RISSOLEES 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  well  twelve  peeled  sound  new  potatoes.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  good  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  potatoes  and  fry  on  the 
fire  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Sprinkle  over  a 
teaspoon  salt,  toss  again,  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  drain  and  serve. 

2122.    SWEETBREAD  CUTLETS,  SAUCE  PE"RIGUEUX 

Soak  six  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  two  hours.  Remove  and  plunge 
in  boiling  water  five  minutes.  Drain,  then  trim  all  around,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  one  small  sliced  onion  cut  in  small  pieces, 
half  ounce  lard,  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  pint  broth  (No.  701). 
Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  cover  pan,  slowly  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Lift  up  breads  with  a  skimmer,  cut  into  quarter-inch-square  pieces  and 
keep  on  a  plate  till  required. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  with  two  ounces  flour. 
Skim  fat  from  surface  of  §weetbread  broth,  then  strain  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  the  roux,  mix  well  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity, 
frequently  mixing  meanwhile ;  add  six  finely  chopped  canned  mushrooms, 
half  teaspoon  chopped  truffles,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  three  tablespoons  cream  and 
two  egg  yolks.  Sharply  mix  with  whisk  while  cooking  two  minutes. 
Add  the  breads,  gently  mix,  cook  two  minutes,  transfer  to  a  dish  and 
let  cool  off.  Roll  out  the  force  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  six  nice 
cutlet  forms,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs ;  arrange  in  a 
frying  basket,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  eight  minutes.  Remove, 


634  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  crown  like. 
Pour  a  sauce  perigueux  around  them,  adjust  a  fancy  frill  at  the  end  of 
each  cutlet  and  serve. 

2123.      MUSKMELON  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  preparation  (No.  42).  Cut  in  halves, 
remove  all  the  seeds  from  two  ripe,  sweet  muskmelons.  Scoop  out 
the  meat,  press  through  a  wire  sieve  into  the  vanilla  preparation,  mix  well, 
then  proceed  to  cook,  freeze  and  serve,  exactly  the  same  as  the  vanilla. 


Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Watermelon  (2080)         Hominy  (45) 

Omelette  with  Veal  Kidneys 

Fried  Filet  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce  (487) 

Broiled  Devilled  Pig's  Feet 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 
Rice  Griddle   Cakes    (221) 

2124.    OMELETTE  WITH  VEAL  KIDNEYS 

Trim  off  fat  and  remove  skin  from  a  fresh  veal  kidney,  and  cut  in 
quarter-inch  square  pieces.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  black 
frying  pan,  add  the  kidneys  and  fry  five  minutes,  tossing  well  once  in  a 
while.  Sprinkle  over  three  saltspoons  salt  and  saltspoon  pepper,  lightly 
toss  and  drain  them. 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  the  kidneys,  half  a 
gill  milk,  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  beat 
with  fork  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  half  a 
minute,  fold  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2125.    BROILED  DEVILLED  PIG'S  FEET 

Split  in  two  three  fine,  fat,  cooked  pig's  feet.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  1 1) 
on  both  sides  of  the  feet,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double 
broiler  and  broil  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON      . 

Marinaded  Frogs'  Legs,  Fried 

Mutton  Chops,  Lilleoise 

Garfield  Potatoes  (1843) 

Apple  Meringue  Pie  (732) 

2126.    MARINADED  FROGS'  LEGS,  FPIED 

Cut  away  feet  from  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  frogs'  legs.  Place 
in  a  small  stone  jar  and  cover  with  half  vinegar  and  half  water,  adding 
one  branch  parsley,  one  sliced  onion,  one  crushed  bean  garlic,  a  sprig 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  635 

thyme  and  one  bay  leaf,  mix  well  and  let  infuse  in  a  cool  place  one  hour. 
Drain  on  a  cloth,  roll  in  flour,  place  in  a  frying  basket,  shake  a  little, 
then  plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  eight  minutes.  Lift  up,  sprinkle  half 
teaspoon  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

2127.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  LILLEOISE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  mutton  chops.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Mix  on  a  plate  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  with  an  ounce  lean, 
finely  grated  ham,  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  one  saltspoon 
crushed  bay  leaf.  Dip  chops  lightly  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  gently  in 
the  mixture,  arrange  on  the  broiler  and  broil  each  side  five  minutes. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  three  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  sauteuse 
and  let  reduce  on  the  fire  to  half  the  quantity,  pour  it  around  the  chops 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  Canape's  (141) 

Country  Family  Soup 

Spanish  Mackerel,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (689) 

Potatoes.  Demidoff  (898)  Beef  k  la  Mode  (534) 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 

Roast  Duckling  (187)  Sliced  Tomatoes   (461) 

English  Bread  Pudding 

2128.     COUNTRY  FAMILY  SOUP 

Procure  two  quarts  fresh  green  peas,  shell  them,  plunge  shells  in  a 
gallon  boiling  water  and  scald  for  five  minutes,  then  drain  on  a  sieve. 
(Keep  the  peas  for  Wednesday's  dinner.)  Heat  two  tablespoons  good 
lard  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  quarter  pound  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  small 
pieces,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  sliced  medium  onions  and  one  bay  leaf; 
gently  brown  on  the  fire  ten  minutes,  add  the  shells,  cover  pan  and 
let  sweat  ten  minutes;  then  add  four  good-sized  sound  peeled  potatoes 
sliced,  one  quart  broth  (No.  701),  and  two  quarts  water;  season  with 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lightly  mix, 
re-cover  pan  and  gently  boil  two  hours.  Remove,  pass  soup  through 
sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen, 
and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2129.    ENGLISH  BREAD  PUDDING 

Cut  into  half-inch  pieces  half  pound  stale  crustless  bread,  soak  in  a 
little  cold  milk  five  minutes;  then  squeeze  out  milk  and  place  in  a  bowl, 
stir  with  wooden  spoon  a  few  minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  butter,  three 
ounces  sugar,  three  egg  yolks,  two  whole  eggs,  four  ounces  well-picked 
currants,  six  crushed  macaroons,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  one  salt- 
spoon salt  and  two  gills  cream.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until 
well  amalgamated.  Lightly  butter  a  quart  pudding  mould,  drop  prepar- 
ation into  it,  place  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height 


636  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

of  the  mould  and  set  in  oven  forty  minutes.    Remove,  unmould  the  pud- 
ding on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Huckleberries  (1918)         Quaker  Oats  (105) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Onions 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Sirloin  Steaks  (6)         Potatoes,  Allumettes  (196) 
Cinnamon  Cakes  (1195) 

2130.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ONIONS 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  sharply  beat  with  fork  one 
minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  sauteuse,  add  one  medium, 
finely  chopped  onion,  gently  brown  five  minutes,  then  drop  in  the 
eggs  and  cook  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Dress  on  a 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Lobster,  Creole 
Haricot  of  Lamb  (597) 

Cauliflower  Salad 
Blanc  Manger  (1052) 

2131.    LOBSTER,  CREOLE 

Boil  two  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each  in  a  gallon  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  let  cool  off.  Crack 
shells  from  the  claws  and  tails,  carefully  pick  out  meat  and  cut  it  in 
half-inch  pieces.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  finely  sliced  seeded 
green  pepper,  one  sliced  white  onion  and  one  tablespoon  oil,  then  nicely 
brown  three  minutes.  Add  the  lobster,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  saltspoon  pepper,  mix  and  brown  five  minutes.  Then  add  three 
peeled  and  finely  crushed  red  tomatoes;  lightly  mix  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Add  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms  and  one  tablespoon 
sherry,  mix  lightly  and  slowly  cook  ten  minutes,  lightly  mixing  mean- 
while. Pour  the  lobster  into  a  vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

2132.    CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Cut  off  stalk,  trim  outer  leaves  of  a  large,  sound  white  head  of  cauli- 
flower; detach  bouquets  from  stalk,  plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  watei 
with  a  gill  milk  and  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sieve  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off.  Place  bouquets  in  a  bowl,  season 
with  four  light  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863) ,  carefully  mix  without 
breaking  the  pieces  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  637 

DINNER 

Clams  (i4S7) 
Lyons  Sausage  (582)        Olives 

Soupe,   Originale 

Halibut,  Scalloped  with  Cheese 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Chicken  Negus 

Broiled  Eggplant         Leg  of  Mutton,  Currant  Jelly   (523) 
Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Iced  Pudding,  Fleury 

2133.    SOUPE,  ORIGINALE 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  four  finely 
sliced  leeks  and  gently  brown  six  minutes;  moisten  with  two  quarts 
broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  raw  rice  and  gently  boil  thirty 
minutes.  Skin  and  remove  seeds  from  a  pound  of  fresh  pumpkin,  then 
cut  it  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  plunge  in  boiling  water  ten  minutes, 
drain  pumpkin  pieces  in  a  sieve,  add  to  the  soup,  and  gently  boil  fifteen 
minutes  more.  Make  a  smooth  hash  with  half  bean  garlic,  two  branches 
well-washed  parsley,  one  branch  chervil  and  twelve  branches  chives, 
add  it  to  the  soup  with  half  pint  milk,  gently  mix,  simmer  fifteen  minutes 
more,  pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2134.     HALIBUT,  SCALLOPED,  WITH  CHEESE 

Remove  bone  and  skin  from  a  three-pound  piece  of  fresh  halibut, 
cut  in  th  n  slices  and  place  on  a  dish.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  three 
saltspoons  pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  squeeze  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon,  sprinkle  teaspoon  parsley  over  and  turn  well  in  seasoning. 
Place  in  a  sautoire  an  ounce  flour  and  same  quantity  butter  and  knead 
thoroughly,  then  dilute  with  a  light  pint  milk  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  add  two  egg  yolks  and  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Stir  a  little  and  boil  one  minute  longer.  Pour  a  little  of  the 
sauce  at  bottom  of  a  china  baking  dish,  arrange  a  layer  of  fish  over 
sauce.  Cover  fish  with  more  sauce,  then  a  layer  of  fish,  etc.,  until 
finished.  Cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs. 
Distribute  half  ounce  butter  in  small  bits  on  top.  Set  in  moderate  oven 
to  bake  forty- jive  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

2135.    CHICKEN  NEGUS 

Singe  a  tender  three-pound  chicken,  draw,  then  cut  in  twelve  even 
pieces.  Season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
gently  turn  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  in  the  chicken 
and  gently  brown  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  in  oven  ten  min- 
utes. Remove  and  keep  hot. 

SMce  in  rings  three  medium  white  onions,  turn  well  in  flour  and  place 
in  a  frying  basket,  then  fry  five  minutes.  Lift  up,  shake  well  in  the 


638  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

basket,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  dress  on  a  large  dish. 
Arrange  chicken  on  top  of  onions.  Prepare  and  place  tomatoes  on 
crusts  (No.  1287)  around  the  chicken  and  send  to  table  with  a  Bearnaise 
sauce  (No.  34)  separately. 

2136.     BROILED  EGGPLANT 

Peel  and  cut  a  medium  egg  plant  into  quarter-inch  slices.  Mix  on  a 
plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Turn 
pieces  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  three  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

2137.  ICED  PUDDING,  FLEURY 

Prepare  a  quart  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Finely  chop  six 
candied  cherries,  one  candied  orange  peel,  two  candied  apricots  and  two 
ounces  angelica,  place  in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  kirsch  and  mix  well. 
Peel  and  remove  stones  from  four  sound,  fresh  peaches.  Rub  them 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  the  fruits.  Beat  in  a  basin  to  a  froth  half  pint 
cream,  adding  two  ounces  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  mix 
well.  Keep  quarter  the  quantity  of  cream  in  a  bowl.  Add  the  fruits, 
peaches  and  three-quarters  of  the  vanilla  ice  cream  to  the  basin  with  the 
whipped  cream.  Mix  well  with  a  skimmer,  then  place  in  a  clean,  dome- 
shaped  quart  mould.  Tightly  cover  it  and  bury  in  the  ice-cream  tub 
with  broken  salted  ice  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Unmould  on  a  cold 
dish.  Thoroughly  mix  a  quarter  of  the  vanilla  with  balance  of  whipped 
cream  until  liquid.  Pour  it  over  the  pudding  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Eggs  Molet,  Moderne 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Broiled  (388) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette  (600) 

Potato  Sautdes  (135) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

2138.  EGGS  MOLET,  MODERNS 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  five  minutes,  take  up  and  plunge  in  cold  water 
one  minute,  remove,  shell  and  place  in  a  hot  deep  dish.  Prepare  a  cream 
sauce  (No.  736),  add  six  finely  sliced,  canned  mushrooms,  two  sweet 
peppers  cut  in  small  squares,  three  anchovies  in  oil  cut  in  small  pieces 
and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley ;  mix  a  little,  then  let  boil  five 
minutes.  Pour  sauce  over  -eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme  (1901) 
Soft  Shell  Crabs  on  Toast  (1351) 

Mutton   Kirl tie vs,  Turbipo 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Rissole 

Choux  a  la  Creme  (336) 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  JULY          639 

2139.    MUTTON  KIDNEYS,  TURBIGO 

Carefully  skin  twelve  very  fresh  mutton  kidneys,  then  cut  in  one- 
third-inch-thick  slices.  Cut  also  six  raw  country  sausages  in  half-inch 
pieces.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  kidneys 
and  sausages.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  then  briskly  fry  six  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile.  Add 
four  finely  chopped  shallots,  lightly  mix  and  brown  two  minutes,  then 
add  twelve  canned  mushrooms  cut  in  halves.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  let  reduce  to  a  third  of  the  quantity;  pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  a  gill  tomato  sauce,  lightly  mix  and  let  briskly  cook  six  min- 
utes. Pour  the  kidneys  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

2140.  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES,  RISSOLE" 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  twenty-four  medium-sized,  fresh,  sound  Jer- 
usalem artichokes.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan, 
place  artichokes  in  the  pan  and  fry  them  to  a  nice  brown  colour  all 
around.  Sprinkle  over  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper.  Set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  with  a  skimmer, 
dress  on  a  deep  hot  dish ;  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 
Remove  fat  from  pan,  add  one  ounce  butter,  thoroughly  heat,  then 
squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  lightly  mix,  pour  it  over  the 
artichokes  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Canape's  of  Caviare  (59) 

Potage  Spaghetti,  Lucernoise 

Polenta  Quenelles 
Kingfish  with  White  Wine 

Potatoes,  Brioche  (91) 
Squabs,  en  Cocotte,  with  Fresh  Peas 

Green  Corn  Saute"s 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Souffle"  of  Maraschino  (325) 

2141.  POTAGE  SPAGHETTI,  LUCERNOISE 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  one 
pint  tomato  sauce  and  let  boil  until  required.  Boil  four  ounces  spa- 
ghetti in  a  quart  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  ten  minutes,  remove, 
drain  on  sieve  and  |ut  in  half-inch  pieces ;  add  to  the  consomme  with  a 
polenta  quenelles  garnishing  prepared  as  below,  boil  ten  minutes 
longer,  pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  two  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

2 141  A.    POLENTA  QUENELLES 

Place  three  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  one  ounce  butter,  briskly  stir 
with  wooden  spoon  six  minutes,  or  until  creamy,  then  dredge  in  two  and  a 
half  ounces  yellow  farina  for  polenta  (Indian  meal  flour),  season  with  two 
saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 


640  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Mix  well  one  minute.  Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  in  a  saucepan  on  fire.  Take  up  a  teaspoon  of  the  preparation, 
smooth  surface  with  blade  of  a  knife  dipped  in  hot  water,  and  with 
another  teaspoon,  also  dipped  in  hot  water,  scoop  out  the  preparation 
and  drop  it  in  the  boiling  water.  Quickly  proceed  in  same  way  until 
all  the  polenta  is  used.  Boil  until  firm,  drain  on  a  cloth,  neatly  trim  all 
around  and  use  as  directed. 

2142.        KlNGFISH  WITH  WHITE   WlNE 

Scale,  trim  fins  and  cut  off  heads  from  two  very  fresh  kingfish  of  one 
and  a  half  pounds  each.  Split  open  without  separating  through  front, 
remove  spinal  bones,  place  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  one  gill 
white  wine,  a  gill  water,  three  finely  sliced  shallots,  a  branch  parsley; 
squeeze  in  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper  and 
slowly  boil  on  range  twenty  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  place 
on  a  hot  dish;  remove  all  water  from  around  fish  on  dish.  Knead  on  a 
plate  one  ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  flour  and  add  it,  little  by  little,  to 
the  fish  liquor  and  briskly  mix  with  a  whisk  while  adding,  then  boil 
ten  minutes.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoon  cream,  add  to  the 
sauce  and  sharply  mix  while  heating  one  minute.  Strain  the  sauce 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  fish.  Arrange  six  heart-shaped 
bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  fish  and  serve. 

2143.    SQUABS,  EN  COCOTTE,  WITH  FRESH  PEAS 

Cut  off  heads  and  legs  from  six  fresh  squabs ,  draw  and  truss.  Place 
on  a  tin,  baste  each  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven 
ten  minutes.  Remove  and  place  in  an  earthen  cocotte  dish,  add  three- 
quarters  pint  shelled  peas,  from  Monday,  one  ounce  raw  lean  ham  cut 
in  quarter-inch-square  pieces  and  twelve  small  onions  previously 
browned  in  a  teaspoon  of  butter.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  pepper,  moisten  with  one  gill  broth  and  one  gill  tomato  juice. 
Knead  a  teaspoon  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour  and  divide  in  small  bits 
over  all.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one  branch  parsley,  one  branch  chervil, 
half  a  bean  garlic  and  add  to  the  squabs.  Tightly  cover,  then  set  in  oven 
forty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  send  to  the  table  without  uncovering. 

2144.    GREEN  CORN  SAUTES 

Cut  off  stalks,  remove  leaves  and  silk  from  six  medium,  sound  ears 
green  corn.  Plunge  in  three  quarts  boiling  water  with  one  gill  milk  and  a 
teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up,  let  cool  off  a  little. 
Carefully  run  a  knife  between  the  sections — lengthwise — so  as  to  easily 
detach  from  cob,  then  with  back  of  knife  blade  press  grains  off  cobs. 
Have  an  ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly 
hot  add  the  corn.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  toss  well  and  fry  ten  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Transfer  to  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK   OF  JULY  641 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  (1828) 
Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Eggs,  'Robert 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Mutton  Hash,  Singapore  (717) 

Hashed  Brown  Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (1529) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2145.    EGGS,  ROBERT 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each 
dish.  Evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper. 
Set  in  oven  two  minutes.  Bring  dishes  to  oven  door.  Divide  a  Robert 
sauce  (No.  1066)  over  them  equally  and  reset  in  oven  two  minutes  longer. 
Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Coquilles  (1284) 
Galantine  of  Fowl  with  Jelly    (1880) 

Portuguese  Salad 
Charlotte  Russe  (939) 

2146.    PORTUGUESE  SALAD 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  two  medium,  sound  cucumbers.  Remove 
spongy  parts  and  finely  slice.  Slice  very  finely  one  small  Spanish  onion, 
two  medium,  fresh  red  tomatoes,  two  Spanish  peppers  and  two  sound 
peeled  and  cored  apples.  Place  these  in  a  salad  bowl,  season  with  four 
tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863).  Mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Ham  Canapes  (301)  Croute-au-Pot 

Clams  (1457)  Olives 

Pompano  Saute  with  Fines  Herbes 

Potatoes,  Bordelaise  (1190) 
Filet  Mignons,  B^arnaise  Sauce 

String  Beans  (1579) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Rum  Jelly  (1171) 

2147.     CROUTE-AU-POT 

Place  a  two-pound  piece  shin  of  beef  and  a  beef  marrow  bone  in  a 
large  saucepan,  pour  in  four  quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  set  on  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a 
boil  skim  fat  from  surface,  then  slowly  boil  one  hour.  Cut  a  half  head 
clean,  very  small  white  cabbage  in  quarters,  scald  in  boiling  water  five 
minutes  to  take  away  the  strong  odor,  add  to  the  soup  with  two  medium 
carrots,  two  turnips  and  one  onion;  tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  one  branch 
parsley,  one  branch  celery,  one  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bay 
leaf  and  one  clove  and  add  to  the  soup.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  one 
hour  longer.  Remove  all  vegetables  from  pan,  cut  carrots  and  turnips 


542  THE  INTERNATIONAL. COOK  BOOK 

in  slices,  the  cabbage  in  half-inch  squares,  place  in  an  earthen  soup 
tureen  with  six  slices  toasted  French  roll,  strain  the  broth  through  a 
damp  doubled  cheesecloth  over  the  vegetables  and  bread  and  serve. 

2148.  POMPANO  SAUT£  WITH  FINES  HERBES 
Trim  off  fins  and  thoroughly  wipe  two  fresh  pompanos  of  one  and  a 
half  pounds  each.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Lightly  baste  with  cold  milk,  then  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  the  fish  one  beside 
another  and  fry  five  minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  half  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley,  two  saltspoons  chopped  chervil  and  two  salt- 
spoons  chopped  chives.  Squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  into  pan 
with  the  butter,  lightly  toss,  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

2149.    FILET  MIGNONS,  BEARNAISE  SAUCE 

Neatly  trim  two  pounds  filet  of  beef,  then  cut  in  six  even  pieces, 
flatten  and  season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly 
rub  them  with  a  little  oil,  arrange  on  broiler  and  briskly  broil  three 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  six  freshly  prepared  round 
toasts  on  a  dish  and  lay  filets  on  top.  Pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34) 
over  filets,  pour  half  a  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around  and 
serve. 

Friday,  Fifth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  (1846) 

Rice  Flour  (464) 

Poached  Eggs,  St.  Germain 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Beef,*  Anglaise   (513) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin   (173) 

Commeal  Pones  (990) 

2150.    POACHED  EGGS,  ST.  GERMAIN 

Boil  a  pint  shelled,  tender  green  peas  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with 
teaspoon  salt  fifty  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  sieve,  then  pound  in 
mortar  to  a  pulp  and  rub  through  wire  sieve  into  a  small  saucepan, 
adding  two  tablespoons  good  cream,  half  ounce  butter,  three  saltspoons 
salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Thor- 
oughly mix  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  three  minutes.  Dress  the 
puree  on  a  large  hot  dish,  well  spread  over.  Arrange  twelve  freshly 
poached  eggs  (No.  106)  over  the  pure*e  and  serve. 

'LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331)  Fish  Curry,  Goa 

Turkey  Hash.t  en  Bordure  (953) 

Macaroni,  Polonaise 
Babas  au  Rhum  (1716) 

*  Using  beef  left  over  from  Wednesday 
t  Using  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday 


FRIDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  643 

2151.    FISH  CURRY,  Go  A 

Cut  head  off  a  fresh  striped  bass  of  three  pounds,  split  in  two  through 
back,  remove  spinal  bone  and  skin  from  the  filets,  cut  meat  in  twelve 
even  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  bones,  head  and  skin  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  quart  water,  two  teaspoons  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper, 
then  boil  thirty  minutes.  Finely  slice  a  small  carrot,  a  small  onion, 
half  a  green  pepper,  one  medium  apple,  one  ripe  tomato  and  one  bean 
garlic;  place  these  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  then 
add  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  thyme  and  half  teaspoon  fresh  or  dried  chopped 
mint;  gently  brown  eight  minutes,  add  two  tablespoons  flour;  thoroughly 
mix  one  minute.  Strain  the  fish  broth  into  this  pan,  add  a  good  teaspoon 
curry  powder,  a  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  rind  of  quarter  of  a  lemon.  Mix  well  and  slowly  boil 
thirty  minutes.  Press  through  a  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add 
the  fish  with  two  tablespoons  fresh  cocoanut,  gently  mix,  boil  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  a  boiled  rice  (No.  490) 
around  the  fish  and  serve. 

2152.    MACARONI,  POLONAISE 

Plunge  three-quarters  of  a  pound  Italian  macaroni  in  three  quarts 
boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve, 
replace  in  the  dried  saucepan,  add  ounce  butter,  ounce  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  ounce  grated  Swiss  cheese,  mix  well  without  breaking. 
Dress  on  a  deep  hot  dish. 

Place  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan  with  two 
tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  toss  well  on  fire  until  the  crumbs  are 
a  nice  golden  colour,  then  pour  over  the  macaroni  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Clams  (1459)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Crawfish 

Pickerel,  Caper  Sauce  (1884)  Potato  Croquettes  (390) 

Lamb  Chops,  Soubise  (93)  Butter  Beans  (1494) 

Vol  au  Vent,  Dieppoise 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  with  Bacon  (12) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Scotch  Pudding  (420) 

2153.    BISQUE  OF  CRAWFISH 

Thoroughly  wash  thirty  small  live  crawfish  in  cold  water.  Remove 
tails  from  eighteen  of  them,  plunge  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  vinegar 
and  salt  and  boil  ten  minutes ,  drain,  remove  shells  and  keep  tails  on  a 
plate  until  required.  Thoroughly  pound  the  thirty  crawfish  in  mortar 
to  a  fine  pulp.  Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  add  the  craw- 
fish, as  well  as  a  finely  sliced  carrot  and  one  finely  sliced  onion,  then 
briskly  cook  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile;  then  add  one 
pint  fresh  crushed  tomatoes,  two  quarts  broth,  one-quarter  pint  white 
wine,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove 
and  three  ounces  raw  rice;  season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  two 


644  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  let  gently  boil  one  hour,  occasionally 
mixing  meanwhile.  Remove,  pass  the  bisque  through  sieve  into  a 
basin,  then  through  a  fine  Chinese  strainer  into  a  clean  saucepan,  set 
pan  on  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  one  gill  cream,  a  half 
ounce  good  butter,  juice  of  a  quarter  of  lemon  and  the  crawfish  tails. 
Continually  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Pour  the 
bisque  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2154.    VOL  AU  VENT,  DIEPPOISE 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  vol  au  vent  (No.  757).  Place  in  a  saucepan 
twenty-four  cooked  shelled  shrimps,  eighteen  freshly  opened  little  neck 
clams  without  the  liquor,  twelve  whole  canned  mushrooms  and  one  small 
sliced  truffle.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  parsley  and  two  branches 
chervil  and  add  to  pan,  moisten  with  a  gill  white  wine  and  two  gills 
broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  lightly  shuffle  pan,  cover  and 
simmer  ten  minutes.  Mix  in  another  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with 
one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  heat  half  minute,  then  strain  liquor  from 
the  other  pan  into  this,  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  boil 
five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  half  gill  cream,  add  it  to  sauce ,  and 
sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  while  cooking  one  minute.  Remove  the 
bouquet,  pour  sauce  into  other  pan  with  ingredients ,  and  lightly  mix. 
Place  the  vol  au  vent  on  a  hot  dish,  fill  up  with  the  preparation,  sprinkle 
a  little  chopped  parsley  over,  place  the  cover  on  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Fifth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberries  (1925)     Force  (979) 
Eggs  Cocotte,  Colgate 
Findon  Haddock  (76) 
Country  Sausages  (134) 
Potatoes,  Saratoga  (156) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2155.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  COLGATE 

Heat  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  three  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  brown  three  minutes,  then  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  juice  of 
quarter  of  a  lemon,  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  half  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  and  boil  six  minutes.  Evenly  divide  sauce  in 
six  cocotte  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Evenly  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Set  in  oven  five 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Canape's,  Hongroise 

Ufites  of  Beef  with  New  Carrots 

Lima  Beans  (1938) 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 


SATURDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  645 

2156.    CANAPES,  HONGROISE 

Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  slices  a  half  inch  thick, 
then  cut  slices  in  two-and-a-half-inch-diameter  circular  pieces,  lightly 
butter  both  sides,  roll  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese ,  fry  in  a  frying  pan 
with  tablespoon  butter  until  a  good  golden  colour  and  keep  hot  on  a 
plate.  Boil  three  peeled  medium  potatoes  in  salted  water  thirty  minutes, 
thoroughly  drain,  then  press  through  a  potato  masher  into  a  bowl,  add 
half  pound  smoked  salmon,  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  two  egg  yolks, 
two  tablespoons  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  paprika  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  thoroughly  mix.  Evenly  divide  the  force 
over  the  six  canapes.  Neatly  smooth  top  with  blade  of  a  knife  to  dome- 
shaped  form,  lightly  butter  surface,  sprinkle  a  little  Parmesan  cheese 
over,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2157.    COTES  OF  BEEF  WITH  NEW  CARROTS 

Procure  two  single  ribs  tender  beef.  Neatly  trim  all  around,  season 
with  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  With  a  larding 
needle  insert  a  few  strips  of  larding  pork  on  surface  of  each  rib.  Heat 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  braising  pan,  place  the  cotes  in  the 
pan,  one  beside  another,  and  gently  brown  on  range  ten  minutes  on  each 
side.  Add  twelve  sliced  new  carrots  and  brown  five  minutes  more. 
Moisten  with  one  gill  claret.  Cover  pan  and  let  reduce  ten  minutes. 
Pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce.  Finely 
chop  four  sound  shallots,  two  branches  parsley,  half  a  bean  garlic,  a 
few  branches  chives,  and  add  to  pan.  Set  in  oven  twelve  minutes. 
Remove  ribs,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  slowly  boil  sauce  ten  minutes  on  range. 
Skim  off  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  then  pour  contents  of  pan  over  ribs 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Salted  Peanuts  (954)        Olives 

Potage,  Mussulman 

Red  Snapper  au  Gratin 

Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Ham,  Champagne  Sauce 

Spinach  a  1'Anglaise  (247) 

Roast  Squabs,  Watercress  (831) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Cannelons  with  Whipped  Cream 

2158.    POTAGE,  MUSSULMAN 

Blanch  one  pint  dry,  split  green  peas  in  boiling  water  five  minutes. 
Remove  and  thoroughly  drain  on  sieve.  Peel,  wash  and  slice  fifteen 
Jerusalem  artichokes;  add  to  peas.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter 
in  a  large  saucepan,  add  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  quarter 
pound  salt  pork,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  two  bay  leaves;  gently  brown 
five  minutes,  then  add  peas  and  artichokes  with  two  quarts  water,  one 
quart  broth  (No.  701)  and  two  branches  chervil.  Season  with  two 


646  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pan  and  gently  boil 
two  hours  and  a  half.  Remove,  pass  the  puree  through  sieve  into  a 
basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  pour  in 
one  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well,  boil  five  minutes,  pour  soup 
into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2159.  RED  SNAPPER  AU  GRATIN 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  a  three-pound  very  fresh  red  snapper. 
Cut  in  thin  slices,  place  on  a  dish.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt, 
three  saltspoons  pepper,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley;  squeeze  in 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  pour  in  half  gill  white  wine,  turn  well  in 
seasoning  and  let  infuse  until  required.  Prepare  an  Italian  sauce  (No. 
1244),  pour  a  quarter  of  it  into  a  baking  dish,  then  place  a  third  of  the 
fish  over,  then  another  fourth  of  the  sauce,  a  layer  of  fish,  then  the  sauce, 
and  so  on  until  finished.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  butter  on  top.  Set  in  moderate 
oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  cut  a  lemon  in  half,  finely  slice  it, 
arrange  slices  around  fish  and  serve. 

2160.  HAM,  CHAMPAGNE  SAUCE 

Procure  three  slices  ham,  sawn  crosswise,  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
each  Trim  off  skin  all  around,  slightly  flatten  them.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
sauteuse,  arrange  in  the  slices  of  ham,  one  beside  another,  and  nicely  fry 
eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  Remove  fat  from 
pan  (save  it  for  frying  purposes).  Pour  a  champagne  sauce  in  same  pan, 
mix  well  at  bottom  so  as  to  retain  flavour  of  the  ham,  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Pour  sauce  over  the  ham  and  serve. 

2161.    CHAMPAGNE  SAUCE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  sliced  carrot, 
half  a  sliced  onion,  one  ounce  ham  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  bay  leaf,  one 
sprig  thyme  and  one  clove;  gently  brown  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Pour  in  a  pint  champagne  cider  and  let  reduce  until  nearly 
dry.  Pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  half  gill  tomato  sauce,  and 
boil  ten  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  and  use 
as  directed. 

2162.    CANNELONS  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM 

Procure  six  small  sticks  wood,  three  and  a  half  inches  long  by  one 
inch  in  diameter.  Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  half  a  pound  feuil- 
letage  (No.  756)  to  a  fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  then  cut  in  bands 
half  an  inch  wide.  Lightly  wet  one  side  of  each  band,  then  carefully 
twist  the  bands  around  the  sticks,  wet  parts  up,  to  completely  cover 
sticks.  Place  in  a  lightly  wetted  baking  tin,  egg  surface  of  the  cannelons, 
and  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  six  minutes.  Detach 
sticks  from  cakes,  then  fill  them  with  whipped  cream  (No.  337).  Dress 
on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and 
serve. 


SUNDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  JULY  647 

Sunday,  Fifth  Week  of  July 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 

Farina  Gruel  (74) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Orner  Pacha 

Fried  Porgies  (498) 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261) 

Stewed  Creamed  Potatoes  (no) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2163.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  OMER  PACHA 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  heat  half  minute,  then  pour  in  one  and  a 
half  gills  cream  and  add  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Season 
with  three  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Lightly  butter 
six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Evenly 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  then  evenly 
divide  sauce  over  the  six  dishes.  Sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  eggs,  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Radish  Broth 
Broiled  Devilled  Lobster  (158) 

Timbales,  Milanaise 
Cauliflower  Sautes  (631) 
Rice,  Imperatrice  (1234) 

2164.    RADISH  BROTH 

Soak  in  cold  water  thirty  minutes  a  large  bunch  fresh  red  radishes 
with  the  stalks  and  green  leaves;  wash  well  and  drain,  then  finely  slice 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  pounds  finely  chopped  shin  of  beef, 
one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  leek,  two  branches  parsley, 
one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  thyme  and  one  clove.  Moisten  with  three  quarts 
water.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  lightly  mix,  then  set  pan  on  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  set  pan  on  corner  of  range  and  slowly 
simmer  two  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  strain  through  a  double  cheese- 
cloth into  six  cups  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

2165.    TIMBALES,  MILANAISE 

Plunge  quarter  pound  macaroni  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  two 
teaspoons  salt  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve.  Lightly  butter 
six  individual  pudding  moulds.  Place  a  thin  slice  truffle  at  bottom  of 
each  mould,  then  cut  macaroni  in  long  pieces  the  height  of  the  moulds. 
Arrange  macaroni  against  sides  of  moulds,  standing  up.  Finely  chop 
six  ounces  raw  lean  veal,  place  in  a  mortar  with  two  egg  yolks,  two 
ounces  bread  panade  (No.  1795),  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  a  saltspoon  ground  mixed  all- 
spice, then  thoroughly  pound;  press  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl, 
add  one  truffle  cut  in  small  squares,  teaspoon  rum,  tablespoon  sherry, 
mix  well,  then  pour  in  half  gill  cream,  little  by  little,  sharply  mixing  mean- 


648  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

while.  Add  then  an  ounce  cooked  ham  and  one  ounce  cooked  tongue, 
cut  in  small  squares.  Mix  well,  then  fill  with  it  the  inside  of  the  timbales, 
place  on  a  tin,  cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  pour  hot  water  up  to 
half  their  height,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  pour  a  gill  hot 
tomato  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  unmould  the  timbales  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)      Olives 
Canapes  Moreno,    Russe  (355) 

Consomme,  Algerien 
Planked  Pompano,  Breslin  (1608)  Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Larded  Filet  of  Beef,  Providence 
Fresh  Peas,  Avignonnaise  (2078)  Green  Corn  (1864) 

Punch,  aux  Roses  (367) 

Roast  Capon  (378)        Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Richmond  Ice  Cream 

2166.    CONSOMME,  ALGERIEN 

Prepare  and  strain  a  consomme  (No.  52)  into  another  pan,  add  three 
ounces  tapioca,  mix  well  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a 
while.  Cut  a  medium,  sound  egg  plant  in  half,  peel  one  half  and  cut 
in  small  pieces  (keeping  the  other  half).  Heat  one  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  the  pieces  of  egg  plant  and  fry  ten 
minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt,  toss  a  little, 
then  drain  on  a  cloth  and  add  to  the  consomme;  lightly  mix,  boil  five 
minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2167.    LARDED  FILET  OF  BEEF,  PROVIDENCE 

Procure  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  filet  of  beef,  remove  all  fat 
and  skin  from  top,  then  lard  with  a  few  thin  strips  of  pork  on  top.  Sea- 
son with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  a  mirepoix 
(No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay  filet  on  top.  Finely  chop  the  fat  trimmed 
off  from  top  of  beef  and  place  in  pan  around  the  filet.  Set  to  roast  in 
oven  thirty-five  minutes,  frequently  turning  and  basting.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  six  timbales  of  rice  (No.  521)  around  the 
filet  and  keep  hot. 

Skim  the  fat  from  surface  of  gravy  in  the  pan.  Then  pour  in  one 
gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  and  let  boil 
ten  minutes.  Finely  slice  six  canned  mushrooms  and  twelve  stoned 
olives,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  gill  sherry  and  let  reduce  five 
minutes.  Strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  pan,  boil 
ten  minutes,  then  pour  sauce  over  the  filet.  Sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

2168.-   RICHMOND  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Peel,  remove  stones  and  press 
through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  six  medium,  fresh  ripe  sweet  peaches,  add 
to  the  ice  cream  in  the  freezer,  with  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  and  thor- 
oughly mix  with  spatula.  Then  fill  up  a  quart-brick  ice-cream  mould 
with  the  cream,  tightly  cover  and  bury  it  in  the  ice-cream  tub  for  one 
and  a  half  hours. 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  649 

Cut  half  a  well-trimmed  and  cored  pineapple  in  very  small  square 
pieces,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  sugar,  a  half  gill  water, 
three-quarters  gill  raspberry  syrup,  half  gill  good  rum,  and  boil  five  min- 
utes. Remove  and  let  cool  off.  Immerse  the  brick  of  ice  cream  in 
lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds  and  wipe  well.  Unmould  it  on  a  cold 
dish,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

Monday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Gooseberries  and  Cream 

Boiled  Grits  (131) 

Fried  Eggs,  Biarritz 

Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (326) 

Smoked  Beef  in  Cream  (329)       Copeaux  Potatoes  (905) 

Kiimmel  Cakes  (1691) 

2169.    GOOSEBERRIES  AND  CREAM 

Pick  off  stems,  thoroughly  wash  and  carefully  drain  on  a  cloth  a 
quart  fresh,  sound,  large  gooseberries.  Place  on  a  compotier.  Sprinkle 
two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  over,  lightly  mix.  Whisk  one  and  a 
half  gills  cream  till  well  thickened  but  not  quite  to  a  froth,  adding  two 
tablespoons  sugar;  whisk  for  a  minute,  pour  it  over  the  gooseberries  and 
serve. 

2170.    FRIED  EGGS,  BIARRITZ 

Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  slices  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  lightly  trim  off  crusts,  dip  in  milk,  then  in  beaten  egg.  Heat  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  slices  of 
toast,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
place  on  a  hot  dish. 

Broil  six  very  thin  slices  raw  ham  one  minute  on  each  side,  arrange 
a  slice  on  top  of  each  slice  of  toast.  Heat  in  a  small  black  frying  pan  a 
teaspoon  melted  butter,  crack  in  one  fresh  egg  and  fry  three  minutes, 
then  lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  over  toast.  Prepare  five  more  in  a 
similar  way.  Season  equally  with  a  very  little  salt  and  white  pepper  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cutlets  of  Crabs 

Galantine  of  Fowl  (1880) 

Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 

Peach  Pie  (39) 

2171.    CUTLETS  OF  CRABS 

Heat  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped  small 
white  onion  and  gently  brown  three  minutes;  add  two  ounces  flour,  stir 
while  heating  one  minute,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  cream; 
sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  half  a  bean  chopped  garlic,  one  tablespoon  Worcester- 
shire  sauce,  half  teaspoon  French  mustard,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  salt- 


650  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  two  egg  yolks. 
Sharply  mix  with  whisk  while  cooking  two  minutes.  Add  then  one  and  a 
half  pounds  fresh  crab  meat  flakes,  carefully  mix  with  wooden  spoon 
without  mashing  the  meat;  heat  well  two  minutes.  Transfer  the  prepar- 
ation to  a  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Then  divide  in  six  equal  parts,  roll 
out  to  cutlet-shaped  forms,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
place  in  a  wire  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  ten  minutes.  Drain 
well,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  one  gill  of  tomato  sauce  separately. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Celery  (86) 

Puree  of  Prunes 
Sheepshead,  Clam  Sauce  Potatoes,  Rissolee  (2121) 

Duckling,  Bigarade 

Eggplant  and  Tomato,  Athenienne  (1410) 

Roast  Beef  (126)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Jelly,  Angelique  (1779) 

2172.    PURE"E  OF  PRUNES 

Soak  one  and  a  half  pounds  California  prunes  in  lukewarm  water 
over  night,  drain,  remove  stones  and  place  in  large  saucepan  with  a 
sliced  medium  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  two  branches  chervil,  two 
bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  one  cinnamon  stick,  one  and  a  half  ounces  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Crack  prune 
stones  and  place  with  prunes.  Moisten  with  a  gill  claret,  one  pint  pure 
tomato  juice,  one  pint  demi-glace  (No.  122),  and  one  and  a  half  quarts 
white  broth  (No.  701).  Lightly  mix,  cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  one 
hour.  Remove,  pass  puree  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through 
a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  add,  little  by  little,  half  ounce 
good  fresh  butter;  constantly  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly 
melted.  Remove,  pour  puree  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2173.     SHEEPSHEAD,  CLAM  SAUCE 

Neatly  trim  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  sheepshead,  place  in  a  sautoire 
with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  water,  two  branches 
parsley,  juice  quarter  of  a  lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper.  Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper,  boil  five  minutes  on  range, 
then  set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  dress  fish  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  a  clam  sauce  over  and  serve. 

2174.    CLAM  SAUCE 

Plunge  twenty-four  freshly  opened  little  neck  clams  in  half  gill 
boiling  water  and  boil  three  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  them,  keeping 
the  liquor.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter , 
two  tablespoons  flour,  and  heat  half  minute.  Pour  in  half  gill  milk  and 
half  gill  cream,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  the  clams.  Season 
with  three  saltspoons  salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  lightly  mix 
and  let  boil  five  minutes,  add  the  liquor  of  clams,  dilute  an  egg  yolk  in 
tablespoon  cream  and  a  few  drops  lemon  juice,  add  to  the  sauce,  and 
sharply  mix  while  heating  one  minute.  Remove  and  use  as  required. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  651 

2175.    DUCKLING,  BIGARADE 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  legs  from  a  tender  five-pound  duckling,  draw, 
neatly  wipe  and  truss.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan, 
lay  bird  over.  Season  inside  and  all  around  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  pour  quarter 
gill  water  in  the  pan.  Set  in  oven  to  roast  forty  minutes,  turning  and 
basting  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  untruss. 

Remove  rind  from  two  sound  oranges  and  cut  oranges  in  halves 
lengthwise,  then  slice  very  finely,  remove  seeds,  arrange  slices  around 
the  duck.  Pour  a  bigarade  sauce  over  and  serve. 

N.  B.     Keep  rinds  of  the  two  oranges  for  sauce. 

2176.    SAUCE  BIGARADE 

Entirely  remove  the  white  part  of  the  two  orange  rinds,  then  cut 
them  in  small  julienne  strips,  place  and  boil  in  boiling  water  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly, 
half  gill  port  wine,  juice  of  a  sound  orange,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122),  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well,  let 
reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  mixing  once  in  a  while,  then  serve  as  directed. 

Tuesday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Huckleberries  (1913) 

Barley  and  Cream  (1068) 

Omelette  with  Cauliflower 

Fresh  Herrings  (133) 

Beef  Hash,  Moreno 

Jelly  Cakes  (1554) 

2177.     OMELETTE  WITH  CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  stalk  and  leaves  from  a  medium,  fresh,  sound  cauliflower, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water,  one  gill  milk ,  one  teaspoon 
salt ,  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Remove,  drain,  then  press  through  a  sieve 
into  a  small  saucepan,  add  teaspoon  butter,  three  saltspoons  grated  nut- 
meg, and  sharply  mix  while  heating  three  minutes. 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  fork  two 
minutes.  Heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the 
eggs,  sharply  mix  with  fork  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute. 
Spread  a  third  of  the  cauliflower  over  the  omelette,  fold  up  the  sides 
to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute.  Turn  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  balance  of  cauliflower  at  both  ends  of  the  dish  and  serve. 

2178.    BEEF  HASH,  MORENO 

Cut  meat  from  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  in  dice-shaped 
pieces.  Cut  in  same  shape  half  the  quantity  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  adding  one  finely 
chopped  white  onion  and  nicely  brown  five  minutes.  Add  beef  and  pota- 


652  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

toes,  with  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers  cut  in  small  squares.  Moisten 
with  pint  of  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  light  teaspoon  salt  and  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  cover  pan,  and  set  in  oven  one  hour. 
Remove,  dress  hash  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  crou- 
tons (No.  90)  around  the  hash.  Sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth 

Soft  Clams,  Griswold 

Ragout  of  Lamb,  Parisienne 

Rhubarb  Tartlets  (796) 

2179.    BEETROOT  BROTH 

Peel  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  four  medium,  sound  red  beets,  drain, 
slice  very  finely  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  pounds  chopped  shin 
of  beef,  one  sliced  carrot,  one  ditto  onion,  two  ditto  leeks,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  two  bay  leaves  and  two  cloves;  pour  into 
the  pan  three  quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well  and  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  mixing  once  in 
a  while,  then  keep  pan  simmering  two  hours;  remove,  strain  the  broth 
through  a  double  cheesecloth  into  six  cups  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

2180.     SOFT  CLAMS,  GRISWOLD 

Open  forty-eight  good-sized  very  fresh  soft  clams.  Remove  all 
sandy  parts,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies,  plunge  in  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  two  minutes,  drain  and  place  in  a  sautoire  with  quarter 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  quarter  teaspoon  chopped  chervil, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  two  tablespoons  port  wine 
and  two  tablespoons  good  brandy.  Carefully  mix  by  shuffling  pan. 
Cover  pan  and  let  steam  five  minutes.  Transfer  clams  into  a  chafing 
dish  or  soup  tureen,  spread  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279)  over,  finely 
chop  half  a  medium  seeded  green  pepper,  sprinkle  it  over  the  clams  and 
serve  without  mixing. 

2181.    RAGOUT  OF  LAMB,  PARISIENNE 

Cut  into  two-inch-square  pieces  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  neck  and 
one  and  a  half  pounds  breast  of  lamb.  Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a 
braising  pan,  add  the  meat.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper  and  lightly  brown  twenty  minutes,  frequently  turning 
the  pieces  once  in  a  while.  Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  sprinkle  over  two 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  then  moisten  with  one  and  a  half  pints  water 
and  a  pint  pure  tomato  juice.  Mix  well,  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  twelve 
small  white  onions,  previously  browned  in  a  little  butter,  and  twelve 
small  new  potatoes,  peeled.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  parsley,  two 
branches  chervil,  six  branches  chives,  a  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  one 
clove  and  one  bean  garlic  and  add  to  pan,  place  lid  on  and  boil  five  min- 
utes, then  set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Add  then  half  pint  shelled 
peas  and  twelve  canned  mushrooms,  lightly  shuffle  pan  and  reset  in  oven 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST          653 

forty-five  minutes  longer.  Remove,  take  up  bouquet,  skim  fat  from 
surface  of  the  ragout.  Dress  on  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Potage,  Togo 
Cold  Brook  Trout,  Sauce  Siberienne 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Entrecotes,  Bordelaise  (1483)  Spinach  au  Veloute"  (1763) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Raspberry  Ice  Cream  (1978;  Chocolate  Macaroons  (291) 

2182.    POTAGE,  TOGO 

Cut  half  a  boned  fowl,  quarter  pound  raw  lean  veal  and  quarter 
pound  raw  lean  mutton  in  half-inch-square  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  ounce  butter  and  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while; 
moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  water  and  one  quart  broth  (No.  701) ; 
season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  half  teaspoon 
curry  powder.  Thoroughly  clean  the  other  half  fowl  and  add  to  the 
soup  with  two  chopped  onions,  and  two  chopped  seedless  green  peppers. 
Lightly  mix  and  boil  thirty-five  minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  raw  rice 
and  boil  forty-five  minutes  more.  Remove  the  half  fowl,  add  one  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  parsley  to  the  soup;  boil  five  minutes  longer. 
Skim  fat  from  surface  of  soup,  pour  it  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2183.     COLD  BROOK  TROUT,  SAUCE  SIBERIENNE 

Cut  off  fins  with  scissors,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  three  medium  brook 
trout,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  half-o-ill  white  wine,  tablespoon  vinegar, 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  two  gills  water,  two  branches  parsley  and 
half  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper  and  gently  boil 
on  the  fire  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off  in  the  same  pan. 
Dress  trout  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  cleaned 
leaves  fresh  lettuce  and  serve  with  a  Siberienne  sauce,  separately. 

2184.    SAUCE  SIBERIENNE 

Prepare  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70),  adding — when  made — half 
teaspoon  anchovy  essence  and  teaspoon  very  fine,  freshly  grated  horse- 
radish; place  vessel  on  ice,  briskly  mix  with  a  whisk  until  thoroughly 
cold,  and  serve  as  required. 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)         Sago  with  Cream  (1583) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Shrimps 

Kingfish  Saute"  (773) 
Broiled  Ham  (277)  Potato  Fritters 


654  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2185.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SHRIMPS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  fork  one  minute. 

Shell  twelve  cooked  shrimps  and  cut  in  third-of-an-inch  pieces,  place 
in  a  sauteuse  with  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  five  minutes,  tossing 
meanwhile.  Sprinkle  over  two  saltspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley;  lightly  toss.  Drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  six  minutes,  briskly 
mixing  occasionally.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Arrange  six  heart-shaped 
bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  the  eggs  and  serve. 

2186.    POTATO  FRITTERS 

Peel  arid  grate  into  a  bowl  three  medium,  sound  raw  potatoes,  add 
two  tablespoons  flour,  two  raw  eggs,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  one  saltspoon  baking  powder.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden 
spoon  until  well  amalgamated.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a 
large  black  frying  pan,  then  drop  the  preparation  in  the  pan  in  twelve 
equal  cake  forms  and  slowly  fry  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
drain  on  a  cloth,  then  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Crab  Meat,  Mayonnaise  (2066) 

Chicken  Pot  Pie,  American  (159) 

Green  Corn  Sautes,  Creole 

Fresh  Peaches  with  Rice 

2187.    GREEN  CORN  SAUTES,  CREOLE 

Cut  away  stalks,  remove  leaves  and  silk  from  six  fresh,  sound  white 
ears  green  corn.  Then  with  back  of  a  knife  blade  detach  from  the 
cobs.  Heat  a  tablespoon  oil  in  a  frying  pan,  add  one  finely  chopped 
seeded  green  pepper  and  one  small  chopped  white  onion.  Nicely  brown 
three  minutes,  add  corn  and  fry  eight  minutes,  occasionally  tossing 
meanwhile;  add  two  finely  chopped  peeled  red  tomatoes.  Season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  sugar,  toss  well  and  cook  eight 
minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and 
serve. 

2188.    FRESH  PEACHES  WITH  RICE 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  four  ounces  rice,  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  pint  milk,  four  ounces  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  essence 
and  rind  of  a  sound  lemon ;  mix  well  and  gently  boil  fifty  minutes.  Re- 
move rind,  add  one  egg  yolk  and  two  tablespoons  cream;  sharply  mix 
while  heating  one  minute.  Remove  and  keep  hot. 

Carefully  peel  six  good-sized  sound  sweet  peaches,  cut  in  halves, 
remove  stones.  Place  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  sugar,  two  and  a  half 
gills  water  and  two  tablespoons  maraschino,  place  on  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  boil  drop  in  peaches  and  cook  five  minutes.  Dress  rice 
on  a  dish,  place  peaches  on  top.  Reduce  syrup  to  half  the  quantity 
and  pour  over  the  peaches,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  655 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Potage  Printanier,  Grenat 
Salmon  Steaks,  Anchovy  Butter 

Potatoes,  Nannette 
Squab  Turkey,  Devilled,  with  Bacon 

Tomato-Rice  au  Gratin 

Ribs  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Darioles,  Vanilla 

2189.    POTAGE  PRINTANIER,  GRENAT 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  two  medium  carrots,  one  sound  turnip,  one 
medium  onion,  two  branches  celery  and  two  leeks.  Place  these  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  cook 
to  a  light  brown,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Then  moisten  with  two  quarts 
broth  and  half  pint  tomato  juice,  add  one  pound  beef  bones,  season 
with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Gently  boil  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  add  two  ounces  raw  Italian  rice,  boil  forty  minutes  more, 
then  remove  bones.  Skin  and  cut  in  small  square  pieces  three  sound 
fresh  tomatoes,  add  to  the  soup,  skim  fat  from  top,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  potage  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2190.    SALMON  STEAKS,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Procure  three  pieces  fresh  salmon  of  threes-quarters  of  a  pound  each. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  of  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
paprika ;  repeatedly  turn  steaks  in  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a  broiler  and 
broil  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread 
an  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  over.  Decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

2191.    POTATOES,  NANNETTE 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding 
two  tablespoons  flour;  stir  well  and  cook  until  a  nice  brown  colour, 
stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  701).  Season 
with  light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well  till  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Drop  in  twelve  new  peeled 
potatoes,  add  two  branches  parsley  and  one  bay  leaf.  Cover  pan,  set  in 
oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  parsley  and  bay  leaf,  pour 
potatoes  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

2192.    SQUAB  TURKEY,  DEVILLED,  WITH  BACON 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  squab  turkey,  split  open 
through  back  without  separating,  draw,  remove  breast  bone,  neatly  wipe, 
envelop  it  in  a  clean  coarse  towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver. 
Season  it  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Rub 
all  over  with  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a 
light  charcoal  fire  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  evenly  spread 
all  over  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n),  then  broil  again  two  minutes  on  each 


656  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

side.     Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.     Place  six  thin  slices  freshly  broiled 
crisp  bacon  over  the  bird  and  serve. 

2193.      TOMATO-RlCE  AU    GRATIN 

Place  six  ounces  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
half  pint  broth,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix 
well  and  boil  thirty-five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add  two 
ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  with  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well,  then 
drop  the  tomato-rice  into  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs 
over,  arrange  a  few  small  bits  butter  on  top,  set  in  oven  to  bake  twelve 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2194.    DARIOLES,  VANILLA 

Roll  out  on  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  paste  (No.  117) 
exceedingly  thin,  then  line  the  inside  of  six  individual  pudding  moulds. 
Place  a  little  bit  of  butter  at  bottom  of  each  mould.  Crack  two  fresh 
eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  one  and  a  half  ounces  sugar,  one  and  a  half  ounces 
flour,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  three  gills  milk,  and  sharply 
mix  with  whisk  two  minutes.  Strain  the  preparation  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  the  moulds,  evenly  divided,  place  on  a  pastry  tin,  set  in  oven 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
sprinkle  a  little  fine  sugar  over  and  serve. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Raspberries  in  Cream  (1846) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs  Molet,  Finnoise 

Perch  Saute,  Fines  Herbes  (293) 

Mutton   Kidney,    with    Bacon    (195) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

2195.    EGGS  MOLET,  FINNOISE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  five  minutes,  take  up,  plunge  in  cold  water 
for  one  minute,  remove,  shell,  and  place  on  a  deep  hot  dish.  Pour  a 
Finnoise  sauce  (No.  251)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme  in  Cups  (1901) 
Coquilles  of  Bluefish,  Italienne 

Beefsteaks  Rolled 

Lima  Beans,  Stanford 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

2196.    COQUILLES  OF  BLUEFISH,  ITALIENNE 

Remove  bones  and  skin  of  a  two-and-a-half-pound  fresh  bluefish. 
Cut  the  meat  in  half -inch  square  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  gill 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  657 

white  wine,  pint  water,  a  tablespoon  vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  salt. 
Cover  pan  and  boil  ten  minutes.     Remove,  drain  and  save  the  broth. 

Heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  lightly  brown  four  minutes;  add  tablespoon  flour  and  stir 
on  fire  until  a  light  brown  colour.  Pour  in  half  the  quantity  of  the  blue- 
fish  liquor  and  three  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Mix  until  it  comes  to  a 
boiling  point,  then  add  twelve  finely  minced  canned  mushrooms  and  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  add  the  fish  and  carefully  mix.  Divide  it  evenly  in  six  table  shells; 
place  on  a  tin.  Sprinkle  a  little  Parmesan  cheese  over,  arrange  a  few 
little  bits  butter  on  top,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2197.    BEEFSTEAKS,  ROLLED 

Cut  from  a  two-pound  piece  rump  steak  six  equal  slices,  flatten  them 
to  quarter-inch  thickness.  Season  all  around  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  then  roll  up. 

Finely  chop  one  bean  garlic,  three  shallots  and  four  branches  parsley, 
place  these  on  a  plate  and  lightly  roll  steaks  in  the  mixture.  Then 
envelop  each  steak  in  a  thin  slice  of  larding  pork.  Tie  around  with 
string.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  sautoire,  place  steaks  in 
the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  ten  minutes,  frequently  turning, 
then  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  untie,  dress  on  a  hot  dish. 
Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  add  a  teaspoon  flour;  stir  well,  then  pour  in 
two  tablespoons  sherry,  three  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  a  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  half  gill  broth.  Mix  well,  boil  three  minutes. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

2198.    LIMA  BEANS,  STANFORD 

Cut  into  small  square  pieces  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham  and  three 
leeks,  place  in  an  enamelled  pan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  gently  fry  to 
a  nice  brown  colour;  add  a  light  tablespoon  flour;  stir  well.  Moisten 
with  a  pint  broth,  then  add  pint  shelled  lima  beans.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
mix  well,  cover  pan  and  cook  on  range  on  a  slow  fire  thirty  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme  Brunoise  with  Barley 

Striped  Bass  with  Curry  Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Guinea  Hens,  en  Casserole,  with  Cream 
Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Persillade 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Asparagus  (canned).  Vinaigrette 

Coffee  Ice  Cream  (1616)          Lady-Fingers  (150) 

2199.    CONSOMM£  BRUNOISE  WITH  BARLEY 

Prepare,  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep  simmering  a  con- 
somme (No.  52).  Boil  two  ounces  barley  in  a  pint  of  water  with  half  a 


658  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoon  salt  fifty  minutes.  Drain  and  wash  in  cold  water,  then  add 
to  the  consomme.  Cut  a  medium  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  onion,  one 
leek  and  a  quarter  of  a  very  small  cabbage  in  exceedingly  small  square 
pieces.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  three  gills 
of  the  consomme,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  three  saltspoons  sugar. 
Cover  vegetables  with  lightly  buttered  paper,  place  lid  on  pan,  then 
cook  on  range  twenty  minutes.  Set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove, 
add  vegetables  to  the  consomme,  toil  five  minutes.  Pour  the  consomm£ 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2200.    STRIPED  BASS  WITH  CURRY 

Cut  off  head,  scale  and  trim  off  fins  of  a  three-pound  fresh  striped 
bass.  Split  open  through  the  front  without  separating,  remove  spinal 
bone,  lay  fish  on  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cut  side  up.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  three  saltspoons  pepper. 
Pour  a  gill  white  wine  around  the  fish.  Squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon,  sprinkle  three  tablespoons  bread  croutons  over  the  fish,  place  a 
few  little  bits  butter  over  the  surface.  Set  in  oven  to  bake  thirty-five 
minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2201.    GUINEA  HENS,  EN  CASSEROLE,  WITH  CREAM 

Cut  head  and  feet  from  two  tender  guinea  hens.  Neatly  draw,  wipe 
and  truss.  Cover  breasts  with  thin  slices  larding  pork.  Place  in  an 
earthen  casserole,  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  oven  forty 
minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  lift  up  the  lard,  untruss, 
remove  all  fat  from  the  pan. 

Prepare  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736),  adding  to  it  one  gill  cream;  mix 
well,  pour  sauce  over  birds  in  the  pan,  place  pan  on  range,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  and  one  saltspoon  ground  allspice.  Lightly  mix,  boil  ten 
minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  same  pan. 

2202.    JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES,  PERSILLADE 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  twenty-four  fresh,  sound,  medium  Jerusalem 
artichokes.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  place 
them  in  the  pan  and  brown  a  nice  colour  all  around.  Sprinkle  over  a 
light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  set  in  oven  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Remove,  take  all  fat  from  pan,  add  half  an  ounce  butter, 
with  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives. 
Dress  the  artichokes  on  a  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

2203.    ASPARAGUS,  VINAIGRETTE 

Carefully  open  two  cans  fine  asparagus.  Take  from  cans  and  care- 
fully drop  in  boiling  water  two  minutes.  Remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay 
on  a  cloth  and  let  get  cold.  Then  place  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  and  send  to  table  with  six  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863)  in  a 
saucepan  separately. 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  659 

Friday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Cream  (2034)          Hominy  (45) 

Boiled  Eggs,  Hollandaise 

Panfish,  Maitre  d'H&tel 

Calfs'  Liver,  Minute  (810) 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116)  Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2204.    BOILED  EGGS,  HOLLANDAISE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  eight  minutes,  remove  and  shell,  cut  in  quar- 
ters, then  place  in  a  deep  dish.  Pour  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279) 
over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

2205.    PANFISH,  MAfxRE  D'HOTEL 

Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Roll  six  fresh,  well-wiped  panfish  in  the  seasoning  repeatedly, 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  charcoal  fire  four  minutes  on 
each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread  a  maitre  d'hotel 
(No.  7)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder  (198)          Lobster,  Provengale 
Cold  Ribs  of  Beef  with  Jelly 
Kirsch  Omelette  (468) 

2206.    LOBSTER,  PROVENCALE 

Cut  off  heads  from  two  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each.  Cut  in 
twelve  even  pieces  each.  Heat  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  large  sautoire, 
adding  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  the  lobster.  Season  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  then  briskly  cook  ten  minutes.  Pour  in 
half  pint  white  wine,  add  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half 
teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  half  a  bean  chopped  garlic.  Stir  well, 
cover  pan  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Add  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
lightly  mix  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Dress  lobsters  and  all  the 
contents  of  pan  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2207.    COLD  RIBS  or  BEEF  WITH  JELLY 

Remove  bones  and  neatly  pare  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yester- 
day, then  cut  in  exceedingly  thin  slices.  Nicely  dress  slices  on  a 
large  cold  dish.  Cut  in  small  pieces  four  tablespoons  jelly  (No.  1879), 
arrange  around  beef  with  six  lettuce  leaves  and  twelve  small  vinegar 
pickles  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Clams  (1457)  Caviare 

Mulligatawney,  Saigon 
Weakfish,  Hongroise  Potatoes,  Lorette  (372) 

Squabs  Saute",  with  Tarragon  (899) 

Oyster  Plant,  Italienne  Spaghetti  au  Gratin  (1508) 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  Currant  Jelly  (1977) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 

Blackberry  Pudding 


66o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2208.      MULLIGATAWNEY,    SAIGON 

Cut  in  very  small  squares  two  sound  onions,  three  leeks,  two  seedless 
green  peppers  and  four  branches  celery.  Place  vegetables  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  ounce  butter  and  brown  ten  minutes,  stirring  well,  then  add 
one  light  tablespoon  curry  powder;  stir  well  while  heating  two  minutes; 
moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  pint  pure  tomato  juice, 
let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  two  ounces  rice,  two  medium,  peeled  potatoes 
cut  in  small  squares;  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  light  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Boil  thirty  minutes,  add  two  peeled  and  cored  apples 
cut  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  milk  and  grated  white  part  of  one 
sound  fresh  cocoanut  and  one  ounce  shredded,  salt  codfish.  Lightly 
mix  and  gently  boil  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  pour  the  soup  into  a 
tureen  and  serve. 

2209.    WEAKFISH,  HONGROISE 

Scale,  trim  off  fins  and  wipe  a  fresh  three-pound  weakfish,  place  in  a 
large  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  and  a  half 
gills  water,  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  two  branches  parsley,  a  light 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Cover  fish  with  buttered 
paper,  boil  on  range  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  thirty- five  minutes. 
Remove,  lift  up,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 
with  two  light  tablespoons  flour,  heat  half  a  minute,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Strain  fish  liquor  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  add  half  gill  milk, 
sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  cook  ten  minutes.  Dilute  one 
egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon  cream  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Sharply  mix  with 
a  whisk  while  heating  two  minutes.  Remove,  pour  sauce  over  the  fish 
and  serve. 

2210.    OYSTER  PLANT,  ITALIENNE 

Mix  in  a  basin  two  ounces  flour,  half  gill  vinegar  and  two  quarts 
water.  Scrape  and  remove  stalks  from  a  large  or  two  small  branches 
sound  oyster  plant,  then  plunge  in  the  prepared  water  and  let  stand 
fifteen  minutes,  take  up  and  split  in  halves — the  thick  part  only.  Then 
cut  in  one-inch  long  pieces.  Plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water,  add 
a  sound  lemon  cut  in  quarters,  and  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt;  gently  boil 
forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve.  Reduce  in  a  small  saucepan  on  the 
fire  three-quarters  of  a  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  to  half  the  quantity, 
place  the  oyster  plant  in  a  black  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper  and 
fry  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown,  then  add  to  the  tomato  sauce 
with  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  mix  well.  Place  in  a 
hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

221 1.    BLACKBERRY  PUDDING 

Pick  off  stems  from  a  pound  of  fresh,  sound  blackberries,  place  in  a 
bowl  with  five  ounces  sugar  and  quarter  gill  brandy  or  rum,  mix  well  in 
the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  till  required.  Pick  and  remove  fibres  from 
a  pound  of  beef  suet,  then  chop  very  finely.  Sift  half  a  pound  flour  on  a 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  661 

table,  make  a  little  fountain  in  the  centre,  place  in  the  suet  with  one  and 
a  half  gills  cold  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Then  briskly  knead  until 
well  amalgamated  and  thoroughly  firm.  Roll  out  paste  on  a  lightly 
floured  table  to  thickness  of  quarter  of  an  inch.  Lightly  butter  a  quart 
pudding  bowl,  then  line  with  the  paste.  Place  blackberries  in  the  bowl, 
lightly  egg  edges  of  the  paste.  Roll  out  trimmings  of  the  paste  suffi- 
ciently to  cover  bowl.  Press  both  edges  together,  so  as  to  entirely 
enclose  berries.  Wrap  bowl  in  a  strong,  buttered  and  floured  cloth, 
place  in  saucepan  with  plenty  boiling  water  and  boil  one  hour.  Remove, 
unwrap,  turn  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  in  Cream  (1828) 

Petti  John  Food  (170) 

Poached    Eggs,    Saragosse 

Whitebait,  Farm  Style  (1373) 

Tripe  Saute,  Lyonnaise  (981)  Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

2212.    POACHED  EGGS,  SARAGOSSE 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  half  a  Spanish  onion  and  one  sound  green 
pepper,  place  in  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and 
lightly  fry  six  minutes.  Add  three  finely  chopped,  peeled,  fresh  red 
tomatoes  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt, 
three  saltspoons  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  then  boil  ten  minutes. 
Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  quarter-inch-thick  slices, 
cut  each  slice  in  two  even  square  pieces,  and  toast  them  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Lightly  butter  with  a  little  anchovy  butter.  Arrange  on  a 
hot  dish.  Place  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106)  on  top,  pour  the  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams,  Newburgh  (529) 

Smoked  Beef  Tongue  aux  Ravioli 

Creamed  Spinach  (399) 

Apricot  Fritters  (266) 

2213.    SMOKED  BEEF  TONGUE  AUX  RAVIOLI 

Plunge  a  medium  smoked  beef  tongue  in  one  and  a  half  gallons 
boiling  water  and  boil  two  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  pare  and  remove 
the  skin.  Slice  in  quarter-inch  slices.  Mix  in  a  bowl  one  ounce  butter, 
three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half 
bean  chopped  garlic,  four  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  egg  yolk,  two  salt- 
spoons salt  and  saltspoon  pepper;  then  spread  the  mixture  at  bottom 
of  a  baking  dish,  place  slices  over,  one  overlapping  another,  arrange  a 
ravioli  (No.  1127)  on  top  of  the  tongue.  Pour  a  sauce  Italienne  (No. 
1244)  over  all.  Sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  top.  Set  in 
oven  twrenty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 


662  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyons  Sausages  (582) 

Potage,  Veloute*  au  Riz 

Timbales  of  Fish,  Cream  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Bohemienne  (1314) 

Lamb  Steaks,  Bearnaise  (630)  Eggplant,  Turquc 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Coffee    Eclairs 

2214.    POTAGE,  VELOUTE*  AU  Riz 

Procure  one  pound  raw  chicken  trimmings  or  bones,  place  in  a  large 
saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  but  not  too 
brown,  add  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  leeks  and  two  bay 
leaves;  moisten  with  one  quart  broth  and  two  quarts  water;  season  with 
two  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  lightly  mix  and  boil  forty^ minutes,  then  add  three  ounces  raw 
rice,  continually  simmer  forty-five  minutes  more,  remove,  pass  potage 
through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another 
saucepan,  set  on  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil;  dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  gill 
cream  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  to  soup  with  half  ounce  good  butter, 
sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  while  heating  four  minutes,  but  do  not  allow 
to  boil.  Pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread 
croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2215.    TIMBALES  OF  FISH,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  a  pound  and  a  half  of  either  fresh  hali- 
but or  codfish.  Chop  very  fine,  then  place  in  a  mortar  with  two  egg  yolks 
one  light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg  and  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence;  then  thoroughly 
pound  to  a  smooth  pulp,  remove  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl 
and  place  on  ice. 

Beat  up  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually 
incorporate  with  the  force,  sharply  mixing  with  a  whisk  while  so  doing. 
Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  place  a  very  thin  slice  of 
truffle  at  the  bottom  of  each,  fill  with  the  preparation,  place  on  a  tin, 
pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height,  cover  with  lightly  buttered  paper 
and  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish. 
Pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  around  and  serve. 

2216.    EGGPLANT,  TURQUE 

Cut  in  two  lengthwise  three  small  sound  eggplants,  crisscross  the 
meat  inside,  without  cutting  skin,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat,  cut  side  down, 
twelve  minutes;  lift  up,  lay  on  a  cloth,  cut  side  down,  and  let  drain  for 
ten  minutes.  With  a  teaspoon  scoop  out  the  meat,  leaving  the  shells 
intact.  Finely  chop  meat  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
oil  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped  white  onion  and  gently  brown 
five  minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  raw  rice  with  half  bean  finely  chopped 
garlic;  lightly  brown  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add  egg- 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  663 

plant  meat  with  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  half  teaspoon  salt, 
three  saltspoons  pepper  and  saltspoon  nutmeg;  mix  well,  cover  pan,  set 
in  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  add  two  egg  yolks,  thoroughly 
mix,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  in  the  eggplant  shells,  then  fill  with  the 
preparation.  Sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over,  place  on  a  tin,  arrange 
a  few  bits  butter  over  each,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2217.  COFFEE  £CLAIRS 

Prepare  the  eclairs  exactly  the  same  as  chocolate  Eclairs  (No.  1279), 
but  adding  one  tablespoon  very  strong-made  coffee  to  the  creme  patis- 
siere  and  substituting  the  glace  au  cafe  for  the  glace  au  chocolate. 

2218.  GLACE  AU  CAFE 

Place  two  ounces  glazing  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  five  drops  of  vanilla 
essence  and  one  tablespoon  very  strong-made  coffee,  place  pan  on  range 
and  sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  lukewarm,  remove  and  use  as 
required. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelans  (2056)  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs  Cocotte  with  Sorrel 

Fried  Butterfish  (636) 

Spring  Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (319) 

Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2219.    EGGS  COCOTTE  WITH  SORREL 

Thoroughly  wash  one  quart  fresh  sound  sorrel  leaves,  plunge  in  a 
quart  boiling  water  ten  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain,  then  press  sorrel 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  saucepan.  Add  teaspoon  good  butter,  three 
saltspoons  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  saltspoon  white  pepper. 
Stir  on  fire  while  heating  two  minutes.  Evenly  divide  the  puree  into 
six  egg-cocotte  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish. 
Season  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  pour 
a  tablespoon  cream  over  eggs  of  each  dish,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for 
five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Chicken  Broth  (2006) 

Fried  Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Devilled 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Smothered  Onions  (1342) 

Succotash  (2090) 
Cold  Pudding,  Maraschino  (1772) 

2220.    FRIED  SOFT  SHELL  CRABS,  DEVILLED 

Remove  spongy  parts  under  the  side  ppints^and  aprons  from  twelve 
fresh  soft  shell  crabs.  Wash  and  thoroughly  drain  on  cloth.  Season 


664  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Evenly  spread  a 
devilled  butter  (No.  n)  on  both  sides  of  crabs,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then 
place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  six  minutes.  Remove, 
drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a 
little  fried  parsley  and  six  quarters  lemon  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)       Clams  (145  7)        Salted  Walnuts  (954) 

Consomme",  Magenta 
Cold  Brook  Trout,  Ravigote  Sauce 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Tournedos  of  Beef,  Chasseur  Tomatoes,  Tre"vise 

Escalopes  of  Sweetbreads  with  Peas 

Punch,  Stanley  (1099) 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream  (726) 

2221.    CONSOMME",  MAGENTA 

Prepare,  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep  simmering  a  con- 
somme* (No.  52).  With  a  very  small  Parisian  scoop,  scoop  out  as  many, 
round  pieces  as  you  can  from  two  medium  carrots,  two  white  turnips  and 
two  medium,  sound,  peeled  raw  potatoes ;  boil  latter  in  a  pint  water  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and  keep  hot.  Add  the  carrots 
and  turnips  to  the  consomme  with  one  gill  green  peas  and  half  pint 
tomato  sauce.  Boil  slowly  forty-five  minutes,  then  add  potatoes  with 
leaves  from  one  branch  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil,  cook  five  minutes 
longer,  remove,  pour  the  consomme  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2222.    COLD  BROOK  TROUT,  RAVIGOTE  SAUCE 

Trim  and  wipe  three  medium,  fresh  brook  trout.  Place  in  a  sauce- 
pan pint  water,  half  gill  white  wine,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  sliced 
onion,  one  branch  parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  boil  five  minutes;  remove  pan  to 
a  table  and  let  thoroughly  cool  off  in  the  broth.  Dress  fish  on  a  cold 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin  over,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and 
serve  with  a  cold  Ravigote  sauce  (No.  1441)  separately. 

2223.    TOURNEDOS  OF  BEEF,  CHASSEUR 

Trim  off  a  little  of  the  fat  from  top  of  a  two-pound  piece  tenderloin 
of  beef,  then  cut  in  six  equal  pieces.  Neatly  flatten,  place  on  a  deep 
dish  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  a  sliced  onion,  one  branch 
parsley,  cut  in  pieces,  one  sprig  thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  one  bean  crushed 
garlic,  juice  of  a  sound  lemon  and  three  tablespoons  oil,  then  let  mari- 
nade one  and  a  half  hours.  Drain  them.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  the  filets  and  briskly  fry  two  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove  and  arrange  on  a  dish  over  six  small  round, 
freshly  prepared  slices  df  toast.  Pour  a  Chasseur  sauce  over  and  serve. 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  665 

2224.    SAUCE,  CHASSEUR 

Place  six  finely  chopped,  sound  shallots  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  a  nice  light  colour.  Pour  in  one  and 
a  half  gills  white  wine  and  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  pour  in  one  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  add  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  parsley,  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper 
and  twelve  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Lightly  mix,  boil  ten  minutes, 
then  use  as  directed. 

2225.    TOMATOES,  TRE"VISE 

Cut  six  even-sized,  large,  fresh  red  tomatoes  in  halves  crosswise. 
Squeeze  out  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  keeping  the  shells;  add  one  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  half  gill  claret,  two  ounces  chopped  cooked  ham 
and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Place  on  fire  and  let  reduce 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  five  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs;  lightly 
mix.  Remove  from  the  fire,  arrange  tomatoes  on  a  tin.  Evenly  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Evenly  divide  force  in  the  twelve  half  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  butter  on  top,  then  set  in 
oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2226.    ESCALOPES  OF  SWEETBREADS  WITH  PEAS 

Blanch  and  trim  six  sweetbreads  (No.  33).  Cut  each  in  four  even 
slices.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
then  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  arrange  in  the  slices,  one  beside  another  as  much  as  possible, 
and  gently  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  one  overlapping  another,  crown  like.  Spread  a  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  (No.  7)  over.  Place  green  peas  (No.  1519)  in  the  centre  of  the 
breads  and  serve. 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)   Semolina  (192) 
Shirred  Eggs,  Lisbonnaise 

Broiled  Fresh  Haddock 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108) 

Fried  Potatoes  en  Qtiartier  (348) 

Rice  Cakes  (229) 

2227.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  LISBONNAISE 

Place  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste, 
then  press  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  add  half  teaspoon 
chopped  tarragon  and  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  lightly 
mix  and  let  reduce  on  fire  ten  minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg 
dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Season  evenly  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Then  divide  sauce  over  the 
six  dishes.  Set  in  oven  four  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 


666  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2228.    BROILED  FRESH  HADDOCK 

Procure  three  fresh  haddock  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
white  pepper,  then  repeatedly  turn  steaks  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  on 
the  broiler  and  broil  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  the  steaks,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Canape's,  Madison 
Curry  of  Veal,  Pondichery 

Green  Corn  (1864) 
Charlotte  Russe  (939) 

2229.    CANAPE'S,  MADISON 

Plunge  thirty-six  freshly  opened  little  neck  clams  in  a  quart  boiling 
water  and  boil  three  minutes.  Drain  well  on  a  sieve,  then  finely  chop 
them.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gills  milk,  one  gill  cream 
half  a  bean  crushed  garlic,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile. 
Add  four  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  two  egg  yolks.  Sharply  mix 
with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  five  minutes.  Remove,  place  in  a 
deep  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six 
quarter-inch  slices,  pare  off  the  crusts,  lightly  butter  and  toast  a  nice 
golden.  Broil  six  thin  slices  ham  one  minute  on  each  side.  Place  a 
piece  of  ham  on  top  of  each  toast ;  pare  the  ham  to  even  size  of  the  toast. 
Then  evenly  spread  the  preparation  over  them ;  nicely  smooth  the  surface. 
Mix  on  a  plate  an  ounce  of  butter  with  one  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  evenly  spread  over  the  six  canape's,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven 
to  bake  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

2230.    CURRY  OF  VEAL,  PONDICHERY 

Cut  three  pounds  breast  of  veal  in  one-and-a-half-inch-square  pieces, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  drain 
on  sieve,  replace  veal  in  the  saucepan,  with  an  onion  with  two  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  two  each  carrots  and  turnips  cut  in  quarters,  one  branch 
celery,  one  bean  chopped  garlic.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  thyme,  and  add  to  the  pan.  Season 
with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  crushed  pepper  corn  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Cover  pan  and  boil  one  and  a  half  hours.  Melt  a  good 
tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  sliced  sound  apple  with  a 
teaspoon  curry  powder,  nicely  brown  ten  minutes,  then  add  one  table- 
spoon flour.  Stir  well  one  minute.  Strain  the  veal  broth  into  this  pan, 
mix  well  and  briskly  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  herbs  and  all  the 
vegetables  from  pan,  then  strain  sauce  over  the  veal,  lightly  mix,  cook 
ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish,  arrange  rice  (No.  490)  around  the 
veal  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  667 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Tunny  (159?) 

Vermicelli  with  Milk 
Bluefish,  Havannaise  (1898) 

Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 
Leg  of  Mutton  Braise,  Lyonnaise  (270) 

String  Beans,  Orleannaise 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Jelly,  Creme  de  Cocoa  (678) 

2231.    VERMICELLI  WITH  MILK 

Place  two  quarts  milk  in  an  enamelled  pan  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  one  ounce  butter; 
then  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  strew  in  four  ounces  vermicelli,  lightly 
mixing  while  adding  it,  and  slowly  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Dilute  a 
tablespoon  of  arrowroot  in  half  a  gill  of  cream  and  two  egg  yolks,  and 
add  to  the  soup;  sharply  mix  while  cooking  two  minutes.  Pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2232.    STRING  BEANS,  ORLEANNAISE 

Carefully  break  both  ends  and  pull  off  strings  from  a  quart  of  fresh, 
tender  string  beans,  cut  in  two,  then  plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water 
with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  gill  good  vinegar  and  boil  forty  minutes. 
Thoroughly  drain.  Heat  an  ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  one 
exceedingly  fine-chopped  sound  white  onion  and  gently  fry  five  minutes, 
tossing  once  in  a  while.  Add  the  beans.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  chervil, 
toss  well,  and  briskly  brown  five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Then  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  orange,  toss  well  for  a  minute 
and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Gooseberries  in  Cream  (2169) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Fried  Eggs,  Valencienne 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette  (600) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 

Wheat  Cakes  (9) 

2233.    FRIED  EGGS,  VALENCIENNE 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan.  Care- 
fully crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper;  fry  on  range  one  minute,  then  set  in  oven  five 
minutes.  Remove,  carefully  slide  them  on  a  large  hot  dish.  Prepare 
stewed  tomatoes  (No.  4),  adding  to  them  six  sliced  mushrooms  and  one 
sweet  pepper  cut  in  small  squares,  mix  well  five  minutes,  pour  over  the 
eggs  and  serve. 


668  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Celery  Broth  (1985) 
Shrimps,  Mariniere  (1124) 

Fritadelles  of  Turkey 

New  Carrots,  Colbert  (1264) 

Tapioca  Pudding  (574) 

2234.    FRITADELLES  OF  TURKEY 

Detach  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Cut  into  small  pieces  also  twelve  canned  mushrooms 
and  one  ounce  cooked  lean  ham.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour,  heat  half  ?,  minute, 
stirring  meanwhile,  then  pour  in  three  gills  broth,  continually  mix  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  turkey,  ham  and  mushrooms.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry.  Mix  well,  then  slowly  cook 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  sharply  mix  while  heating  one 
minute  and  cook  five  minutes.  Transfer  to  a  dish,  lightly  butter  the 
surface  of  the  force  and  let  get  thoroughly  cold.  Divide  it  in  twelve 
even  parts,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table,  giving  them  a  nice  round 
cake  form,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  drop  in 
boiling  fat  and  fry  eight  minutes.  Lift  up,  dredge  a  little  salt  over, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce 
(No.  48)  separately. 

DINNER 

Clams  (i4S7) 

Celery  (86)          Olives 

Cream  of  Corn,  New  Orleans 

Pampano.  Meuniere  (1982) 

Potatoes,  Be"arnaise  (593) 

Noix  of  Beef,  Braise  Bourgeoise  (1871) 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Ice  Cream,  Souveraine  (191) 

2235.    CREAM  OF  CORN,  NEW  ORLEANS 

Remove  leaves  and  silk  from  six  fresh ,  sound  ears  of  green  corn. 
Detach  grains  from  cobs  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  ounces 
peeled,  chopped  almonds,  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches 
celery,  one  branch  chervil,  one  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701), 
a  quart  milk,  one  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  one  saltspoon  ground  cinnamon;  lightly 
mix  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Add  three  ounces  rice  and  cook  fifty 
minutes  more.  Press  the  cream  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  half  ounce  butter  and  a 
gill  cream;  mix  well  while  heatins;  two  minutes.  Pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST        669 

Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Apricots  with  Cream 

Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Omelette  with  Sausages 

Picked-up  Codfish  (822) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d 'Hotel  (172) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2236.    APRICOTS  WITH  CREAM 

Peel  and  cut  eighteen  fresh,  sound  ripe  apricots  in  halves,  remove 
stones,  then  slice  and  place  on  a  compotier,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  mix  well;  beat  up  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  until  thick 
but  not  frothy,  mix  well,  pour  it  over  apricots  and  serve. 

2237.    OMELETTE  WITH  SAUSAGES 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with  fork  two 
minutes.  Cut  four  skinned  country  sausages  into  quarter-inch  pieces, 
place  in  a  black  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  five 
minutes,  lightly  tossing  meanwhile,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  pour  in  the  eggs,  sharply  mix  with  a  fork  two  minutes,  let  rest 
for  half  a  minute ;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest 
for  a  minute.  Turn  upon  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (81) 

Kaden  Boutou,  Mutton  Croquettes  with  Rice 

Fresh  Okras  in  Cream 

French  Pancakes  (17) 

2238.    KADEN  BOUTOU,  MUTTON  CROQUETTES  WITH  RICE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  small  chopped  onion,  with  half  a  sound, 
seeded  green  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  and  fry  five  minutes. 
Add  two  ounces  rice  with  one  peeled,  crushed,  red  tomato,  half  pint 
broth,  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  lightly  mix,  cover  pan, 
then  set  in  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  finely  chop  one  and  a 
half  pounds  raw  lean  mutton,  place  in  a  large  bowl,  adding  half  teaspoon 
salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  saltspoon  ground 
mixed  spices  and  two  egg  yolks.  Sharply  stir  with  spatula  until  well 
thickened,  then  add  the  rice  with  two  eggs;  sharply  stir  with  wooden 
spoon  for  four  minutes,  let  stand  five  minutes  in  a  cool  place.  Roll 
preparation  on  a  lightly  floured  table  into  twelve  even,  pear-shaped 
pieces.  Plunge  in  boiling  water  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Lift  up 
with  the  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in 
bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  ten  minutes. 


670  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  a  Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  separately. 

2239.    FRESH  OKRAS  IN  CREAM 

Cut  the  stems  from  thirty-six  medium,  tender,  sound  okras  and 
thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water;  drain  well,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  quart  hot  water,  pint  milk,  a  white  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it 
and  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  slowly  boil  thirty-five  minutes.  Carefully 
drain  on  a  sieve,  arrange  on  a  vegetable  dish.  Pour  a  cream  sauce 
(No.  36)  over  them  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)       Canapes  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Cabbage  Soup,  Piedmontaise 

Halibut,  Parisienne         Potatoes  in  Custard 

Larded  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Stanley  (305) 

Spinach,  Demi-Glace 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Samaritain  Cakes 

2240.    CABBAGE  SOUP,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Cut  a  small-sized,  sound  half  cabbage  in  quarters,  remove  stale  leaves 
and  the  core,  then  cut  the  cabbage  in  fine  julienne  strips.  Place  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and 
three  saltspoons  pepper;  mix  a  little  and  cook  on  moderate  fire  fifteen 
minutes,  or  until  tender,  stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  add  three  and  a 
half  quarts  water,  half  pound  raw,  lean  fresh  pork,  half  pound  raw,  lean 
beef  and  two  medium,  scraped,  peeled  raw  potatoes.  Cover  pan  and 
simmer  two  hours.  Lift  up  the  pork  and  beef,  cut  in  quarter-inch- 
square  pieces  and  return  to  the  pan.  Pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve  with  two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

2241.  HALIBUT,  PARISIENNE 

Procure  three  halibut  steaks  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each. 
Slice  white  parts  of  three  leeks  exceedingly  fine,  place  in  a  baking  dish 
with  a  tablespoon  butter,  set  on  fire  and  slowly  cook  five  minutes ;  place 
steaks  on  top.  Peel  and  cut  in  quarters  four  sound  red  tomatoes, 
arrange  them -around  fish  and  pour  a  gill  white  wine  over.  Season  with 
light  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  spread  an  anchovy 
butter  (No.  62)  over,  cover  with  lightly  buttered  paper,  then  set  the  fish 
in  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

2242.  POTATOES  IN  CUSTARD 

Peel  and  finely  slice  twelve  new  medium  potatoes  and  place  in  baking 
dish.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs,  add  yolks  of  two  others,  beat  them  up, 
then  dilute  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  701).  Season 
with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg ;  sharply  mix.  Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  pota- 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST          671 

toes,  lightly  mix,  set  in  oven  forty  minutes.     Remove  and  serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

2243.    SPINACH,  DEMI-GLACE 

Carefully  trim  three  quarts  fresh  spinach,  thoroughly  wash  in  cold 
water,  drain  on  sieve,  plunge  in  a  gallon  boiling  water  with  tablespoon 
salt  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Drain,  press  out  water  with  a  skimmer. 
Finely  chop,  then  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter, 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  sugar,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  a 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  stir  well.  Reduce  two  gills  demi-glace  (No. 
122)  to  a  gill  on  the  range,  then  pour  over  the  spinach.  Dress  on  a 
hot  vegetable  dish.  Arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90) 
around  and  serve. 

2244.    SAMARITAIN  CAKES 

Crack  four  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  four  ounces  sugar  and 
half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Set  basin  on  range  and  briskly  beat  ten 
minutes.  Remove  to  a  table,  then  add  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  gently 
mix  with  skimmer,  add  three  ounces  melted  butter,  then  mix  a  little 
more  with  the  skimmer.  Drop  in  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  tin,  set  to 
bake  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  ten  minutes.  Turn  the 
cake  on  a  table,  cut  in  twelve  round  pieces  two  inches  in  diameter.  Then 
with  inch  pastry  cutter  cut  out  centre  of  six  of  them  only.  Press  six 
preserved  apricots  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl,  adding  one  gill  whipped 
cream  and  one  teaspoon  rum,  mix  well,  arrange  the  six  rings  on  top 
of  the  six  uncut  cakes,  then  fill  the  centres  with  the  cream  and  place  a 
candied  cherry  on  top  of  each.  Pour  into  a  cold  dish  a  tablespoon  Swiss 
kirsch,  a  tablespoon  maraschino  and  one  tablespoon  rum,  lightly  mix, 
place  cakes  over  the  liquor,  sprinkle  over  a  little  powdered  sugar  and 
serve. 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  August 


BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Bacon,  Country  Style 

Filet  of  Sole,  Horly 

Country  Sausages  Baked  with  Apples  (834) 
Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2245.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  BACON,  COUNTRY  STYLE 

Cut  a  two-ounce  piece  lean  raw  bacon  in  very  thin  pieces,  place  in  a 
sautoire  with  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  gently  fry  five  minutes,  stirring 
meanwhile.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  on  the  bacon,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Set  in  oven  five  minutes. 
Remove,  then  mix  eggs  and  bacon  well  with  a  spoon.  Dress  on  a  deep 
hot  dish  and  serve. 


672  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2246.    FILET  OF  SOLE,  HORLY 

Carefully  lift  the  filets  from  a  fresh  three-pound  flounder.  Skin 
and  cut  each  filet  in  three  equal  slanting  pieces.  Season  all  over  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  lightly  turn 
in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  gently  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  plunge  in 
boiling  fat  and  fry  ten  minutes.  Drain  well,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Clams  en  Coquilles,  Philadelphia 

Goulash,  Hongroise  (263) 

Creme  au  Caramel  (480) 

2247.  CLAMS  EN  COQUILLES,  PHILADELPHIA 
Plunge  forty-eight  small  clams  in  boiling  water, boil  three  minutes 
and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Place  in  a  saucepan  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  half 
a  chopped  green  pepper,  a  small  stalk  celery  cut  in  small  squares,  and 
two  ounces  raw  ham  also  cut  in  small  pieces,  with  one  ounce  butter, 
and  gently  cook  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  two 
ounces  flour,  stir  briskly  while  heating  one  minute,  pour  in  two  gills 
milk,  one  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper 
and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then 
boil  fifteen  minutes.  Add  clams  with  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives, 
mix  a  little,  cook  one  minute.  Divide  clams,  etc.,  in  six  table  shells, 
place  in  a  tin,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  arrange  a 
few  little  bits  butter  on  top,  set  in  oven  ten  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (i4S7) 
Radishes  (58)         Olives 
Potage,  Long         Kingfish,  Bercy 

Potato  Balls,  Persillade 
Patties  of  Lamb  Sweetbreads  (1462) 

Green  Peas  with  Butter  1519 

Broiled  Spring  Turkey        Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  (523) 

2248.    POTAGE,  LONG 

Prepare,  strain  and  keep  hot  a  consomme  (No.  52). 
Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  chopped  white 
onion  and  one  seeded,  chopped  green  pepper,  and  fry  both  six  minutes, 
stirring  once  in  a  while;  then  add  four  ounces  raw  rice,  cook  five  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  ,  Moisten  with  a  pint  of  the  consomme,  add 
four  chicken  livers  freed  from  the  gall  bags  and  cut  in  four  pieces  each, 
and  two  medium  peeled  tomatoes  cut  in  eight  pieces  each.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  gently  mix,  cover  pan,  then  set  in  oven  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  add  to  the  prepared  consomme,  let  boil  five  minutes,  pour 
potage  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  673 

2249.    KINGFISH,  BERCY 

Scale,  trim  off  fins,  cut  heads  off  and  split  in  two  through  back  and 
remove  sp'nal  bone  from  two  very  fresh  kingfish  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Lightly  butter  a  baking  dish,  strew  half  a  finely  chopped ,  sound 
onion  in  the  dish,  lay  the  fish  over,  one  beside  another,  squeeze  juice 
of  a  sound  lemon  over  fish  and  keep  aside  till  required.  Place  trimmings 
of  fish  in  a  saucepan  with  three-quarters  of  a  pint  water  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Place  in  another  small  saucepan  half  a  medium,  sliced  carrot, 
half  ditto  onion,  branch  parsley,  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  one 
bay  leaf,  one  clove  and  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  then  briskly  fry 
five  minutes.  Pour  in  a  gill  white  wine,  let  it  reduce  nearly  to  a  glaze, 
strain  half  of  the  fish  broth  into  the  glaze,  lightly  mix  and  reduce 
again  until  nearly  dry.  Then  strain  in  the  rest  of  the  fish  broth,  lightly 
mix  and  boil  six  minutes  more.  Place  fish  on  the  fire  five  minutes, 
strain  sauce  over  the  fish,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper ;  boil  five  minutes.  Set  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

2250.    POTATO  BALLS,  PERSILLADE 

Boil  six  neatly  peeled,  medium  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain  well.  Press  through  a  potato 
masher  into  a  bowl,  add  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chervil,  two  egg  yolks,  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Briskly  stir  with 
wooden  spoon  two  minutes.  Roll  out  the  puree  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  to  twelve  even  balls.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  lightly  roll  in  bTead 
crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  six  minutes.  '.Cake 
up,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2251.    BROILED  SPRING  TURKEY 

Singe,  cut  the  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  spring  turkey,  split  open 
through  back  without  separating,  draw  and  neatly  wipe,  remove  breast 
and  spinal  bones,  envelop  it  in  a  coarse  towel  and  flatten  nicely  with-a 
cleaver.  Season  all  around  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
rub  well  with  a  tablespoon  of  oil,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  slowly 
broil  twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  six  freshly  pre- 
pared slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  large  hot  dish,  place  the  turkey  over 
the  toast,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  the  bird  and  serve. 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberries  (1925)  Wheatena  (1298) 

Moulded  Eggs  on  Toast 
Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  in  Milk  (1231) 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261) 

Sweet  Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (1092) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 


674  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2252.     MOULDED  EGGS  ON  TOAST 

Lightly  butter  twelve  individual  pudding  moulds.  Crack  one  fresh 
egg  into  each ,  evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper ,  lay  on  a  tin,  pour  hot  water  in  the  tin  up  to  half  the  height 
of  moulds.  Set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove,  have  six  freshly  pre- 
pared slices  of  buttered  toast  arranged  on  a  large  hot  dish.  Unmould 
the  eggs,  place  two  on  each  slice  of  toast  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Boston  Clam  Stew 

Stuffed  Devilled  Lobster  (1250) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Oswald  (1533) 

Braised  Lettuce 

Plum  Pie  (456) 

2253.    BOSTON  CLAM  STEW 

Open  forty-eight  medium,  fresh  clams,  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
their  liquor,  one  quart  cold  water,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and 
four  branches  celery.  Set  pan  on  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
skim  scum  from  surface  and  remove  celery.  Add  a  pint  hot  milk 
and  two  ounces  butter,  mix  well,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with 
six  lightly  buttered  slices  of  toasts  separately. 

2254.     BRAISED  LETTUCE 

Remove  stale  leaves  from  six  very  small  heads  fresh  lettuce,  plunge 
in  boiling  water  five  minutes.  Take  up  with  a  skimmer,  drop  in  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes,  drain  and  press  out  all  the  water. 

Place  in  a  sautoire  a  few  trimmings  of  larding  pork,  then  place 
lettuce  over,  add  four  branches  parsley  and  two  medium  onions  with 
two  cloves  stuck  in.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  lettuce  with 
slices  of  larding  pork,  moisten  with  half  gill  white  wine,  a  gill  broth  (No. 
701)  and  half  gill  pure  tomato  juice.  Cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  thirty 
Jttinutes.  Remove,  lift  up  lettuce,  place  on  a  sieve,  lightly  squeeze  and 
give  nice  forms.  Dress  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  crown-like,  with  six- 
heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  90)  alternately.  Skim  fat  from  gravy, 
press  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  boil  five  minutes. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  butter  with  teaspoon  flour,  mix  well,  add  it 
to  sauce  and  sharply  mix.  Pour  sauce  over  the  lettuce  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Sardines  (1148)         Radishes  (58) 

Fish  Broth  with  Sago 
Porgies,  Dominicaine  Potatoes,  Colbert  (2093) 

Beef  a  la  Mode  (534) 

Tomatoes  en  Ragout  (881)  Fondue-Suisse  (479) 
Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 
Romaine   Salad  (214) 
Ginger  Pudding  (394) 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST          675 

2255.     FISH  BROTH  WITH  SAGO 

Finely  slice  one  medium  peeled  carrot,  one  onion,  two  leeks  and  two 
branches  celery;  place  these  in  a  large  saucepan  with  three  quarts  water; 
add  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  one 
sprig  marjoram,  one  blade  mace,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove;  season 
with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Boil  forty  minutes, 
then  add  two  pounds  clean  whitefish  bones  and  gently  simmer  forty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  strain  broth  through  a  double  cheesecloth  into 
another  saucepan,  reset  on  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  dredge 
in  three  ounces  well-washed  and  completely  drained  sago;  lightly  mix 
with  spoon  while  adding  it,  then  slowly  boil  twenty  minutes,  mixing  once 
in  a  while.  Remove,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2256.      PORGIES,    DOMINICAINE 

Scale,  trim  off  fins  and  cut  heads  from  six  medium,  very  fresh  porgies, 
split  in  two,  remove  spinal  bones,  place  in  a  sautoire  with  half  gill  white 
wine,  two  gills  water,  half  ounce  butter  and  half  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil 
five  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  keep  on  a  dish.  Plunge 
eighteen  freshly  opened  oysters  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  drain 
and  cut  in  small  square  pieces.  Reduce  fish  liquor  on  range  to  half  the 
quantity,  then  add  oysters  to  the  fish  broth,  with  half  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence.  Mix  on  a  plate  half  tablespoon  butter  with  tablespoon  flour, 
add  to  pan  with  an  egg  yolk,  and  gently  mix  until  well  thickened.  Re- 
move and  let  cool  off.  Have  six  pieces  white  paper  fifteen  inches  square, 
fold  in  two,  and  with  a  scissors  cut  each  piece  in  semi-heart  shape; 
lightly  oil  on  both  sides,  then  place  half  a  porgie  in  centre  of  each  half 
paper,  spread  a  little  of  the  sauce  over,  then  place  the  other  porgie 
on  top.  Spread  a  little  more  sauce  over,  fold  up  papers,  twist  edges 
of  paper  around;  when  all  finished  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 

Farina  (74) 
Eggs,  Sullivan 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel  (388) 

Fried  Calves'  Brains  with  Brown  Butter 

Garfield  Potatoes  (1843) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2257.    EGGS,  SULLIVAN 

Plunge  six  even-sized  sound  green  peppers  in  boiling  water  six  min- 
utes, take  up  and  with  a  coarse  towel  remove  skins,  place  on  a  tin  and 
set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove,  cut  off  stems,  then  cut  away  a  piece 
from  stem  side  a  quarter-inch  thick  to  serve  as  a  cover.  Remove  all 
seeds. 


676  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  one  small  truffle  cut 
in  exceedingly  small  square  pieces,  one  tablespoon  sherry,  half  gill 
sweet  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Beat  with  a  whisk  one  minute.  Heat  an  ounce  good 
fresh  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently 
and  briskly  stirring  them  meanwhile.  Remove  and  fill  inside  of  the 
peppers.  Place  cover  on  each.  Place  ^ix  round  slices  of  toast  on  a 
hot  dish,  place  the  green  peppers  on  top.  Pour  a  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  over  them  and  serve. 

2258.    FRIED  CALVES'  BRAINS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Soak  three  calves'  brains  in  cold  water  one  hour.  Take  up,  remove 
sinews,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  tablespoons  vinegar,  one 
sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and 
enough  cold  water  to  cover.  •  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  three  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  then  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  two  minutes. 
Remove  and  let  stand  aside  ten  minutes.  Lift  with  a  skimmer,  then 
separate  each  brain  in  two.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  strew  over  a  table- 
spoon capers  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Place  an 
ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  shuffle  the  pan  on  fire  until  butter 
obtains  a  nice  light  brown,  then  pour  in  one  tablespoon  good  vinegar, 
toss  a  little,  pour  butter  over  the  brains  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 
Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Olympia 

Steaks,  Tartare 
Vanilla  Souffle  (758) 

2259.    SOFT  SHELL  CRABS,  OLYMPIA 

Remove  spongy  parts  and  aprons  from  twelve  medium,  fresh  soft 
shell  crabs.  Wash,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth  and  place  in  a  deep  dish. 
Cover  with  cold  milk,  then  let  infuse  thirty  minutes.  Drain  well,  place 
six  fresh  slices  of  toast  at  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  and  arrange  crabs 
on  top  of  the  toast.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
paprika,  then  arrange  six  very  thin  slices  raw  lean  bacon  over  crabs, 
divide  in  very  small  bits  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  the  slices 
of  bacon.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  over  all.  Set  in 
very  brisk  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  and  send  to  table  in  same 
dish. 

2260.    STEAKS,  TARTARE 

Pass  twice  through  a  chopping  machine  two  pounds  lean  filet  or 
tender  sirloin  of  raw  beef,  place  on  a  plate.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  mix  well.  Divide  in  six  even  parts  and 
roll  each  part  into  oval  shape,  place  on  a  large  cold  dish.  Make  a  little 
fountain  in  centre  of  each  on  top  and  carefully  place  in  an  egg  yolk. 

Thoroughly  clean  twelve  even  leaves  lettuce,  then  divide  a. medium 
finely  chopped  onion  over  three  leaves.  Place  a  teaspoon  capers  over 


SATURDAY.  SECOND  WEEK  OF  AUGUST         677 

three  other  leaves,  garnish  three  other  leaves  with  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
vinegar  pickles  and  then  evenly  divide  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 
over  last  three  leaves.  Neatly  arrange  alternately  around  dish  and  send 
to  table. 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Lettuce  with  Peas 

Baked  Perch,  Soubise  Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Leg  of  Mutton,  Londonderry 

Beignets  of  Cauliflower  (1161) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)  Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 

Frankfort  Pudding,  Cherry  Sauce 

2261.     LETTUCE  WITH  PEAS 

Detach  leaves  from  two  large  heads  lettuce,  thoroughly  wash  them 
in  different  changes  fresh  water,  then  drain  on  a  cloth.  Heat  one  and  a 
half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  lettuce  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  cook  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile;  pour  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  two 
minutes,  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  add  one 
pint  freshly  shelled  peas  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  two  leeks,  one  sprig  thyme  and 
one  bay  leaf;  add  this  bouquet  to  soup,  cover  pan  and  gently  boil  forty- 
five  minutes.  Lift  up  bouquet,  pour  soup  into  an  earthen  soup  tureen, 
arrange  six  slices  toasted  French  bread  over  soup,  sprinkle  two  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  top,  set  in  oven  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move and  serve. 

2262.    BAKED  PERCH,  SOUBISE 

Trim  off  fins,  scale  and  wipe  six  fresh  perch.  Arrange  on  a  lightly 
buttered  tin.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper 
and  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Set  in  oven  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  pour  a  Soubise  sauce  (No.  94)  over,  sprinkle  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  on  top,  reset  in  oven  eight  minutes.  Remove  and 
serve. 

2263.    LEG  OF  MUTTON,  LONDONDERRY 

Entirely  bone  a  tender  leg  of  mutton.  Season  all  over  with  good 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  two  saltspoons  grated  nutmeg. 
Tie  it  well  all  around,  giving  its  former  shape.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  lard  in  a  braising  pan,  lay  mutton  in  pan  and  brown  on  fire  fifteen 
minutes,  turning  over  once  in  a  while.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271) 
around  the  leg  and  brown  five  minutes  more.  Add  four  tablespoons 
currant  jelly,  half  gill  port  wine,  two  tablespoons  brandy,  two  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Tightly  cover 
pan,  then  set  in  oven  one  hour,  turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  then 
reduce  sauce  to  half  quantity.  Strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
over  the  mutton  and  serve. 

N.  B.    Keep  the  left-over  mutton  for  Monday's  luncheon. 


678  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2264.    FRANKFORT  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  bowl  four  ounces  butter  and  sharply  work  it  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  well  lightened,  then  add,  one  by  one,  four  egg  yolks,  and 
sharply  stir  with  the  spoon  while  adding  them;  add  two  ounces  finely 
chopped,  peeled  almonds,two  ounces  sugar,  two  ounces  rye  bread  crumbs, 
one  ounce  chopped  candied  lemon  peel,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
one  saltspoon  ground  cinnamon,  half  saltspoon  salt,  and  sharply  stir 
five  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
to  the  preparation,  gently  mix,  then  drop  preparation  into  a  quart  pud- 
ding mould.  Set  the  mould  in  the  oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  un- 
mould  on  a  large  dish,  pour  a  cherry  sauce  over  and  serve. 

2265.     CHERRY  SAUCE 

Cut  fifteen  candied  cherries  in  quarters,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two 
ounces  sugar,  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly  and  one  and  a  half  gills  water; 
boil  eight  minutes,  then  pour  in  tablespoon  maraschino  and  tablespoon 
kirsch,  lightly  mix  and  use  as  required. 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73)     Cero-Fruto  (1610) 

Poached  Eggs,  Bearnaise 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  with  Bacon  (12) 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Curry  Cakes  (1112) 

2266.    POACHED  EGGS,  BEARNAISE 

Poach  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  thret  quarts  boiling  water  with  tablespoon 
salt  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar  for  three  minutes.  Carefully  lift  up 
with  skimmer,  trim  neatly,  and  place  on  six  freshly  prepared  slices  of 
toast  placed  on  a  hot  dish.  Evenly  pour  a  hot  Be*arnaise  sauce  (No.  34) 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Celery  Broth  (1985) 

Crab  Meat,  Sue"doise 
Boudins  of  Chicken,  Richelieu 

Rice.  Creole 
Pancakes,  Georgette  (517) 

2267.    CRAB  MEAT,  SUE"DOISE 

Place  one  and  a  half-pounds  crab-meat  flakes  in  a  bowL  Season 
with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863) ;  gently  mix.  Place  six  fine, 
well  cleaned  and  drained  large  lettuce  leaves  on  a  large  cold  dish,  then 
divide  the  crab  meat  on  the  lettuce.  Spread  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No. 
70)  over  meat,  sprinkle  over  a  finely  chopped,  hard-boiled  egg  and  half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Twist  six  small  anchovies  in  oil,  ring- 
like,  and  arrange  one  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  SECORD  W&EK  OF  AUGUST  679 

2268.    BOUDINS  OF  CHICKEN,  RICHELIEU 

Soak  three  ounces  bread  crumbs  in  cold  milk  five  minutes,  then 
squeeze  out  all  milk,  place  bread  in  a  mortar  with  three  egg  yolks  and 
pound  to  a  smooth  paste.  Skin  and  bone  a  tender  raw  chicken  of  one 
and  a  half  pounds,  then  cut  meat  in  very  small  square  pieces.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  small,  finely 
chopped  onion  and  fry  three  minutes  without  browning,  then  add  two 
light  tablespoons  flour;  stir  well,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  gill 
milk  and  two  tablespoons  sherry;  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add 
chicken,  one  small  truffle  cut  in  small  squares,  six  canned  mushrooms  cut 
same  way,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile.  Add  the  pulp,  sharply  stir  till  well  amalgamated.  Transfer 
to  a  vessel  and  let  cool  off.  Divide  preparation  into  twelve  even  parts,  roll 
out  each  piece  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  sausage  form,  dip  in  beaten 
eggs  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  arrange  in  the  boudins  one  beside  another,  and  fry  to  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Pour  a  Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  on  a  dish,  place  the 
boudins  over  and  serve. 

2269.    RICE,  CREOLE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  medium,  chopped  onion  and  one  chopped, 
seeded  green  pepper,  pour  in  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  six 
minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  six  ounces  raw  rice  and  cook  on 
range  five  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  three  peeled  and  finely 
chopped  red  tomatoes  and  one  pint  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  tea- 
*  spoon  salt,  mix  well.  Cover  pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  set  in 
oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  rice  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Montmorency 

Cold  Trout,  Lombard!,  St.  Gothard  Sauce 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Filet  of  Beef,  Larded,  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 

Sweetbreads,  Root  (1357) 
Fresh  Peas,  Viellemode  (1959) 

Punch,  Violette  (474) 

Roast  Guinea  Fowls  (1335) 

Biscuits,  Tortoni  (1521) 

2270.    CONSOMME,  MONTMORENCY 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering  until  required.  Plunge  six  large  lettuce  leaves  in  boil- 
ing water  five  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  and  carefully  flatten  on  a  cloth. 
Finely  chop  two  ounces  lean  raw  veal,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a 
pulp;  add  two  egg  yolks,  two  saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg;  pound  well  again,  then  press  through  a  sieve  into 
a  bowl,  add  two  tablespoons  creara,  and  sharply  mix.  Then  spread  the 


680  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

r 

force  over  the  leaves  evenly,  neatly  roll  up  and  lay  in  a  small  sautoire, 
with  tablespoon  butter  two  tablespoons  consomme,  cover  with  lightly 
buttered  paper,  and  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  with  a 
skimmer  and  cut  in  half-inch  pieces.  Place  in  a  soup  tureen  with  two 
ounces  cooked  macaroni  cut  same  shape,  then  pour  the  consomme  over 
and  serve. 

2271.    COLD  TROUT,  LOMBARDI 

Trim  off  fins,  draw  by  the  gills  and  neatly  wipe  three  very  fresh  brook 
trout.  Place  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  two  tablespoons 
vinegar,  one  small  branch  tarragon,  one  branch  parsley,  half  gill  white 
wine,  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  place  on  fire  and  let 
slowly  come  to  a  boil.  Remove  to  a  table  and  keep  fish  in  the  seasoning 
Until  cold.  Then  dress  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  over,  deco- 
rate with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  St.  Gotthard  sauce 
separately. 

2272.    ST.  GOTTHARD  SAUCE 

Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
then  set  bowl  on  ice,  add  half  a  teaspoon  French  mustard,  six  chopped 
tarragon  leaves,  one  finely  chopped  mint  leaf,  half  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  three  saltspoons  salt,  half  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  two 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Sharply  mix  with  whisk  one  minute,  then  pour  in, 
drop  by  drop,  three-quarters  gill  good  cold  olive  oil,  sharply  whisking 
while  adding  it.  Add  tablespoon  of  capers,  gently  mix.  Pour  into  a 
sauce  bowl  and  serve. 

2273.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  LARDED,  WITH  FRESH  MUSHROOMS        „ 

Neatly  trim  off  fat  and  skin  from  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  filet  of 
beef.  Cut  an  ounce  larding  pork  in  small  strips  one  inch  long  and  with 
a  larding  needle  lard  top  of  the  filet.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a 
roasting  pan,  lay  filet  on  top,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  spread  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  the  filet,  then  set  in 
hot  oven  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  dress 
filet  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Peel,  clean  thoroughly,  wash  and  dry  half  a  pound  of  fresh  sound 
mushrooms.  Place  in  a  sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Arrange  around  the  filet.  Pour 
a  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  the  mirepoix  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Strain  it  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  filet  and  serve. 

Monday,  Third  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  (1828)  Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Mrs.  Bigelow 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Chicken  Livers,  Saute",  with  Bacon  (1856) 
Baked  Potatoes  (683) 
English  Muffins  (528) 


MONDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  681 

2274.    EGGS,  COCOTTE,  MRS.  BIGELOW 

Finely  chop  a  small  truffle,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  and  tablespoon  sherry,  toil  five  minutes,  then  pour 
sauce  into  six  cocotte-egg  dishes  evenly  divided.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs 
into  each  dish.  Finely  chop  or  grate  one  ounce  cooked  ham,  sprinkle 
over  eggs  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
pour  tablespoon  sweet  cream  over  eggs  of  each  dish,  lay  cocottes  on 
a  tin  then  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Lobster  en  Brochette  (282) 

Mutton,  Shabeloff 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 

Golden  Toast  with  Peaches 

2275.    MUTTON,  SHABELOFF 

Cut  the  mutton  left  over  from  Saturday  in  half-inch  pieces  and  place 
in  a  sautoire.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika, 
pour  in  half  gill  sherry,  lightly  mix,  cover  pan  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Pour  in  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736).  Mix  well  and  cook  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  tablespoon  freshly  grated  horseradish;  mix  well  two  minutes. 
Pour  in  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2276.     GOLDEN  TOAST  WITH  PEACHES 

Peel  six  medium,  sound  peaches,  cut  from  the  stones  in  quarter-inch 
slices,  place  in  a  bowl  with  an  ounce  fine  sugar,  two  tablespoons  mara- 
schino, tablespoon  rum  and  three  tablespoons  raspberry  syrup,  gently 
mix  and  let  infuse  in  a  cold  place  till  required. 

Crack  a  fresh  egg  in  a  bowl,  add  tablespoon  sugar,  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  one  and  a  half  gills  milk.  Sharply  beat  with  whisk 
one  minute.  Cut  from  a  stale  French  loaf  six  slices  quarter-inch  thick, 
soak  pieces  in  the  bowl  preparation,  then  heat  tablespoon  melted  butter 
in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  the  toast,  one  slice  beside  another,  and  nicely 
fry  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the 
peaches  and  liquor  on  top  of  the  toast  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Ox-cheek,  Anglaise 
Pompano,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (221) 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Lamb  Steaks,  Bretonne  (1.352) 

Eggplants,  Sacramento  (1778) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Roly-Poly  Pudding 

2277.    OX-CHEEK,  ANGLAISE 

Steep  an  ox-cheek  in  cold  water  one  hour,  wash  well,  then  place  in  a 
soup  pot  with  a  pound  shin  of  veal,  one  beef  marrowbone  and  two  ounces 


682  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

raw  ham.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  pour  in  five  quarts  water, 
then  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil.  Skim  scum  from  surface,  add  one 
carrot,  cut  in  quarters,  one  white  turnip,  cut  same  way,  one  stalk  celery, 
one  white  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in,  six  peppercorns,  a  small  branch 
parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  one  sprig  sage,  a  blade  marjoram,  a 
blade  mace  and  teaspoon  allspice.  Cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  one 
hour.  Take  up  the  cheek,  place  between  two  boards  with  a  six-pound 
weight  on  top.  Add  a  gill  white  wine  to  the  broth  and  slowly  boil  two 
hours  longer.  Cut  one  medium  carrot,  one  white  turnip  and  one  stalk 
celery  in  small  square  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter 
and  brown  on  fire  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Strain  the  broth 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  vegetables,  add  two  tablespoons  tomato 
catsup,  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  quarter  gill  sherry. 
Cut  cheek  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  add  to  soup,  then  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  skim  fat  from  surface,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2278.  ROLY-POLY  PUDDING 

Remove  sinews  from  five  ounces  fresh  beef  suet  and  chop  very  finely, 
place  in  a  mortar  with  an  ounce  butter  and  thoroughly  pound.  Sift  an 
ounce  flour  on  corner  of  a  table,  make  a  small  fountain  in  centre,  pour 
in  it  two  gills  water,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  then  the  pounded 
suet.  Knead  the  whole  well  together,  then  roll  out  batter  on  the 
floured  corner  of  table  to  quarter-inch  thickness.  Spread  over  it 
evenly  half  pound  any  kind  marmalade.  Roll  up,  then  wrap  in  a  cloth. 
Tie  it  all  around,  plunge  in  boiling  water  and  boil  two  hours.  Remove, 
unwrap,  place  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102). 

Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Huckleberries  (1913) 
Barley  in  Cream  (1068) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Swiss 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Cocoanut  Cakes  (423) 

2279.  SHIRRED  EGGS,  Swiss 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add  one  light  tablespoon 
flour,  stir  well  while  heating  one  minute,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
milk.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil.  Then  add  two  tablespoons  grated  Swiss  cheese,  mix  well  and  cook 
two  minutes  more.  Evenly  divide  sauce  into  six  shirred-egg  dishes. 
Crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  set  in  oven  three  minutes.  Re- 
move, place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  toss  on  fire  until  a 
good  brown  colour,  pour  in  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  shuffle  pan,  then 
pour  butter  over  the  eggs  evenly  and  serve. 


TUESDAY.  THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  683 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Marinaded  Fresh  Mackerel,  Fennel  Sauce 
Turkey  Hash*  au  Gratin  (637) 
Sweet  Potatoes  Souffle's  (1157) 
Savarins,  Chantilly  (842) 

2280.    MARINADED  FRESH  MACKEREL 

Cut  head  off  and  remove  fins  of  a  three-pound  fresh  mackerel. 
Split  in  two  through  back,  remove  spinal  bone  and  thoroughly  wipe. 
Place  in  a  sautoire,  with  enough  water  to  cover,  two  tablespoons  vinegar, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  place  fish  in  a 
deep  dish  and  cover  with  vinegar,  adding  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  branch 
tarragon,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  teaspoon  whole 
black  pepper  and  one  sliced  onion,  then  let  the  mackerel  infuse  ten  hours. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  a  fennel  sauce  separately. 

2281.    FENNEL  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  adding  half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  fennel,  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  one  minute,  then  serve 
as  required. 

DINNER 

Olives  Clams  (i4S7>  Tomatoes  (765) 

Bisque,  Bonne  Bouche 

Sheepshead,  Hongroise  (1424)          Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 
Chicken  Saute",  Parmentier 

Succotash  (2090) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)         Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (42)  Macaroons  (43) 

2282.    BISQUE,  BONNE  BOUCHE 

Cut  half  a  medium  raw  fowl  in  very  small  pieces  (meat  and  bones), 
place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  half  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  two 
sliced  leeks,  a  sliced  branch  celery  and  two  ounces  butter.  Set  pan  on 
brisk  fire  and  brown  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  flour,  stir  well 
and  lightly  brown  six  minutes  more,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour 
in  a  quart  white  broth  (No.  701),  one  pint  of  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
one  pint  pure  tomato  juice,  and  add  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  simmer 
one  hour.  Skim  off  fat  once  in  a  while.  Place  six  fresh  chicken  livers 
in  a  small  saucepan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter,  the  scraped  red  part 
of  a  carrot,  three  chopped  shallots,  one  crushed  bay  leaf,  saltspoon 
thyme,  and  gently  brown  on  brisk  fire  five  minutes.  Pour  in  half  gill  sherry. 
Cover  pan  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Transfer  the  whole  to  a  mortar  and 
pound  to  a  pulp,  then  add  the  pulp,  little  by  little,  to  the  soup,  mix 

*Use  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday 


684  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

while  boiling  five  minutes.  Add  an  ounce  butter  in  little  bits;  mix  well. 
Pass  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  croutons,  separately. 

2283.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  PARMENTIER 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  chicken, 
draw,  neatly  wipe  and  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  in  the  chicken,  season  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes  on  each 
side.  Add  one  ounce  ham  cut  in  small  squares,  six  small  chopped 
shallots,  and  brown  five  minutes.  Remove  butter  from  bottom  (and 
save  it).  Pour  a  gill  white  wine  on  the  chicken  and  let  reduce  on 
fire  until  nearly  dry,  then  add  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  six  sliced, 
canned  mushrooms,  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  half  a  bean  sound, 
chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives.  Mix  well.  Cover  sautoire  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Dress  chicken  on  a  large  dish,  pour  sauce  over,  arrange  a  potato  noisette 
(No.  321)  around  the  chicken  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 
Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

,    Eggs,  Tripe 

Fried  Fresh  Haddock,  Tartare  Sauce 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2284.    EGGS,  TRIPE 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one 
finely  sliced  onion  and  nicely  fry  five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  mean- 
while; add  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  one  gill  milk  and 
one  gill  cream.  Mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  eight  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  cook  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  hot  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

2285.    FRIED  FRESH  HADDOCK,  TAR'TARE  SAUCE 

Remove  skin  and  bone  from  a  two-pound  piece  of  fresh  haddock, 
then  cut  six  equal  thin  filets.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  then  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  ten  minutes. 
Lift  up,  sprinkle  over  a  very  little  salt,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  a  tartare 
sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 


WEDNESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST         685 
LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme"  (1901) 

Broiled  Soft  Shell  Crabs  (1727) 

Cold  Roast  Beef*  with  Jelly  (2207) 

Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 

Beignets,  Caramel  (462) 

DINNER 

Salted  Almonds  (954)  Olives 

Mulligatawney.  Mah  Hla  Byaw 

Striped  Bass,  Conti  Potatoes,  Brioches  (91) 

Saddle  of  Lamb.  Braise"  aux  Racines 

Spinach,  Martha  (1534) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Augusta  Cakes 

2286.    MULLIGATAWNEY,  MAH  HLA  BYAW  (of  Burmah) 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  one  carrot,  one  green  pepper,  one  onion, 
one  branch  celery,  one  ounce  lean  raw  ham  and  half  a  boned  raw  fowl. 
Place  these  in  a  large  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes;  add  one  good  tablespoon  curry 
powder.  Stir  well  and  brown  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  one  and  a 
half  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  and  a  half  quarts  hot  water.  Season 
with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  add  bones  of 
the  half  fowl;  slowly  simmer  one  and  a  half  hours,  skimming  off  fat 
once  in  a  while;  add  milk  and  grated  white  part  of  two  fresh  cocoanuts, 
mix  a  little  and  cook  five  minutes,  then  add  half  ounce  good  butter; 
mix  well,  pour  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  boiled  rice  (No. 
490)  separately. 

2287.    STRIPED  BASS,  CONTI 

Scale,  cut  off  fins,  wash  and  neatly  wipe  a  three-pound  fresh  striped 
bass.  Make  a  few  small  incisions  on  both  sides  of  skin,  place  fish  in  an 
oval  baking  dish  with  three  tablespoons  best  sweet  oil,  six  finely  chopped 
shallots,  a  small  bunch  parsley,  half  gill  white  wine,  one  and  a  half  gills 
broth  and  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  buttered  paper,  set  in 
oven  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  with  its  own  gravy  once 
in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  sauce  into  a  saucepan, 
add  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  let  reduce  on  fire  to  half  quantity. 
Strain  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2288.    SADDLE  OF  LAMB,  BRAISE"  AU  RACINES  (ROOTS) 

Season  a  small  saddle  of  lamb  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Cover  saddle  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork.  Tie  with  string. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  braising  pan,  lay  in  the  saddle  and  cook 
on  range  to  a  nice  golden  colour  all  around.  With  a  small  Parisian 
potato  scoop  take  out  all  you  can  from  three  peeled  carrots  and  three 

*Use  beef  left  over  from  yesterday 


686  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

white  turnips  and  add  to  the  saddle  with  twelve  small  peeled  white  onions; 
brown  ten  minutes,  add  half  pint  broth,  one  gill  of  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
one  gill  of  tomato  sauce,  and  half  gill  white  wine.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  two  branches  celery,  one  sprig 
thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  and  add  to  the  lamb.  Cover  pan,  set  in 
oven  forty  minutes.  Scoop  out  as  much  as  you  can  from  three  medium 
peeled  raw  potatoes,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  drain 
and  add  to  the  saddle.  Reset  in  oven  twenty  minutes  more.  Remove, 
dress  saddle  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  strings  and  lard.  Skim  fat  from 
surface  of  gravy,  remove  herbs.  Pour  contents  of  the  pan  over  lamb 
and  send  to  table. 

2289.    AUGUSTA  CAKES 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  four  egg  yolks  with  two  ounces  sugar,  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  one  ounce  peeled  and  finely  chopped 
almonds.  Sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  five  minutes.  Beat  up  the 
whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  yolks,  gently  mix 
with  skimmer,  add  one  ounce  sifted  flour,  one  ounce  melted  butter ,  and 
stir  until  well  amalgamated.  Divide  the  preparation  in  six  individual 
tartlet  moulds,  then  bake  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  let 
cool  off.  Place  in  a  bowl  two  ounces  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence 
and  two  ounces  butter,  set  bowl  on  ice  and  sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon 
six  minutes.  Evenly  spread  this  butter  over  the  cakes.  Sprinkle  a 
little  sugar  over  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Hominy  (45) 

Omelette  with  Curry 

Whitebait,  Devilled 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172) 

Potatoes,  Allumettes  (196) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2290.    OMELETTE  WITH  CURRY 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  two  saltspoons  pepper;  sharply 
beat  up  with  fork  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  pan,  drop 
in  eggs,  briskly  stir  with  fork  two  minutes,  let  rest  a  half  minute,  fold  up 
two  opposite  sides,  let  rest  one  minute.  Turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2291.    WHITEBAIT,  DEVILLED 

Dip  one  pound  fresh,  well  cleaned  and  wiped  whitebait  in  cold 
milk,  then  drain  on  sieve,  dredge  over  six  tablespoons  cornmeal  flour, 
shake  well,  then  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  English  mustard  in  powder, 
shake  well  again,  lay  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  two  minutes. 
Remove,  sprinkle  over  while  in  the  basket  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper;  shake  well  again.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  687 

folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  in  Cups  (1667) 

Canapes  of  Shrimps  (466) 

Chicken  Terrine,  Bruxelloise 

Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

2292.    CHICKEN  TERRINE,  BRUXELLOISE 

Singe,  cut  head,  wings  and  legs  from  a  three-pound  tender  chicken. 
Carefully  remove  skin,  beginning  at  back  and  carefully  avoiding  cutting 
it.  Lift  up  breast  and  cut  each  filet  in  three  lengthwise  equal  pieces. 
Finely  chop  all  the  dark  meat  with  one  and  a  half  pounds  raw,  lean 
white  veal;  place  and  pound  these  two  articles  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  pulp. 
Add  a  bread  panade  (No.  1795),  pound  again,  then  rub  the  force  through 
fine  sieve  into  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  ice,  then  add  two  egg  yolks,  a  light 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  one  saltspoon  ground  mixed  spice,  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
one  gill  cream,  and  sharply  mix  with  spatula  five  minutes.  Spread  out 
the  chicken  skin  on  a  table,  then  carefully  spread  one-third  of  the  force 
over  the  skin  and  arrange  three  pieces  of  breast  over  the  force;  spread 
another  third  of  the  force  over  the  chicken,  arrange  the  balance  of  the 
filets  over  the  force.  Then  neatly  spread  balance  of  the  force  over 
all.  Fold  up  sides  so  as  to  entirely  envelop  it.  Place  in  an  oval  earthen 
tureen,  arrange  a  piece  larding  pork  on  top.  Pour  in  one-half  gill 
sherry  and  one-quarter  gill  brandy.  Cover  tureen,  place  in  a  small  roast- 
ing tin,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  one-third  of  the  height  of  the  tureen, 
set  in  oven  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  place  an  oval  board  on 
top  of  the  tureen,  lay  a  pound  weight  on  top  of  board,  then  keep  in  a 
cool  place  until  thoroughly  cold.  Turn  out  on  a  cold  dish,  remove  the 
lard.  Cut  four  tablespoons  of  jelly  (No.  1879)  in  small  squares,  sprinkle 
it  around  the  chicken,  place  a  few  lettuce  leaves  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Glams  (1457)  Radishes  ( 5  8)  Anchovies  (141) 

Grecian  Mutton  Broth 
Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (326) 

Potato  Croquettes  (390) 
Tenderloin  Cutlets,  Leishman 

Stuffed  Tomatoes,  Swiss 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Me'ringue  Panache's 

2293.     GRECIAN  MUTTON  BROTH 

Cut  a  pound  lean  raw  mutton  in  small  squares,  place  in  a  saucepan, 
add  two  seeded,  chopped  green  peppers,  two  chopped  onions  and  three 
chopped  leeks,  pour  in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
Set  pan  on  a  fire  ancl  lightly  brown  ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  two 


688  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  quart  water.  Season  with  teaspoon 
salt.  Tie  in  a  bunch  a  branch  fresh  mint,  two  branches  chervil  and  one 
branch  parsley,  add  to  soup,  then  boil  forty  minutes,  add  three  ounces 
raw  rice  and  boil  thirty  minutes  longer.  Add  one  ounce  peeled  almonds 
cut  in  half,  one  ounce  well-picked  Corinth  raisins  and  two  gills  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16),  then  boil  ten  minutes  more.  Lift  up  bouquet,  skim 
fat  from  surface,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2294.    TENDERLOIN  CUTLETS,  LEISHMAN 

Remove  fat  and  skin  from  a  two-pound  piece  tenderloin  of  beef,  then 
finely  chop  with  two  ounces  raw  beef  marrow,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  one 
finely  chopped  truffle,  twelve  chopped,  canned  mushrooms,  one  egg 
yolk  and  a  gill  cream.  Season  with  light  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  briskly  with  wooden  spoon 
five  minutes.  Then  divide  into  twelve  equal  parts  and  roll  out  to  nice 
cutlet  forms.  Finely  chop  three  shallots,  two  branches  parsley  and  two 
branches  chervil,  then  lightly  roll  cutlets  in  these  herbs,  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  roll  in  rye-bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  place  cutlets  in  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  fry  four  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another, 
crown-like,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  end  of  each,  pour  a  Colbert  sauce  (as 
per  No.  121)  around  the  cutlets  and  serve. 

2295.    STUFFED  TOMATOES,  Swiss 

Neatly  wipe  six  even,  fresh,  ripe  red  tomatoes,  then  cut  a  cover 
from  the  top  of  each  and  with  a  spoon  carefully  scoop  out  the  meat 
without  disturbing  the  shells.  Season  the  interior  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  keep  on 
a  plate  with  their  covers  till  required.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in 
a  frying  pan,  add  two  ounces  of  calf's  liver  cut  in  small  pieces,  cne 
ounce  finely  chopped  or  grated  raw  ham,  two  chopped  shallots,  half  a 
bean  garlic,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  ground  mixed  spices;  fry  on 
brisk  fire  five  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Place  in  mortar,  add 
tablespoon  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  two  tablespoons  sherry,  thoroughly 
pound  until  a  pulp,  then  press  through  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Fill  the 
tomatoes  with  this  preparation,  place  covers  on,  lay  on  a  tin,  place  a  bit 
butter  on  top  of  each.  Set  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Place  the  meat  of  the  tomatoes  in  the  demi-glace  pan  (No. 
122). 

2296.    MERINGUE  PANACHE'S 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Place  two  gills 
thick  cream  in  a  copper  basin,  set  basin  on  ice  and  whisk  the  cream  to 
a  stiff  froth,  then  add  ounce  powdered  sugar  and  six  drops  vanilla  essence; 
whisk  again  one  minute.  Divide  the  vanilla  ice  cream  in  twelve  meringue 
shells,  join  the  two  together  and  place  on  six  saucers.  Slide  a  fancy 


FRIDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  AUGUST  689 

tube  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  then  drop  in  the  whipped  cream 
and  with  it  evenly  decorate  the  meringues. 

2297.     MERINGUE  SHELLS 

Place  whites  of  six  eggs  in  a  copper  basin  with  half  saltspoon  salt, 
place  basin  on  ice,  and  with  a  clean  wire  whip  begin  to  beat  it,  slowly  at 
first  but  gradually  increasing  in  briskness  until  a  stiff  froth.  Add  three- 
quarters  pound  powdered  sugar  and  gently  mix  with  the  froth.  Then 
flavor  with  six  drops  vanilla  essence  and  gently  mix  again.  Slide  a  plain 
tube  half  an  inch  in  diameter  at  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop  the  meringue 
preparation  into  the  bag.  Lay  a  piece  of  white  paper  over  a  pastry 
sheet  and  press  the  meringue  on  the  paper  in  egg-shaped  forms,  two 
and  a  half  inches  long  by  one  inch  high.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
liberally  over,  set  in  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  ten 
minutes.  Lift  up  paper  and  place  on  a  lightly  wet  table  for  two  minutes, 
detach  meringues  from  the  paper,  then  with  an  egg  gently  press  down 
the  flat  side  of  the  shells  to  give  a  perfect  form  and  keep  in  a  dry  place 
till  required. 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  August 


BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  (1828)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Soft  Shell  Crabs 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Broiled  Lamb  Fries,  Tartare  Sauce 

Delmonico  Potatoes  (718) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2298.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  with 
fork  one  minute.  Remove  spongy  parts  under  the  side  points  of  three 
medium  raw  soft  shell  crabs.  Thoroughly  wash  and  drain,  remove 
the  small  claws,  then  cut  in  eight  even  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  the  crabs,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt 
over  and  fry  five  minutes,  lightly  tossing  meanwhile.  Drop  in  the 
beaten  eggs  and  cook  six  minutes,  briskly  stirring  meanwhile.  Transfer 
to  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

2299.    BROILED  LAMB  FRIES,  TARTARE  SAUCE 

Cut  twelve  very  fresh  lamb  fries  in  halves,  skin,  scald  in  boiling 
water  three  minutes,  remove  and  drain.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  melted  butter  or  oil,  then 
slightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil 


690  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

three  minutes  on  each  side.     Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley,  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Radish  Broth  (2164) 

Soft     Clams,     Boniface 

Calf's  Head,  Vinaigrette  Sauce  (SQIA) 

Eggs  in  Jelly 

Jesuites 

2300.    SOFT  CLAMS,  BONIFACE  f  *"" 

Carefully  open  thirty-six  medium,  fresh  soft  clams,  remove  all  sandy 
parts,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies.  Neatly  clean  thirty-six 
half  shells,  place  one  clam  in  each  half  shell  and  lay  in  a  tin.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  four  chopped 
branches  celery  and  gently  cook  ten  minutes.  Then  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  stir  well  while  heating  one  minute,  then  pour  in  two  gills 
milk  and  briskly  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil;  add  half  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  egg  yolk  and  two  tablespoons  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Sharply  mix  while  cooking  two  minutes,  then  with 
a  teaspoon  evenly  pour  the  sauce  over  the  clams.  Sprinkle  a  little 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  divide  an  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  over 
the  sauce,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  squeeze  juice  of  half 
a  sound  lemon  over.  Dress  on  a  dish  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and 
serve. 

2301.    EGGS  IN  JELLY 

Have  three  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  a  light  tablespoon  salt.  Carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs,  and 
poach  three  minutes,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  drop  in  cold  water  five 
minutes.  Remove  and  neatly  trim,  arrange  on  a  cloth  and  let  drain 
five  minutes.  Lightly 'melt  in  a  saucepan  two  gills  jelly  (No.  1879), 
then  place  the  eggs  in  six  paper  cases  and  cover  with  the  jelly,  place 
in  the  ice  box  and  let  thoroughly  set.  Remove  and  serve. 

2302.    JESUITES 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  half  pound  feuilletage  (No.  756) 
as  thin  as  possible,  then  cut  in  twelve  even  triangular  pieces,  two  inches 
base  and  three  inches  in  height.  Prepare  a  creme  patissiere  (No:  1290) 
and  divide  evenly  in  the  centre  of  six  of  the  triangular  pieces,  lightly 
wet  the  edges,  cover  with  the  other  six  pieces,  press  the  edges  together 
so  as  to  entirely  enclose  the  cream.  Make  a  light  incision  on  top  of 
each,  then  place  on  a  lightly  wetted  pastry  sheet.  Pour  in  a  bowl  two 
ounces  granulated  sugar,  six  drops  vanilla  essence  and  the  white  of  a 
small  egg.  Sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  three  minutes.  Spread 
the  sugar  over  the  six  cakes.  Sprinkle  over  an  ounce  peeled,  chopped 
almonds,  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  sprinkle  a  little  vanilla 
sugar  over  them  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  (391 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Clams  (1457)  Olives 

Balank  Tsorbassi  (Fish  Soup) 
Cold  Salmon,  Mayonnaise  Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Lamb  Chop  Sautees.  Minute 
Stuffed  Eggplant  with  Anchovies 

Lobster  Souffles  (879) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Madeleine  Commercy 
Glace  a  1' Orange 

2303.    BALANK  TSORBASSI  (Fisn  SOUP) 

Procure  a  head  of  either  salmon  or  bass  (fresh)  and  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  thyme  and 
a  clove.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water.  Season  with  two  teaspoons 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  one  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  gently  boil 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain  the  soup  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another 
saucepan,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice  and  gently  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Finely  chop  one  bean  garlic,  one  leek,  one  branch  parsley  and  four 
sound  shallots,  add  to  the  soup,  lightly  mix  and  boil  five  minutes  longer. 
Remove  the  skin  and  bone  (if  any)  from  a  pound  of  fresh  halibut,  then 
cut  in  half -inch-square  pieces,  add  to  soup  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 
Dilute  an  egg  yoke  in  a  gill  cream  and  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add 
to  soup,  carefully  mix  with  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  two  minutes, 
but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2304.     COLD  SALMON,  MAYONNAISE 

Procure  three  slices  of  salmon,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each,  place 
in  a  sautoire  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  one-half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills 
water,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  half  a  sliced  onion,  a  branch  parsley,  a 
sprig  thyme,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  teaspoon  salt,  then  let  slowly  come  to  a 
boil  and  boil  five  minutes.  Set  pan  on  a  table  in  a  cool  place  and  let 
get  cold.  Remove  the  salmon,  place  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  a  mayonnaise  (No.  70) 
separately. 

2305.     LAMB  CHOP  SAUTEES,  MINUTE 

Neatly  pare  six  tender,  well-flattened  lamb  chops,  season  all  arour  d 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Heat  one  and  a 
half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  chops  in  the  pan 
one  beside  another,  and  briskly  cook  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Re- 
move and  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  alternately,  with  six  heart-shaped  croutons 
(No.  90).  Remove  the  butter  from  the  pan  and  save  it;  thoroughly  heat 
the  sautoire,  pour  in  half  gill  water,  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  briskly 
stir  at  bottom  and  cook  for  four  minutes.  Pour  it  over  the  chops  and 
serve. 


692  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2306.    STUFFED  EGGPLANT   WITH  ANCHOVIES 

Cut  in  two  lengthwise  three  small,  very  sound,  fresh  eggplants. 
Criss-cross  the  meat  of  the  plant  without  spoiling  the  skin,  then  plunge 
in  boiling  fat,  cut  side  downward,  and  fry  ten  minutes.  Remove  and 
place  on  a  cloth,  cut  side  downward,  and  drain  ten  minutes.  Scoop 
out  meat  from  them,  remove  the  seed  and  chop  the  meat  very  fine. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  finely 
chopped  onion,  lightly  brown  five  minutes,  then  add  the  chopped  egg- 
plant, twelve  small  anchovies  cut  in  small  pieces,  half  bean  chopped 
garlic,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  chopped 
chervil,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  stir 
and  then  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile;  add  six  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs  and  two  egg  yolks;  mix  well  and  cook  five  minutes  more. 
Then  with  this  preparation  fill  the  six  half  shells.  Smooth  the  surface, 
sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over,  place  a  few  little  bits  butter  on  top 
of  each,  place  on  a  tin,  then  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2307.  MADELEINE  COMMERCY 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  three  eggs,  four  ounces  sugar,  six  drops 
vanilla  essence  and  one  teaspoon  orange-flower  water;  beat  with  a  whisk 
ten  minutes,  add  four  ounces  sifted  flour,  gently  mix  with  skimmer, 
then  add  four  ounces  melted  butter  and  gently  mix  again  until  well 
amalgamated.  Line  bottom  of  a  small  pastry  pan  with  a  sheet  buttered 
paper,  drop  in  preparation,  neatly  smooth  surface,  then  set  in  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  five  minutes.  Turn  the  madeleine 
on  a  pastry  grating,  lift  up  paper.  Spread  three  tablespoons  of  orange 
marmalade  glaze  over  the  surface  with  a  glace  a  1'orange,  sprinkle 
one-half  ounce  peeled,  chopped  pistachio  over  all,  let  rest  five  minutes. 
Then  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  napkin  and 
serve. 

2308.  GLACE  A  L'ORANGE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  the  chopped  rind  of  a  good-sized,  sound, 
juicy  orange,  also  the  juice  of  same,  with  one  ounce  sugar  and  half 
gill  water.  Boil  on  fire  five  minutes.  Place  in  a  bowl  and  let  infuse 
ten  minutes.  Place  two  ounces  glazed  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  strain 
infusion  into  this  pan,  sharply  stir  on  fire  until  lukewarm,  then  use  as 
directed. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Cream  (2034) 

Force    (970) 

Eggs  Molet,  Espagnole 

Whitebait,  Virginia  (1421) 

Lamb  Kidneys  with  Mushrooms  (1361) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Fried  Corn    eal  Cakes  (1585) 


SATURDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  693 

2309.    EGGS  MOLET,  ESPAGNOLE 

Prepare  a  Creole  sauce  (No.  507),  adding  two  Spanish  sweet  peppers 
cut  in  julienne  strips,  gently  mix  and  keep  hot.  Plunge  twelve  fresh 
eggs  in  boiling  water  five  minutes,  take  up,  drop  in  cold  water  one  minute, 
remove  and  shell,  then  place  on  a  hot  deep  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 

Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (81) 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Turquoise 

Apples  with  Butter,  Vanille  (421) 

2310.    SHOULDER  OF  LAMB,  TURQUOISE 

Remove  blade  bone  from  a  tender  shoulder  of  lamb,  then  shorten 
end  bone.  Season  shoulder  all  over  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  braising  pan,  lay  in 
the  shoulder  and  fry  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Cut  in  very  small  square 
pieces  one  medium  carrot,  one  medium  onion,  one  green  seeded  pepper 
and  one  pound  raw  liver  of  lamb  and  add  to  the  shoulder,  then  lightly 
brown  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  three-quarters  pint  broth,  two  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122),  and  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Cover  pan 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add  four  ounces  rice.  Dilute  one  saltspoon 
saffron  in  tablespoon  lukewarm  water,  strain  and  add  to  the  saucepan; 
mix  well,  re-cover  pan,  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  rice,  etc.,  on  a  large  hot  dish,  place  the  shoulder  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Canapes  of  Ham  (301)  Olives 

Potage,  Armenonville 

Weakfish,  Vert-Pre  (183)         Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 

Boiled  Fowl,  Celery  Sauce 

Green  Corn  on  Cob  (1864) 

Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
College  Pudding  (619) 

2311.    POTAGE,  ARMENONVILLE 

Boil  a  pint  of  split  green  peas  in  boiling  water  five  minutes,  drain 
on  a  sieve,  then  replace  in  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion, 
two  sliced  leeks,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two  ounces  salt  pork  cut  in 
small  square  pieces  and  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham  cut  same  way. 
Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  water.  Season  with  light  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  slowly  simmer  two  hours.  Strain 
soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into 
a  saucepan  and  keep  hot. 

Cut  a  carrot,  an  onion  and  two  branches  celery  in  exceedingly  small 
square  pieces  and  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  and  gently  fry  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  then  add  to  soup.  Boil  two  ounces 


694  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tapioca  pearls  in  pint  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon  salt  forty  minutes, 
drain  on  sieve  and  thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water,  then  add  to  the  soup, 
mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2312.    BOILED  FOWL,  CELERY  SAUCE 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  fowl  of  three  and  a  half 
pounds,  draw,  wipe  and  truss ;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  carrot,  one 
onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
sprig  thyme  and  a  bay  leaf;  pour  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  fowl.  Season 
with  tablespoon  salt,  cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  two  hours.  Take  up  fowl, 
dress  on  a  large  hot  dish,  untruss.  Pour  a  celery  sauce  (No.  745)  over 
the  chicken  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Strain  the  broth  of  the  fowl  and  use  as  for  white  broth  (No. 
701). 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  Augu^c 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)         Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Eggs,  Britain 

Fried  Butter  Fish  (636) 

Broiled  Squabs  with  Bacon    (1693) 

Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2313.    EGGS,  BRITAIN 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs  into 
each  dish.  Evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper.  Cut  twelve  anchovies  in  small  pieces,  place  in  a  small 
saucepan  with  one  gill  demi-glace  and  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  boil 
five  minutes.  Arrange  a  thin  slice  truffle  on  top  of  each  egg  yolk,  evenly 
pour  sauce  over  the  eggs,  then  set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Cold  Lobster,  Mayonnaise  £1471) 

Brochettes  of  Lamb  with  Mushrooms 

Lima  Beans  with  Fines  Herbes 

Cocoanut  Pie  (1546) 

2314.    BROCHETTES  OF  LAMB  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  lean  lamb  in  one-inch  squares  and 
quarter-inch  thick.  Cut  same  number  pieces  of  well-cleaned  fresh 
mushrooms.  Plunge  mushrooms  in  boiling  water  five  minutes,  drain 
well.  Then  arrange  lamb  and  mushrooms  alternately  on  six  skewers. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  turn  in  oil, 
then  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  six  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter 
(No.  7)  over  them  and  send  to  table. 


SUNDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  695 

2315.    LIMA  BEANS  WITH  FINES  HERBES 

Boil  a  pint  shelled  lima  beans  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  teaspoon 
salt  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve,  then  place  in  a  sautoire  with 
ounce  good  butter.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper.  Finely  chop  together  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil, 
ten  branches  chives  and  six  tarragon  leaves.  Add  this  hash  to  the  beans, 
toss  well  in  pan  and  cook  five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Transfer  beans  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)  Olives 

Russian  Rissolettes  (162) 
Consomme,  Bourdaloue 

Brook  Trout,  Biarritz          New  Potatoes.  Rissolees  («ax) 

Filet  of  Beef  Larded,  Bercy  (559) 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (818) 

Sweetbreads,  Espagnole 

Green  Peas  with  Tarragon  (1749) 

Kummel  Punch  (1031) 

Roast  Chicken  (290) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Suzanne  (1297) 

2316.  CONSOMME,  BOURDALOUE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52).  Strain  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering.  Cut  in  short  julienne  strips  one  medium  carrot,  one 
turnip  and  the  green  parts  of  two  leeks,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  a  gill 
water;  cover  the  vegetables  with  lightly  buttered  paper,  place  lid  on  pan, 
cook  five  minutes  on  range,  then  set  in  oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove, 
drain  vegetables  and  add  them  to  the  consomme.  Crack  one  fresh  egg 
in  a  bowl,  add  one  yolk,  then  sharply  beat  with  a  whisk,  add  one  and  a 
half  gills  cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne, 
and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  whisk  fora  minute.  Strain 
this  through  a  cheesecloth  into  three  buttered,  individual  pudding  moulds, 
lay  them  on  a  tin,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  their  height,  set  in  oven  with 
the  door  open  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off,  unmould,  cut  into 
quarter-inch-square  pieces,  add  them  to  consomme*.  Pour  the  con- 
somme into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2317.  BROOK  TROUT,  BIARRITZ 

Remove  fins,  draw  by  the  gills  and  neatly  wipe  three  very  fresh  brook 
trout.  Make  a  spiral  incision  from  head  to  tail  on  both  sides  of  each  fish. 
Place  in  a  sautoire,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  and  half 
a  teaspoon  of  anchovy  essence  over,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
three  saltspoons  pepper,  moisten  with  half  gill  white  wine.  Cover  with 
buttered  paper,  then  set  in  oven  thirty  minutes,  occasionally  basting 
meanwhile.  Remove,  lift  them  with  a  skimmer,  dress  on  a  dish.  Pre- 
pare a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  26).  Pour  into  the  sauce  a  tablespoon 


696  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

of  the  fish  liquor;  mix  well.    Pour  sauce  over  the  trout.    Sprinkle  a  very 
little  chopped  truffle  over  and  serve. 

2318.    SWEETBREADS,  ESPAGNOLE 

Soak  six  fresh  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  two  hours,  plunge  in 
boiling  water  five  minutes.  Remove  and  drop  in  cold  water  to  thoroughly 
cool  off,  remove  and  neatly  trim.  Place  in  a  sautoire  half  a  sliced  carrot 
one  sliced  onion  and  one  ounce  larding  pork,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Lay 
the  breads  on  top.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper.  Lightly  baste  surface  of  breads  with  very  little  melted  butter. 
Moisten  with  two  gills  broth,  then  let  reduce  on  fire  until  nearly  dry. 
Pour  in  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Cover  with  buttered  paper,  set 
in  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  six  freshly  prepared 
round  pieces  of  toast,  two  inches  in  diameter,  on  a  hot  dish;  place 
breads  on  top  of  the  toast.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  sauce,  strain  sauce 
over  the  breads  and  serve. 


Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1823) 

Boiled  Grits  (131)        Eggs,  Bertschmann 

Broiled  Bluefish  (326) 

Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  (14) 

Puffs  (314) 

2319.    EGGS,  BERTSCHMANN 

Cut  three  fresh  red  tomatoes  in  four  slices  each.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  lightly 
roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan, 
place  tomatoes  on  the  pan  and  briskly  fry  two  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  dish. 

Have  three  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  level  tablespoon  salt.  Carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs 
and  poach  three  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  neatly  trim,  arrange 
on  the  tomatoes;  prepare  six  more  in  same  way,  place  them  on  the  other 
tomatoes.  Broil  six  very  thin  slices  bacon  two  minutes  on  each  side, 
place  them  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Canape's  Lorenzo  (538) 
Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage  (438) 

Barcelone  Salad 
Creme  au  Caramel  (480) 

2320.    BARCELONE  SALAD 

Thoroughly  wipe  three  nice,  good-sized,  red  tomatoes,  then  cut  each 
one  in  eight  even  sections,  place  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  one  sliced  and 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST          697 

seeded  sound  green  pepper.  Remove  outer  leaves,  wash  well  and 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth  a  fresh  head  of  chicory,  detach  leaves  from 
the  root  and  cut  in  two-inch  pieces,  add  to  the  bowl  with  two  cold,  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing 
(No.  863).  Mix  all  well  together  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Puree  of  Green  Squash 

Pickerel,  Nicoise  Potato  Croquettes  (390) 

Grilled  Breast  of  Lamb 

Green  Corn  in  Cream 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)] 

Watercress  Salad  (419) 

Bouchees  Italienne 

2321.    PURE"E  OF  GREEN  SQUASH 

Peel  and  cut  In  pieces  one  fresh,  medium  squash;  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  sliced  carrot,  one  onion,  two  leeks,  one  branch  parsley,  one  bean 
crushed  garlic,  a  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove;  add  one  ounce 
butter  and  cook  on  fire  fifteen  minutes.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  broth,  one  pint  of  milk,  and  add  two  peeled  sliced  raw  potatoes. 
Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  well.  Cover 
pan  and  simmer  one  and  a  half  hours.  Press  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen,  drop  in  bread  crou- 
tons (No.  23)  and  serve. 

2322.    PICKEREL,  NICOISE 

Remove  head  and  fins  from  a  three-pound  fresh  pickerel,  split  in 
two  through  back,  remove  spinal  bone,  wipe  well  and  place  in  a  baking 
dish.  Peel  and  finely  chop  two  sound  red  tomatoes,  remove  the 
stones  and  finely  slice  twelve  large  olives  and  add  both  to  the  fish. 
Moisten  with  half  gill  white  wine  and  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon.  Mix  on  a  plate  half  ounce  of  butter,  half  teaspoon  an- 
chovy butter,  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  and  a  teaspoon  flour.  Divide  this  in  small  bits  over  the  fish. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  fish 
with  buttered  paper  and  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up 
paper  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

2323.    GRILLED  BREAST  OF  LAMB 

Procure  a  oreast  of  lamb,  break  bones  with  a  cleaver,  then  cut  the 
skin  crisscross.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
rub  it  over  with  tablespoon  oil,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  ana  broil 
over  a  slow  fire  twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  then  with  a 
small  feather  brush  butter  it  lightly  all  over,  lightly  turn  it  in  bread 
crumbs  and  broil  again  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  and  serve. 


698  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2324.    GREEN  CORN  IN  CREAM 

Cut  off  stems,  remove  leaves  and  silk  from  six  fine ,  sound ,  fresh  ears 
of  green  corn,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  boiling  water,  one 
gill  milk  and  a  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up, 
then  with  back  of  a  knife  blade  detach  grains  from  cobs,  place  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Knead  on  a  saucer  one  ounce  butter  with  tablespoon  flour 
and  add  to  the  corn.  Mix  until  well  thickened,  let  cook  for  three 
minutes  more,  pour  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

2325.    BOUCHEES  ITALIENNE 

Place  in  a  bowl  four  egg  yolks  with  two  ounces  sugar;  sharply  beat 
with  whisk  five  minutes.  Carefully  beat  up  the  four  egg  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  yolks ,  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  sifted  flour , 
one  teaspoon  rum,  and  gently  mix  with  skimmer  until  well  amalgamated. 
Lightly  butter  six  round  tartlet  moulds  and  fill  with  the  preparation. 
Set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  for  five  minutes  and 
unmould.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  table- 
spoon powdered  sugar  and  four  drops  vanilla  essence,  then  evenly 
divide  this  preparation  over  the  six  bouchees,  giving  them  dome-shaped 
forms;  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  a  brisk 
oven  two  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and 
serve. 


Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 


BREAKFAST 

Gooseberries  in  Cream  (2169) 

Rice  Flour  (464) 

Eggs,  Vanderbilt 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  (107) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347) 
Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 
Wheat  Griddle  Cakes  (136) 

2326.    EGGS,  VANDERBILT 

Pour  two  gills  double  cream  in  a  large,  round,  silver  baking  dish, 
adding  two  tablespoons  sherry,  three  saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Finely  chop  six  medium, 
well  peeled  and  cleaned  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
teaspoon  butter  and  cook  five  minutes,  tossing  them  well  meanwhile, 
then  add  to  the  cream  and  mix  well.  Carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs 
into  the  dish.  Season  eggs  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  then  set  in  oven  six  minutes.  Remove,  pour  half  the 
quantity  of  a  Perigueux  sauce  (No.  677)  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,   FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  699 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (2171) 

Frogs'  Legs  with  Parmesan  Cheese 

Coquilles  of  Chicken  (or  Turkey*)  au  Gratin  (1848) 

Okra.  Creole  (1531) 
Apple  Pancakes  (1587) 

2327.    FROGS'  LEGS  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

Cut  off  claws  from  a  pound  and  a  half  fresh  frogs'  legs,  place  in  a 
stone  jar  with  a  sliced  onion,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  crushed  bay  leaves,  two 
branches  parsley,  half  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  vinegar,  two  tablespoons 
good  oil,  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  mix  well,  and  let 
marinade  one  hour.  Drain,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and 
lastly  roll  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Place  in  a  frying  basket  and 
fry  in  boiling  fat  eight  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  well,  sprinkle  with  a 
little  salt,  shake  well,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve 
with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457)  Olives 

Lyons  Sausage  (583) 

Garbure,  Claremont 

Filet  of  Sea  Bass,  Ravigote 

Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Patties  of  Lamb  Sweetbreads  (1462) 

Cauliflower  Saute"  with  Butter  (631) 

Roast  Capon  (378) 
Romaine  Salad  (214)          Pistachio  Ice  Cream  (645) 

2328.    GARBURE,  CLAREMONT 

Cut  two  small  Bermuda  onions  in  thin  rings  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  one-half  ounce  butter  and  gently  fry  fifteen  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  ounce  flour,  stir  well,  moisten  with  two 
quarts  broth  (No.  701),  one  quart  water,  and  lightly  mix.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley  and  one 
branch  chervil;  add  to  soup  and  add  also  one  pound  raw  shin  of  beef 
and  a  beef  marrowbone.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Cover  pan  and  gently  simmer  one  and  a  half  hours.  Cut 
from  a  loaf  of  stale  French  bread  six  slices  a  quarter-inch  thick,  place 
on  a  tin.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  soup  and  pour  over  bread.  Set 
in  oven  six  minutes.  Remove  the  tin,  take  up  beef,  bone  and  bouquet 
from  soup,  then  pour  it  into  a  soup  tureen ,  add  bread.  Sprinkle  a  half 
teaspoon  chopped  chives  over  and  serve  with  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
or  Swiss  cheese  separately. 

2329.    FILET  OF  SEA  BASS,  RAVIGOTE 

Cut  off  fins  and  scale  a  three-pound  fresh  sea  bass.  Cut  head  off 
and  split  in  two  through  back.  Remove  spinal  bone,  tear  off  skin  from 
filets,  then  cut  each  filet  in  three  slanting ,  equal  pieces.  Season  with  half 

*Use  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday 


700  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  then  lightly  roll  in  flour, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying  basket, 
plunge  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  ten  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  over.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  a  little  parsley  and  six  quarters  lemon  and  serve  with  a 
ravigote  sauce  (No.  1441)  separately. 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Demi-Glace 

Filet  of  Sole,  Meuniere  (565) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  on  Toast  (434) 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

2330.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  DEMI- GLACE 

Lightly  butter  six  egg  dishes.  Crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish. 
Season  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper. 
Set  in  oven  five  minutes.  Remove,  pour  evenly  one  gill  hot  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (81) 

Highlander  (1734)          » 

Tomatoes  with  Mayonnaise 

Peach  Tartlets 

2331.    TOMATOES  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Plunge  six  fresh,  sound,  good-sized  red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water 
one  minute,  remove,  peel  and  let  get  cold.  Then  cut  in  quarters,  place 
in  a  salad  bowl,  pour  over  them  two  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863). 
Mix  gently,  then  spread  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  over  them,  and  at 
the  last  moment  gently  mix  and  immediately  serve. 

2332.    PEACH  TARTLETS 

Roll  half  pound  feuilletage  (No.  756)  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to 
the  thickness  of  a  sixth  of  an  inch.  Then  with  a  three-inch  pastry 
cutter  cut  out  six  even  pieces.  Arrange  on  six  scalloped  tartlet  forms, 
then  with  the  thumb  carefully  press  down  the  paste  at  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  moulds.  Place  a  teaspoon  currant  jelly  at  bottom  of  each 
mould.  Peel,  cut  in  halves- and  remove  stones  of  six  good-sized,  sound, 
ripe  peaches,  then  cut  each  half  in  three  slices.  Arrange  six  slices  over 
each  tartlet,  sprinkle  over,  evenly  divided,  two  ounces  powdered  sugar. 
Lay  on  a  baking  sheet,  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Bring  them  to  the 
oven  door,  sprinkle  a  little  more  sugar  around  edges  of  the  tartlets,  reset 
in  oven  three  minutes  more.  Remove,  spread  a  teaspoon  currant  jelly 
over  each  tartlet,  take  Jhem  from  the  moulds  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST        701 
DINNER 

Walnuts  (954)  Olives 

Cream  of  Lentils,  Major  Domo 

Bluefish,  Diaz  Potatoes  Persillade  (63) 

Terrine     of    Chicken     and     Ham 

Asparagus,  Hollandaise  (342) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Geraldine  Pudding  (548) 

2333.    CREAM  OF  LENTILS,  MAJOR  DOMO 

Soak  a  pint  lentils  in  cold  water  four  hours,  drain  on  sieve  and  put 
in  a  saucepan  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  one  sliced  carrot,  a 
sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  one  branch 
parsley,  two  ounces  salt  pork,  one  sliced ,  peeled ,  raw  potato  and  the 
bones  from  a  chicken  or  duck  either  cooked  or  raw.  Season  with 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  rub  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then 
strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan;  place  on  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  in  two  gills  cream  and  half  ounce 
butter,  mix  well  while  boiling  two  minutes.  Pour  the  soup  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2334.    BLUEFISH,.  DIAZ 

Procure  half  a  very  fresh  bluefish  of  about  three  pounds.  Neatly 
trim  and  remove  the  bones.  Pound  in  a  mortar  four  sweet  red  peppers, 
then  rub  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  one  teaspoon  anchovy  essence, 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika. 
Thoroughly  mix.  Make  a  few  light  incisions  on  skin  of  the  bluefish, 
then  sharply  rub  fish  all  around  with  the  pulp.  Lay  in  a  baking  dish 
and  let  infuse  one  hour.  Pour  over  half  gill  white  wine. 

Peel,  wash  and  carefully  drain  six  sound,  fresh  mushrooms,  slice 
very  fine  and  arrange  on  top  of  the  fish;  divide  one-half  ounce  butter  in 
small  bits  all  over  the  fish,  then  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes,  being  very 
careful  to  baste  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

2335.    TERRINE  OF  CHICKEN  AND  HAM 

Finely  chop  half  pound  lean  raw  veal  with  half  pound  fresh  fat  pork 
and  place  in  a  mortar  with  two  egg  yolks,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one 
teaspoon  rum,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg  arid  one  saltspoon  ground  mixed  allspice,  thoroughly  pound 
five  minutes,  then  press  through  a  sieve  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Tear 
off  breast  and  legs  from  a  two-pound  tender  chicken,  then  with  a  keen 
knife  carefully  bone  the  breast  and  legs.  Season  meat  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Have 
three  slices  quarter-inch-thick  cooked  ham.  Line  the  interior  of  an 
oval  earthen  cocotte  terrine  dish  with  thin  slices  larding  pork.  Arrange 
a  layer  of  the  preparation  at  bottom  and  sides  of  the  terrine,  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick.  Lay  a  slice  of  ham  at  bottom  of  the  terrine,  then  spread  a 


702  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

little  force  over  ham,  arrange  a  leg  and  breast  of  chicken  on  top,  a  little 
more  force,  another  slice  of  ham,  another  layer  of  force,  then  the  balance 
of  the  chicken ;  cover  with  a  little  more  force,  the  last  slice  of  ham,  and 
finish  to  cover  with  the  force.  Place  a  bay  leaf  on  top,  cover  with  thin 
slices  larding  pork,  pour  over  half  gill  sherry.  Cover  terrine,  place  in 
small  braising  pan,  pour  in  hot  water  to  half  the  height  of  the  terrine 
in  the  pan,  then  set  in  oven  one  hour.  Bring  terrine  to  the  oven  door, 
remove  cover,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  brandy,  re-cover,  reset  in  oven 
and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  place  in  a  cool  place,  lay  an  oval- 
shaped  board  of  same  size  as  the  terrine  on  top  of  the  pate,  place  a 
pound  weight  on  top  and  keep  in  such  position  until  thoroughly  cold. 
Lift  up  board,  remove  fat  from  top,  pass  a  clean  knife  all  around  edges, 
so  as  to  easily  detach  it.  Turn  it  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin, 
remove  lard  from  top  and  all  around.  Cut  into  quarter-inch  pieces 
four  tablespoons  jelly  (No.  1879).  Arrange  jelly  around  the  terrine. 
Place  a  thin  slice  truffle  in  centre  of  the  terrine  on  top,  arrange  clean, 
dry  leaves  of  lettuce  around  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Hominy  (75) 

Fried  Eggs,  Mouquin 

Perch  Saute",  Fines  Herbes  (293) 

Beef  Saute",  Lyonnaise  Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 

Orange  Griddle  Cakes  (1984) 

2336.    FRIED  EGGS,  MOUQUIN 

Cut  from  a  Virginia  ham  six  thin  slices,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil 
on  a  charcoal  fire  one  minute  on  each  side.  Remove  and  keep  on  a 
plate.  Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  six  slices  one-third  of  an 
inch  in  thickness;  then  cut  them  two  inches  in  diameter,  lightly  baste 
with  a  little  good  melted  butter,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  six  minutes, 
or  till  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Cut  ham 
same  size  as  the  slices  of  toast  and  arrange  the  pieces  on  top  of  the 
toast. 

Lightly  butter  a  small  black  frying  pan,  crack  in  one  fresh  egg. 
Season  with  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  three  minutes,  slide  the 
egg  on  top  of  one  piece  of  ham.  Prepare  five  more  in  a  similar  way. 
Pour  half  the  quantity  of  a  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28)  over  the  eggs  and 
serve. 

2337.    BEEF  SAUTE,  LYONNAISE 

Cut  all  the  meat  from  the  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  in  half- 
inch-square  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard  in  a 
black  frying  pan,  add  two  finely  sliced  onions  and  lightly  fry  five  minutes, 
then  add  the  beef.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Cook  ten  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while,  then  add  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoon  flour. 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST         703 

Stir  well,  then  pour  in  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  two  gills  broth 
(No.  701).  Mix  well  and  cook  ten  minutes,  mixing  quite  frequently 
meanwhile.  Pour  in  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Celery  Broth  (1985) 
Soft  Clams,  Vaudeville  (932) 
Devilled  Lamb  Steaks  (910) 

Georgia  Salad 
Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

2338.    GEORGIA  SALAD 

Cut  in  inch  julienne  shape  two  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  two  cooked, 
cold  beetroots,  one  small  sound  onion  and  two  peeled  and  cored  sound 
apples.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl,  adding  three  tablespoons  cooked,  cold 
string  beans,  cut  in  inch  pieces.  Remove  skin  and  bones  from  a  small 
smoked  herring,  then  cut  in  very  small  square  pieces  and  add  to  the  rest. 
Pour  in  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863).  Carefully  mix*  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?)  Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Balmord 
Fresh    Mackerel  with  Gooseberries 

Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 
Roulade  of    Lamb  Braise  with  Carrots 

Lima  Beans,  Bonne  Femme 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Coupes,  Floradora 

2339.     POTAGE,  BALMORD 

Cut  in  small  squares  three  sound,  seeded  green  peppers  and  the 
white  parts  of  three  leeks,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  and 
cook  on  range  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten 
with  two  quarts  of  broth,  one  quart  of  water,  and  add  two  pounds  raw 
veal  or  beef  bones.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  tea- 
spoon pepper,  let  boil  for  fifty-five  minutes. 

Break  three  ounces  of  spaghetti  into  half-inch  pieces  and  add  them 
to  the  soup,  then  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Cut  two  medium,  peeled, 
raw  potatoes  into  quarter-inch  squares  and  add  to  the  soup  and  let 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  leaves  from  two  branches  chervil 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Remove  bones,  skim  fat  from  surface.  Pour 
soup  into  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  separately. 

2340.     FRESH  MACKEREL  WITH  GOOSEBERRIES 

Cut  off  head  and  fins  from  a  very  fresh  three-pound  mackerel. 
Split  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spinal  bone.  Season  with 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  place  it  on  a  lightly 
buttered  baking  dish.  Spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over 
the  fish,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on 
a  dish,  pour  gooseberry  sauce  over  and  serve. 


704  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2341.    GOOSEBERRY  -SAUCE 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  small  saucepan, 
add  two  light  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  half  minute 
and  moisten  with  two  gills  hot  milk.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  then  continually 
mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add,  little  by  little,  one-half  ounce  good 
butter  and  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  mix  well,  strain  through 
Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  and  keep  -Warm.  Pick  off  stems  from  a  pint  of  fresh, 
sound  gooseberries,  then  plunge  them  in  quart  of  boiling  water  and 
boil  two  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve  and  add  to  sauce,  lightly  mix  and  use 
as  required. 

2342.    ROULADE  OF  LAMB  BRAIS£  WITH  CARROTS 

Procure  a  tender  shoulder  of  lamb,  remove  blade  bone  as  well  as  shank 
bones.  Season  inside  with  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  teaspoon  ground  mixed  spice. 
Finely  chop  two  ounces  raw,  lean  veal,  place  it  in  mortar  with  two 
tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  bean  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  one  egg  yolk.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt  and 
one  saltspoon  pepper,  then  thoroughly  pound  to  a  smooth  pulp.  Moisten 
with  two  tablespoons  cream,  mix  well,  then  evenly  spread  this  force 
all  over  inside  of  shoulder.  Roll  up  and  firmly  tie  around  with  string. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  braising  pan,  add  the  roulade  and  cook 
on  fire  until  a  light  brown  all  around.  Add  eighteen  scraped,  raw,  new 
carrots,  one  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two 
branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme  and  a  bay  leaf,  add 
to  the  pan,  pour  in  one  gill  white  wine  and  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry, 
then  pour  in  one  pint  broth  (No.  701)  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No. 
122).  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper. 
Cover  pan,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove, 
dress  lamb  on  a  dish  and  untie  it.  Lift  up  bouquet  and  onion,  skim 
fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  the  contents  of 
pan  over  the  roulade  and  serve. 

2343.    LIMA  BEANS,  BONNE  FEMME 

Place  in  an  enamelled  pan  one  finely  chopped  onion,  two  ounces 
lean  raw  ham  cut  in  small  squares,  and  one  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
and  nicely  fry  five  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  one  pint  fresh, 
shelled  lima  beans,  one-half  pint  of  broth  (No.  701).  Tie  together  a 
very  small  head  of  lettuce  and  two  branches  parsley,  and  add  to  the 
beans.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  half 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  lightly  mix.  Cover  pan  and  let  gently 
boil  thirty-five  minutes,  then  lift  up  the  lettuce,  etc.  Knead  on  a  saucer 
one  ounce  butter  with  a  light  tablespoon  flour  and  add  to  the  beans, 
gently  mix  without  mashing  and  cook  for  two  minutes  more.  Pour 
them  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  705 

2344.    COUPES,  FLORADORA 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  peach  ice  cream  (No.  1047).  Peel  and  cut  in 
slices  two  sound,  ripe,  sweet  peaches  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Peel  and 
detach  in  sections  one  sound,  juicy  orange,  then  cut  each  section  in  two, 
remove  seeds  and  place  with  peaches,  adding  a  peeled  and  finely  sliced 
banana.  Add  an  ounce  sugar,  two  tablespoons  rum,  turn  well  in  season- 
ing, then  evenly  divide  the  fruit  into  six  coupes  or  champagne  glasses. 
Divide  the  pint  of  ice  cream  over  the  six  glasses,  neatly  smooth  top 
to  dome-shaped  form,  place  a  maraschino  cherry  on  top  of  each  and 
serve. 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)          Pettijohn  Food  (170) 
Omelette  with  Whitebait         Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Calves'  Brains,  Brown  Butter  (2258) 
Potatoes,  Anna  (84)         Cornmeal  Dodgers 

2345.    OMELETTE  WITH  WHITEBAIT 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  two  min- 
utes. Cut  off  heads  and  tails  of  three  ounces  fresh  whitebait,  wash  and 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  whitebait  and  briskly  fry  for  five 
minutes,  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Sprinkle  over  two  saltspoons  salt, 
then  add  the  eggs,  briskly  stir  for  two  minutes  with  fork  and  let  rest  for 
half  a  minute;  fold  up  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest 
for  one  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2346.    CORNMEAL  DODGERS 

Place  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  set  on 
fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  dredge  in  half  pound  Indian  corn- 
meal,  briskly  mixing  while  adding,  then  let  boil  six  minutes,  lightly 
stirring  at  the  bottom  once  in  a  while.  Add  one  ounce  butter,  one  egg 
yolk  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  sharply  mix  for  one  minute, 
remove,  drop  the  preparation  in  a  dish  and  let  cool  off.  Divide  the 
batter  into  twelve  even  parts,  give  them  oval-shape  forms,  place  in  a 
lightly  buttered  baking  sheet,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter 
and  set  in  a  slack  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  split  them  open 
without  detaching,  spread  a  little  good  butter  into  each,  dress  on  a  dish 
enveloped  in  a  napkin  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Vermicelli,  Indian  Style 

Devilled  Shrimps 
Sausages  with  Fried  Bananas  (1058) 

Salade  Orpheline 
Peach  Shortcakes  (2016) 


706  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2347.    VERMICELLI,  INDIAN  STYLE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  sprig  thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  one  clove, 
one  nutmeg  leaf,  a  sprig  marjoram,  four  crushed  tomatoes,  five  pints 
water  and  two  pounds  fresh  heads  of  fish  bones,  then  let  slowly  boil  for 
one  hour.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  double  cheesecloth  into  another 
saucepan  and  let  again  come  to  a  boil.  Add  three  ounces  crushed 
vermicelli,  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  three  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2348.  DEVILLED  SHRIMPS 

Shell  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh -cooked  shrimps,  cut  them  in  small 
pieces  and  place  in  a  bowl;  add  four  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one-half 
ounce  of  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  French  mustard,  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  two 
saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  two  beaten  eggs  and  one  gill  cream.  Mix 
well  and  place  the  whole  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs 
over,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2349.  SALADE  ORPHELINE 

Skin,  bone  and  cut  six  good-sized  sardines  into  quarter-inch  pieces, 
place  in  a  bowl,  adding  six  cold,  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters,  one 
good-sized  peeled  apple  cored  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  three  peeled, 
boiled  potatoes  cut  into  thin  slices.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  salad 
dressing  (No.  863)  adding  half  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  chives. 
Mix  all  well,  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Caviare  (59)         Clams  (1457)        Olives 

Cream  of  Green  Wheat 

Halibut,  Egyptienne         Potatoes  Chassepot  (123) 
Fried  Chicken,  Maryland  (444)         Green  Peas  (1519) 

Plain  Baked  Lobster  (952) 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  Currant  Jelly  (1957) 

Tomatoes,  Mayonnaise  (2331) 

Genoise  au  Confitures  (129) 

2350.    CREAM  OF  GREEN  WHEAT 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  pound  raw  chicken  bones,  one  pound  shin 
of  veal,  one  carrot  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  sliced  onion,  two  leeks,  two 
branches  celery  and  one  branch  parsley.  Moisten  with  three  quarts 
water.  Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  and  let  slowly  boil  two  hours. 
Mix  in  another  saucepan  two  ounces  butter  with  two  ounces  flour. 
Strain  the  broth  through  a  strainer  into  this  pan,  mix  with  wooden  spoon 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  pint  green  wheat  or  oatmeal,  half 
pint  milk,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nut- 
meg; mix  well  and  let  slowly  cook  forty-five  minutes,  occasionally  mix- 
ing meanwhile.  Then  add  one  gill  cream,  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  and 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST          707 

mix  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Press  it  through  sieve  into  a 
basin,  then  through  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  bread 
croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2351.    HALIBUT,  EGYPTIENNE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  halibut,  cut  in  three  equal  slices, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of  water,  two  tablespoons  vinegar, 
one  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon 
and  one  teaspoon  salt,  then  let  gently  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Lift  the 
fish  up  with  a  skimmer,  place  in  baking  dish,  remove  the  spinal 
bones.  Lightly  egg  the  surface  of  the  fish.  Sprinkle  a  little  bit  of  butter 
on  top,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  decorate  with  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

FRIED  CHICKEN,  MARYLAND 

Same  as  No.  444,  but  for  corn  fritters  use  cooked  fresh  corn  instead 
of  the  canned. 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberries  in  Cream  (1925)         Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Rice 

Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347)       Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Saffron  Cakes  (1644) 

2352.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  RICE 

Place  an  ounce  of  rice  in  a  small  saucepan  writh  two  gills  milk,  two 
saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper,  lightly  mix,  boil  for  thirty- 
five  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl, 
season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  then  briskly 
beat  up  with  fork  one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  in 
sautoire,  drop  in  the  eggs,  then  cook  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  at 
the  bottom  once  in  a  while,  then  add  the  rice,  gently  mix,  pour  in  a  deep 
dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Clam  Broth  (1916) 

Crab  Meat  Fritters  (1539) 

Hochepot  Gantoise  (1422) 

Apple-Jam  Pie 

2353.    APPLE- JAM  PIE 

Peel  and  core  six  medium  apples,  cut  them  in  halves  then  finely  slice 
and  place  them  in  a  bowl  with  an  ounce  of  sugar  and  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence,  turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning.  Roll  out  on  lightly- 
floured  table  a  quarter-pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  very  thin.  Line  the 
inside  of  buttered  pie  plate  with  paste,  spread  four  tablespoons  rasp- 


708  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

berry  marmalade  on  the  bottom  of  plate,  neatly  arrange  the  apples  over. 
Egg  the  edges,  cover  the  pie  with  a  layer  of  paste,  press  edges  together, 
trim  superfluous  paste  around  the  border,  make  a  few  incisions  on  top, 
lightly  egg  the  surface,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Alsacienne 

Filet  of  Blackfish,  Equatorial  Potatoes  Foulte*es  (1789) 

Ham  Braise,  Josselyn  Spinach  au  Velout6  (1763) 

Roast  Squabs  (831) 

Escarole  Salad  (too) 

American  Pudding  (236) 

2354.    POTAGE,  ALSACIENNE 

Cut  half  a  very  small  cabbage  in  quarters,  remove  the  core  and 
stale  leaves,  then  cut  cabbage  into  exceedingly  thin  julienne  strips, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  steam  until  all  the 
moisture  evaporates.  Cut  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  lean  salt  pork  into 
quarter-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon  of  melted 
butter,  fry  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  drain  and  add  to  cabbage.  Peel, 
wash  and  cut  two  medium,  raw  potatoes  into  half-inch  squares  and  add 
to  the  pan.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  of  white  broth  (No. 
701)  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Skim  fat  from  the  surface, 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2355.    FILET  OF  BLACKFISH,  EQUATORIAL 

Pare  off  fins  and  scale  two  blackfish  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each.  Cut  off  the  heads,  split  them  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the 
spinal  bones  and  skin,  cut  each  half  in  two  lengthwise  pieces.  Season 
with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  of  paprika.  Roll  them 
in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  them  in  finely  shredded  cocoanut. 
Arrange  in  a  frying  basket,  plunge  in  boiling  fat  to  fry  for  eight  minutes. 
Lift  them  up,  drain,  sprinkle  a  very  little  salt  over  and  dress  on  a  hot 
dish,  one  overlapping  another  crown-like.  Fill  the  centre  with  fried 
parsley,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve  with  one  gill  of 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

2356.    HAM  BRAISE",  JOSSELYN 

Soak  a  four-pound  piece  of  ham  in  cold  water  for  six  hours.  Remove 
and  place  it  in  an  earthen  pot,  adding  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion, 
a  bean  garlic,  one  branch  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  a  small  branch  tar- 
ragon, a  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  marjoram,  one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  a 
pint  cider,  a  gill  claret,  quarter  gill  sherry,  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and 
one  calf's  foot  cut  in  pieces.  Mix  well,  cover  the  pot  and  let  marinade 
in  a  cool  place  for  six  hours.  Then  place  pot  in  a  moderate  oven  for 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  709 

two  and  a  half  hours,  basting  it  once  in  a  while.  Take  up  the  ham, 
neatly  trim,  dress  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Knead  in  a  sauce- 
pan a  half  ounce  butter  with  one  ounce  flour,  then  add  it  little  by  little 
to  the  sauce  in  the  pot,  mix  well  and  boil  for  two  minutes,  gently  mixing 
once  in  a  while.  Pick  off  the  stems  from  a  pound  of  white  California 
grapes,  place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
and  briskly  fry  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  tossing  them  meanwhile. 
Arrange  them  around  the  ham.  Strain  a  third  of  the  sauce  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  over  the  ham,  the  rest  into  a  saucebowl,  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  (1838) 

Semolina  (192) 

Eggs  Molet  with  Sorrel 

Whitebait  with  Bacon  (1305) 

Corned  Beef,  American  Style  (241) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

2357.    EGGS  MOLET  WITH  SORREL 

Prepare  a  sorrel  puree  (No.  654)  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  dome- 
like. Plunge  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  take 
up  and  plunge  them  in  cold  water  one  minute,  remove  and  shell 
them,  then  place  them  around  the  sorrel.  Pour  a  gill  of  hot  demi- 
glace  (No.  122)  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Toasted  Lobster,  Mrs.  Potter 

Appetizing  Lamb  Chops  (1991) 

Combination  of  Vegetables 

Cold  Pudding,  Maraschino  (1772) 

2358.    TOASTED  LOBSTER,  MRS.  POTTER 

Plunge  two  live  lobsters  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each  in  one  and  a 
half  gallons  of  boiling  water,  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  let  cool  off.  Carefully  crack  all  the 
shells,  claws  and  tails,  then  with  a  fork  pick  out  all  the  meat.  Finely 
chop  all  the  meat  up,  and  place  it  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  teaspoon  French  mustard,  adding 
half  a  bean  finely  chopped,  sound  garlic,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley,  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chervil  and  one  raw  egg.  Sharply 
mix  the  whole  together  for  two  minutes  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then 
evenly  spread  the  mixture  over  six  lightly  buttered  toasts  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick  and  two  and  a  half  inches  square.  Heat  in  a  small  saucepan 
one  ounce  of  melted  butter,  add  four  medium,  peeled  and  thoroughly 
washed,  dried  and  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  and  slowly  cook  them 


7io  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

for  five  minutes,  then  mix  in  two  tablespoons  flour  and  gently  stir  while 
heating  for  one  minute.  Pour  in  one  gill  hot  milk  and  one  gill  cold 
cream.  Season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  paprika  and  half  a 
saltspoon  ground  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  for  half  minute, 
add  one  egg  yolk,  immediately  stir  for  half  minute  more,  then  care- 
fully spread  the  cream  sauce  evenly  over  the  lobster  of  the  six  toasts. 
Dredge  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  them,  equally  divided, 
and  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Remove  from  the  oven,  dress  the  toasts  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  over  it,  nicely  decorate  with  parsley  greens  and 
serve. 

2359.    COMBINATION  OF  VEGETABLES 

Remove  the  stalks,  leaves  and  silk  from  three  sound  ears  of  green 
corn,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  of  water,  a  gill  of  milk  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  then  drain;  with  the  back 
of  a  knife-blade  detach  the  grains  from  the  cobs,  avoiding  as  much 
as  possible  the  fibres,  and  keep  them  on  a  plate.  Add  half  pint  of 
cooked  green  peas  to  the  corn  with  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers  cut 
in  small  squares,  and  place  with  the  rest. 

Heat  an  ounce  of  better  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  three  articles; 
season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  then  fry  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  tossing  them  once  in  a 
while,  then  add  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives.  Toss  well  while  heating 
for  two  minutes.  Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish,  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Celery  Westphalia  Ham 

Consomme1,  Colombo 
Salmon,  Pdrigord  Potatoes,  Dauphine  (415) 

Sirloin  of  Beef  en  Casserole  (1286) 
String  Beans.  Polonaise  (1143)  Cromesky  of  Sweetbreads 

Punch  Cardinal  (96) 

Roast  Guinea  Fowl  (1535)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Parfait  au  Chocolat  (1496) 

2360.    WESTPHALIA  HAM  FOR  SIDE  DISH 

Procure  six  very  tin  slices  of  Westphalia  ham,  cut  each  in  two 
slanting  slices,  twist  each  piece  into  cornet-like  shape,  arrange  a  little 
parsley  greens  in  each  cornet,  place  them  on  a  side  dish  and  serve. 

2361.    CONSOMME,  COLOMBO 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering.  Lightly  butter  four  individual  pudding  moulds. 
Break  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  the  yolk  of  another,  thoroughly 
beat  them  with  a  whisk,  then  pour  in  one  and  one-half  gills  of  cream. 
Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  hali 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  sharply  mix  until  well  thickened.  Then 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  ;ii 

strain  half  of  the  preparation  into  two  mo  aids.  Reduce  a  gill  of  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan,  to  the  quantity  of  a  tablespoon  and  add 
to  the  bowl.  Mix  well,  then  strain  this  into  the  other  two  moulds.  Place 
the  four  moulds  on  a  small  tin,  pour  hot  water  in  the  tin  up  to  half  the 
height  of  the  moulds,  set  them  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  let  slightly  cool  off,  unmould,  cut  them  in  slices  and 
place  in  a  soup  tureen.  Pour  the  consomme*  over.  Sprinkle  the  leaves 
from  two  branches  of  chervil  over  and  serve. 

2362.    SALMON,  PEMGORD 

Place  three  slices  fresh  salmon  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  in  a 
small  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  one  branch  parsley  and  a  gill  of 
white  wine.  Set  on  a  brisk  fire  and  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  then  pour 
in  one  and  one-half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  medium  slice 
of  truffle,  lightly  mix,  coyer  the  salmon  with  a  buttered  paper,  then  set 
in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  salmon  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over.  Arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  around 
fish  and  serve. 

2363.    CROMESKY  OF  SWEETBREADS 

Soak  six  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two  hours.  Remove  and 
plunge  them  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Drain,  then  neatl^  trim 
all  around  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced 
onion,  half  an  ounce  lard  cut  into  small  pieces,  one-half  gill  white  wine 
and  one  pint  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the 
pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Lift  up  the  breads  with  a 
skimmer  and  cut  them  into  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  and  keep  them 
on  a  plate  until  required. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  ounces  flour.  Skim 
fat  from  the  surface  of  the  bread  broth,  then  strain  it  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  into  this  roux.  Mix  well  and  let  reduce  to  one-half 
the  quantity,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  six  finely  chopped 
canned  mushrooms,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  three  tablespoons  cream  and  two  egg 
yolks.  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  while  cooking  for  two  minutes.  Add 
the  breads,  gently  mix,  then  cook  for  two  minutes.  Transfer  to  a 
dish  and  let  cool  off. 

Divide  the  force  into  twelve  even  parts,  roll  each  part  in  fresh  bread 
crumbs  and  give  them  nice  cork-shaped  forms.  Have  a  frying  batter  (No. 
204),  roll  each  croquette  into  the  batter  and  gently  drop  them  into  boiling 
fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  them  writh  the  skimmer  once  in  a 
while,  lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  trim  them  well.  Arrange  on  hot 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and 
serve  with  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

N.  B.  After  the  force  has  been  divided  into  twelve  parts  each  part 
should  be  enveloped  in  pancakes  of  same  size  instead  of  rolling  them 
in  bread  crumbs,  but  it  would  cause  considerable  additional  work 
and  the  result  would  be  about  the  same. 


7i2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  Fifth  Week  of  August 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs  with  Clams  in  Cream 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Calf's  Liver,  Saute"  Minute  (810) 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2364.    EGGS  WITH  CLAMS  IN  CREAM 

Have  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in  a  small  saucepan,  plunge  in 
eighteen  freshly  opened  little  neck  clams  and  boil  for  three  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  cut  them  in  small  square  pieces.  Place  them  in 
a  small  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gills  cream.  Season  with  two 
light  saltspoons  salt,  a  light  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  two  teaspoons  butter,  gently  mix,  then  let 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Divide  the  preparation  evenly  into  six  cocotte- 
egg  dishes.  Then  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  the  eggs 
evenly  with  half  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
lay  them  on  a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Salmon  Patty  (1972) 

Lambs'  Feet,  Poulette 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 

Meringue,  Chantilly 

2365.  LAMBS'  FEET,  POULETTE 

Plunge  twenty-four  lambs'  feet  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain 
on  a  sieve,  carefully  remove  all  the  wool  adhering  to  them  and  thoroughly 
clean  them.  Place  in  a  stone  pot,  add  one  quart  and  a  half  water,  one- 
half  gill  white  wine,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  an  onion  with  two  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  half  a  sound  lemon  and  one  small  branch  parsley.  Season 
with  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  mix,  cover  the 
pan  and  let  boil  thirty  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce  of  butter 
with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour.  Strain  the  feet  broth  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  ten 
finely  sliced,  canned  mushrooms,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and 
half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  then  let  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream,  add  to  the  sauce. 
Sharply  mix  while  heating  two  minutes.  Place  the  feet  in  the  sauce, 
shuffle  a  little,  transfer  into  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2366.  MERINGUE,  CHANTILLY 

Prepare  twelve  meringue  shells  (No.  2297).  Place  two  gills  of 
cream  in  a  copper  basin,  set  it  on  the  ice,  and  beat  up  to  a  stiff  froth, 
let  rest  for  thirty  minutes  on  the  ice.  Lift  up  the  cream  with  a  skimmer 
and  place  it  in  a  bowl,  add  two  ounces  sugar,  ten  drops  vanilla  essence. 


TUESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  713 

Briskly  beat  up  for  two  minutes.  Fill  in  the  cavity  of  the  shells  with  the 
cream,  join  two  together.  Arrange  them  on  six  saucers.  Drop  the 
balance  of  the  cream  into  a  pastry  bag  with  a  fancy  dentilated  tube  at 
the  bottom,  and  with  it  decorate  the  meringues  nicely  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Calves'  Tails,  Berlin  Style 

Broiled  Bluefish,  Maitre  d'Hdtel  (326)  Potatoes,  Macaire  (859) 

Broiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (1246) 

Glazed  Turnips,  Demi-Glace 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Pudding  Menagere  (1192) 

2367.    CALVES'  TAILS,  BERLIN  STYLE 

Clip  off  a  little  at  both  ends  of  three  fresh  calves'  tails,  then  cut  them 
Into  half-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  carrot  cut  in  quarters, 
one  turnip  cut  same  way,  one  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  and  one 
small  stalk  celery.  Tie  together  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  one 
branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  marjoram  and  two  bay  leaves, 
and  add  to  the  soup.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water.  Season  with 
two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  the  pan,  and  let 
slowly  boil  one  and  a  half  hours.  Place  one  ounce  butter  and  two 
ounces  flour  in  a  saucepan,  briskly  stir  on  the  fire  while  heating  two 
minutes.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth,  then  strain  it 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  add  a  gill  Rhine  wine  and  mix  well 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  the  calves'  tails  with  half  a  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2368.    GLAZED  TURNIPS,  DEMI-GLACE 

Peel  twelve  small,  sound  white  turnips,  then  cut  them  in  quarters 
lengthwise.  Round  each  piece  into  bean-of -garlic-like  shape,  place  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  a  teaspoon  sugar,  half  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Moisten  with  two  gills  of  broth 
and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  then  pour  in  one  gill  of  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  lightly  mix.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  thirty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Fifth  Week  of  August 


BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream 
Boiled  Rice  and  Milk  (275) 

Eggs,  Mrs.  Drapper 

Kingfish  Saute",  Colbert  (xao) 

Lamb  Fries,  Tartare  Sauce  (2290) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 


7i4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2369.    GRAPES  IN  CREAM 

Procure  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  ripe,  sweet  grapes.  Detach  the 
grapes  from  the  stems,  thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  well  on 
a  cloth.  Place  them  on  a  compotier.  Dredge  an  ounce  powdered 
sugar  over  them.  Mix  well.  Beat  up  one  and  one-half  gills  cream 
until  thick,  but  not  frothy,  add  one  ounce  sugar,  mix  well,  pour  over  the 
grapes  and  serve. 

2370.    EGGS,  MRS.  DRAPPER 

Peel  three  sound,  medium,  fresh  red  tomatoes,  then  cut  them  in 
small  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce 
butter,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper;  mix  well  and  let  cook  eight  minutes.  Knead  on  saucer  a  half 
ounce  butter  with  a  light  teaspoon  of  flour  and  add  to  the  tomatoes. 
Sharply  mix  until  well  thickened.  Cut  eight  hard-boiled  eggs  in  thin 
slices.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Lightly  butter  a  baking  dish,  pour  in  half  a  gill  very  thick  cream,  then 
arrange  a  third  of  the  eggs  over,  half  of  the  tomatoes  well  spread 
over,  then  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese 
over  the  tomatoes,  then  another  third  of  the  eggs,  the  balance  of  the 
tomatoes  over  the  eggs,  then  the  rest  of  the  eggs,  pour  over  half  a  gill 
of  cream,  sprinkle  another  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  arrange 
a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top,  set  in  the  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Minced  Clams  au  Gratin 

Cold  Mutton,  Mayonnaise 

Macaroni  Sauveterre  (1023) 

Vanilla  Custard  (1345) 

2371.  MINCED  CLAMS  AU  GRATIN 

Open  forty-eight  medium,  fresh  clams  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
their  own  liquor  and  one  pint  water,  then  boil  five  minutes.  Drain  on 
a  sieve  and  finely  slice  them.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  ounce  butter 
with  two  ounces  flour  and  heat  half  a  minute,  then  pour  in  two  gills 
hot  milk,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  boil 
five  minutes.  Add  the  clams,  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  let  cook 
five  minutes.  Pour  the  clams  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  divide  half  an  ounce  of  butter  in  little  bits  on  top, 
set  in  the  oven  ten  minutes.  Remove,  and  serve. 

2372.  COLD  MUTTON,  MAYONNAISE 

Cut  all  the  meat  of  the  mutton  left  over  from  yesterday  into  very 
thin  slices.     Dress  them  on  a  cold  dish,  arrange  twelve  lettuce  leaves 
and  a  few  vinegar  pickles  around.     Sprinkle  a  little  chopped  jelly  around 
and  serve  with  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  separately. 
N.  B.    Left  over  roast  lamb  can  be  utilised  in  the  same  way. 


TUESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST  715 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?) 
Celery  (86)  Caviare  (59) 

Puree  of  Sorrel  with  Peas 

Baked  Weakfish  with  Bacon  (1845)  Potatoes,  Christiana 

Sweetbreads  Braise^  Macddoine 

Stuffed  Lettuce 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 
Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Cantaloup  Surprise 

2373.    PURE"E  OF  SORREL  WITH  PEAS 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  two  quarts  fresh  sorrel,  then  slice  them 
finely,  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  the 
fire  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  moisture  is  nearly  evaporated,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  Then  add  pint  of  shelled  green  peas,  three  good-sized, 
peeled,  sliced,  raw  potatoes,  one  sliced  onion,  one  bean  crushed  garlic, 
two  branches  chervil  and  a  pound  piece  of  lean  salt  pork.  Moisten 
with  three  quarts  water.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  well,  cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly 
boil  two  hours,  mixing  a  little  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up  the  pork  and 
save  it  for  later  use.  Add  two  gills  milk,  mix  well,  then  boil  five  minutes. 
Press  the  puree  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a,  Chinese 
strainer  into  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons 
(No.  23)  separately. 

2374.    POTATOES,  CHRISTIANA 

Boil  six  peeled,  good-sized,  sound  potatoes  in  two  quarts  boiling 
water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  thirty  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  them, 
then  press  them  through  a  potato  masher  into  a  sauteuse,  add  six  medium 
anchovies  in  oil  cut  in  short  pieces,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
half  teaspoon  French  mustard,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
white  pepper  and  half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  add  two  egg  yolks, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  sharply  stir 
with  the  spatula  while  cooking  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire. 
Divide  the  puree  into  twelve  even  parts,  roll  them  out  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  to  apple-like  shapes,  dip  them  in  beaten  eggs,  then  lightly  roll  in 
bread  crumbs;  arrange  them  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat 
until  of  a  nice  golden  colour.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve.  - 

2375.    SWEETBREADS  BRAISE",  MACE"DOINE 

Soak  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  water  for  two  hours.  Remove  and 
plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve  and  neatly  trim  them.  Place  in  a  sauteuse  one  finely 
sliced  medium  carrot  and  small  onion,  one  ounce  larding  pork 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  place  the  breads  on  top.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  adding  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  place  on  the  fire  and  cook  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  three- 


716  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

fourths  of  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  701)  and  briskly  boil  five  minutes,  then 
set  them  in  the  oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  six  round  pieces 
freshly  prepared  toasts  two  inches  in  diameter  on  a  hot  dish.  Place 
the  breads  on  top,  neatly  arranged  crown-like.  Dress  a  macedoine, 
prepared  as  per  No.  233  in  the  centre.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  the 
gravy,  then  let  reduce  on  open  fire  eight  minutes,  strain  it  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  over  the  breads  and  serve. 

2376.     STUFFED  LETTUCE 

Clip  off  the  stalks  and  pick  off  the  stale  leaves  from  six  very  small, 
sound  heads  of  lettuce,  plunge  them  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  five  minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  let 
cool  off  in  cold  water,  then  carefully  press  out  all  the  water.  Split 
them  in  two.  Skin  three  country  sausages,  place  the  meat  on  a  plate, 
add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  three  chopped  canned  mushrooms, 
mix  well.  Divide  the  force  in  the  lettuce,  give  their  former  shape,  then 
tie  them  around  with  a  string.  Place  in  a  sautoire  half  a  sliced  carrot, 
half  a  sliced  onion,  one  branch  parsley,  one  bay-leaf  and  one  clove,  place 
the  lettuce  over  them.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three  salt- 
spoons  pepper.  Arrange  a  thin  slice  of  pork  on  top  of  each  lettuce,  then 
moisten  with  two  gills  broth,  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  one  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122).  Boil  five  minutes,  set  in  the  oven  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  untie,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  skim  fat  from  the  surface  of 
gravy  and  let  the  gravy  reduce  eight  minutes  on  the  range,  then 
strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  lettuce,  arrange  six  heart  shape 
bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

2377.     CANTALOUP,  SURPRISE 

Prepare  a  pint  only  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Cut  three  small 
or  medium  ice-cold  muskmelons  in  halves  lengthwise,  pick  out  the 
seeds  and  spongy  parts,  then  scoop  out  the  meat,  cut  it  into  very  small 
pieces,  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  an  ounce  sugar  and  two  tablespoons 
curacao.  Mix  well,  then  replace  in  the  six  half-melon  shells.  Evenly 
divide  the  vanilla  ice  cream  over  them.  Neatly  smooth  the  surface 
to  dome-like  shapes.  Pour  a  tablespoon  raspberry  syrup  and  sprinkle 
a  little  finely  shredded  cocoanut  over  each,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

% 

Wednesday,  Fifth  Week  of  August 


BREAKFAST 

Gooseberries  and  Cream  (2160)        ' 

Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Eggs  en  Coquilles  Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Grilled  Mutton  Chops  with  Bacon  (845) 
Garfield  Potatoes  (1843) 
Raisin  Cakes 


WEDNESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  AUGUST          717 

2378.    EGGS  EN  COQUILLES 

Cut  eight  hard  -boiled  eggs  in  eight  pieces  each  and  keep  on  a  plate. 
Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
one  finely  minced  onion,  and  gently  brown  over  a  brisk  fire  five  minutes, 
stirring  lightly  meanwhile.  Add  one  tablespoon  flour.  Stir  well  while 
heating  a  minute,  then  moisten  with  one  and  a  half  gills  of  milk  and  a 
half  gill  of  cream,  and  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add 
the  eggs.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Carefully  mix,  cook  for  two  min- 
utes. Divide  It  into  six  table  shells,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over,  then  set  in  the  oven  eight  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomm£  in  Cups  (52) 

Lobster  Salad,  Taft 

Emincee  of  Turkey,  Ancienne 

Fried  Oyster  Plant  (968) 

Peach  Pie  (412) 

2379.    LOBSTER  SALAD,  TAFT 

Boil  two  live  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  twenty  minutes.  Take  them  up,  and  let  thor- 
oughly cool  off.  Crack  the  shells  from  the  tails  and  claws  and  care- 
fully pick  out  all  the  meat  from  them,  then  cut  in  even,  small  square 
pieces  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Add  three  cold,  hard-boiled  eggs  cut 
same  as  the  lobster.  Finely  chop  two  small,  sound,  peeled  shallots,  half 
a  seeded,  finely  chopped,  sound  green  pepper,  and  add  to  the  lobster. 

Cut  a  stalk  of  well-pared  white  celery  in  small  square  pieces  and  place 
with  the  rest,  add  also  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  half 
teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  chives.  Season  with  four  tablespoons 
dressing  (No.  863)  and  gently  but  thoroughly  mix.  Then  spread  a 
mayonnaise  sauce  (No.  70)  over,  and  just  a  second  before  serving 
briskly  mix  in  the  mayonnaise  and  serve. 

2380.     EMINCEE  OF  TURKEY,  ANCIENNE 

Detach  the  meat  from  the  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  then  cut 
it  in  half  inch  pieces  and  keep  till  required.  Cut  the  carcass  in  pieces 
and  place  all  the  bones  in  saucepan,  add  half  the  piece  of  pork  left  over 
from  yesterday,  one  carrot  cut  in  quarters,  two  peeled,  sound,  raw  po- 
tatoes and  twelve  small,  peeled  white  onions.  Moisten  with  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the  pan  and  let 
boil  forty  minutes. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  one  and  a  half  ounces 
flour,  stir  well  on  the  fire  one  minute,  then  strain  the  broth  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  the  pan,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil.  Cut  the  potatoes  and  pork  in  half -inch-square  pieces  and  add  them 
to  the  sauce  with  the  twelve  onions  and  turkey.  Season  with  saltspoon 


718  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cayenne    and  half  teaspoon   chopped  parsley.     Carefully  mix,  then 
cook  five  minutes.    Transfer  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Tunny  (1597) 

Chicken  Soup,  Australian 

Eels  en  Matelote  (141?)  Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Mignons  of  Beef,  Bordelaise  (27)  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Darioles,  Vanilla  (2194) 

2381.     CHICKEN  SOUP,  AUSTRALIAN 

Singe,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet  from  a  small,  tender  fowl.  Draw, 
detach  the  breast  and  legs  from  the  body,  cut  off  all  the  meat  from 
the  bones  and  cut  it  in  half  inch  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  meat  and  gently  brown  ten  minutes, 
slightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  add  all 
the  bones.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches 
parsley  and  one  branch  chervil,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Season  with  two 
teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  let  boil  one  hour.  Add 
three  ounces  raw  rice,  then  let  boil  forty  minutes  more.  Remove  the 
bones  and  bouquet.  Skim  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth.  Heat 
in  a  saucepan  one  half  ounce  butter,  add  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour, 
stir  well,  then  pour  the  soup  into  this  pan,  mix  well,  and  let  boil  ten 
minutes.  Add  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  mix  well,  pour  the  soup  in 
a  tureen  and  serve. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Wheatena  (iao8) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Demi-Deuil 

Panfish    Meuniere  Broiled  Calves'  Kidneys 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 
Cornmeal  Pancakes  (659) 

2382.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  DEMI-DEUIL 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  then  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into 
each  dish.  Pour  a  tablespoon  fresh  cream  over  the  eggs  in  each  dish. 
Evenly  season  them  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white 
pepper.  Sprinkle  a  small,  finely  chopped  truffie  over  them,  then  set 
in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2383.    PANFISH,  MEUNIERE 

Neatly  wipe  six  medium,  even-sized,  fresh  panfish.  Season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  them  with  milk, 
then  gently  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  fry- 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER         719 

ing  pan.  Arrange  fish  in  the  pan,  one  beside  another,  and  nicely 
fry  them  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  with  a  skimmer,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and 
also  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Add  half  ounce  butter  to  the  pan, 
shuffle  the  pan  on  the  fire  until  the  butter  has  attained  a  nice  brown, 
pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2384.    BROILED  CALVES'  KIDNEYS 

Neatly  trim  off  the  fat  and  skin  from  three  very  fresh  calves'  kidneys 
and  split  them  in  two.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  of  oil  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  the  kidneys  in  the 
seasoning,  arrange  them  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  four  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread  a  maitre  d'h6tel 
butter  (No.  7)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Coquilles  of  Salmon,  Siberienne 

Squab  Turkey  with  Bacon  (1701) 

Roast  Green  Corn 
Rice,  Imperatrice  (1234) 

2385.     COQUILLES  OF  SALMON,  SIBERIENNE 

Place  a  two-pound  piece  of  salmon  in  a  narrow  saucepan  with  a 
sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  a  clove  and  two 
branches  parsley.  Moisten  with  half  gill  white  wine,  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the  fish.  Season  with  teaspoon 
salt,  then  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  Re- 
move the  pan  to  a  cool  place  and  let  cool  off  in  its  broth. 

Lift  up  the  salmon,  carefully  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  then  divide 
the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  bowl.  Season  with  four 
tablespoons  salad  dressing  (No.  863).  Carefully  mix  without  breaking 
the  pieces.  Arrange  six  large,  thoroughly  cleaned  lettuce  leaves  in  six 
table  shells.  Then  evenly  divide  the  fish  over  the  lettuce.  Prepare 
and  divide  a  mayonnaise  (No.  70)  on  top  of  the  fish,  neatly  spreading 
it  over.  Have  six  small  (heart)  lettuce  leaves,  arrange  half  teaspoon 
caviare  over  each  piece  of  lettuce,  then  carefully  lay  one  over  each  pre- 
pared coquille.  Sprinkle  a  very  freshly  chopped  hard-boiled  egg  over 
all,  then  serve. 

8386.    ROAST  GREEN  CORN 

Cut  off  the  stalks,  remove  the  leaves  and  silk  from  six  ears  of  fresh, 
sound  green  corn,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water,  one 
gill  of  milk  and  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  only.  Lift 
up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  place  them  on  a  tin,  lightly 
baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  them  in  a  brisk  oven  until  a 
nice,  golden  colour  being  careful  to  turn  them  once  in  a  while.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  envelope  in  a  napkin  and  serve. 


720  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Cream  of  Chicory 
Spanish  Mackerel,  Colbert  Potatoes,  Vauban  (946) 

Chicken,  Scheveningen 
String  Beans,  Polonaise  (1143) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381) 

Langues  de  Chats  (890) 

2387.    CREAM  OF  CHICORY 

Remove  the  stale  leaves,  if  any,  then  detach  the  leaves  from  the 
roots  of  three  heads  of  sound,  fresh  chicory;  wash  in  cold  water,  drain 
on  a  sieve  and  scald  them  in  boiling  water  five  minutes;  drain  on  a  sieve, 
place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and  cook  on  the 
range  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two 
quarts  of  broth  (No.  701),  add  an  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it. 
Tie  together  one  branch  chervil,  two  branches  parsley,  one  bay  leaf, 
and  add  to  the  soup.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  then  boil  one  hour.  Add  half  pint  hot  milk,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place  in  a  bowl 
two  ounces  rice  flour,  two  gills  cream  and  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon. 
Sharply  mix  until  well  thickened  and  add  to  the  soup.  Mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  while  boiling  five  minutes,  add  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well. 
Press  the  cream  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  soup  tureen,  then  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

2388.     SPANISH  MACKEREL,  COLBERT 

Trim  off  the  fins  and  cut  off  the  head  from  a  three-pound  fresh  Span- 
ish mackerel.  Split  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spinal  bone. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  teaspoon  of  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika, 
then  repeatedly  turn  the  fish  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  them  on  a 
broiler  and  broil  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish.  Pour  a  Colbert  sauce  (No.  121)  over  and  serve. 

2389.     CHICKEN,  SCHEVENINGEN 

Singe,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet,  draw  and  wipe  a  two-and-a-half 
pound  tender  chicken.  Season  the  interior  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  it  in  an  earthen  pot.  Have  three 
medium  carrots  and  three  turnips  cut  in  small  dice  pieces,  twelve 
small  white  onions,  four  small  shallots,  one  bean  garlic,  having  the  shal- 
lots and  garlic  finely  hashed  together,  one  bay  leaf,  sprig  of  thyme,  one 
clove  and  one  ounce  raw  lean  bacon  cut  in  small  dices;  then  add  all 
these  ingredients  to  the  chicken.  Moisten  with  two  gills  broth  (No.  701), 
two  gills  cider  and  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Season  with  a  light 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  two  saltspoons  grated  nutmeg,  and 
add  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one  ounce  butter.  Place 
the  lid  on  the  pan.  Prepare  a  little  dough  with  a  little  flour  and  water, 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER  721 

and  carefully  arrange  it  around  the  lid  to  prevent  evaporation  from 
escaping.  Place  the  pot  in  the  oven  two  hours.  Remove,  detach  the 
crust,  place  the  pot  on  a  round  dish  and  send  to  the  table  without  un- 
covering. 

Friday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131)  Fried  Eggs,  Lamontagne 

Broiled  Porgies  (876)  Country  Sausages  (134) 

Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2390.    FRIED  EGGS,  LAMONTAGNE 

Thoroughly  wipe  four  fresh,  red  tomatoes,  then  cut  them  in  slices. 
Finely  chop  three  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  three  shallots 
and  half  a  bean  of  garlic;  place  the  four  articles  in  a  corner  cf  a  clean 
cloth  and  squeeze  out  the  juice,  then  place  the  herbs  on  a  plate,  adding 
to  them  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Mix  them  well.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
then  turn  the  slices  of  tomatoes  in  the  herbs.  Heat  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  the  tomatoes  in  pan,  one  beside 
another,  and  briskly  fry  them  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side. 
Lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Pre- 
pare twelve  fried  eggs  turned  over  (No.  432),  then  carefully  glide  the 
eggs  over  the  tomatoes.  Pour  a  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
over  all  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Stew,  Franchise 

Shrimp  Coquettes 

Beef,  Roumanienne 

Rum  Omelette  (1291) 

2391.    OYSTER  STEW,  FRANCAISE 

Open  thirty-six  medium,  fresh  oysters,  place  in  a  stew  pan  with 
their  liquor  and  one  gill  white  wine,  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  four 
branches  celery,  two  branches  chervil,  light  teaspoon  salt,  and  three 
saltspoons  white  pepper.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil, 
skim  scum  from  the  surface,  add  a  pint  hot  milk,  boil  two  minutes 
more,  remove  the  celery  and  chervil,  skim  off  scum  again.  Pour  the 
stew  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  of  toasted  French  bread. 

2392.     SHRIMP  CROQUETTES 

Shell  a  pint  of  cooked  shrimps,  then  cut  them  into  small  rieces. 
Peel  and  thoroughly  wash  three  medium,  raw  potatoes,  boil  them  in  a 
quart  of  water  with  teaspoon  salt  forty  minutes.  Drain,  then  press 
through  n  potato  masher  into  a  sauteuse,  add  the  shrimps  with  an  )unce 
of  butter,  two  egg  yolks,  one  light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white 


722  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg;  stir  with  the  spatula  until  well 
amalgamated ,  then  stir  on  the  fire  while  cooking  five  minutes.  Remove, 
place  in  a  vessel  and  let  cool  a  little.  Then  divide  it  into  twelve  even 
parts,  roll  them  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  croquette  shape.  Lightly 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying 
basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  eight  minutes.  Lift  them  up,  drain.  Place 
on  a  dish  in  the  folds  of  a  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  and 
serve. 

2393.  BEEF,  ROUMANIENNE 

Remove  all  the  meat  from  the  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
cut  in  half-inch  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  one  seeded,  chopped,  green 
pepper,  gently  brown  three  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Cut 
three  ounces  raw  calf's  liver  into  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  add  to  the 
pan  and  fry  three  minutes,  again  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  two  ounces 
raw  rice  and  lightly  brown  three  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  pint  of 
water  and  a  gill  of  tomato  juice,  and  let  boil  five  minutes,  then  add  the 
beef.  Season  with  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  mix 
well,  cover  the  pan.  Set  in  the  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
transfer  the  beef  into  a  baking  dish.  Cut  half  a  medium,  peeled  egg- 
plant into  exceedingly  thin  slices.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  ar- 
range the  egg  plant  over  the  beef.  Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  bread 
crumbs  over,  add  one  half  ounce  butter  in  very  little  bits  on  top  of  all, 
set  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Clams  (1457) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Oukha  of  Pickerel 

Planked  Perch,  Italienne 

Chicken  Vol  au  Vent,  Hay  (755) 

Fresh  Peas,  Avignonnaise  (2078)  Mousse  of  Lobster 

Ribs  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Pudding,    Sue"doise  (449) 

2394.  OUKHA  OF  PICKEREL 

Split  in  two  through  the  back  a  two-and-a-half-pound  pickerel,  bone 
it  and  mince  it  fine,  place  in  a  mortar  with  tablespoon  oil  and  pound 
to  a  fine  pulp.  Add  bread  panade  (No.  1795)  and  two  egg  yolks. 
Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  r  epper  and  teaspoon 
freshly  grated  horseradish,  then  pound  again  until  well  amalgamated. 
Remove,  place  on  a  dish,  then  make  into  little  balls  the  size  of  cranber- 
ries and  keep  on  a  plate. "  Place  the  bones  and  head  of  the  fish  in  a 
saucepan  with  two  sliced  onions,  three  bay  leaves,  one  heaping  teaspoon 
salt,  two  and  a  half  quarts  water  and  set  to  boil  forty-five  minutes. 
Strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  add  the 
fishballs,  twelve  stoned,  sliced  olives,  and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes. 
Pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over 
and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER         723 

2395.    PLANKED  PERCH,  ITALIENNE 

Scale,  cut  off  fins,  and  neatly  wipe  six  fresh,  medium  perch.  Season 
them  all  around  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lightly 
roll  them  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  of  oil  in  frying  pan,  arrange 
the  perch  in  the  pan  and  briskly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Lightly 
oil  the  top  of  a  planed  oak  board,  as  for  shad,  and  place  perch  on  top. 

Prepare  a  potato  brioche  preparation  (No.  91),  place  it  in  a  pastry 
bag  with  a  fancy  tube  at  the  bottom,  then  press  down  the  potatoes 
around  the  edges  of  the  plank.  Pour  Italienne  sauce  (No.  1244)  over 
the  fish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  Parmesan  cheese  over,  then  set  in 
the  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2396.    MOUSSE  OF  LOBSTER. 

Crack  the  shells  from  two  live  fresh  lobsters  of  two  pounds  each, 
then  pick  out  all  the  meat  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp,  then  rub 
it  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  gill  white 
wine,  one  gill  water  and  half  ounce  butter,  then  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
strew  in  four  ounces  sifted  flour  and  sharply  mix  with  the  spatula  for  two 
minutes.  Remove  and  place  it  in  the  mortar,  then  add  the  lobster 
pulp.  Season  with  light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Add  one  by  one  three  egg  yolks,  and  sharply 
pound  while  adding  them.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  mortar  with  gill  of  thick  cream,  gently  mix 
with  spatula  until  well  amalgamated.  Lightly  butter  a  plain  quart 
pudding  mould.  Sprinkle  a  very  little  finely  chopped  truffle  at  the  bottom, 
drop  in  the  force,  place  the  mould  in  a  pan,  pour  in  hot  water  up  to  half 
the  height  of  the  mould,  set  in  the  oven  thirty  minutes  or  until  thor- 
oughly firm.  Remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  cream  sauce 
(No.  736)  around  and  serve. 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)         Rye  Mush 
Omelette  with  Tarragon 

Broiled  Bluefish  (326) 

Pork  Chops  with  Fried  Apples  (760) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

2397.    RYE  MUSH 

Place  pint  and  a  half  water  and  half  pint  milk  in  a  thick-bottomed 
saucepan,  add  half  teaspoon  salt,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
strew  in  three-quarters  of  teacup  sifted  rye  flour,  constantly  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  slowly  cook  one  and  a 
half  hours,  being  careful  to  stir  at  the  bottom  quite  frequently  mean- 
while to  prevent  burning.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve  with  cream 
and  sugar  separately. 


724  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2398.    OMELETTE  WITH  TARRAGON 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  five  fresh  tarragon  leaves,  half 
gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  beat 
up  with  the  fork  two  minutes. 

Heat  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  thoroughly 
mix  with  the  fork  two  minutes,  let  rest  half  a  minute;  fold  on  the  opposite 
sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  one  minute.  Turn  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups   (1538) 

Fish  Salad,  Parisienne 

Veal  Paupiettes,  Stockholm 

String  Beans,  Paloise  (2059) 

Apples  au  Madere 

2399.    FISH  SALAD,  PARISIENNE 

Place  a  two-pound  piece  of  fresh  halibut  in  a  narrow  saucepan  with 
a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  one  half 
gill  white  wine,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  enough  water  to  cover  the  fish 
and  teaspoon  salt,  then  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil  and  let  boil  five  minutes. 
Set  the  pan  in  a  cool  place  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  cold.  Take 
up  the  fish,  remove  the  bones  and  skin,  then  cut  the  fish  into  one-inch 
slices.  Place  in  a  bowl. 

Prepare  a  plain  macedoine  garnishing  (No.  233),  wash  it  in  cold  water, 
drain  and  add  to  the  fish.  Cut  two  cold,  boiled  potatoes  in  quarter-inch- 
square  pieces,  add  to  the  bowl.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  salad 
dressing  (No.  863).  Sprinkle  over  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
carefully  mix.  Wipe  the  sides  of  the  bowl  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Whenever  any  cold,  left-over  fish  is  on  hand  use  it  for  the 
salad  in  place  of  the  fresh. 

2400.    VEAL  PAUPIETTES,  STOCKHOLM 

Procure  six  slices  of  veal  from  the  round,  quarter  inch  thick  and  of 
three  ounces  each.  Neatly  flatten  them  to  even  size.  Season  all  around 
with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  in  bowl  an  ounce  of 
butter,  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
two  saltspoons  salt  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  then  evenly  spread  this 
preparation  over  the  slices  of  veal,  roll  them  up,  tie  them  around  with  a 
string.  Place  in  a  braising  pan  a  few  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  lay  the 
paupiettes  over  and  brown  on  the  fire  to  a  nice  golden  colour.  Take 
them  up,  remove  the  lard  from  the  pan.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour  to 
the  pan,  stir  well.  Moisten  with  pint  of  broth,  add  two  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil  and  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  then  mix  well  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil.  Place  the  paupiettes  in  the  pan.  Season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne,  place  the  lid  on  and  set  in  the  oven 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  paupiettes,  untie,  dress  on  a  dish. 
Briskly  boil  the  sauce  ten  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
over  the  veal  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER         725 

2401.    APPLES  AU  MADERE 

Core  and  neatly  wipe  six  good-sized,  sound  apples.  Place  them  on  a 
round  baking  dish  just  large  enough  to  hold  the  apples. 

Knead  on  a  plate  one  ounce  fresh  butter,  three  ounces  sugar  and  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  with  it  fill  up  the  cavities  of  the  apples. 
Pour  over  a  gill  of  Madeira  wine  (sherry).  Set  in  oven  for  forty-five 
minutes,  basting  them  quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Remove,  place  the 
dish  in  another  dish  and  serve,  either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Canapes  of  Caviare  (59)  Olives 

Potage  of  Lamb,  Piedmontaise 
Bass,  Bordelaise         Potatoes,  Voisin  (995) 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Cabaret  (245) 

Cauliflower    au    Gratin    (1329) 

Roast  Turkey*,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Gateau,  Germaine 

2402.    POTAGE  OF  LAMB,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Cut  a  pound  of  raw  lean  lamb  from  the  shoulder  into  small  dice, 
pieces;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  sound  onions  cut  in  small 
pieces,  three  ditto  leeks,  one  ditto  seeded  green  pepper  and  two  ounces 
raw  lean  ham,  all  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  two  tablespoons  melted  butter 
and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Moisten  with  two  quarts  of  broth  or  hot  water,  add  one  pound  raw  beef 
bones.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  thirty  minutes.  Break  two  ounces  Italian 
macaroni  in  half-inch  pieces,  add  to  the  soup  with  two  ounces  raw  rice  and 
boil  forty  minutes  more.  Take  up  the  bones,  add  two  gills  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16).  Boil  five  minutes,  skim  fat  from  the  surface,  strew 
in  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  mix  well,  pour  the  soup  in  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

2403.  BASS,  BORDELAISE 

Scale  and  trim  off  fins  from  a  three  pound  sea  bass,  place  it  in  a  baking 
dish,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  claret,  one  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  pepper.  Sprinkle  over  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot. 
Cover  the  fish  with  sheet  of  buttered  paper  and  set  to  bake  in  the  oven 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish.  Transfer  the 
gravy  to  a  saucepan,  add  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  one  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122),  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  and  half  bean  of 
finely  chopped  garlic,  lightly  mix,  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce 
over  the  bass  and  serve. 

2404.  GATEAU,  GERMAINE 

Lightly  butter  a  deep  pie  plate,  and  line  it  with  thin  layer  puff  paste 
(No.  756).  Neatly  trim  all  around  the  edges,  line  the  inside  of  the  plate 

*Save  wings,  neck,  gizzard  and  heart  (uncooked)  for  Monday's  soup. 


726  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  a  sheet  of  paper,  then  fill  up  with  dried  beans,  set  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.     Remove,  take  up  the  beans  and  paper. 

Peel  and  skin  three  sound,  juicy  oranges,  divide  in  sections,  and  place 
them  in  a  bowl,  add  two  ounces  glazed  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  cura- 
fao,  mix  well,  and  arrange  them  on  a  plate.  Spread  three  tablespoons 
currant  jelly  over  them.  Place  two  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl,  add  two  gills 
cream,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  and  briskly 
beat  up  with  a  whisk  two  minutes.  Sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar 
over,  then  set  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  ten  minutes. 
Lift  it  up  from  the  plate,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)          Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Calf's  Brains 

Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (81) 

Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219) 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2405.  SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CALF'S  BRAINS. 
Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Beat  up  with  a  fork  one  minute. 
Plunge  one  fresh  calf's  brain  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
the  blood  sinews,  then  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  pint  of  boiling  water, 
two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  salt,  and  let  slowly  boil  five 
minutes.  Drain,  then  cut  each  half  in  two  lengthwise  and  lightly  roll  in 
flour.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add 
brains  and  briskly  cook  them  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  them  up 
with  a  skimmer,  then  cut  them  in  half-inch  pieces.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  in  a  sauteuse,  drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes, 
briskly  and  frequently  stirring  meanwhile;  then  add  the  brains,  gently 
mix,  dress  on  a  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Broiled  Lobster,  Chili  Sauce  (1320) 

Boned  Squabs  with  Jelly  (2025) 

Cauliflower  Salad  (2132) 
Cold  Maraschino  Pudding  (1772) 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)     -    Celery  (86)          Salted  Almonds 

Consomme",  Renaissance 

Filet  of  Sole,  Higgins  (1354)  Duchesse  Potatoes  (304) 

Tournedos  Imperial  (1550)          Broiled  Tomatoes  (1636) 

Escalopes  of  Sweetbreads,  Villeroi 

Fresh  Peas  with  Mint 

Punch  aux  Roses  (377) 

Roast  Capon  (378)          Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Paradise  Ice  Cream 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER          727 

2406.    CONSOMME^  RENAISSANCE 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering.  Prepare  half  the  quantity  of  pate-a-choux  (No.  336). 
Drop  it  into  a  paper  cornet,  cut  away  an  opening  at  the  bottom,  then 
press  the  paste  in  a  clean  baking  sheet  in  little  heaps  of  the  size  of  cran- 
berries. Set  in  the  oven  eight  minutes.  Remove  and  place  them  in  a 
soup  tureen,  add  four  tablespoons  cooked  green  peas  and  six  finely 
sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Pour  the  consomme*  over  and  serve. 

2407.    ESCALOPES  OF  SWEETBREADS,  VILLEROI 

Soak  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  two  hours,  remove  and 
plunge  them  in  boiling  water  five  minutes,  lift  them  up,  and  neatly  trim 
all  around;  cut  them  crosswise  in  pieces  a  quarter  inch  thick.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper. 

Prepare  Villeroi  sauce  (No.  1460),  then  dip  each  piece  in  the  sauce; 
lay  the  pieces  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin  and  let  cool  off.  Plunge  them 
once  more  in  the  sauce,  and  let  cool  off  again,  lightly  roll  them  in  flour, 
then  lightly  dip  them  in  beaten  egg;  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  them 
in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  hot,  but  not  boiling,  fat  ten  minutes.  Take 
up,  drain  thoroughly,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  send  to 
the  table  with  one  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

2408.    FRESH  PEAS  WITH  MINT 

Plunge  a  pint  of  fresh,  tender  peas  in  quart  boiling  water  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  forty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  in  a 
sauteuse  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  mint  leaves,  one  ounce 
butter,  two  saltspoons  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  one  saltspoon 
white  pepper,  toss  them  until  well  thickened.  Dress  on  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve. 

2409.    PARADISE  ICE  CREAM 

Thoroughly  wash  two  ounces  raw  rice,  drain  it  and  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  sugar,  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence  and  a  tablespoon  orange-flower  water,  lightly  mix 
and  let  slowly  cook  fifty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Press  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan.  Add  six  egg  yolks,  four 
ounces  of  sugar  and  sharply  whisk  two  minutes.  Pour  in  one  and 
a  half  pints  milk  and  two  gills  cream,  set  pan  on  the  fire,  and  con- 
stantly and  briskly  stir  until  thoroughly  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Take 
from  the  fire,  lay  on  a  table  and  let  cool  off.  Strain  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  an  ice-cream  freezer,  as  in  Vanilla  (No.  42),  pour  in 
two  tablespoons  Jamaica  rum,  then  proceed  to  freeze  and  serve  same 
as  vanilla. 


7*8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches        Barley  and  Cream  (1058) 

Egg  Molet,  Bermuda 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel  (511) 

Pig's  Feet  (434)         Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2410.    EGG  MOLET,  BERMUDA 

Finely  ^lice  two  small  Bermuda  onions,  place  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  one  ounce  butter  and  fry  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  mean- 
while ;  add  one  ounce  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  two  gills  milk  and  one 
tablespoon  sherry,  add  two  finely  sliced,  peeled,  raw  potatoes.  Season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  mix  well.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  cook  thirty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Press  them  through  a  sieve  and  arrange  the  pur£e  on  a  hot  dish.  Plunge 
twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  take  up,  drop  in  cold 
water,  remove  and  shell  them.  Arrange  them  nicely  over  the  puree 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consommd  in  Cups  (1901) 

Soft  Shell  Crabs  au  Cerfeuil  (2036) 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Sauce  Pdrigueux  (1600) 

Spaghetti,  Italienne  (15) 

Pear  Pie  (354) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Giblets,  Francaise        Sheepshead,  Lobster  Sauce 
Potato  Croquettes  with  Spinach 

Leg  of  Lamb,  Boulangdre 

Stuffed  Eggplant,  Provencale  (306) 

Roast  Squabs  with  Cress  (831) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
English  Bread  Pudding  (2129) 

2411.    GIBLETS,  FRANCAISE 

Cut  into  half-inch  pieces  the  neck,  wings,  gizzard  and  heart  left 
over  from  Saturday  night,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  finely  chop- 
ped onion  and  one  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  the  fire  ten  minutes,  or 
until  a  light  brown,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  three  leeks 
cut  into  small  squares,  and.  one  stalk  well  cleaned  celery,  cut  in  same 
way.  Moisten  with  two  pints  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  three  pints  of 
water.  Tie  together  three  branches  parsley,  sprig  thyme,  sprig  marjo- 
ram and  one  bay  leaf,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Season  with  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  let  slowly  boil  thirty  min- 
utes. Add  two  ounces  raw  rice  and  boil  forty  minutes  more.  Remove 
the  bunch  of  herbs,,  skim  fat  from  the  surface  of  broth.  Pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER          729 

2412.    SHEEPSHEAD,  LOBSTER  SAUCE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  sheepshead,  neatly  trim,  remove 
bones  and  thoroughly  wipe.  Place  in  a  saucepan  one  sliced  carrot,  a 
sliced  onion,  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  half  gill  vinegar,  half 
a  sound  lemon,  two  quarts  cold  water,  two  branches  parsley  and  a  level 
tablespoon  salt,  then  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Lay  in  the  fish  and  let 
slowly  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up  the  fish  with  the  skimmer, 
place  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  lobster  sauce  (No.  2413)  over  it  and  serve. 

2413.    LOBSTER  SAUCE 

Plunge  a  one  pound  live  lobster  in  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt, 
and  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  let  slightly  cool  off,  crack  the  shells 
of  tails  and  claws,  pick  out  all  the  meat,  cut  it  in  small  square  pieces 
and  keep  on  a  plate,  then  cut  off  head.  Place  all  the  shells  in  a  mortar 
with  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  and  pound  to  a  perfect  pulp,  then 
rub  through  sieve  on  a  plate.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  half 
ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  flour,  heat  for  half  a  minute,  then  pour  in 
one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  half  gill  cream,  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt>  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  boil  for  five  minutes.  Add,  little  by  little,  the  lobster 
pulp,  briskly  mixing  while  adding  it.  Now  add  the  cut-up  lobster, 
cook  for  five  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile,  and  use  as  required. 

2414.    POTATO  CROQUETTES  WITH  SPINACH 

Boil  four  good-sized,  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  tea- 
spoon salt  for  thirty  minutes,  drain,  then  press  them  through  a  potato 
masher  into  a  saucepan,  add  two  egg  yolks,  half  ounce  butter,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  three  saltspoon s  pepper,  and  sharply  stir  on  the  fire  for  two 
minutes.  Pick  off  the  stalks  and  any  stale  leaves  adhering  to  a  pint  of 
fresh,  very  green  spinach,  thoroughly  wash  in  running  water,  drain  on  a 
sieve,  plunge  them  in  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  place  on  a  sieve  an,d  press  them 
with  a  skimmer  to  press  out  all  the  water,  finely  chop  and  add  to  the 
potatoes  and  briskly  stir  for  one  minute.  Roll  out  the  preparation  on  a 
lightly  floured  table  in  twelve  equal,  cork-shaped  pieces,  lightly  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying  basket 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight  minutes,  remove,  drain,  dress  on  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

2415.    LEG  OF  LAMB,  BOULANGE"RE 

With  a  cleaver  lightly  beat  a  medium  leg  of  lamb  all  around,  insert 
a  small  piece  of  sound  garlic  under  the  meat  of  the  handle  bone,  season 
it  all  over  with  a  tespoon  of  salt  well  rubbed  in,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and 
lay  the  leg  in  a  small  roasting  pan.  Place  around  it  twelve  small, 
raw  peeled  potatoes  and  twelve  small,  peeled  white  onions,  lightly  baste 
with  melted  butter,  pour  half  gill  water  into  the  pan,  set  in  the  oven  to 
roast  for  one  hour,  turning  leg,  potatoes  and  onions  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  dress  leg  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  garnishing  around.  Pour 


730  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

half  gill  white  wine  into  pan,  boil  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  pour  it 
over  the  lamb,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Watermelon  (2080)          Force  (979) 
Eggs,  Pauvre  Femme  White  Perch,  Tartare 

Lamb  Hash,  Espagnole 
Cinnamon  Griddle  Cakes  (1195) 

2416.    EGGS,  PAUVRE  FEMME 

Lightly  butter  a  large  baking  dish,  carefully  crack  in  twelve  fresh 
eggs,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Cut  two 
ounces  stale  sandwich  bread  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  place  in  a 
black  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  shuffle  the  pan  on  the  fire  until 
the  bread  attains  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  pour  them  over  the  eggs,  set 
in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove,  pour  half  gill  hot  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  over  them  and  serve. 

2417.  WHITE  PERCH,  TARTARE 

Scale  and  wipe  six  very  fresh  white  perch,  season  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  baste  them  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
roll  them  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes,  lift  up, 
drain,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  dish,  decorate  with  six 
quarters  of  lemon  and  parsley  greens,  then  serve  with  tartare  sauce 
(No.  48)  separately. 

2418.  LAMB  HASH,  ESPAGNOLE 

Cut  in  small  dice  pieces  all  the  meat  from  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from 
yesterday's  dinner  and  two  medium,  cold,  boiled  potatoes.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  butter  in  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped,  seeded,  green 
pepper  and  one  medium,  chopped  white  onion,  brown  for  five  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  the  lamb  and  potatoes.  Peel  and 
finely  chop  three  sound,  fresh,  red  tomatoes  and  add  to  the  hash  with 
two  gills  of  broth  (No.  701).  Season  with  light  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  mix  well,  cover  pan,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  forty-five 
minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 
Scallops,  Brestoise  (1857) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Don  Fulano  Salad,  Hocart 

Cream  Chocolate  Caramel 

2419.    VEAL  CUTLETS,  DON  FULANO 

Remove  the  sinews  from  a  one-and-a-half -pound  piece  of  lean,  raw 
veal,  finely  chop  it  with  an  ounce  of  raw  beef  marrow,  then  place  in 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER          731 

a  bowi  and  gradually  add  half  gill  cream,  sharply  stirring  while  adding. 
Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Dilute  a  saltspoon  of  saffron  in  saltspoon  water, 
strain  and  add  to  the  meat  with  an  ounce  grated  cooked  ham,  mix  until 
well  amalgamated.  Roll  out  the  veal  on  a  table  to  six  even  cutlet- 
shaped  forms,  lightly  dip  in  melted  butter,  then  roll  in  freshly  prepared 
bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons  of  oil  or  melted  butter  in  a  sau- 
toir,  place  the  cutlets  in  the  pan  one  beside  another  and  gently  fry 
for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  arrange  them  on  a  large  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Cut  two  fresh  tomatoes  into  three  even  slices  each,  season  with  three 
saltspoons  salt,  three  saltspoons  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
lightly  roll  in  flour,  fry  them  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  for  two  minutes 
on  each  side.  Take  them  up  and  arrange  them  on  top  of  each  cutlet, 
pour  a  Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  over  them  and  serve. 

2420.     SALAD,  HOCART 

Cut  into  square  pieces  one  ounce  smoked  salmon,  six  anchovies  in  oil, 
two  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  one  ounce  Swiss  cheese,  six  vinegar  pickles, 
the  perfect  white  of  a  stalk  of  celery,  one  small,  very  sound,  peeled  and 
cored  apple  and  the  tender  part  of  a  small  head  of  romaine.  Place  all 
these  articles  in  a  salad  bowl,  flavour  with  three  tablespoons  good  claret, 
toss  the  ingredients  well  for  a  minute,  let  rest  for  five  minutes.  Season 
with  four  tablespoons  of  dressing  (No.  863),  thoroughly  mix,  and  at  the 
last  moment  add  two  tablespoons  mayonnaise,  mix  again  and  serve. 

2421.    CREAM  CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL 

Prepare  a  cream  caramel  in  same  manner  as  No.  480,  adding  to 
the  cream  preparation  three  ounces  plain,  melted  sweet  chocolate. 

DINNER 

Clams  (145?) 
Celery  (86)  Salted  Peanuts  95^ 

Puree  Crecy,  Stanley 

Pacts  of  Red  Snapper  Potatoes  Noisette  (321) 

Filet  of  Beef,  Bowers  String  Beans,  Orleannaise  (aaja) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Watercress  (ago) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Babas  au  Fruits  (930) 

2422.    PUR£E  CRECY,  STANLEY. 

Scrape,  wash  and  drain  eighteen  small  new  carrots,  finely  slice 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  sliced  onions  and  four  sliced  branches 
celery.  Add  one  ounce  butter,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  constantly  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  for  ten  minutes,  add  two  ounces  raw  rice,  moisten 
with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  season  with  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
fifty  minutes,  strain  the  broth  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  place  the 
vegetables  on  strainer  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pure*e,  then  add  it  to 
the  broth,  sharply  mix  with  a  whisk,  strain  the  soup  through  Chinese 


73*  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  half  pint  cooked  fresh  peas.  Let  come  to  a 
boil,  add  a  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well,  then  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve. 

2423.  FILETS  OF  RED  SNAPPER 

Bone  and  skin  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  red  snapper,  then  cut  it  in 
six  equal  filets.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  well  divided,  dip  each  piece  in  cold  milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour. 
Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  lay  in  the  filets  one 
beside  another  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  to  bake  in 
the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  squeeze  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  over  them,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  on  top,  add  an  ounce  of  butter  to  the  pan,  shuffle  the  pan  on  the 
fire  until  it  attains  a  nice  brown  color,  add  half  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence,  mix  well,  pour  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2424.  FILET  OF  BEEF,  BOWERS 

Neatly  trim  off  the  fat  and  skin  from  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  fine 
filet  of  beef.  Have  fifteen  very  thin  strips  of  raw,  lean  ham,  then  with  a 
small  larding  needle  carefully  lard  the  top  of  the  filet  with  the  pork, 
and  underneath  with  the  ham.  Lay  the  filet  in  an  oval  earthern  or  stone 
jar,  add  one  sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one  crushed  bean  of  garlic, 
two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  sprig  sage,  blade 
mace,  two  bay  leaves,  one  clove,  two  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar,  one 
gill  white  wine,  half  a  gill  sherry,  tablespoon  cognac  and  two  gills  water, 
season  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  crushed 
black  pepper.  Cover  the  vessel  and  let  infuse  in  a  cool  place  eight 
hours  at  least.  Lift  it  up,  place  it  on  a  small  roasting  tin,  baste  with  a 
little  melted  butter  and  set  in  a  lively  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  re- 
move, dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Place  the  marinade  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  let  reduce  on  the  open  fire  till  nearly  dry,  then  pour  in  one  and 
a  half  gills  of  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pick  off 
the  stems  from  a  pound  of  sweet  grapes,  place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  brown  till  a  nice  golden  colour,  arrange 
them  around  the  filet,  strain  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 
Cracked  Wheat  (656)         Eggs,  Archebald 

Broiled  Bluefish  (927) 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (6) 

Potatoes  Allumettes  (196) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

2425.    EGGS,  ARCHEBALD 

Cut  out  from  a  sandwich  loaf  six  quarter-inch-thick  slices,  then 
with  a  pastry  cutter  cut  out  each  slice  in  two-inch  pieces,  lightly 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER      733 

butter  them  and  toast  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  place  on  a  dish. 
Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  on  the  fire,  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs,  boil  them  for  three  minutes, 
lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  neatly  trim,  arrange  them  on  the  six  toasts.  Cut 
three  Spanish  red  peppers  in  two,  then  fry  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon 
butter  for  one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side,  then  arrange  a  piece  on 
top  of  each  egg.  Finely  slice  six  canned  mushrooms,  place  in'  a  small 
saucepan  with  two  canned  artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  small  squares, 
pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry,  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  gill 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  with  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  boil 
for  five  minutes,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

i 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Oysters,  Poulette         Dolmas  Gildisie 

Cucumber  Saute" 
Rice  Pudding  au  Nectar 

2426.    OYSTERS,  POULETTE 

Plunge  forty-eight  medium,  freshly  opened,  fresh  Bluepoint  oysters 
with  their  liquor,  into  a  pint  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil 
for  three  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  save  the  liquor.  Finely  chop 
three  sound  shallots  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  of 
butter  and  nicely  brown  for  three  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile,  then 
add  one  ounce  flour,  stir  well,  pour  in  a  gill  white  wine  and  half  the  quan- 
tity of  the  oyster  broth,  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well,  then  let  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Add  the  oysters, 
six  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  half  teaspoon  chives  and  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  in 
half  a  gill  cream,  then  strain  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  pan,  care- 
fully mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  pour  the  oysters  into  a  chafing 
or  deep  dish  and  serve. 

2427.     DOLMAS  GILDISIE 

Finely  chop  a  pound  and  a  half  of  raw,  lean  mutton  with  two  ounces 
raw  beef-kidney  suet,  place  in  a  bowl  with  two  ounces  fresh  bread 
crumbs  and  one  and  a  half  ounces  raw  rice.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  paprika  and  three  saltspoons  curry  powder,  moisten 
with  a  gill  broth,  sharply  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  well  amalgamated. 
Plunge  twenty-four  "vine  leaves"  into  quart  boiling  water  with  table- 
spoon vinegar  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then  thoroughly  drain  on  a 
sieve,  cut  the  leaves  in  two,  arrange  them  on  a  table  one  beside  another, 
and  with  a  hair  pastry  brush  lightly  egg  the  surface  of  each.  Evenly 
divide  the  preparation  in  the  centre  of  each  half  leaf,  fold  them  up  so  as 
to  entirely  envelop  the  meat,  place  them  in  a  lightly  buttered  sautoir 
folded  part  downward.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  salt- 
spoons pepper,  moisten  with  two  gills  broth.  Finely  chop  three  fresh, 


734  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

peeled,  red  tomatoes,  add  them  to  the  dolmas  with  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  cover  the  sautoir,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifty 
minutes.  Remove,  carefully  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  arrange  them 
in  a  heap  on  a  large  hot  dish.  Pour  a  gill  tomato  sauce  into  the  pan,  let 
reduce  on  the  open  fire  to  half  the  quantity,  strain  it  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  over  the  dolmas  and  serve.. 

N.  B.     In  the  event  that  vine  leaves  are  not  at  hand  use  cooked 
cabbage  leaves  instead. 

2428.    CUCUMBER  SAUTE" 

Peel  three  sound  cucumbers,  cut  them  in  half  lengthwise,  re- 
move the  spongy  part,  then  cut  them  in  quarter-inch  slices,  plunge  in 
boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  the  cucumbers,  season  with  light 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  then  fry  on  a  brisk  fire  for 
eight  minutes,  frequently  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Dress  on  a  dish, 
sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

2429.    RICE   PUDDING  AU  NECTAR 

Boil  four  ounces  rice  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  thoroughly 
drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  it  in  saucepan  with  a  pint  milk,  half  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence,  the  rind  of  a  mandarin  and  three  ounces  sugar.  Lightly 
mix  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes,  remove  the  rind,  then  add  half 
gill  honey,  two  gills  cream  and  four  egg  yolks.  Sharply  mix  with  the 
spatula  for  three  minutes,  transfer  the  rice  to  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
two  tablespoons  shredded  cocoanut  over  the  rice,  set  it  In  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish,  either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Olives          Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Svezhsa  Shtchee  (Soup) 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel  (689) 

Philadelphia  Rolled  Potatoes  (1705) 

Lamb  Steaks,  Lyonnaise 

Cauliflower,  Hollandaise  (853) 

Roast  Grouse,  Currant  Jelly  (167) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Cold  Pudding,  Maraschino  (1772) 

2430.    SVEZHSA  SHTCHEE  (Soup) 

Place  a  three-pound  piece  short  rib  of  beef  in  a  saucepan  with  five 
quarts  water  and  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the  pan,  and  boil  for  thirty 
minutes,  skimming  the  fat  off  once  in  a  while.  Cut  half  of  a  very  small 
head  of  cabbage,  cored  and  trimmed,  in  small  pieces,  plunge  into  boiling 
water  for  five  minutes,  then  drain  on  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  soup,  with  two 
medium,  sliced  carrots  and  two  medium,  sliced  onions.  Cover  the  pan 
and  let  simmer  for  three  hours.  Take  up  the  beef  and  keep  it  on  a  plate, 
skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  soup.  Knead  on  a  plate  an  ounce 
butter  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and  gradually  add  to  the  soup, 


THURSDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER      735 

continually  mixing  meanwhile.  Then  pour  in  one  gill  cream  and  two 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  boil  for  two  min- 
utes, pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Remove  bones  and  trim  off  fat  from  the  boiled  beef,  then  en- 
velop in  a  clean,  coarse  towel  and  lightly  tie  both  sides,  press  between 
two  boards  place  a  four-pound  weight  on  top  and  keep  in  a  cool  place 
until  to-morrow's  lunch. 

2431.    LAMB  STEAKS,  LYONNAISE 

Cut  three  three-quarter-pound  steaks  from  a  tender  leg  of  lamb,  make 
a  few  incisions  in  skin,  neatly  flatten,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
a  half  teaspoon  pepper. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  steaks  in  it 
one  beside  another  and  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  with 
a  fork,  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Finely  slice  two  onions  and  add  to  the  pan, 
fry  for  six  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while,  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
steaks  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  au  Jus 
Fried  Smelts,  Tomato  Sauce  (527) 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon  (155)  Grilled  White  Potatoes  (1344) 

Curry  Cakes  (1112) 

2432.  EGGS  COCOTTE,  AU  Jus 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  a  tablespoon 
sherry,  half  gill  broth  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  let  boil 
for  five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Divide  into  six  egg-cocotte 
dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lay  them  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  five 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Cold  Consomme*  in  Cups  (1901) 

Frogs'  Legs,  Newburg 
Economical  Boiled  Beef  Horseradish  Sauce 

Vermicelli  au  Gratin 
Apples,  Richelieu  (300) 

2433.  FROGS*  LEGS,  NEWBURG 

Cut  off  bodies  and  claws  (if  any  adhering)  from  one  and  a  half  pounds 
fresh  frogs'  legs,  then  separate  the  legs,  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter in  a  sautoire,  add  the  legs,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  tossing  meanwhile.  Pour  in  three  table- 
spoons sherry,  one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  one  and  a  half  gills  cream. 
Season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix 


736  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well  and  let  slowly  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  in  two 
tablespoons  cream  and  add  to  the  frogs,  constantly  shuffling  the  pan 
while  heating  for  four  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  boil,  pour  into  a 
chafing  dish  or  tureen  and  serve. 

2434.    ECONOMICAL  BOILED  BEEF 

Unwrap  the  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  into  quarter-inch 
slices,  spread  a  very  little  French  mustard  on  both  sides  of  the  slices, 
lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  table- 
spoons lard  in  frying  pan,  add  the  beef  and  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each 
side.  Lift  up,  pour  a  horseradish  sauce  (No.  2435)  on  a  h°t  dish,  dress 
the  beef  over  and  serve. 

2435.    HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  an  ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  flour, 
briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  pour 
in  two  gills  hot  milk,  season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  mix  well  and  let 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  freshly  grated  horse- 
radish, mix  well,  boil  for  one  minute,  then  use  as  required. 

2436.  VERMICELLI  AU  GRATIN 

Gently  break  ten  ounces  vermicelli  on  a  plate,  boil  in  a  saucepan  one 
pint  white  broth  (No.  701),  add  the  vermicelli;  season  with  a  light  tea- 
spoon salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  then  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  at  the  bottom  frequently.  Stir  in  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  add  half  a  gill  cream,  one-half  ounce  butter  and  one  egg  yolk. 
Sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  one  minute,  transfer  the  vermicelli 
into  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  Parmesan  cheese,  arrange  a 
few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Chicken,  Hollandaise 

Striped  Bass,  Colmarienne  Potatoes,  Windsor  (asa) 

Fresh  Beef  Tongue,  Creole  (506)  Green  Corn  Saute"  (3144) 

Broiled  Spring  Turkey  (3351) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Banana  Ice  Cream 

2437.  CHICKEN,  HOLLANDAISE 

Neatly  draw  a  very  small,  tender  fowl,  tear  off  the  skin,  detach  the 
legs,  then  remove  all  the  meat  from  the  body  and  legs,  and  cut  the  meat 
in  half-inch-square  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  finely  chopped 
white  onion  and  brown  over  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stir- 
ring meanwhile.  Moisten  with  a  quart  broth  and  three  pints  water, 
season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  add  all 
the  chicken  bones,  with  one  medium  carrot  cut  in  quarters.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  two  branches  celery,  one  sprig 
thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves  and  add  to  the  soup.  Let  boil  for 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER         737 

forty  minutes,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice  and  cook  for  forty  minutes 
longer,  take  up  the  bouquet  and  bones,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface, 
pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2438.    STRIPED  BASS,  COLMAREENNE 

Scale,  cut  fins  and  head  off  a  fresh  three-pound  striped  bass,  wipe  it 
well,  then  split  open  through  the  front  without  separating  and  remove 
the  spinal  bone.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  fish  in  the  seasoning,  arrange 
on  a  broiler  and  slowly  cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  green  butter  (No.  21)  over  the 
bass,  squeeze  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon  over,  set  in  the  oven  for 
two  minutes,  then  serve. 

2439.    BANANA  ICE  CREAM 

Peel  six  sound,  ripe  bananas,  rub  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Prepare 
an  ice  cream  preparation  (No.  42)  and  just  before  cooking  add  the  ba- 
nana pur£e.  Sharply  mix  with  the  spatula,  cook,  let  cool  off,  then  strain 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  the  freezer  and  add  two  tablespoons 
curacao.  Mix  well  with  the  spatula,  then  proceed  to  freeze  and  serve  same 
as  vanilla. 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Apricots  in  Cream  (2236)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (a) 

Shirred  Eggs  au  Gratin 

Pried  Whitebait  (1123)  Broiled  Tripe  (a8i) 

Potatoes,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (312) 
Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2440.    SHIRRED  EGGS  AU  GRATIN 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-cgg  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each 
dish,  and  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Pour  a  tablespoon  thick  cream  o-er  he  eggs  in  each  dish.  Sprinkle  a 
little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on 
top,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  rcmov?  ..nd  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Chowder  Crab  Meat,  Finnoise 

Chicken  Pot  Pie  (150) 

Carmelite  Salad 

Peach  Fritters 

•  2441.    OYSTER  CHOWDER 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  two  leeks  and  two  me'\om,  white  onions, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  salt  pork  cut  in  small  squares,  add 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  gently  brown  for  six  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  quarts  water  and  let  bcil  for  twenty 
minutes,  cut  three  medium,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  into  third-of-an-inch 


738  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

squares,  add  to  the  soup  with  three  fresh,  peeled,  crushed,  red  tomatoes. 
Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce, 
two  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  six  drops  tabasco  and  two  saltspoons 
shredded  dried  thyme,  mix  well  and  slowly  cook  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Open  thirty-six  medium,  fresh  oysters.  Cut  them  in  four  pieces  each 
and  add  to  the  soup  with  their  own  liquor,  then  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Pour  the  chowder  into  a  soup  tureen,  sprinkle  half  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over,  place  six  broken  soda  crackers. over  the  chowder 
and  serve. 

2442.    CRAB  MEAT,  FINNOISE 

Place  on  a  plate  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  crab-meat  flakes  and 
keep  till  required.  Finely  chop  two  sound,  seeded,  medium  green  pep- 
pers, place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and 
cook  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  one  and 
a  half  gills  pure  tomato  juice  and  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  add  six 
finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Mix  on 
a  saucer  an  ounce  butter  with  half  ounce  flour,  then  add  it  little  by  little  to 
the  sauce,  sharply  mixing  while  adding.  Add  the  crab  meat,  season 
with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  lightly  mix,  then  cook  for  eight  minutes, 
gently  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Dress  on  a  deep  dish,  arrange  six  heart- 
shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

2443.    CARMELITE  SALAD 

Cut  four  cold,  hard-boiled  eggs  in  quarters  and  place  in  a  bowl,  with 
two  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  one  pickled  beetroot  cut  in  small  pieces,  one 
finely  chopped,  medium,  white  onion,  and  six  small  anchovies  in  oil 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No. 
863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

2444.    PEACH  FRITTERS 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  peel,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  the 
stones  from  six  medium,  ripe  peaches,  then  cut  each  half  in  two.  Place 
them  in  a  bowl,  add  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  mara- 
schino, turn  well  in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Roll  in  the  batter,  and  drop  them  one  by  one  in  hot  fat — but  not  boiling — 
and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  with  the  skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Lift 
up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  trim  a  little,  pour  a  hot  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102) 
on  a  dish,  dress  the  peaches  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over,  then 
serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Clams  (1457)  Canapes  of  Caviare  (59) 

Cream  of  Leeks,  Royale 

Baked  IT'uensh,  Mustard  Sauce         Potatoes,  Hollandaisc  (26) 
Larded  Sirloin,  San  Juan         Stuffed  Cucumbers 

Lima  Beans  with  Fines  Herbes  (2315) 
Timbales  of  Lobster  Paprika  Cream  Sauce    ' 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 
Chicory  Salad  (38)          Fig  Pudding  (57) 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER        739 

2445.    CREAM  OF  LEEKS,  ROYALE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  six  pared  and  cleaned,  sliced  leeks  with  one  ounce 
butter  and  cook  on  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile,  dredge  in  two  ounces  flour,  and  stir  well  while  heating  for  one 
minute.  Moisten  with  a  quart  broth  and  a  quart  milk,  add  two  branches 
parsley,  one  branch  chervil  and  four  sliced,  shallots ;  season  with  a  level 
tablespoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg 
yolks,  with  a  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup  with  one-half  ounce  butter, 
mix  well  for  two  minutes,  strain  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  a  royale  garnishing, 
lightly  mix  and  serve. 

2446.    ROYALE  FOR  SOUPS 

Crack  a  fresh  egg  in  a  bowl,  add  one  egg  yolk  and  sharply  mix  with  a 
whisk  for  one  minute,  then  pour  in  one  gill  broth  and  a  gill  cream. 
Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  very  little 
grated  nutmeg,  sharply  mix  until  well  thickened.  Lightly  butter  four 
individual  pudding  moulds,  then  press  the  preparation  through  a  sieve 
into  four  moulds,  lay  them  in  a  small  pan  and  pour  hot  water  into  the 
pan  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  moulds.  Set  in  the  oven,  with  the  door 
open,  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  let  cool  off,  unmould,  then  cut  the  royale 
into  small  squares,  lozenges  or  thin  slices,  and  use  as  required. 

2447.    BAKED  BLUEFISH,  MUSTARD  SAUCE 

Scale  and  remove  the  bones  from  a  three-pound  fresh  bluefish  and 
place  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika.  Squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  and  spread 
a  half  ounce  butter  over,  cover  the  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  with  a 
skimmer,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  mustard  sauce  (No.  1107)  over  and 
serve. 

2448.    LARDED  SIRLOIN,  SAN  JUAN 

Trim  the  fat  and  skin  from  top  (only)  of  meat  of  a  two-and-one-half- 
pound  piece  of  a  tender  sirloin  of  beef,  and  with  the  aid  of  a  larding 
needle  lard  the  surface  with  thin  strips  of  larding  pork.  Lay  a  mirepoix 
(No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  place  the  beef  on  top,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  the  top  with  a  little  melted 
butter,  then  pour  a  half  gill  water  into  the  pan  and  set  to  roast  in  oven 
for  forty  minutes,  turning  and  basting  it  once  in  a  while.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  gravy,  pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122)  and  one  tablespoon  sherry,  and  boil  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes. 
Strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  two  sweet  red 
peppers  cut  in  small  squares,  boil  for  five  minutes,  arrange  the  stuffed 
cucumbers  around  the  filet,  pour  the  sauce  into  a  bowl  and  send  to  the 
table  separately. 


740  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2449.    STUFFED  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  three  good-sized,  sound,  ripe  cucumbers,  cut  into  four  pieces 
crosswise,  then  scoop  out  three-quarters  of  the  soft  part  of  each  piece 
and  plunge  in  boiling  water,  boil  for  five  minutes,  take  up  and  thor- 
oughly drain  on  a  cloth.  Skin  three  country  sausages,  place  the  meat  in  a 
mortar  with  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  two  tablespoons  cream,  one  egg  yolk,  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper.  Thoroughly  pound  until  a  smooth  pulp;  season  the  cucum- 
bers evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper, 
then  fill  up  with  the  force,  neatly  smooth  the  top  of  each,  place  on  a 
baking  tin,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
remove,  lift  up  the  paper  and  use  as  required. 

2450.  TlMBALES   OF  LOBSTER 

Plunge  two  two-pound  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  up  and  crack  the 
shells  of  the  claws  and  tail.  Pick  out  all  the  meat  and  cut  into  half-inch 
pieces,  place  the  meat  on  a  plate  with  ten  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  and 
one  small  truffle  cut  in  small  squares,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
required.  Cut  the  heads  from  the  lobsters,  place  the  bodies  and  shells 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch 
chervil,  moisten  with  a  gill  white  wine,  pint  broth,  season  with 
a  light  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Mix  in  a  sauteuse  one  ounce  butter  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour, 
strain  the  broth  into  this  pan,  then  mix  well  and  let  boil  on  the  open 
fire  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Dilute  two  egg 
yolks  in  a  bowl  with  a  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  the  juice  of 
a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  and  add  to  the  sauce ;  sharply  mix  for  one  minute ; 
add  the  lobster,  mushrooms  and  truffles,  season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  constantly  stir  on  the  fire 
for  five  minutes  while  cooking.  Remove,  transfer  to  a  bowl 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place  till  required.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a 
half  pound  of  fresh  salmon,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp,  then 
add  a  bread  panade  (No.  1759),  two  egg  yolks,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon cayenne  and  half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Thoroughly  pound 
again  for  three  minutes,  then  press  all  the  force  through  a  sieve  into  a 
bowl.  Butter  a  large  plain  pudding  mould,  set  on  the  ice,  then  line  the  bot- 
tom and  sides  with  half  of  the  force.  Drop  the  prepared  lobster  in  the 
centre,  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  force,  lay  a  buttered  paper  on  top, 
place  the  mould  in  a  saucepan,  pour  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of 
mould,  then  set  in  a  slack  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the 
paper,  unmould  on  a  large  "dish,  pour  a  paprika  cream  sauce  over  the 
timbales  and  serve. 

2451.  PAPRIKA  CREAM  SAUCE 

Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  one  ounce  butter,  add  an  ounce  flour,  and 
stir  on  the  fire  while  heating  for  one  minute,  pour  in  half  a  gill  milk  and 
three-fourths  gill  of  cream,  season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  light  half 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER     741 

teaspoon  paprika  and  half  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  sharply  mix  with 
a  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  boil  for  two  minutes  longer  and  use  as 
required. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369)  Germea  (217) 

Fried  Eggs,  Creole  Sauce 

Fried  Filets  of  Sole,  Tartare  (587) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette  (600) 

Fried  Potatoes  in  Quarters  (348) 

Raisin  Cakes  (1719) 

2452.    FRIED  EGGS,  CREOLE  SAUCE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  large  black  frying  pan,  carefully 
crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  fry  on  the  range  for  one  minute,  then  set  in  the  oven 
for  five  minutes,  remove,  carefully  glide  them  on  a  large  hot  dish,  pour 
a  oriole  sauce  (No.  507)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Clam  Croquettes  (2108) 

Haricot  of  Mutton,  Paysanne  (1447) 

Noodles  with  Tomatoes 

Peach  Shortcakes  (2016) 

2453.    NOODLES  WITH  TOMATOES 

Prepare  the  same  amount  of  noodles  as  in  No.  334,  and  plunge 
them  in  two  quarts  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  them  in  a  sauteuse  with  two 
gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  one  ounce  butter,  light  teaspoon  salt  and 
three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  well  with  a  fork,  cook  for  five  minutes, 
then  strew  in  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  and  one  ounce  Swiss  cheese, 
mix  well  again  with  the  fork,  pour  them  on  a  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Walnuts  (954) 

Cucumber-Chiffonade 

Boned  Smelts,  Meuniere       *     Potatoes  en  Timbales  (2102) 

Fricandeau  of  Veal,  Bourgeoise  (459) 

French  Flageolets  with  Butter    (95) 

Roast  Guinea  Fowl  (1535)       Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Choux  a  la  Creme  (335) 

2454.    CUCUMBER-CHIFFONADE 

Peel  two  medium,  sound,  ripe  cucumbers,  remove  the  spongy  parts 
with  a  corer,  then  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  plunge  in  boiling  water  and 
boil  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  drain.  Remove  the  stalks  from  a 
pint  of  fresh  sorrel  leaves  and  thoroughly  wash  and  drain.  Cut  them 


742  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

into  julienne  strips,  cut  in  same  way  six  well-cleaned  green  lettuce 
leaves,  then  place  the  sorrel  and  lettuce  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
butter  and  cook  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  stirring  with  a  wooden 
spoon  once  in  a  while.  Add  the  cucumbers  with  the  leaves  from  two 
branches  chervil  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  moisten  with 
a  consomme  (No.  52),  add  a  teaspoon  sugar,  then  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  of 
toasted  French  bread. 

2455.     BONED  SMELTS,  MEUNIERE 

Thoroughly  wipe  twelve  good-sized,  fresh  smelts,  split  them  open 
through  the  bellies,  remove  the  spinal  bones.  Season  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lightly  dip  in  cold  milk,  then  roll  them 
in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  place  in  smelts 
one  beside  another  and  fry  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Take  them 
up,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  sound  lemon  over,  sprinkle 
a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  over  them.  Add  half  an  ounce 
butter  to  the  pan,  shuffle  the  pan  on  the  fire  until  the  butter  attains  a 
nice  brown  colour,  then  pour  it  over  the  smelts  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Gooseberries  in  Cream  (2169) 

Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Omelette,  Charcutiere 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Squabs  on  Toast  (950)  French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Grape  Fritters 

2456.      OMELETTE,  CHARCUTIERE 

Cut  a  medium,  white  onion  in  half,  then  finely  slice  it,  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  fry  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  then  place  it  in  a  bowl,  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  over,  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  add  a  half  gill  milk  and 
sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  three  country  sausages 
in  halves  lengthwise,  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add 
the  sausages  and  briskly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  place 
on  a  plate  and  keep  until  required.  Drop  the  eggs  in  the  pan  in  which 
the  sausages  were  fried,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for 
half  a  minute;  fold  the  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for 
one  minute,  turn  the  omelettes  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  sausages  around 
the  omelette,  dress  six  thin  slices  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  on  top  and 
serve. 

2457.    GRAPE  FRITTERS 

Crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  adding  four  heaping  tablespoons 
flour,  one  saltspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  half  gill  milk,  half  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  saltspoon  ground  cinnamon,  sharply  mix 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER        743 

with  the  whisk  until  well  thickened  and  totally  free  from  any  lumps. 
Pick  off  the  stems  from  a  half  pound  of  small,  sweet,  white  grapes,  and 
add  them  to  the  batter  and  gently  mix  with  a  spoon.  Thoroughly  heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  then  take  up  the  batter 
by  tablespoonfuls  and  drop  it  into  the  pan  in  round  forms  and  fry  for 
three  minutes  on  each  side.  Take  them  up,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

•  Chicken  Broth  in  Cups  (578) 

Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Maryland  (1512) 

Chicken  Saute",  Creole  (341) 

Broiled  Eggplant  (2136) 

Pear,  Charlotte  (474) 

DINNER 

Celery   (86)  Oysters  (18)  Pim-Olas 

Consomme",  Africaine 
Brook  Trout  Saute,  Meuniere  (1293) 

Potatoes  Mignonnes 

Filet  Mignons,  Mushroom  Sauce  (768)         Cauliflower  Saute"  (631) 
Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Signora 

Orange  Punch  (1225) 

Roast  Plovers  (997)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Iced  Pudding,  Romanoff  (1438) 

2458.  CONSOMME",  AFRICAINE 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan,  adding 
two  ounces  well-washed  rice,  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Cut  out 
from  a  small  eggplant  three  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  then  cut 
them  into  quarter-inch  squares,  cut  also  into  same  shape  three  sweet 
red  peppers.  Place  the  two  articles  in  a  frying  pan  with  teaspoon  melted 
butter  and  gently  cook  for  eight  minutes,  occasionally  tossing  meanwhile, 
drain  them  on  a  cloth,  then  add  the  consomme.  Dilute  a  half  teaspoon 
curry  powder  in  a  tablespoon  of  consomme  and  add  to  the  pan,  boU  for 
two  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2459.  POTATOES  MIGNONNES 

Boil  six  medium,  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty  minutes,  drain,  then  press  through  a  potato  masher  into 
a  saucepan,  add  two  egg  yolks,  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  thor- 
oughly stir  on  the  fire  for  two  minutes,  remove  and  let  slightly  cool  off. 
Divide  the  preparation  into  twelve  even  parts,  then  roll  out  to  ball-like 
shapes,  lightly  flatten,  then  place  them  in  a  buttered  tin.  Lightly  egg  their 
surface,  then  set  them  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  or  until  of  a  golden 
colour,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2460.    BREADED  LAMB  CHOPS,  SIGNORA 

Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  French  lamb  chops,  season  with 
ahalf  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoonspepper,and  lightly  roll  them  in  flour, 


744  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  chops  in  pan  one 
beside  another  and  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another  crown-like,  pour  a  Perigueux 
sauce  (No.  677)  around,  fill  the  centre  with  French  peas  (No.  145),  ad- 
just a  paper  curl  at  the  end  of  each  chop  and  serve. 


Monday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828)  Hominy  (45) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Pelligrini  Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions    (108) 

Potatoes,  Copeaux  (905) 

Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

2461.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  PELLIGRINI 

Cut  two  ounces  lean  bacon  in  very  small,  thin  pieces  and  place  in 
a  sautoire  with  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  once  in  a  while.  Peel  two  medium,  sound,  fresh,  red  tomatoes, 
cut  them  in  eight  pieces  each,  then  add  them  to  the  bacon.  Season 
with  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  briskly  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  into  the  sautoire  over 
the  bacon  and  tomatoes,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt- 
spoons pepper,  pour  over  half  gill  cream,  set  them  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes.  Remove,  place  on  the  range,  then  with  a  spoon  gently  mix 
the  eggs  with  the  tomatoes  and  bacon.  Dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Prawn  Curry,  Penang  (1675) 

Pork  Chops,  Piquante  Sauce  (176) 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Apple  Dumplings  (707) 

DINNER 

Radishes  Pure*e,  Conti  Olives 

Fried  Filets  of  Halibut,  Horly 

Potatoes  Bignons  (403) 
Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (1245) 

Celery  Braise"  (359) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Chicory    Salad    (38) 

Custard  Pudding 

2462.    PURE"E,  CONTI 

Soak  a  pint  of  dried  lentils  in  cold  water  with  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
dried  green  peas  for  one  hour,  drain,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  two  branches 


TUESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER       745 

parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  bean  garlic  and  one  bay  leaf  and  add 
to  the  pan,  with  half  pound  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces  and  a  pint 
fresh  crushed  tomatoes.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  season  with 
two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  two  hours.  Remove  from  the  fire,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface 
of  the  soup,  then  press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through 
Chinese  strainer  into  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  croutons 
(No.  23). 

2463.    FRIED  FILETS  OF  HALIBUT,  HORLY 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  of  the 
tail  part  of  a  fresh  halibut,  cut  into  six  equal  filets.  Place  them  on  a 
deep  dish  with  half  a  sliced  onion,  the  juice  of  a  sound  lemon,  half  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  two  tablespoons  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  filets  in  the  seasoning  and  let  infuse 
in  a  cool  place  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  them,  then  lightly  turn  them 
in  flour,  lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  them  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  hot,  but  not  boiling,  fat  for 
twelve  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  well  on  a  coarse  towel,  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  over,  dress  on  dish  with  folded  napkin  and  serve  with  cne  gill  hot 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

2464.     CUSTARD  PUDDING 

Crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  the  yolks  of  three  more,  three 
ounces  of  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon,  a  pint  and  a  half  milk,  two  gills  cream  and  sharply  mix  with  a 
whisk  until  well  thickened.  Lightly  butter  a  quart  pudding  mould, 
strew  an  ounce  of  finely  shredded  cocoanut  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
the  mould,  set  the  mould  on  the  ice  and  let  stand  till  thoroughly  cold, 
then  strain  the  preparation  through  a  cheesecloth  into  it.  Place  the 
mould  in  a  saucepan,  pour  hot  water  in  the  pan  up  to  half  the  height  of 
the  mould,  set  in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove,  unmould  on  a 
large  dish,  pour  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102)  over  and  serve  either  hot  or 
cold. 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Farina  Gruel  (74) 

Eggs  Molet,  Bellows 

Porgies  Saute",  Senart  (1475) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  with  Bacon  (1812) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2465.    EGGS  MOLET,  BELLOWS 

Cut  out  Irom  a  stale  loaf  sandwich  bread  six  slices  a  third  of  an  inch 
thick,  pare  off  the  crusts,  then  cut  each  slice  in  half,  then  cut  each  half 
in  square  forms.  With  the  point  of  a  keen  knife  scoop  out  a  lid  to  hold 


746  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

up  the  eggs,  lightly  baste  them  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  lay  them 
on  a  tin,  set  in  tne  oven  for  about  eight  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  very  little  anchovy  butter 
on  each.  Drop  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  five 
minutes,  lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  drop  them  in  cold  water  for  a 
minute,  remove,  shell  them,  then  place  an  egg  on  each  toast,  standing 
up;  and  keep  hot.  Scald  three  sound  green  peppers  in  boiling  water 
for  two  minutes,  peel  with  a  coarse  towel,  cut  them  in  halves,  remove  all 
the  seeds,  then  cut  each  half  in  two.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter 
in  frying  pan,  add  the  green  peppers,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt 
and  briskly  fry  them  for  one  minute  on  each  side.  Arrange  a  piece  on  top 
of  each  egg,  pour  a  Pe*rigueux  sauce  (No.  677)  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Scallops,  Brestoise  (1857) 

Cold  Mutton  with  Horseradish  Sauce 

String  Beans  Salad  (741) 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

2466.    COLD  MUTTON  WITH  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Cut  all  the  meat  from  the  leg  of  mutton  left  over  from  yesterday, 
then  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  arrange  them  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  few  leaves 
of  well-cleaned  lettuce  and  twelve  small  vinegar  pickles  around, 
and  serve  with  a  cold  horseradish  sauce  separately. 

2467.    COLD  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

Scrape  the  skin  off  a  fresh  root  of  horseradish  and  then  finely 
grate  it  into  a  bowl,  add  the  same  quantity  fresh  bread  crumbs,  season 
with  three  saltspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  one  saltspoon  white 
pepper,  one  light  teaspoon  vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
chives.  Sharply  beat  the  whole  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
then  gradually  pour  in  one  gill  cream,  briskly  mixing  while  adding  it, 
let  rest  for  thirty  minutes  in  the  ice  box,  then  use  as  required. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Marinaded  Tunny  (1597) 

Potage,    Bolivienne 
Spanish  Mackerel,  New  Rochelle 

Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 
Noix  of  Ham,  Port  Wine  Sauce 

Lima  Beans,  Fourangelle 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Almond  Ice  Cream  (149) 

2468.    POTAGE,  BOLIVIENNE 

Cut  a  half  pound  raw,  lean  veal  into  quarter-inch  dice  pieces,  place  in 
a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  raw,  lean  ham  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares, 
adding  two  medium,  finely  chopped  white  onions,  with  two  tablespoons 


TUESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER       747 

melted  butter,  and  lightly  brown  for  ten  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  quart 
of  broth  (No.  701)  and  four  pints  of  water,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Tie  together  two  leeks,  two  branches  celery, 
one  branch  parsley  and  a  branch  chervil  and  add  to  the  soup,  then  let 
slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Peel,  remove  seeds  and  cut 
into  small  pieces  two  medium,  fresh  red  tomatoes,  add  to  the  soup 
and  let  slowly  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up  the  bouquet,  strew  two 
ounces  tapioca  into  the  soup,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile,  boil  for  twenty 
minutes  more,  occasionally  mixing  meanwhile.  Pour  the  soup  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2469.     SPANISH  MACKEREL,  NEW  ROCHELLE 

•Trim  off  the  fins  and  remove  the  head  of  a  three-pound  fresh  Spanish 
mackerel.  Split  it  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  spinal  bones,  then 
lay  the  fish  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  cut  part  downward,  and  season 
with  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  paprika.  Spread  a  maitre 
d'h6tel  butter  evenly  over  the  fish,  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes, 
being  careful  to  baste  the  fish  with  the  butter  once  in  a  while.  Remove 
to  a  table.  Pick  off  the  stalks  and  stale  leaves  from  a  quart  of  fresh 
spinach,  wash  it  in  several  changes  of  water,  drain  on  a  colander,  then 
plunge  into  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  boiling  water,  and  a  teaspoon 
salt.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  press  out  all  the  water 
with  a  skimmer,  then  finely  chop  them  and  place  in  a  small  sauteuse 
with  two  egg-yolks,  half  ounce  butter,  three  saltspoons  salt,  three  salt- 
spoons  sugar,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg.  Sharply  stir  on  the  fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes. 
Spread  the  spinach  with  a  knife  blade  over  the  mackerel,  sprinkle  two 
tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  over,  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
remove,  carefully  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2470.    Noix  OF  HAM,  PORT  WINE  SAUCE 

Soak  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  ham  from  the  round  for  three  hours, 
remove,  wipe  well  and  neatly  trim  it  all  around.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  sliced  onion,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  marjoram,  one  bay  leaf,  two 
cloves  and  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  brown  on  the  fire  for  fifteen 
minutes,  turn  the  ham  and  stir  the  vegetables  once  in  a  while.  Moisten 
with  a  pint  of  broth,  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  gills  to- 
mato sauce  (No.  16),  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Cover  the  pan,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for 
two  hours,  remove,  dress  the  ham  on  large  dish,  pour  port  wine  sauce 
(No.  1087)  over  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Pour  entire  contents  of  the  pan  into  the  demi-glace  (No.  122). 

2471.    LIMA  BEANS,  FOURANGELLE 

Mix  in  saucepan  an  ounce  butter  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and 
heat  for  half  minute,  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  a  pint  broth  (No. 
701),  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  add  a  pint  of 


748  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

shelled,  fresh  lima  beans  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  gently  mix, 
cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  being  careful  to 
lightly  mix  once  in  a  while.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  half  gill  cream  and 
the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon  and  add  to  the  beans,  mix  while 
heating  for  one  minute,  dress  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Gooseberries  in  Cream  (2169) 

Cero  Fruto  (1610) 

Eggs,  Taverne  Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Country  Sausages  with  Fried  Apples 

Jelly  Cakes  (1554) 

2472.    EGGS,  TAVERNE 

Cut  out  from  a  stale  loaf  of  French  bread  twelve  thin  slices,  toast 
them  to  a  good  golden  colour,  then  place  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  lightly 
buttered  baking  dish,  carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Broil  six  thin  slices 
bacon  for  one  minute  on  one  side  only,  then  arrange  them  over  the  eggs 
cooked  side  downward,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  Swiss  cheese  over,  set  in 
the  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2473.     COUNTRY  SAUSAGES  WITH  FRIED  APPLES 

Peel  and  core  three  medium,  sound  apples,  then  cut  them  into  four 
even  slices  each,  dip  them  in  milk,  then  lightly  roll  them  in  flour.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  apples  one  beside  another 
and  nicely  fry  them  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange 
around  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Prickle  twelve  country  sausages  with 
a  needle,  arrange  them  on  a  double  broiler,  and  broil  for  four  minutes 
on  each  side,  remove,  dress  them  in  the  centre  of  the  apples  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth,  Chantilly  (2073) 
Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 

Bonne  Bouch^e  of  Turkey  Oyster  Plant  Salad 

Pineapple  Tartlets  (649) 

2474.    BONNE  BOUCHE"E  or  TURKEY 

Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and 
cut  it  in  half -inch  pieces.  -  Cut  also  two  ounces  cooked  lean  ham  and 
one  ounce  cooked  smoked  beef  tongue.  Finely  slice  six  good-sized,  well- 
cleaned  fresh  mushrooms  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce 
butter  and  gently  fry  them  for  five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Add 
one  ounce  sifted  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  moisten 
with  pint  broth,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  constantly  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER    749 

cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  above  articles  with  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  mix  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  more,  remove  and  keep  on  a 
table.  Boil  four  peeled  potatoes  in  a  quart  of  water  with  teaspoon  salt 
for  thirty  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  press  them  through  a  potato 
masher  into  a  sauteuse.  Add  two  raw  eggs,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  and  sharply  stir  on  the  fire  with  spatula  until  well  dried. 
Butter  well  a  plain  quart  pudding  mould,  line  all  over  the  inside  with 
three-quarters  of  the  potatoes,  pour  the  turkey  fricassee  in  the  centre, 
spread  balance  of  potatoes  over,  cover  it  with  a  buttered  paper  and  set 
in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  paper,  unmould  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  around  and  serve. 

2475.     OYSTER  PLANT  SALAD 

Scrape  and  cut  the  stalks  from  a  large  bunch  of  fresh,  tender  oyster 
plants,  cut  them  in  one-inch-long  pieces,  split  each  thick  piece  in  half, 
plunge  them  in  a  quart  of  cold  water  with  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
and  thoroughly  wash  them,  drain  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
sound  lemon  cut  in  pieces,  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  them  for  forty 
minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  place  them  in  a  vessel  and  let  stand  in  a  cool 
place  until  cold.  Then  place  them  in  a  salad  bowl,  season  with  two 
tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well,  and  at  the  last  moment  add 
three  tablespoons  mayonnaise  dressing  (No.  70),  neatly  mix,  wipe  bowl 
all  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Potage,  Spa 

Kingfish  Saute1,  Danois  (1930)  Polonaise  Potatoes  (1008) 

Rump  of  Beef,  Bernoise  (1170) 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 

Roast  Squab  (831)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Indian  Pudding  Souffte 

2476.    POTAGE,  SPA 

Soak  half  pint  yellow,  dried  beans  in  water  for  an  hour,  drain,  and 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  quart  crushed  fresh  tomatoes,  one  sliced 
carrot,  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  leek,  one  bean  garlic,  one  branch 
chervil  and  three  ounces  raw,  lean  ham  cut  in  very  small  pieces.  Moisten 
with  quart  broth  and  quart  water,  season  with  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  let  slowly  cook  for  one 
hour  and  forty-five  minutes.  Press  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add  half  pint 
fresh-shelled  peas  and  one  ounce  raw  rice,  then  slowly  boil  for  thirty- 
five  minutes,  pour  into  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2477.    INDIAN  PUDDING  SOUFFLE" 

Place  four  ounces  sugar  in  a  copper  basin  with  teaspoon  water,  set 
the  basin  on  the  fire  and  briskly  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  sugar 
is  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  add  two  ounces  peeled  and  shredded 


750  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

almonds  and  rapidly  stir  for  half  a  minute,  then  mask  the  interior  of  a 
plain  quart  pudding  mould  with  it.  Place  two  gills  milk  in  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  then,  as  soon 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  dredge  in  two  ounces  farina,  sharply  mixing  while 
adding  it,  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  remove  to  a  table  and  let  cool  a  little, 
add  four  egg  yolks,  sharply  mix.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  to  the  preparation,  lightly  mixing  mean- 
while. Drop  the  preparation  into  the  mould,  lay  in  a  saucepan,  pour 
hot  water  in  the  pan  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  unmould  the  pudding  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  rum  sauce  (No.  41)  over  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Cream  (2034) 
Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs,  Balfour 

Oyster  Fritters  (1214) 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451) 

Potatoes  Failles  (611) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

2478.    EGGS,  BALFOUR 

Cut  off  a  third  of  six  round  rolls  at  the  top,  scoop  out  the  soft  parts, 
place  them  on  a  tin,  then  set  them  in  the  oven  for  two  minutes,  remove, 
then  spread  a  teaspoon  of  pate*  de  foie  gras  in  the  interior  of  each  roll. 
Carefully  crack  six  fresh  eggs  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  two  table- 
spoons vinegar  and  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  three  minutes,  lift  them 
up  with  a  skimmer  and  place  an  egg  in  each  roll,  dress  the  rolls  on  a  hot 
dish,  evenly  pour  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  over  the  eggs,  arrange  a  thin 
slice  of  truffle  on  top  of  each  egg  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Canape's,  Hongroise  (2156) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Milanaise  (351) 

Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (5$)  Anchovy  Canape's  (141) 

Cream  of  Rice,  Japonaise 
Salmon  Trout,  Richelieu  Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 

Grenadins  of  Chicken,  Astor 

Fresh  Peas  with  Tarragon  (1749) 

Roast  Saddle  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Ice  Cream,  Romaine  (562) 


THURSDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER       751 

2479.  CREAM  OF  RICE,  JAPONAISE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  six  ounces  well- washed  rice,  add  three  sliced  leeks, 
one  medium,  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one 
clove  and  one  bay  leaf.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  water,  season  with  tea- 
spoon salt,  add  one  pound  raw  chicken  and  half  pound  raw  veal  bones, 
then  let  slowly  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  press  the  soup  through  a 
sieve,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  saucepan  and  keep  hot  until 
required.  Have  quart  boiling  water  in  saucepan  with  teaspoon  salt, 
strew  in  two  ounces  Japanese  pearls  and  boil  for  forty  minutes,  occa- 
sionally mixing  at  the  bottom.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  wash  under  run- 
ning water  until  free  from  sticking  to  the  fingers,  add  them  to  the  soup. 
Dilute  a  teaspoon  curry  powder  in  teaspoon  cream  and  add  to  the  soup, 
pour  in  two  gills  milk  and  two  gills  cream,  adding  a  half  ounce  butter, 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  pour  the  cream 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2480.  SALMON  TROUT,  RICHELIEU 

Procure  three  three-quarter  pound  slices  salmon  trout,  place  them 
in  a  sauteuse  with  half  gill  white  wine,  gill  water,  tablespoon  vinegar, 
one  branch  parsley,  half  ounce  butter,  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  set  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  bring  it  to  the  oven  door.  Add  twenty- 
four  small,  freshly  opened  oysters  around  the  salmon,  reset  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish  one  overlapping 
another.  Prepare  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  26),  drain  the  oysters,  add 
them  to  the  Hollandaise  sauce  with  six  small  slices  truffle  and  six 
sliced,  canned  mushrooms,  pour  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  liquor  in  the 
sauce,  mix  well,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2481.     GRENADINS  or  CHICKEN,  ASTOR 

Have  three  tender  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  quarter  to  one  and 
a  half  pounds  each,  detach  the  legs  and  keep  them  on  a  plate,  cut  off  the 
wings,  then  carefully  lift  up  the  breasts,  remove  the  skin  and  bones  from 
the  breasts,  split  each  breast  open  without  separating,  then  lay  them  open 
on  a  clean  board.  Finely  chop  two  cunces  raw,  lean  veal,  place  in  a 
mortar  with  an  egg  yolk  and  pound  to  a  paste,  then  rub  it  through  a  sieve 
into  a  bowl,  add  two  saltspoons  salt,  half  saltspcon  cayenne  pepper,  half 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  one  finely  chopped  truffle,  gradually  pour  in  two 
tablespoons  cream,  sharply  stirring  while  adding  it,  season  the  breasts 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  spread  the  force 
inside  the  breast,  evenly  divided,  fold  them  up  so  as  to  entirely  enclose 
the  force,  heat  two  tablespoons  clarified  butter  in  a  sauteuse,  adding  ten 
well-cleaned,  medium-sized,  fresh,  sliced  mushrooms,  and  cook  them  for 
five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile,  lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer 
and  keep  them  on  a  plate.  Arrange  the  breasts  in  the  mushroom  pan 
and  gently  fry  them  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  moisten  with  one  and 


752  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

a  half  gills  good  Sauterne  wine  and  two  tablespoons  good  sherry,  cover 
the  sauteuse  and  let  them  reduce  to  half  the  quantity  on  the  range,  pour 
in  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  salt- 
spoon  cayenne,  shuffle  the  pan  and  cook  for  eight  minutes.  Prepare  six 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons  of  the  same  size  as  the  grenadins,  quarter- 
inch  in  thickness,  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  then  place  them  on  a  tin, 
set  in  the  oven  until  they  obtain  a  nice  golden  colour  on  both  sides,  re- 
move, arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  star-like,  place  a  grenadin  on  top  of 
each  crouton  and  keep  them  hot  until  required.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one 
ounce  butter  with  tablespoon  flour  and  heat  it  for  half  a  minute,  stirring 
well  meanwhile,  then  pour  the  contents  of  the  sauteuse  in  the  pan,  con- 
tinually mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add  the  mushrooms  and  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  pour  over  the  grenadins,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  truffle  over 
all  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Remove  the  feet  and  second  joint  bones  from  the  six  legs  of  the 
three  chickens  and  place  them  into  an  earthen  jar,  adding  one  sliced 
carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  a  crushed  bean  garlic,  branch  parsley,  branch 
chervil,  six  tarragon  leaves,  sprig  thyme,  blade  mace,  bay  leaf,  one  clove, 
teaspoon  allspice,  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper  and  teaspoon  salt. 
Moisten  with  a  half  pint  claret,  two  gills  water  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon,  mix  well,  cover  the  pan  and  keep  in  the  ice  box  until  Satur- 
day's dinner,  for  chicken-leg  dijonnaise.  Thoroughly  clean  the  carcasses 
of  the  three  chickens  and  keep  for  chicken  broth  at  Saturday's  luncheon. 

2482.    ROAST  SADDLE  OF  LAMB,  MINT  SAUCE 

Remove  the  red  skin  from  a  small,  tender,  fat  saddle  of  lamb,  fold  up 
the  flanks  underneath,  firmly  tie  it  all  around,  then  lay  it  on  a  roasting 
pan,  spread  a  little  melted  butter  over  the  surface,  pour  two  tablespoons 
water  in  the  pan,  season  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour,  turning  and  basting  it  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  untie,  dress  on  a  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and 
serve  with  saucebowl  of  mint  sauce  (No.  256)  separately. 


Friday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  in  Cream  (1828) 

Hominy  (145) 

Eggs  Cocotte.  Fleur  de  Lys 

Fried' Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

French  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 

Puffs  (313) 

2483.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  FLEUR  DE  LYS 

Thoroughly  wash  a  small  stalk  of  tender  celery  and  mince  it  exceed- 
ingly fine      Mix  in  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  with  teaspoon  flour, 


FRIDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER  753 

moisten  with  one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Add  the  celery  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  then  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  pour  in  three-fourths 
gill  cream,  lightly  mix,  then  strain  the  sauce  through  Chinese  strainer 
in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  place  them  on  a  tin,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Baked  Live  Lobster  (952) 

Calves'  Brains,  Brown  Butter  (1023) 

Macaroni  Sauveterre  (1023) 

Apples,  Newtown 

2484.    APPLES,  NEWTOWN 

Peel  and  core  four  Newtown  pippin,  or  any  other  kind  of  sound  and 
ripe  apples,  cut  them  in  quarter-inch  slices,  spread  four  tablespoons 
raspberry  marmalade  at  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  arrange  the  apples, 
one  overlapping  another  crown-shape,  over  the  marmalade,  sprinkle  with 
a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  then  pour  over  a  tablespoon  rum,  half 
gill  claret,  tablespoon  kirsch  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  then 
set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  frequently  moistening  with  their 
juice,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Oysters  (18)  Celery  (86) 

Gumbo  of  Frogs'  Legs,  Norman  die 
Pickerel  en  Marinade  Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 

Entrec6tes,  Parisienne 

Tomatoes,  Carolina  (1952) 

Little  Neck  Clam  Patties  (1232) 

Roast  Grouse,  Currant  Jelly  (167) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Malaga  Pudding  (309) 

2485.     GUMBO  OF  FROGS'  LEGS,  NORMANDIE 

Finely  slice  one  carrot,  one  onion,  two  branches  celery  and  one  leek, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  branch  parsley,  three  quarts  water,  sprig 
thyme,  sprig  marjoram,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove,  adding  one  pound 
white,  fresh  fish  bones  or  heads  of  same  and  gently  boil  for  thirty-five 
minutes,  strain  the  broth  through  cheesecloth  into  a  vessel,  cut  in  small 
square  pieces  a  white  onion,  a  green,  seeded  pepper  and  two  leeks,  place 
in  saucepan  with  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  moisten  with  the  fish  broth,  season  with 
two  teaspoons  salt,  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Trim  and  cut  in  half- 
inch  pieces  twelve  fresh  okras  and  add  them  to  the  soup,  with  two  ounces 
raw  rice  and  two  peeled,  fresh  tomatoes  cut  in  small  pieces,  let  boil  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  plunge  six  ounces  fresh  frogs'  legs  in  boiling  water 
for  three  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  pick  off  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
and  add  the  meat  to  the  soup,  with  six  oysters  cut  in  quarters,  six  shrimps 


754  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cut  in  small  pieces  and  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  and  let  boil 
for  ten  minutes,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

2486.  PICKEREL  EN  MARINADE 

Cut  off  the  fins  and  thoroughly  wipe  a  three-pound  fresh  pickerel, 
place  it  on  a  deep  dish,  add  a  sliced  onion,  crushed  half  bean  garlic, 
two  branches  parsley,  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  pour  in  half  gill  vinegar,  half  gill  white 
wine,  two  gills  water  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  turn  the  fish 
in  the  marinade  and  let  infuse  for  two  hours.  Place  the  fish  and  mari- 
nade in  an  oval  pan,  cover,  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes,  take  up 
the  fish  with  the  skimmer,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  re- 
move any  articles  adhering  to  the  fish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  little  melted  butter  separately. 

2487.  ENTRECOTES,  PARISIENNE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  two  tender  sirloin  steaks,  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  each.  Mix  on  a  plate  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  steaks  in  the  seasoning,  arrange  on  a 
broiler,  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  arrange  them 
on  a  baking  dish.  Place  in  a  bowl  three  finely  chopped  shallots,  half 
bean  chopped  garlic,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  two  ounces  finely  chopped  raw  beef  marrow,  half  ounce 
butter,  half  teaspoon  meat  glaze  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon. 
Sharply  stir  until  thoroughly  amalgamated,  then  spread  this  preparation 
over  the  steaks,  set  them  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove,  baste  them 
with  their  butter  and  serve. 


Saturday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Epicurienne 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347)  German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2488.    SHIRRED  EGGS,   EPICURIENNE 

Remove  the  skin  and  fat  from  a  fresh  veal  kidney,  then  cut  it  in 
quarter-inch-square  pieces.  -  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying 
pan,  add  the  kidney  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon 
flour  over  them,  stir  well.  Pour  in  a  half  tablespoon,  sherry,  gill  milk 
and  half  gill  cream,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt  and  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Remove, 
then  evenly  divide  it  in  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh 
eggs  in  each  dish  evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  set  them  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER        755 
LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 
Brochette  of  Scallops  with  Fresh  Mushrooms 
Ox  Tail  en  Compote  (17") 
Plum  Pie  (456) 

2489.    BROCHETTE  OF  SCALLOPS  WITH  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh,  large  scallops  on  a  plate,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  mix  them  well  in 
the  seasoning.  Cut  two  ounces  raw,  lean  bacon  in  half-inch-square,  thin 
slices.  Thoroughly  wash  four  ounces  very  fresh,  sound  mushrooms, 
plunge  them  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  cut 
them  into  about  the  same  size  as  the  scallops.  Have  six  clean  skewers, 
then  run  in  a  piece  of  bacon,  then  one  scallop,  after  this  a  piece  of  fresh 
mushroom,  another  scallop,  a  piece  bacon,  another  scallop,  a  mushroom, 
and  so  on  until  the  six  skewers  are  completed.  Lightly  roll  in  oil, 
then  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  them  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a 
brisk  fire  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
spread  a  little  melted  butter  over,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Cabbage,  Rouennaise 
Spanish  Mackerel  with  Paprika  (1990)  Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Chicken  Legs,  Dijonnaise 

String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579) 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton,  Currant  Jelly  (522) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Chocolate  Pudding  (190) 

2490.     CABBAGE,  ROUENNAISE 

Cut  a  very  small  green  cabbage  in  quarters,  remove  the  core  and 
outer  leaves,  slice  exceedingly  fine,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  ounce 
butter  and  teaspoon  salt,  lightly  mix,  then  cover  the  pan  and  cook  on  the 
fire  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while,  moisten  with  three 
quarts  water,  add  a  half-pound  piece  salt  pork  and  one  beef  marrow 
bone,  cover  the  pan  and  let  boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  remove  the  bone 
and  pork,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour  the  soup  in  a  soup 
tureen,  arrange  six  slices  toasted  French  bread  on  top  of  the  soup  and 
serve. 

2491.     CHICKEN  LEGS,  DIJONNAISE 

Take  up  the  chicken  legs,  etc.,  from  the  jar,  from  Thursday,  and  drain 
on  a  cloth.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  the 
legs  and  quickly  fry  them  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  keep 
them  on  a  plate  till  required.  Pour  the  marinade  in  a  saucepan,  place 
pan  on  the  open  fire  and  let  reduce  to  a  third  the  quantity,  pour  in  two 
gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  then  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Strain  sauce  through  Chinese  strainer  into  another  sauce- 
pan, add  the  chicken  legs  with  twelve  canned  mushrooms,  brown  in  a 
small  frying  pan  twelve  small  onions  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  for 


756  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

six  minutes  or  until  or  a  nice  golden  colour,  and  then  add  to  chicken. 
Lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  re- 
move, dress  the  chicken  on  a  dish,  pour  contents  of  pan  over,  arrange  six 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 
Fried  Eggs  with  Parsley 
White  Perch  Saute  (1013) 

Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219)  Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2492.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  PARSLEY 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  black  frying  pan,  carefully 
crack  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper.  Fry  them  for  one  minute,  then  set  in  oven  for  five 
minutes,  remove,  carefully  glide  them  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
freshly  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Lobster  Curry,  McWade  (489) 

Broiled  Devilled  Duckling 

Spaghetti  au  Gratin  (1508) 

Vanilla  Souffle  (758) 

2493.    BROILED  DEVILLED  DUCKLING 

Singe,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  duckling,  split  open 
through  the  back  without  separating,  neatly  draw,  cut  away  the  spinal 
bone,  enclose  the  bird  in  a  towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver,  season 
it  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  rub  it 
with  a  tablespoon  oil,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  ten 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  over 
the  duckling,  then  roll  it  in  bread  crumbs  and  broil  again  for  two  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  water- 
cress and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Anchovies  (141) 

Consomme"  with  Lettuce 
Pompano,  Hollins  Filets  Mignon,  Genoise  Sauce 

Sweetbreads  Braise",  Potter 

Lima  Beans,  Stanford   (2108) 

Roman  Punch  (1708) 

Roast  Woodcocks 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream  (726) 


SUNDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER          757 

2494.    CONSOMME"  WITH  LETTUCE 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering  until  required.  Finely  chop  two  ounces  of  raw,  lean  veal, 
place  it  in  the  mortar  with  an  egg  yolk,  three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon 
cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  pars- 
ley. Pound  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  place  in  a  bowl  and  add  two 
tablespoons  cream,  sharply  stirring  with  spoon  while  adding. 

Remove  the  green  leaves  from  two  heads  of  lettuce  (keeping  the  white 
parts  for  salad),  thoroughly  wash  the  leaves  in  cold  water,  take  them  up 
and  plunge  them  in  a  quart  boiling  water  and  boil  for  three  minutes. 
Take  up  with  skimmer  and  drain  on  a  cloth,  spread  force  evenly  over 
the  leaves,  roll  them  up,  place  on  a  lightly  buttered  sautoire,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  moisten  with  half  pint 
consomme,  cover  with  sheet  of  buttered  paper,  set  in  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  take  up,  neatly  trim  off  the  ends  of  each,  cut  in 
quarter-inch  pieces,  place  in  soup  tureen,  pour  the  consomme*  over  and 
serve. 

2495.      POMPANO,  HOLLINS 

Cut  off  the  heads  of  two  fresh  pompanos  of  one  and  a  half  pounds 
each,  split  them  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  spinal  bones,  neatly 
trim  them,  then  place  the  fish  in  a  sautoire,  skin  side  downward,  add 
half  ounce  butter,  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  water,  branch  parsley,  juice 
half  a  sound  lemon,  level  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper. 
Cover  the  fish  with  buttered  paper  and  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove,  take  up  the  pompano  with  the  skimmer,  lay  it  in  a 
baking  dish.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  ounce  flour, 
heat  for  half  a  minute,  then  strain  gravy  of  the  fish  into  this  pan,  add  a 
gill  cream  and  gill  milk  and  sharply  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  With 
a  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  dig  out  all  you  can  from  three  good-sized, 
sound,  raw,  peeled  potatoes,  wash  well,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  season 
with  two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  lightly  mix  and  let 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  one  egg  yolk,  carefully  mix  without  mash- 
ing potatoes,  pour  contents  of  pan  over  the  pompano,  sprinkle  a  little 
Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  send 
to  table  in  same  dish. 

2496.    FILETS  MIGNON,  GENOISE  SAUCE 

Trim  a  little  of  the  fat  from  a  two-pound  piece  of  tender  filet  of  beef, 
then  cut  it  in  six  equal  filets;  lightly  flatten,  season  with  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper  and  keep  onaplate.  Cut  two  and  a  half  ounces  fresh 
beef  marrow  in  quarter-inch  pieces,  place  on  lightly  buttered  tin,  sprinkle 
half  teaspoon  salt  over,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  then  remove  and 
keep  hot.  Prepare  a  pure*e  of  peas  (No.  1473),  dress  pyramid-like  in 
centre  of  hot  dish,  heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  place 
filets  in  one  beside  another,  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side, 
arrange  the  marrow  over  the  filets,  pour  a  Genoise  sauce  over  them  and 
serve. 


758  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2497.    SAUCE,  GENOISE 

Heat  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add  one  finely  sliced 
onion,  three  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  bean  crushed  garlic,  branch 
parsley,  small  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  one  clove,  gently  brown  for  five 
minutes,  moisten  with  a  gill  claret,  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  pour  in 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well,  then  boil  for  five 
minutes,  adding  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  two  saltspoons*  salt  and 
one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well,  strain  through  cheesecloth 
and  use  as  required. 

2498.     SWEETBREADS  BRAIS£,  POTTER 

Soak  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two  hours,  remove  and 
plunge  them  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt  for  five  min- 
utes, lift  them  up  and  neatly  trim  them,  then  place  them  in  six  individual 
egg-cocotte  dishes.  Pour  over  each  a  light  tablespoon  sherry  and  a  table- 
spoon demi-glace  (No.  122),  evenly  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  pepper,  lay  the  cocottes  in  tin  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, carefully  turning  once  in  a  while,  then  bring  them  to  the  oven  door. 
Place  in  a  bowl  half  a  very  finely  chopped  onion,  two  chopped  shal- 
lots, three  thoroughly  cleaned  fresh  mushrooms,  also  finely  chopped, 
an  ounce  butter,  briskly  stir  and  spread  the  preparation  over  the  six 
breads,  reset  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes  longer,  turning  and  basting 
them  quite  frequently  during  that  time,  remove,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
truffle  over  and  send  them  to  the  table. 

2499.    ROAST  WOODCOCKS 

Pick  and  singe  three  large  or  six  small  woodcocks,  remove  the  skin 
from  the  heads,  pick  out  the  eyes,  neatly  draw  and  wipe, truss  up  the  feet, 
skewer  them  with  the  bills,  lay  a  very  thin  slice  larding  pork  over  each 
breast,  place  them  on  a  roasting  tin,  spread  a  little  melted  butter  over 
the  birds,  sprinkle  half  teaspoon  salt  over  them,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven 
for  twelve  minutes.  Finely  chop  the  livers  and  hearts  with  two  chicken 
livers  and  one  shallot,  place  on  a  plate  with  half  teaspoon  chopped  pars- 
ley, two  saltspoons  salt  and  one  saltspoon  white  pepper,  mix  well.  Pre- 
pare six  toasts,  quarter  inch  thick  and  two  inches  square,  then  evenly 
spread  the  force  over  the  six  toasts,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over 
and  lay  them  in  a  tin,  then  set  in  oven  for  three  minutes.  Remove,  ar- 
range on  hot  dish,  dress  the  woodcocks  on  top,  decorate  with  six  small 
pieces  of  lemon  and  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

Monday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Semolina  (192) 

Omelette,  Napolitaine 

Findon  Haddock  (76)  Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

Stewed  Cream  Potatoes  (no) 
Curry  Cakes  (1112) 


MONDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER         759 

2500.     OMELETTE,  NAPOLITAINE 

Plunge  an  ounce  of  Italian  macaroni  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with 
half  teaspoon. salt  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes,  drain  on  sieve,  then 
cut  them  in  quarter-inch  pieces,  drain  them  on  cloth,  then  place  in  small 
saucepan  with  three  saltspoons  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  teaspoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  season  with  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon 
pepper,  mix  well  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in 
a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  min- 
utes. Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying 
pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  sharply  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest 
a  half  minute,  spread  the  macaroni  in  the  centre,  fold  up  the  two  op- 
posite sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  a  minute,  then  turn  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Patties,  Bechamel  (1428) 

Mutton  Croquettes,  Oriental 

Green  Corn  Saute"  (2144) 

Grape  Tarts 

2501.    MUTTON  CROQUETTES,  ORIENTAL 

Pick  off  all  meat  from  leg  of  mutton  left  over  from  Saturday  and  cut 
it  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces.  Finely  chop  one  medium,  white  onion 
and  one  seeded,  sound  green  pepper,  place  them  in  saucepan  with  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes,  add  the  mutton 
with  three  ounces  well  washed  and  drained  raw  rice,  moisten  with  pint 
of  broth  or  water,  season  with  light  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  curry 
powder,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well, 
cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  one  hour,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Remove, 
add  two  egg  yolks  and  two  tablespoons  cream,  sharply  stir  on  fire  while 
heating  for  five  minutes,  remove,  transfer  into  a  dish  and  let  cool  off. 
Divide  the  force  in  twelve  even  parts,  roll  them  out  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  to  croquette  shape,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  lightly  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  arrange  them  in  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  eight 
minutes.  Drain  well.  Pour  Finnoise  sauce  (No.  251)  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  the  croquettes  on  top  and  serve. 

2502.     GRAPE  TARTS 

Lightly  butter  a  straight-edged  pie  plate,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  half  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  to  the  size  of  the  plate  and  with  it 
line  the  plate.  Neatly  press  down  the  paste  at  the  bottom  and  edges, 
then  trim  off  that  adhering  around  the  edges,  cover  the  pan  with 
buttered  paper,  then  fill  up  with  dried  beans  and  bake  in  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Take  out,  let  rest  for  five  minutes,  remove  the  beans  and  paper, 
spread  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly  at  the  bottom  of  the  pie.  Remove 
stems  from  one  and  a  half  pounds  sweet  grapes,  place  them  in  a  bowl, 
add  two  ounces  sugar,  tablespoon  rum  and  one  maraschino,  mix  well, 


7<5o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

then  arrange  them  in  the  pie  plate,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  lift  up  the  tart  from  the  paste  and 
serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Rice  Soup,  Smyrna 
Sheepshead,  Oyster  Sauce  (652) 

Potatoes,  Ancienne  (1391) 

Squabs  en  Estouffade  (597)  Cauliflower,  Hollandaise  (853) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
Pineapple  Pudding  (128) 

2503.    RICE  SOUP,  SMYRNA 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  very  small  knuckle  of  veal  and  one  pound  of 
shin  of  beef  with  four  quarts  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  add  a  carrot  cut  in  quart- 
ers, an  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  one  turnip,  two  leeks,  two 
branches  celery  and  one  branch  parsley.  Tie  in  a  thin  piece  of  cloth  a 
sprig  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  blade  of  mace,  and  add  to  the  soup, 
cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  skimming  off 
the  fat  once  in  a  while.  Strain  the  broth  through  cheesecloth  into 
another  saucepan.  Dilute  a  saltspoon  Spanish  saffron  in  a  tablespoon 
water,  strain  and  add  to  the  soup,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice,  with  half 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  the  leaves  from  two  branches  chervil,  then 
boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Pick  stems  from  two  ounces  Smyrna  or 
California  seeded  raisins  and  add  to  the  soup,  boil  for  ten  minutes  more, 
pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Schmidt 

Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Beef,  Paysanne  Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

2504.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  SCHMIDT 

Cut  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf  six  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
toast  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  trim  to  two-inch-square  pieces  and  spread 
a  teaspoon  pate  de  foie  on  top  of  each  toast,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish. 
Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply  beat  up  with 
a  fork  for  one  minute,  heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop 
in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile. 
Evenly  arrange  them  over  the  toasts  and  send  to  the  table. 


TUESDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER         761 

2505.     BEEF,  PAYSANNE 

Pick  all  the  meat  from  the  ribs  of  beef  left  over  from  yesterday,  and 
cut  in  half-inch  pieces  and  keep  on  a  table.  Cut  two  medium,  white 
onions  in  half-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  sauteuse  with  two  tablespoons  lard, 
and  brown  to  a  nice  golden  colour,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Sprinkle 
over  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  moisten  with  a  gill  claret  and  three 
gills  broth  (No.  701),  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  beef,  season 
with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  a  teaspoon  French 
mustard,  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  a  tablespoon  sherry,  mix 
well  and  cook  for  thirty-five  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile. 
Remove,  dress  the  beef  in  a  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (2170) 

Crab  Meat  in  Tomatoes 

Lamb  Steaks,  Luxembourgeoise 

New  Carrots,  Vichy  (894) 

French  Pancakes  (17) 

2506.     CRAB  MEAT  IN  TOMATOES 

Scald  six  nice,  ripe,  fresh,  red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  one 
minute,  lift  up  and  peel.  Cut  off  a  piece  at  three-quarters  of  the  height 
of  the  tomatoes,  to  be  used  as  a  cover,  then  with  a  spoon  carefully  scoop 
out  the  meat  without  cutting  the  shells,  place  and  keep  on  the  ice  till 
required.  Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  crab-meat  flakes  in  a  bowl, 
season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well,  then  season 
interiors  of  the  tomatoes  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper.  Divide  the  crab  meat  in  the  six  tomato  shells,  giving  a  nice 
dome-like  shape,  spread  a  little  mayonnaise  sauce  on  top  of  each,  sprinkle 
over  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  arrange  an  anchovy  in  oil  ring- 
like  on  top  of  each.  Place  the  tomato  on  clean  lettuce  leaves,  lay  them 
on  a  cold  dish  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Place  the  scooped-out  tomato  meat  in  the  demi-glace  pan 
(No.  122). 

2507.     LAMB  STEAKS,  LUXEMBOURGEOISE 

Cut  three  steaks,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  each,  from  a  tender 
leg  of  lamb,  make  a  few  light  incisions  around  the  skin  of  each  and  neatly 
flatten  them.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  keep  on  a  plate  until 
required.  Cut  four  peeled  Bermuda  onions  in  halves  crosswise,  place 
on  a  baking  dish,  cut  side  upward,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Place  in  a  bowl  an  ounce  butter,  two  table- 
spoons bread  crumbs,  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives,  the  juice  of  a  half  lemon  and  half  teaspoon  French  mus- 
tard, mix  the  whole  well  together,  then  evenly  spread  over  the  onions. 
Set  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  arrange  the  steaks  in  and  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  one  side  only, 
then  lay  the  steaks  on  top  of  the  onions,  the  cooked  side  downward. 


762  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Pour  one-half  gill  cold  water  in  the  steak  pan,  boil  on  the  range  for 
two  minutes,  then  pour  the  gravy  over  the  steaks.  Set  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Caviare  (59) 

Potato  with  Vermicelli 

Sea  Bass  au  Court-Bouillon  (25)  Potatoes,  Normandie  (851) 

Stuffed  Breast  of  Veal,  Florentine 

Tomatoes  on  Crusts  (1287) 
Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream  (431) 

2508.    POTATO  WITH  VERMICELLI 

Cut  in  small  pieces  four  ounces  lean  salt  pork,  two  leeks  and  one 
medium,  white  onion,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  two 
bay  leaves.  Set  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile.  Finely  slice  six  peeled  raw  potatoes,  add  to  the  pan 
with  a  quart  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  three  pints  water,  season  with  a 
light  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  mix  lightly.  Cover 
the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour,  press  the  puree  through  a  sieve 
into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan. 
Drop  two  ounces  vermicelli  in  a  pint  boiling  broth  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  then  add  vermicelli  and  broth  to  the  puree.  Mix  well,  boil 
for  ten  minutes,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2509.     STUFFED  BREAST  OF  VEAL,  FLORENTINE 

Carefully  remove  the  rib  bones  from  a  tender  breast  of  white  veal. 
Make  a  deep  incision  on  the  large  end,  season  all  around  and  inside  with 
a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Remove  the  stalks 
from  a  quart  of  fresh  spinach,  then  thoroughly  wash  and  plunge  in  a 
quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sieve  and  with  a  skimmer  press  out  all  the  water,  finely  chop  and 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  egg  yolks,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  stir  on  the  fire  while 
cooking  for  five  minutes,  spread  the  spinach  on  the  incision  of  the  breast, 
sew  it  up,  place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  braising  pan,  lay  the  breast 
over,  add  one-half  ounce  butter,  then  cook  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes. 
Moisten  with  one  gill  white  wine,  one  pint  broth  and  two  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  cover  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  for  two  hours,  being  careful 
to  baste  the  breast  frequently  so  as  to  obtain  a  nice  bright  brown  colour. 
Take  out,  lift  up  the  breast,  remove  string,  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  gravy,  reduce  it  on  the  open  fire  for  eight  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  the  veal,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER     763 

Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Grapec  in  Cream  (2369) 

Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Eggs  Molet,  Arcachon 

Whitebait,  Virginia  (1421) 

Calves'  Liver,  Minute  (810)  Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 

Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

2510.    EGGS  MOLET,  ARCACHON 

Place  twelve  medium,  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  saucepan,  add  one- 
half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  water  and  three  saltspoons  salt,  and  boil  for 
three  minutes.  Place  in  another  saucepan  one  tablespoon  butter  and  a 
tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  then  strain  the  oyster  liquor  into  the  pan, 
adding  a  half  gill  cream  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper;  then  mix 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Cut  the  oysters  in  small  square  pieces,  add  to 
sauce  with  six  anchovies  in  oil,  also  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  mix  well. 
Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  take  up  and  drop 
in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  remove,  shell  and  place  on  a  hot  deep  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme*  in  Cups  (5  a) 

Croiites  of  Oysters,  Original 

Lamb  en  Bordure,  Bourgeoise 

Green  Corn  on  Cobs  (1864) 

Fruit  Cake 

2511.    CROUTES  OF  OYSTERS,  ORIGINAL 

Cut  covers  off  six  French  rolls,  scoop  out  the  soft  parts,  then  lightly 
butter  the  insides,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
and  keep  hot,  place  thirty-six  freshly  opened,  medium  oysters  with  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan  with  two  gills  water  and  boil  for  three  minutes, 
Skim  the  scum  from  the  surface,  heat  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  add  half  a  chopped,  seeded  green  pepper,  three  finely- 
chopped  shallots  and  two  finely  chopped,  well  peeled  and  cleaned  fresh 
mushrooms,  then  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Add  two  light  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  half  a  minute, 
strain  the  oyster  liquor  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  add  a  half 
gill  cream,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon 
cayenne  and  a  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  then  let  gently  boil  for  six  minutes,  add  the  oysters  with  the 
juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley. 
Mix  well  and  cook  for  three  minutes,  place  two  anchovies  in  oil  in  each 
roll,  evenly  divide  the  oysters  and  sauce  in  the  rolls,  place  their  covers 
on,  arrange  on  a  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  send  to 
the  table. 


764  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2512.    LAMB  EN  BORDURE,  BOURGEOISE 

Cut  up  all  the  meat  from  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday  in  half- 
inch  pieces ;  cut  in  same  way  three  ounces  lean  salt  pork.  Heat  in  a  sauce- 
pan two  tablespoons  leaf  lard,  add  one  finely  sliced  white  onion  and  the 
pork  and  fry  to  a  light  brown,  stirring  meanwhile;  add  one  tablespoon 
flour,  stir  well.  Moisten  with  one-half  gill  white  wine  and  three  gills 
broth  (No.  701),  mix  well,  then  add  the  lamb  with  a  half  bean  chopped 
garlic,  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  a  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives.  Mix  well,  place  the  lid  on,  cook  on  the  range  for  five 
minutes,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  skim  fat  from 
the  surface  and  keep  hot.  Boil  four  medium,  peeled  potatoes  for  thirty- 
five  minutes  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  drain 
on  a  sieve,  then  press  through  a  potato  masher  into  a  bowl,  add  one  egg 
and  the  yolk  of  another,  a  half  ounce  butter,  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  stir  with  the  spatula  till  smooth.  Slide 
a  dentilated  tube  at  the  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag,  drop  the  preparation 
into  it  and  press  down  around  the  edges  of  a  baking  dish  as  a  border, 
pour  the  lamb  stew  into  the  centre,  dredge  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 
over,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  and  serve. 

2513.    FRUIT  CAKE 

Carefully  pick  one  ounce  currants  and  remove  seeds  from  an  ounce 
raisins,  finely  chop  two  dried  figs,  six  preserved  cherries,  two  slices  fresh 
or  preserved  pineapple,  the  rind  of  a  candied  citron,  an  ounce  peeled 
almonds  and  one  preserved  apricot.  Place  in  a  bowl  with  juice  of  half 
an  orange,  two  tablespoons  brandy,  one  tablespoon  each  rum,  sherry  and 
kirsch.  Mix  all  well  together  and  let  stand  on  one  side  in  a  cool  place 
till  required.  Place  in  a  basin  three  ounces  each  butter  and  sugar. 
Sharply  mix  with  spatula  for  three  minutes,  add  one  egg,  sharply  mix 
for  a  minute,  crack  in  another  egg,  mix  a  minute  again,  add  another  egg 
and  briskly  beat  for  three  minutes  longer.  Add  a  half  saltspoon  salt, 
two  ounces  sifted  flour  and  half  teaspoon  baking  powder,  sharply  stir 
until  well  thickened,  then  add  the  fruits.  Season  with  half  saltspoon 
each  grated  nutmeg,  mace,  cinnamon  and  ginger,  and  mix  the  whole  well 
together.  Lightly  butter  a  cake  pan,  line  it  with  buttered  paper,  drop 
in  preparation  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Remove, 
let  cool  off,  turn  the  cake  on  table,  remove  the  paper,  dress  the  cake  on  a 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)        Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Potage,  Jardiniere 
Weakfish,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (927)  Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Beef  Tongue,  Milanaise 

Stuffed  Eggplant,  Marseillaise 

Roast  Partridge  (97) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Pudding,  Renaissance  (692) 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER       765 

2514.    POTAGE,  JARDINIERE 

Cut  in  small  square  pieces  one  each  medium  carrot,  white  turnip, 
medium  onion,  leek  and  branch  celery,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
butter  and  cook  on  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  mean- 
while. Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  and  one  quart  water,  add  one 
pound  shin  of  beef,  season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  a  light  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Cut  a  quarter 
pint  trimmed,  fresh  string  beans  in  half -inch  pieces  and  add  to  soup 
with  quarter  pint  shelled  fresh  peas,  then  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes 
longer.  Pick  leaves  from  two  branches  chervil  and  one  branch  parsley, 
add  to  the  soup,  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Remove  the  beef.  Skim 
fat  from  the  surface.  Pour  in  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve. 

2515.    BEEF  TONGUE,  MILANAISE 

Procure  a  fresh  beef  tongue,  rub  it  all  over  with  a  tablespoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  mirepoix  (No.  271),  in  braising  pan 
with  an  ounce  butter,  lay  the  tongue  over,  then  cook  on  the  fire  for  twenty 
minutes,  turning  the  tongue  and  stirring  the  vegetables  once  in  a  while. 
Moisten  with  a  pint  water,  one-half  gill  white  wine,  two  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  and  add  a  saltspoon  saffron. 
Cover  the  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  two  hours  and  a 
half,  basting  the  tongue  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  take  up  the  tongue, 
plunge  it  in  cold  water,  remove  and  skin  it,  then  neatly  trim  all  around 
and  keep  hot  until  required.  Plunge  four  ounces  spaghetti  in  a  quart 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  cut  in  inch  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  six 
sliced  canned  mushrooms,  one  ounce  cooked  'ham,  cut  in  julienne  strips 
and  a  very  small  sliced  truffle,  skim  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  sauce, 
then  strain  it  in  the  spaghetti  pan,  mix  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes, 
adding  one  ounce  Parmesan  cheese.  Mix  well,  place  the  spaghetti  in  a 
large,  hot  dish,  cut  the  tongue  in  quarter-inch  slices,  arrange  over  the 
spaghetti  one  overlapping  another.  Strain  the  sauce  into  a  saucebowl 
and  serve. 

2516.     STUFFED  EGGPLANT,  MARSEILLAISE 

Cut  three  small  eggplants  into  halves  lengthwise,  make  a  few  cris- 
cross  incisions  in  the  meat  of  the  plants  without  cutting  the  shells,  then 
plunge  in  boiling  fat,  cut  side  down  ward,  and  fry  for  ten  minutes.  Lift  up 
and  lay  on  a  towel,  skin  side  up,  let  drain  for  five  minutes,  scoop  out 
all  the  meat  and  finely  chop.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  a  small  chopped  onion  and  fry  for  three  minutes,  then 
add  the  eggplant,  with  two  seeded,  peeled,  red,  fresh,  chopped  tomatoes. 
Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  add  a 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic. 
Mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  occasion- 
ally stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  four  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
mix  well,  and  with  this  preparation  fill  up  the  six  half  shells.  Place  on  a 
tin,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter 


766  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

on  top,  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 

Poached  Eggs,  Villeroi 

Broiled  Porgies  (876) 

Smoked  Beef  in  Cream  (329) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

German  Pancakes  (943) 

2517.    POACHED  EGGS,  VILLEROI 

Prepare  a  Villeroi  sauce  (No.  1460),  adding  to  the  sauce  half  gill  hot 
milk  to  lighten  a  little.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toasts  (No.  106), 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Soft  Shell  Crabs  au  Cerfeuilles  (2036) 

Veal  en  Thon 

Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Espagnole 
Orange  Custard  in  Cups 

2518.    VEAL  EN  THON 

Have  a  three-pound  piece  sawn  from  a  round  of  tender,  white  leg 
of  veal,  remove  the  bone  from  the  middle,  make  a  few  incisions  all  around 
the  skin,  then  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Cut  six  anchovies  in  oil 
lengthwise,  then  with  the  aid  of  a  larding  needle  insert  the  anchovies 
on  top  of  the  veal,  then  rub  the  under  part  with  a  teaspoon  anchovy 
essence.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  place  the  veal  in  a  basin,  pour  over  half  gill  vinegar  and  half 
gill  claret  and  let  infuse  for  three  hours.  Lift  up  the  veal,  wipe  it  with 
a  cloth,  sprinkle  all  over  with  a  little  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  good 
oil  in  a  sautoir,  add  the  veal  and  gently  cook  it  on  the  range  for  twelve 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  it,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  take  oil  out  of 
the  pan,  then  pour  in  the  veal  marinade,  boil  for  three  minutes,  pour 
it  over  the  veal  and  serve. 

2519.    JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES,  ESPAGNOLE 

Peel,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  twelve  Jerusalem  artichokes,  heat 
two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  artichokes  in  and 
slowly  fry  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown  colour,  turning  once 
in  a  while;  take  up  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  and  a  half  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  one  tablespoon  Madeira  wine.  Carefully 
mix,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  cover  the  pan, 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OP  SEPTEMBER     767 

then  set  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.     Remove,  place  in  a  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

2520.     ORANGE  CUSTARD  IN  CUPS 

Crack  in  a  bowl  two  fresh  eggs,  add  the  yolks  of  two  others,  with 
three  ounces  sugar,  six  drops  vanilla  essence;  thoroughly  mix  with  a 
whisk  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  one  pint  milk  and  three  gills  cream, 
adding  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  juicy  orange,  and  sharply  whisk 
until  well  thickened.  Press  the  preparation  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
six  cups,  place  the  cups  in  a  pan  and  pour  water  in  up  to  half  the  height 
of  the  cups.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and 
serve  when  cold. 

DINNER 

Oysters    (18) 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Suzon  Smelts,  Africaine 

Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 

Appetizing  Lamb  Chops  (1991)  Fresh  Peas,  Vxelle  Mode  (1959) 

Roast  Capon  with  Cress    (378) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Marron  Ice  Cream  (854) 

2521.    POTAGE,  SUZON 

Place  a  pint  dried,  split  green  peas  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  water 
and  boil  for  five  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  replace  the  peas  in  the  pan  with 
a  pound  ham  bones,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  a 
bean  crushed  garlic,  and  two  parsley  roots.  Moisten  with  a  pint  sweet 
cider  and  two  and  a  half  heavy  quarts  water,  season  with  two  light  tea- 
spoons salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix  them,  cover  the  pan 
and  slowly  boil  for  two  hours,  occasionally  stirring  at  the  bottom  once 
in  a  while.  Remove,  press  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  set  on  the  fire,  pour  in  one 
gill  cream,  one  ounce  butter,  one  light  teaspoon  chopped  truffle  and  two 
ounces  cooked  rice.  Mix  well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes,  pour  the 
soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

2522.    SMELTS,  AFRICAINE 

Thoroughly  wipe  twelve  good-sized,  fresh  smelts,  place  in  a  sautoir 
with  half  ounce  butter,  one  and  a  half  gills  pure  tomato  juice,  two  sweet 
red  peppers  cut  in  small  squares  and  half  teaspoon  French  mustard. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the  fish  with  buttered  paper  and  set 
in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  smelts  with  a  skim- 
mer and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  .  Mix  on  a  saucer  a  teaspoon  butter  and  tea- 
spoon flour  and  gradually  add  to  the  sauce,  gently  mixing  while  adding, 
then  boil  for  two  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  smelts  and  serve. 


768  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104) 
Wheatena  (1298)  Eggs,  Wilding 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 
Sausages,  Porto  Rico  (1788) 
Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 
Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2523.    EGGS,  WILDING 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  finely  chopped,  seeded  green  peppei 
with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  cook  for  three  minutes,  add  a  light 
tablespoon  flour  and  stir  well  while  heating  for  a  minute.  Pour  in  two 
gills  cream,  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  half  pound  fresh  crab- 
meat  flakes,  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms, 
a  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  mix  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Transfer  into  a  baking  dish, 
crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over,  equally  season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sprinkle  over  the  eggs  an  ounce  grated, 
cooked  ham,  lightly  baste  each  yolk  with  a  very  little  cream,  set  in  brisk 
oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and  send  to  the  table. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  with  Rice 
Delicieuse    of    Shrimps 

Highlander  (1734) 

Macaroni  Polonaise  (2152) 

Banana  Meringue  Pie 

2524.  CLAM  BROTH  WITH  RICE 

Open  twelve  large,  fresh  clams  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  all  their 
liquor,  three  pints  cold  water  and  four  branches  celery.  Place  on  the  fire, 
season  with  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  adding  a  teaspoon  butter, 
and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  saucepan.  Plunge  two  ounces  raw  rice  into  a  pint  boiling  water 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  a 
sieve,  then  add  the  rice  to  the  clam  broth  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Pour 
it  in  six  cups  and  serve. 

2525.  DELICIEUSE  OF  SHRIMPS 

Shell  a  pint  cooked  shrimps,  then  cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces.  Mix 
in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour, 
heat  for  half  a  minute,  then  pour  in  two  gills  milk,  mix  until  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  then  add  the  shrimps.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Cut  six 
anchovies  in  oil  in  small  pieces,  add  to  the  shrimps,  lightly  mix,  then 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Remove  and  let 
stand  on  a  table  till  required.  Boil  four  medium,  peeled  potatoes  in  a 


FRIDAY,   FOURTH   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER          769 

quart  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes,  drain,  press 
through  a  potato  masher  into  a  sautoir,  add  three  egg  yolks,  one  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  stir  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes, 
lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
each  with  three-quarters  of  the  potato  puree,  then  fill  up  with  the 
shrimp  preparation,  cover  with  the  balance  of  the  potatoes,  place  the 
moulds  on  a  tin,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  prepare  six  round  pieces  toast  two  inches  in  diam- 
eter, lightly  butter,  arrange  on  a  dish,  and  unmould  the  delicieuse  over 
the  toasts.  Pour  a  mousseline  sauce  (No.  211)  over  and  serve. 

2526.    BANANA  MERINGUE  PIE 

Roll  out  oh  a  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117) 
to  size  of  plate,  lightly  butter  a  deep  pie  plate,  then  line  it  with  the  layer 
of  paste,  carefully  press  down  at  bottom  and  sides,  trim  off  edges,  and 
spread  three  tablespoons  of  orange  marmalade  at  bottom  of  plate. 
Peel  and  finely  slice  eight  ripe  bananas,  place  in  a  bowl  with  two 
ounces  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  mix  well  in  seasoning 
and  arrange  over  the  marmalade.  Set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  re- 
move, beat  up  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  one  ounce 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  good  rum,  beat  up  for  one  minute,  then  spread 
nicely  over  the  bananas.  Neatly  smooth  the  surface  with  the  blade 
of  a  knife,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  finely  grated  cocoanut  over,  reset  in  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Bagration 
Spanish  Mackerel,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (689) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Sirloin  of  Beef  with  Fried  Tomatoes    (793) 

Timbales  of  Spinach  (2063)  Lobster,  Bordelaise 

Roast  Squabs  with  Cress  (831) 

Celery,  Mayonnaise  (69) 
Gateau,  St.  Honor^    (1945) 

2527.    POTAGE,  BAGRATION 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  a  branch  parsley, 
a  sprig  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  a  clove,  two  quarts  water,  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoons salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  two  pounds  fish  bones  or  fish 
heads,  then  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce 
butter  with  two  ounces  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  a  minute,  and 
strain  the  fish  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  pan,  add  a  pint  hot 
milk,  mix  wTell  and  let  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Then  add  a  gill  cream, 
one-half  ounce  butter  and  one  teaspoon  anchovy  essence.  Mix  well  and 
let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Cut  half  a  pound  of  fresh  halibut  in  quarter- 
inch  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one-half  gill  white  wine  and  one 
gill  broth  and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  it  to  the  soup,  mix  well,  pour 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 


770  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2528.    LOBSTER  BORDELAISE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  half  a  pint  white  wine,  four  gills  water,  six  finely 
crushed  shallots,  a  bean  of  crushed  garlic,  three  branches  parsley,  a 
branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  sprig  marjoram,  a  bay  leaf  and  one  clove. 
Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil.  Then  plunge  in  three  well-washed  live  lobsters,  one  and  a  quar- 
ter pounds  each,  cover  the  pan,  boil  for  twelve  minutes,  remove  and  let 
cool  off  in  the  broth.  Take  up  and  cut  off  their  heads,  then  cut  each 
one — shell  and  all — into  eight  even  pieces  each.  Cut  in  exceedingly 
small  square  pieces  one  medium  carrot,  one  medium  onion  and  three 
branches  well-washed  white  celery,  place  in  a  sauteuse,  strain  the  lobster 
broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  the  pan  and  let  reduce  .on  the  range 
to  about  half  a  pint.  Pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  and  one  and  a  half 
gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well,  then  add  the  lobster,  cover  the  pan 
and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  pour  two  tablespoons  brandy 
on  a  saucer,  set  fire  to  it  and  let  burn  for  four  minutes,  then  pour  over 
the  lobster;  mix  well.  Dress  the  lobster  on  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 


Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Caeam  (2034)  Force  (979) 

Fried  Eggs,  Li  Hung  Chang 

Salt  Codfish  in  Cream  (822) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172) 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Cornmeal  Dodgers  (234) 

2529.    FRIED  EGGS,  Li  HUNG  CHANG 

Prepare  and  trim  six  fresh  toasts,  three  inches  square,  lightly  butter 
and  place  on  a  dish.  Broil  six  exceedingly  thin  slices  lean  bacon  for  a 
minute  on  each  side,  remove  and  cut  each  slice  in  two,  and  arrange  over 
the  six  toasts.  Heat  thoroughly  a  well-buttered,  small  frying  pan,  crack 
in  two  fresh  eggs,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  very  finely  grated,  cooked 
ham,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  pepper,  cook  for 
two  minutes  on  the  range,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  one  minute.  Remove 
and  carefully  glide  over  one  toast,  then  prepare  five  more  portions  in  a 
similar  manner.  When  all  prepared  sprinkle  over  half  teaspoon  curry 
powder  evenly  divided.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  shuffle 
the  pan  until  the  butter  attains  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  pour  in  a  tea- 
spoon vinegar,  toss  a  little,  then  pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 
Stuffed    Devilled    Crabs   (10) 

Bitokes,  Tiflis 
Apple  Dumplings  (707) 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER       771 

2530.      BlTOKES,  TlFLIS 

Mince  well  together  two  pounds  raw  beef  and  a  half  pound  beef- 
kidney  suet,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper, 
adding  a  tablespoon  butter,  mix  until  well  amalgamated,  then  divide  in 
twelve  equal  parts.  Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  round,  cake- 
like  forms,  heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  sauteuse,  arrange  in  the 
bitokes,  one  beside  another,  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side.  Lift  up  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish  in  crown-like  shape.  Prepare  a  potato 
saute  (No.  135)  and  place  in  centre  of  bitokes.  Boil  one  and  a  half 
gills  cream  with  two  tablespoons  fresh,  grated  horseradish  for  five  min- 
utes, then  press  through  a  cheesecloth  over  the  bitokes  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Puree  of  Lentils,  Brunoise 

Bluefish,  Bombay  (828)  Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Noisettes  of  Beef,  Foyot  (724)  Lima  Beans,  Fermiere 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Gateau  de  Plomb  (1072) 

2531.    PURE"E  OF  LENTILS,  BRUNOISE 

Soak  a  pint  dry  lentils  in  cold  water  for  six  to  eight  hours,  drain  on  a 
sieve,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  four  ounces  lean,  salt  pork  cut  in  small 
pieces,  two  sliced,  peeled,  raw  potatoes,  one  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion, 
a  sliced  leek,  a  sliced  branch  celery,  one  branch  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Moisten 
with  three  quarts  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pep- 
per and  add  one  ounce  butter.  Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for 
two  hours.  Take  from  the  fire,  press  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a 
saucepan  and  keep  hot  until  required.  Cut  in  exceedingly  small  square 
pieces  half  a  carrot,  half  a  medium  turnip,  one  small,  white  onion,  one 
leek,  one  branch  celery  and  quarter  of  a  very  small  cabbage ;  place  these 
articles  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  sugar  and  one  gill  water,  and  mix  well.  Cover  the  pan, 
set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove,  add  to  the  soup  with  two 
gills  milk  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2532.     LIMA  BEANS,  FERMIERE 

Finely  slice  two  very  small,  scraped  carrots,  one  small  white  onion 
and  one  ounce  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces,  place  in  an  earthen 
pot  with  a  teaspoon  lard,  and  gently  brown  for  six  minutes,  then  add  a 
pint  shelled  Lima  beans.  Tie  together  two  leaves  lettuce,  one  bean  gar- 
lic, one  branch  parsley  and  a  branch  chervil  and  add  to  the  beans,  pour 
hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  the  beans.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix  well,  cover 
the  pan,  cook  on  the  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  bouquet,  add  half  ounce  butter  and  toss 
well.  Place  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 


772  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of   September 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  in  Cream  (1828) 
Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Omelette,  Pavia 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261)  Sweet  Potatoes  Saute"es 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

•  2533.    OMELETTE,  PAVIA 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  sharply  mix 
with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute ;  fold  up  the  opposite 
sides  to  meet  in  the  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  hot  dish.  Place 
an  ounce  butter  in  pan  and  toss  on  the  fire  until  a  light  brown,  then 
add  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  teaspoon  vinegar,  toss  a 
little,  pour  over  the  omelette  and  serve. 

2534.    SWEET  POTATOES  S AUTOES 

Boil  four  good-sized  sweet  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  and  half 
teaspoon  salt  for  forty  minutes,  drain,  peel,  then  finely  slice.  Heat  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  potatoes, 
season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  fry  over  a 
brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile,  giving  them  a 
nice  omelette  form,  then  let  them  brown  for  five  minutes,  turn  on  a  hot 
dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Scallops,  Brestoise  (1857) 

Broiled  Squabs,  Crapaudine  (1302) 

Interlaken  Salad  (1875) 
Rice  au  Lait  d'Amande  (638) 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)         Celery  (86) 
Canape's  of  Caviare  (59)        Consomme",  Rivoli 

Sheepshead,  Mousseline 

Potatoes  with  Brown  Butter  (1398) 

Chicken,  Depew         Sweetbreads  en  Coquilles  (888) 

Fresh  Peas  with  Mint  (2408) 

Coffee  Punch  (254) 

Roast  Plovers  (997)          Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Plombiere,  Germaine 

2535.    CONSOMME",  RIVOLI 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
it  simmering.  Place  in  a  vessel  two  ounces  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER        773 

grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  two  eggs,  thoroughly  mix  with  whisk  until 
thoroughly  thickened.  Prepare  two  small  cornets  with  heavy  paper,  then 
pour  the  preparation  in  the  cornets,  cut  off  a  small  piece  the  thickness 
of  a  pencil  at  the  point  of  the  cornets,  press  the  preparation  into  the 
consomme,  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  the  consomme  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  sepa- 
rately. 

2536.     SHEEPSHEAD,  MOUSSELINE 

Procure  a  small  fresh  sheepshead  of  three  pounds,  scale,  trim  off  the 
fins  and  thoroughly  wipe,  place  in  an  oval  braising  pan  with  a  sliced 
carrot,  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  half  a  sliced  lemon,  sprig  of 
thyme,  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  twelve  whole  spices  and  teaspoon  whole 
black  pepper.  Moisten  with  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  half  gill  white 
wine  and  enough  water  to  just  cover  the  fish,  season  with  level  tablespoon 
salt,  cover  the  pan  on  the  fire,  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  let  contin- 
ually simmer  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  to  a  table  and  lift  up  the  fish 
with  skimmer,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  greens  and  send  to  table  with  mousseline  sauce  (211)  separately. 

2537.    CHICKEN,  DEPEW 

Singe,  cut  off  necks  and  feet  from  two  tender  fresh  spring  chickens 
of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each,  then  split  them  open  through  the  back, 
neatly  draw,  pull  out  breast  bones  and  cut  away  spinal  bones ;  wipe  well, 
place  between  a  coarse  towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Season 
with  a  good  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika  and  half  teaspoon  curry 
powder,  then  carefully  rub  one  tablespoon  good  melted  butter  over  and 
lightly  turn  in  fine,  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  one  ounce  good  butter 
in  a  sautoir,  add  the  chickens  one  beside  another,  gently  cook  for  eight 
minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  and 
keep  hot.  Wipe  neatly  and  cut  two  good-sized,  fresh  red  tomatoes  in 
three  equal  slices  each,  season  with  half  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  tomatoes  in  it  one 
beside  another  and  briskly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  place  on 
plate  and  keep  hot.  Peel,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  eight  good-sized, 
sound,  fresh  mushrooms,  finely  slice,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
tablespoon  of  the  chicken  (pan)  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  then 
pour  in  a  tablespoon  sherry  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  season  with 
two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley,  cook  for  eight  minutes,  lightly  mixing  mean- 
while. Pour  the  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  the  chickens  over,  arrange  six 
thin,  round  slices  freshly  broiled  ham  around  the  chicken,  place  the 
tomatoes  on  top  of  the  ham  and  serve. 

2538.    PLOMBIERE,  GERMAINE 

Prepare  a  pint  (only)  of  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Cut  in  small 
square  pieces  six  slices  candied  pineapples,  place  them  in  a  bowl  with 


774  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

just  enough  lukewarm  water  to  cover  them  for  ten  minutes,  drain  out 
the  water,  then  pour  in  two  tablespoons  rum,  a  tablespoon  maraschino 
and  one  tablespoon  Swiss  kirsch,  mix  well  and  let  infuse  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  them  to  the  vanilla  cream  with  a  teaspoon  kummel 
and  mix  well  with  spatula.  Beat  up  two  gills  thick  cream  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  one  tablespoon  fine  sugar,  mix  well,  then  add  the  vanilla  and  thor- 
oughly mix.  Line  the  interior  of  a  dome-shaped  quart  mould  with  a  thin 
sheet  of  white  paper,  drop  in  the  ice  cream,  etc.,  cover  the  preparation 
with  a  sheet  of  paper,  place  the  cover  on,  bury  it  in  the  ice-cream  tub  for 
one  hour,  remove,  wipe  the  mould  all  around,  unmould  on  a  cold  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  lift  up-  the  paper  and  serve. 

Monday.  Fourth  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Rhubarb  (73) 

Sago  with  Cream  (1585) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Bananas 

Fin  don  Haddock  (76) 

Broiled  Devilled  Ham  (451) 

Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Buns  (197) 

2539.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  BANANAS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute. 
Peel  and  cut  two  sound  bananas  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces.  Thor- 
oughly heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  the  bananas 
and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes,  lightly  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Drop 
in  the  eggs,  then  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  mixing  once  in  a  while, 
pour  in  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Moreno 

Calf's  Tongue  with  Risotto 

Indianapolis  Salad 

Peach  Pie  (412) 

2540.     OYSTERS,  MORENO 

Open  twenty-four  large,  fresh  oysters,  detach  but  keep  them  on  their 
deep  shells,  place  them  on  a  roasting  pan  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  equally  divided.  Finely  chop  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers  and 
sprinkle  them  over  the  oysters,  also  equally  divided.  Arrange  a  thin  piece 
raw,  lean  bacon  on  top  of  each  oyster,  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  fresh 
bread  crumbs  over  them,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove, 
arrange  on  a  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  and  serve. 

2541.    CALF'S  TONGUE  WITH  RISOTTO 

Boil  three  fresh  calves'  tongues 'in  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  and  peel 
them,  place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  braising  pan  with  a  tablespoon  of 


MONDAY,  FOURTH   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER        775 

butter,  lay  the  tongues  over  the  vegetables,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  cover  the  pan  and  cook  on  the  range  for 
ten  minutes,  moisten  with  three  gills  broth,  half  gill  white  wine  and  two 
gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  re-cover  the  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  an 
hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  the  tongues,  trim  them  well, 
then  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Dress  a  risotto  (No.  225)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress 
the  tongue  on  top,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  sauce,  let  reduce 
on  the  open  fire  for  ten  minutes,  strain  it  through  a  Chinese  strainer 
around  the  tongue  and  serve. 

2542.    INDIANAPOLIS  SALAD 

Place  in  a  salad  bowl  six  tablespoons  cooked,  cold  fresh  peas,  add 
two  cold  boiled  potatoes,  two  pickled  beetroots  and  three  slices  Lyons 
sausage  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  six  chopped  anchovies  in  oil,  one 
tablespoon  capers,  twelve  sliced,  stoned  olives  and  two  cold,  chopped, 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Toss  well  for  a  minute,  season  with  five  tablespoons 
salad  dressing  (No.  863),  thoroughly  mix,  neatly  wipe  the  bowl  around 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Potage  Celery,  Espagnole 
Codfish  Steaks,  Meuniere  (240) 

Potatoes  Dauphine  (415) 
Balotine  of  Lamb,  with  Spinach  (1734) 

Oriental  Vegetables 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Diplomatic  Pudding  (430) 

2543.    POTAGE  CELERY,  ESPAGNOLE 

Scrape  the  roots,  remove  the  stale  branches  of  two  stalks  celery,  de- 
tach the  branches  and  thoroughly  wash  and  wipe  them,  then  cut  them  in 
one-inch  julienne  strips,  place  in  saucepan  with  one  finely  chopped 
green  pepper  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter.  Cover  the  pan, 
let  steam  on  the  range  for  ten  minutes,  then  moisten  with  two  quarts 
broth  (No.  701).  Add  two  ounces  raw  rice  and  two  finely  chopped,  peeled 
and  seeded  tomatoes,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  gently  mix,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2544.     ORIENTAL  VEGETABLES 

Peel  one  small,  sound  eggplant,  one  Spanish  onion  and  two  fresh 
red  tomatoes.  Trim  and  thoroughly  wash  twelve  fresh  okras.  Cut 
the  eggplant,  tomatoes  and  okras  in  half-inch  pieces,  place  them  in  a 
bowl.  Finely  chop  the  onion  and  brown  it  with  a  teaspoon  of  butter  in 
frying  pan  for  five  minutes,  then  add»the  other  vegetables,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  curry  and  three  saltspoons  black  pepper, 
thoroughly  mix  them,  then  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  over  them,  place  an  ounce  of  butter 
in  little  bits  on  top,  set  in  moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove  and 
send  to  table  in  the  same  dish. 


776  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Barley  in  Cream  (1068) 

Eggs  Molet,  Jacksonville 

Broiled  Weakfish  (927)          Beef  Hash  (923) 
Curry  Cakes  (1112) 

2545.     EGGS  MOLET,  JACKSONVILLE 

Prepare  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736).  Remove  the  shells  from  twelve 
cooked  shrimps,  then  cut  them  in  quarter-inch  pieces,  add  them  to  the 
sauce  with  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  tarragon  leaves,  mix  well  and  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  five  minutes,  remove,  drop 
in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  shell  them  and  lay  on  a  deep,  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Country  Captain  (1887) 

Pear  Charlotte  (474) 

DINNER 

Olives         Oysters  ( 1 8)         Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Shin  of  Beef  Lie"e 

Terrine  of  Smelts         Potatoes,  Brabant  (1220) 
Veal  Mignons,  Sauce  Bordelaise         String  Beans,  Poulette  (830) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Hazel-Nut  Ice  Cream  (1582) 

2546.    SHIN  or  BEEF  LI£E 

Place  four  pounds  of  shin  of  beef  in  a  saucepan  with  five  quarts  cold 
water,  adding  tablespoon  salt,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  off 
the  scum;  add  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck 
in  it,  two  leeks,  one  stalk  celery,  a  small  bunch  parsley  and  one  bay  leaf. 
Cover  the  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  three  hours  and  a  half.  Place  in 
saucepan  one  ounce  butter  and  two  ounces  flour,  stir  on  the  fire  until  a 
light  brown.  Skim  the  fat  from  the  surface  of  the  broth,  then  strain  it 
through  cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  sharply  mix  with  whisk  for  two 
minutes,  add  three  tablespoons  sherry,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon 
and  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2547.     TERRINE  OF  v SMELTS,  McK.  TWOMBLY 

Cut  off  the  heads  and  thoroughly  wipe  eighteen  medium,  fresh 
smelts,  split  them  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  the  bones,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  in  a  bowl  one  and  a 
half  ounces  butter,  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  two  finely  chopped  shallots,  the  strained  juice  of  half 


WEDNESDAY,   FOURTH   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER    777 

a  sound  lemon  and  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence.  Lightly  butter  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  an  earthen  cocotte  dish,  arrange  twelve  half  smelts 
at  the  bottom  of  the  cocotte,  spread  a  third  of  the  preparation  over  them, 
place  twelve  more  half  smelts  over,  spread  a  third  of  the  preparation  on 
top,  arrange  the  balance  of  the  smelts  on  top,  neatly  spread  the  balance 
of  the  preparation  over  the  fish,  pour  in  a  gill  of  white  wine,  cover  the 
pan,  set  in  the  oven  for  one  hour,  remove  and  serve. 

2548.    VEAL  MIGNONS,  SAUCE  BORDELAISE 

Procure  a  two-pound  piece  from  the  round  of  a  tender,  white  veal, 
then  cut  it  in  six  equal  mignons,  neatly  flatten  and  trim  them,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  mignons  one  beside  another,  and  gently 
fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove.  Prepare  six  round  toasts, 
a  quarter-inch  thick  and  two  inches  in  diameter,  place  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  the  mignons  over  the  toasts,  pour  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28) 
over  all  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 
Stuffed  Eggs  with  Sorrel         Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Tripe,  Lyonnaise  (981) 

Grilled  White  Potatoes  (1344) 

Raisin  Cakes  (1719) 

2549.    STUFFED  EGGS  WITH  SORREL 

Cut  a  small  piece  from  both  ends  of  twelve  freshly  cooked,  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  then  cut  them  in  halves  crosswise.  Scoop  out  the  yolks  and 
place  them  in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  butter,  one  small,  chopped,  pre- 
viously browned  onion,  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons  cream,  thoroughly 
mix  with  a  spoon  until  smooth,  then  with  a  teaspoon  fill  up  the  cavities 
of  the  whites  with  the  stuffing.  Prepare  a  pure*e  of  sorrel  (No.  654), 
spread  over  a  baking  dish,  arrange  the  eggs  (standing  up),  sprinkle  two 
tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  sorrel,  place  a  little  bit 
of  butter  over  each  egg,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Lobster  Saute",  in  Cream  (1223) 

Boulettes  of  Turkey,  Finnoise  (1290)* 

Succotash  (2090) 

Lemon  Pudding 

*Use  the  Turkey  left  over  from  yesterday. 


778  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2550.    LEMON  PUDDING 

Place  in  a  saucepan  three  ounces  fresh  butter,  four  ounces  sugar,  three 
egg  yolks,  the  grated  peel  of  a  sound  lemon  and  its  juice  as  well,  set  the 
pan  on  the  range  and  with  spatula  sharply  stir  for  five  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  lay  on  a  table  and  briskly  whisk  it  for  one  minute. 
Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  add  them  to 
the  preparation  with  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  mix  well  with  a 
skimmer.  Lightly  butter  and  sugar  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  then 
fill  them  up  with  the  preparation,  place  them  on  a  tin,  pour  hot  water 
in  the  pan  up  to  half  their  height,  set  in  the  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
remove,  unmould  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  sweet  cream  sauce  over  them  and 
serve. 

2551.     SWEET  CREAM  SAUCE 

Place  one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream  in  a  small  saucepan 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Place  in  a  vessel  two  egg  yolks,  three-quarters 
ounce  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  es- 
sence, sharply  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes,  gradually  pour 
in  the  milk,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it,  transfer  the  preparation  to 
the  saucepan,  set  on  the  fire  and  continually  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Remove,  strain  and  use  as  required. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Cream  of  Leeks 
Baked  Bluefish,  Paysanne  (1502) 

Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 
Entrec&tes,  Creole         Fried  Eggplant  (460) 

Roast  Grouse  (167) 
Lettuce  Salad  (148)          Gateau  Breton 

2552.     CREAM  OF  LEEKS 

Place  in  a  saucepan  four  pared,  cleaned  and  sliced  leeks  with  one 
ounce  butter  and  cook  on  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile;  dredge  in  two  ounces  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  one 
minute,  moisten  with  one  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  a  quart 
of  milk;  add  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil  and  six  sliced 
shallots,  season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  lightly  mix  and  let  slowly  boil  for  forty  minutes. 
Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  gill  cream  and  add  to  the  soup  with  a  half 
ounce  butter,  mix  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  strain  through 
a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  cheesecloth  into  a  soup  tureen,  and 
serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2553.      ENTREC6TES,    CREOLE 

Neatly  flatten  and  trim  two  tender  sirloin  steaks  of  one  and  a  quarter 
pounds  each.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  rub 
with  a  tablespoon  oil,  arrange  on  broiler  and  broil  them  for  eight  minutes 
on  each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  hot  Creole  sauce 
(No.  507)  over  them  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,   FIFTH   WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER       779 

2554.    GATEAU  BRETON 

Scald  for  two  minutes  and  peel  two  ounces  of  almonds,  place  in 
mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste,  remove,  place  in  a  vessel  with  four  ounces 
sugar,  four  egg  yolks,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  whisk  for 
five  minutes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  vessel  with 
two  ounces  sifted  flour,  and  mix  well  with  a  skimmer  for  two  minutes 
Lightly  butter  a  straight-edged  pie  plate,  drop  in  the  preparation,  neatly 
smooth  the  surface,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let 
rest  for  ten  minutes,  turn  it  upon  a  table,  spread  over  evenly  two  table- 
spoons strawberry  jam,  pour  over  a  glace  vanilla  (No.  1652),  let  rest 
for  five  minutes,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Fifth   Week  of  September 
BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369) 

Farina  Gruel  (74) 

Eggs,  Maconnaise         Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434)         Potatoes,  Lyonnaise  (78) 

Cornmeal  Pancakes  (659) 

2555.    EGGS,  MACONNAISE 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  six 
finely  chopped  shallots  and  gently  brown  for  four  minutes,  stirring 
meanwhile;  add  a  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  one 
minute,  pour  in  one  gill  red  claret  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity, 
then  add  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley 
and  chives,  a  saltspoon  chopped  tarragon,  mix  wrell  and  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  a  baking  dish,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
eggs,  set  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Scallops  au  Gratin,  Virginia 

Bami  Hongkongoise  (138) 

Mince  Pie  (118) 

2556.    SCALLOPS  AU  GRATIN,  VIRGINIA 

Plunge  a  pound  and  a  half  fresh  scallops  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with 
teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve,  saving  one  gill  of 
the  liquor.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  and 
two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  pour 
in  a  gill  hot  milk,  half  gill  cream  and  the  gill  of  liquor.  Sharply  mix  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  scallops,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  mix  well. 

Cut  two  ounces  raw  Virginia  ham  into  thin,  small  square  pieces, 


780  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

add  them  to  the  scallops,  mix  well,  then  pour  in  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits 
of  butter  on  top,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes  or  until  a  nice 
brown  colour,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Chicken  Okra,  B^arnaise 
White  Perch,  St.  Gotthard  (937) 

Potatoes,  Colbert  (2093) 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (1245) 

Cucumbers,  Romaine  (1737) 

Roast  Quail  on  Canapes  (272) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Chambord  Ice  Cream  (1939) 

2557.    CHICKEN  OKRA,  B£ARNAISE 

Singe,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet  of  a  very  small,  tender  fowl,  draw, 
wipe  and  cut  it  in  half- inch  pieces  (meat  and  bones),  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  chopped  onion,  one  chopped,  seeded  green  pepper,  two  minced 
leeks  and  two  branches  of  celery  cut  in  small  squares;  add  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  mean- 
while, then  add  a  finely  chopped  bean  garlic  and  a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley.  Stir  well,  then  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth 
(No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  let 
boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Trim  twelve  good-sized,  fresh,  tender  okras,  cut  them  in  half-inch 
pieces  and  add  to  the  soup,  with  two  peeled  and  crushed  fresh  red  toma- 
toes, then  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes  longer.  Cut  two  peeled, 
well-washed,  small,  raw  potatoes  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  add  to 
the  soup,  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  add  two  gills  hot  tomato  sauce  (No. 
1 6),  mix  well,  skim  the  fat  from  the  surface,  pour  the  soup  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

Friday,  Fifth  Week  of  September 


BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  ficossaise 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  in  Milk  (1231) 

Hashed  Mutton,  with  Green  Peppers 

Oi-ange  Cakes  (1984) 

2558.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  £COSSAISE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  season  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  beat  up  with  fork  for  one 
minute.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  two  ounces  of  smoked  salmon, 


FRIDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  SEPTEMBER          781 

then  cut  it  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces.  Prepare  six  fresh  toasts,  trim 
to  two  inches  in  diameter,  lightly  butter  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot 
dish.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  sautoir,  add  the  salmon, 
cook  for  one  minute,  tossing  well  meanwhile,  then  drop  in  the  eggs; 
cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  at  the  bottom,  remove,  dress 
the  eggs  evenly  over  the  toasts  and  serve. 

2559.    HASHED  MUTTON  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Cut  away  all  the  meat  from  leg  of  mutton  left  over  from  yesterday, 
remove  fat  and  cut  meat  into  exceedingly  small  square  pieces.  Cut  also 
in  same  shape,  two  cold,  boiled,  peeled,  medium  potatoes. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add  one  finely  chopped 
onion,  one  large,  seeded,  chopped  green  pepper  and  fry  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  well  meanwhile.  Add  the  mutton  and  potatoes,  season  with  a 
light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Moisten  with  a  pint  of  broth  (No.  701),  mix  well,  cover  the  pan,  cook  on 
fire  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  stirring  once 
in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  the  hash  on  a  hot,  deep  dish,  arrange  six 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder,  Tokio  (1002) 

Shrimp  Patties  (1341) 
Tenderloin  of  Pork,  Piquante  Sauce  (491) 

Fried  Apples  (66) 
Omelette,  Celestine  (1799) 


DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)  Sardines  (1148) 

Macaroni  au  Maigre 

Salmon,  Coblenz  Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Mignons  of  Beef,  Cahor       Green  Peas,  Basquaise 

Frogs'  Legs,  Newburgh  (2433) 

Roast  Capon  au  Cresson  (376)        Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Cold  Maraschino  Pudding  (1772) 

2560.    MACARONI  AU  MAIGRE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  pounds  fresh  fish  bones  or  heads,  one  sliced 
carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  clove.  Moisten 
with  two  quarts  water,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour,  then  strain  broth  through 
a  double  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan.  Boil  four  ounces  macaroni 
in  a  quart  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  forty  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve, 
then  cut  in  half -inch  pieces  and  add  to  the  broth,  with  two  gills  hot 
milk;  lightly  mix,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  six  slices  toasted  French  bread  separately. 


782  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2561.    SALMON,  COBLENZ  - 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  salmon  steaks  and  keep  on  a  plate 
till  required.  Cut  a  small  carrot  and  a  small  onion  in  exceedingly 
small  pieces,  then  mix  in  a  sautoir  a  level  tablespoon  butter,  two  level 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  half  minute,  moisten  with  a 
gill  white  wine  and  two  gills  white  broth,  add  the  carrot  and  onion,  mix 
well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  add  the  salmon.  Season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  mix,  cover  the  pan,  boil 
for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  the  salmon  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  contents  of  pan  over  salmon,  arrange 
six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve. 

2562.    MIGNONS  OF  BEEF,  CAHOR 

Neatly  trim  a  little  of  the  fat  of  a  two-pound  piece  tenderloin  of  beef, 
then  cut  it  in  six  even  mignons,  lightly  flatten,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  mignons  in  it  one  beside  another  and 
quickly  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  with  fork  and  keep  them 
on  a  plate  until  required. 

Thoroughly  wipe  three  fresh,  medium  tomatoes  cut  in  halves, 
season  evenly  with  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then  place  them  in  the  mignons  frying  pan 
and  gently  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side ;  remove,  dress  on  a  baking 
dish  and  place  filets  on  top  of  tomatoes.  Prepare  and  pour  a  Mornay 
sauce  (No.  526)  and  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  over  the 
mignons,  set  in  the  oven  eight  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2563.    GREEN  PEAS,  BASQUAISE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  one  chopped,  seedless  green  pepper,  four 
chopped  shallots,  and  one  ounce  ham  cut  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces, 
add  one  tablespoon  good  leaf  lard,  then  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes; 
add  one  chopped  bean  garlic  and  one  finely  sliced  leek,  stir  well,  then 
add  one  pint  shelled,  fresh  peas.  Moisten  with  one  pint  broth,  season 
with  a  light  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
stir  well,  cover  pan,  cook  on  range  for  ten  minutes  and  set  in  oven  for 
thirty-five  minutes.  Remove,  add  one  ounce  good  butter,  toss  till  well 
thickened,  dress  peas  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)         Swiss  Mush 

Omelette,  Montenegro 

Butterfish,  Saute",  au  Persil 

Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hdtel  (172) 

Delmonico  Potatoes  (718) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 


SATURDAY,  FIRST   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  783 

2564.    Swiss  MUSH 

Place  in  an  enamelled  pan  one  pint  milk,  two  gills  water  and  three 
saltspoons  salt,  set  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  sprinkle 
in  three  ounces  cornmeal  flour;  add  one  ounce  good  butter,  sharply  stir 
while  adding,  then  let  slowly  cook  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  being  careful 
to  stir  very  frequently  to  prevent  burning  at  the  bottom.  Remove,  drop 
mush  in  a  deep  dish,  and  serve  with  thick  cream  and  powdered  sugar 
separately. 

2565.     OMELETTE,  MONTENEGRO 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream  or  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for 
two  minutes. 

Peel  a  small  cucumber,  cut  it  in  half,  scoop  out  the  spongy  part,  then 
slice  very  fine ;  plunge  the  slices  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  boil  for  three  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  on  a  cloth 
until  completely  dry.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
black  frying  pan,  add  one  ounce  raw  ham  cut  in  very  small  dice  pieces 
and  the  cucumbers,  toss  well  and  fry  briskly  six  minutes,  occasionally 
tossing  meanwhile ;  drop  in  the  eggs  with  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  stir  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  a  minute; 
fold  opposite  sides  to  meet  at  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot 
flat  dish  and  serve  immediately. 

2566.      BUTTERFISH,    SAUTE",   AU   PERSIL 

Cut  off  the  fins  and  thoroughly  wipe  six  fresh  butterfish.  Place 
them  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  pour  over  three  tablespoons  milk,  turn  well  in  the  seasoning 
then  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 
in  a  black  frying  pan,  arrange  fish  in  it  one  beside  another,  gently  fry 
five  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  with  skimmer,  arrange  on  a  dish  and 
squeeze  over  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pick  out  the  perfect  leaves  from 
three  branches  parsley,  add  them  to  pan  with  a  half  ounce  butter  and 
toss  on  the  fire  until  a  light  brown,  pour  butter  over  fish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth,  Chantilly  (2073) 

Oysters,  Hollandaise 

Veal  Cutlets,  Philadelphia  (685) 

Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 

Omelette  Souffle'e  (85) 

2567.    OYSTERS,  HOLLANDAISE 

Open  twenty-four  large  oysters  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
their  own  liquor,  two  gills  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Place  pan  on 
fire  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  remove,  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  then  on 
a  cloth.  Prepare  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  279),  place  oysters  in  a 
sautoir,  pour  sauce  over,  toss  them  well,  then  pour  into  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 


784  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Vegetable  Soup,  Hanovrienne 
Flounder  Sur  le  Plat  (2111)          Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Boiled  Fowl,  Anglaise 

Spinach  au  Velout6  (1763) 

Roast  Saddle  of  Venison,  Currant  Jelly  (418) 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad  (127) 

Feuillet^es,  Parisienne 

2568.    VEGETABLE  SOUP,  HANOVRIENNE 

Cut  in  very  thin  slices  of  about  half  an  inch,  half  a  well- washed,  small 
green  cabbage,  one  white  turnip,  one  beet  root,  two  branches  crisp 
celery,  one  white  onion  and  two  leeks.  Place  all  these  vegetables  in  a 
soup  pot  with  one  ounce  butter  and  two  light  teaspoons  salt,  cover  the 
pan  and  let  steam  on  the  range  for  twenty  minutes.  Moisten  with  three 
and  a  half  quarts  water,  add  half-pound  piece  salt  pork  and  one  pound 
shin  of  beef.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  re-cover  pot  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Finely  slice  two  peeled,  small 
raw  potatoes  and  two  country  sausages,  add  them  to  the  pot  and  boil 
continually  for  forty  minutes  longer.  Remove  the  pork  and  beef,  skim 
fat  from  surface  of  soup,  add  half  ounce  butter  with  a  teaspoon  chopped 
chervil,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  of  toasted 
(French  bread). 

2569.     BOILED  FOWL,  ANGLAISE 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  feet,  neatly  wipe  and  truss  a  tender  fowl 
of  three  and  a  half  to  four  pounds.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  enough 
water  to  cover  it,  season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  then  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  With  a  large  Parisian  potato 
scoop  dig  out  all  you  can  from  three  large  carrots  and  three  large  turnips 
and  add  to  the  fowl.  Tie  together  two  leeks,  two  branches  marjoram, 
one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  add  to  the  fowl,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  for  forty- 
five  minutes.  Scoop  out  two  raw  potatoes  with  the  same  scoop,  thor- 
oughly wash,  add  to  fowl  with  six  small  white  onions,  and  let  con- 
tinually boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Divide  a  small  head  of  raw  cauliflower 
in  sections,  wash  and  drain  well,  place  in  saucepan  with  a  gill  milk, 
quart  water,  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  forty  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  untruss,  arrange  vegetables  alternately  by  groups 
around  fowl  and  serve  with  an  onion  sauce  separately.  Strain  broth 
of  fowl  into  the  white  broth  pan  (No.  701). 

2570.    ONION  SAUCE 

Cut  two  white  medium  onions  in  halves,  then  finely  slice  them,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  and  fry  very  slowly  twelve  minutes 
without  browning,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  an  ounce  flour 
stir  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  moisten  with  a  pint  hot  milk 
and  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  salt- 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  785 

spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  whisk  for  one  minute,  then 
let  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile,  remove  and 
use  as  required. 

2571.    FEUILLETE"ES,  PARISIENNE 

Prepare  a  creme  patissiere  as  in  No.  1280.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible a  half  pound  puff  paste  (No.  756)  on  a  lightly  floured  table,  then 
cut  it  in  six  even  pieces  three  inches  square,  fold  up  each  piece  (double), 
open  again,  then  lightly  wet  the  edge  of  each  half.  Spread  a  tablespoon 
of  creme  patissiere  over  each,  being  careful  not  to  spread  any  at  the 
edges,  fold  up,  gently  press  down  both  edges  and  lightly  wet  the  surface 
on  one  side  only.  Have  a  little  powdered  sugar  on  a  plate,  turn  the  wet 
side  of  each  over  the  sugar,  arrange  the  cakes  on  a  lightly  wetted  baking 
sheet  plain  side  downward,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes, 
remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Sunday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  in  Cream  (1828) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Anchovies 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken  with  Bacon  (12) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2572.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ANCHOVIES 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  season  with  three 
saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with 
fork  for  a  minute.  Cut  six  anchovies  in  oil  in  very  small  pieces,  place 
in  a  sautoir  with  a  tablespoon  butter,  thoroughly  heat,  then  drop  in  the 
eggs  and  cook  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  dress  on  a 
deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Lobster  Saut6,  Holdeman 

Mutton  Chops,  Puree  of  Chestnuts 

Cream   of    Chocolate    Caramel    (2421) 

2573.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  PURE'E  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  French  mutton  chops.  Season 
them  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  roll  in  a 
tablespoon  of  oil,  arrange  on  broiler  and  broil  on  lively  charcoal  fire  for 
four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  pure*e  of  chestnuts  (No. 
1019)  pyramid-like  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  the  chops  around,  one  over- 
lapping another  crown-like,  adjust  a  frill  of  paper  at  the  end  of  each 
chop  and  serve. 


786  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Consomme",  Sue"dois 
Kingfish,  Comtesse   (616)          Potatoes,  Bordelaise  (1190) 

Chateaubriand  with  Olives 
Brussels  Sprouts  (618)          Sweetbreads,  Cheron  (231) 

Punch,  Siberien  (960) 
Redhead  Ducks  with  Currant  Jelly  (37) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Biscuits,  Tortoni  (1521) 

2574.     CONSOMM£,  SUE"DOIS 

Prepare  a  consommd  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering.  Cut  in  exceedingly  small  square  pieces  a  medium  carrot, 
one  turnip,  one  onion,  one  leek  and  a  quarter  small  sound  cabbage; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper;  pour  in  enough  of  the  consomm£  to  cover  the 
vegetables,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
add  one  egg  yolk,  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  sharply  mix 
with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Cut  out  from  a  loaf  of  stale  French  bread  twelve  thin  slices,  toast 
them  to  a  light  colour,  then  spread  the  vegetables  over,  arrange  on  a  tin, 
set  in  oven  with  door  open  for  ten  minutes,  place  in  a  soup  tureen,  pour 
consomme  over  and  serve. 

2575.     CHATEAUBRIAND  WITH  OLIVES 

Trim  a  little  of  the  fat  from  a  two-pound  piece  tenderloin  of  beef, 
place  in  a  coarse  towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver  to  the  thickness 
of  one  and  one  half  inches.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  the  filet  in  the  seasoning, 
arrange  on  broiler  and  broil  on  a  slow  fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  all  around,  place  on  a  tin,  pour  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  over,  set  in  oven  for 
eight  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  an  olive  sauce  (No.  1673) 
over,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top  and  serve. 


Monday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pears  in  Cream  (2034) 

Boiled  Grits  (131) 
Stuffed  Eggs  with  Fines  Herbes 

-Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Broiled  Pork  Chops  with  Onions  (537) 

Saute"e  Potatoes  (135) 

Nutmeg  Cakes 

2576.    STUFFED  EGGS  WITH  FINES  HERBES 

Cut  off  a  small  piece  at  both  ends  of  twelve  freshly  prepared  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  then  cut  them  in  two  crosswise,  scoop  out  the  yolks  and 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  787 

place  them  in  a  mortar  with  one-third  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley 
and  chives,  one  branch  chopped  chervil,  six  leaves  chopped  tarragon, 
one  half  ounce  butter,  two  tablespoons  thick  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  pepper  and  half  teaspoon  French  mustard,  then  thor- 
oughly pound  until  smooth.  Fill  in  cavities  of  whites  of  egg  with  the 
force,  arrange  eggs  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
bread  crumbs  over  them,  place  a  little  bit  of  butter  on  top  of  each,  then 
set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2577.    NUTMEG  CAKES 

The  nutmeg  cakes  are  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  flannel  cakes 
(No.  136),  but  adding  to  the  batter  before  the  cakes  are  made  two  salt- 
spoons  grated  nutmeg  well  mixed  in. 

LUNCHEON 

Quenelles  of  Fish,  Clamart 
Hungarian  Goulash  (263) 
Spaghetti,  Neapolitan  (1433) 
German  Apple  Pie 

2578.    QUENELLES  OF  FISH,  CLAMART 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  a  two-pound  piece  fresh  halibut,  cut  it 
in  small  pieces,  and  place  in  a  mortar  with  an  egg  and  the  yolks  of  two 
others.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  and  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg.  Thoroughly  pound  until  a  smooth  force,  then 
press  it  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  ice,  sharply  stir 
with  a  spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  little  by  little  one  gill  cold, 
thick  cream,  sharply  stirring  while  adding  it. 

Lightly  butter  a  small  tin  pan,  take  a  teaspoon  of  the  preparation  and 
smooth  surface  with  blade  of  a  buttered  knife,  then  with  another  teaspoon 
dipped  in  melted  butter  scoop  out  paste  from  spoon,  drop  in  tin,  and 
continue  doing  so  until  finished.  Pour  lukewarm  water  in  pan  to  cover 
quenelles,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  cover  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper 
and  let  simmer  for  five  minutes ;  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  place 
in  a  sautoir,  with  a  half  pint  cooked  green  peas,  add  one-half  gill  white 
wine,  half  ounce  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  cayenne,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  gently  shuffle  pan,  place 
lid  on  and  let  reduce  till  nearly  dry.  Prepare  and  pour  in  half  the 
quantity  of  cream  sauce  (No.  736),  gently  mix,  dress  on  a  deep  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

2579.     GERMAN  APPLE  PIE 

Lightly  butter  a  straight-edged  pie  plate  and  roll  out  on  a  lightly 
floured  table  a  quarter  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  to  the  size  of  the  plate. 
Line  the  plate  with  paste,  press  it  down  at  the  bottom  and  sides,  trim 
off  at  the  edges  and  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  apple  jelly  at  the  bottom. 
Peel,  core  and  cut  in  halves  four  good-sized  apples,  then  finely  slice 
them,  place  in  a  bowl  with  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  one  ounce 
powdered  sugar,  mix  well,  nicely  arrange  apples  over  jelly,  set  in  oven 


788  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

for  fifteen  minutes,  then  remove  to  oven  door.  Place  in  a  bowl  two  fresh 
eggs,  one  ounce  sugar,  a  few  drops  vanilla  essence  and  two  gills  cold 
milk,  sharply  whisk  for  one  minute,  then  strain  through  Chinese  strainer 
over  pie ;  reset  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  let  rest  for  ten  minutes 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Cream  of  Lentils  with  Sorrel 

Pompano,  Milanaise 

Potato  Croquettes  (390) 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Montmorency  (1823) 

Tomatoes,  Marseillaise 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Eclairs,  Chantilly  (361) 

2580.     CREAM  OF  LENTILS  WITH  SORREL 

Soak  one  pint  lentils  in  cold  water  for  four  hours,  then  drain  on  sieve 
and  place  in  saucepan  with  three  quarts  water,  a  sliced  carrot,  sliced 
onion,  two  each  sliced  leeks  and  branches  celery,  one  branch  chervil, 
one  sliced,  peeled,  raw  potato  and  half-pound  piece  raw  lean  salt  pork. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  remove  pan  from  fire,  take  up  pork 
and  keep  it  for  further  use,  and  pour  puree  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin. 
Remove  the  stalks  and  stale  leaves  from  one  and  a  half  quarts  fresh 
sorrel,  wash  well,  drain,  then  cut  in  julienne-shaped  strips,  place  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  the  range  until  the 
moisture  is  nearly  evaporated.  Strain  the  soup  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  the  sorrel  pan,  mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  pour 
in  one  gill  cream,  mix  well  again,  boil  for  five  minutes  longer,  pour  in  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2581.    POMPANO,  MILANAISE 

Trim  off  fins  and  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  two  very  fresh  pompano 
of  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  each.  Make  light  crisscross  incisions  on 
both  sides  of  each,  place  them  on  a  deep  dish  with  juice  of  a  lemon,  one 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  one  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Repeatedly  turn  the  pompano  in  seasoning 
and  let  infuse  for  one  hour,  turning  once  in  a  while,  then  lift  up  and  roll 
lightly  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard 
in  a  black  frying  pan,  place  the  pompanos  in  one  beside  another,  gently 
fry  them  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve  with 
Italian  sauce  (No.  1244)  separately. 

2582.    TOMATOES,  MARSEILLAISE 

Cut  six  fresh  red  tomatoes  in  halves  crosswise,  season  them  with  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place 
on  a  plate  a  finely  chopped  boiled  egg,  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  pars- 
ley and  chervil,  half  a  bean  chopped  garlic  and  two  chopped  anchovies 


TUESDAY,   FIRST   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  789 

in  oil.  Mix  all  well  together,  arrange  the  tomatoes  on  a  buttered  tin 
cut  side  up,  evenly  divide  the  hash  over  the  tomatoes,  sprinkle  a  little 
bread  crumbs  over,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  set  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  neatly  dress  them  on  a  dish  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (720) 

Force  (979) 

Poached  Eggs,  Barcelone         Fried  Porgies  (498) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347)  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  (14) 

Cocoanut  Cakes  (423) 

2583.    POACHED  EGGS,  BARCELONE 

Prepare  a  Creole  sauce  (No.  507)  and  keep  hot  until  required.  Cut 
six  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  halves  and  fry  in  a  frying  pan  with  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  and  keep 
on  a  plate.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  arrange 
a  piece  of  the  pepper  on  top  of  each  egg,  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Olympia  (2259) 

Navarin  Parmentier  (114) 

Genoise  Praline*e 

2584.     GENOISE  PRALINE" E 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  four  eggs,  two  ounces  sugar  and  a  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  place  basin  on  range  and  beat  up  with  whisk 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to  a  table,  add  two  ounces  sifted  flour, 
mix  well  with  skimmer,  add  one  and  a  half  ounces  melted  butter,  then 
mix  well  again.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  small  pastry  pan  with  a  piece 
of  buttered  paper,  drop  in  preparation,  smooth  surface  and  set  in 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to  oven  door,  egg  surface  and 
sprinkle  over  two  ounces  finely  chopped  and  shelled  almonds,  a  table- 
spoon powdered  sugar,  and  reset  in  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove, 
let  rest  for  five  minutes,  turn  upon  table,  lift  up  paper,  cut  it  in  twelve 
even  pieces,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)       Canape's  of  Smoked  Salmon  (1335) 

Leek  Soup  au  Gratin 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Meuniere          Potatoes,  Bohemienne  (1314) 
Beef  Braise"  au  Pain  Perdu  (1921) 
Cauliflower,  Sauce  Mousseline  (210) 

Roast  Snipes  on  Canape's  (213) 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (42)          Petits  Croissants  au  Pistachios 


790  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2585.    LEEK  SOUP  AU  GRATIN 

Thoroughly  wash  four  fresh,  medium  leeks,  finely  slice  them,  then 
place  in  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  fry  for  twelve  minutes,  or 
till  a  nice  light  brown.  Sprinkle  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  mix  well  while 
heating  for  one  minute,  moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  a 
pint  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well 
and  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Transfer  soup  into  an  earthen  soup 
tureen,  arrange  six  slices  toasted  French  bread  over  soup,  sprinkle  one 
and  a  half  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  bread,  set  in  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2586.    FRESH  MACKEREL,  MEUNIERE 

Cut  off  fins  and  head  from  a  fresh  three-pound  mackerel,  split  it  in 
two  through  back  and  remove  spinal  bone.  Season  with  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  milk  and  roll  it  in  flour. 
Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  the  fish 
and  gently  fry  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  add 
one-half  ounce  butter  to  the  pan,  toss  on  the  fire  until  it  attains  a  nice 
brown  colour,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  adding  half  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley,  lightly  toss,  then  pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2587.    PETITS  CROISSANTS  AU  PISTACHIOS 

Place  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  peeled  almonds  and  thoroughly  pound 
them  to  a  paste,  adding  one  by  one  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  continually 
pounding  while  adding  them.  Place  paste  in  a  bowl  with  one  ounce 
sugar,  two  ounces  flour,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  one  teaspoon  rum,  and 
sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  well  amalgamated.  Take  up  a 
teaspoon  of  the  paste  and  roll  it  out  on  corner  of  a  lightly  sugared  table 
to  the  thickness  of  a  thick  pencil,  giving  it  a  half-moon-like  shape. 
Proceed  the  same  with  rest  of  paste,  then  place  them  on  a  baking  sheet. 

Scald  an  ounce  of  pistachios  in  boiling  water  for  a  minute,  drain, 
peel  and  divide  them  in  halves,  then  arrange  them  on  top  of  cakes  one 
beside  another  lengthwise.  With  a- hair  pastry  brush  lightly  egg  them 
on  the  surface,  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  let  cool  off 
and  serve. 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)          Cero  Fruto  (1610) 

Eggs,  Van  Winkle 
Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Country  Sausages  (134)          Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 
Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

2588.    EGGS,  VAN  WINKLE 

Cut  in  half  and  finely  slice  a  medium  white  onion,  place  in  small 
saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden  colour;  add  one 
ounce  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  milk  and  a  half 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER         791 

gill  cream,  add  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Cut  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  quarters,  add  them  to 
the  sauce,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  each  cayenne 
and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Transfer  the 
eggs  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoon  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove,  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  truffles  over  them  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Scallops,  Poulette 

Fritot  of  Turkey,  Italienne 

Peach  Short  Cake  (2016) 

2589.    SCALLOPS,  POULETTE 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops  in  saucepan  with 
half  gill  white  wine,  one  gill  water,  and  half  teaspoon  salt,  cover  pan 
and  let  cook  on  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes.  Finely  chop  six  peeled 
shallots,  place  hi  a  small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  cook  for 
five  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  but  without  browning, 
then  add  one  good  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  while  heating  for  a  half 
minute.  Strain  the  scallop  liquor  through  a  cheesecloth  into  pan,  add 
one  gill  milk,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives,  sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a-boil,  then 
add  scallops  with  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  mix  well  and  let 
cook  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  add  to  the  scallops ;  sharply  mix  while  adding 
it,  cook  for  two  minutes,  mixing  meanwhile,  pour  into  a  deep  dish  and 
serve. 

2590.    FRITOT  OF  TURKEY,  ITALIENNE 

Remove  all  meat  from  turkey  left  over  from  day  before  yesterday, 
then  cut  it  into  pieces  one  inch  long  by  one-third  of  an  inch  thick  and 
place  it  on  a  dish.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and  a  table- 
spoon olive  oil ;  thoroughly  mix  pieces  in  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  tossing  pieces  once  in  a  while. 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  take  up  pieces  from  seasoning  and 
drop  in  batter,  lift  up,  drop  them  one  by  one  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for 
ten  minutes,  turning  with  skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up,  drain  on 
cloth,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  one  on  top  of  another, 
decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  gill  hot  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Grouse,  Diana 

Baked  Perch,  Finnoise        Potatoes  Lorettes  (372) 

Fricasseed  Chicken,  Ancienne        String  Beans  with  Butter  (1579) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)       Tomato  Salad  (461) 

Gateau  Chambord  (738) 


792  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2591.    BISQUE  OF  GROUSE,  DIANA 

Cut  head  and  feet  off  a  nice  fat  grouse,  place  it  on  a  tin,  spread  a 
little  butter  over,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
detach  the  filets,  skin  and  trim  them  neatly,  then  cut  them  in  fine  strips 
and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  all  the  bones  and  trimmings  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  pound  veal  bones,  one-half  pound  chicken  bones  (if  handy), 
either  raw  or  cooked,  a  sliced  carrot,  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  branches 
celery,  one  bean  garlic,  two  ounces  sliced  raw  ham,  one  sprig  each  thyme 
and  marjoram,  one  bay  leaf,  two  blades  mace,  four  pepper  corns  and  one 
clove.  Moisten  with  four  quarts  water,  half  gill  sherry,  half  gill  white 
wine,  season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  let  very  slowly  come  to  boiling  point, 
simmer  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  then  skim  fat  from  surface  of  broth. 

Soak  a  half  pound  bread  in  water,  then  press  out  water,  place  bread 
in  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  sharply  stir  on  fire  until  smooth, 
then  strain  game  broth  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  pan.  Sharply 
whisk  till  well  diluted,  season  with  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Place  the  breast  strips  in  a  small  saucepan  with  six  canned,  finely  sliced 
mushrooms  and  a  tablespoon  brandy,  set  fire  to  brandy  and  shuffle  pan 
over  flame  until  fire  goes  out,  then  pour  into  a  soup  tureen,  strain  bisque 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  same  and  serve. 

2592.    BAKED  PERCH,  FINNOISE 

Trim  off  the  fins  and  thoroughly  wipe  six  fresh,  fat  perch,  season 
them  all  around  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika,  and 
arrange  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  one  finely  chopped,  fat,  large, 
seeded  green  pepper  and  gently  cook  for  four  minutes,  stirring  mean- 
while, then  add  two  light  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  pour  in  two  gills 
pure  tomato  juice,  add  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  continue  mixing  until  it  comes  to  a  boil 
and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  sauce  and  sprinkle  two  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs  over  perch,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around 
the  fish  and  serve. 

2593.    FRICASSEED  CHICKEN,  ANCIENNE 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  chicken, 
draw  and  neatly  wipe,  then  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces,  bones  and  all, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  chicken  and 
season  with  one  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Tie  in  a 
bunch  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay 
leaf,  clove,  and  add  to  chicken,  then  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Cut  three  ounces  of  pork  left  over  from  day  before  yesterday  in  half- 
inch-square  pieces,  add  to  chicken  with  twelve  peeled,  small  white  onions 
and  one  good-sized,  peeled,  raw  potato  cut  in  half-inch  pieces.  Lightly 
mix,  cover  pan,  let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Place  chicken 
broth  in  a  bowl  and  skim  fat  off  surface.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  three- 


THURSDAY,   FIRST  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  793 

quarters  ounce  butter  and  flour,  stir  while  heating  for  a  half  minute, 
pour  the  broth  into  this  pan  and  sharply  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  one  tablespoon  cream  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
add  it  to  sauce,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it,  and  heat  for  one  minute 
longer.  Remove  the  herbs,  strain  sauce  into  the  pan,  gently  mix  the 
whole  well  together,  pour  into  a  large,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

Thursday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 
Rice  Flour  and  Milk  (464) 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Beef  Saute,  Lyonnaise  (2337) 

Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2594.    FRIED  HAM  AND  EGGS 

Broil  six  very  thin  slices  ham  for  two  minutes  on  each  side  and  dress 
on  a  hot  dish.  Lightly  butter  a  small  black  frying  pan,  thoroughly  heat 
on  range,  crack  in  two  fresh  eggs,  season  with  a  light  saltspoon  salt  and 
half  saltspoon  pepper.  Fry  for  three  minutes,  carefully  glide  eggs  over 
a  slice  of  the  ham,  prepare  five  more  portions  in  a  similar  way  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Radish  Broth  (2164) 

Broiled  Devilled  Sardines  (81) 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Bretonne 

Coffee  ficlairs  (2217) 

2595.     SHOULDER  OF  LAMB,  BRETONNE 

Remove  blade  bone  from  a  shoulder  of  lamb,  season  with  a  good 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  fold  up  and  tie  with  string. 
Place  the  meat  on  a  small  roasting  pan  with  a  sliced  onion  and  bean  of 
garlic  around,  lightly  baste  the  lamb  with  melted  butter  and  pour  two 
tablespoons  broth  or  water  into  pan.  Set  in  oven  to  roast  for  one  hour 
and  fifteen  minutes,  turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while  with  its  own 
gravy,  remove,  untie  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  a  beans  bretonne 
(No.  484)  around  the  lamb  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Caviare  (59)  Olives 

Potage,  Franklin 
Pickerel,  Horseradish  Sauce  (917) 

Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 

Rouelle  of  Veal,  en  Fricandeau         Tomatoes,  Florentine 

Roast  Ruddy  Duck,  Currant  Jelly  (234) 

Fried  Hominy  (235) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Biscuits  Glac<*  (693) 


794  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2596.    POTAGE,  FRANKLIN 

Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add  a  small  chopped 
onion,  two  chopped  leeks  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  well  mean- 
while. Cut  two  small  stalks  celery  in  small  julienne  strips,  add  to  pan 
with  two  quarts  of  broth  (No.  701),  two  gills  tomato  juice,  one  quart 
water,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Tie  together  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  bean  garlic,  two 
bay  leaves,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Cover  pan,  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour, 
add  three  ounces  Carolina  rice,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  thirty-five 
minutes.  Take  up  bouquet,  skim  fat  off  surface,  pour  soup  into  tureen 
and  serve. 

2597.    ROUELLE  OF  VEAL  EN  FRICANDEAU 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  veal  from  round  and  lard  surface 
with  a  few  thin  strips  larding  pork,  and  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  in  a  round  braising 
pan  three  tablespoons  melted  lard,  place  the  rouelle  in,  cook  on  fire  for 
ten  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  and  place  on  a  plate  until  required. 

Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  the  pan,  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while,  add  veal  to  vegetables,  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  then 
let  reduce  on  fire  to  a  glaze  and  cover  veal  with  white  broth  or  water. 
Cover  pan,  set  to  roast  in  oven  for  fifty-five  minutes,  remove  and  dress 
veal  on  a  large  dish.  Skim  fat  off  surface  and  let  gravy  reduce  to  a 
third  of  the  quantity,  strain  gravy  over  veal  and  serve. 

2598.    TOMATOES,  FLORENTINE 

Wipe  six  fresh  red  tomatoes,  cut  a  cover  off  top  of  each,  with  a  spoon 
scoop  out  the  interiors  and  place  meat  in  demi-glace  pot  (No.  122). 
Season  shells  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  all  evenly 
divided.  Remove  stalks  and  thoroughly  wash  a  quart  fresh  spinach, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  press  out  water  with  skimmer, 
chop  up  very  finely,  then  place  in  small  saucepan  with  a  half  ounce  butter, 
egg  yolk,  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Briskly  stir  on  the  fire  for  three  minutes.  Remove, 
fill  up  tomato  shells  with  spinach,  place  covers  on,  arrange  on  a  tin,  place 
a  very  little  bit  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty  min- 
utes, remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Friday,  First  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Omelette  with  Oysters 

Broiled  Smoked  Salmon  (1836) 

Brochette  of  Mutton  Kidneys 

Potatoes  Allumettes  (196) 

Puffs  (313) 


FRIDAY,   FIRST    WEEK   OF   OCTOBER  795 

2599.     OMELETTE  WITH  OYSTERS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  two  min- 
utes. Place  eighteen  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  saucepan  with  their 
liquor  and  one  gill  water,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt  and  saltspoon 
cayenne,  let  boil  for  three  minutes  and  skim  off  froth  from  surface.  Mix 
in  another  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  with  tablespoon  flour. 
Strain  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  into  this  pan,  sharply  mix  with  whisk  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with 
a  tablespoon  cream  and  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon  and  add  to  the 
sauce,  sharply  mixing  while  cooking  one  minute,  then  add  oysters,  mix 
well  and  keep  hot.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a 
black  frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs,  sharply  mix  at  bottom  with  fork  for  two 
minutes,  then  let  rest  for  half  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in 
centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  oysters  and  sauce 
over  omelette  and  serve. 

2600.    BROCHETTE  OF  MUTTON  KIDNEYS 

Tear  skin  off  twelve  very  fresh  mutton  kidneys,  then  cut  in  quarter- 
inch-thick  slices  crosswise.  Cut  out  an  equal  number  of  pieces  raw 
lean  bacon,  same  size  but  very  thin,  season  kidneys  with  a  half  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  pepper  and  turn  well  in  the  seasoning.  Arrange  kidneys 
and  bacon  alternately  on  six  skewers,  roll  them  in  a  tablespoon  oil,  then 
in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  over  a  brisk 
fire  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  little  melted 
butter  over  and  serve. 


LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Canapes,  Lorenzo  (538) 

Ham  Saute"  with  Red  Peppers 

Noodles  in  Cream  (238) 
Maraschino  Pudding  (1772) 

2601.    HAM  SAUTE"  WITH  RED  PEPPERS 

* 

Cut  from  a  raw  ham,  crosswise,  three  slices  of  ten  ounces  each  and 
neatly  trim  off  skin  all  around.  Heat  thoroughly  two  tablespoons  oil  in 
a  sautoir,  arrange  slices  in  pan  one  beside  another,  cook  for  eight  min- 
utes on  each  side,  lift  up  and  dress  on  a  dish. 

Split  six  Spanish  red  peppers  in  halves,  place  them  in  the  sautoir 
and  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  place  on  top  of  the  ham. 
Remove  oil  from  pan,  pour  into  it  half  a  gill  water,  a  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 
Mix  well  at  the  bottom  to  detach  ham  glaze,  let  reduce  to  half  the  quan- 
tity, then  pour  it  over  ham  and  serve. 


796  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)          Radishes  (58) 
Stuffed  Olives  with  Caviare  (733) 

Bisque  of  Lobster  and  Shrimp 
Pompano,  Russe         Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Mutton  Steaks,  Sauce  Poivrade  (1309) 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618)         Fondue,  Swiss  (479) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Jelly  au  Madere 

2602.    BISQUE  OF  LOBSTER  AND  SHRIMP 

Cut  the  heads  off  two  one-and-a-half -pound  live  lobsters,  then  cut 
them  in  one-inch  pieces,  shells  and  all.  Thoroughly  heat  on  an  open 
fire  one  ounce  butter,  add  the  lobster  with  a  finely  sliced  each  carrot  and 
onion  and  two  sliced  branches  celery,  stir  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons  each  brandy 
and  sherry,  set  fire  to  liquors  and  stir  with  spatula  until  fire  goes  out. 
Place  entire  contents  of  pan  in  the  mortar,  pound  to  paste,  then  return 
to  saucepan;  add  a  branch  parsley,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove  and 
two  ounces  raw  rice.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  half 
gill  white  wine  and  a  pint  fresh,  crushed  tomatoes.  Season  with  two 
teaspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  and  let 
gently  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile. 
Press  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into 
saucepan,  pour  in  half  gill  cream  and  let  simmer.  Remove  shells  from  a 
half  pint  cooked  shrimps,  cut  in  half-inch  pieces  and  add  them  to  soup 
with  half  ounce  butter,  stir  well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes,  remove, 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2603.    POMPANO,  RUSSE 

Trim  off  fins  and  lift  up  filets  from  two  one-and-a-half-pound 
pompanos.  Cut  two  each  medium  onions  and  carrots  into  very  thin 
slices  and  place  them  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish  alternately. 
Sprinkle  two  saltspoons  salt  over,  baste  with  a  very  little  melted  butter, 
then  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes ;  remove,  place  filets  over  vegetables, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  spread 
over  them  a  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence.  Pour  over  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  half  gill  water,  cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  then  set  in 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Bring  fish  to  oven  door,  lift  up  paper, 
pour  a  teaspoon  thick  cream  over  each  filet,  reset  in  oven  for  five  minutes 
longer,  remove  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

2604.    JELLY  AU  MADERE 

Prepare  the  Madeira  jelly  same  as  rum  jelly  (No.  1171),  substituting 
the  same  quantity  Madeira  wine  for  the  rum. 


SATURDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER         797 
Saturday,  Second  Week   of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Smoked  Beef  Tongue 

Porgies  Saute",  Fines  Heroes  (.1553) 

Broiled  English  Breakfast  Bacon  (13) 

Sweet  Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (1092) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

2605.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SMOKED  BEEF  TONGUE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  one 
minute.  Cut  two  ounces  smoked  beef  tongue  in  quarter-inch  pieces, 
place  in  a  sautoir  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  cook  on  a 
brisk  fire  for  two  minutes,  tossing  meanwhile.  Drop  in  eggs  and  cook 
for  six  minutes,  briskly  mixing  quite  frequently,  pour  into  a  deep,  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Fish  Cutlets,  Allahabad 

Almondigas  (314) 

Rice,  Creole  (2269) 

Lemon  Custard  Pie  (316) 

2606.    FISH  CUTLETS,  ALLAHABAD 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a  two-pound  piece  fresh  halibut, 
cod  or  fresh  haddock,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  then  place  on  a  clean  board. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  curry  powder,  and  a  salt- 
spoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  then  chop  it  exceedingly 
fine.  Pour  in  little  by  little,  while  chopping,  a  half  gill  cream  previously 
mixed  with  an  egg  yolk,  divide  hash  in  six  even  parts,  roll  out  on  a  floured 
table  to  cutlet  forms  and  lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg.  Mix  on  a  plate 
three  ounces  bread  crumbs,  two  ounces  finely  grated,  cooked  ham,  a 
saltspoon  ground  thyme,  a  saltspoon  ground  bay  leaf,  and  roll  cutlets 
in  this  mixture. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoir,  place 
the  cutlets  in  one  beside  another,  gently  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  each 
side  and  take  them  up.  Pour  a  curry  sauce  (No.  54)  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  the  cutlets  over  it,  one  overlapping  another,  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Salted  Almonds  (954)  Olives 

Potage  Nivernais  with  Parmesan  Cheese 

Sheepshead,  Bread  Sauce 
Potatoes  with  Brown  Butter  (1398) 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Casserole  (1286) 

Stuffed  Eggplants,  Provencale,  (306) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Celery  and  Sweet  Pepper  Salad 

Angel  Cake  (369) 


798  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2607.      POTAGE  NlVERNAIS   WITH   PARMESAN   CHEESE 

Finely  slice  ten  very  small,  well-washed  carrots,  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  ounce  butter  and  lightly  brown  on  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  six  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic,  then  let  reduce  till 
nearly  dry.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701), 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Tie  in  a  bunch 
two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  two  -leeks,  two  branches 
celery,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  one  hour, 
take  up  bouquet,  pour  soup  into  tureen,  and  serve  with  six  slices  toasted 
French  bread  and  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

2608.    SHEEPSHEAD,  BREAD  SAUCE 

Scale,  cut  off  fins,  remove  bones  and  neatly  wipe  a  three-pound  piece 
fresh  sheepshead,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  sliced  onion, 
half  a  sliced  lemon,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  two  tablespoons  vinegar, 
branch  parsley,  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper,  teaspoon  salt  and  water 
enough  to  cover  the  fish.  Place  lid  on  pan,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  forty- 
five  minutes.  Carefully  lift  up  fish" with  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  a  bread  sauce  (No.  99)  over  and  serve. 

2609.    CELERY  AND  SWEET  PEPPER  SALAD 

Cut  away  stale  branches  and  leaves  from  two  stalks  fine  white  celery, 
neatly  trim  roots,  detach  all  branches  from  the  stalks,  thoroughly  wash 
in  cold  water,  drain  and  wipe,  cut  in  third-of-an-inch-square  pieces, 
then  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Cut  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  quarter- 
inch  strips  and  add  to  celery,  season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing 
(No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Quaker  Oats  (ics) 

Stuffed  Eggs,  Russian 
Boned  Smelts,  Maitre  d'H&tel  (1267) 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  (49)  Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2610.    STUFFED  EGGS,  RUSSIAN 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  remove,  drop  in  cold  water 
for  a  minute,  shell,  then  cut  them  in  two  crosswise.  Scoop  out  yolks 
and  place  in  a  bowl,  mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  add  a  teaspoon 
caviare,  half  teaspoon  anchovy  paste,  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives, 
one  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  an  ounce  butter  and  two  tablespoons  cream. 
Sharply  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  well  amalgamated,  then  fill  up 
cavities  of  eggs,  join  together  so  they  have  their  former  shape,  place  on  a 
baking  dish,  pour  a  Mornay  sauce  (No.  536)  over  them,  sprinkle  a  table- 
spoon bread  crumbs  on  top,  set  in  oven  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  799 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Lobster,  Cardinal  (2082) 

Squabs,  en  Casserole,  with  Grapes  (495) 

Spaghetti  &  1'Italienne  (15) 

Peaches,  Chantilly 

2611.  PEACHES,  CHANTILLY 

Peel  twelve  ripe  peaches,  cut  them  in  halves,  remove  stones,  then 
place  in  a  bowl.  Add  one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoons maraschino,  turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning,  then  let  infuse. 
Place  two  gills  thick  cream  in  a  copper  basin,  set  basin  on  ice  and  sharply 
whisk  up  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  one  ounce  fine  sugar,  six  drops 
vanilla  essence  and  beat  up  again  for  two  minutes.  Dress  the  cream 
pyramid-like  on  a  cold  dish,  arrange  the  peaches  around  the  base, 
sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  all  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme',  Adelina 
Salmon,  Sauce  Hollandaise  (151?)  %        Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Mignons  of  Beef,  Duval 
Fresh  Peas,  Avignonnaise  (2078) 
Coquilles  of  Sweetbreads  (888) 

Punch,  "Francaise  (36) 
Roast  Snipe  sur  Canape's  (213) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Ice  Cream,  Constantine  (103) 

2612.  CONSOMM£,  ADELINA 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
another  saucepan  and  set  on  the  fire.  Gradually  dredge  in  two  ounces 
tapioca,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it,  then  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Dilute  one  egg  yolk  in  a  half  gill  cream, 
add  it  to  the  consomme*,  sharply  mixing  while  adding,  heat  for  two 
minutes  longer,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2613.    MIGNONS  OF  BEEF,  DUVAL 

Trim  a  little  fat  from  top  of  a  two-pound  filet  of  beef,  then  cut  it  in 
six  nice  even  mignons.  Split  each  mignon  open,  but  without  separat- 
ing, season  the  inside  and  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Finely  chop  an  ounce  raw  lean  veal,  the  equivalent 
of  one-quarter  ounce  of  raw  lean  ham  and  a  half  ounce  raw  beef  mar- 
row; place  in  a  mortar  with  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  truffle,  one 
egg  yolk,  a  saltspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg;  thoroughly  pound  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  evenly  spread  this 
paste  inside  of  mignons,  close  them,  baste  one  side  with  a  little  melted 
butter  and  lightly  roll  them  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  table- 
spoons good  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  the  mignons  in  one  beside 


8oo  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

another  and  briskly  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress 
them  on  six  freshly  prepared  round  toasts  same  size  as  the  filets,  place 
on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Peel  six  large  heads  fresh  mushrooms,  place 
in  the  pan  of  mignons  and  fry  two  minutes  on  each  side,  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over,  then  arrange  them  on  top  of  filets,  pour  a  Perigueux  sauce 
(No.  677)  over  them  and  serve. 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Cream  (2034) 

Semolina  (192)  Eggs,  Einstein 

Broiled  Devilled  Oysters 

Corned  Beef  Hash  (241) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

2614.    EGGS,  EINSTEIN 

Cut  covers  from  the  tops  of  six  fresh,  ripe,  medium-sized  tomatoes, 
then  scoop  out  the  interior  with  a  spoon  without  cutting  the  shells,  plac- 
ing the  soft  part  in  a  demi-glace  pot  (No.  122).  Season  the  interior  with 
a  light  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  sugar  and  light  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Mix  on  a  plate  one  ounce  butter  with  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley 
and  chives,  divide  this  preparation  evenly  in  the  six  tomato  shells,  place 
on  a  tin,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  crack  one  fresh  egg 
into  each  tomato  shell,  evenly  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt 
and  pepper.  Cut  six  small,  thin  pieces  raw  lean  bacon,  then  lay  a  piece 
on  top  of  each  egg,  set  in  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish, 
pour  a  ham  sauce  (No.  1493)  over  them  and  serve. 

2615.    BROILED  DEVILLED  OYSTERS 

Thoroughly  wipe  on  a  cloth  twenty-four  large,  freshly  opened  oysters, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in 
devilled  butter  (No.  n),  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  place  on  a  double  broiler 
and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  six 
toasts,  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams,  Louisiana 

Irish  Stew  (428)  Salad,  Tyroliennc 

Pumpkin  Pie  (492) 

2616.    SOFT  CLAMS,  LOUISIANA 

Open  forty-eight  very  fresh  soft  clams  and  remove  all  sandy  parts, 
keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies.  Thoroughly  wash  and  brush 
forty-eight  half-shells  and  discard  the  other  forty-eight,  place  one  clam 
in  each  half-shell,  place  in  roasting  pan  one  beside  another,  then  season 
them  evenly  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Chop  ex- 
ceedingly fine  one  seedless  green  pepper,  four  branches  crisp  celery, 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER          801 

and  evenly  sprinkle  them  over  the  clams.  Cut  from  lean  bacon  eight 
very  thin  slices,  then  cut  each  slice  in  six  even  pieces,  arrange  a  piece 
on  top  of  each  clam,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  then 
set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  them  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

2617.    SALAD,  TYROLIENNE 

Place  in  a  bowl  a  half  pint  cold,  cooked  string  beans,  two  medium 
sliced,  pickled  beetroots,  one  finely  sliced  onion,  two  cold,  hard-boiled 
eggs  finely  chopped  up,  and  two  medium  peeled  and  cored  apples  cut 
in  small  square  pieces.  Toss  well  in  bowl,  pour  in  four  tablespoons 
dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage  au  Lait  d'Amande 
Broiled  Bluefish,  Anchovy  Butter 

Mashed  Potatoes  (178) 
Venison  Steaks,  Londonderry 

Soubrics  of  Spinach 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Cabinet  Pudding  (71) 

2618.    POTAGE  AU  LAIT  D'AMANDE 

Place  three  and  a  half  pints  white  broth  (No.  701)  in  saucepan  with 
a  finely  chopped  onion,  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  the  leaves  from  two 
branches  chervil  and  half  bean  chopped  garlic.  Season  with  a  light 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice  with 
half  ounce  good  butter,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Scald  three  ounces  almonds  in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  drain 
and  peel  them,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Take  paste  out 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one  pint  milk  and  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  press  milk  through  a  cheesecloth  into  soup. 
Mix  well,  boil  for  ten  minutes  more,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen,  and  serve 
with  six  slices  of  toasted  French  bread  in  soup. 

2619.    BROILED  BLUEFISH,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  very  fresh  bluefish,  scale,  trim  off 
fins  and  remove  all  bones.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  bluefish  in  seasoning,  then 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  over,  decorate  with 
a  little  parsley  greens,  six  quarters  lemon,  and  serve. 

2620.    VENISON  STEAKS,  LONDONDERRY 

Procure  six  four-ounce  steaks  from  a  leg  of  tender  venison,  neatly 
flatten,  and  season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
crushed  black  peppers.  Thoroughly  heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  place  steaks  in  pan  one  beside  another, 


8o2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

briskly  cook  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  dish  and  keep 
them  hot. 

Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  add  four  tablespoons  currant  jelly,  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  melted,  pour  in  half  gill  port  wine, 
stir  well  and  let  cook  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
add  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
remove,  pour  over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

2621.     SOUBRICS  OF  SPINACH 

Remove  the  stalks  and  discard  all  stale  leaves  from  three  quarts 
fresh  spinach,  thoroughly  wash  in  plenty  cold  water,  drain  on  a  sieve, 
then  plunge  into  three  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  salt  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Place  them  on  a  sieve,  press  out  all  water  with  a 
skimmer,  then  finely  chop  and  place  in  a  sautoire ;  add  one  ounce  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  two  egg  yolks,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  place  pan  on  fire,  sharply 
stir  with  spatula  for  eight  minutes  or  until  thoroughly  dry,  then  set 
pan  on  corner  of  range. 

Thoroughly  heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  large 
frying  pan,  take  up  a  tablespoon  of  the  spinach  and  drop  it  in  the  butter. 
Rapidly  continue  operation  until  finished,  then  cook  spinach  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  a  light  brown  colour,  lift  up,  drain  on 
cloth,  dress  on  dish,  pour  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  over  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  in  Cream  (1828) 
Oatmeal  Porridge  (2)      Eggs,  Colley 

Picked-up  Codfish  in  Cream  (822) 
Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108) 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 
Kiimmel  Griddle  Cakes  (1691) 

2622.    EGGS,  COLLEY 

Finely  chop  four  sound  shallots,  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  cook  to  a  light  brown;  add  ten 
chopped  canned  mushrooms,  cook  for  six  minutes,  stirring  occasionally, 
pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  let 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  large  baking  dish.  Carefully  crack 
twelve  fresh  eggs  over  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  evenly  divided.  Pour  over  the  eggs  a  half  gill  thick 
cream,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoon*,  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  set  in 
the  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (53) 

Scallops,  Lyonnaise 

Pork  Chops  with  Pure'e  of  Chicory 

Pain  de  la  Mecque 


TUESDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OP  OCTOBER          803 

2623.    SCALLOPS,  LYONNAISE 

Plunge  a  pound  and  a  half  fresh  scallops  in  a  quart  boiling  water 
wLh  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  drain  on  sieve.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  medium,  exceed- 
ingly fine  sliced  onions  and  cook  to  a  nice  light  colour,  stirring  well 
meanwhile,  then  add  one  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well  and  cook  for  five 
minutes  more,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons 
sherry  and  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well  and  let 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  scallops  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  one 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  a  little,  cook  for  six  minutes,  occasionally 
mixing,  pour  scallops  into  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  Uttle  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

2624.    PORK  CHOPS  WITH  PUR£E  OF  CHICORY 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  pork  chops.  Season  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  one  tablespoon  lard 
in  a  sautoire,  place  the  chops  in  one  beside  another,  gently  fry  for  seven 
minutes  on  each  side,  dress  a  puree  of  chicory  on  a  hot  dish  and  arrange 
the  chops  around.  Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  pour  in  a  half  gill  each 
white  wine  and  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  boil  for  three  minutes,  pour  sauce 
over  chops  and  serve. 

2625.    PURE"E  OF  CHICORY 

Remove  stalks  and  any  stale  leaves  adhering  from  four  small  heads 
chicory,  thoroughly  wash,  drain  on  a  sieve,  plunge  into  a  quart  boiling 
water  with  a  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar,  and  let  boil  for  thirty-five 
minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  press  all  water  out  with  a  skimmer,  then 
finely  chop  it.  Place  it  in  a  small  saucepan  with  an  ounce  good  butter, 
three  saltspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Stir  well  on  the  fire  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  use  as 
directed. 

2626.    PAIN  DE  LA  MECQUE 

Prepare  a  pate-a-choux  (No.  336),  have  a  very  clean  pastry  sheet 
ready.  With  a  tablespoon  take  up  as  much  as  spoon  £an  hold,  lightly 
smooth  surface  with  blade  of  a  buttered  knife,  then  with  another  table- 
spoon dipped  in  melted  butter  scoop  out  paste  from  the  other  spoon, 
drop  it  in  the  pan,  and  continue  in  same  manner  until  paste  is  all  in. 
Dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
remove,  let  rest  for  five  minutes,  then  split  open  the  cakes  without 
detaching  them.  Beat  up  one  and  a  half  gills  thick  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  one  ounce  powdered  sugar,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and 
beat  for  a  minute  more.  Drop  the  whipped  cream  in  a  pastry  bag 
with  a  tube  at  the  bottom  and  fill  up  the  inside  of  the  cakes  with  it, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar 
over  and  serve. 


8o4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

DINNER 

Oysters  ( 1 8) 
Olives  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Purde  of  Beans,  Honolulu 

Horly  of  Smelts  Potatoes,  Bernoise  (593) 

Chicken  Saute,  Mexicaine  String  Beans,  Paloise  (2069) 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream  (726) 

2627.    PUR£E  OF  BEANS,  HONOLULU 

Soak  one  pint  red  beans  in  cold  water  over  night,  drain,  place  them 
in  a  soup  pot  with  two-ounce  piece  each  salt  pork  and  lean  raw  ham,  a 
sliced  carrot,  sliced  onion,  two  each  sliced  leeks  and  branches  celery, 
two  branches  each  parsley  and  chervil  and  one  bean  garlic.  Moisten 
with  half  gill  red  wine  and  four  quarts  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  adding  half  an  ounce  good  butter,  cover 
pot  and  let  gently  boil  for  two  hours.  Remove  seeds  and  peel  a  pound 
piece  of  pumpkin,  then  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  add  to  soup  and  let  boil 
for  thirty-five  minutes  more.  Strain  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  half  pint  milk, 
half  ounce  butter,  mix  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  into  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2628.    HORLY  OF  SMELTS 

Cut  the  heads  off  twelve  good-sized,  fresh  smelts,  then  split  in  two 
through  back,  remove  spinal  bones  and  place  them  on  a  dish.  Season 
with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika,  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
one  tablespoon  oil,  turn  them  well  in  the  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

Prepare  a  batter  for  fritters  (No.  204),  drop  smelts  in,  roll  them  well, 
then  drop  one  by  one  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  with 
the  skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve 
with  one  gill  of  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

2629.     CHICKEN  SAUT£,  MEXICAINE 

Singe,  cut  hea.d  and  feet  off  a  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  chicken, 
draw,  cut  it  in  twelve  even  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Place  in  a  sautoir  two  tablespoons  good  olive  oil  or 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  one  bean  garlic,  heat  oil  on  fire  until 
garlic  obtains  a  dark  colour,  remove  garlic,  then  place  chicken  in  pan 
and  cook  for  six  minutes  oh  each  side. 

Cut  a  good-sized  white  onion  and  thick,  seeded  green  pepper  in 
half-inch  pieces,  add  them  to  chicken,  stir  well  and  fry  for  ten  minutes, 
tossing  quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Add  two  peeled,  finely  crushed, 
fresh  tomatoes,  mix  well  again,  cover  pan,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove,  dress  chicken  and  ingredients  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER     805 
Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Chicken  Livers 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Lamb  Hash,  Browned  (856) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2630.     SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  CHICKEN  LIVERS 

Remove  the  gall  bags  from  six  fresh,  fat  chicken  livers,  then  cut  .them 
in  quarter-inch  pieces.  Heat  thoroughly  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in 
a  frying  pan,  then  drop  in  the  livers  and  briskly  fry  for  three  minutes. 
Drain  them  a  little,  replace  in  pan,  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  one 
gill  demi-glace,  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  saltspoon  cayenne 
and  two  saltspoons  salt.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Lightly 
butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each,  season  with 
a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  set  eggs  in  oven  for  five 
minutes,  remove,  evenly  divide  sauce  over  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 
Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Maryland  (1512) 
Beefsteak  E*tuv£e  with  Potatoes  (1300) 
Apples  with  Rice  (179) 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Sardines  (1148) 

Vermicellini  Tomat6 
Red  Snapper,  Hunter  Style  (1713) 

Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 
Shoulder  of  Mutton,  Flamande 

Cucumbers,  Bombay 

Roast  Partridges,  Currant  Jelly  (97) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Pudding,  Venus  (902) 

2631.    VERMICELLINI  TOMATE" 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan,  let 
boil  for  twenty  minutes  and  pour  in  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 
Break  three  ounces  vermicellini  (very  small  vermicelli)  and  add 
to  the  consomme*,  then  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  consomme  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  send  to  table  with  two  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
separately. 

2632.    SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON,  FLAMANDE 

Remove  blade  bone,  slightly  shorten  shank  bone,  trim  a  little  fat 
from  a  tender  shoulder  of  mutton,  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  fold  it  up  and  tie  with  string. 


806  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Cut  half  a  small  head  of  white  cabbage  in  quarters,  remove  the 
core  and  stale  leaves,  boil  in  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve, 
cut  it  in  small  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Cut  four  carrots  and  four 
white  turnips  in  halves.  Heat  in  a  braising  pan  a  tablespoon  leaf 
lard,  add  shoulder  and  brown  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  it  once  in  a 
while;  take  up,  add  cabbage,  carrots,  turnips,  two  ounces  raw  lean 
bacon  cut  in  half-inch  thin  square  pieces,  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  pepper.  Lay  shoulder  on  top,  moisten  with  a  half  pint 
broth,  cover  pan,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Draw  pan 
to  oven  door,  scoop  out  all  you  can  with  a  Parisian  potato  scoop 
from  two  large,  raw  peeled  potatoes,  add  to  pan,  turn  shoulder  and 
reset  in  oven  for  forty  minutes  longer.  Remove,  take  up  shoulder, 
untie,  dress  cabbage  in  centre  of  a  large  dish,  arrange  carrots 
and  turnips  around  sides  and  potatoes  at  both  ends  of  dish,  place 
shoulder  on  top  and  serve. 

2633.    CUCUMBERS,  BOMBAY 

Peel  four  fresh,  ripe,  medium  cucumbers,  cut  in  four  lengthwise 
strips,  remove  all  spongy  parts  and  wipe  them  ircely.  Heat  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoir,  add  a  finely  sliced 
onion  and  seeded  green  pepper,  fry  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring 
meanwhile,  and  lay  the  cucumbers  over.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  cider, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  being  careful 
to  baste  the  cucumbers  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  on  hot  dish, 
pour  entire  contents  of  pan  over  it,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley 
over  all  and  serve. 


Thursday,  Second  Week    of  October 


BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Wheatena  (1298) 

Omelette,  Bordelaise 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Calves'  Livers,  Meuniere  (989) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

German  Pancakes  (943) 

2634.    OMELETTE,  BORDELAISE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with 
a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
sharply  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  a  half  minute; 
fold  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  on  a 
hot  dish.  Pour  over  a  Bordelaise  sauce  (No.  28),  made  with  the  marrow 
left  out.  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER       807 
LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Soft  Clams,  Hussard 

Veal  Curry,  Pondichery  (2230) 

Chestnuts  au  Feu  de  Lucifer  (1126) 

2635.    SOFT  CLAMS,  HUSSARD 

Open  forty-eight  fresh  soft  clams,  remove  sandy  parts,  keeping 
nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies,  and  thoroughly  wash  and  brush  forty- 
eight  of  the  half  shells.  Finely  chop  six  sound  shallots,  place  them  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  gently  cook  for  three 
minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  add  six  finely  chopped  fresh,  peeled 
mushrooms  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Divide  mushrooms  in  the  forty- 
eight  half  shells  evenly,  place  a  clam  in  each  shell,  evenly  season  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  paprika.  Finely  chop  three  Span- 
ish sweet  red  peppers  and  evenly  sprinkle  them  over  clams,  place  a  very 
thin  piece  raw  bacon  on  top  of  each,  spread  over  two  tablespoons  bread 
crumbs ;  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  large 
dish  and  serve  with  six  quarters  of  lemon. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Mulligatawny,  Yoshimina 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Mignonette  (iSS8) 

Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Beef  a  la  Mode  (534) 

Stuffed  Okras,  Virginia 

Roast  Chicken  (290)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Parfait  au  Cate  (265) 

2636.    MULLIGATAWNY,  YOSHIMTNA 

Cut  the  head  and  feet  from  a  medium-sized  duckling  and  draw  it, 
saving  liver  and  heart.  Detach  legs  from  body,  cut  away  meat  from 
legs,  then  cut  in  pieces  one-third  inch  square,  including  liver  and  heart. 
Place  body  in  a  roasting  tin,  baste  it  with  a  little  melted  butter,  set  in 
oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot.  Cut  two  leeks  and  two 
medium,  white  onions  in  small  square  pieces,  then  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  pieces  of  cut-up  duck,  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  set  pan  on  fire  and  gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  one  teaspoon  curry  powder,  mix  well,  then  moisten  with  two  quarts 
broth  (No.  701)  and  one  quart  water.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  add  body  of  duck,  all  the  bones,  and 
boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Cut  three  slices  peeled  eggplant  and  a 
peeled  and  cored  apple  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  soup  with  two 
ounces  raw  rice,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  more.  Finely 
chop  two  branches  parsley,  half  a  bean  garlic,  add  to  soup,  mix  well  and 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Remove  body  and  all  bones  of  duck,  skim  fat 
off  surface  of  soup,  pour  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 


8o8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2637.    STUFFED  OKRAS,  VIRGINIA 

Trim  off  both  ends  of  thirty-six  fresh  okras.  Heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  ounces  raw  Virginia 
ham  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  nicely  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
the  okras.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  pour  in  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well,  cover  pan, 
let  boil  for  five  minutes  on  range,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  dress  okras  in  a  vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley  over 
and  serve. 

Friday,   Second  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Cream  (1838) 

Farina  (74) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Findon  Haddock 

Broiled  Bluefish  (326) 

Country  Sausage  with  Fried  Apples  (2473) 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2638.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  FINDON  HADDOCK 

Skin  and  bone  a  pound  piece  smoked  Findon  haddock,  then  cut  it 
in  quarter-inch  pieces,  plunge  into  a  pint  boiling  water,  boil  for  eight 
minutes  and  drain  on  sieve.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a 
half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  beat  up 
with  a  fork  for  one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a 
sautoire,  drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  mixing 
meanwhile,  add  the  fish,  stir  well  for  a  minute,  pour  into  a  deep  dish 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Boston  Oyster  Soup  (1319) 

Canape's,  Madison  (2229) 

Cutlets  of  Duck,  Demi-Glace 

Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 

Pancakes  au  Chocolat 

2639.    CUTLETS  OF  DUCK,  DEMI-GLACE 

Cut  meat  from  breast  of  duck  left  over  from  yesterday  into  small 
square  pieces.  Cut  into  same  shape  two  ounces  cooked  ham,  six  canned 
mushrooms  and  one  small  truffle.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter 
with  an  ounce  flour  and  stir  on  the  fire  until  a  nice  light  brown,  then 
pour  in  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  two  tablespoons  sherry. 
Mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  add  cut  meat  and  other  articles,  with  a 
half  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley  and  chervil.  Season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and 
let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  at  bottom.  Add  two  egg 
yolks,  sharply  stir  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  pour  force  in  a  dish  and 
let  cool  off.  Divide  into  six  even  parts,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  to  cutlet  forms,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  place 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  809 

in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  them  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Lift 
up,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  adjust  a  paper 
frill  at  the  end  of  each  cutlet,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  and  serve. 

2640.    PANCAKES  AU  CHOCOLAT 

Prepare  the  same  quantity  of  French  pancakes  as  in  No.  17,  arrange 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  chocolate  sauce  (No.  406)  over  them  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Anchovy  Canapes  (141) 

Valank  Tsorbassi,  Odessa 

Sea  Bass,  Parsley  Sauce  (1661)  Potatoes,  Brabant  (iaao) 

Venison  Chops,  Sauce  Poivrade  (545) 

Cauliflower  Saute  (631) 
Timbales  of  Fish,  Cardinal 

Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef  (1426)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Galettes,  Paysanne 

2641.    VALANK  TSORBASSI,  ODESSA 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  pounds  fresh  whitefish,  bones  or  heads 
of  same,  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  two  sliced  branches  celery, 
two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove  and 
bean  crushed  garlic.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water  and  half  gill 
white  wine.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  paprika,  let 
boil  for  fifty  minutes,  strain  the  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another 
saucepan,  add  three  ounces  raw  rice  and  let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Shell  a  half  pint  cooked  shrimps,  cut  them  into  three  pieces  each,  add  to 
the  soup,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2642.    TIMBALES  OF  FISH,  CARDINAL 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  salmon, 
chop  it  very  finely,  then  place  in  a  mortar  with  three  egg  yolks,  one 
light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg 
and  half  teaspoon  anchovy  essence.  Thoroughly  pound  to  a  smooth 
pulp,  remove,  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  place  bowl  on  ice. 

Beat  up  two  gills  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  incorporate  it 
with  the  force,  sharply  mixing  with  whisk  while  doing  so.  Lightly 
butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  place  a  round  piece  of  Spanish 
sweet  pepper  at  the  bottom  of  each  mould,  then  fill  up  with  the  force. 
Place  them  on  a  tin,  pour  hot  water  in  the  tin  up  to  half  their  height, 
cover  them  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove  and  unmould  on  a  hot  dish.  Reduce  in  a  saucepan  two  gills 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  to  half  the  quantity,  pour  the  sauce  around  the 
timbales  and  serve. 

2643.     GALETTES,  PAYSANNE 

Sift  a  half  pound  flour  on  the  corner  of  a  table,  make  a  fountain  in 
the  centre,  place  two  ounces  butter,  one  saltspoon  salt  and  one  and  a  half 


8io  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

gills  cream  in  the  fountain.  Dilute  the  butter  in  the  cream  and  gradually 
incorporate  the  flour,  so  as  to  obtain  a  smooth,  firm  paste,  place  it  on  a 
plate,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  let  stand  in  moderate  temperature  for  one 
hour.  Roll  the  paste  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  the  thickness  of  half 
an  inch,  and  with  the  prongs  of  a  fork  prickle  the  surface  of  the  paste, 
then  cut  it  into  six  even,  square  pieces.  Lay  them  on  a  lightly  buttered 
baking  sheet,  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  them 
on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over 
and  serve. 

Saturday,  Third   Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Eggs  Molet,  Soubise 

Perch  Saute",  Meuniere  (2097) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hdtel  (172) 

Fried  Potatoes  en  Quartiers  (348) 

Cornmeal  Pancakes 


2644.    EGGS  MOLET,  SOUBISE 

Prepare  a  soubise  sauce  (No.  94)  and  keep  hot  until  required.  Boil 
twelve  fresh  eggs  for  five  minutes,  lift  up  and  plunge  them  in  cold  water 
for  one  minute,  remove,  shell  them  and  dress  on  hot,  deep  dish,  pour  the 
prepared  soubise  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (2179) 
Scallops  au  G  rat  in  (1060) 
Spareribs  and  Cabbage  (671) 
Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Lemon  Soup,  Lie'e 

Kingnsh  Bercy  (2249)  Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 

Fricandeau  of  Veal  with  Sorrel  (1399) 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 
Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Fig  Pudding  (57) 

2645.  "  LEMON  SOUP,  LIE'E 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  draw  a  tender  two-and-a-half-pound  chicken, 
place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  an  onion  with  two  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  two  leeks,  one  branch  each  celery,  parsley  and  chervil,  a  sprig 
each  of  thyme  and  bay  leaf.  Pour  in  four  quarts  water,  season  with  a 
good  teaspoon  salt,  let  slowly  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  take  up 
chicken,  place  it  on  a  plate  and  keep  for  to-morrow's  luncheon.  Reduce 


SUNDAY,    THIRD   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  8n 

broth  to  one  and  a  half  quarts,  skim  fat  off  surface,  strain  it  through 
cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan  and  squeeze  in  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Dilute  one  egg  yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream,  add  it  to  soup  and  sharply 
mix  with  a  whisk  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil. 
Pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  toasted  French 
bread  and  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

Sunday,  Third   Week   of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130) 

Wheaten  Grits  (131) 

Hard-Boiled  Eggs  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Pompano,  Anchovy  Butter 

Lamb  Chops  with  Ham  Potatoes  Saute"es  (135) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

2646.    HARD-BOILED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  plunge  in  cold  water  for  a 
minute,  remove,  shell,  then  cut  them  in  halves  lengthwise.  Reduce  a 
half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan  to  about  a  gill,  add  eggs 
to  tomato  sauce  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Mix  well,  cook  for  five  minutes,  transfer  them  into  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

2647.    POMPANO,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Wipe  and  cut  the  fins  off  two  fresh  one-and-a-half-pound  pompanos 
and  make  a  few  slanting  incisions  on  both  sides  of  each.  Mix  on  a  plate 
a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  repeatedly 
turn  fish  in  the  seasoning.  Place  on  a  broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire 
for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six 
pieces  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens,  spread  an  anchovy  butter 
(No.  62)  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

2648.    LAMB  CHOPS  WITH  HAM 

Broil  six  thin  slices  ham  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  arrange  on  a 
hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Neatly  flatten  and  lightly  trim  six  French  lamb 
chops,  evenly  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
broil  them  for  three  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  dress  them  over  the 
slices  of  ham  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth,  Chantilly 

Lobster  Ravigote  (365) 

Chicken  Salad,  Mrs.  Griscom 

Omelette,  Melba 

2649.    OYSTER  BROTH,  CHANTILLY 

Open  thirty-six  medium,  fresh  oysters,  place  them  in  a  stew  pan  with 
their  own  liquor,  add  one  quart  water,  four  branches  well-cleaned 


812  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

celery,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Skim  froth  from  surface,  strain  broth  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  six  cups,  but  only  three-quarters  full.  Beat  up  a  gill  thick  cream  to 
a  stiff  froth,  evenly  spread  'the  cream  over  the  six  cups  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Place  the  thirty-six  oysters  in  a  bowl  and  keep  in  ice-box 
for  luncheon  to-morrow. 

2650.    CHICKEN  SALAD,  MRS.  GRISCOM 

Peel  skin  off  chicken  cooked  yesterday,  then  carefully  detach  all 
meat  from  bones,  cut  it  into  half- inch  pieces  and  place  in  a  vessel. 
Shell,  peel  and  cut  into  quarters  twenty-four  hazel-nuts  and  add  to  the 
vessel.  Thoroughly  wash  and  wipe  two  well-trimmed  stalks  fresh, 
crisp,  white  celery  (the  perfect  white  part  only),  cut  it  into  half-inch  pieces, 
drain  again  in  a  napkin  and  add  to  the  chicken.  Cut  into  half-inch 
pieces  a  half  pint  cooked  and  well-drained  cold  string  beans,  add  to  the 
chicken  with  a  light  half  tablespoon  capers  and  two  cold,  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  small  pieces.  Toss  all  well  together,  then  transfer  to  a  salad 
bowl,  add  three  good  saltspoons  salt,  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  best 
olive  oil  and  one  light  tablespoon  strained  lemon  juice.  Mix  well,  and 
just  before  sending  to  table  add  three  good  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
dressing  (No.  70),  rapidly  mix,  neatly  wipe  bowl  all  around  and  serve. 

2651.     OMELETTE,  MELBA 

Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  a 
tablespoon  sugar,  three  saltspoons  salt,  and  whisk  briskly  for  five  minutes. 
Heat  an  ounce  fresh  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  eggs,  mix  with 
fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  a  half  minute ;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to 
meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  six  tablespoons  raspberry  marmalade,  add  a 
tablespoon  each  Swiss  kirsch  and  parfait  amour  or  prunelle,  mix  well  on 
fire  for  five  minutes,  pour  it  over  omelette  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Dubourg 

Filet  of  Sole  au  Gratin  (629)  Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 

Tenderloin  Steaks,  Hoteliere 

Cepes,  Bordelaise 
Sweetbreads  en  Cocotte  (472) 

Punch  aux  Roses  (377) 
Roast  Redhead  Ducks,  Currant  Jelly  (37) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381)  Lady-Fingers  (150) 

2652.    CONSOMME",  DUBOURG 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  slowly  boiling.  Wash  and  drain  two  ounces  raw  rice,  add  to  the 
consomme*  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Prepare  a  royale  (No.  2446), 
cut  in  small  square  pieces  and  add  to  consomme*  with  the  leaves  of  two 


MONDAY,    THIRD   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  813 

branches  chervil,  then  let  boil  for  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  tureen  and 
serve. 

2653.    TENDERLOIN  STEAKS,  HOTELIERE 

Procure  six  four-ounce  tenderloin  steaks,  neatly  flatten  and  trim, 
season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lightly 
roll  them  in  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  roll  in  fine,  fresh  bread  crumbs 
and  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a 
Colbert  sauce  (No.  121)  over  them,  decorate  all  around  with  fried  parsley 
and  serve. 

2654.     CEPES,  BORDELAISE 

Open  a  pint  can  of  cepes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  wipe  well  and  slice 
them.  Heat  a  tablespoon  oil  in  frying  pan,  add  four  finely  chopped 
shallots,  cook  them  one  and  a  half  minutes,  then  add  the  cepes.  Season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  toss  them  well  and 
briskly  fry  for  six  minutes,  tossing  them  once  in  a  while. 

Finely  chop  together  a  half  bean  garlic  and  two  branches  well- 
washed,  fresh  parsley,  add  to  the  cepes,  toss  well  while  heating  for  two 
minutes,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

Monday,  Third   Week   of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pears  in  Cream  (2034) 

Germea  (217) 

Poached  Eggs,  Mdnagere 

Broiled  Smoked  Salmon  (1836) 

Lamb  Fries,  Tartare  Sauce  (2299) 

Stuffed  Potatoes  with  Anchovies 

Vanilla  Buns  (786) 

2655.    POACHED  EGGS,  MANAGERS 

Cut  from  raw  lean  bacon  six  thin  slices  and  broil  them  for  one 
minute  on  each  side.  Remove,  cut  them  in  half-inch  pieces,  place  in 
saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives,  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Prepare 
twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  place  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  sauce 
over  them  and  serve. 

2656.    STUFFED  POTATOES  WITH  ANCHOVIES 

Thoroughly  wipe  eight  medium,  peeled,  raw  potatoes,  place  in  a 
roasting  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  turning  them  once  in 
a  while.  Remove,  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise,  thoroughly  scoop  out 
insides,  place  meat  in  a  bowl,  add  an  ounce  butter,  twelve  anchovies  in 
oil  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
smooth,  then  gradually  pour  in  a  half  gill  hot  milk,  sharply  stirring 
while  adding  it.  With  a  spoon  fill  up  cavities  of  twelve  shells  (only)  of 
potatoes  with  the  pure*e,  lay  them  in  a  tin,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Par- 


814  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

mesan  cheese  over  and  place  a  little  bit  of  butter  on  top  of  each  potato. 
Set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Stuffed  Oysters  (1102) 

Porkol,  Bucharest 

Gnocchis  Russe 

Apple  Pie  (1434) 

2657.    PORKOL,  BUCHAREST 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  each  raw,  lean  pork  and  raw  beef  into 
one-inch  -square  pieces.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  brais- 
ing pan,  add  the  articles,  season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt,  a  light  tea- 
spoon paprika  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  mean- 
while. Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  shuffle  the  pan  while  cooking 
for  two  minutes,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  pints  cold  milk,  two  gills  cream, 
and  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches 
parsley,  a  bean  garlic,  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  add  to  pan, 
place  lid  on  and  set  in  oven  for  one  hour.  With  a  Parisian  potato  scoop 
remove  all  you  can  from  three  peeled,  raw,  medium  potatoes  and  add 
to  stew,  then  reset  in  oven  for  another  hour,  being  careful  to  mix  once 
in  a  while.  Remove,  lift  up  pork,  beef  and  potatoes  with  a  skimmer, 
dress  on  a  dish,  strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  meat,  etc., 
and  serve. 

2658.    GNOCCHIS  RUSSE 

Place  three  gills  milk  and  a  half  gill  white  wine  in  a  saucepan  and  boil 
for  ten  minutes.  Sift  a  pound  flour  into  a  bowl,  then  gradually  pour 
milk  in  bowl,  briskly  stir  while  adding  it.  Add  an  ounce  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  a  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  stir  for  two  minutes,  crack  in  one  egg,  stir  for 
two  minutes  more,  then  add  two  egg  yolks  and  briskly  stir  for  eight  min- 
utes longer.  Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  in  a 
saucepan  on  the  fire,  then  take  up  batter  by  teaspoons,  and  with  the  aid 
of  a  finger  drop  into  the  boiling  water.  (The  whole  operation  should 
be  done  as  rapidly  as  possible.)  Let  slowly  boil  for  six  minutes,  lift  up 
with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish.  Place 
three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  light  brown  colour,  then 
pour  over  the  gnocchis  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Caviare  (59) 

Puree  of  Chestnuts 
Bluefish,  Jaffa  Potatoes  Brioches  (91) 

Turkey  Cutlets,  EspeYance  (1759) 

Eggplant,  Sautd  aux  Fines  Herbes  (794) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Mutton  (900) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Pudding,  Ministerial 


TUESDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER     815 

2659.    PUR£E  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Slit  thirty  Italian  chestnuts,  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan  and  set  in 
oven  to  roast  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  shell,  peel  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  quart  broth  (No.  701),  a  quart  water  and  a 
pint  milk.  Tie  in  a  bunch  a  branch  parsley,  branch  chervil,  two  leeks 
and  two  branches  celery,  then  add  to  soup  with  a  sliced,  peeled,  raw 
potato.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Press 
the  puree  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  another  saucepan.  Add  one  gill  cream  and  half  ounce 
butter,  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  boil,  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2660.    BLUEFISH,  JAFFA 

Scale,  cut  off  fins  and  remove  all  bones  from  a  fresh  three-pound 
bluefish.  Place  it  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Mix  on  a  plate  half  ounce 
butter  with  a  teaspoon  anchovy  paste,  then  neatly  spread  it  over  the  blue- 
fish,  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  frequently 
baste  it  with  butter,  and  remove  to  oven  door.  Place  two  ounces  peeled 
almonds  and  one  tablespoon  capers  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the 
fish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  over,  reset  in  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes  longer,  remove  and  send  to  table  in  same  dish. 

2661.    PUDDING,  MINIST£RIEL 

Place  in  a  basin  four  ounces  chopped  beef-kidney  suet,  four  ounces 
granulated  sugar,  two  ounces  each  well-picked  currants  and  Smyrna 
raisins,  one  ounce  chopped,  candied  apricots,  one  peeled  and  cored 
chopped  apple,  the  chopped  rind  of  a  quarter  of  lemon,  three  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  rum,  and  mix  well  until  thoroughly  amalgamated.  Lightly 
butter  a  heavy,  damp  cloth  the  size  of  a  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
over,  pour  preparation  into  centre  of  cloth,  fold  up  the  four  ends  and 
lightly  tie  pudding.  Boil  in  plenty  of  water  for  one  and  a  half  hours, 
lift  up,  let  stand  for  five  minutes,  untie,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  rum 
sauce  (No.  41)  over  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Third   Week   of  October 


BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Eggs  Cocotte  with  Oyster  Crabs 
Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

Tripe,  Monticello  (1935)  Potatoes  Pailles  (611) 

English  Muffins  (528) 


816  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2662.    EGGS  COCOTTE  WITH  OYSTER  CRABS 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  on  a  cloth  a  half  pint  fresh  oyster  crabs. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  crabs  and  fry  for 
five  minutes,  briskly  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  tablespoons 
sherry  and  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt, 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Evenly  divide  crabs 
in  six  cocotte  dishes,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  equally  divided, 
then  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 

Oysters,  Baltimore 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Mashed  Squash 
Vanilla  Custard  (1345) 

2663.    OYSTERS,  BALTIMORE 

Wipe  thirty-six  large,  fresh-opened  oysters,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  roll  in  a  tablespoon  oil  on  a  plate, 
arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  briskly  broil  them  for  three  minutes  on 
each  side.  Prepare  six  toasts,  trim  off  crusts,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  place 
oysters  on  top,  pour  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  and  serve. 

2664.    MASHED  SQUASH 

Cut  a  small  squash  in  pieces,  peel  and  remove  all  the  spongy  part 
place  in  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover,  add  a  teaspoon  salt,  then 
boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  or  till  soft.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  press  them 
through  potato  masher  into  a  saucepan,  add  one  ounce  good  butter, 
season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  stir  on  fire 
for  two  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Oysters  (18)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Calves'  Tails,  Allemande 

Halibut,  Fleurette  (319)  Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Entrecotes,  Cabaret  (245)  French  Flageolets  (95) 

Roast  Grouse,  Currant  Jelly  (167) 

Celery  and  Apple  Salad  (127) 

Orange- Water  Ice  (1229) 

2665.    CALVES'  TAILS,  ALLEMANDE 

Cut  two  calves'  tails  in  half-inch  pieces  and  place  in  a  saucepan. 
Cut  one  each  carrot,  turnip  and  onion,  two  leeks  and  two  branches  celery 
in  quarter-inch-square  pieces  and  place  them  with  veal,  add  an  ounce 
butter,  set  pan  on  fire,  brown  for  ten  minutes  and  stir  once  in  a  while. 
Moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts  water,  add  one  piece  knuckle  of 
veal,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper. 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER        817 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  two  ounces  barley,  add  to  soup  and 
gently  boil  for  two  hours,  being  careful  to  skim  the  fat  off  surface  once  in 
a  while.  Take  up  knuckle,  pour  in  one  gill  cream,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  soup  into  tureen  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Shirred  Eggs,  English  Style 
Fried  Brochette  of  Smelts 

Calf's  Liver,  Lyonnaise  Potatoes  Saute"s     (135) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2666.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  ENGLISH  STYLE 

Cut  from  lean  bacon  six  very  thin  slices,  then  cut  each  slice  in  two 
crosswise.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  heat  them  on  range, 
then  arrange  two  pieces  of  the  bacon  in  each  dish  and  fry  them  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side.  Carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish, 
evenly  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
lightly  baste  the  yolks  with  a  very  little  melted  butter,  set  them  in  a  very 
hot  oven  for  three  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2667.    FRIED  BROCHETTE  OF  SMELTS 

Thoroughly  wipe  twelve  fresh  medium  smelts,  place  on  a  plate, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  with  cold 
milk,  let  stand  for  fifteen  minutes,  lift  up  from  seasoning  and  roll  in 
flour. 

Have  six  skewers,  then  carefully  run  a  skewer  through  the  eyes  and 
tail  of  each  smelt,  taking  two  smelts  on  each  skewer,  place  them  in  a 
frying  basket,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  drain 
well,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  six  pieces  lemon,  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

2668.    CALF'S  LIVER,  LYONNAISE 

Procure  six  four-ounce  slices  calf's  liver  and  season  all  over  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  thoroughly  two  table- 
spoons leaf  lard  in  a  sautoire,  add  liver  and  briskly  cook  on  open  fire 
for  two  minute  on  each  side.  Take  up  liver,  place  on  a  plate,  add  to 
pan  two  sliced  onions  and  fry  until  a  light  brown,  adding  a  tablespoon 
flour.  Stir  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  gill  white 
broth  (No.  701),  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  mix  well,  and  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  liver  with  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley, 
three  saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix  well,  cover  pan 
and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  liver  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  all 
contents  of  pan  over  and  serve. 


8i8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 
Scallops,  Baton  Rouge 

Sausage,  Gratine"e 
Rice  au  Lait  de  Cocoa  (974) 

2669.    SCALLOPS,  BATON  ROUGE 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops  in  a  saucepan  with 
one  gill  white  wine,  two  branches  parsley  and  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  boil 
for  five  minutes,  then  take  up  parsley.  Lightly  brown  six  finely  chopped 
shallots  in  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  small  saucepan,  then  add  two 
Spanish  sweet  red  peppers  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  for  three  min- 
utes. Add  a  teaspoon  flour,  mix  well,  strain  scallop  liquor  into  this  pan, 
add  a  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar  and  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Add  scallops,  mix  lightly,  cook  for  five  minutes  longer,  pour  scallops 
into  a  deep,  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2670.    SAUSAGE,  GRATINE'E 

Boil  six  medium  potatoes  in  salted  water  for  thirty-five  minutes, 
drain,  then  press  through  a  potato  masher  into  a  saucepan.  Add  one 
ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one  egg  yolk,  one  ounce  butter,  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and 
stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes.  Dress  the  pure*e 
dome  shape  on  a  baking  dish.  Split  twelve  country  sausages  in  halves 
lengthwise,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and 
cook  for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  with  a  fork,  arrange  them 
around  and  against  the  mashed  potatoes,  pour  butter  in  pan  over  all 
and  sprinkle  a  little  fresh  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Set  in  oven  until  a 
nice  brown  colour,  or  about  twelve  minutes,  remove  and  send  to  table 
in  same  dish. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Diablotin 
Troncons  of  Mackerel,  Bergere 

Potatoes  Mignons  (2459) 
Noisettes  of  Mutton,  Norwegienne 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Capon  au  Cresson  (378)  Escarole  Salad  (too) 

Charlotte  Russe  au  Cafe 

2671.    CONSOMM£,  DIABLOTIN 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering.  Cut  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf  six  quarter-inch- 
thick  slices  and  toast  them  to  a  light  colour.  Mix  on  a  plate  two  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  with  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  then  evenly  spread 
cheese,  etc.,  on  the  six  toasts.  Place  toasts  on  a  baking  sheet,  set  in 
oven  for  six  minutes  or  till  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  cut  them 
into  small  lozenge  pieces,  pour  the  consomme*  into  a  soup  tureen,  place 
diablotin  on  top  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER         819 

2672.    TRONCONS  OF  MACKEREL,  BERCERE 

Cut  head  and  tail  off  a  three-pound  fresh  Spanish  mackerel,  trim  oft 
fins  and  cut  it  into  six  even,  crosswise  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  sah 
and  keep  on  a  plate.  Cut  the  white  parts  of  four  leeks  into  julienne 
strips,  keeping  the  green  parts  for  soups.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  butter,  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  fish. 
Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  flour  over  all.  Moisten  with  a  tablespoon 
vinegar,  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  gill  white  wine  and  two  gills  water. 
Shuffle  a  little,  cover  pan,  briskly  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven 
for  thirty  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

2673.    NOISETTES  OF  MUTTON,  NORWEGIENNE 

Procure  six  small  four-ounce  steaks  cut  from  a  leg  of  tender  mutton 
and  neatly  pare  to  a  round  shape.  Place  them  on  a  plate  with  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  oil,  a  tablespoon  vinegar,  saltspoon  thyme,  crushed 
bay  leaf,  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Repeatedly  turn 
noisettes  in  the  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  for  two  hours,  turning  them 
once  in  a  while.  Peel  and  core  four  sound  apples,  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  one  ounce  butter  and  two  tablespoons  sugar,  then  cook  them  on  a 
brisk  fire  fifteen  minutes.  Press  them  through  a  sieve  into  another 
saucepan,  add  one  egg  yolk  and  sharply  stir  while  cooking  for  two  min- 
utes. Add  a  teaspoon  freshly  grated  horseradish,  mix  well  and  place 
in  a  sauce  bowl.  Lift  up  noisettes  from  seasoning,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
arrange  on  a  broiler,  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve  them  with  the  sauce  separately. 

2674.    CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  AU  CAF£ 

Prepare  a  charlotte  russe  (No.  939),  mixing  well  two  tablespoons 
strongly  made  cold  coffee  in  the  whipped  cream. 


Thursday,  Third  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Peaches  and  Cream  (1828) 

Cero  Fruto  (1610) 

Fried  Poached  Eggs,  PeYigueux 

Whitebait  with  Curry 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

Potatoes,  O'Brien  (1714) 

Kiimmel  Cakes  (1691) 

2675.    FRIED  POACHED  EGGS 

Have  three  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  with  three  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  salt.  Crack  six  fresh  eggs  in  the  boiling  water 
and  poach  for  four  minutes,  lift  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  drop  in 


820  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cold  water.     Proceed  in  same  manner  with  six  more,  take  up  from  water, 
neatly  trim  to  round  shape  and  drain  them  on  a  cloth. 

Finely  chop  one  medium  truffle  and  two  ounces  cooked,  lean  ham, 
mix  both  on  a  plate,  roll  eggs  in  a  little  melted  butter,  then  in  mixture 
and  dip  them  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  a  frying  basket,  fry  in  boil- 
ing fat  for  two  minutes,  lift  up  and  drain  them  well  in  the  basket.  Sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little 
parsley  and  serve. 

2676.     WHITEBAIT  WITH  CURRY 

Dip  one  pound  fresh,  well-cleaned  and  wiped  whitebait  in  cold  milk, 
take  up  and  place  on  a  sieve.  Sprinkle  over  two  handfuls  cornmeal 
flour,  tossing  well  while  adding,  place  in  frying  basket,  fry  in  boiling  fat 
for  two  minutes,  remove,  drain  well  in  the  basket. 

Mix  on  a  saucer  a  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  curry  powder  and  salt- 
spoon  cayenne,  then  sprinkle  it  over  the  whitebait  while  tossing  in  basket, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  of 
lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 

Clam  Desire"  (1465)  Hassani 

Jerusalem  Artichokes  Rissol6  (2140) 

Tapioca  Pudding  (5  74) 

2677.    HASSANI 

Cut  in  half-inch-square  pieces  one  onion,  two  shallots,  half  a  seeded 
green  pepper,  a  seeded,  fresh  red  tomato,  a  peeled  and  cored  apple  and 
a  bean  of  garlic.  Melt  a  heavy  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
above  articles,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  flour  over,  stir  well,  then  add  two 
pounds  raw  lean  venison  cut  in  three-quarter-inch-square  pieces,  and 
stir  well  with  spatula  while  browning  for  five  minutes.  Add  a  good  tea- 
spoon curry  powder,  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  a  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  saltspoon  cayenne,  and  moisten  with  a  pint  and 
a  half  water.  Tie  in  a  bunch  one  leek,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil,  small  sprig  thyme,  clove,  and  add  to  the  curry  with  a  piece  of 
lemon  rind  and  twenty-four  picked,  green  string  beans  cut  in  two.  Mix 
well,  cover  pan,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  take  up  bunch  of  herbs  and  lemon  peel.  Prepare  a  rice  curry 
(No.  490)  dress  it  crown-like  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  curry  in  centre  and 
serve  with  Indian  chutney  and  Bombay  duck,  if  at  hand. 

DINNER 

-     Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)          Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Cream,  Kalamazoo 

Filet  of  Sole,  Marguerite  Potatoes  en  Coquilles 

Larded  Filet  of  Beef,  Madeira  (640) 

Tomato,    Athenienne  (1410) 
Roast  Squabs  with  Cress  (831) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Ice  Cream  Mogador  (noo) 


FRIDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  821 

2678.    CREAM,  KALAMAZOO 

Finely  slice  a  medium  carrot,  onion,  two  leeks,  ten  branches  celery 
and  three  medium-sized,  raw  beetroots,  place  in  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
butter  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  carefully  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten 
with  one  and  a  half  quarts  each  broth  (No.  701)  and  water,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Crack  in  small  pieces  a 
few  raw  or  cooked  chicken  bones  if  at  hand,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  one 
and  a  half  hours.  Place  in  a  bowl  two  and  a  half  ounces  rice  flour, 
pour  into  it  two  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream,  whisk  until  well  diluted, 
then  pour  it  in  the  soup.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  boil  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  half  an  ounce  butter  and  mix  well  for  one  minute. 
Strain  cream  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  cheesecloth  into 
a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2679.    FILET  OF  SOLE,  MARGUERITE 

Lift  up  the  filets  from  a  three-and-a-half -pound  fresh  flounder,  care- 
fully skin,  then  cut  each  filet  into  three  slanting,  equal  pieces.  Arrange 
on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  three  very  finely 
chopped  shallots  and  two  finely  chopped,  fresh,  peeled  mushrooms. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  pour  in  white 
wine  to  just  cover  them,  let  come  to  a  boil  on  the  range,  then  set  in  oven 
with  door  open  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour,  pour 
fish  liquor  in  this  pan,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  six 
freshly  opened  mussels  and  twelve  cooked,  shelled  shrimps.  Mix  well, 
cook  for  five  minutes,  pour  sauce  over  fish,  then  set  in  very  hot  oven  for 
three  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2680.    POTATOES  EN  COQUILLES 

Wipe  six  good-sized  potatoes,  place  on  a  roasting  pan  and  bake  in 
oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove,  then  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Scoop 
out  all  the  soft  part  and  press  it  through  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  add  two 
ounces  grated,  cooked  lean  ham,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  one 
ounce  butter  and  two  egg  yolks.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  briskly  stir 
while  cooking  on  range  for  five  minutes.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  two 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  preparation,  gently  mix,  then  fill  up  cavities 
of  the  twelve  half  shells.  Place  on  a  tin,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)         Oatmeal  Porridge  (a) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Oysters 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochettes  (600) 

Saratoga  Potatoes  (156) 

Cornmeal  Pones  <OQo) 


822  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2681.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  OYSTERS 

Place  eighteen  freshly  opened  oysters  with  their  own  liquor  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  gill  water  and  three  saltspoons  salt.  Let  boil  for  three 
minutes,  then  skim  froth  off  surface.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter  with  tablespoon  flour,  strain  the  oyster  broth  through 
a  cloth  into  this  pan,  add  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  mix  con- 
tinually on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Cut  the  oysters  in  quarters,  add 
to  the  sauce,  mix  well,  cook  for  one  minute  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  plain  scrambled  eggs  (No.  193),  dress  half  the  quantity  in 
a  deep  dish,  pour  oysters  and  sauce  over,  cover  with  balance  scrambled 
eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder,  Tokio  (1002) 

Scallops,  Colbert 

Pork  Cutlets,  Van  Volkenberg 

Omelette,  Ce"lestine  (1799) 

2682.    SCALLOPS,  COLBERT 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  scallops  in  saucepan  with  half 
gill  white  wine  and  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  season  with  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Strain  liquor  into  another 
saucepan  and  let  reduce  on  open  fire  to  a  glaze,  then  pour  in  two 
light  gills  dejni-glace  (No.  122),  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well  and  let  briskly  boil  for 
ten  minutes,  shift  pan  to  corner  of  range,  incorporate  little  by  little 
a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  and  pour  sauce  into  scallops  pan.  Mix 
well,  then  dress  scallops  in  a  deep,  hot  dish,  arrange  six  heart-shaped 
croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

2683.    PORK  CUTLETS,  VAN  VOLKENBERG 

Procure  eight  pork  chops,  remove  all  meat  from  bones,  then  chop  it 
very  fine  with  four  peeled,  fresh  mushrooms,  half  bean  sound  garlic, 
half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  an  ounce  cooked,  smoked  beef  tongue. 
Place  this  hash  in  the  mortar  with  an  egg  yolk,  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  then  pound  to  a 
smooth  pulp.  Divide  preparation  in  six  equal  parts,  giving  nice  cutlet 
forms,  detach  small  rib  bones  from  loin  bone,  then  insert  bones  in 
cutlet  so  as  to  give  a  chop:like  appearance,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  lightly 
turn  in  bread  crumbs. 

Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  sautoire,  place  cutlets 
in  pan  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each 
side.  Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  pour  in  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
one  gill  white  broth  (No.  701),  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five 
minutes,  frequently  basting  them  meanwhile.  Remove,  prepare  a 
potato  pure*e  (No.  178),  dress  on  a  hot  dish  in  pyramid  shape,  arrange 


cho] 
and 


FRIDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  823 

chops  around  base,  skim  fat  off  surface  of  sauce,  strain  it  over  chops 
serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Sardines  (1148) 

Potage,  Catherine 

Codfish,  Coudert  (705) 

Lamb  Steaks  with  Pur^e  of  Chestnuts  (1018 

String  Beans,  Etuve"s 

Lobster  Patties,  Augusta  (i6ia) 

Broiled  Snipe  with  Bacon 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Rice-Orange  Pudding  (1120) 

2684.    POTAGE,  CATHERINE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  pound  of  fresh  fish  bones,  one  sliced  carrot, 
one  sliced  onion,  two  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig 
thyme,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  clove.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water, 
season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  and  let  boil  for  one  hour.  Mix  in  a 
saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  ounces  flour.  Strain  the  fish 
broth  into  this  pan,  mix  on  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Shell  a  pint  of  cooked  shrimps,  cut  half  of 
them  in  three  pieces  each  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required. 

Place  the  uncut  shrimps  and  shells  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  smooth 
paste,  then  add  it  to  the  soup.  Mix  well,  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Strain  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  cheesecloth 
into  another  saucepan,  pour  in  one  gill  milk  and  same  quantity  cream, 
mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  shrimps,  with  three 
tablespoons  cooked,  green  peas  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  boil  for 
three  minutes,  pour  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2685.    STRING  BEANS,  ETUVE"S 

Carefully  string  a  quart  fresh,  tender  string  beans,  cut  in  two,  place 
in  a  saucepan,  and  pour  in  white  broth  enough  to  cover  them.  Finely 
chop  a  branch  parsley,  half  bean  sound  garlic,  and  add  to  beans.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well,  cover  saucepan 
with  a  towel,  place  lid  on,  and  let  cook  for  forty-five  minutes.  Uncover, 
add  an  ounce  butter,  carefully  mix  with  a  fork,  dress  on  a  vegetable 
dish  and  serve. 

2686.    BROILED  SNIPE  WITH  BACON 

Pick,  singe  and  cut  legs  off  six  fat  snipe,  pick  out  eyes,  split  open 
down  back  without  separating,  draw  and  neatly  wipe.  Mix  on  a  plate 
a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly 
turn  snipes  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler,  and  broil  over  a 
brisk  fire  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Prepare  six  pieces  toast  cut 
in  two-inch  squares,  arrange  them  on  hot  dish,  place  snipe  over  toasts, 
then  arrange  six  thin  slices  freshly  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  on  top  and 
serve. 


824  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs,  Palermitaines 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 
Salisbury  Steaks  (347) 

Potatoes,  Alfonso 
Cinnamon  Griddle  Cakes  (1195) 

2687.    EGGS,  PALERMITAINES 

Peel  and  remove  seeds  from  three  fresh  tomatoes  cut  in  very  small 
square  pieces,  then  place  them  in  a  baking  dish.  Add  six  anchovies  in 
oil  cut  in  short  pieces,  one  ounce  smoked  beef  tongue  cut  in  exceedingly 
small  square  pieces,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  pour  one  tablespoon  good  olive  oil  over,  and  set  dish  on  range 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  this  stew,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  set  eggs  in  oven  for 
six  minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

2688.    POTATOES,  ALFONSO 

Cut  four  good-sized,  peeled,  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  quarter-inch 
pieces;  cut  in  same  shape  three  Spanish  sweet  red  peppers.  Place 
both  in  a  saucepan  with  one  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream  and  one  teaspoon 
salt,  mix  well  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Mix  on  a  plate  an  ounce  butter  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  add  little  by 
little  to  potatoes,  and  continually  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Transfer 
potatoes  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  Parmesan  cheese  over, 
set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Oysters,  Pauvrette 

Lamb  Kidneys,  Caesar 

Macaroni,  Swiss  (1606) 

Beignets,    Italienne    (790) 

2689.     OYSTERS,  PAUVRETTE 

Open  thirty-six  good-sized  fresh  oysters  and  keep  in  their  deep 
shells,  being  careful  to  detach  the  eyes,  then  -place  them  (in  their  half 
shells)  on  a  roasting  pan.  Equally  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika,  cover  each  oyster  with  a  little  bread  crumbs,  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  each,  then  set  in  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or 
until  they  have  attained  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove,  carefully  take 
up,  dress  on  hot  dish,  and  send  to  table  with  six  quarters  lemon. 

2690.    LAMB  KIDNEYS,  OESAR 

Skin,  without  cutting  them,  twelve  fresh  lamb  kidneys,  place  in  a 
frying  pan  with  one  tablespoon  melted  lard,  fry  to  a  light  colour,  take 


SATURDAY,   FOURTH   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER        825 

up  with  fork  and  place  them  in  a  cocotte  dish.  Cut  two  ounces  lean  raw 
pork  in  half-inch-square  pieces  and  fry  for  five  minutes  in  pan  in  which 
kidneys  were  cooked,  lift  up  pieces  with  skimmer  and  place  with 
kidneys. 

Cut  two  large,  peeled  raw  potatoes  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  fry 
in  same  pan  for  ten  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  cocotte  dish  with  the 
rest.  Finely  chop  six  sound  shallots,  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch 
chervil  and  twelve  branches  chives,  then  sprinkle  this  mixture  evenly 
over  the  kidneys,  and  so  on.  Season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  pour  in  half  gill  white  wine  and  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  cover  cocotte,  set  in  oven  for  one  hour,  remove  and  serve  in 
cocotte  without  uncovering. 

DINNER 

Olives  Anchovies  (141) 

Potage,  Dobruska 

Weakfish,  Venitienne  (1796)          Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

RouSlle  of  Veal,  Chepolata 

Lima  Beans,  Hollandaise 

Roast  Goose,  Britannia  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Jelly,  Yvette  (1559) 

2691.    POTAGE,  DOBRUSKA 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  quarts  each  water  and  white 
broth  (No.  701),  with  one  gill  white  wine.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks, 
two  branches  each  celery  and  parsley,  one  Branch  chervil,  and  add  to 
broth. 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  four  ounces  barley,  add  to  soup  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour 
and  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  bouquet,  pour  soup  into  tureen,  and 
serve  with  six  slices  toasted  French  bread  separately. 

2692.    ROUELLE  OF  VEAL,  CHEPOLATA 

Have  a  three-pound  piece  sawn  from  a  leg  of  white,  tender  veal,  and 
season  it  all  around  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  a  round  braising  pan,  add  veal, 
briskly  fry  on  range  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side,  take  it  up  and  keep 
on  a  plate.  Add  mirepoix  (No.  271)  to  pan,  brown  it  for  six  minutes, 
replace  veal  on  top  of  vegetables,  pour  in  three  gills  water,  two  gills  each 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  tomato  sauce,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt, 
cover  pan,  boil  on  range  for  ten  minutes,  set  in  oven  for  a  full  hour, 
remove  to  oven  door  and  let  stand  till  required.  Slit  on  one  side  twelve 
large  chestnuts,  roast  them  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  remove,  shell  and 
peel,  then  place  in  a  sautoire.  Peel  twelve  small  white  onions,  brown 
in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  for  ten  minutes,  fre- 
quently tossing  meanwhile,  then  add  to  chestnuts.  Cut  three  country 
sausages  in  two  crosswise,  add  to  onion  pan,  briskly  cook  for  two  minutes, 
then  add  to  chestnuts.  Strain  veal  gravy  over  pan  (with  chestnuts) 
let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  dress  veal  on  a  large  dish,  pour  contents  of 
pan  over  and  serve. 


826  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2693.    LIMA  BEANS,  HOLLAND AISE 

Boil  one  pint  shelled,  fresh  lima  beans  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  well  on  a  sieve,  replace  in  pan, 
pour  in  a  Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  26),  mix  well,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

ROAST  GOOSE,  BRITANNIA 

Prepare  the  goose  same  as  No.  1109,  but  substituting  Britannia  for 
apple  sauce. 

2694.     SAUCE,  BRITANNIA 

Peel,  core  and  finely  slice  four  good-sized  apples,  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  half  gill  water  and  saltspoon  salt,  set  pan  on  fire  and  cook  till 
almost  dry,  which  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  stir 
very  frequently  meanwhile,  then  add  one  tablespoon  freshly  grated  horse- 
radish, mix  well,  press  apple  puree  through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  two 
tablespoons  orange  marmalade,  one  ounce  fine  sugar  and  juice  of  an 
orange,  mix  thoroughly,  pour  sauce  into  a  bowl  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Swiss  Mush  (2564) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Luneville 

Porgies  Saute",  Senart  (1475) 

Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (172) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2695.     SHIRRED  EGGS,  LUNEVILLE 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes  and  evenly  sprinkle  over  them 
one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  chives,  carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into 
each  dish,  season  equally  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoon  s 
pepper,  pour  a  tablespoon  good  cream  over  each  dish,  set  in  oven  for 
five  minutes,  remove,  and  immediately  send  to  the  table. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Crab-meat  Patties 

Goose  Pilaff  (1569) 

Mince  Pie  (118) 

2696^    CRAB-MEAT  PATTIES 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  small  patties  (No.  929).  Have  one  and  a 
half  pounds  crab  meat  in  a  sautoire  with  a  half  gill  sherry  and  teaspoon 
salt,  cover  pan  and  keep  on  range  till  required.  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  light  tablespoons  flour,  pour  in 
one  gill  each  milk  and  cream,  season  with  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and 
grated  nutmeg,  mix  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  pour  sauce  into 


SUNDAY,    FOURTH   WEEK  OF  OCTOBER          827 

crab-meat  pan,  mix  well  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg 
yolks  with  two  tablespoons  cream,  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  lemon,  and 
add  to  pan,  then  gently  mix  with  wooden  spoon  for  three  minutes,  but  do 
not  allow  to  boil  again.  Dress  the  six  patties  on  a  hot  dish,  evenly 
divide  crab  meat  in  them,  place  covers  on  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme",  Portugaise 

Broiled  Tranches  of  Salmon,  Tartare 

Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

Filet  Mignons,  Bennett 

Beignets  of  Cauliflower  (1161) 

Sweetbreads,  Montebello  (1029) 

French  Peas  (145) 

Punch,  Francaise  (36) 

Teal  Ducks,  Cold  Orange  Sauce 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Canteloupe  en  Surprise  (2377) 

2697.     CONSOMM£,  PORTUGAISE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  pan  and  keep 
simmering.  Soak  eighteen  prunes  in  cold  water  during  night,  drain 
on  sieve,  then  place  in  small  saucepan  with  an  ounce  sugar,  half  a  cinna- 
mon stick,  one  pint  water,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  keep  hot.  Cut  white  parts  of  two  leeks  in  julienne-shaped  strips, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  brown  for  ten 
minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  gills  of  the 
consomme,  let  cook  until  nearly  dry,  add  leeks,  drain  the  prunes  and 
also  add,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2698.    BROILED  TRANCHES  OF  SALMON,  TARTARE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  fresh  salmon,  scale,  wash  and 
thoroughly  wipe  them.  Place  on  a  dish  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoon  oil  and  leaves  from 
a  branch  parsley.  Repeatedly  turn  salmon  in  seasoning,  then  let  infuse 
for  thirty  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  pieces  in  seasoning  quite  fre- 
quently, arrange  on  a  broiler,  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  decorate  with  a 
little  parsley,  six  quarters  lemon,  and  serve  with  tartare  sauce  (No.  48) 
separately. 

2699.    FILET  MIGNONS,  BENNETT 

Remove  skin  and  neatly  trim  a  two-pound  piece  nice,  tender  filet 
of  beef.  Cut  it  in  six  equal  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
t  -aspoon  pepper,  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Peel,  carefully 
'A  ash  and  drain  well  twelve  good-sized  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a 
i*  i  utoire  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  and  gently  cook  for  five  minutes 
< >:i  each  side.  Sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  squeeze  in  juice  of  a 


828  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

quarter  of  lemon,  add  two  tablespoons  sherry,  shuffle  well  and  keep 
them  hot  on  range. 

Prepare  six  round  pieces  toast,  two  inches  in  diameter  and  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  spread  a  teaspoon  of  pate  de  foie  gras  over  each,  then 
place  on  a  hot  dish. 

Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  place 
mignons  in  pan  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  them  on  top  of  toast,  arrange  two  mushrooms  over 
each  mignon,  pour  Bennett  sauce  over  all  and  serve  very  hot. 

2700.    SAUCE,  BENNETT 

Thoroughly  wash,  wipe  and  slice  four  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  three  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  teaspoon  butter,  and 
cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  one 
gill  white  wine,  let  reduce  to  almost  a  glaze,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Add  four  stoned  and  finely  sliced  large 
olives,  six  fresh  tarragon  leaves,  and  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt  and 
one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
remove  to  table,  add  little  by  little  a  half  ounce  good  butter,  mix  with 
spoon  while  adding  it,  then  use  as  required. 

TEAL  DUCKS,  ORANGE  SAUCE 

Prepare  the  ducks  same  as  in  No.  561,  but  serving  a  cold  orange 
sauce  instead  of  the  currant  jelly. 

2701.    COLD  ORANGE  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  bowl  six  tablespoons  currant  jelly  with  one  and  a  half 
ounces  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  two  oranges.  Sharply  stir  with 
wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  squeeze  in  juice  of  the  two  oranges 
and  one  lemon,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  port  or  sherry,  and  mix  whole 
well  together;  season  with  a  saltspoon  each  salt  and  cayenne,  mix  well 
again,  strain  sauce  into  a  sauce  bowl  and  serve. 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Rice  Flour  (464)         Sailors'  Omelette 

Codfish  Steaks,  Meuniere  (240) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Tomato  Sauce  (55) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (51) 

2702.    SAILORS'  OMELETTE 

Lightly  rub  inside  of  a  bowl  with  a  bean  garlic,  then  carefully  crack 
in  eight  fresh  eggs.  Add  a  half  teaspoon  each  anchovy  essence  and  salt, 
a  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  sharply  beat 
up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Remove  skin  and  bones  from  a  two- 


MONDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER         829 

ounce  piece  smoked  salmon,  cut  it  in  quarter-inch-square  pieces,  place 
in  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  well  meanwhile.  Drop  in  eggs,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes, 
then  let  rest  for  half  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre, 
let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Soft  Clams,  Vaudeville  (932) 

Shoulder  of  Mutton,  Bon-Veillard 

Floating  Island  (1514) 

2702  A.    SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON,  BON-VEILLARD 

Procure  a  tender,  fat  shoulder  mutton,  entirely  bone  it,  season  all 
over  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  roll  up  shoulder 
and  tie  with  strings.  Place  some  trimmings  of  larding  pork  in  a  small 
roasting  pan,  lay  shoulder  on  top,  baste  it  with  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  turning  shoulder  and  basting 
with  a  little  hot  water  once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  place  shoulder  in 
a  baking  dish.  Finely  slice  two  medium,  white  onions,  place  in  frying 
pan  with  fat  of  shoulder  pan  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a 
while.  Add  four  medium,  finely  sliced,  peeled  raw  potatoes  to  the 
onions,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  more, 
frequently  tossing  meanwhile.  Arrange  potatoes  around  shoulder  on 
dish,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  all,  set  in  the  oven  for  thirty-five 
minutes  more,  remove,  untie  shoulder  and  immediately  send  to  the 
table. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Auvergnat 
Boudins  of  Pickerel,  Volga 
Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Venison  Steaks,  Vigneron        Spinach,  Martha  (1534) 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Cocoanut  Pudding  (274) 

2703.    POTAGE,  AUVERGNAT 

Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add  two 
finely  sliced  leeks,  one  sliced  onion  and  two  ounces  salt  pork  cut  in  small 
pieces,  set  pan  on  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  mean- 
while. Add  one  crushed  bean  garlic  and  two  branches  parsley,  stir 
well,  add  three  sliced,  peeled  raw  potatoes,  a  pint  fresh,  crushed  tomatoes 
and  half  pint  lentils  previously  boiled  in  water  for  ten  minutes,  pour  in  a 
quart  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  and  a  half  quarts  water,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  add  two  bay  leaves,  mix  well,  cover 
pan  and  let  simmer  on  corner  of  range  for  two  hours,  occasionally 
mixing  meanwhile.  Remove,  pour  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  half  ounce  good  butter,  one 
gill  milk,  and  mix  potage  on  range  with  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for 


830  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

five  minutes.     Pour  pure*e  into  a  soup  tureen,  adding  bread  croutons 
(No.  23)  and  serve. 

2704.    BOUDINS  OF  PICKEREL,  VOLGA 

Neatly  trim  skin  and  bones  from  a  small  three-pound  pickerel,  cut 
the  perfect  meat  in  small  pieces,  and  place  it  in  mortar  with  one  whole 
egg.  Thoroughly  pound  for  two  minutes,  add  one  egg  yolk,  pound 
again  for  two  minutes  more,  add  another,  sharply  pound  again,  then 
finally  add  bread  panada  (No.  1795),  another  egg  yolk,  and  briskly 
pound  for  five  minutes,  or  until  smooth.  Remove  paste  from  mortar 
and  rub  it  through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  large  bowl,  set  bowl  on  broken 
ice,  add  to  force  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  one  finely 
chopped  truffle,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  and  sharply  stir  with  wooden 
spoon  for  five  minutes.  Divide  preparation  in  twelve  even  parts,  roll  each 
part  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  egg  form,  lightly  flatten  with  knife 
blade,  arrange  boudins  in  a  sautoire,  cover  with  hot  water,  add  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  boil  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up  and  drain  on  a  cloth,  dip  in 
beaten  eggs,  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two 
tablespoons  butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  boudins  in  and  fry  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin, 
decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  Hollandaise 
vert-pre  sauce  separately. 

2705.    SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE,  VERT-PRE" 

Have  two  and  a  half  ounces  butter,  fresh  if  possible,  or  salted,  thor- 
oughly wash  it  in  cold,  fresh  water,  divide  in  two  even  parts,  and  place 
half  in  a  bowl  to  lightly  melt  on  range  shelf.  Place  in  a  mortar  two  well- 
washed  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil,  one  peeled  shallot  and  six 
watercress  leaves.  Thoroughly  pound  these  herbs  till  quite  smooth, 
then  add  the  unused  butter,  pound  again  for  one  minute,  then  press 
butter  through  fine  sieve  into  a  bowl. 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  two  egg  yolks,  one  tablespoon  vinegar  and 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Place  pan  on  corner  of  range,  sharply  whisk 
for  five  minutes,  and  gradually  pour  in  drop  by  drop  the  melted  butter. 
When  the  melted  butter  is  all  dropped  in  add  also  little  by  little  the  green 
butter  and  briskly  whisk  while  adding  both.  Remove  to  table,  mix 
for  three  minutes  longer,  press  sauce  through  a  cloth  into  bowl  and 
serve. 

2706.    VENISON  STEAKS,  VIGNERON 

Procure  six  four-ounce,  tender  venison  steaks,  place  them  in  an 
earthen  jar  with  a  sliced  onion,  bean  crushed  garlic,  sprig  each  thyme 
and  marjoram,  blade  ma-ce,  bay  leaf,  clove,  branch  parsley  and  branch 
chervil.  Pour  in  enough  claret  to  just  cover  the  steaks,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  teaspoon  fresh  crushed  allspice. 
Cover  pan  and  let  infuse  over  night,  if  possible,  or  as  long  as  you  can. 
Forty-five  minutes  before  serving  lift  up,  wipe  and  keep  them  on  a  plate. 
Place  marinade  in  saucepan  and  let  reduce  on  open  fire  to  half  the 
quantity,  strain  gravy  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  add 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER    $31 

three  tablespoons  currant  jelly,  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well 
and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  keep  hot.  Pick  off  grapes  from  a 
pound  of  white  grapes,  place  in  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Lightly  roll  steaks  in 
a  tablespoon  oil,  arrange  on  a  broiler  and  cook  over  a  lively  fire  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  large,  hot  dish,  arrange  grapes  around, 
pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)          Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Champfitre 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Calves'  Brains,  Brown  Butter  (2258) 

Grilled  Potatoes  (1344) 

Orange  Cakes  (1984) 

2707.    EGGS  COCOTTE,  CHAMPETRE 

Slit  on  both  sides  twelve  good-sized  Italian  chestnuts,  place  in  a 
roasting  pan,  roast  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove,  shell  and  peel, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  milk  to  cover  them,  season  with 
two  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  press  them  through  a  sieve  into  another 
small  saucepan,  add  a  gill  cream  and  tablespoon  sherry,  mix  well  and 
bott  for  five  minutes.  Evenly  pour  this  preparation  in  six  egg-cocotte 
dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  evenly  season  with  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  place  cocotte  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven 
for  six  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 
Lobster  Curry,  McQuade  (489) 

Gibelotte  of  Rabbits          Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 
Golden  Toast  with  Apricots 

2708.     GIBELOTTE  OF  RABBITS 

Cut  in  twelve  even  pieces  one  fresh,  well-cleaned  rabbit,  place  in 
stone  jar  with  a  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper  and  two  gills  good  vinegar.  Mix  well,  let  marinade 
for  two  hours,  lift  up  pieces  and  drain  on  a  cloth.  Finely  chop  one  ounce 
larding  pork,  place  in  frying  pan,  and  when  thoroughly  melted  add  three 
ounces  salt  pork  cut  in  one-third-inch  pieces,  then  brown  until  a  nice 
.golden  colour.  Take  up  pieces  of  bacon  with  skimmer  and  keep  on  a 
plate.  Arrange  rabbit  pieces  in  pan,  briskly  cook  for  five  minutes  on 
each  side,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  well.  Moisten 
up  to  height  of  pieces  with  one-third  white  wine,  two-thirds  white  broth 
(No.  701),  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Take  up  pieces  with 
fork,  place  in  saucepan  and  strain  sauce  through  Chinese  strainer  over 


832  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

rabbit.  Gently  brown  twelve  small  white  onions  in  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  lard  and  add  to  rabbit  with  a  bean  garlic.  Tie  in  a  bunch 
two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove, 
and  add  to  pan.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  add  bacon,  mix  well,  cover  pan  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes. 
Add  six  sliced,  peeled,  fresh  mushrooms  and  cook  for  eight  minutes. 
Take  up  bouquet  and  garlic,  skim  fat  from  surface,  dress  on  a  dish, 
arrange  six  heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

2709.    GOLDEN  TOAST  WITH  APRICOTS 

Open  a  pint  can  apricots,  strain  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  cut  apricots 
in  thin  slices,  add  an  ounce  sugar  to  liquor  and  let  reduce  on  fire  to  half 
the  quantity.  Pour  in  a  tablespoon  each  maraschino  and  Swiss  kirsch, 
add  apricots,  mix  well  and  keep  hot.  Cut  from  a  loaf  stale  French 
bread  twelve  slices  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Mix  in  a  bowl  one  fresh 
egg,  a  tablespoon  sugar,  two  gills  milk  and  six  drops  vanilla  essence. 
Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan, 
dip  the  slices  of  bread  in  the  custard,  then  lay  in  pan  one  beside  another 
and  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour 
apricots  evenly  over  them  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)         Canape's,  Moreno  Russe  (355) 

Potage,  Rouennaise 

Filet  of  Halibut,  Chevreuse  Potatoes,  Dauphine  (415) 

Duckling  Brais£  a  1'Orange  (1863) 

French  Flageolets,  Cubannaise 
Roast  Leg  of  Mutton,  Currant  Jelly  (522) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Pistache  Ice  Cream  (645) 
Langues  de  Chats  (890) 

2710.    POTAGE,  ROUENNAISE 

Cut  in  half-inch  squares  one  pound  lean  raw  mutton,  and  in  quarter- 
inch  pieces  two  white  turnips,  a  good-sized  onion  and  three  leeks.  Place 
mutton  and  vegetables  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  nicely 
fry  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  two 
and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  two 
ounces  rice  and  one  good-sized,  peeled  raw  potato  cut  in  quarter-inch 
squares,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Add  half  ounce 
butter  and  half  gill  cream,  mix  well,  boil  for  three  minutes,  skim  fat  off 
surface,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2711.    FILET  OF  HALIBUT,  CHEVREUSE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  the  tail  part  of  a  fresh  halibut,  split  in 
two,  remove  spinal  bone  and  skin,  then  cut  each  half  in  three  slanting 
equal  pieces.  Neatly  flatten,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  fold  in  two  and  lightly  beat  with  the  blade  of  a  knife. 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER      833 

Pare  them  to  heart-shaped  forms,  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  sautoire, 
add  half  gill  white  wine,  gill  water,  branch  parsley,  juice  of  a  quarter 
lemon  and  three  saltspoons  salt.  Cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil 
for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
carefully  lift  up  filets  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  crown-like.  Reduce 
gravy  on  range  to  a  glaze,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  eight  minutes.  Shift  pan  to  corner 
of  range,  incorporate  little  by  little  half  ounce  butter,  sharply  mixing 
with  whisk  while  adding,  strain  sauce  over  fish  and  serve. 

2712.    FRENCH  FLAGEOLETS,  CUBANNAISE 

Open  a  pint  can  French  flageolets,  plunge  in  a  pint  boiling  water, 
boil  for  five  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Heat  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  each  chopped  onion  and 
seeded  green  pepper  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile. 

Peel,  cut  in  halves,  remove  seeds,  then  cut  in  small  pieces  two  large 
red  tomatoes  and  add  to  pan  with  flageolets.  Season  with  half  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  sugar,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  mix  well  and  gently  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Mix  on  a  saucer  a 
teaspoon  butter  with  teaspoon  flour  and  add  to  flageolets,  mix  until  well 
thickened,  dress  flageolets  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)          Farina  Gruel  (74) 

Shirred  Eggs  with  Truffles 
Weakfish  Saute,  Chervil  (1599) 

Sausage,  Porto  Rico  (1788) 

Potatoes,  Maitre  d 'Hotel  (312) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2713.    SHIRRED  EGGS  WITH  TRUFFLES 

Finely  slice  a  medium  truffle,  place  in  small  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoon each  sherry  and  demi-glace  (No.  122),  add  half  saltspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  mix  well  and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred- 
egg  dishes,  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  season  with  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper  evenly  divided,  set  eggs  in  oven  for  five 
minutes,  remove,  evenly  divide  truffles  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Oysters,  Herman 
Re"chauflte  of  Mutton  with  Rice 

Fried  Cucumbers  (1715) 
Roly-Poly  Pudding  (2278) 

2714.    OYSTERS,  HERMAN 

Prepare  half  the  quantity  only  of  spinach  veloute*  (No.  1763).  Open 
thirty-six  good-sized  fresh  oysters  and  keep  them  on  their  deep  shells, 


834  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

being  careful  to  detach  eyes  from  shells.  Season  evenly  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  squeeze  over  juice  of  a  lemon,  evenly 
spread  spinach  over  oysters  and  place  them  in  a  small  roasting  pan. 
Sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

2715.    R£CHAUFF£  OF  MUTTON  WITH  RICE 

Cut  in  half -inch-square  pieces  all  meat  from  leg  of  mutton  left  over 
from  yesterday.  Heat  in  a  small  saucepan  an  ounce  butter,  add  one 
finely  chopped  white  onion  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  well  once 
in  a  while.  Dredge  in  one  ounce  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  a  pint 
broth,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  mutton,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
mix  well,  then  slowly  cook  on  range  for  thirty  minutes,  occasionally 
mixing.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  two  tablespoons  cream,  add  to  mutton, 
then  mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Dress  a  boiled  rice  (No.  113) 
on  a  hot  dish  crown-like,  pour  mutton  in  centre  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Bisque  of  Grouse 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Italienne  (1347) 

Potatoes  Croquettes  with  Parmesan  Cheese 

Entrecotes,  Sauce  Picard 

Celery,  Genevoise 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Vanilla  E*clairs  (1651) 

2716.    BISQUE  OF  GROUSE 

Cut  head  and  feet  off  a  fine  fat  grouse,  draw  and  wipe.  Cut  breasts 
in  small  pieces  and  thoroughly  pound  in  mortar  with  two  egg  yolks  to  a 
pulp,  remove,  place  on  a  plate  and  keep  until  required.  Cut  legs  and 
carcass  in  small  pieces.  Cut  a  carrot,  onion,  four  shallots,  bean 
garlic  and  two  branches  celery  in  slices.  Thoroughly  heat  one  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  all  grouse  bones,  vegetables,  and  nicely  brown 
for  fifteen  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Sprinkle  over 
two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  moisten 
with  a  pint  each  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  pure  tomato  juice  and  three 
pints  broth  (No.  701).  Add  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  teaspoon 
allspice  and  half  gill  sherry.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  slowly 
boil  for  one  hour,  mixing  "once  in  a  while.  Then  add  little  by  little  the 
pure*e,  sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  cooking  for  five  minutes, 
strain  the  bisque  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese 
strainer  into  a  soup  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons 
(No.  23)  separately. 

N.  B.  Any  kind  of  game,  such  as  partridges,  pheasants,  blackcocks, 
ptarmigans,  wild  ducks,  etc.,  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  grouse. 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER        835 

2717.    POTATO  CROQUETTES  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

Prepare  a  brioche  potato  puree  (No.  91),  adding  to  the  pure*e  a  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  cheese,  thoroughly  stir  and  divide  preparation 
in  twelve  even  parts.  Roll  them  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  cork- 
like  shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
arrange  in  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  six  minutes.  Lift  up, 
dress  on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  them  with  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

2718.    ENTRECOTES,  SAUCE  PICARD 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  two  tender  one-and-a-quarter-pound  sirloin 
steaks,  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and 
carefully  rub  them  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange  on  broiler  and  broil 
for  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  Picard  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

2719.    SAUCE  PICARD 

Place  in  a  saucepan  six  finely  chopped  shallots  with  half  gill  good 
tarragon  vinegar.  Let  reduce  on  brisk  fire  until  almost  dry,  being 
careful  not  to  allow  to  burn,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi- 
glace  with  one  teaspoon  cayenne.  Mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  add  bit  by  bit  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter  and  sharply  mix  while  add- 
ing. Sauce  is  then  ready  for  use. 

2720.    CELERY,  GENEVOISE 

Remove  stale  branches  and  leaves  from  three  roots  fine,  fresh,  crisp 
celery,  detach  branches,  thoroughly  wash  and  wipe,  then  cut  in  inch 
pieces.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  two-ounce  piece  salt  pork,  white 
onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  pint  broth,  gill  water,  teaspoon  salt 
and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  take  up 
pork  and  onions.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce  butter  and  one  and  a 
half  ounces  flour,  strain  in  celery  broth  and  sharply  mix  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil.  Add  celery  with  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg, 
mix  well  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Transfer  celery,  etc.,  to  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  a  little  Swiss  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Force  (979)         Eggs.  Boxshall 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Corned  Beef  Hash  au  Gratin 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2721.    EGGS,  BOXSHALL 

Cut  a  small,  peeled  eggplant  into  six  equal  slices  and  trim  each  slice 
into  round  pieces  two  inches  in  diameter.  Season  all  over  with  a  tea- 


836  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  arrange  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin, 
baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Arrange  on  hot  dish,  dress  a  poached  egg  (No.  106)  over  each  eggplant, 
pour  a  soubise  sauce  (No.  94)  over  them  and  serve. 

2722.    CORNED  BEEF  HASH  AU  GRATIN 

Finely  chop  one  white  onion,  place  in  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  and  brown  to  a  light  colour,  then  add  a  pound  finely 
chopped,  cooked  corned  beef  and  half  the  quantity  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes, also  finely  chopped.  Moisten  with  a  half  pint  broth  (No.  71), 
season  with  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix 
well  and  cover  pan.  Cook  on  fire  for  ten  minutes,  mixing  a  little,  then 
set  in  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
a  little  bread  crumbs  over,  baste  surface  with  a  little  melted  butter,  set 
in  oven  again  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 
Little  Neck  Clam  Patties  (1232) 

Veal  Chops,  Deleier  (829) 

Stuffed  Cabbage,  Russian  Style 

Macddoine  Tartlets  (602) 

2723.    STUFFED  CABBAGE,  RUSSIAN  STYLE 

Trim  stale  leaves  and  cut  off  stalk  of  a  medium  cabbage,  boil  in 
plenty  of  water  with  teaspoon  salt  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove  and 
place  on  a  sieve  to  drain  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Boil  two  ounces  raw  rice  in  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  then  place 
in  a  bowl.  Remove  skin  from  six  country  sausages,  and  add  meat  to 
rice  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  thoroughly  mix  with  wooden 
spoon.  Carefully  pull  back  leaves  from  stalk  without  detaching  them, 
then  spread  a  little  force  over  each  leaf,  close  them  up  to  former  position, 
then  wrap  cabbage  in  a  cheesecloth,  but  not  too  tight.  Place  it  in  sauce- 
pan with  any  trimmings  of  veal,  beef  or  pork  at  hand,  a  sliced  carrot, 
sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Season 
with  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan  and  let 
gently  cook  for  an  hour  and  forty-five  minutes.  Take  up  cabbage, 
drain,  unwrap,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  send  to  table  with  two  gills  hot 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives         Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Rice  with  Curry 

Bluefish,  Havannaise  (1898)  Potatoes,  Pont  Neuf  (647) 

Virginia  Ham  Glac£  with  Spinach  (1595) 

Oyster  Plant  Poulettes  (1129) 

Roast  Partridge  (97)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Macaroon  Ice  Cream  (920) 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER          837 

2724.    RICE  WITH  CURRY 

Skim  fat  off  broth  saved  from  lunch.  If  less  than  two  quarts  add 
some  white  broth,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  three  ounces  raw  rice. 
Dilute  a  teaspoon  curry  powder  in  tablespoon  water  and  add  to  soup, 
mix  well,  then  boil  slowly  for  forty  minutes,  remove,  pour  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Muskmelons  (2056)  Hominy  (45) 

Omelette  with  Oyster  Crabs 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311)  Fried  Pig's  Feet 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 

2725.    OMELETTE  WITH  OYSTER  CRABS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  chopped  parsley  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Sharply 
beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Wash  and  drain  on  cloth  a  half 
pint  very  fresh  oyster  crabs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  drop  in  crabs  and  fry  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  them  meanwhile.  Sprinkle  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  drop  in 
the  eggs,  thoroughly  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  let  rest  for  a  half 
minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute, 
turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2726.    FRIED  PIG'S  FEET 

Split  three  cooked  pig's  feet  in  halves,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs. 

Heat  three  tablespoons  lard  in  frying  pan,  arrange  feet  in  it  one  beside 
another,  and  gently  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  or  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  sep- 
arately. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Codfish,  Biscayenne 

Chicken  Curry,  Madras 

Omelette  au  Rhum  (1291) 

2727.    CODFISH,  BISCAYENNE 

Soak  two  and  a  half  pounds  boneless  cod  during  the  night,  drain, 
then  divide  it  in  pieces.  Rub  the  inside  of  a  baking  dish  with  a  bean 
sound  garlic.  Parboil  codfish  for  five  minutes,  drain,  then  add  it  to 
baking  dish.  Peel  and  cut  in  pieces  three  fresh  red  tomatoes  and 
sprinkle  over  codfish.  Finely  chop  six  sound  shallots,  three  branches 
parsley,  branch  chervil,  and  sprinkle  over  tomatoes  with  a  half  teaspoon 


838  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pepper,  then  dredge  over  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly 
heat  two  tablespoons  olive  oil  and  pour  it  over  all,  set  in  oven  for  forty- 
five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2728.    CHICKEN  CURRY,  MADRAS 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  two-and-a-half -pound  chicken, 
draw,  neatly  wipe,  cut  in  twelve  equal  pieces,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate. 
Mince  a  large  onion,  two  sound  shallots,  a  medium,  seeded  green  pepper, 
seedless  fresh  tomato,  bean  garlic  and  a  peeled  and  cored  apple.  Melt 
a  light  tablespoon  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  chicken  and  brown  on  a 
brisk  fire  for  eight  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  add  minced 
articles  with  a  tablespoon  flour  and  heavy  teaspoon  curry  powder. 
Stir  well  and  cook  for  four  minutes  longer,  moisten  with  a  pint  hot 
water,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  saltspoon  each  grated  nutmeg,  thyme  in  powder  and  bay  leaf, 
and  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Thoroughly  mix  and  let 
slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Add  a  boiled 
rice  (No.  490),  mix  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer,  then  keep  hot. 

Cut  two  sound  onions  in  rings,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then  drop  in 
boiling  fat  for  six  minutes.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  over  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  dress  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  onions  around,  sprinkle 
over  a  chopped,  hard-boiled  egg,  and  send  to  the  table  with  Indian 
chutney  and  Bombay  duck  separately,  if  at  hand. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Anchovies  (141) 

Bisque  of  Lobster,  with  Quenelles 

Kingfish  au  Gratin         Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 

Squabs  en  Casserole,  Leopold 

Eggplant,  Lyonnaise 

Stuffed  Devilled  Lobster  (1250) 

Roast  Beef  (126)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Madeleine  au  Chocolat  (1953) 

2729.    BISQUE  OF  LOBSTER  WITH  QUENELLES 

Cut  heads  off  two  live  lobsters  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  each,  then 
cut  them  in  one-inch  pieces,  shells  and  all.  Thoroughly  heat  on 
open  fire  one  ounce  butter,  then  add  the  lobster  with  a  finely  sliced 
carrot,  onion  and  two  branches  celery,  stir  well,  then  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  two  tablespoons  each 
brandy  and  sherry  in  pan,  set  fire  to  liquors,  gently  stir  with  spatula 
until  the  flame  dies  out,  place  all  contents  of  pan  in  mortar  and  pound 
to  a  paste.  Return  to  saucepan,  add  a  branch  parsley,  sprig  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  clove  and  two  ounces  raw  rice.  Moisten  with  two  and  a  half 
quarts  water,  one  gill  white  wine  and  half  a  pint  crushed  fresh  tomatoes. 
Season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  mix  well 
and  gently  boil  one  and  a  half  hours,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile. 
Press  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  839 

into  a  saucepan,  pour  in  half  gill  cream,  a  quenelle  garnishing  (No. 
1201)  and  half  an  ounce  butter,  mix  well,  boil  for  two  minutes,  pour  into 
a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2730.    KINGFISH  AU  GRATIN 

Scale,  trim,  wash  and  wipe  two  fresh  one-and-a-half-pound  kingfish. 
Cut  off  heads,  split  in  two  through  back,  remove  spinal  bone  and  place 
them  in  a  baking  dish,  add  half  an  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a 
quarter  lemon.  Cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove,  pour  gravy  into  a  saucepan  and  let  reduce  on  range 
to  a  glaze.  Prepare  an  Italian  sauce  (No.  1244),  add  to  gravy  pan, 
mix  well,  pour  sauce  and  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over 
fish,  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  cut  a  small  lemon 
in  halves,  then  finely  slice  it,  pick  out  seeds,  arrange  slices  one  beside 
another  around  the  dish  and  serve. 

2731.    SQUABS  EN  CASSEROLE,  LEOPOLD 

Cut  heads  and  feet  from  six  nice,  fat,  young  squabs,  draw,  truss, 
save  livers  and  hearts.  Place  squabs  in  roasting  pan,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon 
salt  over,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  to  roast  in  a 
brisk  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  untruss  and  place  them  in  an 
earthen  casserole. 

Cut  two  ounces  very  lean  raw  bacon  into  quarter-inch-square  pieces, 
place  in  frying  pan  with  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  fry  till  a  nice  golden 
colour,  tossing  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up  with  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth 
and  add  to  squabs.  Place  six  small,  peeled  onions  in  bacon  pan, 
fry  for  eight  minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown  colour  all  around,  and  add 
to  squabs  with  half  pint  fresh,  shelled  (or  French)  peas.  Cut  a  medium 
truffle  and  four  peeled,  fresh  mushrooms  in  small  square  pieces,  add  to 
squabs,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper. 
Pick  leaves  off  a  branch  chervil,  branch  parsley,  and  sprinkle  over  all. 
Pour  in  a  half  gill  sherry,  gill  good  white  wine  and  half  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122).  Shuffle  the  casserole  well  and  place  lid  on.  Make  a  dough 
with  a  little  flour  and  water,  roll  it  out  on  a  table  in  rope-like  shape,  then 
adjust  it  around  edges  to  prevent  evaporation,  cover  casserole,  set  in 
oven  for  fifty  minutes,  remove  and  send  to  table  without  uncovering. 

2732.    EGGPLANT,  LYONNAISE 

Peel  and  cut  an  eggplant  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  lift  them  up  and 
drain  on  a  cloth.  Cut  a  medium  onion  in  half,  then  finely  slice  it  and 
fry  in  frying  pan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  for  six  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  eggplant.  Season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  slowly  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Pour  in  a  tablespoon  vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  toss  well,  cook  for  two  minutes,  dress  on  a  hot,  deep 
dish  and  serve. 


840  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Saturday,  Fifth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Spinach 

Boiled  Salt  Mackerel  (107) 

Sirloin  Steaks  with  Bacon  (1812) 

Garfield  Fried  Potatoes  (1843) 

Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

2733.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SPINACH 

Remove  stalks  from  one  quart  very  fresh  spinach,  wash  in  cold  water, 
dress  on  sieve,  then  plunge  in  saucepan  with  a  quart  water,  teaspoon 
salt,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Dress  on  a  sieve  and  press  out  water 
with  skimmer,  then  finely  chop  them  and  place  in  saucepan  with  a 
teaspoon  butter,  two  tablespoons  cream  and  three  saltspoons  each  salt 
and  sugar,  stir  well  on  fire  while  heating  for  three  minutes  and  keep  hot. 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in 
saucepan,  drop  in  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile,  spread  half  the  spinach  on  a  deep  dish,  dress  half  the  scram- 
bled eggs  over,  spread  balance  spinach  over  eggs,  then  balance  of  eggs 
over  spinach  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Petits  Souffles  of  Fish,  Signorita 

Sausages,  au  Vin  Blanc 

Mashed  Potatoes  (178) 

Cream  of  Apples 

2734.    PETITS  SOUFFLES  OF  FISH,  SIGNOJRITA 

Entirely  free  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  halibut  or  codfish  from 
skin  and  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  very  small  pieces,  place  it  in  a  mortar 
and  pound  sharply  for  five  minutes.  Add  one  egg  yolk,  mix  briskly  with 
spatula  for  a  minute,  add  another  yolk,  sharply  stir  for  another  minute, 
then  add  yolk  of  another  egg  and  mix  until  well  amalgamated.  Remove 
force  from  mortar,  rub  it  through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  ice, 
add  one  finely  chopped  truffle,  six  anchovies  in  oil  cut  in  short  pieces,  one 
light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  two  tablespoons  cream,  one  tablespoon  sherry,  and  sharply 
stir  with  spoon  for  five  minutes. 

Beat  up  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  preparation 
and  gently  mix  all  together.  Fill  six  round  paper  cases  with  this  prepara- 
tion, nicely  smooth  surface  with  lightly  buttered  knife  blade,  sprinkle 
over  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  arrange  cases  on  a  tin  and  set  in 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  immediately. 

2735.    SAUSAGES,  AU  VEST  BLANC 

Cut  from  a  sandwich  loaf  six  half-inch-thick  slices,  trim  off  crusts, 
then  cut  each  slice  in  two.  Cut  away  a  bed  lengthwise  at  centre  of  each 


SATURDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER          $41 

piece  so  as  to  easily  hold  a  sausage,  place  them  on  a  tin,  then  lightly 
prick  twelve  long  country  sausages  with  a  needle.  Thoroughly  heat 
two  tablespoons  good  lard  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  in  it  the  sausages 
one  beside  another,  and  cook  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up 
with  fork,  place  over  beds  of  bread  on  tin,  baste  evenly  with  all  fat 
of  sautoire  and  set  in  oven  for  eight  minutes,  or  until  toasts  have  attained 
a  nice  golden  colour.  Place  a  finely  chopped  onion  in  the  sautoire 
with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  occasionally 
tossing  meanwhile,  then  pour  in  one  gill  good  white  wine,  stir  well  at 
bottom  so  as  to  dilute  the  sausages,  glaze  with  wine,  briskly  cook  on  a 
lively  fire  until  nearly  dry,  then  add  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half 
gill  water,  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  and  half  bean  very  finely  chopped  garlic.  Mix  well,  boil  for 
five  minutes  more,  dress  sausages  on  a  large  dish,  pour  sauce  over  and 
serve. 

2736.    CREAM  OF  APPLES 

Peel  and  core  four  sound  Newtown  Pippin  apples,  cut  in  halves  and 
finely  slice  them.  Heat  an  ounce  good  butter  in  a  sautoire,  drop  in 
apples,  add  ounce  sugar,  few  drops  vanilla  essence  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while,  being  careful  not  to  mash  too  much, 
remove  and  lay  sautoire  on  table. 

Break  two  whole  fresh  eggs  and  two  yolks  into  a  bowl,  add  two 
ounces  sugar,  mix  well  with  whisk  for  one  minute,  then  pour  in  two 
gills  milk,  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  mix  for 
two  minutes.  Place  apples  in  a  baking  dish,  strain  preparation  through 
cloth  into  dish,  lightly  mix,  then  set  in  oven  with  door  open  for  twenty- 
five  minutes,  remove,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Canapes  of  Ham  (301) 

Vermicelli,  Hollandaise 
Pickerel,  Albert  (1064)         Potatoes,  Bignon  (403) 

Lamb  Chops,  Julienne 

Lima  Beans,  Fines  Herbes  (2315) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Frankfort  Pudding  (2264) 

2737.    VERMICELLI,  HOLLANDAISE 

Prepare  a  chicken  broth  (No.  578)  and  strain  it  into  a  saucepan. 
Break  three  ounces  good  vermicelli  on  a  plate  and  add  it  to  broth  with 
a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  then  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Dilute  two  egg  yolks  on  a  plate  with  one  gill  cream,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Add  it  to  soup,  mix  while  heating 
for  three  minutes,  remove,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2738.     LAMB  CHOPS,  JULIENNE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  fresh,  good-sized  lamb  chops,  lightly 
shorten  end  bones,  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required. 


842  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Cut  in  fine,  one-inch-long  julienne  strips  a  very  small  carrot,  small 
white  onion,  two  branches  celery,  one  ounce  cooked,  smoked  beef 
tongue,  one  ounce  cooked  ham  and  six  peeled,  fresh,  good-sized  mush- 
rooms. Place  these  articles  in  a  small  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter, 
half  light  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  pour  in  half 
gill  claret,  let  reduce  on  brisk  fire  till  nearly  dry.  Pour  in  one  gill  tomato 
sauce  with  the  leaves  of  a  branch  chervil,  lightly  mix,  cover  pan  and  set 
in  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  lay  in  chops  one 
beside  another  and  briskly  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another  crown-like,  pour  contents  of 
saucepan  in  centre,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  end  of  each  bone  and  serve. 


Sunday,  Fifth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Pears  (169) 
Quaker  Oats  (105)  Eggs,  Suedoise 

White  Perch  Sautees  (1013) 
Turkey  Hash  on  Toasts  (539) 
Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 
Small  Brioches  (878) 

2739.     EGGS,  SUEDOISE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  lift  from  the  hot  water  and 
plunge  in  cold  water  for  one  minute,  remove  and  shell  them.  Cut  each 
egg  in  two  lengthwise,  scoop  out  yolks  and  place  them  in  a  bowl.  Cut 
six  salted  anchovies  in  short  pieces  and  add  to  yolks  with  two  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs,  half  gill  cream,  half  ounce  butter,  three  saltspoons 
salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Stir 
all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  well  amalgamated,  fill  up  cavities 
of  whites  with  this  mixture,  dip  eggs  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  freshly 
prepared  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  plunge  in  boiling 
fat  for  four  minutes.  Remove,  drain,  then  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon 
salt,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Lobster  au  Delice 

Noisettes  of  Mutton,  Favorite 

"  Choux  Pralines  (1536) 

2740.     LOBSTER  AU  DEVICE 

Place  in  saucepan  a  sliced  carrot,  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  branches 
celery,  branch  parsley,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  tablespoon  salt 
and  gallon  water.  Set  pan  on  the  fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil- 
ing point  plunge  in  two  two-pound  live  lobsters,  cover  pan  and  boil  for 


SUNDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  843 

twenty  minutes.  Lift  up  lobsters  and  let  cool  off,  then  crack  them  and 
pick  out  meat  from  claws  and  tails,  split  bodies  in  two,  remove  all  the 
creamy  parts  and  place  on  a  plate.  Cut  meat  in  half-inch  pieces  and 
keep  it  also  on  a  plate.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  good  butter 
or  oil  in  a  large  saucepan,  adding  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  bean 
crushed  garlic  and  all  the  lobsters  shells,  cook  over  a  brisk  fire  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Strain  one  quart  lobster  broth  into 
pan,  add  one  gill  white  wine,  and  let  gently  boil  for  twenty:five  minutes. 
Strain  this  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  and  let 
reduce  on  open  fire  to  one-third  the  quantity.  Knead  in  a  cup  a  half 
ounce  good  butter,  tablespoon  flour  and  half  teaspoon  curry  powder, 
then  add  it  little  by  little  to  sauce.  Sharply  mix  with  whisk  while  add- 
ing it,  then  add  the  creamy  part,  half  gill  cream,  one  saltspoon  cayenne 
and  one  teaspoon  rum.  Continually  mix  while  incorporating,  then  add 
lobster  pieces,  mix  well,  and  cook  on  corner  of  range  for  five  minutes. 
Dress  rice  curry  (No.  490)  crown-like  on  large  dish,  pour  lobster  stew 
in  centre  and  serve. 

2741.    NOISETTES  OF  MUTTON,  FAVORITE 

Procure  six  four-ounce  pieces  mutton  from  leg,  pare  nicely  to  a  small, 
round  shape,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Finely  chop  one  small  white  onion,  place  it  in  frying  pan  with  one  ounce 
butter,  set  pan  on  fire  and  toss  until  a  light  brown,  then  arrange  noisettes 
in  pan  and  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  place  on  six 
freshly  prepared  toasts  one  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  and  one-third 
inch  thick,  arrange  them  on  a  round  dish  crown-like,  dress  same  amount 
of  Palois  string  beans  (No.  2069)  in  centre,  pyramid-like,  pour  a  Colbert 
sauce  (No.  121)  over  noisettes  and  serve  very  hot. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Salted  Peanuts  (954) 

Consomme",  Piedmontaise 
Fflet  of  Sole,  Trovatore  (1255)  Potatoes,  Vauban  (946) 

Supreme  of  Chicken,  Calve 

Petits  Pois,  Francaise  (145)  Tournedos,  Sauce  Bercy.(i337) 

Broiled  Tomatoes  (1636) 

Malaga  Punch 
Roast  Partridges,  sur  Canape's  (97) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Pistachio  Parfait  (2042) 

2742.    CONSOMM£,  PIEDMONTAISE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  it  through  a  cheesecloth  into 
another  saucepan  and  keep  simmering  until  required.  Cut  one  onion, 
one  seedless  green  pepper  and  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham  into  small 
square  pieces.  Place  these  articles  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile;  add  two 
ounces  good  Italian  rice,  moisten  with  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  two 
gills  consomme  and  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon 


844  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cayenne  and  half  saltspoon  saffron  in  powder.  Mix  well,  cover  pan, 
set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  remove  and  add  to  consomme.  Cut  one 
country  sausage  in  very  thin  slices  and  also  add  to  consomme,  boil  for 
eight  minutes,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

2743.    SUPREME  OF  CHICKEN,  CALV£ 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  three  one-and-a-half-pound  spring 
chickens.  Remove  legs  from  bodies,  place  on  a  plate  and  keep  in  icebox 
for  to-morrow's  luncheon.  Carefully  lift  up,  cut  away  wings  and  tear 
the  skin  from  the  breasts,  season  all  around  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  place  breasts  in  pan  one  beside 
another,  briskly  cook  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  then  place  sautoire 
in  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot. 

Cut  from  a  stale  loaf  sandwich  bread  six  slices  one-third  of  an  inch 
thick,  then  cut  each  slice  into  heart  shape  the  size  of  the  breasts,  toast 
to  a  nice  golden  colour,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  breasts  on  top  of 
toasts  and  keep  hot.  Peel,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  one  pound  fresh 
mushrooms,  place  in  the  sautoire,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  cook 
eight  minutes,  tossing  them  once  in  a  while,  pour  in  one  gill  white  wine 
and  let  reduce  to  a  glace.  Dress  mushrooms  in  centre  of  chicken, 
mask  surface  of  breasts  with  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34),  lay  a  very  thin 
slice  truffle  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 

2744.    MALAGA  PUNCH 

Prepare  a  lemon-water  ice  (No.  376).  Pour  into  freezer  half  gill 
Malaga  wine,  mix  well  with  spatula,  divide  punch  into  six  sherbet 
glasses  and  serve. 

Monday,  Fifth  Week  of  October 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Semolina  (192) 

Poached  Eggs,  New  London 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel  (904) 

Pork  Chops  with  Fried  Apples  (760) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2745.    POACHED  EGGS,  NEW  LONDON 

Place  four  ounces  crab  meat  in  a  sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter 
and  gill  sherry  or  white  wine,  cover  the  pan  and  cook  five  minutes,  then 
keep  hot.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  half  ounce  each  butter  and  flour,  add  a 
gill  cream,  half  gill  milk,  and  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Add  crab  meat,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Prepare  twelve 
poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  pour  crab  meat  over  eggs  and  serve. 


MONDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  OCTOBER  845 

LUNCHEON 

Broiled  Oysters,  Celery  Sauce 
Blanquette  of  Veal  (1646) 
Noodles  au  Beurre  (333) 
Lemon  Custard  Pie  (316) 

2746.    BROILED  OYSTERS,  CELERY  SAUCE 

Wipe  on  a  cloth  thirty-six  large,  freshly  opened  oysters.  Mix  on  a 
plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Re- 
peatedly turn  oysters  in  seasoning,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on 
double  broiler  and  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Have  six 
freshly  prepared  toasts  on  a  hot  dish,  place  six  oysters  on  each  toast, 
evenly  divide  a  celery  sauce  (No.  745)  over  them  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Tschi,  Russian  Style 

Sheepshead,  Clam  Sauce  (2173)  Potatoes,  Italienne  (1074) 

Noix  of  Ham,  Piquante  Sauce  (860) 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290)  Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 

Biscuits,  Portugal 

2747.    TSCHI,  RUSSIAN  STYLE 

Place  in  a  soup  pot  a  two-pound  piece  lean  beef,  half  pound  smoked 
bacon,  two  smoked  sausages,  one  carrot,  one  onion,  two  leeks,  two 
branches  each  celery  and  parsley.  Season  with  a  level  tablespoon  salt 
and  teaspoon  crushed  whole  black  pepper,  moisten  with  four  quarts 
water,  and  let  gently  simmer  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  being  careful  to 
skim  off  fat  once  in  a  while  and  to  keep  it  at  same  simmering  point  from 
beginning  to  end. 

Thoroughly  wash,  drain  and  chop  a  quarter  pound  of  sauerkraut. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  one  finely  chopped 
onion,  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  sauerkraut  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  three  tablespoons  flour,  stir 
well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  strain  broth  through  cheesecloth  into 
pan,  mix  well,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  pints  water  and  gently  boil  for  one 
hour.  Cut  a  piece  each  of  the  beef  and  bacon  and  the  two  sausages  into 
very  small  square  pieces,  add  them  to  soup  with  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  soup  into  tureen  and  serve. 

2748.    BISCUITS,  PORTUGAL 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  four  ounces  sugar,  four  egg  yolks,  a  table- 
spoon rum,  and  beat  up  with  whisk  for  ten  minutes.  Scald  two  ounces 
almonds  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  drain,  peel,  pound  in  mortar 
with  white  of  an  egg  to  a  smooth  pulp,  rub  through  sieve  into  a  bowl, 
add  the  juice  of  two  sound  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  one,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to 


846  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

preparation,  mix  well  with  the  skimmer,  then  pour  in  almonds  and 
oranges  and  again  mix  well. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  small,  square,  buttered  tin  with  sheet  of  buttered 
paper,  then  drop  in  the  preparation,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar 
over,  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove  to  a  table,  let  rest  for 
ten  minutes,  turn  cake  on  the  table,  lift  up  paper,  cut  cake  in  twelve 
equal  parts,  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  dress  on  dish  with 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Tuesday,  First  Week  of  November 


BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216) 
Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs,  Murphy  Fishballs  with  Bacon  (260) 

Calves'  Liver,  Minute  (810) 

Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2749.    EGGS,  MURPHY 

Finely  chop  half  a  seeded  green  pepper,  place  it  in  a  sautoire  with 
a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  nicely  brown  for  three  minutes.  Pour 
in  a  half  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  let  it  reduce  on  the  fire  to  one 
gill,  then  add  little  by  little  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  sharply  mixing 
meanwhile.  Evenly  divide  the  puree  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  carefully 
crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and 
two  saltspoons  pepper.  Evenly  spread  over  a  half  teaspoon  fennel  or 
chopped  tarragon,  pour  a  tablespoon  cream  over  eggs  in  each  dish,  set 
in  oven  to  bake  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth  (1090) 

Scallops,  Brestoise  (1857) 

Chicken  Legs  with  Risotto 

Apple  Dumplings  (707) 

2750.    CHICKEN  LEGS  WITH  RISOTTO 

Remove  second  joint  bones  of  the  six  chicken  legs  saved  from  last 
Sunday  and  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  oil  or  butter  in  a  sautoire,  place 
legs  in  one  beside  another,  gently  cook  for  five  minutes  on  each  side, 
then  add  a  finely  chopped  onion,  and  cook  for  four  minutes  longer. 
Pour  in  a  gill  claret  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity,  then  pour  in  one 
and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
mix  well,  cover  pan  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Prepare  a  Piedmontaise  risotto  as  in  No.  225,  but  without  the  sausage. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       847 

Dress  it  on  a  dome-shaped  hot  dish,  arrange  legs  around  base  of  rice, 
pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Puree  of  Tomato,  Julienne 
Pompano,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (228) 

Potatoes,  Voisin  (9*95) 

Entrecotes  Bordelaise  (1483)  Baked  Tomatoes  (841) 

Roast  Quail  on  Canape's  (272) 

Escarole  Salad  (roo) 
Charlotte  PlombieYe  (1834) 

2751.    PURE'E  OF  TOMATO,  JULIENNE 

Melt  an  ounce  butter  in  saucepan,  add  ounce  lean,  finely  chopped 
raw  ham,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  half  a 
chopped  green  pepper,  a  bean  garlic,  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper, 
clove,  bay  leaf,  sprig  thyme  and  nicely  brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  oc- 
casionally mixing  meanwhile;  add  one  quart  fresh  crushed  tomatoes 
with  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  season  with  a  light  tablespoon 
each  salt  and  sugar.  (If  any  cooked  bones  of  beef  or  chicken  are  on 
hand  add  them  to  the  soup.) 

Cover  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  add  four 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  briskly  while  browning  for  two  minutes,  then  add 
tomato  soup.  Mix  well,  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  strain  soup  through 
sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan 
and  keep  hot.  Cut  in  short,  thin  julienne-shape  strips  a  small  carrot, 
turnip,  white  part  of  one  leek,  small  onion,  two  branches  celery  and  a 
quarter  very  small  cabbage.  Place  these  articles  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half 
ounce  butter,  gill  water,  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  well, 
cover  vegetables  with  a  buttered  paper,  place  lid  on  pan,  then  set  in 
oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  pour  all  contents  of  pan  into  the 
tomato  puree,  mix  well,  boil  five  minutes,  pour  in  a  soup  tureen  and 
serve. 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)          Boiled  Rice  (275) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Xoxios 
Porgies  Saute,  Fines  Herbes  (1553) 

Broiled  Devilled  Bacon  (682) 
Baked  Potatoes  (683)  Sally  Lunns 

2752.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  Xoxios 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon 
fine,  freshly  chopped  mint  and  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish.  Season 
evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  pour  in  a 


$48  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tablespoon  cream  and  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over 
eggs  in  each  dish,  then  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

2753.    SALLY  LUNNS 

Place  a  pint  boiling  milk  in  a  basin  and  put  aside  until  lukewarm, 
then  add  a  half  ounce  concentrated  yeast,  stir  well,  and  gradually  add 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Cover  pan  with  a  cloth  and  let 
raise  in  warm  place  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Beat  up  two  eggs  with  two 
ounces  sugar  in  a  bowl,  add  to  batter  with  a  saltspoon  salt,  two  ounces 
butter,  knead  well  for  five  minutes,  cover  with  cloth  again  and  let  stand 
for  twenty-five  minutes  more.  Divide  in  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  them 
out  on  corner  of  a  floured  table  to  ball  shape,  then  flatten  to  one-third- 
inch  thickness.  Arrange  them  on  lightly  buttered  pastry  sheet,  lightly 
butter  surface,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578)  Sardines  au  Gratin 

Sumatra  Lamb  Curry 
French     Pancakes     (17) 

2754.    SARDINES  AU  GRATIN 

Heat  a  tablespoon  oil  in  an  earthen  baking  dish,  add  one  exceedingly 
fine  chopped  onion  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Wipe  neatly  and  split  open  through  front  twelve  good- 
sized  sardines  in  oil,  bone  them,  then  arrange  in  dish  over  the  onions. 
Knead  in  a  bowl  one  ounce  fresh  butter,  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  a  half  bean  finely 
chopped  garlic.  Divide  mixture  in  small  bits  over  sardines,  set  in  a  very 
brisk  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove,  and  immediately  send  to  the  table 
in  same  dish. 

2 755-    SUMATRA  LAMB  CURRY 

Cut  a  neck  of  lamb  in  one-inch-square  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate. 
Mince  rather  finely  a  medium  onion,  two  shallots,  a  bean  garlic,  peeled 
and  seeded  red  tomato,  green  pepper,  sound  apple,  half  a  small,  peeled 
eggplant  and  a  branch  celery.  Melt  an  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  lamb  and  brown  for  six  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while ;  dredge  in 
two  light  tablespoons  flour,  briskly  stir  while  browning  for  three  minutes, 
then  add  all  vegetables  with  a  tablespoon  good  curry  powder.  Stir 
well,  moisten  with  a  pint  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  a 
half  teaspoon  black  pepper.  Add  one  saltspoon  each  powdered  bay 
leaf  and  thyme,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind,  mix  all  well  together  and  let  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes.  Add  four  tablespoons  cooked,  green  peas  and  six 
small  pickled  onions,  mix  well,  cover  pan,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  rice  curry  (N  490)  on  a  hot  dish,  crown-like 
in  centre,  and  serve  with  chutney. 


WEDNESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       849 
DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Baraguine 
Spanish  Mackerel,  Bordelaise 

Potatoes,  Demidoff  (898) 

Chicken,  Wilhelmina  String  Beans  (139) 

Prime  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Gateau  Guadaloupe 

2756.    POTAGE,  BARAGUINE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan, 
dredge  in  three  ounces  of  sago,  mix  well  while  adding  and  let  boil  for  fif- 
teen minutes.  Cut  two  ounces  smoked  beef  tongue  and  one  ounce 
cooked  ham  in  small  julienne  strips  and  add  to  the  soup  with  two 
tablespoons  sherry.  Mix  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  pour  the 
soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2757.     SPANISH  MACKEREL,  BORDELAISE 

Cut  the  fins,  tail  and  head  off  a  fine,  fresh,  three-pound  Spanish 
mackerel,  split  in  two  through  the  back,  remove  spinal  bone,  season 
with  light  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Arrange  fish  in  a 
lightly  buttered  baking  dish,  cut  side  downward,  sprinkle  with  six 
finely  chopped  shallots  and  squeeze  over  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Baste 
with  a  half  ounce  very  hot  melted  butter,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  bring  it  to  oven  door. 

Reduce  two  gills  tomato  sauce  in  a  saucepan  to  half  the  quantity, 
then  pour  it  over  mackerel,  reset  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes  more, 
remove  and  send  to  table  in  same  dish. 

2758.  CHICKEN,  WILHELMINA 

Cut  off  head  and  feet,  singe,  draw,  wipe  and  truss  a  tender  two- 
and-a-half-pound  chicken,  place  it  in  saucepan  with  a  small  piece 
butter,  season  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  brown  it 
on  range  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Cut  two  ounces  lean  raw  ham 
in  one-third-inch-square  pieces  and  add  to  chicken  with  six  very  small, 
peeled,  raw  potatoes  and  twelve  small  white  onions.  Add  also  a  blade 
each  thyme,  and  bay  leaf,  and  one  "  foelie  "  nutmeg.  Sprinkle  over  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  pour  in  two  gills  water,  cover  pan,  let  briskly  cook  for 
five  minutes,  set  it  at  side  of  brisk  fire  and  let  simmer  for  one  hour. 
Pour  in  a  half  gill  sherry  and  let  cook  for  twenty-five  minutes,  dress 
chicken  on  a  large  dish,  untruss,  arrange  garnishing  around,  pour 
gravy  over  and  serve. 

2759.  GATEAU  GUADALOUPE 

Place  foirr  ounces  sugar  in  a  bowl  with  five  egg  yolks,  the  grated 
rind  of  half  a  lemon,  then  whisk  to  a  creamy  point.  Beat  whites  of  the 
five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  gradually  incorporate  yolks,  lightly  mix 


850  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

with  skimmer,  then  add  three  ounces  pure  rice  flour,  two  oiinces  well- 
picked  raisins  and  a  half  saltspoon  salt.  Lightly  butter  a  straight- 
edged  pie  plate,  line  bottom  with  a  buttered  paper,  then  drop  in  prepara- 
tion, smooth  surface  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  let  stand  for  ten  minutes,  turn  upon  table,  lift  up  paper,  spread 
over  three  tablespoons  orange  marmalade,  then  sprinkle  one  ounce 
peeled  and  finely  chopped  pistachios.  Beat  up  a  gill  cream  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  tablespoon  each  powdered  sugar  and  rum,  whisk  for  another 
minute,  neatly  spread  cream  over  surface  of  cake,  dress  on  a  dish  with 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Thursday,  First  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Bananas 

Smelts  with  Bacon 

Lamb  Chops  (748)  Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 

Cocoanut  Cakes  (423) 

2760.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  BANANAS 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise  six  ripe  bananas,  place  on  a  plate, 
cover  with  cold  milk,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  let  stand  for 
thirty  minutes,  take  up  and  roll  in  flour.  Thoroughly  heat  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  lay  in  bananas  and 
gently  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  take  up  with  skimmer  and 
arrange  one  beside  another  on  hot  dish.  Lightly  butter  a  small  frying 
pan,  thoroughly  heat  on  range,  then  crack  in  two  fresh  eggs.  Season 
with  light  saltspoon  salt  and  half  a  light  saltspoon  white  pepper,  fry  for 
three  minutes,  then  carefully  glide  the  eggs  over  two  half  bananas. 
Prepare  five  more  in  a  similar  way  and  serve. 

2761.    SMELTS  WITH  BACON 

Neatly  wipe  twelve  good-sized  smelts,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then 
lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  them  in  a  frying  basket,  fry  in 
boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  drain  on  a  cloth  and  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  over  them.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens,  arrange  six  slices  broiled 
bacon  (No.  13)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Canape's  of  Shrimp  (466) 

Garnished  Sauerkraut  (1233) 

Devilled  Leeks 
Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER        851 

2762.    DEVILLED  LEEKS 

Procure  twelve  even-sized  leeks,  trim  off  stems,  outer  stale  leaves, 
and  cut  green  parts  one  inch  from  white  parts,  using  white  parts  only. 
Thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  on  a  cloth,  place  in  a  braising 
pan  with  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  bean  garlic,  clove,  bay 
leaf,  sprig  thyme  and  half  ounce  butter.  Moisten  with  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  gill  broth,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper.  Cover  pan  and  briskly  boil  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  to  a  table,  take  up  with  skimmer  and 
split  them  open  without  separating.  Place  six  slices  toasted  French 
bread  in  a  baking  dish,  arrange  the  leeks  over  toasts,  strain  gravy 
through  a  cheesecloth  into  baking  dish,  spread  a  tablespoon  French 
mustard  and  dredge  a  little  bread  crumbs  over  leeks,  then  set  in  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)  Radishes  (58) 

Stuffed  Olives  with  Caviare  (733) 

Cream  of  Chicken 

Sole  au  Four 

Potatoes,  Paillies  (6n) 

Paupiettes  of  Veal,  Toscano 

Spaghetti,  Milanaise  (352) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 
I  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Mousse  au  Chocolat  (1885) 

2763.    CREAM  OF  CHICKEN 

Cut  off  the  head,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  a  very  small  fowl.  Place  it 
in  a  saucepan  with  four  quarts  water,  add  two  onions  with  a  clove  stuck 
in  each,  one  leek,  two  branches  celery,  one  each  branch  parsley  and  cher- 
vil, an  ounce  piece  salt  pork,  and  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons 
salt.  Cover  pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  take  up  fowl 
and  plunge  in  cold  water  to  cool  off.  Take  out,  pull  off  skin,  pick  off 
meat,  place  in  mortar  with  a  handful  boiled  rice,  pound  to  a  smooth 
paste,  remove  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  one  ounce  butter  and  two 
ounces  flour  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Skim 
fat  off  surface  of  broth,  strain  into  this  roux  pan,  briskly  mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  little  by  little  the  puree, 
sharply  mixing  while  adding  it.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well,  then  let  slowly  boil  for  thirty  minutes,  fre- 
quently mixing  meanwhile.  Strain  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add 
one  gill  cream,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  half  ounce  fresh  butter, 
and  lightly  mix  while  heating  for  five  minutes.  Pour  cream  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2764.    SOLE  AU  FOUR 

With  a  sharp  knife  make  a  light  incision  around  the  head  of  a  three- 
pound  fresh  flounder,  then  with  a  towel  pull  off  skin.  Season  with  a 


852  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoon  salt  and  half  a  teaspoon  paprika,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  then  in 
beaten  egg,  and  finally  in  freshly  prepared  bread  crumbs.  Lightly  butter 
a  baking  dish,  place  in  sole,  pour  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  over,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to 
baste  fish  with  butter  once  in  a  while.  Bring  it  to  oven  door,  turn, 
squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  reset  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes  more,  basting  it  fre- 
quently, remove  and  send  to  table. 

2765.    PAUPIETTES  OF  VEAL,  TOSCANO 

Procure  six  four-ounce  slices  of  veal,  cut  from  the  round,  flatten  to 
quarter-inch  thickness,  then  pare  to  even,  rectangular  shapes.  Place 
trimmings  in  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp,  add  two  skinned  raw  sausages, 
one  egg  yolk,  thoroughly  pound  again,  then  rub  the  pulp  through 
sieve  into  a  bowl.  Add  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  three 
saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  cayenne,  a  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
and  mix  well;  add  little  by  little  a  half  gill  cream,  sharply  stirring  while 
adding  it,  then  spread  force  over  the  six  slices  veal,  roll  up  and  tie  them 
with  strings.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  the  paupiettes  in  seasoning, 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  slowly  broil  for  twenty  minutes,  lightly  turning 
them  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  untie,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  a 
Finnoise  sauce  (No.  251)  over,  then  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes, 
basting  them  once  in  a  while,  remove  and  serve. 

t 

Friday,  First  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Wheatena  (1298) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Mrs.  Hobart 

Findon  Haddock  in  Cream 

Pig's  Feet,  Tomato  Sauce 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Queen  Cakes  (in) 

2766.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  MRS.  HOBART 

Cut  a  round  corner  off  the  top  of  six  round  French  rolls,  scoop  out 
soft  part  and  lightly  rub  interior  of  each  with  a  little  anchovy  butter. 
Lay  rolls  on  a  tin  with  covers  and  place  in  oven  with  door  open  until 
required. 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  one  min- 
ute. Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  sautoire,  add  two  Spanish 
sweet  peppers  cut  in  small  squares  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes, 
tossing  meanwhile.  Drop  in  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly 
and  frequently  stirring.  Place  the  six  rolls  on  a  hot  dish,  evenly  divide 
eggs  in  them,  place  covers  on,  lightly  glaze  surface  of  covers  with  a  little 
melted  butter  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER  853 

2767.  FINDON  HADDOCK  IN  CREAM 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  two  and  a  half  pounds  fat,  smoked 
Findon  haddock,  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  plunge  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
for  five  minutes,  remove  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan 
an  ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  flour  and  stir  briskly  while  beating  for 
one  minute.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  each  milk  and  cream,  season  with  two 
saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
then  sharply  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  fish,  cook  for  five  minutes, 
pour  into  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2768.  PIG'S  FEET,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Split  in  two  lengthwise  three  cooked  fat  pig's  feet.  Mix  on  a  plate 
a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Repeatedly 
turn  feet  in  seasoning,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  a  double 
broiler  and  slowly  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  send  to  table  with  one  gill 
hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Stew.  Parisienne  (1781) 
Fish  Quenelles,  Clamart  (2578) 

Veal  Kidneys  au  Vin 
Omelette  Celestine  (1799) 

2769.    VEAL  KIDNEYS  AU  VIN 

Remove  fat  and  sinewy  parts  from  three  very  fresh  veal  kidneys, 
then  finely  mince  them.  Heat  two  tablespoons  butter  in  frying  pan, 
add  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  cook  to  a  nice  light  brown,  then  add 
kidneys,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  salt  and  fry  on  open  fire  for  five  min- 
utes, briskly  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Lift  up  with  skimmer  and  keep 
on  a  plate,  pour  a  gill  broth  and  a  half  gill  white  wine  into  kidney  pan, 
adding  a  bay  leaf,  bean  garlic,  six  finely  minced,  canned  mushrooms, 
and  let  reduce  for  ten  minutes. 

Mix  on  a  saucer  a  half  tablespoon  butter  with  tablespoon  flour,  add 
little  by  little  to  sauce,  cook  for  three  minutes,  then  add  kidneys  with 
half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  tablespoon 
sherry.  Lightly  mix,  cook  for  two  minutes,  pour  into  a  deep  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Pim-Olas,  Tunny  (1597) 

Potage,  Meuniere 
Sheepshead,  Mousseline  Sauce*(2S36) 

Philadelphia  Potato  Rolls  (1705) 
Tournedos  of  Venison,  Cumberland 

Souffld  of  Celery 

Lobster  Cutlets  Ravigote  (1154) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (255) 

Green  Pepper  and  Escarole  Salad 

Babas  au  Rhum  (687) 


854  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2770.    POTAGE,  MEUNIERE 

Cut  heads  and  tails  off  four  well-cleaned  fresh  perch.  Finely  mince 
two  white  onions,  place  and  fry  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter 
for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Moisten  with  a  gill  white 
wine  and  two  light  quarts  water,  add  perch,  white  part  of  two  leeks, 
three  branches  parsley  and  two  teaspoons  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  lift  up  fish  and  place  on  a  plate.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce 
butter,  two  ounces  flour,  and  stir  on  the  fire  while  heating  for  two  min- 
utes. Strain  fish  broth  into  pan,  add  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well,  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
skim  fat  from  surface.  Dilute  on  a  plate  one  egg  yolk,  one  gill  cream, 
juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  and  add  to  soup.  Continually  mix  for  two  min- 
utes, but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  then  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  into  soup 
tureen.  Remove  skin  from  perch,  lift  up  filets,  cut  them  in  very  small 
pieces,  add  to  soup,  mix  lightly  and  serve. 

2771.      TOURNEDOS   OF   VENISON,    CUMBERLAND 

Procure  six  four-ounce  round  pieces  of  venison  from  the  leg  part, 
neatly  trim  and  flatten,  season  all  around  with  a  half  teaspoon  black 
pepper  and  teaspoon  salt.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying 
pan,  arrange  in  steaks  one  beside  another  and  briskly  cook  for  four 
minutes  on  each  side.  Prepare  six  round  toasts  two  inches  in  diameter 
and  a  third  of  an  inch  thick,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  tournedos  over 
toasts,  pour  Cumberland  sauce  over  all  and  serve. 

2772.  CUMBERLAND  SAUCE. 

Place  four  tablespoons  currant  jelly  in  a  saucepan,  place  on  fire  until 
melted,  then  pour  in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  gill  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  and  a  tablespoon  port  wine.  Boil  two  ounces  well- 
picked  currants  for  two  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  sauce.  Scald  in 
boiling  water  for  two  minutes  one  ounce  almonds,  drain,  peel,  cut  in 
thin  strips  lengthwise,  and  add  to  sauce.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  carefully 
mixing  once  in  a  while,  then  use  as  required. 

2773.  SOUFFLE"  OF  CELERY 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  two  stalks  fresh,  crisp  celery,  remove 
green  leaves  and  finely  slice  stalks.  Place  in  saucepan  with  sliced  white 
part  of  a  leek,  a  small  branch  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  blade  mace  and 
bay  leaf.  Pour  in  enough  white  broth  to  cover  celery,  season  with  level 
teaspoon  salt,  cover  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove, 
take  up  the  bay  leaf  and  mace,  then  press  celery  through  sieve  into  a 
bowl. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  three  tablespoons 
flour  and  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  milk.  Add  the  pure*e  of  celery, 
with  an  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
then  briskly  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  boiling.  Add 
two  egg  yolks,  sharply  stir  for  three  minutes  longer  and  remove  from 
range.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  celery 
and  mix  until  well  amalgamated.  Fill  up  six  round  paper  cases,  place 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER         855 

them  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  with  folded  napkin  and  send  to  the  table  immediately. 

2774.  GREEN  PEPPER  AND  ESCAROLE  SALAD 
Cut  a  fat  green  pepper  in  half,  remove  seeds,  slice  exceedingly  fine 
and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Remove  outer  stale  leaves  from  a  large 
head  of  escarole,  detach  leaves  from  root,  wash,  drain,  wipe,  cut  leaves 
in  two  and  add  to  green  peppers.  Pour  in  four  tablespoons  dressing 
(No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Farina  (74) 

Omelette  with  Cepes 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Sausage  Cakes        Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

Curry  Cakes  (1112) 

2775.     OMELETTE  WITH  CEPES 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  arid  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes.  Neatly  wipe  and  finely  mince  six  cepes.  Thoroughly  heat  a 
tablespoon  oil  in  frying  pan,  add  the  cepes,  sprinkle  over  three  saltspoons 
salt  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile,  then 
add  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  toss  well.  Drop  in  eggs, 
sharply  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  minute;  fold 
up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

2776.    SAUSAGE  CAKES 

Skin  fifteen  country  sausages,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  chives  and  two  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Mix  well 
together,  then  divide  force  in  six  equal  parts,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  into  ball-like  shapes,  then  flatten  to  quarter-inch  thickness.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  frying  pan,  arrange  cakes  in  it  one  beside 
another,  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up,  dress  on  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Oyster  Croquettes  (1240) 

Tourte  of  Turkey,  Helen 

Fried  Oyster  Plants  (968) 

Pear  Charlotte  (474) 

2777.    TOURTE  OF  TURKEY,  HELEN 

Carefully  remove  all  meat  from  turkey  left  over  from  Thursday  and 
cut  it  in  small  square  pieces.  Cut  in  same  way  an  ounce  cooked  beef 
tongue,  two  ounces  cooked  lean  ham  and  two  canned  French  artichoke 
bottoms.  Peel,  wash,  drain  and  finely  slice  six  fresh  mushrooms,  place 
in  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  gently  fry  for  five  min- 


856  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

utes,  place  in  a  vessel  and  add  all  the  other  articles.  Pour  in  one  and  a 
half  gills  milk,  a  gill  cream,  tablespoon  sherry,  teaspoon  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  and  one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 

Grate  a  peeled,  raw,  well-washed  potato  and  add  to  other  articles, 
with  two  egg  yolks,  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  and  mix  well. 
Roll  out  on  a  floured  table  a  half  pound  feuilletage  (No.  756)  to  size  of  a 
pie  plate,  lightly  butter  plate,  then  line  it  with  paste.  Trim  off  at  edges, 
pour  preparation  into  plate,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
over,  set  in  a  slow  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove,  place  plate  on  a 
dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Livonien 

Bluefish,  Bombay  (828)  Potatoes,  Persillade  (63) 

Mutton  Chops,  Maison  d'Or 

Subrics  of  Spinach  (2621) 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Tomato  Salad  (461) 
American  Pudding  (236) 

2778.    POTAGE,  LIVONIEN 

Finely  slice  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  two  branches  celery,  two  leeks,  two  white 
onions  and  two  branches  parsley.  Place  in  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
butter  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile, 
then  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  adding  three 
ounces  raw  rice.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and 
let  boil  for  one  hour.  Press  the  soup  through  sieve  into  another  sauce- 
pan, pour  in  a  gill  cream,  then  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
pour  into  a  soup  tureen  with  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  and  serve. 

2779.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  MAISON  D'OR 

Neatly  pare  and  flatten  six  tender  mutton  chops,  make  an  incision 
crosswise  in  each,  insert  therein  a  slice  of  truffle,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  place  in  a  sautoir  one  beside  another,  with  an  ounce  clarified 
butter,  and  fry  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Arrange  six  heart-shaped 
bread  croutons  (No.  90)  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  chops  over,  place  a  thin 
slice  of  pate  de  foie  gras  on  top  of  each,  pour  a  hot  Madeira  sauce  (No.  6) 
around,  adjust  a  paper  frill  at  end  bones  of  chops  and  serve. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apple's  (44)        Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Eggs,  Philips 
Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Squabs  (950)        Delmonico  Potatoes  (718) 
Small  Brioches  (878) 

2780.    EGGS,  PHILIPS 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  lift  up,  plunge  in  cold  water 
for  a  minute,  remove,  shell,  slice  lengthwise  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Heat 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER  857 

a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan,  add  one  finely  sliced  white 
onion,  three  finely  sliced,  peeled,  fresh  mushrooms,  and  gently  brown 
for  five  minutes,  stirring  well  meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour, 
stir  well  while  heating  for  a  minute,  pour  in  one  gill  milk,  a  half  gill 
cream  and  two  tablespoons  sherry.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
then  add  an  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  salt- 
spoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  stir  well  for  a  minute. 
Pour  a  third  of  the  sauce  into  a  baking  dish,  arrange  half  the  eggs  over, 
pour  another  third  of  the  sauce  over  the  eggs,  then  balance  of  eggs,  the 
remaining  sauce,  and  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over  all.  Set  in 
oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  brown  colour,  remove  and  serve  in 
same  dish. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 

Oysters,  Newburgh 

Broiled  Grouse,  Orange  Sauce 

Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes  (820) 

Toast,  Princess  (673) 

2781.    OYSTERS,  NEWBURGH 

Place  thirty-six  freshly  opened  large  oysters  with  their  liquor  in  a 
saucepan,  add  two  gills  water,  a  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Drain  on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  sautoir  with  four  tablespoons  sherry,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  then  let  cook  on  brisk  fire  for 
five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  gill  cream,  half  gill  milk,  and  boil  for  five 
minutes  again.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a  tablespoon  each  brandy 
and  cream  and  add  to  oysters.  Gently  mix  while  heating  for  three  min- 
utes but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  transfer  oysters  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and 
serve  with  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  separately. 

2782.    BROILED  GROUSE,  ORANGE  SAUCE 

Cut  off  heads  and  feet  from  two  nice  fat  grouse,  split  open  through 
back,  draw,  cut  out  spinal  bones  and  thoroughly  wipe  them,  envelop  in 
towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil, 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  birds  in  season- 
ing, arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  over  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes 
on  each  side.  Remove,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  freshly  prepared 
toasts  and  serve  with  cold  orange  sauce  (No.  2701)  separately. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme  Brunoise  with  Semolina 
Salmon,  Venitienne          Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Tenderloin  of  Beef,  Athenienne 
Lamb  Sweetbreads,  Kennedy       French  Peas  au  Beurre  (781) 

Kiimmel  Punch  (1031) 
Roast  Capon  with  Cress  (378) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381) 


858  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

• 
2783.    CONSOMME"  BRUNOISE  WITH  SEMOLINA 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering  until  required.  Cut  in  exceedingly  small  square  pieces 
a  carrot,  turnip,  small  onion,  the  white  part  of  a  leek,  a  branch  celery 
and  quarter  very  small  cabbage,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce 
butter,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  sugar  and  gill  of  the  consomme. 
Cover  vegetables  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  place  lid  on  pan,  boil 
on  range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven,  lift  up  paper,  add  all  contents  of  pan  to  consomme,  with  two 
ounces  well-washed  and  thoroughly  drained  semolina,  lightly  mix,  let 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile,  pour  soup  into  a 
tureen  and  serve. 

2784.    SALMON,  VENITIENNE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  fine  salmon,  place  in  a 
sautoir  with  an  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  gill  water,  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon.  Cover 
fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lay  slices  on  cloth  to  drain,  then  place 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  Hollandaise-Venitienne  sauce  over  the  fish  and 
serve. 

2885.    HOLLANDAISE-VENITIENNE  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  small  saucepan  three-quarters  gill  good  vinegar,  one  light 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  half  teaspoon  fresh,  crushed  whole  white  pepper, 
a  branch  parsley,  branch  chervil  and  fresh  mint  leaf.  Set  pan  on  fire 
to  reduce  to  one-third,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Strain  juice  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  another  very  small  saucepan,  add  one  egg  yolk  and 
sharply  whisk  on  corner  of  range  for  five  minutes.  Gradually  pour, 
drop  by  drop,  three-quarters  gill  good  hot  melted  butter,  continually 
whisking  while  adding,  remove  pan  to  table,  season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt  and  whisk  for  three  minutes  longer,  so  as  to  make  it  frothy,  then 
strain  through  a  cheesecloth  and  use  as  directed. 

2786.  TENDERLOIN  OF  BEEF,  ATHENIENNE 
Neatly  trim  a  little  of  the  fat  from  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  ten- 
derloin of  beef.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay  filet 
over,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly 
baste  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  pour  two  gills  water  into  pan, 
then  set  in  brisk  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  turning  and  basting  it 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  dress  filet  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Remove  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  then  transfer  contents  of  pan  into 
a  small  saucepan,  pour  in  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  two  tablespoons 
sherry  and  one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  and  let  reduce  for 
ten  minutes.  Skim  fat  off  surface,  then  strain  sauce  over  tenderloin, 
dress  egg  plant  julienne  (No.  508)  at  both  ends  of  dish  and  serve. 

2787.    LAMB  SWEETBREADS,  KENNEDY 

Plunge  one  and  a  half  pounds  lamb  sweetbreads  in  a  quart  boiling 
water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  five  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  neatly 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER          859 

trim.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  clarified  butter  in  a  sautoir, 
drop  in  sweetbreads,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  salt  and  briskly  cook  on 
open  fire  for  eight  minutes,  frequently  tossing  them  meanwhile.  Pour 
in  a  tablespoon  brandy  and  two  tablespoons  port  wine,  let  reduce  till 
nearly  dry,  then  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  adding  a  saltspoon  cay- 
enne pepper,  twelve  finely  sliced,  canned  mushrooms  and  a  small  sliced 
truffle,  mix  well,  cover  pan  and  let  cook  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one 
and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  a  half  teaspoon  each  chopped 
parsley  and  extract  of  beef  (No.  3170),  mix  well,  cover  pan  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes  more.  Set  pan  on  corner  of  range,  drop  in  a  half  ounce  fresh 
butter  little  by  little,  with  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  continually  mix- 
ing while  adding  it. 

Lightly  butter  outside  of  six  oval  paper  boxes,  place  on  a  tin,  then 
place  in  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove,  evenly  divide  preparation  in 
boxes,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


Monday,  First  Week  of  November 


BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369)       Malta  Vita  (1592) 
Devilled  Poached  Eggs 

Fried  Porgies  (498) 

Small  Steaks,  Maitre  d 'Hotel  (172) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Lemon  Cakes  (577) 

2788.    DEVILLED  POACHED  EGGS 

Have  three  quarts  boiling  water  in  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  tablespoon  salt,  then  carefully  crack  in  six  fresh  eggs, 
poach  for  four  minutes,  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  carefully  drop  in 
cold  water.  Proceed  the  same  with  six  more,  take  them  up  from  the 
water,  lay  on  a  cloth  and  neatly  trim.  Spread  a  very  little  French 
mustard  around,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  them  in  fresh  bread 
crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  one  minute, 
lift  up,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Canape's,  Lorenzo  (538) 

Mutton  and  Ham  Pot  Pie 

Spaghetti  Polonaise  (938) 

Banana  Cakes 

2789.    MUTTON  AND  HAM  POT  PIE 

Cut  one  and  a  half  pounds  raw  lean  leg  of  mutton  and  half  pound 
raw  lean  ham  into  one-inch  pieces-  Thoroughly  heat  two  ounces 


86o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

melted  lard  in  a  sautoire,  add  mutton  and  ham,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  nicely  brown  for  ten  minutes.  Add 
twelve  peeled,  small  white  onions  and  four  peeled,  raw,  medium  potatoes 
cut  in  half-inch  squares,  and  brown  for  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  once 
in  a  while,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  return  to  pan.  Dredge  an  ounce  flour 
over,  toss  well,  pour  over  two  gills  each  water  and  pure  tomato  juice 
and  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  then  add  a  blade  mace,  bay  leaf, 
leaf  of  nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  one  teaspoon  French  mustard.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes,  transfer  to  baking  dish  and  egg  edges  of  dish.  Roll  out  a 
half  pound  of  pie  paste  (No.  117)  to  size  of  dish,  then  cover  dish  with 
layer  of  paste,  press  down  all  around  border  and  trim  off  around  edges. 
Make  a  few  light  incisions  on  surface,  egg  top,  then  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  bake  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2790.    BANANA  CAKES 

Lightly  butter  six  small  tartlet  moulds.  Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  a  half  pound  feuilletage  (No.  756)  to  one-fifth-inch  thickness. 
With  a  round  pastry  cutter  (a  shade  larger  than  the  tartlets)  cut  out  six 
round  pieces  and  line  them  with  cut  pieces  of  paste ;  carefully  press  paste 
down  with  finger  in  centre  and  all  around,  then  spread  a  tablespoon 
apple  jelly  at  bottom  of  each  tartlet. 

Peel  and  slice  six  ripe  bananas,  then  nicely  arrange  in  the  tartlets, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  and  pour  two  or  three  drops  vanilla 
essence  over  each,  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove,  spread 
a  teaspoon  currant  jelly  over  each,  take  from  moulds,  dress  on  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Potage  Vermicelli,  Suisse 
Fresh  Mackerel  with  Tarragon 

Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 
Mignons  of  Veal  with  Glazed  Chestnuts 

Spinach  with  Cream  (399) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Romaine    Salad  (214) 

Pudding  Boissy  (746) 

2791.    POTAGE  VERMICELLI,  SUISSE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  a  three-pound  piece  of  beef  from  the  short  ribs 
or  flank,  pour  in  five  quarts  water  and  add  a  tablespoon  salt.  Let 
slowly  come  to  a  boil,  skini  fat  off  surface,  then  add  two  well-cleaned 
carrots  and  one  turnip,  a  good-sized  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it, 
two  branches  celery,  a  sprig  thyme  and  bay  leaf.  Cover  the  pan  and 
let  slowly  boil  for  three  hours,  being  careful  to  skim  fat  off  once  in  a  while 
and  to  keep  soup  at  same  simmering  point  from  beginning  to  end.  Lift 
up  beef  (keep  it  for  to-morrow's  lunch),  strain  broth  through  cheesecloth 
into  another  saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  finely  sliced, 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER  86 1 

well-cleaned  leek,  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  the  leaves  of  two 
branches  chervil,  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Break 
three  ounces  vermicelli  on  a  plate,  add  it  to  broth,  lightly  mix  and  let 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  a  little 
grated  Swiss  cheese  separately. 

2792.    FRESH  MACKEREL  WITH  TARRAGON 

Thoroughly  wipe  a  nice,  fresh  three-pound  mackerel,  cut  off  head, 
split  in  two  through  back  and  remove  spinal  bone.  Season  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  a  little  milk, 
then  roll  in  flour.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  clarified  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish  and  gently  cook  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Lift  up  with  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon,  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise-tarragon  sauce 
separately." 

2793.    SAUCE  MAYONNAISE  WITH  TARRAGON 

Prepare  a  mayonnaise  (No.  70),  only  substituting  same  quantity  of 
tarragon  vinegar  for  the  other,  and  when  finished  add  a  half  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  tarragon  leaves,  mix  well  and  serve  in  a  cold  sauce  bowl. 

2794.    MIGNONS  or  VEAL  WITH  GLAZED  CHESTNUTS 

Procure  six  round  pieces  of  tender  veal  of  four  to  five  ounces  each 
from  round,  neatly  flatten  and  trim,  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter 
in  a  sautoire,  add  the  pieces  of  veal  one  beside  another,  and  gently 
cook  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 

Prepare  six  round  toasts  two  inches  in  diameter  and  a  third  of  an 
inch  thick,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  mignons  over  crown-like,  and 
dress  the  glazed  chestnuts  (as  hereunder)  in  centre  pyramid-like.  Skim 
fat  off  surface  of  gravy,  then  add  four  finely  chopped  shallots,  brown 
for  two  minutes,  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  add  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  let  reduce  to  almost  a  glaze.  Pour  in  a  gill  demi- 
glace  (No.  122),  mix  well  at  bottom  of  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  then 
pour  over  mignons  and  serve. 

2795.     GLAZED  CHESTNUTS 

Slit  thirty  large  Italian  chestnuts  and  set  in  oven  on  a  tin  for  twenty 
minutes.  Remove,  shell  and  peel,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  pint 
broth,  cover  with  water,  add  blade  mace,  two  branches  celery,  one  onion 
with  a  clove  stuck  in  it,  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Cover  pan,  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  lift  up  chestnuts  and  place 
in  saucepan  with  a  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  half  gill  of  the  chest- 
nut broth,  half  ounce  butter,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Set  the  pan  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  being  very 
careful  to  frequently  baste  chestnuts  with  the  liquor,  remove  and  use  as 
required. 


862  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK   BOOK 

Tuesday,  Second  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Pears  (169) 

Barley  and  Cream  (1068) 

Shirred  Eggs  au  Cerfeuilles 

Codfish  Steaks,  Meuniere  (240) 

Chicken  Livers,  en  Brochette  (600) 

Potatoes,  Mount  Vernon  (453) 

German  Pancakes  (493) 

2796.    SHIRRED  EGGS  AU  CERFEUILLES 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  pick  leaves  from  three  branches 
chervil,  then  evenly  sprinkle  in  the  six  dishes.  Carefully  crack  two 
fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  baste  yolks  with  a  very  little  hot  butter,  set  in  the 
oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 
Stuffed  Devilled  Clams  (567) 

Mussaka,  Moldave 
Apples  with  Rice  (179) 

2797.    MUSSAKA,  MOLDAVE 

Remove  bones,  trim  fat  off  the  boiled  beef  saved  from  yesterday's 
dinner,  then  cut  meat  in  small  square  pieces,  and  cut  half  the  quantity 
of  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  same  shape.  Finely  chop  a  good-sized 
white  onion,  place  in  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry 
for  five  minutes  or  until  a  nice  light  golden  colour.  Add  beef  and 
potatoes,  pour  in  one  gill  broth  and  two  gills  pure  tomato  juice,  season 
with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  each  pepper  and  curry  powder,  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  cover  pan.  Cook  on  range  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot. 

Cut  three  small  eggplants  in  halves  lengthwise  and  scoop  out  all  the 
interior  as  near  the  skin  as  you  can  without  cutting  it.  Lightly  butter 
insides  of  shells,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  divide  hash  evenly  in  the  six  half-shells,  neatly 
smooth  surface,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over  and  arrange  a  few 
little  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove, 
place  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  one  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around  and 
serve. 

DINNER 

Olives         Oysters  (18)         Radishes 

Pure"e,  Oriental 
Kingfish,  Maitre  d 'Hotel  (792) 

Potatoes,  Polonaise  (1008) 

Duckling  Curry,  Lucknow  Fried  Parsnips 

Roast  Saddle  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (2482) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream  (431) 
Small  Neapolitan  Cakes  (524) 


TUESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       863 

2798.    PUR£E,  ORIENTAL 

Finely  slice  a  small  onion,  four  shallots,  a  green  pepper,  bean  garlic, 
twelve  well-washed  fresh  okras,  the  meat  of  the  eggplant  from  lunch, 
a  quarter-pound  piece  peeled  and  seeded  pumpkin  and  six  small,  peeled 
Jerusalem  artichokes.  Place  these  ingredients  in  a  soup  pot  with  an 
ounce  butter  and  a  teaspoon  curry  powder,  cook  over  a  brisk  fire  for 
fifteen  minutes,  frequently  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile. 
Add  a  half  pint  fresh  crushed  tomatoes,  moisten  with  three  quarts 
water,  the  milk  and  grated  fibres  (meat)  of  a  medium  cocoanut  and  a 
two-ounce  piece  dried,  crushed  bacon.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves.  Cover 
pot  and  let  simmer  on  corner  of  range  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  being 
careful  to  mix  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  press  puree  through  sieve 
into  a  vessel,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen,  and 
serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  separately. 

2799.    DUCKLING  CURRY,  LUCKNOW 

Cut  in  two-inch-long  julienne  strips  one  each  small  carrot,  turnip  and 
seeded  green  pepper,  a  celery  root,  bean  garlic  and  peeled  and  cored 
apple.  Place  all  these  articles  on  a  plate  with  two  peeled,  seeded,  fresh- 
chopped  red  tomatoes.  Singe,  cut  the  head  and  feet  off  a  tender  four- 
pound  duckling,  neatly  draw  and  wipe,  then  cut  in  twelve  equal  pieces. 
Melt  a  good  tablespoon  butter  in  saucepan,  add  duckling  and  gently 
brown  for  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  the  pieces  once  in  a 
while.  Sprinkle  in  a  tablespoon  flour  and  good  teaspoon  curry  powder, 
mix  well  with  spatula  for  three  minutes,  moisten  with  pint  broth  and 
season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Tie  in  a  bunch  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  sprig 
tarragon,  branch  parsley  and  piece  lemon  rind,  then  add  to  duck  with 
all  the  waiting  vegetables.  Thoroughly  mix,  cover  pan,  cook  on  range 
for  ten  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  take 
up  bouquet,  scoop  out  white  part  of  a  fresh  cocoanut,  place  in  mortar 
with  two  tablespoons  cream,  then  pound  to  a  paste,  strain  through 
cheesecloth  into  saucepan  and  mix  well  while  heating  for  two  minutes. 
Dress  duck  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  a  boiled  rice  (No.  490)  around,  and 
serve  with  Bombay  duck,  chutney,  etc.,  separately. 

2800.    FRIED  PARSNIPS 

Peel  six  medium  parsnips,  cut  in  one-and-a-half-inch  pieces,  then 
cut  each  in  one-third-inch-square  strips.  Wash  in  cold  water,  place  in 
saucepan  and  pour  in  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  then  add  half  a  lemon 
and  a  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  pan,  let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes, 
drain,  then  place  in  a  deep  dish.  Squeeze  over  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
adding  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
pepper  and  two  tablespoons  oil,  mix  well  and  let  infuse  from  thirty-five 
to  forty  minutes. 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  plunge  parsnips  into  it,  roll  well, 


864  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

then  drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  with  skimmer 
once  in  a  while.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407)        Quaker  Oats  (105) 
Fried  Eggs,  Kellogg 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Hamburg  Steaks  with  Fried  Onions  (108) 

Sweet  Potatoes  Sautees  (2534) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2801.    FRIED  EGGS,  KELLOGG 

Cut  from  a  raw  Virginia  ham  six  thin  slices.  Heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  slices  of  ham  one  beside  another 
and  briskly  cook  for  one  minute  on  each  side.  Carefully  crack  twelve 
fresh  eggs  over  slices,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  six  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  glide  them  on 
a  large,  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 

Peel  two  fresh  red  tomatoes,  cut  in  eight  quarters  each,  and  place 
in  small  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  good  butter.  Season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  mix,  cover  pan,  let 
gently  cook  on  range  for  eight  minutes,  arrange  tomatoes  around  eggs 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 

Scallops  en  Coquilles  (212) 

Irish  Stew  (425)          Peach  Pie  (412) 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Pot  au  Feu,  Vieillemode 
Striped  Bass,  en  Court  Bouillon  (25) 

Potatoes,  Rissole"es  (2121) 

Beef  Brais6  au  Pain  Perdu  (1921) 

Brussels  Sprouts  in  Butter  (618) 

Roast  Stuffed  Goose 

Barbe  de  Capucins 

Gateau  Lyonnaise  (585) 

2802.    POT  AU  FEU,  VIEILLEMODE 

Soak  half  pint  dried,  large  white  beans  in  cold  water  for  eight  hours, 
drain  and  place  them  in  a  large  earthen  soup  pot.  Cut  half  a  very 
small  cabbage  in  four  parts  lengthwise,  discard  all  stale  leaves,  cut 
off  stalk,  then  finely  slice  and  add  to  beans  in  pot.  Boil  two  ounces 
dried  split  peas  in  a  pint  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  well,  add  to  soup 
and  moisten  with  three  quarts  water.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  add  one  ounce  good  butter,  then  let 
slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Add  a  small  Italian  cervela  sausage, 


THURSDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       865 

if  at  hand,  two  small,  finely  sliced  raw  potatoes,  a  teaspoon  each  chopped 
parsley  and  chives.  Cover  pot,  slowly  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
remove  the  cervelas,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2803.    ROAST  STUFFED  GOOSE 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  medium-sized  fat  goose.  Drain  and 
thoroughly  wipe  the  inside,  remove  gall  bag  from  liver,  then  cut  liver 
and  heart  in  small  square  pieces.  Finely  chop  one  medium  white  onion 
with  an  ounce  raw  ham,  place  in  frying  pan  with  tablespoon  melted  lard 
and  fry  for  three  minutes.  Add  liver  and  heart,  cook  for  two  minutes, 
tossing  once  in  a  while,  then  transfer  to  a  bowl. 

Peel  and  core  two  medium  apples,  cut  in  small  square  pieces  and 
add  to  bowl.  Add  also  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  two  table- 
spoons milk,  one  egg,  two  skinned  country  sausages,  a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  saltspoon  ground  thyme,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper.  Mix  all  together  till  well  amalgamated,  then  stuff  goose  with 
preparation.  Tightly  truss  goose,  place  it  in  roasting  tin,  baste  surface 
with  a  little  melted  lard  and  pour  a  half  gill  water  in  pan.  Sprinkle 
over  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  roast  for  an  hour 
and  twenty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  turn  once  in  a  while,  and 
frequently  baste  it.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  untruss,  decorate 
with  a  little  watercress  and  serve  with  apple  sauce  (No.  198)  separately. 

2804.  BARBE  DE  CAPUCINS 

Select  three  bunches  white,  fresh,  crisp,  clear  barbe  de  capucins, 
thoroughly  clean,  carefully  wipe,  but  do  not  wash  in  water.  Cut  in 
two-inch  strips,  place  in  salad  bowl,  season  with  four  tablespoons 
dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Oatmeal  Porridge  (a) 

Omelette  Dancfee 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

English  Mutton  Chops  (261) 

Hashed  Creamed  Potatoes  (220) 

Puffs  (313) 

2805.  OMELETTE,  DANOISE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence,  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and 
sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Remove  skin  and  bones 
from  a  two-ounce  piece  smoked  salmon,  cut  in  quarter-inch-square 
pieces,  plunge  into  three  pints  boiling  water,  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
drain  on  a  sieve. 

Prepare  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736),  add  salmon  to  it  with  a  tablespoon 
capers,  mix  well  and  keep  hot  till  required.  Thoroughly  heat  a  table- 


866  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  the  beaten  eggs,  briskly 
mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  minute;  fold  up 
opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  prepared  sauce 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 
Oysters    en     Brochette     (477) 

Goose  Pie,  Mrs.  Nicoll 
Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 

2806.     GOOSE  PIE,  MRS.  NICOLL 

Soak  a  half  pound  California  prunes  in  cold  water  for  six  hours,  drain, 
remove  stones  and  place  prunes  on  a  plate.  Add  a  tablespoon  powdered 
sugar  and  two  saltspoons  cinnamon,  mix  well  in  seasoning  and  place  on 
plate  until  required. 

Pick  all  the  meat  off  goose  left  over  from  last  night's  dinner  and 
cut  into  small  square  pieces.  Cut  into  same  shape  two  ounces  lean 
cooked  ham,  twelve  canned  mushrooms,  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Clean 
the  goose's  bones,  crack  in  pieces  with  a  cleaver,  then  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  four  sliced  shallots,  a  half  bean  garlic,  two  branches  chervil  and  two 
branches  parsley.  Pour  in  two  gills  each  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Strain 
sauce  through  a  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  then  add  goose,  ham 
and  mushrooms,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
half  teaspoon  chopped  tarragon,  two  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  exceed- 
ingly small  pieces,  mix  well  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes,  mixing  once 
in  a  while.  Add  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one  egg  yolk,  sharply 
mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  and  remove  to  a  table.  Lightly 
butter  a  deep  pie  plate,  prepare  pie  paste  (No.  117),  divide  paste  in  two, 
roll  out  both  on  a  floured  table  to  size  of  plate,  then  line  plate  with  a 
layer  of  paste.  Place  hash  at  bottom,  arrange  prunes  on  top,  egg  edges, 
then  cover  with  other  layer  of  paste.  Press  both  edges  together,  lightly 
trim  egg  surface,  make  a  few  light  incisions  on  top,  set  in  oven  for  forty 
minutes,  remove,  glide  pie  on  a  dish  and  send  to  table. 

DINNER 

* 

Canape's  of  Anchovies  (141)         Oysters  (18)         Olives 

Potage,  Provencal 

Terrine  of  Smelts  (2547)  Potatoes,  Ancienne  (1391) 

Escalopes  of  Venison,  Chasseur 

Tomato  Bock  (2031) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Biscuit,  Tortoni  (1521) 

2807.    POTAGE,  PROVENCAL 

Finely  slice  two  medium  white  onions,  one  green  pepper,  six  fresh 
mushrooms,  one  bean  sound  garlic  and  two  leeks;  place  all  these  vegeta- 
bles in  a  large  black  frying  pah  with  two  tablespoons  oil,  fry  for  ten 
minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  flour,  and 
stir  well  with  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Wipe  and  crush  one  quart 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER          867 

fresh,  ripe  red  tomatoes,  add  to  pan  with  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701), 
season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  thoroughly  mix  and  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  mixing  once 
in  a  while.  Place  twelve  thin  slices  toasted  French  bread  in  a  soup 
tureen,  sprinkle  over  half  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley  and  chives, 
strain  soup  through  Chinese  strainer  into  tureen  and  serve. 

(It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  cook  this  soup  in  a  black  frying  pan.) 

2808.    ESCALOPES  OF  VENISON,  CHASSEUR 

Procure  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  stale  venison  from  the  round, 
cut  in  twelve  equal  slices,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
black  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a 
sautoire,  arrange  venison  in  pan  one  piece  beside  another,  and  briskly 
cook  on  fire  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  with  a  fork,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another,  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots  to 
pan  and  fry  for  three  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  add  twelve 
finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  then  let  reduce  to  almost  a  glaze.  Pour 
in  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  boil  six  minutes  more,  pour  sauce 
over  escalopes  and  serve. 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Sago  with  Cream  (1585) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Montevideo 

Fried  Whitebait  (1123)  Beef  Hash  (923)* 

Wheaten  Cakes  (9) 

2809.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  MONTEVIDEO 

Cut  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  small  square  pieces,  place  in  a 
sautoir  with  a  half  ounce  butter  and  cook  for  three  minutes,  then  pour 
in  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16).  Dilute  a  half  saltspoon  saffron  in  a 
teaspoon  water  and  strain  it  into  the  pan,  lightly  mix,  then  let  reduce 
to  a  third  of  the  quantity. 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Briskly  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one 
minute,  add  to  tomato  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  continually  mixing 
with  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Prepare  three  pieces  toast,  trim  off 
crusts,  spread  a  teaspoon  anchovy  butter  over  each,  cut  each  toast  in 
two,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  eggs  evenly  over  the  six  half  toasts  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Stew  (1319) 

Baked  Live  Lobster  (952) 

Entrec6te  Pojarsky  (914) 

Omelette  Soufflee,  with  Apples 

*  U»e  the  beef  left  over  from  yesterday. 


868  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2810.    OMELETTE  SOUFFL£E  WITH  APPLES 

Place  three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  in  a  bowl  with  six  egg 
yolks,  three  tablespoons  flour,  a  half  saltspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  vanilla 
essence,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes. 
Whisk  up  a  gill  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  yolks  and  gently  mix 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  Now  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  froth,  add 
to  mixture  and  lightly  mix  with  skimmer. 

Cut  three  sound  apples  into  quarters,  peel,  remove  cores,  finely 
slice  and  place  them  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  half  ounce  butter.  Sprinkle 
a  little  sugar  over  and  cook  on  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes,  tossing  them 
meanwhile.  Add  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly,  carefully  mix  without 
mashing  the  apples,  and  keep  hot.  Heat  two  tablespoons  clarified 
butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  drop  in  preparation,  cook  for  two  minutes, 
then  set  pan  in  oven  for  six  minutes  or  till  firm.  Remove,  glide  omelette 
on  a  piece  of  white  paper,  turn  it  again  into  pan  and  cook  for  one  minute 
more.  Glide  it  again  on  the  paper,  arrange  apples  in  centre,  roll  it  up 
in  omelette  shape,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar 
over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Potage,  St.  Augustine 
Blackfish,  Fines  Herbes  (1862) 

Potatoes  Croquettes  (390) 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Be"arnaise 

French  Flageolets  with  Butter  (95) 

Swiss  Rarebit 
Roast  Grouse,  Currant  Jelly  (167) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Fig  Pudding,  Tyrolienne  (168) 

2811.    POTAGE,  ST.  AUGUSTINE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  the  head  of  any  kind  of  a  large,  white,  fresh  fish, 
with  a  sliced  each  carrot,  onion,  branch  celery,  two  sliced  leeks,  a  sprig 
thyme,  bay  leaf  and  clove.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water,  season 
with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Clip  off  both  ends 
of  twelve  fresh  okras  and  add  trimming  to  the  broth,  then  cut  okras  in 
half-inch  pieces,  keep  on  a  plate,  and  boil  broth  rather  slowly  for  an 
hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  another  saucepan, 
add  okras  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  the  fish  broth  through 
cheesecloth  into  this  pan,  add  two  ounces  raw  rice,  one  peeled  raw  potato 
cut  in  small  pieces,  two  peeled,  seeded,  fresh,  finely  chopped  red  tomatoes, 
and  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix,  then  let  boil  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Pour  in  two  gills  hot  milk,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2812.    BREADED  LAMB  CHOPS,  BE"ARNAISE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  French  lamb  chops,  season  all  around 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  on  a  plate  two 


SATURDAY,  SECOND   WL^K  OP  NOVEMBER      869 

ounces  finely  grated,  cooked  lean  ham  and  four  tablespoons  bread 
crumbs,  roll  chops  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  roll  well  in  the 
mixture.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan, 
lay  in  chops  one  beside  another,  gently  cook  for  five  minutes  on  each  side 
and  arrange  on  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another  crown-like.  Arrange 
six  slices  of  broiled  bacon  (No.  13)  around  dish,  adjust  a  curled  paper 
at  end  of  each  chop  and  serve  with  a  Be*arnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  separately. 

2813.    Swiss  RAREBIT 

Finely  chop  ten  ounces  rich,  crustless  Swiss  cheese.  Place  a  gill 
white  wine  in  saucepan  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  cheese, 
with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper  and  two  teaspoons  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Briskly  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  melted,  add 
three  egg  yolks  and  sharply  mix  while  heating  for  three  minutes.  Heat 
six  individual  shirred-egg  dishes,  place  six  freshly  prepared  crustless 
toasts,  evenly  divide  the  prepared  cheese  in  them  and  immediately 
send  to  table. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  November 


BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples,  Yanssens  (1140)  Hominy  (45) 

Stuffed  Eggs  with  Sardines 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Broiled  Mutton  Kidneys  with  Bacon  (195) 

Hashed  Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

Buckwheat  Cinnamon  Cakes  (79) 

2814.    STUFFED  EGGS  WITH  SARDINES 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  take  up,  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  a  minute,  remove,  shell,  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Scoop 
out  yolks  and  place  in  a  mortar  with  three  sardines,  three  saltspoons 
salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  half  ounce 
butter,  two  tablespoons  cream,  and  briskly  pound  to  a  paste,  then  press 
through  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  fill  up  cavities  of  whites  with  mixture. 
Arrange  on  a  baking  dish,  pour  a  Mornay  sauce  (No.  526)  and  sprinkle 
a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Croflte  of  Oysters,  Fin  de  Siecle 

Oxtail,  Hungarian 

Gnocchis,  Italienne 

Madeleine  with  Almonds  ( 1400) 

2815.    CROUTE  OF  OYSTERS,  FIN  DE  SIECLE 

Cut  covers  from  six  long-shaped  rolls  (fluttes),  scoop  out  soft  part, 
lightly  butter  interiors,  place  on  a  plate  with  covers  and  keep  at  oven 
door  until  required. 


870  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Plunge  thirty-six  large,  freshly  opened  oysters  with  their  liquor  into 
a  pint  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Finely  chop  a  seeded  green  pepper,  four  sound  shallots  and  six  well 
washed  and  drained  fresh  mushrooms.  Place  the  three  articles  in  a 
saucepan  with  an  ounce  good  butter  and  gently  cook  for  six  minutes, 
slightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Strew  in  two  light  tablespoons  flour, 
stir  well  while  cooking  for  a  minute,  strain  a  gill  of  the  oyster  broth 
into  pan  and  add  three  gills  milk.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  briskly  mix  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity  on  an  open  fire, 
frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Strain  oysters  on  sieve  and  add  them 
to  sauce,  with  a  tablespoon  each  thick  cream  and  sherry,  and  gently 
mix  while  cooking  for  one  minute.  Place  rolls  on  a  dish,  evenly  pour 
oysters,  etc.,  into  them,  place  covers  on  and  serve. 

2816.    OXTAIL,  HUNGARIAN 

Cut  a  fresh  oxtail  into  two-inch-long  pieces,  removing  the  very 
thin  end  portion.  Split  the  large  pieces  in  two,  place  in  roasting  pan, 
sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  salt,  baste  with  three  tablespoons  hot  fat 
and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Take 
up  and  place  them  in  a  braising  pan,  sprinkle  over  three  light  tablespoons 
flour  and  briskly  shuffle  pan  for  one  minute.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half 
pints  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  paprika  and 
mix  well.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks,  a  branch  celery,  sprig  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  blade  marjoram,  bean  garlic,  and  add  to  pan  with  onion  having 
two  cloves  stuck  in  it. 

Pour  in  one  gill  pure  tomato  juice  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
cover  pan,  set  in  oven  for  one  hour,  then  bring  pan  to  oven  door.  Cut 
three  large  raw  potatoes  in  one-inch-square  pieces,  add  to  pan,  lightly 
mix,  re-cover  pan  and  reset  in  oven  for  another  hour.  Remove,  lift  up 
bouquet  and  onion,  take  up  the  pieces  of  oxtail  and  potatoes  with  skimmer 
and  dress  them  on  hot  dish.  Skim  fat  from  gravy,  strain  it  through  a 
Chinese  strainer  over  the  meat  and  serve. 

2817.     GNOCCHIS,  ITALIENNE 

Place  three  gills  milk  and  one  gill  cream  in  a  saucepan  with  half 
ounce, butter  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Sift  a  pound  of  flour  in  a  bowl, 
then  gradually  pour  milk  in  flour,  briskly  stirring  with  wooden  spoon 
while  adding  it.  Add  one  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  and  sharply  stir  for  two  minutes; 
break  in  an  egg  and  briskly  stir  again  for  two  minutes;  then  add  two 
egg  yolks  and  sharply  stir  for  two  minutes  more. 

Have  two  quarts  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  with  a 
teaspoon  salt.  Take  up  the  batter  by  teaspoons  and  with  aid  of  a 
finger  drop  it  hi  the  water,  the  operation  being  done  as  rapidly  as  possible. 
Let  slowly  boil  for  six  minutes,  lift  up  with  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then 
dress  on  a  hot  baking  dish.  Reduce  two  gills  tomato  sauce  to  half 
the  quantity  on  a  brisk  fire  and  pour  it  over  the  gnocchis,  sprinkle  two 


SATURDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER     871 

tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  top,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Tomatoes  en  Surprise  (1515) 

Purde  of  Potatoes,  Chiffonnade 
Sheepshead,  Cracovienne  (1260) 

Subrics  of  Potatoes 
Larded  Sirloin,  Jardiniere  (1640) 

Tomatoes,  American 

Roast  Squabs  (831)         Escarole  Salad  (too) 
Pudding,  Saxon  (215) 

2818.    PUR£E  OF  POTATOES,  CHIFFONNADE 

Cut  a  quarter  pound  raw,  lean  salt  pork  in  small  pieces,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks  and  one  bay  leaf;  add 
one  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a 
while,  then  add  four  good-sized,  peeled,  raw  potatoes  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Moisten  with  one  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  quart  water, 
season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
lightly  mix,  cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  min- 
utes. Remove,  strain  soup  through  sieve  into  a  vessel  and  keep  until 
required.  Remove  stems,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  half  pint  each 
spinach  and  sorrel  and  also  wash  green  leaves  from  a  head  of  lettuce, 
finely  slice  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  good  butter.  Set  pan 
on  the  fire  and  cook  rather  briskly  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
Strain  potato  puree  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  this  pan,  add  a  pint 
milk,  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  the  leaves  from  a  branch  chervil, 
thoroughly  mix,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  soup  into  tureen  and  serve. 

2819.  SUBRICS  OF  POTATOES 

Boil  six  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for 
thirty  minutes,  drain  on  sieve,  then  press  through  potato  masher  into  a 
saucepan.  Add  a  half  ounce  butter,  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
three  egg  yolks,  light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  briskly  stir  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  shift  the  pan 
to  corner  of  range.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan, 
then  with  lightly  buttered  tablespoon  scoop  out  potato  and  drop  it  in 
pan;  repeat  operation  with  balance  and  gently  fry  all  for  three  minutes 
on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2820.  TOMATOES,  AMERICAN 

Cut  six  even-sized,  medium,  fresh  red  tomatoes  into  even  halves 
crosswise,  squeeze  out  seeds,  place  on  a  tin,  and  season  evenly  with 
a  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper.  Soak 
an  ounce  of  the  soft  part  of  a  French  loaf  in  cold  milk  for  five  minutes, 
squeeze  out  all  milk  from  it  and  place  bread  in  a  bowl.  Add  to  it  one 
and  a  half  ounces  finely  chopped  raw  beef  marrow,  a  half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  six  finely  chopped  shallots,  a  half  saltspoon  thyme  and 


872  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

one  egg  yolk.  Sharply  stir  the  whole  well  together  for  two  minutes, 
evenly  spread  preparation  over  the  twelve  half  tomatoes,  set  in  oven 
to  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Poached  Eggs,  Chester 
Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

Broiled  Beefsteaks  (172)  Julienne  Potatoes  (799) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2821.    POACHED  EGGS,  CHESTER 

Cut  a  medium  eggplant  in  twelve  even  slices,  then  with  a  two-inch 
pastry  cutter  cut  out  a  piece  from  each  slice,  season  all  over  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  lightly  roll  them  in  flour.  Heat 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  eggplant  in, 
one  piece  beside  another,  gently  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  lift 
up  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106), 
but  without  toasts,  arrange  over  eggplants,  pour  a  Hollandaise  sauce 
(No.  26)  and  adjust  a  very  thin  slice  truffle  over  each  egg  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Baked  Lobster,  Potomac  (8n) 

Mutton  Chops  with  Peas 

Pancakes,  Georgette  (517) 

2822.    MUTTON  CHOPS  WITH  PEAS 

Neatly  fry  and  flatten  six  fine,  fresh,  tender  mutton  chops,  season  all 
over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  roll  in  a  tablespoon 
oil,  then  broil  over  a  brisk  fire  for  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on 
a  hot  dish,  one  overlapping  another  crown-like,  arrange  green  peas 
(No.  35)  in  centre  of  chops,  adjust  a  curled  paper  at  end  bone  of  chops 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)         Celery  (86)         Olives 
Caviare  (59)  Consomme,  Fermiere 

Filets  of  Sole,  Mayonnaise -Moreno 
Chicken  Cutlets,   Islin  French  String  Beans  (139) 

Mignons  of  Lamb,  Traviata  (1905) 
Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Punch  au  Curacao  (643) 
Roast  Partridge  sur  Canapes  (97) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Neselrode  Pudding  (607) 

2823.    CONSOMME^  FERMIERE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  in  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering  till  required.  Cut  two  medium  carrots,  one  white  turnip  and 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER        873 

a  quarter  very  small,  well-pared  cabbage  in  strips  one  inch  long  and  a 
half  inch  thick.  Lay  these  vegetables  on  a  plate,  sprinkle  over  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  sugar,  toss  vegetables  for  eight  minutes  to 
make  them  sweat,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter  and  one 
gill  consomme*,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove,  add 
entire  contents  of  pan  to  consomme  with  three  tablespoons  cooked  green 
peas  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Place  six  thin  slices  toasted  French 
bread  in  a  soup  tureen  with  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives,  pour  consomme 
over  and  serve. 

2824.     FILETS  OF  SOLE,  MAYONNAISE-MORENO 

Lift  up  filets  from  a  fresh  three-and-a-half-pound  flounder,  skin  and 
cut  each  in  three  slanting,  equal  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll 
them  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  in  frying  basket,  fry  in  boiling 
fat  for  eight  minutes,  lift  up,  drain  on  cloth  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon, 
a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise-Moreno  sauce  sepa- 
rately. 

2825.    SAUCE  MAYONNAISE-MORENO 

Pound  four  red  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  mortar  to  a  fine  paste,  then 
press  pulp  through  a  sieve  on  a  plate.  Prepare  a  mayonnaise  sauce 
(No.  70),  add  sweet  pepper  puree  little  by  little  to  sauce,  mixing  con- 
tinually while  adding  it,  pour  sauce  into  a  saucebowl  and  serve. 

2826.  CHICKEN  CUTLETS,  ISLEST 

Carefully  tear  skin  off  a  tender  two-and-a-half  pound  chicken,  then 
remove  meat  and  sinews  from  bird.  Have  a  four-ounce  piece  raw  lean 
veal,  cut  chicken  and  veal  in  small  pieces,  place  on  a  clean  board  and 
finely  chop,  adding  while  chopping,  little  by  little,  a  half  gill  thick  cream. 
Place  meat  in  a  bowl,  add  a  bread  panade  (No.  1795),  a  finely  chopped 
truffle,  egg  yolk,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne 
and  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Briskly  stir  with  wooden  spoon  for  three 
minutes,  then  gradually  pour  in  a  half  gill  cream,  sharply  stirring  while 
adding  it.  Divide  the  preparation  in  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  on  a 
lightly  floured  table  to  cutlet  forms,  lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll 
them  in  bread  crumbs. 

Heat  two  tablespoons  clarified  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place  in  cutlets 
one  beside  another  and  gently  cook  for  seven  minutes  on  each  side. 
Pour  fresh  mushroom  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  cutlets  over  crown 
shape,  adjust  a  fancy  frill  at  end  of  each  and  serve. 

2827.  FRESH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  twelve  medium  fresh  mushrooms,  finely 
slice,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  strain  in  juice  of  a 
half  lemon  and  gently  cook  for  six  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Add  a  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  a  half  gill  milk  and  three- 
quarters  gill  cream.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  cay- 


874  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

enne,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let  briskly  cook  for  six 
minutes,  lightly  mixing  meanwhile.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
sherry,  mix  well,  then  use  as  required. 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Swiss  Mush  (2564) 

Eggs  Cocotte,  Justine 

Perch,  Saute,  Meuniere  (2097) 

Calf's  Liver  with  Bacon  (155) 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 

Lemon  Cakes  (577) 

2828.  EGGS   COCOTTE,  JUSTINE 

Place  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  tablespoon  Madeira  in  sauce- 
pan and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  cream,  mix  well, 
add  little  by  little  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  sharply  mixing  with  whisk 
while  adding  it,  and  evenly  divide  sauce  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes.  Crack 
two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper  evenly  divided,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oysters,  Vaudeville  (222) 

Chachelique,  Caucases 

Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 

Apple  Tartlets 

2829.  CHACHELIQUE,  CAUCASES 

Cut  two  pounds  raw  beef  from  rump  in  quarter-inch  slices,  place  in 
an  earthen  jar,  add  a  sliced  white  onion,  half  gill  vinegar,  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  half  gill  white  wine,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  freshly 
crushed  black  pepper,  mix  well,  then  let  marinade  for  two  hours.  Take 
up  beef,  place  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  a  brisk  charcoal  fire  for  four 
minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  dress  on  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Place 
marinade  in  a  saucepan  and  let  reduce  on  open  fire  to  one-third  the 
quantity,  then  pour  in  a  half  gill  each  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16),  mix  with  wooden  spoon  and  let  boil  for  eight  minutes. 
Strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  beef,  arrange  a  thin  slice 
of  lemon  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 

2830.    APPLE  TARTLETS 

Lightly  butter  six  individual  tartlet  moulds.  Roll  out  on  a  lightly 
floured  table  a  half  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  to  one-fifth  inch  in 
thickness.  With  a  pastry  cutter  cut  out  six  pieces  a  shade  larger  than 
the  moulds,  line  tartlets  with  paste,  then  neatly  spread  a  teaspoon  apple 
jelly  at  bottom  of  each.  Cut  four  apples  in  quarters,  peel  and  core, 
then  finely  slice.  Place  in  a  bowl,  with  an  ounce  powdered  sugar,  two 
saltspoons  cinnamon  in  powder  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  turn 


TUESDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER          875 

well  in  seasoning,  evenly  place  in  the  six  moulds  and  set  in  oven  for 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  spread  another  teaspoon  apple  jelly  over 
surface  of  each,  take  up  from  moulds,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Potage,  Westphalian 
Kingfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (792) 

Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 
Leg  of  Mutton,  en  Potpourri  (1510) 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Beignets,  Carnival  (462) 

2831.  POTAGE,  WESTPHALIAN 

Cut  a  half  pound  cooked  lean  ham  in  small  pieces,  place  in  mortar 
and  pound  to  a  paste,  then  transfer  to  a  saucepan  with  two  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122),  a  half  gill  sherry,  mix  well  and  let  reduce  to  half  the 
quantity.  Pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  add  two 
branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne.  Mix  well  with  wooden  spoon,  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour, 
then  add  little  by  little  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter  and  mix  while  adding 
it.  Place  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  in  a  soup  tureen,  strain  potage  through 
a  Chinese  strainer  over  it  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Cero  Fruto  (1610) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Bercy 

Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Chicken  Livers,  Saute,  with  Bacon  (1856) 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 

2832.  SHIRRED  EGGS,  BERCY 

Split  six  country  sausages  in  two  lengthwise,  place  in  frying  pan  with 
a  teaspoon  butter,  fry  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  place  on  a  hot  plate 
and  keep  hot.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes,  carefully  crack 
two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper  evenly  divided.  Set  in  oven  for  five  minutes, 
remove,  arrange  two  pieces  of  sausage  around  dish,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley  over,  equally  divided,  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Clam  Fritters  (1262) 

Left-over  Turkey,  Indienne 

Okras  au  Gratin 
Cream  au  Th£  (2113) 


876  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2833.    LEFT-OVER  TURKEY   INDIENNE 

Pick  all  meat  off  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  finely  slice  and  keep 
on  a  plate  till  required.  Place  in  saucepan  a  sliced  onion  with  an  ounce 
butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Finely 
slice  a  good-sized  apple,  add  to  onions,  with  a  teaspoon  curry  powder, 
stir  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add  a 
tablespoon  flour  and  stir  well  again.  Moisten  with  three  gills  broth,  add  a 
branch  each  parsley  and  chervil,  a  bay  leaf  and  clove,  mix  well  and  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  mixing  occasionally.  Strain  sauce  through  a 
strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add  turkey  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt, 
saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  lightly  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  two 
tablespoons  cream,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  add  to  turkey  and  mix 
while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Dress  rice  curry  (No.  490)  on  a  hot  dish 
crown-like,  pour  turkey,  etc.,  in  centre,  sprinkle  a  little  parsley  over  and 
serve. 

2834.    OKRAS  AU  GRATIN 

Clip  off  both  ends  from  thirty-six  very  fresh,  sound  medium  okras, 
plunge  them  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  thirty 
minutes  and  drain  on  sieve.  Mix  in  saucepan  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  flour,  pour  in  a 
gill  milk  and  a  half  gill  cream,  mix  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then 
add  okras.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne, 
lightly  mix,  then  transfer  to  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  place  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top, 
set  in  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  same 
dish. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Pure"e  of  Parsnips 
Red  Snapper  en  Fricandeau 

Quails  en  Cocotte 
Cauliflower,  Mousseline  (210) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  (523) 

2835.    PURE"E  OF  PARSNIPS 

Peel  and  finely  slice  six  fresh,  sound  medium  parsnips  and  plunge  in 
a  pint  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  then  place  in 
saucepan  with  a  finely  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  an  ounce  butter,  and 
let  gently  cook  for  fifteen. minutes,  stirring  quite  frequently.  Add  two 
ounces  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  white  broth 
(No.  701)  and  add  two  sliced,  peeled,  raw  potatoes.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two 
branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  and  add 
to  soup.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  thor- 
oughly mix  for  one  minute.  Cover  pan,  let  gently  boil  for  an  hour  and 
a  half,  press  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese 
Strainer  into  a  saucepan.  Add  a  pint  milk,  mix  well,  boil  for  five  min- 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER      877 

utes,  pour  purde  into  a  soup  tureen,  add  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  and 
serve. 

2836.     RED  SNAPPER  EN  FRICANDEAU 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  red  snapper,  remove  bone  and  skin 
it  well.  Cut  from  a  piece  of  salt  pork  fifteen  thin  one-inch  strips,  then 
with  aid  of  a  small  larding  needle  lard  surface  of  fish  with  strips.  Place  a 
mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  braising  pan,  lay  fish  over,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  one 
and  a  half  gills  broth  (No.  701),  cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  place 
lid  on  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  Remove,  carefully 
lift  up  fish  with  two  skimmers  and  place  on  a  hot  dish  over  a  bed  of 
sorrel  (No.  654).  Pour  a  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  in  the  fish  gravy, 
let  reduce  on  open  fire  to  one  gill,  then  strain  it  over  fish  and  serve. 

2837.  QUAILS  EN  COCOTTE 

Pick  very  carefully  six  fat,  fresh  quails,  then  singe,  cut  off  necks, 
wings  and  feet,  draw,  neatly  wipe,  stuff  insides  with  American  stuffing 
(No.  1818)  and  tie  all  around.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  arrange  a  thin  slice  larding  pork  on  breast  of  each  bird 
and  place  in  a  lightly  buttered  cocotte  dish.  Add  a  finely  chopped 
onion,  teaspoon  crushed  allspice,  baste  them  with  a  little  melted  butter, 
then  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  occasionally  basting  meanwhile. 
Remove,  lift  up  from  dish,  take  out  contents  of  cocotte  dish,  then  return 
quails  to  the  cocotte,  add  a  potato  noisette  (No.  321)  and  half  pint  well- 
drained  canned  green  peas. 

Finely  chop  one-third  bean  garlic  and  two  branches  parsley  and 
sprinkle  over  cocotte.  Pour  in  a  quarter  gill  white  wine,  half  gill  each 
broth  (No.  701)  and  demi-glace  (No.  122),  cover  dish,  set  in  oven  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)         Force  (979) 

Fried  Eggs,  Smith  Fried  Whitebait  (1123) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

Potatoes  Allumettes  (196) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

2838.  FRIED  EGGS,  SMITH 

Cut  from  a  round,  raw,  lean  ham  twelve  thin,  even  slices,  trim  off 
skin  all  around,  then  place  in  frying  pan  one  beside  another  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  a  minute  on  each  side. 
Remove,  place  one  slice  in  a  lightly  buttered  small  frying  pan  and 
sprinkle  over  ham  a  very  little  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Carefully 
crack  two  fresh  eggs  on  slice  of  ham,  season  with  a  light  saltspoon 
salt  and  light  half  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Sprinkle  a  very  little  more 


878  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

chopped  parsley  over  eggs,  cover  eggs  with  another  slice  of  the  ham, 
then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and  glide  them  on  a 
hot  dish.  Prepare  five  other  portions  in  a  similar  way.  When  all  on 
dish  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

N.  B.  To  shorten  preparation  of  eggs  use  two  or  three  small  pans 
at  same  time. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Stew  (435) 

Scallops,  Provencale  (454) 

Beef  Croquettes,  Horseradish  Sauce  (649) 

Butter  Beans  (1494) 

Mince  Pie  (118) 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Potage,  Nimoise 
Codfish  Steaks,  Anchovy  Butter          Potato  Batonnets 

Bitokes,  Finnoise 

Lima  Beans  v/ith  Fines  Herbes  (2315) 

Ruddy  Ducks  with  Jelly  (234) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Rice  Cakes,  Chantilly 

2839.    POTAGE,  NIMOISE 

Soak  a  pint  large  white  beans  in  cold  water  for  at  least  eight  hours, 
drain  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  carrot,  two  each  sliced 
onions  and  leeks,  a  bean  garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil, 
sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  two  cloves  and  half-pound  piece  salt  pork  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  and  two  quarts  water, 
season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
cover  pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  hours  and  a  half.  Remove,  press 
puree  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into 
same  saucepan,  previously  wiped.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  dredge  in 
three  ounces  well-cleaned  sago,  add  half  pint  boiling  milk,  mix  well  and 
let  gently  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  mixing  at  bottom  of  pan  once  in  a 
while,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2840.     CODFISH  STEAKS,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  fresh  codfish  steaks,  season  all 
over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  rub  on  both  sides 
with  a  tablespoon  anchovy  essence,  then  place  on  a  plate  and  let  infuse 
for  an  hour,  rubbing  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up,  spread  a  little  oil  all 
around  them,  arrange  on  broiler  and  broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  anchovy  left  on  plate  in  a  saucepan  and  add  a 
half  ounce  butter.  Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  on  fire  until  melted,  pour 
butter  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

2841.    POTATO  BATONNETS 

Broil  six  peeled,  raw  potatoes  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve,  then  press  them 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       879 

through  potato  masher  into  a  sautoire,  add  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  table- 
spoon butter,  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  ounce  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  one  whole  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Sharply  stir  with  spatula 
while  heating  for  five  minutes,  remove  to  a  table  and  let  slightly  cool  off. 
Divide  preparation  into  twenty-four  equal  balls,  roll  on  a  lightly  floured 
table  to  small  stick-like  forms  two  inches  long,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  lightly 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  place  in  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for 
five  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  well,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  dress  them 
on  nicely  arranged  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2842.      BlTOKES,   FlNNOISE 

Finely  chop  together  two  pounds  raw  lean  lamb,  and  four  ounces 
raw  beef  marrow,  adding  while  chopping  a  half  gill  thick  cream.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  knead  well,  then  divide 
force  into  six  equal  parts,  giving  nice  cake-like  forms,  and  lightly  roll 
them  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons  leaf  lard  in  sautoire, 
arrange  bitokes  in  pan  one  beside  another,  cook  rather  slowly  for  five 
minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  a  Finnoise  sauce  (No.  251)  over  and  serve. 

2843.    RICE  CAKES,  CHANTILLY 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  on  a  sieve  four  ounces  rice,  then  place  in 
an  enamelled  saucepan  with  a  pint  milk,  saltspoon  salt,  half  a  vanilla 
bean,  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  lightly  mixing  at  bottom 
with  wooden  spoon  once  in  a  while.  Remove  to  table,  add  two  ounces 
sugar,  half  gill  cream,  a  whole  egg,  the  yolk  of  another,  and  sharply  stir 
until"  well  amalgamated.  Remove  the  vanilla  bean,  wipe  and  place 
it  in  sugar. 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  six  ounces  feuilletage  (No.  756), 
and  with  it  line  bottom  of  a  pie  plate,  press  down  paste  at  bottom  and 
all  round  edges,  then  trim.  Line  inside  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper, 
fill  up  with  dried  beans,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  take 
up  beans  and  paper,  pour  rice  into  plate,  neatly  smooth  surface,  set  in 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove  and  let  rest  ten  minutes.  Beat  up 
a  gill  cream  to  stiff  froth,  add  an  ounce  powdered  sugar,  six  drops 
vanilla  essence,  beat  up  for  a  minute  longer,  neatly  spread  on  rice, 
sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  dress  cake  on  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  California  Figs 

Wheatena  (1298)  Omelette  with  Olives 

White  Perch  Saute"s  (1013) 

Broiled  Devilled  Tripe 

Julienne  Fried  Potatoes  (799) 

Crumpets 


880  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2844.    STEWED  CALIFORNIA  FIGS 

Soak  one  and  a  half  pounds  fine  dry  California  figs  in  cold  water  for 
four  hours.  Drain,  then  place  them  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  with  one 
and  a  half  ounces  granulated  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  quarter  lemon,  a  small 
piece  cinnamon  stick,  a  gill  claret  and  enough  water  to  nearly  cover  the 
figs.  Cover  pan  and  slowly  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove  pan 
to  a  table  and  let  stand  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  lemon  rind  and 
stick  of  cinnamon^  pour  figs  in  a  deep  compotier  and  serve. 

2845.    OMELETTE  WITH  OLIVES 

Remove  stones  and  finely  slice  twelve  queen  olives.  Place  them  in  a 
small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  half  teaspoon  fresh, 
finely  chopped  tarragon  leaves,  cover  pan  and  let  steam  on  corner  of 
range  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  transfer  to  a  bowl.  Break  in  eight  fresh 
eggs,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  white 
pepper  and  briskly  beat  up  with  fork  for  two  minutes. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  good  fresh  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs, 
mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  then  let  rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  up 
opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  one  minute,  turn  omelette 
on  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2846.    BROILED  DEVILLED  TRIPE 

Procure  two  pounds  fresh  honeycomb  tripe  and  cut  it  in  six  equal 
pieces.  Place  them  in  saucepan  with  a  finely  sliced  onion,  sprig  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a  half  gill  vinegar,  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  quart  water,  cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  to  a  table  and  let  cool  in  seasoning,  lift  up  tripe  and  thoroughly 
drain  on  a  cloth.  Spread  devilled  butter  (No.  n)  on  both  sides  of  tripe, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  broil  over  a  brisk  fire  for  three  minutes  on  each  side, 
remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2847.    CRUMPETS 

Place  a  pint  of  milk  in  saucepan  on  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  conies  to  a 
boiling  point  set  it  to  cool.  Add  a  teaspoon  salt  and  gradually  dredge 
in  a  pound  sifted  flour,  sharply  stirring  while  adding  it  with  spatula. 
Then  add  half  ounce  compressed  yeast,  beat  continuously  for  ten 
minutes,  set  in  warm  place  to  raise  for  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes, 
pour  in  three  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  briskly  beat  again.  Roll 
out  paste  on  a  lightly  floured  table  in  twelve  equal  round  cake  forms. 
Arrange  them  on  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  tin,  lightly  butter  surface  of 
each,  set  in  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  remove,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Coquille  of  Lobster,  Parisienne  (436) 

Sausage,  Gastronome 

Charlotte  Russe  (930) 


THURSDAY,  THIRD  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER 


2848.    SAUSAGE,  GASTRONOME 

Boil  six  medium,  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty-five  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  then  press  through  potato 
masher  into  a  bowl.  Add  an  ounce  fresh  butter,  a  raw  egg,  level  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  sharply  stir  with  spatula  for 
two  minutes,  then  incorporate  little  by  little  three-fourths  gill  hot  milk, 
continually  stirring  meanwhile.  Dress  potatoes  on  hot  dish,  pyramid- 
like,  and  neatly  smooth. 

Prickle  with  a  fork  twelve  fresh  country  sausages,  then  place  in 
frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  eight  minutes, 
turning  once  in  a  while.  Arrange  sausages  so  they  stand  up  against 
potatoes,  pour  butter  in  pan  over,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Oysters  (18)  Tunny  (159?) 

Chicken  Soup,  English  Style 
Weakfish,  Vert  Prd  (183)  Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 

Beef  Braise",  Japanese 
Eggplants,  Provencale  (306) 
Roast  Doe-Birds  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Biscuit  Glace"  (693) 

2849.    CHICKEN  SOUP,  ENGLISH  STYLE 

Detach  legs  and  breast  from  a  two-  to  three-pound  fowl,  remove 
skin,  bones,  and  cut  meat  in  half-inch  pieces,  thoroughly  draw  carcass 
and  tie  bones  together  with  string. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan,'  add  chicken  pieces, 
with  a  small  carrot  and  turnip,  onion,  two  leeks,  all  cut  in  very  small 
square  pieces,  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts  water,  season  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  and 
add  bunch  of  bones  with  two  ounces  well-washed,  thoroughly  drained 
barley.  Let  gently  boil  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  being  careful  to  skim 
fat  off  surface  once  in  a  while,  remove  bones,  pour  in  a  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  boil  for  two  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve 

2850.    BEEF  BRAISE",  JAPANESE 

Procure  a  three-and-a-half-pound  piece  of  beef  rump  with  the  fat  on 
one  side  only.  Mix  on  plate  a  tablespoon  salt,  teaspoon  curry  powder 
and  half  teaspoon  freshly  crushed  black  pepper,  then  rub  beef  all  over 
with  it,  place  in  braising  pan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  lard,  then  cook 
on  brisk  fire  until  a  light  brown.  Add  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  to  the  pan, 
and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  pour  in  a  pint  white  broth  (No.  701),  two 
gills  pure  tomato  juice  and  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Neatly  trim 
both  ends  of  twelve  fresh  okras,  place  on  a  plate  and  add  trimmings  to 
beef,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  two  hours,  being  careful  to  turn 
and  baste  quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 


$82  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

skim  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  then  let  reduce  on  fire  to  two  gills  and  keep 
hot. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  okras,  season 
with  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  three  saltspoons 
curry  powder,  cook  on  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while, 
then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  arrange  them  around  beef, 
strain  sauce  through  Chinese  strainer  over,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated, 
cooked  ham  over  all  and  serve. 

2851.    ROAST  DOE-BIRDS 

Singe,  draw  and  truss  six  fine,  fat  doe-birds,  place  in  a  tin  and 
arrange  six  slices  larding  pork  on  breast  of  each.  Season  evenly  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  then  set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  bread  canapes  (No.  273),  decorate  with  a 
little  watercress  and  serve  with  a  little  currant  jelly  separately. 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Farina  Gruel  (74) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Mariniere 
Fried  Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Smoked  Beef  in  Cream  (329)  Potatoes.  Anna  (84) 

Wheaten  Cakes  (9) 

2852.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  MARINIERE 

Place  six  large,  freshly  opened  oysters  in  a  small  saucepan  with  six 
heads  canned  mushrooms  and  six  cooked,  shelled  tresh  shrimps.  Pour 
in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  two  saltspoons  salt  and  half  saltspoon  cayenne, 
poach  on  a  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes,  lift  up  shrimps,  oysters  and 
mushrooms  with  skimmer  and  cut  in  small  square  pieces.  Break  eight 
fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  cream,  one  tablespoon  of 
the  fish  liquor,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper 
and  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs  and 
cook  for  four  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  above 
mixed  articles,  mix  well  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  briskly  stirring 
meanwhile,  dress  on  a  deep,  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam     Stew     with     Celery 

Small  Patties,  Sue'doise 

Calves'     Feet,     Lyonnaise 

Kirsch  Omelette  (468) 

2853.     CLAM  STEW  WITH  CELERY 

Discard  stale  branches  and  leaves  from  two  small  stalks  celery,  de- 
tach all  branches  from  main  root,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain.  Cut  roof 


FRIDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER  883 

and  branches  in  half-inch-square  pieces,  place  them  in  saucepan  with 
one  and  a  half  quarts  water  and  half  teaspoon  salt.  Tie  in  a  bunch 
two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  an  onion  with  a  clove  stuck  in  it, 
add  to  the  celery,  let  gently  boil  for  fifty  minutes,  then  remove  onion  and 
bunch  of  herbs.  Open  thirty-six  very  fresh  little  neck  clams,  add  them 
with  their  liquor  to  the  celery  pan  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  a 
pint  hot  milk  with  an  ounce  butter  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper, 
mix  well  until  butter  is  dissolved,  pour  stew  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve 
with  oysterettes  separately. 

2854.  SMALL  PATTIES,  SU£DOISE 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  patties,  as  per  No.  929.  Cut  a  pound  of 
smoked,  well-trimmed  salmon  in  one-third-inch-square  pieces,  plunge 
in  a  pint  boiling  water  for  five  minutes  and  drain  well  on  a  sieve.  Mix  in 
saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  two  heavy  table- 
spoons flour,  then  briskly  stir  on  fire  for  one  minute.  Pour  in  a  gill 
each  milk  and  cream,  add  a  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  three  saltspoons 
salt  and  a  saltspoon  cayenne.  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  then  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  salmon,  with  a  tablespoon 
capers,  lightly  mix  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Arrange  the  six  patties 
on  a  large  hot  dish,  spread  a  half  teaspoon  caviare  at  bottom  of  each 
patty,  evenly  pour  preparation  into  them,  place  covers  on,  decorate 
with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

2855.  CALVES'  FEET,  LYONNAISE 

Split  three  fresh  calves'  feet  in  two,  then  let  soak  in  fresh  water  for  an 
hour.  Drain,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  three  tablespoons  flour,  a  gill 
vinegar,  sliced  carrot  and  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  a  sliced  branch  each 
celery  and  parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  teaspoon  allspice 
and  half  tablespoon  whole  black  pepper.  Pour  in  three  quarts  water, 
season  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  cover  pan  and  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour 
and  forty-five  minutes.  Take  up  feet  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  a  cloth, 
dress  on  hot  dish,  pour  a  Lyonnaise  sauce  (No.  2047)  over  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Calves'  feet  prepared  as  above  can  be  served  with  various 
sauces,  such  as  Bordelaise,  Colbert,  Piquante,  Horseradish,  Soubiser 
Finnoise,  Creole,  Madeira,  Perigueux,  Robert,  Italienne,  etc. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Bisque  of  Smelts,  Trouville 
Salmon  Trout,  Hollandaise  (675) 

Potatoes,  Lorette    (372) 
Chops  with  Bacon  (219)          Green  Peas  (35) 

Rice  Tomatoes  au  Gratin  (2193 
Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 
Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Ginger     Pudding     (394) 


884  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2856.    BISQUE  OF  SMELTS,  TROUVILLE 

Cut  off  heads  and  tails  from  eighteen  medium-sized  fresh  smelts, 
split  in  two  through  backs  and  remove  spinal  bones.  Keep  filets  on  a 
plate  and  place  trimmings  in  a  saucepan  with  an  extra  pound  very  fresh 
whitefish  bones.  Add  also  a  sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches 
parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves.  Moisten  with  two 
quarts  water  and  a  half  gill  white  wine,  season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon 
salt,  let  slowly  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  strain  broth  through  cheese- 
cloth into  a  vessel  and  keep  hot.  Open  fifteen  very  fresh  mussels,  place 
them  in  saucepan  with  two  gills  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  add 
broth  (only)  to  fish  broth.  Place  six  mussels  on  a  plate  and  the  balance 
in  a  mortar.  Cut  six  half  smelts  in  half-inch  pieces,  add  to  plate  with 
the  six  mussels,  then  add  balance  of  smelts  to  mortar  with  other  mussels 
and  two  egg  yolks,  thoroughly  pound  to  a  pulp,  remove  and  keep  on  a 
plate.  Place  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  and  two  ounces  flour,  stir 
on  fire  while  heating  for  one  minute,  pour  in  fish  stock,  then  briskly  mix 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  in  little  by 
little  the  fish  pure*e,  sharply  mix  while  adding,  season  with  two  salt- 
spoons  cayenne  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  pour  in  a  gill  cream, 
mix  well,  let  boil  for  eight  minutes,  remove  and  pass  bisque  through  a 
cheesecloth  into  soup  tureen.  Poach  the  pieces  of  mussel  and  smelt  in  a 
saucepan  with  half  gill  white  wine  for  six  minutes,  add  to  soup  tureen, 
lightly  mix  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369)  Force  (970) 

Eggs,  Strasbourgeoise 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Broiled  Sirloin,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (6) 

German  Fried  Potatoes  (242) 

Raisin  Cakes  (1719) 

2857.    EGGS,  STRASBOURGEOISE 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  plunge  in  cold  water  for 
one  minute,  take  up,  shell,  cut  in  quarters  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Skin 
four  country  sausages,  place  meat  in  mortar  with  a  tablespoon  pate  de 
foie  gras  and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Remove  and  divide  the  paste  into  hazel- 
nut-sized  balls,  place  in  a  sautoir  with  two  tablespoons  each  sherry  and 
demi-glace  (No.  122),  then  cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  eggs  with  a  half 
teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley  and  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and 
gently  mix.  Cover  sautoire,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  dress 
on  a  hot,  deep  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Radish  Broth  (2164) 

Gibelote     of     Rabbits  (2704) 

Macaroni  Sauveterre  (1023) 

Beignets  Fourre's  with  Cream  (1405) 


SATURDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER        885 
DINNER 

Olives  Canapes  of  Ham  (301) 

Spaghetti  with  Cream 
Striped  Bass,  Providence  Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (a6) 

Venison  Steaks,  Tokathian 
Brussels  Sprouts  with  Butter  (618) 
Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  (392)  Tomato  Salad  (461) 

Cocoanut  Pudding  (274) 

2858.    SPAGHETTI  WITH  CREAM 

Mix  in  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  two  ounces  flour,  set  pan  on 
fire  and  stir  continually  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  then  pour 
in  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701),  sharply  mix  with  whisk  until  it 
comes  to  boiling  point,  add  two  branches  chives,  lightly  mix  and  let 
simmer  for  thirty  minutes.  Boil  two  ounces  spaghetti  in  a  pint  water 
with  half  teaspoon  salt  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  on  sieve  and  cut  spa- 
ghetti in  half-inch-long  pieces.  Strain  soup  through  Chinese  strainer 
into  another  saucepan,  add  spaghetti  and  season  with  a  good  teaspoon 
salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne,  lightly  mix  and  let  again  come  to  a  boil. 
Mix  in  a  bowl  a  gill  cream,  half  ounce  butter  and  one  and  a  half  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  add  to  soup,  mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes 
but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  pour  soup  in  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2859.    STRIPED  BASS,  PROVIDENCE 

Cut  off  fins,  scale,  wash  and  neatly  wipe  a  very  fresh  three-pound 
striped  bass,  place  in  a  large  sautoire  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  gill 
water,  two  branches  parsley,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  place  lid 
over  pan,  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes, 
remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Mix  in  saucepan  a  tablespoon 
butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  on  fire  while  heating  one  minute, 
strain  fish  broth  into  pan,  add  three-fourths  gill  milk,  then  mix  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  drain  three-fourths  gill  oyster  crabs,  add  them 
to  sauce  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  in  a  tablespoon 
cream,  add  it  to  sauce,  gently  mix  on  fire  for  one  minute,  pour  sauce 
and  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over  fish  and  serve. 

2860.    VENISON  STEAKS,  TOKATHIAN 

Procure  six  five-ounce  steaks  from  a  round  of  stale  venison  and  sea- 
son all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  black  pepper,  saltspoon 
each  grated  nutmeg  and  ground  cinnamon. 

Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  in  sautoir,  arrange 
steaks  in,  briskly  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side  and  dress  on  a  hot 
dish.  Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  add  four  tablespoons  currant  jelly,  stir 
until  melted,  then  pour  in  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  mix  well. 
Add  two  ounces  well-picked  Smyrna  raisins,  let  boil  for  five  minutes, 
squeeze  in  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  mix  well, 
pour  sauce  over  steaks  and  serve. 


886  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Hominy  (45) 

Poached  Eggs,  Giblet  Sauce 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (388) 

Combination  Chops  (2060) 

Sweet  Potatoes  Sautees  (2534) 

Curry  Cakes  (1112) 

2861.    POACHED  EGGS,  GIBLET  SAUCE 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  pour  a  giblet  sauce 
over  them  and  serve. 

2862.     GIBLET  SAUCE 

Split  gizzards  of  a  chicken  in  two,  remove  skin  and  sandy  part,  then 
cut  in  exceedingly  small  square  pieces.  Cut  in  same  shape  two  chicken 
livers  freed  from  galls,  place  both  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  gill  broth  (No.  701),  then  let  reduce  on  open  fire  to  a  glaze. 
Pour  over  one  and  a  quarter  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122)  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon freshly  chopped  parsley  and  saltspoon  cayenne,  lightly  mix,  then 
gently  boil  for  eight  minutes  and  use  as  directed. 

N.  B.  When  this  sauce  is  for  any  other  article  except  eggs,  prepare 
in  same  manner,  adding  four  peeled  and  very  finely  chopped  medium 
shallots  smothered  in  butter  at  beginning  of  operation. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578)  Fish  Curry,  Goa  (2151) 

Squabs,  Sautees,  with  Tarragon  (899) 

Corn  Fritters  (446) 
Pancakes  with  Macaroons 

2863.    PANCAKES  WITH  MACAROONS 

Prepare  same  quantity  French  pancakes  as  in  (No.  17).  Place  in  a 
bowl  two  tablespoons  currant  jelly  with  an  ounce  crushed  macaroons 
and  half  teaspoon  maraschino,  mix  with  spoon  until  well  amalgamated, 
then  spread  preparation  evenly  over  pancakes,  roll  up,  arrange  on  a  hot 
dish,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)     -       Oysters  (18)  Caviare  (59) 

Consomme^  Bonsselet 
Salmon  Croquettes,  Tartare  (1809) 

Potatoes  Parisienne  (711) 

Filet  Mignons,  Belmont  Flageolets,  Cubanaise  (2712) 

Sweetbreads,  Bearnaise  (38)  Peas  with  Mint  (375) 

Punch,  Yvette  (560) 

Mallard  Ducks,  Currant  Jelly  (307)  Chicory  Salad  (100) 

Tutti  Frutti  (726) 


MONDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER        887 

2864.    CONSOMME,  BONSSELET 

Prepare  a  consomme*  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering  until  required.  Cut  two  ounces  raw  beef  marrow  in 
small  squares,  place  in  a  bowl  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  pour  over  two 
gills  boiling  water,  let  stand  for  six  minutes,  lift  up  with  skimmer  and 
place  in  soup  tureen.  Cut  one  ounce  smoked  beef  tongue  in  small 
square  pieces  and  add  consomme*  with  two  tablespoons  cooked  green 
peas,  pour  consomme*  into  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  toasted 
French  bread. 

2865.    FILET  MIGNONS,  BELMONT 

Neatly  trim  a  little  fat  off  a  two-pound  piece  tender  filet  of  beef, 
then  cut  it  in  six  equal  pieces,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  tea- 
spoon pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  one  tablespoon  fresh  butter  in  frying 
pan,  arrange  filets  in  one  beside  another  and  briskly  cook  for  three  min- 
utes on  each  side*  Cut  out  from  a  sandwich  loaf  six  slices  a  half-inch 
thick,  cut  in  two-inch  round  pieces,  lightly  butter  on  both  sides,  place 
on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour. 
Remove,  spread  a  teaspoon  pate  de  foie  gras  over  each,  arrange  on  a  hot 
dish,  place  mignons  on  top  of  toasts,  pour  a  Belmont  sauce  over  and 
serve. 

2866.    SAUCE,  BELMONT 

Cut  an  ounce  raw  lean  veal  and  a  half  ounce  raw  lean  ham  in  very 
small  pieces  and  place  in  a  saucepan.  Clip  off  tails  and  peel  six  large 
fresh  mushrooms,  add  trimmings  to  saucepan,  also  three  tarragon  leaves 
and  two  finely  sliced  shallots,  pour  in  a  teaspoon  fresh  melted  butter 
and  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  a  gill 
white  wine,  let  reduce  to  a  glaze,  then  pour  in  two  tablespoons  Madeira 
wine,  one  tablespoon  truffle  liquor,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  a  half  gill  broth,  and  lightly  mix.  Let  slowly  cook  for  twenty 
minutes,  skimming  off  scum  once  in  a  while,  then  keep  hot  on  a  corner 
of  range. 

Finely  slice  the  six  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  tossing  them  mean- 
while, add  a  red  Spanish  sweet  pepper  cut  in  very  small  pieces  and  a 
very  finely  sliced  truffle.  Strain  sauce  into  this  pan,  add  a  saltspoon 
each  salt  and  cayenne.  Mix  well,  briskly  cook  for  five  minutes,  add 
little  by  little  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  continually  mixing  while  adding, 
then  use  as  directed. 

Monday,  Third  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Scrambled   Eggs  aux  Croutons 

Whitebait,  Farm  Style  (1373) 

Lamb  Hash*  with  Green  Pepper  (77) 

Scotch  Scones  (364) 
*Use  the  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday 


888  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2867.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  AUX  CROUTONS 

Cut  from  a  sandwich  loaf  three  quarter-inch-thick  slices,  trim  off 
crusts  and  cut  in  very  small  squares,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  fry  until  a  good  golden  colour.  Break  eight 
fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper.  Beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one  minute,  then  drop  in 
saucepan  with  croutons  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  stirring  mean- 
while, dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Scallops  au  Gratin  (1060) 

Veal  Chops  with  Fines  Herbes 

Lima  Beans  (1938) 

Tartlets,  Patissiere 

2868.    VEAL  CHOPS  WITH  FINES  HERBES 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  tender  white  veal  chops.  Mix  on  a  plate 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and 
with  it  season  chops  all  around.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  in  sautoir,  add  chops  one  beside  another  and  briskly  cook  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side.  Take  up  butter  from  pan  and  place  it  in 
another  sautoir,  then  pour  in  pan  chops,  one  gill  broth,  and  let  reduce 
on  fire  to  a  glaze,  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  shuffle  pan  and  keep  hot. 
Finely  chop  four  fine,  small  shallots  and  add  to  sautoir  with  butter, 
gently  brown  for  two  minutes,  then  add  two  finely  chopped,  well-cleaned 
fresh  mushrooms,  a  half  ounce  finely  chopped  raw  ham,  and  cook  for 
five  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  lightly  mix,  add 
a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix  again,  cook  for  five  min- 
utes, dress  chops  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  contents  of  pan  over  and  serve. 

2869.    TARTLETS,  PATISSIERE 

Prepare  a  creme  patissiere  (No.  1280).  Scald  in  boiling  water  for 
two  minutes  two  ounces  almonds,  drain,  peel,  and  finely  chop,  then 
place  in  oven  on  a  tin  until  they  obtain  a  nice  brown  colour,  tossing 
them  once  in  a  while.  Remove  and  add  to  creme,  stir  well  and  keep  till 
required. 

Lightly  butter  six  tartlet  moulds.  Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table 
a  half  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  to  one-sixth-inch  thickness.  With 
pastry  cutter  a  shade  longer  than  top  of  moulds  cut  out  six  pieces  and 
line  tartlets  with  them,  then  line  inside  of  each  with  a  piece  of  buttered 
paper,  fill  up  with  dried  beans  and  place  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Remove,  take  out  beans  and  paper,  fill  up  with  creme  and  nicely  smooth 
surface,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  then  set  in  oven  for  eight 
minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  from  moulds,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       889 
DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Italienne 
Baked  Codfish,  Newfoundland 

Potatoes,  Bernoise  (593) 
Beef  Braise",  Bourgeoise  (1871) 

Tomatoes,  Trevise  (2225) 

Roast  Plovers  (997)  Escarole  Salad  (100) 

Cabinet  Pudding  (71) 

2870.    POTAGE,  ITALIENNE 

Split  one  pound  Italian  chestnuts,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  with  a  coarse  towel,  shell  and  peel, 
then  place  in  saucepan  with  a  half  gill  white  wine,  pint  broth,  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  pan,  let  gently 
boil  for  forty  minutes,  press  through  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  keep  hot. 
Finely  slice  a  carrot,  onion,  two  leeks,  a  branch  celery,  two  ounces  raw 
lean  ham,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  gently  brown 
for  ten  minutes,  stirring  frequently  meanwhile.  Then  pour  in  a  quart 
fresh  (or  canned)  ripe  tomatoes,  two  quarts  water,  a  sprig  thyme,  two 
bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  a  crushed  bean  garlic,  two  teaspoons  salt,  a 
teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper;  gently  mix,  then  let  slowly 
boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  chestnut  pure*e, 
sharply  mix  with  whisk  and  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

Knead  on  a  plate  a  half  ounce  butter  with  an  ounce  flour  and  add 
little  by  little  to  soup,  sharply  mixing  while  adding  it.  Place  fresh 
croutons  and  pour  potage  (No.  23)  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2871.    BAKED  CODFISH,  NEWFOUNDLAND 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  codfish,  thoroughly  bone,  then 
place  in  a  baking  dish  with  two  tablespoons  each  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  tomato  catsup,  a  teaspoon  each  anchovy  butter  and  salt,  three 
saltspoons  pepper  and  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Repeatedly  turn 
fish  in  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  for  an  hour,  rubbing  fish  with  seasoning 
once  in  a  while.  Sprinkle  over  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
arrange  a  few  bits  of  butter  on  top  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes, 
basting  it  once  in  a  while  with  its  own  gravy,  remove  and  send  to  table 
in  same  dish. 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  November 


BREAKFAST 

Baked  Bananas  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Fried  Eggs  with  Apples 

Fried  Porgies  (498)  Calf's  Liver,  Lyonnaise  (2668) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 


890  >  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2872.    BAKED  BANANAS 

Peel  and  cut  six  bananas  in  half  lengthwise  and  place  in  baking  dish. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  an  ounce  sugar  and  six  drops 
vanilla  essence  (No.  3236).  Spread  this  mixture  over  bananas  evenly 
and  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  them  once  in  a 
while  with  their  own  liquor,  remove  and  serve. 

2873.    FRIED  EGGS  WITH  APPLES 

Peel  and  core  three  medium,  sweet  apples,  then  cut  in  six  slices  each 
and  season  all  over  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper. 
Thoroughly  heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large 
frying  pan,  add  apples  one  beside  another  and  fry  for  two  minutes  on 
each  side.  Carefully  crack  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  apples,  season  evenly 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  fry  for  a  minute  on 
range,  place  in  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove,  carefully  glide  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 

Oysters,  Printaniere 
Venison  Pot  Pie,  Santa  Barbora 

Salad,  Buenos  Ayres 
Custard  Pudding  (2464) 

2874,.    OYSTERS,  PRINTANIERE 

Carefully  open  thirty-six  large,  fresh  oysters  and  keep  in  their  deep 
shells  with  the  liquor,  then  arrange  them  on  a  roasting  tin  and  season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  paprika  evenly  divided. 
Prepare  green  butter  (No.  21),  equally  divide  it  in  small  bits  over  oysters, 
sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  on  top,  then  set  in  brisk  oven  for  twelve 
minutes.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon 
and  a  little  parsley  greens.  If  there  be  any  liquor  at  bottom  of  pan  take 
it  up  with  a  spoon,  pour  it  over  oysters  and  serve. 

2875.    VENISON  POT  PIE,  SANTA  BARBORA 

Cut  two  pounds  venison  from  shoulder  or  leg  part  into  one-inch 
pieces.  Cut  a  medium  carrot  and  onion  in  halves,  cut  each  half  in  two, 
finely  slice  and  place  in  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
add  half  pound  raw,  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  quarter-inch  squares  and  gently 
ivy  for  five  minutes.  Add  venison,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons 
salt,  half  teaspoon  black  pepper,  and  briskly  fry  for  fifteen  minutes, 
occasionally  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  gills  Zinfandel  claret, 
let  wine  reduce  to  half  quantity,  then  two  gills  each  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
and  tomato  sauce  (No.  16). 

Soak  a  pound  California  dried  figs  in  water  for  three  hours,  drain, 
cut  off  stems,  divide  in  quarters  and  add  to  venison.  Tie  in  a  bunch 
two  branches  parsley,  one  of  chervil,  a  blade  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  add 
to  pan,  mix  well,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
take  up  bouquet. skim  fat  from  surface,  transfer  the  whole  into  a  baking 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER       891 

dish  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  chives  over.  Roll  on  a  floured  table 
a  half  pound  pie  paste  (No.  117)  to  a  quarter-inch  in  thickness.  Lightly 
egg  edges  around  baking  dish,  then  cover  with  layer  of  paste,  press  down 
all  around  edges,  make  a  few  incisions  in  centre,  trim  off  all  around, 
egg  surface,  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove  and  send  to  the 
table. 

2876.    SALAD,  BUENOS  AYRES 

Peel  and  cut  in  quarters  a  large  alligator  pear,  then  finely  slice  and 
place  in  a  salad  bowl;  cut  in  quarters,  peel  and  core  a  good-sized  sound 
apple;  finely  slice  a  medium,  sound  green  pepper;  peel  and  finely  slice  a 
medium  ripe  cucumber.  Carefully  crack  twenty-four  walnuts,  free  them 
from  all  fibres,  divide  in  sections,  then  add  all  these  articles  to  bowl  and 
mix  well.  Season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18)  Olives  Anchovy  Canapes  (141 

Cream  of  Green  Corn,  Tomatee 

Fried  Filets  of  Sole,  Tartare  Sauce  (487) 

Lamb  Steaks,  Zahn  Potatoes,  Bignon  (403) 

Stewed  Sweet  Red  Peppers  (959) 

Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Celery  Salad,  Mayonnaise  (69) 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (52)  Lady-Fingers  (150) 

2877.     CREAM  OF  GREEN  CORN,  TOMATEE 

Remove  leaves  and  silks  from  six  ears  sound  green  corn  and  detach 
grains  from  cobs.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sliced  onion,  two  sliced 
leeks,  two  branches  celery,  one  branch  each  chervil  and  parsley.  Moisten 
with  three  pints  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  quart  milk.  Season 
with  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  three  ounces  raw 
rice  and  let  gently  boil  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to 
mix  at  bottom  once  in  a  while.  Press  cream  through  sieve  into  a 
basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan.  Pour  in 
one  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  add  a  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well  and 
boil  for  five  minutes.  Place  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  in  a  soup  tureen, 
pour  soup  over  and  serve. 

2878.    LAMB  STEAKS,  ZAHN 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  tender  lamb  steaks,  make  a  few 
incisions  around  skin,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper. 

Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  sautoire,  arrange 
the  steaks  in  one  beside  another  and  gently  cook  for  six'minutes  on  each 
side,  lift  up,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Remove  butter  from 
pan,  pour  in  two  gills  pure  tomato  juice  and  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity. 
Mix  on  a  plate  a  half  ounce  butter  with  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 


892  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tarragon  leaves,  then  add  little  by  little  to  the  sauce,  continually  mixing 
meanwhile.  Add  one  teaspoon  tarragon  vinegar,  lightly  mix,  pour 
sauce  over  steaks  and  serve. 


Wednesday,  Fourth  Week    of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Semolina  (192) 

Omelette,  Bonne  Femme 
Yellow  Perch,  Tartare  Mutton  Chops  (49) 

Potatoes,  Garfield  (1843) 
Rice    Flannel    Cakes    (221) 

2879.  OMELETTE,  BONNE  FEMME 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with 
fork  for  two  minutes.  Cut  an  ounce  lean,  raw  bacon  into  small  square 
pieces,  finely  chop  half  a  medium-sized  white  onion  and  cut  a  slice  of 
sandwich  bread  into  quarter-inch  squares.  Place  onions  and  bacon  in 
a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes, 
then  add  bread  and  fry  until  a  light  brown  colour,  tossing  meanwhile. 
Drop  in  eggs,  briskly  stir  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  half 
a  minute ;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute, 
turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2880.  YELLOW  PERCH,  TARTARS 

Scale,  cut  off  fins  and  neatly  wipe  six  medium-sized  yellow  perch. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  rub  with  a  little 
oil,  then  broil  over  a  brisk  charcoal  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove,  place  on  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  six 
quarters  lemon,  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme"  in  Cups  (52) 
Marinaded  Frogs'  Legs,  Fried  (2126) 

Corned  Beef  and  Spinach 
Pineapple  Fritters  with  Maraschino  (1186) 

2881.     CORNED  BEEF  AND  SPINACH 

Place  a  three-pound  piece  naval  corned  beef  in  a  saucepan  with  two 
carrots,  an  onion  having  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  two  leeks,  two  branches 
celery,  a  sprig  thyme,  one.  bay  leaf,  and  pour  in  cold  water  to  twice 
the  height  of  the  beef.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan,  let 
come  to  a  boil  over  a  brisk  fire,  shift  pan  to  a  corner  of  range  and  let 
simmer  three  hours.  Thirty-five  minutes  before  expiration  of  the  three 
hours  add  six  unpeeled,  well-washed  raw  potatoes.  Dress  a  spinach 
(No.  247)  on  a  large  hot  dish,  cut  beef  in  thin  slices  and  arrange  over 
it.  Remove  and  peel  potatoes,  arrange  around  dish  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER    893 
DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Mulligatawny,  Mudlear-Chandra 
Kingfish  Saute,  Colbert  (120)       Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Chicken  Saute\  Maryland  (444) 
Brussels  Sprouts  with  Brown  Butter 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)          Sliced  Tomatoes  (461) 
Gateau,  Emma 

2882.    MULLIGATAWNY,  MUDLEAR-CHANDRA 

Lift  up  breasts  from  a  good  fat  grouse  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Draw, 
remove  head  and  feet,  then  cut  everything  in  small  pieces.  Place  them 
in  roasting  pan  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  two  sliced  branches 
celery,  a  blade  each  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  bay  leaf,  clove,  teaspoon 
each  allspice  and  whole  black  pepper,  pour  two  tablespoons  lard  over 
all  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  place  entire  contents  of  pan  in  mortar  and  thoroughly  pound 
it.  Transfer  to  a  saucepan,  add  a  pound  veal  bones  and  two  branches 
each  parsley  and  chervil.  Moisten  with  three  and  a  half  quarts  water, 
two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  and  let 
gently  boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Cut  two  sound  onions,  one  seedless 
green  pepper  and  two  leeks  into  small  squares,  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Cut  breasts  in 
small  pieces  and  add  to  soup,  cook  for  five  minutes,  add  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  curry  powder  and  mix  well.  Strain  broth  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  this  pan,  lightly  mix,  then  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Add 
two  ounces  raw  rice,  one  peeled  and  cored  apple  cut  in  small  pieces, 
let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  skim  fat  from  surface,  pour  into  a 
soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2883.    BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Carefully  remove  all  outer  stale  leaves  of  a  quart  fresh  Brussels 
sprouts,  wash  in  two  different  changes  of  water,  then  plunge  into  a  quart 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sieve  and  place  in  saucepan  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  season 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  gently  toss,  then 
dress  on  a  vegetable  dish.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan, 
shuffle  pan  on  fire  until  butter  attains  a  nice  brown  colour,  then  pour 
it  over  sprouts  and  serve. 

2884.    GATEAU,  EMMA 

Peel  four  juicy  mandarins,  remove  silky  skins  as  well  as  seeds,  place 
in  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  curacoa, 
gently  turn  in  seasoning  and  let  infuse  until  required.  Peel  three  sound 
sweet  pears,  cut  in  halves,  remove  seeds,  then  cut  in  slices;  place  in  a 
bowl  with  a  tablespoon  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  Swiss  kirsch,  mix 
well  and  keep  till  required.  Line  the  interior  of  a  lightly  buttered  pie 
plate  with  a  thin  layer  of  feuilletage  (No.  756),  then  with  pastry  pincers 
pinch  the  edges  of  pie  all  around.  Spread  two  tablespoons  raspberry 


894  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

marmalade  at  bottom  of  plate,  then  neatly  arrange  mandarins  and  pears 
alternately  all  around  at  bottom  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Remove,  beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  table- 
spoon sugar  and  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  mix  well,  then  spread  prepara- 
tion over  fruit.  Sprinkle  over  one  ounce  finely  chopped,  peeled  almonds 
and  one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  reset  in  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
remove,  dress  cake  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin  and  serve  either  hot  or 
cold. 

Thursday  (Thanksgiving),  November 

BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Cream  (2034) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  McCook 

Smelts,  Merion 

Lamb  Chops,  Maitre  d 'Hotel 

Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 

2885.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  McCooK. 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  beat  up  with 
fork  for  one  minute.  Finely  chop  a  truffle,  place  in  a  sautoir  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  and  heat  for  two  minutes.  Drop  in  eggs  and 
cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  stirring  quite  frequently  meanwhile,  pour 
in  a  tablespoon  sherry  and  mix  well.  Broil  six  very  thin  slices  ham  for 
two  minutes  on  each  side,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  evenly  divide  scrambled 
eggs  over,  arrange  six  heart  shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around 
and  serve. 

2886.    SMELTS,  MERION 

Split  through  front  twelve  good-sized,  fresh  smelts  without  separating, 
remove  spinal  bones  and  cut  off  heads  and  tails.  Season  all  over  with 
a  light  teaspoon  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  two  saltspoons  curry 
powder,  lightly  dip  in  cold  milk,  then  roll  in  a  little  cornmeal  flour. 

Thoroughly  heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add 
half  a  finely  chopped  onion  and  gently  brown  for  two  minutes,  tossing  a 
little  meanwhile.  Place  in  the  smelts  one  beside  another  and  fry  for 
three  minutes  on  each  side,  then  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove 
and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Squeeze  over  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon 
and  sprinkle  with  a  half  tablespoon  capers  arid  half  teaspoon  chopped 
tarragon  leaves.  Remove  all  butter  and  onions  from  pan,  add  an  ounce 
fresh  butter  and  tablespoon  bread  crumbs,  toss  on  fire  until  a  light  brown, 
then  pour  it  over  smelts  and  serve. 

2887.    LAMB  CHOPS,  MA!TRE  D'H6xEL 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  nice  French  lamb  chops,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Arrange  on  broiler  and  broil 
for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a 
maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  them  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER      895 
LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Lobster,  Manhattan 

Broiled  Partridge  Grilled  Apples 

Marrons,  Mrs.  Ludlow 

2888.    LOBSTER,  MANHATTAN 

Procure  two  fine  live  lobsters  of  two  and  a  half  pounds  each,  place 
in  a  saucepan  just  big  enough  to  hold  them,  add  a  sliced  carrot,  half  a 
sliced  onion,  a  branch  parsley,  bay  leaf,  gill  white  wine,  pint  water,  tea- 
spoon salt  and  three  saltspoons  paprika.  Cover  top  of  pan  with  a  coarse 
damp  towel,  place  lid  on,  set  pan  on  brisk  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  shift 
pan  beside  fire  and  let  steam  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Lift  up  lobsters, 
detach  tails  and  claws,  cut  bodies  in  small  pieces  and  add  again  to  pan, 
then  let  liquor  reduce  on  fire  to  half  the  quantity. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  one  and  a  half 
ounces  flour,  strain  lobster  broth  into  pan,  briskly  stir  on  fire  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pick  meat  off  tails  and 
claws,  cut  it  in  half  inch  pieces,  then  add  to  sauce  with  twelve  sliced, 
canned  mushrooms,  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  half  gill  thick 
cream,  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  slowly  cook  ten 
minutes,  stirring  once  in  awhile.  Prepare  a  green  butter  (No.  21),  add 
it  little  by  little  to  lobster,  continually  mixing  with  wooden  spoon  while 
adding,  dress  lobster  in  a  deep  dish  and  serve  with  six  freshly  prepared, 
lightly  buttered  toasts  separately. 

2889.    BROILED  PARTRIDGE 

Cut  necks  and  feet  off  two  fat,  tender  partridges.  Split  open  through 
back,  remove  spinal  bones,  draw,  envelop  in  coarse  towel  and  neatly 
flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  repeatedly  turn  birds  in  seasoning,  arrange  on 
a  double  broiler,  broil  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  dress 
on  hot  dish. 

Mix  on  a  plate  a  half  ounce  butter,  a  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce,  teaspoon  French  mustard  and  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound 
lemon,  spread  over  partridge  and  serve  with  the  grilled  apples. 

2890.    GRILLED  APPLES 

Peel  and  core  four  good-sized,  sound  apples,  trim  both  ends,  then 
cut  each  apple  in  three  even  slices.  Lightly  oil  a  double  broiler,  arrange 
apples  on  it  and  broil  over  a  brisk  fire  for  three  minutes  on  each  side, 
remove,  sprinkle  a  very  little  powdered  sugar  over,  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve. 

2891.    MARRONS,  MRS.  LUDLOW 

Slit  on  one  side  forty-eight  large,  sound  Italian  chestnuts,  place  on  a 
tin  and  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  oven,  shell,  plunge 
in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain,  skin,  and  place  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  a  vanilla  bean.  Pour  in  cold  milk  one  inch  higher  then  chest- 


896  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

nuts,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  until  they  easily  break,  when  the  milk  should 
be  nearly  dried  up.  Take  up  vanilla  bean,  wipe  and  put  it  back  in  the 
sugar.  Place  chestnuts  in  mortar,  thoroughly  pound  to  a  pulp,  then  rub 
through  sieve  into  a  vessel,  add  a  half  ounce  best  fresh  butter,  two  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  Jamaica  rum,  and  sharply  mix 
with  wooden  spoon  for  two  minutes.  Pour  two  gills  thick  cream  in  a 
copper  basin,  place  it  on  ice  and  whisk  to  a  froth.  Add  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  beat  up  two  minutes  more, 
add  cream  to  chestnuts  and  lightly  mix  with  a  spoon.  Evenly  divide 
cream  in  six  paper  cases,  nicely  smooth  surface  with  a  knife  blade  to 
dome  shape,  arrange  a  piece  candied  marron  on  top  of  each  case,  dress 
on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oyster  Cocktail  in  Green  Peppers 
Celery  (86)  Olives  Radishes  (58) 

Borsh,  Polonaise 
Filet  of  Sole,  Normande       Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (28) 

Filet  Mignons,  Thanksgiving 
Tomatoes,  Carolina  (1952)  Sweetbreads,  Monroe 

Punch,  American,  (1463) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Greater  New  York  Ice  Cream  (1970) 

2892.    OYSTER  COCKTAIL  IN  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Cut  a  cover  off  stem  parts  of  six  even-sized,  sound  green  peppers, 
scoop  out  insides,  remove  seeds  from  covers  as  well  as  stems,  and  place 
in  six  small,  deep  oyster  plates  with  shaved  ice  all  around.  Place  forty- 
eight  freshly  opened  small  Bluepoint  oysters  in  a  bowl,  add  six  drops 
Tabasco  sauce,  six  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  a  teaspoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  half  teaspoon  freshly  and  very  finely  grated  horseradish 
and  two  tablespoons  Dumas  sauce  (No.  19).  Mix  all  well  together, 
then  evenly  divide  oysters  in  the  six  green  peppers,  place  covers  on  and 
serve  with  a  teaspoon  on  each  plate. 

2893.    BORSH,  POLONAISE 

Place  in  an  earthen  soup  pot  a  two-pound  piece  flank  of  beef,  pour  in 
four  quarts  water  and  season  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt,  place  pot  on 
fire  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim  fat  from  surface.  Cut  head  and 
feet  off  a  small  duck,  neatly  draw  and  wipe,  place  on  a  tin,  spread  a 
little  butter  over  breast  and  roast  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove 
and  add  to  soup  pot  with  a  quarter-pound  piece  raw,  lean  bacon,  two 
each  carrots,  leeks  and  parsley  roots,  two  branches  celery,  one  onion, 
two  peeled  beetroots,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  two  cloves  and  a  teaspoon 
allspice.  Place  lid  on  and  let  simmer  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  skim  off 
fat  once  in  a  while,  then  add  a  smoked  sausage,  let  continually  simmer 
for  thirty  minutes  and  lift  up  all  ingredients  from  pan.  Cut  a  carrot, 
a  beet,  a  very  small  piece  of  pork  and  small  piece  of  beef  in  julienne 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER      897 

strips,  cut  sausage  in  small  slices  and  place  all  in  a  soup  tureen.  Skim 
fat  from  surface  of  broth,  then  strain  it  through  a  double  cheesecloth  over 
the  ingredients  in  the  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

N.  B.  Keep  duck  for  to-morrow's  luncheon  and  balance  of  beef  and 
bacon  for  further  use. 

2894.    FILET  OF  SOLE,  NORMANDE 

Lift  up  filets  from  a  fresh  three-and-a-half-pound  flounder,  skin, 
then  cut  each  in  three  even,  slanting  pieces.  Arrange  on  lightly  buttered 
sautoir  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon, 
a  level  teaspoon  salt,  half  gill  each  white  wine  and  mushroom  liquor 
and  a  branch  parsley.  Cover  fish  with  a  lightly  buttered  paper,  cook  on 
range  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  lift 
up  filets  with  skimmer,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm.  Add  twelve 
freshly  opened,  good-sized  oysters  and  their  liquor  to  pan,  with  twelve 
heads  canned  mushrooms,  and  gently  boil  on  range  for  five  minutes, 
then  with  a  skimmer  lift  up  oysters  and  mushrooms  and  place  one  of 
each  on  top  of  each  filet. 

Prepare  a  fish  quenelles  (No.  1201),  sprinkle  over  filets  and  keep  hot. 
Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons flour,  then  strain  fish  gravy  through  a  double  cheesecloth  into 
this  pan,  sharply  whisk  on  fire  till  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  let  gently  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream,  saltspoon 
cayenne,  and  add  to  sauce.  Sharply  mix  while  heating  for  one  minute, 
shift  pan  to  corner  of  range,  briskly  mix  in  little  by  little  a  half  ounce 
fresh  butter,  pour  sauce  over  fish  and  serve. 

2895.    FILET  MIGNONS,  THANKSGIVING 

Neatly  trim  a  little  of  the  fat  from  a  two-pound  piece  filet  of  beef 
and  cut  into  six  even  filets.  Mix  on  a  plate  two  tablespoons  sherry,  a 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper,  repeatedly  roll  filets  in 
and  let  infuse  for  half  an  hour,  turning  them  once  in  a  while.  Slit 
thirty-six  sound,  even-sized  American  chestnuts,  place  on  a  tin  and  set 
to  roast  in  oven  for  eighteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  shell  and 
neatly  peel,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  sherry  from  the  plate  of  filets  and 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  then  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Pick  off  grapes  from  a  half-pound  bunch  white,  sweet,  ripe  California 
grapes,  place  in  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  briskly 
fry  for  ten  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Lift  up  with  skimmer, 
add  to  chestnuts,  lightly  mix,  then  cook  for  five  minutes  and  keep  hot. 
Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  filets 
and  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish  over  six  freshly  prepared  round  toasts  of  same  size  as  the  filets, 
pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

2896.   /SWEETBREADS,  MONROE 

Soak  six  fine,  even-sized  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two 
hours,  remove,  plunge  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  and  neatly 
trim  all  around.  Finely  slice  a  small  carrot  and  onion,  a  branch  celery, 


898  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

two  ounces  larding  pork,  and  place  in  a  sautoire  just  large  enough  to 
hold  them,  with  breads  on  top.  Season  with  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  place  on  fire  and 
brown  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  one  and  a 
half  gills  broth  (No.  701).  Cover  breads  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  as 
soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  frequently 
basting  meanwhile.  Remove,  lift  up  breads,  place  on  a  hot  dish  and 
keep  hot.  Skim  fat  from  surface  of  gravy,  then  strain  it  through  cheese- 
cloth into  a  small  saucepan;  add  a  pint  drained,  freshly  soaked,  fresh 
peas  or  canned  green  peas,  mix  well  and  cook  for  ten  minutes. 

Knead  on  a  plate  a  half  ounce  butter  with  a  tablespoon  flour,  add  it 
little  by  little  to  peas,  carefully  mixing  while  adding.  Evenly  divide 
peas  in  six  individual  cocotte  dishes  and  arrange  breads  on  top.  Evenly 
distribute  Bearnaise  sauce  over  breads,  arrange  a  thin  slice  truffle  over 
each  and  serve. 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  November 

BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples,  Yanssens  (1140) 

Cornmeal  Mush  (326) 

Poached  Eggs,  Clayburg 

Wall-Eyed  Pike  Sautes 

Broiled  Devilled  Bacon  (682) 

Potatoes  Sautees  (135) 
Rice  Flannel  Cakes  (221) 

2897.  POACHED  EGGS,  CLAYBURG 

Cut  from  a  sandwich  loaf  twelve  quarter-inch-thick  slices,  cut  each 
slice  with  a  pastry  cutter  into  pieces  two  inches  in  diameter,  toast  to  a 
nice  golden  colour,  spread  a  very  little  caviare  over  each  slice  and  place 
on  a  tin.  Arrange  a  poached  egg  (No.  106)  on  top  of  each  toast,  evenly 
pour  a  Soubise  sauce  (No.  94)  and  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  twelve  eggs,  then  set  in  a  very  brisk  oven  for  three  min- 
utes, remove,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

2898.  WALL-EYED  PIKE  SAUTES 

Wash  and  thoroughly  wipe  three  small  fresh  wall-eyed  pike,  sea- 
son all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste 
with  a  little  milk,  then  slightly  roll  in  flour. 

Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish  one  beside 
another  and  gently  cook  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish, 
squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over  and  serve.  • 

LUNCHEON 

Clam    Chowder   (331) 

Brandade  of  Codfish 

Cutlets  of  Duck*,  Demi-Glace  (2639) 

Macaroni    Swiss    (1606) 

Farina  Pudding  (1005) 

*Use  the  duck  left  over  from  yesterday. 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER         899 

2899.    BRANDADE  OF  CODFISH 

Remove  skin  and  cut  in  pieces  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  salt  cod 
and  soak  it  in  cold  water  eighteen  hours,  changing  the  water  two  or  three 
times.  Drain,  place  fish  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water  to  cover  fish 
and  let  slowly  cook  (but  not  boil)  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve, 
remove  all  bones,  place  cod  in  saucepan  and  briskly  shred  it  with  a  small 
spatula  for  five  minutes,  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  pour 
in  drop  by  drop  a  half  gill  good  olive  oil,  sharply  stirring  while  adding  it ; 
then  pour  in  also,  little  by  little,  a  half  gill  cream,  add  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  one  saltspoon  cayenne  and  mix  well.  (By  this  time 
the  brandade  should  be  creamy  and  consistent.)  Dress  on  a  hot,  deep 
dish,  arrange  six  slices  toasted  French  bread  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Oysters  (18)          Sardines  (1148) 

Potage,  St.  Sulpice 
Salmon  Trout,  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Sirloin    Steaks,    Cabaret    (245) 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Fricassee  of  Eggs 

Roast  Squabs  (831)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Fig  Pudding  (57) 

2900.    POTAGE  ST.  SULPICE 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  heads  or  whitefish 
bones  and  a  sliced  carrot  and  leek,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two  each 
parsley  roots,  bay  leaves  and  cloves.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water, 
season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  set  on  fire  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty- 
five  minutes.  Finely  slice  two  medium,  white  onions,  place  them  in 
saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in 
a  while ;  add  two  ounces  flour,  stir  well  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating 
for  two  minutes,  then  strain  fish  broth  through  a  cloth  over  the  onions 
in  this  pan  and  sharply  mix  with  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  let 
boil  for  thirty  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile;  pour  in  one  gill 
milk  and  a  half  gill  cream,  season  with  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and  one 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute 
an  egg  yolk  on  a  plate  with  a  tablespoon  cream  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon,  add  to  soup,  mixing  while  cooking  for  two  minutes,  but 
do  not  allow  to  boil.  Remove,  strain  potage  through  Chinese  strainer 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

2901.    SALMON  TROUT,  MAtTRE  D'HOTEL 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  fresh  salmon  trout.  Mix 
on  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  re- 
peatedly turn  fish  in  seasoning,  then  place  on  broiler  and  broil  for  six 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley 
greens,  spread  a  maitre  d'h6tel  butter  (No.  7)  over  them  and  serve. 


900  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2902.    FRICASSEE  OF  EGGS 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  remove  and  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  one  minute,  take  up  and  shell,  then  cut  into  quarters  and  keep 
on  a  hot  plate  till  required. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  finely 
chopped  onion  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a 
while.  Add  one  good  tablespoon  flour,  stir  briskly,  pour  in  a  gill  milk, 
half  gill  cream,  and  mix  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  the  eggs 
with  six  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  a  half  teaspoon  each  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  anchovy  essence  and  salt,  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix 
well,  cook  for  five  minutes,  dress  eggs  on  a  hot,  deep  dish,  arrange  six 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369) 

Wheatena  (1298) 
Shirred  Eggs,  Deerfoot  (Park) 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Beef  Hash,*  Moreno  (2178) 

Puffs  (313) 

2903.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  DEERFOOT  (PARK) 

Cut  six  "Deerfoot"  sausages  in  half-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  sautoire 
with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  briskly  fry  them  for  six  minutes, 
tossing  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  adding  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix  and 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Evenly  divide  sausages  in  six  shirred-egg  dishes, 
carefully  crack  two  fresh  eggs  into  each  dish,  evenly  season  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (2179)  Fish  Coquilles  (1284) 

Pork  and  Beans,  New  York  Style  (1586) 

Gnocchis,  Russian  Style  (2658) 
Old-fashioned    Rice    Pudding    (140) 

DINNER 

Potage,  Bonne-Dame  Sea  Bass,  Etuv^e  (1816) 

Souffle"es  of  Potatoes 
Broiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (1245) 

Mashed  Yellow  Turnips 

Guinea  Fowls  (1535)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Apple  Fritters  with  Rum  (1039) 

2904.    POTAGE,  BONNE-DAME 

With  a  very  small  Parisian  potato  scoop  dig  out  all  you  can  from 
two  medium  carrots,  two  white  turnips,  one  parsnip,  and  keep  these 

*Use  beef  from  Thursday's  dinner 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER      901 

articles  on  a  plate  till  required.  Cut  in  very  small  square  pieces,  a 
quarter  pound  raw,  lean  veal,  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham,  one  medium 
Bermuda  onion  and  the  white  part  of  two  leeks.  Place  all  these  articles, 
including  first  vegetables,  in  a  saucepan  with  one  ounce  butter  and  cook 
on  a  brisk  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Moisten 
with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701)  and  two  gills  pure  tomato 
juice.  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  let  gently  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes,  add  two  ounces  well-washed  and  thoroughly  drained  raw' 
rice,  and  let  boil  continually  for  thirty  minutes  longer.  Finely  chop 
together  two  branches  parsley,  one  branch  chervil  and  a  half  bean 
sound  garlic,  add  it  to  soup,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes 
longer.  Pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  an  ounce  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

2905.    SOUFFLE"ES  OF  POTATOES 

Neatly  wipe  and  place  six  good-sized,  sound  potatoes  in  a  roasting 
pan  and  place  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  cut  each  potato  in  half  lengthwise,  then  scoop  out  interior, 
press  meat  through  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  add  half  an  ounce  butter,  two 
egg  yolks,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspopns  pepper,  tablespoon  cream, 
sharply  stir  on  fire  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating  for  five  minutes, 
then  remove  to  a  table.  Beat  up  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth',  add 
to  potatoes  and  gently  mix.  Evenly  divide  preparation  in  the  twelve 
.shells,  with  a  lightly  buttered  knife  blade  neatly  smooth  surface  of  each, 
place  on  a  tin,  set  in  brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  hot 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2906.    MASHED  YELLOW  TURNIPS 

Peel  and  cut  in  pieces  two  medium,  sound  yellow  turnips,  thoroughly 
wash,  place  in  saucepan,  and  pour  in  water  until  one  inch  higher  than  the 
turnips.  Season  with  teaspoon  salt,  adding  half  ounce  butter,  cover 
pan  and  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Drain  on  sieve,  then  press  through 
potato  masher  into  a  saucepan,  add  an  ounce  butter,  a  half  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  stir  well  on  fire  with  wooden  spoon 
for  three  minutes.  Dress  on  a  vegetable  dish,  smooth  surface  to  dome 
shape  with  a  knife  blade  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2)  Fried  Eggs,  Schwitz 

Porgies,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (876) 

Brochette  of  Mutton,  Devilled 

Potatoes,  Saratoga  (156) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

2907.    FRIED  EGGS,  SCHWITZ 

Place  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan  with  three 
tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  light  colour,  then 


902  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

break  in  twelve  fresh  eggs.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  pepper,  and  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  grated  Swiss 
cheese.  Set  in  hot  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove,  carefully  glide  on 
large  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2908.    BROCHETTE  OF  MUTTON,  DEVILLED 

Pick  all  meat  off  leg  of  mutton  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  it 
in  square  pieces  three-quarters  of  an  inch  wide  and  one-quarter  inch 
thick.  Cut  as  many  pieces  of  bacon  as  mutton,  of  the  same  size  but 
thinner,  and  arrange  on  six  skewers  alternately.  Place  on  a  plate  a 
devilled  butter  (No.  n),  repeatedly  roll  brochette  in  it,  then  lightly 
turn  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  on  broiler,  broil  for  five  minutes  on 
each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice  (800) 
Frogs'  Legs,  Bordelaise 

Chicken,  Udaipur 

Spaghetti  au^Gratin  (1508) 

Chocolate  Eclairs  (2217) 

2909.    FROGS'  LEGS,  BORDELAISE 

Cut  claws  off  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  frogs'  legs  and  separate 
legs.  Finely  chop  together  six  sound  shallots,  half  a  sound  green  pepper, 
the  red  part  of  a  carrot,  half  bean  garlic,  a  bay  leaf  and  saltspoon  thyme. 
Thoroughly  heat  one  aryd  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  sautoire, 
add  legs  and  hash,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
and  gently  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile. 
Pour  in  a  half  gill  claret  and  let  reduce  on  fire  to  half  the  quantity,  then 
add  half  gill  each  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  and  demi-glace  (No.  122). 
Mix  well,  let  gently  cook  for  five  minutes  more,  transfer  legs  to  a 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

2910.    CHICKEN,  UDAIPUR 

Singe,  cut  heads  and  feet  off  two  small  tender  chickens  of  one  and  a 
half  pounds  each.  Split  open  through  back  without  detaching,  draw, 
wipe,  envelop  in  a  towel  and  neatly  flatten  them  with  a  cleaver.  Mix 
on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  paprika,  and 
repeatedly  turn  chickens  in  seasoning.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler, 
broil  six  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  spread  on  both  sides  a  Udaipur 
sauce  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  replace  on  broiler  and  broil  for  four  min- 
utes on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  freshly  prepared  toasts 
and  serve  with  Indian  chutney  separately. 

2911.    UDAIPUR  SAUCE 

Place  in  a  mortar  six  well-wiped,  salted  anchovies  with  a  tablespoon 
capers  and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Add  one  teaspoon  English  mustard, 
teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  teaspoon  curry  paste  or  powder,  half 
ounce  butter  and  an  egg  yolk,  pound  again  until  smooth,  remove,  rub 
it  through  fine  sieve  into  a  bowl  and  use  as  directed. 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER        903 
DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  en  Surprise  (20)  Pim-Olas 

Consomme,  Vert-Pre* 

Planked  Smelts,  Colbert  Potatoes,  Chassepot  (123) 

Larded  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Ottmann 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Lamb  Chops  Saute,  Minute  (2305) 

Lima  Beans,  Stanford  (2198) 

Punch,  Violette  (474) 

Roast  Quail  on  Canape's  (272)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Ice  Cream  au  Chocolat  (523) 

2912.    CONSOMME",  VERT-PRE" 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  a  saucepan,  set  on  the  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  boiling  point  dredge  in  two  ounces  tapioca. 
Mix  with  wooden  spoon  while  adding,  let  gently  boil  for  fifteen  minutes, 
mixing  once  in  a  while,  then  add  two  tablespoons  each  cooked  asparagus 
tips,  cooked  green  peas,  twelve  string  beans  cut  in  short  pieces,  the  leaves 
from  a  branch  each  parsley  and  chervil.  Lightly  mix,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  pour  consomme  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2913.    PLANKED  SMELTS,  COLBERT 

Thoroughly  wipe  twelve  good-sized,  fresh  smelts,  cut  off  a  little  of 
the  tails  only,  then  split  open  through  front  without  separating  and 
season  all  over  with  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Lightly 
oil  an  oak  plank-shad  board,  place  the  smelts  on  plank  one  beside  another, 
baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  squeeze  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  over  them,  and  send  to 
table  on  the  plank  with  a  Colbert  sauce  (No.  121). 

2914.    LARDED  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF,  OTTMANN 

Remove  fat  and  trim  skin  from  lean  part  of  top  of  a  three-pound 
piece  tender  sirloin  of  beef.  Cut  from  a  piece  of  larding  pork  twenty- 
four  very  thin  strips  an  inch  long,  then  with  aid  of  a  larding  needle 
insert  strips  of  pork  on  surface  of  meat  and  season  all  over  with  a 
good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 

Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  tablespoon 
melted  lard  over  vegetables,  then  lay  sirlpin  on  top,  baste  with  a  little 
melted  butter,  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  basting  and  turning 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  take  up  beef,  dress  on  hot  dish  and  keep  hot. 
Skim  fat  off  gravy,  then  place  contents  of  pan  in  small  saucepan,  pour  in 
two  tablespoons  sherry,  half  gill  white  wine,  let  reduce  on  open  fire  to  a 
glaze,  then  add  one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  lightly  mix  and  boil  for 
eight  minutes.  Shift  pan  to  corner  of  range,  mix  in  little  by  little  a  half 
ounce  fresh  butter,  briskly  mixing  meanwhile.  Arrange  fresh  mush- 
room stuffing  (No.  1803)  around  sirloin,  strain  sauce  into  a  saucebowl 
and  send  to  table  separately. 


904  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  California  Figs  (2844) 
Malta  Vita  (1592)          Omelette,  Airolaise 

Fish  Cakes  with  Ham 

Fried  Calves'  Brains  (1765) 

Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 

2915.    OMELETTE,  AIROLAISE 

Heat  a  tablespoon  fresh  butter  in  small  saucepan,  add  one  ounce 
raw,  lean  ham  cut  in  exceedingly  small  square  pieces,  with  two  chopped 
shallots,  then  gently  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Peel,  cut  in  half  and  remove  seeds  from  a  ripe,  sound  tomato,  finely 
chop  and  add  to  saucepan,  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley, 
two  tablespoons  white  wine,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  white 
pepper,  mix  a  little  and  briskly  cook  for  five  minutes.  Lightly  rub  the 
interior  of  a  bowl  with  a  bean  sound  garlic,  carefully  crack  in  eight  fresh 
eggs,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  tablespoon  grated  Swiss  cheese,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for 
three  minutes.  Place  an  ounce  fresh  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  and 
when  thoroughly  hot  drop  in  eggs  and  briskly  mix  at  bottom  with  a 
fork  for  one  minute.  Add  first  preparation,  sharply  and  continually 
stir  for  a  minute,  let  rest  for  half  a  minute ;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet 
in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  rapidly  turn  omelette  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

2916.    FISH  CAKES  WITH  HAM 

Prepare  six  fish  cakes  (No.  5),  broil  six  very  thin  slices  ham  for  one 
minute  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  dish,  arrange  fish  cakes  on  top  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Canape's,    Madison  (2229)          Highlander  (1734) 
Apple  Dumplings  (707) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Potage,  Gasconien 
Bluefish,  Sweet-Pepper  Butter 

Potatoes,  Brioches  (91) 

Fowl  with  Rice,  Menagere  (873) 

Spinach  au  Veloute  (1763) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Lamb  (255) 

-Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Cocoanut  Pudding  (274) 

2917.    POTAGE,  GASCONIEN 

Finely  slice  two  medium,  white  onions  and  two  leeks,  place  in  sauce- 
pan with  a  tablespoon  good  leaf  lard  and  brown  on  fire  for  ten  minutes, 
stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  add  four  finely  sliced,  peeled  raw  potatoes, 
one  bean  crushed  garlic,  two  branches  parsley,  one  four-ounce  piece 


TUESDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER         905 

larding  pork  and  two  bay  leaves.  Moisten  with  three  quarts  water, 
season  with  two  teaspoons  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  let  gently  boil 
for  an  hour  and  a  half,  lift  up  pork  and  press  puree  through  sieve  into  a 
vessel. 

Cut  quarter  of  a  very  small  cabbage  in  small  pieces,  place  in  saucepan 
with  a  pint  water  and  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
off  all  the  water,  cut  pork  in  small  square  pieces,  add  to  cabbage  with  a 
half  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a 
while;  then  pour  puree  into  pan,  add  a  gill  milk,  mix  well,  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  pour  soup  into  tureen  and  serve. 

2918.    BLUEFISH,  SWEET-PEPPER  BUTTER 

Remove  bones  and  neatly  wipe  a  three-pound  fresh  bluefish.  Season 
all  over  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  rub  all  over  with  a 
tablespoon  oil,  then  broil  on  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  sweet-pepper  butter  over  surface  and  keep 
dish  at  oven  door  for  ten  minutes,  basting  fish  with  butter  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  six  quarters  lemon  and 
serve. 

2919.     SWEET-PEPPER  BUTTER 

Place  four  Spanish  sweet  peppers  in  a  mortar,  pound  to  a  pulp, 
remove  and  press  through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  a  half  ounce  good 
butter,  sharply  mix  and  use  as  required. 

Tuesday,  Fifth  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  California  Raisins 
Quaker  Oats  (105)  Scrambled  Eggs,  Williams 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434)  German  Fried  Potatoes  (252) 

Wheaten  Flannel  Cakes  (9) 

2920.    STEWED  PRUNES  AND  CALIFORNIA  RAISINS 

Soak  one  and  a  half  pounds  California  prunes  during  night,  drain, 
then  place  them  in  enamelled  saucepan  with  a  half  pound  California 
seeded  raisins,  add  a  piece  cinnamon  with  two  ounces  sugar,  one  gill 
each  claret  and  water  and  the  rind  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Cover  the 
pan  and  let  gently  cook  for  twenty-five  minutes,  gently  shuffling  pan 
occasionally.  Remove  to  a  table  and  let  stand  without  uncovering 
for  thirty  minutes,  remove  cinnamon  and  lemon  rind,  transfer  to  a 
compotier  and  serve. 

2921.     SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  WILLIAMS 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  one  tablespoon  shredded  cocoanut,  and  beat 
up  with  fork  one  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan, 
drop  in  the  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  mixing  meanwhile. 


906  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Prepare  six  pieces  of  toast  two  inches  square  and  one-quarter  inch  thick, 
spread  a  very  little  anchovy  paste  over  each  and  arrange  on  a  hot  dish. 
Broil  one  minute  on  each  side  six  thin  slices  lean  bacon,  place  a  slice  on 
each  toast,  evenly  divide  eggs  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 
Patties    of    Soft    Clams 

Mysore  Curry 
Pear  Charlotte  (474) 

2922.    PATTIES  OF  SOFT  CLAMS 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  six  small  patties  (No.  929).  Remove  all 
sandy  parts,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  bodies  of  thirty-six  good- 
sized  soft  clams,  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt 
for  two  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Mix  in  saucepan  one  ounce  butter 
with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  heat  well,  then  moisten  with  a  half 
gill  milk  and  gill  cream.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  each 
cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg  and  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry. 
Sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  clams,  gently  mix  and 
cook  for  one  minute.  Dress  patties  on  a  hot  dish,  evenly  divide  clams 
into  patties,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over,  place  covers 
on  and  serve. 

2923.    MYSORE  CURRY 

Cut  into  quarter-inch  squares  one  small  onion,  two  shallots,  a  seeded 
green  pepper,  a  seeded  ripe  red  tomato,  one  peeled  and  cored  apple 
and  one  bean  sound  garlic.  Melt  a  heavy  tablespoon  butter  in  saucepan, 
add  the  above  articles,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  flour,  lightly  stir, 
then  add  two  pounds  raw  mutton  from  the  leg  part  cut  in  three-quarter- 
inch  square  pieces.  Stir  all  well  together,  brown  for  four  minutes, 
stirring  well  meanwhile,  add  a  tablespoon  curry  powder  and  stir  well 
again. 

Moisten  with  a  pint  water  and  tie  in  bunch  a  leek,  branch  each  celery 
and  parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  clove.  Add  to  pan  with  rind  of 
half  a  sound  lemon  and  half  pint  fresh  or  canned  peas,  season  with  good 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  mix  well.  Cover  pan,  then  set 
in  oven  for  an  hour,  being  careful  to  mix  once  in  a  while,  remove,  take 
up  bouquet  and  lemon  rind,  dress  curry  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  a  rice 
(No.  490)  around  and  serve  with  Indian  Chutney,  etc. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Potage,  Constantinople 
Smelts  Brochette,  Vert-Pre"  Potatoes,  Parisienne  (711) 

Chateaubriand,  Bigelow 

Stuffed  Eggplants,  Marseillaise  (2516) 

Roast  Mallard  Ducks,  Currant  Jelly  (307) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (42) 


TUESDAY,  FIFTH   WEEK  OF  NOVEMBER          907 

2924.    POTAGE,  CONSTANTINOPLE 

Cut  in  very  small  square  pieces  a  half  pound  raw,  lean  mutton,  three 
chicken  livers,  a  small  carrot,  a  turnip,  onion,  two  branches  celery  and 
half  a  sound,  peeled  eggplant.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  but- 
ter and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Moisten 
with  three  quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  one  salt- 
spoon  saffron,  add  one  pound  mutton  or  lamb  bones  to  pan  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  skim  off 
fat  once  in  a  while.  Remove  bones,  dilute  an  ounce  arrowroot  in  a  bowl 
with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  add  it  to  soup,  mix  well  while  adding, 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2925.    SMELTS  BROCHETTE,  VERT-PRE" 

Cut  the  heads  and  tails  off  fifteen  good-sized,  fresh  smelts,  cut  in 
half-inch  pieces,  then  cut  same  number  pieces  lean  bacon  as  the  fish, 
and  exactly  same  size.  Season  smelts  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  paprika,  and  arrange  smelts  and  bacon  alternately  on  six 
skewers.  Have  on  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  roll  skewers  in  it,  then  gently 
roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  on  a  double  broiler,  broil  on  slow  fire 
for  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  dress  on  hot  dish.  Pour  a 
vert -pre  sauce  (No.  184)  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  smelts  over  and  serve 
very  hot. 

2926.     CHATEAUBRIAND,  BIGELOW 

Neatly  trim  a  little  fat  from  a  two-pound  piece  tender  filet  of  beef. 
Envelop  it  in  upright  position  in  a  towel,  then  with  a  cleaver  flatten  it  to 
one  and  a  half  inches  in  thickness.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil, 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  roll  Chateaubriand 
in  it  and  broil  on  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and 
place  the  Chateaubriand  in  a  small  roasting  pan,  squeeze  over  the  juice 
of  half  a  sound  lemon,  baste  with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  set  in  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  once  in  a  while,  remove  and  keep 
hot. 

Cut  from  a  sandwich  loaf  twelve  round  pieces  a  quarter  inch  thick 
and  an  inch  in  diameter  and  place  on  a  tin.  Cut  an  ounce  raw  beef 
marrow  in  twelve  equal  pieces,  plunge  in  hot  water  for  three  minutes, 
lift  up  with  skimmer  and  arrange  over  the  twelve  pieces  of  bread.  Sprin- 
kle over  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  set  in  oven  for  eight  minutes,  then  remove. 
Finely  slice  twelve  canned  mushrooms  and  one  small  truffle,  place  in 
small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  a  gill  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  and  let  reduce  on  fire  to  one-third  the  quantity.  Pre- 
pare a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  and  add  sauce  to  it,  mix  well  with 
a  spoon,  then  pour  on  a  hot  dish.  Place  Chateaubriand  over, 
arrange  toasts  around,  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over 
all  and  serve. 


9o8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Wednesday,  Fifth  Week  of  November 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Swiss  Mush  (2564)  Eggs,  ManceHe 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon  (155) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 

Prussian  Cakes  (500) 

2927.    EGGS,  MANCELLE 

Slit  on  one  side  eight  sound  Italian  chestnuts,  place  in  oven  to  roast 
for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  shell  and  peel.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with 
two  gills  milk,  two  saltspoons  salt  and  boil  on  fire  until  milk  is  nearly 
dry,  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste,  then  strain  through  sieve 
into  a  bowl. 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  remove  and  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  one  minute,  take  up  and  shell  them,  then  cut  in  two  lengthwise. 
Scoop  out  yolks,  add  to  chestnut  puree  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  three 
saltspoons  grated  nutmeg  and  two  tablespoons  cream.  Mix  until  well 
thickened,  then  evenly  divide  preparation  in  the  twenty-four  half  eggs, 
dress  on  dish,  pour  a  cream  sauce  (No.  736)  over  them  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Oyster  Fritters  (1214) 

Beef  Braise,  Mode  (534) 

Custard  Pudding  (2464) 

DINNER 

Mulligatawny,  Young 

Halibut,  Bangor  (994)  Potatoes,  Savoyarde  (533) 

Noisettes  of  Lamb,  St.  Germain 
Asparagus,  Hollandaise  (342) 
Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 
Watercress  and  Tomato  Salad 
Jelly,  Benedictine 

2928.    MULLIGATAWNY,  YOUNG 

Cut  in  small  squares  a  medium  onion,  two  leeks,  a  green  pepper, 
two  ounces  raw  lean  ham,  one  exceedingly  small,  peeled,  sound  eggplant 
cut  in  slices  and  a  quarter  pound  raw  lean  veal.  Place  in  saucepan 
with  one  ounce  butter  and.  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  carefully  stir- 
ring once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  two  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  one  quart 
water  and  two  gills  pure  tomato  juice.  Season  with  a  good  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  curry  powder,  a  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  let  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  two  ounces  raw  rice,  six  trimmed  fresh  okras  cut  in 
small  pieces,  one  good-sized  peeled  and  cored  apple  cut  in  small  pieces, 
a  quarter  pound  seeded  California  raisins,  mix  well  and  let  cook  for 
forty-five  minutes.  Broil  six  thin  slices  bacon  for  two  minutes  on  each 


THURSDAY,  FfRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         909 

side,  remove,  place  on  plate  and  keep  at  oven  door  till  well  dried,  then 
pound  them  in  mortar  to  a  dust,  sprinkle  in  soup,  mix  well,  pour  soup 
into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2929.    NOISETTES  OF  LAMB,  ST.  GERMAIN 

Cut  from  a  leg  of  lamb  six  four-ounce  pieces,  neatly  flatten,  season  all 
around  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Place  an 
ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  and  when  light  brown  add  noisettes 
one  beside  another,  gently  cook  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  remove 
and  keep  hot. 

Dress  a  puree  of  peas  (No.  1473)  in  centre  of  a  hot  dish  pyramid- 
like,  arrange  noisettes  around,  pour  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122) 
over  noisettes  and  serve. 

2930.    WATERCRESS  AND  TOMATO  SALAD 

Plunge  four  medium,  sound  red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  one 
minute,  take  up  with  a  skimmer,  carefully  peel,  let  cool  off,  then  cut  each 
tomato  in  eight  equal  sections  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Trim  off 
large  stalks,  remove  any  stale  leaves  that  may  adhere  to  one  large  or 
two  medium  bunches  fresh,  green  watercress,  wash  thoroughly,  drain 
well  on  a  cloth,  and  add  to  tomatoes.  Season  with  four  tablespoons 
salad  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

N.  B.  This  salad  should  be  seasoned  and  mixed  only  at  the  very 
last  moment. 

2931.  JELLY,  BENEDICTINE 

Prepare  a  jelly  exactly  the  same  as  creme  de  cacao  (No.  678)  substitut- 
ing same  quantity  of  Benedictine  for  the  creme  de  cacao,  and  serve  in 
same  manner. 

Thursday,  First  Week  of  December 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Eggs,  Polonaise 

Broiled  Weakfish,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 

Beef    Hash,    ficossaise 

Honey  Cakes  (1215) 

2932.  EGGS,  POLONAISE 

Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg  dishes  with  a  little  anchovy  butter, 
then  crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish.  Evenly  season  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  set  them  in  oven  for  three  min- 
utes, then  remove.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  with  two 
tablespoons  bread  crumbs  and  toss  on  fire  until  a  nice  light  brown, 
equally  divide  crumbs  over  eggs  and  serve. 

2933.    BEEF  HASH,  £COSSAISE 

Pick  all  the  meat  off  beef  left  over  from  yesterday,  then  cut  it  in  quar- 
ter-inch-square pieces.  Cut  also  into  same  shape  two  cold  boiled 
potatoes  and  keep  both  on  a  plate. 


9io  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Thoroughly  heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  a  half  finely  chopped  green  pepper,  a  chopped  onion  and  two 
ounces  raw  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces,  gently  brown  for  five  min- 
utes, stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  beef  and  potatoes.  Moisten  with 
three  gills  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
mix  well.  Cover  pan  and  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes, 
then  remove.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  black 
frying  pan,  add  hash,  give  it  an  omelette  form,  then  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
turn  on  hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Croquettes  of  Shrimps  (2392) 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Broiled  Tomatoes 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Maria 

Boston  Cream  Pie  (1621) 

2934.    PORTERHOUSE  STEAK  WITH  BROILED  TOMATOES 

Procure  a  nice,  tender  porterhouse  steak  one  and  a  quarter  inches 
thick,  lightly  flatten  all  around,  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  rub  with  a  tablespoon  oil,  place  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  twelve  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  hot  dish,  arrange  broiled  tomatoes  (No.  1636)  around,  spread  a 
littfe  butter  over  steak  and  serve. 

2935.    MASHED  POTATOES,  MARIA 

Boil  six  medium,  sound  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve  then  press  through 
potato  masher  into  a  bowl.  Cut  three  skinned  country  sausages  in 
small  pieces,  place  in  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  good  lard  and 
briskly  fry  for  five  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  potatoes,  with  a 
gill  hot  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  sharply  mix  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  dress  potatoes  on  a 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58) 

Salted  Walnuts  (954)         Oysters  (18)          Potage,  Soisson 
Pickerel  Saute",  Piquante  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Anglaise  (185) 

Chicken  Saute,  Gould  Green  Peas  (35) 

Roast  Saddle  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (2482) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Plombiere  Marguerite  (1067) 

2936.    POTAGE,  SOISSON 

Soak  a  pint  dry  white  beans  in  plenty  of  cold  water  for  six  hours  at 
least.  Drain,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  salt  pork  cut  in  small 


THURSDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        911 

pieces,  half  pound  mutton  bones,  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  two 
bay  leaves,  one  bean  garlic  and  two  cloves.  Moisten  with  three  quarts 
water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover 
pan  and  let  simmer  for  two  hours,  mixing  once  in  a  while,  remove  and 
press  pieces  through  sieve  into  a  vessel.  Remove  stalks  and  stale  leaves 
from  a  quart  fresh  sorrel,  thoroughly  wash  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  drain 
and  finely  slice  in  julienne  shape.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  three- 
quarters  ounce  butter  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  Pour  pure*e  in  pan,  mix  well,  add  a  pint  milk,  let  boil 
for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  pour  puree  hi  to  a  soup  tureen  and  serve 
with  six  slices  toasted  French  bread. 

2937.    PICKEREL  SAUTE",  PIQUANTE  SAUCE 

Thoroughly  wipe  a  three-pound  fresh  pickerel,  place  hi  oval  sauce- 
pan with  a  sliced  carrot,  sliced  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  a  sprig 
thyme,  sprig  marjoram,  bay  leaf,  clove,  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper 
and  a  gill  vinegar.  Cover  fish  with  water,  season  with  a  light  tablespoon 
salt,  cover  pan  and  boil  slowly  for  forty  minutes.  With  skimmer  lift 
up  fish  without  breaking,  drain  on  a  cloth,  then  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  Piquante  sauce  (No.  177)  over  and  serve. 

2938.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  GOULD 

Singe,  cut  neck  and  feet  off  a  two-and-a-half  pound  tender  chicken, 
neatly  draw  and  wipe,  then  cut  in  twelve  equal  pieces,  except  spinal 
bone,  place  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  an  ounce  fresh  butter  in  a  sautoire,  lay  in 
pieces  of  chicken  one  beside  another,  then  gently  cook  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side.  Add  one  finely  sliced  onion,  half  a  sliced  sound  green 
pepper,  a  sliced  leek  and  an  ounce  finely  chopped  lean  salt  pork. 
Cut  the  tails  off  twenty-four  very  small,  cleaned  fresh  mushrooms,  add 
tails  to  chicken,  keep  heads  on  a  plate  for  further  use,  mix  well  and 
brown  for  five  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  good  white  wine,  let  briskly  reduce  on  fire  to  almost  a  glaze,  pour  in 
three  gills  white  broth  (No.  701)  and  let  reduce  to  half  the  quantity. 
Lift  up  chicken  with  a  fork  and  keep  on  plate  in  a  warm  place.  Pour 
one  and  a  half  gills  cream  in  the  sautoire,  then  cook  on  open  fire  for  ten 
minutes,  constantly  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Mix  on 
a  saucer  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  half  an  ounce  flour  and  one  egg  yolk. 
Incorporate  this  mixture  little  by  "little  with  the  sauce,  sharply  mixing 
while  adding,  and  keep  hot.  Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  heads  of  mush- 
rooms, place  in  saucepan  with  half  ounce  butter,  tablespoon  sherry,  and 
briskly  fry  for  five  minutes.  Sprinkle  over  two  saltspoons  salt,  the  juice 
of  a  quarter  lemon,  toss  well,  then  add  chicken  and  a  small  truffle  cut 
in  small  squares.  Strain  sauce  through  cheesecloth  into  pan,  mix  well 
while  beating  for  three  minutes,  dress  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  entire 
contents  of  pan  over,  arrange  six  timbales  of  rice  (No.  521)  around 
dish  and  serve. 


Qi2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Friday,  First  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44) 
Barley  and  Cream  (1068) 

Eggs,  Beckwith  Fish  Fritters  (1057) 

Sausage  with  Fried  Bananac  (1058) 
Cornmeal  Pancakes  (659) 

2939.    EGGS,  BECKWITH 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  remove  and  plunge  in  cold 
water  for  one  minute,  take  up  and  shell,  then  cut  in  two  lengthwise. 
Scoop  out  yolks,  place  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
half  ounce  butter,  three  tablespoons  cream,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  white  pepper,  sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  perfectly 
smooth  and  divide  into  the  twenty-four  whites.  Pour  a  Mornay  sauce 
(No.  526)  on  a  baking  dish,  arrange  eggs  and  sprinkle  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over  sauce,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove  and 
send  to  table  in  same  dish. 

LUNCHEON 

Fish  Chowder  (198)        Margot  of  Salmon 

Veal    Chops,    Finnoise     (750) 

Macaroni  au  Beurre  (503) 

Rice  with  Raisins 

2940.  MARGOT  OF  SALMON 

Place  a  pound-and-a-half  fresh  salmon  in  saucepan  with  water 
enough  to  cover,  a  good  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  three 
tablespoons  vinegar,  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  remove  to  table  and 
let  stand  until  required. 

Boil  four  good-sized,  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain  on  sieve,  then  press  through 
potato  masher  into  a  vessel,  add  a  half  ounce  butter,  one  and  a  half  gills 
hot  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  saltspoon 
crated  nutmeg,  and  mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Lift  salmon  from 
water,  remove  skin  and  bones,  pull  it  in  small  pieces,  add  to  mashed 
potatoes,  mix  well,  then  place  in  a  baking  dish  dome-like,  lightly 
egg  surface,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

2941.  RICE  WITH  RAISINS 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  four  ounces  Carolina  rice,  then  place  in 
enamelled  saucepan  with  a  pint  milk,  three  ounces  sugar,  a  vanilla 
"  tick,"  the  rind  of  a  quarter  of  sound  lemon  and  a  saltspoon  salt. 
Lightly  mix  and  let  gently  boil  for  forty  minutes,  add  three  ounces 
California  seeded  raisins,  mix  well  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
remove  to  'a  table,  lift  up  vanilla  and  rind.  (Wipe  former  and  place  it 
in  the  sugar.)  Whisk  up  a  gill  of  cream  to  a  froth  in  bowl,  add  to 
rice  and  raisins,  mix  well,  dress  rice,  etc.,  on  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 


FRIDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         913 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)          Oysters  (18)          Olives 

Bisque  of  Prawns,  Carolina 

Sea  Bass,  Piombino         Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 
Venison     Chops,     Puree"     of     Chestnuts 

Cucumbers,  Saute,  Lyonnaise  (547) 

Coquilles     of     Lobster,     Parisienne     (436) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Chicory     Salad     (38) 

Pudding,  Italienne 

2942.    BISQUE  OF  PRAWNS,  CAROLINA 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  prawns. 
Heat  an  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  prawns,  with  a  finely  sliced 
small  carrot,  an  onion,  a  leek  and  two  branches  celery,  briskly  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  then  place  in  mortar  and 
pound  to  a  pulp.  Remove  and  place  in  the  pan  again,  pour  in  one  gill 
white  wine,  a  quart  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  and  one  and  a  half  quarts 
water.  Add  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil  and  a  heaping 
"teaspoon  salt,  mix  well  with  wooden  spoon  and  briskly  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  three  ounces  raw  Carolina  rice,  mix  well  and  let  gently 
boil  for  an  hour,  occasionally  mixing  at  bottom.  Press  bisque  through 
sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan  and 
reset  on  fire.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  boil  add  a  gill  cream,  half  ounce 
good  butter,  a  handful  freshly  cooked  rice,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  and 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes, 
pour  into  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2943.    SEA  BASS,  PIOMBINO 

Scale,  cut  off  fins,  wash  and  neatly  wipe  a  three-pound  sea  bass, 
place  in  oval  pan  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  claret,  one  and  a  half 
gills  water,  the  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  two  branches  pars- 
ley, a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  a  but- 
tered paper,  place  lid  on  pan,  gently  boil  for  five  minutes  on  range, 
then  set  in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Remove,  take  up  bass  and 
place  on  a  hot  dish  without  breaking  it.  Pour  one  and  a  half  gills 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  into  sauce  and  let  reduce  on  open  fire  for  twelve 
minutes.  Shift  pan  to  corner  of  range,  drop  in  little  by  little  a  half 
ounce  good  butter,  mixing  continually  while  adding. 

Stone  twelve  olives,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  six  each  fresh 
mussels  and  little  neck  clams,  with  six  heads  canned  mushrooms. 
Pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry,  cover  pan  and  briskly  cook  for  five 
minutes.  Strain  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  into  this  garnishing, 
mix  well,  pour  sauce,  etc*.,  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  the 
fish  and  serve. 

2944.    VENISON  CHOPS,  PUR£E  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  venison  chops,  season  all  over  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  black  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  table- 


9i4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  melted  butter  in  sautoire,  add  chops  one  beside  another,  cook  for 
five  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  a  pure*e  of  chestnuts  (No.  1019)  on  a  hot 
dish,  pyramid-like  and  arrange  chops  around.  Remove  fat  from  pan, 
add  three  tablespoons  currant  jelly  and  mix  until  thoroughly  melted. 
Pour  in  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  mix  well,  boil  for  two  minutes, 
pour  sauce  over  chops  and  serve. 

2945.    PUDDING,  ITALIENNE 

Place  in  a  bowl  six  chopped  candied  marrons,  four  crushed  maca- 
roons, two  ounces  stale  cake  or  bread  crumbs,  three  tablespoons  lemon 
sugar,  two  eggs,  yolks  of  two  others,  one  and  a  half  gills  cream,  two 
tablespoons  rum,  two  ounces  each  chopped  candied  orange  and  Smyrna 
raisins,  and  sharply  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Lightly 
butter  and  flour  a  plain  pudding  mould,  drop  in  preparation  and  cover 
it  with  a  buttered  paper,  place  mould  in  saucepan,  pour  hot  water  in 
pan  up  to  half  the  height  of  mould  and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  take  up  mould  from  pan,  let  rest  for  five  minutes,  unmould  on 
a  dish,  pour  rum  sauce  (No.  41)  over  and  serve. 

^ 

Saturday,  First  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)          Cero  Fruto  (1610) 

Eggs.  Rubier  Broiled  Salt  Mackerel  (511) 

Beefsteaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Kummel  Cakes  (1691) 

2946.    EGGS,  RUBLER 

Mix  in  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  with  tablespoon  flour,  pour  in 
half  gill  milk  and  gill  cream.  Sharply  mix  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  add  an  ounce  cooked  lean  ham  cut  in  small  squares,  the  leaves  from 
two  branches  chervil,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  three  saltspoons  salt  and 
one  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  five  minuteSo 
Pour  half  the  quantity  of  sauce  equally  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  care- 
fully crack  two  fresh  eggs  in  each  dish,  then  season  evenly  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Pour  balance  of  sauce  over 
eggs,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  six  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON   ' 

Radish    Broth    (2164) 

Beignets  of  Herrings 

Tartine,    Miss    Griscom 

Salad,  Liechtenstein 

Apple  Pie  (1434) 

2947.    BEIGNETS  OF  HERRINGS 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  two  smoked  herrings,  cut  in  half-inch, 
slanting,  thick  pieces,  place  in  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  cold  milk  and  let 


SATURDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         915 

soak  for  two  hours.  Drain  on  cloth,  place  on  plate,  squeeze  over  juice 
of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  two 
tablespoons  oil,  turn  well  in  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  roll  herrings  in  it,  then  drop  one 
by  one  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while 
with  a  skimmer.  Lift  up,  thoroughly  drain  on  cloth,  dress  on  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  crown-like,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens, 
six  quarters  lemon,  and  serve  with  a  tartare  sauce  (No.  48)  separately. 

2948.    TARTINE,  Miss  GRISCOM 

Pick  meat  off  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  cut  it  in  small  and 
nearly  even  pieces  as  possible  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  two  ounces 
rice  in  enamelled  saucepan,  add  two  sliced,  well-cleaned,  sound,  medium- 
sized  fresh  mushrooms,  a  half  ounce  butter,  one  and  a  half  gills  milk, 
a  gill  white  broth  (No.  701),  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Add  turkey,  with  level  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  cover  pan,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty  minutes. 
Remove,  place  in  mortar,  sharply  pound  for  three  minutes,  then  add 
one  egg  yolk ;  pound  for  two  minutes,  add  another  egg  yolk  and  pound  for 
three  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  mortar,  rub  paste  through  sieve 
into  a  bowl,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  cream,  add  a  half  ounce  fresh 
butter  and  mix  till  well  amalgamated.  Cut  from  a  sandwich  loaf  six 
slices  a  quarter  inch  thick,  trim  off  crusts,  then  lightly  toast  on  one  side 
only.  Spread  the  preparation  evenly  on  toasted  sides,  neatly  smooth 
top  of  each  and  sprinkle  a  very  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over. 
Place  tartines  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  then  set  in  brisk  oven  for  five 
minutes  or  until  a  light  golden  colour,  remove,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  a 
folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2949.    SALAD,  LIECHTENSTEIN 

Place  in  a  bowl  (all  cold)  four  tablespoons  each  cooked  green  peas 
and  string  beans  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  a  half  pint  well-drained,  cooked 
asparagus  tips,  four  anchovies  in  oil  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  four  table- 
spoons cooked  flageolets,  a  tablespoon  capers,  two  small,  very  finely 
sliced  vinegar  pickles  and  two  cold  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Toss  well  together  in  bowl,  season  with  four  tablespoons  dressing 
(No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Rabbit  Soup 
Red  Snapper  au  Court  Bouillon  (1043) 

Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 

Entrec6tes,  Montpellier  Tomatoes,  Me'nag&re 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Celery  Salad,  Mayonnaise  (69) 

Gateau,  Mocha 


9i6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2950.    RABBIT  SOUP 

Remove  skin,  cut  feet,  tail  and  head  from  a  very  small  fresh  rabbit, 
then  cut  it  in  half-inch-square  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  six 
branches  very  clean  celery,  an  onion,  a  seeded  green  pepper  and  two 
leeks  cut  in  small  squares,  add  an  ounce  butter  and  gently  brown  for 
ten  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  an  ounce  flour,  stir  well,  brown  for  five 
minutes  more,  pour  in  two  quarts  and  a  half  water,  a  gill  red  wine  and 
two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  parsley, 
a  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  sprig  sage,  add  to  soup 
with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  let  gently  boil  for 
an  hour  and  a  half,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Remove  bouquet,  add 
two  tablespoons  sherry,  lightly  mix,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2951.    ENTRECOTES,  MONTPELLIER 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  two  one-and-a-quarter-pound  tender  sirloin 
steaks.  Mix  on  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  repeatedly  roll  steaks  in  it  and  set  to  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  eight 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  Montpellier 
butter  over,  decorate  with  a  little  watercress  and  serve. 

2952.  MONTPELLIER  BUTTER 

Thoroughly  wash  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  eight 
tarragon  leaves,  eight  branches  chives  and  the  leaves  from  a  branch 
watercress.  Drain  and  plunge  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  drain  on 
sieve,  place  in  a  cloth  and  press  out  water.  Place  herbs  in  mortar  with 
a  tablespoon  capers,  chopped  pickle,  yolks  of  two  cold  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Remove  and  press  through  sieve  into  a  bowl, 
add  three-quarters  ounce  fresh  butter,  sharply  beat  with  wooden  spoon 
for  five  minutes,  then  use  as  required. 

2953.  TOMATOES,  MANAGERS 

Neatly  wipe  six  even-sized,  medium,  firm  red  tomatoes,  cut  a  cover 
from  tops  of  each,  with  a  spoon  scoop  out  a  little  only  of  soft  part,  and 
evenly  season  interior  with  a  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar  and 
three  saltspoons  pepper.  Place  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  each  bread 
crumbs  and  butter,  half  teaspoon  English  mustard,  a  little  freshly 
chopped  parsley  and  one  finely  chopped  sound  shallot.  Mix  all  well 
together,  then  evenly  divide  preparation  in  cavities  of  tomatoes,  place 
covers  on,  arrange  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2954.    GATEAU,  MOCHA 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  three  ounces  granulated  sugar,  four  egg 
yolks,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  one  tablespoon  very  strongly  made 
coffee,  and  sharply  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes.  Beat 
up  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  yolks  with  two  ounces 
well-sifted  flour  and  gently  mix. 


SUNDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER  917 

Line  bottom  of  a  small  six-inch-square  pastry  tin  with  a  sheet  of  but- 
tered paper,  drop  in  preparation,  neatly  smooth  surface,  then  set  in 
oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  let  rest  for  ten  minutes,  turn  on  a 
table,  take  up  paper,  split  in  two,  spread  half  the  quantity  creme  mocha 
on  split  sides,  place  together  as  before,  then  decorate  top  with  balance 
of  creme  mocha,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  dress  on  dish 
\vith  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

2955.    CREME,  MOCHA 

Place  two  egg  yolks  in  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  flour,  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar  and  one  and  a  half  gills  milk,  sharply  whisk  while 
heating  for  six  minutes,  remove,  then  strain  through  Chinese  strainer  into 
a  bowl.  Set  bowl  on  ice,  briskly  whisk  until  thoroughly  cold,  pour  in 
two  tablespoons  exceedingly  strong  coffee  and  mix  well.  Incorporate 
little  by  little  an  ounce  fresh  butter,  sharply  whisking  while  adding, 
then  use  as  required. 

Sunday,  First  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)          Germea  (at?) 

Poached  Eggs,  Egyptian 

Smelts,  Tartare  Sauce  (47) 

Broiled  Squabs  on  Toast  (950) 

Stewed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (no) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

2956.    POACHED  EGGS,  EGYPTIAN 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  a  half  tablespoon  butter  with  tablespoon  flour, 
pour  in  a  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream,  and  sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to 
boil.  Thoroughly  drain  a  half  pint  canned  corn  and  add  to  sauce  with 
half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well 
and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast 
(No.  1 06),  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth  (578) 

Oysters,  Bonne  Bouche  (1486) 

Combination  Chops  (2060) 

Spaghetti  Italienne  (15) 
Chocolate  Omelette  with  Kirsch 

2957.    CHOCOLATE  OMELETTE  WITH  KIRSCH 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  grated  chocolate  with  a  tablespoon 
water  and  stir  on  fire  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  melted.  Place 
on  a  table,  add  five  egg  yolks,  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  a  table- 
spoon cream,  two  teaspoons  kirsch,  and  thoroughly  mix  with  wooden 
spoon.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  prepara- 
tion and  gently  mix  for  two  minutes.  Heat  an  ounce  fresh  butter  in  a 


9i8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

black  frying  pan,  drop  in  preparation,  sharply  mix  with  fork  for  two 
minutes  and  let  rest  a  minute ;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre, 
let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  hot  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oyster  Cocktail  in  Tomatoes 
Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomme  au  Cerfeuilles 

Turbot  Mornay,  with  Fines  Herbes 

Filet  of  Beef,  Watson        Potatoes  Rissolees  (2121) 

String     Beans     with     Butter     (139) 

Fried  Sweetbreads,  Montebello 

Petit  Pois,  Francaise  (145) 

Roast  Grouse  (167)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  (381) 

2958.    OYSTER  COCKTAIL  IN  TOMATOES 

Neatly  wipe  six  medium,  even-sized  red  tomatoes,  cut  a  cover  off 
top  of  each,  scoop  out  interiors  and  keep  shells  intact.  Place  each 
shell  in  centre  of  an  oyster  plate  with  clean-shaved  ice  all  around. 
Place  forty-eight  freshly  opened  bluepoint  oysters  in  a  bowl,  add  six 
drops  Tabasco  sauce,  six  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  a  teaspoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  half  teaspoon  fine,  freshly  grated  horseradish, 
two  tablespoons  Dumas  sauce  (No.  19),  and  mix  all  well  together. 
Evenly  divide  oysters,  etc.,  in  the  six  shells,  place  covers  on  and  serve 
with  a  teaspoon  on  each  plate. 

N.  B.     Place  meat  of  tomatoes  in  the  demi-glace  pan  (No.  122). 

2959.     CONSOMME"  AU  CERFEUILLES 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52)  and  strain  into  another  saucepan. 
Thoroughly  wash  three  branches  chervil,  detach  leaves  from  branches 
and  add  to  consomme,  then  boil  for  five  minutes.  Cut  crust  off  a  three- 
inch  piece  sandwich  bread  and  cut  crusts  into  small,  even,  lozenge-shaped 
pieces,  place  on  a  tin,  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove,  place  in  soup 
tureen,  pour  consomme  over  and  serve. 

2960.    TURBOT  MORNAY,  WITH  FINES  HERBES 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  tail  part  of  a  fresh  turbot.  Lift  up 
filets,  place  in  sautoire  with  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine, 
gill  water,  two  branches  parsley,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  a  level 
teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  a  buttered 
paper,  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove  and  keep  hot.  Finely  chop  two  well-cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms 
and  six  shallots,  place  in  sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  cook  for 
five  minutes,  tossing  well  meanwhile.  Add  a  finely  chopped  truffle, 
half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  each  parsley  and  chives  and  shuffle  pan 
well. 

Prepare  Mornay  sauce  (No.  526),  pour  one-third  of  the  sauce  in 
bottom  of  baking  dish,  place  fish  over,  cut  side  up,  evenly  sprinkle  the 


MONDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          919 

fine  herbs  and  pour  balance  of  sauce  over  fish,  dredge  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

2961.    FILET  OF  BEEF,  WATSON 

Neatly  trim  a  little  fat  from  surface  of  a  two-and-a-half -pound  piece 
filet  of  beef  and  season  all  over  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  small  roasting  pan, 
lay  filet  over,  spread  light  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  beef,  pour  two 
tablespoons  water  in  the  pan,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes, 
turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while,  remove  filet,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and 
keep  hot.  Skim  fat  off  gravy  in  pan  and  place  contents  of  pan  in  small 
saucepan.  Pour  in  a  gill  white  wine  and  reduce  on  fire  to  almost  a 
glaze,  pour  in  a  gill  broth  and  let  reduce  again  to  almost  a  glaze,  then 
pour  in  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  six  minutes. 

Finely  slice  six  canned  mushrooms,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
two  tablespoons  sherry  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Strain  sauce  through 
a  cheesecloth  into  pan,  mix  well,  cook  for  two  minutes,  pour  sauce  over 
filet,  arrange  six  chestnut  timbales  around  and  serve. 

2962.    CHESTNUT  TIMBALES 

Slit  on  one  side  twenty-five  good-sized,  sound  Italian  chesnuts,  place 
on  tin  and  roast  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  shell  and  place 
them  in  small  saucepan  with  enough  milk  to  just  cover,  add  three 
saltspoons  salt,  cover  pan,  let  boil  until  nearly  dry,  then  place  in  a  mortar 
and  pound  to  a  fine  pulp.  Remove,  press  through  sieve  into  a  saucepan, 
add  two  egg  yolks,  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and 
grated  nutmeg,  and  briskly  stir  while  heating  on  fire  for  five  minutes. 
Lightly  butter  six  individual  pudding  moulds,  fill  up  with  the  chestnuts, 
place  on  a  tin,  pour  hot  water  in  up  to  half  the  height  of  moulds,  set  in 
oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  unmould  and  use  as  directed. 

2963.    FRIED  SWEETBREADS,  MONTEBELLO 

Blanch  and  trim  six  heart  sweetbreads  (No.  33),  split  in  two,  season 
all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in 
flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  roll  in  freshly  prepared  bread  crumbs. 
Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  sautoir,  add  breads 
and  gently  cook  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot 
dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon,  a  little  parsley 
greens,  and  serve  with  a  Montebello  sauce  (No.  1030)  separately. 

Monday,  First  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Fresh  Grapes  Sago  with  Cream  (1583) 

Fried  Eggs,  Caviare  Toast 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Devilled  Bacon  (682) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 


920  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2964.    FRESH  GRAPES 

Thoroughly  wash  in  cold  water  one  and  a  half  pounds  grapes,  drain, 
place  in  a  compotier  and  serve. 

2965.  FRIED  EGGS,  CAVIARE  TOAST 

Cut  six  quarter-inch-thick  slices  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf,  lightly 
trim  off  crust  and  toast  to  a  nice  golden  colour.  Spread  a  half  teaspoon 
caviare  over  each  toast,  dress  on  hot  dish,  arrange  two  fried  eggs  (No. 
940)  on  top  of  each  toast  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (2179) 
Oysters  in  Shell,  Anglaise 

Spareribs  and  Spinach 
Crisp  Swiss  Pancakes  or  Crostri 

2966.  OYSTERS  IN  SHELL,  ANGLAISE 

Open  twenty-four  large  fresh  oysters,  remove  eyes  and  leave  oysters 
on  the  deep  shells,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan,  season  all  around  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  three  saltspoons  white  pepper.  Evenly  pour  two  tablespoons 
Worcestershire  sauce  over,  arrange  a  small,  thin  slice  raw  lean  bacon 
over  each  oyster,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  over  all,  set  in  oven  for 
ten  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

2967.    SPARERIBS  AND  SPINACH 

Procure  six  pieces  salted  spareribs  or  pork  and  soak  in  cold  water  for 
thirty  minutes.  Drain,  place  in  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover, 
add  two  carrots  cut  in  quarters,  an  onion  with  two  cloves  in  and  one 
bean  garlic.  Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
cover  pan  and  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Add  six  even-sized,  peeled, 
large  raw  potatoes  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Dress  a  spinach 
(No.  247)  on  a  hot  dish,  take  up  spareribs  with  a  fork,  place  over  spinach, 
arrange  potatoes  around  beef  and  serve. 

2968.    CRISP  Swiss  PANCAKES  OR  CROSTRI 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  gills  good,  rich  milk,  one  and  a 
half  ounces  lump  sugar,  four  ounces  good  butter,  a  saltspoon  salt  and 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence.  Place  pan  on  fire,  thoroughly  heat  without 
boiling  and  transfer  to  a  China  basin.  Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add 
to  milk,  stir  well  with  spatula,  then  mix  in  little  by  little  one  and  a  half 
pounds  sifted  flour  and  two  saltspoons  baking  powder,  briskly  and 
continually  stirring  while  adding.  Place  paste  on  a  well-cleaned  board, 
sharply  knead  for  ten  minutes,  replace  in  bowl  and  let  stand  for  thirty- 
five  minutes.  Divide  batter  into  eighteen  equal  parts,  give  ball-shaped 
forms,  with  a  pastry  roller,  roll  out  as  thin  and  round  as  possible  on  a 
lightly  floured  table  and  let  stand  for  fifteen  minutes  more. 

Place  in  a  large  frying  pan  one  pound  leaf  lard,  four  ounces  butter, 
and  when  butter  is  thoroughly  hot  place  in  one  beside  another  as  many 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          921 

cakes  as  pan  can  hold  and  fry  to  a  nice  golden  colour.  Lift  up  with  a 
skimmer,  place  on  a  cloth  to  thoroughly  drain,  prepare  balance  in  exactly 
same  way,  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

N.  B.  These  excellent  crostri  will  keep  in  perfect  condition  for 
several  days.  Place  what  is  left  over  in  a  tin  and  keep  in  moderate 
temperature. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Puree  of  Potatoes,  Inouye 

Halibut,  Portugaise  Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Chicken  Saute",  Paysanne  (1899) 

Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  (392)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Apple  Charlotte  (634) 

2969.    PUREE  OF  POTATOES,  INOUYE 

Place  in  saucepan  a  half  pound  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces,  four 
sliced  leeks,  one  sliced  onion,  two  bay  leaves  and  one  ounce  butter,  place 
pan  on  fire  and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add 
six  good-sized,  well-washed,  peeled  potatoes,  moisten  with  three  pints 
broth  (No.  701)  and  one  pint  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  gently  mix,  cover  pan  and  boil  rather  slowly  for  one 
hour.  Press  through  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  through  Chinese  strainer 
into  another  saucepan  and  keep  on  corner  of  range. 

Plunge  two  ounces  Japanese  pearl  tapioca  in  a  pint  boiling  water 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  forty  minutes,  stirring  at  bottom 
once  in  a  while.  Place  on  sieve  and  wash  in  cold  water,  then  drain  well 
and  add  to  soup  with  a  pint  hot  milk,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  half  ounce 
butter,  mix  well  while  heating  for  five  minutes,  pour  soup  into  tureen 
and  serve. 

2970.    HALIBUT,  PORTUGAISE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  fresh  halibut  and  place  in 'a 
sautoire  with  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  a  gill  water,  branch 
parsley,  tablespoon  vinegar,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
pepper.  Cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  boil  five  minutes,  remove, 
lift  up  fish  and  dress  on  hot  dish.  Strain  fish  gravy  into  a  small  saucepan 
and  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  then  add  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16),  a  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  mix  well,  let  briskly  boil 
for  ten  minutes,  pour  sauce  over  fish  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  First  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Pears  and  California  Raisins 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Omelette,  Maitre  d'H&tel 

Boned  Smelts,  Meuniere  (2455) 

Eminc£  of  Lamb,  Charcutiere 

Potatoes,  Garfield  (1843) 

Puffs  (313) 


922  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2971.    STEWED  PEARS  AND  CALIFORNIA  RAISINS 

Pull  off  stems  and  peel  six  medium,  sound  sweet  pears,  cut  in 
quarters,  core,  then  place  in  a  small  enamelled  pan  with  a  piece  cinnamon 
stick,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  an  ounce  granulated  sugar,  pour  in  water 
to  just  cover  pears  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Add  two 
ounces  seeded  California  raisins,  shuffle  pan  and  cook  for  ten  minutes 
longer,  remove  cinnamon,  pour  fruit  in  a  compotier,  and  serve  either  hot 
or  cold. 

2972.    OMELETTE,  MAITRE  D'HOTEL 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
each  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  chives,  the  juice  of  a  quarter  sound 
lemon,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up 
with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Heat  an  ounce  good  butter  in  a  black 
frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs,  sharply  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let 
rest  half  a  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for 
a  minute,  turn  on  hot  dish  and  serve. 

2973.    EMINC£  OF  LAMB,  CHARCUTIERE 

Cut  all  the  meat  off  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday,  slice  it  very 
fine  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  good  melted 
lard  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  finely  sliced  onions  and  two  ounces  raw  lean 
bacon  cut  in  very  small  square  pieces,  then  nicely  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
stirring  once  in  a  while.  Dredge  in  two  tablespoons  flour  and  briskly 
mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  a  gill  broth  (No.  701)  and 
one  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then 
add  lamb,  with  ten  finely  sliced  pickles,  a  half  teaspoon  each  freshly 
chopped  parsley  and  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix  well,  let 
gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Horly  of  Sardines 

Veal  Pot  Pie,  Hongroise  (1167) 

Compote    of    Apricots    with    Kirsch 

2974.    HORLY  OF  SARDINES 

Skim,  carefully  split  in  two  and  bone  twelve  good-sized  sardines  in 
oil,  place  on  plate,  squeeze  over  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  sprinkle 
over  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  carefully  turn  in  sea- 
soning without  breaking.  Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  carefully 
turn  sardines  in  it,  then  drop  one  by  one  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  eight 
minutes,  turning  with  skimmer  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up,  dry  on  a  cloth, 
dress  on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon, 
a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
separately. 


TUESDAY,  FIRST  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          923 

2975.    COMPOTE  OF  APRICOTS  WITH  KIRSCH 

Open  a  pint  can  of  apricots,  place  syrup  in  a  saucepan,  let  come  to  a 
boil,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  kirsch,  mix  well,  arrange  apricots  on  a  corn- 
pot  ier,  pour  syrup  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

* 

Oysters  (18) 
Olives  Lyons  Sausages  (582) 

Tomato,  St.  Louis 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Fennel  Sauce 

Quails,  Junipers  Potatoes  Dauphine  (415) 

Oyster  Plant,  Poulette  (1129) 

Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef  (1426) 

Watercress  and  Sweet  Pepper  Salad 

Ice  Cream   au  Curacao 

2976.     TOMATO,  ST.  Louis 

Finely  slice  a  carrot,  onion,  two  branches  celery,  half  a  sound  green 
pepper  and  a  bean  garlic.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons 
butter,  a  pound  crushed,  raw  ham  bones  and  gently  brown  for  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  once  in  a  while.  Dredge  in  two  ounces  flour,  briskly  stir 
while  heating  for  two  minutes,  pour  in  a'  quart  crushed  fresh  tomatoes 
(or  its  equivalent  in  canned),  a  quart  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  and  a  half 
pints  water.  Season  with  one  and  a  half  good  teaspoons  salt,  a  teaspoon 
sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Add  a  sprig  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two 
cloves,  mix  well  and  cook  for  an  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  mixing  at 
bottom  once  in  a  while.  Press  soup  through  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then 
through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan. 

Scald  one  and  a  half  ounces  pistachios  in  boiling  water  for  two  min- 
utes, drain  on  sieve,  peel  and  split,  then  add  to  soup  with  a  gill  cream 
and  an  ounce  butter.  Mix  well  while  cooking  for  five  minutes,  pour 
soup  in  a  tureen  and  serve. 

2977.    FRESH  MACKEREL,  FENNEL  SAUCE 

Cut  the  head  and  fins  off  a  very  fresh  three-pound  mackerel,  split  in 
two  through  back  and  remove  spinal  bone.  Place  it  in  sautoire  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  and  two  tablespoons  fennel,  let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  shift  near  corner  of  range  and  let  simmer  for  twelve  minutes.  Re- 
move fish,  drain  well,  dress  on  a  dish,  pour  a  fennel  sauce  (No.  2281) 
over  and  serve. 

2978.    QUAILS,  JUNIPERS 

Pick,  cut  heads  and  feet  off,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  six  fat  quails. 
Crush  a  good  tablespoon  of  very  sound,  well-dried  juniper  berries,  place 
in  bowl  with  a  half  teaspoon  fresh  butter,  thoroughly  mix,  then  equally 
divide  half  the  butter  in  interiors  of  the  six  quails.  Truss  well,  season 
all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  j)lace  on  a 
roasting  tin,  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  larding  pork  over  each  bird,  then 
set  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  once  in  a  while,  remove, 
take  out  lard  and  untruss.  Place  them  in  a  cocotte  dish,  set  on  the 


924  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

fire,  when   thoroughly  hot  divide  balance  of  butter  over,  and,  as  the 
butter  swells,  immediately  send  to  table  in  cocottiere. 

2979.    WATERCRESS   AND   SWEET  PEPPER  SALAD 

Remove  large  stalks  from  two  large  bunches  very  fresh  watercress, 
wash  well  and  thoroughly  drain.  Place  in  salad  bowl  with  four  Spanish 
sweet  red  peppers  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  season  with  four  table- 
spoons dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well  and  serve. 

2980.    ICE  CREAM  AU  CURACAO 

Prepare  a  quart  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Pour  into  ice  cream  in 
freezer  a  quarter  gill  Curasao,  thoroughly  mix  with  spatula  and  serve 
same  as  vanilla. 

Wednesday,  First  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Figs  (2844)  Swiss  Mush  (2564) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Compiegne 

Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Pork  Chops*  with  Fried  Apples  (760) 

Raisin  Cakes  (1719) 

2981.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  COMPIEGNE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper,  and  briskly  beat  up  with  fork  for  a 
minute.  Heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  sautoire,  add  a 
finely  chopped  onion  and  gently  brown  for  three  minutes,  then  add 
four  well- cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms  cut  in  small  squares  and  briskly 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Stir  well,  drop  in  eggs,  cook  for  six  minutes, 
briskly  stirring  meanwhile,  dress  on  a  hot,  deep  dish,  arrange  six 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Stew  (435) 
Scallops,  Brestoise  (1857) 

Foame  Macaronia 
Babas  au  Rhum  (687) 

2982.    FOAME  MACARONIA 

Cut  in  very  small  square  pieces  a  pound  raw  lean  mutton,  half 
pound  raw  lean  veal  and  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham.  Finely  chop  two 
ounces  raw  beef  marrow  and  place  it  in  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  one  finely  chopped  onion  and  half  a  chopped  green  pepper, 
gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  add  meat,  mix  well  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper  and  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Pour  in  two 
gills  pure  tomato  sauce,  a  gill  broth,  mix  well,  cover  pan,  set  in  oven  for 
thirty-five  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot.  Boil  a  half  pound  of  macaroni 


THURSDAY,   SECOND   WEEK   OF  DECEMBER      925 

in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty  minutes  and  drain 
on  a  sieve.  Lay  half  the  macaroni  in  a  lightly  buttered  earthen  casserole 
dish,  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper, 
sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour  hash 
over.  Place  remainder  macaroni  on  top,  sprinkle  over  three  saltspoons 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Divide  a  half  ounce  butter  in  small  bits  on  top  of  hash,  pour  a  gill  tomato 
sauce  over,  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Olives 

Consomm£  Veneur 

Salmon  Trout,  Hollandaise  (675) 

Potatoes  Persillades  (63) 

Cutlets  of  Beef,  Velours 

Jerusalem  Artichokes  Rissoles  (2140) 

Roast  Turkey.  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Chocolate  Pudding  (190) 

2983.      CONSOMM£  VENEUR 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  5 2),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering  until  required.  Detach  all  good  leaves  from  a  head  of  fresh 
green  lettuce,  thoroughly  wash,  drain  well,  slice  into  julienne  strips, 
place  in  a  sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add  to  the  consomme  with  leaves 
from  branch  each  tarragon  and  chervil,  a  royale  garnishing  (No.  2446), 
boil  for  three  minutes,  pour  consomme  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

2984.     CUTLETS  OF  BEEF,  VELOURS 

Finely  chop  two  and  a  half  pounds  tender  raw  beef,  place  in  a  bowl 
with  three  tablespoons  finely  crushed  soda  crackers,  a  gill  cream,  raw 
egg,  ounce  fresh  butter,  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  one  finely  chopped  onion  (previously  browned  five  min- 
utes in  a  very  little  melted  butter)  and  sharply  mix  until  well  amalga- 
mated. Divide  preparation  into  twelve  equal  pieces,  giving  then  cutlet 
forms,  lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  cracker  dust. 

Heat  thoroughly  two  tablespoons  good  lard  in  a  sautoire,  place  cut- 
lets in  one  beside  another  and  gently  cook  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side, 
remove,  pour  a  gill  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  on  a  hot  dish,  dress  cutlets 
over  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Second  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Hominy  (45) 

Poached  Eggs,  Aix  les  Bains 

Fried  Porgies  (498) 

Calf's  Liver,  Minute  (810) 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (116) 

Corn  Muffins  (51) 


926  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2985.    POACHED  EGGS,  Aix  LES  BAINS 

Cut  from  a  stale  sandwich  loaf  twelve  quarter-inch-thick  slices,  then 
cut  to  two  inches  in  diameter  and  toast  to  a  light  brown.  Place  in  sauce- 
pan a  half  gill  white  wine,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  place  on  fire; 
when  thoroughly  boiling  add  three  ounces  grated  Swiss  cheese  and 
sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  melted,  spread 
cheese  over  the  twelve  toasts  evenly  and  arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress 
twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106),  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 
Tartlet  of  Oysters 

Blanquette  of  Turkey  with  Mushrooms 

Cucumber,  Romaine  (1737) 

Blanc  Manger  (1052) 

2986.    TARTLET  OF  OYSTERS 

Prepare  six  tartlet  crusts  (No.  161),  remove  beans  and  thoroughly 
wipe.  Place  thirty-six  fairly  good-sized,  fresh-opened  bluepoint  oysters 
in  saucepan  with  their  liquor,  a  half  gill  white  wine,  and  let  boil  for  three 
minutes.  Lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  cloth,  evenly 
spread  a  teaspoon  anchovy  paste  over  the  six  tartlets,  arrange  six  oysters 
in  each  tartlet  and  lay  on  a  tin. 

Mix  in  saucepan  a  tablespoon  butter  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
flour,  then  strain  oyster  broth  into  pan,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  tea- 
spoon each  salt,  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  until  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  then  allow  to  gently  boil  for  eight  minutes.  Add  an  egg  yolk, 
sharply  whisk  for  one  minute  and  evenly  divide  sauce  over  oysters. 
Sprinkle  a  little  Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  set  in  brisk  oven  for  six 
minutes  or  till  a  good  golden  colour,  remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

2987.     BLANQUETTE  OF  TURKEY  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Pick  all  meat  from  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  in  half- 
inch  pieces.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce  each  butter  and  flour,  pour  in 
a  half  pint  broth,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  on  a 
plate  one  egg  yolk,  two  tablespoons  cream,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon, 
and  add  to  sauce,  sharply  mixing  while  adding.  Add  turkey  with  twelve 
sliced,  canned  mushrooms,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon 
each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well,  heat  for  five  minutes,  but  do 
not  allow  to  boil.  Transfer  blanquette  into  a  deep  dish,  arrange  six 
heart-shaped  croutons  (No.  90)  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Canapes  of  Ham  (301)  Oysters  (18)  Radishes  (58) 

Potage,  Vert-Pre" 

Codfish,  Shrimp  Sauce  Potatoes,  Macaire  (859) 

Lamb  Steaks,  Puree  of  Chestnuts  (1018) 

Baked  Spanish  Onions 

Roast  Capon  (378)  Lettuce  Salad  (148) 

Coupe  St.  Andr£  (1032) 


FRIDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          927 

2988.    POTAGE,  VERT-PR^ 

Boil  a  pint  dried,  split  green  peas  in  a  quart  water  for  five  minutes, 
then  drain  on  a  sieve.  Place  in  saucepan  with  a  pint  well  washed 
and  drained  fresh  sorrel,  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  two  branches 
celery,  two  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  two  sliced,  peeled,  raw  potatoes, 
a  pound  raw  ham  bones,  three  quarts  and  a  half  water,  two  teaspoons 
salt,  a  teaspoon  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  well,  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  an  hour  and  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  mix 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  press  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin,  then 
through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  add  three  tablespoons  cooked 
green  peas,  leaves  of  two  branches  chervil,  and  by  little  bits  half  an  ounce 
butter.  Mix  well  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen 
and  serve. 

2989.  CODFISH,  SHRIMP  SAUCE 

Place  a  five-pound  piece  fresh  codfish  in  a  saucepan  with  four 
tablespoons  vinegar,  just  enough  water  to  cover,  a  sliced  each  carrot 
and  onion,  two  branches  parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  two 
cloves,  a  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pan  and  let 
cume  to  a  boil  as  rapidly  as  possible,  then  shift  to  a  corner  of  range,  let 
slowly  simmer  for  forty-five  minutes,  remove  pan  to  a  table  and  let 
stand  for  ten  minutes.  Carefully  lift  up  fish  with  two  skimmers,  dress 
on  a  hot  dish  with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve  with  shrimp  sauce  (No.  897)  separately. 

N.  B.  The  above  fish  is  about  double  the  quantity  of  the  usual 
dinner  fish.  The  object  of  this  is  to  show  how  to  utilize  left-over  fish. 
It  will  be  used  to-morrow  for  luncheon. 

2990.  BAKED  SPANISH  ONIONS 

Peel  three  medium,  sound  Spanish  onions,  clip  off  a  small  piece  at 
both  ends,  cut  in  two  crosswise,  and  arrange  in  a  baking  dish  cut  side 
up.  Mix  in  a  bowl  an  ounce  butter,  a  half  bean  finely  chopped  garlic, 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  a  saltspoon  each  salt  and  pepper  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Spread  this  butter  evenly  over  the  six 
half  onions,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper  and  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five 
minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  quite  frequently.  Bring  dish  to  oven 
door  and  lift  up  paper,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread 
crumbs,  baste  well,  reset  in  oven  for  ten  minutes  more,  remove  and 
serve  in  same  dish. 

Friday,  Second  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Pears  in  Cream  (2034)  Boiled  Grits  (131) 

Omelette  with  Herrings 
Weaknsh,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (927) 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434)  Potatoes,  Anna  (84) 

Orange  Cakes  (1084) 


928  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

2991.    OMELETTE  WITH  HERRINGS 

Cut  off  head  and  tail  of  a  nice  fat  smoked  herring,  split  in  two 
through  back,  remove  spinal  bone  and  skin,  then  cut  it  in  very  small 
square  pieces ;  place  on  a  plate  with  enough  milk  to  cover,  let  infuse  for 
one  hour,  remove  from  milk  and  drain  pieces  on  a  cloth.  Heat  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  fish  and  fry  for  five 
minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while.  Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl, 
add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and 
sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes.  Drop  eggs  in  the  fish 
pan,  mix  with  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  a  half  minute;  fold 
up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre  and  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth  (80) 

Fritadelles  of  Fish,  Tower 

Schaschiks-Tatarski 

Raisin  Pie 

2992.    FRITADELLES  OF  FISH,  TOWER 

Skin  and  bone  codfish  left  over  from  yesterday,  then  pick  meat  in 
small  pieces  and  place  on  a  plate.  Boil  three  medium,  peeled  potatoes 
in  a  quart  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes,  drain,  then 
press  through  potato  masher  into  a  sautoire,  add  two  egg  yolks,  an  ounce 
good  butter  and  a  half  gill  cream.  Mix  well,  then  add  the  fish  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  a  saltspoon  nutmeg  and  teaspoon 
freshly  chopped  parsley.  Finely  chop  an  onion,  fry  in  a  pan  with  tea- 
spoon butter  until  a  light  brown,  then  add  to  the  rest.  Thoroughly  but 
gently  mix  with  spatula,  divide  preparation  in  twelve  even,  oval-shaped 
pieces,  roll  in  flour  and  lightly  flatten,  then  lightly  dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  sautoire,  add  the  fritadelles,  one  beside  another  and  cook 
for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish 
with  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

2993.     SCHASCHIKS-TATARSKI 

Procure  a  two-pound  piece  sirloin  of  beef,  cut  the  lean  part  (only)  in 
one-inch  squares  a  fifth  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  also,  but  considerably 
thinner,  the  same  number  of  pieces  raw,  lean  salt  pork. 

Place  both  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
paprika,  and  arrange  beef  and  pork  on  six  skewers  alternately,  evenly 
divided.  Place  a  tablespoon  oil  on  plate,  roll  skewers  in  it,  arrange  on  a 
broiler,  broil  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side  and  remove. 

Prepare  a  Creole  rice  (No.  2269),  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  place 
schaschiks  over  it,  pour  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around  and 
serve. 


FRIDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          929 

2994.    RAISIN  PIE 

Place  a  pound  California  seeded  raisins  in  a  bowl,  add  an  ounce 
sugar,  a  half  teaspoon  cinnamon  in  powder  and  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
mix  well,  then  proceed  to  make  pie  in  same  manner  as  No.  118. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Potage,  St.  Ouen 
Filet  of  Sole,  Meuniere  (565) 

Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 
Boned  Leg  of  Mutton,  Fribourgoise 

Stuffed  Cabbage 
Asparagus,  Mousseline  (1276) 

Roast  Teal  Duck  (561)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Mille  Feuilles  (594) 

2995.    POTAGE,  ST.  OUEN 

Remove  heads  and  tails  of  six  fresh  smelts,  cut  in  quarter-inch  pieces, 
place  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  a  pound  of  fish  bones  in  saucepan 
with  a  sliced  each  carrot,  onion  and  leek,  two  sliced  branches  celery,  two 
branches  parsley,  a  sprig  thyme  and  two  cloves.  Moisten  with  two  and 
a  half  quarts  water,  season  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt  and  cook 
forty-five  minutes,  then  strain  broth  through  cheesecloth  into  a  vessel. 
Finely  chop  an  onion,  leek,  half  a  seeded  green  pepper,  two  branches 
celery,  place  in  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  fish  broth  with  a  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  let  gently  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  on  a  sieve  two  ounces  Brazilian  tapioca, 
add  to  soup  with  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  broil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  add  smelts,  lightly  mix,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  soup  into  tureen 
and  serve. 

2996.    BONED  LEG  OF  MUTTON,  FRIBOURGOISE 

Carefully  bone  a  tender  leg  of  mutton,  season  interior  and  all  around 
with  a  level  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  fold  and  tie  up  to 
its  former  shape.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  with  one  ounce  butter  in  a 
roasting  pan  and  brown  for  ten  minutes.  Lay  mutton  over  mirepoix, 
pour  in  a  pint  cider,  then  let  reduce  on  fire  to  half  the  quantity.  Pour 
in  three-quarters  pint  broth,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
cover  pan,  set  in  oven  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  basting  and 
turning  leg  once  in  a  while,  remove,  untie  and  dress  on  hot  dish.  Skim 
fat  off  gravy,  then  reduce  on  the  fire  to  about  one  and  a  half  gills.  Strain 
gravy,  pour  a  third  of  it  over  leg,  the  balance  in  a  sauce  bowl,  arrange  six 
stuffed  cabbages  around  leg  and  serve. 

2997.     STUFFED  CABBAGE 

Detach  twelve  sound  leaves  from  a  good-sized  cabbage,  plunge  in 
two  quarts  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  and 
drain  on  sieve.  Lay  on  a  board  and  trim  each  leaf  into  three-inch 


930  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

squares,  spreading  trimmings  over  main  leaves,  then  sprinkle  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper  evenly  over  them. 

Place  in  a  bowl  eight  skinned  sausages  with  a  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  half  saltspoon  nutmeg  and  one  egg  yolk.  Mix  well, 
evenly  divide  this  force  in  centre  of  leaves  and  fold  up.  Have  a  cloth 
in  palm  of  left  hand,  place  a  cabbage  on  it,  close  up  hand,  then  briskly 
twist  cloth  and  press  left  hand  with  right  so  as  to  give  a  firm,  round  shape. 
Place  on  lightly  buttered  sautoire,  pour  in  two  gills  broth  (No.  701), 
lightly  baste  surface  with  a  little  melted  butter,  cover  with  a  buttered 
paper,  set  in  oven  for  thirty  minutes,  remove  and  serve  as  directed. 

Saturday,  Second  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  (151) 

Farina  with  Milk  (71)        Fried  Eggs,  Chasseur 
Kippered    Herrings    (153) 

Salisbury  Steaks  (347) 

Sweet  Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (1092) 

Caraway-Seed  Cakes  (1059) 

2998.    FRIED  EGGS,    CHASSEUR 

Finely  chop  four  shallots,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  teaspoon  melted 
butter  and  gently  brown  for  four  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  white 
wine  and  let  reduce  until  nearly  dry,  then  pour  in  half  gill  tomato  sauce 
and  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122);  add  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms, 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix,  let  boil  for  six  minutes  and  keep  hot. 
Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  large  frying  pan,  care- 
fully break  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  evenly  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  three  saltspoons  pepper.  Fry  on  fire  for  one  minute,  set  in  oven 
for  five  minutes,  remove,  carefully  glide  on  hot  dish,  pour  sauce  over 
and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth  (1090) 

Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 

Mutton  Croquettes,*  Oriental  (2501) 

Boston  Baked  Beans  (706) 

Vanilla  Custard  (1345) 

DINNER 

Olives  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Potage,  Knot  Celery  Bass,  Mariniere  (710) 

Potatoes,  Villageoise  (1050) 
Antelope    Steaks,    Salmi    Sauce 

Puree,  Cumberland 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Rice  Pudding  a  1'Orange  (1120) 
*Use  mutton  from  yesterday 


SUNDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        931 

2999.    POTAGE,  KNOT  CELERY 

Peel  and  finely  slice  three  roots  knot  celery,  place  in  saucepan  with  a 
sliced  onion,  two  sliced  leeks,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil, 
two  bay  leaves,  two  sliced,  cold,  peeled  raw  potatoes  and  two  ounces 
raw  ham  cut  in  small  pieces.  Moisten  with  two  quarts  broth  (No. 
701)  and  quart  water,  season  with  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
saltspoon  nutmeg,  and  lightly  mix.  Cover  pan,  let  gently  boil  for  one 
and  a  half  hours,  press  soup  through  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  through 
Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan.  Set  pan  on  fire,  add  two  gills 
milk,  half  a  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  butter;  mix  well,  then  let  boil  for 
five  minutes,  place  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  in  soup  tureen,  pour  soup 
over  and  serve. 

3000.    ANTELOPE  STEAKS,  SALMI  SAUCE 

Procure  six  five-ounce  steaks  from  a  stale  leg  of  antelope,  neatly 
flatten  and  season  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  black 
pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  sautoir,  add 
steaks  one  beside  another  and  briskly  cook  them  for  four  minutes  on 
each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  Salmi  sauce  over  and  serve. 

3001.    SALMI  SAUCE 

Finely  slice  one  onion,  three  shallots,  one  carrot  and  two  medium, 
fresh  mushrooms.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  pound  any  kind 
of  game  bones,  a  half  ounce  butter,  and  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  Add  a  teaspoon  crushed  black  pepper,  a  half  teaspoon 
salt,  bay  leaf,  sprig  thyme,  clove  and  branch  chervil.  Pour  in  a  half 
gill  port  or  sherry,  let  briskly  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  half  gill  water.  Mix  well,  slowly  boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  skim  fat  off  surface  of  sauce,  strain  sauce  through 
Chinese  strainer  into  a  bowl,  then  through  cheesecloth  into  a  small  sauce- 
pan, and  serve  as  required. 

3002.    PURE"E,  CUMBERLAND 

Peel  and  slice  five  each  sound  apples  and  bananas,  place  in  saucepan 
with  a  half  ounce  butter,  a  tablespoon  sugar,  two  tablespoons  currant 
jelly,  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  saltspoon  cayenne.  Mix  well  and  cook 
on  fire  for  twenty-five  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  press 
through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  dress  on  a  vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

Sunday,  Second  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Figs  and  Raisins 

Force  (979) 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Artichokes 

Fried  Smelts  with  Parmesan  Cheese 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  with  Bacon  (219) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

Small  Brioches  (878) 


932  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3003.    STEWED  FIGS  AND  RAISINS 

Soak  a  pound  fine  California  figs  in  cold  water  for  four  hours.  Drain 
and  place  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  with  a  half  pound  California  seeded 
raisins,  one  and  a  half  ounces  granulated  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  quarter 
lemon,  a  small  piece  cinnnamon  stick,  gill  claret  and  just  enough  water 
to  nearly  cover  fruits.  Cover  pan  and  let  slowly  boil  for  twenty-five 
minutes,  remove  pan  to  table  and  let  stand  for  thirty  minutes.  Take 
up  lemon  rind  and  cinnamon,  pour  stew  in  a  deep  compotier  and  serve. 

3004.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ARTICHOKES 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltpsoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  a  minute. 
Cut  three  canned  artichoke  bottoms  into  quarter-inch-square  pieces, 
place  in  a  sautoire  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  briskly  fry 
for  five  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while.  Sprinkle  two  saltspoons  salt 
over,  drop  in  eggs  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  briskly  and  frequently 
stirring  meanwhile,  dress  on  a  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

3005.    FRIED  SMELTS  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

Neatly  wipe  twelve  good-sized  fresh  smelts,  season  all  over  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  lightly  roll  again  in  freshly 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Arrange  in  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling 
fat  for  eight  minutes,  lift  up,  drain,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate 
with  six  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth  Tomat£  (3127) 
Broiled    Devilled    Lobster    (158) 

Fried  Chicken,  Baltimore 

New    London    Salad    (1745) 

Coffee  Eclairs  (2217) 

3006.    FRIED  CHICKEN,  BALTIMORE 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  two-and-a-half-pound  tender  chicken, 
draw,  neatly  wipe  and  cut  it  into  twelve  equal  pieces.  Place  on  a  plate, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  turn  well  in  season- 
ing, lightly  roll  in  flour,  shake  off  superfluous  flour,  then  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  lightly  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  in  a  sautoir,  add  chicken  pieces  one  beside  another 
and  gently  fry  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
then  remove  to  oven  door. 

Pour  Madeira  sauce  (No.  641)  on  a  hot  dish,  then  nicely  dress  chicken 
over  and  arrange  the  twelve  Baltimore  fritters  around.  Broil  six  thin 
slices  ham  for  one  minute  on  each  side,  place  ham  over  chicken  and 
serve. 

3007.    BALTIMORE  FRITTERS 

Plunge  twelve  freshly  opened  large  oysters  in  boiling  water  for  five 
minutes,  drain,  then  cut  in  very  small  square  pieces  and  place  in  a 


SUNDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         933 

bowl.  Drain  on  sieve  a  half  pint  cooked  corn  and  add  it  to  oysters 
with  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  three  tablespoons  flour,  one  raw 
egg,  the  yolk  of  another,  a  half  gill  cream,  saltspoon  baking  powder, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
and  sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes. 

Thoroughly  heat  three  tablespoons  leaf  lard  hi  a  large  frying  pan, 
take  up  a  heaping  tablespoon  batter  and  with  aid  of  a  finger  drop  it 
into  pan.  Proceed  as  rapidly  as  possible  with  the  rest  and  fry  for  three 
minutes  on  each  side,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  lift  up,  dry  on  a 
cloth  and  use  as  directed. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Cream  of  Chicken,  Franjaise 

Broiled  Salmon,  Bearnaise  Sauce 

Potatoes  Croquettes  (390) 

Tenderloin  of  Beef,  Cassatt 

Green  Peas  with  Mint  (2408) 

Coquilles  of  Sweetbreads  (888) 

Punch.  Chartreuse 
Roast  Partridge,  Bread  Sauce  (97) 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream  (431) 

3008.    CREAM  OF  CHICKEN,  FRANCAISE 

Cut  off  head  and  feet  and  neatly  draw  and  wipe  a  very  small  fowl. 
Place  in  saucepan  with  one  each  sliced  carrot  and  onion,  two  each  sliced 
leeks  and  branches  celery,  two  branches  parsley  and  a  branch  chervil. 
Pour  in  three  and  a  half  quarts  water,  add  a  half  pound  piece  salt  pork, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Skim  fat  off  surface,  then  let  slowly  simmer  for  two  hours,  being  careful 
to  skim  fat  off  once  in  a  while.  Lift  up  fowl,  plunge  in  cold  water 
for  ten  minutes,  remove  skin  and  entirely  bone  it.  Place  meat  in  mortar 
and  pound  to  a  paste,  remove  and  keep  on  a  plate. 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  and  two  ounces  flour,  strain 
broth  in  this  pan,  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  chicken  paste  little 
by  little,  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and 
nutmeg,  thoroughly  mix,  then  let  gently  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Dilute 
on  a  plate  one  egg  yolk  with  a  gill  cream  and  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon,  mix  well  while  heating  for  three  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to 
boil.  Strain  through  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  through  cheesecloth  into 
a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  sepa- 
rately. 

3009.    BROILED  SALMON,  BEARNAISE  SAUCE 

Procure  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  fresh  salmon  and  place  on 
a  plate  with  a  tablespoon  each  oil  and  lemon  juice,  a  sliced  onion,  a 
branch  parsley,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Repeatedly 
turn  slices  in  seasoning,  then  let  infuse  for  one  hour,  being  careful  to 
turn  once  in  a  while.  Remove  from  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  broiler, 


934  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

broil  for  six  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  a 
little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  sepa- 
rately. 

3010.    TENDERLOIN  OF  BEEF,  CASSATT 

Neatly  trim  a  little  fat  from  a  two-and-a-half-pound  piece  tenderloin 
of  beef,  season  it  all  over  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Place  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay  beef  over,  baste  with  a 
little  melted  butter,  pour  two  tablespoons  water  in  pan,  then  set  in  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  turning  and  basting  once  in  a  while.  Remove, 
lift  up  filet,  cut  in  twelve  even  slices  and  arrange  in  baking  dish,  one 
overlapping  another.  Place  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  butter  with  a 
finely  sliced  sound  onion  and  gently  brown  for  four  minutes.  Add  six 
well-cleaned,  sliced,  fresh  mushrooms,  two  tablespoons  good  sherry, 
and  nicely  brown  for  five  minutes  more,  stirring  once  in  a  while.  Add 
two  tablespoons  flour,  mix  well,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  broth  (No. 
701),  season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  and  half 
saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix,  let  cook  for  five  minutes,  add 
egg  yolk  and  briskly  mix  while  heating  for  one  minute.  Pour  sauce  over 
filet,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  fresh  bread  crumbs  over  all,  set  in  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  same  dish  with  a  Finnoise  sauce 
(No.  251)  separately. 

3011.    PUNCH,  CHARTREUSE. 

Prepare  a  lemon- water  ice  (No.  376),  pour  in  while  in  freezer  two 
tablespoons  yellow  chartreuse,  mix  well  with  spatula  and  serve  in  six 
sherbet  glasses. 

Monday,  Second  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Hominy  (45) 

Poached  Eggs,  Tomato  Sauce 

Fish  Cakes  (5) 

Chicken  Livers,  en  Brochette  (600) 

Potatoes  Stewed  in  Cream  (no) 

Wheaten  Cakes  (9) 

3012.    POACHED  EGGS,  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106).  Place  one  and  a 
half  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan  with  a  half  teaspoon  each 
anchovy  essence  and  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  one  saltpsoon  cayenne, 
mix  well  and  let  gently  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drop  in  little  by  little 
a  half  ounce  butter,  briskly  mix,  pour  over  eggs  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 

Stuffed  Oysters  (1102) 

Boulettes  of  Beef,  Emilie 

Macaroni,   Italienne 
Sago  and  Apple  Compote 


MONDAY,  SECOND  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        935 

3013.      BOULETTES   OF   BEEF,   EMILIE 

Cut  off  all  lean  meat  from  roast  beef  left  over  from  Saturday's  dinner, 
keep  on  a  plate,  and  add  meat  of  six  country  sausages  to  it.  Brown  a 
finely  chopped  onion  in  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoon  butter  for  five  min- 
utes and  add  to  meat.  Place  all  on  a  board  with  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  half  saltspoon 
nutmeg,  and  finely  chop  the  whole  to  a  smooth  hash. 

Boil  two  peeled,  medium  potatoes  in  salted  water  for  thirty-five  min- 
utes, drain,  press  through  a  potato  masher  into  a  vessel,  add  hash  to 
potatoes  with  an  egg  and  sharply  mix.  Divide  into  twelve  equal  parts, 
roll  in  flour  to  ball-shaped  forms,  place  in  frying  basket  and  fry  in 
boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  hot  dish,  decorate  with 
a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve  with  piquante  sauce  (No.  177)  sepa- 
rately. 

3014.    MACARONI,  ITALIENNE 

Plunge  twelve  ounces  best  Italian  macaroni  in  two  quarts  boiling 
water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  well  on  a 
sieve,  then  place  in  sautoir  with  an  ounce  butter,  two  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  16),  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  mix  well 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  Cook  for  six  minutes,  add  an  ounce  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  toss  well,  pour  into  a  deep  hot  vegetable  dish  and 
serve. 

3015.    SAGO  AND  APPLE  COMPOTE 

Peel  and  core  three  sound  apples,  cut  in  quarters  and  finely  slice. 
Place  in  a  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  butter,  a  tablespoon  sugar,  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  gently  tossing  once 
in  a  while,  then  shift  pan  to  corner  of  range.  Thoroughly  wash  and 
drain  three  ounces  sago  and  place  in  enamelled  saucepan  with  three- 
quarters  pint  milk,  two  ounces  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence. 
Mix  well,  let  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  apples  to  pan  with  a  gill  cream 
and  gently  mix.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  pour  preparation  into  a  deep 
compotier  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Consomme,  Rouennaise 

Frost-Fish,  Ravigote 
Potatoes  with  Brown  Butter  (1398) 

Lamb  Steaks,  Colbert  (2103) 
Brussels  Sprouts  with  Chestnuts 
Duckling,  Griscom,  Jr    (3241) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Diplomatic  Pudding  (430) 

3016.    CONSOMME",  ROUENNAISE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
simmering  until  required.  Cut  two  each  carrots  and  turnips  into  half- 
inch-long  and  one-third-inch-thick  strips  and  with  point  of  a  small  knife 
round  them  into  olive  forms.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  ounce 


93 5  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

butter,  half  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sugar  and  two  gills  consomme. 
Lightly  mix,  cover  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  set  in  oven  for  forty-five 
minutes,  remove  and  add  to  consomme. 

Peel  twelve  exceedingly  small  white  onions  and  place  in  a  sautoire 
with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  sugar  over  and 
let  gently  brown  for  twenty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  toss  frequently 
meanwhile.  Lift  up  and  add  to  consomme,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour 
into  a  soup  tureeft  and  serve. 

3017.    FROST-FISH,  RAVIGOTE 

Neatly  trim  and  clean  six  very  fresh,  small  frost-fish.  Season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  saltspoon  pepper,  lightly  wet  with  a  little  cold 
milk  and  roll  in  flour.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter 
or  oil  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  fish  one  beside  another  and  fry  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  hot  dish, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon,  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with 
ravigote  sauce  (No.  1441)  separately. 

3018.     BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  WITH  CHESTNUTS 

Remove  outer  leaves,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  one  and  a  half 
pints  fresh  Brussels  sprouts,  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Shell  a 
half  pound  American  chestnuts,  plunge  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes, 
drain  and  peel.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  white  broth  to  just 
cover,  season  with  three  saltspoons  each  salt  and  sugar,  cover  pan  and 
let  cook  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain,  then  place  both  chestnuts  and 
sprouts  in  a  sautoire  with  an  ounce  butter,  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
saltspoons  of  white  pepper,  toss  well,  cook  for  five  minutes,  dress  on  a  hot 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 

Tuesday,  Second   Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Oranges  (237) 

Pettijohn  Food  (170) 

Fried  Eggs,  Paysanne 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Broiled  Mutton  Kidneys  (1666) 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  (78) 

Sally-Lunns  (2753) 

3019.    FRIED  EGGS,  PAYSANNE 

Broil  twelve  very  thin  slices  bacon  for  one  minute  on  each  side, 
remove  and  cut  each  slice  in  two.  Arrange  twelve  pieces  in  a  lightly 
buttered  frying  pan,  then  carefully  break  twelve  fresh  eggs  over  them. 
Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  place 
balance  of  bacon  over  eggs,  fry  on  fire  for  one  minute,  then  set  in  oven 
for  five  minutes.  Remove,  carefully  glide  them  on  large  hot  dish, 
sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  chives  over  and  serve. 


TUESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        937 
LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 

Clam  Fritters  (r^O 

Porterhouse  Steak,  A    ::cr  '.ack 

Pineapple  Tartlets  (<,4g> 

3020.     PORTERHOUSE  STEAK,  ADIRONDACK 

Procure  a  nice,  tender  porterhouse  steak  one  and  a  quarter  inches 
thick.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  rub  it 
all  over  with  a  tablespoon  oil,  broil  for  twelve  minutes  on  each  side, 
remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Peel  six  medium,  sound 
white  onions,  clip  off  a  piece  at  both  ends,  cut  in  two  crosswise,  lay  on 
a  tin  cut  side  up,  and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper  equally  divided.  Mix  on  a  plate  an  ounce  butter,  two  table- 
spoons bread  crumbs,  a  half  bean  chopped  garlic  and  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  then  spread  this  butter  over  onions  equally.  Set  in  oven  thirty 
minutes  or  until  a  good  golden  colour,  basting  with  their  butter  once  in 
a  while,  remove  and  arrange  around  the  steaks.  Prepare  a  potato 
pailles  (No.  611),  place  them  at  each  end  of  dish,  spread  a  little  maltre 
d'hotel  butter  over  steak  and  serve. 

N.  B.     The  onions  should  be  set  in  oven  before  preparing  steaks. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Oysters  (18)          Salted  Walnuts  (954) 

Potage,  San  Diego 
Pickerel,  Horseradish  Sauce  (917) 
Potatoes,  Chateaubriand  (872) 

Veal  en  Daube 

Lima  Beans,  Fourangelle  (2471) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Ice  Cream,  Benedictine 

3021.    POTAGE,  SAN  DIEGO 

Place  in  a  large  saucepan  a  two-pound  piece  of  beef  from  the  short 
ribs,  a  piece  beef  marrow  bone,  a  carrot  cut  in  quarters,  a  turnip, 
two  medium  onions  with  a  clove  stuck  in  each,  two  leeks  and  one  stalk 
well-cleaned  celery.  Moisten  with  four  quarts  water,  season  with  a 
light  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  whole  black  pepper,  and  add  two 
bay  leaves.  Place  pan  on  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boiling  point 
skim  fat  off  surface,  then  let  simmer  for  two  hours  and  a  half,  being 
careful  to  skim  off  fat  once  in  a  while. 

Strain  broth  through  a  damp  double  cheesecloth  into  another  sauce- 
pan, add  two  ounces  raw  rice,  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley 
and  leaves  from  one  branch  chervil.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
add  four  ounces  seeded  California  raisins,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove,  cut  carrots,  turnip  and  celery  in  small  pieces,  place 
in  a  soup  tureen,  pour  soup  over  and  serve. 


938  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3022.    VEAL  EN  DAUBE 

Procure  a  three-pound  piece  of  veal  with  a  little  fat  on  from  rump. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  lard  in  large  saucepan,  place  veal  in  and  brown  all 
over  for  fifteen  minutes,  turning  once  in  a  while,  remove  and  lay  on  a 
plate.  Mix  two  tablespoons  flour  in  same  pan,  add  a  half  pint  water, 
a  gill  each  claret  and  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  a  tablespoon  brandy. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg.  Cut  two  carrots  and  two  turnips  in  quarters,  add 
to  pan  with  six  each  small  onions  and  sound,  peeled  raw  potatoes,  mix 
well,  then  add  veal.  Cover  pan,  boil  for  five  minutes,  set  in  oven  for 
an  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  basting  meanwhile,  and  bring 
veal  to  oven  door. 

Finely  chop  together  two  branches  parsley  and  one  branch  chervil, 
add  to  pan  and  mix  well  without  mashing  vegetables.  Dress  veal  on  a 
large  hot  dish,  skim  fat  off  sauce,  pour  contents  of  pan  over  veal  and  serve. 

3023.    ICE  CREAM,  BENEDICTINE 

Prepare  a  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  pour  into  freezer  two  table- 
spoons benedictine,  stir  well  into  spatula  and  serve  same  as  vanilla. 


Wednesday,  Second  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)  Quaker  Oats  (105) 

Omelette,  Parisienne 

Fried  Filet  of  Sole,  Horly  (2246) 

Pork  Chops  with  Fried  Apples  (760) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

3024.     OMELETTE,  PARISIENNE 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  copper  basin,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  sharply  whisk  for  five  minutes. 
Heat  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  add  three  finely  sliced, 
well-cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms,  three  finely  chopped  shallots,  one  ounce 
ham  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  and  gently  brown  for  five  minutes, 
lightly  tossing  once  in  a  while.  Drop  in  eggs,  briskly  stir  with  a  fork 
for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  a  half  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides 
to  meet  in  centre,  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomm^  in  Cups  (52) 

Sardines    with    Spinach    au   Gratin 

Re"chauffd  of  Turkey,  Andalouse 

Rice,  Swiss 
Banana  Fritters  (1104) 

3025.    SARDINES  WITH  SPINACH  AU  GRATIN 

Remove  stalks  from  a  quart  fresh  spinach,  wash  well,  drain  on  sieve, 
plunge  in  quart  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for  ten  min- 


WEDNESDAY,  SECOND   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER     g& 

utes.  Thoroughly  drain  and  finely  chop  up,  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
an  egg  yolk,  half  ounce  butter,  a  tablespoon  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Sharply  stir  while  heating  for  two  minutes, 
remove,  and  spread  half  quantity  of  spinach  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking 
dish.  Split  open  without  separating  twelve  sardines  in  oil,  bone,  then 
nicely  arrange  over  spinach  and  spread  balance  of  spinach  over  sardines. 
Dredge  over  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of 
butter  on  top,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3026.    R£CHAUFF£  OF  TURKEY,  ANDALOUSE 

Pick  all  the  meat  off  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday,  then  cut  in  thin, 
small  slices  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Place  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
in  a  saucepan  with  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  half  teaspoon 
chopped  chives  and  a  very  little  chopped  tarragon,  mix  well  and  let  boil 
for  ten  minutes.  Incorporate  little  by  little  an  ounce  fresh  butter, 
sharply  mixing  while  adding  it,  then  add  turkey  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Gently  mix,  heat  for  six  minutes  with- 
out boiling,  pour  rechauffe  in  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

3027.     RICE,  Swiss 

Finely  chop  a  medium,  sound  onion  and  two  ounces  raw  beef  marrow, 
place  both  in  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  fry  for  five 
minutes,  or  until  onions  attain  a  nice  golden  colour,  stirring  almost  con- 
tinually meanwhile  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  eight  ounces  raw  Italian 
rice,  continually  stirring  on  fire  for  six  minutes  or  until  a  good  golden 
colour,  then  pour  in  little  by  little  one  light  quart  of  hot  broth  (No.  701), 
mixing  while  adding  it.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
pepper  and  a  saltspoon  diluted  and  strained  Spanish  saffron.  Mix  well, 
cover  pan  and  cook  for  thirty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  frequently 
stir  at  bottom.  Add  two  ounces  grated  Swiss  cheese,  mix  well  until 
cheese  is  thoroughly  amalgamated,  dress  on  hot  deep  dish  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Rissolettes,  Russe  (162) 

Potage,  Lucienne 

Filet  of    Mackerel  au  Gratin 

Potatoes.  Chassepot  (123) 

Quails,  Robbins 
Fresh  Peas,  Viellemode  (1959) 
Leg    of    Lamb,  Mint    Sauce    (392) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Savarins,  Chan  til  ly  (842) 

3028.    POTAGE,  LUCIENNE 

Soak  a  pint  white  beans  in  cold  water  for  eight  hours,  thoroughly 
drain,  place  in  saucepan  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  a  sliced 
carrot,  two  branches  celery,  a  branch  parsley  and  bean  crushed  garlic. 
Cut  two  ounces  salt  pork  or  ham  in  very  small  pieces  and  add  to  beans, 


94o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  gently  cook  for 
one  and  a  half  hours. 

Heat  a  half  ounce  butter  in  saucepan,  add  two  finely  sliced  onions 
and  fry  for  five  minutes,  pour  in  one  pint  fresh,  crushed  tomatoes,  mix 
well  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  in  beans  and  broth  and  boil 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove,  press  potage  through  sieve  into  a  basin, 
then  through  strainer  into  a  saucepan.  Finely  chop  the  leaves  from  a 
branch  tarragon  and  two  branches  chervil,  add  to  soup  with  a  half  ounce 
butter,  mix  well,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  potage  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve. 

3029.    FILET  OF  MACKEREL,  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  head  and  fins  from  a  three-pound  mackerel,  split  in  two  through 
back,  remove  spinal  bone,  then  cut  each  half  in  three  slanting  equal 
pieces.  Finely  chop  a  white  onion,  three  medium  fresh  mushrooms 
and  three  branches  parsley,  sprinkle  half  of  it  in  lightly  buttered  baking 
dish,  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine  and  lay  fish  over  one  beside  another, 
cut  side  up.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons 
paprika,  spread  balance  of  hash  over  fish,  then  pour  over  one  light  gill 
demi-glace  (No.  122).  Dredge  over  three  tablespoons  bread  crumbs, 
arrange  a  few  little  "dots"  of  butter  on  top,  then  set  in  oven  for  twenty- 
five  minutes,  remove,  place  dish  on  another  and  serve. 

3030.    QUAILS,  ROBBINS 

Pick  six  nice  fat  quails,  cut  off  heads  and  feet,  neatly  draw  and  wipe. 
Place  in  a  bowl  three  tablespoons  pate*  de  fois  gras,  add  a  teaspoon  rum 
and  half  saltspoon  cayenne,  mix  well,  then  evenly  divide  preparation  in 
interior  of  the  six  quails.  Truss  and  lay  on  a  tin,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  arrange  a  very  thin  slice  larding  pork  over  each  bird  and  set  in  a 
brisk  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove,  take  out  out  lard,  untruss  and 
place  in  a  cocotte  dish,  pour  in  three-quarters  gill  sherry  and  place  cover 
on. 

Make  a  stiff  dough  with  a  little  flour  and  water,  roll  out  dough  on 
table,  string-like,  then  fasten  it  around  joints  of  cover  and  dish  so  as 
to  prevent  evaporation.  Set  dish  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes,  remove, 
place  dish  on  another  over  a  folded  napkin  and  send  to  table  without 
uncovering. 

Thursday,  Third  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Raisins  (2930) 

Semolina  (192) 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Smoked  Beef 

Codfish  in  Cream  (822) 

Hamburg  Steaks,  Fried  Onions  (108) 

Grilled  Potatoes  (1344) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 


THURSDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        941 

3031.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SMOKED  BEEF 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  milk,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  briskly  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  one 
minute. 

Cut  two  ounces  smoked  beef  in  very  thin  slices,  plunge  them  in  a 
pint  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  then  drain  on  a  sieve.  Heat  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  drop  in  eggs,  cook 
for  three  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  beef  and  cook  for  three 
minutes  more,  stirring  briskly  meanwhile,  pour  in  deep  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 
Crab  Meat,  Maryland  (1113) 

Lamb  Hash,  Chipolata 
Apple  Me"ringue  Pie  (732) 

3032.    LAMB  HASH,  CHIPOLATA 

Pick  all  the  meat  off  leg  of  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  it 
in  very  small  square  pieces,  cut  also  in  same  shape  three  boiled  potatoes, 
and  keep  both  on  a  plate.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  saucepan, 
add  one  finely  chopped  onion,  one  seeded,  chopped  green  pepper,  and 
brown  for  five  minutes.  Add  lamb  and  potatoes,  pour  in  one  gill  broth 
and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two 
saltspoons  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  cover  pan 
and  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  bring  it  to  oven  door. 

Prickle  six  country  sausages  with  a  fork,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler 
and  broil  four  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  hash  dome-like  on  a  hot  dish, 
arrange  sausages  on  top  crosswise,  decorate  all  around  with  six  heart- 
shaped  croutons  (No.  90)  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Oysters  (18)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Potage,  Montglas 
Shad,  Puree  of  Sorrel         Capon,  Braise"  Loree 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Potatoes  Rissole"es  (2121) 

Watercress  Salad  (419) 

Ice  Cream,  Seville 

3033.    POTAGE,  MONTGLAS 

Cut  off  head,  neatly  draw  and  wipe  a  fowl  of  about  three  and  a  half 
to  four  pounds.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  carrot,  turnip,  onion  with 
a  clove  stuck  in  it,  two  leeks,  two  branches  each  parsley  and  celery,  and 
a  half-pound  piece  salt  pork.  Pour  in  five  quarts  water,  season  with  a 
level  tablespoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  cover  pan  and  let 


942  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

slowly  boil  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  being  careful  to  skim  off  fat  once  in 
a  while.  Strain  broth  through  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan,  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  dredge  in  two  ounces  tapioca.  Cut  in  small 
squares  one  ounce  cooked  lean  ham,  one  ounce  each  cooked  smoked 
beef  tongue  and  macaroni,  add  to  broth  with  tapioca  and  carefully  mix. 
Boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while,  then  pour  soup  into  a 
tureen  and  serve. 

3034.     SHAD,  PUREE  OF  SORREL 

Prepare  and  keep  hot  a  puree  of  sorrel  (No.  654).  Procure  a  fresh 
three-pound  shad  or  one  of  half  that  weight,  scale,  wash  and  thoroughly 
wipe.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  a  few  incisions  on  both  sides,  place  on 
a  dish,  rub  all  over  with  a  good  tablespoon  oil,  season  with  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  then  lay  the  fish  on  a  tin.  Squeeze  over  the 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  set  pan  in  oven  for  fifty  minutes,  basting 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  spread  sorrel  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  shad  on 
top,  pour  tablespoon  melted  butter  over  and  serve. 

3035.  CAPON,  BRAIS£  LOREE 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  from  a  tender  capon  of  four  to  four  and  a 
half  pounds  weight,  neatly  draw  and  wipe  dry.  Finely  chop  a  medium 
onion,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  butter  and  gently  fry  for 
five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  meat  of  two  country 
sausages,  mix  well  while  cooking  for  one  minute,  then  add  a  half  pint 
well-drained,  cooked  corn,  a  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons  bread  crumbs, 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Mix  well,  cook  for  five 
minutes,  then  stuff  capon  with  preparation.  Truss,  arrange  a  thin  slice 
larding  pork  over  breast  and  tie  it  around  with  string.  Place  a  mirepoix 
(No.  271)  in  a  braising  pan,  add  a  tablespoon  butter,  lay  capon  over, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  set  in  a  slow  oven 
for  thirty-five  minutes.  Bring  it  to  oven  door,  pour  in  half  a  gill  white 
wine,  reset  in  oven  without  cover  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  gill 
broth  (No.  701)  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Reset  in  oven  and 
cook  for  thirty-five  minutes  more,  being  careful  to  baste  and  turn  capon 
quite  frequently.  Remove,  dress  capon  on  a  hot  dish,  untruss  and  take 
out  lard.  Skim  fat  off  surface  of  gravy,  reduce  it  on  the  fire  to  half  the 
quantity,  strain  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  capon,  arrange  glazed 
chestnuts  (No.  2795)  around  and  serve. 

3036.  ICE  CREAM,  SEVILLE 

Prepare  a  quart  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42),  squeeze  in  juice  of  a 
sound,  juicy  orange,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  curacoa  and  mix  well  with 
spatula.  Line  bottom  of  a  quart-brick  mould  with  a  sheet  of  white 
paper,  drop  ice  cream  into  it,  arrange  a  piece  of  paper  on  top,  tighlty 
cover,  then  bury  in  ice-cream  pail  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  dip 
brick  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds,  wipe  all  around,  unmould 
on  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  send  to  table. 


FRIDAY,    THIRD   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER  943 

Friday,  Third  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 

Poached  Eggs,  Normandie 

Broiled  Bluefish  (326) 

Beef  au  Gratin 

Sweet  Fried  Potatoes,  German  Style 
Almond  Cakes  (1915) 

3037.    POACHED  EGGS,  NORMANDIE 

Mix  in  a  saucepan  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with 
two  tablespoons  flour,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  milk,  a  half  gill  cream 
and  mix  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Plunge  six  freshly  opened 
oysters  in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  drain  and  cut  in  small  square 
pieces  and  add  to  sauce,  with  six  cooked  shrimps  cut  in  very  small  pieces 
and  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Season  with  half  a  teaspoon 
salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  tablespoon  sherry,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  pour 
sauce  over  eggs  and  serve. 

3038.     BEEF  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  lean  meat  of  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  into  thin  slices. 
Finely  chop  one  medium  white  onion  and  fry  in  saucepan  with  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter  for  five  miuntes.  Place  half  the  beef  in-  a  lightly 
buttered  baking  dish,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  spread  half  the  onions  and  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley  over  and  arrange  balance  of  beef  on  top.  Season  again  with  a 
half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sprinkle  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  parsley.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  tomato 
sauce,  dredge  over  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs,  set  in  brisk  oven 
twenty-two  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3039.     SWEET  FRIED  POTATOES,  GERMAN  STYLE 

Peel  four  large,  raw  sweet  potatoes,  and  with  a  three-quarter-inch 
potato  column  cutter  cut  out  as  many  as  you  can,  Slice  them  in  one- 
sixth-inch-thick  pieces,  place  in  a  frying  basket,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat 
for  ten  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dress  on  a  dish  with  folded 
napkin  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Chowder  (331) 

Mousse  of  Oysters 

Tripe,  Petite  Russie 

Gnocchis,  Italienne  (2813) 

Rice,  Vanilla 

3040.     MOUSSE  OF  OYSTERS 

Place  thirty-six  freshly  opened  oysters  with  their  own  liquor  and  a 
ill  water  in  a  small  saucepan  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  thoroughly  drain 


944  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  save  liquor.  Place  oysters  in  a  mortar,  pound  to  a  fine  pulp,  re- 
move and  press  through  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Mix  in  saucepan  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  with  two  tablespoons  flour  and  heat 
for  two  minutes,  stirring  meanwhile,  then  add  oyster  liquor  and  a  gill 
cream.  Sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  oyster  puree, 
with  three  egg  yolks,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  and  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
and  grated  nutmeg.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon  while  heating 
for  five  minutes  and  remove  to  a  table,  beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  to  oysters  and  mix  well  until  thoroughly  amalgamated. 
Lightly  oil  the  outsides  of  six  paper  cases,  evenly  divide  preparation  in 
them  and  neatly  smooth  surface.  Sprinkle  a  little  Parmesan  or  Swiss 
cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove,  dress  on  dish  with 
a  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  immediately  send  to 
table. 

3041.    TRIPE,  PETITE  RUSSIE 

Thoroughly  clean  three  pounds  of  fresh  honeycombed  tripe,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  two  quarts  water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  boil  for  two 
hours.  Remove  and  plunge  it  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes,  drain  and 
cut  it  in  long,  thin  strips.  Cut  very  fine  two  each  onions,  leeks,  branches 
crisp  celery,  and  fry  them  in  stew  pan  with  a  spoonful  melted  butter 
until  slightly  brown.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well  while  heating 
for  one  minute,  pour  in  a  half  pint  broth,  and  mix  well  until  it  comes 
to  boil.  Add  tripe  with  a  teaspoon  each  chopped  parsley  and  salt,  a 
saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  with  a 
gill  cream  and  the  juice  of  a  sound  quarter  of  lemon,  add  to  pan  and  mix 
well  while  heating  for  two  minutes.  Transfer  tripe  to  a  deep  dish, 
arrange  six  bread  croutons  (No.  90)  around  dish  and  serve. 

3042.    RICE,  VANILLA 

Wash  and  drain  six  ounces  Carolina  rice,  place  it  in  enamelled  sauce- 
pan with  a  pint  milk,  three  ounces  sugar  and  one  vanilla  bean  (from 
the  sugar),  lightly  mix  and  let  gently  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes,  fre- 
quently stirring  at  bottom  with  wooden  spoon  meanwhile.  Remove 
vanilla  (place  it  in  the  sugar  again),  add  two  egg  yolks  and  a  gill  cream 
to  rice,  sharply  mix  while  heating  for  two  minutes,  dress  on  a  compotier 
and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Oysters  (i  8)  Olives 

Cream  of  Cucumbers,  Princesse 

Halibut,  Aurore  (767)  Potatoes,  Italienne  (1074) 

Palmettes  of  Chicken,  Celine 

String  Beans  Sautes  (131) 
Broiled  Lobster,    Chili  (1320) 

Roast  Rail  Birds  (795)  Doucette  Salad  (189) 

Ginger  Pudding  (394) 

3043.    CREAM  OF  CUCUMBERS,  PRINCESSE 

Peel  four  medium,  sound  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters  and  remove 
seeds,  then  cut  in  small  pieces  and  plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water;  six 


SATURDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OP  DECEMBER        945 

minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an 
ounce  butter  and  cook  on  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  quarts  white  broth  (No.  701),  a  quart  water, 
and  add  one  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two 
branches  parsley,  one  of  chervil,  a  leek,  bay  leaf,  two  branches  celery, 
and  add  to  soup,  season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Mix  in  a  bowl  three  ounces  rice  flour  with  a  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream, 
add  to  pan  with  one  saltspoon  each  cayenne  pepper  and  grated  nut- 
meg, and  mix  well  with  a  whisk  while  heating  for  five  minutes.  Strain 
cream  through  a  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan,  add  a  royale 
garnishing  (No.  2446)  and  half  pint  of  cooked  green  peas,  let  just  come 
to  a  boil,  then  pour  into  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

3044.    PALMETTES  OF  CHICKEN,  CELINE 

Skin  and  bone  fowl  saved  from  yesterday,  pick  off  meat  and  cut  it 
in  small  squares,  then  cut  in  same  shape,  but  a  shade  smaller,  half  that 
quantity  of  pork,  place  both  on  a  plate,  add  a  finely  chopped  truffle  and 
keep  till  required.  Clip  off  tails  and  peel  six  fresh  mushrooms,  wash, 
drain  and  cut  in  small  squares.  Place  in  enamelled  saucepan  with 
three  finely  chopped  shallots,  an  ounce  fresh  butter,  and  gently  brown 
for  five  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  one  and  a  half 
ounces  flour,  briskly  stir  while  heating  for  one  minute,  then  pour  in  two 
and  a  half  gills  broth  (No.  701)  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon, 
adding  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Sharply  mix  with  a  whisk  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  add  chicken,  pork,  truffle, 
two  tablespoons  sherry,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  half 
saltspoon  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  Dilute  on  a  plate  two  egg  yolks  with  a  half  gill  cream, 
add  to  force  and  gently  mix  while  heating  for  three  minutes,  remove, 
transfer  force  to  a  bowl,  lightly  butter  surface  and  let  get  cold.  Divide 
in  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  heart  shape, 
but  not  too  thin,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  freshly  prepared  bread 
crumbs.  Heat  two  tablespoons  clarified  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  place 
croquettes  in  a  pan  one  beside  another  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish  crown-like,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley, 
and  serve  with  a  mousseline  sauce  (No.  211)  separately. 

Saturday,  Third  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Figs  (2844) 
Boiled  Rice  with  Cream  (275) 

Fried  Eggs,  Ham  Sauce 

Broiled  Findon  Haddock  (76) 

Beefsteaks,      Maitre      d 'Hotel        (172) 

Fried  Potatoes  en  Quartier  (348) 

Kummel  Cakes  (1691) 


946  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3045.    FRIED  EGGS,  HAM  SAUCE 

Cut  two  ounces  cooked  lean  ham  in  very  small  square  pieces,  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  cover  pan  and  let 
steam  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No. 
122)  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  saltspoon  cayenne, 
lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 

Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan, 
break  in  twelve  fresh  eggs,  season  with  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  fry  for  a  minute,  then  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
carefully  glide  them  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  ham  sauce  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 
Frogs'  Legs,  Provengale 

Batavia  Curry 
Pear  Fritters  (2109) 

3046.    FROGS'  LEGS,  PROVENCALE 

Cut  away  claws  from  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  frogs'  legs,  then 
cut  each  leg  in  two.  Season  on  a  plate  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  salt- 
spoon  pepper,  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoon  flour,  turn  well  in  seasoning, 
then  shake  well  on  a  sieve.  Place  two  tablespoons  oil  in  a  black  frying 
pan,  add  a  bean  garlic  and  cook  until  the  garlic  obtains  a  dark  colour, 
then  remove  it.  Drop  legs  in  pan  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes,  add 
four  finely  chopped  shallots,  toss  well  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  lightly 
tossing  meanwhile.  Sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  toss  again  a  minute,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

3047.    BATAVIA  CURRY 

Cut  in  quarter-inch  squares  a  small  onion,  two  sound  shallots,  a 
seeded  each  green  pepper  and  red  tomato,  a  peeled  and  cored  apple 
and  one  bean  sound  garlic.  Melt  a  heavy  tablespoon  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  above  articles,  sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  flour,  lightly  stir, 
then  add  two  and  a  half  pounds  loin  of  pork  cut  in  three-quarter-inch- 
square  pieces.  Stir  all  well  together  and  brown  for  four  minutes,  stirring 
well  meanwhile.  Add  a  heavy  tablespoon  curry  powder,  stir  well  again 
and  moisten  with  a  pint  water.  Tie  in  a  bunch  a  leek,  branch  each 
celery  and  parsley,  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf  and  clove,  and  add  to  pan 
with  rind  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  a  half  pint  fresh  or  canned  peas.  Sea- 
son with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well,  cover 
pan,  set  in  oven  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  bring  to  oven  door.  Add  the 
milk  and  grated  white  part  of  a  medium  cocoanut,  mix  well,  re-cover  pan, 
reset  in  oven  for  twenty-five  minutes  longer,  remove,  take  up  bouquet 
and  lemon  rind  and  dress  curry  on  hot  dish.  Arrange  a  rice  curry  (No. 
490)  around,  sprinkle  tablespoon  grated  ham  over  and  serve. 


SATURDAY,   THIRD   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        947 
DINNER 

Canapds  of  Caviare  (59)  Olives 

Potage  with  Noodles,  Sardaigne 

Escalopes  of  Bass,  Budapest 
Potato  Balls,  Persillade  (2250) 

Beef  Tongue,  Arlequin  Spinach,  Anglaise  (247) 

Roast  Chicken  (290)         Chickory  Salad  (38) 

Weimar  Pudding  (405) 

3048.    POTAGE  WITH  NOODLES,  SARDAIGNE 

Prepare  a  noodle  paste  (No.  334)  and  roll  it  out  as  thin  as  possible 
on  a  lightly  floured  table.  Let  rest  for  five  minutes,  then  cut  paste  into 
even  lozenge  pieces,  drop  into  two  parts  boiling  water  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  one 
quart  and  a  half  broth  (No.  701)  and  one  pint  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
add  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  the  leaves  of  two  branches 
chervil.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly 
mix,  let  boil  for  twenly-nve  minutes,  then  pour  potage  into  soup  tureen 
and  serve  with  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  separately. 

3049.     ESCALOPES  OF  BASS,  BUDAPEST 

Scrape,  wash  and  wipe  two  fresh  one-and-a-half-pound  sea  bass, 
cut  off  heads,  split  in  two  through  back,  remove  spinal  bones  and  cut 
each  half  into  three  slanting,  even  pieces.  Place  in  a  lightly  buttered 
baking  dish,  skin  side  downward,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  tea- 
spoon paprika,  and  squeeze  over  the  juice  of  a  sound  lemon.  Place  in 
a  black  frying  pan  one  ounce  fresh  butter  and  three  tablespoons  bread 
crumbs,  shuffle  pan  on  fire  until  crumbs  obtain  a  nice  golden  colour, 
pour  it  over  fish  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3050.    BEEF  TONGUE,  ARLEQUIN 

Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  braising  pan  with  two  tablespoons 
lard  and  brown  for  ten  minutes.  Lay  fresh  beef  tongue  over  the  mire- 
poix, season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  pour 
in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  pint  water,  three  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  a  saltspoon  saffron  in  tablespoon 
water  and  add  to  tongue,  cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  two  hours  and  a 
half,  basting  and  turning  once  in  a  while.  Remove,  take  up  tongue, 
plunge  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes,  peel  off  skin  and  pare  it  all  around, 
then  cut  in  quarter-inch-thick  slices  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  one  overlap- 
ping another.  Cut  three  Spanish  sweet  red  peppers  in  half-inch  squares, 
place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  twelve  sliced,  canned  mushrooms  and 
six  finely  sliced  pickles.  Skim  fat  off  surface,  strain  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  into  pan,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  sauce  over  tongue  and 
serve. 


948  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Sunday,  Third  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)  Malta  Vita  (1592) 

Omelette,  Florentine 

White  Perch  Saute1,  Meuniere  (2097) 

English  Mutton  Chops  with  Bacon  (623) 

Potatoes,  Copeaux  (905) 

Brioche  Fluttes 

3051.    OMELETTE,  FLORENTINE 

Remove  stalks,  thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  pint  fresh  spinach* 
plunge  into  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes, drain,  press  out  all  the  water  and  finely  chop  on  a  board.  Place 
in  a  sautoire  with  three  saltspoons  each  salt  and  sugar,  one  saltspoon 
pepper  and  briskly  stir  on  fire  for  four  minutes,  or  until  dry,  then  place 
in  a  bowl.  Crack  in  eight  fresh  eggs,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for 
two  minutes.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 
black  frying  pan,  drop  in  preparation,  briskly  stir  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes  and  let  rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet 
in  centre  and  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

3052.    BRIOCHE  FLUTTES 

Brioche  fluttes  are  prepared  and  baked  same  as  small  brioches  (No. 
878),  but  rolling  out  parts  in  flute  shape  instead  of  round  shape. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken     Broth     (578) 

Barquettes,  Cardinal 
Broiled  Grouse,  Orange  Sauce  (2782) 

Fried  Hominy  (235) 
Coffee  Pancakes  (1702) 

3053.    BARQUETTES,  CARDINAL 

Roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  a  quarter  pound  pie  paste  (No. 
117)  to  about  one-sixth  inch  in  thickness.  Have  six  individual,  oval, 
lightly  buttered  moulds  and  carefully  line  with  paste,  press  down  at 
bottom,  all  around  edges,  trim  off,  fill  up  with  dried  beans  and  set  in 
oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  take  out  beans,  wipe  moulds,  and  keep 
till  required. 

Plunge  two  one-and-a-half-pound  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon  boiling 
water  with  a  tablespoon  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  take  up  and  let 
slightly  cool  off.  Crack  shells  from  claws  and  tail,  pick  out  meat 
and  cut  it  in  small  square  pieces,  keeping  shells.  Place  a  pint  tomato 
sauce  (No.  16)  in  a  saucepan,  reduce  on  fire  to  two  gills  and  add  six 
sliced  canned  mushrooms.  Mix  in  little  by  little  a  lobster  butter, 
sharply  whisking  while  adding,  then  add  lobster  with  two  saltspoons 
each  salt  and  cayenne.  Gently  mix,  divide  preparation  in  the  six 


SUNDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          949 

barquettes,  sprinkle  a  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  and  set 
in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  lift  barquettes  from  moulds,  dress 
on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  a  little  parsley,  six 
quarters  lemon,  and  serve. 

3054.    LOBSTER   BUTTER 

Place  shells  and  bodies  of  the  two  lobsters  in  mortar  with  an  ounce 
good  butter  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Remove,  place  in  saucepan  on  fire, 
stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  butter  is  thoroughly  melted,  then  press 
butter  through  a  cheesecloth  into  bowl  containing  some  ice  water. 
When  the  butter  becomes  entirely  cold  take  up  and  squeeze  out  water 
with  hands.  Place  in  a  hot  bowl  and  briskly  beat  with  wooden  spoon 
until  cold,  then  use  as  directed. 

N.  B.     Shrimp  and  crawfish  butter  are  prepared  in  same  way. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Tomato  en  Surprise  (1515) 

Consomme",  Lyonnaise 

Red  Snapper,  Indienne  Potatoes  Noisettes  (321) 

Filet    Mignons,    Montebello 

Broiled  Fresh  Mushrooms 

Sweetbreads,  Schwerin          Peas,  Francaise  (145) 

Roman  Punch    (1708) 

Roast  Squabs  (831)        Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Ice  Cream  Pralinee  (1370) 

3055.    CONSOMME",  LYONNAISE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and 
keep  simmering  until  required.  Peel  twelve  very  small  white  onions, 
place  in  sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  teaspoon  sugar,  cook 
until  a  nice  golden  colour  all  around,  tossing  once  in  a  while,  lift  up  with 
skimmer  and  add  to  consomme.  Cut  three  canned  artichoke  bottoms 
in  half-inch-square  pieces,  add  also  to  consomme",  pour  in  two  table- 
spoons sherry,  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour  consomme  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

3056.    RED  SNAPPER,  INDIENNE 

Scale,  remove  fins  and  bones  from  a  three-pound  piece  fresh  red 
snapper  and  finely  slice  a  medium  onion  and  sound  apple.  Place  both  in 
sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
once  in  a  while.  Dredge  in  two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  well,  add  a  half 
gill  white  wine,  one  and  a  half  gills  water,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove, 
saltspoon  nutmeg,  rind  of  a  lemon,  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and 
teaspoon  curry  powder.  Sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  fish, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  then  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes. 
Remove,  carefully  lift  up  fish  with  two  skimmers,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
remove  any  vegetables  adhering,  strain  gravy  through  a  Chinese 
strainer  over  fish  and  serve. 


950  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3057.    FILET  MIGNONS,  MONTEBELLO 

Neatly  pare  a  two-pound  piece  tenderloin  of  beef,  cut  it  in  six  equal 
pieces  and  lightly  flatten.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt 
and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  filets  in  seasoning,  place 
on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  three  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  and  keep  hot. 

Prepare  six  round  toasts  two  inches  in  diameter  and  one-third  inch 
thick,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  filets  on  top,  pour  a  Montebello  sauce 
(No.  1030)  over  filets  and  serve. 

3058.    BROILED  FRESH  MUSHROOMS 

Cut  off  tails,  peel,  wash  and  drain  well  a  pound  fresh  mushrooms. 
Place  in  a  bowl  with  a  tablespoon  oil,  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Turn  well  in  seasoning, 
arrange  on  a  double  broiler,  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  on 
six  freshly  prepared  toasts,  spread  a  tablespoon  maitre  d'hotel  butter 
over  them  and  serve. 

N.  B.  After  cleaning  them  of  sand,  etc.,  place  all  mushroom  tails 
and  trimmings  in  demi-glace  pot  as  in  No.  122. 

3059.    SWEETBREADS,  SCHWERIN 

Blanch  and  pare  six  heart  sweetbreads  as  in  No.  33.  Finely  slice 
a  medium  carrot,  an  onion,  ounce  salt  pork  and  two  branches  parsley, 
place  in  a  sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  lay  sweetbreads 
on  top.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  set  on 
the  range  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  a  gill  white  wine, 
two  gills  broth  (No.  701),  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  briskly  boil  for 
ten  minutes,  then  set  them  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Bring  to  oven 
door,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry,  baste  well  with  gravy  and  reset  in 
oven  without  paper  for  ten  minutes  more,  remove,  lift  up  and  place  in  a 
cocotte  dish. 

Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  half  an  ounce  each  butter  and  flour,  strain 
sweetbreads  gravy  through  cheesecloth  in,  skim  fat  off  surface,  sharply 
mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  a  small  truffle  cut  in  small  squares, 
lightly  mix  and  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes.  Mix  on  a  plate  an  egg 
yolk  with  a  half  gill  cream  and  add  to  sauce,  sharply  mixing  while 
adding,  pour  sauce  over  breads,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and 
serve. 

Monday,  Third  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Wheatena  (1998) 

Scrambled  Eggs    with  Chervil 
Fish  Balls  with  Bacon     (260) 
•  Calfs*  Liver,  Lyonnaise  (2668) 

Hashed  Potatoes  au  Gratin  (173) 
Cornmeal  Pones  (990) 


MONDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER          951 

3060.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CHERVIL 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  leaves  from 
three  branches  very  fresh  chervil,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
white  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  one  minute.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter  in  sautoire,  drop  in  eggs  and  cook  for  six 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  dress  on  a  deep  hot  dish  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Snails,  Bourgignonne 

Highlander  (1734) 
Potato  Croquettes- Vanilla 

3061.  SNAILS,  BOURGUIGNONNE 

Procure  five  dozen  large,  gray  French  snails,  break  chalk  which 
holds  them  in  shells,  and  place  in  a  vessel.  Add  a  handful  salt  and  gill 
vinegar,  turn  well  in  seasoning  for  five  minutes,  then  let  them  disgorge 
for  an  hour,  turning  once  in  a  while.  Wash  in  plenty  cold  water,  lift 
up,  place  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover,  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  cover  pan  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  on  a 
colander,  then  with  a  needle  pick  them  out  from  shells,  pull  off  tails, 
place  in  a  small  earthen  pot,  add  a  small  carrot  cut  in  quarters  and  an 
onion  with  a  clove  stuck  in  it.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  parsley, 
a  branch  chervil,  small  branch  celery,  small  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  and 
add  to  snails  with  a  bean  garlic.  Pour  in  just  enough  white  wine  to 
nearly  cover  snails,  a  pint  broth,  season  with  heaping  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  cover  pan,  boil  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  set  in  oven 
for  two  hours,  remove,  lay  pan  on  table  and  let  slightly  cool  off.  Thor- 
oughly clean  shells  and  wipe  dry,  place  a  snail  in  each  shell  and  arrange 
in  a  baking  dish  with  open  side  up.  Strain  snail  broth  through  cheese- 
cloth into  a  bowl,  and  with  teaspoon  pour  a  very  little  broth  into  each 
shell.  Fill  them  up  with  Bourguignonne  butter,  set  in  oven  for  eight 
minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  same  dish  with  two-tong  forks  or  oyster 
forks. 

3062.  BOURGUIGNONNE  BUTTER 

Place  in  a  mortar  three  sound,  peeled  shallots,  a  half  bean  garlic, 
two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil  and  six  branches  chives.  Thor- 
oughly pound  until  exceedingly  smooth,  add  an  ounce  butter,  half 
saltspoon  salt,  and  briskly  pound  again  for  one  minute.  Press  butter 
through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  three  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
mix  until  well  amalgamated  and  use  as  required. 

3063.    POTATO  CROQUETTES- VANILLA 

Boil  six  medium,  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with 
a  teaspoon  salt  for  thirty-five  minutes,  drain  on  sieve  and  press  through 
potato  masher  into  a  saucepan.  Add  a  saltspoon  salt,  one  and  a  half 
ounces  powdered  sugar,  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  (No.  3036)  and 


9$2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

two  egg  yolks.  Sharply  stir  with  wooden  spoon  on  the  fire  for  three 
minutes,  remove,  place  preparation  in  a  dish  and  let  slightly  cool  off. 
Divide  in  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  sugared  board  into 
cork-like  pieces,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  lightly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  in  a  frying  basket,  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  six  minutes,  lift  up, 
drain  well,  arrange  on  dish  with  folded  napkin,  sprinkle  a  tittle  powdered 
sugar  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage,  Fermiere 

Weakfish  au  Gratin       Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Chicken  Saute,  Morgan  Brussels  Sprouts  (618) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Lamb  (255) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Apple  Meringue  Pie  (732) 

3064.    POTAGE,  FERMIERE 

Pare  and  finely  slice  three  carrots,  two  white  turnips,  an  onion  and 
a  quarter  very  small  sound  white  cabbage.  Put  these  vegetables  in  a 
soup  pot  with  an  ounce  butter,  teaspoon  sugar,  and  cook  to  a  light  brown, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Pour  in  four  quarts  water,  two  teaspoons 
salt,  add  a  two-pound  piece  of  beef  from  short  ribs  or  neck,  and  let  gently 
boil  for  two  and  a  half  hours.  Finely  chop  twelve  well-cleaned  sorrel 
leaves,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  add  to  soup,  lightly  mix 
and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  more.  Remove  beef,  cut  a  quarter  of  the 
lean  meat  only  into  small  squares,  add  again  to  soup,  skim  fat  off  surface, 
pour  soup  into  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  of  toasted  French  bread. 

3065.    WEAKFISH  AU  GRATIN 

Scale,  trim  fins  and  cut  head  off  a  three-pound  fresh  weakfish,  split 
open  through  front,  remove  spinal  bone,  wipe  well,  lay  in  a  lightly 
buttered  baking  dish  skin  side  down,  season  with  level  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  teaspoon  pepper.  Finely  chop  four  sound  shallots,  three  well- 
cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  small  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes.  Dredge  in  a  tablespoon  flour, 
stir  well,  pour  in  a  half  gill  white  wine,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon  and  add  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Mix  briskly 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  sauce  and  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  bread 
crumbs  over  fish,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  on  top,  set  in  oven 
to  bake  for  thirty  minutes,  remove,  place  dish  on  another  and  serve. 

3066.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  MORGAN 

Singe,  cut  off  head  and  feet  of  a  two-and-a-half-pound  tender 
chicken,  draw,  neatly  wipe,  cut  in  twelve  even  pieces,  place  on  a  plate, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  and  turn  pieces 
well  in  seasoning.  Thoroughly  heat  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  in  pieces  of  chicken  one  beside  another  and 
gently  cook  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Lift  up  pieces  with  a  fork, 


TUESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         953 

place  on  a  plate,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  to  pan,  briskly  stir  and  pour 
in  two  gills  milk.  Season  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  each 
cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add 
chicken  with  six  sliced  mushrooms,  one  sliced  truffle,  let  gently  cook  for 
twenty  minutes,  then  place  in  a  deep  dish.  Dilute  on  a  plate  one  egg 
yolk,  a  half  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons  sherry  and  the  juice  of  a  quarter 
lemon.  Add  to  sauce,  sharply  whisk  while  cooking  for  five  minutes, 
strain  sauce  through  a  Chinese  strainer  over  chicken  and  serve. 


Tuesday  Third  Week  of  December 


BREAKFAST 

Grapes  in  Cream  (2369) 

Farina  (74) 

Poached  Eggs,  Hungarian 

Fried  Smelts,  Re"moulade  Sauce 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet  (434) 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (8) 

English  Muffins  (528) 

3067.    POACHED  EGGS,  HUNGARIAN 

Place  in  a  saucepan  two  light  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  add  a  half 
teaspoon  paprika,  saltspoon  salt,  mix  well  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Shift  pan  to  corner  of  range  and  incorporate  little  by  little  a  half  ounce 
good  butter,  continually  mixing  while  adding  it.  Prepare  twelve 
poached  eggs  on  toast  (No.  106),  pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

3068.    FRIED  SMELTS,  REMOULADE  SAUCE 

Thoroughly  wipe  twelve  good-sized,  fresh  smelts,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes.  Take 
up,  drain  well,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  six 
quarters  lemon  and  serve  with  a  remoulade  sauce  (No.  681)  separately. 

LUNCHEON 

Okra  Broth  (2115) 

Crabs,  St.  Laurent  (696) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Philadelphia  (685) 

Pain  de  la  Mecque  (2696) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Oysters  (18)  Caviare  (59) 

Cream  of  Lettuce,  Demidoff 

Fresh  Haddock,  Scotch  Style         Potatoes,  Windsor  (252) 
Lamb  Chops  Breaded,  Mace"doine 

Oyster  Plant,  Poulette  (1129) 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67)        Celery  Mayonnaise  (69) 
Creme  Vanille  au  Parfait 


954  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3069.  CREAM  OF  LETTUCE,  DEMIDOFF 

Prepare  a  chicken  broth  (No.  578),  using  four  quarts  water  in  place 
of  three  quarts,  strain  into  a  vessel  and  keep  until  required.  Remove 
leaves  from  two  heads  lettuce,  as  green  as  possible,  thoroughly  wash  in 
plenty  cold  water,  drain,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter,  a 
tablespoon  sugar,  cook  on  fire  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while, 
then  pour  in  chicken  broth.  Add  a  white  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in 
it,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  two  bay  leaves  and  season 
with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt.  Lightly  mix  and  let  gently  boil  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  .then  pour  in  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  two 
tablespoons  sherry,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  mix  well  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Place  two  ounces  rice  flour  in  a  bowl,  dilute  it  with  half  gill 
cream,  half  ounce  good  butter,  pour  into  soup  and  sharply  whisk  while 
cooking  for  five  minutes.  Strain  soup  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then 
through  cheesecloth  into  tureen,  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons 
(No.  23)  separately. 

3070.  FRESH  HADDOCK,  SCOTCH  STYLE 

Procure  a  three-and-a-half-pound  fresh  haddock,  cut  off  fins,  head 
and  tail,  split  open  through  front  without  separating,  season  inside  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  spread  over  a  half  ounce  melted 
butter  and  fold  up.  Place  on  a  lightly  buttered  tin,  pour  a  very  little 
melted  butter  over,  then  set  in  oven  for  fifty  minutes;  remove,  dress  on 
a  hot  dish,  spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over,  decorate  with  six 
quarters  lemon,  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve. 

3071.    LAMB  CHOPS  BREADED,  MACE"DOINE 

Neatly  trim  and  flatten  six  nice  French  lamb  chops,  season  all  around 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  roll  in  flour,  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons, 
lard  in  a  sautoire,  add  chops  one  beside  another,  gently  fry  for  five  min- 
utes on  each  side  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish  one  overlapping  another.. 
Dress  with  a  macedoine  garnishing  (No.  233)  in  centre,  pour  a  gill  hot 
tomato  sauce  (No.  16)  around,  adjust  a  curled  paper*  at  end  bone  of 
each  chop  and  serve. 

3072.    CREME  VANILLE  AU  PARFAIT 

Prepare  a  pint  (only)  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Place  three  gills 
cream  in  a  copper  basin,  set  on  ice,  sharply  whisk  to  a  stiff  froth  and  let 
rest  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  up  cream  with  skimmer  and  place  in  a 
vessel,  adding  to  it  an  ounce  fine  sugar,  a  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
and  beat  up  for  two  minutes.  Add  half  the  quantity  to  vanilla  in  freezer, 
mix  with  spatula  until  well  amalgamated,  and  divide  in  six  parfait  or 
champagne  glasses.  Slide  a  dentilated  tube  at  bottom  of  a  pastry  bag, 
drop  in  balance  whipped  cream  and  with  it  nicely  decorate  surface  of 
the  six  glasses,  lay  a  candied  cherry  on  top  of  each  and  serve. 


WEDNESDAY,   THIRD  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER       955 
Wednesday,  Third  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Pears  and  Raisins  (2971) 
Germea  (217)  Omelette  Paloise 

Fried  Porgies  (498) 

Tripe  Saute,  Creole  (1283) 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  (50) 

Wheaten  Cakes  (9) 

3073.     OMELETTE  PALOISE 

Rub  lightly  interior  of  a  bowl  with  half  bean  sound  garlic,  then  break 
in  eight  fresh  eggs,  add  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  half  gill 
cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  with 
fork  for  two  minutes.  Plunge  a  sound  green  pepper  in  boiling  water 
for  two  minutes,  take  up  and  skin  with  a  coarse  towel,  seed  and  cut  it  in 
small  square  pieces.  Place  in  a  frying  pan  wifti  an  ounce  raw  lean 
ham  cut  in  small  squares  and  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  then  fry  for 
five  minutes,  tossing  once  in  a  while.  Drop  in  eggs,  briskly  stir  with 
fork  for  two  minutes  and  let  rest  for  a  half  minute ;  fold  up  opposite  sides 
to  meet  in  centre  and  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  (2179) 
Oysters  in  Cases,  Mornay 
Pilaff  of  Turkey,*  Noni  (1874) 
Mince  Pie  (118) 

3074.     OYSTERS  IN  CASES,  MORNAY 

Rub  outsides  of  six  paper  cases  with  a  little  oil,  place  on  a  plate  and 
keep  at  oven  door  until  required.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce  butter 
with  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour  and  heat  for  a  half  minute.  Pour  in 
two  gills  hot  milk,  a  half  gill  cream,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  season  with 
a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  nutmeg,  sharply 
mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  let  slowly  cook  for  six  minutes.  Add 
two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  egg  yolk,  sharply 
mix  for  a  minute  and  keep  hot.  Plunge  thirty-six  freshly  opened  oysters 
with  their  liquor  in  a  pint  boiling  water  with  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  for 
five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve  and  add  to  sauce,  mix  well,  then  equally 
divide  oysters  and  sauce  into  the  six  cases.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  place  cases  on  a  roasting  tin,  set  in  oven  for  ten  min- 
utes, remove,  dress  on  dish  with  a  napkin  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Lyons  Sausage  (582) 

Game  Consomm^  in  Cups 

Flounder  Saute1,  Meuniere  Potatoes  Mignonnes  (2459) 

Broiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce  (1245) 

Braised  Lettuce  (2244) 
Roast  Capon  (378)  Chicory  Salad  (38) 

Economical  Pudding  (485) 
*Use  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday. 


956  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3075.    GAME  CONSOMM£  IN  CUPS 

Cut  head  off  a  fat  grouse,  neatly  draw  and  wipe  well,  place  on  a 
small  roasting  pan,  spread  a  little  butter  over  and  set  in  oven  to  roast 
for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  oven,  cut  grouse  in  very  small  pieces 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pound  piece  each  knuckle  of  veal  and 
shin  of  beef  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  two  leeks, 
two  each  branches  celery  and  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  sprig  thyme, 
bay  leaf,  clove,  blade  of  mace  and  saltspoon  nutmeg.  Pour  in  five 
quarts  water,  season  with  two  teaspoons  salt  and  half  teaspoon  freshly 
crushed  black  peppers,  mix  well  and  let  slowly  boil  for  three  hours, 
being  careful  to  skim  off  fat  once  in  a  while.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  sherry, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  strain  broth  through  a  damp  double  cheese- 
cloth into  six  cups  and  serve. 

3076.  FLOUNDER  SAUTE",  MEUNIERE 

Make  a  light  incision  around  the  head  of  a  fresh  three-pound  flounder 
and  with  a  towel  pull  off  skin  on  both  sides.  Season  all  around  with  a 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  wet  all  over  with  a  little 
cold  milk  and  lightly  roll  in  flour.  Thoroughly  heat  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  add  fish,  fry  for  five 
minutes  on  each  side,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  dress 
on  a  hot  dish,  spread  over  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  squeeze 
over  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon.  Remove  all  fat  from  pan,  add  half 
an  ounce  butter,  shuffle  pan  on  fire  until  butter  attains  a  nice  brown 
colour,  then  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

Thursday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)  Swiss  Mush  (2564) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Franchise 
Sotted    Salt    Mackerel    (107) 

Sausage  Cakes  (2776)  Potatoes,  Failles  (6n) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

3077.  SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  FRANCAISE 

Clip  off  tops  of  six  round  French  rolls,  scoop  out  soft  part  of  each, 
lightly  butter  insides,  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  or  until  a  nice 
golden  colour,  remove  and  keep  hot.  Carefully  crack  eight  fresh  eggs 
in  a  bowl,  add  a  finely  chopped  truffle,  six  chopped  tarragon  leaves, 
a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne,  and  sharply 
beat  up  with  fork  for  a  minute.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  sau- 
toire,  drop  in  eggs,  cook  for  six  minutes,  sharply  stirring  frequently 
meanwhile,  place  rolls  on  a  hot  dish,  fill  up  with  scrambled  eggs  and 
serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Veal  Broth  in  Cups  (1538) 

Scallops,  Wilson 

Mutton  Hash,  Colbert 

Old-fashioned  Rice  Pudding  (140) 


THURSDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER      957 

3078.    SCALLOPS,  WILSON 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops  in  a  bowl  and  squeeze 
in  juice  of  a  sound  lemon.  Add  a  tablespoon  oil,  half  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  level  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly 
turn  scallops  in  seasoning  and  let  infuse  thirty  minutes.  Mix  on  a  plate 
one  and  a  half  ounces  grated  cooked  ham,  one  and  a  half  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives  and  four  tablespoons 
fresh  bread  crumbs.  Dip  scallops  in  beaten  egg,  then  carefully  roll 
them  in  this  mixture,  place  in  a  frying  basket  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  for 
six  minutes.  Lift  up,  drain  well,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  dress  on 
hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  fried  parsley  and  serve. 

3079.    MUTTON  HASH,  COLBERT 

Pick  all  the  meat  off  mutton  left  over  from  yesterday,  cut  it  in  small 
square  pieces,  and  add  half  the  quantity  finely  chopped  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes. Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  a  finely 
chopped  each  onion  and  seeded  green  pepper  and  gently  brown  for 
five  minutes.  Add  mutton  and  potatoes,  season  with  a  teaspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  pour  in  two  gills  broth,  a  gill  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  well, 
cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  fifty  minutes.  Remove,  dress  hash  to  a 
dome-shaped  hot  dish,  lightly  flatten  top,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Olives  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Chicken  Soup,  Bavaroise 
Boiled  Sheepshead,  Shrimp  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Viennoise  (165) 

Chateaubriand,  Seligman  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (30) 

Roast  Quails  on  Canapes  (272) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Walnut  Ice  Cream  (1551) 

3080.    CHICKEN  SOUP,  BAVAROISE 

Cut  head  and  feet  off  a  fowl  of  about  three  pounds,  completely  draw, 
wipe  and  cut  (except  the  carcass)  into  half -inch-square  pieces.  Cut 
in  very  small  squares  the  white  parts  of  two  leeks,  a  sound  onion,  seed- 
less green  pepper  and  two  ounces  raw,  lean  salt  pork,  place  with  fow! 
in  a  saucepan,  add  an  ounce  butter  and  brown  on  fire  for  fifteen  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with  four  pints  water,  one  and 
a  half  pints  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  and  let  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Break  two  ounces  maca- 
roni in  very  short  pieces,  add  to  soup  with  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives 
and  let  boil  continually  for  fifty  minutes.  Place  in  saucepan  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  one  and  a  half  ounces  flour,  and  stir  on  fire  while 
heating  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  two  gills  milk,  one  saltspoon  cayenne, 
one  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  with  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boiling 
point,  then  pour  into  soup.  Mix  well,  allow  to  boil  for  ten  minutes, 
pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 


958  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3081.  BOILED  SHEEPSHEAD,  SHRIMP  SAUCE 
Scale,  cut  off  fins,  wash  and  neatly  wipe  a  fresh  sheepshead  of  five 
to  six  pounds.  Place  in  a  large  saucepan,  pour  in  water  enough  to  cover 
fish,  add  a  half  gill  vinegar,  sliced  carrot,  sliced  onion,  two  branches 
parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  a  level  tablespoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  pan,  let  simmer  for  an  hour,  lift 
up  fish  without  breaking  it,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and 
serve  with  a  shrimp  sauce  (No.  897)  separately. 

3082.  CHATEAUBRIAND,  SELIGMAN 

Remove  a  little  of  the  fat  from  around  a  two-pound  piece  tender- 
loin of  beef,  envelop  in  a  towel  in  upright  position,  flatten  with  a  cleaver 
to  one  and  a  half  inches  in  thickness,  season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  casserole,  lay  in  the  Chateaubriand  and  gently  fry  for  eight 
minutes  on  each  side.  Sprinkle  over  six  small,  finely  chopped  shallots 
and  six  finely  chopped,  well-cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms,  then  pour  in  a 
gill  white  wine  and  place  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  basting 
meanwhile.  Remove  to  oven  door  and  arrange  glazed  chestnuts  (No. 
2795)  around  the  Chateaubriand.  Cut  two  ounces  raw  beef  marrowr 
in  thin  slices,  place  on  top  of  beef,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over,  reset  in 
oven  for  six  minutes,  remove,  cover  casserole  and  serve. 

Friday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Oranges  (104)  Cracked  Wheat  (656) 

Omelette  with  Shrimps 

Butterfish,  Maitre  d 'Hotel  (1821) 

Chicken    Livers    Saute"    with    Madeira 

Sweet  Fried  Potatoes  (116) 

Raisin  Cakes  (1719) 

3083.  OMELETTE  WITH  SHRIMPS 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  fork  for  two 
minutes.  Shell  twelve  cooked  shrimps,  cut  them  in  very  small  pieces 
and  place  in  small  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  sherry,  saltspoon  salt, 
half  saltspoon  pepper,  shuffle  a  little  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Heat 
one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  black  frying  pan,  drop 
in  eggs,  add  shrimps,  sharply  mix  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes  and  let 
rest  for  half  a  minute ;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre  let  rest 
for  a  minute,  turn  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

3084.     CHICKEN  LIVERS  SAUT£  WITH  MADEIRA 
Remove  the  gall  bags  from  fifteen  very  fresh  chicken  livers,  thor- 
oughly wipe,  place  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  turn  well  in  seasoning.     Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter 
in  frying  pan,  arrange  the  livers  in  one  beside  another,  and  briskly  rook 


FRIDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         959 

for  three  minutes  on  each  side.  Pour  in  three  tablespoons  sherry  and 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  add  a  good  gill  demi-glace  (No,  122),  lightly  mix 
and  briskly  cook  for  sjx  minutes,  dress  on  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Broth,  Chantilly  (2073) 

Margot  of  Sheepshead 

Tenderloin  of  Pork,  Lyonnaise 

Macaroni,  Polonaise  (2152) 

Cream  au  Caramel  (480) 

3085.    MARGOT  OF  SHEEPSHEAD 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  sheepshead  left  over  from  yesterday, 
pick  meat  into  small  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required.  Boil 
four  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt 
for  thirty-five  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve  and  press  through  potato  masher 
into  a  sautoire.  Add  fish  with  an  ounce  butter,  two  eggs,  a  gill  cream, 
teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  nutmeg,  teaspoon  freshly 
chopped  parsley,  sharply  stir  on  fire  with  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes, 
remove  and  dress  preparation  in  a  fireproof  dish.  Smooth  the  surface 
to  dome  shape,  spread  yolk  of  an  egg  with  knife  blade  over  surface,  set 
in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3086.    TENDERLOIN  OF  PORK,  LYONNAISE. 

Split  three  fresh  pork  tenderloins  in  two,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  good  lard  in  a 
sautoire,  add  pork  tenderloins  one  beside  another,  cook  for  five  minutes 
on  each  side,  lift  up,  place  on  a  plate  and  keep  hot.  Cut  three  medium- 
sized  white  onions  in  halves,  finely  slice,  add  to  pan  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt,  and  gently  fry  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  stirring  frequently  mean- 
while. Sprinkle  over  a  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well,  pour  in  two  table- 
spoons vinegar  and  a  gill  water.  Mix  well,  lay  tenderloins  on  top  of 
onions,  then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  dress  pork  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  entire  contents  of  pan  over  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Celery  (86)  Canape's  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Pickerel  Soup,  Mariniere 
Fried  Smelts,  Bourgeoise  Potatoes,  Alfonso  (2689) 

Venison  Chops  with  Grapes 
Lima  Beans  with  Fines  Herbes  (2315) 

Asparagus,  Vinaigrette  (2203) 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126)  Romaine  Salad  (214) 

Scotch  Pudding  (420) 

3087.    PICKEREL  SOUP,  MARINIERE 

Wash  and  thoroughly  wipe  a  one-and-a-half-pound  fresh  pickerel, 
split  through  back  and  remove  bones  and  skin  from  filets.  Place  the 


96o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

perfect  meat  in  a  sautoire  with  a  dozen  freshly  opened,  sound  mussels 
and  add  one  gill  white  wine,  half  teaspoon  salt,  cover  with  a  buttered 
paper  and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  cut  fish 
and  mussels  into  small  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required.  Place 
all  trimmings  of  pickerel  in  saucepan  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion, 
two  branches  parsley,  one  sprig  thyme,  two  bay  leaves  and  two  cloves. 
Pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  the  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  a 
teaspoon  salt,  and  let  simmer  for  one  hour. 

Heat  an  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  six  finely  chopped  shallots 
and  fry  for  five  minutes,  tossing  them  once  in  a  while.  Add  an  ounce 
flour  and  stir  well,  then  strain  fish  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  pan, 
season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  pour  in  a  gill  cream,  three  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs,  and  sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  pickerel 
and  mussels  with  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  over  six  slices  of 
freshly  toasted  French  bread  and  serve. 

3088.     FRIED  SMELTS,  BOURGEOISE 

Neatly  wipe  twelve  large,  fresh  smelts  and  place  in  a  dish.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  juice  of  a  sound  lemon  and 
half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  turn  well  in  seasoning  and  let 
infuse  for  thirty  minutes.  Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  roll  smelts 
in  batter,  drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten  minutes,  turning  once  in  a 
while.  Remove,  dress  on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with 
a  re*moulade  sauce  (No.  681)  separately. 

3089.    VENISON  CHOPS  WITH  GRAPES 

Trim  and  neatly  flatten  six  nice  venison  chops.  Place  in  an  earthen 
dish  a  sliced  onion,  two  tablespoons  each  oil  and  vinegar,  a  sprig  thyme, 
crushed  bay  leaf,  teaspoon  each  crushed  black  pepper  and  salt,  turn 
chops  well  in  seasoning  and  let  infuse  for  an  hour,  being  careful  to  turn 
them  once  in  a  while.  Pick  from  stems  a  pound  of  fine  California  white 
grapes,  thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add 
grapes  briskly  fry  for  six  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile,  and 
keep  hot.  Place  chops  on  broiler,  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  grapes  around  and  serve  with  currant  jelly 
separately. 

N.  B. — To-morrow  there  will  be  Tripe  Mode  de  Caen  on  the  bill  for 
luncheon,  and  as  it  takes  a  very  long  time  to  prepare  it  would  be  advis- 
able to  begin  to  prepare  and  cook  it  to-night,  as  explained  in  No.  3092. 

Saturday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Pears  (216)          Barley  with  Cream  (1068) 

Poached  Eggs,  Louise 

Kippered  Herrings  (153) 

Small  Steaks,  Maitre  d'Hotel  (172) 

Potatoes,   Saratoga  (156) 

Curry  Cakes  (1112) 


SATURDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER       961 

3090.    POACHED  EGGS,  LOUISE 

Cut  from  a  sandwich  loaf  twelve  quarter-inch-thick  slices,  then  cut 
in  round  pieces  two  inches  in  diameter,  toast  to  a  nice  golden  colour, 
spread  over  them  a  little  anchovy  paste  and  dress  on-o,  hot  dish.  Pre- 
pare twelve  poached  eggs  (No.  106),  lay  them  on  toasts,  pour  over  a 
Hollandaise  sauce  (No.  26)  and  serve. 


LUNCHEON 

Tomato  Broth  (2059) 

Oysters,  Gianella 

Tripe,  Mode  de  Caen 

German  Apple  Pie  (2579) 

3091.    OYSTERS,  GIANELLA 

Place  thirty-six  freshly  opened  oysters  in  an  enamelled  pan  with 
their  own  liquor,  a  gill  white  wine,  and  let  boil  for  six  minutes.  Lift 
up  with  a  skimmer,  place  in  six  egg-cocotte  dishes,  six  in  each  dish,  and 
skim  scum  off  surface  of  broth  in  which  oysters  were  cooked.  Finely 
chop  six  sound  shallots,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  an  ounce  fresh 
butter,  fry  for  three  minutes,  add  an  ounce  flour,  stir  well,  then  pour  in 
the  broth.  Sharply  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  four  anchovies 
in  oil  cut  in  quarters,  half  teaspoon  each  freshly  chopped  tarragon 
and  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Add  an  egg  yolk,  sharply  mix,  evenly  pour  sauce  over  the  six  dishes, 
lightly  turn  oysters  with  a  fork  and  place  dishes  on  a  tin.  Sprinkle  a 
little  fresh  bread  crumbs  over,  set  to  bake  in  oven  for  six  minutes  or 
until  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove  and  serve. 

3092.    TRIPE,  MODE  DE  CAEN 

Procure  four  pounds  fresh  honeycomb  tripe  and  a  pound  fresh  many- 
plies  tripe  (the  thickest  part)  all  well  washed  in  several  changes  of  fresh 
water  and  well  drained,  and  one  ox-foot,  or  two  calf's  feet  if  ox-foot  is 
not  handy.  Carefully  bone  each  foot  and  cut  it  into  two-inch-square 
pieces.  Have  a  thoroughly  clean  earthen  pot,  line  bottom  and  sides 
with  very  thin  slices  larding  pork  and  place  cut-up  tripe,  etc.,  in  pot. 
Add  two  small,  very  red  carrots,  two  white  onions  with  two  cloves  stuck 
in  and  half  a  sound,  seeded  green  pepper.  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  leeks, 
two  branches  celery,  three  branches  parsley,  two  branches  chervil,  a 
sprig  each  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  blade  mace  and  bay  leaf.  Add  to 
pot,  pour  in  a  half  pint  white  wine,  pint  cider  and  quart  white  broth 
(No.  701).  Season  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper, 
lightly  mix  and  cover  pot.  Prepare  a  stiff  dough  with  a  pound  flour 
and  two  gills  water,  roll  out  on  table  to  length  of  cover,  then  fasten  all 
around  joint  of  pot  and  cover  so  as  to  prevent  evaporation.  Place  pot 
in  a  very  slow  oven  for  fifteen  hours,  lift  up  cover,  carefully  skim  fat  from 


962  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

» 

surface  and  remove  bouquet  of  herbs,  carrots  and  onions.  Finely  chop 
together  six  sound  shallots,  the  red  part  of  a  carrot,  a  bean  sound  garlic, 
two  ounces  raw  ham  and  an  ounce  raw  lean  pork.  Place  this  hash  in 
a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  gently  cook  on  fire  for  five 
minutes,  lightly*  stirring  once  in  a  while,  then  pour  in  a  half  gill  cognac 
and  let  briskly  reduce  until  nearly  dry.  Transfer  contents  of  pot  to 
this  pan,  add  a  gill  pure  tomato  juice,  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  let  cook  rather  slowly  for  forty-five  minutes.  Dress  tripe  on  a  deep 
hot  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  freshly  chopped  parsley  over,  send  to  table 
very  hot,  with  twelve  slices  of  toasted  French  bread,  and  serve  separately. 
N.  B.  After  all  meat  has  been  cut  off  from  ox-foot  or  calf's  feet, 
place  foot  or  feet  in  soup  pot. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Puree  of  Potatoes,  Lucernoise 

Red  Snapper,  Mobile  (571)          Potatoes,  Duchesse  (304) 

Beef  Braise,  Japanese  (2850) 

Cucumbers  Saute  in  Cream 

Roast  Duckling,  Apple  Sauce  (187) 

Doucette  Salad  (189) 
Babas    au    Rhum    (687) 

3093.    PUREE  OF  POTATOES,  LUCERNOISE 

Finely  slice  a  half-pound  piece  raw  lean  veal  from  a  shin,  two  ounces 
raw  ham,  two  white  onions  and  three  leeks,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  an 
ounce  butter  and  fry  on  fire  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while. 
Add  six  large,  peeled,  sliced  raw  potatoes  with  two  branches  parsley, 
one  branch  chervil  and  two  bay  leaves.  Moisten  with  half  gill  white 
wine,  quart  and  a  half  broth  and  quart  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  mix  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes. 
Cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  an  hour  and  thirty  minutes,  remove,  dress 
puree  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into 
another  saucepan.  Place  pan  on  a  brisk  fire,  pour  in  a  gill  cream  and 
half  ounce  good  fresh  butter,  mix  well,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil 
pour  puree  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  sepa- 
rately. 

3094.    CUCUMBERS  SAUTE  IN  CREAM 

Peel  three  medium  cucumbers,  cut  in  two  lengthwise,  remove  seeds, 
spongy  parts,  and  finely  slice.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in 
frying  pan,  add  cucumbers  and  briskly  fry  them  for  five  minutes,  tossing 
meanwhile.  Mix  in  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour, 
mix  well,  pour  in  three-quarters  gill  milk  and  a  gill  cream.  Sharply 
mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  cucumbers,  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  salt- 
spoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg,  thoroughly  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  cook  for  five  minutes,  dress  cucumbers  on  a  hot  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 


SUNDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER         9^3 
Sunday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  (i)  Cero-Fruto  (1610) 

Eggs,  Suzette 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Fines  Herbes  (1204) 
Broiled  Squabs  with  Bacon  (1693) 

Potatoes,  Anna  (84* 
Buckwheat  Cakes  (330; 

3095.    EGGS,  SUZETTE 

Thoroughly  wipe  six  even-sized,  raw,  unpeeled  potatoes,  place  in  a 
small  roasting  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove, 
clip  a  piece  off  surface  of  each,  scoop  out  interiors  and  press  soft  part 
through  potato  masher  into  a  bowl.  Add  a  half  gill  hot  milk,  table- 
spoon butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  and  sharply 
mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  smooth.  Line  the  interiors  and  sides  of 
potatoes  with  preparation,  crack  a  fresh  egg  into  each  potato,  season 
evenly  with  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  pepper,  sprinkle  a  little 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  and  set  in  oven  six  minutes,  remove,  dress 
on  a  dish  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Consomme*  in  Cups  (52) 

Frogs'  Legs,  Bordelaise  (agog) 

Sirloin  Steaks,  Cabaret  (245) 

Omelette,  Celestine  (1799) 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)  Olives 

Cream  of    Rice  au  Cerfeuilles 

Planked  Shad,  Fee  Sliced  Cucumbers  (340) 

Noisettes  of  Lamb,  Matignon 

Tomato  Bock  (2031) 
Sweetbreads  en  Fricandeau  Green  Peas  (35) 

Punch,  Prunelle 

Roast  Grouse,  Currant  Jelly  (167) 
Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Tutti-Frutti  (726) 

3096.    CREAM  OF  RICE  AU  CERFEUILLES 

Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  half  pound  rice  and  place  in  saucepan 
with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701).  Add  a  finely  sliced  onion, 
two  sliced  each  leeks  and  branches  celery  and  a  branch  parsley.  Season 
with  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  lightly  mix,  let  gently  boil  for  one  hour  and  fifteen 
minutes,  remove,  press  rice  through  sieve  into  a  basin  and  strain  it 
through  Chinese  strainer  into  another  saucepan.  Add  two  gills  cream, 
a  half  ounce  good  butter,  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated  nutmeg 
and  three  finely  sliced  branches  fresh  chervil.  Place  pan  on  a  brisk 
fire,  continually  mix  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  cream  into  a  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 


964  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3097.    PLANKED  SHAD,  FEE 

Procure  a  very  fresh  three-and-a-half -pound  shad,  scale,  wipe  and 
split  open  through  front  without  separating.  Remove  spinal  bone, 
neatly  pare  all  around  and  make  a  few  light  incisions  on  skin  side.  Mix 
in  a  bowl  a  light  tablespoon  butter,  three  saltspoons  paprika,  a  half 
teaspoon  curry  powder,  teaspoon  anchovy  paste,  juice  of  half  a  sound 
lemon  and  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  With  this  prepara- 
tion carefully  rub  fish  both  inside  and  out  and  let  infuse  for  thirty  min- 
utes, frequently  rubbing  meanwhile.  Oil  surface  of  an  oak  planking- 
board  and  place  shad  on  top,  skin  side  down,  spread  all  the  butter  over 
and  set  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Bring  to  oven  door,  sprinkle 
grated  white  part  ("fibres")  of  a  small  fresh  cocoanut  over  and  reset  in 
oven  for  ten  minutes  more.  Remove,  place  board  on  dish  with  a  folded 
napkin,  decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  a  little  parsley  greens 
and  serve. 

3098.    NOISETTES  OF  LAMB,  MATIGNON 

Procure  six  thick  lamb  chops  and  cut  off  end  bones  so  as  to  have 
loin  part  almost  round.  Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Cut  into  fine,  short  julienne 
strips  a  small  red  carrot,  small  white  onion,  two  branches  celery,  six  well- 
cleaned,  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  half  ounce 
butter,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  a  gill  white  wine, 
and  lightly  mix.  Cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  forty  mintues,  remove, 
add  a  small  truffle  cut  in  julienne  shape  and  an  ounce  cooked  ham  cut 
in  same  way.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  boil 
for  two  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in 
frying  pan,  place  in  noisettes  one  beside  another  and  gently  fry  for  four 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  entire  contents 
of  saucepan  over  noisettes  and  serve. 

3099.    SWEETBREADS  EN  FRICANDEAU 

Soak  six  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two  hours,  remove, 
plunge  in  two  quarts  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  drain  and  neatly  trim  them.  Cut  from  a  piece  of  larding  pork 
twenty-four  thin  strips  one  inch  long,  and  with  aid  of  a  small  larding 
needle  insert  strips  on  surface  of  the  six  breads.  Place  all  trimmings  of 
lard  in  a'small  sautoire,  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  branch  par- 
sley, bay  leaf,  clove,  ounce  raw  ham  cut  in  pieces,  and  lay  breads  over. 
Season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  lightly  baste 
with  melted  butter  and  set  on  the  fire  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with 
half  gill  white  wine,  let  reduce  to  a  glaze,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
broth  (No.  701)  and  cover  breads  with  a  buttered  paper.  When  thor- 
oughly boiling  set  sautoire  in  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove,  lift 
up  breads  with  a  fork,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Skim  fat 
off  surface  of  gravy,  strain  through  cheesecloth  into  another  saucepan 
and  briskly  boil  on  open  fire  for  six  minutes.  Add  a  gill  demi-glace 
(No.  122),  one  tablespoon  capers,  boil  for  five  minutes  more,  pour  sauce 
and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  over  breads  and  serve. 


CHRISTMAS  DAY  965 

3100.    PUNCH  PRUNELLE 

Prepare  lemon  ice  (No. 3 7 6), pour  in  freezer  two  tablespoons  prunelle 
liquor,  sharply  mix  with  spatula,  then  divide  punch  in  six  sherbet 
glasses  and  serve. 

Christmas,  December  25th  (Extra) 
BREAKFAST 

Baked  Apples  (44)          Oatmeal  Porridge  (2) 
Omelette  du  Retardeur 

Sardines,  Meuniere 

Mutton  Chops,  Anchovy  Butter 

Potatoes  au  Gratin,  Estragon 

Vanilla  Cakes 

3101.    OMELETTE  DU  RETARDEUR 

Break  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  basin,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  two  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  cheese,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  of 
pepper,  and  sharply  whisk  for  three  minutes. 

Cut  three  thin  slices  lean  bacon  in  very  small  pieces,  place  in  a  large 
black  frying  pan  with  half  ounce  good  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  three 
minutes.  Drop  in  eggs,  briskly  stir  with  a  fork  for  two  minutes  and 
let  rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre,  let 
rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

3102.     SARDINES,  MEUNIERE 

Open  can  of  twelve  sardines,  place  on  a  clean  cloth  and  wipe  well. 
Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  carefully 
place  sardines  in  pan  one  beside  another  without  breaking,  briskly  fry 
for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Add  a 
half  ounce  butter  to  pan,  fry  on  fire  until  a  nice  brown  Colour,  squeeze 
in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  add  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley,  lightly  mix,  pour  over  sardines  and  serve. 

3103.    MUTTON  CHOPS,  ANCHOVY  BUTTER 

Neatly  trim  and  lightly  flatten  six  French  mutton  chops.  Mix  on 
plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly 
turn  chops  in  it,  place  on  a  broiler,  broil  for  four  minutes  on  each  side 
and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Spread  a  little  anchovy  butter  (No.  62)  over 
chops,  adjust  a  curled  paper  at  end  bone  of  each  chop  and  serve. 

3104.    POTATOES  AU  GRATIN,  ESTRAGON 

Cut  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  square  pieces,  place  in  an 
enamelled  pan  with  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  tarragon,  half  ounce 
good  butter,  gill  milk,  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons 
pepper,  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  place  on  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Transfer  potatoes  into  a  baking  dish, 


966  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 


sprinkle  a  tablespoon  Swiss  cheese  over,  arrange  a  few  little  bits  of  butter 
on  top,  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3105.    VANILLA  CAKES 

Prepare  flannel  cake  preparation  (No.  136),  add  to  batter  a  half 
teaspoon  vanilla  essence  (No.  3236)  and  proceed  to  make  cakes  exactly 
the  same. 

LUNCHEON 

Chicken  Broth,  Tomate 

Lobster,  Hollandaise  Vert-Pre 

Devilled  Spring  Turkey  with  Ham 

String  Bean   Noisettes 
Charlotte  Russe  au  Cafe  (2674) 

3106.     CHICKEN  BROTH,  TOMATE" 

Prepare  a  chicken  broth  (No.  578),  pour  in  two  gills  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6),  boil  for  five  minutes,  divide  broth  into  six  cups  and  serve. 

3107.    LOBSTER,  HOLLANDAISE  VERT-PRE" 

Plunge  three  one-pound  live  lobsters  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water 
with  a  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  half  gill  vinegar,  and  boil 
for  twenty  minutes.  Lift  up,  thoroughly  drain,  detach  claws  from 
bodies  and  lightly  crack,  split  bodies  in  two  lengthwise,  remove  gravel 
pouch  from  heads  and  dress  on  a  dish.  Decorate  all  around  with  parsley 
greens  and  serve  with  a  Hollandaise  vert-pre  (No.  2705)  separately. 

3108.    DEVILLED  SPRING  TURKEY  WITH  HAM 

Singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  fine  tender  spring  turkey  of  five  pounds, 
split  open  through  back  without  separating,  draw,  pull  out  breast  bone 
and  cut  away  spinal  bone.  Envelop  the  turkey  in  a  coarse  towel, 
flatten  with  a  cleaver,  season  all  around  with  a  heavy  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  pepper,  and  rub  bird  all  over  with  a  tablespoon  oil.  Arrange  on 
a  double  broiler,  set  to  slowly  broil  for  ten  minutes  on  each  side,  then 
remove  to  table.  Spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  u)  on  both  sides, 
lightly  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  reset  on  broiler,  broil  for  two  minutes 
on  each  side  again,  remove  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish.  Cut  six  very  thin 
slices  Virginia  ham,  broil  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  place  over 
turkey  and  serve. 

3109.     STRING  BEAN  NOISETTES 

Open  a  pint  can  string  beans,  remove  all  the  water,  drop  them  in  a 
pint  boiling  water  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  five  minutes  and 
thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve.  Place  an  ounce  butter  in  a  black  frying 
pan  and  shuffle  pan  on  fire  until  it  attains  a  nice  brown  colour.  Add 
the  beans  with  a  half  teaspoon  vinegar,  three  saltspoons  salt  and  two 
saltspoons  pepper,  toss  well  while  heating  for  one  minute,  dress  on  a 
vegetable  dish  and  serve. 


CHRISTMAS  DAY  907 

DINNER 

Orange  Oyster  Cocktails 
Celery  (86)  Olives  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Consomme1,  White  House 
Terrapin,  Baltimore  Chicken  Saute\  Souvenir 

French  Flageolets  au  Beurre  (95) 
Mignons  of  Beef,  Immacule"  Fresh  Mushrooms  sur  Cloche 

Punch,  New  Century 
Canvasback  Duck,  Currant  Jelly 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Christmas  Ice  Cream  Presidential  Patience 

3110.  ORANGE  OYSTER  COCKTAILS 

Neatly  wipe  three  even,  medium-sized,  red  oranges,  cut  in  halves, 
then  scoop  out  meat,  including  white  skin,  without  disturbing  shells. 
Place  the  six  half  shells  on  six  small  oyster  plates  and  arrange  finely 
shaved  ice  around  up  to  two-thirds  the  height  of  shells  so  as  to  have 
them  stand  firm. 

Place  forty-eight  freshly  opened  bluepoint  oysters  in  a  bowl,  add 
six  drops  Tabasco  sauce,  six  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  half  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce,  a  teaspoon  freshly  grated  horseradish  and  two 
tablespoons  Dumas  sauce  (No.  19).  Mix  all  well  together,  evenly 
divide  oysters  into  the  six  shells  and  serve  with  a  teaspoon  on  each 
plate. 

3111.  CONSOMM£,  WHITE  HOUSE 

Prepare  a  consomme  (No.  52),  strain  into  another  saucepan  and  keep 
it  simmering.  Boil  an  ounce  rice  in  a  half  pint  water  for  ten  minutes, 
thoroughly  drain  on  sieve  and  add  to  consomme*.  Thoroughly  wash  and 
drain  on  a  sieve  two  ounces  Brazilian  tapioca,  gradually  add  to  con- 
somme*, continually  mixing  while  adding,  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes, 
mixing  at  bottom  once  in  a  while.  Add  three  tablespoons  canned  green 
peas,  two  tablespoons  sherry,  lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes,  pour 
consomme*  into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

3112.    TERRAPIN,  BALTIMORE 

Plunge  a  large  diamond-back  terrapin  in  boiling  water  for  two 
minutes,  take  up  and  with  a  coarse  towel  pull  off  skin  from  the  head, 
neck  and  feet.  Place  terrapin  in  a  saucepan  containing  two  gallons 
boiling  water  and  one  tablespoon  salt,  let  boil  for  an  hour,  or  until  feet 
are  soft  to  the  touch,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  let  drain  for  ten  minutes. 
Remove  both  shells,  cut  off  nails  with  a  pair  of  scissors  and  take  out 
intestines,  also  gall  bag  from  liver,  being  very  careful  not  to  break  it, 
as  that  would  be  sufficient  to  spoil  terrapin.  Cut  liver  in  small  squares 
and  keep  on  a  plate  with  the  eggs  until  required. 

Cut  all  the  meat  and  bones  of  terrapin  into  half-inch  pieces  and 
place  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  gill  sherry,  two  tablespoons  port  wine 
and  a  tablespoon  brandy.  Tie  in  a  small  cheesecloth  a  half  sprig 


968  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

thyme,  crushed  bay  leaf,  clove,  blade  mace,  and  twelve  allspice, 
add  to  terrapin  and  season  with  a  good  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons 
cayenne,  cover  pan  and  let  gently  cook  for  forty-five  minutes.  Take  up 
cloth  with  herbs,  add  a  truffle  cut  into  very  small  squares,  the  liver, 
eggs,  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  lightly  mix  and  let  gently 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Shift  pan  to  a  corner  of  range,  mix  in  little  by 
little  an  ounce  fresh  butter,  shuffle  pan  while  adding,  transfer  terrapin 
to  a  chafing  dish  or  silver  soup  tureen  and  serve. 

3113.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  SOUVENIR 

Singe,  cut  off  heads  and  feet  of  two  one-and-a-half-pound  spring 
chickens,  remove  legs,  wings,  breasts,  and  second  joint  bones  from  legs, 
season  with  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Heat  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a  sautoire,  arrange  in  legs  and  breasts 
one  beside  another  and  gently  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Cut  in 
julienne  shape  the  rind  of  half  a  sound  orange,  twelve  canned  mushrooms 
and  three  canned  sweet  Spanish  red  peppers  and  add  to  chicken.  Pour 
in  a  gill  white  wine,  gently  mix,  let  sauce  reduce  on  fire  to  one-third  the 
quantity,  then  add  two  gills  tomato  sauce  (No.  16),  with  twelve  tarragon 
leaves,  lightly  mix  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  carefully  shuffling  pan  once 
in  a  while.  Dress  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  boil  sauce  on  fire  for  five  minutes 
and  pour  over  it,  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  fresh  parsley  on  top 
and  serve. 

3114.    MIGNONS  or  BEEF,  IMMACULE" 

Neatly  trim  a  two-pound  piece  filet  of  beef,  cut  it  in  six  even  filets 
and  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly 
heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  the  mignons,  briskly 
cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  and  keep  hot.  Prepare  six 
round  toasts,  two  inches  in  diameter  and  half  inch  thick,  butter  on  both 
sides,  place  on  a  tin  and  set  in  oven  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Remove, 
spread  a  teaspoon  pate  de  foie  gras  over  each,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  place 
mignons  and  spread  evenly  a  Bearnaise  sauce  (No.  34)  over  them,  place 
two  thin  strips  truffles  cross-like  over  all  and  serve. 

3115.    FRESH  MUSHROOMS  SUR  CLOCHE 

Cut  off  the  tails,  peel  and  thoroughly  wash  a  pound  even-sized,  very 
fresh  mushrooms  and  drain  on  a  cloth.  Arrange  in  a  sautoire  with  an 
ounce  butter,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  gently 
fry  for  six  minutes,  frequently  tossing  meanwhile.  Prepare  six  round 
toasts  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter,  place  each  toast  in  a  shirred- 
egg  dish,  evenly  divide  mushrooms  over  the  six  toasts  and  cover  with  six 
mushroom  bell  glasses.  Place  one  and  a  half  gills  cream  in  a  bowl  and 
add  two  tablespoons  sherry,  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne 
and  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well,  pour  cream  evenly  in  dishes  around  the 
bells,  set  in  oven  with  door  open  for  ten  minutes,  remove,  wipe  al) 
around  and  serve. 


CHRISTMAS  DAY  969 

3116.    PUNCH,  NEW  CENTURY 

Prepare  an  orange  punch  (No.  1229),  strain  a  half  pint  preserved 
strawberries  through  a  sieve  into  freezer,  pour  in  two  tablespoons  rum, 
thoroughly  mix  with  spatula,  divide  punch  into  six  sherbet  glasses  and 
serve. 

3117.    CANVASBACK  DUCK,  CURRANT  JELLY 

Pick,  singe,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  two  fine,  fat  canvasback  ducks, 
season  inside  of  each  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  evenly  divided,  then  run  in  the 
head  from  the  back  of  each  duck.  Nicely  truss,  place  a  small  branch 
celery  inside  of  each  bird  and  lay  in  a  roasting  pan.  Spread  a  teaspoon 
of  melted  butter  on  the  breast  of  each,  sprinkle  a  very  little  salt  over 
them,  set  in  brisk  oven  to  roast  for  sixteen  to  eighteen  minutes,  remove, 
untruss,  take  out  celery  from  interior  of  each  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish. 
Skim  fat  off  surface  of  gravy  and  drop  in  two  tablespoons  hot  water, 
lightly  mix  and  boil  on  range  for  one  minute,  strain  gravy  over  ducks 
and  serve  with  six  pieces  fried  hominy  (No.  37)  and  currant  jelly  sepa- 
separately. 

3118.  CHRISTMAS  ICE  CREAM 

Prepare  a  pint  only  vanilla  ice  cream  (No.  42).  Place  two  gills 
thick  cream  in  a  copper  basin,  set  basin  on  ice,  sharply  whisk  cream 
to  stiff  froth,  add  an  ounce  powdered  sugar,  briskly  beat  up  for  two 
minutes  longer,  add  to  vanilla  with  two  tablespoons  maraschino  and 
mix  well  with  spatula.  Beat  up  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
adding  two  tablespoons  fine  sugar,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  and  gently 
mix.  Place  a  pint  milk  in  a  small  sautoire  with  an  ounce  sugar,  let  come 
to  a  boil,  take  up  the  egg-whites  preparation  by  spoonfuls,  drop  into 
boiling  milk  and  let  boil  for  two  minutes.  Carefully  turn  over,  cook  for 
two  minutes  more,  lift  up  with  skimmer,  place  on  a  cloth  and  let  thor- 
oughly cool  off.  Line  bottom  of  a  quart-brick  ice-cream  mould  with  a 
sheet  of  paper,  drop  in  half  the  quantity  of  ice-cream  preparation  and 
arrange  eggs  crosswise  on  top  of  vanilla.  Drop  in  balance  of  vanilla, 
arrange  another  sheet  of  paper  on  top,  tightly  cover  brick,  bury  it  in 
ice-cream  tub  with  broken  ice  and  rock  salt  around  and  let  freeze  for  one 
and  a  half  hours.  Remove,  immerse  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  seconds, 
take  out,  wipe  all  around,  unmould,  remove  papers,  turn  on  cold  dish 
over  a  napkin  and  serve. 

3119.  PRESIDENTIAL  PATIENCE 

Place  a  half  pound  sifted  flour  in  a  large  bowl,  break  in  a  fresh  egg, 
the  whites  of  four,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  an  ounce  grated  sweet 
chocolate,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  spatula  for  four  minutes.  Slide  a 
half-inch  tube  into  pastry  bag  and  drop  in  preparation.  Lightly  butter 
and  flour  a  pastry  tin,  press  paste  into  tin  in  chesnut-like  forms,  keeping 
them  apart,  and  place  on  one  side  in  a  dry,  warm  place  for  an  hour, 
Set  in  a  brisk  oven  for  about  eight  minutes,  or  until  an  exceedingly  good 
golden  colour,  remove,  let  stand  on  table  for  a  few  minutes,  detach  from 
pan  with  a  knife  blade,  place  on  a  compotier  and  serve. 


970  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Monday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Pineapples  (407) 

Cream  of  Wheat  (1603) 

Poached  Eggs,  Virginia 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  (311) 

Lamb  Kidneys  en  Brochette  (1331) 

Potatoes,  Allumettes  (196) 

Cocoanut  Cakes  (423) 

3120.    POACHED  EGGS,  VIRGINIA 

Broil  six  even,  very  thin  slices  of  Virginia  ham  for  one  minute  on  each 
side,  remove  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Prepare  twelve  poached  eggs 
(No.  1 06),  but  without  toasts,  lay  over  ham  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Celery  Broth  (951) 
Stuffed  Devilled  Crabs  (10) 

Vendali  Curry 
Apple  Fritters  (203) 

3121.    VENDALI  CURRY 

Cut  into  half -inch-square  pieces  an  onion,  two  shallots,  a  seedless 
green  pepper,  seeded  tomato,  cored  apple  and  bean  sound  garlic.  Melt 
a  heavy  tablesoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  above  articles,  sprinkle 
over  two  tablespoons  flour,  lightly  stir,  then  add  a  pound  each  raw  lean 
veal  and  pork  cut  into  one-inch  squares,  and  half  a  sound,  seeded  egg- 
plant cut  in  three-quarter-inch  squares.  Season  with  teaspoon  curry 
powder,  a  saltspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well,  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile,  and  moisten  with  a  pint  of 
broth  or  water,  Tie  in  a  bunch  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil, 
sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf,  clove,  add  to  pan,  mix  well,  cover  pan  and 
boil  for  five  minutes,  then  set  in  oven  for  one  hour,  being  careful  to  mix 
once  in  a  while.  Remove,  take  up  bouquet,  add  white  fibres  (meat)  of  a 
medium,  grated,  fresh  cocoanut,  mix  well,  cook  for  six  minutes,  dress 
curry  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  a  boiled  rice  (No.  490)  around  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Caviare  (59) 

Potage,  Belgium 
Codfish  Steaks,  Anchovy  Butter  (2840) 

Potatoes.  Ancienne  (1391) 
Saddle  of  Lamb  Braise"  aux  Racines  (2288) 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin  (1329) 
Roast  Chicken  with  Cress  (290) 

Escarole  Salad  (too) 
Valois  Pudding,  Malaga  Sabayon  Sauce 


TUESDAY,  FOURTH   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        971 

3122.  POTAGE,  BELGIUM 

Cut  two  white  onions  in  halves,  finely  slice  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
with  three  finely  sliced  fresh  leeks,  an  ounce  butter  and  brown  for 
fifteen  minutes,  stirring  quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Add  four  finely 
sliced,  peeled  raw  potatoes,  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth 
(No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and  salt- 
spoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  well  and  let  boil  for  forty-five  minutes. 
Add  a  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix,  pour  soup  into 
tureen,  sprinkle  an  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over,  set  in  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3123.  VALOIS  PUDDING 

Place  two  ounces  butter  in  bowl,  beat  it  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  one  by  one  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  sharply  beating 
while  adding  them.  Add  the  grated  rind  of  a  sound  orange,  two  ounces 
each  sugar  and  flour,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  and  gently  mix  with 
skimmer.  Beat  up  whites  of  the  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to 
preparation  and  gently  mix  with  skimmer.  Lightly  butter  and  flour  a 
plain  pudding  mould,  drop  in  preparation,  place  in  a  saucepan,  pour 
in  hot  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  mould,  then  set  in  oven  for  forty 
minutes.  Remove,  unmould  pudding  on  a  large  dish,  pour  a  Malaga 
Sabayon  sauce  over  and  serve. 

3124.    MALAGA  SABAYON  SAUCE 

Prepare  a  Sabayon  sauce  (No.  102),  pour  in  two  tablespoons  Malaga 
or  good  sherrv,  mix  well  and  use  as  required. 

Tuesday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Figs  (2840) 

Wheatena  (1298) 
Omelette  with  Beef  Marrow 

Broiled  Pickerel 

Sausages  with  Fried  Apples  (2473) 
Small  Brioches  (878) 

3125.     OMELETTE  WITH  BEEF  MARROW 

Crack  eight  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  half  gill  cream,  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  salt  spoons  pepper,  and  sharply  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two  min- 
utes. Cut  two  ounces  beef  marrow  into  small  square  pieces  and  plunge  in 
hot  water  for  two  minutes,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  place  in  frying  pan 
with  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  five  minutes.  Sprinkle 
over  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  toss 
well  ind  drop  in  eggs.  Mix  with  fork  while  cooking  for  two  minutes 
and  la  rest  for  half  a  minute;  fold  up  opposite  sides  to  meet  in  centre 
and  let  rest  for  a  minute,  turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 


972  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3126.    BROILED  PICKEREL 

Cut  head  and  fins  off  a  fresh  three-pound  pickerel,  split  in  two 
through  the  back  and  remove  spinal  bone.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil, 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  repeatedly  turn  fish  in  seasoning, 
arrange  on  a  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  little  maitre  d 'hotel  butter  over,  decorate 
with  a  little  parsley  greens  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Broth,  Tomate" 
Soft  Clams,  Vaudeville  (932) 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Smothered  Onions  (1342) 

Potatoes,  Garfield  (1843) 

French  Pancakes  (17) 

3127.    OYSTER  BROTH  TOMATE" 

Prepare  oyster  broth  (No.  1090),  pour  in  a  gill  tomato  sauce 
(No.  16),  boil  five  minutes,  pour  it  into  six  cups  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Oysters  (18)        Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Potage,  Porto  Rico 

Salmon,  Bien  Potatoes,  Chateau  (208) 

Venison  Steaks  with  Raisins 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  (230) 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (392) 

Romaine  Salad  (214) 
Charlotte    Plombiere  (1834) 

3128.    POTAGE,  PORTO  Rico 

Finely  slice  a  carrot,  two  onions,  two  branches  celery,  a  branch 
parsley,  six  fresh  okras,  three  sound  bananas,  and  quarter  pound  raw, 
lean  ham.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  in  saucepan,  add 
above  articles  and  gently  brown  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while, 
sprinkle  over  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  while  heating  for  three 
minutes.  Pour  in  a  quart  crushed  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  and  two 
quarts  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  lightly  mix  and  let  slowly  boil  for  an  hour.  Remove,  press 
potage  through  sieve  into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into 
another  saucepan  and  set  on  the  fire.  Add  milk  and  grated  white  part 
of  a  cocoanut,  mix  well,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen 
and  serve. 

-3129.     SALMON,  BIEN 

Place  three  three-quarter-pound  slices  salmon  in  a  sautoire  with  an 
ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon,  a  branch 
parsley,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover  fish  with  a 
buttered  paper,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove  and  take  up  paper.  Carefully  dress  salmon,  place  on  a  hot  dish, 
decorate  with  a  little  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  a  Hollandaise- 
Bien  sauce  separately. 


WEDNESDAY,  FOURTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER     973 

).      liOLLANDAISE-BlEN   SAUCE 

Place  in  an  enamelled  saucepan  one  teaspoon  freshly  crushed  whole 
white  pepper,  one  sound  shallot,  one  small  branch  each  fresh  parsley 
and  chervil  and  the  rind  of  a  quarter  sound  lemon.  Pour  in  three- 
quarters  gill  good  vinegar,  let  slowly  reduce  on  fire  to  one-fourth  the 
quantity,  strain  through  cheesecloth  into  a  bowl,  add  two  fresh  egg 
yolks  and  sharply  whisk  for  a  minute.  Place  in  a  saucepan  containing 
boiling  water  up  to  half  the  height  of  bowl,  and  briskly  whisk  yolks  for 
three  minutes.  Pour  in  drop  by  drop  a  half  gill  hot  clarified  Gutter, 
sharply  whisking  while  adding,  also  drop  by  drop  three  tablespoons 
thick  cream,  whisking  briskly  meanwhile.  Season  with  two  saltspoons 
salt,  half  saltspoon  cayenne,  mix  well,  strain  sauce  through  cheesecloth 
into  a  sauce  bowl  and  serve. 

3131.    VENISON  STEAKS  WITH  RAISINS 

Procure  six  five-ounce  venison  steaks  and  season  all  over  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  sautoire,  arrange  the  steaks  in  one  beside  another  and 
briskly,  cook  on  the  open  fire  for  two  minutes  on  each  side,  lift  up  and 
keep  hot  on  a  plate.  Remove  fat  from  pan,  add  two  tablespoons  currant 
jelly,  stir  on  fire  until  melted,  then  pour  in  two  tablespoons  sherry  and 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122).  Add  two  ounces  seeded 
California  raisins,  mix  well  and  let  gently  boil  for  six  minutes.  Add 
steaks  one  beside  another  and  cook  for  six  minutes,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

Wednesday,  Fourth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Grape  Fruit  (130)          Oatmeal  Porridge  (a) 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Henry 

Fried  Filet  of  Sole  (487) 

Lamb  Hash,*  Brown  (856) 

Flannel  Cakes  (136) 

3132.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  HENRY 

Plunge  a  sound  green  pepper  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes, 
take  out,  pull  off  skin  with  a  coarse  towel,  remove  seeds  and  finely  mince. 
Cut  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham  in  thin  julienne  strips,  place  in  a 
sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  tossing  once 
in  a  while.  Add  two  medium,  seeded,  peeled,  finely  chopped  tomatoes, 
season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  cook  six  minutes,  gently  tossing 
meanwhile.  Break  eight  fresh  eggs  over,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  and  set  in  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove, 
place  sautoire  on  range,  mix  eggs  and  ingredients  thoroughly,  dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

*Use  the  lamb  left  over  from  yesterday. 


974  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Consomm^  in  Cups  (52) 

Stuffed  Oysters  (1102) 

Veal  Cutlets,  Milanaise  (351) 

Baked  Apples  (44) 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Olives 

Potage  aux  Herbes  Li6 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Mignonette  (1558) 

Potatoes,  Hollandaise  (26) 

Mignons    of    Beef,    Strasser 

Brussels  Sprouts  and  Chestnuts  (3018) 

Broiled     Mallard     Ducks,     Orange     Sauce 

Chicory  Salad  (38) 
Gateau,  Lyonnaise  (585) 


3133.    POTAGE  AUX  HERBES 

Remove  stems  from  a  quart  fresh  sorrel,  carefully  wash  and  thor- 
oughly drain  on  a  sieve.  Pick  green  leaves  from  two  heads  fresh  lettuce, 
wash  and  drain,  then  cut  both  sorrel  and  lettuce  in  julienne  strips,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  two  branches  each  finely  sliced  parsley  and  chervil, 
an  ounce  butter,  and  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring 
meanwhile.  Pour  in  two  and  a  half  quarts  broth  (No.  701),  season  with 
a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  each  pepper  and  sugar,  lightly  mix  and 
let  slowly  boil  for  one  hour.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  gill  cream,  an  egg  yolk, 
juice  of  a  quarter  lemon  and  add  to  soup.  Mix  well  while  heating 
five  minutes,  pour  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve  with  six  slices  toasted 
French  bread  separately. 

3134.    MIGNONS  OF  BEEF,  STRASSER 

Neatly  trim  a  two-pound  piece  tenderloin  of  beef,  then  cut  it  in  six 
equal  pieces.  Season  all  around  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required.  Cut  six  sound  red  tomatoes 
into  quarters,  place  on  a  plate,  remove  seeds,  then  season  with  a  level 
teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  sugar,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  half 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Gently  turn  pieces  in  seasoning  and  roll 
in  frying  batter  (No.  204),  then  drop  in  boiling  fat  and  fry  for  ten 
minutes,  turning  with  skimmer  once  in  a  while,  lift  up,  neatly  trim  and 
keep  hot.  Cut  off  tails  and  peel  six  large  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a 
sautoire  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and  fry  for  three  minutes  on 
each  side.  Sprinkle  over  three  saltspoons  salt,  pour  in  two  tablespoons 
sherry,  let  cook  for  two  minutes  and  keep  on  corner  of  range.  Thor- 
oughly heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  arrange  in  filets 
one  beside  another  and  briskly  cook  for  three  minutes  on  each  side. 
Remove  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish  over  six  freshly  prepared  toasts  the  size 
of  filets,  crown-like,  place  tomatoes  in  centre  and  arrange  mushrooms  on 
top  of  filets.  Place  six  very  thin  slices  freshly  broiled  bacon  around 
filets,  add  a  half  ounce  butter  to  pan  in  which  mignons  were  cooked, 
toss  on  fire  until  of  a  nice  brown  colour,  evenly  pour  over  filets  and  serve. 


THURSDAY,  FIFTH   WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        975 

3135.    BROILED  MALLARD  DUCKS,  ORANGE  SAUCE 

Pick  and  singe  two  fine,  fat  Mallard  ducks,  cut  off  necks  and  feet, 
split  open  through  back  without  separating,  neatly  draw,  then  wrap  in 
a  coarse  towel  and  neatly  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Mix  on  a  plate  two 
tablespoons  oil,  a  teaspoon  celery  salt  and  half  teaspoon  black  pepper, 
repeatedly  turn  ducks  in  it,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for 
seven  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with  six 
freshly  prepared  toasts,  spread  a  half  tablespoon  butter  over,  decorate 
with  a  little  watercress,  six  quarters  lemon  and  serve  with  an  orange 
sauce  (No.  2701)  separately. 


Thursday,  Fifth  Week  of  December 


BREAKFAST 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Raisins  (2920) 

Swiss  Mush  (2564) 

Shirred  Eggs,  Fines  Herbes 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast  (740) 

Mutton  Liver,  Minute  Potatoes,  Julienne  (799) 

Fried  Cornmeal  Cakes  (1585) 

3136.    SHIRRED  EGGS,  FINES  HERBES 

Finely  chop  together  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  ten 
branches  chives  and  six  tarragon  leaves.  Lightly  butter  six  shirred-egg 
dishes,  evenly  sprinkle  with  fines  herbes  and  carefully  crack  two  fresh 
eggs  in  each  dish.  Season  evenly  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  salt- 
spoons  pepper,  equally  divide  a  gill  hot  demi-glace  (No.  122)  over,  set 
in  oven  for  five  minutes,  remove,  arrange  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

3137.    MUTTON  LIVER,  MINUTE 

Procure  twelve  thin  slices  fresh  mutton  liver,  place  on  a  plate,  season 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  moisten  with  cold 
milk,  then  roll  in  flour.  Heat  two  tablespoons  good  leaf  lard  in  a  frying 
pan,  arrange  in  the  livers  one  beside  another  and  briskly  cook  for  one 
and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of 
half  a  sound  lemon  and  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley 
over.  Remove  all  the  fat  from  pan,  add  half  ounce  butter,  shuffle  on 
fire  until  a  light  brown,  pour  it  over  livers  and  serve. 

LUNCHEON 

Beetroot  Broth  with  Cream 

Lobster  Patties,  Augusta  (1612) 

Chicken  Pot  Pie  (159) 

Pear  Charlotte  (474) 


976  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3138.    BEETROOT  BROTH  WITH  CREAM 

Prepare  a  beetroot  broth  (No.  2179),  adding  a  gill  thick  cream,  heat 
for  two  minutes,  divide  in  six  cups  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Radishes  (58)  Oysters  (18)  Salted  Almonds  (954) 

Cream  of  Green  Peas,  St.  Cloud 
Smelts,  Toulouse  (1200)  Potatoes,  Bohemienne  (1314) 

Duckling,  Rouennaise 
Soubrics  of  Spinach  (2621)  Roast  Ribs  of  Beef  (126) 

Lettuce  Salad  (148) 
Chocolate  Pudding  (190) 

3139.    CREAM  OF  GREEN  PEAS,  ST.  CLOUD 

Open  a  quart  can  green  peas,  drain  off  water,  place  and  pound  in 
mortar  to  a  paste. .  Finely  slice  two  ounces  raw  lean  bacon,  an  ounce 
raw  lean  ham,  a  white  onion,  two  leeks,  a  bean  garlic,  branch  parsley, 
place  in  saucepan  with  a  half  ounce  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  ten  minutes, 
frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  the  peas  with  a  half  gill  white  wine, 
quart  water  and  quart  and  a  half  broth  (No.  701),  season  with  a  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  sugar  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Add  quarter-pound  piece 
stale  French  bread,  mix  well,  let  gently  simmer  for  an  hour,  press  puree 
through  sieve  into  a  vessel,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  another 
saucepan.  Add  a  gill  cream  and  half  ounce  butter,  mix  well  while 
heating  for  five  minutes,  place  bread  croutons  (No.  23)  hi  a  soup  tureen, 
pour  sauce  over  and  serve. 

3140.    DUCKLING,  ROUENNAISE 

Singe,  cut  off  neck  and  feet  of  a  nice,  tender,  fat  duckling,  neatly 
draw  and  remove  gall  bag  from  liver,  then  finely  chop  liver  and  heart. 
Place  both  in  a  saucepan  with  three  finely  chopped  shallots,  a  table- 
spoon butter,  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  lightly  stirring  meanwhile.  Add 
two  tablespoons  demi-glace  (No.  122),  five  tablespoons  bread  crumbs, 
aji  egg  yolk,  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper  and  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Sharply  mix  with  wooden  spoon 
while  heating  for  three  minutes,  then  stuff  duckling  with  preparation. 
Truss  duck,  place  in  a  roasting  pan,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  spread  a 
little  butter  over  breast,  set  to  roast  in  a  brisk  oven  for  thirty  minutes, 
then  remove. 

Cut  into  very  small  pieces  three  chicken  livers  and  one  sound  onion, 
place  in  a  braising  pan  with  a  teaspoon  butter  and  briskly  fry  for  five 
minutes.  Lay  duck  in  pan,  pour  in  a  tablespoon  brandy,  half  gill 
claret,  a  gill  each  demi-glace  (No.  122)  and  tomato  sauce  (No.  16), 
season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Cover  pan 
and  set  in  oven  forty-five  minutes,  frequently  basting  meanwhile ;  remove, 
untruss,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  sauce  through  a  cheesecloth  over 
duck  and  serve 


FRIDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER  977 

Friday,  Fifth  Week  of   December 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Bananas  in  Cream  (151) 
Farina  Gruel  (74)  Eggs,  Coque 

Perch  Saute",  Ciboulette 

Fritadelles  of  Beef  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes  (1x6) 

Buckwheat  Cakes  (330) 

3141.    EGGS,  COQUE 

Place  twelve  fresh  eggs  in  a  saucepan  with  one-third  more  water  than 
height  of  eggs.  Place  on  range,  let  gradually  come  just  to  boiling  point, 
which  ought  to  take  from  fifteen  to  sixteen  minutes,  remove  immediately, 
place  on  a  hot  dish  enclosed  in  a  folded  napkin  and  serve  with  six  egg- 
stands. 

3142.    PERCH  SAUTE",  CIBOULETTE  (CHJVES) 

Thoroughly  wipe  six  very  fresh,  even -sized,  fat  perch,  season  with  a 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  dip  in  cold  milk  and  lightly 
roll  in  flour.  Finely  chop  a  sound  onion,  place  in  saucepan  with  one  and 
a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  fry  for  two  minutes.  Arrange 
the  perch  in  one  beside  another  and  fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  side, 
lift  up  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Remove  fat  from  pan,  add  a  half 
ounce  butter  and  toss  on  fire  until  a  light  brown  colour.  Add  a  teaspoon 
finely  minced  chives,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon,  lightly  toss, 
then  pour  over  fish  and  serve. 

3143.    FRITADELLES  OF  BEEF 

Pick  all  meat  off  roast  beef  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  it  in 
very  small  square  pieces.  Cut  also  very  fine  two  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
Heat  an  ounce  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  finely  chopped  each 
onion  and  seeded  green  pepper,  gently  brown  for  five  minutes,  lightly 
stirring  meanwhile,  then  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  flour  over  and  stir 
well.  Moisten  with  three  gills  broth  (No.  701),  mix  well,  let  boil  for 
ten  minutes  and  add  beef  and  potatoes.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg,  mix  all  well  together 
and  let  slowly  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  two  egg  yolks,  sharply 
mix  while  heating  for  three  minutes,  add  one  teaspoon  freshly  chopped 
parsley  and  mix  well  again.  Transfer  force  to  a  deep  dish,  let  thor- 
oughly cool  off,  divide  preparation  into  twelve  equal  parts,  roll  out  on  a 
lightly  floured  table  into  nice  cake-like  forms,  dip  lightly  in  beaten  eggs 
and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Thoroughly  heat  two  tablespoons  melted 
lard  in  a  frying  pan,  arrange  the  fritadelles  in  one  beside  another,  gently 
fry  for  five  minutes  on  each  -side  or  till  cf  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce  (No.  16) 
separately. 


978  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Clam  Ste*r,  Parisienne  (1781) 

Amukee  Muttu 

Devilled  Marrow  Bones 

Broiled  Lamb  Fries,  Tartare  Sauce  (3299) 

Apple  Pie  (1434) 

3144.    AMUKEE  MUTTU  (Eco  CURRY) 

Boil  twelve  fresh  eggs  for  eight  minutes,  lift  up  and  let  slightly  cool 
off.  Loosen  shells  by  gently  and  carefully  rolling  on  a  table  with  the 
hand  without  detaching  shells,  place  on  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  salt, 
let  stand  for  ten  hours,  shell,  cut  into  quarters  lengthwise  and  keep  on  a 
plate  till  required.  Melt  a  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one 
and  a  half  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  a  little.  Add  a  small  sliced  onion, 
half  bean  crushed  garlic,  small,  finely  chopped  apple,  half  a  small, 
seeded,  chopped  green  pepper,  half  a  chopped  chili,  a  saltspoon  each 
dried  bay  leaf  and  thyme,  a  half  teaspoon  chopped  tarragon,  and  gently 
brown  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Moisten  with 
a  pint  hot  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne, 
a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Add  a  piece 
lemon  rind  and  one  chopped  red  tomato,  mix  all  well  together,  let  cook 
for  thirty  minutes,  remove  lemon  rind  and  heat  eggs  at  oven  door  for 
two  minutes.  Arrange  a  rice  curry  (No.  490)  on  a  hot  dish  in  crown-like 
form,  place  eggs  in  centre,  pour  contents  of  pan  over  eggs  and  serve. 

3145.     DEVILLED  MARROW-BONES 

Procure  six  fresh  beef  marrow-bones  of  about  three  and  a  half  inches 
long,  arrange  upright  on  a  block  and  split  in  two  with  a  cleaver  (or  have 
your  butcher  split  them  for  you),  leaving  all  the  marrow  on  half  of  each 
bone  only.  Lay  the  six  with  marrow  in  a  tin,  marrow  side  up,  divide 
a  teaspoon  salt  evenly  and  carefully  spread  a  devilled  butter  (No.  n) 
over  marrow,  dredge  two  tablespoons  fresh  bread  crumbs  evenly  over 
the  six  bones  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty-two  minutes.  Remove,  dress 
on  a  dish  with  a  napkin  and  serve  with  twelve  very  thin  slices  freshly 
prepared  toast  separately. 

N.  B.     Use  the  six  uncooked  half  bones  for  soup  purposes. 

DINNER 

Cream  of  Barley,  Joinville 

Olives  Oysters  (18)  Canape's  of  Anchovies  (141) 

Codfish,  Espagnole  (?43>         Potatoes,  Marquise  (1044) 

Noix  of  Ham,  Londonderry  (1771) 
Jerusalem  Artichokes,  Rissoles  (2140) 

Spaghetti,  Paysanne  (299) 
Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce  (67) 

Escarole  Salad  (100) 
Chocolate  [Eclairs  (1279) 


SATURDAY,  FIFTH  WEEK  OF  DECEMBER        979 

3146.    CREAM  OF  BARLEY,  JOINVILLE 

Cut  heads  off  two  one-and-a-half-pound  lobsters,  then  cut  balance 
into  small  pieces,  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  an  ounce  butter  and 
briskly  fry  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  up  lobster  with  a  skimmer,  place 
in  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Return  to  pan,  add  a  pint  crushed  fresh 
tomatoes,  a  half  gill  white  wine,  quart  broth  (No.  701),  two  quarts 
water,  four  ounces  barley,  an  onion  with  two  cloves  stuck  in  it,  two 
branches  parsley,  a  teaspoon  salt,  lightly  mix  and  let  gently  simmer  for 
two  hours,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Press  soup  through  sieve 
into  a  basin,  then  through  Chinese  strainer  into  a  saucepan,  pour  in  a 
gill  cream,  add  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg  and 
a  half  ounce  butter.  Mix  well  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour 
into  a  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  a  plate  of  bread  croutons  (No.  23) 
separately. 

Saturday,  Fifth  Week  of  December 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Oranges  (237)  Grape-Nuts  (1371) 

Eggs,  Mrs.  Wright 
Broiled  Smelts,  Maitre  d'H6tel  (1267) 

Pigs'  Feet,  German  Style 

Hashed  Potatoes  in  Cream  (220) 

Brioches  Fluttes  (3052) 

3147.    EGGS,  MRS.  WRIGHT 

Prepare  a  frying  batter  (No.  204),  adding  juice  of  a  sound  lemon,  a 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  and  mix  well.  Poach  twelve  fresh 
eggs  (No.  106),  carefully  roll  in  batter,  gently  drop  in  boiling  fat,  fry 
for  four  minutes,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin.  Boil  six  very  thin  slices  bacon  for  one  minute  on 
each  side,  dress  over  the  eggs  and  serve  with  a  gill  hot  tomato  sauce 
(No.  1 6)  separately. 

3148.    PIGS'  FEET,  GERMAN  STYLE 

Split  three  good-sized,  cooked  pigs'  feet  in  half,  place  in  an  earthen 
vessel  with  a  sliced  onion,  sprig  of  thyme,  two  bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  a 
teaspoon  each  allspice,  whole  black  pepper  and  salt,  a  gill  each  vinegar 
and  water,  turn  feet  well  in  seasoning  and  let  marinade  for  two  hours. 

Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoon  oil,  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper.  Lift  feet  from  marinade,  repeatedly  turn  in  seasoning  and 
lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  double  broiler  and  broil  over 
a  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
decorate  with  six  quarters  lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 


980  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCHEON 

Parsley  Broth  (1667) 

Oysters,     Casino     (835) 

Pear  of  Turkey,  Sauce  Paprika 

French  Peas  (781) 
Custard  Pudding  (2464) 

3149.    PEAR  OF  TURKEY,  SAUCE  PAPRIKA 

Pick  all  meat  off  turkey  left  over  from  yesterday  and  cut  in  small, 
square  pieces,  then  proceed  to  make  a  croquette  preparation  exactly 
the  same  as  in  No.  700.  When  force  is  thoroughly  cold  divide  it  in 
twelve  equal  parts,  roll  out  on  a  lightly  floured  table  to  pear  shape,  dip 
in  beaten  eggs,  lightly  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  arrange  in  a  frying  basket, 
fry  in  boiling  fat  for  ten  minutes,  lift  up  and  let  drain.  Pour  a  cream 
paprika  sauce  (No.  2451)  over,  dress  pears  over  sauce,  adjust  a  curled 
paper  at  end  of  each  pear  and  serve. 

DINNER 

Celery  (86)  Pim-Olas 

Mulligatawny,  Chitty 
Halibut,  Atlantic  City  Potato  Croquettes  (390) 

Cotelettes  of  Squabs,  Colbert 

Asparagus  Tips  with  Brown  Butter 

Roast  Saddle  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce  (2482) 

Romaine     Salad     (214) 

Gateau,  Mrs.  Harris 

3150.  MULLIGATAWNY,  CHITTY 

Pick,  singe  and  draw  a  good  fat  grouse,  remove  meat  from  bones, 
then  cut  in  quarter- inch-square  pieces  and  keep  on  a  plate  until  required. 
Chop  up  bones,  place  in  saucepan  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion, 
two  sliced  branches  celery,  a  branch  parsley,  sprig  thyme  and  two  cloves. 
Pour  in  a  pint  broth  and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  lightly  mix, 
let  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes  and  keep  hot.  Cut  an  onion,  green  pepper, 
two  leeks  and  two  ounces  raw  lean  ham  in  small  square  pieces,  place  in 
saucepan  with  grouse  meat,  a  tablespoon  butter,  and  gently  brown  for 
ten  minutes,  stirring  once  in  a  while..  Add  a  teaspoon  curry  powder, 
stir  well,  strain  grouse  broth  through  strainer  into  pan,  add  two  and  a 
half  quarts  of  broth  (No.  701),  two  ounces  raw  rice,  a  peeled  and  cored 
apple  cut  in  small  squares,  three  slices  peeled  eggplant  cut  same  way  and 
two  finely  chbpped,  peeled,  red  tomatoes.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
half  teaspoon  pepper,  let  gently  boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  skim  fat  off 
surface,  pour  soup  into  u  tureen  and  serve. 

3151.  HALIBUT,  ATLANTIC  CITY 

Place  three  three-quarter-pound  halibut  steaks  in  sautoire  with  a  half 
ounce  butter,  half  gill  white,  wine,  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon 
paprika.  Cover  fish  with  a  buttered  paper,  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes, 
then  set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove,  lift  up  paper,  take  up  steaks 
with  a  skimmer  and  place  on  a  baking  dish.  Place  a  tablespoon  melted 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  981 

butter  and  an  ounce  flour  in  a  small  saucepan,  stir  on  fire  for  one  minute, 
pour  in  halibut  gravy  with  a  gill  milk  and  half  gill  cream.  Briskly  mix 
on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  two  ounces  cooked  ham  cut 
in  very  small  squares,  six  finely  sliced  canned  mushrooms,  a  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  thoroughly  mix  and  let  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Squeeze  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  pour  sauce  over  fish,  dredge 
two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  all,  set  in  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3152.   COTELETTES  OF  SQUABS,  COLBERT 

Cut  heads  and  feet  off  six  fat,  fresh  squabs,  neatly  draw,  thoroughly 
wipe  and  split  in  two  through  back,  then  trim  each  half  to  cutlet  shape. 
Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  eggs, 
then  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Heat  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted 
butter  in  a  sautoire,  lay  in  squabs,  slowly  cook  for  five  minutes  on  each 
side,  pour  a  Colbert  sauce  (No.  121)  on  a  hot  dish,  place  squabs  over 
and  serve. 

3153.    ASPARAGUS  TIPS  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER 

Open  a  pint  can  asparagus  tips,  remove  water  and  plunge  in  a  quart 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  five  minutes,  fhoroughly  drain 
on  a  sieve  and  dress  in  a  vegetable  dish.  Place  one  ounce  good  butter  in 
a  frying  pan,  toss  on  fire  until  a  light  brown  colour,  then  add  a  tablespoon 
vinegar  and  half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  lightly  mix,  pour  butter  over 
tips  and  serve. 

3154.     GATEAU,  MRS.  HARRIS 

Press  four  ounces  vanilla  marrons  through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add 
two  ounces  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  good  Jamaica  rum,  sharply  stir 
with  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  add  one  by  one  three  egg  yolks, 
sharply  whisk  while  adding,  then  add  an  ounce  flour  and  gently  mix 
with  a  skimmer.  Beat  up  four  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  prepara- 
tion with  an  ounce  each  flour  and  good  mellow  butter  and  gently  but 
thoroughly  mix.  Line  bottom  of  buttered  pan  with  a  sheet  of  buttered 
paper,  drop  preparation  on  this  pan,  nicely  smooth  surface  and  set  in 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  lay  on  table  for  ten  minutes, 
turn  on  a  grated  iron  and  lift  up  paper.  Pour  a  vanilla  glace  (No.  1652) 
over  cakes,  decorate  all  around  the  surface  with  candied  half  cherries, 
let  cool  off,  dress  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 


SUPPLEMENTARY    RECIPES 

3155.    GAME  PIE,  AMERICAN 

Cut  heads  and  Ceet  off  four  each  fat  grouse  and  partridge,  neatly 
draw,  remove  gall  bags,  then  place  in  a  tureen.  Slice  off  breasts  from 
birds,  remove  skin,  and  place  in  tureen  with  livers.  Add  six  finely 
chopped  shallots,  two  chopped  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil, 


982  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

sprig  thyme,  three  bay  leaves,  teaspoon  whole  spice,  two  cloves,  a  half 
gill  good  old  rum  and  two  gills  sherry.  Season  with  a  light  tablespoon 
salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne  pepper  and  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
turn  breasts  and  livers  well  in  seasoning,  cover  tureen  and  keep  in  ice  box 
for  twenty -four  hours.  Finely  chop  all  remaining  carcasses  and  bones 
of  birds  and  place  in  saucepan  with  one  ounce  finely  chopped  raw  ham, 
a  small  sliced  carrot,  six  sliced  shallots,  a  branch  of  parsley  and  six 
tarragon  leaves.  Moisten  with  two  gills  white  wine,  a  half  gill  sherry 
and  two  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  mix  all  well  together  and  let  slowly 
cook  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  being  careful  to  mix  once  in  a  while. 
Remove,  briskly  press  this  "fumet"  through  a  fine  sieve  into  an  earthen 
tureen  and  let  cool  off.  Finely  chop  one  pound  raw  lean  veal,  one  and 
a  half  pounds  fresh  fat  pork  and  four  ounces  larding  pork,  thoroughly 
pound  in  mortar  to  a  pulp,  remove  and  rub  through  a  sieve  into  " fumet" 
tureen.  Mix  both  together,  cover  force  with  a  clean  cloth  and  keep  in 
ice  box  for  twenty-four  hours: 

Roll  out  three-quarters  (only)  of  paste  (No.  3156)  on  a  lightly  buttered 
table  to  one-third  inch  thick.  Lightly  butter  interior  of  an  oval-shaped, 
medium-sized  pate  mould  (sufficiently  large  to  conveniently  hold  mate- 
rial), place  it  at  bottom  of  baking  tin,  line  interior  of  mould  with  layer  of 
paste,  being  particularly  careful  to  raise  up  paste  a  quarter  inch  higher 
than  brim,  and  neatly  press  paste  at  bottom  and  sides  of  mould. 
Take  the  two  tureens  from  ice  box,  neatly  wipe  breasts  and  livers  with  a 
towel,  place  on  a  plate,  and  strain  marinade  through  cheesecloth  into 
force  tureen.  Season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cay- 
enne, a  saltspoon  each  grated  nutmeg  and  ground,  mixed  spices,  pour 
in  two  tablespoons  truffle  liquor  and  sharply  mix  until  well  amalgamated. 
Cut  six  truffles  in  quarters,  spread  a  quarter  of  force  at  bottom  of  mould, 
carefully  arrange  three  breasts  each  of  partridge  and  grouse  over,  and 
arrange  a  third  of  truffles  in  centre.  Spread  another  similar  layer  of 
force  over  breasts  of  three  more  partridges  and  grouse,  another  third 
truffles  in  centre  and  livers  around,  cover  with  another  layer  of  force  and 
arrange  balance  of  force  over,  cover  top  with  thin  slices  larding  pork  and 
place  a  sprig  of  bay  leaf  right  in  centre.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  table 
half  the  balance  of  paste  and  with  it  cover  pie.  Carefully  press  edges 
of  tureen  and  paste  so  as  to  hermetically  close  it.  Make  a  hole  in 
centre  of  pie,  arrange  a  piece  buttered  white  paper  in  the  hole  to  act  as 
a  chimney,  and  egg  surface  all  around.  Roll  out  balance  of  paste  as 
thin  as  possible,  with  an  oval,  dentilated  pastry  cutter  stamp  out  as  many 
pieces  as  you  can,  and  arrange  crown-like  one  overlapping  another  around 
surface  of  pie,  lightly  egg  and  set  in  moderate  oven  for  two  hours.  Bring 
it  to  oven  door,  pour  in  through  chimney  a  half  gill  brandy,  reset  in 
oven  for  forty-five  minutes  more,  remove  and  let  cool  off.  Pour  in  through 
chimney  two  gills  melted  jelly,  place  in  ice  box  and  when  jelly  is  thorough- 
ly set  unmould,  dress  pie  on  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 
Whatever  is  left  of  pie  after  having  been  served  envelop  in  clean  cloth 
and  put  in  cool  place,  as  it  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  several 
weeks 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  983 

3156.    PATE  A  PATE"— PASTE  FOR  GAME  PIE 

Sift  two  and  a  half  pounds  flour  on  table,  make  a  small  fountain  in 
centre,  place  in  it  a  pound  butter,  a  pint  cold  water  and  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  very  carefully  butter,  water  and  salt  together  for  four  minutes  and 
gradually  incorporate  flour,  sharply  knead  until  thoroughly  smooth, 
which  will  take  about  five  minutes,  then  envelop  paste  in  cloth  and  keep 
in  ice  box  for  an  hour  before  using. 

3157.     CAPON,  EDWARD  VII. 

Singe  and  cut  neck  off  a  tender,  fat  capon,  cut  nails  off  feet,  dip  legs 
in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  skin  them  with  a  coarse  towel,  neatly 
draw  capon  and  wipe  dry.  Prepare  a  chicken  quenelle  force  (No.  1794), 
adding  two  truffles  cut  in  small  spuares  and  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
mix  well  and  stuff  capon  with  this.  Tightly  truss  bird,  make  a  light 
incision  on  first  joint  of  legs  and  tie  feet  against  legs.  Place  a  few  slices 
larding  pork  in  a  braising  pan  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and  onion,  two 
sliced  branches  each  celery  and  parsley  and  two  ounces  raw  ham,  lay 
capon  on  top,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper. 
Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  good  white  wine,  place  on  fire,  let  reduce 
to  almost  a  glaze,  then  pour  in  three-quarters  pint  broth  (No.  701), 
set  in  oven  for  an  hour  and  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  fre- 
quently meanwhile,  remove,  dress  on  hot  dish  and  untruss.  Arrange 
all  around  by  groups  stuffed  fresh  mushrooms  (No.  1803),  six  artichoke 
bottoms  filled  with  cooked  peas,  and  glazed  chestnuts  (No.  2795).  Skim 
fat  off  surface  of  gravy,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122), 
a  half  gill  sherry  and  saltspoon  cayenne.  Lightly  mix,  let  reduce  on 
fire  for  ten  minutes,  again  skim  fat  off  surface,  strain  a  third  of  sauce 
over  capon,  the  rest  into  a  sauce  bowl,  and  serve. 

3158.     FILET  OF  BEEF,  WILLIAM  II. 

Trim  the  fat  and  skin  off  a  nice,  medium,  tender  filet  of  beef.  Cut 
two  truffles,  two  ounces  uncooked  lean  ham  and  two  ounces  larding 
pork  in  oblong-shaped  pieces,  with  larding  needle  lard  filet  alternately 
with  each  of  the  three  articles,  season  all  around  with  a  good  teaspoon 
salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Place  a  mirepoix  (No.  271)  in  a  roasting 
pan,  lay  filet  over,  spread  a  little  melted  butter  on  top  and  set  in  oven 
for  thirty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  once  in  a  while,  remove, 
dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep  hot.  Cut  a  cover  from  each  of  twelve  very 
small,  even-sized  red  tomatoes,  scoop  out  meat  and  season  interior  of 
each.  Remove  skin  from  six  raw  sausages,  place  in  a  bowl  with  two 
tablespoons  cream,  a  saltspoon  cayenne  and  finely  chopped  truffle. 
Mix  thoroughly,  fill  inside  of  tomatoes  with  preparation  and  place  a 
slice  of  truffle  on  top  of  each  tomato.  Arrange  on  a  tin,  lightly  baste  with 
a  little  melted  butter,  set  in  oven  seventeen  minutes,  remove  and  keep 
hot.  Prepare  six  timbales  of  spinach  (No.  2063),  six  timbales  of  potatoes 
(No.  2102), and  arrange  the  three  articles  around  filet;  that  is  to  say,  one 
timbale  spinach,  a  tomato,  a  timbale  potato,  a  tomato,  a  spinach,  and 


984  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

so  on.     Place  a  cooked  fresh  mushroom  on  top  of  each  timbale  and  serve 
with  the  following  sauce  separately. 

Remove  fat  from  gravy  in  filet,  place  contents  of  pan  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  a  few  mushroom  tails,  pour  in  a  gill  Rhine  wine  and  let 
reduce  on  range  to  almost  a  glaze.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills  demi- 
glace  (No.  122),  lightly  mix,  boil  for  ten  minutes,  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth into  a  sauce  bowl  and  serve  separately. 

3159.    SWEETBREADS,  VICTOR  EMMANUEL 

Soak  six  large  heart  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  two  hours,  drain, 
plunge  in  a  quart  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  boil  for  five  minutes, 
drain  on  sieve,  neatly  trim  all  around  and  lard  surface  with  a  few  strips 
of  larding  pork.  Finely  slice  an  ounce  salt  pork,  a  carrot,  small  onion, 
six  fresh  mushrooms,  and  place  in  a  sautoire  with  a  branch  parsley  and 
bay  leaf.  Lay  breads  on  top,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  lightly  baste 
with  butter  and  cook  on  fire  for  five  minutes.  Pour  in  one  and  a  half 
gills  white  wine,  let  briskly  reduce  to  almost  a  glaze,  pour  in  one  and 
a  half  gills  broth  (No.  701),  cover  breasts  with  a  sheet  buttered  paper, 
set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  remove  and  keep  hot. 

Boil  three  ounces  Italian  rice  in  a  pint  broth  with  teaspoon  salt  for 
thirty-five  minutes  and  drain  on  sieve.  Place  rice  in  a  small  saucepan 
with  two  truffles  cut  in  small  squares,  twro  tablespoons  pate  de  foie  gras, 
four  tablespoons  sweetbreads  gravy,  an  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  two  egg  yolks;  season  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne, 
and  gently  mix  on  fire  while  heating  for  five  minutes.  Arrange  rice 
crown-like  on  a  large  hot  dish  and  place  sweetbreads  in  centre.  Mix 
in  small  saucepan  a  tablespoon  each  good  butter  and  flour.  Skim  fat 
off  sweetbreads  gravy,  strain  through  cheesecloth  into  pan  and  add  a 
gill  cream  and  saltspoon  cayenne.  Mix  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
let  reduce  for  five  minutes,  add  an  egg  yolk  and  sharply  mix  while 
heating  for  one  minute.  Pour  sauce  over  sweetbreads  in  centre  of  rice, 
set  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3160.    TERRINE  OF  PLOVER,  DELCASSE 

Cut  heads  and  feet  off  six  fat  plovers,  split  open  through  backs 
without  separating,  draw  and  remove  bones  from  breasts.  Lay  on  a 
table,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  each  cayenne,  grated 
nutmeg  and  mixed  spices,  then  spread  a  teaspoon  of  pate  de  foie  gras  over 
each.  Cut  a  large  truffle  in  six  quarters,  place  one  quarter  over  each 
bird,  fold  up  and  keep  on  a  plate.  Finely  chop  a  pound  each  raw  lean 
veal  and  fresh  fat  pork,  place  both  in  mortar  with  a  teaspoon  salt, 
two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  nutmeg  and  two  egg  yolks,  pound 
to  a  very  smooth  pulp,  add  a  half  gill  sherry,  mix  well,  and  rub  force 
through  sieve  into  a  bowl.  Line  interior  of  an  oval  cocotte  earthen  tureen 
with  thin  slices  larding  pork,  spread  a  layer  offeree  at  bottom  and  sides 
of  tureen,  place  the  six  plovers  in  tureen  crosswise,  sprinkle  over  a  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  truffle  and  fill  tureen  with  balance  of  force,  giving 
it  a  dome  shape.  Cover  surface  with  thin  slices  of  lard,  place  a  sprig 
bay  leaf  on  top,  cover  tureen,  place  in  a  roasting  tin  and  pour  hot  water 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  985 

in  pan  up  to  two-thirds  height  of  tureen.  Set  in  oven  for  an  hour  and 
fifteen  minutes,  remove,  place  in  a  cool  place  and  lift  up  cover.  Place 
a  board  same  size  as  tureen  over  pate*,  lay  a  pound  weight  on  it,  keep 
in  that  condition  until  cold,  turn  pate*  on  table,  remove  lard,  and  thor- 
oughly wash  and  wipe  inside  of  tureen.  Set  tureen  on  ice,  pour  in  some 
melted  jelly  to  quarter-inch  thickness  and  let  set.  Cut  a  small  truffle 
in.  thin  slices,  then  with  small  star  cutter  cut  out  as  many  star-like 
pieces  as  you  can,  place  all  around  bottom  of  jelly,  replace  plovers  in 
tureen,  pour  jelly  all  around  edges  and  cover  birds,  etc.,  with  it.  When 
thoroughly  set  unmould  on  a  cold  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

3161.    EGGS,  LIPTON 

Boil  six  peeled,  medium  potatoes  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  teaspoon 
salt  for  thirty  minutes,  thoroughly  drain  on  a  sieve  and  press  through 
a  potato  masher  into  a  small  saucepan.  Add  an  ounce  of  butter,  a 
whole  egg,  half  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  a  saltspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  a  tablespoon  finely  chopped  truffles,  and  briskly  stir  on 
fire  for  two  minutes.  Slide  a  dentilated  fancy  tube  in  at  bottom  of  a 
pastry  .bag,  drop  in  potato  preparation  and  press  down  puree  evenly 
on  a  lightly  buttered  tin  to  twelve  bird-nest  shapes.  Carefully  crack  a 
fresh  egg  in  each  potato,  sprinkle  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over 
eggs,  evenly  season  with  a  hall  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper, 
set  in  oven  for  eight  minutes,  remove,  carefully  dress  them  on  hot  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  and  serve. 

3162.    OYSTERS,  PORTER 

Finely  chop  three  ounces  fresh  halibut  or  codfish,  place  in  mortar 
with  white  of  an  egg,  thoroughly  pound  to  a  paste,  rub  through  sieve 
into  a  bowl,  set  bowl  on  ice,  add  little  by  little  two  tablespoons  thick 
cream,  and  sharply  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon  while  adding.  Cut  in 
very  small  squares  a  small  truffle,  add  to  bowl  with  a  half  teaspoon 
anchovy  paste,  three  saltspoons  salt,  a  saltspoon  cayenne,  and  sharply 
mix. 

Plunge  forty -eight  freshly  opened  large  oysters  in  a  pint  boiling 
water  for  three  minutes,  lift  up  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  on  a  cloth. 
Split  them  open,  evenly  stuff  with  force,  close  and  place  in  a  sautoire. 
Add  a  half  ounce  butter,  half  gill  white  wine,  two  tablespoons  sherry, 
a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  cover  with  a  buttered 
paper,  let  slowly  cook  on  fire  for  six  minutes,  lift  up  oysters  with  skimmer 
and  place  on  a  chafing  dish.  Mix  in  saucepan  a  tablespoon  each  melted 
butter  and  flour,  pour  oyster  gravy  in  this  pan  with  a  gill  cream,  and 
sharply  whisk  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Dilute  an  egg  yolk  with  juice  of 
quarter  of  a  sound  lemon  and  tablespoon  cream,  add  to  sauce  and 
sharply  mix  while  heating,  without  boiling,  for  a  minute,  strain  sauce 
through  a  cheesecloth  over  oysters,  shuffle  a  little  and  serve. 

3163.    SQUABS,  NEW  YORKAISE 

Cut  off  heads  and  neatly  draw  six  tender,  fat  squabs,  dip  feet  in 
boiling  water  for  one  minute,  remove  skin  from  feet  with  a  coarse  towel 


986  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

and  cut  off  nails.  Season  insides  of  birds  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt 
and  three  saltspoons  pepper  equally  divided,  place  four  small  white 
grapes  in  each  bird,  neatly  truss  and  lay  on  a  roasting  tin.  Season 
with  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper,  lightly  baste  with  melted 
butter,  set  in  brisk  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes,  remove,  untruss  and 
keep  hot.  Finely  chop  a  half  pound  raw  lean  veal  with  two  ounces 
larding  pork,  place  both  in  a  mortar  with  two  egg  yolks,  a  bread  panade 
(No.  1795),  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  cayenne,  a  saltspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  pound  the  whole  to  a  fine  pulp  and  press  it  through  sieve  into  a 
bowl.  Add  a  half  gill  cream,  sharply  mix  while  adding,  and  with  this 
force  make  nice  border  around  a  baking  dish. 

Prepare  glazed  chestnuts  (No.  2795)  and  place  on  top  of  border 
one  beside  another.  Peel  and  thoroughly  clean  twelve  fresh  mushrooms, 
finely  slice,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  and 
fry  for  five  minutes.  Add  a  finely  sliced  truffle,  six  tarragon  leaves, 
a  gill  white  wine,  lightly  mix  and  let  reduce  till  almost  dry.  Pour  in 
one  and  a  half  gills  demi-glace  (No.  122),  season  with  a  saltspoon  cayenne, 
lightly  mix  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Arrange  squabs  in  centre  of  crown 
in  baking  dish,  pour  sauce  over  squabs  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, basting  once  in  a  while,  remove  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

3164.     SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON,  IRISH  STYLE 

Have  a  five-pound  piece  tender  shoulder  of  mutton,  neatly  trim  off 
a  little  fat,  cut  in  one-and-a-half -inch-square  pieces,  season  with  a  good 
teaspoon  salt  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  two  table- 
spoons melted  lard  in  a  frying  pan,  add  mutton,  fry  for  eight  minutes 
on  each  side  and  remove  pieces  to  a  plate.  Cut  four  medium-sized 
onions  in  halves,  finely  slice,  place  and  fry  in  mutton-fat  pan  for  six 
minutes,  remove  and  place  on  a  plate.  Cut  six  raw,  peeled  medium 
potatoes  in  three-quarter-inch  slices,  lay  a  third  of  the  onions  at  bottom 
of  low  earthen  pot  (one  holding  about  five  quarts),  place  one-third  pota- 
toes over  onions  and  spread  half  the  mutton  over  potatoes.  Season 
with  a  light  teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  sprinkle  over  one 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  a  half  teaspoon  thyme.  Arrange 
another  third  of  the  onions,  then  a  third  of  the  potatoes,  and  neatly 
spread  balance  of  mutton  over.  Season  again  with  a  half  teaspoon 
salt,' three  saltspoons  pepper,  half  teaspoon  powdered  thyme,  and  sprinkle 
over  a  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Spread  over  balance  of  onions  and 
potatoes,  cover  top  with  thin  slices  Irish  bacon,  moisten  with  a  pint  and 
a  half  cold  water,  tightly  cover  pot  and  set  in  moderate  oven  for  three 
hours,  being  careful  to  baste  surface  with  its  own  gravy  every  thirty 
minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  same  pot. 

3165.    SOUCISSES,  MODE  DU  BE"ARN 

Place  in  a  small  tureen  a  pint  good  white  wine,  four  beans  sound 
garlic  and  two  very  dry  crushed  limes,  cover  pot,  let  reduce  on  fire  to 
one-third  the  quantity,  remove  and  let  cool  off.  Chop,  but  not  too 
finely,  two  pounds  fresh  fat  pork  with  the  four  beans  garlic  cooked  in 


SUPPLEMENTARY   RECIPES  987 

wine,  place  force  in  a  tureen  on  ice  and  strain  wine  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  it.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and 
mix  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  well  amalgamated.  Thoroughly 
wash  and  wipe  four  ounces  sheep's  guts,  with  aid  of  a  funnel  fill  them 
with  preparation,  being  careful  that  they  are  not  pierced  or  cut,  also 
seeing  that  force  is  rather  loose  in  them.  Tightly  tie  guts  in  four-inch 
sections,  stretch  a  strong  string  across  kitchen  or  room  of  moderate 
temperature,  hang  up  sausages  and  let  stand  to  dry  for  three  days, 
lightly  prickling  with  a  needle  before  hanging.  The  best  way  to  cook 
them  is  with  white  wine  as  in  No.  2734. 

3166.    SOERABAIA  CURRY  (FROGS '-LEGS  CURRY) 

Cut  claws  off  two  pounds  fresh  frogs'  legs  and  keep  on  a  plate  until 
required.  Place  in  a  saucepan  a  hashed  onion,  a  bean  crushed  sound 
garlic,  a  finely  chopped,  seeded  green  pepper,  an  ounce  chopped  raw  ham, 
two  chopped,  peeled,  seeded  red  tomatoes,  add  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter  and  fry  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile.  Add 
legs  with  a  teaspoon  each  curry  powder  and  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper, 
a  saltspoon  each  thyme  and  powdered  bay  leaf,  stir  well,  cook  on  range 
for  ten  minutes  and  moisten  with  two  and  a  half  gills  broth  (No.  701). 
Cover  pan  and  set  in  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  bring  to  oven  door  and  add 
boiled  rice  (No.  490).  Mix  well,  reset  in  oven  for  ten  minutes,  remove, 
dress  curry  dome-shape  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  Indian  chutney 
separately. 

3167.    KIDNEY  CURRY 

Skin  twelve  fresh  mutton  kidneys,  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise, 
place  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon  pepper  and 
keep  till  required.  Cut  in  julienne  strips  a  small  carrot,  seeded  green 
pepper,  half  a  small  peeled  eggplant,  four  shallots  and  two  branches 
celery,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  fry 
for  ten  minutes,  stiring  once  in  a  while.  Add  a  sound,  peeled,  cored 
apple  cut  in  julienne  strips  and  two  finely  chopped,  seeded  red  tomatoes, 
season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  each  cayenne  and  grated 
nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  curry  powder,  stir  well,  then  brown  for  ten  minutes, 
lightly  stirring  occasionally.  Dredge  in  a  tablespoon  flour,  stir  well, 
moisten  with  two  gills  broth,  (No.  701),  mix  well  and  let  slowly  cook 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  Boil  six  thin  slices  ham  for  a  minute  on  each 
side  and  arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  Place  kidneys  in  a  frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  fry  them  for  two  minutes  on  each  side  and 
dress  them  over  slices  of  ham.  Pour  contents  of  pan  over  all,  set  in 
oven  for  five  minutes,  dress  a  boiled  rice  (No.  490)  around  curry  and 
serve. 

3168.    STUFFED  PIGS  FEET,  ST.  MENEHOULD 

Place  seven  raw  pig's  feet  in  saucepan  with  a  sliced  each  carrot  and 
onion,  six  sliced  shallots,  two  branches  parsley,  a  branch  chervil,  sprig 
each  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  blade  mace,  two  bay  leaves  and  a  clove. 


988  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

Pour  in  a  pint  white  wine  and  enough  broth  to  cover,  season  with  a  good 
teaspoon  each  salt  and  freshly  crushed  black  pepper,  cover  pan  and 
let  slowly  boil  for  two  hours.  Remove  to  table,  let  cool  in  broth,  take 
up  feet  and  split  open  six  (only)  without  separating.  Carefully  remove 
bones  and  lay  on  a  table,  pick  meat  off  other  foot,  finely  chop,  place 
in  a  bowl,  with  meat  of  three  country  sausages,  a  truffle  cut  in  small 
squares,  an  egg  yolk,  a  half  teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley,  two  table- 
spoons bread  crumbs,  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  three  saltspoons  pepper. 
Mix  all  well  together,  evenly  spread  force  over  the  six  boned  feet,  fold 
up  and  give  them  their  previous  shape.  Lightly  dip  them  in  beaten  eggs, 
roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  arrange  on  double  broiler  and  broil  on  a  slow 
fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  dress  on  a  very  hot  dish, 
spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over  and  serve. 

3169.    SPICED  BEEF 

Procure  a  fifteen-pound  piece  of  beef  from  round,  sharply  rub  all 
over  with  half  pound  granulated  sugar,  then  place  in  an  earthen  basin 
for  twelve  hours.  Mix  on  plate  a  tablespoon  each  thyme,  ground  all- 
spice and  grated  nutmeg,  half  teaspoon  each  of  ground  ginger,  powdered 
mace,  cinnamon,  powdered  cloves  and  bay  leaf,  a  teaspoon  ground 
black  pepper  and  an  ounce  saltpetre.  Thoroughly  rub  beef  with 
mixture,  replace  in  basin  and  let  stand  for  twelve  hours  longer.  Rub 
in  a  pound  common  salt,  replace  in  basin,  cover  with  cloth  and  let 
infuse  for  six  days,  being  careful  to  sharply  rub  it  twice  daily.  Soak  it 
in  cold  water  for  two  hours,  place  in  a  narrow  saucepan  with  enough 
water  to  cover,  add  two  sliced  each  carrots  and  onions,  four  branches 
celery,  two  beans  garlic  and  a  bunch  parsley.  Cover  pan,  let  boil  for 
five  minutes  and  set  in  oven  for  four  and  a  half  hours,  turning  beef 
once  in  a  while.  Remove  to  a  table  and  let  cool  off  in  pan,  take  up 
beef,  wrap  in  a  cloth  and  place  in  ice  box.  This  excellent  spiced  beef 
cut  in  thin  slices  is  always  served  cold  with  pickles  and  parsley  greens. 

3170.    EXTRACT  OF  MEAT  (MEAT  GLAZE),  GLACE  DE  VIANDE 

Place  in  a  six-gallon  stock  pot  one  heavy  knuckle  of  veal,  eight 
pounds  fresh  shin  of  beef,  any  raw  chicken  bones  on  hand,  three  carrots, 
four  onions,  six  leeks,  six  branches  celery,  a  bunch  each  parsley  and 
chervil,  fill  up  pot  with  cold  water,  set  on  fire  and  let,  very  slowly  boil 
(.12  hours  at  least)  until  water  reaches  level  of  ingredients,  being  careful 
to  skim  fat  off  surface  quite  frequently.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth 
into  a  narrow  saucepan,  let  gently  reduce  on  fire  to  one-third,  then 
strain  again  into  a  smaller  saucepan  and  let  reduce  on  fire  until  it  obtains 
colour  and  thickness  of  demi-glace  (No.  122),  skimming  and  stirring 
quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Pour  extract  into  a  stone  jar  and  let  it 
cool  off,  tightly  cover  jar,  and  be  careful  to  keep  it  always  covered  in  a 
cool  place.  The  above  extract  is  of  vast  importance  for  strengthening 
soup,  sauces,  gravies,  etc. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  989 

3171.    GALANTINE  OF  SALMON 

Procure  the  skins  of  three  good-sized  fresh  eels,  open,  sew  together 
lengthwise  so  as  to  make  a  single  one  and  trim  even.  Finely  chop  a 
pound  fresh  halibut  and  one  and  a  half  pounds  skinned  and  boned  fresh 
salmon.  Place  both  in  mortar  with  a  bread  panade  (No.  1795),  two  egg 
yolks,  a  tablespoon  anchovy  essence,  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  each 
cayenne  pepper  and  ground  mixed  spices,  a  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
pound  to  a  fine  pulp,  then  press  through  sieve  into  a  bowl,  add  two 
truffles  cut  in  small  squares,  a  tablespoon  thick  cream  and  mix  well. 
Neatly  spread  this  force  over  skins  of  eels,  fold  and  carefully  sew  up, 
then  wrap  galantine  in  a  heavy  cloth  and  tightly  tie  up  both  ends.  Place 
in  a  saucepan  any  fish  trimmings  on  hand,  with  a  sliced  each  carrot 
and  onion,  two  branches  each  celery  and  parsley,  a  sprig  thyme,  bay  leaf 
and  two  cloves.  Place  galantine  on  top,  pour  in  one  and  a  half  gills 
white  wine  and  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Season  with  a  tablespoon 
salt,  half  teaspoon  white  pepper,  cover  pan  and  let  simmer  for  one  hour 
and  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  galantine,  place  on  a  plate  and  let  stand 
for  ten  minutes,  unwrap  and  wash  cloth  in  cold  water.  Wrap  galantine 
again,  place  between  two  small  boards,  place  a  three-pound  weight  on 
top  and  let  stand  until  throughly  cold.  Unwrap,  remove  cloth,  dress  on 
dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  decorate  with  pieces  of  fish  jelly  and  parsley 
greens  and  serve. 

3172.    FISH  JELLY 

Strain  galantine  broth  through  a  cheesecloth  into  a  tureen,  skim  fat 
off  surface  and  let  thoroughly  cool.  Melt  two  ounces  leaf  gelatine  in 
an  enamelled  saucepan  with  a  half  pint  jelly,  and  when  thoroughly 
melted  add  balance  of  fish  jelly,  two  branches  chervil  and  a  half  gill 
sherry.  Beat  up  four  whole  eggs  for  four  minutes  in  a  bowl,  add  to 
pan  and  briskly  whisk  on  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Pour  in  two 
tablespoons  vinegar,  shift  pan  to  corner  of  range  and  let  simmer  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Strain  jelly  through  a  damp,  double  cheesecloth  into 
a  bowl,  set  it  on  ice  until  thoroughly  thickened  and  use  as  directed. 
After  using  jelly  required  for  galantine,  cover  balance  with  a  towel  and 
keep  in  ice  box  for  further  use. 

3173.    KOULIBIAC  OF  SALMON 

Prepare  a  brioche  paste  (No.  877)  and  keep  on  a  plate  till  required. 
Remove  skin  and  bones  from  one  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  salmon,  cut 
in  half-inch  strips,  place  on  a  plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  white  pepper,  turning  pieces  well  in  seasoning,  and  keep  on 
plate.  Finely  chop,  separately,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  heavy  pinch 
fennel,  two  branches  parsley,  an  onion  and  eight  well-cleaned,  fresh 
medium  mushrooms.  Cook  two  ounces  buckwheat  flour  and  a  half 
pint  broth  (No.  701),  seasoned  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  for  ten  minutes 
in  a  small  saucepan,  mixing  once  in  a  while.  Thoroughly  heat  an  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  onions  and  mushrooms  and  fry  for  five  min- 
utes, tossing  once  in  a  while.  Add  eggs,  fennel  and  parsley,  mix  all 


990  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

well  together,  add  buckwheat,  gently  mix,  then  transfer  to  an  earthen 
tureen  and  let  cool.  Roll  the  brioche  paste  on  a  lightly  floured  table 
to  one-fifth-inch  thickness  giving  it  a  square  form.  Lay  paste  on  a 
cloth,  carefully  spread  preparation  in  a  long,  square  shape,  neatly  lay 
strips  salmon  over,  lightly  egg  edges  of  paste  and  fold  up  both  sides  so 
as  to  entirely  enclose  preparation.  With  aid  of  cloth  turn  the  koulibiac 
into  a  lightly  buttered  pastry  pan,  folded  part  down,  and  let  raise  for 
thirty  minutes.  Spread  over  it  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  evenly 
dredge  over  two  tablespoons  cornmeal  flour,  and  set  in  oven  for  an  hour 
and  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  make  a  small  opening  in  centre  of  top, 
pour  in  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  let  rest  for  ten  minutes,  cut  in 
nalf-inch-thick  slices,  dress  on  a  dish  and  serve. 

3174.    HAM,  BAYONNE  FASHION 

Procure  a  nice,  tender,  fairly  good-sized  fresh  ham,  lay  on  table  and 
sharply  rub  with  three  pounds  fine  salt  for  twenty  minutes.  Place  ham 
on  a  board  with  a  heavy  weight  on  top  and  let  stand  for  twelve  hours. 
Add  three  pounds  salt,  six  ounces  saltpetre,  and  sharply  rub  again  for 
twenty  minutes.  Place  half  the  salt  at  bottom  of  a  wooden  pail,  lay 
ham  over,  place  the  other  salt  on  top  of  ham,  lay  a  board  over  all  with 
a  heavy  weight  on  top,  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  eight  days.  Pour 
ham  liquor  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  half  pint  red  wine,  sprig  thyme,  two  bay 
leaves,  a  tablespoon  allspice,  two  cloves,  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Remove  and  cool,  take  up  ham  from  pail,  carefully  rub  all  over  with 
liquor,  replace  in  pail  with  salt  underneath  and  on  top  and  let  infuse 
for  twelve  days,  turning  ham  twice  or  three  times  a  day.  Remove, 
hang  up  in  a  dry  place  for  three  or  four  days,  envelop  in  a  bag,  and  ham 
will  then  be  ready  for  use.  Always  be  careful  to  keep  it  hung  up  in  a 
cool  place.  Preparing  in  same  manner  as  above,  but  at  beginning  of 
operation  scooping  out  marrow  from  leg  bone  and  filling  with  strong 
brandy,  closing  with  cork  as  you  would  a  bottle,  will  improve  and  give 
an  excellent  additional  flavor  to  the  ham. 

3175.    WEDDING  CAKE 

Place  in  a  tureen  two  pounds  thoroughly  picked  Corinth  raisins, 
two  pounds  Smyrna  raisins,  a  pound  seeded  Malaga  raisins,  half  pound 
each  chopped  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  four  ounces  chopped 
candied  ginger,  and  add  grated  rind  of  an  orange  and  a  sound  lemon. 
Pour  in  a  gill  good  rum  and  half  gill  brandy,  mix  all  well  together  and 
let  infuse  for  an  hour.  Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  good  butter  in 
a  lukewarm  earthen  tureen  and  sharply  work  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  creamy.  Add  a  pound  powdered  sugar,  sharply  mix  for  a  minute 
and  add  one  by  one  twelve  fresh  eggs,  continually  and  briskly  mixing 
while  adding.  Add  one  and  a  half  pounds  sifted  flour,  stir  well,  then  add 
raisins,  etc.,  with  a  gill  molasses,  tablespoon  powdered  cinnamon,  a 
half  teaspoon  each  nutmeg,  allspice,  ground  mace,  ground  cloves  and 
salt,  and  mix  well  together  for  five  minutes.  Have  a  wedding-cake 
mould  three  inches  high  by  eight  inches  in  diameter,  lightly  butter,  then 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  991 

line  interior  with  a  sheet  of  buttered  white  paper  and  drop  preparation 
into  it.  Neatly  smooth  the  surface,  set  in  a  slow  oven  for  an  hour, 
bring  to  oven  door,  place  a  double  sheet  buttered  paper  on  top  and  reset 
in  oven  for  three  hours.  Remove,  lay  on  a  table,  lift  paper  off  top,  then 
pour  over  a  half  gill  rum,  let  rest  for  four  hours,  unmould  on  a  wire 
pastry  grating  and  remove  paper.  Sharply  knead  in  a  saucepan  a  half 
pound  glazed  sugar  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  beat  up  with  spatula  for 
five  minutes  and  carefully  glaze  cake  on  top  and  all  around,  being  careful 
that  glaze  is  well  spread  all  over  and  neatly  smoothed,  then  let  dry  for 
one  hour.  Place  a  fancy  paper  on  a  round  wooden  board  same  size  as 
cake,  but  have  paper  a  little  wider  than  board,  and  place  wedding-bell 
in  centre  of  cake.  Place  in  a  bowl  the  white  of  half  an  egg,  two  ounces 
glazed  sugar,  six  drops  vanilla  essence,  and  sharply  mix  with  a  wooden 
spoon  for  eight  minutes.  Slide  a  small  fancy  tube  in  at  bottom  of  pastry 
bag,  drop  in  preparation,  and  with  it  decorate  surface  and  all  around 
edges  according  to  taste.  The  cake  will  then  be  ready. 

3176.    BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

Place  in  a  basin  twelve  egg  yolks  with  twelve  ounces  sugar,  a  teaspoon 
vanilla  essence,  and  sharply  whisk  for  fifteen  minutes.  Work  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter  in  a  bowl  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  five  minutes,  add  to 
yolks,  mix  well,  beat  up  whites  of  the  twelve  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
to  yolks.  Mix  with  a  skimmer  until  well  amalgamated,  add  one  and 
a  half  pounds  sifted  flour  with  two  saltspoons  salt,  and  gently  but  thor- 
oughly mix  with  the  skimmer.  Have  a  lightly  buttered,  plain,  flat 
mould  eight  inches  wide  and  three  inches  high,  line  interior  with  a  but- 
tered paper,  drop  in  preparation,  neatly  smooth  surface,  set  in  oven  for 
one  and  a  half  hours,  remove,  let  rest  for  one  and  a  half  hours,  then 
turn  on  a  wire  pastry  grating  and  remove  paper.  Mix  in  a  bowl  four 
ounces  glazed  sugar,  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  evenly  spread  sugar  over 
cake.  Decorate  surface  with  assorted  candied  fruits  cut  in  very  small 
pieces,  place  cake  on  silver  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  arrange  small 
candles  all  around  and  light  them  just  before  sending  to  table. 

3177.    SANDWICHES,  CHICKEN  CLUB 

Cut  twelve  one-inch-thick  slices  from  a  sandwich  loaf,  toast  to  a 
nice  golden  colour,  lay  on  a  clean  board  and  lightly  butter  with  good 
butter.  Cover  six  (only)  toasts  with  thin  slices  cooked  chicken  white 
meat,  either  boiled  or  roasted,  lightly  season  with  fine  salt  and  a  very 
little  white  pepper.  Broil  six  very  thin  slices  lean  bacon  for  one  minute 
on  each  side,  cut  each  slice  in  two  and  lay  the  two  pieces  over  chicken 
on  each  toast.  Spread  a  very  little  mayonnaise  over  six  white  well- 
cleaned  and  thoroughly  drained  leaves  of  lettuce,  cover  with  other  six 
pieces  of  toast  and  gently  flatten  them  with  the  hand.  Neatly  trim 
off  crusts  all  around,  cut  in  two  in  triangular  shapes,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
place  in  oven  for  two  minutes,  remove  and  immediately  serve. 

N.  B.     Six  thin  slices  ham  can  be  substituted  for  the  bacon  if  desired. 


992  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3178.  DUCK  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Prepare  duck  club  sandwiches  same  as  chicken  club,  substituting 
duck  meat  for  chicken. 

3179.  LAMB  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Cut  six  thin  slices  lamb  from  leg  and  season  all  over  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  two  saltspoons  pepper.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon 
melted  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  slices  one  beside  another  and  cook 
for  two  minutes  on  each  side.  Remove  and  proceed  to  finish  exactly 
the  same  as  chicken  club. 

3180.  VEAL  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Prepare  veal  club  sandwiches  same  as  lamb,  using  same  quantity 
veal  in  place  of  lamb. 

3181.  HAM  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Cut  twelve  thin  slices  bread,  lightly  butter  and  toast  to  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Arrange  six  slices  fresh  broiled  ham  on  top  of  six  toasts,  spread 
a  very  little  mayonnaise  over  six  cleaned  and  well-drained  leaves  lettuce, 
arrange  over  ham,  with  remaining  six  slices  toast  on  top,  neatly  trim 
crusts  all  around,  cut  in  triangular  halves,  dress  on  a  dish,  place  in  oven 
for  a  minute  and  serve. 

3182.    PATE"  DE  Fois  GRAS  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

With  a  tablespoon  dipped  in  hot  water  scoop  out  twelve  thin  slices 
pate  de  fois  gras  from  a  tureen,  lay  slices  over  twelve  freshly  prepared 
toasts,  and  proceed  to  finish  same  as  chicken  club. 

3183.    LOBSTER  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Cut  meat  of  a  cooked  cold  or  hot  lobster  in  thin  slices,  place  on  a 
plate,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  pepper,  turn  well  in 
seasoning,  then  proceed  to  finish  same  as  chicken  club. 

3184.    OYSTER  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Thoroughly  wipe  on  a  cloth  twenty-four  freshly  opened,  large  fresh 
oysters,  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  two  saltspoons  pepper  and 
lightly  roll.  Thoroughly  heat  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  arrange  the  oysters  in  one  beside  another  and  briskly  fry  for  two 
minutes  on  each  side.  Remove,  drain  on  a  cloth,  and  proceed  to  make 
sandwiches  in  same  manner  as  chicken  club. 

3185.  SARDINE  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Skin,  split  and  remove  bones  from  twelve  medium-sized  sardines 
in  oil,  spread  a  very  little  French  mustard  over,  and  proceed  to  finish 
exactly  as  chicken  club. 

3186.  ANCHOVY  CLUB  SANDWICHES 
Thoroughly  wipe  twenty-four  anchovies  in  oil,  prepare  twelve  pieces 

toast  and  spread  a  very  little  anchovy  butter  over  each.    Arrange  four 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  993 

anchovies  on  six  toasts,  lay  six  half  slices  hot  bacon  over  anchovies, 
spread  a  little  mayonnaise  over  six  well  cleaned  and  drained  lettuce 
leaves  and  place  over  bacon.  Cover  with  the  other  six  toasts,  neatly 
trim  off  crusts  and  cut  in  triangular  halves,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  set  in 
oven  for  two  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3187.    EGG  CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Heat  a  teaspoon  melted  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  carefully  break 
in  a  fresh  egg.  Season  with  a  very  little  salt  and  white  pepper,  fry  for 
one  and  a  half  minutes  on  each  side,  take  up  with  skimmer  and  drain 
on  a  cloth.  Prepare  five  more  eggs  in  a  similar  manner,  place  all  on 
six  lightly  buttered  toasts  and  arrange  on  top  a  thin  slice  broiled  bacon 
cut  in  two.  Spread  a  little  mayonnaise  over  six  well  cleaned  and 
drained  lettuce  leaves,  place  on  bacon  and  lay  six  toasts  on  top.  Neatly 
trim  off  crusts  all  around,  cut  in  triangular  halves,  dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
set  in  oven  for  two  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 

3188.    CLUB  CHEESE 

Prepare  twelve  toasts,  lightly  butter  and  arrange  a  thin  slice  Swiss 
cheese  over  six.  Lay  six  slices  freshly  broiled  bacon  cut  in  two  over 
cheese,  spread  a  very  little  mayonnaise  over  six  well  cleaned  and  drained 
lettuce  leaves,  arrange  on  top  of  bacon  and  cover  with  remaining  six 
toasts.  Neatly  trim  off  crusts,  cut  in  triangular  halves,  dress  on  a  dish, 
set  in  oven  for  two  minutes,  remove  and  serve. 


FRUIT  JELLIES 

3189.     CURRANT  JELLY 

Procure  twenty-five  pounds  small-sized  fresh  currants  (or  what  are 
generally  called  " Dutch"  currants),  place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to 
almost  a  pulp.  Remove  and  place  in  a  large  enamelled  saucepan,  stir 
on  a  moderate  fire  to  a  boiling  point,  carefully  press  through  colander 
into  a  basin  and  through  fine  sieve  into  a  large  bowl.  Carefully  take 
up  jelly  with  a  quart  measure  and  pour  into  a  copper  basin,  set  on  the 
fire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  remove  scum  from  surface  with  a  skimmer  and 
add  as  many  pounds  granulated  sugar  as  there  are  quarts  of  jelly — that 
is,  one  pound  sugar  to  every  quart  of  jelly.  Mix  well  with  spatula,  let 
briskly  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  dip  skimmer  into  jelly,  lift  it  up  and  drop 
a  few  drops  on  a  cold  plate.  If  drops  are  thick  and  do  not  spread  out 
like  water  the  jelly  is  done,  but  if  it  drops  like  water  cook  for  two  or 
three  minutes  more,  or  until  it  obtains  the  desired  point,  and  remove 
from  fire  to  table.  Carefully  warm  up  sufficient  jelly  glasses,  thoroughly 
wipe,  fill  up  with  jelly  and  let  rest  for  six  hours.  Cut  out  round  pieces 
white  wax  paper  of  same  diameter  as  tops  of  jars,  lightly  dip  papers  in 
brandy,  arrange  on  top  of  jelly,  tightly  close  their  covers,  place  in  a  cool 
place  and  use  as  required.  Two  or  three  pounds  well  picked  and 
cleaned  strawberries  or  raspberries  will  greatly  improve  flavor  of  jelly. 


994  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3 1 90.    APPLE  JELLY 

Peel  and  cut  in  quarters  twenty-five  pounds  good,  sound  ripe  apples, 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  cover  pan, 
set  on  fire  and  cook  until  quite  soft  to  the  touch.  Remove,  carefully 
press  all  juice  out  of  apples  through  heavy  cloth  into  a  basin,  let  stand 
for  fifteen  minutes  and  pass  through  filter  into  a  copper  basin.  Add 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  lump  sugar  for  every  quart  of  juice,  squeeze 
in  juice  two  very  sound  lemons,  add  a  vanilla  stick,  mix  well  until  sugar 
is  melted,  set  basin  on  a  brisk  fire  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Take 
up  a  few  drops  with  skimmer,  drop  over  a  cold  plate,  and  if  drops  do 
not  spread  like  water  jelly  is  cooked  right;  should  it  fall  like  water  cook 
a  few  minutes  longer.  Lift  up  vanilla,  wipe  and  place  in  sugar,  pour 
jelly  in  earthen  jars,  let  thoroughly  cool,  cork  well,  lay  in  a  cool  place, 
then  jelly  is  ready  for  use. 

3191.     STRAWBERRY  JELLY 

Pick  the  stems  off  twenty-five  pounds  very  fresh,  ripe,  sound  straw- 
berries, place  in  a  mortar  and  pound  almost  to  a  pulp.  Remove, 
place  in  an  enamelled  pan,  pour  in  a  quart  cold  water,  mix  well  with 
spatula  and  cook  on  fire  until  well  melted.  Press  juice  through  fine 
sieve  into  a  basin,  strain  through  cheesecloth  into  a  copper  basin,  and 
add  a  pound  granulated  sugar  for  every  quart  of  juice.  Mix  well  until 
sugar  is  melted,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  mix  and  skim  off  scum  once  in 
a  while  from  surface.  Take  up  a  few  drops  with  skimmer  and  drop 
on  a  cold  plate ;  if  drops  are  thick  and  do  not  spread  out  like  water  the 
jelly  is  cooked ;  if  drops  fall  out  like  water  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Remove,  pour  into  lightly  warmed  and  wiped  jelly  glasses  and  let  rest 
in  a  cool  place  for  four  hours.  Cover  with  wax  paper  lightly  dipped  in 
brandy,  replace  covers  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

3192.    RASPBERRY  JELLY 

Raspberry  jelly  is  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  strawberry  jelly 
(No.  3191). 

MARMALADES 

3193.    APRICOT  MARMALADE 

Procure  twenty-five  pounds  ripe,  sound,  juicy  apricots,  cut  in  halves, 
remove  stones,  cut  each  half  in  two  and  place  in  a  large  enamelled  pan. 
Add  a  quart  cold  water  and  pound  granulated  sugar,  set  pan  on  brisk 
fire  and  cook  until  soft  to  the  touch,  frequently  stirring  meanwhile  with 
spatula,  remove  and  press  apricots  through  sieve  into  an  earthen  basin. 
Place  three-quarters  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar  with  every  pound  of 
juice  in  a  copper  basin,  pour  in  two  gills  water,  cook  sugar  on  open  fire 
for  ten  minutes,  add  puree  of  apricots  with  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence, 
and  constantly  mix  while  cooking  for  twelve  minutes.  Remove,  crack 
stones  with  a  hammer,  pick  out  almonds,  plunge  in  boiling  water  for 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  995 

five  minutes,  peel  and  add  to  marmalade  five  minutes  before  taking 
off  fire.  Remove  to  a  table,  transfer  marmalade  into  jars,  let  thoroughly 
cool,  place  over  thin  pieces  of  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy  and  cover 
jars.  The  marmalade  is  then  ready;  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

3194.  APPLE  MARMALADE 

Peel  and  finely  slice  twenty-five  pounds  ripe  apples,  place  in  large 
saucepan  with  a  quart  cold  water  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  cover  pan,  slowly 
cook  until  soft,  remove  and  press  through  sieve  into  an  earthen  basin. 
Place  in  a  copper  basin  three-quarters  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar  to 
every  pound  of  marmalade,  add  two  gills  cold  water,  one  vanilla  stick, 
and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Add  marmalade,  constantly  stir 
while  cooking  for  twelve  minutes,  remove,  take  up  vanilla  bean,  wipe, 
and  place  in  sugar,  then  place  marmalade  in  stone  jars  and  let  cool. 
Cover  with  white  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy,  tightly  cover  jars, 
lay  in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  required. 

3 1 94 A.    PEAR  AND  QUINCE  MARMALADES 

Pear  and  quince  marmalades  are  prepared  in  exactly  the  same 
manner  as  apple  marmalade. 

3195.  PEACH  MARMALADE 

Peach  marmalade  is  to  be  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  apricot 
marmalade,  including  almonds. 

3196.    ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Procure  thirty»six  fine,  sound,  juicy  (not  too  ripe),  good-sized  oranges. 
Lightly  grate  rind  of  each  all  around,  prickle  all  over  with  a  needle, 
plunge  in  plenty  of  boiling  water,  cover  pan  and  cook  until  rinds  are 
thoroughly  soft.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  plunge  in  plenty  cold  water  and  let 
disgorge  for  forty-eight  hours,  changing  water  four  times  a  day.  Thor- 
oughly drain,  divide  fn  sections,  remove  seeds  and  press  pulp  and  skins 
through  sieve  into  a  basin.  Place  as  many  pounds  granulated  sugar  in 
basin  as  there  are  pounds  of  marmalade,  add  a  gill  Jamaica  rum  or 
brandy,  and  cook  on  a  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Add  puree,  constantly 
stir  while  briskly  cooking  for  fifteen  minutes,  remove,  place  marmalade 
in  stone  jars  and  let  thoroughly  cool.  Cover  with  wax  papers,  lightly 
dipped  in  brandy,  tightly  cover  jars  and  marmalade  is  ready  for  use. 

3197.    PLUM  MARMALADE 

Cut  twenty-five  pounds  fine,  sound  egg  or  other  plums  in  halves, 
remove  stones,  place  in  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  cinnamon,  handful 
granulated  sugar,  quart  cold  water,  cover  pan,  let  boil  until  soft,  stirring 
quite  frequently  meanwhile,  remove  and  press  plums  through  sieve  into 
an  earthen  basin.  Place  in  a  copper  basin  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
granulated  sugar  to  every  pound  of  plum  juice,  add  two  gills  cold  water, 
cook  on  brisk  fire  for  ten  minutes,  add  plum  pure*e,  and  constantly  stir 
while  cooking  for  twelve  minutes.  Remove,  place  marmalade  in  stone 


996  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

jars,  let  thoroughly  cool,  cover  with  wax  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy, 
tightly  cover  jars,  place  in  cool  place  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

3198.     GREEN- GAGE  MARMALADE 

Green-gage  marmalade  is  prepared  in  exactly  same  manner  as  plums. 
3199.    RASPBERRY  MARMALADE 

Thoroughly  pick  twenty-five  pounds  sound,  ripe  raspberries,  press 
through  sieve  into  a  basin,  place  same  amount  granulated  sugar  in  a 
copper  vessel,  adding  a  gill  cold  water  and  vanilla  stick.  Cook  over  a 
brisk  fire  for  six  minutes,  add  the  strained  raspberries,  continually  stir 
while  briskly  cooking  for  fifteen  minutes,  take  up  vanilla  bean,  wipe 
and  replace  in  sugar,  remove  marmalade,  place  in  stone  jars  and  let 
thoroughly  cool.  Place  pieces  of  wax  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy 
over  marmalade,  tightly  cover  jars,  place  in  cool  place  and  use  as 
directed. 

3200.  STRAWBERRY  MARMALADE 

Strawberry  marmalade  is  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  raspberry 
marmalade. 

3201.  BLACKBERRY  MARMALADE 

Is  also  prepared  in  same  manner  as  raspberry  marmalade  (No.  3199). 
3202.    STRAWBERRY  JAM 

Thoroughly  pick  twenty-five  pounds  sound,  ripe  strawberries. 
Place  twenty-five  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  large  copper  basin  with 
a  quart  cold  water  and  a  tablespoon  vanilla  essence  (No.  3236),  set  basin 
on  open  fire,  cook  until  sugar  begins  to  bubble  on  surface,  then  drop  in 
strawberries  all  at  once.  Gently  stir  with  wooden  spoon  for  a  minute, 
being  careful  not  to  mash  them,  then  cook  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
basin  to  table,  lift  up  strawberries  with  a  skimmer  and  place  in  warmed- 
up  jelly  glasses,  but  only  half  fill.  Reset  basin  on  fire,  boil  for  five  minutes 
more,  fill  up  glasses  with  syrup  and  let  thoroughly  cool.  Place  a  piece 
of  wax  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy  on  top  of  jam,  tightly  close  glasses, 
place  in  a  cool  place  and  use  when  desired.  Before  jam  is  placed  in 
glasses  be  very  careful  to  warm  them  up  a  little  to  prevent  breaking. 

3203.    RASPBERRY  JAM 

Raspberry  jam  is  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  strawberry  jam 

(No.  3202). 

3204.    CHERRY  JAM 

Pick  off  stems  and  stone  twenty-five  pounds  fresh,  sound,  ripe 
cherries,  place  in  copper  basin  with  a  quart  pure  currant  juice  and 
sixteen  pounds  granulated  sugar,  mix  well,  set  basin  on  brisk  fire  and 
cook  for  thirty  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Remove  from 
fire,  dip  some  jelly  glasses  in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes,  take  up  and 
wipe,  then  fill  up  with  prepared  cherries,  etc.,  and  let  thoroughly  cool 
off.  Place  a  piece  of  wax  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy  on  top  of  each 
glass,  tightly  cover,  place  in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  directed. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  99; 

3205.    GOOSEBERRY  JAM 

Pick  and  carefully  remove  with  a  needle  seeds  of  twenty-five  pounds 
ripe,  sound,  fresh  gooseberries,  plunge  in  plenty  boiling  water  with  a  half 
tablespoon  salt  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes.  Thoroughly  drain  on 
sieve,  disgorge  in  cold  water  for  two  hours  and  drain  again  on  a  sieve. 
Place  sixteen  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  copper  basin  with  two 
quarts  water  and  a  tablespoon  vanilla  essence  (No.  3236).  Set  basin  on 
brisk  fire  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  drop  in  berries,  lightly  mix  and  boil 
for  two  minutes,  transfer  to  an  earthen  basin  and  let  stand  for  six  hours. 
Pour  syrup  (only)  into  basin,  boil  briskly  for  five  minutes,  drop  in  goose- 
berries, boil  for  two  minutes,  then  re-pour  whole  into  the  basin  and 
let  thoroughly  cool.  Re-pour  syrup  (only)  into  the  other  basin  and  boil 
until  it  begins  to  bubble,  drop  in  gooseberries,  lightly  mix  and  remove 
to  table.  Dip  some  jelly  glasses  in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes,  take  out 
and  wipe,  fill  up  with  jam  and  let  thoroughly  cool.  Place  a  piece  of 
wax  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy  over  each  glass,  tightly  cover, 
lay  in  cool  place,  and  the  jam  is  ready  for  use. 

3206.    GRAPE  JAM 
Grape   jam   is  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  gooseberry  jam  (No. 


3207.    BLACKBERRY  JAM 

Blackberry  jam  is  also  prepared  in  same  manner  as  gooseberry  jam 
(No.  3205). 

3208.    APRICOT  JAM 

Split  in  two  twenty-five  pounds  sound,  fresh,  ripe  apricots.  Remove 
stones,  place  twenty  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  copper  basin  with  a 
vanilla  stick  and  three  pints  cold  water.  Set  basin  on  a  brisk  fire  and 
as  soon  as  syrup  begins  to  bubble  immediately  drop  in  apricots  all  at 
once,  lightly  stir  and  let  gently  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  lift 
up  apricots  with  a  skimmer,  place  in  warmed-up  glasses,  boil  syrup  for 
five  minutes  and  fill  up  glasses  with  it.  Let  thoroughly  cool.  Cover 
jam  with  waxed  pieces  of  paper  lightly  dipped  in  brandy,  then  tightly 
cover,  place  in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  desired. 

N.  B.  After  placing  apricots  in  glasses  crack  stones,  pick  out 
almonds,  plunge  them  in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes,  drain  and 
evenly  divide  in  glasses  with  apricots  before  syrup  is  poured  in. 

3209.    PEAR  JAM 

Peel  twenty-five  pounds  sound,  fresh,  ripe  pears,  cut  in  quarters, 
remove  seeds,  cores  and  stems,  then  prepare  exactly  the  same  as  apricot 
jam  (No.  3208). 

3210.    PEACH  JAM 

Peel  twenty-five  pounds  medium-sized,  sound,  ripe  peaches,  split 
in  two,  remove  stones,  then  prepare  jam  in  similar  manner  to  apricot 
jam  (No.  3208)- 


998  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3211.    QUINCE  JAM 

Peel  and  cut  in  one-inch-square  pieces  twenty-five  pounds  sound, 
fresh,  ripe  quinces  and  prepare  in  same  manner  as  apricot  jam  (No. 
3208). 

3212.    CONFITURE,  MANAGERS 

Have  five  pounds  each  apricots,  egg  plums  and  cherries,  five  quarts 
peaches,  two  and  a  half  quarts  each  pears  and  quinces.  Peel  peaches, 
pears  and  quinces,  split  in  two,  also  split  plums  and  apricots,  and  remove 
stones,  seeds  and  stems  from  all.  Place  fifteen  pounds  granulated  sugar 
in  a  large  copper  basin  with  a  vanilla  stick  and  a  gill  good  rum,  cook  on 
brisk  fire  until  sugar  begins  to  bubble,  add  all  the  fruits  at  once,  gently 
stir  and  slowly  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  pour  jam  into  a  large 
jelly  glass,  slightly  warmed  so  as  to  prevent  cracking,  and  let  thoroughly 
cool  off.  Cover  jam  with  double  wax  paper  dipped  in  cognac,  tightly 
cover  glass,  then  jam  is  ready  for  use. 

3213.    CURRANT  SYRUP 

Procure  twenty-five  pounds  ripe  currants,  place  in  large  wooden  pail, 
mash  with  hands  and  let  ferment  for  twenty-four  hours,  remove  from 
pail  and  press  all  juice  out  through  sieve  into  a  large  basin.  Take  up 
juice  by  quarts,  pour  it  into  a  copper  basin,  add  a  pound  granulated 
sugar  for  each  quart  of  juice,  and  mix  with  wooden  spoon  until  sugar  is 
melted.  Place  basin  on  brisk  fire  and  briskly  boil  for  twelve  minutes, 
frequently  mixing  and  skimming  froth  off  surface  meanwhile.  Remove 
to  a  table,  let  slightly  cool  off,  pour  syrup  into  thoroughly  cleaned 
bottles,  let  stand  without  corking  for  twelve  hours,  tightly  cork,  place  in 
a  closet  and  use  whenever  required. 

N.  B.  Two  or  three  pounds  ripe,  fresh  raspberries  added  to  currants 
at  beginning  of  operation  will  greatly  improve  flavour  of  syrup. 

3214.    RASPBERRY  SYRUP 
Raspberry  syrup  is  prepared  the  same  as  currant  syrup  (No.  3213). 

3215.  STRAWBERRY  SYRUP 

Strawberry  syrup  is  also  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  currant  syrup 
(No.  3213). 

BRANDIED   FRUITS 

3216.  BRANDIED  CHERRIES 

Cut  away  with  scissors  half  (only)  the  stems  of  five  pounds  sound, 
fresh,  sweet  cherries,  place  in  a  glass  jar,  fill  up  with  cognac,  tightly 
cork  and  put  away  to  infuse  for  three  weeks.  Add  a  pound  powdered 
sugar  to  every  quart  of  brandy,  cork  jar,  briskly  shake,  then  after  two 
months'  infusion  cherries  will  be  ready  to  eat. 

3217.    BRANDIED  PLUMS 
Brandied  plums  are  prepared  in  same  manner  as  cherries. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  999 

3218.  BRANDIED  PEACHES 

Peel  and  cut  in  halves  the  equivalent  of  five  pounds  fresh,  ripe,  sound 
peaches,  remove  stones  and  place  peaches  in  a  glass  jar.  Crack  peach 
stones,  remove  almonds  and  add  to  the  peaches  in  the  jar.  Add  a  pound 
powdered  sugar,  fill  jar  with  brandy,  shake  well,  tightly  cork,  let  infuse 
for  thirty  days,  and  peaches  will  then  be  ready. 

3219.  BRANDIED  APRICOTS 

Apricots  are  prepared  in  same  manner  as  the  peaches  (No.  3218). 

3220.    BRANDIED  FIGS 

Shorten  stems  of  about  one-half  of  five  pounds  fresh,  sound  figs, 
place  in  a  glass  jar,  add  a  pound  sugar  and  fill  up  jar  with  brandy. 
Tightly  cork,  briskly  shake  jar,  put  away  and  let  infuse  for  thirty  days, 
then  figs  will  be  ready  for  use. 

3221.  MIXED  BRANDIED  FRUIT 

Remove  stems  of  two  pounds  sound  (not  too  ripe)  strawberries; 
remove  stems  also,  if  any,  from  two  pounds  sound,  ripe  raspberries.  Cut 
stems  of  two  pounds  sweet  cherries  in  halves,  place  cherries  at  bottom 
of  a  glass  jar,  sprinkle  over  a  half  pound  powdered  sugar,  place  rasp- 
berries on  top,  sprinkle  a  half  pound  sugar  over,  add  raspberries  and 
another  half  pound  sugar.  Fill  jar  with  brandy,  cork  tightly,  put  away 
to  infuse  for  thirty  days,  and  fruit  will  then  be  ready  for  use. 

3222.  CANDIED  LEMON  PEELS 

Procure  twenty-four  sound,  good-sized,  very  fresh  lemons,  cut  in 
halves  and  scoop  out  interiors,  keeping  nothing  but  the  perfect  rinds. 
Place  in  cold  water  for  two  days,  drain  on  a  sieve,  plunge  in  boiling 
water  for  five  minutes  and  drain  well  again,  place  in  a  coppper  basin 
with  three  pounds  granulated  sugar,  two  quarts  cold  water,  lightly  mix 
and  let  come  to  a  brisk  boil.  Shift  pan  to  corner  of  range,  let  slowly 
simmer  for  two  hours,  remove,  let  slightly  cool  off.  Transfer  into  a 
stone  jar,  tightly  cork,  place  in  a  closet  and  use  as  desired. 

3223.  CANDIED  ORANGE  PEELS 

Candied  orange  peels  are  prepared  in  exactly  same  way  as  lemon 
peels  (No.  3222). 

3224.    How  TO  COOK  SUGAR 

To  first  degree. — Place  two  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  copper  basin 
with  a  half  pint  cold  water  and  set  basin  on  open  fire.  Have  a  bowl 
with  some  ice  water  standing  by.  Let  sugar  boil  for  a  minute,  take  up 
a  little  syrup  with  skimmer,  quickly  dip  index  finger  in  syrup  in  skimmer, 
immediately  close  the  two  fingers  and  quickly  open.  If  a  weak,  short 
thread  forms  between  fingers  let  boil  for  two  minutes  longer;  the  thread 
will  then  be  stronger  and  sugar  will  have  attained  the  first  degree. 


iooo  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

To  second  degree. — Boil  sugar  a  little  longer,  dip  in  skimmer,  take 
up  and  blow  sugar  off  into  pan.  If  any  bubbles  form  in  holes  of  skimmer 
it  has  reached  the  second  degree. 

To  third  degree. — Boil  a  little  longer,  dip  in  skimmer  again,  take  up 
and  sharply  shake,  and  if  it  flies  like  feathers  it  has  attained  the  third 
degree. 

To  fourth  degree. — Continue  to  boil  a  few  minutes  more,  dip  stick 
the  size  of  a  lead-pencil  into  sugar,  immediately  take  up  and  plunge  in 
ice  water.  If  sugar  cracks  at  touch  it  has  reached  the  fourth  degree. 

To  fi/th  degree. — Squeeze  in  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  when  it  has  obtained 
a  nice  light  brown  colour  it  will  have  attained  the  fifth  degree — or  a 
caramel. 

3225.    PRALINE,  SUGARED  ALMONDS 

Place  two  pounds  granulated  sugar  with  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence 
(No.  3236)  in  a  coppper  basin,  add  a  half  pint  cold  water,  place  basin 
on  a  brisk  fire  and  cook  till  it  has  attained  the  third  degree.  Then  drop 
in  a  pound  fine,  large,  unpeeled,  almonds,  stir  well  with  wrooden 
spoon  and  let  briskly  boil  for  three  minutes.  Briskly  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  sugar  granulates,  place  almonds  and  sugar  in  a  colander 
and  briskly  shake,  so  as  to  separate.  Place  almonds  in  the  copper 
basin,  stir  with  wooden  spoon  on  the  fire  until  sugar  adhering  is  tho- 
roughly melted,  then  add  the  other  sugar,  and  as  soon  as  all  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  immediately  pour  almonds  on  a  marble  slab,  separate  from 
one  another,  place  on  a  paper  and  let  get  cold.  Place  a  tablespoon  gum 
arabic  in  a  basin  with  two  tablespoons  water,  dissolve  gum,  add  pralines, 
toss  well,  then  place  all  at  once  on  a  sieve.  Keep  sieve  in  a  hot  place 
till  thoroughly  dry  and  pralines  will  be  ready. 

3226.    CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  copper  basin,  add 
ten  ounces  good  chocolate,  a  pint  thick  cream,  two  gills  raspberry  syrup 
(No.  3214),  a  teaspoon  vanilla  essence,  set  the  basin  on  brisk  fire  and 
constantly  stir  until  sugar  reaches  the  third  degree.  Remove,  drop 
on  a  lightly  oiled  marble,  keeping  it  one-third-inch  in  thickness  by 
means  of  iron  rods  placed  around.  Let  thoroughly  cool  off,  remove 
rods,  cut  caramel  in  half-inch  squares  and  wrap  in  small  pieces  of  wax 
paper. 

3227.    VANILLA  CARAMEL 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  copper  basin  with 
three-quarters  pint  thick  cream  and  a  vanilla  bean  split  in  two,  mix 
well  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  set  on  the  fire  and  boil 
until  it  attains  the  third  degree.  Remove  vanilla,  drop  preparation 
on  a  lightly  oiled  marble,  keeping  one-third-inch  in  thickness  by  means 
of  iron  rods  placed  around  it.  Let  thoroughly  cool  off,  cut  in  half -inch 
square  pieces,  wrap  in  wax  papers,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  The 
vanilla  caramels  (or  any  other  kind)  can  be  flavoured  with  any  kind  of 
liquor  if  desired. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1001 

3228.    COFFEE  CARAMELS 

Coffee  caramels  are  prepared  same  as  vanilla  caramels,  only  adding 
a  gill  strongly  made  coffee  at  beginning  of  operation. 

3229.    TEA  CARAMELS 

The  above  article  is  to  be  prepared  in  same  manner  as  vanilla  cara- 
mels (No.  3228)  using,  in  addition,  a  gill  very  strongly  made  tea. 

3230.    HONEY  CARAMELS 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  two  gills  each  thick  honey  and  thick  cream, 
a  half  gill  Jamaica  rum  half  teaspoon  vanilla  essence  (No.  3236),  the 
juice  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and  two  pounds  granulated  sugar,  set  basin 
on  fire  and  stir  with  spatula  until  it  reaches  the  third  degree.  Add  two 
ounces  good  fresh  butter  and  stir  while  boiling  for  three  minutes  longer. 
Drop  on  a  lightly  oiled  marble,  let  thoroughly  cool  off,  keeping  one- 
third-inch  thick  by  means  of  iron  rods  placed  around  it,  then  cut  in 
half -inch  squares,  wrap  in  wax  paper  and  use  when  desired. 

3231.    NOUGATS  DE  MONTELIMART 

Place  two  pounds  honey  in  a  small  saucepan  and  thoroughly  heat 
without  boiling.  Have  two  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  copper  basin, 
add  a  gill  cold  water,  cook  on  range  until  it  has  attained  the  third 
degree  and  then  add  honey.  Beat  up  whites  of  three  eggs  in  copper 
basin  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  preparation  to  eggs,  set  basin  on  the  fire  and 
continually  whisk  until  sugar  attains  the  fourth  degree.  Meanwhile 
cook  three  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  separate  copper  basin  until 
it  attains  the  fourth  degree,  add  to  eggs,  etc.,  in  basin  with  a  half  tea- 
spoon vanilla  essence,  three  pounds  shelled  whole  almonds,  a  quarter 
pound  shelled  whole  pistachios,  thoroughly  mix  and  remove  from  fire. 
Line  bottom  of  a  square  pastry  tin  with  white  wafers,  drop  in  prepara- 
tion, cover  with  another  layer  of  wafers,  let  thoroughly  cool  off,  cut 
into  one-third-inch  slices,  then  nougats  are  ready  for  use. 

3232.    PRALINE 

Place  two  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  copper  basin,  add  two  gills 
water,  set  basin  on  the  fire,  add  a  split  vanilla  stick  and  cook  sugar  until 
it  attains  the  fourth  degree.  Drop  in  all  at  once  a  pound  of  whole 
unpeeled  almonds,  continually  stir  with  spatula  until  a  nice  light  brown 
colour,  remove,  drop  praline  on  a  lightly  oiled  marble,  let  thoroughly 
cool  off,  crack  in  pieces  and  use  as  required. 

3233.    PEPPERMINT  DROPS 

Place  a  pound  powdered  sugar  in  bowl  with  ten  drops  peppermint 
extract,  a  half  gill  water,  and  sharply  work  with  spatula  for  five  min- 
utes. Drop  preparation  into  a  paper  cornet,  cut  a  small  piece  off  at 
end,  press  on  a  well  cleaned  marble  into  drops  a  half -inch  in  diameter 
and  let  thoroughly  dry. 


ioo2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3234.    STRAWBERRY  DROPS 

Strawberry  drops  are  to  be  prepared  same  as  peppermint  drops,  but 
substituting  a  half  gill  strawberry  syrup  for  peppermint  and  water. 

3235.    KALOUGAS 

Place  in  a  copper  basin  two  pounds  fine  sugar,  a  pint  thick  crearn 
and  teaspoon  kiimmel.  Set  basin  on  the  fire  and  constantly  stir  with 
wooden  spoon  until  mixture  attains  a  tan  colour,  drop  on  a  clean  marble, 
let  slightly  cool  off,  cut  in  small  squares,  and  it  will  then  be  ready  for  use. 

3236.    VANILLA  ESSENCE 

Procure  a  quarter  pound  of  best  vanilla  in  sticks,  slice  on  a  small 
wooden  board  as  finely  as  possible,  place  in  mortar  with  three  ounces 
lump  sugar  and  thoroughly  pound.  Remove,  place  in  a  quart  bottle, 
fill  up  with  pure  ninety-degree  alcohol,  cork  bottle  tightly,  thoroughly 
shake,  and  after  a  day's  infusion  it  can  be  used.  Be  very  careful  to 
always  shake  bottle  thoroughly  before  using,  and  always  keep  it  tightly 
corked. 

N.  B.  When  the  essence  is  all  finished,  add  one-third  the  amount 
vanilla  and  sugar  (prepared  same  as  before)  to  bottle,  also  balance  of 
vanilla,  fill  up  bottle  again  with  alcohol  and  keep  as  before. 

3237.  VANILLA  LIQUOR 

Cut  four  sticks  of  vanilla  in  small  pieces,  place  in  quart  bottle,  fill 
up  with  good  brandy  and  let  infuse  for  eight  days,  being  careful  to  thor- 
oughly shake  bottle  daily.  Place  a  half  pound  granulated,  sugar  with 
two  gills  water  in  copper  basin,  set  on  fire  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Add  all  the  contents  of  vanilla  bottle,  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  pass  liquor  through  paper  filter  into  a  bowl, 
let  cool,  bottle,  cork  tightly,  and  use  when  desired. 

3238.  VANILLA  SUGAR 

Split  four  vanilla  beans,  then  with  a  knife  scrape  interior  of  each 
stick  over  three  pounds  fine  sugar.  Place  sugar  in  a  jelly  glass  with  vanilla 
sticks,  mix  sugar  well  with  vanilla,  tightly  cover  and  use  as  required. 
When  a  vanilla  bean  has  been  used  wipe  and  place  it  in  this  sugar. 

3239.  ORANGE  ESSENCE 

Carefully  remove  white  silk  of  twelve  fresh,  very  sound  orange  peels, 
thoroughly  dry,  place  in  a  quart  bottle  and  fill  up  with  good  alcohol. 
Tightly  cover  bottle,  thoroughly  shake,  then  let  infuse  for  fifteen  days 
before  using. 

Lemon  essence  is  prepared  exactly  the  same  as  the  above. 

3240.  ORANGE  LIQUOR 

With  a  thin  sharp  knife  remove  rinds  of  six  sound  oranges  and  place 
peels  in  a  stone  jar  with  a  quart  of  cognac.  Place  in  a  saucepan  four 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1003 

ounces  sugar,  two  gills  water,  juice  of  the  six  oranges,  set  on  the  fire  and 
stir  until  melted.  Cover,  let  infuse  for  sixty  days,  filter  liquor  through 
a  paper  filter  and  bottle. 

3241.    DUCKLING,  GRISCOM,  JR. 

Carefully  singe,  cut  off  feet  and  neck  of  a  nice  tender,  five-pound 
duckling,  split  through  back,  remove  spinal  bone,  draw  and  neatly  wipe. 
Envelop  in  a  towel,  gently  flatten  with  a  cleaver,  lightly  prickle  both 
sides  with  point  of  a  larding  needle  and  lay  on  a  dish.  Place  in  a  mortar 
twelve  shelled,  unpeeled  hazel  nuts  with  a  very  small,  sound,  chopped 
shallot  and  pound  to  a  fine  pulp.  Add  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  half 
teaspoon  French  mustard,  saltspoon  each  curry  powder  and  paprika, 
half  teaspoon  each  freshly  chopped  parsley  and  salt,  the  strained  juice 
of  a  sound  quarter  of  lemon,  and  thoroughly  pound  again  for  one  minute. 
Remove  pulp  from  mortar,  carefully  rub  duck  over  with  it  and  let  infuse 
for  forty-five  minutes,  being  careful  to  rub  quite  frequently  meanwhile, 
arrange  duck  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  over  brisk  fire  for  six  minutes 
on  each  side. 

Peel  and  core  three  good-sized  sound  apples,  cut  in  four  equal  slices 
each,  lay  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish  and  place  duck  over  apples. 
Arrange  six  thin  slices  lean  bacon  and  spread  remaining  mixed  butter, 
etc.,  over  the  duck,  set  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  frequently  basting 
with  its  own  gravy  meanwhile,  remove  and  send  to  table  in  same  dish. 

3242.     SALMON,  NICHOLAS  II. 

Procure  three  one-pound  slices  very  fresh  red  salmon  and  place  in 
a  sautoire  one  beside  another.  Add  half  a  sliced  carrot,  two  rings  of 
onions,  a  branch  parsley,  clove,  two  bay  leaves  and  two  slices  lemon. 
Moisten  with  a  half  gill  each  vinegar  and  white  wine,  pour  in  just  suffi- 
cient cold  water  to  cover  fish,  season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons 
pepper,  cover  pan  and  let  infuse  in  cool  place  for  six  hours.  Set  pan 
on  corner  of  range  and  as  soon  as  broth  begins  to  boil  remove  to  a  cool 
place  and  allow  to  cool  off  thoroughly.  Meanwhile  prepare  mayon- 
naise (No.  70),  adding  to  it  three  melted  gelatine  leaves,  two  tablespoons 
hot  milk,  and  briskly  whisk  all  together  for  two  minutes.  Lift  up  slices 
of  salmon,  neatly  wipe  with  cloth  and  place  on  a  grating  one  beside 
another.  Evenly  spread  mayonnaise  over  slices  so  that  entire  top  of 
each  slice  will  be  smoothly  covered. 

Place  grating  and  fish  in  ice  box  until  thoroughly  firm,  which  will 
take  about  an  hour,  and  remove  grating  to  table.  Cut  a  medium  truffle 
in  quarter-moon-shaped  pieces  and  decorate  top  of  each  slice  with  it, 
carefully  lift  up  slices  from  grating,  neatly  arrange  on  cold  dish  over  a 
folded  napkin  and  fill  up  hollow  space  of  each  slice  with  finely  cut  up 
jelly.  Arrange  on  dish  around  fish  twelve  small  heart-shaped  canapes 
of  Russian  caviare,  alternating  with  three  cold,  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
quarters,  then  serve. 


too4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3243.    SALAD.  MRS.  DUVAL 

Cut  in  nice  julienne  strips  two  sound,  medium-sized  truffles,  three 
canned  artichoke  bottoms,  a  very  sound,  firm,  cored  and  peeled  apple,  the 
heart  of  a  stalk  of  very  fresh,  well-cleaned,  thoroughly  drained  crisp 
white  celery  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  a  good-sized,  sound,  boiled,  minced, 
cold  potato,  six  heaping  tablespoons  cooked,  thoroughly  drained,  cold, 
fresh  asparagus  tips  (or  canned  if  no  fresh  at  hand).  '  Place  all  these 
articles  in  a  vessel  and  gently  shuffle  them.  Drop  over  gradually  a 
good  tablespoon  olive  oil,  light  tablespoon  strained  lemon  juice,  then 
sprinkle  over  three  saltspoons  salt,  two  saltspoons  paprika  and  a  half 
teaspoon  freshly  chopped  parsley.  Gently  and  carefully  mix  all  well 
together,  transfer  to  a  salad  bowl,  arrange  four  light  tablespoons  mayon- 
naise (No.  70)  over  centre,  send  to  table  and  gently  mix  for  a  moment 
before  eating. 

3244.    LOBSTER  SALAD,  MRS.  ALLEN 

Split  lengthwise  two  fine,  freshly  boiled  and  thoroughly  cooled 
medium  lobsters.  Crack  claws  and  carefully  pick  meat  from  shells  of 
bodies  and  claws,  being  careful  to  discard  intestines  and  pouch,  cut 
meat  in  equal-sized  square  pieces  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Shell  three 
cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  lay  on  a  plate,  chop  up  finely  and  add  to  lobster. 
Finely  chop  up  two  small,  sound,  peeled  shallots,  sprinkle  over  lobster 
and  eggs,  then  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoon  very  finely  chopped  parsley, 
light  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  chives  (ciboulette),  and  gently  shuffle 
the  contents  of  bowl.  Chop  up  very  fine  half  a  head  fresh,  well  cleaned 
and  dried  lettuce,  add  to  bowl,  lightly  mix  again,  season  with,  three  and 
a  half  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863)  and  mix  whole  well  together. 
Just  before  serving  add  three  tablespoons  mayonnaise  (No.  70),  gently 
mix  again,  wipe  edges  of  bowl  all  around  and  send  to  table. 

3245.    LOBSTER  SALAD,  RAE 

Split  lengthwise  two  medium-sized,  freshly  boiled  and  cooled  lobsters, 
crack  claws,  carefully  pick  out  meat  from  shells  of  bodies  and  claws, 
remove  intestines  and  pouch,  then  cut  meat  into  rather  small,  equal, 
square  pieces  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Peel  and  chop  up  fine  as  possible 
two  very  small,  sound  shallots,  add  to  lobster  and  mix  a  little.  Finely 
chop  up  three  cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  to  lobster  and  gently  shuffle 
contents  of  bowl.  Chop  very  fine  a  root  well-pared  and  thoroughly 
cleaned  celery,  using  nothing  but  the  white,  thoroughly  drain  in  a  napkin 
and  add  to  bowl,  with  a  light  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives  (if  handy).  Season  with  two  teaspoons 
salt,  a  teaspoon  very  finely  and  freshly  crushed  white  pepper,  three  and 
a  half  tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  well,  and  just  before  sending  to 
table  add  three  good  tablespoons  freshly  prepared  mayonnaise  (No.  70). 
Gently  mix  the  whole  well  together,  neatly  wipe  edges  of  salad  bowl 
with  a  napkin  and  serve. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1005 

3246.  RUSSIAN  SALAD 

Cut  in  small  squares  twelve  anchovies  in  oil,  the  meat  from  a  small, 
cold,  cooked  lobster,  twelve  shelled,  cooked,  cold  shrimp,  a  cooked, 
medium  carrot,  cooked  turnip  and  a  cold  boiled  potato.  Place  all  these 
articles  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  three  tablespoons  cooked,  cold  string 
beans  cut  in  short  pieces,  two  tablespoons  cooked  asparagus  tips,  a 
tablespoon  capers  and  six  sliced  pickles.  Sprinkle  over  a  half  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  chervil,  teaspoon  chopped  tarragon,  season  with  three 
tablespoons  dressing  (No.  863),  mix  thoroughly,  add  two  tablespoons 
mayonnaise  (No.  70)  and  mix  well  again.  Neatly  clean  and  thoroughly 
drain  six  small  white  leaves  of  lettuce,  place  a  light  half  teaspoon  Russian 
caviare  on  each,  nicely  arrange  around  sides  of  bowl  and  serve. 

3247.  SALAD,  STETSON 

Cut  two  good-sized,  freshly  cooked,  cold  French  artichoke  bottoms 
(or  canned  if  no  fresh  at  hand)  in  half-inch  pieces  and  place  in  a  salad 
bowl.  Cut  in  same  shape  the  heart  of  a  good  stalk  well- washed  and 
thoroughly  drained  celery  and  leave  on  a  cloth.  Peel,  remove  hard  stalk 
from  centre,  as  well  as  eyes,  of  three  half-inch-thick  slices  of  a  fresh 
pineapple,  cut  in  half-inch  pieces  and  place  with  artichokes.  Cut  in 
half-inch  pieces  three  Spanish  sweet  peppers  and  sprinkle  over  artichokes 
and  pineapple.  Have  three  tablespoons  freshly  cooked,  well-drained, 
cold  fresh  peas  and  also  sprinkle  over  other  ingredients  in  bowl.  Neatly 
wipe  and  plunge  three  small,  firm  red  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  a 
minute,  take  up,  drain,  skin  with  a  towel,  remove  stems,  cut  in  quarters, 
add  celery  to  bowl,  gently  shuffle  contents  and  add  tomatoes.  Have 
on  a  saucer  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  olive  oil,  three-quarters  tablespoon 
strained  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  saltspoons  paprika. 
Briskly  mix,  pour  over  salad,  and  just  a  second  before  serving  gently 
mix  whole  well  together  and  send  to  table  with  four  tablespoons  mayon- 
naise dressing  (No.  70)  separately,  or  mix  it  at  the  very  last  moment. 

3248.    ENGLISH  PHEASANT,  MCCLELLAN 

Carefully  singe,  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  nice,  tender  English  pheasant, 
split  open  through  back  without  separating,  draw,  neatly  wipe  and 
carefully  remove  spinal  bone,  envelop  in  a  towel,  gently  flatten  with  a 
cleaver,  lightly  prickle  both  sides  with  point  of  a  larding  needle  and  lay 
bird  on  a  flat  dish.  Crack,  remove  meat  from  fibres  of  twelve  good- 
sized,  sound,  unpeeled  pecan  nuts,  place  in  a  mortar  with  eight  shelled, 
peeled  and  roasted  almonds,  a  small,  sound,  peeled  and  very  finely 
chopped  shallot,  then  pound  these  articles  to  a  fine  paste.  Add  a  half 
ounce  fresh  butter,  light  teaspoon  each  French  mustard  and  salt,  two 
saltspoons  paprika,  a  saltspoon  curry  powder,  half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  fresh  parsley,  strained  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  and 
pound  whole  well  together  for  two  minutes.  Remove  force,  carefully 
rub  pheasant  all  over  with  it  and  let  infuse  for  forty-five  minutes,  taking 
care  to  rub  frequently  meanwhile.  Place  bird  on  double  broiler  and  set 


ioo6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

to  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Cut  from  a  fresh, 
sound  pineapple  six  two-third-inch  slices,  scoop  out  eyes,  hard  part  in 
centre,  lay  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish  one  beside  another,  and 
arrange  pheasant  on  top  of  pineapple.  Lay  six  very  thin  slices  raw,  lean 
bacon  over  bird,  evenly  spread  remaining  butter  in  dish  over  pheasant 
and  set  in  oven  to  roast  for  eighteen  minutes,  being  careful  to  baste 
frequently  meanwhiler.  Remove  and  immediately  send  to  table  in  same 
dish. 

3249.    PARTRIDGE,  MRS.  REICK 

Singe,  cut  heads  and  feet  off  two  fat,  tender  partridges,  split  open 
through  back  without  separating,  carefully  draw,  neatly  wipe,  remove 
spinal  bones,  envelop  in  a  towel  and  gently  flatten  with  a  cleaver.  Lightly 
prickle  both  sides  with  a  small  needle  and  lay  on  a  flat  dish.  Carefully 
crack  and  remove  perfect  meat  from  four  Brazilian  nuts  (not  roasted), 
cut  in  thin  slices  and  place  in  mortar  with  twenty-four  very  sound, 
roasted,  cracked,  unpeeled  pistachios  and  a  half  very  small,  sound, 
peeled  and  finely  chopped  shallot.  Briskly  pound  these  ingredients  to 
a  fine  pulp,  add  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  half  teaspoon  French  mustard, 
light  saltspoon  each  curry  powder  and  paprika,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
strained  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  and  sharply  pound  again 
for  minute  and  a  half.  Remove  pulp  from  mortar,  with  it  carefully 
rub  bird  on  both  sides,  then  let  infuse  in  moderate  temperature  for 
thirty  minutes,  being  careful  to  frequently  rub  meanwhile,  arrange 
birds  on  a  double  broiler  and  broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side.  Peel, 
core  and  cut  in  three  even  slices  each  four  medium,  sound,  juicy  (not 
over-ripe)  pears,  lay  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish  one  beside  another 
and  place  partridges  over,  cut  side  downward.  Arrange  six  exceedingly 
thin  slices  raw  lean  bacon  over  birds,  spread  remaining  mixed  butter  in 
dish  over  all,  set  in  oven  for  sixteen  minutes,  baste  with  its  own  gravy 
once  in  a  while,  remove  and  serve  in  same  dish. 

3250.     QUAILS,  WHITE 

Pick  six  nice,  tender,  fat  quails,  singe,  draw,  neatly  wipe,  split 
through  back  without  separating,  crack  main  bones,  lightly  flatten  with 
cleaver  and  lay  on  a  dish.  Place  in  a  mortar  fifteen  shelled,  peeled  and 
roasted  almonds,  the  clear  meat  of  six  very  sound  walnuts,  a  very  small, 
sound,  peeled  and  finely  chopped  shallot,  and  pound  all  well  together 
until  a  fine  pulp.  Add  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  light  teaspoon  each 
French  mustard  and  salt,  two  saltspoons  paprika,  a  saltspoon  curry 
powder,  strained  juice  of  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon,  and  briskly  pound 
again  for  a  minute  and  a  half.  Take  up  pulp,  carefully  rub  quails 
evenly  all  over  with  it,  then  infuse  for  thirty  minutes,  being  careful  to 
rub  frequently  meanwhile.  Peel  and  carefully  clean  twelve  good-sized, 
sound,  fresh  mushrooms  and  thoroughly  drain.  Mix  on  plate  a  light 
teaspoon  salt,  three  saltspoons  pepper,  a  tablespoon  each  oil  and  sherry, 
repeatedly  turn  mushrooms  in  seasoning,  then  neatly  arrange  one  beside 
another  in  a  baking  dish.  Place  quails  on  top  of  mushrooms  cut  side 
downward,  spread  all  butter  in  dish  over  birds  and  set  in  oven  for  twenty 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1007 

minutes,  being  careful  to  baste  frequently  with  their  own  gravy  once  in 
a  while.  Broil  six  exceedingly  thin  slices  raw  lean  ham  for  one  and  a 
half  minutes  on  each  side,  remove  from  oven,  dress  ham  over  and  send 
to  table  in  same  dish. 

3251.    SPRING  TURKEY,  GOULD 

Carefully  singe  and  cut  head  and  feet  off  a  nice,  tender  spring  turkey, 
split  open  through  back  without  separating,  carefully  draw,  neatly  wipe 
and  remove  spinal  bone.  Envelop  in  a  towel  and  lightly  flatten  with  a 
cleaver,  lightly  prickle  both  sides  with  point  of  a  needle  and  place  on  a 
flat  dish.  Carefully  crack  eight  sound  walnuts,  remove  fibres,  place 
meat  in  mortar  with  a  small,  sound,  peeled  and  very  finely  chopped 
shallot  and  pound  to  a  fine  pulp.  Add  a  half  ounce  fresh  butter,  light 
teaspoon  French  mustard,  saltspoon  each  curry  powder  and  paprika, 
three-quarters  teaspoon  salt,  strained  juice  quarter  of  a  sound  lemon  and 
briskly  pound  again  for  a  minute.  Take  up  pulp  from  mortar,  carefully 
rub  the  turkey  all  over  with  it  and  let  infuse  for  forty-five  minutes, 
being  careful  to  rub  frequently  meanwhile,  arrange  biro*  on  double 
broiler  and  broil  on  a  brisk  fire  for  eight  minutes  on  each  side.  Peel  and 
core  three  good-sized,  sound,  juicy  apples,  cut  each  in  four  equal  slices, 
lay  on  a  lightly  buttered  baking  dish  one  beside  another,  lay  turkey  on 
apples  and  arrange  six  thin  slices  raw  lean  bacon  over  turkey.  Spread 
remaining  mixed  butter  in  dish  over,  set  in  oven  for  twelve  minutes, 
frequently  basing  with  its  own  gravy  once  in  a  while,  remove  and  send 
to  table  in  same  dish. 

AFTER-DINNER  CORDIALS 

3252.  Place  in  pony  glass  half  pony  each  creme  yvette  and  apricot 
brandy.     Care  should  be  taken  to  have  each  separated  and  not  running 
together. 

3253.  Crack  a  fresh  egg  in  a  large  glass  tumbler,  add  a  half  teaspoon 
powdered  sugar  and  thoroughly  beat  egg  and  sugar  with  a  spoon.     Pour 
in  a  teaspoon  each  red  curacao  and  green  chartreuse,  a  pony  glass  good 
whiskey,  fill  glass  with  finely  cracked  ice,  strain  into  a  small  flat  glass 
and  serve. 

3254.  Place  in  a  cordial  glass  half  a  teaspoon  raspberry  syrup, 
carefully  pour  one  over  the  other,  a  half  teaspoon  each  maraschino, 
creme  de  menthe,  green  chartreuse  and  brandy;  serve  very  carefully 
without  mixing  different  colours. 

3255.  Place  in  small  wineglass  a  teaspoon  red  curacao  and  yolk  of 
a  very  fresh  egg,  taking  special  care  that  the  egg  yolk  remain  whole, 
then  carefully  pour  in  a  teaspoon  each  maraschino,  yellow  chartreuse, 
green  chartreuse  and  very  good  brandy.     Light  a  match,  set   fire  to 
brandy  and  let  burn  one  and  a  half  minutes,  which  should  be  done  in 
presence  of  the  guest. 

3256.  Place  in  bottom  of  a  cordial  glass  a  teaspoon  red  curajao 
and  fill  a  teaspoon  with  yellow  chartreuse.     Gently  and  carefully  put 


ioo8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  into  glass  far  enough  down  to  allow  point  of  spoon  to  just  touch 
surface  of  curacao,  slowly  withdrawing  spoon  until  empty,  then  fill 
spoon  with  brandy,  gradually  pour  over  the  yellow  chartreuse  and 
serve  without  shaking. 

COCKTAILS 

3257.    COCKTAIL  MONTAUK 

Put  in  large  glass  a  dash  each  orange  bitters  and  maraschino,  half 
wineglass  each  Plymouth  gin  and  Italian  vermouth,  three  dashes  Sloe 
gin,  fill  glass  with  finely  shaved  ice,  stir  well  with  spoon  and  strain  into 
a  cocktail  glass. 

3258.    INTERNATIONAL  COCKTAIL 

Place  in  large  glass  two  dashes  each  orange  bitters  and  maraschino, 
half  a  wineglass  each  French  vermouth  and  Plymouth  gin,  fill  glass  full 
of  finely  slaved  ice,  stir  well  with  spoon,  strain  into  a  cocktail  glass, 
putting  in  an  olive,  and  serve. 

3259.     STAR  COCKTAIL 

Fill  a  large  glass  with  finely  shaved  ice  and  add  a  dash  orange  bitters, 
two  dashes  maraschino,  half  wineglass  each  Italian  vermouth  and  apple 
jack,  stir  well  with  spoon,  strain  into  cocktail  glass,  squeeze  a  piece 
lemon  peel  on  top  and  serve. 

COOLERS 

3260.  Break  a  fresh  egg,  separate  white  from  yolk,  place  yolk 
in  a  schooner  glass,  add  a  half  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  and  thoroughly 
beat  up  with  spoon.     Moisten   with  a  half  pony  maraschino,  pony 
brandy,  fill  glass  with  cracked  ice,  thoroughly  mix  for  a  half  minute, 
strain  through  strainer  into  a  claret  glass  and  serve. 

3261.  Place  in  a  large  glass  six  tablespoons  cracked  ice,  a  half 
teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  pour  in  a  half  pony  red  curacao,  wineglass 
Catawba  wine,  and  shake  contents  for  three-quarters  of  a  minute,  pour 
all  back  into  glass  without  straining  and  serve  with  straws. 

3262.  Have  at  bottom  of  a  very  large  glass  three  sprigs  good  fresh 
mint,  two  teaspoons  powdered  sugar,  then  fill  with  cracked  ice  and  add 
one  sherry  wineglass  good  brandy  or  whiskey,  whichever  is  preferable. 
Thoroughly  shake,  pour  all  back  in  glass,  arrange  three  sprigs  very 
fresh  mint  near  edge  inside,  a  slice  of  orange  on  top,  and  serve  with  straws. 

3263.  Have  in  a  large  glass  four  heaping  tablespoons  clean,  cracked 
ice.     Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  medium-sized,  very  juicy,  sound  lemon, 
add  a  half  teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  one  pony  glass  each  of  raspberry 
syrup  and   Swiss  kirsch.     Thoroughly  shake  it  with  the  glass  and 
shaker,  strain  in  a  lemonade  glass,  pour  in  a  bottle  cold  plain  soda, 
mix  well  and  immediately  serve. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1009 

3264.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  a  good-sized,  sound  lemon  into  a  large 
tumbler,  add  two  teaspoons  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoon  syrup  of 
orgeat,  two  tablespoons  St.  Croix  rum  and  finely  cracked  ice,  thoroughly 
mix  with  a  spoon,  pour  in  one  bottle  cold  plain  soda,  continually  mixing 
with  a  spoon  meanwhile,  then  strain  into  a  large  glass  and  serve. 

3265.  Place  in  a  large  glass  three  tablespoons  clean,  finely  cracked 
ice,  squeeze  in  juice  of  a  good-sized,  sound,  ripe,  red  orange,  pour  in  a 
pony  brandy  and  half  pony  red  curacao.     Gradually  pour  in  a  bottle 
cold  plain  soda,  briskly  mixing  with  a  long  spoon  while  pouring   in, 
strain  through  a  fine  strainer  into  a  large  glass  and  serve. 

3266.  Place  in  large  glass  white  of  a  fresh  egg,  squeeze  in  juice  of 
a  medium-sized  sound  lemon,  adding  a  teaspoon  fine  powdered  sugar, 
thoroughly  beat  up  with  spoon,  then  pour  in  one  and  a  half  ponies  Old 
Tom  gin,  fill  up  glass  with  clean  cracked  ice,  briskly  shake  with  shaker, 
strain  into  a  large  glass,  then  fill  up  glass  with  plain  soda,  mix  well  with 
spoon  and  serve. 

3267.    CLARET  CUP 

Mix  in  a  punch  bowl  a  quart  claret,  two  pony  glasses  each  orange 
Curasao  and  maracshino,  half  pony  glass  Jamaica  rum  and  two  large 
tablespoons  sugar.  Stir  well  with  ladle,  add  two  bottles  Club  soda, 
also  a  large  piece  ice,  fruits  in  season  and  serve  in  fancy  wine  glasses. 

N.  B.  Nowadays  a  number  of  people  are  more  or  less  averse  to 
using  lemon  juice  in  cups,  but  if  desired  the  juice  of  a  sound  lemon  can 
be  added. 

3268.    CUP  CHAMPAGNE 

Mix  in  punch  bowl  a  quart  champagne,  two  pony  glasses  each 
curafao  (white)  and  maraschino,  half  pony  best  brandy  and  one  or  two 
bottles  Club  soda.  Stir  slowly  with  ladle,  add  a  large  piece  of  ice,  also 
fruits  in  season,  and  serve  in  fancy  wine  glasses. 

3268A.     ONE  QUART  CHAMPAGNE  CUP,  No.  2 

Place  in  bottom  of  a  pitcher  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  sliced  orange, 
some  small  pieces  pineapple,  two  sprays  mint  and  the  rind  of  a  cucumber. 
Pour  over  one  bottle  plain  soda  and  allow  to  infuse  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Half  fill  the  pitcher  with  ice,  add  two  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar,  two 
sherry  glasses  red  Curasao  and  a  quart  champagne  (to  be  opened  at  the 
table),  stir  well  with  ladle  and  serve  in  fancy  wine  glasses. 

3269.     EGG-NOGG 

Have  a  punch  bowl  sufficiently  large  to  hold  at  least  three  quarts. 
Crack  eight  very  fresh  eggs  and  separate  yolks  from  whites.  Whisk 
sharply  and  beat  up  yolks  in  a  bowl  with  eight  tablespoons  fine  powdered 
sugar,  then  pour  in  a  pint  old  brandy,  three  dashes  Jamaica  rum  and 
two  quarts  fresh  milk,  continually  whisking  while  pouring  in  milk. 
When  all  ingredients  are  added  sharply  whisk  for  two  or  three  minutes. 
Beat  up  whites  in  bowl  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  pour  over  egg-nog,  place 
bowl  in  a  cool  place  and  serve  when  desired  in  fine  tumblers. 


ioio  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3270.      MONTAUK   EGG-NOGG 

Place  in  a  large  glass  a  fresh  egg,  half  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little 
nutmeg,  wineglass  brandy  and  quarter  pony  Jamaica  rum.  Fill  the 
glass  with  milk,  shake  well,  strain  into  a  large  glass,  twist  a  piece  of 
lemon  over  and  serve. 

3271.     EGG  LEMONADE 

Place  in  a  large  glass  a  fresh  egg,  tablespoon  sugar,  juice  of  a  sound 
lemon,  fill  up  balance  with  water,  shake  in  a  shaker  with  a  little  ice 
untiKngredients  are  well  mixed,  then  strain  and  serve.  This  is  a  deli- 
cious summer  drink. 

3272.     CHAMPAGNE  PUNCH 

Prepare  one  and  a  half  teacups  Oolong  tea  and  put  aside  until  cool, 
but  do  not  place  on  ice.  Pour  into  a  three-quart  champagne  bowl 
one  pony  each  eurak,  brandy  and  maraschino,  two  wineglasses  Rhine 
wine,  a  bottle  cold  plain  soda  and  quart  champagne.  Strain  the  pre- 
pared tea  into  bowl,  thoroughly  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  a  ladle, 
then  add  a  lump  of  clear,  clean  ice  of  about  a  pound.  Peel  a  sound, 
medium-sized,  ripe  banana,  slice  it  in  thin  slices  and  scatter  all  over  the 
punch.  Neatly  peel  and  slice  a  fine,  juicy  orange,  spread  slices  over 
punch  and  serve  in  punch  glasses. 

3272A.    CHAMPAGNE  PUNCH,  PROCTOR 

Place  in  a  two-gallon  punch  bowl  with  sufficient  ice  four  large 
spoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  juice  of  six  oranges,  a  half  pint  maraschino, 
pint  each  cold  English  Breakfast  tea  and  brandy,  three  bottles  plain 
soda  and  six  quarts  dry  champagne.  Stir  well  with  ladle,  ornament 
with  sliced  pineapple  and  oranges  and  serve  in  champagne  glasses. 

CLARET  PUNCH  (SEE  No.  3316) 
3273.    PUNCH,  FRANCAISE,  HOT 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  on  range  a  pint  Jamaica  rum,  twelve  ounces 
granulated  sugar,  and  stir  continually  with  wooden  spoon  until  reduced 
to  half  the  quantity.  Add  the  strained  juice  of  three  sound  lemons  and 
four  sweet  oranges,  set  pan  on  corner  of  range  and  keep  hot.  Have 
in  a  well-scalded  teapot  an  ounce  green  tea,  pour  over  it  a  pint  boiling 
water  and  let  mfuse  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  into  the  rum,  etc. 
Shift  pan  to  a  brisker  part  of  range  and  when  coming  to  a  boiling  point 
thoroughly  skim,  remove,  from  fire,  pour  into  a  punch  bowl  and  serve. 

3274.     GEERING  PUNCH 

Place  in  large  goblet  a  half  tablespoon  fine  sugar,  the  juice  of  half  a 
sound  lemon,  half  pony  yellow  chartreuse  and  a  pony  glass  of  Martell 
brandy,  stir  well  with  spoon,  add  a  lump  of  ice,  bottle  of  Club  soda  and 
serve. 


CIPE 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  ion 

3275.  HOT  MILK  PUNCH 

Place  in  large  glass  a  tablespoon  sugar,  wineglass  brandy  (if  desired 
use  whiskey)  and  two  dashes  of  Jamaica  or  St.  Croix  rum,  fill  with 
boiling  hot  milk,  stir  well  with  spoon,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  and 
serve. 

3276.  HOT  Swiss  PUNCH 

Place  in  a  copper  or  tin  vessel  a  half  pound  granulated  sugar,  gilJ 
Swiss  kirsch,  two  ounces  each  St.  Croix  rum  and  good  cognac,  light 
with  a  match  and  let  burn  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pour  over  a  pint 
champagne  of  about  fifty  degrees  (Fahrenheit)  temperature.  Squeeze 
in  juice  of  half  a  medium-sized,  juicy  orange  and  add  six  thin  slices 
pineapple,  mix  whole  well  with  a  ladle,  heat,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil, 
pour  into  a  fancy  bowl  and  serve. 

3277.    RICKEY  (WHISKEY  OR  GIN) 

Place  in  medium-sized  fizz  glass  a  square  piece  of  ice,  squeeze  in 
juice  of  a  good-sized  sound  lemon,  a  wine  glass  rye  whiskey  or  gin  and 
two  dashes  orange  phosphate,  fill  with  carbonated  water  or  soda  and 
serve. 

3278.    WHISKEY  DAISY 

Place  in  large  glass  a  half  tablespoon  sugar,  three  dashes  lemon 
juice  or  lime  juice,  a  wineglass  maraschino,  two  dashes  raspberry 
syrup,  stir  up  well,  strain,  add  fruits  in  season  and  serve. 

3279.    TODDY 

Place  in  large  glass  a  lump  sugar,  the  peel  of  half  a  sound  lemon  and 
dissolve  with  a  little  hot  water,  fill  up  with  shaved  ice,  add  a  dash 
maraschino,  wine  glass  rye  whiskey  and  serve  with  a  spoon. 

3280.    HOT  APPLE  TODDY 

Place  in  a  large  glass  half  a  medium-sized,  well-baked  apple,  half 
tablespoon  sugar,  a  wine  glass  old  apple  jack,  dissolve  well  with  a 
little  hot  water,  fill  up  with  hot  water,  mix  well  together,  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  on  top  and  serve  with  spoon. 

3281.    To  CLEAN  AND  PREPARE  SULTANA  CURRANTS  AND  RAISINS 

FOR  PASTRY 

Procure  ten  pounds  currants  or  Sultana  raisins,  lay  on  table  and, 
should  they  be  damp,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  to  prevent  adhering  to 
the  hands.  Briskly  rub,  place  on  a  fine  wire  sieve  and  shake  well  for 
three  minutes,  so  as  to  have  them  completely  free  from  flour  and  stalks. 
Lay  sieve  with  fruits  in  a  large  dishpan,  fill  up  to  level  of  sieve  with  hot 
water,  stir  well  with  skimmer  for  five  minutes,  lift  up  sieve  and  let  drain 
for  four  minutes. 

Cover  an  iron  pan  with  a  sheet  of  brown  paper,  drop  contents  over, 
well  spread  out,  then  set  in  a  rather  slow  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Remove, 


, 

ioi2  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

lay  in  warmest  place  on  kitchen  shelf  and  let  dry  for  fully  two  days. 
Lay  on  a  table  and  carefully  remove  stones,  sand,  stalks,  or  any  other 
element  except  the  perfect  fruit,  place  in  a  tin  box,  tightly  cover,  keep  in  a 
cool  place  and  use  as  required. 

[The  above  important  articles  are  so  frequently  required  for  pastry 
purposes,  etc.,  that  I  consider  it  advisable  to  prepare  a  larger  amount 
than  required  for  one  occasion,  as  they  will  remain  in  good  condition  for 
six  months  when  properly  kept.] 

3282.    SPONGE  FOR  FRENCH  BREAD  (LEVAIN) 

Sift  on  table  two  pounds  best  quality  thoroughly  ripe  flour,  place 
half  in  a  bowl  sufficiently  large  to  hold  six  or  seven  quarts  and  carefully 
make  a  fountain  in  centre  of  it.  Place  a  half-ounce  cake  very  fresh, 
firm,  cold  compressed  yeast  in  bowl,  pour  over  a  half  pint  lukewarm 
water  and  thoroughly  dissolve  with  hand  for  two  and  a  half  minutes. 
Pour  into  fountain,  mix  a  little,  gradually  incorporate  flour  for  five 
minutes  and  sharply  knead  all  well  together  for  six  minutes.  Cover 
bowl  with  a  dry  cloth,  then  lay  vessel  in  a  warm  place  of  80  degrees 
temperature  to  rise  during  the  night  (or  at  least  two  and  a  half  to  three 
hours)  without  touching  it.  The  sponge  will  then  have  risen  to  double 
size,  fallen,  risen  again,  and  be  in  proper  condition  for  dough. 

N.  B.  In  using  flour  for  making  any  kind  of  bread  always  remember 
never  to  employ  flour  when  cold  or  warm — that  is  to  say,  it  should  be  in 
a  place  of  60  degrees  temperature  at  least  twelve  hours  before  using  it. 

3283.    DOUGH  FOR  FRENCH  BREAD 

Place  in  a  bowl  a  half  pint  lukewarm  water  or  the  same  quantity 
lukewarm  milk,  a  half  ounce  salt,  and  dissolve  for  a  minute.  Uncover 
bowl,  pour  water  on  sponge,  thoroughly  knead  the  whole  well  together 
for  six  minutes,  add  little  by  little  the  remaining  pound  of  flour,  briskly 
and  constantly  kneading  meanwhile.  The  kneading  operation  after 
the  flour  has  been  added  should  continue  for  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 
Lift  up  dough  with  the  hands  and  knock  it  as  hard  as  you  can  against 
bottom  of  vessel  ten  different  times,  immediately  cover  vessel  with  dry 
cloth,  put  in  warm  place  of  same  temperature  as  before  (80  degrees) 
and  allow  to  rise  for  two  and  a  half  hours  again. 

3284.    To  SHAPE  THE  FRENCH  LOAF  ( JOCKO) 

Remove  cloth  from  vessel,  transfer  dough  to  a  lightly  floured  table 
and  cut  in  two  even  pieces.  With  the  hands  roll  and  press  out  each  piece 
in  ball  shape  for  four  .minutes,  shift  them  to  corner  of  table,  cover 
with  a  dry  cloth  and  let  rest  for  ten  minutes,  being  careful  to  avoid 
draughts.  Then  neatly  roll  out  one  piece  with  hands  evenly  to  four 
inches  and  let  rest  for  two  minutes,  then  roll  it  out  round  to  seventeen 
inches  long. 

Have  a  board  eighteen  inches  square.  Arrange  over  it  a  piece  of  dry 
duck  cloth  the  length  of  board,  and  eight  inches  wide,  and  flute  cloth  on 
both  sides  two  and  a  half  inches  high  and  three  inches  wide.  Carefully  lay 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1013 

the  loaf -shape  dough  in  section  or  "bed,"  cover  it  with  a  dry  cloth  or  a 
lightly  buttered  piece  of  paper,  and  place  in  a  temperature  of  80  degrees 
to  rise  for  one  hour.  It  should  rise  to  double  its  size  by  that  time. 

3285.    To  SHAPE  THE  RING  (COURONNE) 

Carefully  roll  out  the  other  piece  of  dough  evenly  with  hands  to  eight 
inches,  let  rest  for  two  minutes,  then  roll  it  out  round  to  twenty-two  inches 
long  and  sprinkle  a  little  cornmeal  flour  over  surface  to  prevent  sticking 
to  pan.  With  an  ordinary  rolling-pin,  twenty-four  inches  long  by 
half  an  inch  in  diameter,  briskly  press  down  dough  in  centre  from  end 
to  end  to  depth  of  half  the  dough,  leaving  one-half  intact,  then  carefully 
turn  pin  three  or  four  times.  Take  up  pin  and  firmly  join  both  ends, 
giving  it  a  pretty  ring  shape.  Have  a  lightly  buttered  tin  pan,  carefully 
place  ring  in  pan,  split  side  down,  cover  with  a  dry  cloth  or  piece  of 
buttered  paper,  and  also  lay  in  a  place  of  80  degrees  temperature  to  rise 
for  one  hour. 

3286.    To  BAKE  THE  FRENCH  LOAF  ( JOCKO) 

Shortly  before  time  for  baking  bread  be  very  careful  to  see  oven  is  at 
proper  degree  of  heat.  A  very  simple  way  to  determine  whether  the 
heat  is  right  or  not  is  to  place  a  piece  of  white  paper  in  oven,  close  door, 
and  after  a  lapse  of  five  minutes  open  door  and  remove  paper.  If  it 
is  a  dark-brown  colour  the  temperature  is  right,  if  it  burns  it  is  too  hot 
and  should  be  cooled  a  little,  and  if  it  is  only  a  light  brown  colour 
it  should  be  made  hotter. 

Remove  covering  from  French  loaf.  Have  a  low-edged  baking  pan 
large  enough  to  easily  hold  loaf  placed  alongside  the  board,  then  carefully 
turn  over  loaf  into  pan  by  means  of  the  cloth  without  touching  the 
dough  with  the  hands.  If  loaf  is  not  in  exactly  straight  position  in  pan 
use  a  piece  of  pasteboard  to  straighten  it,  then  with  a  small,  keen  knife 
make  four  or  five  rapid  diagonal  half-inch-deep  incisions  at  equal  dis- 
tances on  top. 

3287.    To  BAKE  THE  RING  (COURONNE) 

Have  a  pie  plate  or  round  roasting  pan  large  enough  to  easily  hold 
ring,  remove  cloth  from  ring,  gently  and  carefully  turn  it  upside  down 
(split  side  up)  in  the  pan  and  immediately  place  both  in  oven  to  bake 
for  about  an  hour,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour.  Avoid  opening 
oven  door  until  twenty  minutes  after  bread  has  been  set  in  oven.  After 
baking  for  thirty  minutes  turn  bread  over;  if  bottom  is  white,  that  is, 
if  it  has  not  attained  a  good  colour,  turn  upside  down  and  leave  in  that 
position  for  balance  of  time,  then  remove  and  serve. 

3288.    FRENCH  ROLLS  AND  FLUTTES  (CALLED  "PISTOLETS") 

Prepare  same  amount  of  sponge  and  dough  exactly  the  same  as  for 
French  loaf  and  ring  (Nos.  3282  and  3283).  When  the  "ready"  dough 
is  transferred  and  rolled  out  on  floured  table  cut  it  in  twenty-four  equal 
parts  instead  of  two.  Roll  out  with  hands  into  ball  shape,  cover  with 
a  dry  cloth  and  let  rest  for  four  minutes,  being  careful  to  avoid  draughts. 


ioi4  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

3289.    To  SHAPE  FRENCH  "ROLLS 

Have  same  board  as  used  for  French  loaf  standing  by.  Place  on  it 
a  duck  cloth  considerably  longer  than  board,  and  flute  in  sections  two 
inches  apart  and  two  inches  high.  Dredge  a  very  little  cornmeal  flour 
over  twelve  of  the  balls  only,  lay  rolling-pin  crosswise  over  one  of  the 
balls  right  in  centre,  and  with  both  hands  press  down  to  about  three- 
quarters  the  height  of  roll.  Carefully  roll  pin  around  two  or  three  times, 
being  careful  to  leave  a  quarter  of  bottom  intact.  Lay  roll  very  carefully 
in  a  section  of  the  cloth,  split  side  down,  and  proceed  with  eleven  more  in 
the  same  manner,  taking  care  to  keep  them  about  one  inch  apart  from  one 
another  in  the  sections. 

3290.    To  SHAPE  FLUTTES  (PISTOLETS) 

Take  one  of  the  remaining  twelve  balls,  with  the  hands  roll  and  press 
it  out  to  four  and  a  half  inches  long  and  round  pointed  at  both  ends,  and 
arrange  it  in  a  section  of  the  fluted  cloth.  Finish  the  other  remaining 
eleven  in  same  way,  place  in  sections,  also  keeping  them  an  inch  apart 
from  one  another.  Cover  with  a  dry  cloth  or  buttered  paper  and  place 
them  in  a  temperature  of  80  degrees  to  rise  for  forty-five  minutes. 

3291.    To  BAKE  ROLLS  AND  FLUTTES 

After  allowing  rolls  and  fluttes  to  rise  for  forty-five  minutes,  in  which 
time  they  ought  to  have  doubled  in  size  if  temperature  was  right,  remove 
cloth.  Have  a  baking  pan  alongside  board,  take  up  rolls  from  their 
bed  with  a  piece  of  pasteboard  and  turn  into  baking  pan,  split  side  up, 
keeping  them  an  inch  apart  from  one  another.  Sprinkle  a  very  little 
cornmeal  flour  over  fluttes,  carefully  transfer  with  a  piece  of  pasteboard 
from  fluted  cloth  into  baking  dish  with  rolls,  keeping  them  also  one  inch 
from  one  another,  then  with  a  small  sharp  knife  make  three  light  diagonal 
incisions  on  top  of  twelve  fluttes  only,  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  half  an  hour, 
or  until  they  attain  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove  and  serve. 

N.  B.  If  desired,  French  loaf  and  ring,  rolls  and  fluttes  can  all  be 
prepared  at  same  time — that  is,  one  loaf,  one  ring,  twelve  each  rolls  and 
fluttes — with  identical  process  by  simply  doubling  quantity  of  each  in- 
gredient, using  a  vessel  of  double  capacity  (to  easily  hold  twelve  quarts) 
for  sponge,  dough,  etc.,  and  ready  dough  cut  and  rolled  out  accordingly. 

3292.  FERMENT  (AN  EXCELLENT  HOME-MADE  YEAST) 
For  two  quarts  of  ferment:  Procure  six  small,  raw,  old  potatoes 
the  size  of  ordinary  eggs — the  uglier,  more  common-looking  and  thicker- 
skinned  the  better,  but  they  must  be  sound.  Thoroughly  wash  till 
completely  free  from  sand,  place  in  small  enamelled  pan,  pour  a  quart 
cold  water  over,  let  gently  cook  until  soft,  which  will  take  considerable 
time  (or  nearly  fifty  minutes),  and  drop  potatoes  and  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled  into  a  deep,  narrow  vessel.  The  water  will  have 
reduced  by  this  time  to  one  pint ;  if  reduced  more  than  a  pint  add  shorten- 
ing to  make  a  pint.  Add  six  ounces  sifted  flour,  carefully  and  thoroughly 
mash  potatoes,  flour  and  water  with  a  potato  masher  until  a  firm  pulp,  or 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1015 

for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Add  a  quart  cold  water  (in  hot  weather; 
lukewarm  in  cold  weather),  then  carefully  dissolve  ingredients  with  the 
hand  until  completely  free  from  lumps  and  see  that  the  ferment  is  just 
to  a  lukewarm  point  before  adding  yeast.  Take  up  a  half  cup  of  the 
ferment  and  add  to  it  a  half -ounce  cake  firm,  fresh  compressed  yeast, 
thoroughly  dissolve  with  the  hand,  add  to  ferment  and  thoroughly  whisk 
with  pastry  whisk  until  frothy.  Remove  whisk,  cover  vessel,  place  a 
heavy  dry  cloth  around  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise  during  night. 
First  thing  in  the  morning  remove  cloth  and  cover  from  vessel,  then  whisk 
ferment  for  five  minutes  and  strain  through  strainer  into  a  stone  jar, 
pressing  everything  through  except  skins  of  potatoes.  Tightly  cover, 
place  in  ice  box  and  use  as  directed  when  required,  taking  care  to  always 
briskly  shake  the  jar  just  before  using  ferment. 

N.  B.  The  above  ferment  is  of  wide  importance  for  the  purpose  of 
strengthening  the  preparation  of  the  sponge,  lightening  and  giving  a 
delicious,  sweet,  succulent  taste  to  bread. 

3293.    MILK  DOUGH  FOR  Two  RINGS 

(l2    MILK   FLUTTES   AND    12    DOUGHNUTS) 

Break  two  fresh  eggs  in  a  bowl,  gradually  add  a  pint  boiled  milk 
(made  lukewarm  before  using  it),  gently  beat  up  with  a  fork  for  two 
minutes,  then  add  two  ounces  fine  sugar,  two  teaspoons  salt,  one  and  a 
half  teaspoons  vanilla  essence  (No.  3236),  and  mix  the  whole  well  to- 
gether for  two  minutes.  Add  a  pint  ferment,  made  lukewarm  in  a 
bain-marie  (double  pan)  in  cold  weather  and  used  cold  in  hot  weather. 
A  saltspoon  powdered  cinnamon  can  be  added  if  desired,  which  will  give 
a  fine  additional  flavour. 

Place  in  a  dishpan  three  pounds  thoroughly  ripe,  best  quality  sifted 
flour,  make  a  wide  fountain  in  centre  of  flour,  then  pour  brewing  into 
fountain.  Briskly  mix  with  the  hand  and  gradually  incorporate  flour 
for  six  minutes,  then  sharply  knead  for  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 
Lift  up  with  hands  and  vigorously  knock  it  against  bottom  of  pan  about 
ten  times,  carefully  cover  pan  with  a  dry  cloth  and  place  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  during  the  night.  Lightly  flour  table,  remove  dough  from 
vessel,  place  on  floured  table  and  briskly  work  for  ten  minutes,  sprinkling 
a  little  flour  over  once  in  a  while.  Divide  dough  into  four  equal  parts, 
carefully  roll  out  to  ball  shape,  cover  and  let  rest  for  ten  minutes,  avoiding 
draughts. 

3294.  To  SHAPE  MILK  RINGS  (" COURONNES ") 

Take  up  a  ball  and  with  the  thumb  make  a  hole  in  centre  of  dough. 
Rapidly  turn  hand  around  ball  until  open  space  is  enlarged  to  four 
inches,  the  ring  of  equal  size  all  around,  and  lay  it  on  a  lightly  buttered 
baking  pan.  Prepare  another  in  exactly  same  manner,  cover  all  with  a 
dry  cloth  and  place  for  an  hour  in  a  temperature  of  80  degrees  to  rise. 

3295.  To  BAKE  MILK  RINGS  ("COURONNES") 

Beat  up  an  egg  in  a  bowl  with  three  tablespoons  milk,  then  with  a 
small  hair  pastry  brush  lightly  glaze  surface  of  the  two  rings  and  with  a 


ioi6  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

pair  of  scissors  or  a  small  sharp  knife  make  a  few  double  incisions  on 
surface  of  each  ring  all  around.  Set  in  oven  to  bake  for  an  hour,  being 
careful  not  to  open  oven  door  for  twenty  minutes.  Carefully  watch  and 
see  that  it  is  equally  baked  all  around,  remove  and  serve. 

3296.    To  SHAPE  THE  MILK  FLUTTES 

Roll  and  gently  press  out  another  ball,  with  a  cutter  divide  in  twelve 
equal  pieces,  and  with  the  hands  roll  each  piece  into  nice  round  shape, 
cover,  let  rest  for  ten  minutes,  then  roll  out  each  piece  to  five  inches 
long  and  pointed  at  both  ends.  Place  in  a  lightly  buttered  baking  pan, 
and  with  pastry  brush  lightly  glaze  surface  of  each  with  beaten-up  egg, 
etc.  Carefully  make  three  small  diagonal  incisions  with  scissors  or  a 
small  sharp  knife,  cover  with  a  dry  cloth  and  place  for  an  hour  in  a 
temperature  of  80  degrees  to  rise. 

3297.    To  BAKE  THE  FLUTTES 

After  lapse  of  an  hour  remove  cloth  and  immediately  set  in  oven  to 
bake  for  thirty  minutes,  or  until  they  have  attained  a  nice  golden  colour 
all  around,  remove  and  serve. 

3298.    DOUGHNUTS 

With  a  rolling-pin  roll  and  spread  out  the  last  ball  of  dough  to  one- 
eighth-inch  thickness.  With  a  doughnut  cutter  cut  out  twelve  pieces, 
place  on  tin,  cover  with  a  dry  cloth  and  allow  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  for 
thirty  minutes.  Arrange  in  a  frying  basket,  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a 
nice  golden  colour  on  both  sides,  turning  over  once  in  a  while,  remove, 
thoroughly  drain,  dredge  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  and  serve. 

3299.  REMARKS  ABOUT  "UNIVERSAL"  BREAD  MAKING  MACHINE  FOR 

PRIVATE  FAMILIES 

I  recently  came  across  a  peculiar  looking  small  bread  maker,  called 
the  "Universal  Bread  Maker."  After  carefully  examining,  I  purchased 
one  for  the  purpose  of  trying  it  in  my  own  house  to  find  out  about 
its  merits.  After  having  tried  and  carefully  observed  the  result  of  its 
workings,  I  was  satisfied  of  the  efficiency  and  merit  claimed  for  it  by  its 
owners.  The  No.  4  Universal  Machine  has  a  capacity  of  from  two  to 
six  loaves  or  rings  of  bread.  The  No.  8  Universal  has  a  capacity  of 
from  four  to  ten  loaves  or  rings.  The  machine  is  of  such  simplicity 
that  a  child  can  work  it.  On  the  first  trial  I  followed  their  recipe  through- 
out, and  the  bread  turned  out  all  right  but  a  little  heavy.  With  the  second 
recipe  (No.  3301)  the  bread  turned  out  simply  delicious  in  every  respect. 
Another  important  point  'in  its  favour  is  that  in  working  the  sponge 
and  part  of  the  dough  it  does  away  with  use  of  the  hands. 

3300.  FRENCH  BREAD  BY  THE  "  UNIVERSAL  "  BREAD  MAKER,  No.  i 

(This  sponge  is  for  four  loaves  of  plain  French  bread.) 
Sift  on  a  table  three  pounds  thoroughly  ripe,  best  quality  flour. 
Measure  out  a  quart  warm  water,  pour  it  in  the  bread  maker,  reserving 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1017 

b  the  measure  about  half  a  cup.  Crumble  a  half -ounce  cake  fresh, 
firm  compressed  yeast  into  a  cup,  half  fill  the  cup  with  lukewarm  water 
and  thoroughly  dissolve  yeast.  Pour  the  dissolved  yeast  into  bread 
maker  with  water,  adding  two  heaping  teaspoons  salt  and  three  pounds 
flour  all  at  once.  (Liquids  should  always  be  poured  in  first.)  Briskly 
turn  crank  for  three  minutes,  or  until  dough  forms  about  kneading 
rod  in  a  smooth,  compact  ball.  Put  on  cover  of  machine,  place  over  a 
dry  cloth  and  set  in  temperature  of  80  degrees  to  rise  during  night. 
After  rising  turn  crank  until  dough  forms  a  ball  about  kneader  again, 
then  loosen  crosspiece  and  lift  kneader  and  dough  on  it  out  of  pad 
together.  Push  dough  off  kneading  rod,  cut  into  four  equal  parts, 
shape  and  place  in  baking  tins  and  set  to  bake  for  about  an  hour. 

On  first  trial  I  followed  the  above  recipe  throughout  and  the  bread 
turned  out  all  right,  but  a  little  heavy. 

3301.    FRENCH  BREAD  BY  THE  "UNIVERSAL"  BREAD  MAKER,  No.  2 

(Sponge  for  four  loaves  of  plain  French  bread.) 
Proceed  to  prepare  sponge  in  exactly  same  manner  as  No.  3300. 
Remove  dough  in  the  morning  after  rising  during  night,  place  on  a 
floured  table  or  in  a  lightly  floured,  quite  large  dishpan  and  sharply 
work  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  lift  up  with  hands  and  vigorously 
knock  against  bottom  of  pan  or  table  eight  or  ten  different  times.  Cut 
dough  into  four  equal  parts,  roll  out  to  ball  shape,  cover  with  a  dry 
cloth,  let  rest  for  ten  minutes,  then  roll  out  to  loaf,  ring  or  any  shape 
desired.  Carefully  arrange  loaves  on  fluted  cloth  on  the  board  (No. 
3284)  and  rings  (No.  3285). 

Cover  with  a  dry  cloth  or  buttered  paper,  place  in  temperature  of 
80  degrees  for  an  hour  and  remove  cloth.  Have  baking  pan  placed 
alongside  board,  carefully  turn  loaves  into  it  and  make  four  or  five  very 
rapid  half -inch-deep  incisions  at  equal  distances  on  top.  If  there  be  any 
rings  prepare  in  same  manner  (No.  3285),  then  place  both  in  oven  to 
bake  for  an  hour  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  not  opening  oven  door 
for  twenty  minutes  and  carefully  watching  that  bread  is  well  baked  all 
around,  remove  and  serve. 

With  this  second  recipe  the  bread  turned  out  simply  delicious  in 
every  respect. 

3302.    RYE  BREAD 

Prepare  sponge  same  as  No.  3300,  but  using  two-thirds  wheat 'and 
one-third  rye  flour,  adding  a  teaspoon  kummel  seeds.  After  dough 
has  risen  during  night  remove  either  to  floured  table  or  dishpan,  and 
briskly  work  it  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Should  it  be  slightly 
soft  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour  until  of  such  firm  consistency  that  it 
will  not  stick  to  pan.  Divide  dough  into  four  equal  parts,  roll  in  round 
shapes,  cover  and  let  rest  for  ten  minutes.  Then  roll  out  to  loaf  or 
ring  shape,  cover  with  a  dry  cloth,  set  to  rise  for  one  hour  in  temperature 
of  80  degrees,  transfer  to  baking  tin  and  sprinkle  a  very  little  cornmeal 
flour,  over  top  of  each.  Make  a  few  rapid  incisions  on  top  at  equal  dis- 


ioi8  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

tance  from  one  another,  then  with  a  hair  pastry  brush  lightly  wet  surface 
of  each  with  water,  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  an  hour  or  until  well  baked 
all  around,  being  careful  not  to  open  the  oven  door  before  the  lapse  of 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  oven,  lightly  glaze  surface  again  with 
water  and  reset  in  oven  to  dry  for  five  minutes,  take  out  and  serve. 

3303.     CORNMEAL  PAN  BREAD 

Mix  and  sift  two  pounds  cornmeal  flour  and  a  quarter  pound  wheat 
flour  in  a  dishpan,  gradually  pour  one  and  one-eighth  quarts  boiling 
water  over  and  briskly  stir  with  spatula  to  a  tepid  point.  Briskly  beat 
two  fresh  eggs  in  a  china  vessel  with  fork  for  two  minutes,  add  one  and 
a  half  teaspoons  good  honey,  two  teaspoons  salt,  a  tablespoon  melted 
butter  (or  good  melted  lard  instead),  teaspoon  lemon  essence  and  three 
gills  lukewarm  ferment  (No.  3292),  then  briskly  mix  all  well  together 
for  three  minutes.  Gradually  add  mixture  to  flour,  sharply  stirring 
while  adding,  and  continue  to  sharply  mix  with  spatula  for  thirty 
minutes.  Have  a  high-edged  baking  pan  greased  all  around  with  a 
tablespoon  melted  lard,  transfer  batter  to  pan,  cover  with  a  piece  of 
paper  and  place  in  a  temperature  of  80  degrees  for  two  hours  to  rise. 

Remove  paper,  then  set  pan  in  oven  to  bake  until  a  nice  light  brown 
colour  on  top,  which  will  take  about  one  hour,  turning  pan  two  or  three 
times  meanwhile.  Remove,  cut  bread  into  pieces  of  any  desired  shape 
and  serve  with  butter  on  a  hot  dish  in  folded  napkin. 

Left-over  bread  can  be  heated  up  in  oven  and  served  again,  as  it 
will  keep  in  good  condition  for  two  or  three  days. 

3304.     MILK  CORNMEAL  BREAD,  MONTGOMERY 

Place  two  pounds  sifted  cornmeal  and  a  quarter  pound  sifted  wheat 
flour  in  a  dishpan,  sprinkle  over  one  and  one-eighth  quarts  boiling 
milk  and  briskly  stir  with  the  spatula  until  tepid.  Beat  in  a  bowl  for 
two  minutes  three  fresh  eggs  with  a  fork,  add  two  teaspoons  salt,  three 
teaspoons  fine  sugar,  a  teaspoon  orange-flower  water,  tablespoon  good 
melted  butter  and  three  gills  lukewarm  ferment  (No.  3292).  Whisk 
the  whole  well  together  for  three  minutes,  add  to  flour  and  sharply  mix 
with  spatula  for  thirty  minutes.  By  that  time  it  will  be  of  a  smooth, 
consistent  dough.  Thoroughly  grease  a  high-edged  roasting  pan  with 
a  tablespoon  good  melted  lard,  transfer  dough  into  pan,  cover  with  a 
piece  of  paper  and  lay  in  a  temperature  of  80  degrees  for  two  hours 
to  rise,  remove  covering  and  set  to  bake  for  about  an  hour,  or  until  a 
nice  golden  colour.  Avoid  opening  oven  door  for  twenty  minutes, 
after  that  turn  pan  around  two  or  three  times,  remove,  cut  into  any 
desired  shape  and  serve  on  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

3305.     MUFFINS,  MRS.  HALDEMAN 

Have  in  a  vessel  a  pound  sifted  yellow  cornmeal  flour  and  four  ounces 
sifted  wheat  flour,  pour  over  a  pint  and  a  light  gill  boiling  milk  and 
briskly  stir  with  wooden  spatula  until  tepid.  Beat  up  two  fresh  eggs 
in  a  bowl  for  two  minutes,  add  one  and  a  half  gills  lukewarm  ferment 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1019 

(No.  3292),  a  teaspoon  each  salt  and  fine  sugar,  tablespoon  good  honey, 
light  tablespoon  melted  fresh  butter,  and  ten  shelled,  thoroughly  scalded, 
peeled  and  finely  pounded  almonds,  whisk  well  for  three  minutes,  add 
to  flour,  and  sharply  mix  the  whole  well  together  for  twenty-five  minutes 
with  spatula.  Have  a  pastry  pan  well  greased  with  melted  lard,  butter 
well  interiors  of  twelve  muffin-ring  moulds  and  lay  moulds  in  pan. 
With  a  spoon  fill  them  up  to  three-quarters  of  their  height,  cover  with  a 
paper  and  place  them  in  temperature  of  80  degrees  for  one  and  a  half 
hours  to  rise.  Remove  paper  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  about  thirty- 
five  to  forty  minutes,  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove,  unmould, 
dress  on  hot  dish  enveloped  in  a  napkin  and  serve  with  butter.  Grease 
well  a  small  square  pan,  place  in  it  the  remaining  dough,  well  spread, 
cover  and  set  to  rise  in  temperature  of  80  degrees  for  one  and  a  half 
to  two  hours.  Uncover  and  set  to  bake  until  of  a  nice  light  brown,  or 
about  one  hour,  turning  pan  around  two  or  three  times  after  twenty 
minutes  of  baking.  Remove  and  serve  for  next  occasion,  cut  up  in  any 
shaped  slice  desired. 

3306.    To  ROAST  COFFEE  IN  A  SIMPLE  WAY 

Have  two-thirds  of  a  pound  best  raw  Java  coffee  mixed  with  one- 
third  pound  best  quality  Mocha.  Butter  a  baking  dish  well  with  good 
butter  all  around  interior,  place  coffee  in  plate  and  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  roast  until  a  good  golden  brown  colour.  (It  will  take  about 
twenty-two  minutes.)  Be  very  careful  frequently  to  mix  in  every 
direction  with  a  wooden  spoon  meanwhile,  place  in  an  earthen  jar  and 
tightly  cover,  keep  in  a  moderate  temperature  and  use  as  required. 

3307.    To  ROAST  COFFEE  IN  COFFEE  ROASTER 

Procure  a  small  family  coffee  roaster,  open  small  section  that  acts 
as  a  cover  and  drop  coffee  (two-thirds  of  a  pound  raw  Java  and  one-third 
of  a  pound  raw  Mocha)  into  the  roaster.  If  convenient  have  a  good 
charcoal  fire  in  range,  remove  one  of  the  lids  then  set  roaster  over  fire. 
See  that  the  cover  is  firmly  closed,  and  turn  the  small  handle  rather 
slowly  but  constantly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  roaster  from  its 
stand,  thoroughly  shake  coffee  in  roaster  in  all  directions  for  two  seconds, 
reset  on  its  stand  and  continue  to  roast,  constantly  turning  until  a  good 
light  brown  colour,  which  should  take  from  twenty-five  to  twenty -eight 
minutes.  Remove  cover  to  see  when  proper  colour  is  attained,  and 
when  doing  so  do  npt  let  roaster  stand  over  fire  but  shift  to  corner  of 
range.  Place  in  an  earthen  jar,  tightly  cover,  keep  in  a  moderate  tem- 
perature and  use  as  required. 

By  roasting  your  own  coffee  as  above  described,  you  may  be  sure 
to  always  have  it  fresh  and  retaining  its  full  aroma. 

3308.    To  MAKE  AFTER-DINNER  COFFEE 

Take  six  light  tablespoons  roasted  coffee  beans  from  jar  and  grind 
in  mill,  neither  too  fine  nor  too  coarse.  Have  a  thoroughly  clean,  small 
French  coffee  pot  and  thoroughly  scald  with  boiling  water  just  a  minute 


1020  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

before  time  of  making  the  coffee,  arrange  a  piece  of  dry,  clean,  old  linen 
cloth  around  the  section  of  pot  and  filter  to  insure  perfect  clarifica- 
tion. Place  the  ground  coffee  on  filter  and  pour  over  a  pint  and  a  half 
thoroughly  (fresh)  boiling  water  little  by  little.  When  water  is  poured 
over  place  cover  on,  being  very  careful  that  on  no  account  does  it  boil. 
Keep  on  corner  of  range  or,  better  still,  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  up 
to  height  of  three  inches  on  coffee  pot  until  coffee  is  filtered,  then  serve 
in  six  after-dinner  cups.  Coffee  should  never  be  made  more  than  three 
or  four  minutes  before  time  to  serve. 

3309.    ANOTHER    MODE    OF    MAKING    EXCELLENT    AFTER-DINNER 

COFFEE 

Have  a  rather  small  ordinary  earthen  (clay)  pot  or  enamelled  pan. 
Grind  in  coffee  mill  six  light  tablespoons  roasted  coffee  and  place  in 
pan,  measure  out  one  and  a  half  pints  cold  fresh  water,  carefully  sprinkle 
a  gill  (only)  of  it  all  over  coffee,  immediately  put  cover  on,  let  infuse  in  a 
cool  place  for  twenty  minutes,  then  pour  in  balance  of  cold  water  (five 
gills).  Mix  well  with  a  clean  wooden  stick,  cover,  then  set  pan  on  the 
side  of  the  fire  and  let  very  slowly  come  just  to  a  boiling  point.  On  no 
account  allow  it  to  boil,  being  careful  to  mix  with  wooden  stick  two  or 
three  times  only  while  heating  up  and  to  immediately  replace  cover  each 
time.  Remove  from  range,  let  settle  for  two  minutes,  arrange  a  piece 
of  clean,  dry  old  linen  or  muslin  cloth  over  a  hot  serving  coffee  pot,  pour 
coffee  over,  and  when  all  strained  immediately  serve  in  six  after-dinner 
cups. 

3310.    COFFEE  WITH  MILK,  Swiss  STYLE 

Grind  six  light  tablespoons  roasted  coffee  beans  from  the  jar 
(No  3306)  and  place  in  an  earthen  pot.  Sprinkle  all  over  a  good  gill 
cold  water,  immediately  cover  pot  and  set  on  one  side  to  infuse  for 
twenty  minutes.  Pour  over  three  and  a  half  pints  fresh,  cold  milk, 
mix  well  with  wooden  stick,  cover  pan,  set  pot  on  the  side  of  the  fire 
and  let  very  slowly  come  to  just  a  boiling  point,  mixing  with  wooden 
stick  quite  frequently  meanwhile.  Shift  pot  to  corner  of  range  and  let 
settle  for  three  minutes,  strain  through  a  clean,  dry  old  linen  cloth  into 
a  hot  pitcher  and  serve  in  six  "cafe*  au  lait"  cups. 

3311.    HOME-MADE  CHOCOLATE 

(To  roast  cacao  for  the  chocolate?) 

Procure  a  half  pound  each  Caracas  and  Puerto  Cabello  raw  cacao 
in  shell,  being  careful  to  select  nuts  intact,  that  is  to  say,  not  bruised 
or  broken.  Should  there  be  any  broken  ones  among  them  lay  aside 
for  further  action.  Place  cacao  in  a  small  coffee  roaster,  close  cover, 
place  over  a  clear  fire  on  range  (the  entire  barrel  of  roaster  over  fire), 
and  gently  turn  at  the  rate  of  twenty  turns  per  minute,  continuing  for 
twelve  minutes  without  ceasing.  Rapidly  take  roaster  from  its  stand, 
briskly  shake  barrel,  immediately  replace  it  on  stand  and  rapidly  resume 
gentle  turning  at  same  rate  for  eight  minutes  longer.  Remove  it  again, 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1021 

and  should  there  be  any  bruised  or  broken  cacao  left  add  to  the  other, 
tightly  slide  cover  on,  briskly  shake,  replace  on  fire  and  roast  again  same 
as  before,  but  for  six  minutes  only.  Remove  cacao  from  roaster  to  a 
tin,  cover  with  a  dry  cloth  and  let  cool  for  ten  minutes.  Carefully  shell 
cacao,  place  latter  in  a  tin  and  shells  ki  a  bowl,  keeping  them  for  future 
use.  Briskly  shuffle  cacao  in  tin  pan  and  blow  off  all  remnants  of  shells. 
N.  B.  If  no  coffee  roaster  is  on  hand  to  roast  cacao  then  use  an  un- 
tinned  kitchen  basin  and  roast  in  oven  to  a  good  golden  brown. 

3312.    To  PREPARE  THE  CHOCOLATE 

Pour  some  boiling  water  in  a  stone  mortar  to  heat  it  well,  remove, 
wipe  dry,  then  place  cacao  in  mortar  and  with  stone-pounder,  also 
warmed  up,  crush  to  a  fine  powder.  Cut  one-third  of  a  bean  best 
vanilla  into  exceedingly  small  pieces  and  add  to  cacao,  sharply  pound 
again  for  thirty  minutes  or  till  completely  free  from  grit,  detaching  pulp 
with  a  spoon  from  around  mortar  once  in  a  while.  Gradually  add  a 
pound  sifted  fine  sugar  to  the  cacao,  and  vigorously  pound  again  until 
a  fine  paste  totally  free  from  any  clots.  Take  up  pulp  from  mortar, 
roll  it  into  a  ball  and  sharply  flatten  between  the  hands.  Repeat  this 
three  times.  To  have  chocolate  right  the  temperature  where  it  is 
worked  should  be  not  less  than  70  degrees. 

Have  two  eight-sectioned  chocolate  moulds,  each  section  to  hold  an 
ounce.  Divide  chocolate  in  two  equal  parts,  then  divide  one  part  in 
half.  Roll  out  these  halves  with  the  hands  to  length  of  mould  and 
neatly  and  carefully  spread  it  out  equally  to  fully  cover  all  sections  of 
mould.  Lift  up  mould  by  taking  hold  in  centre  of  the  narrov/  sides 
with  thumb  and  finger  and  gently  knock  on  table  till  chocolate  is  equally 
and  smoothly  spread  in  all  the  sections.  Proceed  with  other  half  in 
same  manner,  then  place  both  moulds  on  top  of  ice  for  thirty  minutes, 
or  until  perfectly  hard.  Remove  from  ice,  unmould,  wrap  in  chocolate 
tinfoil,  place  in  tin  box,  tightly  cover,  place  in  a  dry,  cool  place  and  use 
when  desired. 

3313.    HOME-MADE  CHOCOLATE  WAFERS  (PASTILLES) 

Have  three  ordinary  low-edged  tins  (used  for  this  purpose  only). 
With  the  hands  roll  out  remaining  pound  of  chocolate  to  a  long,  thin, 
round,  flute-like  shape,  then  divide  into  small  pieces  the  size  of  good- 
sized  hazel  nuts,  roll  with  the  fingers  into  balls  and  lay  on  tins  a  half 
inch  apart.  Take  hold  of  a  corner  of  each  tin  with  the  hand  and 
slightly  knock  on  table,  so  as  to  have  the  pastilles  in  a  nice,  round,  smooth 
shape  of  about  a  half  inch  in  diameter.  As  soon  as  a  tin  is  full  place  it 
directly  on  the  ice,  and  when  another  is  ready  place  it  alongside  the 
first.  When  the  third  is  finished  the  one  first  put  on  ice  should  be  quite 
hard  enough;  remove  and  place  the  last  one  in  its  place  and  let  stand 
until  hard.  Remove  from  ice,  spread  a  large  sheet  of  white  paper  on 
table,  turn  tins  upside  down  and  sharply  shake  off  pastilles  from  pans. 
Dress  on  a  dessert  dish  over  a  fancy  paper  and  serve,  or  place  in  a  tin 
box,  tightly  cover,  place  in  a  cool  spot  and  use  as  required. 


1022  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

N.  B.  Cacao  shells  should  never  be  thrown  away.  Prepared  as 
you  would  prepare  tea,  they  make  an  excellent  stomach-fortifying 
tonic.  Place  a  tablespoon  shells  in  a  teapot,  pour  boiling  water  over, 
allow  to  infuse  for  ten  minutes,  strain  and  serve.  Place  shells  in  a 
covered  tin,  keep  in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  desired. 

3314.    PLAIN  CHOCOLATE 

Have  an  earthen  pot  on  range  with  a  half  pint  cold  water.  Take 
six  (if  desired  strong,  four  if  desired  not  quite  so  strong)  tablets  of  the 
prepared  chocolate  (No.  3312),  break  into  powder  and  add  to  water, 
then  stir  with  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Pour  a  quart 
boiling  water  over,  briskly  mix  with  wooden  spoon  and  allow  to  gently 
simmer  for  ten  minutes,  frequently  mixing  meanwhile.  Pour  into  a  hot 
pitcher  and  send  to  table  with  six  chocolate  cups  and  fine  sugar  separately. 

3315.    CHOCOLATE  WITH  MILK 

Have  in  an  earthen  pot  on  the  range  a  pint  of  cold  water,  crumble 
four  ounces  prepared  chocolate  (No.  3312),  add  to  pot  and  briskly  mix 
with  a  very  clean  wooden  spoon  till  completely  dissolved.  Gradually 
add  a  quart  fresh  milk,  mix  well,  let  gently  come  to  a  boiling  point, 
frequently  mixing  with  wooden  spoon  meanwhile,  pour  into  a  hot  pitcher 
and  serve  in  six  chocolate  cups  with  fine  sugar  separately. 

3316.    CLARET  PUNCH 

Place  in  a  two-gallon  punch  bowl  with  sufficient  ice  six  tablespoons 
pulverised  sugar,  juice  of  six  oranges  and  nine  lemons,  a  half  pint  red 
curacoa,  pint  brandy,  six  bottles  plain  soda  and  six  quarts  claret. 
Ornament  with  sliced  oranges  and  pineapples,  mix  thoroughly  with 
ladle  and  serve  in  fancy  glasses. 

3317.    TEA,  CHINESE  MODE  AND  CHINESE  RECIPES 

While  in  the  house  of  Mr.  Pun  Sung  Sang,  a  very  courteous  and 
prominent  silk  merchant  of  Bombay,  India,  I  was  very  much  interested 
in  having  explained  to  me  many  of  the  high-class  Chinese  methods 
of  preparing  tea,  and  also  their  meals.  Mr.  Pun  is  of  the  firm  of 
Yan  Shun  &  Co.  His  father's  and  grandfather's  firms  were  among  the 
thirteen  most  reputable  houses  selected  and  given  title  by  the  Chinese 
Government  to  trade  with  foreigners  when  Canton  was  the  only  open  port, 
sixty  odd  years  ago,  and  did  a  large  business  with  the  American  firm  of 
Russel  &  Co.  It  goes  without  saying  that  the  Chinese  are  tea-drinking 
people,  and  they  indulge. in  the  beverage  from  early  morning  till  bed- 
time. As  soon  as  invited  to  be  seated,  a  cup  of  delicious  tea,  poured 
from  an  artificially  ornamented  box-like  pot,  taken  from  a  wooden  box, 
was  handed  to  me.  I  asked  Mr.  Pun's  permission  to  examine  the  box, 
which  he  courteously  gave.  It  is  of  artistically  decorated  bamboo 
(Malay  mambu),  large  enough  to  hold  the  tea  vessel  for  which  it  is  made 
(usually  a  gallon) ;  then  a  double  piece  of  felt  cloth,  evenly  padded  with 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1023 

cotton  to  three  inches  in  thickness,  exactly  fits  interior  all  round  (as 
well  as  bottom)  up  to  the  brim;  the  inner  covering  is  carefully  sewed  up 
and  tightly  arranged  in  the  basket  or  box;  the  cover  is  similarly  treated 
and  made  to  properly  fit  inside,  and  a  neat  knot  of  ribbon  is  fastened 
in  centre  of  top  of  cover  as  a  handle. 

A  porcelain  pot  like  a  water  pitcher  fits  tightly  in  the  box  and  is 
always  scalded  before  tea  is  poured  in,  then  tea  is  made  in  the  usual 
way.  When  sufficiently  infused  it  is  immediately  strained  into  the  pot, 
and  the  box  is  then  placed  in  a  handy  part  of  the  room  for  frequent  use. 
Mr.  Pun  informed  me  that  tea  made  as  here  described  keeps  in  an 
excellent,  hot  condition  for  twelve  hours.  The  tea  is  poured  out  and 
served  in  beautifully  decorated  thin  cups  a  little  larger  than  demi- 
tasses.  I  have  been  in  every  china  ware  store  in  Chinatown,  New  York, 
and  elsewhere,  but  I  could  not  find  the  same  article  in  this  country. 
The  nearest  to  it  was  in  the  stores  of  Wing  Yee  Lang  &  Co.,  18  Pell 
Street.,  Soy  Kee  &  Co.,  7  Mott  Street.,  and  a  large  importing  house  of 
Grand  Street. 


No.  3318  HINDUSTAN  CURRY  POWDER 

Hindustan  Curry  Powder  is  composed  of  27  of  the  best  and  purest 
ingredients  obtainable. 

My  purpose  to  devise  and  offer  to  the  public  a  reliable,  good,  mild, 
pure  curry  powder  was  one  of  the  principal  objects  of  the  exhaustive 
research  I  made  in  all  the  important  cities  of  the  Orient,  the  best 
and  most  renowned  curry  fields  of  India  in  particular,  and  the  result 
of  the  study  and  experimenting  has  enabled  me  to  put  on  the  market 
a  condiment  for  nearly  everything  in  cookery  surpassing  any  similar 
article  that  has  been  placed  on  the  market  in  any  part  of  the  world. 
Even  when  it  seemed  that  my  formula  was  completed,  a  valuable 
addition  of  still  other  ingredients  was  made  to  harmonize  the  various 
articles  utilized,  making  it  most  delicious  and  effective.  Especially 
is  it  valuable  for  soups,  fish,  oysters,  clams,  lobster,  shrimps, 
scallops,  crab-meat,  frogslegs,  terrapin  in  all  styles,  soft  shell  crabs, 
beef,  prepared  in  various  ways;  chicken,  minced,  fricassee,  sauted, 
stewed,  "marengo,"  broiled,  roasted;  duckling,  broiled,  sauted, 
stewed;  squabs  in  the  same  manners  as  above;  boned  turkey; 
lamb,  chops,  braised,  stews,  kidneys ;  mutton,  stews,  chops,  braised, 
kidneys;  veal,  stews,  cutlets,  blanquette,  braised,  kidneys;  sweet- 
breads in  various  ways;  pork  chops;  roast;  curing  hams;  bacons; 
head  cheese  as  well  as  beef -tongues;  rabbits;  eggs  in  various  ways; 
salad  dressing,  vinaigrette  for  asparagus;  French  artichokes,  etc.; 
sauces,  including  Mayonnaise,  Tartare,  Bearnaise,  Rice-Risotto;  mac- 
aroni, spaghetti,  noodles,  gnocchi,  mushrooms,  and  other  vegetables. 

Every  package  contains  a  booklet  of  recipes. 

Sold  by  Park  &  Tilford;  Acker,  Merrall  &  Condit;  C.  Charles  & 
Co.;  Jules  Weber,  and  many  others. 


1024  THE  INTERN ATICNAL  COOK  BOOK 

CHINESE  MEALTIME  AND  CUSTOMS 

(In  the  higher  family  circles.) 

Breakfast  is  usually  partaken  of  between  9  and  10  A.  M.,  the  items 
consisting  of  four  or  five  dishes:  Soup,  made  of  pork,  vegetables  or  of 
dried  fish.  Fish,  fried  or  boiled,  with  sauces;  also  fish  prepared  by 
steam.  Eggs,  fried  or  prepared  by  steam.  Vegetables,  boiled  or  fried, 
of  various  sorts.  Rice,  boiled  in  an  iron  pan,  well  dried  and  brought 
to  table  with  other  articles.  Spoons  are  used  for  soup,  but  knives  and 
forks  are  never  used.  Rice  is  most  essential  at  all  meals.  A  pair  of 
chop-sticks  are  always  used  by  each  person  in  picking  up  the  articles 
before  them.  None  of  the  eatables  are  ever  touched  with  the  hands. 
Butter  is  never  used  for  cooking  purposes,  ground  nut  oil  is  used  instead. 

Luncheon  is  usually  served  between  one  and  two  o'clock,  p.  M.  It  is 
a  very  light  meal,  consisting  of  cakes,  sweets  or  rice  canju. 

Dinner,  as  a  rule,  is  partaken  of  between  5  and  6  P.  M.  The 
courses  are  about  the  same  as  for  breakfast,  but  with  some  addition, 
such  as  boiled  or  fried  fowl  or  steamed  duck,  etc.  When  guests  are 
invited  it  is  usually  for  dinner.  On  the  table  there  are  always  about 
eight  small  dishes  full  of  fresh  and  dried  fruits  and  cold  meats,  so  that 
the  guests  can  help  themselves  to  whatever  they  like.  Then  all  the 
courses  are  brought  in  by  servants,  and  with  chop-sticks  each  helps 
himself.  Other  dishes  besides  those  mentioned  are  often  served  for 
dinner,  such  as  shark-fins,  birds'-nests,  fishmams,  beche-de-mer,  dry 
shellfish,  turtle,  birds,  dried  mushrooms,  etc. 

Shark-fins  are  first  boiled  in  water  for  an  hour,  then  removed,  plunged 
in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  taken  up,  skinned,  scaled  and  set  to 
boil  again  until  considerably  softer.  After  this  the  fins  are  placed  in  a 
vessel  with  a  little  fowl  broth  or  a  small  thoroughly  cleaned  duck,  then 
cooked  (steamed)  in  the  pan  until  very  soft.  Slices  of  ham  are  then 
placed  over  all  and  served. 

Birds'-nests  are  first  thoroughly  cleaned,  carefully  cleared  of  every 
particle  of  feather,  washed  carefully  and  wiped  dry,  placed  in  a  vessel 
with  a  little  fowl  broth,  then  the  vessel  is  placed  in  a  pan  to  steam  until 
quite  soft.  After  this  some  ham,  cut  in  small,  thin  pieces,  is  added 
shortly  before  serving,  which  gives  an  excellent  taste.  This  dish  is 
highly  appreciated,  and  considered  one  of  the  most  delicious  articles  of 
food  in  China. 

Fishmams  are  cut  into  one-inch  pieces,  thoroughly  cleaned  and 
wiped,  then  fried  in  oil,  when  they  will  swell  considerably.  They  are 
next  removed,  boiled  in  water  till  free  of  the  oil  taste,  then  transferred 
into  a  vessel  with  fowl  broth  and  cooked  in  a  steaming  pan. 

Beche-de-mer  (hoi  tarn)  trepang  (sea  cucumber  or  sea  slug). 
This  powerful  dry  fish  is  and  has  been  in  very  high  favour  not  only  in 
China  but  all  over  India  as  well.  I  was  informed  on  very  high  authority 
that  it  was  well  known  that  by  continuing  to  partake  of  b£che-de-mer 
it  effectively  enabled  women  who  had  been  married  several  years  and 
remained  childless  to  become  mothers — competent  persons  having  put 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1025 

the  treatment  to  successful  tests.  The  fish  is  soaked  in  several  changes 
of  cold  water  for  a  full  day  (twenty-four  hours),  removed  and  properly 
cleaned,  then  it  is  boiled  in  two  different  waters  till  free  from  lime  taste. 
After  this  it  is  put  in  a  vessel  with  a  good-sized,  well-cleaned  pigeon  or  a 
small  duck,  with  some  broth,  and  steamed  in  a  pan  until  thoroughly 
soft,  then  served.  It  is  also  very  extensively  eaten  by  persons  affected 
with  weak  eyesight,  and  is  recommended  by  eminent  physicians. 

Dry  shellfish  are  first  boiled  in  water  for  thirty  minutes,  removed, 
thoroughly  cleaned,  placed  in  a  vessel  and  steamed  in  a  pan  with  some 
broth  till  nice  and  soft. 

Turtles  are  cut  in  pieces  a  little  larger  than  for  soup,  carefully  cleaned, 
placed  in  a  double  pan  or  vessel  with  broth,  some  dried  mushrooms 
added,  as  well  as  pieces  of  ham,  then  steamed  till  cooked. 

Birds  are  prepared  in  various  ways — roasted,  boiled  or  steamed,  with 
broth. 

Dried  mushrooms  are  carefully  washed  in  cold  water,  drained,  fried 
in  a  pan  with  lard  for  about  twenty  minutes,  transferred  into  a  small  pan 
with  broth,  then  cooked  until  soft.  . 

In  preparing  by  steam  they  place  a  deep  pan  on  the  fire  with  boiling 
water,  bain-marie-like,  then  a  vessel  containing  the  food  is  placed  in  it, 
and  a  wooden  cover  to  completely  cover  pan  is  placed  over  in  order  to 
avoid  evaporation.  It  is  then  allowed  to  steam.  Sauce  is  always 
served  with  every  course. 

3319.    CHICKEN  SAUTE",  LANIER 

Neatly  dean  and  wipe  two  spring  chickens  of  one  and  a  quarter  or 
a  half  pounds,  and  cut  them  into  four  pieces  each.  Heat  an  ounce 
melted  butter  in  a  saute  pan  and  lay  pieces  in,  skin  side  downward. 
Add  six  sound,  medium-sized,  peeled  and  cleaned,  fresh  whole  mush- 
rooms, season  with  light  teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper  and 
three  saltspoons  Oriental  curry  powder,  if  at  hand,  tightly  cover  pan  and 
gently  cook  on  a  moderate  fire  for  ten  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  then  turn  pieces  of  chicken  as  well  as  mushrooms  on  the  other 
side  and  let  gently  cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  now  two  medium-sized 
peeled  and  finely  chopped  shallots,  half  a  medium-sized,  finely  chopped 
green  pepper,  and  mix  the  whole  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon  while 
cooking  for  two  minutes.  Pour  in  a  half  gill  good  sherry  wine  and  a 
few  drops  of  cognac,  shuffle  contents  of  pan  for  two  minutes,  pour 
in  a  half  pint  cream  (not  very  thick),  cover  and  let  cook  again  for  ten 
minutes,  slightly  shuffling  meanwhile.  Dilute  two  egg  yolku  with  two 
tablespoons  cream,  an  ounce  good  butter,  and  gradually  add  to  chicken, 
being  careful  to  briskly  shuffle  contents  of  pan  meanwhile,  but  do  not 
allow  to  boil  again.  Dress  chicken  on  a  hot  serving  or  chafing  dish  and 
send  to  table  with  six  freshly  prepared  Graham-bread  toasts  separately. 

332O.      POCAHONTAS    "EGG   BREAD" 

Take  two  thoroughly  beaten  eggs,  three  cups  white  cornmeal,  one 
and  a  half  pints  milk  and  a  pint  water,  mix  well  together.  Boil  half  a 


1026  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

cup  Carolina  rice  for  ten  minutes,  thoroughly  drain,  add  to  other  prepara- 
tion, with  a  piece  butter  or  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoon  each 
sugar  and  salt  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  yeast  in  powder.  Mix 
well,  transfer  into  an  earthen  baking  dish,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
forty-five  minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown  on  top,  remove  and  serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

The  above  is  an  excellent  breakfast  dish  and  highly  appreciated  by 
Southern  people. 

33203.     Good  Friday 
LUNCHEON 

Oyster  Stew,  Boston   Style 
Findon  Haddock,  Cream  Sauc« 

Baked  Potatoes  (683) 
Broiled  Lobster,   Maitre  d'H6tel 
Macaroni  au  Gratin  (160) 
Stewed  Prunes  (i) 

OYSTER  STEW,'  BOSTON  STYLE 

Have  twenty-four  large  box  oysters  placed  in  a  stew  pan  with  their 
own  liquor,  add  an  extra  pint  fresh  oyster  juice  and  a  pint  of  water, 
four  branches  well-cleaned  celery,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  two  light  saltspoons 
cavenne,  set  pan  on  the  fire  and  gently  boil  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
celery,  skim  scum  off  surface  and  add  a  quart  hot  milk,  gill  cream  and 
ounce  good  butter,  mix  well,  pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with 
six  freshly  prepared  toasts  separately. 

FINDON  HADDOCK,  CREAM  SAUCE 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  two  and  a  half  pounds  fat,  smoked 
findon  haddock,  cut  in  half-inch  pieces,  plunge  in  a  pint  boiling  water 
for  five  minutes,  remove  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan 
an  ounce  each  butter  and  flour,  and  stir  briskly  while  heating  for  a 
minute.  Pour  in  a  gill  milk  and  a  half  gill  cream,  season  with  two 
saltspoons  salt,  saltspoon  cayenne  and  a  half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg; 
briskly  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  haddock,  toss  well,  cook  for  five 
minutes,  pour  into  a  deep  hot  dish  and  serve. 

BROILED  LOBSTER,  MA!TRE  D'HOTEL 

Procure  three  one-and-a-quarter-pound  live  lobsters,  cut  off  and 
crack  large  claws  with  a  cleaver,  split  bodies  in  two  and  clean  out  heads. 
Arrange  on  a  double  broiler,  season  evenly  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half 
teaspoon  paprika,  baste  with  a  tablespoon  oil,  broil  on  a  brisk  fire, 
cut  part  upward,  for  ten  minutes,  remove  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  ten 
minutes.  When  lobsters  are  placed  on  broiler  put  claws  in  a  tin  and 
bake  in  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  both,  arrange  on  a  hot 
dish,  evenly  spread  a  maitre  d'hotel  butter  (No.  7)  over,  decorate  with 
six  quarters  lemon  and  serve. 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1027 

3321.     DINNER 

Oysters  (18) 
Canapes  Caviare   (59)  Celery  (86)  Olives 

Cream,  Vatican 

Filet   of    Sheepshead,  Farley 

Potatoes,   Windsor  (252) 

Scallops,  Mrs.  Duvivier 

Broiled    Fresh  Mushrooms  on  Toast 

Planked    Shad,  en  Bordure 
Doucette    Salad   (189)  Fruits,  etc. 

CREAM,  VATICAN 

Procure  a  fresh  four-pound  sheepshead,  neatly  clean,  cut  off  head, 
split  the  fish,  remove  fins,  lift  up  filets  on  both  sides  and  lay  them  on 
one  side.  Place  all  the  trimmings,  fins  and  head  of  the  fish  in  a  soup 
pot,  pour  over  two  quarts  cold  water,  add  a  carrot,  onion,  branch  each  of 
parsley  and  celery,  all  finely  sliced,  four  cloves,  four  allspice,  twelve 
whole  black  peppers,  a  sprig  thyme,  a  half  sprig  bay  leaf  and  one  and  a 
half  teaspoons  salt,  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil  and  continue  for  thirty 
minutes.  Strain  broth  through  a  clean  cloth  into  another  pan  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil.  Dilute  a  tablespoon  rice  with  a  half  gill  cold  milk, 
level  tablespoon  Oriental  curry  powder,  and  gradually  add  to  broth, 
gently  mixing  for  two  minutes.  Add  two  gills  thick  cream  and  two 
ounces  good  butter,  lightly  mix  until  butter  is  dissolved,  pour  cream  into 
a  hot  soup  tureen  and  serve  with  oyster  crackers  separately. 

FILET  OF  SHEEPSHEAD,  FARLEY 

Cut  two  filets  of  sheepshead  in  three  slanting,  even  pieces  each. 
Lightly  heat  an  ounce  butter  in  saute  pan,  lay  in  filets  one  beside  another, 
season  with  a  teaspoon  salt,  half  light  teaspoon  white  pepper  and  one- 
quarter  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Pour  over  a  gill  white  wine,  cover 
filets  with  a  buttered  paper  and  set  in  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Cut  away  the  bottoms  of  a  pound  medium-sized  fresh  mushrooms,  lay 
umbrellas  aside  for  further  use,  thoroughly  clean  and  wipe  dry  bottoms 
and  finely  chop  them  up.  Heat  an  ounce  fresh  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  chopped  mushrooms,  season  with  a  saltspoon  salt  and  let 
gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  lightly  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  once 
in  a  while.  Sprinkle  over  a  half  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  again  for  a 
minute  and  transfer  filets  into  a  baking  dish.  Strain  fish  gravy  over 
mushrooms,  pour  in  a  gill  hot  milk  or  cream,  stir  well,  allow  to  boil  for 
three  minutes  and  pour  same  over  filets.  Sprinkle  surface  with  a  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  cheese,  set  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  remove  and  immediately  send  to  table  with  a  few  slices  lemon. 

SCALLOPS,  MRS.  DUVTVTER 

Place  one  and  a  half  pounds  very  fresh  scallops  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
good  gill  sherry,  two  branches  parsley,  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  let 
slowly  boil  for  five  minutes,  then  remove  celery.  Lightly  brown  six 
finely  chopped  shallots  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  melted  butter  in  a 


1028  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

small  saucepan,  add  two  Spanish  sweet  red  peppers,  cut  into  very  small 
pieces,  and  cook  for  three  minutes.  Add  a  light  tablespoon  flour,  stir 
well,  strain  scallop  liquor  into  this  pan,  add  a  tablespoon  tarragon 
vinegar  and  gently  stir  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Add  scallops,  lightly 
mix,  cook  for  five  minutes  longer,  pour  scallops  into  a  deep  dish  and 
serve. 

BROILED  FRESH  MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST 

Peel,  wash  and  carefully  drain  the  umbrella  mushrooms  laid  to  one 
side  and  place  in  a  bowl.  Pour  over  a  tablespoon  oil,  the  strained  juice 
of  half  a  sound  lemon,  adding  a  light  teaspoon  salt  and  half  light  teaspoon 
pepper.  Repeatedly  turn  in  seasoning,  arrange  on  a  double  broiler  and 
broil  for  five  minutes  on  each  side,  dress  evenly  on  six  freshly  prepared 
toasts,  spread  a  little  butter  over  and  serve. 

PLANKED  SHAD 

Procure  a  three-pound  fresh  shad,  wash  well,  wipe  dry,  cut  off  head 
and  tail,  split  open  through  stomach  with  a  knife  without  separating, 
and  detach  spinal  bone.  Season  both  sides  with  a  light  tablespoon  salt 
and  a  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Dredge  two  tablespoons  flour  on  a  flat 
dish  and  repeatedly  turn  fish  in  flour.  Heat  in  a  frying  pan  three 
tablespoons  melted  butter  or  oil,  lay  fish  in  pan,  open  side  downward,  and 
rapidly  fry  for  five  minutes  or  until  a  nice  brown  colour.  Carefully  turn 
over  with  a  skimmer  and  fry  for  five  minutes  also.  Have  a  clean  oak 
plank,  oil  surface  with  a  tablespoon  oil,  carefully  lift  up  fish  with  skimmer 
and  lay  it  on  the  plank,  skin  side  downward.  Spread  a  half  tablespoon 
butter  over  the  shad  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove, 
spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over,  decorate  with  six  quarters 
lemon  and  parsley  greens  and  serve. 


3322.    DUCKLING,  DOUBLED  AY 

Carefully  singe,  draw  and  neatly  wipe  a  tender  five-pound  duckling, 
cut  off  head  and  feet  and  keep  liver  for  further  use.  Truss  nicely  and 
lay  in  a  cocotte  or  earthen  pan,  pour  in  four  tablespoons  cold  water, 
spread  a  very  little  melted  butter  over  breast,  season  with  a  teaspoon 
salt,  three  saltspoons  white  pepper  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  roast 
for  an  hour,  frequently  basting  with  its  own  gravy  meanwhile.  Melt 
an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saut£  pan,  add  eight  medium,  sound,  peeled  and 
finely  chopped  shallots,  an  ounce  finely  chopped,  raw,  lean  ham,  six 
finely  chopped  mushrooms,  the  liver,  also  finely  chopped  up,  and  mix 
all  well  together  while  gently  cooking  on  range  for  ten  minutes.  Sprinkle 
over  two  teaspoons  Oriental  curry  powder,  mix  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  three  fresh  red  tomatoes  strained  through  a  sieve,  season 
with  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  lightly 
mixing  once  in  a  while.  Bring  duckling  to  oven  door,  carefully  skim  fat 
off  surface  of  gravy,  pour  prepared  sauce  over  and  reset  in  oven  to  roast 
for  thirty-five  minutes  longer,  being  careful  to  frequently  baste  it  with 


SUPPLEMENTARY  RECIPES  1029 

the  mixture  during  that  time.  Remove  from  oven,  untruss  and  send  to 
table  in  same  cocotte  dish,  with  plain,  boiled,  well-drained  rice,  over 
which  you  sprinkle  a  half  teaspoon  Oriental  curry  powder  separately. 

3323.    SWEETBREADS,  EVERETT 

Clean  and  trim  four  fine  heart  sweetbreads,  soak  for  one  and  a  half 
hours  in  three  changes  of  cold  water,  remove,  drain  well,  plunge  in 
boiling  water  with  a  teaspoon  salt  for  three  minutes,  take  up,  drain  and 
cut  into  six  even  pieces  each.  Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  good 
butter,  add  sweetbreads  with  twelve  peeled,  well-cleaned,  medium-sized, 
round  fresh  mushrooms,  season  with  a  level  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  white 
pepper,  gently  toss,  cover,  then  gently  cook  on  range  until  a  nice  golden 
colour,  tossing  once  in  a  while.  Add  a  level  tablespoon  flour  and  two 
light  teaspoons  Oriental  curry  powder,  toss  well,  then  add  a  half  gill 
sherry  wine,  a  gill  cream  and  three-quarters  gill  milk.  Let  briskly 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  add  an  ounce  good  butter,  gently  shuffle,  dress  on 
a  hot  dish  and  send  to  table  with  freshly  prepared  hot  toast. 

3324.     LOBSTER,  PAGE 

Place  two  two-pound  live  lobsters  in  a  pan,  cover  with  water,  add  a 
tablespoon  salt  and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove,  split, 
take  out  all  the  meat  from  bodies,  claws  and  tails  and  cut  meat  into  equal 
dice-shaped  pieces.  Heat  an  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  lobster 
and  gently  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  tossing,  season  with  a  light 
teaspoon  salt,  two  saltspoons  white  pepper,  sprinkle  over  two  light 
teaspoons  Oriental  curry  powder  and  add  a  half  gill  sherry  wine.  Let 
slowly  cook  for  two  minutes,  lightly  tossing,  add  a  gill  cold,  thick  cream, 
lightly  mix  and  gently  cook  for  five  minutes.  Dilute  two  egg  yolks  in 
two  tablespoons  cream  and  gradually  add  to  lobster,  being  careful  to 
mix  continually  while  adding,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil  again,  pour  into  a 
hot  tureen  and  serve  with  freshly  prepared  hot  toast  separately. 

3325.    WHITEBAIT,  MRS.  ROOT 

Neatly  wash  in  fresh  water  a  pound  very  fresh  whitebait,  thoroughly 
wipe,  place  in  a  bowl  and  season  with  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  tea- 
spoons Oriental  curry  powder,  (jently  but  thoroughly  shuffle  until  all 
the  seasoning  evenly  adheres  to  fish  and  let  rest  for  thirty  minutes,  being 
careful  to  shuffle  them  twice  during  that  time.  Add  a  half  gill  cream, 
shuffle  again,  infuse  for  ten  minutes,  then  carefully  strain  on  a  sieve. 
Mix  and  spread  on  a  pie  plate  a  pound  flour  with  four  ounces  cracker 
dust,  then  drop  in  the  whitebait  and  rapidly  turn  over  in  mixed  flour, 
so  that  when  taken  up  it  will  not  stick  together.  Place  them  in  a  frying 
basket,  briskly  shake  to  remove  superfluous  flour,  then  fry  in  very  hot 
fat  for  five  minutes  or  until  a  nice  golden  colour,  remove  and  thoroughly 
drain.  Mix  two  saltspoons  salt  with  two  saltspoons  Oriental  curry 
powder  and  sprinkle  over  fish,  gently  shake  and  dress  on  a  hot  dish  with 
folded  napkin.  Arrange  six  thin  strips  lean  bacon  broiled  one  and  a 


io3o  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COOK  BOOK 

half  minutes  on  each  side  around  the  whitebaits,  decorate  dish  with 
six  quarters  of  lemon  and  send  to  table  with  thin  slices  toasted  Boston 
brown  bread. 


INDEX 


BEEF 


534  A  la  Mode 

513  Anglaise,  saute 

138  Bami,  Hongkongoise 

1170  Bernoise,  rump 

1016  Bitokes,  Moscovite 

2530  Tiflis 

15*3  Bohemienne,  saute* 

2434  Boiled,  economical 

1065  sauce  Robert 

3013  Boulettes,  Emilie 

2829  Chachelique,  Caucasus 

2207  Cold,  with  jelly 

1562  Coquilles,  with  curry 
438  Corned,  with  cabbage 

1078  au  gratin 

2722          hash,  au  gratin 

2881  with  spinach- 

2157  Cotes  of,  with  carrots 

1931  Romaine 

568  Croquettes,  with  asparagus 

1867  with  horseradish  sauce 

553  piquante  sauce 

1251  Curry,  Kofta 

1980          Nasi  Goreng  Pontianack 

2984  Cutlets  of,  Velours 

1036  Daube,  en 

1300  Etuvee,  with  potatoes 
3143  Fritadelles  of 

263  Goulash,  Hongroise 
3038  Gratin,  au 

923  Hash,  plain 

1051  Colbert 

2933  Ecossaise 

2 1 78          Moreno 
1306          polonaise 

455          zingara 

241          corned,  American 
2722          au  gratin 
2850  Japanese  style 
2337  Lyonnaise 
3145  Marrow  bones,  devilled 

1 86  Mignons  of  beef,  Balthazar 
29          for  garnishing 
2149          Bearnaise  sauce 
2865          Belmont 
2699          Bennett 
27          Bordelaise 


90  Mignons  of  beef,  bread  croutons  for 
1958  cafe  riche 

2562          Cahors 
2613  Duval 

1578  fin  de  siecle 

2496          Genoise 

322          hussarde 
3114          immaculee 

840          minute  sauce 
3057          Montebello 

768  mushroom  sauce 

1786  poivrade  sauce 

2120          potatoes  rissolees 
1262          shallot  sauce 
3134          Strasser 
2895          Thanksgiving 
1227          Wright 

893  Minced  beef,  Creole 

776          with  Spanish  peppers 

398  Mironton  of 

712  Monaco 

2797  Mussaka  of,  Moldave 
1487          oriental 
1027          noisettes  of  beef,  Chateaubriand 

724          Foyot 
J355  remi  sauce 

1871  Noix  of  Bourgeoise 
1711          ox  tail  en  compote 
2816          Hungarian 

1921  Pain-perdu 

1922  for 
2505  Paysanne 

126  Roast  ribs  of  beef 

447          Anglaise 

60 1  broiled,  devilled 

1315  Roulade  of  Nivernaise 

411  arlequin 

2393  Roumanienne 
1896  Rotterdam 
1197  Sans  gene  (in  mould) 
3169  Spiced,  round  of 
2089          witn  tomatoes 
2914  Sirloin  of  beef,  Ottmann 
2094          Orlando 
1640          jardiniere 
1426          roast  of 
2448          San  Juan 


1031 


1032 


INDEX 


305  Sirloin  of  beef,  Stanley 

1205  with  tomato  sauce 

793  with  fried  tomatoes 

471  Voisin 
zo58  Steaks,  with  apples 

1812  with  bacon 

1736  Bearnaise  sauce 

977  small 

1483  Bordelaise 

245  cabaret 

1286  casserole 

416  mascote,  small 

2553  Creole 

1322  cutlets  of,  tarragon  sauce 

812  Delmonico 

108  Hamburg,  with  fried  onions 

6  maitre  d'hotel 

172  small 

2951  Montpellier 

294  with  onions 
1470  small 

914  Pajarsky 

2487  Parisienne 

2718  Picard  sauce 

298  pie 

2003  poivrade  sauce 

729  Porterhouse,  plain 
3020  Adirondacks 

1632  Bordelaise 

1456  marchand  de  vin 

1342  with  smothered  onions 

2934  with  tomatoes 

2197  rolled 

347  Salisbury 

2993  schaschiks  tatarski 

1115  Soyer 

2260  tartare,  raw 

314  Stewed,  etc.,  almondigas 

2055  potpourri,  bonne  f  amille 

1751  ragout,  Dutch 

329  smoked,  in  cream 
1162  Tenderloin,  aiguillettes  of 

2786  Athenienne 

559  bercy,  larded 

1518  Bruxelloise 

3010  Cassatt 

1697  Chateaubriand,  broiled 


2926  Tenderloin,  Chateaubriand,  Bigelow 
2575  with  olives 

3082  Seligman 

986  cutlets  of,  Cardinal 
2294  Leishman 

1624  Newport 

287  St.  Hilaire 

957  Ecossaise 

2062  Griscom 

2653  hoteliere 

887  Lyonnaise 

640  Madeira  sauce 

964  minced  of,  pointe  du  jour 

1294  moderne 

1802  with  mushrooms,  fresh  stuffed 
2273  fresh 

144  Parisienne,  larded 

1659  with  Parisian  potatoes,  broiled 

612  pilaff  of,  au  risotto 

2167  Providence 

373  Trevise 

2961  Watson 

3158  Wilhelm  II. 

1409  Witte 
3050  Tongue,  arlequin 

506  Creole 

229  gendarme 

2515  Milanaise 

2030  papillotte 

1368  with  risotto 

2213  smoked,  with  ravioli 
1337  Tournedos  of,  Bercy  sauce 

2223  chasseur 

1827  Finnoise 

1 550  imperial 

1098  Madeira  sauce 

666  marrow 

1672  with  olives 

201 1  Rossini 
1283,  Tripe,  Creole,  stewed 

28 1  broiled 

2846  broiled,  devilled 

98 1  Lyonnaise 

3092  mode  de  Caen 

1935  Monticello 

3041  petite  Russie 


BREAD,  ROLLS,  ETC. 


3282  Sponge  for  French  bread,  Lpvain 

3283  Bread,  dough  for  French 

3284  to  shape  the  French  loaf,  Jocko 

3285  to  shape  the  ring,  couronne 

3286  to  bake  the  French  loaf,  Jocko 

3287  to  bake  the  ring,  couronne 
3292  Ferment,  home-made  yeast 

3288  French   rolls   and  fluttes  (called    " 

tolets") 


pis- 


3289  French  rolls,  to  shape 

3290  to  shape  fluttes  ("  pistolets") 

3291  to  bake  rolls  and  fluttes 

3293  Milk  doughfor  rings,milk  fluttes;  dough* 

nuts 

3294-5        to  shape  and  bake  rings 
3296-7         to  shape  and  bake  milk  fluttes 

3298  Doughnuts 

3299  Bread-making  by  "Universal"  machine 


INDEX 


3300-1   Bread-making   by  "Universal' 
chine  No.  2 


3302 
33°3 


rye 
cornmeal  pan 


3304  Bread,  milk  cornmeal,  Montgomery 

3305  Muffins,  Mrs.  Haldeman 
3320  Pocahontas  egg  bread 


BUTTER 


62  Butter,  anchovy 
3062          Bourguignonne 
1 1  devilled 

21  green 


7  Butter,  maitre  d'hotel 
2952  Montpellier 

3054          lobster 
2919  sweet  pepper 


CEREALS 


1068  Cereals,  barley  with  cream 
1 6 10          Cero-Fruto 


1603 
656 

74 

979 

217 

1371 

45 

*592 

326 

2397 


Cream  of  Wheat 
cracked  wheat 
farina  with  milk 
Force 
Germea 
Grape-Nuts 
hominy  with  milk 
Malta  Vita 
mush,  cornmeal 
rye 


2564  Cereals,  mush,  Swiss 

238  nudeln  with  cream 

2  oatmeal  porridge 

170  Pettijohn  Food 

105  Quaker  Oats 

272  rice  with  cream 

464  rice  flour  with  milk 

1583  sago  with  cream 

192  Semolina 

1298  Wheatena 

131  wheaten  grits 


DESSERTS    IN    GENERAL 

Pastry,  Ices,  Jellies,  Jams,  Preserves,  Essences, 
Brandied  Fruits,  Syrups,  Drinks,  Etc. 


1 80  Apples,  for  apples  and  rice 
2401  au  Madere 

1062  chartreuse 


541 
2484 

864 

300 

421 

179 
1140 

369  Cakes,  angel 
2289  Augusta 
2790 

93° 
1024 
1716 
1419 

687 


meringues 

Newtown 

pralines 

Richelieu 

with  butter-vanilla 

with  rice 

Yanssens 


banana 

babas  aux  fruits 
au  kirsch 
au  Madere 
au  maraschino 
au  rhum 
3176  birthday  cake 

150  biscuits,  lady-fingers 

226  au  cafe 

496  au  ohocolat 

»6o2  .oco/ate  vr^L  ^ 

-^;  rfiousseline 

^748  Portugal 

1915  CaKos,  breakfast,  almond 


488  Cakes,  apple  puffs 
79  with  cinnamon 

330  buckwheat 
1195  with  cinnamon,  pan 

197  buns 

157  English 

670  sponge 

786  vanilla 

1618  vanille 

1628  bread  crumbs 

877  brioche,  paste  for 

878  small 
3052                  fluttes 

1059  caraway  seed,  pan 

396  Cerealine,  pan 

423  cocoanut,  pan 

253  gmger  bread 

659  cornmeal,  pan 
1585  fried 

2847  crumpets 

1 1 12  curry,  pan 

2346  dodgers,  cornmeal 

136  flannel,  pan 

1268  Grape-Nut,  pan 

1215  honey,  pan 

J554  jelly,  pan 


1^34 


INDEX 


1691  Cakes,  kilmmel,  pan 

40  Custard  vanilla  for  puddings 

577          lemon  pan 

2520          orange  in  cups 

51          muffins,  cornmeal 

2194  Darioles,  vanilla 

528                   English 

361  Eclairs,  Chantilly 

2577          nutmeg 

1279          chocolate 

1984          orange,  pan 

2217          coffee 

867           oatmeal,  pan 

784          strawberry 

990          pones,  cornmeal 

1651           vanilla 

500          Prussian 

2884  Emma  cake 

313           puffs 

1033  Eugenie 

1  1  1           queen 

999  Fauchonnettes 

1719          raisins,  pan 

756  Feuilletage,  puff  paste 

349          rice 

2571  Feuillettes,  Parisienne 

221                   flannel 

ion  Flan  Anglais 

2753           Sally  Lunn 

1415          with  apricots  and  custard 

1644           saffron,  pan 

1514           floating  island 

364          scones,  Scotch 

203  Fritters,  apple 

1477           strawberry 

1039           with  rum 

3105           vanilla 

266          apricot  au  Sabayon 

152          Wheatena,  pan 

i  104          banana 

9          wheaten 

1405           beignets  fourre  with  cream 

1790                  orange 

462                  au  caramel 

296          Waffles 

1630          chestnuts 

2162  Cakes,  dessert,  cannelons  with  cream 

882           cream  with  strawberries 

915           Carmelite 

566           corn,  sweet 

738           Chambord 

662           custard 

1152           Charles 

2457          grape 

634          charlotte  of  apples 

790          Italienne 

803                  of  Genoise 

1253          jelly 

474                 of  pears 

1  596           orange 

2674                 au  cafe 

1988           pear 

939                 Russe 

2444          peach 

1775                   with  strawberries 

1186           pineapple  with  maraschino 

1126          chestnuts  au  feu  de  Lucifer 

1488           Swiss 

335           Choux  a  la  creme 

2709           toast  golden,  with  apricots 

1536                  Praline 

2513           fruit 

1542          Constantine 

129          Genoise,  jelly 

1238           cream 

2584                  pralinee 

764  Compotes  of  apricot 

2404          Germain 

2975           apricot  with  kirsch 

2302           Jesuites 

1909          of  peaches  with  cream 

2759           Guadaloupe 

1172          of  pears 

1  28  1           glace  au  chocolat,  for  glazing 

1325          of  pears  with  maraschino 

2308                  "a  1'orange  for  glazing 

1956          raspberries  with  wine 

2218          .         au  cafe  for  glazing 

3015           sago  and  apples 

1652                  vanille  for  glazing 

2736  Cream  of  apples 

3154           Mrs.  Harris 

480          au  caramel 

1865           Jeanne 

2421           chocolate,  caramel 

890          Jangues  de  chats 

2084          of  coffee 

585          Lyonnais 

586          frangipane,  vanille 

702          Louisiana 

1280          patissiere 

43           macaroons 

2955        v  mocha 

291                  chocolate 

1946          St.  Honor6 

1048                  aux  pistachios 

1217          au  thd 

1400          Madeleine  with  almonds 

2113                  with  caramel 

I953                  with  chocolate 

3063  Croquettes  of  potatoes,  vanilla 

644                  with  coffee 

563           polonaise 

2307                  Commercy 

704  Crumpets,  sweet 

1224                  with  rum 

1374  Croutes  of  pineapple 

2891           marrons,  Mrs.  Ludlow 

1345  Custard  vanilla 

542          meringues,  Francaise 

INDEX 


1035 


2366  Fritters,  meringues,  Chantilly 
2297  shells 

594  mille  feuilles 

2954  Mocha 

524  Neapolitan 

961  nougat  a  1'orange 

609  petites  bouchees  de  dames 
2587  croissants,  pistachio 

727  Espagnola 

1359  surprises 

3119  presidential  patience 
1587  Cakes,  pan,  apple 

517  Georgette 

2640  chocolate 

555  with  curacao 

1702  with  coffee 

17  French 

943  German 

426  with  kummel 

2863  with  macaroons 

248  with  orange  marmalade 

614  rice 

2968  Swiss  "crisp,"  or  crostri 

756  paste  for  feuilletage  puff  paste 

204  for  fritters 

3156  for  pates 

117  for  pies 

439  for  Savarin  cakes 

336  pate   a  choux,  choux  paste 

929  patties,  how  to  prepare 

2626  cakes,  pain  de  la  mecque 

2643  Paysanne 

668  petites  precieuses 

1072  plomb  de 

2105  Polonais 

2611  peaches,  Chantilly 
2188  with  rice 

837  religieuse 

2843  r*ce  Chantilly 

638  au  lait  d'Amande 

974  au  cocoa,  milk 

1389  croquettes  with  currants 

1234  imperial 

2941  with  raisins 

3042  vanilla 

2244  Samaritains 

842  Savarins,  Chantilly 

441  raspberry 

2016  shortcake,  peach 
1997  raspberry 

1677  strawberry 

1945  St.  Honore 

1379  Victoria 

3175  wedding 
1725  Cakes,  small,  brioches  vanilla 
2325  Italienne 

3226  Candies,  caramel,  chocolate 

3228  coffee 
3230  honey 

3229  tea 


3227  Candies,  caramel,  vanilla 

3233  peppermint  drops 

3234  strawberry 

3224  how  to  cook  sugar 

3235  kalugas 

3231  nougat  de  Montelimard 

3225  pralines,  sugared  almonds 

3232  praline 

3222  Candied  lemon  peels 
i 121  orange 

3223  peels 

33 1 1  Chocolate,  to  roast  cacaq/or  home-made 

3312  to  prepare  the  home-made 

3313  home-made  wafers,  pa  stilles 

33 14  plain 

3315  with  milk 

3306  Coffee,  to  roast  in  simple  way 

3307  by  coffee  roaster 
3308-9       to  make  after-dinner 
3310          with  milk,  Swiss  style 
3317  Tea,  Chinese,  mode  and  remarks 
3252  Cordials 

3*53  " 
3*55  " 
3256 

3257  Cocktails,  Montauk 

3258  international 

3259  star 

3260  Cooler 
3261 

3262 
3263 
3264 

3265 
3266 

3267  Cup  claret 

3268  champagne 

3268  J        champagne  No.  2 

3269  egg-nogg 

3270  Montauk 

3271  Egg  lemonade 

3272  Punch  champagne 
3272^  Proctor 

3316  claret 

3273  Francaise,  hot 

3274  Geering 

3275  hot  milk 

3276  Swiss,  hot 

3277  Rickey  (whiskey  or  gin) 

3279  Toddy 

3278  Whiskey,  daisy 

3280  hot  apple 

3237  Essences,  liquor  vanilla 

3239  orange 

3240  liquor 

3236  vanilla 

3238  in  sugar 
44  Fruits,  apples,  baked 

1088  apricots  in  cream 


1036 


INDEX 


1500  Fruits,  apricots  au  Curasao 
2236  in  cream 

2975  with  Kirsch 

400  with  rice 

2872  bananas,  baked 

151  in  cream  (sliced) 

1925  blackberries  in  cream 

1527  cherries  in  cream  (fresh) 

2844  figs,  stewed 

3003  and  raisins,  stewed  (California) 

2169  gooseberries  in  cream  (fresh) 

130  grape  fruit 

2369  grapes  in  cream 
2964  plain 

1913  huckleberries 

2117  kirsch  "fruits" 

2056  muskmelon 

104  oranges 

237  sliced 

463  peaches  and  cream 
1828  sliced  (fresh)  in  cream 

216  pears,  baked 

848  pear  fritters 

620  pears,  stewed 
2034  sliced  in  cream 

1093  meringue 

2971  and  California  raisins 

720  pineapples  with  rum 

407  stewed 

2106  plums 

i  prunes,  stewed 

2920  ,       and  raisins 

169  and  pears,  stewed 

362  and  peaches,  stewed 

1846  raspberries  in  cream 

73  rhubarb,  stewed 

1317  strawberries  in  cream 

258  preserved 

3281  to  clean  and  prepare  sultana  cur- 
rants and  raisins  for  pastry 

2080  watermelon 

3219  Brandied  fruit,  apricots 

3216  cherries 

3220  figs 

3221  fruits  (mixed) 
3218  peaches 

3217  plums 

3213  Fruit-syrup,  currant  syrup 

3214  raspberry  syrup 

3215  strawberry  syrup 
149  Ice  cream,  almond 

2439  banana 

777  Bavarois,  chocolat 

3023  Benedictine 

693  biscuits,  glaces 
1248  Parisienne 

1521  a  1'orange 

2064  tortoni 

257  Venitienne 


978  Ice  cream,  biscuits,  bombe  printaniere 
1 1 80  souveraine 

2377  canteloupe  en  surprise 

1939  Chambord 

523  chocolate 

3118  Christmas 

1616  coffee 

103  Constantine 

2980  Curasao 

1642  coupes  with  cherries 
2344  Florodora 

2079  with  peaches 

1924  with  raspberries 

1032  St.  Andre 

1731  with  strawberries 

1805  Estelle 

1970  Greater  New  York 

1582  hazel  nut 

1960  lemon  en  surprise 

920  macaroon 

854  marron 

2296  meringues  panachees 

iioo  Mogador 

1885  mousse  au  chocolat 

822  au  maraschino 

2123  muskmelon 

381  Neapolitan 

2409  paradise 

1265  parfait  au  cafe 
1496  au  chocolat 

3072  cieam  vanilla 

1047  peach 

645  pistachio 
2042  parfait 

2538  plombiere,  Germaine 
1067  Marguerite 

1370  pralinee 

476  prunelle 

1164  raspberry 
1978  (fresh) 

2168  Richmond 

562  Romaine 

3036  Seville 

191  souveraine 

43 1  strawberry 

1297  Suzanne 

726  tutti  frutti 

42  vanilla 

1551  walnut 
1779  Iced  jelly,  angelique 

2931  au  benedictine 

1052  blanc  manger 
1721  with  strawberries 

1 020  cherry 

678  creme  au  cacao 

1303  macedoine 
1664  with  cream 

2604  au  Madere 

1688  au  maraschino 


INDEX 


1037 


1626  Iced  jelly,  Moscovite 

1171  au  rhum 

874  tutti  frutti 

1559  Yvette 
1463  Punch,  iced,  American 

725  Andalouse 

1163  anisette 

96  cardinal 

301 1  chartreuse 

1520  chocolate 

10 1 2  claret 

254  coffee 

643  curacao 

1296  favourite 

1581  kirsch  au 

IOT  I  kiimmel 

36  Francaise 

376  lemon  water  ice 
2744  Malaga 

889  mint 

3116  new  century 

1229  orange 

3100  prunelle 

377  aux  roses 

1708  Roman  (au  rhum) 

960  Siberienne 

1099  Stanley 

818  strawberry 

474  violette 

560  Yvette 
1434  Pies,  apple 

2353  apple  jam 
1732  meringue 

526  banana 

2621  Boston  cream 

1479  cherry 

1 546  cocoanut 

814  custard 

752  French  cream 

2579  German  apple 

1466  green  gage 

316  lemon  custard 

118  mince 

117  paste  for 

412  peach 

826  meringue 

354  Pear 

907  with  cinnamon 

456  plum 

965  prune 

492  pumpkin 

2994  raisin 

284  rhubarb 
3208  Jam,  apricot 

3207  blackberry 

3204  cherry 

3212  confiture  menagere 

320$  gooseberry 

3206  grape 


3210  Jam,  peach 

3209  pear 

321!  quinces 

3203  raspoerry 

3202  strawberry 
3i90  Jelly,  appie 

3189  currant 

3^92  raspberry 

3^91  strawberry 

3194  Marmalade,  apple 
3193  apricot 

3201  blackberry 

3198  green  gage 

3196  orange 

3195  peach 

3197  plum 

3199  raspberry 

3200  strawberry 

1834  Puddings,  iced,  charlotte  plombiere 

998  chocolate 

2013  diplomatic 

2137  Fleury 

1854  Fontainebleau 

1411  imperial 

808  magenta 

607  Neselrode 

1819  orange  rice 

1358  Portugaise 

7438  Romanoff 

509  Pudding,  hot,  American 

236  apple 

707  dumplings 

746  Boissy 

1591  banana 

22 1 1  blackberry 

7 1  cabinet 

598  cherry 

343  chestnut 

190  chocolate 

274  cocoanut 

619  college 

770  comtesse 

2464  custard 

1453  dates 

430  diplomatic 

48  5  economical 

379  English 
2129  bread 

ioi  Espagnole 

1005  farina 

57  fig 

1 68  Tyrolienne 

2264          Frankfort 
548  Geraldina 

394          g'nger 

535          Hanover 
1609          honey 
1893  huckleberry 

2477          Indian  souffle 
2945          Italienne 


io38 


INDEX 


2550  Pudding,  lemon 

309  Malaga 

655  maraschino 
1772  cold 

912  marrow 

1192  menagere 

2661  minesterial 

832  Olga 

39  peach 
2032  cold 

128  pineapple 

987  Portugal 

821  plum 

1912  prune 

713  raspberry  and  currants 

692  renaissance 

2429  rice  au  nectar 
1 1 20  orange 

140  old  fashioned 

2278  roly-poly 

1041  sago  with  currants 

215  Saxon 

1241  semolina  with  almonds 

420  Scott 

449  Suedoise 

1504  strawberry  souffle 

574  tapioca 

1683  tutti  frutti 

2123  Valois 

902  Venus 

2070  Victoria 

405  Weimar 
1 88  Sauce,  apple 
549  apricot 
380  brandy 

2265  cherry 

406  chocolate 
1 1 93  coffee 


68  Sauce,  cranberry 

2551  cream,  sweet 

931  fruit  for  babas 

2341  gooseberry 

771  groseille,  maraschino 

708  hard,  for  apple  dumplings 

608  kirsch 

2033  mousseline,  sweet,  cold 

2701  orange,  cold 

344  pineapple 
72  for  puddings 

714  raspberry 

41  rum 

102  sabayon 

287  claret 

3124  au  malaga 

1505  strawberry,  fresh 

883  for  cream  fritters 

440  syrup,  raspberry 
2074  Souffle,  chocolate  au 

325  maraschino,  au 

581  raspberry,  aux 

969  strawberry,  aux 

758  vanilla 
2830  Tartlets,  apple 

161  apricot 

2502  grape 

569  green  .gage 

602  macedoine 

2869  patissiere 

2109  pear 

2332  peach 

649  pineapple 

2028  raspberry 

796  rhubarb 

1207  strawberry 

1669  valencienne 


EGGS 


1627  Eggs,  aigre  doux 

3144  amukee  muttu,  curry 

2425  Archibald 

536  with  bacon,  country  style 

2478  Balfour 

2319  Bertschmann 

208 1  bateliere 

2939  Beckwith 

1888  Belle  Helene 

694  boiled 
3141  Coque 

2313  Britain 

1282  brown 

613  with  brown  butter 

2721  Boxshall 

1604  Calcutta 

*Jn*2  Carnegie 

y552  Cienfuegos 

382  Cleveland 


2622  Eggs,  Colley 

2245  country  style 

2378  coquilles  of 
1070  with  oysters 

935  Crimmins 

2026  Croquettes  of,  mignonette 

1665  cocotte,  with  anchovies 
2274  Mrs.  Bigelow 

1877  bonne  femme 

1427  Bradshaw 

2707  Champetre 

2043  with  clams 

2164  in  cream 

2155  Colgate 

1811  Edmond 

1034  Espagnole 

1543  Egyptienne 

2483  Fleur  de  Lys 

1360  Finnoise 


INDEX 


1030 


747  Eggs,  cocotte,  Firenzi 
1933  Hackett 

2432  au  jus 

2828  Justine 

865  Lyonnaise 

1136  Madeira  sauce 

2662  with  oyster  crabs 

132  plain 

2096  with  sardines 

1757  sarkies 

1476  Shinkle 

2219  with  sorrel 

550  with  tomato  sauce 

2370  Mrs.  Drapper 
2614  Einstein 
2576  Fines  herbes,  stuffed 
1732  Finnoise 
1330  Fowler 
2902  Fricasseed 

940  Fried  eggs  with  anchovy  butter 

2873  w^tn  aPples 

46  and  bacon 

2760  bananas 

2170  Biarritz 

154  with  butter 

2965  on  caviare  toast 

2998  chasseur 

1069  with  chicken  livers 

2048  Colbert 

2452  Creole  sauce 

2114  with  curry 

1 02 1  duxelle 

739  with  eggplant 

599  Finnoise 

259  with  green  peppers 

2594  ham  and 
3045  sauce 

1288  Italienne 

2801  Kellogg 

2529  Li  Hung  Chang 

2390  Lamontagne 

1097  Marengo 

1497  Meyerbeer 

2336  Mouquin 

2005  with  fresh  mushrooms 

1633  Nicoise 

3019  Paysanne 

2675  Perigueux,  fried,  poached 

1744  Montebello,  fried,  poached 

1726  pork,  with  salt 

1947  Pyrenees 

1165  Robinson 

1560  Robert  sauce 

1431  with  sausage 

2907  Schwitz 

1842  Schiff 

1395  with  sweet  peppers 

2838  Smith 

855  with  tarragon  sauce 

1089  on  toasts 


635  Fried  eggs  with  tomatoes 
1773  tomato  sauce 

432  turn  over, 

2233  Valencienno 

310  gratin  au 
1049  hard  boiled 

2204  Hollandaise 

1464  ideal 

1 173  Italienne 

2301  in  jelly 

3161  Lip  ton 

1203  Lucernoise 

1835  Luganese 

2555  Maconnaise 

2927  Mancelle 

1979  Marquise 

1684  matelote 

239  miroir  (au) 

2252  molded  on  toast 

1919  Moscovite 

2749  Murphy 

1992  Muzaffer  Ed-Din 

2510  Molet,  Arcachon 
1593  Baltimore 

1 138  Bearnaise 

2465  Bellows 

2410  Bermuda 

1454  Bordelaise 

1657  demi-deuil 

1257  cream  sauce 

2309  Espagnole 

2195  Finnoise 

1522  au  gratin 

2545  Jacksonville 

1907  Lyonnaise 

2138  moderne 

1 798  Piedmontaise 

621  plain 

'1855  ravigote 

2644  soubise 

2357  with  sorrel 

1310  tomato  sauce 

1971  ^Villeroi 

363  Omar  Pacha 
2915  Omelettes,  Airolaise 

772  anchovy 

1212  with  apples 

2810  apple  souffle 

437  with  asparagus 

843  puree 

1077  with  bacon 

1838  with  bananas 

388  with  beef,  smoked 

2879  bonne  femme 

2634  Bordelaise 

1886  with  calves'  brains 

1040  with  capers 

2177  with  cauliflower 

2044  Chambery 

2456  charcutiere 


1040 


INDEX 


1799  Omelette,  Celestine,  sweet 

1775  with  cepes 

703  with  cheese 

1443  with  chervil 

292  with  chicken  livers 

1420  with  chives 

2957  chocolate,  sweet,  kirsch 

1506  with  cream  sauce 

171  Creole 

891  aux  croutons 

1380  with  cucumbers 

2290  with  curry 

2805  Danoise 

1239  demi-souffle 

1954  ecarlate 

1709  with  eggplant 

1780  financiere 

3051  Florentine 

1625  Gibbons 

395  green 

1643  with  green  peppers 

2991  with  herrings 

949  jardiniere 

468  kirsch 

476  Lyonnaise 

2065  with  Madeira  sauce 

2962  maitre  d'hotel 

3125  with  beef  marrow 

2651  Melba,  sweet 

657  Milanaise 

1388  with  mint 

2565  Montenegro 

525  Mornay 

1076  mousseline,  with  brown  butter 

1993  mousseuse 

861  with  fresh  mushrooms 

2500  Napolitaine 

1983  Navaraise 

1299  O'Brien,  Col. 

2845  with  olives 

2725  with  oyster  crabs 

2599  with  oysters 

3073  Paloise 

368  Parmesan  cheese 

3024  Parisienne 

199  with  parsley 

2533  Pavia 

218  with  peas 

1567  Piora 

75  Plain 

988  Provencale 

3101  retardeur,  du 

1291  rum,  sweet 

2702  sailois 

*733  with  sardines 

3083  with  shrimps 

J5°3  with  sorrel 

1130  sovibise 

85  souffle 

925  witli  rum 


1205  Omelette,  with  spinach 

1637  with  fresh  strawberries 

1806  with  sweet  peppers 

2398  with  tarragon 

1339  Tiflis 

115  with  tomato 

1010  with  truffles 

1333  Varsovie 

2124  with  veal  kidneys 

2345  with  whitebait 

1272  Yvica 

510  Poached  eggs  with  anchovy  sauce 

2985  Aix  Les  Bains 

1194  argenteuil 

6 10  Bangalore 

2583  Barcelone 

1 304  Bayonnaise 

.  2266  Bearnaise 

276  Benedictine 

1318  with  brown  butter 

970  with  celery 

1738  chasseur 

2821  Chester 

2897  Clayburgh 

905  with  cream  sauce 

53 1  Creole 

450  with  curry  sauce 

loco  demi-careme 

2788  devilled 

2956  Egyptian 

1 249  Florentine 

1372  and  fried 

2861  with  giblet  sauce 

1537  Hollandaise 

3067  Hungarian 

3090  Louise 

646  Lyonnaise 

2655  menagere 

1926  Mexicaine 

2745  New  London 

2035  with  mint 

3037  Normandie 

1872  parmentier 

1 222  ravigote 

1 266  Riga 

2212  Saragosse 

672  Seville 

1468  with  sorrel 

728  soubise 

1820  with  spinach 

2150  St.  Germain 

2014  St.  Jean 

1 101  surprise 

795  Swiss 

1412  Tampa 

1612  with  tarragon 

106  on  toast 

833  in  tomato  sauce 

3012  tomato  sauce 

2087  Trovatore 


INDEX 


1041 


3120  Poached  eggs,  Virginia 
2517          Villeroi 
921  with  wine 


2687 

Palermitaine 

2416 

pauvre  femme 

2780 

Phillips 

408 

point  du  jour 

2932 

polonaise 

1866 

Pondichery 

345 

Renauldt 

Robert 

797 

Rockaway 

1674 

Romeo 

2946 

Rubier 

2610 

Russian,  stuffed 

2814 

with  sardines,  stuffed 

2572 

Scrambled  eggs  with  anchovies 

2071 

on  anchovy  toasts 

3004 

with  artichoke  bottoms 

1717 

with  asparagus  tips 

2539 

with  bananas 

I511 

Bearnaise 

1213 

Bordelaise 

1847 

Bretonne 

2405 

with  calves'  brain 

715 

with  celery 

l653 

with  cheese 

3060 

with  chervil 

2981 

Compiegne 

1900 

with  crabmeat 

2298 

with  crab  shell 

575 

with  cream  sauce 

2867 

aux  croutons 

2CC8 

Ecossaise 

2638 

Findon  haddock 

3°77 

Francaise 

980 

grand  pere 

135° 

with  green  peppers 

422 

with  ham 

3'32 

Henry 

2766 

Mrs.  Hobart 

1961 

Lake  wood 

1584 

Manchester 

2852 

mariniere 

2885 

McCook 

1056 

McKay 

1440 

with  mint 

17150 

molet,  scrambled 

2809 

Montevideo 

823 

with  mushrooms 

2130 

with  onions 

2681 

with  oysters 

327 

with  parsley 

2461 

Pelligrini 

"53 

petit  pain  of 

'93 

plain 

2019 

Provencale 

1  1  10 

reform 

2352 

with  rice 

669 

with  sausage 

2504 

Scrambled,  eggs,  Schmidt 

2185 

with  shrimps 

3°3X 

with  smoked  beef 

2605 

tongue 

2733 

with  spinach 

93  2 

surprise,  en 

875 

with  sweet  peppers 

1787 

Swiss 

785 

with  tarragon 

497 

with  tomato  sauce 

2921 

Williams 

*364 

Shirred  eggs,  Allemande 

2832 

Bercy 

962 

with  calf's  brains 

2796 

with  cerfeuil,  (chervil) 

1230 

chevreuse 

2630 

with  chicken  livers 

1998 

Colbert 

1181 

with  corn 

2057 

with  cream 

1689 

Costa  Rica 

2903 

Deerfoot  Farm 

2382 

demi-deuil 

233° 

demi-glace 

2666 

English  style 

2488 

epicurienne 

IOI2 

fermiere 

3J36 

fines  herbes 

2440 

au  gratin 

1122 

with  ham 

1386 

grated 

9'3 

Heckscher 

1829 

Jean  de  Luz 

679 

Kandy 

2227 

Lisbonnaise 

2695 

Luneville 

1940 

macedoine 

1764 

with  mushrooms 

2163 

Omar  Pacha 

564 

plain 

1484 

Provencale 

1894 

reine 

759 

Robert 

H38 

with  sardines 

2107 

San  Sebastian 

2279 

Swiss 

465 

au  soleil 

2549 

with  sorrel 

2739 

Suedoise 

2257 

Sullivan 

3°95 

Suzette 

2857 

Strasburgeoise 

1784 

tartlets  of 

2472 

taverne 

3 

with  tomatoes 

2646 

with  tomato  sauce 

2284 

tripe 

2325 

Vanderbilt 

2588 

Van  Winkle 

i    1401 

vert-pre 

1042 


INDEX 


1145  Shirred  eggs,  Virginia,  paper  cases 
809          Washington 
2523  Wilding 

1617          Wingfield 


1236  Bass,biere  a  la 
2403  Bordelaise 

1383  Bostonienne,  filet  of 

596          caper  sauce 
2438  Colmarienne 

2287  Conti 

25          courtbouillon 
2200          curry,  en 

710          mariiiiere 

805          Parisienne 
2859          Providence 

2092  Bass,  black,  Bretonne 

303  Grand  Duke 

1490          Montebello 

664          mousseline 

1816  Bass,  sea,  etuvee 
3049          escalopes  of,  Budapest 
2329          filet  of,  ravigote 
1950          Italienne 

505          matelote,  en 
1911  meuniere 

1 66 1          parsley  sauce 
2943  Piombino 

896  shrimp  sauce 

1710  Blackfish,  brown  butter 
2355          filet  of,  equatorial 
1862          fines  herbes 
1639          maitre  d'hotel 
1995          matelote 

2619  Bluefish,  anchovy  butter 

494          baked 
2447  mustard  sauce 

1117  paprika 

1 502  Paysanne 

828          Bombay 
2196          coquilles  of  Italienne 
1826          Creole 
2334          Diaz 

2002  Etuvee  aux  tomates 

1898  Havanaise 

2660          Jaffa 

326          maitre  d'hotel 
2101  Norwegienne 

2918  sweet  pepper  butter 

2018  Bonito,  Polonaise 

1821  Butterfish,  broiled 

363          fried 

2566  saute  with  parsley 

1188  Carpe,  Genevoise 

1986  Clams,  Little  Neck,  Bordelaise 
1465  desire 

2049          fried 
1457          raw 


3147  Shirred  eggs,  Mrs.  Wright 
2713  with  truffles 

2752          Zoxiois 
1528  Zurichoise 


FISH 


1668  Clams,  Little  Neck,  vol-au-vent  of 

567  devilled,  stuffed 

1895  Bourguignonne 

2247  coquilles,  Philadelphia 

2108  croquettes 

1362  fritters 

2371  minced  au  gratin 

1232  patties 
2300  Clams,  soft,  boniface 

2088  brochette  en 

779  curried 

397  fried  with  bacon 

1822  flips 

846  Garrett 

1594  Grant 

2180  Griswold 

2635  Hussarde 

2616  Louisianaise 

529  Newburg 

2922  patties 

1381  steamed 

932  vaudeville 
2871  Codfish,  baked,  Newfoundland 

2727  Biscayenne 

2899  brandade  of 

433  with  brown  butter 

1450  Canadian  style 

705  Coudert 

1007  egg  sauce 

743  Espagnole 

1485  au  gratin  (salt) 

976  Hollandaise 

1589  Lyonnaise 

822  picked-up  cream  sauce 

544  Provencale 

2989  shrimp  sauce 

2840  steaks,  anchovy  butter 

240  meuniere 

824  tongue,  brown  butter 
1206  (fresh)  poulette 

143  Whitney 
2171  Crabs,  cotelettes  of 

1196  Creole 

10  devilled  (stuffed) 

1432  Manhattan 

1791  mayonnaise 

684  oyster,  bonne  bouche 

1941  ravigote 

696  St.  Laurent 
1658  Crab-meat,  American 

1277  in  cases 

1700  Dewey 

2442  Finnoise 


INDEX 


1043 


1539  Crab-meat  fritters 

782  au  gratin 

1113  Maryland 

2066  mayonnaise 

2696  patties 

1394  poulette 

2267  Suedoise 

2506  in  tomato 

991  with  white  wine 
1645  Crabs,  soft  shell,  with  bacon 

1955  broiled,  devilled 
1727  plain 

2036  au  cerfeuil  (chervil) 

1774  in  cream 

1478  Creole 

2220  fried  devilled 

1512  Maryland 

1 568  meuniere 

2259  Olympia 
2 1 20  Crawfish,  Bordelaise 
1908  Eels,  Emstel 

1417  en  matelote 

1079  saffron 

260  Fish  balls  with  bacon 

1269  bouillabaisse,  Marseillaise 

5  cakes 

2916  with  ham 

2156  canapes,  Hongroise 

538  Lorenzo 

1284  coquilles 

735  coquettes,  cream  sauce 

2151  curry,  Goa 

2606  cutlets,  Allahabad 

2992  fritadelles,  Tower 

1057  fritters 

3172  jelly 

24  marinade,  how  to 

2854  patties  Suedoise 

1 201  quenelles  of 
25782  Chmart 

2050  scalloped,  au  gratin 

2734  soufflees  of,  Signorita 

2399  salad,  Parisienne 

2642  timbales  of,  Cardinal 

2215  cream  sauce 

2154  vol  au  vent  of,  Dieppoise 
1687  Flounder  (sole)  American 

2764  au  four 

629  filets  of,  au  gratin 
'334  Higgins 

2246  Horly 

2679  Marquery 

565  meuniere 

3076  saute 

2086  Mornay 

2894  Norm  and  e 

Zlll  sur  le  plat 

680  remouladc 

487  tartare 

1255  Trovatore 


286  Flounder,  filets  of,  white  wine 

1084  Loomis 

2824  mayonnaise,  Moreno 

1920  Turban  of,  Champeau 
2909  Frogs'  legs,  Bordelaise 

1184  coquilles  of 

3166  curry,  Soerabaia 

1692  Finnoise 

2126  fried,  marinaded 

1605  meuniere,  saute 

2433  Newburg 

2327  with  Parmesan  cheese 

350  poulette 

3046  Provencale 

906  tartare  sauce 

1830  vol  au  vent  of 

409  Frost-fish,  fried 

3017  ravigote 
1671  Haddock,  Findon,  devilled 

576  boiled 

2228  broiled 

2767  in  cream 

1182  meuniere 

76  plain 

3070  Scotch  style 

2285  tartare  sauce 
3151  Halibut,  Atlantic  City 

767  Aurore 

994  Bangor 

1614  chicken,  caper  sauce 

850  caper  sauce 

2711  Chevreuse 

402  Colbert 

235r  Egyptienne 

319  Fleurette 

2463  filet  of,  Horly 

1777  Hollandaise 

1243  Italienne 

167  Mornay 

2241  Parisienne 

2970  Portugaise 

2134  scalloped  with  cheese 

482  St.  Augustine 

1742  steaks,  brown  butter 

6 i  plain 

1679  tartare  sauce 

2023  vert-pre 

133  Herrings,  fresh 

798  anchovy  butter 

2947  beignets  of 

1480  filet  of,  in  oil 

153  kippered 

1999  Nordenfjold 
2249  Kingfish,  Bercy 

792  broiled 

120  Colbert 

616  comtesse 

1930  Danois,  saute" 

871  with  fines  herbes 

2730  au  gratin 


1044 


INDEX 


773  Kingfiish,  meuniere 

1623  Mornay 

428  Trouville 

2142  with  white  wine 

410  Lobster,  American 

952  baked,  plain 

8 1 1  Potomac 

3054  barquettes  of,  Cardinal 

2528  Bordelaise 

282  en  brochette,  devilled 
1387  with  fresh  mushrooms 

1 022  Chili 

1022  broiled,  butter  sauce 
1320  Chili 

158  devilled 

761  plain 

365  ravigote   sauce 

200  canapes  of 
2229  Madison 
2082  Cardinal 

1934  coquilles  of,  Indienne 

436  Parisienne 

1223  in  cream,  saute 

1962  saute,  sauce  Colbert 

2131  Creole 

1619  croquettes,  Italienne 

1154  cutlets,  ravigote  sauce 

489  curry,  McWade 

2007  Danoise,  saute 

2740  au  delice 

201  force  meat 
244  Haldeman 

3107  Hollandaise    vert-pre* 

1471  cold,  mayonnaise 

2888  Manhattan 

2396  mousse  of 

1682  Newburg 

3324  Page 

1612  patties,  Augusta 

2206  Provencale 

1768  salad,  mayonnaise 

2379  Taft 

879  souffles  of 

1250  stuffed,  devilled 

2450  timbales  of 

2358  toast  of,  Mrs.  Potter 
1723  Mackerel,  fresh,  baked,  Creole 

388  broiled,  plain 

2977  fennel  sauce 

3029  filets  of,  au  gratin 

2340  with  gooseberries 

1347  Italienne 

2280  marinaded 

2586  meuniere 

1 558  Mignonette 

2792  with  tarragon 

2672  trongons  of,  Bergere 
2757  Mackerel,  Spanish,  Bordelaise 

1482  brown  butter 

689  broiled 


2388  Mackerel,  Spanish,  Colbert 

2039  filets  of,  fin  de  siecle 

1204  fines  herbes 

244  Lath  an 

2469  New  Rochelle 

1990  paprika 

1770  piquante  sauce 

1890  Reick 

107  Mackerel,  salt,  boiled, 

1231  boiled  with  milk 

511  broiled 

904  maitre  d'hotel 
1132  Mussels,  ancienne 

501  mariniere 

443  Vol  au  vent  of,  mariniere 

1 8  Oysters 

19  Alexander  Dumas,  sauce  for 
2966  Anglaise,  in  shells 

972  ancienne 

2663  Baltimore 

1486  bonne  bouche 

648  Bordelaise 

2615  broiled,  devilled 
2746  celery  sauce 

1413  on  toast 

477  en  brochette 

835  casino 

1332  in  cases,  au  gratin 

2892  cocktail,  in  green  pepper 
3110  orange 

2958  tomatoes 

514  en  coquilles 

941  with  celery 

1240  croquettes 

2815  croutes  of,  fin  de  siecle 
2511  originales 

80 1  with  curry,  in  shells 

892  Finnoise 

579  fried,  Horly 

844  tartare 

1131  tomato  sauce 

1214  fritters 

3091  Gianella 

730  gratin 

2714  Herman 

2567  Hollandaise 

112  Indienne 

1 146  Jacque 

357  mariniere 

749  meuniere 

2540  Moreno 

3040  mousse  of 

3074  Mornay,  in  cases 

278 1  Newburg 

787  pan  roast 

297  Parisienne 

1428  patties  of,  Bechamel 
1050  curried 

2689  pauvrette 

2426  poulette 


INDEX 


1045 


3162  Oysters,  Porter 

2874  printanier 

590  pot-pie 

1440  ravigote 

1 1 02  stuffed 

2986  tartlettes  of 

1015  tartines  of 

222  vaudeville 

1174  Villeroi 
2205  Fish,  panfish,  maitre  d'h6tel 

2383  meuniere 

658  saute 
1340  Perch,  anchovy  butter 

2592  baked,  Finnoise 

716  broiled 

3142  ciboulette,  saute 

293  fines  herbes,  saute 

2097  white,  meuniere 

1106  mustard  sauce 

2395  planked,  Italienne 

937  St.  Gothard 

2262  soubise,  baked 

1013  white,  saute 

2417  Tartare  Sauce 

2880  yellow,  broiled,  tartare  sauce 

97 i  saute 

1064  Pickerel,  Albert 

2704  boudins  of,  Volga 

3 1 26  broiled 

1884  caper  sauce 

1729  Castellane 

1548  Cavour 

268  curry  saute 

1761  Creole 

917  horseradish  sauce 

2322  Nicoise 

2486  en  marinade 

2937  piquante  sauce 

346  Pike,  meuniere 

2898  wall-eyed,  saute 

\(&47  Pompano  with  anchovy  butter 

1026  baked,   1905 

909  with  brown  butter 

2148  with  fines  herbes 

1495  Hollins 

1308  Horly 

228  maitre  d'hotel 

1982  meuniere 

2581  Milanaise 

1608  Breslin,  planked 

2603  Russe 

1376          San  Juan 

1459          Villeroi 

2256  Porgies,  Dominicaine 

1553    .      aux  fines  herbes 

498          fried 

876          maitre   d'hotel 

1649          monaster 

1475          Senart 

2054          West  Point 


1675  Prawns,  curry,  Penang 

206  Red  snapper,  American 

1043  en  courtbouillon 

956  en  demi-deuil 

2423  filet  of,  meuniere 

2836  en  fricandeau 

2159  au  gratin 

1713  hunter  style 

3056  Indienne 

571  Mobile 
2119  Salmon,  Alaska,  cold 

722  Baltimore 

1747  Bateliere 

3009  Bearnaise 

3129  bien 

1408  boitel 

1335  ca-apes  of 

2561  Cob]entz 

2385  coquilles  of,  Siberienne 

1274  en  courtbouillon 

1809  croque-tes,  tartare 

371  Demidoff 

2076  fleurette  sauce 

3171  ga'antine 

1517  Hollandaise 

3169  koulibiac  of 

2010  London  style 

2940  margot  of 

2304  cold,  mayonnaise 

88  Normande 

3242  cold,  Nicholas  II 

1972  Patti 

2062  Perigord 

885  ravigote  sauce 

1836  smoked,  broiled 

2190  steaks,  anchovy  butter 

2698  tranches  of,  tartare  sauce 

1704  troncons  of,  mousseline 

557  Salmon-trout,  au  bleu 

984  Franc  aise 

675  Hollandaise 

2901  m**tre  d'hotel 

2480  P;chelieu 

1851  Valois 

2784  Venitienne 

1095  verdoyant 

622  Sardines,  sardelles.  broiled  on  toast 

1148  as  side  dish 

8 1  devilled 

2754  au  gratin 

2974  Horly 

3102  meuniere 

3025  with  spinach,  au  gratin 

740  on  toast,  broiled 

963  on  toast,  devilled 

175  Scallops  with  bacon 

2669  Baton  Rouge 

1857  Brestoise 

825  en  brochette,  devilled 
2489  with  mushrooms 


1046 


INDEX 


624  Scallops  en  brochette,  with  ham 

2682  Colbert 

212  en  coquilles 
1038  Indienne 

53  curry 

1455  Finnoise 

866  fried 

1060  au  gratin 
2556  Virginia 

2623  Lyonnaise 

1507  patties 

2589  poulette 

454  Provencale 

3078  Wilson 
1289  Shad,  anchovy  butter 

414  baked,  Madrid 

194  maitre  d'hotel 

839  ravigote  sauce 

3034  with  sorrel 

1313  vert-pre 

339  planked 
1436  Colbert 

699  Finnoise 
3097  Fee 

1524  Shad-roes,  Bearnaise 

1154  Blackford 

1469  broiled 

1258  Maryland 

1561  Newburg 

1209  Seville 
1327  Sheepshead,  Aurore 

2608  bread  sauce 

945  Caroline 

1753  celery  sauce 

470  Chambord 

1870  Charleston 

2173  clam  sauce 

1 260  Cracovienne 

1424  Hongroise 

2412  lobster  sauce 

3085  margot  of 

1975  mariniere 

2536  mousseline 

652  oyster  sauce 

3081  shrimp  sauce 

466  Shrimps,  canapes  of 

2098  in  cream  sauce 

1003  Creole 

2392  croquettes 

552  in  curry 

2525  delicieuse  of 

2348  devilled 

1124  mariniere 

2027  mayonnaise 

1341  patties 

1739  tartines 
1634  Mrs.  Curtis 


779  Skate,  brown  butter 

3061  Snails,  Bourguignonne 

2522  Smelts,  Africaine 

2761  with   bacon 

1498  bay  shore 

3088  Bourgeoise 

458  Britannia 

2667  brochette  of,  fried 

2925  vert-pre 

1 1 28  curried 

754  aux  fines  herbes 

2628  Horly 

589  maitre  d'hotel 

1267  boned 

2886  Merion 

280  meuniere 

2455  boned 

30x35  with  Parmesan  cheese 

2913  planked,  Colbert 

3068  remoulade 

47  tartare 

2547  terrine  of,  McK.  Twombly 

527  tomato   sauce 

1 200  Toulouse 

3112  Terrapin,  Baltimore 

816  Newburg 

2317  Trout,  brook,  Biarritz 

1226  au  bleu 

1572  Couteret 

1695  Genevoise 

1903  cold,  green  sauce 

1293  meuniere 

2271  cold,  Lombardi 

2222  ravigote 

1965  Rochambeau 

2183  cold,  Siberienne 

1801  vallee  d'aspe 

1367  with  white  wine 

2960  Turbot,  Mornay,  with  fines  /icrbes 

1845  Weakfish,  baked,  with  bacon 

1796  Venitienne 

1599  au  cerfeuil  (chervil) 

3065  au  gratin 

1519  Holland  aise 

2209  Hongroise 

927  maitre  d'hotel 

1054  Paysanne 

183  vert-pre 

3325  Whitebait,  Mrs.  Root 

1305  with  bacon 

2291  devilled 

2676  au  curry 

1373  farmer's  style 

1123  fried,  plain 

1421  Virginia 

1219  Whitefish  saute 

311  Yarmouth  bloaters 


INDEX 


1047 


GAME 


3000  Antelope  steaks,  salmi  sauce 

98  Canapes  for  game 

273  for  small  birds 

3117  Canvasback  ducks,  roasted 

502  Civet  of  hare,  chasseur 

2851  Doe-birds,  roasted 

3155  Game  pie,  American 

2782,  Grouse,  broiled,  orange  sauce 

167  roasted 

307  Mallard  duck,  roasted 
3135  broiled,  orange  sauce 

97  Partridge,  roasted 
2889  broiled 

3249  Mrs.  Reick 

3248  Pheasant,  English,  McClellan 

997  Plover,  roasted 

852  in  cases 

3160  terrine  of,  Delcasse 

272  Quails,  roasted  on  canapes 
2837  en  cocotte 

2978  au  Genievre,  Juniper 

3030  Robbins 

3250  White 
788  Rabbit  pie 

2708  gibelotte 


795  Railbirds,  roasted 
37  Redhead  duck,  roasted 

234  Ruddy  duck,  roasted 
2686  Snipe,  broiled,  with  bacon 

213  roasted 

561  Teal  duck,  currant  jelly 
3089  Venison  chops,  with  grapes 

545  poivrade 

2944  with  puree  of  chestnuts 

1071  civet 

2808  escalopes  of,  chasseur 

383  goulash  of,  with  dumplings 

2677  Hassani  of,  venison  curry 

360  leg  of,  with  currant  jelly 

2875  Pot  pie>  Santa  Barbora 

418  saddle  of,  roasted,  with  currant 

jelly 

691  larde,  with  currant  jelly 

857  steaks  of,  with  currant  jelly 

2620  Londonderry 

3131  with  raisins 

2860  Tokathian 

2706  Vigneron 

2771  tournedos  of,  Cumberland 

2499  Woodcocks,  roasted 


HORS    D'OEUVRES 


954  Almond,  salt 

59  Canapes  of  caviare 

424  Danois 

355  moreno,  Russe 

1570  Souvaroff 

660  Victoria 

86  Celery  in  glass 
20  en  surprise 

1406  with  Roquefort  cheese 

479  Fondue  Suisse 

733  Olives  stuffed  with  caviare 

627  with  cheese 


1055  Lamb,  balotine  of,  macedoine 


954  Peanuts,  salt 
58  Radishes 

317  Rissolettes,  moelle,  marrow 

162  Russe 

765  Tomatoes 
1515  surprise 

1597  Tunny-fish,  pickled 
1597  Walnuts 
1563  Welsh  rarebit 
1144  Golden  buck 

2813  Swiss 


LAMB 


1944 
1724 
2842 
2323 
*973 

25!2 
1544 


1991 
2I9 

2812 
748 


soubise 

stuffed  with  spinach 
Bitokes  of,  Finnoise 
breast  of,  broiled 

Hongroise 

en  bordure,  Bourgeoise 
brochettes  of,  devilled,  Buchan 

with  mushrooms 

tomato  sauce 
chops,  appetizing 

with  bacon 

Bearnaise 

broiled,  plain 


2060  Lamb  chops,  combination 

2648  with  ham 

2738  Julienne 

3071  macedoine 

2887  maitre  d 'hotel 

2305  minute 

1748  spring,  Perigueux 

1530  Pittsburg 

719  reform 

2460  signora 

93  spring,  soubise 

1430  Versaillaise 

404  Croquettes,  macedoine 

2755  Curry,  Sumatra 


1048 


INDEX 


66 1  Lamb,  Epigrammes  of,  with  curry 
1185  with  peas 

2973  emince  cf,  Charcutiere 

2365  feet  of,  poulette 

1782  fries,  Horly 

973  poulette 

2299  tartare 

264  tomato  sauce 

2072  fritadelles,  menagere 

1766  saute,  German  style 

697  haricot  of 

856  hash,  browned 
3032  Chipolata 

2418  Espagnole 

77  with  green  peppers 

1114  kidneys  au  Beurre 
1331  en  brochettes 

2690  Caesar 

1361  with  mushrooms 

425  Irish  stew 

64  leg  of,  jardiniere 

392  mint  sauce 

1378  spring,  mint  sauce 

2415  Boulangere 

1492  mignons  of,  ham  sauce 
2046  Lyonnaise  sauce 

1905  Traviata 

1334  mironton  of,  Paysanne 

982  Moussaka,  Persane 

880  noisettes,  Bearnaise  sauce 
3098  Matignon 

2929  St.  Germain 


1462  Lamb,  patties  of,  sweetbreads 

802  rack  cf,  broiled 

478  ragout  of, 

1807  Faubonne 

2181  Parisienne 

1392  ribs  of,  cauliflower  puree 

1 66  printanier 

1656  with  new  potatoes 

1275  aux  racines 

255  roasted 

2342  roulade  of,  with  carrots 

2482  saddle  of,  mint  sauce 

2288  aux  Racines 

742  saute  of,  chasseur 

2595  shoulder  of,  Brctonnc 

1445  mint  sauce 

1823  Montmorency 

23 10  Turguoise 

630  steaks,  Bearnaise 

1142  Bordelaise 

1352  spring,  Bretonne 

1018  with  chestnut  puree 

2103  Colbert 

910  devilled 

690  grand-mere 

2507  Luxembourgoise 

243 1  Lyonnaise 

2878  Zahn 

2787  sweetbreads,  Kennedy 

2000  tendrons  of,  with  vegetables 

605  tongues,  Bergere 


MUTTON 


1676  Mutton  breast,  Nivernaise 

2908  brochettes  of,  devilled 

1396  cassoulet  of 

3 103  chops,  anchovy  butter 

2077  Avignonnaise 

1566  Bouchere 

1403  brace,  English 

617  Bruxelloise 

2573  with  chestnut  puree 

261  English 

623  with  bacon 

1178  fermiere  sauce 

845  French,  with  bacon 

2127  Lilleoise 

2779  -^.          Maison  d'Or 

2021  with  mashed  potatoes 

1635  mix,  grilled 

49  plain 

2822  with  peas 

429  soubise 

2501  croquettes  oriental 

2923  curry  of,  Mysore 

836  tartare 

1690  with  curry 

242?  Dolmas,  Gildisie 


1792  Mutton,  feet,  poulette 

2982  foame,  macaronia 

283  hash  en  bordure 
3079  Colbert 

2 559  with  green  peppers 

717  Singapore 

1447  haricot  of,  Paysanne 

1734  Highlander  of 

1422  Hochepot,  Gantoise 

2466  cold,  with  horseradish  sauce 

580  Kabob  of,  Darjeel 

2238  Kaden-Boutou 

195  Kidneys,  with  bacon 
2600  brochette 

452  Madeira  sauce 

1666  on  toast 

2139  turquoise 

3167  in  curry 

1242  leg,  caper  sauce 
1151  boned,  Don  Quichotte 

2996  boned,  Fribourgoise 

2263  Londonderry 

270  Lyonnaise 

1510  pot-pourre 

52,2  with  currant  jelly 


INDEX 


1049 


5137  Mutton,  liver,  minute 

900  Mutton,  ribs  of,  with  currant  jelly 

1  620                 Loraine 

996          saddle,  Beatrice 

1086          mignons  of,  port  wine  sauce 

1977                  with  currant  jelly 

2372          cold,  with  mayonnaise 

2040          Grecienne 

1139           saute,  Anglaise 

2275          shabeloff  of 

114          Navarin  of,  Parmentier 

2703           shoulder  of,  bon  vielliard 

2673           noisettes  of,  Norwegienne 

731                  etuvee  with  potatoes 

2741                  favourite 

2632                  Flamande 

1442           pieds-paquet,  Marseillaise 

3164                  Irish  style 

1061           pilaff  of,  Qua-Pun-Ming 

1615           steaks  of,  Carozzi 

530          leg  pot  pie 

1810                  Colbert 

2789                  mutton  and  ham 

358                   marchand  de  vin 

1891           rack  of,  with  puree  of  white  beans 

1858                   plum  sauce 

942           ragout  of,  Fermiere 

1309                  poivrade  sauce 

2715           rechauffe  of,  with  rice 

PORK,   ETC. 

13  Pork,  bacon,  broiled 

434  Pork,  pigs'  feet,  broiled 

682                  broiled,  devilled 

2125                  devilled 

760          chops,  with  apples 

2726                   fried 

933                   Bucharest 

3148                  German  style 

2624                  with  chicory  puree 

3168                   stuffed,  Menehould 

1414                  Limburg 

2768                   tomato  sauce 

1654                  Mulhouse 

1103           pig's  cheek,  with  spinach 

537                  with  onions 

612          pig,  suckling,  with  apple  sauce 

176                  with  piquante  sauce 

706           and  Boston  baked  beans 

2683                  Van  Volkenburg 

1586          and  beans,  New  York  style 

3047                  curry,  Batavia 

2657           porkol,  Bucharest 

3174          ham,  Bayonne,  to  prepare 

1233           sauerkraut,  garnished 

277                  broiled 

834          sausages,  baked  with  apples 

45  1                   devilled 

2473                  with  fried  apples 

1663                   Bourguignonne 

1058                  with  bananas 

2356                  braise,  Josselyn 

134                  country 

301                   canapes 

2776                  cakes 

2160                  champagne  sauce 

2848                   gastronome 

278                  for  general  use 

2670                   gratinees 

1771                   Londonderry 

868                  with  lentils,  Bretonne 

1080                  Mexicaine 

582                  Lyons,  side  dish 

2601                   saute  with  red  peppers 

3165                  mode  du  Beam 

1035                  sliced,  saute 

1788                   Porto  Rico 

1595                   Virginia,  glazed,  with  spinach 

2735                  ^th  wrute  wme 

2360                   Westphalia,  side  dish 

1813           spare  ribs  of,  broiled,  devilled 

223           loin  of,  and  beans 

671                   and  cabbage 

1004                   with  potatoes 

2967                  spinach 

417           mousse  of  ham  in  cases 

3086          tenderloin  of,  Lyonnaise 

2470          noix  of  ham,  port  wine  sauce 

491                  piquante  sauce 

POULTRY,  ETC. 

146  Capon,  stuffed  with  chestnuts 

3006  Chicken,  Baltimore 

572           boiled,  oyster  sauce 

2268           boudins  of,  Richelieu 

723           Ecossaise 

806           breasts  of,  Loubet 

3157           Edward  VII. 

2292           Bruxelloise 

1762          au  gros  sel 

1848           coquilles  au  gratin 

1118           Kabhul 

847           croquettes,  with  flageolets 

3035          Loree 

700                  macedoine 

378           roasted 

1600                   Perigueux 

147           stuffing  for 

1472                  St.  Germain 

253           Valencienne 

1887           country  captain 

12  Chicken  with  bacon 

1831           curry  of,  Borneo 

INDEX 


992  Chicken,  curry  of,  Curzon 


2728 

Madras 

2083 

Nepaul 

3318 

Hindustan  curry  powder 

1966 

cutlets  of,  Roosevelt 

2826 

Islin 

520 

demi-deuil 

2537 

Depew 

1878 

galantine  of,  boned  fowl 

1880 

with  jelly 

873 

with  rice,  menagere 

2593 

fricassee  of,  Anglaise 

1499 

Hollandaise 

2008 

fritadelles  of,  Alexandra 

2481 

grenadine  of,  Astor 

1384 

Haag 

1556 

hash,  moreno,  au  gratin 

780 

legs  with  bacon 

2491 

Dijonnaise 

2750 

au  risotto 

1856 

livers  with  bacon 

600 

en  brochette 

3084 

with  Madeira  sauce 

1718 

with  mushrooms 

444 

fried,  Maryland 

1256 

etuvee,  meridional 

2112 

broiled  with  mushrooms 

2I35 

negus 

3°44 

palmettes  of,  Celine 

928 

patties  of,  Parisienne 

*59 

pot-pie,  American 

1794 

quenelles  of 

1996 

with  risotto 

290 

roasted,  plain 

146* 

Santiago 

2650 

salad,  Mrs.  Griscom 

2389 

Scheveningen 

1328 

saute,  Bordelaise 

209 

chasseur 

34i 

Creole 

558 

Mrs.  Doubleday 

1425 

Florentine 

2938 

Gould 

1730 

Hongroise 

33'9 

Lanier 

1096 

Marengo 

2629 

Mexicaine 

1160 

Monaco 

3066 

Morgan 

2283 

Parmentier 

1899 

Paysanne 

1  68  1 

with  tarragon 

3"3 

souvenir 

2743 

supreme  of,  Calve 

1818 

stuffing,  American  for 

*335 

terrine  of,  chicken  and  ham 

862 

on^toast 

2910 

Udaipur 

92 

Valencienne 

755 

vol  au  vent,  Hay 

757  Chicken,  vol  au  vent,  how  to  prepare 

2758  Wilhelmina 

187  Duckling  with  apple  sauce 

2175  bigarrade 

1525  brain,  with  cherries 

1863  braise  a  1'orange 

2493  broiled,  devilled 

2068  orange  marmalade 

389  caneton  a  1'estragon  (tarragon) 

2639  cutlets,  demi-glace 

2799  curry  of,  Lucknow 

3322  Doubleday 

3241  Griscom,  Jr. 

3140  Rouennaise 

918  salmi  of,  Parisienne 

1976  saute,  Italienne 

2116  terrine  of,  Hicks 

2569  Fowl,  boiled,  Anglaise 

2312  celery  sauce 

1210  Indienne 

1109  Goose,  apple  sauce 


"75 
1271 
1418 
1948 
1270 
2806 

*569 

2803 


hash  en  bordure 

force-meat 

Mount  Vernon 

patties  of 

pears  of,  with  peas 

pie,  Mrs.  Nicoll 

pilaff  of 

stuffed  with  apples 


1535  Guinea  fowl,  roasted  plain 
2  20 1  with  cream 

676  Squabs,  Africaine 


American 

broiled  with  bacon 

boned,  jelly 

en  casserole 

with  grapes 
Leopold 

with  celery  sauce 

en  cocotte,  with  peas 

cotelettes  of,  Colbert 

en  Crapaudine 

roast  with  watercress 

"a  Pestuffade 

saute,  Finnoise  sauce 

New  York  style 

piquante  sauce 

pot-pie 

terrine  of,  bonne  femme 

saute  with  tarragon 

on  toast 

Valencienne 
1797  Turkey,  agriculteur 
1951  Anglaise 

2987  blanquette  of,  v/ith  mushrooms 

1927  boned 

1928  with  Jelly 
2474        •  bonne  bouche  of 
1290           boulettes  of,  Finnoise 

467          couronnc,  Palma   (Palma   Crown) 


1817 
1693 

2025 
124 

495 

2731 

744 


1302 
831 
597 

"35 

3l63 

83 

367 

1377 
899 
95° 

1  009 


INDEX 


1051 


1917  Turkey,  croute  of,  new  century 


*759 
1348 
2380 
2234 
2590 

953 
2037 

637 
1402 

539 
2833 
1147 


cutlets  of,  esperance 
demi-deuil 
emincee  of,  ancienne 
fritadelles  of 
fritot  of,  Italienne 
hash, en  bordure 

with  clams 

au  gratin 

with  green  peppers 

on  toast 

left  over,  Indienne 
minced,  Creole 


332  Turkey,  minced,  on  toast 
3149  pears  of,  paprika  sauce 

1874  pilaff  of,  Noni 

3026  rechauffe  of,  Andalouse 

67  roasted  with  cranberry 

2251  Spring  turkey,  broiled 
3108  devilled  with  ham 

3251  Gould 

2192  Squab  turkey,  devilled  with  bacoz 
1701  with  bacon 

819  with  sweet  potatoes 

2948  tartines  of,  Miss  Griscom 

2777  tourte  of,  Helen 


SALADS 


315  Salads,  Alsacienne 
2804  Barbe  de  Capucins 

2320          Barcelone 

Basto 

beetroot  and  potato 

Brussel  sprouts 

Buenos  Ayres 

Carolina 

Carmelite 

cauliflower 

celery  and  apple 

with  mayonnaise 

mayonnaise 

and  sweet  peppers 

chicory 

cucumber 

dandelion 

and  doucette 

dandelion  with  eggs 

doucette 

dressing  for 

Mrs.  Duval 


308 
1987 
1176 
2876 
1918 

2443 
2132 

127 

393 
69 

2609 

38 

340 

606 

901 

633 
189 
863 

3243 
2099 

100 

2015 
2399 
2338 
2650 
2774 
1783 
2420 
2542 


escarole 

with  eggs 
fish,  Parisienne 
Georgia 
Mrs.  Griscom 
green  pepper  and  escarole 
herring,  Wilmington 
Hocart 
Indianapolis 


1875  Salads,  Interlaken 

1082  lamb  with  tarragon 

626  tongue  and  potato 

148  lettuce 

2949  Lichten  stein 

3244  lobster,  Mrs.  Allen 

3245  Rae 
751  Loraine 
448  macedoine 

2052  fresh 

1963  Nassau 

1745  New  London 

1629  Norfolk 

1860  okra 

1169  orange  and  apple 

2349  orphaline 

'  475  oyster  plant 

2146  Portugaise 

1 88 1  potato 

214  romaine 

2346  Russian 

3  247  Stetson 

741  string  beans 

869  with  eggs 

461  tomato 
233 1  mayonnaise 

2617  Tyrolienne 

1814  Waldorf-Astoria 

419  watercress 
2979  and  sweet  pepper 

2930  and  tomato 


3186  Sandwiches,  anchovy 

3177 
3188 
3178 
3187 
3182 


chicken 

cheese 

duck 

egg 

foie  gras  (pate  de) 


207  Sauce,  ancienne 
34          Bearnaise 


SANDWICHES 

3181  Sandwiches,  ham 

3179  lamb 

3183  lobster 

3184  oyster 

3185  sardine 

3180  veal 

SAUCES 

\     1156  Sauce,  beefsteak 
I    2866  Belmont 


IO52 


INDEX 


2700  Sauce,  Bennett 

641  Sauce,  Madeira 

1338          bercy,  for  beef 
2176          Bigarade 
28           Bordelaise 

70          mayonnaise 
2825                  Moreno 
2793                  tarragon 

99          bread 

2.56          mint 

2694          Britannia 

526          Mornay 

246          cabaret 

1030           Montebello 

1246          caper 

2ii           mousseline 

2161          champagne 

769           mushroom 

2224          chasseur 

2827                  fresh 

1228           Chateaubriand 

1  107           mustard,  for  fish 

2174          clam 
745          celery 

1316           Nivernaise,  garnishing  for  beef 
89           Normande 

1321           Chili,  for  lobster 

1673           Olive 

121           Colbert 

2570          onion 

445          cream,  for  Chicken,  Maryland 
736                  for  general  use 

573           oyster 
2701           orange,  cold 

2451                  paprika 

1  662          parsley 

507           Creole 
2772          Cumberland 

677           Perigueux 
2719           Picard 

54          curry,  for  fish 

177           piquante 

1349           demi-deuil 

1859           plum 

122           demi-glace  (half-glace) 

546           poivrade 

82          devilled 

1087           port  wine 

2281          fennel 

366          ravigote 

1179          fermiere 

1441                  cold 

251          Finnoise 

1356          Remi 

320          fleurette 

68  1          remoulade 

1189           Genevoise 

1066          Robert 

2497          Genoise 

3001           salmi 

2862          giblet 

2272          St.  Gothard 

3170          glace  de  viande 

1263           shallot 

1904          green 

2184           Siberian 

1493          ham 
279          Holland  aise 

879           shrimp 
94          soubise 

3130                  bien 
2785                 Venitienne 

1967           supreme 
1323           tarragon 

2705                 vert-pre 

48           tartare 

2435          horseradish 

1  6          tomato 

2467                 cold 

2911           Udaipur 

323                  brown 

184          vert-pre 

1244          Italienne 

1460           Villeroi 

2413          lobster 
2047          Lyonnaise 

592           vinaigrette 

SOUPS 

1678  Bisque  of  anchovies 
2282          bonne  bouche 
698          clams 

1336  Bisque  of  lobster 
1086                  with  celery 
1557                  Julienne 

1735                 Clamart 
936          codfish 

2729                  with  quenelles 
2602                  and  shrimps 

532          crabs 

1785           mariniere 

205                  hard 

1208          mussels 

1073                  Kioto 
2153           crayfish 

858                  jardiniere 
338          oysters 

2716          game 

1501                   Capucine 

2591          grouse,  Diana 

1141                  Nassau 

1390          Halibut 
778          Harriman 

442          pickerel 
2942          prawns,  Carolina 

INDEX 


1444  Bisque  of  scallops 

1622  shad-roe 

815  shrimps 

2856  smelts,  Trouville 
1752  Broth,  beef,  Anglaise 

2179  beetroot 
3138  with  cream 

578  chicken 

800  with  rice 

3106  tomate 

2006  cold 

951  celery 
1985  cold 

80  clam 
2524  with  rice 

1916  cold 

2073  Chantilly 

2255  fish,  with  sago 

1776  lamb,  with  barley 
2075  esperance 

551  mutton 

304  in  cups 

2293  Grecian 

318  Indienne 

2115  okra 

1090  oyster,  in  cups 
2649  Chantilly 

3127  tomate 

1667  parsley 

2164  radish 

2059  tomato 

1538  veal  in  cups 
1808  with  rice 

916  aux  Racines 

701  white 
2612  Consomme,  Adelina 

2458  Africaine 

2166  Algerien 

1964  American 

1292  Andalouse 

1741  Argenteuil 

2864  Bonsselet 

2316  Bourdalouse 

1509  bourgeoise 

543  Brunoite 
2199  with  barley 

2783  with  Semolina 

595  Celestine 

2959  au  cerfeuil  (chervil) 

1564  chatelaine 

1607  chiffonade 

1631  Colbert 

2361  Colombo 

1540  croute  au  pot 

52  in  cups 
1901  cold 

926  Deslignac 

2670  diablotins 

2652  Doubourg 

256  farina 


2823  Consomme,  fermiere 

688  flamande 

3°75  game  in  cups 

469  imperatrice 

1793  imperiale 

2061  Infanta 

493  with  Italian  paste 

267  Julienne 

1989  aux  Lazagnes 

2494  with  lettuce 

3055  Lyonnaise 

791  aux  macaroni 

2221  magenta 

2118  Massena 

734  Milanaise 

2270  Montmorency 

1949  Napolitain 

1686  Nivernais 

663  with  noodles 

2742  Piedmontaise 

2697  Portugaise 

1638  princesse 

87  printanier 

1937  printemps 

1063  profiteroles 

2001  Rachel 

1127  aux  ravioli 

2406  Renaissance 

908  with  rice 

2535  Rivoli 

3016  Rouennaise 

1025  royale 

1897  Russe 

1375  sago 

1467  semoule 

1844  aux  spaghetti 

2574  Suedois 

1158  Talma 

163  tapioca 

1397  tomate 

2983  veneur 

2912  vert-pre 

1435  villageoise 

3111  White  House 
1746  Cream  of  almonds 

1094  Amazone 

1694  artichokes,  French 

401  Jerusalem 

22  asparagus 

1225  Aurore 

849  barley 
3146  Joinville 

1919  beetroots 

2678  Kalamazoo 

1259  cauliflower 

583  celery 

1571  Chicken 
2763  chevreuse 

3008  Francaise 

2387  chicory 


1054 


INDEX 


2235  Cream  of  corn,  New  Orleans 
2877        tomate 

23     croutons  (bread)  for  soups 


1800 


cucumber 


3043  pnncesse 

804  Reine 

1458          duchesse 

249  Egyptienne 

235°          green  wheat 
3139  green  peas,  St.  Cloud 

2045  Japanese 

2552          leeks 

2445  Royale 

2333  lentils,  major  domo 

2580  with  sorrel 

1407  lettuce 

3069  demidoff 

1850          mushrooms,  fresh 

1839          Nantua 

3096          rice  au  cerfeuil 

2479  Japanese 

2446  *    royal,  for  soups 
1489  sorrel 

1285  spinach 

966  soubise 

142  St.  Germain 

1974  au  lait  d'amande 

1957  of  string  beans 

1187  Potage  allemande 
2354          Alsacien 
1218  ambassadeur 

Argentine 
Armonville 
Artagnon 
Artois 
Auvergnat 
bagration 
Balank  Tsorbassi 

Odessa 
Balmord 
baraquine 
Basque 
Belgium 
bonne-dame 
Bolivien 
borsh  polonaise 
bouillabaisse 
Brezilien  with  cherries 
cabbage 

Piedmontaise 
Rouennaise 
with  calves'  feet 
Calves'  tails,  allema 

Berlin  style 
Catherine 
celery,  espagnole 
knot 

au  lait  d'amande 
chicken,  Australian 
Bavaroise 


2091 
2311 
1902 
1382 
2703 
2527 
2303 
2641 

2339 
2756 
1481 
3122 
2904 
2468 
2893 
1837 
1703 

975 
2240 
2490 
1042 
2665. 
2367 
2684 

2543 
2999 
721 
2381 
3080 


2454  Potage,  chicken,  chiffonade 

2849 

English  style 

M37 

Hollandaise 

2053 

pectoral 

2557 

okra,  Bearnaise 

1418 

«        cocoanut 

1981 

chasseur 

1  474 

Hongkongoise 

1929 

Turque 

331 

chowder,  clam 

198 

fish 

2441 

oyster 

1  002 

Tokio 

2253 

stew,  Boston  style,  with  celer} 

2853 

with  celery 

1781 

Clam,  Parisiennc 

1254 

Clothilde 

2924 

Constantinople 

2128 

country  family 

742 

Cockie-Leekie 

838 

cousinette 

1516 

cream,  Reine 

1177 

cressoniere,  Illinois 

2147 

croute  au  pot 

1769 

Dublin 

2691 

Dobruska 

5?o 

economique 

651 

Espagnole 

5^8 

Faubonne 

895 

chiffonade 

1889 

Felicie  maigre  (lean) 

3064 

fermiere 

2596 

Franklin 

1832 

garbure,  with  cucumbers 

1301 

au  gratin 

2328 

Claremont 

2917 

Gasconien 

1242 

giblet,  Anglaise 

2085 

gumbo,  arlequin 

1547 

lie  aux  asperges 

556 

Creole 

1722 

of  chicken 

1655 

Egyptienne 

1273 

with  frogs'  legs 

2485 

Normande 

1876 

Glasgow 

815 

lie,  Parmentier 

119 

Louisianaise 

1825 

St.  Germain 

I053 

with  sorrel 

3T33 

aux  herbes,  lie 

2870 

Italienne 

48i 

Jackson 

2514 

jardiniere 

2618 

au  lait  d'amande 

2402 

lamb,  Piedmontaise 

I235 

au  lard,  menagere 

2585 

leeks  au  gratin 

1648 

lentils,  Montagnarde 

2645 

lemon  lie 

INDEX 


2261  Potage,  lettuce  with  peas 

2778  Livonien 

427  lomballe 

2440  long 

3028  Lucienne 

zoo-'  du  lundi,  Monday  soup 

1312  Lyons 

2560  macaroni  maigre  (lean) 

1943  Marie  Louise  (lean) 

2770  meuniere 

1869  Mikado 

182  minestra,  MflanaibJ 
1149  Piedmontaise 

709  Mongole 

3033  Montglas 

21 10  mousquetaire 

695  mulligatawney,  Benares  (fish) 
2882  Mudlier  Chandra 

3150  Chitty 

2286  Mah,  HI  a  By  aw 

370  Manila 

2022  Osaka 

2208  Saigon 

2928  Young 

2636  Youshimini 

1660  mutton,  charcutiere 
1728  Julienne 

2158  Mussulman 

2607  Nivernaise  au  Parmesan 

2839  Nimois 

3048  noodles,  Sardaigne 

1326  okra,  Milanaise 

955  Richmond 

1523  Oloronnaise 

1861  onion,  bourgeoise 
1183  au  gratin 

2133  originale 

1423  osol  polonaise 

435  07ster 
1319  Boston  style 

2391  Francaise 

2394  oukha 

2277  ox  cheek,  Anglaise 

227  tail 

1083  au  pain 

1449  Parisienne 

1910  paste,  Italian,  with  tomato 

753  with  milk 

387  Paysanne 

105  pepper-pot 
2038  country  style 

870  petite  marmite 

3087  pickerel,  mariniere 

884  pilaff,  Turque 

2508  potato  with  vermicelli 

766  pot-au  feu,  Mexicaine 
2802  vieillemode 

3128  Porto  Rico 

1017  printanier 
1189  grenat 


2807  Potage,  Provencale 

1363  pumpkin 

2724  rice  with  curry 

503  Smyrna 

2710  Rouennaise 

993  sago,  Turinoise 

3021  San  Diego 

v  1994  St.  Nazaire 

2811  St.  Augustin 

2995  St.  Ouen 

2900  St.  Sulpice 

413'  Sante 

2476  spa 

2858  spaghetti  with  cream 

1199  semolina  and  sorrel 

2543  shin  of  beef,  lie 

2936  soissons 

944  sorrel 
1588  with  rice 

674  soubise,  Bretonne 

1883  Suisse 

2521  Suzon 

2430  svezksa  shtchee 

457  tomato,  Andalouse 
1169  celery 

1037  parmentier 

628  with  rice 

2976  St.  Louis 

827  with  tapioca 

60  with  vermicelli 

1670  Tourin,  Bordelaise 

2182  Togo 

2747  tschi  Russe 

639  turtle  green,  Parsons 
1353  English  style 

2 1  oo  tomate 

603  mock,  Anglaise 

1613  veal,  Indienne 

2568  vegetable,  Hanovrienne 

2214  veloute  au  riz 

2017  Venitien 

2737  vermicelli,  Hollandaise 
2347  Indienne 

2231  with  milk 

263 1  tomate 

2791  Suisse 

2988      -     vert-pre 

283 1  Westphalien 

285  Westmoreland 
1133  Puree  of  beans,  lima 
2627  red,  Honolulu 

2659  of  chestnuts 

1366  Colbert 

302  conde  aux  croutons 

2462  conti 

1116  Crecy 
2009  Faubonne 

2422  Stanley 

518  Faubonne 

895  chiffonade 


1056 


INDEX 


2969  Puree  of  Inouye 

1429  Jerusalem 

1346  of  lentils 

253 1  Brunoise 

3093  Lucernoise 

2798  orientale 

2029  oyster  plant 

1532  Parmentier 

2835  parsnips 

1598  peas  with  vermicelli 


I    2818  Puree  of  potatoes,  chiffonad* 

2172  prunes 

2950  of  rabbit 

2373  sorrel,  with  peas 

1307  soubise 

2321  squash,  green 

2751  tomato,  with  Julienne 
1760  with  paste 

1815  turnips,  tomate 


VEAL 


653  Balotine  of,  with  puree  of  sorrel 
1646  Blanquette  of 
2509  Breast  of,  Florentine 

967  Marseillaise 

2258  Calf's  brain,  fried,  brown  butter 
1765          fried 

202          Horly 
2855          feet,  Lyonnaise 

591  head,  how  to  cook 
1685  Fribourgeoise 

592  vinaigrette 

1 55  liver,  with  bacon 

1137  devilled  with  bacon 

989  meuniere 

810  minute 

2668  Lyonnaise 

737  Chops,  chasseur 

829          Deleier 
2419  Don  Fulano 

2868  aux  fines  herbes 

750          Finnoise 

499          with  ham 

351  Milanaise 

625          Neapolitan 
1533  Oswald 

685          Philadelphia 

924          Piedmontaise 
1091  with  puree  of  sorrel 

1045  San  Francisco 

55          with  tomato  sauce 
1365  Curry,  Johore,  "Malay  Peninsula" 
2230  Pondichery 

3121  Vend  ali,, 

3022  Veal  en  daube 

429          fricandeau  of,  bourgeoise  ' 
1754  with  cepes 

1399  with  sorrel 

2384          kidneys,  broiled 
2769  with  wine  sauce    . 

1191  loin  of,  Champeau 

2548  mignons  of,  Bordelaise 

2794  with  glazed  onions 

584          noix  of,  fermiere 
2765          paupiettes  of,  Toscano 
2400  Stockholme 

1167          pot-pie,  Hongroise 

485  Rack  of,  Bretonne 
1833  with  braized  onions 


2692  Rouelle  of,  Chipolata 
2597  fricandeau 

1451  Roulade  of,  bourgeoise 

642  Sweetbreads,  Alice 

32  Bearnaise 
958  Bercy 

1228  with  carrots 

1906          en  casserole 

231  Cheron 

472          cocotte 
1804  au  Porto 

888  coquilles  of 

2363  cromiskies  of 

2122          cutlets  of,  Perigueux 
1853  Senora  Diaz 

2226          escalopes  of,  with  peas 
2407  Villeroi 

2318  Espagnole 

817  estouffade 

3323  Everett 

3099          en  fricandeau 
1969  au  gratin 

1 580  Hongroise 

33  how  to  blanch 
1706  Lafayette 
2375  macedoine 
2896           Monroe 

1029  Montebello 

2963  fried 

1641  sautes  with  mushrooms,  fresr 

1295  Perigueux 

2498  Potter 

1357  Root 

3059  Schwerin 

1743  timbales  of 

374          Tzarina 
3159  Vittori  Emmanuel 

1237  Tendron  of  veal,  with  glazed  onion 

2165  Timbales  of  veal,  Milanaise 

2051  Terrine  of  veal  and  ham 

2518  Thon  of  veal 

1125  Tongues,  Italienne 
1590  en  papillotes 

2541  au  risotto 

947  braise  and  spinach 

515  Vienna  schnitzels 

1437  Vol  au  vent  of,  Godiveau 


INDP:X 


VEGETABLES 


66  Apples,  fried 

2890  grilled 
1 21 1  Artichokes,  Barigoule 

232  bottoms 

911  poivrade 

554  Jerusalem 

2519  Espagnole 

2202  persillade 
2140  Rissoles 

919  Asparagus,  Bearnaise  sauce 

1707  fried,  Bearnaise  sauce 

1495  cream  sauce 

1385  Holland aise  sauce 

1756  polonaise 

1526  Swiss 

342  Hollandaise  sauce 

1276  mousseline  sauce 

1923  mayonnaise  sauce,  cold 

1452  Vinaigrette 

2203  canned 
1252  tips,  fresh 

1 60 1  in  cream 

3153  tips,  canned,  with  butter 

1494  Beans,  butter 

353  lima 

2343  bonne  femme 

1324  in  cream 

2693  Hollandaise 

1938  fresh 

2532  fermiere 

2315  aux  fines  herbes 

247 1  f  ourangelle 

2198  Stanford 

95  flageolet 

1369  Creole 

2712  French,  Cubanaise 

1968  saute,  tarragon 

1247  red,  Bourguignonne 

391  string,  Anglaise 

139  au  beurre 

2685  etuves 

1579  fresh,  au  beurre 

2004  with  corn 

3109  noisette 

2232  Orleannaise 

2069  Paloise 

1143  polonaise 

1046  and  peas,  panaches 

830  poulette 

484  white,  Bretonne 

224  for  pork  and  beans 

1892  puree 
2997  Cabbage,  stuffed 

2723  stuffed  Russian 
1119  Cardoons,  gratines,  Suisse 

265  Carrots,  bourgeoise 

1264  new,  Colbert 

1936  maitre  d'hotel 


1868  Carrots  and  peas 

540          old  and  peas 

894          Vichy 
1161  Cauliflower,  beignets  of 
1 22 1  cream  sauce 

2095          fried  with  cheese 
1329  au  gratin 

853  Hollandaise 

210          mousseline  sauce 

807  polonaise 

1393  puree  of 

63 1  sautes 

359  Celery,  braise 
2720  Genevoise 
2773  souffle 

2654  Cepes 
1755          Provencale 
2795  Chestnuts,  glazed 
1119  puree 

2962  timbales 

2625  Chicory  puree 
1864  Corn,  boiled 

324          saute 
2324          in  cream 
2187  Creole,  saute 

446          fritters,  for  chicken,  Maryland 
2386          roasted 
2144          saute 

789  stewed 

2359  Combination  of  Vegetables 
1 1 08  Cucumbers,  Bechamel 
2633  Bombay 

1715          fried 
2041  puree  of 

1737  Romaine 

2428  sautes 

3094  in  cream 

547  Lyonnaise 

3002  Cumberland  puree 
1849  Eggplant,  Bordelaise 
2136          broiled 

460          fried 

508  in  Julienne 

2732          Lyonnaise 
1778  Sacramento 

794          with  fine  herbs 
1740          saute,  minute 
1410          and  tomatoes,  Athenienne 
2306          stuffed  with  anchovies 
2516  Marseillaise 

306  Provenjale 

2216          Turque 
3007          fritters,  Baltimore 

948  Hindoostan  vegetables 

235  Hominy,  fried 

65  Jardiniere  for  garnishing 
2762  Leeks,  devilled 
2244  Lettuce,  braise 


1058 


INDEX 


2376  Lettuce,  stuffed 

233  Macedoine  of,  vegetables 

276  Mirepoix  of,  vegetables 
1824  Montmorency,  vegetables 
1278  Mushrooms,  fresh,  with  butter 
3058          fresh,  broiled 
3115          in  bells,  "sous  cloches" 
1698  au  gratin 

1803  stuffed 

2104  Okras,  Andalouse 
1531  Creole 

2239          in  cream 
2834  au  gratin 

2637          Virginia 
2544  Oriental  Vegetables 

910  Onions,  fried 

295          Spanish,  fried 
2990  baked 

1545          boiled,  cream  sauce 

125          glazed 
1343  smothered 

289  Oyster  plant,  saute  with  butter 
1840  in  cream 

968,         fried 
2210          Italienne 
1129          Poulette 
1650          tomato  sauce 
1795  Panada  bread 
2800  Parsnips,  fried 

35  Peas,  green 
2078  Avignonnaise 

2563  Basquaise 

1519          fresh,  with  butter 

781  French,  with  butter 

145          petit  pois,  Franc aise 

667          with  lettuce 

375  with  mint 

2408  fresh  with  mint 

1473  puree  for  garnishing 

1749          fresn  ^h  tarragon 
1959          vieille  mode 

230  Peppers,  green,  stuffed 

959  red,  stuffed 

288  Spanish,  sweet 

113  Rice,  boiled 
2269  Creole 

490          for  curries 
3027          Swiss 
1541  Valencienne 

521  timbales  for  garnishing 

225  Risotto,  Piedmontaise 

654  Sorrel,  puree  of 
1767  Spatzeles  for  garnishing 

247  Spinach,  Anglaise 

399          with  cream 
2243  demi-glace 

1334          Martha 
2621  soubrics  of 

2063          timbales  of 
1763          au  veloute 


618  Sprouts,  Brussels 
2883  with  brown  butter 

3018  and  chestnuts 

2664  Squash,  mashed 

516  Succotash 
2090  fresh 

2820  Tomatoes,  American 

841  baked 

203 1  Bock 

1636  broiled,  plain 

1952  Carolina 

1287  on  crusts 

4          for  eggs  and  omelettes 
2598  Florentine 

2582          Marseillaise 
2953  menagere 

88 1  en  ragout 

2193  and  rice  au  gratin 

2295  Suisse 

30  stuffed 

31  stuffing  for 
2225          Trevise 

2368  Turnips,  glazed,  demi-glacf 
1720          Spanish  style 
2906.         yellow,  mashed 
2817  Paste,  gnocchis,  Italienne 
2658  Russian  style 

503  Macaroni  au  beurre 

386          in  cream 

1 60  au  gratin 

385          how  to  cook 
3014          Italienne 
2152  polonaise 

1023  Sauveterre 

1606  Suisse 

1932  in  timbales     . 

333  Noodles,  with  butter 
1311  with  brown  butter 

238  with  cream 

2453  with  tomatoes 

334  how  to  prepare 
1127^        Ravioli 

1508  Spaghetti,  au  gratin    • 
15          Italienne 

352          Milanaise 
1433  Napolitaine 

299          Paysanne 

938  polonaise 

2436  Vermicelli,  au  gratin 

196  Potatoes,  allumettes 
2688          Alfonso 
1391  Ancienne 

84          Anna 

185          Anglaise 

683  baked 

2250          balls,  Persillade 

886          bateau 
2841  batonnets 

looi  Bearnaise 

269          Bellinzonaise 


INDEX 


1059 


593 

Potatoes,  Bernoise 

372 

Potatoes,  lorettes 

403 

bignon 

78 

Lyonnaise 

i3H 

Bohemienne 

859 

Macaire 

1190 

Bordelaise 

3i* 

maitre  d'hotel 

1  220 

Brabant 

178 

mashed 

763 

Bretonne 

813 

brown 

91 

brioche* 

2935 

Maria 

1344 

broiled 

1044 

marquise 

1085 

with  butter 

2459 

Mignonne 

1398 

with  brown  butter 

453 

Mount  Vernon 

I23 

Chassepot 

2191 

Nanette 

872 

Chateaubriand 

321 

noisettes 

208 

chateau 

851 

Normande 

2374 

Christiania 

1714 

O'Brien 

2093 

Colbert 

611 

pailles  (straw) 

9°5 

Copeaux 

711 

Parisienne 

2680 

en  coquilles 

1696 

Parmentier 

39° 

croquettes 

63 

persillade 

2717 

with  Parmesan  cheese 

1705 

Philadelphia  balls 

39° 

plain 

1008 

polonaise 

2414 

of,  with  spinach 

647 

Pont  Neuf 

2242 

in  custard 

*549 

poulette 

4i5 

dauphine 

686 

en  quartiers 

718 

Delmonico 

2121 

rissolees 

898 

Demidoff 

I56 

Saratoga 

985 

Dijonnaise 

135 

sautees 

3°4 

Duchesse 

533 

Savoyarde 

570 

economic 

2024 

snow 

665 

'  aux  fines  herbes 

1198 

soufflees 

56 

fond  antes 

2905 

soufflees  of 

1789 

foultees 

2819 

soubrics  of 

8 

French,  fried 

no 

stewed 

242 

fried,  German 

1404 

stuffed 

348 

en  quartiers 

2656 

with  anchovies 

2186 

fritters 

H 

sweet,  baked 

1843 

Garfield 

1166 

in  cream 

3I04 

au  gratin  estragon 

116 

fried 

1873 

au  gratin,  with  anchovies 

3°39 

German,  fried 

1491 

gastronome 

820 

grilled 

220 

hashed    in  cream 

1081 

in  puree 

173 

au  gratin 

1092 

Lyonnaise 

1758 

brown,  Moreno 

2534 

sautees 

J529 

Lyonnaise 

1157 

soufflees 

5° 

sautees 

2IO2 

"white"  timbalei 

26 

Hollandaise 

946 

Vauban 

H34 

Indienne 

I26l 

Vaudoise 

1074 

Italienne 

1565 

vert-pre 

512 

jacket 

165 

Viennoise 

799 

Julienne 

995 

Voisin 

1216 

au  lard 

1150 

villageoise 

1680 

Laure 

252 

Windsor 

1851 

Lisbonne 

14  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 

AGRICULTURE  LIBRARY 

40  Giannini  Hail  -  Tel.  No.  642-4493 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below,  or 

on  the  date  to  which  renewed. 
Renewed  books  are  subject  to  immediate  recall. 


LD  21-40m-2,'69 
(J6057slO)476 — A-32 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


