BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
tlBRZlRY 


ITALIAN  COOKING 


Uniform  with  this  volume 

GERMAN  COOKING 

Nella  Whitfield 

FRENCH  COOKING 
Elizabeth  Smart  and  Agnes  Ryan 

AUSTRIAN  COOKING 

Ann  Knox 


ITALIAN  COOKING 

•     Dorothy  Daly 


SPRING  BOOKS 


SPRING  BOOKS 

SPRING  HOUSE     .     SPRING  PLACE     .     LONDON  NW  5 
Printed  in  Chechoslovakia 


Contents 

Introduction  7 

Some  Useful  Facts  and  Figures  10 

Flavourings,  Trimmings  «&:  Spices  12 

Antipasti  20 

Soups  29 

Pasta  49 

Ravioli  &  Gnocchi  67 

Rice  74 

Polenta  90 

Omelettes,  Egg  &  Cheese  Dishes  94 

Fish  101 

Meats  1 29 

Poultry  &  Game  152 

Vegetables  162 

Salads  131 

Sweets  134 

Sauces  1 93 

Index  22 1 


[  5  ]- 


Introduction 


Before  thinking  about  Italian  cooking,  it's  as  well  to  give 
some  thoughts  to  the  good  foods  native  to  that  sunny 
country. 
And  before  getting  down  to  the  food  itself,  give  some  con- 
sideration to  what,  in  Italy,  is  its  essential  accompaniment  — 
good  wine.  From  north  to  south  whether  one  travels  by  road 
or  by  rail,  one  doesn't  travel  far  without  seeing  stretches  of 
vineyards,  and  from  the  delightful  Soave,  produced  in  the 
vicinity  of  Verona,  to  the  slightly  spicy  Orvieto  of  the  Umbrian 
Hills,  down  to  the  delicate  Lachrima  Christi  with  which  the 
visitor  to  Naples,  Pompeii  and  Amalfi  is  regaled,  there's  no 
excuse  in  Italy  for  stinting  the  wine  with  which  to  cook  or 
with  which  to  eat  the  finished  dish.  Not  all  Italian  wines  travel 
well  enough  to  allow  them  to  be  brought  across  to  our  own 
country,  but  a  little  patient  exploration  of  the  Italian  wine 
shops  of  Soho  will  result  in  a  fairly  lengthy  list  of  Italian  wines 
that  can  be  purchased  here  in  England  at  a  price  sufficiently 
reasonable  as  to  make  it  not  an  extravagance  to  use  them  when 
suggested  in  the  recipe  for  a  truly  Italian  dish,  or  to  form  the 
highly  agreeable  habit  of  taking  a  glass  or  two  of  'Vino'  with 
one's  Pasta  or  Ossobuco.  Make  the  acquaintance  of  your 
Italian  wine  merchant;  talk  to  him  about  his  various  wines, 
ask  him  to  suggest  good  wines  for  certain  dishes ;  get  him  talking 
about  the  different  wines  to  be  met  with  in  different  parts 
of  his  beloved  country  —  if  he's  a  true  Italian,  his  advice  will 
be  well  worth  taking,  and  the  next  time  you  visit  his  country 
you  will  order  your  wine  by  name,  instead  of  mumbling  some- 
thing about  'half  a  bottle  of  that  red  stuff"'.  And  in  spite  of  the 
long  list  of  'named'  varieties,  your  Italian  wine  merchant 
will  probably  point  to  the  wisdom  of  buying  a  carafe  of  the 
local  wine,  for  many  of  these  local  wines,  though  they  do  not 
travel  well,  are  excellent  when  drunk  in  their  own  particular 
place  of  origin. 

Not  only  is  Italy  a  country  of  wines,  it  is  also  a  country  of 
cheeses,  cheeses  of  a  staggering  variety.  There  is  no  need  at  all 
in  Italy  to  ruin  an  otherwise  perfect  dish  by  the  addition  of  two 

[     7     ] 


tablespoonfuls  of  grated  'mousetrap',  nor  is  there  any  need  in 
England  nowadays  to  commit  such  a  solecism  when  a  fairly 
good  range  of  Italian  cheeses  may  be  found  in  the  best  provision 
shops  of  most  of  our  large  towns.  Where  cheese  for  cooking 
is  concerned,  we  may  have  to  substitute  Bel  Paese,  which  travels 
well,  for  Mozzarella,  which  doesn't,  and  our  own  cream  cheese 
for  the  Italian  Ricotta  which  again  doesn't  care  much  for 
transportation,  but  where  table  cheeses  are  concerned,  there's 
a  wide  variety  from  which  to  choose. 

And  what  of  the  olive  groves,  where  the  silvery-grey  leaves 
of  the  slender  gnarled  trees  give  an  other-world  appearance 
to  the  landscape?  Small  wonder  that  so  many  truly  Italian 
dishes  are  built  upon  a  foundation  of  either  the  fruit,  green 
or  ripened  to  blackness,  or  the  oil  extracted  from  the  fruit  of 
these  trees  —  and  remember,  the  use  of  oil  in  cooking  does  not 
mean  that  the  resulting  dish  will  be  oil-y  —  only  the  badly 
cooked  dish  merits  that  adjective. 

Wines,  cheeses,  olive  oil,  lemons,  lemon  juice  and  tomatoes 
(raw,  cooked  or  rendered  down  into  the  puree  or  conserve  we 
can  now  purchase  in  'tooth-paste'  tubes  that  allow  one  to  use 
a  little  without  wasting  the  balance),  green,  red,  yellow  and 
variegated  peppers,  purple  egg  plants,  artichokes,  and  zucchini 
are  but  a  few  of  the  colourful  basic  foods  of  the  peninsula, 
but  they  are  enough  to  go  on  with. 

And  why,  so  far,  no  word  of  pasta,  that  everpresent,  ubi- 
quitous Italian  dish?  For  the  reason  that  Pasta,  whatever  it  may 
be  to-day,  is  said  not  originally  to  have  been  a  native  of  the 
country,  but  is  alleged  to  be  one  of  the  many  wonders  brought 
home  by  the  13th  century  explorer,  Marco  Polo,  from  his 
travels  in  China.  Nevertheless,  although  Pasta,  in  its  many 
shapes  and  forms,  may  not  have  started  ofif  as  a  true  native 
of  Italy,  to-day  it  seems  as  much  a  part  of  the  country  as  an 
operatic  tenor,  and  anyone  wanting  to  present  a  truly  Italian 
meal  must  perforce  learn  a  few  of  the  ways  of  preparing  and 
cooking  Pasta. 

So  much  for  the  food  and  drink  harvested  from  the  land. 
What  about  the  fruit  of  the  seas  that  wash  the  shores  of  the 
long,  indented  coastline,  all  the  strange  and  lovely  fish  and 
shellfish  abounding  in  the  waters?  What  of  the  colourful  fish 
to  be  seen  in  the  fish  market  in  Venice,  to  mention  but  one 
of  the  famous  markets?  In  most  coastal  towns  of  Italy  fish  is 
good  and  recipes  for  cooking  it  abound.  English  taste  won't, 
of  course,  take  kindly  to  all  of  them,  and  the  mention  of  octopus 

, [     8     1 


may  bring  forth  a  horrified  shudder,  but  few  EngUsh  men  or 
women  look  askance  at  a  dish  of  scampi  or  red  mullet,  and  these 
are  but  two  of  a  great  number  of  delicacies  piscatorial. 

In  the  following  pages  an  attempt  has  been  made  to  offer 
to  the  English  cook  a  selection  of  typical  Italian  dishes  that  can 
be  cooked  and  enjoyed  in  her  own  country.  It  is  a  compilation 
rather  than  an  invention,  for  to  'invent'  four  hundred  'original' 
Italian  recipes  would  be  not  merely  an  impossible  task  but 
an  insult  to  the  established  repertoire  of  Italian  cooks. 


[     9     ] 


Some  Useful  Facts 
and  Figures 


COMPARISON  OF   ENGLISH   AND   AMERICAN 
WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


English  weights  and  measures  have  been  used  throughout  this 
book.  In  case  it  is  wished  to  translate  these  into  their  American 
counterparts,  the  following  table  gives  a  comparison: 

Liquid  Measure 

One  pint  of  liquid  may  be  regarded  as  equal  to  two  Ameri- 
can measuring  cups  for  all  practical  purposes. 
3  teaspoonfuls  equal  1  tablespoonful. 
16  tablespoonfuls  equal  1  cup. 


Solid  Measure 

ENGLISH 

AMERICAN 

1  pound 

Butter 

2  cups 

1  pound 

Flour 

4  cups 

1  pound 

Granulated  Sugar 

2  cups 

1  pound 

Brown  (Moist)  Sugar 

2|  cups 

1  pound 

Rice 

2  cups 

1  pound 

Chopped  Meat  (finely  packed) 

2  cups 

1  pound 

Lentils  or  Split  Peas 

2  cups 

1  pound 

Coffee  (unground) 

2§  cups 

\  ounce 

Flour 

1  level  tbsp 

1  ounce 

Flour                        1 

heaped  tbsp 

1  ounce 

Sugar 

1  level  tbsp 

\  ounce 

Butter             1  tbsp 
(Tbsp  =  tablespoonful) 

-         -..[    10    ] 

smoothed  off 

COOKING  TEMPERATURES 


Simmering  (water) 

180°  F. 

Boiling  (water) 

212°  F. 

Very  slow  oven 

250°  F. 

Slow  oven 

300°  F. 

Moderately  slow  oven 

325°  F. 

Moderate  oven 

350°  F. 

Moderately  hot  oven 

375°  F. 

Hot  oven 

400°  F. 

Very  hot  oven 

450°-500°  F. 

TABLE   OF   EQUIVALENT  OVEN  HEATS 

(Classified  according  to  the  manufacturer) 


Slow 

Moderate 

Mod.  Hot 

Hot 

Very  Hot 

Exact  Temperature 

250-325 

350 

.375 

400 

425 

450 

Cannon  (Autimo) 
Parkinson  (Adjusto) 

3-4 

4-5 

5 

6 

7 

8 

Flavel  with  Nos. 

Main  with  Nos. 

G.  L.  C.  New  Herald 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Radiation  (Regulo) 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Flavel  (Letter) 

D-E 

F 

G 

G-H 

H-I 

I-J 

Main  (Letter) 

C 

C-D 

D-E 

E 

E-F 

F-G 

TABLE  OF  EQUIVALENT  OVEN  HEATS 


Reaumur 

80.0 
74.6 
64.0 
60.0 
52.4 
40.0 
30.2 
24.0 
14.6 
00.0 


Fahrenheit 

Centigrade 

212 

100.0 

200 

93.3 

176 

80.0 

167 

75.0 

150 

65.5 

122 

50.0 

100 

37.7 

86 

30.0 

65 

18.3 

32 

00.0 

[  II  ] 


Flavourings^  Trimmings^ 
Herbs  and  Spices  used  in  Italian  Cookery 


Here  in  England  the  catalogue  of  herbs  in  general  use  is 
small :  mint  for  mint  sauce,  or  for  adding  to  the  water 
in  which  we  are  cooking  new  potatoes  or  peas,  parsley 
for  garnishes  or  for  an  addition  to  white  sauce,  thyme  and 
sage  as  ingredients  for  what  is  collectively  known  as  'stuffing' 
for  pork,  veal  or  a  bird,  while  spices  we  tend  to  think  of  as  an 
added  ingredient  to  Christmas  cake  or  Christmas  pudding, 
and  not  too  much  of  them  to  be  used  for  that  purpose. 

In  the  Italian  kitchen,  however,  herbs  and  spices  play  a  far 
more  important  part,  and  a  chapter  is  not  too  much  to  devote 
to  their  nature  and  uses.  Taking  them  alphabetically  the  follow- 
ing is  a  fairly  comprehensive  list:  — 

BAY:  Although  it  is  possible  to  purchase  dried  bay  leaves  at 
most  herbal  stores  and  at  some  chemists'  shops,  their  flavour 
is  nothing  to  be  compared  with  that  of  a  freshly  plucked  leaf, 
and  since  the  shrubs  grow  well  in  tubs  and,  except  for  ade- 
quate watering  need  little  care  or  attention,  why  not  grow  your 
own?  They  make  an  attractive  addition  to  any  garden, 
and  even  in  a  small  yard  or  balcony  there  is  room  for  a  small 
tub  of  bay.  If  your  house  stands  far  enough  back  from  the 
street,  a  tub  of  bay  each  side  of  the  front  door  is  attractive, 
and  at  the  same  time  provides  a  useful  means  of  adding  to 
your  flavouring  ingredients. 

A  leaf  of  bay  in  a  risotto  —  removed  before  serving  —  or 
in  a  casserole  of  meat  or  fish,  or  even  as  an  added  flavour 
to  the  Bechamel  base  for  cream  soups  is  an  excellent  idea. 

BASIL:  Basil  is  a  herb  little  known  and  used  in  this  country, 
and  one  rarely  to  be  met  with  in  the  English  garden,  yet  its 
cultivation  is  not  difficult.  It  grows  in  profusion  in  Southern 
Italy  where  it  is  used  as  a  fragrant  and  welcome  addition 
to  most  dishes  where  tomatoes  are  used,  chopped  finely  —  or 
preferably  torn  into  fine  shreds  with  the  fingers  —  and  added 
to  a  green  salad,  and  it  also  takes  its  place  as  a  delicate  and 
unusual  flavouring  in  some  ^gg  dishes  and  soups. 

— [    12    ] 


In  attempting  to  grow  this  delicious  herb  in  an  English 
garden,  remember  the  heat  and  sunshine  of  Italy  where  it 
thrives,  and  choose  a  sunny  corner  of  your  plot  or  a  sunny 
window-box  for  your  experiment.  If,  in  spite  of  all  your  care, 
it  refuses  to  flourish,  it  is  possible  to  buy  the  dried  herb  from 
most  herb  stores,  but  as  with  all  dried  leaf  herbs,  it  is  at 
best  a  poor  substitute  for  the  leaves  of  the  growing  plant. 

BORAGE:  This  is  a  herb  we  in  England  associate  mainly  with 
wine  cups,  but  in  parts  of  Italy  it  is  used  as  a  flavouring 
ingredient,  sometimes  it  finds  its  way  into  the  filling  for 
ravioli,  sometimes,  finely  chopped,  a  sprinkling  is  added  to 
a  green  salad,  and  its  flavour  combines  excellently  with 
that  of  cucumbers.  It  is  a  plant  that  grows  wild  on  our  own 
Sussex  Downs,  but  if  these  are  inaccessible  to  you,  it  is  possible 
to  purchase  it  at  some,  though  not  all,  herb  shops.  It  is 
advisable  to  use  it  quickly  after  it  is  picked,  as  it  has  a  ten- 
dency to  wither  quickly. 

BREADCRUMBS :  It  is  an  excellent  idea  to  get  into  the  habit 
of  slicing  thinly  any  left-over  stale  bread,  drying  it  out  in  the 
bottom  of  the  oven  when  baking,  and  when  it  is  crisp  grind- 
ing it  into  fine  crumbs  so  that  one  is  never  without  a  jar  of 
these  ready  at  hand  to  be  used  as  a  coating  for  fried  foods, 
or  sprinkled,  together  with  grated  cheese,  on  top  of  a 
baked  fish  dish,  or  as  a  thickening  ingredient  for  various 
stuffings. 

CELERY:  The  Italian  climate  does  not  appear  to  produce 
such  a  deliciously  crisp  ^eating'  celery  as  we  are  accustomed 
to  in  this  country,  for  which  reason  it  rarely  makes  an  appear- 
ance in  its  raw  state  in  that  country,  but  stalks  and  even 
the  inner,  tender  leaves  are  used  as  flavouring  ingredients 
in  soups  and  stews. 

And  here  is  a  hint,  not  native  to  Italy,  but  worth  remember- 
ing when  celery  is  out  of  season.  Instead  of  discarding  the 
tougher,  outer  stalks,  scrub  these  clean,  wipe  them  dry, 
and  cut  into  inch  lengths.  Spread  on  a  tin  and  dry  slowly  — 
on  the  floor  of  a  slow  oven,  or  on  top  of  your  kitchen  boiler. 
When  quite  dry,  store  in  a  screw-top  jar,  and  use  as  a  flavour- 
ing for  soups  when  fresh  celery  is  no  longer  available.  The 
dried  stalks  can  also  be  used  as  a  flavouring  ingredient  in 
stews,  but  in  this  case  it  is  best  to  tie  them  in  a  piece  of 
muslin,  so  that  they  can  be  removed  before  the  dish  is 
served,  as  they  are  unattractive  to  the  eye  once  they  have 
been  dried. 

[    13    ] 


CHEESE:  The  variety  of  Italian  'table'  cheeses  Is  extensive, 
but  there  are  three  'cooking  cheeses'  the  names  of  which 
appear  time  after  time  in  Italian  recipes. 

Of  these  three,  the  one  best  known  to  English  cooks  is 
Parmesan,  the  apparently  high  cost  of  which  has  alarmed  more 
than  one  inexperienced  housewife.  Actually,  in  practice, 
this  cheese  works  out  not  at  all  extravagantly,  for  its  texture 
is  so  close,  its  flavour  so  concentrated  that  a  very  little  of  it 
when  grated  will  produce  sufficient  to  go  a  long  way.  Do  not 
be  tempted  to  go  about  the  use  of  Parmesan  the  'easy'  way 
by  purchasing  it  already  ground.  If  you  buy  a  small  lump, 
even  as  little  as  two  ounces  in  weight,  and  grate  it  freshly 
for  each  occasion,  the  flavour  is  richer  and  the  cost  less  than 
if  you  rely  on  the  commercially  ground  variety. 

Another  cheese  frequently  mentioned  is  Mozzarella, 
a  cheese  made  from  buffalo  milk,  which  unfortunately  does 
not  stand  up  to  export,  and  consequently  is  not  to  be  found 
in  this  country.  It  is  fairly  safe  to  substitute  Bel  Paese  wherever 
a  recipe  mentions  Mozzarella,  and  Bel  Paese  is  obtainable 
in  most  good  provision  stores  nowadays. 

The  third  cheese  for  which  we  in  England  need  to  think 
up  a  substitute  is  the  sheep's  milk  cheese,  Ricotta,  met  with 
in  Southern  Italy,  a  cheese  that  when  fresh  possesses  a  deli- 
ciously  pungent  flavour,  but  which,  as  with  Mozzarella, 
does  not  stand  up  to  export  or  long  keeping.  As  its  consistency 
is  much^the  same  as  our  own  sour  milk  cottage  cheese,  al- 
though the  suggestion  might  sound  like  rank  heresy  to  an 
Italian  cook,  cottage  cheese  is  a  fairly  safe  substitute  where- 
ver Ricotta  is  prescribed. 
FENNEL:  The  root  of  this  vegetable,  thinly  sliced,  forms 
a  frequent  ingredient  in  salads,  particularly  in  and  around 
Venice,  where  I  have  often  mistaken  it  at  first  bite  for  the 
heart  of  celery  by  reason  of  its  somewhat  similar  appearance 
and  texture.  A  second  bite,  however,  disproves  this,  for  there 
is  a  slight  flavour  of  aniseed  to  fennel,  which  is  absent  from 
celery. 

Sliced  thinly  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and  marinated  in  olive 
oil,  fennel  is  sometimes  served  as  a  tit-bit  at  the  end  of  a  meal. 

We  and  the  French  use  the  leaves  of  fennel  as  a  flavour- 
ing ingredient  far  more  than  does  the  Italian  cook;  take  for 
example  the  delicious  fennel  sauce  served  as  an  adjunct  to 
boiled  fish  —  particularly  salmon,  and  the  French  use  of  it  as 
a  flavouring  for  soups  and  stews.  But,  except  for  the  districts 

[    14    ] ■■ 


around  Perugia  and  Gubbio  and  other  cities  of  the  province 
of  Umbria,  the  stalk  and  leaves  rarely  find  their  way  into 
Italian  recipes.  The  Umbrians  are  fond  of  using  fennel  to 
flavour  the  stuffing  used  in  roast  sucking  pig. 

FISH,  TINNED  OR  SALTED:  Anchovies,  sardines,  and  tunny 
are  frequent  ingredients  in  Italian  cookery,  and  it  is  a  good 
idea  to  keep  a  stock  of  all  three  in  your  store  cupboard. 

GARLIC:  Yes,  I  know,  we've  all  encountered  that  garlic-laden 
breath  that  has  given  rise  to  the  legend  that  all  Italian  food 
is  heavily  laced  with  this  odorous  bulb,  but  legend  notwith- 
standing, the  best  type  of  Italian  cooking  prescribes  no  more 
than  a  discreet  use  of  this  pungent  member  of  the  onion 
family. 

It  is  now  possible  to  purchase  a  garlic  crusher,  made  on 
the  principle  of  a  potato  ricer,  which  enables  a  few  drops 
of  garlic  juice  to  be  added  to  a  dish  rather  than  a  too-coarsely 
chopped  clove.  These  presses  are  not  cheap,  but  in  labour- 
saving  and  flavour-refinement  are  a  worthwhile  investment. 
Certainly  in  and  around  Naples  the  use  of  garlic  in  dishes 
made  from  tomatoes  and  in  soups  is  somewhat  lavish,  and 
the  Neapolitans  have  a  fondness  for  a  dish  of  spaghetti 
flavoured  with  nothing  more  than  good,  fresh  olive  oil  and 
garlic  (here  is  an  instance  where  your  garlic  press  will  give 
good  service),  but  in  the  main,  the  use  of  garlic  in  Italian 
cooking  is  tempered  with  more  restraint  than  rumour  would 
have  one  believe. 

JUNIPER  BERRIES:  These  strike  an  alien  note  in  English 
minds  where  flavourings  are  concerned,  but  used  discreetly, 
they  form  an  interesting  addition  to  the  stuffing  for  pork 
or  game. 

MARJORAM  with  which  may  be  classed  the  elusive  herb  0  REG  A  NO, 
mentioned  in  so  many  Italian  recipes,  which  is  the  wild  marjoram 
similar  to  that  which  grows  on  our  English  Downs: 

Either  the  sweet  marjoram,  which  is  easily  procurable 
from  a  herb  shop,  and  which  many  of  us  grow  in  our  gardens, 
or  the  wild  is  a  welcome  addition  to  many  Italian  dishes, 
to  soups,  and  fish  dishes,  while  a  pinch  in  an  Omelet  aux 
fines  herbes  does  not  come  amiss.  As  with  all  herbs,  the  fresh 
product,  when  obtainable,  is  infinitely  preferable  to  the  dried. 

MINT:  In  English  cookery  it  usually  means  the  mint  sauce 
we  eat  with  roast  lamb,  or  a  sprig  or  two  to  be  boiled  with 
new  potatoes  or  with  spring  peas,  and  that,  except  for  the 
Mint  and  Currant  Pasty  of  Lancashire  is  the  extent  to  which 

— [    15    ] ■ 


we  use  It.  The  Italian  cook  makes  a  far  wider  use  of  the  herb, 
particularly  in  and  around  Rome  where  it  makes  a  fairly 
frequent  appearance  as  a  flavouring  to  soups,  fish  dishes, 
stews  and  salads. 

MUSHROOMS:  Dried  mushrooms  —  uninteresting  though 
they  may  look  hanging  in  strings  in  an  Italian  provision 
shop  —  are  excellent  used  in  small  quantities  in  many  soups 
and  sauces.  Before  use  they  should  first  be  soaked  in  warm 
water  to  soften  them,  and  added  to  the  dish  1 5  to  20  minutes 
before  serving  time.  Overcooked  they  tend  to  lose  their 
flavour  and  their  texture  is  flabby. 

MYRTLE:  The  sweet-smelling  myrtle  of  Southern  Italy  and 
Sicily  has  a  stronger  odour  than  our  English  variety.  It  is 
used  less  in  Italy  as  a  flavouring  ingredient  than  on  the  island 
of  Sardinia. 

OLIVE  OIL:  Frequently,  all-too-frequently,  alas,  one  meets 
the  one-voyage-abroad  traveller  who  complains  of  Italian 
food  that  it  is  'much  too  oily'  and  one  feels  that  the  cooking  of 
the  country  has  once  again  been  let  down  by  the  wrong  kind 
of  restaurant,  for  though  the  Italian  cook  uses  olive  oil  lavishly 
for  deep  flaying,  for  salads,  as  a  dressing  for  pasta,  etc.,  provi- 
ded the  oil  and  the  cook  are  of  first  quality,  the  resulting 
dish  is  not  oily  in  the  objectionable  sense,  but  rich,  fragrant 
and  delicious. 

The  oil,  however,  must  be  olive  oil  of  the  best  quality,  and 
the  temptation  to  substitute  an  anonymous  product  making 
its  appearance  under  the  name  of  'frying  oil'  is  one  to  be 
sternly  resisted.  Until  you  know  your  oils,  it  is  advisable  to 
spend  your  money  on  a  named  brand,  the  San  Remo,  for 
example.  Get  accustomed  to  using  a  good  oil,  to  recognising 
its  flavour  and  its  cooking  qualities,  and  later  you  may 
safely  experiment  with  less  well-known  brands,  but  even  then, 
insist  that  the  oil  you  use  must  be  olive  oil,  for  just  as  the 
grey  green  foliage  of  the  olive  tree  is  an  essential  feature  of  the 
Italian  landscape,  so  is  the  oil  of  its  fruit  an  essential  feature 
of  Italian  cookery. 

PARSLEY:  It  is  used  lavishly  by  Italian  cooks,  in  soups,  in 
salads,  as  an  ingredient  for  the  stuffings  for  meats,  vegetables 
and  the  various  forms  of  ravioli.  If  you  are  able  to  obtain 
a  package  of  seeds  of  the  true  Italian  parsley,  try  growing  this 
instead  of  or  in  addition  to  our  English  variety.  The  leaf  is 
flatter,  thinner  and  less  curly,  so  that  for  decorative  purposes 
our  English  plant  may  be  preferable,  but  the  flavour  of  the 

[    16    ] 


Italian  parsley  is  considerably  stronger  and  more  poignant 
and  for  that  reason  I  would  recommend  its  use  whenever 
possible. 

PINE  NUTS:  Do  experiment  with  these,  which  are  stocked  by 
most  vegetarian  stores.  A  few  chopped  and  added  to  a  sour- 
sweet  sauce,  or  used  in  place  of  almonds  in  cake-making,  or 
instead  of  salted  almonds  to  be  served  with  drinks,  will 
reward  your  courage. 

ROSEMARY:  It  is  a  herb  we  in  England  tend  to  think  of  in 
conjunction  with  the  word  'Remembrance'  or  even,  alas, 
as  an  ingredient  for  hair  tonic;  as  a  cooking  ingredient  it 
seems  alien  to  our  taste.  However,  chopped  and  used  sparing- 
ly, since  it  is  extremely  pungent,  either  fresh  or  dried  it  is 
delicious  sprinkled  over  saute  potatoes  during  cooking,  or 
again  used  cautiously  to  flavour  a  roast  of  veal,  pork  or  lamb. 
In  some  of  the  Italian  food  markets  you  will  see  rolled  fillets 
of  meat  already  prepared  for  roasting  and  lavishly  trimmed 
with  this  herb,  but  for  English  taste  a  little  of  it  goes  a  fairly 
long  way. 

This  again  is  a  herb  that  can  be  grown  in  one's  own  garden, 
and  once  again  you'll  find  that  a  pinch  of  the  fresh  is  worth 
a  peck  of  the  dried. 

SAFFRON:  Is  used  mainly  to  produce  a  delicate  yellow  colour 
in  some  rice  dishes,  rather  as  in  Cornwall  it  is  used  to  produce 
a  similar  yellow  tint  in  the  saffron  buns  for  which  that  county 
is  noted. 

The  dried  stamens  of  the  Autumn  Crocus  give  us  the  true 
saffron  and  when  one  remembers  that  there  are  but  three 
stamens  to  one  flower,  it  can  be  realised  what  an  extensive 
cultivation  of  the  flower  is  necessary  to  produce  a  very  little 
supply  of  saffron.  If  you  are  working  with  the  dried  stamens, 
take  three  or  four  of  these,  bruise  them  to  a  powder,  and  allow 
them  to  steep  in  a  little  hot  water  or  soup  for  five  or  six  min- 
utes before  adding  the  strained  liquid  to  the  dish  you  are 
colouring.  A  quicker  method  is  to  purchase,  literally,  a  thim- 
bleful of  powdered  saffron  from  one  of  the  many  Italian 
grocery  stores  to  be  found  in  Soho,  and  experiment  by  adding 
it  a  pinch  at  a  time  until  you  have  obtained  the  desired  colour. 
The  flavour  of  saffron  is  so  delicate  that  it  is  apt  to  be 
obscured  by  the  stronger  predominating  flavours  of  the  dish 
so  that,  preferable  though  it  always  is  to  use  the  true  product, 
in  this  case,  the  substitution  of  a  manufactured  imitation 
does  not  materially  affect  the  taste  of  the  finished  dish. 

[    17    ] — — 


SAGE:  Although  this  herb  Is  used  less  in  Italian  cooking  than 
in  our  own,  it  is  occasionally  mentioned  in  a  recipe.  Because 
of  its  heavy  under-taste,  it  is  to  many  lovers  of  Italian  cooking 
less  attractive  than  basil  or  wild  marjoram. 

SALT:  Here  is  a  case  where  I  would  urge  you  to  forsake  the 
nicely  packed,  beautifully  ground  commercial  salt  and  to 
try  the  experiment  of  using  the  sea  salt  that  can  be  purchased 
from  the  provisions  department  of  most  big  stores.  There  are 
wooden  salt  mills  that  can  oe  used  at  table  for  adding  this 
salt  to  cooked  food,  and  once  tried,  these  are  usually  pre- 
ferred to  the  trickle  —  or  in  our  damp  climate,  the  frequent 
lack-of- trickle  —  of  commercial  salt  from  a  salt  shaker  or  salt 
spoon. 

SPICES  —  a  few  of  the  most  common. 

Cinnamon:  Instead  of  confining  its  use  to  cakes  and  apple 
dishes,  try  the  occasional  pinch  in  a  meat  or  vegetable  dish. 
Cloves:  Some  Italian  cookery  books  prescribe  a  pinch,  a  very 
modest  pinch  of  this  aromatip  herb  in  stewed  meat  or  meat 
sauces,  and  it  is  a  tip  worth  trying. 

Coriander  seeds:  Keep  a  small  jar  of  these  in  your  spice  cup- 
board and  try  one  or  two  crushed  as  a  flavouring  for  roast 
meat. 

Fennel  seeds:  These  are  used  for  flavouring  far  more  than 
are  the  leaves  and  stalks  of  the  raw  plant  and  there  is 
a  specially  delicious  kind  of  salami,  native  to  the  city  of 
Florence  which  takes  its  name  'finocchiona'  from  the  fact 
that  fennel  seeds  are  predominant  in  its  flavouring  ingre- 
dients. 

In  some  parts  of  Italy  and  Sicily  these  seeds  are  used  also  as 
a  flavouring  for  dried  figs. 

Nutmeg:  By  all  means  continue  to  use  this  spice  as  a  fla- 
vouring in  milk  dishes,  but  do  experiment  now  and  again 
with  the  wider  use  of  it  —  a  pinch  in  a  meat  stew,  or  in  potato 
soup,  or  in  any  dish  using  spinach  makes  a  welcome  addition. 
Pepper:  If  you  have  not  yet  forsaken  the  commercially 
packaged  ready  ground  pepper  for  the  pleasure  of  grinding 
peppercorns  in  your  own  pepper  mill,  I  cannot  too  strongly 
urge  you  to  do  so  without  delay.  The  improvement  in  flavour 
is  almost  unbelievable. 

TARRAGON:  Is  a  herb  we  use  little  here  in  England,  and  for 
that  reason  it  is  not  always  easy  to  procure  it  in  this  country, 
but  a  leaf  or  two  in  a  salad  is  a  reward  for  the  effort  of  run- 
ning it  to  earth,  while  the  delicate  flavour  of  tarragon  vinegar 

[    18    ] 


once  acquired  is  preferred  by  many  to  the  cruder  taste  of  plain 
malt  vinegar  in  salads. 

THTME:  Although  in  Southern  Italy  and  in  Sicily  one  often 
comes  across  this  herb  growing  wild,  and  after  a  sprinkling  of 
rain  finds  the  air  drenched  with  its  fragrance,  it  is  not  used  as 
much  in  cooking  as  it  is  in  England.  It  can,  however,  be  used 
in  restricted  doses  wherever  oregano  has  been  suggested  if 
this  is  unobtainable  or  difficult  to  find. 

TO  MA  TOES:  Where  tomatoes  are  concerned,  as  a  general  rule 
the  tinned  varieties  imported  from  Italy  are  preferable  to  our 
own  fresh,  local  grown  tomatoes. 

In  any  dish  calHng  for  raw  tomatoes,  ours  are  excellent,  but 
for  cooked  dishes,  sauces,  stews,  soups,  etc.,  I  would  every 
time  recommend  the  tinned,  peeled  tomatoes.  The  tomatoes 
grown  in  Italy  are  larger  and  softer  than  those  we  grow  here, 
their  flavour  is  richer,  and  their  colour  deeper.  One  of  the 
most  popular  and  easily-obtainable  brands  is  the  CIRIO,  but 
there  are  several  others  to  be  purchased  in  provision  stores 
if  this  particular  brand  is  not  available. 

Concentrated  tomato  paste  is  another  ingredient  appearing 
again  in  Italian  recipes,  and  after  years  of  experimenting, 
a  method  of  packaging  this  has  been  evolved  that  is  practical 
and  non-wasteful,  for  it  can  now  be  purchased  in  metal 
tubes,  rather  after  the  fashion  of  tooth-paste,  so  that  when 
a  little  has  been  used,  the  tube  can  be  sealed  and  the  remain- 
der kept  without  danger  of  spoiling.  Previously  this  paste 
used  to  appear  in  microscopic  tins  which  had  a  fiendish  knack 
of  defeating  even  the  best  tin-opener,  particularly  if  the  cook 
happened  to  be  working  against  time.  Another  former  method 
of  packaging  was  in  small  blocks  wrapped  in  oiled  paper, 
which,  because  of  the  high  degree  of  concentration  of  the 
paste,  necessitated  a  fair  amount  of  pounding  to  reduce  them 
to  a  usable  consistency.  It  is  still  possible  to  purchase  the 
paste  in  these  forms,  but  the  tubed  variety  is  infinitely  easier  to 
handle. 

Do  not  fall  into  the  trap  of  using  this  paste  too  lavishly,  for 
while  a  little  is  excellent,  too  much  can  result  in  an  over- 
flavouring  that  tends  to  kill  the  other  flavours  of  any  dish. 


[     19    ] 


Antipasti 


Antipasti  is  the  name  given  to  the  large  variety  of  tit-bits, 
or  hors  d'oeuvres  which,  in  a  truly  Italian  household, 
are  served  as  a  prelude  to  pasta  or  soup.  They  may  consist 
of  a  few  wafer-thin  slices  of  salami  with  a  garnish  of  a  couple  of 
anchovies  and  a  few  black  olives,  or  they  may  be  considerably 
more  elaborate,  but  whatever  their  nature  they  must  be 
interesting  to  look  at  and  appetising  to  taste.  Some  of  the  fol- 
lowing suggestions  may  fill  you  with  apprehension ;  for  instance, 
boiled  rice  combined  with  grated  carrots,  or  the  slice  of  ham  to 
be  eaten  with  an  ice  cold  slice  of  honeydew  melon,  or  with 
a  couple  of  ripe  figs,  but  taste  and  try,  and  you'll  probably  come 
back  for  more. 


[    20    ] 


ANTIPASTI    MADE    WITH    RICE 

Really  delicious  antipasti  can  be  concocted  starting  with  a  basis 
of  plain  boiled  rice. 

Allow  one  tablespoonful  of  rice  per  person,  and  boil  in  salted 
water  as  directed  under  the  heading  of  'RICE'.  Drain,  and 
before  it  is  quite  cold  season  with  a  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  to 
each   tablespoonful   of  uncooked   rice,   freshly   ground   black 
pepper,  more  salt  if  needed,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 
or  wine  vinegar,  plus  a  suspicion  of  finely  chopped  or  crushed 
garlic,  or  a  few  shavings  —  very  thin  —  of  onion.  Allow  to 
become  quite  cold,   then  mix  with  any  of  the  following,  or 
a  combination  of  two  or  three  of  them : 
Grated  raw  carrot  —  using  half  as  much  carrot  as  rice. 
Finely  shredded  raw  green  peppers  —  quantity  as  for  carrot. 
Tunny  fish  broken  small  with  a  fork,  equal  quantities  of  fish 

and  rice,  and  even  better  with  the  addition  of  one  anchovy 

per  tablespoonful  of  tunny  fish. 
Finely  chopped  green  olives,  half  as  much  as  rice. 
Whole  black  olives,  four  or  five  per  tablespoonful  of  rice. 
Minced  cold  chicken,  equal  quantities  with  rice. 
Mushrooms,  raw  or  cooked  in  equal  quantities. 

Fresh  peeled  shrimps  or  prawns,  or  if  available,  scampi,  and  to 
enhance  these,  add  also  a  generous  amount  of  freshly  chopped 
parsley  and  a  few  cooked  green  peas  or  French  beans. 

Chopped  celery  hearts,  finely  chopped  fennel,  finely  sliced  pre- 
served artichoke  hearts  in  equal  quantities  with  the  rice,  are 
three  other  alternatives,  and  with  these  try  the  addition  of 
a  few  blanched  and  chopped  almonds  or  pine  nuts. 

Using  the  foregoing  suggestions  as  a  basis,  you  should  be  able 
to  utilise  left-over  boiled  rice  to  good  advantage  to  produce 
an  interesting  hors  d'oeuvre. 


[    21     ] 


HARICOT  OR  BUTTER  BEANS 
WITH  FISH 

It  is  now  possible  to  buy  cooked  butter  beans  in  tins,  or  alterna- 
tively you  may  use  the  small  white  haricot  beans,  remembering 
however  that  these  need  soaking  overnight,  and  then  boiling 
for  quite  three  hours  the  following  day  before  they  are  tender. 
Whichever  you  decide  to  use,  drain  and  marinate  with  a  little 
under  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  to  a  tablespoonful  of  beans, 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  grated  onion,  and  a  little 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Serve  with  equal  quantities  of  flaked 
tunny  fish,  very  cold. 


FENNEL    ANTIPASTO 

head  of  fennel  freshly  ground 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  black  pepper 

1  tablespoon  lemon  salt 
juice 

Wash  a  head  of  fennel,  and  soak  in  very  cold  water  for  two 
or  three  hours  to  allow  it  to  become  crisp.  Slice  thinly,  and  pile 
on  a  dish.  With  it  hand  the  above  dressing,  into  which  the  fen- 
nel is  dipped  before  eating.  Mix  well  together  and  serve  cold. 


STUFFED    FENNEL    OR    CELERY 

Wash  the  tender  stalks  of  either  of  these,  soak  in  cold  water  to 
allow  them  to  become  crisp,  and  before  serving  spread  with 
cottage  cheese,  pounded  anchovies,  or  a  combination  of  the 
two. 


[    22     ] 


OTHER    WAYS    WITH    FENNEL 

Try  combining  thinly  sliced  fennel  with  thinly  sliced  crisp  red 
radishes,  or  with  thinly  sliced  unpeeled  cucumber,  in  each  case 
serving  with  a  dressing  of  oil,  lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  sprinkling  of  parsley,  or  mint  finely  chopped. 


FORTUNATA    RUOCCO'S    COLD 
PEPPER   ANTIPASTO 

To  each  person  allow: 

1  pepper  (assorted  colours  make  the  finished  dish 

more  attractive) 
1  small  teaspoonful  best  olive  oil 
\  lemon 
a  scraping  of  garlic 

Prepare  your  peppers  by  baking  them  whole  in  a  fireproof  dish 
placed  in  a  larger  dish  with  water  halfway  the  height  of  the 
dish  containing  the  peppers.  Cook  until  the  skins  are  wrinkled  — 
about  f  hour  Regulo  6. 

Cool  slightly,  peel  off  the  thin  outer  skin,  cut  in  two  and  re- 
move all  the  seeds.  Slice  thinly,  and  arrange  on  a  serving  dish, 
alternating  the  colours  if  you  have  been  able  to  procure  peppers 
of  varied  colours.  Sprinkle  with  a  scraping  of  garlic,  and  mari- 
nate with  olive  oil.  Cool  thoroughly  before  serving,  and  allow 
half  a  lemon  per  person  when  the  finished  dish  is  served. 


Hot  Antipasti 

In  addition  to  the  galaxy  of  ideas  for  cold  antipasti,  or  hors 
d'oeuvres,  our  Italian  friends  are  fond  of  serving  delicious  little 
hot  tit-bits  that  take  the  same  place  in  the  repast  as  the  cold 
antipasti,  and  are  a  trifle  less  chilling  on  a  cool  day.  Here  are 
suggestions  for  some  of  these,  which  can  also  make  their  bow  as 
rich  little  savouries  to  be  served  with  drinks. 

[    23    ] — 


CHICKEN    TARTLETS 

Into  a  little  rich  Bechamel  sauce,  say  a  breakfastcupful,  mix  two 
tablespoons  grated  Parmesan,  and  quarter  of  a  pound  or  more 
of  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  into  small  pieces,  a  few  chopped 
mushrooms,  and  a  slice  of  lean  ham  cut  small.  Mix  well  together, 
and  use  as  a  filling  for  tartlets. 


CHICKEN   LIVER    TARTLETS 

This  time,  impregnate  your  cupful  of  Bechamel  with  chopped 
chicken  livers  that  have  been  cooked  in  a  little  Marsala,  and  to 
this  add  chopped  mushrooms  and  seasonings.  Mix  well  and 
use  to  fill  small  pastry  tartlets. 


STUFFED    MUSHROOMS 

Choose  the  small  'button'  mushrooms,  and  allow  three  or  four 
per  person. 

Peel,  and  remove  the  stalks,  setting  the  stalks  aside  to  be  added 
to  soup  stock  or  tomato  sauce  —  DON'T  waste  them,  whatever 
you  do,  they  are  far  too  good  a  flavouring.  Saute  the  mushrooms 
in  hot  butter;  meanwhile  heat  the  contents  of  a  small  tin  of 
anchovies,  and  when  the  mushrooms  are  cooked,  place  a  curled 
anchovy  inside  each  mushroom  (the  dark  side  is  the  side  to 
receive  the  anchovy).  Serve  on  toothpicks  while  still  very  hot. 


ANCHOVY    TOAST 

TO  SERVE  4 

Mash  to  a  paste  the  contents  of  a  small  tin  of  anchovies,  mixing 
with  a  little  melted  butter.  Prepare  some  slices  of  bread  about 
4  inches  by  2  inches,  and  toast  on  one  side  only.  On  the  other 
side  spread  the  anchovy  paste  fairly  thickly,  sprinkle  with  grated 
Parmesan,  and  if  liked  a  few  chopped  green  olives.  Brown  under 
a  hot  grill  and  serve  while  piping  hot. 

[    24    ] 


HOT    ANTIPASTO    MADE    WITH 
GREEN    PEPPERS 

For  each  person  allow: 

1  green  pepper  a  suspicion  of  garlic 

1  peeled  tomato  a  few  drops  of  oil 

half  a  dozen  capers  from  the  anchovies 
two  or  more  anchovies 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers  after  having  sliced  off  the 
top;  stuff  the  cavity  with  one  peeled  tomato  to  each  pepper,  add 
a  suspicion  of  garlic,  two  or  more  anchovies,  half  a  dozen  capers, 
and  a  few  drops  of  the  oil  from  the  anchovies.  Replace  the  top  of 
each  pepper. 

Place  in  a  fire-proof  deep  dish,  place  in  a  medium-hot  oven 
(Regulo  6),  bake  45  minutes,  basting  at  intervals  with  the 
balance  of  the  oil  from  the  tin  of  anchovies  and  a  little  hot 
water. 

Serve  before  or  in  place  of  soup,  very  hot. 

These  are  even  more  attractive  if  baked  in  individual  fire- 
proof dishes. 


PANDORATO    ALLA    ROMANA 

Fried  bread  in  the  Roman  fashion 

For  this  recipe,  allow  one  or  two  half-inch  slices  of  bread  per 
person,  and  remove  the  crusts  so  that  your  slices  are  about 
3-inches  square. 

You  will  need  also  a  little  warmed  milk,  one  or  two  beaten 
eggs,  depending  on  the  number  of  slices,  salt  for  seasoning,  and 
oil  for  frying. 

An  hour  before  starting  to  cook  the  slices,  spread  them  in 
a  single  layer  in  a  large  flat  dish  and  sprinkle  them  with  warm 
milk,  and  then  with  sufficient  beaten  egg  to  soak  the  bread 
without  making  it  soggy.  Leave  for  an  hour,  then  lift  each  slice 
gently  with  a  spatula  and  fry  in  hot  oil,  first  on  one  side  then  on 
the  other  until  golden  brown. 


[    25     ] 


FRIED    BREAD    WITH 
ANCHOVIES 

Allow  one  or  one  and  a  half  slices  of  bread  per  person;  cut  the 
slices  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  remove  the  crusts  and 
cut  in  two,  lengthways.  To  each  strip  of  bread  allow  a  little 
BEL  PAESE  and  half  an  anchovy  and  for  the  whole  dish  allow 
one  or  two  eggs  depending  on  the  quantity  of  bread  to  be  pre- 
pared. You  will  need  also  pepper  and  salt  for  seasoning,  flour 
and  oil  for  frying. 

On  half  the  number  of  strips  of  bread  spread  a  layer  of  BEL 
PAESE,  and  on  that  lay  half  an  anchovy  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Season  with  pepper,  and  cover  with  the  second  slice. 

Heat  the  oil  in  a  pan,  and  meanwhile  dip  the  sandwiches 
first  of  all  in  water  or  a  little  milk,  then  in  flour  and  finally  in 
beaten  egg,  and  fry  quickly,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the 
other  until  golden  brown.  Serve  very  hot. 


PANDORATO    ALLA    CREMA    DI 
FORMAGGIO 

Fried  bread  with  cheese  cream 

TO  SERVE  4 

6  slices  of  bread,  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  with 
crusts  removed  and  cut  in  two  lengthways 

J  lb.  Gruyere  cheese  a  walnut  of  butter 

J  pint  milk,  or  a  lit-  2  eggs,  separated 

tie  more 

Whip  the  whites  of  eggs.  Having  prepared  the  strips  of  bread, 
dip  them  first  in  water  or  a  little  milk,  then  in  flour,  then  in  the 
whipped  ^gg  whites ;  fry  them  in  hot  olive  oil  and  when  golden 
brown,  lay  in  a  flat  fireproof  dish  and  cover  with  the  following 
cheese  cream: 


[26     ] 


CHEESE    CREAM    FOR 

PANDORATO    ALLA    CREMA    DI 

FORMAGGIO 

Cut  the  cheese  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  basin,  and  cover 
with  the  milk  and  leave  for  quite  an  hour,  by  the  end  of  which 
time  the  cheese  will  have  softened.  Place  it  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  the  beaten  tgg  yolks  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the 
whole  is  mixed  well  and  has  become  a  thick  cream.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  a  knob  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Spread  this  cream  over  the  slices  of  fried  bread  and  serve  hot, 
garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 


CROSTINI    ALLA    NAPOLITANA 

For  each  person  allow  two  slices  of  bread,  half  an  inch  thick, 
with  crusts  removed  and  cut  in  two  lengthways,  and  for  each 
slice  of  bread  allow  one  anchovy,  a  little  BEL  PAESE  and  half 
a  tomato  skinned  and  with  the  seeds  removed.  Allow  a  little 
oregano  and  pepper  for  seasoning. 

Fry  the  pieces  of  bread  in  hot  oil  on  one  side  only,  then  ar- 
range in  a  single  layer  in  a  greased  flat  fireproof  dish,  fried  side 
uppermost.  On  each  slice  spread  a  layer  of  BEL  PAESE,  half 
an  anchovy  cut  small  and  a  thin  slice  or  two  of  tomato,  and 
finally  sprinkle  with  oregano  and  black  pepper  and  a  few  drops 
of  olive  oil. 

Cook  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes  to  allow  the  cheese  to 
melt.  Serve  very  hot. 


■[    27    ] 


FRIED    GREEN    OLIVES 


3 — 4  large  Spanish 
olives  per  person 

a  thick  slice  of  bread 
with  the  crust 
removed 


1  anchovy  to  each 

4  olives 
flour 

pepper  and  salt 
batter  and  oil  for 

frying 


Peel  the  olives  in  a  spiral  so  that  you  can  remove  the  stone 
without  breaking  the  flesh;  soak  the  bread  in  a  little  water, 
and  when  it  has  become  saturated,  squeeze  it  dry  in  the 
hand;  one  slice  should  be  sufficient  for  half  a  dozen  anchovies. 
Remove  the  bones  from  the  anchovies  and  pound  them  in 
a  mortar,  together  with  the  bread,  a  few  drops  of  olive  oil  and 
season  them  with  freshly  ground  black  pepper.  When  they  are 
reduced  to  a  paste,  stuff"  the  cavities  of  the  olives  with  the  mix- 
ture, then  dip  in  flour,  and  after  that  into  a  thin  batter,  and  fry 
in  hot  olive  oil.  Drain  well  before  serving. 


[    28    ] 


Soups 


Soup  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  daily  diet  of  Italy,  and 
the  variety  of  Italian  soups  is  considerable. 
Starting  with  a  basis  of  chicken  or  meat  stock,  we  have 
several  plain,  clear  broths,  of  the  consomme  type,  we  have  the 
ever-popular  'minestrone'  type,  where  the  stock  is  laced  with  an 
assortment  of  vegetables,  eked  out  with  dried  peas  or  beans,  and 
occasionally  meat,  and  there  are  the  various  forms  of  'pasta  in 
brodo'. 

The  Italian  verb  'minestrare'  —  to  serve  up  soup  —  derives 
from  a  similar  Latin  verb  'minestrare'  which  has  the  fuller 
meaning  of 'putting  food  on  the  table',  and  it  must  be  admitted 
that  when  a  bowl  of  really  good  minestrone  is  placed  before 
one,  it  has  the  appearance  of  a  meal  in  itself,  and  could  well 
serve  as  such,  since  there  seems  to  be  no  end  to  the  many 
ingredients  that  can  find  their  way  into  this  tasty  and  typically 
Italian  dish,  and  all  to  its  betterment. 

'Pasta  in  brodo'  is  the  term  applied  to  a  generous  portion 
of  any  of  the  large  variety  of  pastas,  cooked  and  served  in  hot 
broth,  and  taking  the  same  place  in  the  menu  as  the  'pasta 
asciutta',  or  dry  pasta,  cooked  and  served  with  various  sauces, 
with  which  we  have  dealt  in  the  section  headed  'PASTA'. 

The  variety  of  fish  soups  in  the  Italian  cook's  repertoire  is 
far  greater  than  in  our  own,  and  although  cream  soups  and 
purees  were  originally  more  used  in  France  than  in  Italy,  with 
the  passage  of  years  a  fairly  large  number  of  recipes  for  these 
have  found  their  way  into  Italian  cookery  books,  adapted  and 
amended  so  that  they  now  pass  as  very  nearly  native  to  the 
country  of  their  adoption. 

Where  the  consommes,  the  minestre,  and 'the  pasta  in  brodo 
are  concerned,  although  the  family  stockpot  is  not  absolutely 
essential,  it  is  strongly  to  be  recommended  if  time  and  space 
permit.  There  are,  it  is  true,  some  truly  excellent  chicken  and 
beef  bouillon  cubes  now  obtainable  in  good  provision  stores, 
but  the  best  of  these  is  but  a  substitute  for  the  broth  resulting 
from  the  operation  of  a  well-run  stock-pot.  For  that  reason  I  am 
starting  the  recipes  of  this  section  with  2  suggestions  for  Soup 
Stock. 

[    29    ] 


STOCK    FOR    CLEAR    SOUP 


2  pounds  lean  beef  -  shin 

of  beef  is  excellent 
2  quarts  cold  water 
1  small  onion 
a  few  stalks  of  celery 


4  cloves  stuck  into 

the  onion 
6  whole  peppercorns 
1  bay  leaf 
salt,  pepper,  and 

a  sprig  of  parsley 


Cut  meat  small,  place  in  a  stew  pan  and  cover  with  cold  water 
and  bring  slowly  to  the  boil.  Skim  off  any  scum  that  rises  to  the 
top  with  a  perforated  spoon.  Cover  stewpan  closely  and  let  it 
simmer  slowly  for  6  hours  or  rather  more.  Strain,  cool  and  re- 
move fat.  Replace  in  pan,  adding  onion  stuck  with  cloves  and 
celery  cut  small,  parsley,  peppercorns  and  bayleaf.  Simmer  for 
a  further  20  minutes  after  bringing  to  the  boil.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Strain  through  a  cloth. 

This  is  an  excellent  basis  for  any  clear  soup,  to  which  may  be 
added  'pasta'  for  a  dish  of 'pasta  in  brodo',  rice,  or  pearl  barley. 


HOUSEHOLD    STOCK   POT 


3  quarts  of  cold 
water 

3  pounds  of  meat ; 
trimmings  from 
steak,  bones,  etc.  ^ 
and  the  addition 
of  a  ham  bone  or 
bacon  knuckle 
bone  is  excellent 


1  small  onion  stuck 
with  4  cloves 

6  peppercorns 

parsley 

1  stalk  celery, 
chopped  small 

salt  and  pepper 


This  is  a  stock  that  may  be  used  as  a  foundation  for  many  kinds 
of  soups  or  sauces,  for  casserole  dishes,  etc. 

Place  meat  in  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring 
slowly  to  the  boil,  skimming  well.  Cover  and  simmer  for  5  hours, 
or  longer,  add  balance  of  ingredients  and  simmer  one  hour 
more.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  being  chary  of  adding  too 
much  salt  if  you  have  among  your  meat  a  ham  or  bacon  bone. 
Strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Remove  the  fat  before  using. 

Brought  to  the  boil  once  daily,  this  stock  will  last  for  several 
days  without  spoiling. 

[    30     ] 


CHICKEN   BROTH 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  boiling  fowl  1  pinch  thyme 

2  carrots  a  dash  of  nutmeg, 

1  onion  salt  and  pepper  to 

3  stalks  celery  taste 

1  tablespoon  4  quarts  of  water 
chopped  parsley 

Place  all  ingredients  in  saucepan,  bring  to  boil  and  skim ;  lower 
heat  and  simmer  for  2  hours  or  until  fowl  is  tender.  Remove 
fowl,  strain  soup  through  a  fine  sieve,  allow  to  cool  and  remove 
fat.  Reheat.  This  is  a  good  basic  soup  for  any  of  the  varieties  of 
pasta  in  brodo. 

Try  it  with  Cappelletti  filled  with  the  following  mixture : 

the  breast  of  the  boiled  1  Ggg  plus  one  egg 

chicken  chopped  fine  yolk 

J  lb.  cottage  cheese  3  tablespoons  grated 

2  tablespoons  butter  Parmesan 
salt  and  pepper 


Mix  well  together  and  use  as  filling  for  Cappelletti.  Drop  into 
boiling  chicken  broth  five  or  six  minutes  before  serving. 

Where  cream  soups  are  concerned  the  starting  point  is  a  good, 
rich  Bechamel  sauce,  thinner  than  used  when  intended  purely 
as  a  sauce,  but  made  with  care  and  using  the  best  ingredients, 
butter,  flour,  milk  and  seasonings.  The  following  is  a  good, 
reliable  recipe  for  a  Bechamel  to  be  used  as  a  basis  for  cream 
soup  to  serve  four  people: 

IJ  to  2  ounces  butter  1^  pints  hot  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  pepper  and  salt 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  or  in  the  top  of  your  double 
boiler,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  brown.  Add  the  flour  and  blend 
well  together,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  its  going  lumpy. 
Add  the  hot  milk  slowly,  continuing  to  stir.  When  thickened, 
allow  to  cook  very  slowly  for  a  further  15  minutes,  otherwise 
the  taste  of  the  flour  will  predominate.  Add  a  little  extra  milk 
if  it  looks  like  becoming  too  thick,  and  if  you  are  unfortunate 

[    31    ] ■ 


enough  to  have  it  go  lumpy,  do  not  hesitate  to  pass  it  through 
a  strainer,  though  if  the  flour  and  butter  are  well  blended  and 
the  mixture  is  stirred  constantly  lumps  should  be  conspicuous 
by  their  absence. 

Once  your  Bechamel  is  properly  blended  and  while  it  is 
'maturing'  in  the  top  of  your  double  boiler,  you  have  time  to 
prepare  the  vegetables  for  the  particular  cream  soup  you  have 
in  mind. 

A  time  and  washing-up  saver  is  to  make  the  B6chamel  from 
start  to  finish  in  the  top  of  your  double  boiler,  rather  than  using 
a  separate  saucepan  for  the  preliminary  cooking  and  then 
transferring  it  to  the  top  of  the  double  boiler  once  the  blending 
is  completed. 

One  small  and  permissible  economy  that  is  often  an  improve- 
ment in  flavour  is  to  eke  out  the  quantity  of  milk  by  substitut- 
ing for  one-third  or  one-quarter  of  it  the  hot  water  from  a  sauce- 
pan of  cooking  vegetables.  Potato  water  is  excellent;  so  is 
the  water  in  which  Brussels  sprouts  or  celery  are  being  cooked, 
but  here  it  is  as  well  to  test  the  liquid  for  saltiness  before  adding 
it  to  the  Bechamel,  rejecting  it  if  it  is  too  highly  salted,  unless 
you  are  prepared  to  eat  an  over-salted  soup. 


A   REALLY    GOOD    MINESTRONE 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  pound  of  salt  pork  2  carrots,  diced 
cut  small  i  lb.  haricot  beans, 

2  quarts  water,  or  soaked  overnight 
better,  beef  stock  J  lb.  peas  —  before 

2  tablespoons  finely  shelling  —  shelled 

chopped  parsley  a  few  French  beans 

1  clove  crushed  gar-  4  tablespoons  rice 

lie  if  liked  grated  Parmesan 

1  tablespoon  butter  pepper  and  salt 

1  small  cabbage 

Place  cut  up  pork  in  water  or  stock  and  bring  to  the  boil  before 
adding  parsley,  garlic  and  chopped  vegetables,  peas  and  beans. 
Allow  to  boil  gently  for  2|  hours,  then  add  rice  and  cook  for 
a  further  quarter  of  an  hour.  Season  to  taste.  Serve  with  a  layer 
of  Parmesan  cheese  sprinkled  over  the  soup  in  the  tureen. 


-[    32     ] 


MINESTRONE    No.    2 

TO 

SERVE  4 

J  lb.  salt  pork  cut  in 

1  cupful  shelled  green 

small  pieces 

peas 

1  large  or  two  small 

1  small  tin  sweet  corn 

onions 

salt  and  pepper  to 

2  quarts  water 

taste 

1  large  carrot 

^  cupful  of  small 

1  head  celery 

macaroni  -  elbow 

J  a  small  spring 

macaroni,  pastina 

cabbage 

(rice-shaped  maca- 

J a  lettuce 

roni)  or  alphabet 

J  pound  tomatoes 

macaroni,  small 

a  handful  of  French 

stars,  or  any  of  the 

beans,  cut  in  pieces 

small  types 

Fry  the  pork  in  a  little  lard  until  it  is  slightly  brown ;  add  onion 
cut  small  and  cook  till  golden  brown;  add  water  and  bring  to 
the  boil ;  add  carrots  and  celery  cut  into  small  pieces ;  add  shred- 
ded cabbage  and  lettuce,  beans,  peas  and  corn,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Cover  and  allow  to  cook  gently  for  about  IJ  hours. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving  add  the  macaroni.  Serve  hot 
and  with  the  soup  hand-grated  Parmesan  to  be  added  at  will. 


MINESTRONE     No.  3 

TO  SERVE  4 


IJ  quarts  of  water 
1  lb.  French  beans, 

or  two  cups  shelled 

peas 
4  potatoes  —  medium 

size 
^  lb.  tomatoes,  peeled 

and  cut  into  small 

pieces 
salt  and  pepper  to 

taste 


2  cloves  garlic  crushed 

2  tablespoons  chopped 
fresh  basil,  or  if  this 
is  unobtainable 
2  tablespoons 
chopped  parsley 

1  teaspoonful  tomato 
paste 

grated  Parmesan 

i  lb.  vermicelli 


[    33    ] 


Heat  water  to  boiling  point  and  add  beans  cut  in  pieces,  or 
peas,  together  with  the  potatoes  cut  small  and  the  tomatoes 
and  seasoning.  Cook  together  until  vegetables  are  tender  — 
about  25  minutes  —  then  add  the  vermicelli  and  cook  for 
a  further  15  minutes  or  until  the  pasta  is  'al  dente'.  Mix  together 
the  crushed  garlic,  basil  or  parsley  and  tomato  paste  with  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  the  soup  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  and  mix 
with  the  balance  of  the  soup,  stirring  well  to  ensure  that  it  is 
well  blended. 

Serve  with  plenty  of  grated  Parmesan. 


LENTIL    SOUP    WITH 
DRIED    YELLOW    LENTILS 

TO  SERVE  4 


^  lb.  dried  yellow 
lentils  —  soaked 
overnight 

1  quart  stock 

I  ham  or  gammon  bone 


2  medium  sized  on- 
ions chopped  finely 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
2  stalks  of  celery  cut 
fine 


Drain  lentils  and  add  to  stock,  and  gammon  bone,  bring  to  the 
boil,  simmer  gently  in  a  covered  saucepan  for  1 J  hours.  Remove 
bone  and  pass  soup  through  a  food  mill  or  sieve. 

Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan  and  in  it  cook  the  celery  and  onion 
gently  for  ten  minutes. 

Add  to  the  soup  and  serve  very  hot. 


[    34    ] 


VEGETABLE    SOUP   WITH    MEAT 

BALLS 

TO  SERVE  6 


2  quarts  stock 
2  stalks  of  celery 
2  or  3  carrots 
2  medium  sized 

onions 
1  turnip 


1  tablespoon 

chopped  parsley 
1  medium  size  tin 

tomatoes 
salt  and  pepper  to 

taste 


Bring  stock  to  the  boil  and  add  vegetables  and  cover.  Cook 
gently  together  for  2  hours,  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  bring  to 
the  boil  and  add: 


1  medium  sized  car- 
rot cut  in  wafer 
thin  slices 

1  large  or  two  me- 
dium sized  pota- 
toes diced 


1  cupful  fresh  or 
frozen  peas 

2  tablespoons  rice 
IJ  dozen  Polpetti 

(see  below) 


Allow  to  boil,  not  too  quickly,  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve 
hot,  handing  grated  Parmesan  cheese  to  be  added  at  will. 


POLPETTI 

Meat  Balls 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  pound  lean  beef 

passed  through 
mincer 

2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  grated 
Parmesan  —  option- 
al 

chopped  parsley 


3  slices  of  stale  bread 
soaked  in  milk  to 
cover  it  for  10  min- 
utes, and  then 
squeezed  dry  in 
the  hands 

salt  and  pepper 

1  clove  garlic,  crushed 


[    35    ] 


Having  soaked  and  squeezed  the  bread  so  that  all  liquid  is  out 
of  it,  mix  with  the  meat,  lightly  beaten  eggs  and  seasonings. 
Having  floured  your  hands,  take  a  little  of  the  mixture  between 
them,  and  roll  into  a  ball  about  the  size  of  half  an  egg.  Flatten 
them  slightly,  and  fry  on  both  sides  in  hot  olive  oil;  allow  to 
drain  for  a  few  minutes  before  adding  to  the  soup. 


BROWN 


LENTIL 

TO  SERVE  4 


SOUP 


J  lb.  brown  lentils 
1  onion  finely  chopped 
1  clove  garlic  crushed 
1  heaped  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  parsley 


4  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  medium  size  tin 

tomatoes 
salt  and  pepper  to 

taste 


The  lentils  for  this  soup  are  the  khaki-coloured  whole  lentils, 
NOT  the  orange-coloured  dried  lentils  which  require  longer 
soaking. 

Cook  the  lentils  in  2  quarts  of  boiling,  slightly  salted  water  for 
an  hour;  strain  —  but  don't  throw  away  the  liquor  —  and  set 
on  one  side.  Replace  liquor  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boil  and 
add  parsley,  onion  and  garlic,  and  when  boiling  furiously  add 
the  oil  and  allow  to  boil  fairly  briskly  for  a  further  ten  minutes. 
Add  strained  tomatoes ;  replace  lentils  and  boil  gently  for  twenty 
minutes  more.  Serve  very  hot. 


SPINACH    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  lb.  spinach  -  before 
cooking 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  clove  garlic,  crushed 


2  tablespoons  flour 
2  pints  water,  or 

better,  chicken 

stock 


I    36    ] 


Wash,  cook  and  pur^e  spinach. 

Heat  oil  in  heavy  pan,  add  crushed  garlic  and  when  brown 
remove.  Blend  in  the  flour,  add  pureed  spinach  and  water; 
bring  to  boil  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  wdth 
croutons  of  toast  and  grated  Parmesan. 


MINESTRA    CRfiCY 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  medium  sized  carrots  1 J  pints  beef  stock 

(cooked  in  boiling  4  tablespoonfuls 

salted  water  and  rice 

passed  through  a  Salt  and  pepper  to 

food  mill)  taste 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

Bring  stock  to  the  boil,  add  rice  and  boil  for  20  minutes;  just 
before  serving,  add  pureed  carrot,  sugar  and  a  knob  of  butter. 


SPINACH    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 

}  lb.  spinach,  2  tablespoons 
weighed  before  butter 

cooking  1 J  pints  meat  stock 

1  tablespoon  flour  or  milk 

Wash  spinach  in  several  waters,  cook  gently  in  the  water 
adhering  to  its  leaves  after  the  final  washing  plus  a  small 
pinch  of  salt.  Cook  rather  longer  than  usual,  and  reduce  water 
until  spinach  is  nearly  dry,  then  pass  through  a  sieve  or  food 
mill. 

Meanwhile  heat  butter  in  pan,  blend  flour  and  slowly  add 
milk  or  stock  and  bring  to  boil,  slowly  add  spinach  puree, 
mix  well  and  serve  hot  with  snippets  of  toast. 


[    37     ]. 


A    SLIGHTLY    RICHER 
SPINACH    SOUP 

Proceed  as  directed  in  previous  recipe,  but  at  the  end  of  30  min- 
utes cooking*  add  the  following  mixture : 

2  yolks  of  eggs,  salt  and  pepper 

lightly  beaten  to  taste 

2  tablespoons 

grated  Parmesan 

Blend  together  and  stir  into  boiling  soup,  allowing  eggs  to 
curdle  slightly  and  serve  immediately. 


ZUPPA    PAVESE 

TO  SERVE  4 

For  this  really  nourishing  'meal  in  itself  soup,  you  need  a  quart 
of  clear  chicken  broth,  into  which  at  the  end  of  its  cooking 
time  one  egg  at  a  time  is  thrown  into  the  boiling  soup  for  each 
consumer,  stirred  rapidly  while  it  'poaches',  and  removed  to  its 
individual  soup  bowl  while  the  other  eggs  are  similarly  treated. 


ALTERNATIVE    METHOD    FOR 
ZUPPA    PAVESE 

If  you  do  not  mind  your  eggs  very  lightly  poached,  place 
a  half-inch  slice  of  toasted  French  bread  in  each  individual 
soup  bowl,  and  on  to  it  break  an  egg  very  carefully  so  as  not 
to  break  the  yolk.  Over  this  pour  the  boiling  soup,  and  serve 
immediately. 


[    38     ] 


ZUPPA^PARADISO 

TO  SERVE  6 

This  recipe,  given  in  Rose  L.  Sorce's  La  Cucina^  is  just  too  good 
not  to  be  included. 

2  quarts  good  soup  4  eggs  separated 

stock  4  tablespoons 

4  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 

breadcrumbs  pepper  and  salt 

nutmeg 

Bring  soup  to  a  boil,  slowly  add  the  following  mixture  a  spoon- 
ful at  a  time,  boil  5  to  8  minutes  and  serve. 

Beat  the  egg  whites  till  stiff,  add  beaten  yolks  and  beat  till 
well  blended,  add  cheese,  breadcrumbs. 


J 

STRACCIATELLA  \ 

One  more  soup  with  eggs  \ 

TO  SERVE  4  \ 

2  eggs                                          2  teaspoons  fine  j 

1  tablespoon  grated                      semolina  ] 

Parmesan                                IJ  pints  chicken  j 

broth  j 

j 

Beat  eggs,  and  blend  with  semolina  and  cheese,  add  a  cupful  ; 

of  cold  broth,  and  beat  well.  Bring  the  remainder  of  the  broth  | 

to  the  boil,  and  slowly  add  the  egg  mixture,  beating  with  a  fork  j 

or  whisk;  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  four  or  five  minutes  before  1 

serving.  The  eggs  will  appear  as  little  flakes  or  'rags'  in  the  soup.  , 


CHESTNUT    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 

J  lb.  chestnuts  1  bay  leaf 

2  pints  stock,  or  1  slice  lean  ham 

mixed  stock  and  2  cloves 

water 

[    39    ] 


Score  the  chestnuts  across  the  pointed  end,  and  bake  in  a  mo- 
derate oven  10  to  15  minutes,  after  which  it  should  be  simple 
to  remove  the  outer  and  inner  skins. 

Peel  and  put  to  cook  slowly  with  the  water  and  ham  and 
seasonings,  for  40  minutes  or  slightly  longer.  Pass  through 
a  sieve  or  food  mill  and  serve  with  snippets  of  fried  bread. 


VEGETABLE    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 

3  large  onions  2  outer  stalks  celery 

1  lb.  ripe  fresh  1  large  carrot  — 
tomatoes  cooked 

1  clove  garlic  a  few  green  peas 
crushed  or  French  beans 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  1  quart  hot  water 

Heat  oil  in  heavy  pan,  chop  vegetables  and  cook  in  oil  till 
slightly  brown;  add  hot  water  gradually  and  cook  together  for 
half  an  hour.  Pass  through  a  food  mill  or  sieve  before  serving. 


ZUPPA   ALLA   FOUBONNE 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  large  leeks  2  large  onions 

2  carrots  1  yellow  turnip 

1  slice  ham  1  ounce  butter 
1  quart  meat  stock 

Heat  butter  in  heavy  pan,  and  in  it  place  chopped  vegetables 
and  ham  and  cook  gently  until  lightly  browned.  Add  stock  and 
cook  together  40  minutes.  Pass  through  a  sieve  or  food  mill, 
replace  on  heat  and  boil  for  a  further  5  minutes.  Serve  with 
snippets  of  toast  and  grated  Parmesan. 


[    40    ] 


LETTUCE    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  heads  of  lettuce  —  1 J  pints  salted  water 

^/preferably  cos  1  clove  garlic, 
f  lettuce  crushed 

1  tablespoonful  grated  Parmesan 

olive  oil  croutons  of  bread 

Wash  lettuce,  shred  finely  and  boil  until  tender  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Heat  oil  in  heavy  pan,  allow  crushed  garlic 
to  cook  for  three  minutes,  remove  garlic  and  add  oil  to  swiftly 
boiling  lettuce  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  Serve  with  snip- 
pets of  bread,  black  pepper  and  with  it  hand  a  bowl  of  grated 
Parmesan. 


MARROW    SOUP    ALLA 
NAPOLITANA 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  medium  sized 

water 

■1 

vegetable  marrow 

4  eggs 

i 

or  1  lb.  zucchini 

4  tablespoons 

1 

(the  tiny  marrows 

grated  Parmesan 

about  4-inches 

2  tablespoons 

;i 

or  5-inches  in 

chopped  parsley 

I 

length) 

1  teaspoon  chopped 

1  tablespoonful  lard 

fresh  basil  if 

1 

salt  and  pepper 

obtainable 

1 

to  taste 

2  slices  toasted 
bread 

i 
i 

Cut  the  marrow  into  slices,  and  having  heated  the  lard  in  i 

a  stewpan,  add  marrow,  pepper  and  salt,  and  when  it  has  ^ 
cooked  a  few  minutes  but  before  it  has  started  to  brown,  add 

sufficient  water  to  cover.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  gently  until  > 

the  marrow  is  tender  (about  20  minutes).  j 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  Parmesan,  parsley  and  basil,  and  add  j 
to  the  marrow  mixture.  Mix  well,  keep  hot  for  a  few  minutes, 

but  do  not  allow  to  boil  or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  \ 

Serve  in  warmed  soup  bowls  with  croutons  of  toast.  • 

[    41     ] { 


GARLIC    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  cloves  garlic,  2  tablespoons  olive 

crushed  oil 

1  quart  clear  stock  4  tablespoons 

2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
chopped  parsley  croutons  of  toast 

Heat  oil  in  stewpan  and  in  it  saute  garlic  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  add  stock  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Strain  into 
soup  tureen,  adding  parsley  and  cheese  at  moment  of  serving, 
with  croutons  of  toast. 


CHEESE    AND    ONION    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 

3  large  onions  2  ozs.  butter 

1  teaspoon  flour  1  quart  hot  stock 

salt  and  pepper 

Use  a  heavy  pan  for  this  soup.  Heat  butter  until  it  begins 
to  brown,  add  onions  thinly  sliced,  and  sprinkled  with  flour, 
fry  briskly,  turning  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  make  sure  all  are 
cooked  until  they  are  brown  rather  than  gold  coloured.  Add 
heated  stock  little  by  little,  stirring  all  the  time,  add  salt  to  taste, 
and  a  generous  helping  of  freshly  ground  black  pepper,  and 
allow  to  boil  for  twenty  minutes  with  saucepan  uncovered. 
Pour  into  heavy  earthenware  tureen,  covering  the  surface 
with  a  raft  of  half-inch  slices  of  stale  bread  or  toast,  over  which 
sprinkle  a  thick  layer  of  grated  Parmesan,  or  a  mixture  of 
Parmesan  and  grated  Gruyere  cheese.  Place  in  very  hot  oven 
so  that  cheese  melts  and  turn  golden.  Serve  immediately. 


[    42     ] 


CHEESE    AND    ONION    SOUP 
Alternative  method  of  serving 

While  your  soup  is  cooking,  toast  three  or  four  slices  of  French 
bread,  and  place  in  layers  in  a  soup  tureen,  with  a  mixture 
of  grated  Parmesan  and  grated  Gruyere  cheese  between  each 
layer,  and  for  added  richness,  a  little  butter. 

When  the  soup  has  finished  cooking,  pass  through  a  sieve, 
and  pour  over  the  layers  of  bread  and  cheese,  and  let  it  stand 
in  a  medium  oven  for  ten  minutes  before  serving. 


HARICOT    BEAN    SOUP 


TO  SERVE  4 


J  lb.  haricot 
beans  —  soaked 
in  water  overnight 

1  clove  garlic, 
crushed 

3  pints  water 


1  tablespoon  olive  oil 
pepper  and  salt 

to  taste 
4  heaped  tablespoons 

chopped  parsley 


Cover  the  beans  with  water,  bring  to  the  boil  and  cook  slowly 
for  at  least  three  hours. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  cooking  time,  heat  the  olive  oil, 
and  to  it  add  the  crushed  garlic  and  parsley  and  cook  together 
for  five  minutes. 

Pass  beans  and  the  water  in  which  they  have  cooked  through 
a  sieve  or  food  mill,  return  to  the  saucepan,  and  stir  in  the  garlic 
mixture.  Serve  hot  with  snippets  of  toast,  and  if  liked,  hand 
with  the  soup  a  dish  of  grated  Parmesan. 


[    43     ]. 


CREAM    OF    TOMATO    SOUP 

TO  SERVE  4 


3  ozs.  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour 

6  large  tomatoes  or 
1  medium  sized 
tin  of  tomatoes 

1  large  or  2  small 
onions 


1  tablespoonful 

chopped  parsley 
IJ  pints  beef  stock 
J  wineglass  full 

of  cream 
grated  Parmesan 
croutons  of  bread 
toasted 


Heat  the  butter  in  a  heavy  pan,  and  in  it  cook  finely  chopped 
onions  until  yellow,  and  flour  and  blend  together,  then  add 
tomatoes,  skinned  and  seeded  if  raw,  strained  if  they  are  the 
tinned  variety,  and  the  chopped  parsley.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  allow  to  cook  over  a  slow  heat,  stirring  all  the  time ; 
after  three  or  four  minutes  add  stock,  bring  to  boil  and  allow 
to  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Pass  through  sieve  or  food 
mill,  re-heat,  adding  a  little  more  stock  if  it  seems  too  thick. 
Into  a  soup  tureen  place  the  cream  and  a  knob  of  butter. 
Pour  over  this  a  little  of  the  puree  and  beat  with  an  egg  whisk 
before  adding  the  remainder.  Serve  garnished  with  croutons 
and  grated  Parmesan. 


CREAM    OF    MUSHROOM    SOUP 


TO  SERVE  4 


Prepare  a  Bechamel  Sauce  as  directed  under  'SAUCES'  but 
using  IJ  pints  of  hot  milk,  instead  of  just  1  pint,  so  as  to  avoid 
a  too-thick  consistency.   Meanwhile,   prepare  the  following: 


f  lb.  mushrooms, 
chopped  finely 

1  tablespoonful 
chopped  parsley 

2  ozs.  butter 

^  pint  chicken  stock 


I  wineglassful  of 

sherry 
1  clove  garlic 
pepper 
salt 
nutmeg,  if  liked 


[     44     ] 


Heat  the  butter,  and  in  it  allow  the  crushed  garlic  to  cook  for 
a  few  minutes;  remove,  and  add  the  mushrooms,  cut  small, 
and  allow  to  saute  gently  until  cooked ;  add  the  wine  and  bring 
to  a  bubbling  boil;  reduce  the  heat,  add  the  parsley  and  sea- 
sonings and  cook  gently  for  a  few  minutes  before  adding  the 
stock.  Bring  to  the  boil  before  amalgamating  with  the  Bechamel, 
which  should  be  keeping  hot  in  the  top  of  your  double  boiler. 
Serve  very  hot. 

FISH    SOUPS 

We  in  England  are  not  given  to  preparing  fish  soups,  but  in 
Southern  France  and  in  Italy  these  are  immensely  popular, 
and  for  that  reason,  a  few  recipes  ought  rightly  to  appear  in  any 
compendium  of  Italian  cooking. 

Where  your  Italian  cook  says  casually  'take  a  selection  of 
fish',  it  has  to  be  remembered  that  in  his  selection  can  be 
included  a  great  many  fish  that  are  not  native  to  our  waters, 
nor  easily  obtainable  in  this  country,  such  as  octopus,  lampreys 
(a  variety  of  eel),  calamari  or  squid,  scampi.  But  we  in  England 
can  still,  given  a  little  ingenuity,  produce  'a  selection  of  fish' 
that  should  produce  a  fish  soup  that  is  tasty  and  nourishing. 
Try  combining  sole  with  prawns  or  shrimps,  a  few  scallops, 
a  little  smoked  haddock,  or  smoked  cod  fillet  —  just  let  your 
imagination  work  and  let  your  eye  wander  around  the  fishmon- 
ger's slab. 


[    45     ]- 


ZUPPA    ALLA    MARINARA 

Sailors^  soup 

TO  SERVE  4 

About  two  pounds  of  assorted  fish,  and  DON'T  leave  the  heads 
or  skins  at  the  fishmonger's,  but  bring  them  home  and  cook 
them  with  a  bay  leaf  and  a  few  peppercorns  and  a  sprig  of 
parsley  in  about  two  pints  of  Vv^ater,  until  the  fish  is  cooked; 
strain,  and  here  is  your  'stock'. 


1  small  onion  cut  in 

small  pieces 
1  stalk  of  celery  cut 

small 
4  tomatoes,  peeled 

and  cut  in  pieces 


1  oz.  butter 
\  a  wineglassful 

of  white  wine 
\\  to  2  pints  of 

stock  prepared  as 

suggested 


Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  cook  the  onion  until 
it  is  golden  yellow,  then  add  the  celery,  tomatoes,  pepper  and 
salt  and  allow  to  cook  together  for  a  few  minutes  before  adding 
your  assortment  of  prepared  fish,  any  shell  fish  shelled,  and 
other  fish  boned  and  cut  in  pieces ;  add  the  stock,  cook  together 
for  twenty  minutes  and  serve  with  snippets  of  toast  or  fried 
bread. 


ZUPPA   DI   PESCE    ALLA 
GENOVESE 

Genoese  fish  soup 


TO  SERVE  4 


lbs.  of  assorted 
flat  and  shell 
fish,  prepared  and, 
in  the  case  of  the 
flat  fish,  cut  in 
pieces;  saving  the 
heads,  skins  and 
bones  to  make 
stock  by  cooking 
with  two  pints  of 
water,  a  bay  leaf 
and  a  few  pepper- 
corns 


2  tablespoons  oil 
1  or  2  stalks  celery 

1  bay  leaf 

J  wineglassful  dry 
white  wine 

2  anchovies 

1  clove  of  garlic 
1  medium  sized 

onion 
1  tablespoon 

chopped  parsley 
1  pint  cleaned 

mussels 


[    46    ] 


Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  brown  the  chopped  onion,  add  the 
chopped  celery  and  parsley,  and  the  anchovies  cut  small, 
the  crushed  clove  of  garlic  and  the  wine  and  cook  together  two 
or  three  minutes;  add  the  prepared  fish,  with  the  exception 
of  the  mussels  and  the  stock,  and  cook  together  for  twenty 
minutes;  about  twelve  minutes  before  serving,  add  the  cleaned 
mussels  and  continue  to  cook  until  all  are  opened,  then  serve 
the  soup  immediately,  with  slices  of  crisp  toast  or  freshly  fried 
bread. 


ZUPPA   DI    PESCE    DEI    PESCATORI 
DI POZZUOLI 

Fish  soup  made  by  the  Fishermen  of  Pozzuoli 

From  Pozzuoli,  once  one  of  the  chief  commercial  ports  of  the 
Mediterranean  in  the  days  of  Roman  domination,  and  previ- 
ously one  of  the  most  important  Greek  cities  of  the  region,  and 
now  not  much  more  than  a  fishing  village,  the  fishing  fleet 
goes  out  each  year  for  a  fishing  season  in  the  waters  of  Santa 
Marinella.  The  villagers  help  the  fishermen  with  their  nets, 
and  it  is  the  custom  for  the  fishermen  to  prepare,  at  sea, 
a  delicious  fish  soup,  which  they  share  with  the  villagers. 
This  is  a  soup  you  won't  be  able  to  make  at  home,  one  you 
won't  be  able  to  taste,  unless  you  happen  one  day  to  be  lucky 
enough  to  join  this  fishing  fleet  during  their  summer  migration 
from  Pozzuoli  to  Santa  Marinella.  But  imagine  the  scene, 
the  rough  old-fashioned  stove  on  board  the  boat,  the  earthen- 
ware pot  in  which,  with  plenty  of  water,  an  assortment  of 
freshly  caught  and  cleaned  fish  is  cooked,  with  a  few  tomatoes, 
a  clove  or  two  or  garlic,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  oil,  and  a  coarsely 
chopped  red  pepper;  cooked  together  for  twenty  minutes  or 
so,  then  served  in  earthenware  soup  plates,  with  lumps  of  home- 
baked  bread  brought  by  the  villagers  to  the  fishing  fleet. 


[    47     ] 


ZUPPA   DI    PESCE 
ALLA    SIRACUSANA 

Fish  soup  as  prepared  in  Syracuse 

TO  SERVE  4 

Another  fishing  town,  Syracuse,  where  carp  swim  lazily  in 
the  spring  into  which  Arethusa  is  said  to  have  changed  when 
pursued  by  the  river-god  Alpheus,  and  where,  later  on.  Nelson 
put  in  for  a  sufficently  long  time  to  write  one  of  his  famous 
letters  to  Emma  Hamilton  before  proceeding  to  his  victory 
at  the  Nile.  A  famous  fish  soup  in  served  in  this  pleasant  Sicilian 
town. 

2  lbs.  assorted  1  stalk  celery 

fish,  the  heads,  2  tablespoons  oil 

skins  and  bones  salt,  pepper 

of  which  are  to  be  1  tablespoon 

used  to  make  chopped  parsley 

2  pints  of  stock  1  bay  leaf 

1  medium  sized  4  or  6  tomatoes 

onion  1  wineglassful  white 

1  clove  crushed  wine 
garlic 

This  is  a  fish  cooked  in  the  oven.  In  a  fireproof  casserole 
large  enough  to  hold  the  entire  mixture,  place  your  prepared 
fish,  the  larger  pieces  cut  small,  together  with  the  chopped 
onion,  parsley,  laurel  leaf,  celery  cut  small,  tomatoes  skinned 
and  cut  up,  crushed  garlic,  oil,  wine  and  sufficient  of  the  pre- 
pared fish  stock  to  cover  well.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put 
the  lid  of  the  casserole  on  and  weight  it  down  if  necessary  to 
ensure  a  tight  fit,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  40  min- 
utes. Before  serving,  remove  the  bay  leaf  Serve  with  toasted 
or  fried  bread. 


[    48    ] 


Pasta 


The  Italian  term  Pasta  covers  a  multitude  of  various 
shapes  and  forms  of  what  we  in  England  tend  to  lump 
together  in  our  minds  under  the  heading  of  Macaroni 
or  Spaghetti. 

For  centuries  now  Pasta  has  formed  an  integral  part  of  the 
Italian  diet,  but  whether  or  not  it  originated  in  that  country 
is  open  to  question.  One  theory  is  that  it  was  among  the  many 
curiosities  and  wonders  brought  back  by  the  traveller  Marco 
Polo  when  he  returned  to  Italy  during  the  13th  Century  after 
years  of  travel  in  the  Orient,  and  in  an  account  of  his  travels 
there  is  a  description  of  the  Chinese  making  a  kind  of  dough 
which  they  cut  in  strips  and  dried  in  the  sun,  which  strips  he 
refers  to  by  the  ItaHan  name  o^  Lasagne,  the  name  used  to  this 
day  in  Italy  for  one  of  the  broad,   flat  ribbon-type  Pastas. 

Earlier  than  Marco  Polo,  however,  there  is  a  reference  to 
Pasta  in  Italian  literature,  in  the  Life  of  the  Blessed  Hermit 
William,  a  holy  man  who  lived  around  the  year  1200,  which 
rather  discounts  the  Marco  Polo  legend. 

It  looks  as  though  we  are  safe  to  assume  that  Macaroni  has 
as  good  a  chance  of  being  native  to  Italy  as  Noodles  have  of 
being  of  Chinese  origin ;  the  name  given  to  the  kind  of  Pasta 
matters  less  for  the  purpose  of  this  book  than  the  various  ways 
of  cooking  the  product. 

A  word  first  of  all  about  the  various  types  of  Pasta  to  be  met 
with  in  Italy.  Starting  with  the  fine  string-like  vermicelli,  too 
fine  to  have  a  bore  through  its  centre,  the  tubular  types  come 
in  all  widths  from  the  regular  and  familiar  Macaroni  and  Spaghet- 
ti, to  the  three-inch  lengths  of  Canneloni,  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  in  diameter  which,  after  a  preliminary  cooking  in  boiUng 
water  are  stuffed  and  re-cooked  in  various  ways,  and  served 
up  with  sauce,  or  with  cheese  and  butter. 

There  are  the  fancy  shapes  of  Pasta,  Shells,  Elbows,  Cart- 
wheels, Twists,  even  Alphabet  Letters,  and  there  are  the  various 
flat  types,  the  narrow  Noodles,  the  broader  Tagliarellini,  progress- 
ing to  the  broad  Lasagne,  and  there  are  also  the  tiny  rice-type 
grains  known  as  Pastina,  and  small  star-shapes  used  as  a  garnish 
for  soups.  The  variety  is  infinite  and  the  possibilities  of  cooking 
the  various  types  into  tempting  dishes  are  endless. 

[    49    ] 


Cooking  Procedures 

Provided  one  remembers  a  few  simple  rules,  nothing  could  be 
much  simpler  than  the  cooking  of  Pasta. 

1.  See  to  it  that  you  use  a  large  utensil,  a  really  capacious 
saucepan  in  which  is  an  ample  quantity  of  really  boiling 
water  —  allow  at  least  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  per  pound 
of  pasta,  and  to  each  gallon  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cooking 
salt.  Before  attempting  to  add  the  Pasta,  see  that  the  water 
is  at  a  proper  boil,  and  add  the  Pasta  slowly  so  as  not  to  let 
the  water  go  off  the  boil,  for  once  the  temperature  of  the 
water  drops  below  boiling  point  you  are  running  the  risk 
of  having  your  Pasta  turn  into  a  soft,  rubbery  mass,  instead 
of  the  desired  separate  strands  or  pieces,  depending  on  which 
variety  of  Pasta  you  are  cooking. 

If  you  are  using  the  long,  uncut  Spaghetti  or  Macaroni, 
don't  spoil  the  Italian  appearance  of  your  finished  dish  by 
breaking  the  Pasta  into  shorter  lengths;  don't  get  alarmed  if  at 
first  the  long  ends  stick  out  of  your  saucepan  of  water,  once 
the  submerged  part  has  been  heated  through  it  will  soften 
sufficiently  for  you  to  be  able  to  persuade  the  long  ends  to 
follow  suit. 

One  reason  for  the  emphasis  on  using  a  large  enough 
saucepan  is  the  need  to  allow  for  the  'frothing'  that  takes 
place  when  once  the  Pasta  itself  reaches  boiling  point ;  lower 
your  heat  a  trifle  when  this  occurs,  but  not  sufficiently  to  let 
the  water  drop  below  boiling  point.  From  time  to  time  run 
a  fork  or  spoon  around  your  saucepan  to  loosen  any  stray 
ends  of  Pasta  that  may  adhere  to  the  bottom  or  sides  of  the 
utensil. 

2.  Whatever  you  do,  don't  fall  into  the  error  of  over-cooking 
your  Pasta,  and  where  cooking  time  is  concerned,  you  may 
have  to  go  through  a  period  of  trial  and  error  before  you 
discover  the  correct  cooking  time  for  your  own  particular 
taste. 

The  true  Italian  likes  to  be  able  to  bite  his  cooked  Pasta: 
he  will  tell  you  it  must  be  'al  dente'  (to  suit  the  tooth), 
but  while  it  must  certainly  not  be  soft  enough  to  dissolve  in 
the  mouth,  it  must  need  only  the  tenderest  of  'bites',  such  as 
you  might  give  to  —  shall  we  say  —  a  piece  of  Shrove  Tuesday 
pancake.  The  cooking  time  will  vary  with  the  different 
varieties  and  thicknesses  o^  Pasta,  and  it  is  a  fairly  safe  maxim 
in  the  early  days  of  Pasta-coo\dng  to  study  the  instructions 

[    50     ] 


given  on  the  package  of  whichever  type  you  choose,  and  to 
cook  your  Pasta  a  minute  or  so  less  than  the  time  suggested, 
then  fish  out  a  small  piece  and  test  it  for  yourself  either  by 
biting  through  it,  or  by  pressing  it  between  two  fingers. 
A  few  experimental  'trial  runs'  will  soon  give  you  a  guide 
to  your  own  best  cooking  times.  The  following  table  will 
be  helpful  in  a  broad  sense,  but  your  own  experience  will 
eventually  stand  you  in  better  stead  than  any  instructions. 


3.  TABLE  OF  COOKING  TIMES 

(Approximate  only) 

Ordinary  spaghetti 8 — 12  minutes 

Very  thin  spaghetti,  vermicelli 6 — 10  minutes 

Long  macaroni      10 — 12  minutes 

Macaroni  shells,  wagon  wheels  etc 8 — 12  minutes 

Broad  noodles  such  as  lasagne 6 — 9    minutes 

Medium  noodles  —  tagliatelle 4 — 6    minutes 

Alphabet    macaroni,    pastina    (the    ricelike 

macaroni  used  in  soup),  small  stars,  etc.       5 — 7    minutes 
Rigatoni  or  gavatoni  (very  large  macaroni)    10 — 12  minutes 

And  remember,  the  home-made  Pasta  needs  usually  no  more 
than  half  the  length  of  time  to  cook  in  comparison  with 
the  bought  varieties. 

4.  To  make  sure  that  the  cooked  Pasta  will  have  no  slimy  outer 
covering,  it  is  an  excellent  idea  to  'blanch'  it  as  soon  as  it  is 
cooked  by  removing  it  from  the  heat,  and  before  draining 
it  through  a  colander,  adding  a  cupful  of  cold  water  to  the 
boiling  mass.  Stir  rapidly  after  the  addition  of  cold  water, 
then  drain  immediately  through  a  colander,  and,  once 
drained,  piled  on  a  warm  dish. 

5.  Having  transferred  your  Pasta  to  a  warmed  dish  or  bowl, 
add  whatever  Sauce  you  have  prepared  and  serve  imjnedi- 
ately,  handing  at  the  same  time  a  bowl  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  to  be  added  to  the  taste  of  the  consumer. 


[    51     ] 


How  Much  Pasta  Per  Person? 

It  is  difficult  to  suggest  quantities  of  Pasta  per  person,  for  while 
one  pound  of  pasta  might  be  ample  for  half  a  dozen  people, 
there  are  addicts  to  whom  a  personal  share  of  half  a  pound 
might  not  be  too  much,  while  others  might  abstain  from  tack- 
ling more  than  two  ounces.  A  fairly  'safe'  allowance  is  three 
ounces  per  person,  plus  an  added  three  or  four  ounces  for  every 
sixth  person,  to  allow  for  that  little  more  an  addict  might 
demand. 

The  following  recipes  will  give  you  an  idea  of  some  of  the 
many  ways  you  can  serve  this  typically  Italian  food  once  you 
have  mastered  the  simple  art  of  preparing  your  Pasta  by  its 
initial  cooking  in  boiling  water. 

These  all  come  under  the  category  of  Pasta  asciutta  (Dry 
Pasta)  to  distinguish  them  from  Pasta  in  Brodo,  or  Pasta  served 
as  an  addition  and  an  essential  ingredient  of  certain  broths 
and  soups. 


A   RECIPE    FOR 
HOME-MADE    PASTA 

Although  there  are  excellent  commercial  brands  of  pasta  in 
the  various  shapes  and  sizes,  if  you  are  a  good  pastry  maker 
and  have  time  to  experiment,  you  may  care  to  try  your  hand 
at  making  pasta  for  yourself.  If  you  do,  remember  that  the 
cooking  time  for  the  home-made  variety  is  considerably  less 
than  that  required  for  the  packaged  types  —  5  to  7  minutes  is 
all  that  is  necessary. 

You  will  need  a  fairly  large  pastry  board,  and  a  longer-than- 
usual  rolling  pin. 

The  following  quantities  will  give  you  sufficient  tagliatelle, 
the  most  usual  type  of  home-made  pasta,  for  six  people. 

1  lb.  flour  a  pinch  of  salt 

2  or  preferably  lukewarm  water 
3  eggs 


[     52     ] 


Pile  your  flour  in  a  mound  on  your  pastry  board,  making 
a  well  in  the  middle  into  which  break  your  eggs,  adding  salt, 
and  to  start  with  a  couple  of  tablespoons  of  lukewarm  water. 
Fold  the  flour  over  the  eggs  and  water  and  knead  until  the 
liquid  is  used  up.  If  the  paste  is  too  stiff",  add  a  little  more 
water,  but  be  careful  not  to  'drown'  it.  When  the  paste  can  be 
formed  into  a  fairly  solid  ball,  its  consistency  is  right.  You 
should  now  knead  it,  flouring  your  hands  lightly  from  time 
to  time,  and  flouring  the  board,  for  at  least  ten  minutes ;  then, 
dividing  it  into  two  portions  start  the  rolling  process.  It  will 
need  quite  ten  rollings  and  the  board  and  roller  should  be 
lightly  floured  between  rollings.  Finally  it  should  be  thin 
enough,  metaphorically  speaking,  to  read  the  newspaper 
through  it.  Spread  a  floured  cloth  over  the  back  of  a  chair 
and  lay  the  paste  over  it  while  you  proceed  similarly  with  the 
other  half.  When  both  sheets  are  rolled  thin,  leave  them  to  dry 
out  for  half  an  hour,  after  which  roll  them  up  as  you  would 
a  Swiss  roll,  or  pinwheel  biscuit  mixture,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  across  the  roll  at  intervals  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  or 
less.  Lay  them  on  a  floured  cloth  until  you  are  ready  to  cook 
your  tagliatelle,  and  remember,  5  to  7  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water  will  be  ample. 

A  useful  hint  —  if  you  have  difficulty  in  finding  a  really 
long  roller  for  pasta,  a  length  of  broomstick  makes  an  excellent 
one,  and  for  drying  the  pasta,  again  a  length  of  broomstick 
resting  on  two  chairbacks,  so  that  the  pasta  can  hang  over 
a  cloth  draped  over  the  broomstick,  .is|  a  iuseful  dodge  to  re- 
member. 


[    53    ] 


TAGLIATELLE    ALLA    CREMA 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  lb.  tagliatelle  3  eggs 
cooked  in  the                          4  ounces  butter 
approved  fashion                   pinch  of  nutmeg 

8  tablespoons  grated  pinch  of  salt 

Parmesan  1  pint  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Place  four  tablespoons  of  the  grated  cheese  with  the  flour  in 
a  saucepan  and  mix  slowly  with  the  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  nutmeg.  Place  on  a  slow  heat  and  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  it  thickens,  add  a  nut  of  butter  and  blend  well, 
then  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  remainder  of  the  butter 
and  the  balance  of  the  grated  cheese,  and  finally,  when  it  has 
cooled  a  trifle,  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  three  eggs.  Whip  the  egg 
whites  separately  and  fold  into  the  first  mixture.  Add  the  cooked 
and  drained  tagliatelle  to  the  sauce,  place  in  a  greased  earthen- 
ware or  oven-glass  dish,  and  allow  to  cook  in  a  medium  oven 
for  quarter  of  an  hour. 


SOUFFLE    OF    TAGLIATELLE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  tagliatelle  6  tablespoons 

1 J  teaspoons  flour  Parmesan  — 

3  ozs.  butter  grated 

I  pint  milk  salt 

a  pinch  of  nutmeg 

The  home-made  pasta  made  with  eggs  is  preferable  for  this, 
though  the  commercially  made  spaghetti  may  be  used.  Cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  in  the  approved  manner,  remembering 
that  whereas  the  bought  variety  will  need  10  to  12  minutes, 
the  home-made  will  need  no  more  than  five. 

Meanwhile  prepare  the  following  sauce: 

Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  before  it  begins  to  turn 
brown,  blend  in  the  flour  and  add  milk  slowly.  Stir  until  it 
thickens  and  allow  to  cook  over  boiling  water  for  a  further 
12  to  15  minutes,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg  and  the 

[    54     ] 


grated  Parmesan,  mix  well  and  remove  from  the  heat.  Separate 
eggs,  beat  yolks  lightly  and  add  to  the  sauce  when  it  has  cooled 
a  little,  otherwise  the  yolks  may  curdle.  Whip  egg  whites  stiflf 
and  fold  into  the  sauce.  Have  ready  the  cooked  and  drained 
tagliatelle,  combine  with  the  sauce,  slowly,  so  as  to  ensure  it  is 
really  well  mixed.  Place  in  a  buttered  souffle  dish  and  cook  in 
moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
cooked. 


TAGLIATELLE    WITH 
ANCHOVY    AND    TUNNY    FISH 

TO  SERVE  4 

f  lb.  tagliatelle  2  tablespoons  olive 
cooked  in  the  oil 

approved  manner  1  clove  garlic 

a  6-oz.  tin  of  tunny  1  tablespoon  freshly 
fish  chopped  parsley 

3  or  4  anchovies  J  pint  good  stock 

Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  garlic  and  cook  for  two  or  three 
minutes,  add  tunny  and  anchovies  broken  into  small  pieces 
or  pounded,  add  parsley  and  cook  for  four  or  five  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  stock  slowly  and  bring  to 
boiling  point. 

Pour  over  cooked  tagliatelle  and  mix  well. 


SPAGHETTI    CON    SALSA 
DI VONGOLE 

Spaghetti  with  Clam  Sauce 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  pound  spaghetti  cooked  in  the  approved  manner.  When 
cooked  and  drained  pour  over  it  hot  Clam  Sauce  (See  recipe 
under  'SAUCES')  and  serve  with  or  without  grated  Parmesan 
cheese. 


[    55     ] 


FETTUCINE    WITH 
MEAT    SAUCE    AND    CHEESE 

TO  SERVE  4 

Fettucine  are  our  old  friends,  home  made  tagliatelle,  hiding, 
so  to  speak,  under  a  pseudonym,  the  name  give  them  in  the 
district  around  Rome.  For  this  dish  you  need  the  following 
ingredients : 


1  lb.  fettucine 
4  tablespoons  grated 
Parmesan 


J  pint  or  rather  more 
brown  sauce 
(see  'SAUCES') 


When  the  fettucine  are  cooked  and  drained,  place  in  a  heated 
deep  fireproof  dish,  and  cover  with  the  meat  sauce  and  the 
grated  Parmesan,  lifting  the  fettucine  with  two  forks  to  ensure 
that  it  is  completely  masked  by  the  sauce.  Serve  with  a  bowl 
containing  more  grated  Parmesan,  to  be  added  at  will. 


SPAGHETTI  WITH  MEAT  BALLS 

TO  SERVE  6 


1  lb.  spaghetti 

or  macaroni, 

cooked  as  directed 
1  small  onion 
1  or  2  cloves  of 

garlic,  crushed 
3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  large  tin  tomatoes 
1  tablespoon  tomato 

paste 
J  pint  water 
1  tablespoon  brown 

sugar 
a  good  pinch  of 

oregano  if 

available,  or 

failing  this  a  pinch 

of  dried  thyme 


pepper  and  salt  to 
taste 

Meat  Balls: 

1  lb.  lean  beef 
passed  through 
the  mincer 

2  thick  slices  white 
bread 

1  small  onion 
1  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley 

3  ozs.  grated 
Parmesan 

salt  and  pepper 
to  taste 


[    56     ] 


Soak  the  bread  in  water,  squeeze  dry  and  mash  with  a  fork, 
and  to  it  add  the  onion  chopped  finely,  the  parsley,  ground 
beef,  cheese  and  seasonings.  Beat  the  egg  lightly  and  combine 
with  the  foregoing  mixture;  shape  into  small  balls  —  this 
amount  should  make  about  12  —  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain 
and  set  aside. 

Heat  the  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  chopped  onion  and  crushed 
garlic  and  cook  till  golden;  add  strained  tomatoes,  tomato 
paste  thinned  down  with  a  little  water,  the  balance  of  the  half 
pint  of  water,  sugar,  oregano,  pepper  and  salt;  lower  heat, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour. 

At  the  end  of  an  hour,  add  the  meat  balls,  cover  pan  once 
more  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  another  half  an  hour  before 
serving  over  the  freshly  cooked  spaghetti. 

With  this  dish  hand  a  bowl  of  freshly  grated  Parmesan,  to  be 
added  at  will. 


ELBOW    MACARONI    PIE 

TO  SERVE  6 

f  lb.  elbow  macaro-  J  lb.  cooked  meat, 
ni  cooked  in  the  chopped  finely 

approved  fashion  2  eggs 

f  pint  tomato  sauce  short  crust  pastry 
(see  recipes  for  sufficient  to  line 

^SAUCES')  and  top  your 

4  tablespoons  grated  casserole 

Parmesan  cheese 

Grease  an  earthenware  or  oven-glass  casserole  and  line  with 
pastry.  Mix  together  your  cooked  macaroni,  tomato  sauce, 
cheese  and  chopped  meat  and  lay  on  top  of  pastry.  Beat  eggs 
lightly  and  pour  over  the  mixture.  Cover  with  short  crust  pastiy, 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  crust  is 
brown. 

Serve  hot. 

This  with  a  simple  salad  makes  a  fairly  sustaining  meal. 


[    57    ] 


BAKED  MACARONI  WITH 
CHEESE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  pint  milk  J  lb.  elbow  macaroni 

salt  and  pepper  ^  lb.  Cheddar  cheese 

to  taste 

Partly  cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  —  drain.  Scald 
milk,  stir  in  macaroni,  add  pepper  and  salt,  grate  and  add 
cheese.  When  well  blended,  transfer  to  fireproof  casserole  and 
bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven,  stirring  gently  after  about 
10  minutes  to  make  sure  it  is  not  sticking  to  bottom  of  casserole. 


SPAGHETTI    WITH 
BUTTER    AND    CHEESE 

One  of  the  simplest  and  at  the  same  time  one  of  the  most 
delicous  macaroni  dishes  this,  and  one  for  which  any  of  the 
various  forms  of  pasta  may  be  employed. 

For  each  person  allow: 

3  to  4  ozs.  pasta  1  really  generous 
1  tablespoon  or  lump  of  good 

more  of  grated  butter 

Parmesan  cheese 

The  method  of  cooking  pasta  has  already  been  described  in 
detail. 

When  cooked,  blanched  and  drained,  stir  the  butter  and 
cheese  into  the  dish  of  pasta,  allow  to  melt  and  serve  immedi- 
ately, handing  at  the  same  time  a  dish  of  the  grated  cheese 
so  that  more  may  be  added  at  will. 


[    58     ] 


BAKED  MACARONI  WITH  SOUR 

CREAM 

TO  SERVE  4 

8  ozs.  elbow  J  pint  sour  cream 

macaroni  4  eggs 

f  lb.  finely  chopped  salt  and  pepper 

cooked  ham  to  taste 

Cook  and  drain  macaroni.  Separate  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  to  them 
add  cream,  salt  and  chopped  ham.  Add  drained  macaroni. 
Pile  into  buttered  casserole.  Whip  egg  whites  stiffly  and  fold 
into  mixture.  Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Regulo  5. 


SPAGHETTI   WITH   HAM  • 

For  each  person  allow:  | 
tagliatelle,  or  any                      2  ozs.  of  ham, 
form  of  pasta                             or  better,  if  you 

particularly  liked                       can  purchase  it  in  \ 

\  oz.  butter                                    your  vicinity,  the  j 

3  to  4  ozs.                                       raw  ham  that  is  ' 
spaghetti                                     so  popular  in 

Italy  I 

\ 

While  your  pasta  is  cooking  in  boiling  salted  water,  cut  your  | 

ham  into  long,  thin  strips  and  saute  in  the  butter  in  a  heavy  j 

pan.  When  the  pasta  is  blanched  and  drained,  combine  with 
the  ham  and  serve  immediately. 


[    59    ] 


SPAGHETTI    WITH    OIL    AND 
GARLIC 

TO  SERVE  2 

J  lb.  spaghetti  a  generous  pinch  of 

4  tablespoons  best  basil 

olive  oil  salt  to  taste 

at  least  2  cloves 

garlic,  crushed 

While  your  spaghetti  is  cooking,  heat  the  oil  in  a  heavy  pan, 
add  crushed  garlic  and  basil,  and  cook  for  two  or  three  minutes 
so  as  to  allow  the  oil  to  become  thoroughly  impregnated  with 
the  flavour  of  the  garlic. 

When  the  spaghetti  has  been  cooked  and  drained,  pile  in 
a  heated  dish,  add  the  oil  and  garlic  mixture,  blend  well,  and 
serve  with  freshly  ground  black  pepper  and  generous  helpings 
of  freshly  ground  Parmesan. 


SPAGHETTI   WITH    GREEN 
OLIVE    OIL    SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  2 

J  lb.  spaghetti,  4  cloves  garlic, 
cooked  in  chopped  finely 

approved  fashion,  or  crushed 

then  piled  in  4  tablespoons  olive 
a  heated  dish,  and  oil 

served  blended  at  least  4  heaped 
with  the  adjoin-  tablespoons 

ing  sauce  finely  chopped 

parsley 

Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan ;  add  garlic  and  allow  to  brown  slightly, 
add  chopped  parsley  and  simmer  gently  for  five  minutes. 
Pour  over  cooked  and  drained  spaghetti,  mix  well  and  serve 
with  grated  Parmesan  and  black  pepper. 


[    60    ] 


Three  Typically  Sicilian  Recipes 


SPAGHETTI    WITH    ANCHOVIES 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  spaghetti  or  1  small  tin  anchovies 
'shells'  (about  a  dozen 

just  under  quarter  fillets) 

of  a  pint  of  good  8  tablespoons  grated 
olive  oil  Parmesan  cheese 

1  clove  garlic  salt  and  pepper 

Heat  your  oil  in  a  heavy  frying  pan,  and  when  hot  add  garlic, 
crushed,  and  fry  until  it  is  brown,  then  remove.  Chop  anchovies 
into  short  lengths,  add  to  hot  oil  and  cook  for  a  couple  of  min- 
utes, stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  plenty  of  black  pep- 
per, but  add  salt  with  caution,  remembering  the  saltiness  of 
anchovies.  Add  this  to  a  dish  of  cooked  and  drained  spaghetti, 
topping  with  the  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  serve  immedi- 
ately. 


SPAGHETTI  WITH  FRESH 
FENNEL  SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  4  OR  5 

1  lb.  spaghetti  1  lb.  fennel 

4  tablespoons  olive  1  large  or  2  small 

oil  onions 

1  cup  cold  water  1  lb.  fresh  sardines, 
6  ozs.  dried  pilchards  or 

*•  breadcrumbs  sprats 

1  tablespoon  pine  1  tablespoon  sul- 

nuts  or  blanched  tanas  or  seedless 

almonds  raisins 

Clean  and  bone  fish. 

Clean  fennel  and  cook  for  15  minutes  in  about  a  quart  of 
boiling  water.  Drain  and  chop  small. 

Heat  olive  oil  in  a  stewpan  and  cook  in  it  the  chopped 

[    61     ] 


onion  until  it  is  a  golden  colour,  add  fish,  cook  gently  for  10  min- 
utes, stirring  frequently;  add  fennel,  sultanas  and  nuts,  cold 
water  and  seasoning  and  allow  to  simmer  gently  for  10 
minutes. 

Place  breadcrumbs  on  a  fireproof  plate  below  a  hot  grill  for 
a  few  seconds  to  brown. 

Meanwhile  cook  the  spaghetti  in  the  approved  method. 
When  cooked  and  drained,  place  in  deep,  warmed  dish,  pour 
over  half  the  fish  and  fennel  sauce  and  half  the  breadcrumbs 
and  mix  well.  Then  pile  on  balance  of  fennel  mixture  and 
top  with  remainder  of  breadcrumbs  and  serve  very  hot. 


MACARONI  WITH  BROCCOLI 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  elbow  1  lb.  young 

macaroni  broccoli 

J  pint  olive  oil 

While  the  macaroni  is  cooking,  clean  the  broccoli,  break  into 
small  pieces,  and  cook  10  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Heat  oil,  in  a  heavy  frying  pan,  drain  and  add  broccoli,  and 
fry  lightly  for  3  or  4  minutes. 

Grease  a  casserole,  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan.  Pile  into 
this  the  cooked  and  drained  macaroni,  and  over  it  pour  the 
broccoli  and  oil.  Mix  well.  Sprinkle  with  more  grated  Parme- 
san, and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  5  minutes.  Serve  very  hot. 


SPAGHETTI    WITH   BACON, 
EGG,    AND    ONION 

TO  SERVE  4 

3  to  4  ozs.  of  4  rashers  back  bacon 

spaghetti  per  4  eggs 

person  4  medium  sized 

onions 

While  you  are  cooking  your  spaghetti  in  the  approved  manner, 
peel  and  chop  your  onions  finely  and  fry  them  to  a  light 
golden  hue  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  with  olive  oil  or  butter; 


[    62     ] 


when  they  are  evenly  coloured  a  pale  gold,  add  your  rashers 
cut  into  small  pieces.  By  the  time  these  are  cooked  your  spa- 
ghetti should  be  ready  for  blanching  and  draining.  When 
drained,  add  it  to  the  bacon  and  onion  in  the  pan,  break  the 
eggs  on  to  the  mixture,  stir  rapidly  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and 
serve  immediately  the  eggs  have  begun  to  thicken,  a  matter 
of  a  few  seconds.  Freshly  ground  black  pepper  is  a  necessary 
adjunct  to  this  dish,  as  is  a  dish  of  freshly  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  to  be  handed  to  the  consumers  and  added  to  individual 
taste. 

LASAGNE    VERDI 

These  are  the  pale  green  strips  of  pasta,  cut  in  oblongs  as  large 
as  3  inches  by  2  inches,  and  although  it  is  possible  and  permis- 
sible to  use  in  their  place  the  green  ribbon  noodles  obtainable 
in  most  shops  that  sell  pasta,  you  may,  if  you  are  successful 
with  your  home-made  tagliatelle,  wish  to  experiment  with  this 
refinement  of  pasta. 

For  six  people  the  quantities  are  the  same  as  those  for  taglia- 
telle, except  that  instead  of  lukewarm  water  for  mixing,  you 
need  3  ounces  of  pureed  spinach  (which  is  weighed  after,  not 
before  cooking,  remember). 

Start  again  with  your  pound  of  flour  heaped  on  a  board,  with 
a  well  made  in  the  centre  into  which  you  break  three  eggs. 
After  blending  these  with  the  flour,  work  in  the  spinach,  and 
proceed  with  your  kneading,  rolling,  drying  and  cutting  as  you 
did  for  the  tagliatelle,  except  that  instead  of  cutting  the  pasta 
into  strips,  you  cut  it  into  rather  large,  flat  oblongs. 

Using  either  your  home-made  oblongs  of  lasagne,  or  a  pound 
of  bought  green  noodles,  you  can  make  one  of  the  most  famous 
pasta  dishes  of  all : 


[    63    ] 


LASAGNE   AL   FORNO 

TO  SERVE  6 

2  tablespoons  olive  1  tablespoon  tomato 

oil  paste 

1  lb.  minced  beef  1  lb.  lasagne  or 

1  medium  size  onion,  green  noodles 

chopped  finely  f  to  1  lb.  Mozzarella 

1  crushed  clove  of  or  Bel  Paese  cheese 

garlic  3  tablespoons  grated 

1  pint  water  Parmesan 

Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  frying  pan,  add  the  onion  and  garlic,  and 
when  slightly  browned,  add  and  brown  the  minced  meat. 
Blend  the  tomato  paste  with  a  little  water,  pepper  and  salt, 
dilute  with  the  balance  of  the  water  and  pour  slowly  over  the 
meat;  cover  and  allow  to  simmer  gently  for  1 J  hours. 

Take  1  lb.  lasagne  and  cook  in  rapidly  boiling  salted  water, 
5  to  7  minutes  if  the  lasagne  is  home-made,  15  minutes  if  com- 
mercially packaged.  Blanch  and  drain. 

Grease  an  oven  glass  or  earthenware  casserole,  and  in  it  lay 
a  layer  of  the  cooked  lasagne,  a  layer  of  meat  sauce  and  a  layer 
of  Mozzarella  or  failing  this  of  Bel  Paese.  Continue  filling  the 
dish  in  layers  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used  up,  finishing 
with  the  balance  of  the  sauce  poured  over  the  finished  dish, 
which  should  be  topped  with  grated  Parmesan.  Bake  for  20 
minutes  in  medium  oven. 


•[    64    ]• 


LASAGNE IMBOTTITE 

Stuffed  Noodles 


TO  SERVE  4 


1  medium  sized  tin 

tomatoes 
4  tablespoons  hot 

water 
1  clove  garlic, 

crushed 
salt  and  pepper  to 

taste 
6  tablespoons  grated 

Parmesan 


1  tablespoon  tomato 
paste 

2  tablespoons  olive 
oil 

1  stick  celery,  cut 
small 

I  lb.  cottage  cheese 

J  lb.  Bel  Paese 

J  lb.  sausages 

f  lb.  home-made 
lasagne  or  green 
bought  noodles 


Heat  olive  oil  in  heavy  pan  and  brown  garlic  for  about  3  min- 
utes ;  blend  the  tomato  paste  with  hot  water,  and  add  to  garlic, 
together  with  diced  celery  and  tomatoes ;  after  about  3  minutes, 
lower  heat  and  allow  to  simmer  for  one  hour.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

Fry  sausage  in  separate  pan  until  brown,  and  cut  into  small 
pieces. 

Boil  lasagne  or  noodles  in  boiUng  salted  water  as  previously 
directed.  Drain. 

Into  a  greased  casserole  place  alternate  layers  of  lasagne, 
tomato  sauce,  Parmesan,  more  sauce,  Bel  Paese,  sausage  and 
more  sauce,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  sauce  topped  with  grated 
cheese.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes.  When  serving  hand 
at  the  same  time  balance  of  tomato  sauce  and  grated  Parmesan. 


■[    65    ]. 


CANNELLONI    FILLED    WITH 
CHEESE    AND    SAUSAGE 

TO  SERVE  4 

Although  it  is  possible  to  buy  the  large  'channel'  macaroni, 
and  after  a  preliminary  cooking  to  fill  them  with  the  filling 
mixture,  the  home-made  variety  is  far  preferable,  and  once  again 
the  recipe  for  pasta  given  under  Tagliatelle  may  be  used.  But 
when  it  has  had  its  final  rolling  it  must  be  cut  into  oblongs  about 
4  inches  by  3  inches,  and  cooked,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  boiling 
salted  water  for  four  or  five  minutes,  removed  gently  with 
a  perforated  spoon  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and  allowed  to  cool. 
For  four  people  allow  20  to  24  cannelloni. 

Filling: 

I  lb.  cottage  ^  lb.  sausages 

cheese  |  cup  tomato  sauce 

grated  Parmesan  (see  'SAUCES') 

Prick  the  sausages  and  place  them  in  a  pan,  cover  with  water, 
heat  and  allow  to  cook  until  the  water  has  evaporated,  then  let 
the  sausages  remain  a  few  minutes  in  the  fat  that  will  have 
escaped  from  them  in  the  cooking.  Cool  slightly,  skin  and  mash 
the  filling  and  mix  with  the  cheese. 

Place  a  little  filling,  about  a  tablespoonful,  in  the  centre  of 
each  piece  of  pasta,  and  roll  up  into  a  tube.  Grease  a  flat  fire- 
proof dish  well  and  in  it  place  the  cannelloni  side  by  side,  and 
over  them  pour  tomato  sauce,  not  quite  sufficient  to  cover  them ; 
dot  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 
place  in  moderate  oven  for  15  minutes  before  serving. 


[    66     ] 


Ravioli  &  Gnocchi 


Having  mastered  the  cooking  of  pasta  of  the  macaroni 
and  spaghetti  variety,  let  us  now  proceed  to  the  more 
involved  types  known  broadly  as  'ravioli'  and  'gnocchi.* 

Both  may  be  made  at  home,  and  after  a  little  practice  made 
well,  and  although  it  is  possible  to  purchase  both  types  ready- 
made  and  needing  only  to  be  heated  and  added  to  a  sauce,  if 
there  is  time  available  to  make  one's  own  ravioli  or  gnocchi, 
the  results  are  well  worth  while. 

Ravioli  is  the  term  loosely  applied  to  the  several  varieties  of 
little  envelopes  of  paste  filled  with  various  forms  of  stuffing, 
and  served  either,  like  'pasta  asciutta',  with  a  tomato  or  meat 
sauce,  or,  like  'pasta  in  brodo'  in  a  clear  consomme  rather  after 
the  style  of  the  Jewish  'kraplech',  or  the  Chinese  *pork  pellets'. 

Once  you  have  become  expert  in  the  art  of  making  tagliatelle 
at  home,  you  may,  if  you  wish,  use  the  same  recipe  for  your 
ravioli,  agnolotti,  anolini,  tortellini,  or  cappelletti,  to  give  a 
few  of  the  various  names  given  to  the  many  types  of  filled 
pasta.  But  when  your  paste  has  been  rolled  as  thin  as  possible 
(remember,  thin  enough  for  you  to  be  able  to  read  the  news- 
paper —  or  at  least  the  headlines  —  through  it),  instead  of 
rolling  it  into  a  roll  as  you  have  done  when  making  tagliatelle, 
keep  it  in  two  large,  flat  sheets,  or,  supposing  your  pastry  board 
is  on  the  small  size,  a  greater  number  of  small  sheets  of  thin 
pasta. 

As  each  sheet  is  rolled  to  the  desired  thinness,  spread  it  on 
a  clean  cloth,  and  keep  it  covered  with  another  cloth,  so  as  to 
prevent  its  going  crusty  and  becoming  too  breakable  to  handle. 

When  your  paste  is  made  and  the  filling  you  intend  using  is 
prepared,  spread  a  sheet  of  the  paste  on  to  a  floured  pastry 
board,  and  dot  with  the  filling  at  regular  intervals,  say  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  filling  at  intervals  of  about  1 J  to  2  inches.  Cover 
lightly  with  the  second  sheet  of  paste,  after  having  brushed  the 
'walks'  between  the  lines  of  filling  with  beaten  ^gg  to  ensure 
that  the  second  sheet  of  paste  will  close  down  over  the  filling. 
You  may  then  either  use  a  small  round  cutter,  or,  less  wastefully, 
run  a  pastry  wheel  between  the  fillings  so  that  you  have  a  series 
of  little  filled  envelopes  of  paste.  Transfer  these  to  a  floured 
dish,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  overlap,  and  cover  with 
a  floured  cloth  or  paper  until  you  are  ready  to  cook  them. 

[    67    ] 


These  can  be  made  overnight  if  wished. 

To  cook,  have  ready  a  large  pan  of  boiling  salted  water  and 
transfer  your  envelopes  of  pasta  one  at  a  time,  until  all  are  in 
the  water,  allowing  them  to  cook  for  four  or  five  minutes  or 
until  they  rise  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  Remove  them  one  at  a  time 
with  a  perforated  spoon  or  slice,  place  in  a  heated  dish,  and 
serve  with  a  generous  helping  of  melted  butter  and  grated 
Parmesan,  or  with  any  preferred  sauce.  These  little  filled  enve- 
lopes are  equally  delicious  served  in  a  clear  consomme,  as  one 
more  form  of  pasta  in  brodo. 

Another  and  slightly  richer  paste  for  ravioli  and  its  kindred 
pastas  can  be  made  as  follows: 

f  lb.  flour  I  pint  or  slightly  less 

2  eggs  warm  water 

1  oz.  butter  pinch  salt 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Place  on  a  board  and  make  a  well 
into  which  break  the  eggs.  When  you  have  kneaded  them  into 
the  flour,  add  the  softened  butter,  and  gradually  sufficient 
lukewarm  water  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  until  smooth  and 
easy  to  handle ;  cover  and  allow  to  stand  for  ten  to  fifteen  min- 
utes before  dividing  into  two  portions  and  rolling  very  thin  on 
a  lightly  floured  board,  remembering  to  flour  the  paste  lightly 
between  each  of  its  several  rollings. 


FILLINGS    FOR    RAVIOLI 

Spinach  filling 

TO  SERVE  6 

r 

1  cupful  each  of  \  clove  garlic,  if 
cooked  pureed  liked  -  crushed 

spinach  and  1  heaped  tablespoon 
chopped  chicken  or  finely  chopped 

veal  (cooked)  parsley 

\  cup  breadcrumbs  salt  and  freshly 
4  tablespoons  grated  ground  black 

Parmesan  cheese  pepper 


2  eggs 

[    68    ]- 


Mix  dry  ingredients  and  blend  together  with  Ughtly  beaten 

Drop  in  teaspoonfuls  at  regular  intervals  on  one  sheet  of 
pasta,  cover  with  second  sheet  and  press  together  gently  around 
each  mound  of  filling.  Cut  into  squares  with  pastry  cutter,  and 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  in  deep  saucepan  for  5  or  6  minutes, 
or  until  the  envelopes  of  pasta  rise  to  the  top  of  the  boiling 
water.  Transfer  carefully  with  perforated  spoon  to  a  hot  dish, 
serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  (see  under  section  for  SAUCES)  and 
when  serving  hand  a  bowl  of  freshly  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 


CHEESE    FILLING 

TO  SERVE  6 

5  ozs.  each  grated  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch 

Parmesan  and  of  nutmeg,  and  a 

Gruyere  pinch  (fairly  gener- 

i  pint  milk  ous)  of  thyme 

2  eggs 

Blend  well  together,  place  in  spoonfuls  on  a  sheet  of  pasta  as 
directed  for  previous  recipe,  cover  with  second  sheet,  press 
down,  cut  with  pastry  cutter  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water 
as  previously  directed. 

When  dished  up,  serve  with  melted  butter  and  hand  addi- 
tional grated  Parmesan  to  be  added  at  will. 


CREAM    CHEESE    FILLING 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  lb.  cottage  2  tablespoons  finely 
cheese  chopped  parsley 

4  ozs.  grated  freshly  grated  black 
Parmesan  pepper,  salt  and  a 

1  whole  Ggg  and  one  pinch  of  nutmeg 

egg  yolk 

Blend  well  together  and  use  as  a  filling  for  ravioli. 
Serve  with  melted  butter. 


[    69    ] 


MEAT    FILLING 

TO  SERVE  6 


J  lb.  each  raw 
minced  beef  and 
raw  minced  veal 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
1  oz.  grated  Parmesan 
1  tablespoonful  finely 

chopped  parsley 
1  egg 


1  wineglassful 

cooking  sherry,  or 

preferably  Marsala 
pepper  and  salt  to 

taste 
a  clove  of  crushed 

garlic  if  liked 


Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  garlic  (if  you  are  using),  and 
chopped  meat,  and  allow  to  cook  for  five  or  six  minutes,  add 
the  wine,  and  cook  for  another  twenty  minutes ;  cool,  and  then 
add  the  beaten  egg,  Parmesan  and  seasonings;  blend  well, 
and  use  as  a  filling  for  ravioli,  or  for  cappelletti  (little  hats), 
which  latter  are  2  J-inch  rounds  of  ravioli  paste,  in  the  centre 
of  which  is  placed  a  teaspoonful  of  filling,  after  which  the  paste 
is  folded  over  and  sealed  at  the  edges  with  a  fork. 


CHICKEN   FILLING 

TO  SERVE  4 


J  lb.  cold  boiled 

2  tablespoons  grated 

chicken,  chopped 

Parmesan 

■| 

finely 

1  ^ES 

til 

J  lb.  finely  chopped 

J  clove  crushed 

cold  cooked  veal 

garlic,  if  liked 

1 

or  pork 

salt  and  pepper  to 

J  lb.  spinach,  cooked 

taste  and  a  dash  of 

and  pureed 

nutmeg 

■1 

4  tablespoons  bread- 

i 

4 

crumbs 

i 

>. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  blend  with  the  beaten  egg  and 
use  as  a  fillings  for  ravioli. 


T     70     ] 


CAPPELLETTI    IN    BRODO 

'Little  hats  in  soup^ 

Make  cappelletti  as  just  described,  heat  clear  chicken  broth  to 
boiHng  point,  drop  in  your  'little  hats*,  and  allow  to  cook  for 
five  to  seven  minutes  before  serving. 


BACON    AND    SAUSAGE    FILLING 

TO  SERVE  6 

6  rashers  lean  bacon  pepper  and  salt 

J  lb.  Mortadella  a  pinch  of  nutmeg 

Pass  chopped  bacon  and  sausage  twice  through  mincer,  blend 
with  beaten  egg,  add  seasonings  and  use  to  fill  ravioli  or  cap- 
pelletti. This  is  an  excellent  filling  for  yet  one  more  variety  of 
pasta  in  brodo  when  cooked  for  five  or  six  minutes  in  boiling 
clear  soup. 


Gnocchi 

Although  Gnocchi  is  placed  at  the  end  of  the  various  forms  of 
pasta,  it  is  about  the  easiest  form  to  make  at  home,  for  it  re- 
quires neither  rolling  nor  filling  and  consists  merely  of  little 
rolls,  croquettes  or  circles  of  pasta,  various  recipes  for  which 
follow. 


[    71     ] 


POTATO    GNOCCHI 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  raw  potatoes  J  oz.  butter 

J  lb.  flour  salt  and  pepper  to 

2  eggs  taste 

Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water  for  20  minutes,  drain  and  mash 
with  the  butter;  gradually  incorporate  the  flour  and  beaten 
eggs  and  seasoning.  Roll  between  floured  hands  into  rolls  the 
thickness  of  your  finger  and  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  long  or 
slightly  less.  Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  salted  water,  and  drop 
the  gnocchi  gently  into  the  pan  one  by  one,  boiling  for  3  or  4 
minutes  until  they  rise  to  the  top  —  the  water  should  boil  only 
gently,  not  furiously.  Transfer  when  cooked  in  a  perforated 
spoon  on  to  a  heated  greased  fireproof  dish,  dot  with  butter  and 
place  in  a  warm  oven  long  enough  to  allow  the  butter  to  melt. 
Serve  plain,  or  with  a  meat  or  tomato  sauce  (see  under  'SAU- 
CES'). 


SEMOLINA    GNOCCHI 

TO  SERVE  6 

1 J  pints  milk  J  lb.  semolina 

yolks  of  2  eggs  IJ  oz.  butter 

3  or  4  ozs.  grated  a  pinch  of  nutmeg 
Parmesan 

Heat  milk,  and  add  semolina  slowly,  stirring  constantly  and 
cooking  slowly  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  add  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs,  grated  cheese  and  butter  and  seasonings  and  mix  well. 
Rinse  a  flat  dish  with  cold  water  and  on  it  spread  the  semolina 
to  a  thickness  of  half  an  inch.  Leave  for  an  hour,  and  when 
cold,  cut  with  a  knife  rinsed  under  the  tap,  into  squares  or 
diamonds  1 J  inches  or  2  inches  across. 


[    72     ]. 


GNOCCHI   ALLA   ROMANA 

Having  prepared  your  gnocchi  in  accordance  with  the  foregoing 
instructions,  butter  a  fireproof  dish  and  in  it  lay  a  layer  of 
gnocchij  sprinkling  with  grated  Parmesan  and  dotting  with 
buter.  Add  a  second  and  a  third  layer,  with  Parmesan  and  dots 
of  butter  between  each,  and  to  make  dish  attractive  pile  your 
layers  in  pyramid  form.  When  the  last  of  the  gnocchi  are  used 
up,  sprinkle  with  more  Parmesan  and  over  the  whole  pour 
1 J  ounces  melted  butter.  Place  dish  in  moderate  oven  for  twenty 
minutes  or  until  the  gnocchi  have  taken  on  a  golden  colour. 
Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  were  cooked. 


GNOCCHI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

As  an  alternative  to  the  above  dish,  make  your  gnocchi  about 
one  quarter  the  size,  and  serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce  just 
sufficient  to  surround  each  dumpling  with  sauce  but  not  to  have 
the  dish  'swimming'  in  sauce.  With  these,  hand  a  bowl  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 


[    73     ] 


Rice 


Although  pasta,  either  pasta  asciutta  (pasta  eaten  with 
some  form  of  sauce)  or  pasta  in  brodo  (pasta  in  soup) 
appears  with  fair  regularity  in  the  Italian  daily  diet  all 
over  the  peninsula,  there  is,  in  the  north,  a  tendency  to  vary 
this  by  the  use  of  rice  dishes.  Rice  is  cultivated  in  northern 
Italy  on  a  heavy  scale,  and  that  grown  in  the  Piedmont  area, 
that  is  to  say  the  stretch  of  country  lying  between  the  Bay 
of  Genoa  on  the  South  and  the  Grain  Alps  of  Switzerland  on 
the  North,  produces  a  particularly  fine,  hard  grain,  equal  in 
quality  to  the  best  that  Patna  in  India  can  offer,  and  ideally 
suited  to  the  long,  slow  cooking  that  is  a  feature  of  Italian  rice 
dishes. 

It  is  as  well  to  remember  to  ask  for  Piedmont  rice,  or  failing 
this  to  specify  Patjna  rice,  as  the  shorter,  rounder  grained  rice, 
known  to  my  local  grocer  as  'pudding  rice',  though  excellent 
for  that  good  old  English  standby,  rice  pudding,  is  apt  to  pro- 
duce a  somewhat  sticky  risotto.  If,  when  shopping  at  a  small 
local  shop  you  are  asked,  as  I  have  been  asked:  'Do  you  want 
the  pudding  rice  or  THE  OTHER  KIND?'  it's  fairly  safe  to 
plump  for  THE  OTHER  KIND. 

If  you  have  never  previously  tried  to  cook  a  Risotto,  the 
instructions  may  come  as  a  slight  bombshell,  but  I  promise  you, 
if  you  will  follow  them  faithfully,  the  result  will  surpass  anything 
you  might  achieve  if  you  were  to  give  in  to  the  temptation  to 
'par-boil  the  rice  first  of  all',  to  mention  but  one  of  the  many 
incorrect  methods.  To  all  such  suggestions  I  cannot  too  emphat- 
ically say  'DON'T'. 

Supposing  you  are  about  to  produce  a  risotto  for  four  people, 
start  operations  a  good  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  the 
meal  is  scheduled  —  and  just  supposing  you  happen  to  be  a  work- 
ing housewife,  let  me  assure  you  that,  heretical  though  the 
suggestion  may  appear  to  be,  an  excellent  risotto  can  be  pre- 
pared in  the  morning  before  you  leave  for  the  day's  work,  and 
re-heated  so  as  to  produce  a  really  good  dish  for  dinner  the 
same  evening  —  moreover,  the  flavour  is  apt  to  be  all  the  richer 
if  the  various  ingredients  have  had  all  day  in  which  to  insinuate 
their  many  and  varied  flavours  into  the  finished  dish.  The  one 
ingredient  I  prefer  not  to  allow  to  remain  all  day  in  the  risotto  is 

[    74    ] 


the  portion  of  chopped  mushrooms,  which,  to  my  way  of  think- 
ing, are  much  better  sauteed  in  butter  or  oil  and  added  to  the 
dish  not  more  than  twenty  minutes  before  serving  time. 

One  thing  to  remember  where  the  use  of  rice  in  Italy  is 
concerned  is  that  except  in  the  case  of  the  famous  Osso  Buchi, 
rice  is  not  served  with  meats  but  whatever  meat  is  used  is  mixed 
with  the  rice  to  form  one  integrated  dish. 

And  now  to  your  first  risotto  for  four  people. 


[    75    ] 


PLAIN   RISOTTO 

TO  SERVE  4 

12  to  15  tablespoons  2  medium  sized  on- 
Piedmont  or  Patna  ions  chopped  small 
rice,  the  quantity  1^  pints  or  there- 
depending  on  the  abouts  of  stock, 
appetites  of  the  chicken  for  prefer- 
consumers  ence,  and  if  you 

2  tablespoons  best  want  a  touch  of 

olive  oil,  or  a  luxury,  substitute 

mixture  of  oil  and  a  wineglassful  of 

butter   or,  if  you  white  wine  for  an 

want  it  in  the  equal  quantity  of 

truly  Milanese  stock 

style,  2  ozs.  of  saffron  for  colouring 
butter 

Heat  the  oil  or  butter  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  the  onion,  chopped 
small,  and  allow  to  cook  until  it  is  a  golden  yellow  but  NOT 
brown.  Add  the  rice  DRY,  and  cook  slowly  together  for  a  few  min- 
utes, stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon,  until  the  grains  are  almost 
transparent.  Now  begin  adding  your  stock  —  and  now  is  a  good 
moment  to  insert  an  asbestos  mat  between  the  pan  and  the 
direct  heat  of  the  stove.  The  stock  is  added  in  very  small  quanti- 
ties a  few  tablespoonfuls  at  a  time,  and  the  Risotto  is  stirred 
frequently  to  prevent  sticking.  When  the  first  instalment  of  the 
stock  is  absorbed,  add  the  next  and  so  on  until  the  rice  has  fin- 
ished cooking,  and  most  if  not  all  of  the  stock  has  been  used. 
This  should  take  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes.  Test  the 
rice  for  tenderness  towards  the  end  of  this  time,  and  when  it  is 
tender  and  the  dish  looks  creamy  but  is  not  sticky,  the  risotto  is 
ready  for  the  table.  The  grains,  though  tender,  should  still  be 
separate. 

To  give  your  risotto  a  truly  Milanese  appearance  it  should  be 
coloured  a  primrose  yellow  (rather  than  a  buttercup  yellow) 
with  saffron  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  time.  If  you  are  using  the 
filaments  —  the  dried  stamens  of  the  autumn  crocus  —  take 
two  or  three  of  these,  and  having  pounded  them  to  a  powder 
and  allowed  them  to  steep  five  minutes  or  so  in  a  little  warmed 


[    76    ] 


stock,  strain  and  add  them  to  the  rice.  You  may,  however,  have 
purchased  a  thimbleful  of  already  powdered  saffron  from  an 
Italian  provision  shop,  in  which  case  add  it,  small  pinch  by 
small  pinch,  until  the  desired  colour  is  obtained,  but  be  careful 
not  to  overdo  the  pinches,  as  a  little  goes  a  long  way. 

This  dish,  omitting  the  white  wine,  is  excellent  with  nothing 
added  but  a  generous  lump  of  butter  and  a  few  tablespoons  of 
grated  Parmesan,  stirred  in,  allowed  to  melt  and  served  imme- 
diately, before  it  has  a  chance  to  go  stringy.  With  it  hand  more 
grated  Parmesan  to  be  added  at  will,  and  more  butter,  and  you 
have  a  truly  classic  Risotto  alia  Milanese. 


PLAIN   RISOTTO 
A  somewhat  richer  version 

Proceed  as  before,  but  with  the  addition  of  white  wine,  and  if 
you  can  procure  about  an  ounce  of  marrow  from  marrow  bones, 
you  will  have  a  really  rich  dish. 

You  may  also  substitute  for  the  white  wine  a  glass  of  Marsala, 
but  in  this  case.  I  would  advise  against  the  marrow,  as  that  and 
the  Marsala  combined  would  make  the  dish  over-rich  for  most 
palates. 

Now  for  the  variations  of  this  simple  and  typically  Italian 
dish: 


MUSHROOMRISOTTO 

TO  SERVE  2 

1  rasher  streaky  6  medium  sized 
bacon  tomatoes 

2  ozs.  butter  f  pint  stock 

2  medium  sized  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg 

onions  4  to  6  ozs.  cold,  lean 

6  ozs.  rice  meat 

f  lb.  mushrooms  1  tablespoonful  sul- 

tanas 


[    77     ] 


Cut  the  bacon  small  and  fry  lightly  in  the  butter,  remove  from 
pan,  and  add  to  the  pan  the  chopped  onions,  frying  them  for 
two  or  three  minutes.  Add  the  rice  and  cook  gently  until  it  is 
transparent  —  about  5  minutes  —  add  all  the  mushrooms 
except  about  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  mushrooms  which 
will  be  useful  for  garnishing;  add  sliced  and  peeled  tomatoes 
and  replace  bacon  in  pan.  Add  the  stock  in  small  instalments, 
giving  the  risotto  a  stir  from  time  to  time  to  prevent  the  rice 
sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Ten  minutes  before  serving, 
add  the  cold  meat  chopped  small,  and  the  sultanas,  together 
with  the  remainder  of  the  mushrooms  which  have  been  cut 
in  small  pieces  and  sauteed  in  a  little  butter.  The  rice  should 
be  cooked  in  about  half  an  hour  from  the  time  it  was  added  to 
the  dish. 

Serve,  together  with  grated  Parmesan  to  be  added  if  liked. 


MY    OWN    FAVOURITE    RISOTTO 

TO  SERVE  4 

12  tablespoons  1  cupful  of  cooked 
Piedmont  rice  (or  frozen)  green 

4  ozs.  butter  peas 

2  medium  sized  on-  a  few  cooked 

ions  chopped  small  French  beans,  if 

IJ  pints  stock  available 

J  lb.  mushrooms  1  or  2  tomatoes, 

chopped  fine  peeled  and  cut 

^  lb.  lean  ham  or  small 

gammon,  cut  into  pepper  and  salt 

small  pieces  a  pinch  of  thyme 

a  pinch  of  nutmeg 

Proceed  as  for  plain  risotto,  but  half-way  through  the  cooking 
time  add  the  mushrooms,  which  have  been  sauteed  in  butter, 
the  ham,  peas,  beans  and  tomatoes,  and  the  seasonings. 

When  serving,  hand  a  bowl  of  freshly  grated  Parmesan,  to  be 
added  at  will. 


[    78    ] 


RISOTTO    WITH    BRAINS 

TO  SERVE  4 

f  lb.  lean  veal  saffron  to  colour 

a  little  beef  marrow,  1  calf's  brain 

if  available  1  medium  sized 
12  tablespoons  onion 

Piedmont  rice  1  tablespoonful 
4  ozs.  butter  parsley 

1 J  pints  stock  pepper  and  salt  to 
4  tablespoons  grated  taste 

Parmesan 

Wash  the  brains  in  salt  and  water,  remove  the  skin  and  fibres 
and  let  them  remain  in  salt  and  water  till  ready  to  use. 

Heat  butter  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  chopped  onion  and  allow 
to  cook  a  few  minutes  until  the  onion  is  golden  yellow,  add  the 
chopped  parsley,  chopped  veal  and  marrow  if  available,  and 
allow  to  brown  for  8  to  10  minutes;  add  the  rice  and  the  stock 
little  by  little.  Drain  the  brains  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  and 
when  the  dish  has  been  cooking  for  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty 
minutes  add  these  to  the  risotto  and  continue  cooking  until  the 
rice  is  tender.  Just  before  serving,  add  the  seasonings  and  the 
grated  Parmesan. 


RISOTTO    WITH    SHELLFISH 

TO  SERVE  4 

Make  a  perfectly  plain  risotto,  but  instead  of  stock  made  from 
meat  or  chicken,  use  fish  stock  if  available,  or  failing  this,  plain 
water  plus  a  wine-glassful  of  white  wine. 

Meanwhile,  allowing  five  or  six  scampi  or  Dublin  Bay 
prawns,  or  the  equivalent  quantity  of  lobster  or  peeled  shrimps 
per  person,  sautee  the  shelled  and  cut  up  fish  in  a  little  butter  to 
which  a  little  crushed  garlic  has  been  added.  Towards  the  end 
of  the  cooking  of  the  risotto  add  the  fish,  together  with  the  butter 
in  which  it  has  been  cooked.  Finally  stir  in  butter  and  grated 
Parmesan. 


[    79    ] 


CHICKEN   RISOTTO 

TO  SERVE  4 

If  you  have  some  left-over  boiled  chicken,  remove  any  skin, 
and  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  You  should  have  at  least 
two  breakfast  cupfuls.  In  addition  you  will  need: 

1  medium  sized  2  peeled  tomatoes 

onion  1  small  carrot 

1  clove  garlic,  1  stalk  celery 

crushed  2  tablespoons  or 

J  lb.  mushrooms  thereabouts  of 

J  pint  chicken  stock;  chopped  lean 

and  later,  when  ham  or  gammom 

rice  added,  1  pint  1  wineglassful  white 
more  wine 

1  oz.  butter  pepper  and  salt 

chopped  parsley  12  ozs.  rice 

Heat  the  butter  and  in  it  saut^e  the  chopped  onion,  garlic, 
celery  and  chopped  carrot;  after  five  minutes  add  the  chopped 
mushrooms,  and  the  tomatoes  cut  small ;  allow  to  cook  together 
for  a  couple  of  minutes,  then  stir  in  the  chopped  chicken  and  the 
wine  and  increase  the  heat  so  that  the  dish  cooks  fast  for  a  couple 
of  minutes  more ;  add  the  seasonings ;  stir  in  the  stock,  cover  the 
pan  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour  or  so  before 
adding  the  rice  —  12  ozs.  —  and  proceeding  as  for  an 
ordinary  risotto,  using  chicken  stock  or  water  for  further  mois- 
tening'during  the  cooking  of  the  rice. 

Finally  stir  in  grated  Parmesan  and  a  generous  portion  of 
butter. 


RISOTTO    GENOVESE 

Rice  in  the  Genoese  style 

TO  SERVE  4 

For  this  dish  the  rice  is  first  of  all  par-boiled.  Cook  12  ozs. 
of  rice  in  boiling,  salted  water  in  a  large  pan  as  previously 
directed,  but  remove  and  drain  a  few  minutes  before  it  is 
completely  cooked,  and  when  drained,  turn  it  into  a  clean 


[    80     ]. 


saucepan,  and  to  it  add  the  following  sauce,  plus  a  generous 
lump  of  butter,  cooking  together  and  stirring  to  avoid  sticking, 
for  five  minutes  or  until  the  rice  has  finished  cooking. 

When  serving,  hand  with  the  dish  a  bowlful  of  freshly  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

SAUCE 


J  lb.  raw  lean  meat, 
beef  or  veal  for 
preference 

2  or  3  stalks  of  cele- 
ry, washed  and 
cut  fine 

pepper  and  salt  to 
taste 

butter  for  sauteeing 
the  vegetables  and 
meat 


2  or  3  carrots,  washed 

and  diced 
1  medium  onion, 

chopped 
chopped  parsley 
a  pinch  of  oregano  or 

thyme 
J  pint  of  white 

wine 


Heat  the  butter,  and  in  it  sautee  the  vegetables  until  they  are 
a  golden  colour;  add  the  meat  and  allow  to  brown,  stirring  so 
as  to  prevent  sticking.  Add  the  wine,  and  cook  fairly  rapidly 
until  the  liquid  has  diminished  by  half,  then  cover  and  simmer 
for  an  hour,  by  which  time  the  sauce  should  have  the  consistency 
of  syrup. 


RICE   AND    PEAS   AS    SERVED 

IN   VENICE 
'Risi  e  bisV 

TO  SERVE  6 


3  lbs.  peas  weighed 
before  shelHng 

1  lb.  rice 

2  J  to  3  pints  hot 

meat  stock 
1  tablespoon  olive  oil 


1  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  lard 

2  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  parsley 

2  spring  onions 


Shell  and  wash  peas.  Heat  oil,  butter  and  lard  in  heavy  pan, 
add  finely  chopped  onions  and  parsley  and  cook  gently.  Add 


[    81     1 


peas  and  allow  to  cook  long  enough  to  absorb  fat.  Then  add  just 
enough  hot  meat  stock  to  cover  and  allow  to  bubble  before 
adding  rice,  having  done  which,  add  a  further  |  pint  heated 
stock  and  cook  gently  without  stirring  for  25  or  30  minutes 
until  rice  is  cooked.  At  end  of  cooking  stir  in  a  further  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan,  and  when 
serving,  hand  a  dish  of  grated  Parmesan  so  that  more  may  be 
added  if  wished.  This  dish  should  not  be  allowed  to  become  too 
dry  in  the  cooking. 


RICE   WITH    TURNIPS 

Riso  e  rape 

TO  SERVE  6 

12  ozs.  peeled  2 J  to  3  pints  meat 

turnips  stock 

1  lb.  rice  salt  and  pepper  to 

\  cupful  tomato  taste 

sauce  (See  ^SAUCES') 

Gut  the  turnips  in  slices,  spread  on  a  plate,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
cover  with  another  plate  and  allow  to  stand  for  two  hours,  so  as 
to  draw  off  the  surplus  water  from  the  vegetable.  At  the  end  of 
this  time,  drain  the  turnips,  and  place  in  a  heavy  pan  in  which 
you  have  heated  the  butter;  allow  to  brown  a  little,  stirring 
with  a  wooden  spoon  so  that  they  do  not  stick  to  the  bottom 
of  the  pan ;  stir  in  the  tomato  sauce  and  allow  to  cook  for  four 
or  five  minutes,  then  cover  with  heated  stock,  bring  to  the  boil 
and  add  the  rice.  Cook  gently  for  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty 
minutes,  adding  more  stock  if  the  dish  begins  to  appear  dry. 
Do  not  overcook,  or  the  flavour  is  diminished. 


[    82     ] 


RICE    WITH    CABBAGE 

Riso  e  cavoli 

TO  SERVE  6 


Sufficient  good  hard 
cabbage  to  weigh 
I  lb.  when  the 
outside  leaves  and 
hard  centre  stalk 
have  been  re- 
moved 


1  lb.  rice 

2\  to  3  pints  stock, 

chicken  stock  for 

preference 
salt  and  pepper  to 

taste 


Having  removed  the  outer  leaves  and  centre  stalk  of  the  cabbage, 
wash  carefully,  strain,  and  cut  finely.  Bring  stock  to  the  boil,  add 
the  cabbage,  let  it  cook  gently  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the 
rice  and  cook  gently  for  a  further  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or 
until  the  rice  is  'al  dente'.  To  give  a  richer  flavour  to  this,  try 
the  addition  of  two  or  three  slices  of  lean  ham,  finely  chopped, 
and  a  little  tomato  paste  'broken  down'  with  a  few  tablespoons- 
ful  of  the  hot  broth. 


RICE    WITH    CELERY 

Riso  e  sedano 

An  agreeable  dish  is  obtained  by  substituting  for  cabbage  in 
the  foregoing  recipe  a  good  head  of  celery,  washed  and  chopped 
finely. 


TO    BOIL    RICE 

Now  for  a  few  comments  on  plain  boiled  rice. 

You  will  need  a  large  saucepan,  with  plenty  of  boiling  water, 
and  one  or  one-and-a-half  tablespoons  of  rice  per  person.  The 
saucepan  must  be  large  enough  for  the  rice  to  move  about  freely 
[while  it  is  cooking,  which  allows  surplus  starch  to  escape  into 
the  boiling  water,  which  is  something  it  cannot  do  under  crowd- 
ed conditions. 

Some  cooks  prefer  to  wash  the  rice  before  cooking,  but  actual- 
ly, so  long  as  it  is  looked  over  and  any  remaining  husks  removed, 
washing  is  not  necessary  as  any  dust  there  may  be  in  the  rice 

[    83    ] 


will  rise  to  the  top  during  the  cooking  and  is  easily  skimmed  off. 
However,  if  you  are  going  to  feel  better  about  washed  rice,  by 
all  means  wash  it. 

When  the  water  is  boiling  rapidly  and  salt  has  been  added, 
add  the  rice  and  allow  it  to  boil  fast  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  depending  on  the  quality  of  the  rice  and  on  personal 
taste.  Towards  the  end  of  fifteen  minutes  test  a  few  grains  by 
biting,  and  when  they  are  soft,  and  before  they  have  had  a  chance 
to  become  'mushy',  remove  the  saucepan  from  the  stove,  and 
strain  the  rice  through  a  fairly  fine  colander.  Run  cold  water 
through  the  colander,  shaking  the  rice  as  you  do  so  to  remove 
any  starch  still  adhering,  and  then  place  the  rice  in  a  lidless, 
heated  fireproof  dish  in  a  warm  —  NOT  HOT  —  oven  with 
the  oven  door  left  open,  for  a  few  minutes  to  dry.  Alternatively, 
the  drying  can  be  achieved  by  placing  the  dish  over  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water  on  top  of  the  stove  for  a  minute  or  two. 


BOILED    RICE    WITH   BUTTER 
AND    CHEESE 

Riso  in  cagnoni 

Allow  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  per  person.  Cook  the  rice  as 
directed  for  Plain  Boiled  Rice,  and  when  it  has  finished  cooking 
and  has  been  strained,  place  in  a  heated  casserole,  and  add 
generous  portions  of  butter  and  grated  Parmesan,  mixing  well 
before  serving. 

As  a  variation,  you  may,  if  you  wish,  heat  the  butter  first 
until  it  has  become  a  golden  liquid,  and  you  may  also,  if  you 
wish,  flavour  it  with  a  little  finely  chopped  garlic. 

A  simple  dish  by  no  means  to  be  despised. 


[    84    ] 


A    RICHER    WAY    OF    SERVING 
BOILED    RICE 

Risotto  in  cagnoni  di  magro 

TO  SERVE  4 

Cook  1  lb.  of  rice  in  the  approved  fashion  and  when  it  has 
been  cooked  and  drained,  stir  into  it  the  following  sauce: 

1  onion  chopped  1  tablespoonful 

fine  chopped  parsley 

6  anchovies  \  cupful  tomato 

4  tablespoonfuls  oil  sauce 

Cook  onion  till  yellow  in  the  heated  oil,  stir  in  the  parsley,  and 
the  anchovies,  boned  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  cook  together 
for  five  minutes,  stir  in  tomato  sauce,  bring  to  boil  and  mix 
with  the  rice. 


CHEESE    RICE    BALLS  . 

TO  SERVE  4  i 

2  cupfuls  left-over  2  or  three  slices  of 

plain  boiled  rice  lean  ham,  cut  < 

2  eggs  into  strips  i 

4  ozs.  Mozzarella  oil  for  frying  | 

or  Bel  Paese  cheese  1  further  egg  i 

breadcrumbs  : 

Mix  together  the  rice  and  beaten  eggs,  and  form  into  balls.  - 

Flatten  each  ball  on  the  palm  of  your  hand,  and  on  the  flattened  ■ 

surface  lay  a  strip  of  ham  and  a  strip  of  cheese.  Close  the  ball  ' 

together  again,  so  that  the  rice  conceals  the  contents.  Continue  i 

till  all  the  rice  is  used.  ^ 

Finally  dip  the  balls  ('Suppli'  if  you  want  the  Italian  name)  j 

in  ^gg  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  olive  oil  until  they  are  ^ 
a  golden  brown.  Drain  before  serving. 


[    85    ] 


ARANGINI 

TO  SERVE  4 

Often  when  a  train  has  stopped  at  a  small  station  in  Italy  or 
Sicily,  the  attendant  wheeling  the  'Tavola  Calda',  the  trolley 
containing  hot  food  to  be  consumed  on  the  train,  makes  his 
way  down  the  platform  to  the  accompaniment  of  the  cry '  Aran- 
g-e-e-e-e-e-ni',  and  the  hardy  traveller  who  takes  a  chance 
on  this  typically  Italian  tit-bit  is  handed  a  piece  of  brown  paper, 
containing  a  warm  mound  of  rice,  the  colour  of  a  pale  orange, 
the  best  way  of  eating  which  is  out  of  the  paper,  using  the  paper 
later  as  a  napkin  to  wipe  mouth  and  hands. 

To  make  8  of  these  'delicacies',  you  will  need  the  following 
ingredients : 

1  lb.  rice  f  lb.  lean  minced 

4  tablespoons  grated  beef 

Parmesan  2  tablespoons 

1  beaten  egg  chopped  parsley 

1  tablespoon  olive  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

oil  (a  refinement,  this 

black  pepper  addition) 

a  pinch  of  salt  breadcrumbs  and 

oil  for  deep  frying 

Cook  the  rice  in  boiling,  salted  water,  drain  and  mix  with  half 
the  beaten  egg.  Heat  the  olive  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  brown  the 
minced  meat  in  this,  remove  from  the  heat  and  mix  with  grated 
cheese,  parsley  and  —  if  used  —  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Rinse  the  hands  in  cold  water,  take  a  handful  of  cooked  rice, 
and  in  the  centre  of  this  place  a  generous  portion  of  the  fore- 
going mixture,  closing  the  rice  up  to  encase  the  mixture  and 
form  a  ball.  Repeat  this  until  all  the  rice  and  all  the  filling  is 
used  up.  Dip  the  balls  in  the  balance  of  the  beaten  egg,  coat 
with  fine  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  oil  until  they  have 
taken  on  a  light  golden-brown  colour. 

A  few  left-over  cooked  spring  peas  are  a  welcome  addition  to 
the  other  ingredients. 

The  above  recipe  makes  a  delicious  dish  for  home  consump- 
tion, that  is  good  eaten  with  hot  tomato  sauce,  using  any  of  the 
recipes  under  the  heading  'SAUCES'.  The  railway  station 
variety  is  rather  less  luxurious,  and  the  hard  boiled  eggs  are 
usually  conspicuous  by  their  absence,  but  nevertheless,  it  is  tasty 
and  filling  on  a  long  journey  when  there  is  no  restaurant  car  on 
the  train. 

— [    86    ] 


SARTU 

Rice  does  not  appear  on  the  Neapolitan  menu  nearly  as  fre- 
quently as  do  the  various  types  of  pasta,  but  there  is  one  rice  dish 
that  is  a  specialty  of  Naples,  and  that,  in  spite  of  the  length 
of  time  required  for  its  preparation,  is  well  worth  trying,  parti- 
cularly at  a  time  when  you  have  available  some  turkey  or 
chicken  giblets  —  why  not  serve  such  a  dish  on  Boxing  Day,  as 
a  change  from  the  cold  left-overs  from  the  Christmas  turkey? 
The  list  of  ingredients,  though  formidable,  is  not  necessarily 
difficult  to  cope  with.  For  six  people  you  will  need  the  following: 


12  ozs.  of  rice 
J  lb.  lean  beef 

passed  through 

the  mincer 
1  egg  plus  1  egg 

yolk 

1  clove  garlic, 
crushed 

pepper  and  salt 
chopped  parsley 

2  one-inch  slices 

of  bread  with  the 

crusts  removed 
flour 
oil  or  lard  for 

frying 
about  a  cupful  of 

cooked  green  peas 
Jib.  Bel  Paese  cheese 


J  lb.  fresh 

mushrooms  cut  in 
small  pieces  or 

J  oz .  of  dried 
mushrooms, 
reconstituted  by 
soaking  them  in 
warm  water  for 
a  few  minutes 

turkey  or  chicken 
giblets,  a  small 
chopped  onion, 
a  little  chopped 
carrot 

J  lb.  Italian  sausage 

meat  sauce  with 
tomatoes  (see 
'SAUCES' 

about  5  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan 

crisp  breadcrumbs 


First  of  all,  combine  your  minced  lean  beef,  the  bread  —  soaked 
in  a  little  milk  and  squeezed  dry  —  the  garlic  and  chopped 
parsley  with  the  beaten  egg  and  egg  yolk,  together  with  the 
seasonings.  Form  into  small  balls  or  rissoles,  and  fry  in  hot 
oil  until  they  are  brown  on  both  sides.  Meanwhile,  boil  your 
rice  in  the  approved  fashion,  in  boiling,  salted  water  and  drain 
well.  Cook  the  giblets  with  the  exception  of  the  liver,  in  a  little 
water,  with  the  chopped  carrot  and  onion,  for  at  least  two 
hours,  adding  a  bay  leaf  if  the  flavour  is  liked.  Ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  before  the  end  of  this  time,  add  the  liver  and  the  sliced 


[    87     ] 


mushrooms.  You  are  now  ready  to  start  composing  your 
sartu.  Butter  a  fireproof  souffle  dish  that  is  large  enough  to  hold 
the  combined  ingredients,  and  after  buttering  it,  sprinkle  crisp 
breadcrumbs  over  the  bottom  and  sides.  Arrange  about  three- 
quarters  of  the  boiled  rice  in  a  layer  covering  the  bottom  and 
the  sides  of  the  souffle  dish,  and  in  this  casing  place  the  meat 
balls,  the  giblets  cut  into  pieces,  the  mushrooms,  peas  and  the 
sausages  cut  in  pieces.  Over  this  pour  the  gravy  from  the  giblets 
and  sufficient  meat  and  tomato  sauce  to  moisten.  Cut  the  cheese 
in  small  pieces  and  arrange  on  top,  and  finally  cover  with 
the  balance  of  the  boiled  rice,  and  pour  over  a  little  more 
of  the  meat  and  tomato  sauce,  so  that  the  dish  is  moist  but  not 
'mushy'.  Sprinkle  with  a  fairly  heavy  layer  of  crisp  bread, 
crumbs  and  the  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  half  an  hour.  The  ingredients  suggested  are,  so  to 
speak,  the  bare  minimum,  you  may  add  to  the  glory  and  mystery 
of  your  sart^  by  varying  the  ingredients  with  a  little  chopped 
ham  or  breast  of  turkey  or  chicken  cut  small,  and  if  you  wish 
to  be  particularly  luxurious,  hard  boil  a  couple  of  eggs,  cut 
them  in  four  lengthways  and  arrange  them  on  the  top  of  the 
dish  before  adding  the  final  layer  of  rice. 


FRIED    RICE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  cupful  left-over  1  chopped  onion 

boiled  rice  salt  and  pepper  to 

4  eggs  scrambled  taste 

4  rashers  streaky 
bacon 

Cut  bacon  into  inch-long  pieces,  and  fry;  chop  onion,  add  to 
bacon  and  fry  until  it  is  golden ;  stir  in  the  rice  and  fry  till  light 
brown,'  and  at  last  minute  stir  in  the  scrambled  eggs,  and  mix 
well. 


[    88    1 


RICE    SOUFFLfi    WITH 
CHICKEN    LIVERS 

TO  SERVE  6 

J  lb.  rice  2  pints  chicken 

J  lb.  butter  stock 

^  lb.  chicken  livers  a  wineglassful  of 

4  eggs  Marsala 

2  tablespoonsful 
grated  Parmesan 

Cook  the  rice  for  twenty  minutes  in  the  chicken  stock,  and  at 
the  end  of  that  time  stir  in  the  cheese,  butter  and  the  chicken 
livers  which  have  been  cut  in  strips,  floured  lightly  and  fried 
in  a  little  butter  and  the  Marsala.  Allow  the  mixture  to  cool, 
and  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  well. 
Beat  the  egg  whites  stiff,  and  fold  into  the  mixture.  Grease 
a  souffle  dish  that  is  large  enough  to  hold  the  whole  mixture, 
line  it  with  buttered  paper,  and  pour  in  your  souffle  mixture, 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  quarter  of  an  hour. 


RICE    SOUFFLfi    WITH 
SHRIMPS 

TO  SERVE  6 

Proceed  as  for  the  foregoing  recipe,  but  substituting  for  the 
chicken  broth  either  water  in  which  fish  has  been  boiled,  or 
failing  that,  plain  water;  and  for  the  chicken  livers,  half  a  pound 
of  shelled  shrimps  or  prawns. 


[    89    ]• 


Polenta 


One  more  of  the  farinaceous  foods  beloved  by  Italians  is 
the  yellow  maize  flour,  known  as  polenta,  which  can  be 
obtained  in  Italian  provision  shops  in  this  country.  It 
can  be  bought  either  finely  or  coarsely  ground,  depending  on 
the  taste  of  the  consumer. 

It  appears  frequently  on  the  tables  of  the  north  of  Italy, 
frequently  being  used  in  lieu  of  bread,  and  although  the  plain 
boiled  polenta  is  stodgy  and  uninteresting,  if  it  is  allowed  to  cool, 
it  can  be  cut  into  slices,  or  formed  into  small  dumplings, 
something  after  the  style  of  gnocchi,  and  can  form  the  basis 
of  a  good  many  agreeable  dishes. 

To  cook  sufficient  polenta  for  four  people,  start  off  with  six 
to  eight  ounces  of  the  finely  ground  variety.  Bring  a  pint  of 
water  to  the  boil  in  a  fairly  large  saucepan,  and  to  this  add  the 
polenta  and  cook  slowly  for  about  twenty  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time.  At  the  end  of  this  time  it  should  be  thick  and  smooth. 

Spread  it  on  a  large  plate  that  has  been  rinsed  with  cold 
water,  allow  to  cool,  and  then  either  cut  it  into  slices,  or  with 
floured  hands  form  it  into  little  dumplings  the  size  of  a  small 

The  following  are  one  or  two  ways  in  which  the  cooked 
product  may  be  used. 


[    90    ] 


BATUFFOLI    AL    SUGO 

TO  SERVE  4 

Prepare  half  a  pound  of  finely  ground  polenta  as  directed, 
and  when  cool  form  into  little  dumplings.  Butter  a  fireproof 
dish,  and  in  it  lay  a  layer  of  these  dumplings.  When  the  first 
layer  is  completed,  cover  with  a  meat  sauce  and  sprinkle 
generously  with  grated  Parmesan,  and  on  top  place  a  second 
layer,  continuing  the  layers  until  the  dumplings  are  all  used. 
Sprinkle  little  dabs  of  butter  on  the  top  layer,  and  a  generous 
sprinkling  of  grated  Parmesa.n ;  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few 
moments  to  allow  the  cheese  to  melt  and  serve  very  hot. 


POLENTA   AND    CHEESE 

TO  SERVE  4  PEOPLE 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  Polenta  as  previously  directed,  spreading 
on  a  moistened  dish  or  a  marble  slab  to  cool.  Cut  into  slabs 
and  lay  these  in  a  buttered  fireproof  dish,  sprinkling  generous 
helpings  of  grated  Parmesan  between  the  layers,  and  seasoning 
with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne.  Cover  top  layer  grated  cheese 
and  a  little  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Serve 
very  hot. 


POLENTA    WITH    TOMATO 
SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  4 

J  pint  hot  water  8  tablespoons 

i  pint  milk  grated  Parmesan 

J  lb.  finely  ground  oil  for  frying 

polenta  1  egg 

pepper  and  salt  fine  breadcrumbs 

to  taste 

Cook  the  polenta  for  half  an  hour  in  a  double  boiler  in  the  hot 
water  and  milk  which  have  been  mixed  and  brought  to  the 
boil.  At  the  last  minute  stir  in  cheese  and  seasonings,  and  stir 
until  thoroughly  mixed.  Spread  on  a  moistened  dish  to  cool. 


[    91     ] 


Beat  the  egg  and  when  the  polenta  is  cold,  cut  into  slices, 
dip  in  egg  and  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  hot  olive  oil  until 
brown.  Serve  hot  with  Tomato  Sauce  (See  'SAUCES'). 

If  you  don't  object  to  the  slight  stodginess,  you  may  eat  your 
polenta  as  it  comes  out  of  the  saucepan,  hot,  without  first 
waiting  for  it  to  cool,  with  any  of  the  meat  or  tomato  sauces 
under  the  heading  of 'SAUCES',  or  just  with  butter  and  cheese, 
but  for  the  average  English  palate,  the  cooled  and  fried  or 
baked  variety  is  preferable. 

There  is  a  delicious  sausage  dish  made  with  polenta  that 
rather  puts  the  'Sausage  Toad'  of  English  war-time  memories 
in  the  shade.  For  it  you  need  half  a  pound  of  polenta  cooked 
as  directed  in  boiling,  salted  water;  unsweetened  tomato  sauce 
(See  'SAUCES'),  and  a  pound  of  Italian  sausages,  or  failing 
these,  chipolata. 

Cut  the  sausages  into  1  inch  lengths,  and  fry  until  they  are 
brown,  then  pour  over  them  the  Tomato  Sauce  and  mix  well 
together. 

When  the  polenta  is  cooked,  spread  one  half  of  it  in  a  buttered 
fireproof  dish,  and  over  this  pour  one  half  of  the  sauce;  add 
a  second  layer  of  polenta  and  the  balance  of  the  sauce.  Sprinkle 
with  grated  Parmesan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  mo- 
ments so  that  the  cheese  melts  and  browns  a  trifle.  Serve  very 
hot. 


CECI 

Chick  peas 

These  small,  hard  yellow  dried  peas  simply  MUST  be  soaked 
overnight,  and  after  soaking  they  need  long,  slow  cooking  in 
salted  water  to  which  the  addition  of  a  half  teaspoon  of  bicar- 
bonate of  soda  to  each  quart  of  water  helps  in  the  tenderising 
process.  Cooked  in  this  way  until  tender,  and  cooled,  they  make 
a  good  addition  to  salad,  seasoned  with  oil  and  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice. 


[    92    ] 


CECI   ALLA    MARINARA 

Chick  peas,  sailors^  style 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  lb.  chick  peas, 
prepared  as 
suggested  in  the 
foregoing  para- 
graph 

pepper 


2  or  3  tablespoons 

oil 
4  anchovies 
1  tablespoon 

chopped  parsley 


Having  cooked  the  soaked  peas  till  tender,  allow  them  to 
keep  hot  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  been  cooked.  Mean- 
while, heat  the  oil,  and  to  it  add  the  anchovies  cut  small,  the 
parsley  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  well.  Drain  the  'ceci',  and  over 
them  pour  the  prepared  sauce,  mixing  well  before  serving. 


■[    93    ] 


Omelettes, 
Egg  &  Cheese  Dishes 


If  you  are  a  lover  of  the  light,  fluffy  omelette  produced  by  the  | 

deft  hands  of  the  English  or  French  omelette  maker,  you  had  \ 

better  not  order  an  omelette  in  Italy,  for  it  is  a  heavier  affair,  'f 

it  will  be  cooked  in  oil,  and  its  filling,  if  it  is  a  filled  omelette,  si 

will  be  over-generous.   If,  however,  you  like  your  omelettes  | 

solid  and  substantial,  you  will  be  on  safe  ground.  j 

Here  is  a  typical  Italian  recipe  for  an  omelette,  which  can  be  I 

made  *asciutta'  or  'morbida',  that  is  to  say,  dry,  or  not  so  dry,  ] 

and  of  the  two,  the  latter  more  nearly  resembles  the  omelette  i 

of  France  or  England.  \ 


--[    94    ] 


FRITTATA    SEMPLICE 

Plain  Omelette 

TO  SERVE  3 

Break  six  eggs  into  a  basin,  and  beat  them  until  well  mixed 
but  not  frothy,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  Meanwhile  in  a  heavy 
frying  pan,  preferably  one  kept  only  for  the  making  of  omelettes, 
heat  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  and  cook  over  moderate  heat, 
lifting  the  edges  from  time  to  time  with  a  spatula  so  that  the 
uncooked  portion  can  reach  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  become 
cooked.  Continue  until  there  is  no  liquid  remaining.  Then,  if 
you  are  an  expert  pancake  tosser,  and  only  then,  toss  the  ome- 
lette so  as  to  reverse  it.  If  you  are  not  so  skilled,  turn  it  with 
a  metal  slice  and  allow  the  other  side  to  cook.  Turn  on  to 
a  heated  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

So  much  for  the  FRITTATA  ASGIUTTA,  the  dry  ome- 
lette. If  you  prefer  the  more  digestible  FRITTATA  MOR- 
BIDA,  cook  the  omelette  on  the  one  side,  lifting  the  edges  so 
that  the  liquid  portion  may  reach  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and 
become  cooked;  form  it  with  the  spatula  into  an  oval  shape, 
and  without  turning,  slip  it  on  to  a  heated  oval  dish  and  serve 
immediately. 


OMELETTE    WITH    HERBS 

Using  the  same  basic  recipe  and  procedure,  try  your  omelette 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  little  chopped 
basil  or  thyme,  or  a  combination  of  several  chopped  herbs, 
and  as  an  experiment,  try  the  addition  of  a  very  little  chopped 
rosemary. 


FRITTATA    AL    TARTUFI 

Again  starting  with  the  basic  omelette  recipe,  before  turning 
it  into  the  frying  pan,  add  a  finely  chopped  black  or  white 
truffle. 


[     95     ] 


FRITTATA    AL    FUNGHI 

Omelette  with  mushrooms 

While  you  are  preparing  the  eggs,  saut6  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  mushrooms  cut  in  small  pieces  in  a  little  butter  and  add  to 
the  omelette  as  it  is  beginning  to  cook,  with  a  spatula  fold  the 
cooked  portion  over  the  mushrooms  so  that  by  the  time  the 
dish  is  completely  cooked  the  filling  is  enveloped  in  the  egg 
mixture,  slide  on  to  a  heated  oval  platter  and  serve  very  hot. 


FRITTATA   ALLA    SALSA    DI 
POMIDORO 

Omelette  with  tomato  sauce 

Before  cooking,  add  two  tablespoons  of  tomato  sauce   (See 
'SAUCES')  to  the  egg  mixture. 


FRITTATA    AL   FORMAGGIO 

Cheese  Omelette 

To  the  basic  tgg  mixture  add  an  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  before  starting  the  cooking  process. 


FRITTATA   AL    LEGUMI 

Vegetable  Omelette 

If  you  have  a  cupful  of  cooked  young  green  peas,  or  a  similar 
amount  of  cooked  asparagus  tips,  add  these  to  the  omelette 
as  it  is  beginning  to  cook  and  proceed  as  suggested  for  FRIT- 
TATA AL  FUNGHI. 


--[    96    ] 


FRITTATA    AL    PROSCIUTTO 

Ham  Omelette 

Cut  two  or  three  thin  slices  of  ham  into  small  pieces,  and  add 
to  the  eggs  before  starting  to  cook;  proceed  as  suggested  for 
FRITTATA  SEMPLICE.  If  liked,  a  little  ItaHan  salami  may 
be  substituted  for  the  ham. 


FRITTATA    ALLA    CIPOLLE 

Onion  Omelette 

Chop  a  medium  sized  onion  into  small  pieces  and  brown 
in  a  little  butter;  when  cooked  add  to  the  basic  egg  mixture 
before  starting  to  cook  the  omelette. 


FRITTATA   FARCITA 

Stuffed  omelette 

Heat  a  little  butter  in  a  separate  frying  pan  and  in  it  combine 
f  lb.  mushrooms  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  fresh  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  tablespoon 
of  cream.  Allow  to  cook  together  for  five  minutes.  Meanwhile 
make  an  omelette  as  suggested  for  FRITTATA  SEMPLICE, 
and  when  the  underside  is  lightly  cooked,  pour  on  the  sauce, 
and  continue  cooking,  wrapping  the  &gg  mixture  gradually 
around  the  filling.  Serve  very  hot. 


FRITTATA    AL    CARCIOFI 

Artichoke  omelette 

For  this  the  small  globe  artichokes  which  can  be  purchased 
preserved  are  used.  The  fresh  vegetables  are,  of  course,  prefer- 
able, but  are  not  always  easy  to  obtain  in  this  country.  Take 
half  a  dozen  of  the  artichokes,  drain  well,  cut  in  pieces  and  fry 

[    97     ] 


lightly  in  a  little  butter,  meanwhile  preparing  your  FRITTATA 
SEMPLICE,  and  adding  the  artichokes  as  suggested  for  the 
sauce  in  FRITTATA  FARCITA,  just  as  the  underside  of 
the  omelette  is  cooked,  and  wrapping  the  egg  gradually  around 
the  artichokes  so  that  by  the  time  the  omelette  finishes  cooking 
they  are  encajsed  in  it. 

Now  for  a  couple  of  really  'solid'  omelettes. 


FRITTATA   DI    PATATE 

Potato  omelette 

TO  SERVE  4 

Boil  four  medium  sized  potatoes  in  salted  water,  and  when 
cooked,  drain  and  mash  well,  or  pass  through  a  ricer.  Mix 
with  the  lightly  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  and,  if  liked,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon ;  finally 
stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  fry,  first  on  one 
side  and  then  on  the  other,  in  hot  butter.  Serve  hot. 


FRITTATA    COL    RISO 

Rice  omelette 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  pint  milk  3  oz.  rice 

4  eggs  2  oz.  grated 

1  oz.  butter  Parmesan 

salt  to  taste  a  pinch  of 

cinnamon 

Heat  the  milk  and  rice  in  a  double  boiler  and  allow  to  cook 
gently  until  the  rice  is  tender  and  the  milk  absorbed  (about 
1  hour  or  a  Httle  longer).  Stir  in  the  butter,  grated  cheese, 
cinnamon  and  salt,  and  when  it  has  cooled  somewhat,  add  the 
eggs,  beaten  lightly.  Mix  well,  and  fry  in  hot  butter,  first  on 
one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  or  if  preferred,  bake  in  a  buttered 
souffl6  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  till  browned. 
Solid,  but  satisfying,  this  one. 

[    98    1 ' 


UOVE    STRACCIATE 
AL   FORMAGGIO 

Scrambled  eggs  with  cheese 

TO  SERVE  4 

6  eggs  2  ozs.  butter 

1 J  to  2  ozs.  A  little  cream  if 

grated  Parmesan  available 

Beat  the  eggs  lightly,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  if  avail- 
able. Meanwhile  warm  the  butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  pour  in 
the  tgg  mixture,  and  cook  over  moderate  heat,  stirring  con- 
tinually, until  the  eggs  are  scrambled;  at  the  last  moment  stir 
in  the  grated  cheese  and  serve  immediately  on  buttered  toast. 


UOVA    COL    RISO 

Eggs  with  rice 

TO  SERVE  4 

If  you  have  a  teacupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  this  is  a  good  way 
of  using  it  up. 

Allow  two  eggs  per  person,  place  them  in  boiling  water  and 
allow  them  to  cook  for  not  longer  than  five  minutes,  and  as 
soon  as  they  are  sufficiently  cool  to  handle,  shell  them.  Mean- 
while, prepare  eight  small  ramekin  dishes  by  greasing  fairly 
liberally  with  butter,  and  placing  a  little  rice  in  the  bottom 
of  each;  place  a  shelled  egg  on  top  of  the  rice,  and  cover  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  grated  Parmesan  and  dot  with  butter.  They  can 
then  be  'poached',  by  placing  the  dishes  in  a  shallow  pan 
with  hot  water  halfway  up  the  sides  of  the  dishes,  and  cooking 
over  moderate  heat  for  about  five  minutes  or  until  the  cheese 
melts,  or  alternatively  they  may  be  baked  in  the  oven  for  a 
similar  length  of  time. 


[    99    ] 


FRIED    CHEESE 

For  each  person  allow  two  slices  of  Bel  Paese  about  the  size 
of  half  a  slice  of  bread  and  cut  very  thin.  Flour  lightly,  and  dip 
first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  breadcrumbs  and  fry  golden 
brown,  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other  in  hot  butter,  drain- 
ing them  after  cooking  so  as  to  remove  surplus  fat.  SERVE 
VERY  HOT. 


[    100   ] 


Fish 


Have  you  ever  stopped  to  consider  the  lack  of  imagination 
shown  by  the  average  —  and  I  mean  the  average,  not 
the  exceptional  —  English  housewife  where  the  cooking 
and  serving  of  fish  are  concerned?  Yet  look  at  our  coastline, 
look  at  the  variety  of  fish  obtainable  at  most  fishmongers' 
shops,  and  you'll  probably  agree  that  there's  no  real  reason 
for  our  slavish  adherence  to . . . 


Boiled  cod . . . 

Soused  Herrings  —  delicious  though  they  undoubtedly 
are .  .  . 

Fish'n  chips . . . 

With  crab  or  lobster,  or  a  few  shrimps  or  prawns  for 
a  special  treat. 

There's  really  no  reason  on  earth  why  Friday,  Fish  Day, 
should  not  produce  the  tastiest  and  most  exciting  meals  of  the 
week.  Take  a  look  and  see  what  our  friends,  the  Italians,  do 
about  fish.  To  be  sure,  fish  such  as  octopus  and  squid  are  not 
easily  come  by  over  here,  and  many  of  us  wouldn't  fancy 
eating  them  if  they  were,  and  for  scampi  we  may  have  to  make  do 
with  Dublin  Bay  prawns,  but  remembering  the  galaxy  of  fish 
now  at  our  disposal,  we  can  enlarge  our  repertoire  of  dishes 
very  considerably.  The  following  few  recipes  are  offered  in  the 
hope  that  they  will  encourage  experiments. 


[    101    \ 


FISH    FRIED 
IN   THE    SICILIAN   WAY 

Fry  this  now  and  again  as  an  alternative  to  our  own  more 
conservative  methods  of  cooking. 

First  prepare  your  fish  by  cleaning,  washing  and  wiping 
dry,  and  finally  dipping  in  flour. 

Then  in  a  heavy  pan  heat  a  good  layer  of  good  quality  olive 
oil;  when  it  is  really  hot,  sprinkle  generously  with  salt  and  when 
it  is  smoking  put  in  your  prepared  fish,  brown  quickly  on  both 
sides,  cover  the  pan,  and  lower  the  heat  until  the  fish  is  cooked 
through.  Serve  very  hot. 


FISH    AU    GRATIN 

Pesce  gratinato 


TO  SERVE  6 

6  ozs.  rice  J  lb.  butter 

1  lb.  floury  potatoes  f  lb.  previously 

2  tablespoonsful  boiled  fish,  from 
flour                                              which  skin  and 

J  pint  milk  bones  have  been 

2  tablespoons  removed 

grated  Parmesan  breadcrumbs 

Cook  the  rice  as  directed  for  'BOILED  RICE';  when  cooked 
and  drained,  replace  in  saucepan,  and  mix  with  beaten  ^gg 
yolk  and  6  ozs.  of  butter,  and  allow  to  keep  warm  until  the  butter 
is  absorbed.  Meanwhile  cook  and  mash  the  potatoes  with 
a  little  butter. 
'Prepare  a  Bechamel  sauce  of  2  ozs.  butter,  2  tablespoons 
flour  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  or  slightly  more  of  hot  milk. 

Flake  the  fish  finely. 

Having  made  these  preparations,  butter  a  fireproof  dish 
and  in  it  place  the  rice,  forming  a  flat  'bed'  on  which  to  place 
the  flaked  fish.  Form  a  border  with  the  mashed  potato;  pour 
the  Bechamel  over  the  fish,  and  add  a  layer  of  Parmesan, 
grated  and  mixed  with  crisp  breadcrumbs.  Cook  in  a  hot 
oven  until  the  Parmesan  has  melted  and  the  Bechamel  has 
taken  on  a  golden  colour. 

f  102  ] : 


FISH    CAKES 

TO  SER\^  4 

about  a  cupful  1  tablespoonful  of 

each  of  cold  fish,  chopped  parsley 

and  mashed  1  egg  beaten 

potatoes  pepper  and  salt 

Flake  the  fish  and  combine  with  the  potatoes,  seasonings 
and  egg;  form  into  small  cakes  and  fry  until  brown  on  both 
sides  in  hot  butter  or  hot  olive  oil. 


COD    AU    GRATIN 

Allow  one  middle  steak  of  cod  per  person  and  allow  to  marinate 
by  laying  it  in  a  flat  dish  and  covering  with  a  wineglassful  of 
oil,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  After 
two  hours  drain,  sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs  and  grill  on  a  hot 
grill  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other. 


GRILLED    SOLE 

As  with  cod,  allow  your  sole  to  marinate  for  two  hours  in 
a  marinade  composed  of  a  wineglassful  of  oil,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  —  or  a  whole  lemon  if  liked  —  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste;  drain,  cover  with  breadcrumbs  and  grill  on  a  hot  grill. 


In  Tuscany  there  is  a  favourite  fish  dish,  very  rich,  and 
extremely  indigestible,  but,  having  been  warned,  you  may  stili 
wish  to  try  it: 

CACCIUCCO    ALLA    TOSCANA 

This  dish  is  interesting  if  an  assortment  of  fish  is  used.  Try  the 
combination  of  sole  with  red  mullet.  Wash  and  clean  your  fish 
and  wipe  dry. 

[    103   ] ■_ 


Meanwhile,  in  a  stewpan  heat  a  couple  of  tablespoonsful 
of  olive  oil  and  in  it  brown  a  chopped  onion,  a  crushed  clove 
of  garlic  and  a  little  chopped  parsley ;  add  rather  more  than 
half  a  pound  of  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
pepper  and  salt;  when  the  tomatoes  are  cooked,  add  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  boil  for  a  few  minutes  longer  and  then  pass 
through  a  sieve  or  a  food  mill.  Return  the  strained  sauce  to 
the  stewpan,  and  in  it  cook  your  fish  for  half  an  hour  or  until 
tender;  finally  add  a  further  tablespoonful  of  oil.  Serve  the 
fish  on  a  heated  dish  with  the  sauce  poured  over  and  with 
it  serve  fingers  of  toast  with  which  to  soak  up  the  sauce  —  you 
have  been  warned,  this  dish  is  rich,  and  somewhat  indigestible. 


ARAGOSTA   LESSATA 

Boiled  lobster 

You'll  probably  prefer  to  buy  him  ready  boiled,  but  if  you 
can  bear  to  cope  with  the  live  beast,  he's  much  better  boiled 
at  home.  Place  your  lobster  in  a  deep  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
so  that  he  is  completely  covered,  and  boil  him  for  three  quarters 
of  an  hour  if  he  is  a  large  fellow,  half  an  hour  for  his  smaller 
brother,  and  at  the  end  of  that  time,  if  you  are  going  to  eat 
him  hot,  remove  him  from  the  water,  rub  the  shell  with  a  little 
olive  oil  to  brighten  tiie  colour,  and  split  him  in  two  lengthways, 
and  serve  with  olive  oil,  lemon  and  salt  and  pepper. 


COLD    LOBSTER 

Allow  your  lobster  to  cool  before  cutting  open  lengthways, 
then  crack  the  claws  so  that  the  meat  may  be  extracted  easily, 
and  serve  with  a  green  salad  dressed  with  oil  and  lemon  juice. 


[    104    ] 


FRIED    LOBSTER 

Having  prepared  your  lobster,  remove  the  meat  from  the  body 
and  the  claws,  dip  them  first  in  oil  and  then  in  flour  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  or  in  a  frying  batter  and  fry  in  hot  oil. 
Serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


CRAWFISH 

These,  known  in  some  districts  as  'lobster  tails',  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  lobster  in  any  of  the  foregoing  recipes. 


SOFT    SHELL    CRABS 

These  are  tiny  crabs  caught  at  a  time  when  they  are  changing 
their  shells,  and  they  are  considered  a  delicacy  in  early  May 
in  Venice.  Minus  their  shells  the  crabs  rise  to  the  surface  of  the 
water  and  are  caught  in  great  quantities.  The  method  is  to 
flour  them  and  fry  them  while  still  alive  in  boiling  oil  —  deli- 
cious if  you  like  them  and  can  forget  the  wholesale  murder 
that  has  taken  place  to  provide  you  with  your  dainty  dish. 


CALAMARETTI 

Again  a  dish  met  with  along  the  Adriatic  coast,  where  baby 
inkfish  the  size  of  large  house  spiders  are  fried  whole  in  butter, 
often  accompanied  by  scampi  —  truly  worth  trying  and  rather 
less  off-putting  than  the  soft  shell  crabs  if  you  are  of  a  squeam- 
ish nature. 

If  you  are  a  lover  of  eels,  here  are  a  few  typically  Italian 
ways  of  preparing  them. 


[    105   ] 


ANGUILLA    ALLA    FERRARESE 

Eels  as  served  in  Ferrara 

TO  SERVE  4 

IJ  lbs.  eels,  salt  and  pepper 

cleaned  and  cut  a  pinch  of  mixed 
in  slices  an  inch  spice 

thick  a  pinch  of  thyme 

1  wineglassful  1  tgg  lightly 
white  wine  beaten 

I  bay  leaf  breadcrumbs 

Having  prepared  the  eels,  place  in  a  casserole  and  over  them 
pour  the  wine  mixed  with  the  spices  and  herbs,  add  the  bay 
leaf.  Cover  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  lift  the  eels  from  the  sauce, 
drain,  dip  in  oiled  butter,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  breadcrumbs 
flavoured  if  liked  with  a  little  nutmeg,  and  fry  brown  on  both 
sides  in  hot  butter. 


ROAST    EELS 

Large  eels  may  be  cut  in  thickish  slices  and  cooked  on  a  spit, 
with  a  bay  leaf  or  two  and  a  sprig  of  rosemary  interspersed  for 
flavour,  and  basted  from  time  to  time  with  olive  oil  and  sprin- 
kled with  salt.  Since  we  in  England  cannot  often  cook  in  this 
fashion,  the  next  best  thing  is  to  lay  the  slices  in  a  flat  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  a  wineglassful  of  olive  oil  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  allow  them  to 
remain  in  this  marinade  for  at  least  an  hour,  turning  them 
from  time  to  time  so  that  it  may  penetrate  the  fish,  then  place 
in  an  oiled  fireproof  dish,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till  tender, 
basting  from  time  to  time  with  the  marinade. 


[    106    ]- 


ROAST    EELS 
A  variation 

Instead  of  a  bay  leaf  or  two,  use  the  same  number  of  bruised 
leaves  of  sage,  and  so  that  the  flavour  may  penetrate,  lay  the 
fish,  when  it  comes  to  roasting  it,  on  the  sage  leaves  in  an  oiled 
fireproof  dish. 


STEWED    EELS  i 

TO  SERVE  4 

1 J  lbs.  eels  1  oz.  butter 

2  tablespoons  oil  1  teaspoonful 

2  leaves  of  sage,  chopped  parsley 

chopped  1  wineglassful  white 
1  clove  of  garlic  wine 

Skin  and  clean  the  eels  and  cut  in  pieces  about  2  inches  in 
length.  Melt  the  oil  and  butter  together  in  a  stewpan,  add 
the  herbs,  the  garlic  and  the  eels,  and  the  wine ;  cover  closely 
and  cook  over  moderate  heat  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
adding  a  little  water  from  time  to  time  if  it  shows  signs  of 
drying  up. 


ARINGA    ALLA    GRATELLA 

Grilled  herrings 

TO  SERVE  4 

8  medium  sized  a  little  milk 

herrings 

Clean  the  herrings  and  split  them  open,  removing  the  backbone. 
Lay  them  in  a  flat  dish  and  cover  with  a  little  milk  and  leave 
them  to  soak  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Drain;  oil  them  lightly, 
and  grill  on  a  hot  grill,  serving  them  with  sections  of  lemon. 


[    107    \ 


MERLUZZO    ALLA   FIORENTINA 

Cod,  as  cooked  in  Florence 

TO  SERVE  4 


6  steaks  of  cod 

a  little  chopped 

salt  and  pepper 

fennel 

a  wineglassful  of 

oil 

white  wine 

flour 

Oil  a  flat  fireproof  dish  and  in  it  place  the  lightly  floured 
steaks  of  cod  and  over  them  pour  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil, 
the  fennel,  pepper  and  salt  and  white  wine  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  half  an  hour,  basting  at  intervals  with  the  sauce. 


MERLUZZO    IN    SALSA 

Cod  with  tomatoes 

TO  SERVE  4 

6  steaks  of  cod  6  tomatoes,  skinned 

1  tablespoon  olive  and  cut  in  pieces 

oil  1  small  onion 

chopped 

Heat  the  onion  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  brown  the  onion;  add 
the  tomato  cut  small  and  cook  together  for  five  minutes,  add 
the  fish,  cover  the  pan  and  cook  over  moderate  heat  30  minutes. 

We  in  England  are  apt  to  turn  up  our  noses  at  the  grey 
slabs  of  salt  cod  we  see  hanging  in  a  fishmonger's  shop,  but  the 
Italian  cook  can  teach  us  several  good  ways  of  serving  this 
ill-favoured  fish. 

First  of  all  it  must  be  remembered  that  in  order  to  render 
it  acceptable  at  all  it  should  be  soaked  for  at  least  24  hours, 
and  if  this  can  be  done  in  running  water,  so  much  the  better; 
failing  that,  change  the  water  several  times  during  the  soaking 
process.  At  the  end  of  the  time,  skin  the  fish,  and  remove  the 
bones  before  starting  any  cooking  experiments  with  it.  In  Italy 
it  goes  under  two  names,  baccala  and  stoccafisso. 


[    108   ]- 


STOCCAFISSO    IN    SALSA 

Salt  cod  in  sauce 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  of  salt  cod,  salt  and  pepper 

soaked  for  at  1  medium  onion 

least  24  hours,  chopped  small 

skinned  and  1  stalk  of  celery 

boned  chopped 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  2  tablespoons 

1  medium  sized  tomato  sauce 
beetroot 

Heat  the  oil  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  brown  the  onion  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  the  beetroot,  washed  and  cut  in  cubes, 
the  celery,  the  cod,  cut  in  small  pieces,  the  salt  and  pepper 
and  cook  very  slowly  for  at  least  two  hours;  when  the  beetroot 
is  tender,  add  the  tomato  sauce  and  from  time  to  time  add 
a  little  water  if  the  dish  shows  signs  of  drying. 


A  variation 

Using  the  preceding  recipe,  substitute  for  the  tomato  sauce 
a  wineglassful  of  white  wine. 


[    109   ] 


STOCCAFISSO    ALLA   LIGURE 

Salt  cod  as  cooked  in  Liguria 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  salt  cod,  soaked  in  water  for  at  least  24  hours, 
skinned,  boned  and  cut  in  small  pieces 

1  onion  cut  in  1  clove  garlic, 
small  pieces  crushed 

1  small  carrot  cut  1  stick  celery  cut 
in  cubes  small 

1  tablespoon  2  anchovies  cut 
chopped  parsley  small 

pepper,  salt  and  J  lb.  fresh  mush- 
nutmeg  rooms 

4  tomatoes,  skinned  1  tablespoonful 
and  seeded  flour 

1  tablespoonful 
olive  oil 

Heat  the  oil  in  a  stewpan,  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  vegetables 
and  anchovies  for  a  few  minutes,  sprinkle  with  the  flour,  and 
add  slowly  about  half  a  pint  of  warm  water,  stirring  constantly. 
Finally  add  the  fish,  cut  small,  cover  the  stewpan  and  cook 
slowly  for  two  hours  or  a  little  longer,  adding  more  water 
from  time  to  time  if  the  dish  looks  like  becoming  too  dry. 


CREAM    OF   BACCALA 

Creamed  salt  cod 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  of  the  best  cut  of  salt  cod,  soaked  24  hours, 
skinned  and  boned  and  then  steamed  for  IJ  hours 

Pound  the  fish  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  little  olive  oil  from  time 
to  time  and  working  till  the  whole  is  reduced  to  a  creamy  mass, 
adding,  if  it  appears  too  dry,  a  little  warm  milk.  At  the  end 
of  the  pounding,  re-heat  in  a  double  boiler,  then  pile  on  a 
warmed  dish  and  serve  with  slices  of  crisply  fried  bread. 


4    110   ] 


POLPETTINE    DI    STOCCOFISSO 

Rissoles  of  salt  cod 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  salt  cod,  pre-  2  beaten  eggs 

pared  as  for  cream  1  tablespoonful 
of  baccala  and  chopped  parsley 

allowed  to  cool  a  pinch  of  thyme 

Mix  well  together  and  form  into  small  flat  rissoles.  Fry  in  hot 
oil  and  ser\^e  with  sections  of  lemon. 


TUNNY   FISH   AS    COOKED 
IN    SICILY 

For  this  dish  the  fresh  tunny  is  needed,  and  the  best  cut  is  the 
stomach  (ventresca),  of  which  you  should  allow  one  thin  slice 
per  person. 

Lay  the  slices  in  a  flat  dish  and  cover  with  a  dressing  com- 
posed of  half  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine,  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch 
of  nutmeg  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  allow  them  to 
remain  in  this  dressing  for  two  hours,  turning  them  from  time 
to  time  so  that  the  dressing  can  penetrate  well.  Drain,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  chopped  fresh  rosemary  and  a  little  crushed  garlic, 
and  grill  on  both  sides  on  a  hot  grill,  basting  it  with  the  dress- 
ing. When  it  is  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  decorate  it  with 
one  or  two  anchovies  cut  in  strips  before  sending  it  to  the  table. 


TUNNY    WITH    PEAS 

Again  for  this  dish  you  need  thin  sHces  of  fresh  tunny,  remem- 
bering that  the  'ventresca'  is  the  best  cut.  Brown  on  both  sides 
in  hot  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  then  add  a  medium  sized  onion 
chopped  finely,'  and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  fresh 
parsley,  and  cook  all  together  for  ten  minutes.  Meanwhile, 
partly  cook  some  fresh  green  peas,  allovv^ing  three  or  four  ounces 
when  sheUed  to  each  slice  of  tunny  fish ;  drain  and  add  to  the 
pan  in  which  the  fish  is  cooking,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water,  and  a  similar  quantity  of  tomato  sauce  (See 
'SAUCES')  for  each  slice  of  fish,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for 
a  further  twenty  minutes. 

[  111  ]^ 


TUNNY    AS    COOKED 
IN    LIGURIA 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  lb.  tunny 
Ventresca'  cut  in 
thin  slices 

2  anchovies 
J  oz.  dried 

mushrooms, 
reconstituted  by 
soaking  in  warm 
water  for  ten 
minutes 


1  clove  garlic, 
crushed 

1  heaped 
tablespoonful 
chopped  fresh 
parsley 

2  tablespoonsful 
olive  oil 

J  pint  white  wine 
1  tablespoonful  flour 


Heat  the  oil,  add  the  flour,  then  slowly  add  the  wine,  the 
anchovies  pounded  to  a  paste  and  the  other  ingredients,  except 
for  the  fish;  allow  to  cook  together  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  Add  the  tunny  fish,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
cover  the  stewpan,  and  lower  the  heat,  allowing  to  cook  slowly 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  fish  to  a  hot  dish, 
and  to  the  sauce  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  bring  this  to  boiling  point  and  pour 
over  the  fish  and  serve  hot. 


[   112  ] 


STURGEON,    HOUSEWIFE 
STYLE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  Sturgeon  cut  2  slices  bread, 
into  thin  slices  soaked  in  milk 

1  chopped  onion  and  squeezed  dry 

1  tablespoonful  1  wineglassful 
chopped  fresh  of  sherry 

parsley  1  egg,  beaten  lightly 

salt  and  pepper  breadcrumbs  for 

a  pinch  of  nutmeg  coating 

Mix  together  the  chopped  onion,  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and 
soaked  bread,  and  use  as  a  filling  between  each  two  slices  of 
the  fish.  Dip  the  'sandwiches'  in  the  beaten  egg  and  then  in 
breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  butter,  fiirst  on  one  side  and  then 
on  the  other,  then  pour  over  them  the  sherry,  and  allow  to 
cook  all  together  for  quarter  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  the 
sauce  poured  over  the  slicei  of  fisb. 


TRIGLIE    ALLA   LIVORNESE 

Red  mullet  Leghorn  style 

Allow  one  medium-sized  red  mullet  per  person.  Remove  the 
inside,  the  fins  and  the  scales  and  wash  well.  Lay  the  fish  side 
by  side  in  a  flat  dish  in  which  you  have  prepared  a  'soffritto* 
of  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  a  clove  of  garlic  crushed,  a  little 
chopped  fennel,  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  for 
ten  minutes;  then  cover  with  tomato  sauce  (See  'SAUCES') 
lower  the  heat  slightly  and  allow  to  finish  cooking,  for  a  further 
half  hour  in  a  moderate  ove*i. 


113    ] 


FRIED    RED    MULLET 


1  medium  sized  fish 
per  person 

2  tablespoons  olive 
oil 

pepper  and  salt  to 
taste 


salted  anchovies 
1  clove  garlic, 

crushed 
1  tablespoon 

chopped  parsley 


Heat  the  oil,  and  in  it  fry  the  chopped  anchovies,  and  allow 
the  mullet  to  brown  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other; 
when  brown,  sprinkle  over  the  fish  the  parsley  and  crushed 
garlic,  lower  the  heat  and  allow  to  finish  cooking  —  the  mullet 
need  about  fifteen  minutes  cooking  in  all;  just  before  removing 
from  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoon  of  capers  to  the  sauce  and  pour 
over  the  fish  when  serving. 


TRIGLIE    ALLA   LIGURE 

Red  mullet  as  cooked  in  Liguria 

TO  SERVE  4 


4  medium  sized  red 
mullet 

1  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley 

2  anchovies  cut  in 
small  pieces 

1  tablespoonful  olive 

oil 
J  pint  tomato  sauce 


1  chopped  onion 

a  little  chopped 
fennel 

J  oz.  dried 
mushrooms 
reconstituted  in 
warm  water 

1  wineglassful 
white  wine 


Heat  the  oil  in  a  heavy  pan  and  in  it  place  the  onion  parsley, 
fennel  and  chopped  mushrooms  and  anchovies,  and  allow 
to  cook  together  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  tomato  sauce 
and  white  wine  and  cook  for  a  further  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  Meanwhile  clean  and  prepare  the  fish  and  lay 
them  side  by  side  in  a  flat  earthenware  dish.  When  the  sauce  is 
cooked,  pour  over  the  fish,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook 
for  twenty  minutes. 


[    114  ] 


TRIGLIE    ALLA    TRIESTINA 

Red  Mullet  as  cooked  in  Trieste 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  red  mullet  of  1  tablespoonful 

medium  size  olive  oil 

juice  of  half  1  tablespoonful 

a  lemon  chopped  capers 
1  wineglassful 

white  wine 

Heat  together  in  a  heavy  pan  the  oil,  lemon  juice,  capers  and 
wine,  and  after  ten  minutes  add  the  cleaned  fish  and  allow 
to  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  turning  the  fish  carefully  at  the  end 
of  half  this  time.  Serve  hot. 


A   GENOESE   WAY   OF    COOKING 

FISH 

This  method  may  be  used  to  advantage  when  cooking  trout, 
carp,  eels,  mackerel,  etc. 

After  preparing  the  fish  for  cooking,  lay  it  in  a  stewpan,  and 
cover  with  the  following  sauce,  allowing  it  to  cook  gently  for 
twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour  or  until  tender. 

SAUC  E 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  1  tablespoonful 

1  chopped  onion  flour 

\  wineglassful  white  \  pint  water  or 

wine  fish  stock 

\  oz.  dried  1  tablespoonful  to- 

mushrooms  mato  sauce 

salt  and  pepper  1  or  two  anchovies 

2  ozs.  butter  cut  small 

Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  brown  the  onion.  Then  add  the  butter, 
and  stir  in  the  flour;  slowly  add  the  wine,  water  and  tomato 
sauce,  stirring  all  the  time  to  make  sure  the  mixture  does  not 
stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  add  the  dried  mushrooms, 
reconstituted  in  a  little  warm  water  and  cut  small,  and  the 

[    115   ] 


anchovies  and  seasonings.  Cook  together  for  ten  minutes,  then 
pass  through  a  sieve,  and  use  as  suggested  when  cooking  trout, 
carp,  mackerel,  etc.  It  is  also  good  with  cod  fillets.  Just  before 
serving,  remove  the  fish  and  keep  hot,  and  add  to  the  sauce 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  cook  the  sauce  for  a  further  two  or 
three  minutes  and  when  serving,  pour  over  the  cooked  fish. 
The  fish  section  of  an  Italian  cookery  book  would  be  far 
from  complete  if  no  reference  were  made  to  'scampi',  those 
natives  of  the  waters  of  the  Adriatic  that,  though  they  resemble 
our  own  Dublin  Bay  prawns,  are  plumper  and  have  a  some- 
what finer  flavour.  Since  it  is  not  easy  to  obtain  'scampi'  at  one's 
local  fishmongers,  Dublin  Bay  prawns  may  be  substituted, 
though  with  a  wishful  thought  for  the  finer  flavour  the  dish 
would  have  'if  only'  one  were  on  the  shores  of  the  Adriatic  and 
able  to  obtain  the  right  ingredient  with  ease. 


FRIED    SCAMPI 

For  this  you  may  suit  your  own  particular  fancy;  allowing  ten 
or  a  dozen  per  person,  remove  the  shells,  and  fry  the  fish  in 
any  of  these  three  ways : 

Dust  lightly  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  olive  oil,  serving  with 
sections  of  lemon. 

Dip  first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  crisp  breadcrumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  oil  or  hot  butter  and  serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 

Dip  in  a  light  frying  batter  and  fry  in  hot  butter,  again 
serving  with  sections  of  lemon,  or  with  Sauce  Tartare  (See 
'SAUCES'). 


[    116   ]-- 


SCAMPI    ALLA   LOMBARDA 

Scampi  as  cooked  in  Lombardy 


TO 

SERVE  4 

36  to  40  scampi  or 

4  cloves 

Dublin  Bay 

J  small  onion, 

prawns 

chopped  small 

1  wineglassful  white 

1  tablespoonful 

wine  vinegar 

chopped  parsley 

1  bay  leaf 

a  little  chopped  fennel 

1  clove  garlic 

salt  to  taste 

crushed 

Mix  together  all  the  ingredients  except  the  fish,  and  cook 
together  for  five  minutes  in  a  stewpan;  then  add  the  fish,  re- 
moved from  shell,  cover,  and  cook  over  a  medium  heat  for 
quarter  of  an  hour  or  t^venty  minutes,  stirring  from  time  to 
time.  Serve  very  hot. 

If  liked,  shrimps  may  be  substituted  for  the  scampi  in  the 
foregoing  recipe. 


SCAMPI    ALLA    MODENESE 

Scampi  as  cooked  in  Modena 


TO  SERVE  4 


36  to  40  scampi 

or  Dublin  Bay 

Prawns 
1  oz.  butter 
1  tablespoonful 

chopped  parsley 
a  little  chopped 

thyme 


1  small  onion 

chopped  fine 
1  small  carrot, 

diced 
1  wineglassful 

white  wine 
1  wineglassful 

wliite  vinegar 


Heat  the  butter,  add  the  other  ingredients,  with  the  exception 
of  the  fish  and  cook  together  for  quarter  of  an  hour.  Meanvv^hile 
prepare  the  fish,  add  them  to  the  sauce  and  cook  over  a  mod- 
erate flame  for  a  further  quarter  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot, 
covered  with  the  sauce. 


117    ]- 


NASELLO    CON   PISELLI 

Whiting  with  peas 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  whiting  1  medium  sized  on- 

1  tablespoonful  ion,  chopped  fine 

chopped  parsley  1  tablespoonful  oil 

1  lb.  shelled  green  1  tablespoonful 

peas  (weighed  tomato  conserve 

after  shelling) 

Half  cook  the  peas  in  boiling  salted  water  and  drain.  Meanwhile, 
heat  the  oil  in  a  stewpan,  and  in  it  brown  the  onion,  parsley 
and  the  whiting;  when  the  whiting  is  browned  on  both  sides, 
add  the  drained  peas,  and  the  tomato  conserve  diluted  with 
a  little  boiling  water,  and  allow  to  cook  for  a  further  fifteen 
minutes  over  moderate  heat. 


CURLED    WHITING 

If  you  can  persuade  your  fishmonger  to  prepare  whiting  in 
the  old-fashioned  way,  skinning  them  and  passing  the  tail 
through  the  eye  sockets,  allowing  one  per  person,  flour  the 
fish  lightly  and  fry  a  golden  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  butter 
in  a  heavy  frying  pan.  Serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


PESCI   ACCARTOCCIATI 

Fish  in  paper  cases 

You  will  need  pieces  of  greaseproof  paper,  one  for  each  piece 
of  fish  to  be  cooked,  and  of  a  size  large  enough  to  envelop  the 
fish  entirely  and  wrap  well  over  so  that  no  juices  escape.  Oil 
the  pieces  of  paper  on  one  side,  and  oil  whatever  fish  you  are 
planning  to  cook,  and  lay  it  on  the  paper,  after  sprinkling 
it  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  chopped  onion,  a  scraping  of 
garlic,  chopped  parsley  or  other  herbs  you  may  fancy,  half 

[    118   ] 


a  bay  leaf  if  you  like  the  flavour.  Close  the  paper  by  folding  the 
edges  together  carefully  so  that  the  juices  cannot  escape,  and 
cook  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  fish  is  served  in  its  paper  enve- 
lopes, so  that  each  person  may  be  served  with  the  fish  with  the 
sauce  unescaped. 

This  is  an  excellent  method  of  cooking  trout,  steaks  of  salmon, 
steaks  of  turbot,  cod  or  halibut,  or  whole  prepared  mackerel. 


FISHTOBOIL 

A  wise  precaution  is  to  wrap  fish  intended  for  boiling  in  a  piece 
of  muslin ;  this  prevents  it  breaking  when  it  is  removed  from  the 
saucepan  in  w^hich  it  has  boiled. 

Allow  ten  minutes  per  pound. 

Start  your  fish  in  cold  water,  in  which  you  have  placed  three 
or  four  peppercorns,  a  bay  leaf  and  either  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  or  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  bring  it  to  the  boil 
quite  slowly;  once  boiling,  allow  it  to  simmer  for  the  required 
time. 


FISH,    TO    ROAST 

In  a  great  many  native  Italian  recipes  you  will  notice  the  in- 
struction to  toast  the  fish  'alio  spiedo'  (on  a  spit),  and  since  this 
is  an  implement  not  often  to  be  found  in  the  English  kitchen, 
roasting  in  the  oven  has  to  be  substituted.  The  oven  should  be 
hot,  and  the  fish  scored  across  with  a  knife  and  brushed  with 
olive  oil,  and  placed  on  an  oiled  grid  in  a  baking  dish  or  tin. 
Allow  about  ten  minutes  per  pound  and  baste  from  time  to  time 
with  oil  and  any  juices  that  may  have  fallen  into  the  roasting 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  before  serving. 


[    119 


OSTRICHE   ALLA   VENEZIANA 
Oysters^  Venetian  style 

At  the  risk  of  being  accused  of  heresy  for  suggesting  methods  of 
cooking  oysters,  I  would  suggest  trying  this  Venetian  method. 

Allow  half  a  dozen  oysters  per  person ;  open  the  fish,  loosen 
them  in  their  shells,  and  to  each  add  a  little  of  the  following 
mixture,  and  a  few  drops  of  olive  oil  before  grilling  under  a  hot 
grill.  Serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 

MIXTURE 


I  tablespoon  chopped 

fresh  parsley 
1  stalk  of  celery 

chopped  finely 
1  clove  of  garlic, 

crushed 


a  pinch  of  chopped 

fresh  thyme 
pepper  to  taste 
1  tablespoonful  crisp 

breadcrumbs 


PIGS    IN   BLANKETS 

Oysters  again,  and  oysters  cooked.  Allow  six  per  person,  remove 
from  the  shells,  wrap  each  oyster  in  a  strip  of  ham  or  streaky 
bacon,  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 


OR    WITHOUT    BLANKETS 

Omitting  the  wrapping  of  ham  or  bacon,  dip  the  shelled  oysters 
first  in  beaten  tgg  and  then  in  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  hot  but- 
ter. Serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


[    120   j 


FRITTO    MISTO    MARE 

Mixed  Fried  Fish 

If  you  go  to  Italy,  and  having  visited  a  town  on  the  coast  come 
away  without  having  eaten  at  least  one  dish  of  Fritto  Misto 
Mare,  then  you  might  almost  as  well  have  stayed  at  home.  In 
Venice  you  will  probably  be  served  with  a  mixture  of  tiny 
octopus,  not  much  larger  than  a  hefty  house  spider,  scampi, 
and  minute  mullet,  all  dipped  in  a  light  batter  and  fried  in  hot 
oil,  drained  and  served  with  sections  of  lemon. 

Farther  south  you  may  meet  some  peculiar  white  circles  in 
your  Fritto  Misto  Mare  that  have  a  more  than  slight  resem- 
blance in  texture  to  the  pencil  eraser  of  school  days.  Rubber  it 
isn't,  but  ink-fish  it  is,  and  it  should  previously  have  undergone 
a  fairly  lengthy  operation  of  skinning,  having  its  insides  re- 
moved, its  eyes  and  ink-bag  removed  also,  and  the  balance  boiled 
until  tender,  and  this  may  take  up  to  an  hour  if  you  want  to 
avoid  that  too-great  resemblance  to  pencil  eraser  texture. 
When  tender,  and  not  before,  the  ink-fish  should  be  cut  into 
rings,  and  if  you're  frying  your  own  Fritto  Misto  Mare,  allow 
six  of  these  per  person,  with  the  same  number  of  scampi  and 
one  or  two  tiny  mullet. 


CLAMS    OR   MUSSELS    COOKED 
WITH    EGGS 

AUow  about  IJ  pints  of  the  fish  per  person. 

Before  cooking,  leave  them  in  slightly  salted  water  for  two 
hours  so  that  they  may  open  and  the  sand  may  come  out  of 
them. 

Meanwhile  prepare  in  a  heavy  pan  a  'soffritto'  of  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  oil  in  which  you  have  browned  a  small  chopped 
onion  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley ;  add  the  fish  and, 
when  they  are  opened,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  or  three 
eggs,  depending  on  the  quantity  of  fish,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Stir  the  mixture,  and  keep  it  just  below  boiling  point, 
and  serve  as  soon  as  it  is  well  mixed. 


-[    121   ] 


CLAMS    or    MUSSELS, 
FIS;^HERMEN'S    STYLE 

Having  cleaned  the  fish,  place  them  in  a  covered  pan  over 
a  fairly  strong  heat  until  they  begin  to  open;  uncover  the  pan 
at  this  point,  and  sprinkle  the  fish  with  chopped  parsley  and 
crushed  garlic,  and  serve  as  soon  as  all  are  opened.  You  will 
find  they  make  sufficient  juice  of  their  own  not  to  require 
additional  liquid. 


SOLE    WITH    WHITE    WINE 

Allow  one  medium  sized  sole  per  person.  Skin  and  remove  the 
head  and  fins  and  dust  with  flour.  Heat  a  little  butter  in  a  heavy 
pan  until  it  bubbles,  lay  in  the  fish  and  cook  first  on  one  side 
then  the  other,  then  pour  over  it  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine 
for  each  fish,  and  a  little  fish  stock  made  from  boiling  together 
the  head,  skin  and  fins.  Reduce  the  heat  and  cook  gently  until 
tender,  by  which  time  the  sauce  will  have  reduced  in  volume. 
When  serving,  strain  the  sauce  over  the  fish. 

The  substitution  of  cider  for  white  wine  is  well  worth  trying. 


SOLE   FRIED    IN    OIL 

Allow  one  medium-sized  fish  per  person;  skin,  remove  head 
and  fins.  Dip  first  in  flour  and  then  in  beaten  egg,  and  fry 
quickly,  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other,  in  hot  oil  until 
light  golden  brown.  Serve  very  hot  with  sections  of  lemon. 


[    122   ] 


PIKE 
to  be  eaten  cold 

Prepare  a  good  sized  pike  by  scraping  off  the  scales,  removing 
the  inside,  and  cutting  off  the  fins.  Tie  in  a  cloth  and  place  in 
a  large  saucepan  or  fish  kettle  with  half  a  wineglassful  of  white 
wine,  a  wineglassful  of  water,  a  bay  leaf,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  a 
chopped  carrot,  a  stalk  of  celery  cut  small,  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  a  clove  of  garlic,  two  cloves  and  salt  to  taste. 
Bring  to  the  boil  and  cook  slowly,  allowing  ten  to  twelve  min- 
utes per  pound.  When  cooked,  allow  to  cool  in  its  own  broth, 
then  strain  and  serve  cold  with  a  piquant  sauce. 


Or,  if  you  like,  to  be  eaten  hot 

When  the  fish  is  cooked,  instead  of  allowing  it  to  cool,  lift  from 
the  fish  kettle,  remove  the  cloth  in  which  it  has  been  cooked, 
and  serve  immediately  with  any  sauce  you  fancy,  either  a  pi- 
quant sauce,  or  one  of  the  tomato  sauces  (See  'SAUCES). 


PIKE    AU    GRATIN 

Clean  a  medium  sized  pike  and  allow  to  marinate  in  olive  oil 
for  half  an  hour  or  so.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  crisp  breadcrumbs 
and  grill  on  both  sides  until  brown.  Serve  hot  with  sections  of 
lemon. 


TROUT    or    CARP 

These  when  cleaned  may  be  prepared  in  a  similar  manner  and 
are  excellent. 

Many  Italian  cooks  prepare  fish  and  meats  by  cooking  on 
a  spit;  since  this  is  an  implement  rarely  to  be  found  in  English 
kitchens,  English  cooks  have  to  content  themselves  by  using 
a  grill  where  a  'spit'  has  been  prescribed. 


[    123   ] 


TENCH 

Having  cleaned  your  tench,  allow  to  marinate  for  half  an  hour 
in  olive  oil  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  chopped  fresh 
rosemary,  pepper  and  salt.  Drain  and  grill  on  both  sides  and 
serve  very  hot. 


GRILLED    GREY   MULLET 

Allow  one  medium  sized  grey  mullet  per  person.  Scrape  off 
the  scales  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  clean  and  wipe  dry.  Oil  all 
over  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  on  a  hot 
grill,  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other. 


RED    MULLET 

These  should  be  eaten  very  fresh.  Allow  one  per  person.  Scrape 
off  the  scales,  and  clean,  removing  all  the  inside  except  the 
Hver ;  wash  well,  wipe  dry,  oil  all  over,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  grill  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other  and  serve 
hot. 


STURGEON 

If  you  intend  cooking  a  whole  sturgeon,  choose  a  fairly  small 
fish.  Scrape  off  the  scales  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  clean  and 
remove  the  inside ;  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Make  several  small  holes 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  and  in  these  insert  fillets  of  salted  ancho- 
vy. Place  in  a  vessel  and  cover  with  two  wineglasses  of  oil,  salt, 
and  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and 
chopped  thyme.  Leave  for  2  hours.  Remove  and  drain;  wrap  in 
greaseproof  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1  hour; 
remove  the  paper  and  cook  for  a  further  20  to  25  minutes, 
basting  during  this  time  with  the  mixture  in  which  it  v/as 
allowed  to  marinate   Serve  very  hot. 


[    124   ]- 


ROAST    TUNNY    FISH 

After  our  own  brief  acquaintance  with  beige-coloured  tunny 
fish  in  small  tins,  it  is  a  startling  thing  to  behold  one's  first  piece 
of  'tunny  in  the  raw',  a  huge,  liver-coloured  piece  of  fish  on 
a  fishmonger's  slab  in  Naples  or  the  towns  of  Sicily. 

For  roast  tunny  take  a  fairly  thick  slice  of  fresh  tunny  and 
place  it  in  an  earthenware  vessel  with  half  a  wineglassful  of  oil, 
some  chopped  parsley,  chopped  onion,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
one  or  two  cloves  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Allow  it  to 
remain  in  this  marinade  for  a  couple  of  hours,  turning  from 
time  to  time.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs  and  bake  in  the 
oven  for  1  hour  or  a  little  longer,  ba':iting  from  time  to  time  with 
the  marinading  mixture. 


CAPPON    MAGRO 

If  you  are  expecting  guests  for  a  buffet  supper,  and  know  them 
to  be  lovers  of  fish,  you  could  prepare  few  things  more  appetis- 
ing than  this  famous  fish  salad,  originating  in  Genoa,  but  likely 
to  be  found  in  any  seaside  town  in  Italy.  But  be  warned,  it  takes 
a  lot  of  time  for  shopping,  and  for  preparation,  and  it  is  costly. 
The  recipe  given  below  should  prove  sufficient  for  a  party  of 
eight  or  nine. 

First  of  all,  look  out  your  handsomest  round  or  oval  serving 
dish,  for  this  is  a  'dressed  up'  dish.  Next,  if  you  want  to  do  the 
job  properly,  procure  half  a  pound  of  ships'  biscuits,  break  them 
up,  and  soak  them  overnight  in  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  vinegar.  If  you  don't  like  the 
sound  of  the  ships'  biscuits,  dry  half  a  dozen  slices  of  bread  in 
the  oven,  and  when  they  are  crisp,  treat  them  as  suggested  for 
the  ships'  biscuits.  Next,  prepare  a  selection  of  vegetables  in 
season,  say  half  a  pound  or  more  of  small  new  potatoes,  and 
similar  quantities  of  shelled  fresh  green  peas,  French  beans, 
young  carrots,  cauliflower;  cook  them  separately  in  boiling, 
salted  water  —  don't  overcook  —  drain  and  set  on  one  side. 
Prepare  a  head  of  celery,  |  a  pound  of  button  mushrooms, 
2  ounces  black  olives,  a  similar  quantity  of  green  olives,  and 
four  hard  boiled  eggs;  a  small  jar  of  preserved  artichoke  hearts 
would  add  interest  to  the  dish;  one  or  two  small  cooked  beetroot 

r    125  ] 


would  be  colourful  —  and  this  is  a  dish  where  colour  matters. 
Cut  the  mushrooms  in  pieces  and  marinate  with  a  little  oil  and 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Where  fish  is  concerned,  prepare  a  boiled  lobster,  J  a  pint 
of  shrimps  or  prawns ;  half  a  dozen  scallops ;  and  two  pounds  of 
some  good  white  fish,  turbot,  sole  or  halibut. 

Poach  the  white  fish  and  the  scallops  for  seven  minutes,  lift 
from  the  water,  flake  and  season  with  oil,  lemon  juice,  pepper 
and  salt.  Shell  the  shrimps,  and  remove  the  lobster  from  its 
shell,  and  season  these  also  with  oil,  lemon  juice  and  pepper  and 
salt. 

Next  prepare  the  special  sauce  for  Cappon  Magro : 

1  teaspoon  chopped  1  clove  garlic 

parsley  2  tablespoons  capers 

6  anchovies  2  or  3  gherkins 

1  tablespoon  chopped  4  egg  yolks  (2  raw, 

nuts  2  hard  boiled) 

a  pinch  of  oregano  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

J  pint  olive  oil  6  green  olives 

1  tablespoon  grated  1  thick  slice  of 

fennel  root  bread,  soaked  in 

vinegar  and 
squeezed  dry 

Place  the  parsley  and  garlic  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste, 
add  capers,  olives  (having  removed  the  stones),  gherkins, 
fennel,  hard  boiled  egg  yolks,  bread,  nuts  and  oregano;  when 
all  pounded  to  a  paste,  slowly  add  the  oil,  the  vinegar  and  the 
two  raw  egg  yolks,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon;  the  finished 
sauce  should  have  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise. 

All  ingredients  being  now  ready,  you  may  start  your  dish. 
First  of  all  arrange  a  platform  of  the  ships'  biscuits  or  bread, 
and  on  it  spread  a  little  of  the  sauce ;  next  arrange  the  various 
ingredients  attractively  in  pyramid  fashion  on  the  platform  of 
ships'  biscuits,  a  layer  of  flaked  fish,  a  layer  of  assorted  vegeta- 
bles, a  layer  of  the  sauce  and  so  on  until  all  are  used  up.  The 
bright-coloured  vegetables,  the  sliced  beetroot,  peas  and  small 
or  diced  carrots,  may  be  used  as  garnishes,  as  may  a  few  un- 
shelled  prawns,  the  lobster  claws,  cracked  for  easy  eating,  and 
the  quartered  hard  boiled  eggs.  This  dish  should,  of  course, 
be  served  very  cold,  and  the  'prettier'  it  is  in  appearance  the 
better. 

[  126  ] : 


Snails  &  Frogs 

You  probably  won't  fancy  them,  and  in  any  case  you  probably 
won't  be  obtaining  the  live  snails  in  this  country,  but  just  in 
case  you  want  to  know,  you  have  to  starve  the  creatures  for 
a  fortnight  so  that  they  lose  all  their  slime  and  scum.  During 
this  time,  to  prevent  their  wandering,  you  have  to  keep  them  in 
a  basket,  wrapping  them  loosely  in  a  cloth,  which  for  hygienic 
reasons  it  will  pay  you  to  change  fairly  frequently.  If  you  can 
stand  this  test  of  endurance,  at  the  end  of  the  time  soak  the 
snails  in  salted  water  with  a  dash  of  vinegar  for  three  or  four 
hours,  washing  them  after  that  in  running  water  until  there  is 
no  trace  left  of  the  scum  or  slime.  Boil  them  next  in  salted  water 
for  \\  hours,  after  which  strain  them  and  remove  them  from 
their  shells,  cutting  away  the  black  portion  that  you  will  find  on 
the  end  of  the  body.  After  all  this  preparation,  you  may  proceed 
to  cook  the  snails  as  you  fancy. 

One  good  way  of  cooking  them  is  to  prepare  fifty  or  sixty  in 
the  manner  suggested,  remembering  that  a  dozen  snails  are 
none  too  many  for  a  snail-fancier. 

When  the  snails  are  finally  prepared,  place  a  tablespoonful 
of  oil  in  a  stewpan,  allow  it  to  heat  and  in  it  cook  together  for 
five  minutes  a  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  a  chopped  medium-sized 
onion,  a  pinch  of  chopped  fresh  rosemary,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley.  At  the  end  of  this  time  add  your  shelled  snails 
together  with  half  an  ounce  of  dried  mushrooms  that  have  been 
reconstituted  in  a  little  warm  water  and  cut  small,  and  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  tomato  sauce ;  cook  together  for  ten  minutes,  then 
add  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for 
ten  minutes  longer,  and  serve  hot  —  they're  well  worth  all  the 
trouble  and  fasting. 

What  with  all  this  about  frogs  and  snails,  you'll  probably 
expect  'puppy  dogs'  tails'  to  be  included  in  the  culinary  cata- 
logue, but  disappointed  though  you  may  be,  there  is,  to  my 
knowledge,  no  recipe  for  these  in  the  Italian  repertoire. 

Frogs,  however,  the  Italian  variety,  make  good  eating.  Try 
them  fried. 

Skin  them,  removing  the  head  and  the  inside,  cutting  off  the 
feet  and  washing  them  well,  then  leave  them  to  soak  in  water  to 
which  a  little  salt  has  been  added  for  two  or  three  hours.  Drain 


[    127   ]~ 


them  and  then  cut  in  pieces  and  marinate  them  for  an  hour  in 
a  Uttle  oil  to  which  you  have  added  a  chopped  onion,  a  Httle 
parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  a  little  chopped  thyme  and/or  rosemary, 
pepper  and  salt  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Drain,  and  flour 
them  lightly  and  fry  in  hot  oil  or  butter. 
Or  for  a  more  elaborate  experiment  try  — 


RANE   ALLA   GASTALDA 

Prepare  the  frogs  as  suggested  for  fried  frogs,  but  when  they 
have  soaked  in  water  two  or  three  hours,  dry  them,  but  do  not 
cut  them  in  pieces,  truss  them  with  the  legs  crossed  over  the 
body,  flour  them  lightly,  then  brown  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  little  butter  flavoured  with  chopped  parsley,  a  crushed  clove 
of  garlic,  pepper  and  salt.  When  they  are  browned  all  over  add 
half  an  ounce  of  dried  mushrooms  reconstituted  in  warm  water 
and  cut  in  pieces,  and  two  wineglassfuls  of  white  wine,  and  cook 
over  moderate  heat  in  a  covered  pan  for  half  an  hour  or  until 
they  are  tender.  Serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


[   128   ]-- 


Meats 


The  following  pages  give  but  a  small  selection  from  the 
numerous  ways  Italian  cooks  have  of  cooking  beef,  veal, 
mutton,  pork,  and  the  various  edible  entrails  classed  in 
English  butchers'  shops  as  'offal'. 

To  the  casual  visitor  to  the  country,  it  might  appear  that  no 
calf  is  allowed  to  grow  to  maturity,  since  'vitello'  (veal)  makes 
so  frequent  an  appearance  on  all  menus,  but  living  in  the  coun- 
try one  meets  fairly  frequently  all  the  meats  eaten  in  this  country 
of  ours,  plus  several  unfamiliar  to  us,  as,  for  example,  young  kid, 
which  in  taste  greatly  resembles  lamb. 

Sucking  pig  and  equally  youthful  lambs  are  delicacies  to  be 
met  with  in  Italy,  and,  despite  their  over-richness,  they  are 
delicious.  Recipes  for  these  have  not  been  given,  however, 
since  they  are  so  rarely  met  with  nowadays  in  England. 


[   129  ] 


MANZO   IN   UMIDO 

Stewed  Beef 


2  or  3  lbs.  stewing 
beef,  NOT  cut  in 
pieces 
2  slices  streaky  bacon 
1  tablespoon^omato 
conserve  diluted 
with  a  little  broth 


1  onion 

2  sticks  celery 
1  carrot 

beef  marrow  if 

available 
meat  stock 
1  oz.  butter 


.  all  cut  small 


With  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife  make  several  small  holes  in  the 
piece  of  beef  and  into  these  stuff  strips  of  streaky  bacon;  season 
with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg. 

Having  prepared  your  piece  of  meat  in  this  fashion,  place  it 
in  a  stewpan  with  about  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  beef  marrow 
if  available,  and  the  chopped  vegetables  and  allow  to  brown 
slowly,  turning  the  meat  so  that  it  browns  on  all  sides ;  then  add 
meat  stock  nearly  to  cover  it.  Cover  the  stewpan  and  cook  over 
slow  heat  for  2|  or  3  hours.  When  half  cooked,  add  the 
tomato  conserve  diluted  with  some  of  the  broth,  and  continue 
cooking  till  the  meat^is  tender,  by  which  time  the  broth  should 
be  reduced  in  quantity  and  thickened.  Serve  in  a  dish,  surround- 
ed by  the  broth. 


MANZO    IN    UMIDO    ALLA 
TRIESTINA 

Stewed  beef  as  cooked  in  Trieste 


a  piece  of  lean  ste- 
wing beef  about 
2  lbs.  in  weight 

3  cloves 

salt  and  pepper 

1  oz.  butter 

stock 


2  rashers  of  streaky 

bacon 
1  onion,  2  stalks 

of  celery  and  1 

carrot  chopped 

small 
white  wine 


Make  holes  in  the  beef  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife  and 
push  strips  of  the  streaky  bacon  into  them ;  season  with  salt  and 


■[    130   ]- 


pepper,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  with  the  butter,  cloves  and 
vegetables,  and  allow  to  brown ;  then  cover  with  stock  and  white 
wine  in  the  proportions  of  two  to  one,  and  cook  slowly  with  the 
lid  on  the  stewpan  for  2  J  or  3  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time, 
remove  the  meat  to  a  hot  dish,  skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy  and 
pour  over  the  meat. 


COSCIA   DI   MANZO 
ALLA    CASALINGA 

Rump  steak  housewife  fashion 

Take  a  piece  of  rump  steak,  and  'lard'  it  by  pricking  with  the 
point  of  a  sharp  knife  and  pushing  strips  of  fat  bacon  into  the 
incisions;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  wrap  in 
two  or  three  slices  of  fat  ham  or  bacon.  Place  in  a  casserole  with 
a  chopped  onion,  a  cupful  of  meat  stock  and  half  a  wineglassful 
of  white  wine  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
two  and  a  half  or  three  hours. 


MANZO    ALLA   MASSAIA 

Beef  domestic  style 

Cut  two  pounds  of  stewing  beef  into  small  pieces  and  place  in 
a  stewpan  with  a  little  olive  oil,  a  chopped  onion,  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  and  salt  and  pepper.  Allow  to  brown  a  little 
then  cover  with  stock  or  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  for  2 J 
hours  in  a  covered  pan.  An  hour  before  serving  time,  by  which 
time  the  broth  will  be  somewhat  reduced,  make  up  to  the  origi- 
nal quantity  by  adding  tomato  sauce  (See  'SAUCES'). 


[    131   ] 


STUFATO   ALLA   FIORENTINA 

Stew  as  cooked  in  Florence 

2  lbs.  stewing  beef  cut  1  teaspoonful 

in  pieces  for   .  chopped  rosemary 

serving  }  wineglassful  red 

2  tablespoonsful  wine 

olive  oil  1  tablespoonful  to- 

3  cloves  of  garlic,  mato  conserve 
crushed 

Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  allow  the  garlic  and  rosemary  to  brown 
before  adding  the  meat;  allow  the  meat  also  to  brown,  then 
reduce  heat  and  add  \  a  wineglassful  of  red  wine,  and  the  tomato 
conserve  diluted  with  a  similar  quantity  of  meat  stock  or  water. 
Cover  the  pan  and  cook  slowly  for  2\  hours,  adding  more  hot 
stock  or  boiUng  water  from  time  to  time  if  the  meat  looks  like 
becoming  dry. 

If  liked,  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  pieces  may  be  added  to  the 
stewpan  an  hour  before  serving,  so  that  they  absorb  the  flavour 
of  the  merit  as  they  cook. 

Veal 

Where  veal  is  concerned,  if  you  are  able  to  buy  it  from  a  Conti- 
nental butcher,  do  so,  for  you  will  find  he  has  a  better  idea  of 
cutting  up  veal  for  cutlets  and  escalopes  than  his  British  coun- 
terpart. Excellent  veal  can  be  procured  in  Soho  from  the  shop 
of  Benoit  Bulcke  in  Old  Compton  Street,  and  there  are  other 
good  Continental  butchers  to  be  found  in  other  parts  of  London 
and  in  most  large  cities. 

If  you  are  buying  veaJ  for  *escalopes'«  you  need  thin  slices 
of  the  lean  meat  cut  from  the  leg  or  from  the  fillet,  and  if  you 
are  not  the  possessor  of  a^  'cutlet  bat',  remember  to  ask  your 
butcher  to  flatten  the  escalopes  for  you  with  his  cleaver;  this 
type  of  rough  treatment  means  a  far  more  tender  finished  dish, 
and  an  escalope,  remember,  should  be  tender  enough  almost 
to  melt  in  the  mouth  when  eaten. 

It's  as  well  to  be  extravagant  when  cooking  veal,  using  butter 
for  frying,  rather  than  dripping;  butter  costs  a  little  more,  but 
the  flavour  is  lighter  and  far  more  delicious  when  veal  is  fried 
crisp  in  good  butter. 

^ ^ — _, [   132  ]—  -    — ---• — 


COSTOLETTE  or  SCALOPPE 
MILANESE 

Either  a  cutlet  or  an  escalope  of  veal  may  be  cooked  'alia  Mila- 
nese'. In  either  case  allow  one  or  one  and  a  half  per  person, 
depending  upon  the  size,  and  before  starting  to  cook,  either 
flatten  the  meat  yourself  with  a  cutlet  bat,  or  have  the  butcher 
flatten  it  for  you. 

If  you  want  to  be  truly  Milanese,  you  will  allow  your  meat 
to  marinate  in  a  bath  of  milk  for  an  hour  or  so  before  starting 
to  cook  it,  but  this  refinement  may  be  omitted  without  any  real 
detriment  to  the  finished  dish. 

Remove  all  fat  and  grisde. 

Coat  your  cutlets  or  escalopes  in  beaten  egg  which  has  been 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  allow  surplus  egg  to  drip  off, 
then  dip  the  meat  in  fine  toasted  breadcrumbs  before  frying  it 
on  both  sides  in  a  generous  amount  of  hot  butter.  Cook  quickly 
on  one  side  until  golden,  then  turn  and  cook  the  other,  and 
lift  out  of  the  pan  with  a  perforated  slice  so  that  any  surplus 
fat  goes  back  into  the  pan.  Serve  with  quartered  lemons  and 
a  garnish  of  parsley. 

You  may  either  serve  these  hot,  with  a  green  salad,  or  having 
drained  them  well,  and  allowed  them  to  cool,  they  are  equally 
delicious  served  cold. 


SCALOPPINE   AL    MARSALA 

The  combination  of  thin,  crisply  fried  pieces  of  veal  with  Mar- 
sala is  an  experiment  well  worth  trying. 

Scaloppine,  known  sometimes  by  the  name  of  'piccate',  are 
much  smaller  than  escalopes ;  they  are  cut  very  thin  and  should 
not  be  much  more  than  2  inches  square.  Three  or  four  per 
person  is  the  usual  allowance. 

Beat  your  scaloppine  flat,  and  flour  them  with  flour  that  has 
been  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  In  a  frying  pan  large 
enough  to  accommodate  them,  if  possible,  in  one  layer,  heat 
a  fairly  generous  knob  of  butter,  and  when  it  is  really  hot,  brown 
the  scaloppine  very  quickly  on  each  side.  While  they  are  still 
in  the  pan,  add  about  a  tablespoonful  of  Marsala  for  every  four 
scaloppine,  and  bring  to  a  bubbling  boil;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 

[    133   ] 


chicken  stock  for  each  tablespoonful  of  Marsala ;  stir  well,  and 
allow  to  cook  for  a  few  moments  under  a  lower  heat.  Remember 
that  one  essential  of  this  dish  is  QUICK  cooking;  altogether 
the  process  should  take  under  ten  minutes. 
Serve  very  hot. 


SCALOPPE    ALLA    MODENESE 

Allow  one  or  one  and  a  half  escalopes  per  person ;  flatten  them 
with  a  cutlet  bat,  coat  with  egg  and  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
butter.  Then  place  the  escalopes  side  by  side  in  a  flat  fireproof 
dish,  and  on  top  of  each  place  a  slice  of  ham,  and  on  top  of  that 
a  thin  slice  of  Gruyere  cheese.  Place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve 
immediately  the  cheese  has  melted. 


SCALOPPE    or    COSTOLETTE 
DI    VITELLO    AL    SUGO 

Prepare  your  escalopes  as  for  SCALOPPE  ALLA  MILANESE 
then  arrange  them  in  a  flat  fireproof  dish,  and  over  them  pour 
hot  tomato  sauce  (see  'SAUCES')  which  will  be  all  the  better 
if  when  making  it  you  have  added  a  bay  leaf. 
Serve  hot,  with  a  green  salad. 


VITELLO    TONNATO 

Veal  with  Tunny  Fish 

Remove  the  skin  and  fat  from  a  piece  of  leg  of  veal;  remove  the 
bone,  and  stick  the  meat  with  small  fillets  of  anchovy.  Tie  it 
firmly  and  allow  it  to  boil  for  1 J  hours  in  a  saucepan,  covered 
completely  with  water  in  which  have  been  placed  a  small  onion, 
two  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  a  little  chopped  celery,  parsley  and  salt. 
At  the  end  of  this  time,  lift  the  meat  from  the  water  —  reserving 
the  broth  to  form  the  basis  of  a  minestrone.  Untie  the  meat,  cut 
it  in  slices  and  place  in  a  dish  covered  with  the  following  sauce, 
in  which  it  should  be  left  for  two  days,  after  which  it  should  be 
served  cold,  with  the  sauce  served  in  a  separate  vessel. 

[    134,  ] 


SAUCE   FOR   VITELLO    TONNATO 

Mince  the  contents  of  a  4  oz.  tin  of  tunny  fish  with  two  ancho- 
vies, and  pass  through  a  sieve  or  a  food  mill,  adding  olive  oil  and 
lemon  juice  in  the  proportions  of  three  parts  of  oil  to  one  of 
lemon  juice,  and  finally  adding  a  few  chopped  capers. 


VITELLO   IN   UMIDO 
CON   PISELLI 

Veal  stew  with  peas 

2  lbs.  lean  veal  butter  or  oil  for 

meat  stock  and/or  browning 

tomato  sauce  J  lb.  fresh  green  peas 

(weighed  after 
shelling) 

Heat  a  little  butter  or  oil  in  a  stewpan,  and  in  it  brown  the 
veal,  which  has  been  cut  into  2-inch  pieces.  Add  several  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  stock  and/or  tomato  sauce  (See  'SAUCES'), 
cover  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour,  adding  a  little  more 
stock  if  it  looks  like  drying  out;  add  the  peas,  and  simmer  gently 
for  a  further  1 J  hours. 


BRACIUOLE    DI    VITELLO 
ALLA   VERONESE 

Veal  chops  in  the  Veronese  style 

Allow  one  chop  per  person,  and  while  these  are 
being  grilled,  prepare  the  following  sauce : 

2  cloves  of  garlic  2  or  3  anchovies 

1  tablespoon  from  which  bones 

chopped  parsley  have  been  removed 

2  ozs.  butter 


[    135  1 


Pound  together  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butter  in  a  mortar 
until  a  paste  is  formed,  then  add  the  butter  and  cream  well 
together.  Pour  into  the  dish  in  which  the  chops  are  to  be 
served,  and  keep  hot  over  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water.  When  the 
chops  are  cooked,  arrange  in  the  dish  and  serve  hot  with  sections 
of  lemon. 


VITELLO   IN   FRICASSEA 

FricassSe  of  veal 

Cut  lean  veal  into  small  pieces.  Fry  an  onion  until  golden  brown 
in  a  little  butter;  add  the  pieces  of  veal  and  brown  on  all  sides; 
cover  with  boiling  stock,  lower  the  heat  and  allow  to  cook  until 
about  half  the  liquid  is  evaporated  (about  \  an  hour).  Mean- 
while, beat  two  or  three  egg  yolks  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  when  the  veal  has  finished 
cooking,  add  the  egg  and  lemon  mixture,  removing  the  stew- 
pan  from  the  heat  so  as  not  to  curdle  the  eggs.  Mix  well  and 
serve  hot. 


ROAST   VEAL 

Allow  about  30  minutes  to  the  pound  at  300  degrees  Fahrenheit. 
Pound  together  a  clove  of  garlic  and  an  anchovy,  and  rub  these 
over  the  roast  of  veal  before  cooking.  Cover  the  meat  with 
strips  of  fat  bacon  or  salt  pork  to  prevent  its  drying  out,  and 
cook  in  a  casserole  with  a  little  butter.  Be  careful  if  you  are 
salting  it  not  to  overdo  this,  as  the  anchovy  will  have  made 
it  fairly  salty.  At  the  end  of  the  cooking,  add  a  half  a  glass  of  red 
wine  to  the  gravy,  and  baste  the  veal  with  this  before  removing 
from  the  oven. 


OSSOBUCO 

This  is  the  knuckle  of  veal,  rich  and  tasty  when  prepared  'Alia 
Milanese'. 


[    136   ] 


OSSOBUCO    ALL  A   MILANESE 

TO  SERVE  4 

Allow  one  small  2  or  3  ozs.  butter 

knuckle  of  veal  flour 

per  person,  and  salt  and  pepper 

it  should  be  sawn  1  wineglassful  dry- 
nearly  through  in  white  wine 

sections  about  IJ  1  tablespoonful 
or  2  inches  long,  chopped  parsley 

so  that  one  has  1  anchovy 

a  number  of  sections  grated  rind  of  half 
of  bone,  each  a  lemon 

surrounded  by  a  stock  or  water 
circle  of  muscle. 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  heavy  pan  large  enough  to  accommodate 
the  veal  knuckles  in  one  layer;  flour  the  knuckles  and  brown 
on  both  sides  in  the  hot  butter,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper; 
add  the  wine,  and  continue  cooking  until  the  wine  has  almost 
evaporated,  then  add  stock  or  water  just  to  cover  the  meat; 
cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly  for  at  least  an  hour,  adding  more 
stock  if  it  looks  as  though  the  meat  is  drying.  Meanwhile  pound 
together  in  a  mortar  the  garlic,  anchovy,  lemon  rind  and  parsley, 
and  five  minutes  before  serving,  add  to  the  gravy,  and  bring  to 
the  boil,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

It  is  customary  to  serve  Ossobuco  with  a  plain  Risotto,  col- 
oured with  saffron;  this,  incidentally,  is  the  only  instance  of 
rice  served  with  a  meat  dish. 


AGNELLO    ARROSTO 

Roast  Lamb 

Try  I'basting  a  leg  of  lamb  Italian  fashion.  Before  putting  it  in 
the  oven,  make  a  slit  in  the  flesh  near  the  bone  and  into  this 
place  one  or  two  cloves  of  garlic  and  a  sprig  of  rosemary.  Oil 
the  meat  lightly  all  over,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  15 
minutes  to  the  pound  and  15  minutes  over,  and  basting  from 
time  to  time  with  oil,  and,  to  make  it  even  more  delicious,  1 5  min- 
utes before  serving,  pour  over  it  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine 
and  baste  finally  with  the  juices  that  have  run  into  the  roast- 
ing pan. 

[    137   ] 


AGNELLO  O  CAPRETTO 
IN  CASSERUOLA 

Lamb  or  Kid  Pot  Roast 

Kid  is  eaten  a  great  deal  in  Italy  and  the  flesh  of  young  goats 
makes  excellent  eating.  Try  a  leg  of  either  kid  or  lamb  stuck 
at  intervals  with  rosemary,  salted,  and  then  browned  on  all  sides 
in  a  stewpan  in  which  two  tablespoonsful  of  olive  oil  have  been 
heated.  Cover  the  stewpan  when  the  flesh  is  browned  on  all 
sides,  and  allow  it  to  cook  slowly,  15  minutes  to  the  pound,  in 
the  steam  that  will  develop  in  the  stewpan  once  it  is  covered. 


PORK    COOKED   IN   MILK 
*ALLA   BOLOGNESE' 

For  this  you  need  a  piece  of  loin  of  pork,  boned  and  with  some 
of  its  fat  removed.  If  you  are  going  to  cook  it  in  the  true  Bolo- 
gnese  manner,  you  will  prepare  it  overnight  by  sprinkling  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  leaving  till  morning,  but  this  treatment  is 
not  absolutely  essential  if  time  is  at  a  premium. 

If  you  are  preparing  the  meat  the  day  you  are  cooking,  sprin- 
kle it  with  salt  and  black  pepper  before  rolling  it  up,  and  it  is 
an  improvement  if  a  clove  of  garlic  is  sliced  thin  and  rolled  up 
in  the  centre  of  the  meat,  together  with  a  few  seeds  of  coriander 
or  fennel. 

Use  a  saucepan  that  is  more  or  less  the  size  of  theVoUed  joint, 
and  when  the  pork  is  ready  for  the  pan,  heat  a  little  butter  in  it 
and  brown  the  pork  all  over. 

Heat  the  milk,  allowing  roughly  a  pint  of  milk  to  each  pound 
of  pork,  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  allow 
to  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  or  a  little  longer;  uncover,  and 
allow  to  cook  for  another  half  hour,  by  which  time  the  quantity 
of  liquid  will  be  reduced  considerably,  and  it  should  be  a  golden 
brown  in  colour.  Take  care  that  the  saucepan  does  not  go  dry ; 
if  there  is  any  danger  of  this,  add  a  little  more  hot  milk. 

The  joint  is  excellent  hot,  served  with  the  sauce  from  the 
cooking,  and  if  you  are  able  to  add  a  few  sliced  truffles  to  this 
it  is  all  the  better. 

Another  addition  is  that  of  a  chopped  onion  and  a  rasher  of 
bacon  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cooked  in  the  butter  before  the 
pork  is  browned. 

« 

[    138   ] 


LOIN    OF   PORK 
as  cooked  in  Tuscany 

Again  your  loin  pork  should  be  boned  and  some  of  its  fat  should 
be  removed  before  cooking,  and  before  rolling  it  should  be 
stuck  with  a  few  rosemary  leaves  and  a  few  slivers  of  garlic, 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  and  tie  it  and  roast  in 
the  oven  in  the  usual  fashion,  allowing  25  to  30  minutes  per 
pound,  plus  25  or  30  minutes  over.  This  is  excellent  allowed  to 
cool  and  served  with  a  potato  salad. 

And  as  cooked  in  Perugia 

Here,  instead  of  rosemary,  fennel  leaves  are  used,  and  when  the 
meat  is  cooked  and  served  cold,  it  is  a  good  touch  to  serve  with 
it  a  potato  salad  with  which  has  been  mixed  a  little  thinly  sliced 
fennel. 

PORK    CHOPS 
*ALLA   NAPOLITANA' 

TO  SERVE  6 

The  Neapolitans  use  a  lot  of  green  and  red  and  yellow  peppers 
in  their  cooking,  and  these  'marry'  well  with  pork.  For  this 
recipe  take: 

6  pork  chops  oil  for  cooking 

2  red  or  yellow  salt  and  pepper 

peppers  1  clove  of  garlic, 

J  lb.  mushrooms  crushed 

1  tablespoonful  to- 
mato paste 

Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  fry  garlic  in  it  till  pale  brown,  add  the 
chop's  and  brown  on  both  sides;  add  salt  and  pepper.  Remove 
from  the  pan  and  keep  warm.  Meanwhile,  dilute  the  tomato 
paste  with  a  little  water  and  add  to  the  pan  in  which  the  chops 
have  been  cooked,  remove  the  seeds  and  stem  from  the  peppers 
and  chop  them  finely,  and  add  these  to  the  pan  together  with 
the  chopped  mushrooms;  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  about 
quarter  of  an  hour,  then  replace  the  chops,  cooking  together 
for  another  twenty  minutes  or  so.  Serve  very  hot. 

[    139   ]  ^     


PORK  CHOPS  WITH  PRUNES 

TO  SERVE  6 

6  pork  chops  oil  or  butter  for 

salt  and  pepper  frying 

2  tablespoons  white 
wine 

Heat  the  oil  with  the  pepper  and  salt  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  fry 
the  chops  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other  until  brown, 
add  the  wine  and  cook  over  slightly  lowered  heat  until  the 
wine  has  evaporated,  then  remove  the  chops  to  a  hot  dish  and 
cover  with  the  following  sauce. 

sauce; 

1  onion  2  slices  lean  ham 

1  oz.  butter  2  tablespoons  wine 
10  or  a  dozen  prunes  vinegar 

which  have  been  salt 

soaked  in  water  chopped  thyme 

until  softened  bay  leaf 

Soak  the  prunes,  and  when  soft  remove  the  stones.  Fry  the 
chopped  onion  and  ham  cut  in  small  pieces  in  butter  until  light 
brown,  add  the  vinegar,  and  cook  until  the  sauce  is  reduced  by 
one-half.  Place  the  prunes  in  a  small  saucepan,  with  barely 
enough  water  to  cover  them,  a  pinch  of  chopped  thyme  and 
a  bay  leaf  and  cook  slowly  till  soft.  Pass  through  a  sieve  or  food 
mill  and  add  to  the  chopped  onion  and  ham;  mix  well  and 
pour  over  the  pork  chops. 


[    140    ] 


SALSICCIE  ALLA  TRIESTINA 

Sausages  as  cooked  in  Trieste 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  pure  pork  2  tablespoons  grated 

sausages  Parmesan 

1  wineglassful  meat  stock 
white  wine 

Puncture  the  sausages,  then  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  few 
tablespoons  of  stock,  and  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine  and  cook 
gently  on  the  top  of  the  stove  for  about  twenty  minutes ;  at  the 
end  of  that  time,  add  the  Parmesan  cheese,  stir  well,  and  serve 
very  hot. 


SAUSAGES   WITH   TOMATO 
SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  pure  pork  chopped  sage 

sausages  tomato  sauce  (See 

oUvc  oil  'SAUCES') 

Puncture  the  sausages,  then  fry  in  the  olive  oil  to  which  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  sage  has  been  added;  when  they  are 
browned,  cover  with  tomato  sauce.  Cover  pan  and  cook  gently 
for  twenty  minutes.  The  sage  may  be  omitted  if  the  flavour  is 
not  liked. 


FEGATO    ALLA   SPAGNOLA 

Liver  as  served  in  Spain 

TO  SERVE  6 

1 J  lbs.  calf's  liver  1  dozen  small  firm 
2  large  onions  sliced  tomatoes 

thinly  into  rings  1  lemon 

sprigs  of  parsley  oil 

flour  salt  and  pepper 

[   141   ] 


Heat  the  grill,  and  meanwhile,  dip  the  liver  —  sliced  to  about 
the  thickness  of  half  an  inch  —  in  the  flour,  then  into  oil,  and 
grill  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other.  Set  on  one  side  to  keep 
warm,  and  having  seasoned  the  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper  and 
oil,  grill  these  also.  While  this  is  going  on,  fry  the  onions  until 
a  golden  yellow.  Have  ready  a  large  flat  dish,  and  pile  the 
onions  into  a  pyramid  in  the  centre,  with  the  slices  of  liver 
around,  garnished  with  grilled  tomatoes  and  sprigs  of  parsley, 
and  the  lemon  cut  into  sections. 


FEGATO    ALL'   ITALIANA 

Liver  in  the  Italian  style 

TO  SERVE  6 

1 J  lbs.  calf's  liver,  flour 

cut  into  thin  pepper  and  salt 

slices  1  lemon 

2  ozs.  butter 

Heat  the  butter  very  hot  in  a  large  heavy  frying  pan.  Flour  the 
slices  of  liver  and  fry  quickly,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the 
other,  the  whole  process  to  take  not  more  than  five  or  six  minu- 
tes. Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  small  knob  of  butter, 
and  shake  the  pan  well  so  that  it  is  distributed  over  the  slices 
of  liver.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  sprinkle  the  liver 
with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  before  removing  to  a  hot  dish  for 
serving.  Serve  very  hot. 

Having  tried  out  these  two  fairly  conservative  methods  of 
cooking  liver,  how  about  trying  a  Tuscan  specialty,  as  per  the 
following  recipe : 


[   142   ] 


FEGATO    ALLA   TOSCANA 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  i  lbs.  calf's  liver  cut  a  good  tablespoonful 

into  thin  slices  of  fresh  sage  leaves 

flour  chopped  small 

oil  1  lemon,  cut  into 

pepper  and  salt  sections 

Flour  the  liver,  and  fry  in  hot  oil  very  quickly ;  before  removing 
from  the  stove,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  sage  leaves 
cut  small.  Serve  very  hot  accompanied  by  sections  of  lemon. 


Or,  having  enjoyed  veal   escalopes  alia  Milanese,  why  not 
try  liver  treated  similarly? 

FEGATO    ALLA   MILANESE 

TO  SERVE  6 

IJ  lbs.  calf's  liver,  1  beaten  egg 

cut  into  thin  slices  breadcrumbs 

flour  butter  for  frying 

pepper  and  salt  1  lemon 

a  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley 

For  this  recipe,  start  preparations  an  hour  and  a  quarter  before 
you  wish  to  serve  the  dish,  for  the  slices  of  liver  are  spread  on 
a  flat  dish,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  the  chopped  parsley 
and  left  to  'mind  their  own  business'  for  a  good  hour.  At  the  end 
of  this  time,  heat  the  butter  in  a  heavy  pan ;  flour  the  liver,  then 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  crisp  breadcrumbs,  and  fry 
quickly  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  Arrange  on 
a  flat,  heated  dish,  pour  over  the  Uver  the  remainder  of  the 
butter  in  which  it  was  fried,  and  garnish  with  sections  of  lemon 
and  sprigs  of  parsley. 


While  in  Venice  the  method  is  strongly  reminiscent  of  'liver 
and  onions',  except  that  oil  is  used  for  cooking  whereas  we 
normally  use  lard  or  dripping: 

[    143    ] 


FEGATO   ALLA   VENEZIANA 

For  each  person  allow  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  liver  and 
one  large  onion  cut  into  rings.  Heat  the  oil  in  a  heavy  pan  and 
in  it  cook  the  onions  until  they  are  a  golden  yellow;  add  the 
liver  —  floured  —  and  cook  quickly  on  either  side,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  piled  upon  a  bed  of  the  fried 
onions. 

Then,  for  real  luxury,  why  not  try  liver  cooked  with  arti- 
chokes? Since  'Globe'  artichokes  are  not  always  easy  to  obtain 
in  this  country,  you  may  have  to  make  do  with  the  bottled  or 
tinned  variety,  well  drained. 


LIVER   WITH   ARTICHOKES 

For  each  person  allow  quarter  of  a  pound  of  calf's  liver,  and  one 
or  two  artichokes. 

In  a  heavy  pan  fry  a  chopped  onion  in  a  little  oil  until  it  is 
golden  brown;  lower  the  heat  and  add  the  artichokes  divided 
into  sections,  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes  or  so  until  the 
artichokes  are  tender;  increase  the  heat,  add  the  floured  liver 
and  cook  quickly  on  first  one  side  then  the  other;  remove  from 
the  heat,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  finely 
chopped  parsley;  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  and  shake  the  pan 
well  so  that  liver  and  artichokes  are  impregnated  with  the 
seasonings  and  lemon  juice.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Here  is  an  excellent  way  of  serving  pig's  liver  as  prepared  in 
Tuscany.  There  it  is  customary  to  serve  the  liver  thus  treated  on 
a  skewer,  interspersed  with  small  sections  of  toast,  and  bay 
leaves,  but  since  grilling  on  a  skewer  is  not  the  easiest  way  of 
cooking  with  modern  appliances,  omit  the  toast  and  the  bay 
leaves,  and  having  dipped  your  thin  slices  of  pig's  liver  in 
beaten  egg,  dip  them  in  the  following  mixture  so  that  they  are 
completely  coated  with  it,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  oil,  then  serve 
with  sections  of  lemon. 


[    144   ]-- 


MIXTURE   FOR    COATING 

A  good  handful  of  crisp  breadcrumbs;  a  clove  of  garlic,  crushed 
or  cut  very  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  fennel  seeds,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  well  together  and  when  the  liver  has  been  dipped  in  beaten 
egg,  coat  with  this  mixture  before  frying  in  hot  oil. 


FLAN   DI   FEGATO 


J  lb.  calves'  liver  or 
chicken  livers 

1  slice  ham 

a  pinch  of  spices 

2  slices  of  bread 
soaked  in  stock 
and  squeezed  dry 


1  oz.  butter 

2  ozs.  salt  pork 

1  or  2  truffles  or 
J  oz.  dried  mush- 
rooms (soaked  in 
water  for  ten 
minutes) 


Pass  all  ingredients  through  a  mincer  and  add  half  a  wineglass- 
ful  of  Marsala,  half  a  wineglassful  of  stock,  two  whole  eggs 
and  one  additional  yolk;  mix  well  and  place  in  a  greased  souffle 
dish  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes  or  half 
an  hour. 


POLPETTE   DI   FEGATO 

Liver  rissoles 


J  lb.  calves'  liver 
1  slice  fat  pork 


2  slices  bread 
soaked  in  stock 
and  squeezed  dry 


Pound  these  to  a  pulp  with  a  pestle  and  mortar,  then  add 
three  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  two  tg^  yolks  beaten,  and  form  into  small  rissoles  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  fry  in  a  'soffrito'  of  oil 
and  chopped  onion.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  white  wine  when 
they  are  half  cooked. 


■[   145  ] 


TRIPPA   ALL'ITALIANA 

Tripe,  Italian  fashion 


TO  SERVE  4 


1  lb.  tripe 
1  clove  garlic 
1  dessertspoon 

flour 
1  pint  stock 
1  teaspoon  chopped 

basil 
salt 

bay  leaf 
pepper 


1  large  onion 

4  tablespoons  olive 
oil 

2  medium  tomatoes, 
peeled 

1  carrot 
1  stalk  celery 
1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley 


Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  fry  the  chopped  onion  and  crushed 
garlic  until  they  are  golden  brown  and  then  stir  in  the  flour. 
Cut  the  washed  tripe  into  squares,  and  add  to  the  mixture 
together  with  the  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  small.  Slowly  add 
the  stock,  stirring  to  prevent  sticking  to  bottom  of  pan;  add 
diced  celery  and  carrot  and  seasoning.  Allow  to  simmer  gently 
for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  hot,  removing  the  bay  leaf  before 
serving. 


TRIPPA   ALLA   FIORENTINA 

Tripe,  Florentine  style 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  lb.  tripe 
pepper  and  salt, 

to  taste 

2  tablespoons  Par- 
mesan cheese 


\  pint  tomato  sauce 
(See  'SAUCES') 

1  teaspoon  chopped 
marjoram 


Cut  the  tripe  into  squares  and  boil  for  half  an  hour  in  boiling, 
salted  water.  Drain;  then  place  in  a  stewpan  with  the  tomato 
sauce  and  allow  to  simmer  gently  for  a  further  hour;  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  before  serving,  sprinkle  in  the  marjoram,  and  when 
dished  up,  scatter  the  grated  cheese  over  it,  or  hand  it  in  a  sep- 
arate dish  to  be  added  at  will. 


[    146    ] 


) 

J 
TRIPE    WITH   PARMESAN  \ 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  tripe  3  tablespoons  ' 

2  ozs.  butter  Parmesan  cheese  j 

grated  ■ 

,i 
Cut  the  tripe  into  small  squares  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water  for  an  hour  and  a  half  or  until  tender ;  drain,  and  reheat  - 

with  the  butter.  When  hot,  stir  in  the  Parmesan  cheese  and  serve 
as  soon  as  this  starts  to  melt.  \ 


ROGNONI   IN   UMIDO  1 

Stewed  kidneys  ' 

TO  SERVE  4  l 

1  lb.  calves'  or                            1  teaspoonful  ] 
sheep's  kidneys                           chopped  parsley  ■ 

1 J  oz.  butter  .  half  a  lemon  ^j 

2  wineglassesful  1  small  onion  -j 
white  wine 

The  kidneys  must  be  skinned,  cut  in  halves  and  the  core  re  ' 
moved ;  after  this  plunge  them  in  boiling  water  to  which  juice  ! 
of  the  half  lemon  has  been  added.  After  two  or  three  minutes,  i 
drain  them  and  cut  in  slices.  Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan, 
and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  until  light  brown,  add  the  j 
kidneys  and  cook  them  for  five  or  six  minutes,  shaking  the  pan 
from  time  to  time  to  prevent  sticking,  add  the  wine  and  a  little 
grated  lemon  rind,  and  allow  the  dish  to  bubble  so  that  the  I 
gravy  is  reduced  in  volume;  finally,  a  few  minutes  before  serv- 
ing, add  the  parsley.  Serve  hot  in  a  dish  surrounded  by  snippets  ; 
of  toast.  ) 


[    147   ] 


ROGNONI   ALLA   BOLOGNESE 

Kidneys  as  cooked  in  Bologna 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  calves'  or  pigs'  2  medium  sized 
kidneys  onions 

2  ozs.  butter  J  pint  stock 
juice  of  half  1  tablespoon 

a  lemon  chopped  parsley 

Skin  the  kidneys,  cut  in  half,  removing  the  core,  then  plunge 
in  boiling  water  to  which  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  has 
been  added  and  leave  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Drain  and  cut 
in  slices.  Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  fry  the  chopped 
onion  until  golden  brown  and  add  the  parsley ;  add  the  chopped 
kidneys  and  cook  for  five  or  six  minutes,  shaking  the  pan  so 
that  they  are  cooked  on  all  sides  and  do  not  stick;  finally,  add 
the  stock  and  a  little  lemon  juice  and  cook  gently  for  a  further 
10  minutes,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil. 


TESTA   DI   VITELLO   ALLA 
TOSCANA 

Brains  as  cooked  in  Tuscany 

TO  SERVE  4 

Calves'  brains  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
1  oz.  butter  1  carrot 

1  small  onion  1  stalk  celery 

1  tablespoon  salt  and  pepper 
parsley,  chopped 

Wash  the  brains  in  salt  and  water,  removing  the  skin  and 
fibres  and  allow  to  remain  in  salt  and  water  for  half  an  hour 
or  longer.  Wrap  in  a  piece  of  muslin  and  tie  with  string  and 
put  on  to  cook  in  a  stewpan  with  water  to  cover  and  the  chopped 
vegetables,  seasoning  and  lemon  juice,  and  cook  for  a  further 
15  or  20  minutes,  or  until  the  brains  are  firm;  remove  from 
the  stewpan,  untie,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  piquant 
sauce. 


[    148   ] 


BRAIN   RISSOLES 

brains  prepared  as  for  TESTA  DI  VITELLO 

ALLA  TOSCANA 
beaten  egg  pepper  and  salt 

Having  prepared  the  brains  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  allow 
to  cook  and  then  chop  fine  and  bind  together  with  the  beaten 
egg ;  stir  over  the  fire  in  a  small  pan  until  the  mixture  thickens 
but  does  not  boil;  allow  to  cook  and  then  form  into  small 
rissoles,  which  fry  in  hot  oil  or  butter  after  coating  with  egg 
and  fine  breadcrumbs.  Serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


LINGUA   ALLA   SALSA 

Tongue  with  sauce 

TO  SERVE  8 

1  calf's  tongue  1  medium  sized 

I  lb.  rump  steak  onion 

1  teaspoon  chopped  1  teaspoon  chopped 
basil  parsley 

J  pint  stock  1  bay  leaf 

2  slices  streaky  J  lb.  mushrooms 
bacon                                      salt  and  pepper 

Put  the  tongue  in  a  stewpan  with  salted  water  to  cover  and 
bring  to  the  boil,  then  simmer  gently  for  at  least  IJ  hours. 
Drain,  cool  and  remove  the  skin;  puncture  it  here  and  there 
and  into  the  holes  introduce  slivers  of  the  streaky  bacon. 
Grease  a  stewpan  and  in  it  place  the  steak,  well  beaten  with 
a  cutlet  bat,  then  the  chopped  onion,  basil,  parsley,  bay  leaf 
and  mushrooms  cut  small;  on  this  lay  the  tongue,  and  cover 
with  the  other  half  of  the  steak,  well  beaten,  and  over  it  pour 
the  stock.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  allow  to  cook  very  slowly 
for  about  three  hours,  adding  more  stock  if  necessary  during 
that  time,  but  allowing  the  broth  to  reduce  almost  to  nothing 
by  the  end  of  the  cooking  period.  Serve  hot  with  a  piquant 
sauce,  or  if  preferred,  lift  on  to  a  dish,  allow  to  cool  and  serve 
cold  with  a  green  salad. 

_ [   149   ] 


LINGUA    CON    OLIVE 

Tongue  with  olives 


TO  SERVE  4 


1  calf's  tongue 
1  carrot  chopped 
1  oz.  butter 
J  pint  boiling 
stock 


1  small  chopped 

onion 
1  teaspoon  chopped 

parsley 
6  large  green  olives 


Put  the  tongue  in  a  stewpan,  cover  with  cold  water  to  which 
a  little  salt  has  been  added;  boil  for  \\  hours,  then  drain,  cool 
and  skin.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  brown  the 
chopped  vegetables;  add  the  tongue  and  brown  all  over, 
then  add  the  stock  and  the  olives  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  and 
allow  to  cook  gently  for  a  further  1  \  hours,  adding  a  little  more 
stock  from  time  to  time  if  necessary. 


Stuffed  Meats 


BRACIUOLE   RIPIENE 

Stuffed  steak 

TO  SERVE  4 

For  the  filling: 

about  2  lbs,  of  veal  steak  cut  in  thin  layers   and 

flattened  with  a  cutlet  bat 


about  2  ozs.  of 
streaky  bacon  or 
lean  ham 

1  or  2  cloves  of 
garlic,  crushed 

1  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley 

2  ozs.  grated 

Parmesan  cheese 


2  slices  of  bread, 
soaked  in  milk  or 
water  and  squee- 
zed dry 

1  t^gg  yolk 

a  pinch  of  nutmeg 

pepper  and  salt 


.[    150   ]. 


Chop  the  ham  in  small  pieces,  and  to  it  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  mix  well. 

Cut  the  steak  into  strips  about  7  inches  in  length  and  3  inches 
in  width,  and  on  each  spread  a  portion  of  the  filling ;  roll  the 
steak  round  the  filling  and  fasten  with  thread  or  fine  string. 

In  a  heavy  pan  heat  about  2  ozs.  butter,  and,  if  available, 
a  little  marrow  from  a  bone,  and  in  this  place  the  rolls  of  steak, 
and  allow  to  brown  on  all  sides;  add  a  chopped  onion,  a  finely 
chopped  carrot  and  a  stalk  of  celery  cut  small ;  cover  pan  and 
allow  to  cook  together  for  twenty  minutes,  adding,  towards 
the  end  of  the  cooking  time,  a  few  tablespoons  of  good  stock 
or  strained  tomato  sauce. 


VITELLO    RIPIENO 
AL   PASTICCIO 

Stuffed  veal  pie 

TO  SERVE  4 

For  the  stuffing: 

about  J  lb.  lean  veal  a  pinch  of  marjoram 

J  lb.  veal  sweetbreads  1  oz.  butter 

J  lb.  lean  ham  1  egg  and  three 

1  small  onion  extra  yolks 
chopped  small  1  tablespoonful 

2  ozs.  uncooked  chopped  parsley 
green  peas  J  lb.  mushrooms  cut 

small 

Heat  the  butter,  and  in  it  cook  the  onion  until  it  is  a  golden 
colour;  then  add  the  veal,  sweetbreads  and  ham,  cut  small, 
and  cook  together  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes;  remove  from  the 
stove  and  chop  finely,  then  add  the  other  ingredients. 

Having  prepared  the  above  stuffing;  take  about  \\  lbs.  of 
lean  veal,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  pounded  with  a  cutlet  bat. 
Place  a  layer  in  a  greased  fireproof  casserole,  and  on  this  place 
a  layer  of  the  stuffing,  then  a  further  layer  of  veal,  and  con- 
tinue in  this  way  till  all  is  used  up,  finishing  with  a  layer  of 
veal;  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  from  time  to  time  with  a  little  good 
stock  or  strained  tomato  sauce.  This  may  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

[    151    ] 


Poultry  &  Game 


Chicken 

POLLO   IN   UMIDO 

Chicken  stew 

TO  SERVE  4  « 

1  medium  sized  J  lb.  mushrooms 

boiling  fowl  1  small  onion, 
1  stalk  celery,  cut  chopped 

small  1  carrot,  chopped 

1  teaspoon  chopped  1  oz.  butter 

parsley  \  pint  stock  or 
1  tablespoon  tomato  water 

conserve  pepper  and  salt 

Clean  and  prepare  the  fowl  and  cut  into  joints  for  serving. 
Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped 
vegetables  a  few  minutes;  add  the  chicken  and  brown  on  all 
sides,  then  add  the  stock,  the  mushrooms  cut  small,  and  the 
tomato  conserve  diluted  with  a  little  stock  or  water.  Cover  the 
pan  and  simmer  gently  for  2  hours  or  until  the  chicken  is 
tender,  adding  a  little  more  stock  if  necessary  during  the  cooking 
time. 

POLLO    ALLE    OLIVE 

Chicken  with  olives 

TO  SERVE  4 

In  addition  to  the  ingredients  for  POLLO  IN  UMIDO  in 
the  preceding  recipe,  you  will  need  six  or  eight  large  green 
olives.  Proceed  as  in  the  preceding  recipe  but  do  not  cut  the 
fowl  into  joints,  but  leave  it  whole.  After  adding  the  stock, 
add  the  olives,  stoned  and  cut  in  strips ;  allow  the  pan  to  simmer 
for  2  hours  or  until  the  chicken  is  tender,  then  serve  on  a  heated 
dish  with  the  sauce  served  in  a  separate  tureen. 

[    152   ] 


POLLO    CON   VERDURE 

Garnished  chicken 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  medium  sized  2  slices  streaky 

boiling  fowl  bacon 

1  small  onion,  1  oz.  butter 

chopped  small  \  pint  stock  or 
1  level  tablespoon-  water 

ful  flour  1  carrot 

1  tablespoon  tomato  1  small  cabbage 
conserve  salt,  pepper  &  nut- 

2  stalks  of  celery  meg 
\  lb.  pork  sausages 

Glean  the  fowl  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.  Place  the  butter 
in  a  stewpan,  heat  it  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  till  it  is 
golden  brown ;  add  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  allow  to  brown 
on  all  sides;  stir  in  the  flour  and  allow  to  cook  a  moment  or 
two  before  adding  the  stock  very  slowly,  stirring  so  as  to  prevent 
lumps  forming;  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  the  carrot 
and  celery  cut  small ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  2  hours  or  until 
the  chicken  is  tender;  twenty  minutes  before  serving,  add  the 
cabbage,  washed  and  shredded,  and  the  sausages,  and  when 
these  are  cooked,  serve  in  a  heated  dish. 


POLLO    AI   PISELLI 

Chicken  with  peas 

Prepare  as  for  POLLO  AI  FUNGHI,  but  instead  of  the  mush- 
rooms add  1  pound  of  fresh  green  peas  —  weighed  after  shell- 
ing —  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley-  to  the  broth 
after  the  chicken  is  nearly  cooked,  and  when  the  peas  are  cooked, 
serve  the  whole  in  a  hot  dish. 


[   153   ]■ 


POLLO    ALLA    CREMA 

Chicken  with  cream 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  medium  sized 

flour 

roasting  fowl 

1  tablespoonful 

1  small  onion 

or  more  of 

1  wineglassful  of 

butter 

cream  or  'top 

milk' 

Prepare  the  fowl,  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.  Heat  the  butter  and 
in  it  brown  the  onion ;  then  flour  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  brown 
on  all  sides  in  the  heated  butter,  salting  to  taste.  Add  the  cream 
and  allow  to  cook  to  boiling  point;  remove  from  the  stove- 
and  serve  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 


POLLO    AI   FUNGHI 

Chicken  with  mushrooms 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  medium  sized  2  ozs.  butter 

boiling  chicken  J  pint  stock  or 

1  small  onion  water 

1  tablespoon  tomato  J  lb.  mushrooms 
conserve 

Prepare  the  chicken  for  cooking  and  cut  in  pieces.  Heat  the 
butter  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  until 
yellow.  Lightly  flour  the  chicken  and  fry  in  the  butter  until 
brown  on  all  sides ;  salt  to  taste  and  add  the  stock  and  the  toma- 
to conserve  diluted  with  a  little  stock.  Cover  and  cook  slowly 
for  two  hours  or  until  the  chicken  is  tender;  lift  the  chicken 
from  the  gravy,  and  keep  hot;  meanwhile,  clean  the  mushrooms 
and  cut  small,  add  them  to  the  gravy  and  cook  for  ten  minutes, 
then  return  the  chicken  to  the  stewpan,  and  when  it  has  been 
in  the  gravy  long  enough  for  it  to  have  come  to  the  boil,  serve 
in  a  hot  dish. 


[    1?4  ]■ 


PETTI    DI    POLLO 
ALL  A    LOMBARD A 

Chicken  breasts  Lombardy  style 

TO  SERVE  4 

allow  half  a  breast  1  teaspoon  chopped 

of  chicken  for  parsley 

each  person  1  lb.  shelled  green 
1  small  onion  peas 

1  tablespoon  \  pint  hot  stock 

chopped  fennel  or  water 

the  Hvers  of  one  juice  of  |^  a  lemon 

or  two  chicken  2  ^gg  yolks 

1  oz.  butter  pepper  and  salt 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  and  in  it  brown  the  chopped 
onion  and  parsley;  add  the  chicken,  lightly  floured,  and  brown 
on  all  sides,  add  the  chopped  fennel  and  the  hot  stock,  cover 
and  allow  to  cook  for  25  minutes.  Meanwhile  cook  the  peas  in 
boiling  salted  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  the  stew- 
pan  together  with  the  chicken  livers  and  seasoning;  cook  for 
a  further  ten  minutes,  then  remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  in 
the  beaten  Ggg  yolks  mixed  with  the  lemon  juice.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 


POLLO   AL   VINO   BIANCO 

Chicken  with  white  wine 

TO  SERVE  4 

Prepare  a  boiling  fowl  and  cut  in  pieces,  then  lay  on  a  flat 
dish  and  allow  to  marinate  for  at  least  4  hours  in  a  mixture 
of  1  wineglassful  of  white  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil, 
a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  salt  to  taste.  Turn  the  chicken  from 
time  to  time.  At  the  end  of  4  hours,  place  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  little  butter  and  a  cupful  of  stock,  and  cook  slowly  for  at  least 
2  hours ;  finally  thickening  the  broth  with  a  little  flour  mixed 
with  a  Uttle  cold  water,  stirred  into  the  stewpan  and  allowed 
to  thicken,  stirring  all  the  time;  finally  add  a  little  chopped 
parsley  and  serve  hot. 


[    155   ] 


CHICKEN   AS    SERVED 
IN   ROME 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  medium  sized  2  ozs.  flour 

boiling  fowl  4  cloves 

4  tablespoons  olive  a  little  chopped 

oil  parsley 

1  sliced  leek  1  pint  stock 

a  pinch  of  thyme  4  ozs.  macaroni 

1  tablespoon  tomato  pepper  and  salt 

conserve 

Heat  the  oil  in  a  large  stewpan,  and  having  prepared  the  chic- 
ken, add  it  to  the  stewpan  with  the  chopped  leek,  cloves, 
herbs;  allow  it  to  brown  on  all  sides,  and  take  your  time  over 
this  process.  Pour  off  half  the  oil.  Add  the  stock  and  the  tomato 
conserve  diluted  with  a  little  stock  or  water;  cover  and  allow 
to  finish  cooking  —  at  least  another  hour  and  a  half  or  two 
hours,  until  the  chicken  is  tender.  Meanwhile  cook  and  drain 
the  macaroni,  and  when  the  chicken  has  finished  cooking, 
remove  it  from  the  sauce  and  keep  hot ;  add  the  macaroni  to  the 
sauce,  mix  well  and  serve  around  the  chicken  as  a  garnish. 


pur£e  of  chicken 

For  this,  the  breast  of  a  medium  sized  chicken  should  be  pound- 
ed in  a  mortar  with  a  little  stock,  and  two  slices  of  bread  that 
have  been  soaked  in  stock  and  squeezed  dry.  When  well  mixed, 
pass  through  a  food  mill,  place  in  a  stewpan  with  half  a  wine- 
glassful  of  Marsala,  and  a  similar  amount  of  brown  sauce  and 
a  pinch  of  mixed  spice.  Allow  to  cook  gently  for  twenty  minutes, 
remove  from  the  heat  and  mix  with  a  beaten  egg  yolk  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
serve  on  a  dish  surrounded  by  snippets  of  hot  fried  bread. 


[    156   ] 


Game 


HARE   IN    SWEET    SOUR    SAUCE 

Skin  and  clean  a  hare,  cut  in  pieces,  wash  in  a  weak  solution 
of  vinegar  and  water  and  flour  lightly.  Fry  in  butter  in  which 
you  have  browned  a  chopped  onion  and  a  slice  of  ham  cut  in 
small  squares.  Cover  with  stock  and  salt  to  taste  and  allow  to 
cook  slowly  in  a  covered  stewpan  for  about  IJ  hours.  Meanwhile 
mix  together  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  with  half  a  wineglass  full 
of  vinegar,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  grated  bitter  chocolate, 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  fennel  and  a  few  seedless  raisins, 
mix  well  and  add  to  the  hare  twenty  minutes  before  serving. 


HARE    STEW 

In  a  heavy  stewpan  heat  an  ounce  of  butter  and  in  it  brown 
a  chopped  onion  and  a  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  a  pinch  of 
rosemary,  a  stalk  of  celery  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
and  a  little  chopped  ham.  Allow  to  cook  together  for  several 
minutes,  then  add  your  hare  cut  in  pieces,  washed  and  lightly 
floured,  and  allow  it  to  brown.  Then  slowly  add  a  wineglassful 
of  white  wine,  a  little  tomato  conserve  diluted  with  stock  or 
water,  half  a  pint  of  stock,  half  an  ounce  of  dried  mushrooms 
that  have  been  soaked  in  water  a  few  minutes,  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg. Cover  and  allow  to  cook  gently  for  1 J  to  2  hours. 


PIGEONS   WITH   PEAS 

Allow  one  pigeon  per  person,  and  v/hen  cleaned,  brown  them 
all  over  in  a  stewpan  in  hot  butter  to  which  has  been  added 
a  chopped  onion.  Salt  to  taste  and  cover  with  boiling  stock 
and  a  little  tomato  conserve  diluted  with  stock  or  water.  Cook 
gently  for  \\  hours,  then  remove  the  pigeons  and  keep  hot; 
meanwhile  in  the  broth  in  which  they  have  cooked,  place 
half  a  pound  of  shelled  green  peas  to  every  two  pigeons,  cook 
for  twenty  minutes,  then  replace  the  pigeons,  allow  to  cook 
together  a  few  minutes  and  serve  hot.  A  little  chopped  basil 
is  a  welcome  addition  to  this  dish. 

[    157  ] 


PERNICIOTTE   ALLA 
MILANESE 

Toung  partridges  as  cooked  in  Milan 

Pluck  and  draw  the  birds  and  cut  in  two,  lengthways,  and  flatten 
slightly  with  a  cutlet  bat.  Allow  them  to  marinate  for  an  hour 
before  cooking,  in  oil  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  parsley 
and  a  crushed  bay  leaf.  Then,  one  half  at  a  time,  dip  in  crisp 
breadcrumbs  and  fry  on  both  sides  in  hot  olive  oil.  Arrange  on 
a  heated  dish  and  serve  with  anchovy  sauce  (See  'SAUCES'). 


BECCACCE   AL    SALMI 

Woodcock 

These  tender  little  birds  need  plucking  very  carefully,  and  the 
head,  which  is  left  on  the  body,  is  skinned.  They  are  NOT 
drawn  before  cooking. 

Partly  cook  the  woodcock  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  oil 
seasoned  with  salt,  then  cut  in  two,  and  remove  the  inside, 
throwing  away  the  stomach  and  gall,  but  using  the  remainder 
to  enrich  the  salmi,  or  sauce.  Having  removed  the  birds  from 
the  pan,  heat  a  little  butter,  and  in  it  brown  a  chopped  onion 
and  the  insides  removed  from  the  birds  and  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
replace  the  birds,  adding  a  very  little  stock  to  prevent  the 
birds  drying;  cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Serve  garnished 
with  snippets  of  toast  spread  with  the  salmi. 


[    158   ] 


BEGGAGGE   ALLA   ROMAGNOLA 

Another  way  with  woodcock 

For  this  recipe,  having  plucked  the  bodies  and  skinned  the 
heads,  remove  the  insides.  Throw  away  the  stomach  and  the 
gall,  and  put  the  remaining  insides  in  a  mortar  with  a  little 
butter,  four  thin  slices  of  ham  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  a  little  soft  breadcrumb  that  has  been  soaked 
in  water  or  milk  and  squeezed  dry.  Pound  to  a  paste,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  stuff  the  birds  with  the  mixture, 
tying  with  thread  or  fine  string,  and  twisting  the  head  round 
so  that  the  beak  can  be  used  as  a  skewer  through  the  thighs. 
Wrap  a  piece  of  thin  fat  pork  around  the  breast,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  wrap  in  buttered  paper  and  cook  gently  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  an  hour;  remove  the  paper,  dip  the  birds  in 
beaten  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  crisp  breadcri:^bs  and  allow 
to  cook  for  a  further  fifteen  minutes  so  as  to  give  them  some 
colour. 

Remove  from  the  oven,  remove  the  string  or  thread  and 
serve  accompanied  with  piquant  sauce  (See  'SAUCES'). 
and  sections  of  lemon. 


FAGIANO    AL   MADERA 

Pheasant  cooked  in  Madeira 

Pluck  and  draw  a  pheasant,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  with  four 
slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  two  slices  of  ham  cut  small,  half  an 
onion  cut  small,  a  stick  of  celery  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  a  diced  carrot  and  1  ozs.  butter,  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Cook  together  slowly 
until  the  pheasant  begins  to  brown,  then  add  a  wineglassful 
of  Madeira,  and  an  equal  quantity  of  stock ;  cover  the  stewpan 
and  allow  the  bird  to  finish  cooking  —  about  three  quarters 
of  an  hour.  Then  place  the  bird  in  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  fat 
from  the  sauce,  pass  through  a  sieve  and  pour  over  the  bird, 
and  send  to  the  table,  garnished  with  croutons  of  fried  bread. 


[    159   ] 


CONIGLIO    ALLA   BORGHESE 

Rabbit  'Citizen'  style 

Skin  a  rabbit,  removing  the  entrails.  Cut  the  rabbit  into  joints, 
wash  and  wipe  dry,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  with  about  an 
ounce  of  butter.  Brown  on  all  sides,  then  lower  the  heat  and 
add  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine,  a  chopped  onion,  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  either  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms 
cut  small,  or  half  an  ounce  of  dried  mushrooms  'revived'  in 
a  little  broth  and  cut  small.  Cover  the  stewpan,  and  allow  to 
cook  slowly  for  1 J  hours,  adding  a  little  stock  from  time  to  time 
if  it  looks  as  through  the  rabbit  is  drying  out. 


CONIGLIO   IN    SALSA 
PICCANTE 

Rabbit  in  piquant  sauce 

Cut  the  rabbit  into  joints,  flour  these,  and  place  in  a  stewpan 
in  which  2  ounces  of  butter  have  been  heated.  Allow  the  rabbit 
to  brown  on  all  sides,  then  add  a  stick  of  celery,  chopped  fine, 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  small  onion,  a  carrot  cut  small, 
J  lb.  mushrooms  cut  small,  two  or  three  cloves,  pepper,  salt 
and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Add  a  wineglassful  of  red  wine  and 
an  equal  quantity  of  stock;  cover  the  stewpan  and  allow  to  cook 
for  about  an  hour,  then  remove  the  pieces  of  rabbit ;  pass  the 
gravy  through  a  sieve,  pressing  it  through  with  a  wooden  spoon 
so  as  not  to  leave  behind  anything  but  the  'dregs',  add  a  couple 
of  tablespoons  of  capers  and  two  anchovies  that  have  been 
pounded  in  a  mortar;  mix  well,  replace  in  the  stewpan  with 
the  pieces  of  rabbit,  and  allow  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes  more. 
Serve  surrounded  by  croutons  of  toast  or  fried  bread. 


[   160  ] 


FRICASSEE    OF   RABBIT 

Heat  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  in  it  fry  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  until  brown,  then  add  a  rabbit,  cut  into  joints 
and  floured,  together  with  a  couple  of  slices  of  fat  bacon  cut 
small,  and  allow  to  cook  until  the  rabbit  has  browned  —  say 
15  minutes.  Cover  with  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  stock,  add  a  chopped  onion  and  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  and  cook  fairly  slowly  until  the  liquid  is  reduced 
by  half  and  the  rabbit  is  tender.  Remove  the  rabbit  on  to 
a  hot  dish,  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  into  the  sauce 
mix  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Mix  well  and  pour  over  the  rabbit  before  serving. 


CONIGLIO    IN    SALSA 
PICCANTE 

Rabbit  in  piquant  sauce 

Prepare  the  rabbit  by  skinning,  cleaning,  cutting  into  pieces, 
washing  and  wiping  dry  with  a  cloth.  Place  in  a  stewpan  with 
4  ounces  of  butter,  after  having  floured  it  lightly;  allow  to  brown 
for  about  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  add  a  couple  of  sticks  of  celery 
cut  in  thin  slices,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  chopped  fresh  parsley, 
a  medium  sized  onion  chopped  finely,  a  medium  sized  carrot 
cut  in  thin  slices,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms, 
three  cloves,  salt  to  taste  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Add  a  wine- 
glassful  of  red  wine  and  an  equal  quantity  of  hot  stock,  cover 
the  stewpan  and  allow  to  cook  for  an  hour  or  until  the  rabbit 
is  tender.  Remove  the  rabbit  and  keep  warm;  pour  the  broth 
through  a  food  mill  into  another  stewpan,  add  to  it  two  ancho- 
vies cut  in  pieces  and  two  tablespoons  of  capers,  heat  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  return  the  rabbit  to  the  broth  and  allow 
to  cook  together  for  a  few  minutes  longer;  serve  on  a  heated 
dish  surrounded  by  snippets  of  toast. 


[    161   ] 


Vegetables 


Where  vegetables  are  concerned,  the  Italian  cook  is  con- 
siderably more  imaginative  than  her  English  counter- 
part, and  one  is  unlikely  to  be  confronted  with  'plain 
boiled'  potatoes,  or  with  watery  vegetable  marrow  served  with 
a  thin  white  sauce ;  try  some  of  these  suggestions  for  livening 
up  the  vegetable  dishes. 


[   162  ] 


cArciofi 

Artichokes 

Globe  artichokes,  a  luxury  in  England,  are  one  of  Italy's 
staple  vegetables.  In  Sicily  one  can  pass  acres  and  acres  of  land 
planted  with  these  delicious  vegetables;  small  wonder  that 
they  make  frequent  appearances  on  the  Italian  menu. 

To  prepare  them  for  cooking,  remove  th^^  outer  leaves,  cut 
off  half  of  the  top,  or  point  of  the  artichoke,  cut  in  halves  and 
then  in  quarters,  and  allow  to  remain  for  about  half  an  hour 
in  water  to  which  you  have  added  a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 
Drain  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  oil,  a  litde  lemon 
juice,  salt,  pepper,  a  clove  of  garlic,  crushed,  and  a  pinch  of 
origano,  allow  the  artichokes  to  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  turn- 
ing them  frequently  so  that  they  become  golden  brown  all 
over;  remove  to  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm  and  to  the  sauce 
add  one  or  two  anchovies  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  over  the  artichokes  and  serve  hot. 


CARCIOFI   IN   FRICASSEA 

Fricassie  of  artichokes 

Prepare  the  artichokes  by  removing  the  outer  leaves,  and  cut 
ting  off  half  or  a  little  more  of  the  pointed  end ;  leave  for  hal- 
an  hour  in  water  to  which  you  have  added  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Drain,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter,  chopped 
parsley,  a  clove  of  garlic  crushed,  and  salt  to  taste.  Allow  to  cook 
slowly  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  then  remove  the  pan  from 
the  heat,  and  add  one  or  two  egg  yolks  (depending  on  the  quan- 
tity of  artichokes)  beaten  lightly  with  a  teaspoon  of  water  per 
^gg  yolk,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Serve  very  hot. 


.[    163   ]• 


CARCIOFI   IN   UMIDO 
CON   PISELLI 

Artichokes  stewed  with  peas 

TO  SERVE  4 

12  globe  artichokes  1  small  onion 

f  lb.  shelled  fresh  chopped  parsley 

peas,  weighed  juice  of  half  a  le- 

after  shelling  mon 

3  egg  yolks  i  pint  stock  or 
1  tablespoon  olive  oil  water 

Prepare  the  artichokes;  meanwhile,  chop  the  onion  and  fry 
lightly  in  the  oil,  together  with  the  parsley;  add  the  artichokes, 
quartered,  the  peas  and  the  stock  together  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Cook  together  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  from  time  to  time 
so  that  the  vegetables  do  not  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan ; 
at  the  end  of  the  cooking  time,  remove  from  the  heat  and  stir 
in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  lemon  juice  and  serve  hot. 


CARCIOFI   ALLA   GIUDAICA 

Jewish  Artichokes 

TO  SERVE  4 

Prepare  a  dozen  artichokes,  leaving  a  fairly  long  stem.  While 
they  are  soaking,  prepare  a  'battuto'  with  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  a  little  chopped  mint,  a  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  and 
place  a  little  of  this  in  the  middle  of  each  artichoke  after  drain- 
ing the  vegetable.  In  a  deep  pan  heat  a  cupful  of  olive  oil  very 
hot  and  in  this  place  the  artichokes  upside  down,  pressing  them 
down  so  that  the  leaves  spread  out.  Cook  over  a  hot  flame  for 
ten  minutes  and  serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


[    164   ] 


ASPARAGI   ALL' OLIO 

Asparagus  with  o\l 

Remove  the  hard  end  of  the  stalks  of  a  bundle  of  asparagus, 
and  remove  the  'scales'  that  are  to  be  found  along  the  stalks; 
tie  in  smaller  bundles  with  fine  string  and  boil  gently  in  salted 
water  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  water,  cut 
the  string  and  remove  and  serve  with  either  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil. 


ASPARAGI  ALLA  MILANESE 

Asparagus  Milanese  Style 

Having  prepared  and  cooked  your  bundle  of  asparagus,  drain, 
and  lay  in  a  fireproof  dish,  with  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  moments;  just  before 
serving,  sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  serve  as  soon  as  this  starts  to  melt. 


FAGIOLINI   AL   BURRO 

Buttered  French  Beans 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  young  French  2  tablespoons  grated 
beans  Parmesan 

2  ozs.  butter  pepper  and  salt 

Top  and  tail  the  beans,  and  cook  them  in  boiling  salted  water 
for  twenty  minutes;  drain,  and  place  in  a  greased  fireproof 
dish  with  the  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  grated  cheese,  and 
place  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  cheese  starts  to  melt.  Serve 
immediately. 


[    165    ] 


FAGIOLINI   IN   FRIGASSEA 

Fricassee  of  French  Beans 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  French  beans  2  ozs.  butter 

1  tablespoonful  salt  and  pepper 

chopped  parsley  1  or  2  ^gg  yolks, 
1  clove  garlic,  beaten  lightly 

crushed  with  a  teaspoon 

juice  of  half  a  lemon  of  cold  water 

1  tablespoonful  per  yolk 

grated  Parmesan 

Prepare  the  beans  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  drain,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  with  the  parsley, 
butter,  garlic  and  salt;  allow  to  cook  gently  for  a  further  ten 
minutes,  remove  from  the  heat  and  stir  in  the  beaten  egg  yolks, 
lemon  juice  and  grated  cheese  and  serve  immediately. 


FAGIOLINI   ALLA   ROMANA 

French  beans,  Roman  style 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  young  French  1  oz.  butter 

beans  pepper,  salt  and 

1  medium  onion  nutmeg 

chopped  small  2  anchovies  cut 

small 

Prepare  the  be^ns  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  fifteen  minutes, 
saving  a  little  of  the  cooking  water,  and  drain.  Place  in  a  stew- 
pan  in  which  you  have  prepared  a  'battuto'  of  the  butter, 
onion,  seasonings  and  chopped  anchovies,  together  with  a  little 
of  the  water  in  which  the  beans  were  cooked;  cook  gently  for  ten 
minutes,  during  which  time  the  liquid  will  have  reduced  in 
quantity,  remove  from  the  fire  and  serve. 


[   166  ] 


FAGIOLI   ALLA  PROVINCIALE 

Haricot  beans 

TO  SERVE  4 


1  pint  of  haricot 
beans,  which 
have  been 
allowed  to  soak 
overnight  in  cold 
water 


1  small  onion 
chopped  small 

1  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley 

2  ozs.  butter 

1  clove  garlic, 
crushed 


Drain  the  beans  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  for  about  an 
hour  or  until  tender;  drain.  Meanwhile,  in  a  stewpan  heat  the 
butter  and  in  it  brown  the  chopped  onion  and  garlic,  add  the 
drained  beans  and  the  parsley,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste 
and  the  tomato  sauce.  Cook  together  for  a  further  ten  min- 
utes. 


HARICOT   BEANS   WITH   BACON 

TO  SERVE  4 


12  OZS.  haricot 
beans,  soaked 
overnight,  and 
cooked  till  tender 
in  boiling  salted 
water,  using  a  pint 
of  water,  and  cook- 
ing for  about  an 
hour  —  do  not 
throw  away  the 
water  in  which 
they  have  been 
cooked  but  place 
in  a  fireproof 
casserole  and  add : 

1  teaspoon  dry  mus- 
tard 


3  tablespoonsful 
molasses  or  black 
treacle 

3  ozs.  brown  sugar 
salt  to  taste 

2  tablespoonsfuls 
vinegar 

2  tablespoonsful 
tomato  conserve 
moistened  with 
4  tablespoonsful 
warm  water 

4  ozs.  bacon  or  ham 
cut  in  small 
squares 

1  small  onion 
chopped  fine 


-[    167    ]- 


Cover  and  cook  in  a  really  slow  oven  (Regulo  1  is  quite  hot 
enough)  for  six  or  eight  hours,  looking  at  them  from  time  to 
time  and  adding  more  water  if  they  appear  to  be  becoming 
too  dry. 


FAVE   AL    GUNCIALE 

Broad  Beans  with  bacon 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  broad  beans,  2  slices  of  streaky 

and  if  you  wish  bacon 

really  to  enjoy  1  oz.  butter 

them,  gather  1  medium  sized 

them  while  they  onion 
are  still  small 
and  tender 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion 
until  it  is  a  golden  yellow  colour,  add  the  bacon  cut  in  dice, 
and  when  this  is  cooked,  add  the  shelled  uncooked  beans,  and 
cook  together  for  a  further  five  minutes;  add  water  almost 
to  cover;  place  lid  on  stewpan  and  simmer  gently  for  twenty 
minutes.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 


PISELLI   AL   PROSCIUTTO 

Green  Peas  with  Ham 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  peas  J  lb.  ham  cut  in 

1  small  onion  dice 

1  oz.  butter 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  cook  the  chopped  onion  till 
a  golden  yellow;  add  the  diced  ham  and  cook  for  a  further 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  peas,  shelled,  washed  but  not 
cooked;  add  sufficient  water  not  quite  to  cover,  and  cook 
gently  for  quarter  of  an  hour  with  the  lid  on  the  stewpan. 


[    168  ]- 


PISELLI   ALLA   PARIGINA 

Peas,  Paris  style 

TO  SERVE  4 

A  French  recipe,  but  one  which  finds  its  way  into  ItaHan 
cookery  books  and  on  to  ItaHan  tables,  so  well  worth  including. 


2  lbs.  peas 

4  spring  onions 

salt  and  pepper 


2  round  lettuce 
2  teaspoons  castor 

sugar 
1  oz.  butter 


Shell  the  peas,  and  retain  four  or  five  of  the  best-looking  shells. 
Wash  the  lettuce  and  cut  in  four  lengthways,  then  lift  it  out 
of  the  water  and  place  it  dripping  wet  in  a  stewpan  in  which 
you  have  already  warmed  the  butter,  add  the  peas  and  the 
pea  pods  you  have  kept  aside,  the  onions  and  pepper  and  salt; 
cover  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  forty-five  minutes,  shaking 
the  pan  from  time  to  time  to  prevent  the  vegetables  sticking. 
Take  a  look  from  time  to  time,  and  if  the  peas  look  like  becom- 
ing dry,  add  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  warm  water.  Five  minutes 
before  serving,  add  the  sugar  and  shake  the  pan  to  mix  well. 


Aubergines 

These  luscious-looking  vegetables  make  delicious  eating  cooked 
in  various  ways. 


MELANZANE  ALLA  GENOVESE 

Aubergine  Genoese  style 


3  or  4  medium 

sized  aubergines 
1  chopped  onion 
pepper  and  salt 


TO  SERVE  4 


1  tablespoon  olive 
oil 

2  or  3  ripe 
tomatoes 


[    169   ] 


Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  until  it  is  golden 
brown;  add  the  aubergines,  cut  in  half-inch  slices  crossways 
and  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  tomatoes,  peeled  and 
cut  in  pieces,  and  cook  together  until  the  egg  plant  is  tender; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  two  lightly  beaten  eggs;  mix 
well  and  serve  immediately. 


MELANZANE   ALLA   NAPOLITANA 

Aubergine,  Neapolitan  style 

TO  SERVE  4 


3  or  4  medium 
sized  aubergines 

J  lb.  Bel  Paese, 
unless  you  are 
in  Italy,  in  which 
case  use  an  equal 
quantity  of  Mozzarella 


pepper  and  salt 
2  ozs.  grated 

Parmesan 
f  pint  or  rather 

more  tomato 

sauce 


For  this  dish  peel  the  aubergines,  cut  in  half-inch  slices  cross- 
ways,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  and  leave  for  an  hour  or  so,  then 
drain,  flour  lightly  and  fry  gently  in  hot  oUve  oil,  then  drain 
on  blotting  paper  to  remove  the  surplus  oil. 

Grease  or  oil  a  souffle  dish  or  fireproof  casserole  and  in  it 
put  alternate  layers  of  aubergines,  Bel  Paese  cheese  and  tomato 
sauce  until  all  is  used  up;  sprinkle  with  the  grated  Parmesan 
and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five 
minutes. 


MELANZANE    RIPIENE 
Stuffed  aubergine 

TO  SERVE  4 


2  large  aubergines 

1  small  onion 
chopped 

2  slices  of  ham 
diced 

1  oz.  butter 


2  slices  of  bread, 
soaked  in  milk 
and  squeezed  dry 

J  lb. chopped 
mushrooms 

pepper  and  salt 


.[    170  ]. 


Split  the  aubergines  in  two  lengthways  and  scoop  out  the  middle 
of  the  flesh,  and  place  on  one  side.  Meanwhile,  heat  the  butter 
in  a  small  pan.  In  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  until  it  is  a  golden 
yellow,  add  the  tomatoes,  cut  small,  the  chopped  mushrooms 
and  the  ham,  and  saute  together  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  bread 
and  the  flesh  of  the  aubergines  cut  small  and  mix  well  together, 
adding  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fill  the  aubergines  with  the 
mixture,  lay  in  a  fireproof  baking  dish  side  by  side,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  an  hour. 


CIPOLLE   RIPIENE 

Stuffed  onions 

TO  SERVE  4 

For  this  you  need  the  large  Spanish  type  onion,  allowing  one 
per  person.  Cook  them  in  boiling  water  for  15  minutes,  drain, 
remove  the  centre  and  fill  with  stuffing  as  suggested  for  auber- 
gines, adding  a  few  chopped  black  oUves  if  liked.  Place  in 
a  fireproof  baking  dish,  dot  with  butter  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  an  hour. 


POTATO    PANCAKES 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  large  potatoes  2  medium  sized 

2  tablespoons  flour  onions 

pepper  and  salt  to 
taste 

Grate  the  raw  potatoes,  draining  off  any  surplus  liquid ;  add 
the  chopped  or  grated  onion,  flour  and  seasoning,  mixing 
thoroughly.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  very  hot  oil  in  a  frying 
pan  and  cook  golden  brown. 


[    171   ]. 


PATATE    IN    STUFATO 

Sauteed  potatoes 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  large  potatoes  a  slice  of  fat  roast 
2  tablespoons  butter  beef 

1  tablespoonful  a  teaspoonful  of 
tomato  conserve  chopped  rosemary 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  beef  cut  in  dice  and 
fry  till  brown.  Then  add  the  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  thin 
slices,  and  the  rosemary,  pepper  and  salt,  and  finally  the  tomato 
conserve  thinned  with  a  little  water;  cook  over  moderate  heat 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stirring  now  and  again  and  adding 
a  little  boiling  water  if  the  dish  appears  to  be  drying. 


POTATO    FRITTERS 

1  lb.  potatoes  2  ozs.  butter 

2  whole  eggs  and  a  few  chopped 

2  extra  yolks  pistachio  or  pine 

nuts 

Cook  the  potatoes  and  mash  in  a  pestle  and  mortar  or  pass 
through  a  ricer,  adding  the  butter,  beaten  eggs  and  chopped 
nuts.  Form  into  small  rissoles,  dip  in  egg-white  and  fry  in  hot 
olive  oil.  Drain  and  serve  very  hot. 


PATATE    ARROSTO 

Baked  potatoes 

TO  SERVE  4 

Allow  one  good-sized  potato  per  person;  peel  and  place  in 
a  baking  dish  with  an  ounce  or  more  of  butter,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour  or  until  they  are  nicely  browned 
but  not  burnt;  baste  from  time  to  time  with  the  butter  and  sprin- 
kle lightly  with  salt. 

[    172   ] 


PATATE    CON    SALSA 
DI   POMIDORO 

Potatoes  with  tomato  sauce 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  large  potatoes  \  pint  tomato 

1  medium  sized  sauce 

onion,  chopped  1  tablespoon  oil 

Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  till  a  golden 
brown;  add  the  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  slices,  simmer  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  tomato  sauce,  together  with 
a  little  water  and  cook  gently  till  the  potatoes  are  tender  and 
the  liquid  has  reduced  and  thickened  —  about  40  minutes. 


PATATE   AL   BURRO 

Buttered  potatoes 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  large  potatoes  3  tablespoons  stock 

1  tablespoon  chop-  2  ozs.  butter 

ped  parsley 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  cut  in  slices,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  with 
the  stock  and  the  parsley  and  cook  over  moderate  heat  until 
the  potatoes  are  cooked,  adding  a  little  water  from  time  to 
time  if  they  appear  to  be  drying  up ;  five  minutes  before  serving 
add  the  butter.  Mix  well  together  and  serve  hot. 


TOMATOES    COOKED 

WITHONIONS  ^         i 

TO  SERVE  4  ; 

1  large  tin  tomatoes  1  oz.  butter 

salt  and  pepper  3  medium  sized                                  j 

1  tablespoon  castor  onions                                             ; 

sugar  1  cupful  breadcrumbs 

— [  173  ] : 


Drain  the  tomatoes,  saving  the  Hquid  to  add  to  the  stock  pot. 
Sprinkle  the  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Peel  and 
slice  the  onions,  and  in  a  buttered  fireproof  dish  arrange 
alternate  layers  of  tomatoes,  onions  and  breadcrumbs,  finishing 
with  a  layer  of  breadcrumbs.  Dot  with  butter  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. 


POMIDORI   ALLA    CASALINGA 

Tomatoes,  housewife  style 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  firm  1  clove  garlic, 

tomatoes  crushed 

a  pinch  of  oregano  1  tablespoon 
salt  and  pepper  chopped  parsley 

1  tablespoon  oUvc  1  tablespoon 

oil  grated  Parmesan 

Halve  the  tomatoes,  removing  the  seeds;  place  in  a  greased 
fireproof  dish,  sprinkling  with  a  mixture  of  salt,  pepper,  ore- 
gano, garlic  and  parsley,  and  finally  with  the  grated  cheese 
and  oil;  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 


CAROTE   AL   BURRO 

Buttered  carrots 

f 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb,  young  a  pinch  of  cin- 
carrots,  washed  namon 

and  scraped  and  salt  and  pepper 

cut  in  slices  1  tablespoonful 
1  oz.  butter  fiour 

3  tablespoons  stock  juice  of  half  a  lemon 

Boil  the  carrots  in  salted  water  for  quarter  of  an  hour,  drain, 
and  place  in  a  buttered  fireproof  dish  with  the  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  stir  in  the  flour  and  gently  add  the  stock,  and  allow 
to  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove  for  ten  min- 
utes; finally,  five  minutes  before  serving,  add  the  cinnamon 
and  lemon  juice. 


[    174  ] 


CARROTS   COOKED   IN    BUTTER 

For  this  you  need  carrots  that  are  not  too  tiny.  Peel  the  carrots 
and  cut  in  lengthways  strips,  cook  for  ten  minutes  in  boiling, 
salted  water,  then  drain,  and  place  in  a  stewpan  with  a  good 
knob  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Allow  them  to  cook  gently  in 
the  butter  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  meat  stock  that  has  been  thickened  with  a  little  flour.  At 
the  end  of  another  ten  minutes,  during  which  you  have  stirred 
the  pan  to  prevent  the  carrots  sticking,  add  a  little  cayenne 
pepper  and  sprinkle  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  before  serv- 
ing. 


CANDIED    CARROTS 

Peel  carrots  and  cut  in  dice ;  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  for 
ten  minutes;  drain.  Heat  a  little  butter  in  a  heavy  pan,  add 
the  carrots,  and  over  them  sprinkle  a  little  brown  sugar.  Cook 
slowly,  stirring  from  time  to  time  to  prevent  sticking,  until  the 
carrots  are  glazed  and  tender.  A  little  Marsala  is  a  welcome 
addition,  but  if  this  is  used,  allow  to  evaporate,  so  that  in  the 
finished  dish  you  have  the  carrots  glazed,  tender,  but  not 
liquid. 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SERVED 
WITH  CHESTNUTS 

TO  SERVE  4 

2  lbs.  good,  hard  J  lb.  chestnuts 

Brussels  sprouts  3  ozs.  butter 

1  tablespoon  brown  1  tablespoon  flour 

sugar  salt 

Cook  the  sprouts  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  when  draining 
them  save  about  half  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  they  have 
been  cooked.  Meanwhile,  blanch  and  peel  the  chestnuts  and 
boil  in  salted  water  until  tender  —  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Heat  the  butter  in  a  small  stewpan  and  in  it  brown  the  flour; 
stir  in  the  sugar  and  mix  well,  then  slowly  add  the  half  pint  of 

[    175  ] — 


water  from  the  sprouts,  and  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens. 
Mix  the  chestnuts  and  sprouts  together,  cover  with  this  sauce, 
and  place  in  a  warm  oven  until  heated  through. 


BROCCOLI   STRASCICATI 

Broccoli  with  salt  pork 

Prepare  the  broccoli  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  for 
fifteen  minutes;  drain.  Place  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  salt 
pork  cut  in  dice  and  cook  over  a  very  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour 
until  the  fat  has  been  absorbed  by  the  broccoli.  No  further 
salting  will  be  necessary,  as  there  will  be  sufficient  salt  in  the 
pork. 

CAVOLFIORE   ALLA 
SICILIANA 

Cauliflower  Sicilian  style 

Cook  your  cauliflower  for  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling,  slightly 
salted  water,  drain,  and  place  in  a  greased  fireproof  dish  two 
anchovies  chopped  small,  place  in  moderate  oven  and  bake  for 
fifteen  minutes,  basting  with  a  little  oil  from  time  to  time; 
finally  add  three  tablespoons  of  tomato  sauce  and  a  few  capers 
and  allow  to  cook  a  few  minutes  longer  before  serving.  Send 
to  the  table  in  the  dish  in  which  it  has  been  cooked. 


CAVOLFIORE   ALLA   LIONESE 

Cauliflower  with  meat  sauce 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  good-sized  \  pint  meat  sauce 

cauliflower  (See  ^SAUCES') 

Cook  the  cauliflower  for  ten  minutes  only  in  boiling  salted 
water,  then  drain  and  place  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes; 
drain  again  and  break  into  small  pieces,  and  place  in  a  stewpan 
with  the  meat  sauce  and  allow  to  cook  a  further  twenty  minutes 
over  moderate  heat,  adding  a  little  stock  or  water  if  it  appears 
to  be  getting  too  dry. 

[    176  ] 


PUREE    OF    CHESTNUTS 

TO  SERVE  6 

1  lb.  of  chestnuts  a  little  warm  milk 

from  which  outer  salt  and  pepper 

and  inner  skins  1  oz.  butter 

have  been  re- 
moved 

Boil  the  chestnuts  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain,  and 
mash  with  just  enough  warm  milk  to  moisten  them;  add  butter 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Serve  instead  of  mashed  potatoes. 


MARROWS 

Whenever  I  am  faced  with  a  helping  of  boiled  marrow,  served 
in  the  English  fashion,  with  white  sauce,  I  think  fondly  of  the 
more  enterprising  Italian  ways  of  dealing  with  this  vegetable. 
To  our  credit  be  it  said  that  from  the  colossal  ripe  marrows 
of  the  late  season  we  English  can  produce  marrow  pickle  and 
marrow  preserve  that  would  bear  comparison  with  any  similar 
Continental  delicacies,  but  what  we  do  with  early  marrow  is,  to 
say  the  least,  a  trifle  uninteresting. 

In  the  fruit  and  vegetables  shops  during  the  summer  the  tiny 
imported  'zucchini'  are  to  be  seen,  and  may  be  bought  at 
luxury  prices,  but  there  is  no  reason  why  our  English  marrows 
should  not  be  harvested  while  they  are  still  young  and  tender 
and  used  in  recipes  for  which  'zucchini'  have  been  prescribed. 
Take  for  example  some  of  the  following : 


ZUCCHINE   FRITTI 

Fried  small  marrows 

TO  SERVE  4 

You  need  either  a  pound  of  zucchine,  or  a  small  English  marrow 
of  equal  weight.  Cut  into  rounds  about  f  ths  of  an  inch  thick, 
spread  on  a  plate,  and  cover  with  a  sprinkling  of  salt.  Place  an 

-[    177   ] 


inverted  plate  over  them  and  leave  for  an  hour,  by  the  end  of 
which  time  the  liquid  will  have  come  out  of  them.  Drain  thor- 
oughly, then  flour  them  and  fry  them  in  hot  olive  oil,  allowing 
about  a  minute  for  each  side.  Drain  them  well  before  serving,  so 
as  to  remove  surplus  oil,  and  serve  with  sections  of  lemon. 


STUFFED   MARROW 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  small  pepper  and  salt 

marrows  and  a  pinch  of  rose- 
chopped  ham  mary  mixed  well 
breadcrumbs  together 

Split  the  marrows  in  two  lengthways,  and  remove  the  seeds. 
Fill  the  hollows  with  the  stuffing,  put  the  two  halves  of  the 
marrows  together  again  and  tie  with  white  cotton  to  keep  the 
stuffing  in.  Heat  a  little  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  marrows, 
brown  them  lightly,  then  reduce  the  heat  and  cover  the  pan,  and 
cook  for  a  further  twenty  minutes. 


STEWED    SMALL   MARROWS 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  small  marrows  3  good-sized  onions 

3  tablespoons  olive  J  pint  water 

oil  pepper  and  salt  to 

taste 

Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion  until  it  is  golden 
brown.  Add  the  marrows,  unpeeled  if  you  have  the  actual 
zucchine  or  supposing  you  are  using  English  marrows  these  too 
may  be  unpeeled  provided  they  are  quite  small,  but  if  you  are 
using  the  larger  variety,  then  peel  and  cut  into  1-inch  slices; 
add  water  and  seasoning;  cover  the  pan  and  cook  slowly  for 
half  an  hour. 


[    178  ] 


MARROW   WITH   TOMATO 

As  a  variation  of  the  above  dish,  omit  the  water  and  add  instead 
of  it  either  two  large  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  or  a  small  tin 
of  tomatoes,  and  if  procurable,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  basil, 
or  failing  this,  a  similar  amount  of  chopped  parsley.  Keep  an 
eye  on  the  dish  while  cooking,  and  if  it  looks  as  though  it  is 
drying  out,  add  a  very  Httle  water  from  time  to  time. 

SPINACH 

Remember  the  need  of  washing  spinach  thoroughly;  seven 
waters  was  at  one  time  prescribed,  and  unless  the  spinach  is 
phenomenally  free  from  grit  and  sand,  seven  waters  will  not 
prove  to  be  too  many.  To  cook  so  as  to  retain  as  much  as  possible 
of  the  natural  flavour,  do  not  place  the  spinach  in  water,  but 
after  the  last  washing,  lift  it  from  the  vessel  with  the  hands, 
shake  it  well  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  hold 
the  mass,  without  the  addition  of  further  water;  sprinkle  salt 
and  cook  over  a  low  heat  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  pressing  it 
down  from  time  to  time  with  a  fork  to  ensure  even  cooking. 

SPINACH   AS    SERVED 
IN   ROME 

TO  SERVE  4 

Having  cooked  a  pound  of  spinach  as  directed  for  ten  minutes, 
add  to  it  three  tablespoons  of  good  olive  oil,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Mix  well  and  serve  very  hot. 


[   179   ] 


SPINACI   ALLA   PARMIGIANA 

Spinach  with  Parmesan  cheese  \ 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  spinach  butter  , 

salt,  pepper  and  2  tablespoons  grated  j 

nutmeg  Parmesan  { 

Cook  the  spinach  as  directed,  and  when  cooked  drain  well,  \ 

then  place  in  a  stewpan  with  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  salt,  \ 
pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Allow  the  butter  to  melt,  then 

stir  in  the  grated  cheese  and  serve  hot.  j 


SPINACI   ALLA   PIEMONTESE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  spinach  6  or  8  anchovies 

1  oz.  butter  or  cut  small 

1  tablespoonful  half  a  clove  of 

olive  oil  garlic,  crushed 

salt  and  pepper  to 
taste 

Cook  the  spinach  as  directed  and  drain  well.  Heat  the  butter  in 
a  pan,  add  the  garlic  and  cook  till  yellow,  add  the  spinach, 
anchovies  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  mix  well  together,  and 
serve  decorated  with  triangles  of  thin  toast. 


[    180  ] 


Salads 


The  salad  most  commonly  met  with  in  Italy  is  the  fresh 
green  salad,  liberally  doused  with  good  olive  oil  and 
lemon  juice,  but  there  are  a  fair  number  of  other  salads 
to  be  met  with  when  one  spends  a  longer  time  in  the  country, 
and  here  are  a  few  suggestions. 


♦  . 


[    181    ] 


ONION   SALAD 

Allow  one  large  or  two  medium  sized  onions  per  person. 

Either  bake  the  onions  in  the  oven,  or  boil  them  until  they 
are  cooked  but  not  mushy.  Allow  to  cool  and  when  cold,  slice 
them  fairly  thinly,  spread  in  layers  on  a  flat  dish  and  season 
with  olive  oil,  lemon  juice  and  pepper  and  salt. 


PLAIN   SALAD 

Cos  or  Batavian  lettuce,  washed  well  and  hung  in  a  salad  drain- 
er until  crisp,  is  excellent  by  itself  served  with  a  plain  oil  and 
vinegar  dressing,  mixed  well.  (See  'DRESSING  FOR  GREEN 
SALAD'.) 


SALAD   WITH   HARD 
BOILED   EGG 

Allow  one  hard  boiled  egg  per  person,  cut  in  two  lengthways 
and  arrange  on  top  of  a  bed  of  lettuce  dressed  as  previously 
suggested  with  an  oil  and  vinegar  dressing;  or  if  liked,  serve 
individual  plates  of  dressed  lettuce,  with  egg,  cut  lengthways 
decorating  each  portion. 

With  all  green  salads,  remember  not  to  add  the  dressing  until 
the  last  possible  moment  before  serving,  and  remember,  too, 
that  torn  lettuce  is  preferable  to  lettuce  cut  with  knife  or  scis- 
sors. 


CUCUMBER   SALAD 

Slice  thinly  an  unpeeled  cucumber;  spread  the  slices  in  a  flat 
plate,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  with  another  plate  and  leave 
for  about  two  hours.  Drain,  and  squeeze  moisture  out  of  the 
slices  by  placing  in  a  cloth  and  squeezing  in  the  hands.  Season 
with  oil,  wine  vinegar  (or  lemon  juice),  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and,  for  additional  enjoyment,  a  little  castor  sugar. 


■[    182  ] 


MIXED   SALAD 

Slice  thinly  a  few  gherkins,  and  a  green  pepper,  add  some 
cooked  meat  —  ham,  veal,  pork  or  chicken  for  preference  —  cut 
in  small  pieces,  a  few  cold  boiled  new  potatoes,  and  if  liked  one 
or  two  anchovies,  boned  and  cut  small.  Mix  well  together  and 
serve  with  an  oil  and  vinegar  dressing. 


MIXED  SALAD  WITH  HARD 
BOILED  EGG 

Take  three  or  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  (not  floury  ones), 
a  beetroot  cooked  in  the  oven  and  cooled.  Cut  the  vegetables 
into  dice,  and  to  them  add  two  small  gherkins,  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Combine  these  with  a  head  of  endive,  washed  carefully  and 
torn  into  pieces.  Mix  well,  and  toss  in  an  oil  and  vinegar  dress- 
ing; sprinkle  with  capers,  and  decorate  with  three  or  four  an- 
chovies, and  one  hard  boiled  egg  per  person,  peeled  and  cut  in 
two  lengthways. 


INSALATA  ALLA  GIARDINIERA 

Gardener^s  wife^s  salad 

Mix  together  any  left-over  cooked  young  vegetables,  small  young 
potatoes,  peas,  beans,  etc.  together  with  peeled,  sliced  tomatoes, 
and  serve  with  a  dressing  of  oil  and  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 


SALAD  WITH  SOUR  CREAM 

When  eggs  are  plentiful,  hard-boil  half  a  dozen,  and  having 
passed  the  yolks  through  a  sieve,  mix  with  half  a  cup  or  there- 
abouts of  sour  cream;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  freshly-ground  black 
pepper  and  two  teaspoons  or  a  little  more  of  wine  vinegar,  and 
use  as  a  salad  dressing  on  a  mixture  of  lettuce  and  sliced  fresh 
cucumber. 

r  183  ] 


Sweets 


Sweets  met  with  on  vacation  in  Italy  seem  to  be  of  two 
kinds;  either  the  welcome,  well-filled  dish  of  fruits  in 
season,  or  the  out-size  very  rich,  very  creamy  'layer  cake', 
but  a  longer  stay  discloses  other,  more  imaginative  sweets,  and 
a  selection  of  these  is  given  in  the  following  pages. 


[    184  ] 


ZABAGLIONE    or    ZABAIONE 

When  talking  of  sweets  in  the  Italian  menu,  this  airy-fairy 
refinement  of  egg  punch  is  the  one  that  springs  first  to  the  mind, 
and  it  is  worth  while  knowing  how  to  make  it  to  perfection. 

For  each  consumer  allow  2  egg  yolks,  2  tablespoons  castor 
sugar,  and  2  tablespoons  of  Marsala,  or  failing  this,  of  good 
Sherry.  Vanilla  may  be  added,  if  liked,  but  for  my  taste  the 
dish  is  better  without  it. 

Beat  together  the  egg  yolks  and  sugar  until  they  are  pale  and 
creamy,  then  slowly  add  the  Marsala.  Place  the  mixture  over 
hot  water  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  slowly  until  it  thickens, 
taking  care  not  to  overcook  it,  otherwise  it  will  curdle.  Serve 
immediately  in  warmed  sherbet  glasses.  There  is  a  school  of 
thought  that  dictates  'serve  hot  or  cold',  but  this  to  most  Italian 
palates  is  heresy  —  serve  your  zabaione  hot. 


Fritters 

Starting  off  with  a  frying  batter  as  a  basis,  delicious  fritters  may 
be  made  of  the  various  fruits  as  they  come  into  season. 


STANDARD    FRYING    BATTER 

4  ozs.  plain  flour  3  tablespoons  olive 

a  quarter  of  a  pint  oil 

or  rather  more  of  a  pinch  of  salt 

warm  water  1  lightly  beaten  egg 

white 

Sieve  the  flour  into  a  basin,  make  a  well  in  the  centre  and  into 
this  pour  the  oil ;  mix  \vell,  and  add  the  salt,  then  slowly  add  the 
water,  stirring  constantly  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream 
is  obtained.  Allow  to  stand  for  2  hours  or  thereabouts,  then  stir 
in  the  lightly  beaten  egg  white,  and  use  as  a  coating  for  fish 
or  for  fruits  as  suggested  in  the  following  pages. 

[    185   ] _ 


APPLE   FRITTERS 

For  these  use  Bramleys  or  similar  large  cooking  apples,  allowing 
one  per  person.  Peel  the  apples,  and  remove  the  core  with  a 
metal  corer,  then  slice  the  apples  transversely  in  slices  about 
three-eighths  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in 
hot  oil;  drain,  sprinkle  with  castor  sugar  and  serve  very  hot. 

An  improvement  is  to  substitute  for  half  the  water  of  the 
batter,  an  equal  amount  of  white  wine. 

A  refinement  of  these  fritters  also  is  to  be  obtained  by  immers- 
ing the  apples,  once  they  are  peeled  and  cored,  but  before 
slicing  them,  in  rum  to  which  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon 
has  been  added,  allowing  them  to  remain  for  two  or  three 
hours,  turning  them  frequently  so  as  to  impregnate  the  fruit 
with  the  rum,  but  in  this  case,  the  water  batter  is  sufficiently 
rich  without  the  addition  of  white  wine. 


PEAR   FRITTERS 

Using  the  same  method,  but  instead  of  slicing  the  fruit,  peel 
them,  quarter  them  and  core  them  before  dipping  in  batter, 
hard  cooking  pears  make  delicious  fritters. 


APRICOT   FRITTERS 

For  these  the  apricots  should  not  be  over-ripe.  Gut  in  two, 
removing  the  stones ;  place  in  a  vessel  deep  enough  to  hold  them 
when  sprinkled  with  sugar;  leave  for  several  hours,  or  even  for 
a  whole  day,  then  remove  and  drain,  dip  in  frying  batter  and 
fry  in  hot  oil,  drain  and  serve,  hot  sprinkled  with  castor  sugar. 
Alternatively,  instead  of  covering  with  sugar  and  leaving  for 
some  hours,  the  apricots  may  be  covered  with  rum,  to  which 
has  been  added  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  left  for  two  or 
three  hours,  then  drained,  dipped  in  batter  and  fried. 


[    186   ]. 


PEACH   FRITTERS 

Peel  the  peaches,  halve  them  and  remove  the  stone.  Immerse 
for  several  hours  in  white  wine  to  which  sugar  has  been  added ; 
remove,  drain,  dip  in  frying  batter  and  fry  in  hot  olive  oil. 


FIG   FRITTERS 

For  these  you  need  fresh  figs  that  are  not  overripe.  Cut  the 
fruit  in  two  lengthways,  and  spread  on  a  plate,  sprinkling  them 
with  sugar  and  with  a  few  drops  of  a  good  liqueur,  Benedictine, 
Rosolio,  or  some  similar  liqueur.  Leave  for  two  or  three  hours, 
then  drain,  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  dip  in  frying  batter,  and 
fry  in  hot  oil ;  drain  and  serve  hot,  sprinkled  with  castor  sugar. 


PLUM   FRITTERS 

Again  use  fruit  that  is  not  over-ripe.  Place  in  a  warm  oven  for 
half  an  hour,  then  cut  in  halves,  remove  the  stones,  and  spread 
on  a  dish,  sprinkling  with  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  rum  and 
a  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Leave  for  two  or  three  hours,  then  drain, 
dip  in  frying  batter  and  fry  as  directed  for  the  previous  fruit 
fritters. 


SEMOLINA   FRITTERS 

1  pint  milk  4  tablespoons  sugar 

pinch  salt  4  ozs.  semolina 

4  egg  yolks  2  egg  whites 

a  little  candied  2  ozs.  raisins 
citron 

Heat  the  milk  with  the  sugar  and  salt  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil,  place  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler,  and  add  the  semoUna 
little  by  little  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed,  stirring  continually 
so  that  it  does  not  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan;  remove 

[    187   ] 


from  the  heat,  cool  slightly  and  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and 
later  the  whites  beaten  stiffly,  the  citron  cut  small  and  the  rai- 
sins. Mix  together  well,  and  when  cool,  form  into  little  balls  the 
size  of  a  walnut ;  dip  in  beaten  egg  white  and  then  in  bread- 
crumbs and  fry  quickly  in  deep  oil  until  a  golden  brown ;  drain 
for  a  moment  or  two  on  blotting  paper  to  drain  off  any  surplus 
oil,  and  serve  hot,  sprinkled  liberally  with  castor  sugar. 


CHESTNUT   FRITTERS 

To  half  a  pound  of  chestnut  flour,  add  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  thick  paste ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  few  seedless  raisins,  and 
a  few  chopped  pistachio  nuts;  mix  together  well  and  drop  in 
spoonfuls  into  deep  hot  oil,  cooking  till  golden  brown.  Drain  and 
serve  hot,  sprinkled  with  castor  sugar. 


FRITTELLE   ALLA   FIORENTINA 

To  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour  add  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  thick  paste ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little 
grated  lemon  rind  and  a  few  seedless  raisins.  Mix  well  and  drop 
in  spoonfuls  into  deep  hot  oil  and  fry  until  golden  brown; 
Drain  and  serve  hot. 


[    188  ] 


SWEET   FRITTERS 

2  egg  yolks  2  ozs.  flour 

1  pint  cream  a  little  finely 

2  tablespoons  sugar  chopped  candied 

citron 

Beat  together  the  egg  yolks,  cream  and  sugar  until  well  mixed, 
blend  in  the  flour  and  place  in  a  double  boiler,  cooking  till 
thick  and  being  careful  not  to  allow  it  to  boil,  otherwise  the 
tgg  yolks  will  curdle.  If  the  cream  does  not  seem  to  be  thick 
enough,  a  little  semolina  may  be  added  towards  the  end  of 
the  cooking  time.  Stir  in  the  citron. 

Pour  on  to  a  flat  plate  that  has  been  lightly  oiled  or  greased 
with  butter;  allow  to  cool,  cut  in  pieces  about  two  inches 
square;  dip  in  wliite  of  tgg  and  then  in  breadcrumbs,  fry  in 
butter  till  golden  brown,  serve  hot,  sprinkled  with  sugar. 


MONT   BLANC 

THIS  SHOULD  SERVE  4 

1  lb.  Italian  chestnuts  J  lb.  castor  sugar 

J  pint  double  cream 

Cut  a  slit  in  the  chestnuts  at  the  pointed  end,  and  place  them 
a  dozen  at  a  time  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  after 
which  they  will  peel  easily.  When  all  are  peeled,  place  in  boiling 
water  and  allow  to  simmer  for  an  hour  or  until  they  are  tender. 
Strain,  and  mash  the  nuts,  adding  the  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Pass  them  then  through  a  potato  ricer,  allowing  them  to 
pile  up  in  pyramid  form  on  a  dish.  The  less  you  touch  them  with 
your  hands  the  better,  otherwise  the  light  appearance  of  the 
finished  dish  is  apt  to  be  spoiled. 

Whip  the  cream,  flavouring  it  if  you  like  with  a  little  good 
liqueur,  and  pile  it  lightly  on  the  top  of  the  mound  of  chestnuts, 
rather  like  snow  on  a  mountain  top. 


[    189   ]. 


CHARLOTTE  DI  MELE,  PERE 
O  PESCHE 

Apple,  pear  or  peach  charlotte 

TO  SERVE  6 


2  lbs.  cooking  apples, 
pears  or  peaches 
that  are  not  over- 
ripe 

grated  rind  of  a 
lemon 

1  wineglassful  rum 

4  ozs.  brown  sugar 


1  tablespoon  cold 

water 
1  oz.  butter 
1  wineglassful  white 

wine 
thin  slices  of  bread 

and  butter  with 

crusts  removed 


Prepare  the  fruit  by  peeling  and  coring  (or  in  the  case  of  pea- 
ches, removing  the  stones),  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the 
sugar,  the  water  and  the  white  rind  and  cook  until  tender;  when 
the  fruit  is  reduced  to  a  pulp,  add  the  butter  and  the  grated 
lemon  rind,  and  if  not  sufficiently  sweet  add  a  little  more  sugar. 
Meanwhile,  grease  a  souffle  mould,  and  line  it  entirely  with 
well-buttered  slices  of  thin  bread.  Pour  in  the  fruit  pulp,  and 
over  the  top  place  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  and  buttered  bread. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour, 
and  just  before  serving,  pour  over  the  rum  and  light,  so  that  the 
dish  is  carried  flaming  to  the  table.  This  final  touch  may  be 
omitted  if  preferred. 


[    190  ] 


BODINO  DI  LATTE  ALLA 
MANDORLE 

Milk  pudding  with  almonds 

TO  SERVE  4 

For  those  who  like  almonds,  here  is  a  refinement  of  milk  pud- 
ding that  is  worthy  of  attention. 

1  pint  milk  4  to  5  ozs.  castor 

2  ozs.  almonds  sugar,  depending 
2  slices  of  bread  with  on  personal  taste 

crust  removed,  6  whole  eggs  and 
soaked  in  milk  two  extra  yolks 

and  squeezed  dry  a  little  candied 
butter  for  greasing  citron 

a  souffle  dish 

Blanch  the  almonds  in  boiling  water  and  remove  the  skins, 
then  in  a  mortar  pound  them  to  a  paste,  uniting  them  with  the 
soaked  and  squeezed  bread.  Meanwhile  heat  the  milk  in  a  dou- 
ble boiler,  with  the  sugar  added ;  when  the  milk  reaches  boiling 
point,  add  the  paste  of  almonds  and  bread,  little  by  little,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer,  stirring  so  that  it  does  not  stick  to  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  slowly  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  extra  yolks,  mixing  well.  Meanwhile,  grease 
your  souffle  dish,  and  pour  in  the  milk  mixture,  and  cook  for  an 
hour  in  an  oven  that  is  not  too  fierce  (the  heat  you  use  for  rice 
pudding  should  be  right  for  this). 

Serve  hot,  and  if  you  wish  to  make  it  even  more  luxurious, 
prepare  a  zabaglione,  and  serve  at  the  same  time. 


BODINO   DI   GABINETTO 

Cabinet  pudding 

TO  SERVE  4 

Sufficient  stale  Savoy  fingers  to  line  your  souffle  mould,  which 
should  be  the  pint-and-a-half  size 


[    191   ] 


J  lb.  ratafia  biscuits  f  pint  milk 

2  whole  eggs  and  1  tablespoonful 

2  extra  yolks  castor  sugar 

grated  rind  of  half  a  tablespoonful  each 

a  lemon  of  sultanas  and  of 

a  few  glace  cherries  chopped  citron 
and  a  little  shred- 
ded angelica 

Grease  your  souffle  dish  with  butter,  and  line  the  sides  with 
stale  Savoy  biscuits  —  or  failing  these,  stale  sponge  cakes  cut 
in  thin  slices  lengthways ;  arrange  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould 
a  layer  of  the  sultanas,  mixed  with  the  chopped  citron,  cherries 
and  angelica,  and  on  this  place  the  ratafias  broken  small  and 
any  trimmings  left  over  from  the  Savoy  biscuits  or  sponge 
cakes. 

Beat  together  the  eggs,  extra  yolks  and  sugar,  and  when  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  beat  in  the  milk  slowly,  and  strain  into  the 
mould. 

You  may  now  either  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  steam 
gently  for  an  hour,  or  place  in  a  not  too  fierce  oven  and  bake 
for  a  similar  length  of  time. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream,  or  with  a  little  apricot  jam 
warmed. 


CREMA   DI   BAGNOMARIA 

Rich  steamed  custard 

TO  SERVE  6 

2  eggs,  plus  4  3  tablespoonsful 

extra  egg  yolks  castor  sugar 

\  pint  milk  grated  rind  of  half 

butter  for  greasing  '  a  lemon  —  alterna- 

dish  tively,  a  teaspoon 

of  vanilla 

Grate  the  lemon  rind  into  the  milk,  or  alternatively  add  the 
vanilla  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Break  the  eggs 
and  extra  yolks  into  a  basin,  and  beat  together  with  the  sugar, 
then  add  the  milk  gradually.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  pass 
through  a  fine  sieve,  removing  all  the  froth  that  has  formed  in 
the  beating.  Place  the  liquid  in  a  greased  souffle  dish  and  place 

[    192   ] ^ 


this  in  a  double-boiler,  or  if  one  is  not  available,  place  it  on  an 
inverted  sandwich  cake  tin,  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
with  the  water  reaching  to  within  1  ^  inches  from  the  top  of  the 
outside  of  the  souffle  dish.  Cook  on  top  of  the  stove,  keeping  the 
water  just  under  boiling  point  for  about  an  hour.  If  you  propose 
eating  this  dish  hot,  allow  to  stand  for  about  ten  minutes  after 
it  has  finished  cooking,  before  serving.  Alternatively  it  may  be 
allowed  to  become  cold,  when  it  makes  a  delicious  cold  sweet. 


CROSTINI   ALL'ANANASSO 

Pineapple  toast 

TO  SERVE  4 

This  is  a  dish  worth  trying  when  South  African  pineapples 
are  available  at  reasonable  prices. 

1  or  2  of  these  1 2  thin  slices  of 

small  pineapples  bread  with  the 

4  ozs.  butter  crusts  removed, 

a  few  teaspoonsful  of  and  cut  in  two 

maraschino  or  lengthways 

kirsch  a  little  apricot  jam 

4  ozs.  sugar  \  wineglassful  of 

water 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  heavy  pan  and  in  it  fry  the  bread  very 
lightly,  not  so  much  browning  it  as  allowing  it  to  absorb  the 
butter.  Previously,  peel  the  pineapples  and  cut  into  as  many 
sHces  as  there  are  pieces  of  bread,  lay  these  in  a  plate,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  sugar  and  with  the  liqueur  and  allow  it  to  stay  for 
two  or  three  hours.  When  the  pineapple  has  'marinated'  and  the 
bread  is  cooked,  arrange  in  a  flat  fireproof  dish,  with  a  piece  of 
pineapple  on  each  piece  of  bread. 

Cook  the  sugar  with  the  water  until  it  begins  to  colour,  and  to 
this  add  the  liquid  in  which  the  pineapple  has  marinated,  to- 
gether with  the  apricot  jam ;  boil  together  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  pass  through  a  sieve  and  serve  boiling  hot  over  the 
'crostini'. 


[    193   ] 


MERINGUES 

Since  so  many  of  the  foregoing  recipes  call  for  'extra  yolks' 
a  recipe  for  meringues  is  useful  for  employing  the  whites  left 
over. 

Light  the  oven  before  starting  to  make  the  meringues,  and  it 
should  be  a  very  slow  oven  (250  degrees  at  most). 

4  egg  whites  1  cup  castor  sugar 

a  pinch  of  salt  |  teaspoon  vanilla,  if 

liked 

Beat  the  egg  whites  with  a  beater,  together  with  the  pinch  of 
salt  until  they  are  stiff  and  dry;  now  add  half  the  sugar  a  little  at 
a  time,  beating  thoroughly  after  each  addition;  beat  in  the 
vanilla ;  the  balance  of  the  sugar  should  be  folded  in  with  a  spa- 
tula or  fork. 

Meanwhile  run  some  sheets  of  brown  paper  under  the  cold 
water  tap  and  use  as  linings  for  flat  'cookie'  tins.  Drop  the  egg 
mixture  by  large  spoonfuls  on  to  the  paper,  place  them  in  the 
oven  and  allow  to  cook  for  45  to  60  minutes,  or  until  they  will 
lift  easily  from  the  paper.  The  slow  cooking  is  essential,  the 
trick  being  to  dry  out  the  mixture  rather  than  to  cook  it. 
'^i  When  cooled,  serve  filled  with  ice  cream,  whipped  cream,  or 
any  sweetened  fruit. 


PASTICCIO   DI   FRUTTA 

Fruit  flan 

Prepare  two  pounds  of  mixed  fruit  in  season,  apples,  apricots, 
plums,  pears,  etc.  and  place  to  cook  in  a  stewpanwith4  ozs.  gran- 
ulated sugar  and  a  wineglassful  of  white  wine.  A  few  soaked 
and  stoned  prunes  make  a  welcome  addition  to  the  mixture. 
When  the  fruit  is  tender,  add  a  little  chopped  candied  citron, 
a  couple  of  tablespoons  of  rum  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  cin- 
namon. 

Meanwhile  line  flan  tins  with  fairly  rich  pastry;  pour  in  the 
fruit  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  pastry  is  cooked. 

Serve  hot  or  cold,  with  whipped  cream. 

• 
[    194   ] 


SFOGLIATA    DOLCE    DI 
RICOTTA 

Sfogliate  are  little  *bonnes-bouches'  of  the  lightest  of  light  puff 
paste,  filled  with  various  fillings;  a  good  number  are  filled,  as 
are  our  vol-au-vents,  with  minced  chicken,  shrimps  and  other 
savoury  fillings;  here  is  one  in  which  ricotta  cheese  is  suggested, 
but  which  can  be  made  here  with  the  substitution  of  cream 
cheese  for  the  unobtainable  ricotta. 

Prepare  a  supply  of  puff  pastry  made  of  equal  quantities 
(say  4  ozs.  each)  of  flour  and  butter. 

For  the  filling: 

J  lb.  cream  cheese  1  tablespoonful 

1  tablespoonful  candied  orange 

sultanas  peel 

1  teaspoonful  rum  a  few  drops  of  va- 
J  lb.  castor  sugar  nilla 

For  the  cream: 

1  Q^gg  yolk  \  tablespoonful 

1  oz.  flour  sugar 

1  wineglassful  milk 

Beat  egg  and  sugar  for  coating  the  sfogliate  before  baking.  Half 
an  hour  before  starting  to  cook,  place  the  chopped  orange 
peel  and  the  sultanas  in  a  cup  with  the  rum,  and  allow  them  to 
absorb  it  before  adding  them  to  the  mixture  of  cream  cheese  and 
sugar. 

Combine  the  Ggg  yolk,  sugar  and  flour,  gently  add  the  milk 
and  cook  together  in  a  double  boiler  till  it  has  thickened;  mix 
with  the  cheese  mixture. 

Divide  the  puff  pastry  into  squares  about  3  inches  on  each 
side ;  brush  with  beaten  &gg ;  in  the  centre  of  each  plate  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  filling,  and  fold  the  pastry  over  comerways,  press- 
ing the  edges  together ;  brush  the  top  with  beaten  ^gg,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes ;  five  minutes  before  finishing 
cooking,  remove  from  the  oven  and  sprinkle  liberally  with  castor 
sugar,  which  will  caramelise  slightly,  when  the  sfogliate  are 
returned  to  the  heat. 


[    195   ] 


PIZZA 

A  book  of  Italian  cookery  would  be  incomplete  without  one  or 
two  recipes  for  this  Neapolitan  speciality  —  try  it  if  you  like ; 
speaking  for  myself,  the  mention  of  pizza  will  always  recall 
what  arrived  at  my  table  in  Naples  one  evening  when,  fancying 
'something  not  too  heavy',  I  ordered  pizza.  I  waited  a  few 
moments  and  was  then  confronted  with  an  outsize  dinner  plate, 
on  which  reposed  something  that  looked  rather  like  King  Henry 
the  Eighth's  best  hat  made  of  pastry  that  was  solid  rather  than 
light,  and  filled  with  a  mixture  of  tomatoes  and  anchovies  that, 
to  say  the  least,  was  rich,  and  alarmingly  salty.  However,  if  it's 
pizza  you  fancy,  here's  how  it  is  made. 


PIZZA    ALLA    CAMPOFRANCO 

TO  SERVE  8 

J  lb.  plain  flour  1  teaspoon  chopped 

5  eggs  basil 

half  tablespoon  J  oz.  brewers'  yeast 

sugar  J  lb.  Bel  Paese  cheese 

J  lb.  ham  1  lb.  tomatoes 

3  tablespoons  grated  1  tablespoon  olive 

Parmesan  oil 

.  5  ozs.  butter  pepper 

Pile  the  flour  on  to  your  pastry  board  or  cooking  table,  make 
a  hollow  in  it  and  in  this  put  the  butter,  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  the  yeast  diluted  with  a  little  water  or  milk.  Work  the  flour 
with  the  hands  until  the  ingredients  are  absorbed,  then  blend  in 
the  next  two  eggs,  and  work  the  dough  until  it  is  elastic  to  the 
touch;  then  add  the  sugar;  work  the  dough  a  little  more;  then 
place  in  a  warmed  basin.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  leave  in  a  fairly 
warm  place  for  a  couple  of  hours,  by  which  time  it  should  have 
doubled  in  size. 

Meanwhile  prepare  the  filling;  slice  the  cheese,  and  the  ham; 
peel  the  tomatoes  and  remove  the  seeds,  and  cook  very  quickly 
in  oil  so  that  they  do  not  become  mushy  but  retain  their  firm- 
ness. 


[    196  ] 


When  the  dough  has  risen,  flour  your  pastry  board;  divide 
the  dough  in  two  pieces,  one  sHghtly  larger  than  the  other  and 
roll  out  into  two  circles.  With  the  larger  one,  line  a  greased  pie 
plate  or  flan  tin,  and  on  it  lay  first  of  all  a  layer  of  the  cheese, 
then  a  layer  of  the  cooked  tomatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  little  basil,  and  on  this  place  a  layer  of  strips  of  ham ; 
continue  in  this  way  till  the  filling  is  all  used  up,  and  finish  oflf 
with  a  layer  of  the  grated  Parmesan.  Now  beat  the  fifth  egg, 
and  with  a  brush  paint  the  edges  of  the  dough,  and  over  it  place 
the  smaller  circle  of  dough,  pressing  the  edges  together  so  that 
they  remain  closed;  leave  it  to  rise  again  in  a  warm  place,  for 
about  an  hour,  then  paint  the  top  with  the  balance  of  the  beaten 
egg,  and  cook  for  twenty  to  twenty  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Eat  hot. 


■[    197   ] 


Sauces 


The  preparation  of  a  sauce  is  a  ritual  in  Italy;  it  is  not 
unusual  for  an  Italian  housewife  to  spend  hours  in  loving 
preparation  of  a  truly  rich  and  enjoyable  sauce  to  be 
eaten  over  *pasta',  and  having  tasted  the  results  of  some  of  the 
hours  of  loving  labour,  one  has  to  admit  the  time  has  been  well- 
spent. 


[    198  ] 


BECHAMEL    SAUCE 

IJ  ounces  butter  2  tablespoons 

1  pint  heated  milk  flour 

salt  and  pepper 

Allow  butter  to  melt  in  saucepan,  but  before  it  turns  brown 
lower  heat,  and  blend  in  flour,  stirring  until  smooth;  then  little 
by  little  add  heated  milk,  stirring  constantly.  If  liked  add  a  pinch 
of  nutmeg  when  adding  the  seasonings,  or  alternatively  allow 
a  bay  leaf  to  remain  in  the  sauce  during  its  final  cooking, 
which  should  be  fifteen  minutes  from  the  time  the  milk,  flour 
and  butter  are  blended  together.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  use  the 
top  of  a  double  boiler  for  making  this  sauce,  placing  it  over 
the  boiling  water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  boiler  for  the  last 
fifteen  minutes  of  cooking  time.  If  it  is  too  thick,  add  a  little 
more  milk  from  time  to  time. 

If  you  have  used  a  bay  leaf  for  flavouring,  remove  before 
serving. 

If  the  sauce  is  made  well  in  advance,  cover  with  a  lid  to 
prevent  a  skin  forming. 


VARIATIONS    OF   BECHAMEL 
SAUCE 

Cheese  Sauce 

Make  sauce  as  directed  for  plain  Bechamel  sauce,  and  when 
cooked,  add  six  to  eight  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  blend  well  before  serving, 
f  ^Excellent  over  cooked  broccoli  or  cauliflower.^ 


Egg  and  Parsley  Sauce 

To  1  pint  of  Bechamel  sauce  made  as  directed,  allow  two  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  three  tablespoons  finely  chopped  fresh  parsley, 
stir  in  just  before  serving.  A  variation  is  to  add  also  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  finely  chopped  mint. 

Excellent  with  broccoli,  cauliflower  or  fish  dishes. 

[    199   ] 


Mushroom  Sauce 

While  your  Bechamel  sauce  is  cooking,  wash  and  chop  finely 
J  lb.  mushrooms  and  cook  gently  for  ten  minutes  in  hot  olive 
oil  before  adding  to  the  Bechamel. 


Shrimp  Sauce 

To  a  pint  of  Bechamel  sauce  add  half  a  pint  of  shrimps,  shelled 
and  chopped,  and  serve  when  heated  through. 
A  good  sauce  with  fish. 


BROWN   SAUCE 


1  small  onion 

chopped  finely 

2  tablespoons 
chopped  parsley 

1  pint  beef  stock 
4  tablespoons  flour 
1  bay  leaf 


3  tablespoons  olive 

oil 
freshly  ground 

black  pepper 
1  teaspoon  oregano, 

or,  failing  this, 

J  teaspoon  thyme 


Heat  oil  in  heavy  pan,  brown  onion  in  this,  with  parsley,  and 
stir  in  flour.  When  brown  and  blended  add  slowly  your  beef 
stock;  allow  to  boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  add  season- 
ings. 


VARIATIONS    OF   BROWN  SAUCE 

Mushroom  Sauce 

To  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  made  as  above,  add  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  mushrooms  that  have  been  washed,  chopped  finely 
and  cooked  for  five  minutes  in  hot  olive  oil.  Delicious  with 
steak  and  baked  meats. 


[    200    ] 


White  Wine  Sauce 

To  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white 
wine;  heat  together  to  boiling  point  and  serve  immediately. 
A  good  sauce  with  baked  meat. 


PARSLEY   BUTTER 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  finely 

1  teaspoon  lemon  minced  parsley 

juice  pinch  salt 

Steak  is  greatly  enhanced  with  little  dabs  of  this  simple  sauce. 
Cream  butter  and  blend  in  remaining  ingredients,  mixing 
well  and  allowing  to  become  very  cold  before  serving  at  table 
with  steak. 

Variations 
of  Parsley  Butter 

Instead  of  a  tablespoon  of  parsley,  try  the  combination  of 
a  teaspoonful  each  of  mint,  parsley  and  sweet  basil,  chopped 
finely,  or  alternatively,  two  teaspoons  parsley  to  one  of  mint, 
or  two  teaspoons  parsley  to  one  of  basil. 


ALMOND    SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  ozs.  blanched 

juice  of  two  lemons  chopped  almonds 

Brown  butter  slightly,  and  slowly  add  chopped  almonds  and 
lemon  juice.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  fish. 


[   201    ]- 


«SOFFRITTO'   OR  'BATTUTO' 

This  is  the  name  given  to  the  foundation  from  which  stews  and 
soups  are  often  started ;  in  its  simplest  form  it  consists  of  hot  oil, 
butter  or  dripping,  in  which  has  been  browned  a  chopped 
onion  or  a  clove  of  garlic  crushed,  but  it  can  be  elaborated 
by  the  addition  of  chopped  carrot,  parsley  and  celery,  but  all 
very  finely  chopped  and  browned  before  the  addition  of  the 
meat  or  game  which  is  to  form  the  stew  or  soup. 


SIMPLE   TOMATO    SAUCE 


1  medium  size  tin 
tomatoes 

2  onions,  chopped 
finely 

1  teaspoon  finely 
chopped 
basil,  or  if  not 
available,  finely 
chopped  parsley 


4  tablespoons  olive 

oil 
J  teaspoon 

granulated  sugar 
salt  and  freshly 

ground  black 

pepper  to  taste 


Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  fry  onion  until  transparent  and  pale 
yellow,  add  parsley  or  basil.  Strain  tomatoes  and  add.  Cook 
for  I  of  an  hour,  stirring  frequently,  add  sugar  and  seasonings, 
and  cook  gently  for  a  further  ten  minutes. 

A  good  sauce  to  be  used  with  rice  or  spaghetti. 


[    202    ] 


UNSWEETENED    TOMATO    SAUCE 

This  sauce,  which  uses  the  tomato  puree  instead  of  the  tinned 
tomatoes,  needs  slightly  longer  cooking  to  ensure  that  the  too 
sharp  flavour  of  the  concentrated  puree  is  somewhat  diluted. 

2  tablespoons  3  tablespoons  olive 

tomato  puree  oil 

1  clove  garlic,  2  good-sized  onions, 

crushed  sliced 

}  teaspoon  oregano,  1  pint  water 

or  failing  this,  salt  and  pepper 

J  teaspoon  th^Tne  to  taste 

Heat  oil  and  in  it  fry  onion  gently,  until  transparent  and  yellow- 
coloured;  add  puree,  and  cook  together  two  or  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  seasonings  and  water,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour  or  slightly  more,  stirring  from  time  to  time 
and  adding  more  water  if  it  becomes  too  thick.  Serve  very  hot. 


TOMATO    SAUCE   ALLA 
NAPOLITANA 

SUFFICIENT  FOR  SPAGHETTI  FOR  4 

1  lb.  tomatoes  1  onion 

2  stalks  celery  1  carrot 

a  lew  leaves  of  fresh  pepper  and  salt  to 

basil  taste 

Wash  tomatoes,  cut  in  pieces  and  place  in  saucepan  with  other 
vegetables  cut  coarsely.  Allow  to  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour 
or  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Remove  from  fire  and  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Usually  in  Naples 
a  knob  of  fresh  lard  is  added  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  and  mixed 
well  with  the  sauce,  and  just  before  serving  a  little  freshly 
chopped  basil  makes  an  excellent  finishing  touch. 


TOMATO    SAUCE    —    TO    ENRICH 

Try  the  addition  of  a  slice  of  ham,  finely  chopped,  and/or 
a  glass  of  Marsala  to  the  finished  sauce. 

[    203    ] 


WHITE    WINE    SAUCE    TO 
SERVE    WITH    FISH 


f  cup  of  the  liquor 

1 1  ozs.  butter 

in  which  fish  has 

creamed  and  made 

cooked 

into  a  paste  with  a 

J  cup  cream 

tablespoonful  of 

J  cup  white  wine 

flour 

Place  liquor  and  wine  in.  a  saucepan  and  bring  to  the  boil ; 
add  flour  and  butter  paste  slowly,  and  allow  to  cook  for  five 
minutes,  by  the  end  of  which  time  the  sauce  will  have  thickened. 
Add  cream,  stirring  all  the  while.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir 
in  a  further  ounce  of  butter  a  little  at  a  time,  meanwhile  beating 
the  sauce  with  an  egg  whisk. 


PIQ^UANT    SAUCE 


just  under  J  cup 
wine  vinegar 

f  cup  cold  water 

black  pepper 

1  teaspoonful  meat 
extract 

J  teaspoonful 
tomato  paste 

J  oz.  butter 


1  teaspoonful  flour 
J  teaspoonful 

French  mustard 
a  few  finely 

chopped  capers 
1  tablespoonful 

finely  chopped 

parsley 
a  pinch  of  cayenne 

pepper 


Place  vinegar  in  a  saucepan  together  with  a  fairly  generous 
shaking  of  freshly  ground  black  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 
Bring  to  boil  and  allow  to  cook  until  the  vinegar  is  reduced 
by  one-half.  Add  cold  water  in  which  you  have  dissolved  the 
meat  extract  and  the  tomato  paste  (do  not  overload  the  sauce 
with  tomato  paste,  keep  the  quantity  small)  and  allow  to  cook 
together  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve ; 
replace  on  stove  and  re-heat.  Cream  the  butter,  and  to  it  add 
the  flour  and  when  the  sauce  has  reached  the  boil,  reduce 


[    204    ] 


heat  and  add  the  butter  and  flour  paste  little  by  little,  stirring 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  sauce  thickens.  Cook  slowly  for 
five    minutes    longer,   then    remove    from  the   fire  and   add 
chopped  capers  and  chopped  parsley. 
Excellent  with  game,  pigeons,  etc. 


SALSA    OLANDESE  j 

Hollandaise  Sauce  \ 

juice  of  half  2  unbeaten  tgg  1 

a  lemon  yolks  \ 

J  lb.  butter  J  teaspoon  salt  \ 

a  dash  of  cayenne  \ 


An  excellent  sauce  to  serve  with  artichokes  or  asparagus. 

Add  lemon  juice  to  unbeaten  ^gg  yolks.  Divide  butter  into 
three  and  add  one-third  also  to  &gg  yolks.  Cook  over  hot,  but 
not  boiling,  water,  stirring  constantly  with  a  wooden  spoon 
until  the  butter  has  melted  and  the  sauce  has  thickened.  Add 
the  second  third  of  the  butter  and  continue  stirring  until  it  has 
melted  and  the  sauce  has  thickened  again;  repeat  the  process 
with  the  remaining  third  of  the  butter,  and  continue  stirring 
until  the  sauce  has  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise.  Add  the 
seasonings  and  beat  sauce  with  a  wire  whip  until  it  takes  on 
a  shiny  appearance  —  about  half  a  minute's  beating  will  be 
needed.  It  should  not  curdle,  but  if  it  should,  beat  in  a  little 
boiling  water  until  it  is  smooth. 


■[   205   ] 


TUNNY   FISH    SAUCE 

FOR  1  POUND  OF  SPAGHETTI 

1 — 6  ozs.  tin  tunny  1  lb.  (or  1  me- 
fish  dium  sized  tin) 

3  tablespoons  tomatoes 

chopped  parsley  3  anchovies 

1  tablespoon  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

chopped  capers  1  clove  garlic 

salt  and  pepper  crushed 

Heat  the  oil  and  in  it  allow  the  capers  and  crushed  garlic 
to  cook  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  brown;  add  tomatoes  (cut 
up,  skinned  and  seeded  if  raw  —  strained  through  a  sieve  if 
tinned),  and  cook  for  a  further  half  hour.  Flake  tunny  fish 
small,  and  chop  anchovies  finely  and  add  to  the  tomato  sauce, 
together  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  uncovered  until  it  has 
become  thick. 


CLAM   SAUCE 

Substituting  a  medium  sized  tin  of  clams  (drained)  for  the 
tunny  fish  and  anchovies  of  the  preceding  recipe  you  have 
a  favourite  sauce  for  spaghetti  frequently  met  with  in  and  around 
Naples,  except  that  there  the  clams  come  direct  out  of  the  sea 
and  not  out  of  tins. 


SHRIMP    SAUCE 

1  pint  (before  2  tablespoons 

shellings)  shrimps  olive  oil 

or  prawns  1  small  onion 

1  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley 

Chop  onion  and  cook  without  browning  in  the  heated  oil, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  the  shelled 
shrimps,  together  with  warm  water  to  cover  and  simmer 
20  minutes.  The  addition  of  a  few  finely  chopped  toasted  al- 
monds is  interesting. 

[    206    ] 


SALSA   ALLA   PIZZAIOLA 

1  tablespoon  olive  2  or  3  crushed 

oil  cloves  garlic 

6  good  sizes  toma-  1  tablespoon  fresh 

toes  oregano,  basil  or 

parsley 

Heat  the  oil  and  allow  crushed  garlic  to  cook  gently  in  it, 
but  do  not  allow  it  to  brown.  Add  peeled  and  cut  up  tomatoes, 
pepper  and  salt  and  cook  fairly  fast  until  tomatoes  are  cooked 
through  but  not  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Add  a  good  tablespoonful 
of  oregano,  basil  or  parsley,  and  before  serving  add  another 
clove  of  garlic  cut  very,  very  fine. 

Tinned  tomatoes  may  be  used  if  fresh  are  not  available, 
but  for  this  sauce  the  fresh  are  infinitely  preferable. 

An  excellent  sauce  to  serve  with  beefsteak. 


SALSA    VERDE 

Green  sauce 

a  good  handful  1  tablespoonful 

of  parsley  capers 

2  anchovies  1  small  gherkin 

1  small  cooked  1  clove  garlic, 

potato  crushed 

1  small  onion  cut  salt,  pepper  and  oil 

fine  a  tablespoonful  of 

wine  vinegar 

Pound  together  in  a  heavy  mortar  all  the  ingredients  except 
the  oil  and  vinegar  until  they  form  a  paste.  Slowly  add  sufficient 
oil  to  render  this  to  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise,  finally  blend 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  wine  vinegar,  and  serve  very  cold.  A  little 
fresh  bread  crumb  may  be  substituted  for  the  boiled  potato. 


-[    207    ] 


PESTO 

FOR  2  PEOPLE 


Pesto  is  a  sauce  of  Genoese  origin  that  finds  its  ways  into  many 
dishes;  it  is  excellent  with  spaghetti,  for  instance,  and  a  table- 
spoon added  to  minestrone  greatly  enhances  the  flavour.  Any 
left-over  pesto  may  be  placed  in  a  small  jar,  covered  with 
olive  oil  and  kept  for  some  days. 


3  cloves  garlic 
sufficient  fresh  basil 

1  cup  grated  Sardo 
cheese,  but  since 

i 

to  produce 

this  Sardinian 

1 

3  tablespoons 
when  removed 

cheese  made 
of  ewes'  milk  is 

f 

i 

from  stalks  and 
torn  into  small 

not  easy  to  pro- 
cure, Parmesan 

pieces 
about  2  tablespoons 
fresh  olive  oil 

may  be 
substituted 

1 

Pound  the  garlic  and  basil  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  add  the  cheese 
and  continue  pounding  until  a  thick  paste  results,  then  slowly 
add  oil  until  you  have  a  mixture  the  consistency  of  mayon- 
naise. 

A  few  almonds,  pine  nuts  or  even  walnuts  pounded  into 
the  paste  make  an  interesting  variation. 


[   208   ] 


RAGU    BOLOGNESE 

SUFFICIENT  FOR  6 

No  book  on  Italian  cookery  would  be  complete  without  a  recipe 
for  this,  one  of  Italy's  most  famous  sauces.  J  lb.  lean  beef, 
or  a  mixture  of  beef  with  veal  and  or  pork,  though  the  beef 
should  predominate,  and  all  should  be  passed  through  a  mincer 
twice. 

IJ  ozs.  butter  1 J  cups  stock  or 
3  ozs.  streaky  water,  or  for 

bacon  preference  1  cup 

onion,  carrot,  stock  plus  J  cup 

a  stick  of  celery,  white  wine 

a  crushed  clove  1  teaspoon  tomato 

garlic  paste 

2  or  3  cloves  i  cup  cream 

or  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper 

powdered  cloves  to  taste 

A  few  chopped  mushrooms  may  be  added  if  liked,  and  if  you 
have  three  or  four  chicken  livers  available,  these,  chopped,  are 
a  great  improvement. 

Having  minced  the  meat,  place  in  a  stewpan  with  the  heated 
butter,  add  chopped  bacon,  onion,  carrot  and  celery,  all  of 
which  can,  to  save  time,  have  been  passed  through  the  mincer. 
Add  two  or  three  dried  cloves  or  a  pinch  of  powered  cloves, 
and  allow  to  cook  until  the  meat  has  browned  and  the  vegetables 
are  a  golden  colour.  Add  the  stock  and/or  wine  little  by  little, 
add  tomato  paste  moistened  with  a  little  stock,  stir  well;  add 
salt  and  pepper.  Cover  meat  with  the  liquid,  lower  heat  and 
allow  the  mixture  to  cook  gently  for  another  15  minutes. 
In  one  of  the  traditional  recipes  milk  is  used  instead  of  stock, 
which  results  in  a  richer-tasting  sauce,  but  this  is  purely  a  matter 
of  personal  preference. 

At  the  end  of  the  cooking  time  add  the  cream  and  mix  well. 

Excellent  sauce  for  serving  with  spaghetti. 


[    209   ]- 


LIVER  SAUCE  FOR  GNOGGHI 


J  lb.  liver, 

(calves'  liver  will 

do,  but  chicken 

livers  are 

preferable) 
J  pint  chicken 

stock 
2  ozs.  butter 


J  lb.  button 
mushrooms 

1  glass  white 
wine  (half 
a  cupful) 

1  tablespoon 
flour 


Chop  and  flour  liver,  chop  mushrooms  small,  and  saute  both 
in  butter  in  a  heavy  pan  for  10  to  12  minutes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  stir  in  any  balance  of  flour,  and  slowly  add 
the  wine;  allow  to  cook  7  or  8  minutes  longer  before  adding 
the  stock.  Simmer  until  thick. 


APPLE    SAUCE 


4  cooking  apples, 
medium  size 

1  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice 


1  coffee-spoonful 
grated  lemon 
rind 


Peel  apples,  cut  them  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  water  to  cover,  and  allow  to  cook  until  they  can  be 
mashed  into  a  puree.  Add  grated  lemon  rind  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  remove  from  heat,  and  stir  in  lemon  juice  and  mix  well. 
Serve  with  roast  pork. 


BREAD    SAUCE 


J  pint  milk 

1  medium  sized 
onion  stuck 
with  cloves 
(4  of  these) 


white  bread 

J  oz.  butter 

salt 

cayenne  pepper 


[   210  ] 


Place  the  onion  stuck  with  cloves  and  the  milk  in  a  saucepan 
and  bring  to  the  boil,  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes, 
then  remove  the  onion  and  add  ^enough  white  breadcrumbs 
to  make  a  fairly  thick  sauce;  mix  well;  remove  from  stove  and 
stir  in  the  butter  and,  if  available,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 
For  serving  with  roast  chicken. 


MAYONNAISE 

Legend  has  it  that  a  certain  Duke  of  Mayenne,  a  great  gourmet, 
was  so  busy  discussing  with  the  camp  chef  the  preparation 
of  a  special  sauce  to  grace  a  cold  chicken  that  by  the  time 
the  discussion  had  come  to  an  end,  his  own  cavalry  had  been 
overcome  by  those  of  the  enemy,  and  the  Battle  of  Arques  was 
lost  for  his  side.  So  much  for  history;  the  Duke  deserves  an 
honourable  mention,  for  the  sauce  that  caused  the  trouble 
was  the  forerunner  of  Mayonnaise,  and  took  its  name  from 
the  unfortunate  gentleman  who  had  a  hand  in  its  creation. 
For  a  good  mayonnaise  you  will  need : 

1 J  cups  good  3  egg  yolks 

olive  oil  about  3  teaspoons 

a  pinch  of  salt  lemon  juice  or 

wine  vinegar 

Place  the  egg  yolks  and  a  pinch  of  salt  in  a  bowl  and  with 
a  wooden  spoon  or  a  metal  egg  whisk  beat  them  slowly,  slowly 
until  thick,  and  then  start  adding  your  olive  oil,  literally  drop 
by  drop.  After  two  or  three  tablespoonsful  have  added,  the 
mayonnaise  may  be  a  trifle  too  thick,  in  which  case  beat  in 
a  little  lemon  juice  or  wine  vinegar.  Continue  beating  and 
adding  oil  slowly  until  the  desired  consistency  is  obtained. 


[   211    ] 


SALSA   REMOULADE 

To  a  mayonnaise  made  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe  add  the  follow- 
ing: 

1  tablespoonful  1  tablespoonful 
made  mustard  —  finely  chopped 
or  to  taste  parsley 

2  tablespoonfuls  2  or  3  chopped 
finely  chopped  gherkins 
capers 

Excellent  to  serve  with  cold  meat  or  with  shellfish. 


DRESSING   FOR   GREEN    SALAD 

SUFFICIENT  FOR  SALAD  FOR  4 

J  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  castor 

1  teaspoon  French  sugar 

mustard  freshly  ground 

1  tablespoon  wine  black  pepper 

vinegar  3  tablespoons  olive 

oil 

Mix  together  all  ingredients  except  the  oil,  then  slowly  add 
the  oil,  and  mix  till  well  blended.  An  excellent  mixer  is  of  the 
type  sold  for  mixing  such  drinks  as  Horlicks  or  Ovaltine.  The 
mixing  time  is  two  or  three  minutes,  and  the  dressing  is  all 
the  better  if  it  is  made  an  hour  in  advance  of  the  meal  at  which 
it  is  to  be  used.  Once  blended  it  can  be  embellished  by  the  addi- 
tion of  a  teaspoonful  or  more  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  mint 
or  basil,  and  by  half  a  clove  of  garlic  very  finely  chopped,  if 
liked.  DO  NOT  ADD  TO  YOUR  SALAD  UNTIL  A  MO- 
MENT OR  TWO  BEFORE  SERVING. 


[   212   ] 


CHICKEN    SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  4 


^  pint  of  cream 
2  ozs.  Bel  Paese 

cheese 
J  lb.  cream  cheese 


6  ozs.  cooked 

breast  of  chicken 

cut  in  dice 
J  lb.  mushrooms 
2  ozs.  butter 


Place  cream  and  cheese  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  slowly 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  smooth 
and  creamy.  Meanwhile,  saute  the  chopped  mushrooms  in 
the  butter.  Add  these  and  the  chopped  chicken  to  the  sauce; 
mix  well  and  serve  hot  over  any  kind  of  pasta  asciutta.  Grated 
Parmesan  cheese  sprinkled  over  the  finished  dish  is  an  impro- 
vement. 


PEA    SAUCE 

To  serve  with  macaroni  or  with  rice 


1  onion  chopped 

finely 
1  rasher  of  streaky 

bacon 
^  pint  chicken 

stock 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


3  tablespoons  olive 

oil 
1  lb.  peas  (before 

shelling) 
1  tablespoon  parsley 

chopped  fine 


Heat  olive  oil  in  heavy  pan,  and  in  it  cook  the  onion  until  it  is 
golden  colour;  cut  bacon  small  and  add,  allowing  it  to  cook 
for  three  or  four  minutes.  Add  stock,  peas  and  seasoning,  and 
cook  slowly  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


HAM   SAUCE   WITH   CREAM 


4  ozs.  lean  ham  or 
cooked  gammon 
cut  small 


TO  SERVE  4 


2  ozs.  butter 
\  pint  cream 


[   213   ] 


Melt  the  butter  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  the  ham  or  gammon  and 
allow  to  brown  slightly  before  adding  the  cream.  Lower  heat, 
and  cook  together  until  the  mixture  begins  to  bubble.  This 
sauce  is  delicious  served  over  freshly  cooked  pasta  of  any 
variety. 

MUSHROOM   AND   TOMATO 
SAUCE 

SUFFICIENT  FOR  6  PEOPLE 


1  lb.  mushrooms 
1  medium-size  tin 

tomatoes 
3  tablespoons  olive 

oU 
1  clove  garlic  — 

crushed 
cayenne  pepper 

to  taste 


1  tablespoon 
chopped  basil,  or 
if  not  available 
an  equal  quantity 
of  finely  chopped 
mint  or  parsley 

a  pinch  of  chopped 
thyme 

a  pinch  of  salt 


Heat  oil  and  in  it  allow  the  crushed  garlic  to  brown ;  add  mush"- 
rooms,  sliced  finely  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes ;  pass  tomatoes 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  the  sauce  together  with  the  remain- 
ing ingredients.  Cover  and  allow  to  cook  very  slowly  for  an 
hour,  stirring  from  time  to  time.  Serve  very  hot  as  a  sauce 
with  any  type  of  pasta. 


[   214  ] 


MEAT    SAUCE 

FOR  SERVING  OVER  SPAGHETTI 

2  tablespoons  2  tablespoons  olive 

tomato  puree  oil 

1  clove  garlic,  1 J  cups  warm 

crushed  water 

1  cup  dry  white  1  onion,  chopped 

wine  fine 

1  bay  leaf  J  lb.  lean  beef 
salt  and  pepper  passed  twice 

through  mincer 

Heat  oil  and  in  it  brown  onion  and  garlic  and  meat,  add  tomato 
paste  and  cook  for  a  further  five  minutes  before  adding  pepper, 
salt,  bay  leaf,  water  and  wine.  Cover  and  allow  to  cook  slowly 
for  one  hour,  stirring  from  time  to  time ;  remove  bay  leaf  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer  before  serving  with  spaghetti. 


MEAT    SAUCE   WITH 
MUSHROOMS 

^  lb.  lean  beef  J  lb.  mushrooms, 

passed  twice  washed  and  sliced 

through  mincer  thinly 

2  tablespoons  olive  1  clove  garlic, 

oil  crushed 

1  tablespoon  tomato  1  medium  size  tin 

puree  tomatoes 

pinch  cayenne  pepper  and  salt 

Heat  oil  in  heavy  pan,  add  mushrooms,  garlic,  cayenne, 
meat  and  simmer  for  five  minutes;  strain  tomatoes  and  add, 
simmer  gently  for  f  of  an  hour,  blend  tomato  puree  with  a  little 
water,  add  to  first  mixture,  together  with  salt,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  a  further  30  minutes,  stirring  from  time  to  time.  Keep 
hot  till  time  to  use. 


[   215   ] 


CAPER   SAUCE 

TO  BE  SERVED  HOT  WITH  ANY  FISH 

2  tablespoons  capers  2  ozs.  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour  2  tablespoons  wine 

1  tablespoon  vinegar 

chopped  parsley  J  pint  beef  stock 
salt  and  pepper 

Drain  capers  and  chop  finely;  heat  butter  in  heavy  pan,  add 
flour,  stirring  until  it  is  smooth  and  has  turned  a  golden  brown ; 
stir  in  capers,  add  vinegar  slowly,  and  finally  stir  in  parsley 
and  seasoning,  finishing  up  with  the  beef  stock.  Simmer  for 
quarter  of  an  hour  and  serve  hot. 


SWEET   SOUR   SAUCE 

FOR   SERVING   WITH   VEGETABLES    OR   WITH   FISH   DISHES 

J  lb.  granulated  J  pint  hot  water 

sugar  J  pint  stock 

1  tablespoon  flour  salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  wine 
vinegar 

Brown  sugar  in  heavy  pan,  sprinkle  flour  over  and  blend  to- 
gether; add  hot  water  slowly,  following  with  stock,  vinegar  and 
seasonings.  Allow  to  cook  2  or  3  minutes  and  serve  hot. 


[   216  ]. 


SWEET  SOUR  SAUCE  WITH  NUTS 

TO  SERVE  WITH  MEAT  OR  GAME 


1  lb.  chopped  nuts, 
preferably 
almonds  or  pine 
nuts 

2  squares  unsweet- 
ened chocolate 

2  tablespoons 

granulated  sugar 
J  pint  wine  vinegar 


3  tablespoons  red 
currant  jelly 

2  tablespoons 
sultanas 

the  grated  rind 
of  half  a  lemon 
and  half  an 
orange 

J  pint  stock 


Allow  sugar  to  caramelise  slightly  in  heavy  pan  before  stirring 
in  grated  chocolate  and  other  ingredients.  Simmer  for  half 
an  hour,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 


YET   ANOTHER   SWEET-SOUR 

SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  WITH  MEATS 


2  tablespoons 

butter 
pinch  salt 
2  tablespoons  wine 

vinegar 
2  tablespoons 

flour 


1  pint  stock  or  hot 
water  in  which 
vegetables  have 
been  cooked 

2  tablespoons  gran, 
sugar 

fresh  ground  black 
pepper 


Caramelise  sugar  and  blend  in  flour,  adding  slowly  the  rest 
of  the  ingredients,  and  cook  together  slowly  for  twenty  minutes 
before  serving. 


[   217   ]- 


TUNNY    SAUCE   WITH   BLACK 
OLIVES 

TO  SERVE  4 

4  ozs.  black  olives  1  medium  sized  tin 

6  or  8  anchovies  of  tunny  fish 

tomato  sauce  — 

(see  any  of  the 

various  recipes 

for  this  under 

'SAUCES') 

Having  prepared  your  tomato  sauce,  stone  and  chop  the  olives, 
mash  the  tunny  and  anchovies,  and  add  to  the  sauce  while  it  is 
still  cooking;  mix  well,  and  serve  hot  over  fresh  cooked  pasta. 


MARINARA    SAUCE 

TO  SERVE  4 

1  medium  sized  1  clove  garlic, 

onion  crushed 

4  tablespoons  olive  6  tomatoes,  peeled 

oil  J  teaspoon  brown 
^  pint  white  wine  sugar 

1  pint  shrimps  salt  and  pepper  to 

taste 

Heat  the  oil  in  a  heavy  pan  and  in  it  cook  the  chopped  onion 
and  crushed  garlic  until  golden  colour;  add  tomatoes,  cut 
small,  together  with  sugar  and  pepper  and  salt.  Lower  heat 
and  allow  to  cook  gently  for  20  minutes.  While  this  is  cooking, 
peel  shrimps,  and  add  them  together  with  the  wine  to  the  to- 
mato mixture,  cooking  gently  together  for  15  minutes.  A  little 
chopped  fresh  basil  may  be  added  5  minutes  before  the  end 
of  the  cooking  time,  or  failing  this,  chopped  parsley. 
Serve  hot  over  pasta  of  any  type. 


[   218   ] 


A   VENETIAN   SAUCE   FOR   FISH 


2  J  ozs.  butter 
J  cupful  each  of 
meat  (preferably 
chicken)  and  fish 
stock 


1  tablespoon  flour 
salt  and  pepper 
green  colouring 


Place  half  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  and  allow  to  melt 
but  not  to  brown ;  blend  in  the  flour,  and  very  slowly  add  meat 
and  fish  stock,  stirring  all  the  time  until  thick.  Lower  heat 
and  add  the  remainder  of  the  butter,  a  very  little  knob  at 
a  time,  and  when  all  used  up  and  the  sauce  is  thick  remove 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  green  colouring  and  serve. 


ANCHOVY   SAUCE 


10  to  12  anchovy 
fillets  pounded 

2  tablespoons 
tarragon 

.  \ 

to  a  paste 
1  clove  garlic  — 
crushed 

vinegar 
2  tablespoons  best 
olive  oil 

j. 

yolks  of  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs 

4  tablespoons 
parley,  chopped 
fine 

Heat  oil  in  a  heavy  pan,  add  pounded  anchovies  and  crushed 
garlic,  and  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes;  add  parsley,  vinegar 
and  pounded  egg  yolks,  stirring  constantly  until  well  blended. 
Remove  from  fire  and  serve  very  cold.  A  good  sauce  to  serve 
with  cold  meats  or  fish. 


[  219  ] 


Index 


•V 

I 
1 


Agnello  arrosto,  137 

Agnello  in  casseruola,  138 

Agnolotti,  67 

Almond  sauce,   201 

Anchovies,   15 

Anchovies  and   tunny  fish  with 

tagliatelle,  55 
Anchovies  with  fried  bread,  26 
Anchovies  with  spaghetti,  61 
Anchovy  sauce,   219 
Anchovy  toast,  24 
Anguilla  alia  Ferrarese,  106 
Anolini,  67 

Antipasti,   cold,   20  //. 
Antipasti,  hot,  23  //. 
Antipasto,  fennel,  22,  23 
Antipasto  Fortunata  Ruocco's,  23 
Antipasto,  pepper  (cold),  23 
Antipasto,  pepper  (hot),  25 
Antipasto,  rice,    21 
Apple  charlotte,   190 
Apple  fritters,   186 
Apple  sauce,  210 
Apricot  fritters,  186 
Aragosta  lessata,   104 
Arangirii,  86 

Aringa  alia  gratella,  107 
Artichoke  omelette,  97 
Artichokes,  163 — 4 
Artichokes,  fricassee  of,   163 
Artichokes,  Jewish,    164 
Artichokes  stewed  with  peas, 

164 
Artichokes  with  liver,  144 
Asparagi  alia  Milanese,   165 
Asparagi  all' olio,  165 
Asparagus  Milanese  style,  165 
Asparagus  with  oil,   165 
Aubergines  Genoese  style,  169 
Aubergines  Neapolitan  style,  170) 
Aubergines  stuffed,   170 

Baccala,  cream  of,  110 


Bacon  and  sausage  ravioli  filling, 

71 
Basil,  12 

Batter,  fritter,  185 
Battiito,  202 
Batuffoli  al  sugo,  91 
Bay,  12 

Bean  soup,  haricot,  43 
Beans,  broad,  with  bacon,  168 
Beans,  French,  buttered,  165 
Beans,  French,  fricassee,   166 
Beans,  French,  Roman  style, 

166 
Beans,   haricot   or   butter, 

with  fish,   22 
Beccacce  al  salmi,  158 
Beccacce  alia  Romagnola,  159 
Bechamel  sauce,  199 
Beef,  domestic  style,   131 
Beef,  stewed,   130 
Beef,  Trieste  style,  130 
Bel  Paese,  14 
Bodino  di  gabinetto,  191 
Bodino  di  latte  alia  mandorle, 

191 
Borage,  13 

Braciuole  ripiene,  150 
Braciuole  di  vitello  alia 

Veronese,  135 
Brains  risotto,  79 
Brains  rissoles,   148 
Brains  Tuscan  style,   149 
Breadcrumbs,  13 

Bread,   fried,  with  anchovies,  26 
Bread,  fried,  with  cheese  cream, 

26 
Bread,  fried,  see  also  Pandorato 

alia  Romana  sauce,  210 
Broad  beans  with  bacon,  168 
Broccoli  strascicati,   176 
Broccoli  with  macaroni,  62 
Broccoli  with  salt  pork,  176 
Brown  sauce,  200 


[   223   ] 


Brussels  sprouts  served  with 

chestnuts,  175 
Butter  beans  with  fish,  22 

Cabinet  pudding,  191 
Cacciucco  alia  Toscana,  103 
Calamaretti,   105 
Cannelloni,  49 
Cannelloni   filled   with   cheese 

and  sausage,  66 
Caper  sauce,  216 
Cappelletti,  67 
Cappelletti  in  brodo,   71 
Cappon   magro,   125 
Capretto  in  casseruola,  138 
Carciofi,  163 — 4 
Carciofi  alia  giudaica,  164 
Carciofi  in  fricassea,  163 
Carciofi  in  umido  con  piselli, 

164 
Carote  al  burro,  174 
Carp,   123 

Carrots,  buttered,   174 
Carrots,  candied,  175 
Carrots,  cooked  in  butter,  175 
Cauliflower  Sicilian  style,  176 
Cauliflower  with  meat  sauce,  176 
Cavolfiore  alia  lionese,  176 
Cavolfiore  alia  Siciliana,  176 
Ceci,  92 

Ceci  alia  marinara,  93 
Celery,   13 
Celery,  stuffed,  22 
Charlotte  di  mele,  pere  a  pesche, 

190 
Cheese,   14 
Cheese,  cream,  27 
Cheese,  dishes,  94  //. 
Cheese,  fried,   100 
Cheese,  omelette,  96 
Cheese,  ravioli  filling,  69 
Cheese,  rice  balls,  85 
Cheese,  sauce,   199 


Cheese  and  onion  soup,  42,  43 

Chestnut  fritters,  188 

Chestnut  puree,  177 

Chestnut  soup,  39 

Chick  peas,  92 

Chick  peas,  sailors'  style,  93 

Chicken,  152  //. 

Chicken,  breasts,  Lombard  style, 

155 
Chicken,  broth,  31 
Chicken,  garnished,  153 
Chicken  in  white  wine,    155 
Chicken,  liver  tartlets,  24 
Chicken,  livers   and  rice   souffl6, 

89 
Chicken,  puree,  156 
Chicken,  ravioli  filling,  70 
Chicken,  risotto,  80 
Chicken,  Roman  style,  156 
Chicken,  sauce,  213 
Chicken,  stew,  152 
Chicken,  tartlets,  24 
Chicken  with  cream,  154 
Chicken  with  olives,  152 
Chicken  with  peas,  153 
Chicken  with  mushrooms,  154 
Cinnamon,  18 
Cipolle  ripiene,   171 
Clam  sauce,  206 
Clams  fishermen's  style,  122 
Clams  with  eggs,  121 
Cloves,   18 
Cod  au  gratin,  103 
Cod,  Florentine  style,   108 
Cod,  salt,  creamed,  110 
Cod,  salt,  in  sauce,   109 
Cod,  salt,  Ligurian  style,  109 
Cod,  salt,  rissoles  of.   111 
Cod  with  tomatoes,   108 
Coniglio  alia  borghese,  160 
Coniglio  in  salsa  piccante,   160, 

161 
Cooking  temperatures,  11 


[    224   ] 


Cooking  times  for  pasta,  51 

Coriander  seeds,  18 

Coscia  di  manzo  alia  casalinga, 

131 
Costolette  di  vitello  al  sugo,  134 
Costolette  Milanese,  133 
Crabs,  soft  shell,  105 
Crawfish,  105 

Cream  cheese  ravioli   filling,   69 
Cream  of  mushroom  soup,  44 
Cream  of  tomato  soup,  44 
Crema  di  bagnomaria,  192 
Crostini  alVananasso,  193 
Crostini  alia  Napolitana,  27 
Cucumber  salad,  182 
Custard,  rich  steamed,  192 

Eels  Fcrrara  style,  106 

Eels,  roast,  106,  107 

Eels,  stewed,  107 

Egg  dishes,  94  //. 

Egg  and  parsley  sauce,  199 

Eggs,  hard  boiled,   and  salad, 

182,  183 
Eggs,  scrambled,  with  cheese,  99 
Eggs  with  rice,  99 
Elbow  macaroni  pie,  57 

Fagiano  al  Madera,   159 
Fagioli  alia  provinciale,  167 
Fagiolini  al  burro,  165 
Fagiolini  alia  Romana,  166 
Fagiolini  in  fricassea,  166 
Fave  al  gunciale,  168 
Fegato  alia  Milanese,  143 
Fegato  alia  Spagnola,  141 
Fegato  alia  Toscana,  143 
Fegato  alia  Veneziana,  144 
Fegato  air  Italiana,  142 
Fegato,  flan  di,  145 
Fegato,  polpette  di,  145 

Fennel,  14 


Fennel,  antipasto,  22 
Fennel,  seeds,   18 
Fennel,  stuffed,  22 
Fettucine  with  meat  sauce  and 

cheese,  5Q 
Fig  fritters,  187 
Finocckiona,  see  Fennel  seeds 
Fish,  101  //. 
Fish  au   gratin,    102 
Fish  cakes,   103 
Fish,  Genoese  style,  115 
Fish  in  paper  cases,  118 
Fish,  mixed  fried,  121 
Fish  salad,  125 
Fish,  Sicilian  fried,   102 
Fish  soup,  see  Soups,  fish 
Fish,  tinned  and  salted,  15 
Fish,  to  boil,  119 
Fish,  to  roast,   119 
Fish  with  haricot  or  butter 

beans,  22 
Flavourings,  12 — 19 
Fortunata  Ruocco's  cold  pepper 

antipasto,  23 
French  beans,  buttered,   165 
French  beans,  fricassee,    166 
French  beans,  Roman    style,    166 
Fricassee  of  artichokes,  163 
Fricassee,  French  beans,   166 
Fricassee,  rabbit,  161 
Fricassee,  veal,   136 
Frittata  ai  carciofi,  97 
Frittata  ai  funghi,  96 
Frittata  ai  legumi,  96 
Frittata  ai  prosciutto,  97 
Frittata  ai  tartuffi,  95 
Frittata  al  formaggio,  96 
Frittata  alia  cipolle,  97 
Frittata  alia  salsa  di  pomidoro. 

96 
Frittata  col  riso,  98 
Frittata  di  patate,  98 
Frittata  farcita,  97 


[    225   ] 


Frittata  semplice,  95 
Frittelle  alia  Fiorentina,  188 
Fritters,  185  //. 
Fritters,  apple,   186 
Fritters,  apricot,  186 
Fritters,  batter  for,  185 
Fritters,  chestnut,   188 
Fritters,  fig,  187 
Fritters,  Florentine,   188 
Fritters,  peach,  187 
Fritters,  pear,  186 
Fritters,  plum,  187 
Fritters,  semolina,   187 
Fritters,  sweet,  189 
Fritto  misto  mare,  121 
Frogs,  127—8 
Fruit  flan,   194 

Game,  156  // 

Gardener's  wife's  salad,   183 

Garlic,  15 

Garlic,  soup,  42 

Gavatoni,  51 

Genoese  fish  soup,  46 

Genoese  rice,  80 

Gnocchi,  67,  71  //. 

Gnocchi,  alia  Romana,  73 

Gnocchi,  potato,  72 

Gnocchi,  semolina,  72 

Gnocchi  with  tomato  sauce,  73 

Green  sauce,  207 

Grey  mullet,  grilled,  124 

Ham  omelette,  97 

Ham,  sauce  with  cream,  213 

Ham  with  spaghetti,  59 

Hare  in  sweet  sour  sauce,  157 

Hare,  stew,  157 

Haricot  bean  soup,  43 

Haricot  beans,   167 

Haricot  beans  with  bacon,  167 

Haricot  beans  with  fish,  22 

Herbs,  12—19 


Herbs,  omelette  with,  95 
Herrings,  grilled,   107 
Hollandaise  sauce,  205 

Insalata  alia  giardiniera,  183 

Juniper  berries,  15 

Kid,  pot  roast  of,   138 
Kidneys,  Bolognese  style,  148 
Kidneys,  stewed,  147 

Lamb,  pot  roast  of,  138 

Lamb,  roast,  137 

Lasagne,  49 

Lasagne  al  forno,  64 

Lasagne  imbottite,  65 

Lasagne  verdi,  63 

Lentil  soup,  34,  36 

Lettuce  salad,  182 

Lettuce  soup,  41 

Lingua  alia  salsa,  149 

Lingua  con  olive,  150 

Liver  flan,  145 

Liver  flan,  Italian  style,  142 

Liver  flan,  Milanese  style,  143 

Liver  flan,  rissoles,  145 

Liver  flan,  sauce,  210 

Liver  flan,  Spanish  style,  141 

Liver  flan,  Tuscan  style,  143 

Liver  flan,  Venetian  style,  144 

Liver  flan  with  artichokes,  144 

Lobster,  boiled,  104 

Lobster,  cold,  104 

Lobster,  fried,  105 

Macaroni,  49 

Macaroni,  baked  with  cheese,  58 

Macaroni,  baked  with  sour  cream, 

59 
Macaroni,  pie,  elbow,  57 
Macaroni  with  broccoli,  62 
Manzo  alia  massaia,  131 


[   226   ] 


Manzo  alia  Triestina,  ISO 
Manzo  in  umido,  130 
Marinara  sauce,  218 
Marjoram,   15 
Marrow,  baby,  fried,  177 
Marrow,  baby,  stewed,  178 
Marrow,  soup  alia  Napolitana, 

41 

Marrow,   stuffed,   178 

Marrow  with  tomato,  179 

Marrows,  177 

Mayonnaise,  211 

Meat  balls,  35 

Meat  balls  with  spaghetti,  56 

Meat  ravioli  filling,  70 

Meat  sauce,  215 

Meat  sauce  with  mushrooms,  215 

Meats,  129  //. 

Melanzane  alia  Genovese,  169 

Melanzane  alia  Napolitana,  170 

Melanzane  ripiene,  170 

Meringues,   194 

Merluzzo  alia  Fiorentina,  108 

Merluzzo  in  salsa,  108 

Milk  pudding  with  almonds,  191 

Mines tre  Crecy,  37 

Minestrone,  32,  33 

Mint,  15 

Mont  Blanc,  189 

Mozzarella,   14 

Mullet,  grey,  grilled,   124 

Mullet,  red,  124 

Mullet,  red,  fried,  114 

Mullet,  red,  Leghorn  style,  114 

Mullet,  red,  Ligurian  style,  114 

Mullet,  red,  Trieste  style,   115 

Mushroom  omelette,  96 

Mushroom  risotto,  77 

Mushroom  sauce   (brown),  200 

Mushroom  sauce  (white),  200 

Mushroom  and  tomato  sauce,  214 

Mushroom  soup,  cream  of,  44 

Mushrooms,  dried,  16 


Mushrooms,  stuffed,  24 
Mussels  fishermen's  style,  122 
Mussels  with  eggs,  121 
Myrtle,   16 

Nasello  con  piselli,  118 
Noodles,  49 
Noodles,  stuffed,  65 
Nutmeg,  18 

Olive  oil,  16 

Olives,  fried  green,  28 

Omelettes,  94  //. 

Omelette,  artichoke,  97 

Omelette,  cheese,  96 

Omelette,  ham,  97 

Omelette,  herb,  95 

Omelette,  mushroom,  96 

Omelette,  onion,  97 

Omelette,  plain,  95 

Omelette,  potato,  98 

Omelette,  rice,   98 

Omelette,  stuffed,   97 

Omelette,  truffle,  95 

Omelette,  vegetable,   96 

Omelette  with  tomato  sauce,  96 

Onion  and  cheese  soup,  42,  43 

Onion  omelette,  97 

Onion  salad,  182 

Onions,  stuffed,  171 

Onions  with  tomatoes,  173 

Oregano,  see  Marjoram 

Ossohuco,  136 

Ossobuco  alia  Milanese,  137 

Ostriche  alia  Veneziana,  120 

Oven  heats,   11 

Oysters  Venetian  style,  120 

Pancakes,  potato,   171 
Pandorato  alia  crema  di  formag- 

gio,  26 
Pandorato  alia  Romana,  25 
Parmesan,  14 


[   227   ] 


Parsley,   16 

Parsley,  butter,  201 

Parsley  and  egg  sauce,  199 

Partridges  Milanese  style,  158 

Pasta,  49  //. 

Pasta,  home  made,  52 

Pasta,  quantities  of,  52 

Pasta,  to  cook,  50 — 1 

Pasticcio  di  frutta,   194 

Pastina,  49 

Palate  al  burro,  173 

Patate  arrosto,   172 

Patate  con  salsa  di  pomidoro, 

173 
Patate  in  stufato,  172 
Pea  sauce,  213 

Peas,   green,    Parisian   style,    169 
Peas,  green,  with  ham,  168 
Peas,  stewed  with  artichokes,  164 
Peach  charlotte,  190 
Peach  fritters,  187 
Pear  charlotte,  190 
Pear  fritters,  186 
Pepper,   18 

Pepper,  antipasto  (cold),  23 
Pepper,  antipasto  (hot),  25 
Perniciotte  alia  Milanese,   158 
Pesce  gratinato,  102 
Pesci  accartocciati,  118 
Pesto,  208 

Pheasant  in  Madeira,   159 
Piccate,  see  Scaloppine 
Pigeons  with  peas,  157 
Pigs  in  blankets,  120 
Pike,  123 

Pike  au  gratin,  123 
Pine  nuts,  17 
Pineapple  toast,  193 
Piquant  sauce,  204 
Piselli  alia  Parigina,  169 
Piselli  al  prosciutto,  168 
Pizza,  196 
Pizza  alia  Campofranco,  196 — 7 


Plum  fritters,  187 

Polio  ai  funghi,  154 

Polio  ai  piselli,  153 

Polio  alia  crema,  154 

Polio  alia  Romano,  156 

Polio  alle  olive,  152 

Polio  al  vino  bianco,  155 

Polio  con  verdure,  153 

Polio  in  umido,  152 

Polio,  petti  di,  alia  Lombarda, 

155 
Polenta,  90  //. 
Polenta  with  cheese,  91 
Polenta  with  tomato  sauce,  91 
Polpetti,  35 

Polpettine  di  stoccafisso.  111  ^ 
Pomidori  alia  casalinga,  174 
Pork  chops  alia  Napolitana,  139 
Pork  chops  with  prunes,  140 
Pork  in  milk  alia  Bolognese,  138 
Pork,  loin  of,  Perugian  style,  139 
Pork,  loin  of,  Tuscan  style,  139 
Potato  fritters,   172 
Potato   gnocchi,   72 
Potato   omelette,  98 
Potato  pancakes,   171 
Potatoes,  baked,  172 
Potatoes,  buttered,  173 
Potatoes,  sauteed,  172 
Potatoes,  with  tomato  sauce 
Poultry,  152  //. 
Pozzuoli  fishermen's  soup,  47 
Pudding,  cabinet,   191 
Pudding,  milk,  with  almonds,  191 
Puree  of  chestnuts,  177 
Puree  of  chicken,  156 

Rabbit,  citizen  style,  160 

Rabbit,  fricassee,  161 

Rabbit,  in  piquant  sauce,  160,  161 

Ragii  Bolognese,  209 

Rane  alia  Gastalda,  128 

Ravioli,  67  //. 


[   228  ] 


Ravioli,  bacon  and  sausage 

filling  for,  71 
Ravioli,  cheese  filling  for,  69 
Ravioli,  chicken  filling  for,  70 
Ravioli,  cream  cheese  filling  for, 

69 
Ravioli,  fillings  for,  68  //. 
Ravioli,  meat  filling  for,  70 
Ramoli  spinach  filling  for,  68 
Ravioli,  to  make,  67 — 8 
Red  mullet,  124 
Red  mullet,  fried,  114 
Red  mullet,  Leghorn  style,  113 
Red  mullet,  Ligurian  style,  114 
Red  mullet,  Trieste  style,  115 
Rice,  74  //. 
Rice,  antipasti,  21 
Rice,  boiled,  with  butter  and 

cheese,  84 
Rice,  boiled,  with  butter  and 

celery,  85 
Rice,  fried,  with  bacon  and  tgg, 

88 
Rice,  omelette,  98 
Rice  and  peas  Venetian  style,  81 
Rice,  souffle  with  chicken  livers. 

89 
Rice,  souffle  with  shrimps,  89 
Rice,  to  boil,  83 
Rice  with  cabbage,  83 
Rice  with  celery,  83 
Rice  with  txu-nips,  82 
Ricotta,  14 
Rigatoni,  51 
Risi  e  bisi,  81 
Riso  e  cavoli,  83 
Riso  e  rape,  82 
Riso  e  sedano,  83 
Riso  in  cagnoni,  84 
Rosemary,  17 
Risotto,  brains,  79 
Risotto,  chicken,  80 
Risotto,  favourite,  78 


Risotto,  Genoese,  80 
Risotto  in  cagnoni  di  magro,  85 
Risotto,   mushroom,    77 
Risotto,  plain,  76 
Risotto,  rich,  77 
Risotto,  shellfish,  79 
Risotto,  Venetian,  81 
Rissoles,  brains,  149 
Rissoles,  liver,  145 
Rissoles,  salt  cod.  111 
Rognoni  alia  Bolognese,  148 
Rognoni  in  umido,   147 
Rump    steak    housewife    fashion, 
131 

Saffron,  17 

Sage,  18 

Sailors'  soup,  46 

Salad  dressing,  212 

Salads,  181  //. 

Salads,   cucumber,    182 

Salads,  gardener's  wife's,   183 

Salads,  hard  boiled  tgg,  182,  183 

Salads,  lettuce,   182 

Salads,  mixed,  183 

Salads,  onion,  182 

Salads,  plain,  182 

Salads  with  sour  cream,  183 

Salsa  alia  pizzaiola,  207 

Salsa  olandese,  205 

Salsa  Remoulade,  212 

Salsa  verde,  207 

Salsiccie  alia  Triestina,  141 

Salt,  18 

Salt  cod,  creamed,  110 

Salt  cod,  in  sauce,  109 

Salt  cod,  Ligurian  style,  109 

Salt  cod,  rissoles  of,  111 

Sardines,  15 

Sartii,  87 

Sauces,  198  //. 

Sauce,  almond,  201 

Sauce,  anchovy,  219 


[   229  ] 


Sauce,  apple,  210 

Sauce,  Bechamel,  199 

Sauce,  bread,  210 

Sauce,  brown,  200 

Sauce,  caper,  216 

Sauce,  cheese,  199 

Sauce,  chicken,  213 

Sauce,  clam,  206 

Sauce,  egg  and  parsley,   199 

Sauce,  green,  207 

Sauce,  ham,  213 

Sauce,  Hollandaise,  205 

Sauce,  liver,  210 

Sauce,  marinara,   218 

Sauce,  meat,  215 

Sauce,  meat,  with  mushrooms, 

215 
Sauce,  mushroom,  200 
Sauce,  mushroom  and  tomato. 

214 
Sauce,  parsley  and  tgg,  199 
Sauce,  pea,  213 
Sauce,  piquant,  204 
Sauce,  shrimp,  200,  206 
Sauce,  sweet  sour,  216,  217 
Sauce,  sweet   sour,   with   nuts, 

217 
Sauce,  tomato,  202 
Sauce,  tomato,  alia  Napolitana, 

203 
Sauce,  tomato,  unsweetened,  203 
Sauce,  tomato   and  mushroom, 

214 
Sauce,  tunny   fish,   206,   218 
Sauce,  Venetian,  219 
Sauce,  white  wine,  201,  204 
Sausages  Trieste  style,  141 
Sausages  with  tomato  sauce,   141 
Scaloppe  alia  Modenese,  134 
Scaloppe  di  vitello  al  sugo,   134 
Scaloppe  Milanese,  133 
Scaloppine  al  Marsala,  133 
Scampi  alia  Lombarda,  117 


Scampi  alia  Modenese,  117 

Scampi  fried,  116 

Semolina  fritters,  187 

Semolina  gnocchi,  187 

Sfogliate  dolce  di  ricotta,  195 

Shellfish  risotto,  79 

Shrimp  sauce,  200,  206 

Shrimps  and  rice  souffle,  89 

Sicilian  fried  fish,  102 

Sicilian  recipes  for  pasta,  61 — 2 

Snails,   127 

Soffritto,  202 

Sole  fried  in  oil,  122 

Sole  grilled,  103 

Sole  with  white  wine,  122 

Souffle  of  rice  and  chicken 

livers,  89 
Souffle   of  rice  and   shrimps,   89 
Souffle  of  tagliatelle,  54 
Soup  stock,  clear,  30 
Soups,  29  //. 
Soup,  bean,   haricot,  43 
Soup,  cheese  and  onion,  42,  43 
Soup,  chestnut,  39 
Soup,  cream  of  mushroom,  44 
Soup,  cream  of  tomato,  44 
Soup,  fish,   45   //. 
Soup,  garlic,  42 
Soup,  Genoese,  46 
Soup,  haricot  bean,  43 
Soup,  lentil,  34,  36 
Soup,  lettuce,  41 
Soup,  marrow,  alia  Napolitana, 

41 
Soup,  mushroom,  cream  of,  44 
Soup,  onion  and  cheese,  42,  43 
Soup,  Pozzuoli  fishermen's,  47 
Soup,  sailors',  46 
Soup,  spinach,   36,  37,   38 
Soup,  Syracusan,  48 
Soup,  tomato,   cream   of,   44 
Soup,  vegetable,  SS,  40 
Spaghetti,  49 


[   230  ] 


Spaghetti,   con  salsa  di  vongole, 

55 
Spaghetti  with  anchovies,  61 
Spaghetti  with  bacon,  egg  and 

onion,  62 
Spaghetti  with  butter  and  cheese, 

58 
Spaghetti  with  clam  sauce,  55 
Spaghetti  with  fresh  fennel  sauce, 

61 
Spaghetti  with  green  olive  oil 

sauce,  60 
Spaghetti  with  ham,  59 
Spaghetti  with  meat  balls,  56 
Spaghetti  with  oil  and  garlic,  60 
Spices,  18 

Spinach  ravioli  filling,  68  * 

Spinach,  Roman  style,  179 
Spinach  soup,  36,  37,  38 
Spinaci  alia  Parmigiana,  180 
Spinaci  alia  Piemontese,  180 
Steak,  stuffed,   150 
Stew  Florentine  style,  132 
Stoccafisso  alia  Ligure,  109 
Stoccafisso  in  salsa,  109 
Stoccafisso  polpettine  di.  111 
Stock,  30 
Stock  pot,  30 
Stracciatelle,  39 
Stufato  alia  Fiorentina,  132 
Stuffed  meats,  150 — 1 
Sturgeon,  124 

Sturgeon,  housewife  style,  113 
Suppli,  85 

Sweet  sour  sauce,  216,  217 
Sweet  sour  sauce,  with  nuts,  217 
Sweets,  184  //. 

Tagliatelle,  49 
Tagliatelle  alia  crema,  54 
Tagliatelle,  souffle,  54 
Tagliatelle  with   anchovy  and 
tunny  fish,  55 


Tarragon,  18 

Tench,  124 

Testa  di  vitello  alia  Toscana, 

148 
Thyme,   19 
Tomato  paste,  19 
Tomato  sauce,  202 
Tomato  sauce,  alia  Napolitana, 

203 
Tomato  sauce,  to  enrich,  203 
Tomato  sauce,  unsweetened,   203 
Tomato   and  mushroom  sauce, 

214 
Tomato  soup,  cream  of,  44 
Tomatoes,  19 

Tomatoes,  housewife  style,  174 
Tomatoes  with  onions,  173 
Tongue  with  olives,  150 
Tongue  with  sauce,  149 
Tortellini,  67 
Triglie  alia  Ligure,  114 
Triglie  alia  Livornese,  113 
Triglie  alia  Triestina,  115 
Trimmings,    12 — 19 
Tripe,  Florentine  style,  146 
Tripe,  Italian  style,  146 
Tripe  with  Parmesan,  147 
Trippa  alia  Fiorentina,  146 
Trip  pa  air  Italiana,  146 
Trout,   123 
Truffle  omelette,  95 
Tunny  fish,  15 
Tunny  fish  and  anchovy  with 

tagliatelle,  55 
Tunny   fish,   Ligurian   style,    112 
Tunny  fish,  roast,  125 
Tunny  fish,  sauce,  206,  218 
Tunny  fish,  Sicilian  style,   111 
Tunny  fish  with  peas.  111 
Tunny  fish  with  veal,  134 

Uove  col  riso,  99 

Uove  stracciato  al  formaggio,  99 


[   231   ] 


Veal,   132  ff. 

Veal,  chops  Veronese  style,  135 

Veal,  fricassee,   136 

Veal,  pie,  stuffed,  151 

Veal,  roast,  136 

Veal,  stew  with  peas,   135 

Veal  with  tunny  fish,  134 

Vegetable  omelette,  96 

Vegetable  soup,  40 

Vegetable  soup  with  meat  balls, 

35 
Vegetables,   162  //. 
Venetian  sauce,  219 
Vilello  in  fricassea,  136 
Vitallo  in  umido  con  piselli,  135 
Vitello  ripieno  al  pasticcio,   151 

Weights  and  measures,  10 


White  wine  sauce,  201 
White  wine  sauce  for  fish,  204 
Whiting,  curled,  118 
Woodcock,  158,  159 

Zahaglione  (Zabaione),  185 
Zucchini  fritti,  177 
Zuppa  alia  Foubonne,  40 
Zuppa  alia  Marinara,  46 
Zuppa  di  pesce  alia  Genovese, 

46 
Zuppa  di  pesce  alia  Siracusana, 

48 
Zuppa  di  pesce  dei  pescatori  di 

Pozzuoli,  47 
Zuppa  Paradise,  39 
Zuppa  Pavese,  38 


^  >*0U3mj 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  06561  021  2 


^^1^^^^^^^^ 


