ImiMB 


i  CANNOT  LEAVE  THE  LIBBARV.  I 


i   LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS.    | 

^'  9-165     :^ 


JUST  FOR  TWO 


A    COLLECTION    OF   RECIPES 
DESIGNED  FOR  TWO  PERSONS 

BY 
AMELIE  LANGDON 


Copyrighted  1903  by  Amelie  Langdon 


BYRON  &  WILLARD 

Publishers 

29  Fifth  Street  South,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 


THE  LIBRARY  OF 

CONGRESS, 

One  Cai>Y  ReoEivee 

FEB.  SI  1905 

COWWIHT  5HTHV 

8LASS  CL  XXe,  No. 
COPY  A. 


PREFACE 

Recipes  designed  for  small  families  are  rare,  and  yet  there 
are  thousands  of  wives  in  our  cities  who  cook  for  only  two. 
It  follows  that  they  must  either  cut  down  large  recipes  found 
in  the  ordinary  cook  book,  which  can  rarely  be  done  success- 
fully, or  they  must  cook  the  full  amount  with  resulting 
waste.  During  my  experience  of  keeping  house  in  a  fiat  for 
my  husband  and  myself,  I  have  tried  to  cook  with  economy 
with  the  help  of  my  large  cook  book,  and  I  have  both  wasted 
and  experimented  much  and  have  gradually  compiled  for  my 
own  use  a  book  of  proved  recipes,  many  of  which  have  been 
given  me  by  friends  who  have  compounded  and  proved  them. 
I  now  publish  the  book,  believing  that  it  will  fill  a  long  felt 
need.  It  has  been  my  aim  in  preparing  the  book  to  have  it 
contain  rules  for  making  many  dainty  and  delicious  dishes  not 
often  found  in  cook  books. 


What  shall  I  have  for  dinner? 

What  shall  1  have  for  tea? 
An  omelet,  a  chop  or  two, 

Or  a  savory  fricassee? 


Dear!  how  I  wish  that  Nature 

When  she  made  her  mighty  plan 

Hadn't  given  the  task  to  woman 
To  care  for  hungry  man. 

— Anon. 


SOUPS 


SOUPS 


Soup  will  be  as  good  the  second  day  as  the  first  if  heated 
to  the  boiling  point.  It  should  never  be  left  in  the  pot,  but 
should  be  turned  into  a  dish  or  shallow  pan,  and  set  aside  to 
get  cold.  Never  cover  it  up,  as  that  will  cause  it  to  turn  sour 
very  quickly. 

Before  heating  a  second  time,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the 
top.  If  this  be  melted  in,  the  flavor  of  the  soup  will  certainly 
be  spoiled. 

Thickened  soups  require  nearly  double  the  seasoning  used 
for  thin  soups  or  broth. 

The  meat  from  which  soup  has  been  made  is  good  to  serve 
cold  thus :  Take  out  all  the  bones,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  catsup,  if  liked,  then  chop  it  small,  tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  lay  it  between  two  plates,  with  a  weight  on  the  upper 
one ;  slice  it  thin  for  luncheon  or  supper ;  or  make  sandwiches 
of  it ;  or  make  a  hash  for  breakfast ;  or  make  it  into  balls,  with 
the  addition  of  a  little  wheat  flour  and  an  egg,  and  serve  them 
fried  in  fat,  or  boil  in  the  soup. 

An  agreeable  flavor  is  sometimes  imparted  to  soup  by 
sticking  some  cloves  into  the  meat  used  for  making  stock; 
a  few  slices  of  onions  fried  very  brown  in  butter  are  nice ; 
also  flour  brov/ned  by  simply  putting  it  into  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire  and  stirring  it  constantly  until  it  is  a  dark  brown. 


8  SOUPS 

Clear  soups  must  be  perfectly  transparent,  and  thickened 
soups  about  the  consistency  of  cream.  When  coups  and  gra- 
vies are  kept  from  day  to  day  in  hot  weather,  they  should  be 
warmed  up  every  day,  and  put  into  fresh-scalded  pans  or  tu- 
reens, and  placed  in  a  cool  cellar.  In  temperate  weather,  every 
other  day  may  be  sufficient. 

EGG   DUMPLINGS   FOR   SOUP. 

To  half  a  pint  of  milk  put  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  as 
much  wheat  flour  as  will  make  a  smooth,  rather  thick  batter 
free  from  lumps ;  drop  this  batter,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time, 
into  boiling  soup. 

SHRIMP  BISQUE. 

Stir  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  enough  milk 
or  cream  to  make  a  paste ;  put  into  the  sauce  pan  one-half  pint 
of  milk — good  measure ;  the  yolk  of  one  egg  well  beaten ; 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  one-half 
cup  chopped  shrimps  the  last  thing.     Serve  hot. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

One-half  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  one-half  pint  of  milk, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
soda.  Cook  tomatoes  a  few  minutes  and  then  strain  them, 
put  on  the  stove  again,  adding  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  little  of  the  soda,  and  thicken  with  flour  until  quite  thick; 
heat  the  milk  separately  in  a  double  boiler  until  boiling  hot ; 
When  time  to  serve,  add  the  remainder  of  the  soda  to  the  to- 
matoes and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Lastly  add  the  boiling 
milk.     Serve  in  heated  soup  bowls. 


SOUPS  9 

CREAM  OF  CELERY. 

Cut  the  outside  stalks  of  a  bunch  of  celery  in  small  pieces; 
boil  until  tender,  keeping  covered  with  water;  when  boiled 
tender  rub  through  a  gravy  strainer;  add  one  pint  and  one- 
quarter  of  milk,  teaspoonful  of  butter,  salt,  and  stir  in  slowly 
a  little  flour  paste ;  let  boil  a  little  and  serve  hot. 

WINTER  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Scrape  and  slice  one  small  turnip,  and  one  carrot,  and  peel 
one  small  onion  and  fry  all  with  a  little  butter  until  a  light 
yellow ;  add  three  stalks  of  celery,  two  of  leeks,  cut  into  small 
pieces ;  stir  and  fry  all  for  five  minutes ;  when  fried,  add  two 
stalks  of  parsley  minced,  one  clove,  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg;  cover  with  three  pints  of  boiling  water, 
and  simmer  for  one  hour.  Take  off  the  scum,  strain  and 
serve. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

One  pint  of  oysters,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teacupful  of  boiling  water ;  salt 
and  pepper.  Strain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters;  add  the 
water  and  heat.  When  near  the  boil,  add  the  seasoning,  then 
the  oysters.  Cook  about  five  minutes  from  the  time  they  be- 
gin to  simmer,  until  they  ruffle.  Stir  in  the  butter,  cook  one 
minute,  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Stir  in  boiling  milk  and 
send  to  table   hot. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

One  dozen  clams  chopped  fine.  Put  over  the  fire  the  liquor 
that  was  drained  from  them,  one   cupful  of   water,   add   the 


10  SOUPS 

clams  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Then  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter ;  boil  up  again  and 
pour  in  one  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  made  to  a  cream  with  a  little  cold  milk,  or  one  cracker 
rolled  fine.    Serve  hot  in  a  heated  tureen. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Put  into  a  kettle  the  neck,  lower  parts  of  the  legs,  and  thf 
wing  tips  of  a  large  fat  fowl.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  add  a 
pint  of  cold  watei.  After  letting  it  soak  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  simmer  slowly,  keeping  the  kettle  closely  covered  and 
let  the  meat  drop  from  the  bones.  Strain  and  put  the  broth 
back  on  the  stove,  adding  a  cupful  more  of  water  to  the  bones 
and  cook  a  good  half  hour  longer.  Add  this  liquor  to  the 
broth.  (There  should  be  a  pint  of  the  broth.)  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  minced  parsley,  according  to 
taste.  Serve  with  tiny  squares  of  toasted  bread  browned  in  the 
oven.    The  remainder  of  the  chicken  can  be  used  for  fricassc. 

STOCK. 

Get  a  five  cent  beef  bone,  and  boil  two  hours  with  plenty 
of  water.  This  will  make  a  pint  of  soup  stock.  Boil  this 
stock  with  chopped  carrots,  parsnips,  potatoes  and  onions,  if 
vegetable  soup  is  wanted,  or  flavor  with  strained,  canned  to- 
matoes if  tomato  soup  is  wanted,  or  use  clear  as  bouillon. 
A  half  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  beef  improves  the  color  and 
adds  richness  to  the  flavor  of  the  bouillon. 

RICE  BALLS. 

Rice  balls  make  a  pretty  company  garnish  for  soup  to  be 
used  instead  of  plain  rice.     Mash  or  stir  down  with  a  fork  a 


SOUPS  II 

cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  and  mix  with  a  batter  made  of  one 
whole  egg  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  with  a  seasoning 
of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Stir  smooth  and  make 
into  balls  not  larger  than  a  small  marble.  These  are  dropped 
into  the  soup  just  before  it  is  sent  to  the  table. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

One  cupful  of  beans,  one  quart  of  water,  ham  bone,  one 
pint  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Boil  the  beans 
fifteen  minutes.  Boil  with  the  ham  bone  three  hours.  Rub 
through  a  gravy  strainer,  add  hot  milk  until  it  is  of  the  proper 
consistency,  and  add  the  butter.     Serve  at  once. 

CLAM-CELERY  SOUP. 

Ten  clams  chopped,  one  pint  water,  one  pint  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten,  one-half  single 
head  of  celery,  chopped  fine,  and  one  very  small  onion, 
chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Rub  butter  and  flour 
together,  thickening  the  hot  water  with  it.  When  cooked 
smooth,  add  celery  and  onion,  cooking  twenty  minutes.  If 
clams  are  fresh,  add  them,  too,  but  if  canned,  only  heat 
through.  Just  before  serving,  add  milk,  which  has  been  heat- 
ing in  another  dish,  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  seasoning,  not  allow- 
ing to  cook. 

CREAM   OF   FISH   SOUP. 

Rid  cold  cooked  fish  (fresh),  of  any  kind  of  bones,  fat  and 
skin,  and  mince  fine ;  season  to  taste.  For  each  cupful  of  this 
allow  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  in  which  a  sliced  onion  has 
been  boiled,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  cook.  Heat  in  another 
saucepan  a  cup  of  milk   (not  forgetting  the  pinch  of  soda). 


12  SOUPS 

When  boiling  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  rubbed 
smooth  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Add  half  a  cupful  of 
bread  dust,  already  soaked  soft  in  the  same  quantity  of  cold 
milk.  Beat  well  together  over  the  fire  with  a  raw  egg 
whipped  light,  pour  into  a  tureen,  turn  in  upon  it,  stirring 
all  the  while,  the  boiling  fish  and  water.  As  soon  as  it  is 
thoroughly  mixed  send  to  the  table. 

CORN  SOUP. 

Half  a  can  of  cornlet,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
half  a  pint  of  water,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one 
pint  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  pinch  of  white  pepper,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Cook  the 
cornlet  with  cold  Avater  fifteen  minutes ;  cook  the  onion  in 
the  melted  butter  until  a  light  brown,  add  flour,  seasoning, 
and  the  milk  gradually,  then  add  the  cornlet.  Strain  and  re- 
peat. Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  put  it  in  the  soup  tureen, 
pour  the  soup  slowly  over  the  egg,  mix  well,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. The  egg  may  be  omitted.  Corn  may  be  chopped 
fine  and  used  instead  of  cornlet. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Half  a  pint  or  half  a  can  of  peas,  one  pint  of  water,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half 
a  pint  of  milk  or  cream.  Wash  the  peas  and  cook  them  in  one 
pint  of  boiling  water  until  soft,  mash  them  with  the  water  in 
which  they  were  cooked,  strain,  and  add  the  remainder  of  the 
liquid.  Make  a  white  sauce  and  cook  until  it  is  like  thick 
cream.  If  the  peas  are  fresh  some  of  the  pods  may  be  cooked 
with    them. 


SOUPS  13 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP. 

Half  a  cupful  of  split  peas,  one  and  one-half  quarts  of 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
milk.  Wash  the  peas  and  soak  them  over  night  in  one  pint  of 
cold  water.  In  the  morning  drain  and  rinse  thoroughly,  add 
quart  and  a  half  of  cold  water  and  the  chopped  onion.  Cook 
slowly  until  soft,  rub  through  a  strainer.  Make  a  white  sauce, 
add  this  liquid  to  it  and  cook  until  it  is  of  the  proper  consis- 
tency. Cooking  a  small  ham  bone  Avith  the  peas  improves  the , 
flavor. 


14 


CHRISTMAS  DINNER 


Oysters    in     Ice    Cups. 

Wafers.       Celery. 

Boned  Turkey. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes.       Escalloped  Tomatoes. 

Mashed  White  Potatoes.      Gravy. 

Cranberry  Sauce.       Currant  Jelly. 

Bread  and  Butter. 

Coffee. 

Lettuce.       Celery   Salad. 

Wafers. 

Mince  Pie.       Cheese. 

Coffee. 

Raisins.  Nuts.  Candy. 


FISH  15 


FISH 


FISH. 

In  selecting  fish,  choose  those  only  in  which  the  eye  is  full 
and  prominent,  the  flesh  firm  and  thick,  the  scales  bright  and 
stiff.    Fish  should  be  cleaned  thoroughly  before  cooking. 


COOKING  IN  DEEP  FAT. 
GENERAL  RULES. 

The  fat  used  for  cooking  may  be  olive  oil,  cottonseed  oil, 
cottolene,  beef  drippings,  lard,  or  a  mixture  of  several  fats. 

The  food  must  be  covered  with  crumbs  and  egg,  or  a 
batter,  to  keep  it  from  absorbing  fat. 

Place  the  articles  to  be  cooked  in  a  bath  of  fat,  deep  enough 
to  float  them.  The  kettle  should  be  of  iron ;  a  frying  basket 
may  be  used. 

Foods  already  cooked  or  needing  little  cooking,  require  a 
higher  temperature  than  batters.  The  temperature  of  the  fat 
for  oysters,  croquettes,  fish-balls,  etc.,  may  be  tested  by 
browning  a  cube  of  bread  while  counting  forty.  Counting 
sixty  while  the  bread  browns  gives  the  right  temperature  for 
all  batters. 


i6  FISH 

All  the  articles  cooked  must  be  drained  on  unglazed  brown 
paper. 

When  one  quantity  of  food  has  been  taken  from  the  fat, 
it  must  be  reheated  and  tested  before  adding  a  second  set. 

In  the  absence  of  a  frying  basket,  a  wire  spoon  may  be 
used  to  remove  the  food  from  the  fat. 

Fat  which  has  been  used  for  frying,  should  be  cooled  and 
clarified  by  cooking  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato  in  it  for  ten 
minutes ;  strain  through  muslin,  and  when  cold  cover.  Fat 
may  be  used  several  times  for  frying  and  then  may  be  made 
into  soap. 


CLARIFIED  FAT. 

Remove  the  tough  outside  skin  and  lean  parts  from  beef  fat 
(cod  fat  or  suet),  or  pork  fat,  and  cut  the  fat  into  small  pieces. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan  and  cover  it  with  cold  water.  Place 
it  on  the  stove  uncovered,  so  that  the  steam  may  carry  off  the 
impurities.  When  the  water  has  nearly  all  evaporated  set  the 
kettle  back  and  let  the  fat  slowly  try  out.  When  the  fat  is 
still  and  the  scraps  of  skin  are  shriveled  at  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle,  strain  the  fat  through  a  cloth  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 


BAKED  SHAD. 

Get  a  small  shad,  stuff  it  with  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper, 
butter  and  parsley  minced,  and  mix  well  with  yolk  of  on'* 
small  egg,  beaten.  Fill  the  fish  with  this  dressing  and  sew  it 
up  or  fasten  a  string  around.  Pour  over  it  a  little  boiling 
water  and  some  butter,  or  lay  strips  of  bacon  on  the  fish,  and 
bake  as  you  would  a  fowl.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 


FISH  17 

DRESSING  FOR  BAKED  SHAD. 

Boil  up  some  of  the  gravy  in  which  the  shad  was  baked; 
put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  catsup,  a  teaspoonful  of  browned  flour 
which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
half  a  wineglassful  of  cherry  wine.    Serve  in  a  gravy  boat 

SHAD  ROE. 

Wipe  the  roe  with  a  bit  of  cloth  until  dry;  rub  over  it 
olive  oil  or  melted  butter;  boil  five  minutes  until  well 
browned.  It  should  be  well  cooked  and  of  a  light  brown  color 
when  done ;  it  is  better  to  put  the  roe  in  salted  water ;  the  next 
day  boil  it  as  above.  Cut  it  open ;  dip  in  flour  and  frv  in  hot 
pork  fat. 

BAKED  WHITE  FISH. 

Thoroughly  clean  the  fish ;  cut  off  the  head  or  not,  as  pre- 
ferred. Cut  out  the  backbone  from  the  head  to  within  two 
inches  of  the  tail,  and  stuff  with  the  following:  Soak  stale 
bread  in  water,  squeeze  dry;  cut  in  pieces  a  large  onion,  fry 
in  butter,  chop  fine.  Add  the  bread,  two  ounces  of  butter, 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  parsley  or  sage.  Heat  through,  and 
when  taken  off  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs ; 
stuff  the  fish  rather  full,  sew  up  with  fine  twine,  and  wrap 
with  several  coils  of  white  tape.  Rub  the  fish  over  slightly 
with  butter,  just  cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan  with  hot 
water,  and  place  the  fish  in  it,  standing  back  upward,  and 
bent  in  the  form  of  an  S.  Serve  with  the  following  dressing: 
Reduce  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  salad  oil;  stir  in  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  Engli;,h  mustard,  and  add  pepper  and  vinegar  to 
taste. 


i8  FISH 

FISH  COOKED  IN  WATER. 

Steam  fish  over  gently  boiling  water,  or  place  it  in  a  piece 
of  muslin,  sew  or  tie  the  edges  together  and  put  the  fish  into 
boiling  water,  boil  five  minutes,  then  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt  and  cook  at  a  lower  temperature  until  done.  Serve 
with  a  sauce. 

FISH  COOKED  IN  FAT. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  equal  amounts 
of  corn  meal  and  flour,  or  crumbs  and  egg.  Cook  in  deep  fat 
or  saute.    Drain  on  paper. 

STUFFING  FOR  FISH. 

Two  cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  cayenne,  one  tea- 
spoonful  onion  juice,  one  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  one 
teaspoonful  capers  or  chopped  pickle,  one-fourth  cupful  melt- 
ed butter.    Mix  in  the  order  given. 

FRESH    STURGEON    STEAK. 

Take  one  slice  of  sturgeon  two  inches  thick,  let  it  stand  in 
hot  water  five  minutes.  Drain,  put  in  a  bowl  and  add  a  gill  of 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Let  it  stand  six  hours,  turning  it  occasionally. 
Drain  and  dry  on  a  napkin,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs 
and  fry,  or  rather  boil,  in  very  hot  fat.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  and,  by 
degrees,  half  of  the  marinade,  to  make  a  smooth  sauce,  which 
.serve  with  the  fish. 


FISH  19 

TO  BROIL  MACKEREL. 

Grease  a  broiler  well ;  place  the  fish  over  a  good  fire ;  brown 
on  both  sides ;  place  on  platter  and  season  with  a  little  butter 
and  pepper;  or  place  the  fish  in  a  buttered  dripping  pan,  skin 
side  down,  baking  a  nice  brown ;  this  may  be  best  in  the  above 
manner  and  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  rich  cream. 

BROILED  FRESH  MACKEREL. 

When  cleaned,  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Split  open,  lay  on 
buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  when 
brown  turn  the  other  side  till  quite  brown.  Place  on  hot 
dish  with  plenty  of  melted  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful 
cream.     Serve  immediately. 

BROILED  SPANISH  MACKEREL. 

Open  the  fish  down  the  back  and  remove  back  bone ;  dry 
the  fish  well  with  a  towel  after  washing  it ;  salt  it,  and  put  on 
a  gridrion  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  the  flesh  side  down  until  it 
is  brown,  then  turn  it  over;  serve  with  melted  butter  and 
sliced  lemon. 

FINNAN   HADDIE    BROILED. 

Wash  well,  soak  half  an  hour  in  cold  water;  then  for  five 
minutes  in  very  hot  water.  Wipe,  rub  with  butter,  and  broil 
for  fifteen  minutes  on  brisk  coals. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

GOOD   WITH   BOILED   FISH. 

Beat  one-half  teacupful  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  salt  and  a  very  little  cay- 


20  ,  FISH 

enne  pepper.  Put  into  vessel  or  a  saucepan  boiling  water. 
Beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add 
a  half-cup  of  boiling  water,  beating  continually.  When  of 
consistency  of  thick  custard  it  is  done.  It  will  require  five 
or  seven  minutes  to  cook,  if  water  boils  hard. 

SALMON  IN  A  MOULD. 

One  small  can  of  salmon,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  one  quarter  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  one  sprig  of  minced  parsley.  Rub  the  butter  in 
the  salmon,  put  the  crumbs  in  the  beaten  eggs.  Mix  all  thor- 
oughly and  add  seasoning.  Put  into  a  buttered  mould  and 
steam  one  hour. 

Sauce. — One-half  cupful  of  hot  milk  thickened  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch;  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  liquor  from  the  salmon,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of 
tomato  catsup.     Put  the  egg  in  last  and  very  carefully. 

OYSTERS  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Parboil  one-half  pint  of  oysters,  strain  and  save  the  liquor. 
Cut  the  oysters  fine  and  mix  with  half  a  can  of  chopped 
mushrooms.  Mix  the  oyster  liquor  and  mushroom  juice  with 
cream  enough  to  make  one  pint;  thicken  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Season  with 
salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon  juice.  Add  the  oysters  and  the 
mushrooms  and  serve  on  toast. 

To  make  icecups  for  oysters,  fill  baking  powder  cans  half 
full  of  water  and  let  them  freeze.  When  you  wish  to  use 
them,  turn  the  frozen  mould  out  on  a  plate,  make  a  depres- 
sion with  a  warm  poker  large  enough  to  hold  four  or  five  oys- 
ters. 


FISH  21 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS. 

To  a  glass,  six  small  blue  points,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  catsup,  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 
Serve  cold  in  a  sherbet  cup  or  cocktail  glass, 

BAKED  SALMON. 

Open  a  can  of  salmon,  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one-half 
cup  milk,  four  soda  crackers  broken  in  small  pieces,  pepper 
and  salt.  Pour  into  buttered  granite  pan  and  bake  a  light 
brown. 

OYSTER  PIES. 

For  each  pie  an  individual  tin  pie-plate;  butter  and  cover 
the  bottom  with  a  puff  paste,  as  for  pies.  Lay  on  it  six  select 
oysters,  or  enough  to  cover  the  bottom ;  drop  in  bits  of  but- 
ter and  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  plenty  of  pepper; 
spread  over  this  an  egg  batter  and  cover  with  a  crust  of  the 
paste,  making  small  openings  in  it  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  until  the  top  is  nicely  browned. 

OYSTERS  STEAMED. 

Wash  and  drain  half  a  pint  of  counts ;  put  them  in  a  shal- 
low pan  and  place  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  Steam 
until  they  are  plump  with  the  edges  ruffled.  Place  in  a  heat- 
ed dish,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

A  layer  of  rolled  crackers  in  the  bottom  of  a  well  buttered 
pudding  dish,  and  a  layer  of  oysters  drained ;  season  with  salt, 


22  FISH 

and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Continue  this  way  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Then  pour  over  one  large  cupful  of  milk.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

LITTLE  PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Roll  each  nice  plump  oyster  in  a  very  thin  slice  of  bacon ; 
pin  with  a  toothpick ;  fry  until  bacon  is  brown ;  serve  on  very 
hot  dish. 

TURBOT. 

One  pint  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  cooked  together ;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  and  one  sprig  of  minced 
parsley.  Place  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  shredded  fish  and 
the  sauce  alternately ;  sprinkle  Vv^ith  bread  crumbs  and  brown 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

One  cup  cream  sauce  or  drawn  butter,  three  hard  boiled 
eggs ;  chop  whites  fine  and  add  to  sauce ;  grate  yolks  over 
sauce,  or  the  yolks  may  be  chopped  by  themselves,  or  rubbed 
through  a  sieve. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Select  large  oysters,  wash  and  wipe  them,  remove  pieces  of 
shell,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs 
which  have  been  dried,  sifted,  and  seasoned,  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  again  in  crumbs.  The  egg  should  have  one  table- 
spoonful  of  water  or  oyster  juice  added  to  it.  Fry  one  minute, 
drain,  garnish  and  serve. 


FISH  23 

GRANDMOTHER'S  CODFISH  BALLS. 

Place  a  half  cupful  of  the  fish  in  cold  water  on  the  back 
of  the  stove ;  when  the  water  is  hot  pour  off,  and  add  more 
cold  water  until  fish  is  fresh  enough.  Then  pick  it  up.  Boil 
and  mash  a  few  potatoes,  mix  fish  and  potatoes  together  while 
potatoes  are  hot,  taking  two-thirds  potatoes  and  one-third 
fish.  Use  plenty  of  butter.  Make  into  balls  and  fry  in  plenty 
of  hot  lard.  Be  sure  to  have  the  lard  hot  before  putting  in  the 
balls. 

FISH  BALLS. 

One-half  cupful  salt  codfish,  one  and  one-quarter  cups 
of  potatoes,  one  egg,  one-half  tablespoonful  butter,  one-eighth 
teaspoonful  pepper.  Wash  the  fish  in  cold  water  and  break 
into  small  pieces ;  wash  and  pare  the  potatoes  and  cut  in 
pieces.  Cook  the  fish  and  potatoes  together  in  boiling  water 
until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  drain  and  shake  over  the  fire 
until  dry;  mash  with  a  wire  potato  masher,  add  the  beaten 
egg,  butter  and  pepper,  add  more  salt  if  needed  and  beat 
until  light.  Take  up  the  moisture  by  spoonfuls,  mould  slight- 
ly, and  slip  them  into  the  fat.  Fry  one  minute,  or  until 
brown. 

TO  FRY  FISH. 

Clean  the  fish,  wipe  dry,  rub  a  little  salt  inside  and  sprinkle 
with  a  little  pepper  after  putting  them  in  the  pan,  but  never 
roll  them  in  the  flour ;  it  is  not  necessary  and  does  not  improve 
them.  Never  allow  fish  to  soak  in  the  fat.  The  fat  should  be 
perfectly  hot  when  the  fish  is  put  in  and  kept  at  the  same  tem- 
perature throughout  the  cooking.  Fish  may  be  fried  in  lard, 
butter  or  clarified  dripping,  but  I  prefer  the  latter,  or,  what 


24  FISH 

is  better,  the  fat  obtained  by  frying  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  the 
quantity  required  depending-  upon  the  size  and  number  of  the 
fish,  but  a  generous  quantity  is  desirable.  If  a  piece  of  bread 
dropped  into  the  fat  will  instantly  brown,  it  will  be  hot  enough 
to  put  the  fish  in.    All  small  fish  are  better  fried. 

TRIPE   LYONS  FASHION. 

Cut  one  pound  of  cold  cooked  tripe  into  thin  slices  about 
an  inch  square  and  wipe  very  dry.  Mince  two  onions  and 
put  them  with  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and 
brown  slowly ;  when  about  half  done  put  in  the  tripe  and  let 
fry  for  ten  minutes ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Serve  very  hot.  Oysters  may  be 
added  to  this  dish ;  cooking  them  only  long  enough  to  plump 
them. 

SHRED  CODFISH. 

Flake  very  fine  a  half  pound  of  very  white,  sweet  codfish. 
Wash  in  two  waters  and  squeeze  as  tight  as  possible.  Put 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  and 
two  heaping  spoonfuls  sifted  flour.  Mix  the  butter,  flour  and 
fish  thoroughly  together,  add  very  slowly  two  or  three  cupfuls 
boiling  water,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve.  Add,  if  you 
choose,  just  before  removing  from  the  stove,  an  egg  well 
beaten.  A  garnish  of  hard-boiled  eggs  is  considered  an  im- 
provement by  some. 

BROILED  MACKEREL  (FRESH). 

Remove  head  and  the  dark  skin  from  inside  the  fish,  wash 
thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Butter  the  bars  of  the  gridiron 
and  broil  the  fish  over  a  clear  fire.     When  done,  dip  quickly 


FISH.  25 

into  hot  water,  and  serve  with  a  dressing  made  as  for  broiled 
salt  mackerel.  Slit  the  fish  before  broiling,  so  that  when  laid 
flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle. 

SAUCE  FOR  BROILED   FISH. 

Put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  half  cupful  of 
cream,  keep  it  hot,  stir  often,  and  when  the  fish  is  dished, 
turn  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH   BAKED  FISH. 

Put  into  a  double  boiler  one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Beat 
into  it  the  5^olk  of  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per, two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  cider  vinegar.  Cook  and  stir  until  it  is  a  little  thick  and 
add  three  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Keep  very  hot  and  closely 
covered.     Serve  a  small  portion  with  each  plate  of  fish. 


26 


FISH  DINNER 


(Compliments  of  Donaldson's  Tea  Room,  Minneapolis.) 


Oyster  Cocktail  with  Wafers. 
Celery. 
Clam  Bouillon. 

Bread  Sticks.       Celery. 

Planked  White  Fish.      Radishes. 

Cheese  Wafers. 

French  Chops  with  Jelly. 

Mint  Sherbet.      Potato  Balls.      Vegetable  Salad. 

Rolls.       Olives. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Nut  Bread  Sandwiches. 

Maple   Frango.       Assorted   Cake. 

Coffee. 

Cheese.       Wafers. 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  27 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES. 

In  the  selection  of  meat  one  should  make  it  a  point  to  un- 
derstand how  to  buy  meat.  Beef  should  be  smooth,  fine 
grained,  and  a  clear  bright  red,  and  should  feel  tender  when 
pinched.  The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  middle  ribs 
and   sirloin. 

Veal  should  be  firm  and  dry,  fine  grained  and  a  pale  pink 
color. 

Pork  should  be  young  and  break  on  being  pinched.  If 
the  rind  is  tough  and  hard  it  is  old. 

In  roasting  meat  allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  and 
above  all  things  have  the  oven  hot  before  putting  roast  in. 

It  is  a  difficult  matter  to  get  roasts  small  enough  for  two 
people.  An  ordinary  roast  lasts  quite  too  long  to  be  enjoyable 
even  though  it  can  be  used  in  various  ways;  as  sliced  cold 
meat;  cut  up  in  squares  and  warmed  in  the  gravy  and  called 
"fricassee";  meat  pie,  croquettes,  hash  or  hash  on  toast. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

Get  a  rib  piece  or  loin  roast  of  four  or  five  pounds,  wipe 
it  clean  with  a  clean  wet  towel,  baste  it  well  with  suet  fat  and 


28  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

sprinkle  with  flour ;  lay  it  in  pan,  set  in  oven,  baste  often  with 
its  own  drippings;  when  partly  done  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper;  let  it  roast  an  hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  hot  oven.  Be 
sure  that  your  oven  is  good  and  hot  when  you  set  the  roast  in. 
When  done  remove  the  roast  to  a  heated  dish,  set  in  warm 
place;  skim  all  fat  from  the  drippings  with  a  spoon  or  brown 
paper;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  half  teacup  of  boiling  water;  boil  up  once  and  serve  in 
gravy   boat. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

The  smallest  roast  from  the  rib  after  it  is  rolled  weighs 
from  three  to  four  pounds.  Place  in  a  dripping  pan  with  a 
very  little  water  in  the  bottom.  Dredge  with  flour  and  put 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  according  to  the  rules  above,  occasion- 
ally basting  with  the  juices  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and 
when  about  half  done  plentifully  salting. 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

Get  a  small  pot  roast  from  the  rump  and  brown  in  an  iron 
kettle  before  pouring  water  in  and  cooking.  Boil  very  slow- 
ly till  quite  tender.    Do  not  salt  it  till  it  is  nearly  done. 

ROUND  STEAK  FRENCH  ROASTED. 

Get  two  pounds  of  choice  round  steak  cut  thick.  Cut  it 
into  pieces  about  five  inches  square,  put  into  an  iron  kettle  and 
brown,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Then  pour  in  a  little 
water  and  an  onion  cut  in  small  pieces  and  let  all  stew  slowly, 
renewing  water  when  it  boils  away,  until  it  is  tender  enough  to 
cut  with  a  fork.     Brown  flour  by  scorching  it  in  a  tin  plate 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  29 

on  top  of  the  stove  and  mix  with  a  little  cold  water  till  free 
from  lumps  and  use  to  thicken  the  gravy. 

ROAST  VEAL. 

A  small  roast  of  veal  from  the  loin  is  choicest,  but  a  should- 
er roast  with  a  pocket  for  stuffing  is  also  good.  A  two  pound 
roast  can  be  bought  but  from  three  to  three  and  a  half  pounds 
is  the  best  size.     Bake  till  tender,  basting  when  necessary. 

ROAST  LAMB. 

A  leg  of  lamb  is  too  large  for  a  small  family  unless  it  is  real 
milk  lamb,  when  it  should  be  carefully  roasted  as  it  cooks 
quickly.  Get  a  two  pound  piece  of  the  shoulder  of  young 
lamb  and  ask  the  butcher  to  fix  a  pocket  for  stuffing.  This  is 
a  very  delicious  roast. 

ROAST  SPARE  RIB  WITH  DRESSING. 

Have  loin  of  pork  cut  with  long  ribs;  season  and  put  to 
roast;  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done  turn  so  the  ribs  will  hold 
the  dressing  made  as  for  turkey  stuffing;  fill  with  the  dressing 
and  finish  baking;  serve  with  apple  sauce. 

MINCED  MUTTON  AND  EGGS. 

Chop  remnants  of  cold  mutton,  season  well  and  add  a  good 
cupful  of  warmed  gravy.  Strew  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  pour  in  the  mutton  and  cover  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  till  bubbling  hot;  then  break  eggs  enough 
over  the  top  to  cover  the  mince  well,  scatter  bits  of  butter  on 
the  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  and  sift  cracker  crumbs  over  the  top, 
and  bake  till  the  eggs  are  set. 


30  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

BEEF  TENDERLOIN  BROILED. 

Get  one  beef  tenderloin.  Wash  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
Rub  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  broil  very  tender.  A 
little  before  the  meat  is  done,  lay  on  each  tenderloin  two  thin 
slices  of  bacon ;  broil  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  on  a  heated 
platter  garnished  with  lettuce  or  parsley. 

BEEF  TENDERLOIN  BAKED. 

Wash  well  one  tenderloin,  lay  in  a  dripping  pan ;  add  one 
pint  of  water.  Chop  up  one-half  cupful  of  each  of  the  fol- 
lowing vegetables  into  small  dice  squares ;  potatoes,  turnips, 
carrots,  and  half  a  bunch  of  celery.  Wash  and  add  to  the 
meat  and  let  the  whole  simmer  half  an  hour.  When  nearly 
done,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  pounded  allspice  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  done,  lay  the  meat  on  a  heat- 
ed platter,  pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

BROILED     PORTERHOUSE    STEAK    WITH    MUSH- 
ROOM SAUCE. 

Take  one-half  can  of  mushroms,  drain  off  every  drop  of 
liquor;  then  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one  cup  of  sweet 
cream  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Let  them  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes,  and  when  the 
steak  is  ready  to  be  served  pour  over  the  mushrooms. 

PORTERHOUSE  STEAK. 

Get  a  pound  and  a  half  of  porterhouse  three-quarters  of 
an  inch  in  thickness,  lay  on  four  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Put 
into  the  broiler  to  broil.  When  done,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,   if   served    without    the    mushroom    sauce.      Remove 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  31 

steak  to  a  heated  platter,  salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides  and 
spread  a  liberal  lump  of  butter  over  it.     Serve  at  once. 

HAMBURGER  STEAK. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  round  steak  without  any  fat  or  bones 
or  stringy  pieces ;  mince  it  very  fine.  Mince  one  small  onion 
and  mix  well  with  the  meat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
make  into  cakes  the  size  of  a  biscuit  and  quite  flat.  Have 
ready  a  frying  pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lard  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  let  it  get  boiling  hot,  then  put  in  the 
steak  and  fry  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley around  the  edge  of  the  platter  and  slices  of  lemon  on  top 
of  the  meat. 

TRIPE  LYONNAISE. 

Cut  up  half  a  pound  of  cold  boiled  tripe  into  squares.  Put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onion  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry  brown ;  add  to  this  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  strong  vinegar,  salt  and  cayenne.  Stir  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Cover  the  bottom  of  a  heated  platter  with  tomato  sauce, 
add  the  contents  and  serve  hot. 

ROAST  PORK. 

Ask  for  a  four  pound  rib  roast.  Wash  well  and  rub  sur- 
face with  plenty  of  salt  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper  and 
sage.  Dredge  with  flour  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  the  first 
twenty  minutes,  after  which  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  in 
the  pan  and  reduce  the  heat,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  each 
pound  of  meat.  Baste  often.  Roast  pork  should  be  thor- 
oughly cooked.    Serve  with  baked,  fried  or  stewed  apples. 


32  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

BAKED  SAUSAGES. 

One  pound  of  pork  sausages;  arrange  them  on  a  baking 
sheet,  pierce  each  a  half  dozen  times  with  a  steel  fork  and  set 
in  the  oven.  Turn  once  to  brown,  and  when  done  they  will  be 
evenly  cooked  and  unbroken.  Pile  the  sausages  on  a  heated 
platter  and  garnish  with  apples  which  have  been  cut  in  round 
slices,  cored  and  pared  and  cooked  in  a  weak  syrup  until  ten- 
der but  not  broken.     Serve  at  once. 

PORK  AND  BEANS. 

Pick  over  and  wash  carefully  two  cupfuls  of  beans,  and 
let  them  soak  in  water  all  night.  Wash  and  drain  in  another 
water,  boil  in  cold  water  twenty  minutes;  stir  in  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  soda  and  skim  off  the  froth.  Drain  and 
pour  beans  in  an  earthen  covered  pot.  Put  in  the  center  of  the 
beans  a  quarter  of  pound  of  salt  pork ;  score  the  rind  in  slices. 
Mix  one  pint  of  boiling  water  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 
Pour  this  over  the  beans,  set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  for 
four  hours,  keeping  the  pot  well  covered.  About  an  hour  be- 
fore the  beans  are  done,  remove  the  cover  to  brown  the  top 
and  crisp  the  pork.  When  done,  if  beans  are  just  right, 
the  juice  will  show  itself  when  the  pot  is  tilted  half  way 
up.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish,  the  pork  on  top,  garnished  with  a 
few  sprigs  of  parsley. 

BREADED  TONGUE. 

Slice  the  cold  cooked  tongue  thin,  dip  each  slice  into  beat- 
en egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Make 
a  tomato  sauce,  pour  the  sauce  into  a  deep  platter  and  lay  the 
slices  of  fried  tongue  upon  it.    Serve  at  once. 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  33 

POT  ROAST. 

Get  a  three  pound  pot  roast.  Trim  the  meat  carefully.  Put 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  the  kettle  and  when  boiling 
hot,  put  in  the  meat.  Brown  on  all  sides,  then  cover  the  meat 
with  boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly,  skimming  when  necessary. 
Half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done,  cut  a  medium  sized 
onion  into  slices  and  add  it  to  the  water  in  which  the  meat  is 
boiling,  together  with  a  bay  leaf,  four  cloves,  six  pepper  corns, 
a  half  stick  of  celery,  and  a  half  inch  of  stick  cinnamon.  Place 
the  meat  in  a  deep  platter  when  it  is  done,  and  spread  it  thin- 
ly with  grated  horseradish.  Strain  the  liquor  remaining  in  the 
kettle  and  make  a  browm  sauce  to  pour  over  the  meat.  Dump- 
lings are  very  nice  served  with  a  pot  roast. 

LIVER  A  LA  CREME. 

Get  one  pound  of  calf's  liver.  Wash  and  boil  till  very 
tender  in  salted  water.  Drain  and  chop  fine.  Make  a  cream 
sauce,  add  the  chopped  liver,  bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  over 
buttered  toast  arranged  in  triangles  on  a  hot  platter.  Fry  thin 
slices  of  bacon  and  place  a  slice  on  top  of  each  piece  of  toast. 

DRIED  BEEF  A  LA  CREME. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  and  add  to  it  the  dried  beef,  cut  fine. 
Season  with  pepper.  When  hot,  add  a  well  beaten  Qgg,  stir 
till  it  thickens  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH. 

Cut  cold,  cooked,  corned  beef  very  fine,  and  mix  with 
twice  the  bulk  of  mashed  potato.  Add  a  shredded  green  pep- 
per to  every  quart,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  on  but- 


34  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

tered  toast  with  a  poached  egg  on  each  portion  and  serve  very 
hot. 


BEEF  STEW. 

One  pound  of  beef  from  leg,  half  an  onion  cut  in  slices,  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  carrots  cut  in  dice,  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
turnips  cut  in  dice,  two  potatoes  cut  in  one-half  inch  slices, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  a  quarter  of  a  cup 
of  flour,  and  one  quart  of  water.  Remove  fat  and  cut  the 
meat, into  one-inch  pieces;  put  aside  one-half  cupful  of  the 
best  pieces  of  meat.  Put  the  rest  of  the  meat  and  the  bone  into 
cold  water  and  soak  for  one  hour,  then  heat  until  it  bubbles. 
Season  the  one-half  cup  of  meat  and  roll  it  in  the  flour.  Melt 
the  fat  in  a  frying-pan,  remove  the  scraps.  Brown  the  sliced 
onion  and  then  the  floured  meat  in  the  hot  fat,  add  both  to  the 
stew  and  cook  for  one  hour  and  a  half  at  a  low  temperature. 
Add  the  vegetables  and  the  flour,  which  has  been  mixed  with 
half  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  and  cook  for  one  hour,  or  until 
the  meat  and  vegetables  are  tender.  Remove  the  bone,  sea- 
son and  serve. 


HAM  OR  TONGUE. 

Put  into  cold  water  and  heat  gradually  until  the  water 
bubbles ;  cook  at  a  low  temperature  until  tender.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  stand  in  the  water  in  which  it  was 
cooked  for  one  hour,  take  it  out  and  draw  off  the  skin.  It 
may  be  served  cold.  A  ham  may  be  covered  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  then  placed  in  the 
oven  one-half  hour  to  brown. 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  35 

THE  PROPER  RELISHES  TO  ACCOMPANY  MEATS. 

Roast  Beef   Grated  Horseradish 

Roast    Mutton Currant    Jelly 

Roast  Lamb    Mint   Sauce 

Roast  Pork    Apple   Sauce 

Boiled   Mutton    Caper   Sauce 

Boiled  Chicken Bread  or  Egg  Sauce 

Roast  Turkey    Cranberry  Sauce 

Boiled  Turkey  Oyster  Sauce 

Venison,  Wild  Duck  or  Game Currant  Jelly  Sauce 

Boiled  Fish Drawn  Butter  or  Caper  Sauce 

Broiled  or  Baked  Fish Fish  or  Cream  Sauce 

Roast  Goose Apple  Sauce 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel Stewed   Gooseberries 

Broiled  Shad Boiled  Rice  and  Salad 

Fresh  Salmon Green  Peas  and  Cream  Sauce 

Beefsteaks  or  Warmed-over  Meats Brown  Sauce 

Broiled  Steaks  and  Chops Tomato  Sauce 

Small  Roast  Birds  .' Bread  Sauce 

Veal  Cutlets  and  Fillets,  Etc Mushroom  Sauce 

Poultry  and  Boiled  Fish   Oyster  Sauce 

Salt  Fish   Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce 


CURRANT  JELLY  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  small  onion  chopped 
fine,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  celery  leaf,  half  a  cup  of 
stock,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly;  fry  onion  light 
brown  in  the  butter;  stir  in  the  flour,  browning  slightly;  add 
celery  leaf  and  then  the  stock ;  simmer  twenty  minutes ;  strain, 
reheat  and  add  jelly  and  stir  until  dissolved;  then  serv^. 


36  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

NASTURTIUM  SAUCE. 

Make  sauce  as  caper  sauce,  using  green  nasturtium  seeds 
instead  of  capers,  and  chop  very  much  finer  than  capers. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

Half  a  cupful  of  drawn  butter,  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  capers,  one  teaspoonful  of  juice  from  the  bottled  ca- 
pers; let  it  just  simmer  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SAUCE. 

Crush  through  a  fine  strainer  the  yolks  of  four  hard  boiled 
eggs.  Put  in  a  small  stew  pan  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  half  a  pint  of  cream,  one  salt  spoon  of  salt  and  one 
of  pepper.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  and  let  it  become  very  hot  but 
not  boiling.    Serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Pour  over  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  green  mint  half  a  cup- 
ful of  boiling  water.  Add  to  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
boil  up,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  boil  up  once 
more.     Put  in  a  cool  place  before  serving. 

BREAD  SAUCE  FOR  CHICKEN. 

One  pint  of  hot  milk,  one  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  finely  grated  bread  crumbs.  Press 
cloves  into  the  onion ;  add  the  hot  milk  and  let  it  simmer  for 
half  an  hour.  Then  add  the  butter  and  bread  crumbs,  stir 
until  thickened.  When  ready  to  serve,  take  out  the  onion 
and  cloves. 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  37 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  one-half  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  one- 
half  of  ,9,  small  onion,  half  of  a  bay  leaf,  and  half  a  blade  of 
mace,  a  pinch  of  minced  parsley;  simmer  slowly  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Melt  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  to  it  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  until  very  smooth.  Press  the  to- 
matoes through  a  sieve,  add  them  to  the  butter  and  flour,  and 
stir  until  it  boils.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH  RAW  OYSTERS. 

One-half  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  of  one  onion  grated,  one  dessertspoonful  of  Far- 
ragon  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  Worcestershire  sauce,  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

SAUCE  TO  SERVE  WITH  BAKED  FISH. 

Put  into  a  double  boiler  one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Beat 
into  it  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne  pepper, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cider  vinegar.  Cook  and  stir  until  it  is  a  little  thick  and  add 
three  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Keep  very  hot  and  closely  cov- 
ered.   Serve  a  small  portion  with  each  plate  of  fish. 

SAUCE  FOR  BROILED  FISH. 

Put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  half  cupful 
of  cream,  keep  it  hot,  stir  often,  and  when  the  fish  is  dished, 
turn  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

Boil  three  eggs  very  hard ;  when  taken  up,  put  them  into 
cold  water.  Shell  and  chop  the  eggs  rather  fine,  throw  them 
into  melted  or  drawn  butter,  beat  well  and  serve. 


38  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  MEATS. 

Chop  fine  half  of  one  onion  and  a  small  quantity  of  mixed 
pickles.  Put  these  in  a  small  stewpan  with  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  bread  crumbs,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Boil  all  together  five  minutes,  then  add  one  gill  of 
water  and  boil  ten  minutes  more. 

BREAD  SAUCE  FOR  GAME. 

One  cupful  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  white  bread 
crumbs,  small  onion.  Boil  these  together  ten  minutes.  Take 
out  the  onion,  season  with  one  tablespoonful  butter,  salt, 
white  pepper,  to  taste,  and  a  suspicion  of  nutmeg  or  mace. 
Serve  at  once. 

ROAST  PORK. 

The  loin  or  chine,  also  the  spareribs,  are  the  best  pieces  for 
roasting.  Rub  surface  well  with  salt,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
sage  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  the  first  twenty  minutes,  or  until  delicately  browned,  after 
which  reduce  the  heat,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound 
of  meat.  Baste  often.  Roast  pork  should  be  thoroughly 
cooked,  not  at  so  high  a  temperature  as  other  meats,  and  is 
considered  more  wholesome  when  served  cold.  Serve  with 
onion  sauce,  when  served  hot,  and  with  baked,  fried  or  stewed 
apples. 

SAUSAGE  WITH  APPLE  GARNISH. 

Always  buy  the  best  sausages,  as  pork  which  is  not  of  the 
best  quality  is  not  desirable  or  healthful.  Two  grades  of 
seasoning  are  sometimes  offered  at  the  same  price,  one  mild 
and  the  other  highly  spiced.     Try  baking  instead  of  frying 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  39 

sausage  and  you  will  never  go  back  to  the  top  of  the  stove 
method.  Arrange  the  sausages  on  a  baking  sheet,  pierce 
each  a  half  dozen  times  with  a  steel  fork  and  set  in  the  oven ; 
turn  once  to  brown  and  when  they  are  done  they  will  be 
cooked  evenly  and  unbroken.  While  any  kind  of  pork  should 
be  well  done,  it  should  not  be  cooked  until  dry  as  a  chip, 
as  it  is  sometimes  served.  Pile  the  sausages  on  a  platter  in 
log  cabin  style  and  garnish  with  apples  which  have  been 
cut  in  round  slices,  cored  and  pared  and  cooked  in  a  weak 
syrup  until  tender  but  not  broken.  The  sausage  needs  the 
acid  of  the  apple  to  counteract  its  own  richness  in  fat  and 
spices,  and  if  more  convenient,  serve  stewed  apple  with  it. 
Do  not  choke  the  sausage  in  a  frying  pan  and  then  turn  the 
apple  in  to  absorb  the  grease  as  it  cooks,  unless  the  family 
have  digestions  of  wood  choppers  in  midwinter. 

COTTAGE  PIE. 

Mince  two  cupfuls  cold  meat  (any  kind  will  answer),  add 
to  it  one  minced  onion,  one  teaspoonful  powdered  sage  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  all  into  a  pie  dish,  add  a  little 
hot  water  and  cover  with  a  deep  layer  of  mashed  potatoes 
beaten  light,  with  cream  and  seasoning  added.  A  little  sweet 
cream  added  to  the  meat  is  an  improvement.  Spread  a  little 
soft  butter  over  the  potatoes,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

GERMAN  MOCK  RABBIT. 

Mix  a  pound  of  raw  chopped  beef  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  raw  chopped  veal.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
onion,  thyme  and  chopped  parsley.  Add  a  cupful  of  dry  bread 
crumbs  and  bind  with  four  raw  eggs,  unbeaten.  Shape  into 
a  loaf,  cover  with  egg  and  crumbs,  put  into  a  baking  pan 


40  MEATS  AND  SAUCES 

lined  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  and  baste  frequently.     Serve 
in  slices;  either  hot  or  cold. 

BREADED  TONGUE. 

Slice  the  cold  cooked  tongue  thin,  dip  in  beaten  egg-, 
then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  brown.  Make  a  tomato  sauce 
according  to  directions  previously  given.  Pour  the  sauce 
into  a  deep  platter,  lay  the  slices  of  fried  tongue  upon  it,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

BEEF  A  LA  BARCELONA. 

Cut  a  pound  of  tender  beef  into  small  bits.  Fry  in  butter, 
with  a  minced  onion,  a  little  celery  or  celery  seed,  some 
chopped  parsley  and  a  pinch  of  thyme.  When  brown,  add 
enough  stock  to  cover,  using  beef  extract  and  water  if  stock 
is  not  at  hand.  Simmer  slowly  till  the  meat  is  cooked 
through,  then  add  a  spoonful  of  white  wine.  Make  a  mound 
of  boiled  rice  in  the  center  of  the  platter,  arrange  the  meat 
around  it,  strain  the  sauce,  thicken,  and  pour  over  it. 

DRIED   BEEF  A   LA   CREME. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  and  add  to  it  the  dried  beef,  cut  fine. 
Season  with  pepper  but  not  salt.  When  hot,  add  a  well-beaten 
egg,  stir  till  it  thickens  and  serve  at  once  on  toast.  A  very 
nice  breakfast  dish. 

ROAST  "SPAR'RIB." 

Select  carefully  the  loin  and  ribs  of  a  "beastie"  both  fresh 
and  young.  Plunge  it  into  scalding  water,  dry  thoroughly  and 
rub  with  a  mixture  made  from  salt,  pepper,  sage,  minced 
parsley  and  onion  juice.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  twenty  minutes 


MEATS  AND  SAUCES  41 

to  the  pound,  basting  frequently  with  a  quantity  of  cider  in 
the  pan.  It  should  be  roasted  the  day  before,  as  it  is  much 
more  wholesome  when  cold  and  is  intended  as  a  relish  to 
turkey. 

LIVER  PATTIES. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  calf  liver,  steamed  or  boiled  and 
chopped  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  catsup  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce  to  taste,  adding  a  little  thick  brown  sauce.  Serve 
in  hot  patty  shells. 

HOT  TONGUE  WITH  TARTARE  SAUCE. 

Note — This  meat  is  nice  for  company  dinner,  as  it  requires 
no  special  attention  at  the  last  moment. 

Simmer  a  pickled  beef's  tongue  five  and  one-half  hours, 
changing  the  water  once.  One-half  hour  before  serving,  take 
the  tongue  out  and  peel  it.  Return  to  the  hot  liquid  until 
ready  to  serve. 

Sauce  Tartare. — Add  capers  or  cucumber  pickles  and 
olives,  chopped,  to  salad  dressing  No.  i.    Add  no  cream. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

One  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  rounded  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful  of  white  pepper.  Stir  these  together  and  pour  over  the 
mixture  one-half  pint  of  hot  milk.  Cook  just  long  enough  to 
thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients, — two  or  three  minutes. 


42 


STEAK  DINNER 


Cream  of  Corn  Soup. 

Celery.       Bread  Sticks. 

Broiled  Porterhouse  Steak. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Mushrooms. 

Gravy.      Bread  and  Butter. 

Coffee. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Wafers. 

Banana  Ice  Cream. 

Cake. 


GAME  AND  POULTRY  43 


GAME  AND  POULTRY 


ROAST  CHICKEN. 

Have  a  bright,  clear  and  steady  fire  for  roasting.  Pre- 
pare your  chicken.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  onion 
chopped  fine,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  one-half  cup  of 
raisins,  if  liked.  Put  a  pint  of  hot  water  in  the  dripping-pan, 
add  to  it  a  small  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  pepper.  Baste  frequently  and  let  it  roast  quickly  without 
scorching.  When  nearly  done  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  large  egg  to  the  water  in  the  pan;  when  it  melts  baste 
with  it,  dredge  with  flour,  baste  again  and  let  it  finish.  From 
three-quarters  to  one  hour  will  roast  if  the  fire  is  right.  When 
done  take  it  up,  let  the  giblets  (heart,  liver  and  gizzard)  boil 
tender  and  chop  fine.  Put  them  in  the  gravy.  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Stir  it  over  the 
fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve  in  a  gravy  tureen. 

ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  OYSTER  DRESSING. 

Dress  and  rub  the  turkey  thoroughly  both  inside  and  out 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  steam  two  hours,  or  until  it  begins  to 
grow  tender,  lifting  the  cover  occasionally  and  sprinkling  with 
salt.    Then  take  out,  loosen  the  legs,  and  rub  the  inside  again 


44  GAME  AND  POULTRY 

with  salt  and  pepper  and  stuff  with  a  dressing  prepared  as 
follows :  Take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  cut  off  the  crust  and 
soften  by  placing  in  a  pan,  pouring  on  boiling  water,  draining 
off  immediately  and  covering  closely ;  crumble  the  bread  fine, 
add  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  or  more  if  to  be  very  rich, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  or 
enough  to  season  rather  highly ;  drain  off  liquid  from  a  quart 
of  oysters,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  and  pour  over  the  bread 
crumbs,  adding  the  soaked  crusts  and  one  or  two  eggs.  Mix 
all  thoroughly  with  the  hand,  and  if  rather  dry  moisten  with 
a  little  sweet  milk;  lastly,  add  the  oysters,  being  careful  not 
to  break  them ;  or  first  put  in  a  spoonful  of  stuffing,  and  then 
three  or  four  oysters  and  so  on,  until  the  turkey  is  filled ;  stuff" 
the  breast  first.  Flour  a  cloth  and  place  over  the  openings, 
tying  it  down  with  a  twine ;  spread  the  turkey  over  with  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a  dripping-pan  in  a  well-heated 
oven,  add  half  a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  roast  two  hours,  bast- 
ing often  with  a  little  water,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  kept  in 
a  tin  for  this  purpose  and  placed  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  A 
swab  made  of  a  stick  with  a  cloth  tied  on  the  end  is  better 
than  a  spoon  to  baste  with.  Turn  until  nicely  browned  on  all 
sides,  and  about  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done  baste  with  but- 
ter and  dredge  with  a  little  flour.  This  will  give  it  a  frothy 
appearance.  When  you  dish  the  turkey,  if  there  is  much  fat 
in  the  pan,  pour  off  most  of  it  and  add  the  chopped  giblets 
previously  cooked  until  tender,  and  the  water  in  which  they 
were  cooked ;  now  stew  down  to  about  one  pint ;  place  one  or 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  (it  is  better  to  have  half 
of  it  browned)  in  a  pint  bowl,  mix  smooth  with  a  little  cream, 
fill  up  bowl  with  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  add  to  the  gravy  in 
the  pan.  Boil  several  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and  pour 
into  the  gravy  tureen.    Serve  with  currant  or  apple  jelly.    A 


GAME  AND  POULTRY  .  45 

turkey  steamed  in  this  way  does  not  look  so  well  on  the  table, 
but  is  very  tender  and  palatable.  It  is  an  excellent  way  to 
cook  a  large  turkey. 

BONED  TURKEY. 

With  a  sharp  knife  slit  the  skin  down  the  back,  and,  rais- 
ing one  side  at  a  time  with  the  lingers,  separate  the  flesh  from 
the  bones  with  a  knife  until  the  wings  and  legs  are  reached. 
Then  unjoint  from  the  body,  and  cutting  through  to  the  bone, 
turn  back  the  flesh  and  remove  the  bones.  When  the  bones 
are  removed  the  flesh  may  be  reshaped  by  stuffing.  Some 
leave  the  bones  in  the  legs  and  wings,  as  they  are  the  most 
difficult  to  remove.  Stuff  with  force  meat  made  of  cold  lamb 
or  veal  and  a  little  pork  chopped  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  sage  or  savory,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Sew  into 
shape,  turn  ends  of  wings  under  and  press  the  legs  close  to  the 
back,  and  tie  firmly  so  that  the  upper  surface  may  be  plump 
and  smooth  for  the  carver.  Lard  with  two  or  three  rows  on 
the  top,  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  basting  often  with 
salt  and  water  and  a  little  butter.  Carve  across  in  slices  and 
serve  with  tomato  sauce  or  meat  jelly  for  boned  turkey. 

MEAT  JELLY  FOR  BONED  TURKEY. 

Take  oil  from  the  water  (when  cold)  in  which  the  turkey 
was  boiled,  strain  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  two  ounces  of 
gelatine,  three  eggs  with  shells,  a  wineglassful  of  sherry  or 
Madeira;  stir  well.  Add  one  quart  of  strained  liquor,  beat 
rapidly  with  an  egg  beater,  put  over  the  fire  and  stir  till  it 
boils ;  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of 
turmeric  and  strain  as  other  jelly.  Add  lemon  juice  to  taste. 
When  cold  break  up  and  place  over  and  around  turkey.  Cut 
in  thick  slices  and  fanciful  shapes  with  paste  cutter. 


46  GAME  AND  POULTRY 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 

The  flesh  is  dark  but  exceedingly  tender,  the  breast  is  all 
that  is  good  in  serving;  when  roasted,  being  dry,  should  be 
larded. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 

Dress  and  stuff  as  for  roasting;  line  bottom  of  kettle  with 
a  few  slices  of  pork ;  lay  chickens  in  kettle ;  put  in  about  one 
quart  of  water.  Cover  and  steam  for  about  an  hour,  then 
remove  the  cover  and  let  the  chickens  brown  on  all  sides. 
Remove  to  a  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley;  remove  the 
pork  from  the  kettle  and  if  too  much  fat  remains  take  out 
some ;  add  water,  and  thicken  with  browned  flour.  Season 
and  send  to  the  table  in  gravy  tureen. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 

Cut  the  chicken  up  as  for  fricassee,  put  in  a  dripping-pan 
with  plenty  of  butter,  sprinkle  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 
When  it  begins  to  brown  add  a  little  water,  adding  more  from 
time  to  time,  turn  occasionally,  and  bake  about  an  hour.  A 
nice  gravy  to  serve  with  this  can  be  made  by  adding  more 
flour  to  drippings  when  the  chicken  is  taken  up  and  thinning 
with  rich  milk  or  cream. 

FRIED  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Clean  and  joint  the  chicken,  then  soak  in  salt  water  for 
an  hour.  Have  a  frying  pan  ready  with  equal  p^rts  of  lard 
and  butter  enough  to  cover  the  chicken.  Roll  each  piece  of 
chicken  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  drop  into  boiling  hot  fat. 
Fry  until  brown  on  both  sides.    Serve  on  heated  platter,  gar- 


GAME  AND  POULTRY  47 

nished  with  parsley.  Pour  most  of  the  fat  from  the  pan,  and 
thicken  the  remainder  with  browned  flour,  and  add  one  cup- 
ful of  hot  milk.     Serve  in  gravy  boat. 

CHICKEN   STEAMED. 

Rub  the  chicken,  after  being  thoroughly  washed  and 
cleaned,  with  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  wrap  the 
chicken  in  a  clean  white  cloth,  place  in  a  steamer  as  near  the 
water  as  possible,  cover,  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with 
a  cream  sauce  or  gravy.  Boil  two  cupfuls  of  the  liquor  from 
the  kettle  without  the  fat,  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
two  pinches  of  salt.  Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into  one 
cupful  of  sweet  cream  until  smooth,  then  mix  with  the  gravy. 
Add  one  pinch  of  nutmeg,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice.     Garnish  with  celery  and  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

A  half  cupful  of  minced  chicken,  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  enough  gravy  thickened  with  flour  to  mould  into 
egg-shaped  rolls.  Sprinkle  well  with  bread  crumbs,  and 
brown  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  hot  butter  in  an  uncovered 
dish.  When  a  nice  brown,  remove  croquettes  to  a  hot  dish. 
Add  to  the  butter  left  in  the  pan  one  teaspoonful  of  soaked 
bread  crumbs  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  heated  milk,  boil 
until  thick  enough  to  spread  evenly,  add  the  seasoning  you 
like.  Serve  with  a  sprig  of  celery  on  each  croquette,  and 
serve  at  once. 

PIGEON  BROILED. 

Clean  and  wash  two  birds,  split  down  the  back,  lay  on  a 
hot  buttered  gridiron  with  the  bone  sides  toward  the   fire. 


48  GAME  AND  POULTRY 

Baste  with  melted  butter,  keep  covered,  broil  twenty  minutes 
slowly;  turn  a  few  minutes  before  it  is  done,  then  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Lay  on  buttered  toast,  add  butter  and  the 
juice  which  escaped  while  broiling.  Serve  on  a  heated  platter 
garnished  with  celery. 

GERMAN  MOCK  RABBIT. 

Mix  a  half  pound  of  raw  chopped  beef  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  raw  chopped  veal.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
onion,  thyme  and  minced  parsley.  Add  a  half  cupful  of  dry 
bread  crumbs  and  bind  with  two  raw  eggs,  unbeaten.  Shape 
into  a  loaf,  cover  with  eggs  and  crumbs,  and  put  into  a  bak- 
ing dish  lined  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  and  baste  often. 
Serve  in  slices,  either  hot  or  cold. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Select  a  fine  Philadelphia  dry  picked,  young  roasting  chick- 
en, weighing  about  four  pounds ;  singe  it  and  cut  off  the  head 
and  feet,  then  split  it  down  the  back  as  if  for  broiling.  Clean 
it,  reserving  the  heart,  liver  and  the  gizzard.  Put  some  but- 
ter in  a  deep  pan  and  melt  it  so  the  bottom  is  well  covered, 
then  lay  in  the  chicken  skin  side  up.  Cover  it  well  with  lit- 
tle pats  of  butter,  season  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
in  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  the  pan  tight  and  stand 
it  in  a  moderate  oven.  Let  the  chicken  cook  one  hour,  then 
lift  the  cover  and  pour  in  a  half  pint  of  cream.  Cover  it  again 
and  let  it  cook  another  hour,  then  serve. 

PIGEON  ROASTED. 

Clean  and  stuff  the  birds  the  same  as  for  roasted  chickens. 
Rub  them  well  with  butter,  rub  with  salt  and  lay  on  slices 


GAME  AND  POULTRY  49 

of  bacon  in  a  dripping  pan,  with  one  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  very  often, 
and  turning  them  that  they  may  brown  well  on  both  sides. 
Serve  on  a  bed  of  water  cresses,  with  giblet  gravy  and  cur- 
rant jelly. 

TO  COOK  QUAIL. 

Cut  the  quail  in  half;  salt,  with  a  little  onion  juice  to  fla- 
vor; when  nicely  browned  add  one  pint  of  Burgundy  wine; 
simmer  ten  minutes ;  two  tablespoons  espagnole ;  then  add 
eight  large  oysters  and  four  mushrooms;  drop  the  oysters  in 
so  as  not  to  cook  too  much ;  season  with  salt,  lemon  juice  and 
a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  serve  hot. 

SMALL  BIRDS  BROILED.' 

After  dressing  the  birds,  wipe  dry  and  split  down  the 
backbone,  rub  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  pepper  but 
do  not  salt.  Lay  on  hot  broiler  over  a  clear  bed  of  coals ; 
turn  three  or  four  times  and  cook  until  both  sides  are  nicely 
browned;  take  up  on  hot  platter  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
pour  over  each  half  one-half  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter; 
lay  two  sprigs  of  cress  on  each  half  and  serve. 

BELGIAN  HARE. 

Cut  up  the  hare  and  fry  quickly;  put  in  sauce  pan  water 
or  stock  enough  to  boil,  season  with  six  cloves,  six  allspice, 
and  pepper-corn,  one  bay  leaf  and  half  of  one  lemon,  one-half 
cup  vinegar,  and  boil  until  tender;  take  out  the  meat,  thicken 
the  stock  with  flour  and  butter  mixed ;  boil  and  strain  over 
the  hare;  serve  with  croutons  fried  in  butter. 


50  GAME  AND  POULTRY 

WILD  DUCK. 

Make  a  dressing  of  veal,  mushrooms  and  bread  chopped 
fine ;  soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  for  a  little  time  and  mix 
with  mushrooms  and  veal ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
a  little  garlic  to  suit  the  taste;  remove  all  the  breasj  of  the 
duck  on  either  side ;  spread  the  dressing  on  the  breast  and 
roll  it  up  and  tie  it ;  place  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little  butter,  and 
salt,  bake  until  it  is  nicely  browned;  one-half  cup  of  Rhine 
wine  and  let  it  simmer  twQ  minutes ;  cover  with  espagnole 
sauce ;  cook  slowly  forty  minutes,  and  serve  hot  with  crou- 
tons. 

CHICKEN  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  wash  in  salt  water,  put  in  a  stew 
pan  with  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  a  small  piece  of  salt. 
Stew  slowly.  If  ^  young  fowl,  it  will  only  take  an  hour  to 
cook.  About  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  add  salt  and  a  lit- 
tle water  to  the  stew,  let  come  to  a  good  boil,  then  drop  in 
the  dumplings  made  of  biscuit  dough.  Cover  tightly,  watch 
that  the  gravy  does  not  burn.  Serve  the  chicken  on  a  heated 
platter  with  the  dumplings  around  it  and  the  gravy  poured 
over  the  chicken. 

CHICKEN  LOAF. 

Get  a  four  or  five  pound  chicken  trussed  as  for  roasting, 
but  not  stufifed.  Cook  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until  the 
meat  drops  from  the  bones ;  then  remove  the  skin,  fat,  gristle 
and  bones,  and  put  all  back  into  the  kettle.  Add  plenty  of 
butter  and  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt  to  taste,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Heat  thoroughly.  Slice 
one  hard  boiled  egg  into  bottom  of  a  plain  oblong  mold  and 


GAME  AND  POULTRY  51 

pour  in  the  hot  chicken.  Be  careful  not  to  have  too  much 
liquor  or  the  meat  will  not  remain  at  the  bottom  of  the  mold. 
Set  away  to  cool.  When  cool  and  hardened,  serve  on  a  plat- 
ter garnished  with  lettuce  and  olives. 


MOCK  DUCK. 

Cut  a  thick  slice  of  round  steak,  remove  fatty  rim  and 
bone,  rub  the  steak  well  on  both  sides  with  flour  mixed  with 
salt  and  pepper,  prepare  a  bread  dressing  as  for  turkey  stuff- 
ing, cover  the  steak  with  a  thick  layer  of  dressing;  roll  up, 
tie  with  string;  boil  slowly  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  tightly 
covered  kettle,  with  just  enough  water  so  the  meat  will  roast 
down,  the  last  twenty  minutes;  remove  the  meat  and  take 
off  string  carefully ;  add  butter  size  of  small  tgg  to  gravy ; 
thicken  and  pour  over  meat;  this  can  be  baked,  but  is  dryer 
if  so  cooked. 


A  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  MEAT  (MOCK  TURKEY). 

One-half  pound  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  one-quarter 
pound  of  butter,  one-quarter  pound  nut  meats,  season,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  one  egg,  one  pint  water  (hot),  put  bread 
and  butter  in  chopping  bowl,  pouring  over  the  water  very 
hot ;  chop  very  fine ;  add  egg  and  season  and  mix  very  thor- 
oughly ;  grease  pudding  pans  and  scatter  around  some  cracker 
crumbs ;  put  in  mixture  and  bake  one  hour ;  serve  on  hot  plat- 
ter with  brown  sauce ;  cook  together  one  tablespoon  butter 
and  one  of  flour,  and  one  cupful  water ;  boil  till  thickened 
and  season  to  taste. 


52  GAME  AND  POULTRY 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Wash  and  dry  the  duck  carefully.  Make  a  stuffing  of 
bread,  onion,  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  insert,  and  sew  up  com- 
pletely that  the  seasoning  may  not  escape.  If  tender,  ducks 
do  not  require  more  than  an  hour  to  roast ;  keep  them  well 
basted,  and  a  few  minutes  before  serving  dredge  lightly  with 
flour  to  make  them  froth  and  look  plump.  Send  to  the  table 
hot,  with  a  good  brown  gravy  poured,  not  around,  but  over 
them.  Accompany  with  currant  jelly  and,  if  in  season,  green 
peas. 

ROAST  QUAIL. 

Clean  the  quail,  wash  them  in  soda  and  water.  Cleanse 
again  with  clear  water  and  wipe  dry.  Put  two  oysters  inside 
each  quail,  sew  up  and  arrange  them  side  by  side  in  a  baking- 
pan.  Pour  a  little  boiling  water  over  them,  cover  and  roast 
half  an  hour,  basting  often  with  butter.  Serve  upon  pieces 
of  fried  toast  laid  on  a  hot  dish.  Make  a  gravy  and  pour  a 
spoonful  over  each. 

SPICED  RABBIT. 

Cut  up  the  rabbit  after  it  has  been  very  thoroughly  cleaned 
and  laid  in  salt  and  water  for  about  an  hour.  Pour  some  vine- 
gar over  it  and  let  it  remain  in  the  pickle  over  night.  Then  put 
a  lump  of  fresh  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  deep 
stew-pan,  cut  up  an  onion  in  it,  adding  one  bay  leaf,  about 
one  dozen  pepper  corns  and  part  of  a  celery  root.  Lay  the 
rabbit  in  this  stew,  adding  part  of  the  vinegar  that  the  rabbit 
was  pickled  in  and  salt  slightly  before  stewing.  When  tender, 
thicken  with  flour  that  has  been  browned  in  a  spider  with 
butter. 


DUCK  DINNER 


53 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

Bread  Sticks. 

Roast  Duck,  Filling  Seasoned  with  Onion. 

Creamed  Celery.      Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Apple  Sauce.      Grape  Jelly. 

Bread  and  Butter. 

Watercress  and  Apple  Salad. 

Wafers.      Cheese. 

Central     Sundae. 

Fancy  Wafers. 

Coffee. 


54 


CHICKEN  DINNER 


Fruit  Cocktail.       Fancy  Wafers. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

Bread  Sticks.    Celery. 

Smothered  Chicken. 

Mashed  Potatoes.      Creamed  Parsnips. 

Peas.      Olives. 

Rolls. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Fancy  Wafers.       Cheese. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. 

Macaroons.  Cake. 

Salted  Almonds. 

Coffee. 


VEGETABLES  55 


VEGETABLES 


CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  just  done.  Peel  and  lay  them  in 
a  shallow  pan.  Sprinkle  them  with  brown  sugar  and  bits  of 
butter.  Put  the  pan  in  the  oven  and  let  the  potatoes  slightly 
brown. 

SNOW  POTATOES. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes.  Season  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt  and  cream.    Then  run  them  through  the  potato  ricer. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

One-half  cup  rice,  three-fourths  teaspoonful  salt ;  cook  until 
tender  and  dry.  While  still  lukewarm  add  to  each  cup  of 
boiled  rice  one-half  egg,  a  speck  of  white  pepper  and  a  bit  of 
butter.  Mould  and  set  away  to  cool.  Roll  in  egg,  then  in  fine 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat  one  minute.  Make  in  shape 
of  pyramid. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  CREAMED. 

Wash  and  throw  a  cupful  of  sprouts  into  water.  Simmer 
until  tender,  which  takes  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Drain  off  the  water  and  pour  over  them  a  cream  sauce. 


56  VEGETABLES 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Bake  four  medium  sized  potatoes.  When  done,  cut  length- 
wise in  half,  scoop  out  the  inside,  mixing  it  with  butter,  pep- 
per, salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream ;  beat  until  light,  re- 
turn to  the  shell  of  the  potato.  Place  them  again  in  the  oven 
until  ready  to  serve, 

SPRING  VEGETABLES. 

The  tender  rhubarb  which  is  one  of  spring's  first  offer- 
ings, goes  very  well  with  roast  lamb  or  any  other  meat  course 
for  dinner.  It  is  much  more  delicious  if  cooked  without  water, 
as  the  stem  itself  contains  plenty  of  juice.  Peel  the  stalks, 
cut  them  into  pieces  an  inch  long  and  put  them  into  the  upper 
part  of  a  double  boiler  with  sugar.  Since  it  is  to  be  served 
as  a  vegetable  it  will  not  need  so  much  sugar  as  when  used  as 
a  sauce,  a  half  cupful  being  sufficient. 

Dandelion  greens  is  usually  the  first  delicacy  of  the  sea- 
son for  the  women  in  the  country.  To  avoid  bitter  taste  the 
leaves  must  be  parboiled  in  hot  water  and  rinsed  in  cold  water 
after  each  draining.  Then  they  are  boiled  for  fifteen  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  Drain  them,  run  cold  water  over  them  and 
chop  them  fine.  Just  before  serving,  heat  them  in  a  frying 
pan  with  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Send  them  to  the 
table  with  the  top  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus  is  another  of  the  early  spring  vegetables,  and 
to  this  plant  has  been  ascribed  many  medicinal  qualities.  The 
wise  housewife  never  throws  away  the  tough  lower  ends  of 
the  stalks,  but  cuts  them  up  into  short  lengths,  stewing  them 


VEGETABLES  57 

tender,  and  saves  the  juice  to  flavor  her  next  soup.  To  bake 
the  asparagus,  cut  the  tender  ends  of  the  stalks  into  inch-long 
pieces  and  cook  them  about  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  them  and 
save  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked  for  the  soup  kettle. 
Arrange  the  asparagus  in  alternate  layers,  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  and  dice-shaped  pieces  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Sprinkle 
the  top  of  the  dish  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  twenty-five 
minutes.    Send  to  the  table  in  a  baking  dish. 

BAKED  CABBAGES. 

Get  a  small  firm  white  cabbage,  clean  and  boil  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  change  the  water  and  add  more  boiling  water. 
When  the  cabbage  is  very  tender  drain  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  it  is  perfectly  cold,  chop  fine  and  add  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Stir  all  well  together,  and 
bake  in  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  until  brown.  Serve 
very  hot.    This  dish  is  very  digestible. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  tender  four  parsnips,  scrape  and  slice  lengthwise. 
Put  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Shake  until  the  mixture 
boils.  Dish  the  parsnips,  add  to  the  sauce  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sweet  cream  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the  parsnips.  Serve 
hot. 

BOILED  ONIONS. 
Select  as   many  onions  as   required.      (The   white   silver 


58  VEGETABLES 

skins  are  the  best  species).  Peel  off  the  outside  and  cut  off 
the  ends,  and  put  in  cold  water  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  them 
scald  three  minutes;  then  turn  off  the  water,  pour  on  cold 
water  salted  a  little  and  boil  slowly  until  tender,  which  will 
take  about  thirty  minutes  or  longer,  according  to  size  of 
onions.  When  tender  drain  and  dry.  Pour  over  them  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve. 

STEWED  ONIONS. 

Select  four  nice  onions,  boil  the  same  as  boiled  onions. 
When  quite  done  drain  off  all  the  water.  Add  half  teacup- 
ful  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut,  salt  and  pepper, 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  stirred  to  a  cream  with  a  little 
milk.    Let  all  boil  up  once  and  serve  in  a  vegetable  dish. 

BAKED  ONIONS. 

One  large  Spanish  onion,  wash  and  clean,  but  do  not  peel. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  with  slightly  salted  water.  Boil  forty- 
five  minutes,  replacing  with  more  boiling  water  as  it  evap- 
orates. Pour  off  water  and  lay  the  onion  on  a  cloth  to  dry. 
Roll  onion  in  a  buttered  tissue  paper,  twisting  it  at  the  top, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until 
tender  all  through.  When  tender,  peel  and  place  in  a  small 
deep  dish  and  brown  slightly.  Baste  with  melted  butter  for  ten 
minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  onion  one 
spoonful  of  melted  butter. 

LIMA  AND  KIDNEY  BEANS. 

One-half  pint  of  beans,  put  them  into  boiling^water,  a 
little  more  than  enough  to  cover  them,  and  boil  till  tender. 


VEGETABLES  59 

Serve  with  butter  and  salt  upon  them,  or  cream  them  by- 
mixing  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  milk  till  thick,  then  add  a 
little  parsley,  and  stir  into  the  beans,  adding  a  cup  of  milk. 
This  makes  a  very  fine  dish. 

BAKED  BEETS. 

Wash  and  clean  three  or  four  beets,  put  into  oven  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  turning  them 
often  with  a  knife  to  keep  the  juice  from  running  out  as  it 
would  if  a  fork  were  used.  When  done,  remove  the  skins  and 
serve  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  on  the  slices. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Get  half  a  peck  of  peas,  shell  them  and  wash  in  cold  water. 
Put  into  kettle  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  just  enough 
to  cover  them.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes,  at  least  till  the 
liquor  is  nearly  boiled  out;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.     Serve  very  hot. 

STEWED  GREEN  PEAS. 

The  same  amount  as  above,  shell  and  wash ;  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  boiling  water  and  boil  until  very  tender.  Drain 
in  a  colander.  Melt  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  one  of 
flour;  stir  well  and  add  to  the  peas,  and  boil  eight  minutes. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Butter  the  sides  of  a  small  pudding-dish,  put  a  layer  of 
breadcrumbs  in  the  bottom,  on  them  put  a  layer  of  sliced 
tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  adding  bits  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  white  sugar  sprinkled  over.     Repeat  until  the 


6o  VEGETABLES 

pan  is  full,  having  the  top  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  with  bits 
of  butter  on  each  slice.  Bake  in  a  closely  covered  dish  till 
thoroughly  cooked  through.  Remove  cover  and  brown  quick- 
ly.   Serve  hot. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  four  tomatoes  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
place  in  layers  in  a  pudding-dish,  seasoning  each  layer  with 
salt  and  pepper,  bits  of  butter  and  a  sprinkling  of  white  sugar. 
Cover  with  a  lid,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  lid 
and  brown  ten  minutes.  Just  before  serving,  pour  over  the 
top  three  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  with  melted  butter. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Select  four  nice,  ripe  tomatoes,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  and  let  them  remain  in  the  boiling  water  a  few  min- 
utes; peel  off  the  skins,  put  in  a  graniteware  saucepan,  and 
stew  about  twenty  minutes;  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  letting  them  stew  ten  minutes  longer. 
Serve  hot. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  a  dozen  parsnips  until  tender.  Make  a  drawn  butter 
sauce  as  follows :  In  a  small  pan  thoroughly  mix  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Add  a 
cupful  of  hot  water  and  set  over  hot  water  until  melted.  Boil 
up  once  and  pour  over  parsnips  which  have  been  drained. 
Serve  very  hot. 

GREEN  CORN— BOILED. 
Select  four  nice  ears  of  corn.     Strip  off  the  husks  and  re- 


VEGETABLES  6i 

move  all  the  silk;  put  into  boiling  water  and  boil  twenty-five 
minutes.  Serve  on  a  heated  platter  covered  over  with  a  large 
table  napkin. 

GREEN  CORN— ROASTED. 

Strip  off  all  the  husks  from  the  corn  and  roast  on  the 
gridiron  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals,  turning  it  as  one  side  is 
done.    Serve  with  salt  and  butter. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Green  corn  left  over  makes  a  nice  lunch  dish.  Cut  the 
corn  from  the  cob.  Put  into  a  bowl  one-half  cupful  of  corn, 
half  cupful  of  milk,  quarter  cupful  of  flour,  one  small  egg, 
pinch  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Mix 
well  into  a  thick  batter,  and  fry  in  small  cakes  in  very  hot 
butter.     Serve  with  plenty  of  butter  and  powdered  sugar. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 
Get  a  very  small  egg  plant,  cut  in  two ;  scrape  out  all  the 
inside  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  minced  ham. 
Cover  with  water  and  boil  till  very  tender;  drain  off  the 
water;  add  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  grated  crumbs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a  small  onion  minced ;  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Stuff  each  half  to  the  hull  with  the 
mixture.  Add  a  small  lump  of  butter  to  each  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes.     Serve  hot. 

FRIED  RAW  POTATOES. 

Peel  six  good  sized  potatoes  very  evenly  and  cut  them  in 
slices  as  thin  as  an  eggshell.  Put  into  a  frying  pan  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  lard,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  add 


62  VEGETABLES 

the  sliced  potatoes,  sprinkling  them  over  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cover  them  with  a  close-fitting  lid,  letting  the  steam 
partly  cook  them.  Remove  the  lid  and  then  fry  gold  in  color, 
shaking  and  turning  them  very  carefully  with  a  wooden  ladle, 
so  as  to  brown  equally  and  not  break  the  slices. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Take  four  to  five  good  sized  cold-boiled  potatoes ;  slice 
endwise  and  crosswise,  making  them  in  small  squares.  Heat 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan ;  fry  in  it  half  a  small 
onion  chopped  fine,  and  fried  till  it  changes  color,  (not  a 
brown  but  a  yellow  color).  Then  put  in  your  potatoes, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  ladle 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  dry  by  shaking  in  a  heated 
colander,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.     Serve  hot. 

POTATOES  A  LA  MARYLAND. 

Boil  four  sweet  potatoes  with  their  skins  on ;  peel,  cut  in 
halves,  lay  in  a  shallow  tin  and  cover  with  sweet  cream.  Add 
a  little  salt  and  a  large  piece  of  butter  to  each  slice.  Put  into 
hot  oven  and  bake  a  rich  brown. 

BAKED   SWEET   POTATOES. 

Boil,  peel  and  slice  four  sweet  potatoes;  put  in  layers  in 
the  baking  dish,  covering  each  layer  with  brown  sugar  and 
pieces  of  butter.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  a  nice  brown. 

BAKED   SWEET   POTATOES. 

Brush  clean  four  good  sized  sweet  potatoes.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  a  good  half  hour,  or  until  they  are  done.  When 
thoroughly  baked, they  feel  soft  and  yielding  when  pressed 
with  the  fingers.     Try  them  often  with  a  fork  while  baking. 


VEGETABLES  63 

BEETS. 

Wash  and  cook  whole  until  tender;  leave  two  or  three 
inches  of  the  top  on  until  they  are  cooked.  Put  in  cold  water, 
pare,  slice,  reheat,  and  add  seasoning.  They  may  be  served 
cold  with  vinegar. 

CABBAGE  AND  CAULIFLOWER. 

Cut  cabbage  into  quarters  and  soak  in  cold  water  one-half 
hour.  Chop  the  leaves,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Drain  and  serve  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or  with  a  white 
sauce.    Cook  cauliflower  whole  and  in  a  bag  to  keep  its  shape. 

SPINACH. 

One-half  peck  spinach;  pick  leaves  from  the  stems,  and 
wash  carefully  to  remove  the  sand.  Cover  and  cook  until  ten- 
der, chop  fine  or  press  through  a  colander;  reheat  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  and  seasoning.  Serve  garnished 
with  two  hard  cooked  eggs.  Old  spinach  should  be  cooked  in 
boiling  water. 

STEWED  POTATOES. 

Slice  very  thin  a  heaping  cupful  of  cold  baked  potatoes; 
dredge  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper.  Put  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  half  cupful  of  fresh,  rich  milk,  and  when  hot  add  the 
potatoes;  stir  once,  and  cook  ten  minutes  withbut  further 
stirring.    The  slices  should  lie  in  the  gravy  unbroken. 

POTATOES  BROWNED. 

Take  seven  potatoes  and  mash  them  the  same  as  mashed 
potatoes.    Lay  into  the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  in,  smooth 


64  VEGETABLES 

over  the  top  and  brush  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.     Set  in 
oven  to  brov^n ;  it  will  brown  in  ten  minutes  if  the  oven  is  hot. 


POTATO  PUFFS. 

Prepare  four  large  potatoes  the  same  as  mashed  potatoes. 
While  hot  shape  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg.  Have  a  tin 
dish  well  buttered  and  place  the  balls  in  it.  As  soon  as  they 
are  done  brush  over  with  beaten  egg.  Brown  in  oven.  When 
done,  slip  a  knife  under  them,  removing  to  a  hot  platter, 
bedded  with  parsley.    Serve  at  once. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Take  seven  good  sized  potatoes ;  wash  and  pare,  and  lay 
them  in  cold  water  thirty  minutes;  then  put  them  into  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  water  and  a  large  pinch  of  salt.  Boil 
until  thoroughly  tender.  Drain  off  the  water  and  mash  them 
fine.  Have  ready  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English 
walnut  melted  in  a  little  hot  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix 
this  well  with  the  mashed  potatoes  until  they  are  nice  and 
smooth,  taking  care  they  are  not  too  wet.  Heap  them  up 
in  a  vegetable  dish,  smooth  over  the  top,  put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  on  top  in  the  center  and  have  dots  of  pepper  here  and 
there.  Make  it  a  point  always  to  have  your  dishes  hot  and 
serve  hot. 

CREAMED  ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  only  the  very  tender  part  of  the  stalks  into  inch  pieces ; 
boil  until  tender  in  as  little  water  as  can  be  used  and  prevent 
burning;  drain  off  the  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
pour  into  the  cooking  dish  a  cup  of  thin  cream  or  sweet  milk. 


VEGETABLES  65 

and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  boil  up  until  sauce  is  smooth, 
and  serve. 


CREAM  OF  SPINACH. 

Wash  and  clean  thoroughly  half  a  peck  of  fresh  spinach. 
Throw  it  into  five  quarts  of  salted  boiling  water  in  an  un- 
covered saucepan,  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  it  on 
a  colander ;  when  cool  squeeze  all  the  water  out  of  it.  It  must 
be  cooled  quickly  by  pouring  cold  water  over  it,  for  the  tin 
of  the  colander  will  spoil  it.  Chop  it  as  fine  as  possible,  then 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cook 
slowly  for  six  minutes  till  dry,  stir  often.  Sprinkle  over  it 
one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  mix  well ;  add  half  a  pint  of  rich 
cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook  again 
slowlv  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter.  Serve  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish  and  garnish 
with  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs. 


CREAMED  CABBAGE. 

Chop  half  of  a  small  cabbage  and  boil  until  tender  and  the 
water  is  nearly  or  quite  boiled  away.  Cover  with  milk,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  and  serve. 


FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

Pare  cucumbers  and  cut  into  thick  slices ;  dip  into  beaten 
egg  which  has  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  roll 
in  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  frying  pan  a  light  brown. 


66  VEGETABLES 

CABBAGE  SLAW. 

To  one  cup  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  add  this  dressing: 
Make  a  dressing  with  one  egg  beaten  up  well,  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  about  half  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
all  beaten  well  together,  then  put  on  fire  and  cook  till  it  just 
boils,  stirring  all  the  time,  as  it  will  curdle  if  too  sour.  (Add 
a  little  water  to  vinegar.)  Cool  this  well,  pour  over  slaw, 
and  serve. 

BUTTERED  RICE. 

Throw  a  cupful  of  raw  rice  into  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  slightly  salted.  Boil  fast  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
each  grain  is  softened — not  broken.  Drain  in  a  colander  and 
set  in  open  oven  to  dry  while  you  heat  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter in  a  frying-pan ;  drop  in  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 
stir  to  a  hissing  fry.  Now  turn  the  dried  rice  into  the  hot 
butter,  toss  lightly  for  a  minute,  seasoning  to  taste  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT. 

Pare  and  slice,  put  in  salted  water;  leave  in  long  enough  to 
extract  all  bitterness ;  wipe  each  piece  dry.  Dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  fine  crackers,  crumbs  or  corn  meal ;  sprinkle  with  a  little 
pepper  and  fry  in  hot  fat ;  serve  while  hot. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT. 

Choose  medium-sized  egg  plants ;  slice  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  and  let  stand  for  a  half-hour  in  cold,  salted  water;  dry 
on  a  cloth  and  dip  in  egg,  then  in  fine  crumbs;  dip  again  in 
egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  a  rich  brown.     They  may  be  peeled 


VEGETABLES  67 

before  frying,  or  after  frying  the  skin  readily  peels  off.  Do 
not  remove  from  the  salt  water  until  just  as  you  are  ready  to 
fry,  as  they  turn  black  quickly. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Scrape  roots  carefully;  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender. 
Cut  into  long  slices,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  quite  brown 
in  butter  and  dripping  mixed. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS. 

Scrape  roots  and  slice  across;  cook  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  as  the  sugar  of  the  vegetable  goes  into  the  water  and 
is  thrown  away  if  much  water  is  drained  off;  watch  carefully 
to  prevent  burning,  and  when  the  water  is  cooked  away  add 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk  enough  to  cover.  Thicken  with 
a  little  flour. 

PARSNIP  PATS. 

Boil  parsnips  until  tender  enough  to  press  through  a  sieve. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one  beaten  egg;  form  into 
small  pats  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS. 

Cut  turnips  into  small  dice ;  boil  in  salted  water,  drain, 
pour  on  milk  to  cover.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour,  moistened 
with  milk.     Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

CREAMED  CARROTS. 

Slice  new  carrots  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water; 
use  as  little  water  as  possible  and  prevent  burning,  so  that  the 


68  VEGETABLES 

sweetness  will  remain  in  the  vegetable,  and  not  be  thrown 
away  in  the  water.  Prepare  a  cream  of  two  tablespoonfuls 
butter  rubbed  into  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  one  pint  of 
boiling  milk  or  thin  cream  poured  over  it.  Let  all  boil  up 
once  with  the  carrots.  Sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over  the  dish 
just  before  sending  to  the  table. 

BAKED  SQUASH  IN  THE  SHELL. 

Cut  hubbard  squash  into  pieces  about  four  inches  square ; 
lay  in  baking  pan,  pepper  and  salt  each  piece,  and  put  a  lump 
of  butter  in  the  center  of  each.  Bake  until  tender  and  serve 
in  the  shell  just  as  it  comes  from  the  oven. 

TO  COOK  SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Cut  the  squash  in  pieces  and  put  in  a  cheesecloth  bag;  boil 
in  salted  water  until  done.  Then  remove  the  bag  and  hang 
up  to  drain.  When  it  has  drained  well  put  in  the  colander, 
leaving  the  bag  still  closed;  with  a  potato  masher  press  out 
the  rest  of  the  juice.  Open  the  bag,  turn  the  squash  into  a 
basin  and  mash  any  remaining  lumps.  Season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  heat,  and  serve. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Use  green  peas  as  soon  as  possible  after  picking,  as  they 
lose  their  sweetness  rapidly.  Shell,  wash  and  boil  twenty 
minutes,  having  all  the  water  boil  away  if  possible ;  unless  the 
peas  are  very  young  and  tender,  it  is  best  to  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar  to  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  milk  or  cream.  Heat  the  milk  to  the 
boiling  point  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES  69 

CANNED  PEAS. 

Drain  the  peas  in  a  colander  and  rinse  off  all  the  liquor 
with  cold  water.  Put  in  basin  with  two  or  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  water,  just  enough  to  heat  the  peas  and  keep  them 
from  scorching;  when  well  heated,  add  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt.  Let  just  come  to  a  boil  and  serve.  A 
teaspoonful  of  sugar  added  to  the  peas  when  boiling  is  a  great 
improvement.  A  good  brand  of  peas  prepared  in  this  way 
will  be  nearly  equal  to  the  fresh  vegetable. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  NEW  POTATOES. 

Cut  two  thin  slices  of  fat,  salt  pork  into  small  dice ;  fry 
a  little  in  the  bottom  of  kettle  in  which  you  are  to  cook  the 
vegetables.  Add  about  a  quart  of  small,  new  potatoes  and  a 
pint  or  more  of  green  peas.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
when  tender  turn  off  all  the  water,  except  about  half  a  cupful. 
Add  a  cup  of  milk  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

BEETS. 

Young  and  tender  beets  should  be  chosen.  Old  beets  re- 
quire three  or  more  hours  to  boil  tender.  When  tender  plunge 
for  a  moment  in  cold  water  and  the  skins  will  slip  off  easily. 
Be  careful  in  preparing  beets  not  to  cut  the  skins,  as  the  beets 
bleed  and  lose  their  sugar.  Slice  into  dish ;  sprinkle  each 
layer  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  one-half  cup  water,  one-half 
cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  and  pour  over  the  sliced  beets. 

SPINACH. 

Wash  the  spinach  very  carefully  through  several  waters, 
as  particles  of  sand  are  apt  to  lodge  in  the  stems  near  the  root. 


70  VEGETABLES 

Cut  away  the  roots  before  boiling.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  as 
little  water  as  can  safely  be  used  and  not  burn.  Drain,  press 
in  the  colander  to  remove  all  water;  chop  very  fine,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  g-arnish  with  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

DANDELION  GREENS. 

Wash  the  greens  very  carefully  in  several  waters.  Boil 
until  tender;  one-half  hour  will  be  sufficient  if  the  greens  are 
young  and  tender.  When  done,  press  them  as  dry  as  possible 
in  a  colander.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  butter; 
garnish  the  dish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs.  Serve  with 
sliced  lemon,  as  the  juice  is  a  more  pleasant  acid  than  vinegar. 
Only  the  very  young  greens  should  be  used. 

FRIED  TOMATOES— GREEN  OR  RIPE. 

Four  tomatoes  and  one  cupful  of  crumbs,  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  If  ripe  tomatoes  are  used, 
choose  solid  firm  ones,  not  too  ripe.  Remove  skin.  If  green 
ones,  just  beginning  to  ripen,  are  used,  do  not  pare;  cut  a  thin 
paring  from  the  end  and  divide  into  slices  about  one-half  inch 
thick.  Prepare  the  dressing  and  press  it  into  the  tomatoes 
until  all  the  interstices  are  filled.  Fry  in  drippings  a  rich 
brown.     Serve  in  hot  platter. 

CAULIFLOWER  SERVED  WHOLE. 

To  cook  cauliflower  and  have  it  remain  unbroken,  wash 
thoroughly,  remove  all  outer  leaves  and  let  it  stand  flower 
down  in  a  deep  dish  of  water  to  which  a  good  handful  of  salt 
has  been  added.  Allow  it  to  remain  there  three  or  four  hours ; 
then  shake  it  free  from  the  water,  tie  it  in  a  piece  of  fine  mus- 


VEGETABLES  71 

lin.  Drop  into  a  pot  of  briskly  boiling  salted  water  and  allow 
it  to  boil  slowly  forty  minutes.  Remove  cloth  carefully  and 
place  in  deep  dish  flower  up  and  cover  with  the  following 
sauce : 


WHITE  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonful  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour;  cream 
together  and  stir  slowly  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  until  it 
is  of  the  consistency  of  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  little 
white  pepper.  This  vegetable  can  be  prepared  more  quickly 
if  separated  into  the  flowerets  and  boiled  until  tender,  omitting 
the  cloth. 


ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER. 

One  cauliflower,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs,  one  egg, 
salt  and  pepper.  Boil  the  cauliflower  until  tender,  about 
twenty  minutes.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter  melted,  add  milk 
and  crumbs  and  simmer  until  crumbs  absorb  the  liquid,  add 
the  beaten  egg  and  remove  from  the  stove  before  the  egg  is 
cooked.  Break  the  cauliflower  carefully,  arrange  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  sauce  on 
this,  ^ust  a  few  dry  crumbs  on  the  top  and  bake  a  light  brown. 


ASPARAGUS. 

Boil  stalks  whole  in  salted  water;  serve  in  individual  dishes 
with  a  dish  of  melted  butter,  in  which  the  tops  are  to  be 
dipped  as  they  are  eaten. 


72  VEGETABLES 

MUSHROOMS  STEWED. 

Wash,  peel,  drain  and  slice  rather  thin.  To  every  quart 
add  a  half  teacupful  of  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  pinch  of  pepper.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  and  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Re- 
move as  soon  as  it  bubbles.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 
if  desired. 

MUSHROOMS  CREAMED. 

Cook  precisely  as  directed  for  stewed  mushrooms,  omitting 
the  lemon  juice  and  adding  three  tablespoonfuls  of  rich,  sweet 
cream. 

MUSHROOMS  BROILED. 

Choose  fine,  large  and  neatly  dressed  mushrooms  and  broil 
over  clear  hot  coals  for  three  minutes,  turning  once.  Serve 
with  the  cups  upward,  dressed  with  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

MUSHROOMS  FRIED. 

Place  the  gill  side  downward  in  hot  butter,  in  granite  pan. 
Fry  covered  for  five  minutes,  turning  once.  Serve  gills  up- 
ward, adding  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice  if  liked. 

MUSHROOMS  IN  SHELLS. 

Cut  fresh,  dressed  mushrooms  in  small  pieces,  dry  in  a 
napkin  and  toss  them  in  hot  butter  in  a  saucepan  until  brown 
but  not  done.  Shake  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  stir,  add  a  tea- 
cupful  of  rich  veal  or  chicken  stock  and  let  simmer  for  live 
minutes.     Beat  two  eggs  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and 


VEGETABLES  73 

add  slowly,  stirring  until  as  thick  as  cream.  Fill  table  shells 
with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  with  cracker-crumbs  and  brown  in 
a  very  hot  oven. 

MUSHROOM  PATTIES. 

Prepare  a  mixture  as  above,  have  ready  hot  shells  of  puff 
paste  that  have  been  baked  in  patty  pans,  and  drop  a  spoonful 
in  each.     Serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS. 

Place  alternate  layers  of  mushrooms  and  cracker-crumbs 
in  a  thicklv  buttered  baking-dish  and  season  each  layer  high- 
ly with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Have 
the  last  layer  of  crumbs.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Pour  a  teacupful  of  cream  or 
delicate  stock  over,  bake  twenty  minutes  and  serve  very  hot. 

STUFFED  MUSHROOMS. 

To  one  teacupful  of  chopped  mushrooms  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  onion  and  put  on  the  fire  to  heat  in  a  trifle 
of  cream  and  butter.  Fill  large  mushrooms  with  the  mixture, 
which  has  been  highly  seasoned,  lay  them  on  a  thickly  but- 
tered dish,  sprinkle  each  with  fine,  salted  bread-crumbs,  bake 
for  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve. 


74  EGGS 


EGGS 


BOILED  EGGS. 

Three  minutes  boils  eggs  soft;  six  minutes  boils  eggs  so 
yolk  is  not  quite  set;  ten  minutes  boils  eggs  hard;  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes  boils  eggs  so  yolks  are  mealy.  They  are 
said  to  be  more  digestible  boiled  as  long  as  this,  but  the  yolk 
is  apt  to  darken.  To  have  eggs  jellied,  put  them  into  boiling 
water  and  then  set  dish  back  on  range  where  the  water  will 
keep  hot  but  not  boil.  In  ten  minutes  the  eggs  will  be  cooked 
through;  the  whites  will  be  like  a  jelly,  and  not  hard  as  in 
boiled  eggs. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Fill  basin  with  boiling  salted  water,  if  the  bottom  of  the 
basin  is  greased  first,  the  eggs  will  not  stick  to  the  dish. 
Break  each  egg  into  a  saucer,  and  let  slide  carefully  into  the 
basin;  keep  hot  but  do  not  boil  the  water;  when  a  film  of 
white  comes  over  the  top,  remove  eggs  to  a  hot  dish;  put 
piece  butter  on  each  egg;  sprinkle  with  pepper. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

Four  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  half  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs; 
one-half  cup  white  sauce;  slice  the  eggs  in  thin  rings,  cover 


EGGS  75 

the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  crumbs,  then  the 
eggs  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  sauce  and  ar- 
range in  layers,  the  same  way  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full. 
Cover  the  top  well  with  crumbs,  and  brown  nicely  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Three  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  half  of  one 
onion  and  one  gill  stock,  one  dessertspoon  curry  powder,  one 
ounce  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream ;  fry  onion  in  butter  (an 
apple  may  be  added  if  desired)  then  add  the  flour,  stock  and 
curry  powder;  stir  gently  until  flour  is  cooked;  then  add  the 
cream ;  cut  the  eggs  in  halves  and  warm  half  of  the  pieces  in 
the  curry;  keep  the  rest  for  decorating  and  dish  up  prettily 
with  curry  in  the  center,  and  a  wall  of  rice  around  it.  A  sprig 
or  two  of  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  make  it  look  nice. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. 

Separate  the  number  of  eggs  desired,  being  careful  to  pre- 
serve each  yolk  unbroken  in  part  of  its  shell;  put  whites  in 
a  bowl;  beat  stiff  after  salting  sufficiently.  Butter  as  many 
gem  pans  or  shirred  egg  dishes  as  there  were  eggs ;  dip  a 
large  spoonful  or  more  of  the  stiff  white  into  each  dish ;  drop 
the  yolks  carefully  into  the  center  and  bake  until  the  white 
is  very  lightly  browned.  A  very  pretty  and  dainty  way  to 
serve  eggs. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Three  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  lengthwise  strips;  cover 
with  the  following  sauce :  one  cup  of  milk  and  four  table- 


76  EGGS 

spoonfuls  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  curry  powder,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  ON  TOAST. 

Put  butter  size  of  large  walnut  in  frying  pan;  when  it 
melts  pour  in  a  quarter  cup  of  milk ;  break  four  eggs  into  the 
milk;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  stir  constantly  until  set 
sufficiently  then  dip  quickly  on  small  slices  of  guttered  toast. 

EGGS  IN  DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Boil  four  or  more  eggs  according  to  size  of  family;  cut 
whites  into  small  pieces,  and  stir  into  just  enough  drawn  but- 
ter sauce  to  mix  well.  Grate  the  hard  boiled  yolks  over,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve. 

EGGS  A  'LA  ROBERT. 

Peel  one  medium  sized  onion  and  remove  the  heart ;  cut 
the  heart  into  slices  and  put  it  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan  over  a  brisk  fire  and  brown  well ;  moisten  with 
a  half  cupful  of  lean  broth ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cook 
and  let  the  sauce  reduce  for  about  ten  minutes ;  when  ready 
to  serve  cut  four  hard  boiled  eggs  in  slices;  mix  them  in  the 
preparation  and  let  heat  together,  without  boiling,  for  two 
minutes ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  diluted  mustard  and  serve. 

PINK  PICKLED  EGGS. 

Shell  hard  boiled  eggs  and  drop  them  into  the  vinegar  in 
which  beets  have  been  pickled.  Remove  when  colored  a  deli- 
cate pink.    These  are  a  pretty  change  for  a  picnic  lunch. 


EGGS  17 

BREAD  OMELET. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  four 
eggs,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  soak 
bread  soft,  add  beaten  yolks  and  seasoning,  beating  the  whites 
and  cook  as  an  ordinary  omelet,  folding  when  set. 

HAM   OMELET. 

One-half  cup  of  chopped  ham,  four  eggs,  salt  and  pepper ; 
beat  eggs  separately ;  add  yolks  to  the  minced  ham ;  season ; 
fold  in  the  whites  and  fry  in  hot  greased  spider,  folding  over 
when  set. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  sweet  milk  and  one 
tablespoonful  flour,  a  little  salt  and  stir  whites  of  eggs  in  last ; 
pour  into  well  buttered  shallow  pan  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKED   EGGS. 

Break  a  sufficient  number  of  eggs  to  serve  the  family  into 
a  buttered  shallow  baking  plate ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  lump  of  butter  on  each  ^^'g ;  dip  enough  rich  cream  on  the 
eggs  to  about  half  cover  the  top ;  bake  until  eggs  are  set. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  HAM. 

Cut  very  fine,  cold  boiled  or  fried  ham ;  warm  in  a  skillet 
containing  a  little  ham  dripping;  break  four  or  five  eggs  into 
the  dish ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  until  nearly  set. 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as  are  required ;  throw  into  cold 
water  for  half  an  hour;  remove  the  shells,  cut  into  halves  and 


78  EGGS 

remove  the  yolks  without  breaking  the  whites ;  rub  the  yolks 
smooth ;  add  (for  six  eggs)  a  large  teaspoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter or  olive  oil,  one  tablespponful  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper 
to  .taste,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  or  one-third  tea- 
spoonful  dry  mustard.  Mix  to  a  smooth  paste;  stuff  the 
whites  with  the  mixture;  press  the  halves  closely  together; 
secure  with  a  wooden  toothpick,  and  lay  in  a  bed  of  lettuce 
leaves. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Prepare  same  as  preceding  recipe  with  the  addition  of 
minced  ham,  tongue,  chicken,  or  other  cold  meat.  Mustard 
may  be  omitted  if  desired,  and  lemon  juice  substituted  for  the 
vinegar.  Minced  sardines  or  grated  cheese  may  be  used  the 
same  as  any  variety  of  meat;  parsley  chopped  fine,  cress,  or 
any  savory  herb  may  be  used  for  seasoning.  Any  variety  may 
be  made  with  a  little  practice. 

SCALLOPED    EGGS. 

Hard  boil  six;  slice  them  in  thin  rings;  place  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  a  layer  of  breadcrumbs, 
then  one  of  eggs.  Cover  with  small  bits  of  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat  until  the  pan  is  full,  the  last 
layer  being  breadcrumbs.  Pour  over  the  whole  one  cupful 
of  sweet  cream  and  put  into  a  moderately  heated  oven  to 
brown. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Have  ready  five  eggs  broken  into  a  dish;  salt  and  pepper 
them;  put  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  hot  frying  pan; 
tip  around  so  that  the  butter  will  touch  all  sides  of  the  pan. 


EGGS  79 

Turn  them  without  beating  into  the  pan.  Stir  them  one  way- 
fast  for  five  minutes  until  they  are  mixed.  Do  not  let  them 
get  hard.    Turn  over  toast  and  serve. 

EGGS  AND  BACON. 

Take  a  nice  rasher  of  bacon;  cut  into  little  diced  cubes; 
fry  quickly  until  nicely  browned ;  strain  five  beaten  eggs  into 
a  basin,  season  with  pepper  and  add  to  the  bacon.  Stir  until 
quite  firm.  Serve  in  a  heated  platter  garnished  with  hot 
pickles. 

CHEESE  OMELET. 

Beat  well  four  eggs;  add  to  them  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese ;  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful  more  of  the  cheese  before  folding.  Turn  out  on  a  heated 
dish  and  grate  a  sprinkling  of  cheese  over  the  omelet  before 
serving. 

HAM  OMELET. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  minced  ham.  Mix  with 
four  well  beaten  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk ;  season 
with  pepper.  Fry  with  butter.  Serve  on  a  heated  platter 
garnished  with  parsley. 

SERVING  EGGS. 

A  dainty  way  to  serve  eggs  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or  tea 
is  to  take  round  slices  of  bread,  toast  them  delicately,  butter 
them  and  dip  lightly  in  hot  water.  On  each  round  spread  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  stiff  with  a  speck  of  salt.  Make  a  de- 
pression in  the  center,  and  in  each  place  a  whole  yolk.  Set 
the  toast  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  set  the  yolk  and 
brown  the  white  a  trifle. 


8o  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 


MILK  BREAD. 

About  half  past  four  in  the  afternoon  make  a  sponge  in 
the  following  way:  Pour  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water  on  six  hops,  and  when  lukewarm,  strain  and  squeeze 
the  hops  dry.  Measure  the  hop  water  and  add  enough  more 
water  to  make  one  cup  and  a  half.  Melt  in  this  hop  water 
half  a  cake  of  yeast  and  add  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Use 
a  three-quart  basin;  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
until  eight  o'clock_,  when  the  sponge  should  fill  the  basin  about 
two-thirds  full.  Sift  three  more  cupfuls  of  flour,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one  pinch  over,  and  put  into  a  six-quart 
earthenware  vessel.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  lard  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  mix.  Then  pour  in  the  sponge. 
Rinse  out  the  basin  with  one  cupful  and  a  half  of  rich  milk, 
add  this  to  the  flour  and  mix.  Turn  on  a  lightly  floured  board 
and  knead  into  a  soft  elastic  mass,  using  a  half  cupful  of  flour. 
Put  it  back  into  the  large  basin.  Cover  tightly  and  raise  all 
night  in  a  warm  place,  temperature  70°.  By  half-past  six  in 
the  morning  it  should  quite  fill  the  basin.  Turn  out  and  knead 
long  enough  to  form  into  loaves.  Use  one  teaspoonful  flour 
and  no  more  for  the  last  kneading;  the  dough  must  be  soft 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC  8i 

and  elastic.  Put  into  pans,  cover  and  raise  an  hour  and  a  half 
in  a  temperature  of  90°.  The  dough  should  more  than  double 
in  size.  The  first  ten  minutes  the  oven  should  be  hot  enough 
to  lightly  brown  the  top ;  then  moderate  a  little)  and  bake  for 
twenty-five  minutes,  not  more  than  thirty  minutes.  This 
makes  two  loaves.  Bread  should  be  entirely  cold  before  be- 
ing put  away  in  the  bread  box. 

BREAD. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  peeled  potatoes  cut  into  small  pieces ; 
boil  them  in  one  pint  of  water,  skim  out  the  potatoes  and 
mash  fine.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  flour  to  the  pota- 
toes, pour  over  the  potato  water  and  stir  till  smooth.  When 
cool,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast  and  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  take  the 
bread  bowl  filled  with  flour,  pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
in  the  center,  and  mix.  Add  enough  cold  water  to  make  luke- 
warm;  then  pour  in  the  sponge  made  the  night  before,  mix 
the  dough  soft  and  knead  one-half  hour.  Put  back  into  bread- 
bowl  and  set  to  rise.  When  light,  knead  down  and  set  to  rise 
again.  Then  knead  into  loaves,  put  into  bread  pans  and  when 
light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  quantity  will  make  two 
loaves. 

YEAST. 

A  double  handful  of  hops  in  a  thin  bag,  one  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  one  quart  of  potatoes  cut  into  small  pieces.  Boil 
potatoes  with  the  hops  until  thoroughly  done,  keeping  them 
covered  tightly  all  the  time.  Take  the  potatoes  out  and  mash 
well,  then  pour  the  boiling  hop  water  oyer  them ;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  of  ginger,  one  of  salt,  and  let  it 


82  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC 

stand  until  just  warm.  Add  one  teacupful  of  yeast,  put  away 
in  a  jug  in  a  cool  place.  This  yeast  will  keep  two  months  in 
winter  and  two  weeks  in  summer. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cupful  of  sour  milk,  two-thirds  cupful  of  molasses, 
two  cupfuls  of  yellow  cornmeal,  one  cupful  of  graham  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  ginger. 
Steam  two  hours  in  a  covered  crock  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water;  the  water  must  be  boiling  before  setting  in  the  crock. 
Mix  the  salt  with  the  meal  and  flour,  then  add  the  molasses ; 
mix  the  soda  and  sour  milk  together  and  add  to  the  rest. 
Mix  carefully,  as  a  great  deal  depends  on  the  mixing.  After 
steaming  two  hours  set  in  oven  to  brown  ten  minutes. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUITS. 

Take  one  cupful  of  sifted  flour  and  stir  in  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder  and  one  fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cut 
into  this  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  add  a  half  cup- 
ful of  rich  milk.  Dredge  with  flour,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
pat  each  piece  into  a  ball,  flatten  a  little  and  lay  in  a  greased 
pan  close  together  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Bake  eighteen 
minutes. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  graham  flour,  two  pinches  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  molasses,  one  egg,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.    Raise  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.    Bake  in  muffin  rings. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  WAFFLES. 

Two  eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two 
cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter ; 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC  83 

beat  all  together.    Grease  a  waffle  iron  thoroughly  and  have  it 
hot  before  baking  waffles. 

MUFFINS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  cornmeal,  good  meas- 
ure, two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three 
beaten  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half 
of  baking  powder,  two  good  pinches  of  salt.  Sift  together  the 
flour  and  cornmeal,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk,  stir  well,  then  add  to  the 
flour.  At  the  last  add  the  melted  butter.  Bake  in  muffin 
pans  in  a  hot  oven.    Serve  hot. 

WHEAT  GEMS. 

One  teacupful  of  milk,  one  full  cupful  of  wheat  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  one  beaten  egg.    Bake  in  gem  pans. 

FRUIT  GEMS. 

Take  gem  batter  and  add  chopped  raisins,  figs,  dates,  to- 
gether or  separate.  Roll  the  fruit  in  dry  flour.  Suit  your  taste 
as  to  the  proportion  of  fruit.  If  a  little  sweet  cream  is  used 
in  mixing  the  dough,  the  cakes  will  be  nice  enough  for  dessert, 
or  a  lunch  for  traveling. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One  cupful  of  sour  loppered  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  beaten  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  and  half  of  corn  meal,  half  a 
cup  of  flour.  Mix  half  an  hour  before  baking,  then  add  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful  of  water.     Beat  thoroughly 


84  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC 

and  bake  on  a  hot  soap-stone  griddle.     Do  not  grease  soap- 
stone. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

One  cupful  of  buckwheat  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  cupful  of  luke-warm  water,  and  one-eighth  of  a  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  set  to  rise  over  night.  Before  baking,  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  molasses,  and  one  large  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Beat  well  together,  and  bake  on  a 
soap-stone  griddle.     Serve  cakes  hot. 

POTATO  PANCAKES. 

Grate  four  good  sized  potatoes,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper,  two  eggs  not  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
a  very  little  milk  and  a  pinch  of  baking  powder.  Mix  all  well 
together  and  fry  like  ordinary  pancakes  in  deep  fat.    Serve  hot. 

FEATHER  MUFFINS. 

Beat  together  one  teaspoonful  each  of  lard  and  sugar,  add 
the  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  gill  of  milk,  one-half  pint  of  flour, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt ;  lastly 
the  well  beaten  white  of  the  egg.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 

PEACH  TEA  CAKE. 

One  large  tablespoonful,  equal  parts,  of  butter  and  lard; 
one  gill  of  sugar  and  one  gill  of  milk,  one  beaten  egg,  two 
cups  of  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Turn 
into  a  shallow  baking  pan.  Do  not  have  the  batter  more  than 
one-half  inch  deep.    Cover  with  sliced  peaches.    Sprinkle  with 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC  85 

sugar  and  cinnamon.     Bake  thirty  minutes ;  serve  warm  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

SOUR  MILK  MUFFINS. 

Beat  two  eggs  till  very  light,  then  add  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  in  which  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved ; 
when  well  mixed  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
Have  the  gem  pans  hot  and  well  greased,  fill  half  full,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  CORN  FRITTERS. 

To  two  ears  of  fresh  grated  corn,  allow  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 
For  a  small  family,  allow  six  grated  ears  of  corn,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  sweet  milk,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  together.  Fry  in  hot 
lard,  dropping  the  mixture  from  a  spoon. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Cut  bread  which  is  not  too  fresh  into  pieces  about  half  an 
inch  thick;  cut  the  slices  into  halves;  drop  a  piece  of  butter 
into  a  frying  pan.  Beat  two  eggs ;  add  a  pint  of  milk  with  salt 
to  taste.  Drop  each  piece  of  bread  into  this  and  then  onto  the 
frying  pan.  Fry  to  a  nice  brown.  Drop  a  little  currant  jelly 
on  the  middle  of  each  piece.  Serve  on  a  plate  garnished  with 
parsley. 

BROWN   BREAD.      (Excellent.) 

One  cupful  of  rye  meal,  two  cupfuls  of  corn  meal,  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 


86  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC 

Steam   three  hours   and  fifteen  minutes,  then   uncover   and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  into  a  bowl ;  make  a  hole  in  the  mid- 
dle, put  in  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  warm  sweet  milk,  one- 
half  teacup  of  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Let  this  stand  in  a  warm  place  without  stirring  until  light, 
then  stir  to  a  soft  dough.  Use  a  little  more  flour  if  necessary. 
About  two  hours  before  supper,  work  out  the  dough,  using 
a  little  more  flour.  Roll  out  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with 
a  biscuit  cutter,  butter  lightly  with  soft  butter,  fold  over  and 
put  in  the  pans  a  little  way  apart.  Let  rise  until  tea  time  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  rolls  must  be  started  by  nine 
o'clock ;  earlier  in  winter. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  using  baking  powder  and  sweet 
milk.  Roll  out  into  a  sheet  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  cut  into 
strips  two  and  one-half  inches  wide.  Rub  two  cupfuls  of 
brown  sugar  and  one-half  cupful  butter  to  a  cream,  add  to  it 
enough  ground  cinnamon  to  give  the  desired  flavor,  rub  well 
together  and  spread  upon  the  strips  of  dough.  Cut  in  sec- 
tions, sprinkle  with  raisins  or  currants,  roll  up,  place  in  pans 
and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  When  partly  baked,  brush  with 
sugar  and  butter. 

EXCELLENT  BISCUIT. 

Two  cups  (large)  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC  87 

egg,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  one  large  tablespoonful  butter. 
Cut  into  small  biscuits,  handle  as  little  as  possible,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  They're  nice  biscuits  for  a  lunch,  for  they  are 
just  as  good  cold  as  hot. 

FLOUR  PANCAKES. 

One  pint  sour  milk,  one  egg,  a  little  salt  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda.  Make  a  batter  with  flour,  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 
To  be  eaten  hot  with  maple  syrup. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

One  pint  of  flour,  sifted  twice,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  three-quarters  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  about  three-quarters  cup- 
ful sweet  milk.  Do  not  roll  heavily.  Simply  press  it  out  a 
little  with  the  hand.  Do  not  handle  it  any  more  than  neces- 
sary. Cut  into  biscuit  shape.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  bake  18  minutes  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

BATTER  CAKES. 

One  pint  flour,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  soft 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk.  The  batter 
is  better  for  standing  half  an  hour. 

Waffles  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. 

Always  mix  soda  or  baking  powder  with  flour. 

FOR  LIGHT  ROLLS. 

One  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three-quarters  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  three-quarters  cupful  of  butter  and  lard  together, 


88  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC 

three  or  four  cupfuls  of  soft  bread  dough,  some  cinnamon  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking-  powder.  Knead  up  as  stiff  as  re- 
quired.    Let  raise  until  very  light. 

ROLLS. 

One  large  cup  of  sponge,  one  cupful  of  warm  water,  one- 
half  cupful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  egg, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  raise,  then  mould 
again,  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  fold  over  and  lay 
in  baking-pan.    Let  raise  again  and  bake. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Take  two  quarts  of  flour,  make  a  hole  in  the  top,  and  put 
in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  white  sugar.  Pour  over  this  a  pint  of  milk,  pre- 
viously boiled  and  cooled,  and  one-half  teacupful  of  good 
yeast.  When  the  sponge  is  light,  mould  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Let  it  rise  again  and  cut  into  round  cakes.  Butter  on  one  side 
and  turn  over  on  itself.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD  89 


USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD 


Crusts  and  small  pieces  of  bread  should  be  dried  in  a  cool 
oven  until  a  light  brown.  Roll  them  on  a  pastry  board,  or  put 
through  a  meat  grinder.  Crumbs  must  be  sifted.  Use  them 
only  to  cover  articles  of  food  cooked  in  deep  fat.  Crumbs 
should  be  kept  in  jars  with  a  piece  of  muslin  tied  over  them. 

CROUTONS. 
Cut  pieces  of  stale  bread  into  cubes,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

SIPPETS. 

Cut  bread  into  pieces  two  inches  thick,  cut  either  round 
or  four  and  a  half  inches  long  by  three  inches  wide.  Remove 
part  of  the  bread  from  the  center,  butter,  and  brown  in  oven. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Butter  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  deep  pudding  dish,  then 
place  a  layer  of  stale  bread,  rolled  fine,  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  fruit ;  sprinkle  on  a  little 
sugar,  then  another  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  of  fruit,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being  crumbs.  Make 
a  custard  as  for  pies,  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  mix.    Pour  it  over 


90  USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD 

the  top  of  the  pudding  and  bake  until  the  fruit  is   cooked. 
Stale  cake  crumbs  fine,  in  place  of  bread,  is  an  improvement. 


PLAIN  BREAD  PUDDING. 

Break  up  a  pint  of  stale  bread  after  cutting  away  the  crust. 
Pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  add  to  this  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Cover  the  dish  tightly  and  let  stand 
until  cool,  then  with  a  spoon  mash  it  until  fine,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg  grated,  half  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water.  Beat  up  four  eggs  very  light  and  add  last.  Turn 
all  into  a  well-buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Serve  it  warm  with  hard  sauce.  This  recipe  may 
be  steamed  or  boiled.    Very  nice  either  way. 

SOUP  STICKS. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  one  to  three  inch  slices,  remove  crusts, 
butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


TOAST. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  slices  one-fourth  inch  thick.  Put  it 
on  a  toaster,  move  it  gently  over  the  heat  until  dry,  then  allow 
it  to  become  a  little  brown  by  placing  it  nearer  the  heat  and 
turning  constantly.  It  may  be  first  dried  in  the  oven.  Hot 
milk  may  be  poured  over  dry  toast. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Cut  baker's  or  other  light  bread  into  one-inch  slices  and 
brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 


USES  FOR  STALE  BREAD  91 

CREAM  TOAST. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk  or 
cream.  Four  slices  of  toast.  Heat  the  butter  and  when  it 
bubbles  add  the  flour  and  salt,  then  gradually  the  hot  milk, 
stirring  constantly  and  allowing  the  mixture  to  thicken  each 
time.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  slices  of  dry  or  moist  toast. 
Moist  toast  is  prepared  by  quickly  dipping  dry  toast  into  hot 
salted  water  or  hot  milk. 


92  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  beef  suet,  two  cups  of  chopped  raisins,  half  a 
cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  and  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grated.  Mix  all  together 
and  chop  fine;  take  two  cups  of  water,  thicken  with  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  break  in  three  eggs,  beaten  well. 
Butter  the  tin  pudding-boiler  and  boil  three  hours. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of  very  light  brown 
sugar,  beat  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  beat  five  minutes  more. 

WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
brown  sugar,  until  foamy.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  and  a 
half  of  flour,  beat,  and  stir  in  slowly  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  and  stir  con- 
stantly ten  minutes,  then  add  a  cupful  of  brandy.  Serve  in  a 
sauce  boat. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  93 

WINE  SAUCE. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  grape  jelly,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sherry  wine,  and  four  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Serve 
hot. 

THANKSGIVING  PUDDING. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  molasses, 
two  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  well  beaten 
eggs,  two  pounds  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  one  pound  of 
currants,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  a  scant  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  a  pound  cake.  Steam  six 
hours.    Serve  with  any  sauce  desired. 

RICE  CUSTARD. 

Break  up  one-half  cup  of  cold  cooked  rice  and  soak  in  one 
pint  of  hot  milk  until  soft.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
two  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  when  well  mixed 
add  the  hot  milk.  Turn  back  into  the  double  boiler  and  stir 
constantly  until  the  egg  is  cooked  and  the  custard  smooth. 
Stir  in  one-forth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Turn  into  a  dish  for 
serving,  and  when  slightly  cooled  spread  one-half  cupful  of 
apple  jelly  or  raspberry  jam  over  the  top.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  two  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  pile 
it  lightly  over  the  top.  Put  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  get  a 
delicate  brown.     Serve  cold. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  stewed  prunes^  drain  off  the  juice,  stone,  and 
chop  fine.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  stiff  and  add  grad- 
ually one  cupful  of  sugar,  beating  all  the  time,  and  then  add 


94  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

the  chopped  prunes  gradually.  Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  twen- 
ty minutes  and  serve  cold  with  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs. 

STUFFED  FIGS. 

Take  nice  large  figs.  Wash  and  soak  them  in  warm  water 
and  gently  press  into  their  regular  shape.  Cut  a  slit  in  each 
fig  and  press  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  English  walnuts. 
Put  a  strip  of  muslin  around  each  and  catch  with  a  few 
stitches  to  keep  the  nuts  from  boiling  out.  Put  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  cover  with  water  and  enough  sugar  to  make  a 
syrup.  Boil  gently  until  the  figs  are  tender.  Just  before 
taking  from  the  fire,  put  in  a  slice  of  lemon  and  stir  it 
around  three  or  four  times  and  then  take  out.  Cut  off  the 
muslin,  put  the  figs  in  a  glass  dish,  pour  the  syrup  over  them 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When  cold  serve  with  whipped 
cream  piled  around  them. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  two  cupfuls  of  bread 
crumbs,  half  a  pound  of  suet  chopped,  two  eggs  beaten  thor- 
oughly, one  cupful  of  milk,  one  cup  of  fine  sugar;  nutmeg  to 
taste.    Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce.  One  tablspoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  of  hot  water. 
Season  with  lemon  or  wine. 

A  SIMPLE  DESSERT. 

Take  as  many  wine  glasses  as  you  have  people;  half  fill 
each  one  with  powedered  macaroons,  cover  that  with  grape 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  95 

jelly,   and  on   top   of   that   put   a   heaping  tablespoonful   of 
whipped  cream. 

APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  five  apples,  put  them  in  a  sauce 
pan,  pour  over  them  one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  seven  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cover  closely  and  cook  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Be  careful  not  to  burn,  and  do  not  stir  them.  Serve 
hot  with  a  few  slices  of  lemon  on  top. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Pick  over  carefully  and  wash  two  cupfuls  and  a  half  of 
fine  cranberries.  Put  them  in  a  sauce  pan,  pour  over  a  heaping 
cup  of  sugar,  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  boiling  water.  Cover 
and  cook  slowly  one  hour. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 

Take  a  half  cup  of  white  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch;  mix  together  and  beat 
to  a  cream.  Set  upon  the  stove  and  add  boiling  water  until  it 
is  of  the  right  consistency.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  anything 
preferred. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  beaten  egg  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter;  pour  over  one  cup  of  scalded  milk.  Put  on  the 
stove  and  scald  again.    Flavor  to  taste. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  RICE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  add  one  teacup  of  rich  cream  and  the  juice 
and  peel  of  two  lemons. 


96  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

PUFFS. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  pint 
of  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  cups  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with 
sauce. 


RICE  PUDDING. 
One  cup  of  cooked  rice,  one  quart  of  rich  milk, 
half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  washed  and  seeded  raisins.  Stir  well  together, 
pour  in  a  well  buttered  baking  dish,  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  pour  gently  over  the  pudding  and  grate  one  dusting  of 
nutmeg  over,  and  put  in  oven  to  bake.  Bake  one  hour  and  a 
half  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  add  the  whipped  frosting 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  spread  gently  over  the  pudding  and 
put  back  in  oven  just  a  few  minutes.    Serve  in  baking  dish. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  boil  five 
minutes,  and  pour  on  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  strain,  return  to  the 
fire,  and  stir  till  thick  as  honey,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

RICE  JELLY. 

Wash  a  cupful  of  rice  and  soak  it  for  two  hours  in  a  cupful 
of  water.  Have  ready  on  the  range  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
and  turn  the  rice  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  soaked  into 
this.  Boil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  strain  through  a 
muslin  bag.  When  cold  and  thick  serve  with  powdered  sugar 
and  cream.     It  is  very  nice  and  nourishing. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  97 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Soak  a  half  cup  of  tapioca  over  night  in  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  dissolve  in 
this  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  Now  turn  in  the 
soaked  tapioca  and  cook  until  clear.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Have  ready  two 
jelly  glasses  wet  with  cold  water  and  turn  the  liquid  Jelly  into 
these.  Set  in  a  cold  place  to  form.  Serve  very  cold  with 
sweetened  cream. 

DATE  PUFFS. 

One  egg  and  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  tviTo  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  stone  and 
cut  in  half  one  teacupful  of  dates,  dredge  and  stir  into  the  bat- 
ter, half  fill  small  earthen  cups  and  steam  twenty-five  minutes. 
Serve  with  rich  cream. 

FRUIT  SAUCE. 

One-third  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  raspberries,  half 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water. 
Boil  all  together  slowly,  removing  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises; 
then  strain  through  a  sieve.  This  is  very  nice  served  with 
bread  or  rice  puddings. 

PEACH  TAPIOCA. 

Wash  a  cupful  of  tapioca  through  several  waters  and  let 
soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  set  on  the  stove  to  simmer  until  the 
tapioca  is  clear.    Pare  half  a  dozen  peaches  and  cut  into  quar- 


98  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

ters,  stir  into  the  tapioca  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Take 
from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  deep  dish  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 
Serve  very  cold  with  cream. 

CARMEL  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  of  milk,  quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
one  pinch  of  salt.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  reserving  half  a 
cup.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  cold  milk  to  them.  Stir  the 
sugar  in  a  small  frying  pan  until  it  becomes  liquid  and  just 
begins  to  smoke.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk ;  then  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  cold  milk,  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mix- 
ture begins  to  thicken.    Set  away  to  cool.    Serve  in  glasses. 

BAKED  QUINCES  FOR  DESSERT. 

A  delicious  dessert  is  baked  quinces  with  currant  jelly  and 
whipped  cream.  Cut  a  slice  from  blossom  and  stem  end  of 
each  quince ;  put  them  in  a  dish  with  enough  water  to  cover 
up  to  half  the  depth  of  the  quinces.  Cover  the  fruit  with  an- 
other dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  quinces  are 
quite  soft;  then  stand  them  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to 
serve,  put  them  in  a  glass  dish.  As  soon  as  the  quinces  are 
out  of  the  dish  pour  a  little  more  water  in,  add  enough  sugar 
to  sweeten  well,  boil  the  whole  to  a  syrup  and  pour  it  over 
the  quinces ;  then,  when  ready  to  serve,  put  a  teaspoonful  of 
currant  or  plum  jelly  on  top  of  each  quince  and  surround  with 
whipped  cream. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  cupful  of  sifted  Indian  meal 
mixed  with  one  cupful  of  cold  milk ;  when  scalded,  remove 
from  the  fire,  add  half  a  cupful  of  molasses,  two  tablespoon- 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  99 

fuls  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ginger,  a  little  cinnamon  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Stir 
until  very  smooth  and  then  add  a  sprinkling  of  candied  orange 
peel,  raisins  and  currants.  Put  a  layer  of  quartered  apples  in 
the  bottom  of  the  pudding  mould,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
steam  three  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened 
with  maple  syrup. 

APPLE  LOAF. 

Take  sufficient  good  light  bread  dough  for  a  loaf,  knead 
well  into  it  a  piece  of  butter  or  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  one 
cupful  finely  chopped  apple,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Let  rise  till 
light  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  45  minutes.  Take  out, 
rub  well  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  v/hite  sugar  and  cinnamon, 
let  set  in  oven  for  10  minutes,  then  set  away  to  cool  and  eat 
with  cofTee  for  breakfast. 

BAKED  APPLE. 

Remove  the  core,  stand  it  in  a  granite  pan,  add  a  little 
water  and  (if  apples  are  sour)  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven,  basting  frequently.  We  like  them  if  a  little 
cinnamon  be  sprinkled  over  them  before  baking.  If  desired, 
one-half  cupful  whipped  cream  may  be  added  after  they  are 
cool. 

WITH  OATMEAL. 

Pare  and  slice  several  apples.  Place  a  layer  in  a  well 
greased  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  well  cooked  oatmeal,  until 
all  is  used.  Place  in  oven  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar. 


100  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

STEAMED  APPLE. 
Remove  the  core  and  steam  continuously  till  tender. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Place  a  layer  of  sliced  apple  in  a  baking  dish  with  a 
sprinkling  of  sugar,  then  another  layer,  till  the  dish  is  filled. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

OLD-FASHIONED  BROWN  BETTY. 

Pare  and  cut  apples  into  slices.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  with 
layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  sprinkling  of  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon between  apples.  Have  the  top  layer  crumbs,  with  cinna- 
mon dusted  over  the  top.  Place  in  oven,  cover  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  bake  twenty  minutes  longer.    Serve  with  cream. 

STEAMED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Line  a  mould  with  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  put  in  a 
layer  of  stewed  apples,  then  another  layer  of  bread  and  but- 
ter, and  so  continue  until  the  mould  is  filled.  Beat  two  eggs, 
add  one  pint  of  milk,  pour  over  bread  and  apples.  Steam  one 
hour  and  serve  with  liquid  sauce. 

FRIED  APPLE. 

Pare  and  core  apples,  keeping  them  whole.  Cut  into  slices 
crosswise,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  or  a  little  lemon 
juice,  set  aside  for  a  few  minutes,  then  dip  each  piece  in  batter, 
slide  into  hot  fat,  fry  on  one  side,  turn  and  fry  on  the  other. 

APPLE  PONE. 

Pare  and  chop  finely  one  quart  sweet  apples.  Pour  a  pint 
of  boiling  water  into  a  quart  of  white  corn  meal.     When 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  loi 

cooked,  add  one  pint  sweet  milk,  stir  in  the  apples,  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  greased  shallow  pan,  cover  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  for  at  least  two  hours.  This  same  recipe  may  be 
turned  into  a  mould  and  steamed  three  hours  and  used  as  a 
pudding-. 

TURNOVER. 

Put  one  pint  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  mix  thoroughly. 
Then  rub  into  the  mixture  one  tablespoonful  butter,  and  add 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a  dough.  Roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch 
thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  stewed 
apples  on  one-half  the  dough,  fold  over  the  other  half,  pinch 
the  edges  together,  place  in  baking  pan,  brush  with  milk  and 
bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

DUMPLINGS. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  four  good-sized  apples,  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  cover  the  pan, 
let  stew.  While  they  are  stewing,  make  dough  as  for  turn- 
over, cut  into  small  circles,  place  closely  over  top  of  apple, 
cover  saucepan  and  stew  slowly  fifteen  minutes  without  lifting 
the  lid.  Dish  apples  around  the  edge  of  the  platter  and  put 
sauce  in  center. 

DISHES  PREPARED  WITH  GELATINE. 

GENERAL  RULES. 

If  possible,  soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  until  it  is  softened ; 
the  boiling  water  then  dissolves  it.  It  should  be  covered  with 
a  cloth  while  soaking.     If  gelatine  must  be  softened  quickly. 


102  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

pour  cold  water  over  the  gelatine  and  heat  over  boiling  water 
until  it  is  dissolved.  If  jellies  are  to  be  moulded,  the  moulds 
should  be  first  wet  with  cold  water.  Jellies  should  be  placed 
near  the  ice  to  harden,  but  may  be  hardened  quickly  by  sur- 
rounding with  ice  water. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

One  package  gelatine,  one-fourth  cupful  of  cold  water,  two 
cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
of  lemon  juice.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling 
water,  sugar,  and  juice.  Strain  and  put  in  cold  place  or  on  ice 
to  harden. 

CREAM  PUDDING. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  Knox's  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  cold 
water  ten  minutes.  Scald  one  pint  of  milk  and  add  the  gela- 
tine and  one  cupful  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  stir 
into  the  milk  and  cook  three  minutes.  When  cool  add  one 
pint  whipped  cream  and  vanilla  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  mould 
and  put  on  ice  to  harden.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

One  package  gelatine,  one-fourth  cupful  cold  water,  one- 
half  cupful  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  or- 
ange juice,  three  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice.  Soak  the  gelatine 
in  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  juice,  strain, 
and  put  on  ice  to  harden. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

One  package  gelatine,  one-fourth  cupful  of  cold  water, 
three  cupfuls  of  cofifee,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.     Soak  the 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  103 

gelatine   in   cold  water,    add   the   boiling   coffee    and   sugar. 
Strain,  set  on  ice  to  harden. 

WINE  JELLY. 

One  package  gelatine,  one-fourth  cupful  of  cold  water,  two 
cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  one  cupful  of  wine.  Soak  the  gela- 
tine in  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  lemon 
juice.  When  slightly  cooled  add  the  wine,  strain,  and  set 
on  ice  to  harden. 

SAUCES. 

Cooked  sauces  should  never  boil  hard,  or  be  violently 
stirred  while  cooking. 


HARD  SAUCE. 

Beat  until  white  and  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream  one 
cupful  of  pulverized  sugar  and  half  a  cupful  of  butter;  add 
the  whipped  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  for  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Flavor  with  one  tablespoonful  each  of  brandy  and  ex- 
tract of  nutmeg.  Smooth  into  shape  with  a  broad  knife  dipped 
in  cold  water.  Stamp  with  a  wooden  mould  and  place  on  ice 
until  needed. 


CREAM  SAUCE. 

To  the  whipped  white  of  an  egg  add  the  beaten  yolk ;  then 
stir  in,  gradually,  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar;  add  half  a 
cupful  of  cream,  diluted  with  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  milk  and 
flavored  with  rose  or  vanilla. 


104  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

To  a  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  whipped  until  foamy,  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 
Serve  very  cold. 

SOUR  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Beat  hard  and  long  one  pint  of  sour  cream,  the  juice  and 
rind  of  one  lemon  and  sugar  to  taste. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Heat  one  pint  of  milk  to  boiling;  beat  together  two  eggs 
and  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Shake  the 
saucepan  gently  until  the  mixture  thickens ;  remove  from 
the  fire,  flavor  to  taste  and  serve  hot. 

FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Bring  slowly  to  a  boil  one  cupful  of  hot  water,  two-thirds 
of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  pint 
of  fruit  syrup.  Skim,  strain  and  serve  hot  with  fruit  roll  or 
fruit  dumplings. 

FOAMING  SAUCE. 

Dissolve  a  teacupful  of  sugar  in  a  little  water ;  bring  to  a 
boil,  stir  in  a  glassful  of  wine,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs.    Serve  without  delay. 

SAUCE  AUX  QUATRE  FRUITS. 

Pare  a  very  thin  rind  from  one  lemon  and  one  orange; 
then  remove  the  thick  white  skin,  cutting  close  to  the  pulp. 
Cut  fruit  into  small  dice.    Pare,  core  and  dice  two  sour  apples. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  105 

Put  all  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  orange  and  lemon  rind,  shred- 
ded, and  one  cupful  of  seedless  raisins.  Add  a  little  water  and 
simmer  while  the  following  mixture  is  prepared:  Stir  into 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch 
wet  with  a  little  cold  water ;  add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  cook 
slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  add  one-half  cupful  of 
white  wine  and  the  fruit  mixture.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  extract  of  almonds.     Serve  hot. 

PLUM  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

Pour  two  cupfuls  of  water  over  four  cupfuls  of  sugar; 
throw  in  a  few  cloves  and  several  blades  of  mace  tied  in  a 
muslin  bag,  also  the  thin  rind  of  two  lemons.  Simmer  for  four 
or  five  hours,  or  until  of  a  rich  golden  color,  a  shade  darker 
than  honey.  Take  from  the  fire,  remove  spices  and  lemon 
rind,  add  a  cupful  of  sherry  and,  if  desired,  half  a  cupful  of 
brandy.  Reheat  a  portion  of  the  sauce  as  needed,  adding  a 
lump  of  butter  and  a  little  more  wine.  This  sauce  will  keep 
all  winter. 

SPICED  FIGS. 

Let  one  pound  of  figs  lie  in  cold  water  four  or  five  hours. 
Then  stew  them  slowly  in  the  same  water  until  tender.  Cook 
the  water  almost  off  them.  Then  pour  over  the  figs  a  mix- 
ture of  one  cupful  hot  vinegar,  one-half  cupful  brown  sugar, 
three  cloves,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

"One  cupful  or  less  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  pint  of  new 
milk,  one  pint  sweet  cream,  the  whites  of  five  eggs  whipped 
light,  one  pinch  of  salt.    Pour  the  mixture  into  a  dish.    Bake 


io6  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

three-quarters  of  an  hour,  setting  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water. 

Sauce. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter, 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  pinch  of  salt,  a  piece  of 
yellow  rind  of  lemon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Mix 
and  pour  over  these  ingredients  a  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  one  minute. 


An  emergency  dessert  easily  prepared  is  a  plain  corn  starch 
blanc  mange  enlivened  with  some  Maraschino  cherries,  and 
the  juice  beaten  with  cream  makes  a  delicious  sauce  of  a  deli- 
cate pink  shade. 


SALADS  107 


SALADS 


APPLE  SALAD. 

Chop  fine  a  large  juicy  apple.  Add  four  stalks  of  crisp 
white  celery  chopped  fine,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  mustard 
and  pepper.  Stir  and  cover  closely.  Put  in  a  cool  place  for 
twenty-five  minutes.  Before  serving  pour  over  the  following 
dressing:  Stir  together  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  one  of  sugar,  a  dusting  of  cayenne  pepper,  then  add  drop 
by  drop  two  teaspoonfuls  of  olive  oil. 


FRUIT  SALAD. 

One  orange,  two  bananas,  four  slices  of  chopped  pineap- 
ple, one  handful  of  Malaga  grapes,  half  a  dozen  candied  cher- 
ries chopped  fine  and  one  dozen  English  walnuts  minced.  Lay 
in  a  salad  dish. 

Dressing — Stir  together  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one 
of  butter,  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  beat  into  this  the  yolk  of  two  eggs ;  then 
add  the  above  ingredients,  cook  until  stiff  and  set  aside  till 
cold.  Just  before  serving  add  one  teacupful  of  whipped  cream 
and  pour  over  the  fruit. 


io8  SALADS 

APPLE  NUT  SALAD. 

Boil  and  peel  some  French  chestnuts,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
mix  with  celery,  and  tart  apples  cut  in  slende/  strips.  Pour 
over  the  salad  a  mayonnaise  dressing.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Yolk  of  one  egg.  Beat  and  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard dissolved  in  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  large  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dust  of  pepper.  Pour  in  oil 
gradually  until  you  have  the  desired  amount. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Select  tender,  crisp  head  lettuce.  Wash  w^ith  care  in  cold 
water  the  inner  leaves  and  lay  in  a  clean  dry  towel  to  absorb 
the  moisture.  Serve  with  French  dressing,  and  accompany 
with  radishes.  ^ 

WATER  CRESS  SALAD. 

Have  equal  quantities  of  cress,  pepper  grass,  and  sorrel. 
Serve  with  French  dressing  and  garnish  with  nasturtium 
blossoms. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Mix  three  teaspoonfuls  of  cider  vinegar  with  three  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one  large  pinch  of  salt,  one 
tiny  pinch  of  black  pepper  and  red  pepper. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Dip  eight  medium  sized  oysters  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry 
a  delicate  brown  in  a  teaspoonful  of  hot  butter.     Lay  on  a 


SALADS  109 

plate  and  set  in  ice  box  to  cool,  then  cut  them  into  half  inch 
pieces  and  mix  with  seven  tablespoonful?  pf  chopped  crisp 
celery.     Put  into  salad  bowl  and  serve  with  dressing. 

OYSTER  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  sour  whipped  cream.  Beat  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  with  a  pinch  of  mustard,  one  of  salt,  and  one 
of  cayenne  pepper  and  sugar.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  olive 
oil,  then  the  whipped  cream,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice.     Pour  over  the  salad  and  serve. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Pare  three  large  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  slice  them.  One 
small  onion  minced.  One  hard  boiled  egg  sliced.  Fill  the 
salad  bowl  with  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  eggs,  sprinkle 
each  layer  with  salt,  and  add  onion  before  pouring  on  the 
dressing,  pour  over  the  salad  one-half  cup  of  hot  vinegar  and 
garnish  with  celery.  If  preferred,  lettuce  dressing  can  take 
the  place  of  the  hot  vinegar. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Take  two  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  and  pare  without  scalding, 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Take  out  part  of  the  core,  and  put  them 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.  Fill  the  hollow  with  the  dressing; 
put  in  the  ice  box  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Select  two  tomatoes  of  similar  size,  plunge  into  boiling 
water.  Remove  and  cut  out  a  circular  piece  around  the  stem 
end  of  each.    Remove  the  skin,  and  set  aside  on  ice  to  chill. 


no  SALADS 

When  ready  to  serve,  dispose  each  tomato  on  a  lettuce  leaf 
seasoned  with  French  dressing.  Fill  each  cavity  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  finely  chopped  nut  meats  and  fruit  and  mayonnaise 
dressing,  with  a  large  candied  cherry  on  top. 

POTATO  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Arrange  in  a  salad  bowl  layers  of  thinly  sliced  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  cucumbers,  celery  and  hard-boiled  eggs.  Reserve 
one  egg  to  garnish  the  top.  Pour  over  the  vegetables  a  mix- 
ture of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Let  it  stand  for  an 
hour  or  two  in  a  cold  place,  then  pour  over  it  a  boiled  dress- 
ing.    Garnish  with  celery  leaves. 

BOILED  DRESSING. 

To  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  add  a  cupful  of  vinegar 
and  cook  over  hot  water  until  thick.  Put  in  a  bowl  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne.  Mix  thoroughly  together  and  pour  over  the  egg 
and  vinegar.  If  put  together  in  this  way  there  will  be  no  rank 
flavor  as  there  often  is  in  other  dressings. 

CELERY  SALAD  WITH  NUTS. 

Use  equal  parts  of  celery  and  English  walnuts  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  over  the  follow- 
ing dressing:  Yolk  of  two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  mustard  and  salt,  beating  constantly,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar ; 
cook  in  a  double  kettle  until  it  thickens.    When  removed  from 


SALADS  III 

the  fire  add  the  well-beaten  whites.    Before  serving  add  a  cup 
of  whipped  cream. 


TOMATO  SALAD  WITH  NUTS. 

Select  medium-sized  red  tomatoes,  place  them  on  lettuce  leaves 
on  bread  and  butter  plates.  Scoop  out  the  stem  end  of  the  tomato 
until  a  small  cup  is  formed.  Just  before  serving  fill  it  with 
roasted  peanuts  and  pour  over  the  nuts  and  tomato  a  salad  dress- 
ing made  in  the  following  way : 

Dressing. — One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard, three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  eight 
tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream.  Mix  well  together,  then  add  two- 
thirds  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar  and  cook  over  boiling  water  until 
done,  stirring  all  the  time.  Do  not  beat  the  yolks,  but  stir  with 
the  mustard,  sugar  and  cream.  The  salad  should  not  be  put  to- 
gether until  just  before  serving,  as  it  spoils  the  flavor.  Properly 
made,  it  is  one  of  the  prettiest  salads  imaginable. 


TOMATO  AND   CUCUMBER   SALAD. 

For  this  salad  have  ready  a  head  of  lettuce,  four  medium-sized 
tomatoes  and  two  cucumbers.  Pull  the  lettuce  leaves  apart  and 
arrange  them  in  a  salad  dish.  Peel  the  tomatoes,  slice  them  in 
thin  slices  and  place  them  on  the  lettuce  leaves.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Now  peel  and  slice  the  cucumber  and  arrange 
the  slices  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid  upon  the  slices  of  tomato. 
Peel  the  other  cucumber  and  lay  thin  slices  of  it  around  the  edge 
of  the  tomato  for  a  garnish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  it  any  preferred  dressing.  Scatter  chopped  parsley 
over  the  top. 


112  SALADS 

CUCUMBER  AND  ONION  SALAD. 

Pare  cucumbers  and  lay  in  ice  water  one  hour;  do  the  same 
with  onions  in  another  bowl.  Then  slice  them  in  the  proportion 
of  one  onion  to  three  large  cucumbers ;  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl 
and  season  with  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 

MARGUERITE  SALAD. 

Take  just  as  many  hard  boiled  eggs  as  there  are  persons 
to  be  served.  Remove  the  yolks  and  make  them  fine  with  a 
perforated  spoon,  add  salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mustard  and 
a  little  melted  butter.  Mix  thoroughly.  Lay  a  lettuce  leaf 
on  a  salad  plate  and  arrange  the  yolk  on  it  for  the  center  of  the 
"Marguerite."  Chop  the  whites  and  scatter  around  the  edge. 
Pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

ORANGE  AND  WALNUT  SALAD. 

Peel  four  oranges,  stripping  off  all  the  inner  white  skin,  and 
put  them  on  ice  for  several  hours  before  dividing  them  into  lobes, 
and  each  lobe  in  three  pieces.  Crack  twenty  English  walnuts, 
throw  them  into  boiling  water  and  let  them  lie  there  three 
minutes,  drain,  and  skin  them  and  break  into  small  bits.  Line  a 
salad  bowl  with  lettuce ;  arrange  the  oranges  and  nuts  in  alternate 
layers  upon  this,  covering  each  layer  with  a  good  salad  dress- 
ing.   Serve  at  once. 

BEET  AND  CHEESE  SALAD. 

Make  cottage  cheese  into  little  balls,  stick  on  either  side 
half  English  walnut.  Use  the  small  strawberry  beets  that  are 
put  up  in  three  pound  cans,  slice,  and  you  can  easily  cut  them 
into  heart  shape.  Use  two  cheese  balls  and  three  beet  hearts 
on  lettuce  leaf.     Keep  on  ice  until  just  before  time  to  serve. 


SALADS  113 

add  French  dressing  just  before  serving.    This  is  such  a  simple 
salad  and  so  tasty  you  will  be  sure  to  like  it. 


A  SPRING  SALAD. 

Pick  over,  trim,  wash  and  cook  one-half  peck  of  spinach 
in  the  inner  vessel  of  a  double  boiler  until  tender.  Drain  it 
dry  and  chop  it  very  fine.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  a  dash 
of  nutmeg,  lemon  juice  and  melted  butter.  Butter  some  cups 
and  line  them  with  the  spinach,  leaving  a  small  round  hole  in 
the  center.  Fill  this  with  cold  boiled  eggs  chopped  and  well 
seasoned.  Pack  the  mixture  in  firmly.  Put  upon  the  ice  and 
when  very  cold  turn  out  upon  crisp  lettuce  and  serve  with  a 
good  salad  dressing. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

One  small  can  of  salmon,  three  bunches  of  celery  chopped 
fine,  and  mixed  with  the  salmon. 

Dressing, — A  small  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per to  taste.  Mix,  and  add  to  the  salmon  and  celery.  Serve 
in  a  salad  dish,  garnished  with  lettuce. 

TOMATO  AND  SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Peel  large,  smooth  tomatoes  and  cut  in  half  and  scoop 
out  the  seeds,  leaving  only  the  shell,  take  a  can  of  shrimps  and 
drain  them  properly  and  set  on  ice  till  thoroughly  cooled; 
the  tomatoes  the  same;  mix  the  shrimps  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  fill  the  shells ;  place  each  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf 
and  serve  with  more  of  the  dressing. 


114  SALADS 

EGG  SALAD. 

Take  the  number  of  eggs  required  and  boil  just  twenty 
minutes.  When  cold,  shell  and  remove  the  whites  carefully 
from  the  yolks ;  chop  the  whites,  and  leave  the  yolks  whole. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  boiled  dressing,  and  small  balls 
of  cottage  cheese. 

CHEESE  SALAD. 

Small  cakes  of  cottage  cheese.  Serve  in  a  bed  of  shredded 
lettuce.  Cover  with  thick  salad  dressing  and  garnish  with 
crescent  olives. 

FRUIT  SALAD  WITH  CHERRIES. 

Take  a  half  cupful  of  water,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  liquor  glass  full  of  maraschino,  half  fill 
dainty  glasses  with  stoned  and  sliced  cherries,  strawberries 
or  bananas ;  pour  over  each  glass  a  little  syrup ;  mix  an  equal 
quantity  syrup  and  lemon  jelly  and  pour  into  glasses ;  this 
can  also  be  moulded. 

APPLE  SALAD. 

Line  a  salad  bowl  with  watercress ;  cut  into  neat  dice  half  to 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  cold  veal  or  lean  fresh  pork,  add  to 
the  cress;  also  add  two  raw  tart  apples  cut  small,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  pickle  and  a  table- 
spoonful  each  of  oil  and  vinegar.  Mix  and  cover  with  a  mask 
of  salad  dressing. 

BEAN  SALAD. 

Put  into  a  salad  bowl  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  crisp  lettuce,  add 
a  cupful  each  of  baked  beans  and  tongue,  or  ox  palate,  cut  into 


SALADS  115 

dice,  and  two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  not  too  fine;  season  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  salt,  white  pepper  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  mix  together,  arrange  neatly  and  mask  with 
a  top  layer  of  salad  dressing. 

BEET  SALAD. 

If  the  beets  are  to  be  cooked  for  salad  making  they  are  better 
baked  than  boiled,  as  they  lose  none  of  their  rich  color.  Put 
into  a  salad  bowl  a  layer  of  chickory  leaves,  slice  in  over  this  a 
baked  beet;  next  add  two  or  three  roots  of  boiled  oyster  plant, 
kohl-rabi,  or  root  celery,  a  button  onion  and  a  cucumber  pickle; 
mask  over  all  salad  dressing.  If  pickled  beets  are  used  omit 
the  pickle.  The  chickory  may  be  omitted,  and  veal  or  fresh 
pork  added. 

BEET  AND  SPANISH  ONION  SALAD. 

Cut  into  slices,  then  into  strips,  two  baked  beets,  slice  a 
medium-sized  Spanish  onion,  and  quarter  and  separate  the  sec- 
tions. If  convenient  add  as  much  table  celery  as  you  have  onion, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  capers  or  chopped  pickles,  salt  and  white 
pepper;  mix,  then  over  all  add  salad  dressing. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

There  is  only  one  secret  about  this  salad.  Do  not  use  tough, 
old  fowl,  nor  use  the  meat  too  dry.  When  possible  let  the  fowl 
stand  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked  until  cold;  this  will 
make  it  sufficiently  moist.  When  cold  roast  poultry  is  used,  cut 
it  up  and  moisten  slightly  with  chicken  broth,  or  water  containing 
a  little  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  cut-up  chicken  and  celery  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  salad  dressing,  arrange  neatly  in  a  bowl,  and 


ii6  SALADS 

mask  with  more  of  the  dressing.  Decorate  with  eggs,  olives 
and  cucumber  pickle.  Use  lettuce,  watercress,  chickory,  wild 
chickweed,  dandelion,  or  any  other  tender  salad  green  when 
celery  is  scarce. 

CLAM  SALAD. 

Boil  two  dozen  medium  clams  in  a  pint  of  water  ten  minutes 
only;  use  the  broth  for  a  soup  by  whisking  into  it  a  half  pint 
of  warm  milk  containing  a  whisked  egg;  heat,  but  do  not  boil, 
and  serve. 

Chop  the  clams,  not  too  fine,  put  them  into  a  salad  bowl  with 
one-third  each  of  potato  and  cold  fish ;  lettuce  or  watercress  may 
or  may  not  be  used.  Cover  with  salad  dressing.  Hard-boiled 
eggs  may  be  used  if  desired. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

The  fresher  the  cucumbers  are  and  the  quicker  they  are  served 
after  being  cut,  the  better ;  always  have  them  as  cold  as  possible. 
They  need  a  good  deal  of  seasoning,  therefore  add  a  little  salt, 
pepper  and  salad  dressing,  slightly  thinned  out  with  vinegar. 
Mix,  set  in  the  ice-box  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

For  breakfast  the  cucumbers  may  be  placed  on  a  leaf  bed  of 
cress  and  garnished  with  a  circle  of  crisp  radishes. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD  TO  SERVE  WITH  FISH. 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  and  place  them  in  cold  water  to  become 
crisp.  Do  not  use  salt  in  the  water,  as  is  sometimes  recom- 
mended, as  it  wilts  and  makes  them  indigestible.  Cut  the  cucum- 
bers in  two  lengthwise,  and  lay  them,  with  the  flat  side  down, 
on  the  dish  on  which  they  are  to  be  served.  Slice  them  without 
destroying  their  shape,  and  pour  on  them  salad  dressing. 


SALADS  117 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Cut  the  boiled  lobster  into  one-inch  pieces  or  larger.  Marinate 
it,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve ;  then  mix  with  it 
lightly  a  little  mayonnaise  salad  dressing.  Place  it  in  the  salad 
bowl,  smooth  the  top,  leaving  it  high  in  the  center.  Mask  it 
with  a  thick  covering  of  salad  dressing.  Sprinkle  over  it  the 
powdered  coral  of  the  lobster.  Place  on  top  the  heart  of  a 
head  of  lettuce,  and  around  the  salad  a  thick  border  of  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  carefully  selected. 

Shad  roe,  canned  salmon,  or  any  firm,  white  fish,  mixed  with 
mayonnaise  salad  dressing,  and  garnished  with  lettuce,  may  be 
served  as  a  salad. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Use  for  this  salad  sour  oranges ;  if  these  cannot  be  obtained, 
strain  over  sweet  oranges  after  they  are  sliced  a  little  lemon- 
juice.  Cut  the  oranges  in  thick  slices,  remove  the  seeds  carefully, 
arrange  them  in  rows,  and  turn  over  them  salad  dressing. 
Serve  with  game. 

Grape  fruit  may  be  used  the  same  way,  and  walnut  meats 
used  with  either. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

When  canned  shrimps  are  used,  they  should  be  removed  from 
the  tin  and  thoroughly  washed  in  cold  water.  Shrimps,  tomatoes, 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  watercress,  with  salad  dressing,  form  a 
surprisingly  good  salad  in  warm  weather. 

WATERCRESS  AND  APPLES. 

Prepare  the  watercress  the  same  as  lettuce,  letting  it  become 
crisp  in   cold  water,   then   drying  it  thoroughly.     Mix   it   with 


ii8  SALADS 

mayonnaise  salad  dressing.     A  few  thin  slices  of  sour  apple  with 
watercress  make  a  good  salad  to  serve  with  ducks. 

A  chopped  hard-boiled  €:gg  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  water- 
cress is  a  good  garnish,  and  improves  the  salad. 


WALDORF.     (APPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD.) 

Use  bright  red  or  green  apples.  Jonathans  or  Northern  Spies 
are  best.  Cut  the  stem  end  off,  saving  it.  Scoop  out  the  apple 
pulp.  Mix  with  one-third  its  bulk  in  chopped  celery,  and  salad 
dressing  number  one,  which  has  had  cream  added  to  it.  Return 
this  apple  pulp  and  celery  and  dressing  to  the  shell  of  apple. 
Replace  the  stem  top.  Serve  the  apple,  very  cold,  on  a  lettuce 
leaf. 


SALAD  DRESSING   NO.    i. 

One  level  teaspoonful  flour,  one  level  tablespoonful  sugar, 
one  level  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  white  pepper, 
one  speck  red  pepper,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  these  together 
and  pour  over  it  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar.  Stir  well 
until  thick.  Add  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  when  it 
is  well  mixed  in,  take  the  mixture  from  the  fire.  Cool  quickly. 
This  may  be  kept  a  week  or  two.  When  ready  to  use,  mix  it 
with  one-third  its  bulk  in  rich  cream,  sweet  or  sour.  Whip  the 
cream. 


CREAM  DRESSING  NO.  2. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of  sugar 
and  four  of  vinegar ;  beat  well  and  pour  over  the  cabbage,  previ- 
ously cut  very  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt. 


SALADS  119 

POTATO  SALAD,  HOT. 

Pare  six  or  eight  large  potatoes,  and  boil  till  done,  and  slice 
thin  while  hot ;  peel  and  cut  up  three  large  onions  into  small  bits 
and  mix  with  the  potatoes.  Cut  up  some  breakfast  bacon  into 
small  bits,  sufficient  to  fill  a  teacup  and  fry  it  a  light  brown ;  re- 
move the  meat,  and  into  the  grease  stir  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  making  a  sour  gravy,  which  with  the  bacon  pour  over 
the  potato  and  onion ;  mix  lightly.     To  be  eaten  when  hot. 

POTATO  SALAD,  COLD. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine,  with  enough  raw  onions  to 
season  nicely ;  make  a  dressing  as  for  lettuce  salad,  and  pour 
over  it. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cupful  sugar,  one-fourth  cup- 
ful of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  small  pinch 
of  mustard,  one  very  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Cream 
these  ingredients  together  and  add  the  hot  vinegar.  When 
cold,  and  you  wish  to  use  it,  thin  with  one-third  its  bulk  of 
very  thick  cream.  Cut  up  oranges  into  small  pieces  and  put 
a  spoonful  of  the  dressing  over  the  orange.    Serve  cold. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper  with  one  of  salt ;  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  one  even  tablespoonful  of  onion 
scraped  fine;  then  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  when  well 
mixed,  pour  the  mixture  over  your  salad  and  stir  all  till  well 
mingled. 

The  merit  of  a  salad  is  that  it  should  be  cool,  fresh  and 
crisp.     For  vegetables  use  only  the  delicate  white  stalks  of 


I20  SALADS 

celery,  the  small  heart-leaves  of  lettuce,  or  tenderest  stalks 
and  leaves  of  the  white  cabbage.  Keep  the  vegetable  portions 
crisp  and  fresh  until  the  time  for  serving,  when  add  the  meat. 
For  chicken  and  fish  salads  use  the  mayonnaise  dressing.  For 
simple  vegetable  salads  the  French  dressing  is  most  appro- 
priate, using  onion  rather  than  garlic. 


SANDWICHES  I2i 


SANDWICHES 


Bread  for  sandwiches  should  not  be  more  than  twenty-four 
hours  old,  and  cut  thin,  the  crust  should  all  be  neatly  cut  away 
and  the  butter  creamed  and  evenly  spread.  If  nuts  are  used 
they  should  be  chopped  fine,  salted  and  mixed  with  butter,  or 
with  enough  cream  salad  dressing  to  moisten. 

When  preparing  sandwiches  for  a  large  company  it  is 
sometimes  necessary  to  make  them  several  hours  in  advance 
of  the  serving.  If  a  napkin  is  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and 
wrapped  around  the  sandwiches,  which  should  then  be  placed 
in  a  cool  room,  they  will  keep  as  fresh  and  moist  as  though 
just  spread. 

GRAHAM  BREAD  STRIPS. 

Take  thin  slices  of  graham  bread  and  spread  lightly  with 
butter  and  then  with  prepared  mustard,  then  grated  cheese; 
press  slices  of  bread  firmly  together,  cut  in  inch  wide  strips, 
brown  in  the  oven.    To  be  eaten  with  salads. 

WATER  CRESS  SANDWICHES. 

Wash  well  some  water  cress  and  dry  theni  in  a  clean  white 
cloth,  pressing  out  every  bit  of  the  moisture.  Then  mix  with 
the  cress  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  season  with  salt  and 


122  SANDWICHES 

pepper  to  taste.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  cut  away  the 
crust.  Cut  the  cress  into  small  pieces,  removing  the  stems. 
Place  the  cress  between  each  slice  of  bread  and  butter,  with  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  on  each.  Press  down  the  slices,  and 
serve. 

CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  up  fine  half  a  cupful  of  boiled  chicken,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  gravy,  or  cream  enough  to  soften  it.  Add  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper. 
Work  it  very  smooth  while  it  is  heating  until  it  looks  almost 
like  paste.  Then  spread  it  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Spread  it  be- 
tween slices  of  buttered  bread  and  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Press 
both  sides  together. 

RUSSIAN  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  into  very  thin  slices,  then  into  squares.  After 
buttering,  spread  a  layer  of  fresh  Neuchatel  cheese  on  each 
piece.  Chop  seeded  olives  very  fine  and  mix  with  a  mayon- 
naise dressing,  then  add  a  layer  of  this  over  the  cheese.  Press 
both  sides  of  the  sandwiches  together.  Serve  on  a  plate 
garnished  with  lettuce  leaves. 

OYSTER  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  fine  half  a  teacupful  of  raw  oysters ;  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Put  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter  and  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
bread-crumbs.  Heat  until  steaming  and  then  add  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  thick  cream  into  which  has  been  beaten  the  yolk  of 
an  egg.  Stir  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  add  five  drops  of  lemon  juice.  When  cold,  spread 
between  buttered  sandwich  bread. 


SANDWICHES  123 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  fine  three  or  four  small  slices  of  boiled  ham,  mix 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  chop  two  green  pickles  fine.  Cut 
bread  into  very  thin  slices,  butter,  lay  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf, 
and  then  put  in  the  filling.  Press  both  sides  of  the  sandwiches 
together. 

CLUB  SANDWICHES. 

Lay  between  thin  slices  of  hot  buttered  toast,  a  thin  slice 
of  boiled  ham,  then  a  slice  of  cold  chicken  and  lastly  a  crisp 
lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  dressing.     Serve  hot. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Hard  boil  four  eggs;  be  sure  the  eggs  are  nice  and  fresh. 
When  cold,  cut  them  into  thin  slices  and  lay  them  between 
very  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter ;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  a  sprinkling  of  nutmeg. 

BOSTON  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread,  in  rounds,  or  any 
odd  shapes,  spread  them  lightly  with  cream  or  Neufchatel 
cheese,  take  a  corresponding  number  of  slices  and  spread  with 
olives  and  pimentos  chopped  and  mixed  with  salad  dressing; 
press  the  slices  together  with  a  leaf  of  crisp  white  lettuce  be- 
tween each  sandwich. 

TO  MAKE  BUTTERS  FOR  SANDWICHES. 

Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream,  blending  any  flavor  desired, 
such  as  anchovy,  caviare,  sardine,  lobster,  cheese,  parsley, 
cress,  chives,  horseradish,  any  of  which  may  be  used. 


124  SANDWICHES 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  olives  chopped  coarsely 
and  mixed  with  salad  dressing.    Bread  should  not  be  buttered. 

DILL  SANDWICHES. 

Slice  thin  and  spread  with  butter  rye  bread;  on  one-half 
of  bread  spread  thin  chips  of  cold  chicken,  or  turkey,  cover 
this  with  dill  pickles,  sliced  very  thin,  then  cover  with  the 
other  slice  of  bread,  and  butter,  press  together;  good  for 
picnics  and  outings. 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES. 

These  are  quite  new.  Slice  medium  sized  cucumbers  very 
thin,  and  let  them  stand  in  cold  salt  and  water  one-half  hour, 
then  drain  off  and  pour  over  white  wine,  or  tarragon  vinegar, 
with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  let  stand  one  hour,  lay  the 
cucumber  slices  upon  small  rounds  of  brown  bread,  and  spread 
with  butter. 

NUT  SANDWICH  WITH  CHEESE. 

One-half  cupful  walnuts  chopped  fine,  cream  cheese  enough 
worked  with  them  to  form  a  smooth  paste.  Soften  the  paste 
with  cream  until  it  will  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

DELICIOUS  SANDWICHES. 

Three  ounces  of  cream  cheese  chopped  fine,  mix  with  one 
teaspoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  anchovy,  add  a  few 
chopped  nuts  (pecans  or  walnuts),  season  to  taste,  salt  and 
white  pepper.  Cut  thin  slices  of  white  bread  and  remove  the 
crust,  spreading  the  above  mixture  between  the  slices;  gar- 
nish with  water  cress. 


SANDWICHES  125 

TOASTED  SANDWICHES. 

Equal  parts  of  chicken  or  veal,  use  one  part  of  cold  tongue ; 
to  one  cupful  of  meat  when  chopped  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Cut  bread  and  butter  it; 
toast  each  slice  a  delicate  brown ;  spread  with  the  above  mix- 
ture while  hot  and  put  together.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  white  bread  in  thin  slices,  cutting  away  all  crusts. 
Place  on  a  slice  a  fine  tender  lettuce  leaf  and  spread  with 
salad  dressing;  cover  over  with  another  slice  and  press  gently 
together.  Nasturtium  leaves  or  flowers  and  a  bit  of  mustard 
or  the  yolk  of  hard  boiled  egg  may  be  added  if  desired. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Grate  dry  cheese  and  sprinkle  on  buttered  bread ;  add  a 
very  light  sprinkling  of  cayenne  pepper  if  desired. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Pound  peanuts  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar  and  season  with  salt 
and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  hard  boiled  eggs  fine,  with  a  cucumber  pickle,  large 
or  small,  according  to  number  of  eggs  used,  pepper  and  salt  and 
a  little  made  mustard.  Rub  very  smooth  with  a  silver  spoon ; 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  from  which  the 
crust  has  been  removed.     Pile  on  a  plate  on  a  folded  napkin. 


126  SANDWICHES 

NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Mix  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  nuts  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  mayonnaise  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  entire  wheat  bread 
trimmed  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes.  Almonds,  English  wal- 
nuts, or  peanuts  may  be  used  separately  or  in  combination, 
and  chopped  dates  may  be  added  to  the  nuts. 

BANANA  SANDWICHES. 

Select  one  large  very  ripe  banana,  peel  and  slice  very  thin 
and  evenly.  Sprinkle  with  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
Add  a  little  honey  to  white  cream  cheese  and  spread  on  dainty 
rounds  of  bread  instead  of  butter.  Place  a  layer  of  the  sliced 
bananas  between  the  two  slices.  Preserved  ginger  and  or- 
ange peel  minced  fine  and  mixed  with  a  little  sweet  cream 
may  be  used  for  filling. 

LOBSTER  SANDWICHES. 

Mix  the  coral  of  the  lobster  with  a  little  butter  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  wheat  bread.  Dust  with  a  little  paprika. 
Have  half  a  cup  of  the  lobster  meat  chopped  rather  fine  and 
mix  with  one  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise.  Put  this  between 
the  buttered  slices  with  a  lettuce  leaf  on  each  slice.  Press 
the  slices  together.  Serve  on  a  small  meat  platter,  garnished 
with  lettuce  and  olives. 

OYSTER  SANDWICHES. 
Half  a  dozen  large  oysters  fried  and  perfectly  cold,  lay  a 
crisp  lettuce  leaf  dipped  in  French  dressing  on  the  buttered 
slices  of  white  bread  or  spread  a  little  dressing  on  each  leaf. 
Cut  the  oysters  into  nice  little  slices  crosswise,  rejecting  the 
hard  part,  and  lay  the  slices,  overlapping  one  another,  be- 
tween the  lettuce  leaves. 


SANDWICHES  127 

WATERCRESS  SANDWICHES. 

Select  a  five-cent  bunch  of  fresh  watercress ;  remove  the 
stems  and  chop  the  leaves  fine ;  add  four  to  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  salad  dressing  to  the  chopped  leaves ;  mix,  and  spread  over 
thin  slices  of  bread.    These  sandwiches  are  appetizing. 

CELERY  SANDWICHES. 
Chop  fine  three  full-size  stalks  of  celery ;  add  to  this  enough 
salad  dressing  to  make  a  thick  paste ;  spread  evenly  over  thin 
slices  of  white,  graham,  rye,  or  Boston  brown  bread;  form 
sandwiches  and  cut  these  into  squares  or  fingers. 

CAVIAR  SANDWICHES. 

This  form  of  sturgeon  roe  is  becoming  more  and  more 
popular  with  Americans,  but  one  is  rarely  offered  a  perfectly 
made  caviar  sandwich.  This  is  the  way  they  should  be  made : 
Put  into  a  soup-plate  two  tablespoonfuls  of  caviar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salad  dressing  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  onion ;  mix  together,  and  while  mixing,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  half  a  juicy  lemon,  using  care  to  remove  the  seeds. 
Spread  the  paste  over  dry  thin  slices  of  bread;  form  sand- 
wiches and  cut  these  into  fingers.  The  onion  may  be  omitted 
if  objected  to. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 

This  is  a  unique  way  of  serving  olives  at  teas  and  recep- 
tions. Cut  the  flesh  from  the  stones  of  half  a  dozen  queen 
olives,  chop  it  fine,  add  to  it  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  salad 
dressing.  Mix  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread; 
form  sandwiches  and  cut  these  into  squares  or  fingers.  Stuffed 
olives  are  very  appetizing  served  this  way. 


128  SANDWICHES 

A  sandwich  which  enjoys  great  vogxie  at  New  York  teas 
is  easily  made.  Butter  three  slices  of  white  bread  and  two  of 
graham.  Lay  light  then  dark  on  top  of  one  another  alternately 
and  press  carefully  together,  then  cut  like  layer  cake  in  pieces 
half  an  inch  wide. 


GARNISHES 


For  oysters,  sardines,  fish,  roast  veal  or  salads,  lemon 
slices  make  a  desirable  garnish.  For  cold  meats,  chops  and 
cutlets,  parsley  or  celery  tops. 

For  decorating  fowl  nothing  better  than  watercress  can 
be  used.  Balls  made  of  boiled  rice  with  jelly  on  each  are  at- 
tractive on  a  plate  of  cold  meat. 

In  garnishing  cold  corned  beef  sliced  gherkins  and  large 
pickles  sliced  make  an  attractive  garnish.  For  game,  cold 
tongue,  fried  oysters  or  roast  veal,  currant  jelly  is  used  as 
garnish. 

Never  under  any  circumstances  serve  a  heavy  soup  at  a 
luncheon. 


BEVERAGES  129 


BEVERAGES 


Boiling  water  is  a  very  important  desideratum  in  the  mak- 
ing of  a  cup  of  good  coffee  or  tea.  Do  not  boil  the  water 
more  than  three  or  four  minutes ;  longer  boiling  ruins  the 
water  for  coffee  or  tea  making,  as  most  of  its  natural  prop- 
erties escape  by  evaporation,  leaving  a  very  insipid  liquid, 
composed  mostly  of  lime  and  iron,  that  would  ruin  the  best 
cofifee,  and  give  the  tea  a  dark,  dead  look.  Water  left  in  the 
tea-kettle  over  night  should  never  be  used ;  no  matter  how  ex- 
cellent your  cofifee  or  tea  may  be,  it  will  be  ruined  by  the  addi- 
tion of  water  that  has  been  boiled  more  than  once. 

FILTERED  OR  DRIP  COFFEE. 

For  each  person  allow  a  large  tablespoonful  of  finely 
ground  coffee,  and  to  every  tablespoonful  allow  a  cupful  of 
boiling  water;  the  coffee  to  be  one  part  Mocha  to  two  of 
Java. 

Have  a  small  iron  ring  made  to  fit  the  top  of  the  coffee- 
pot inside,  and  to  this  ring  sew  a  small  muslin  bag  (the  muslin 
for  the  purpose  must  not  be  too  thin).  Fit  the  bag  into  the 
pot,  pour  some  boiling  water  in  it,  and,  when  the  pot  is  well 
warmed,  put  the  ground  coffee  into  the  bag;  pour  over  as 
much  boiling  water  as  is  required,  close  the  lid,  and,  when  all 


130  BEVERAGES 

the  water  has  filtered  through,  remove  the  bag,  and  send  the 
coffee  to  table.  Making  it  in  this  manner  prevents  the  ne- 
cessity of  pouring  the  coffee  from  one  vessel  to  another,  which 
cools  and  spoils  it.  The  water  should  be  poured  on  the  coffee 
gradually  so  that  the  infusion  may  be  stronger;  and  the  bag 
must  be  well  made  that  none  of  the  grounds  may  escape 
through  the  seams  and  so  make  the  coffee  thick  and  muddy. 
Patented  coffee-pots  on  this  principle  can  be  purchased  at 
most  house-furnishing  stores. 


TO  MAKE  TEA. 

Allow  two  teaspoonfuls  of  tea  to  one  large  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water.  Scald  the  teapot,  put  in  the  tea,  pour  on  about 
a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  warm  place 
where  it  will  not  boil,  but  keep  very  hot,  to  almost  boiling; 
let  it  steep  or  "draw"  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  Now  fill  up 
with  as  much  boiling  water  as  is  required.  Send  hot  to  the 
table.  It  is  better  to  use  a  china  or  porcelain  teapot,  but  if  you 
do  use  metal  let  it  be  tin,  new,  bright  and  clean ;  never  use  it 
when  the  tin  is  worn  off  and  the  iron  exposed.  If  you  do  you 
are  drinking  tea-ate  of  iron. 

To  make  tea  to  perfection,  boiling  water  must  be  poured 
on  the  leaves  directly  it  boils.  Water  which  has  been  boiling 
more  than  five  minutes,  or  which  has  previously  boiled,  should 
on  no  account  be  used.  If  the  water  does  not  boil,  or  if  it  be 
allowed  to  overboil,  the  leaves  of  the  tea  will  be  only  half- 
opened  and  the  tea  itself  will  be  quite  spoiled.  The  water 
should  be  allowed  to  remain  on  the  leaves  from  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes. 


BEVERAGES  131 

COLD  TEA. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tea,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
one  pint  of  water,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  half.  Let  the  tea 
stand  in  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  and  add 
the  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  After  it  has  again  stood  an  hour, 
strain  again  and  the  tea  is  ready  for  the  cracked  ice.  Serve 
in  small  soda  glasses. 

COFFEE. 

Be  careful  in  buying  coffee  not  to  get  too  much  at  a  time, 
as  it  loses  its  flavor,  no  matter  how  well  sealed.  For  the 
small  family  the  pulverized  is  best.  Get  a  half  pound  of  coffee 
and  keep  in  an  air  tight  glass  jar. 

Never  put  dry  coffee  into  the  coffee  pot,  it  makes  it  very 
hard  to  keep  clean  inside.  A  little  cold  water  should  be  poured 
in  first,  then  the  egg,  and  last  the  coffee,  then  mix  all  together 
thoroughly. 

COFFEE. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  coffee  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  raw  egg  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Pour  on 
this  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  boil 
up;  then  remove  from  the  fire.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes 
to  settle,  then  strain  into  a  hot  coffee  pot  through  a  damp 
cheese  cloth  laid  on  a  wire  strainer. 

COCOA. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa  to  a  half  pint  of  water,  as 
much  milk  as  water,  sugar  to  taste.  Rub  the  cocoa  smooth  in 
a  little  cold  water ;  have  ready  on  the  fire  half  a  pint  of  boiling 


132  BEVERAGES 

water;  stir  in  grated  cocoa  paste.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  add 
the  milk  and  boil  five  minutes  more,  stirring  often.  Sweeten 
in  cups  so  as  to  suit  different  tastes. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

Take  the  juice  of  six  lemons;  grate  the  rind  of  three  in  it, 
let  it  stand  over  night.  Then  take  three  pounds  of  white  su- 
gar and  make  a  thick  syrup.  When  it  is  quite  cool  strain  the 
juice  into  it,  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from  the  grated  rind  as 
will  suit  the  taste.  Put  into  bottles,  tightly  corked,  for  future 
use.  A  tablespoonful  in  a  goblet  of  ice  water  will  make  a 
delicious  drink. 

MILK  PUNCH  FOR  INVALIDS. 

One-half  pint  of  milk  made  very  sweet,  half  a  wine  glas^ 
of  rum,  stir  well  together.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the 
top  of  the  glasses.    Serve  with  straws  in  each  glass. 

WINE  WHEY  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Sweeten  to  taste  half  a  pint  of  milk,  put  in  a  double  boiler 
and  let  come  to  a  boil,  throw  in  one  glass  of  cherry  wine. 
When  the  curd  forms,  strain  the  whey  through  a  clean  muslin 
bag  into  small  soda  glasses. 

ORANGEADE. 

Juice  of  two  oranges,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  su- 
gar, four  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  one  glass  of  finely 
chipped  ice.  Two  glasses  of  water,  shake  well  in  a  large  shak- 
er.    Serve  in  soda  glasses,  and  dress  with  fruit. 


BEVERAGES  133 

LIMEADE. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  syrup,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
lime  juice.  Pour  over  finely  chipped  ice  in  mineral  glasses. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar. 

GRAPE-JUICEADE. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  syrup,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
grape  juice,  one  glass  of  water;  sweeten  to  taste.  Stir  well 
and  serve  in  mineral  glasses  with  straws. 

LEMON  EGGNOGG. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  syrup,  two  eggs,  four  dashes 
of  Angastura  bitters,  one  teaspoonful  of  rum,  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  sugar,  one  glass  of  milk,  and  a  cup  of 
chipped  ice.  Shake  well  in  shaker,  strain,  and  serve  in  soda 
glasses  with  straws. 

DELMONICO'S  EGG-LEMONADE. 

Two  fresh  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  one  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  one  glass  of  finely 
chipped  ice.    Shake  well  in  shaker,  strain,  and  serve. 

EGG-PINEAPPLE. 

Half  a  cup  of  pineapple  syrup,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
two  eggs,  one  glass  of  chipped  ice,  three  tablespoonfuls  and 
a  half  of  powdered  sugar.  Shake  and  serve  in  soda  glasses 
with  straws. 

MINT  JULEP. 

Dampen  a  small  bunch  of  mint,  dust  with  powdered  sugar, 
bruise  slightly  and  pour  over  it  a  little  boiling  water;  allow 


134  BEVERAGES 

this  to  draw,  then  strain  into  a  tall,  thin  glass  quite  filled  with 
finely  cracked  ice;  dress  the  glass  with  sprigs  of  mint,  and 
pour  in  enough  brandy  to  fill.  Do  not  stir,  but  stand  it  away 
till  thoroughly  cool.     Serve  with  straws. 

HOT  CLAM  SODA. 

One  teaspoonful  of  clam  juice  and  a  little  cream;  fill  cup 
with  hot  water,  stir  with  a  spoon,  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 

CREAM   DE   BEEF  BOUILLON. 

Add  one  ounce  of  sweet  cream  to  a  cup  of  beef  bouillon  and 
top  with  whipped  cream  and  you  have  a  delicious  drink. 

DOROTHY  ALE. 

Juice  of  one  orange,  three  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sugar, 
one  egg,  one  ounce  grape  juice,  one-fourth  ounce  port  wine, 
small  quantity  shaved  ice ;  fill  glass  with  plain  water ;  shake, 
put  in  lemonade  glass,  finish  with  a  slice  of  pineapple  and  a 
cherry. 

HOT  EGG  MILK. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  ounce  cream,  one  egg,  hot 
milk  to  fill  an  eight-ounce  mug.  Top  with  whipped  cream  and 
sprinkle  with  nutmeg.  If  there  is  no  facility  for  keeping  hot 
milk,  use  about  two  ounces  of  cream,  and  fill  the  mug  with 
hot  water. 

TOAST. 
Here's  to  the  Lady  we  love  and  the  friend  we  trust. 
And  to  the  one  who  thinks  the  most  good  and  speaks  the 
least  ill  of  his  neighbor. 


BREAKFAST  FOODS  135 


BREAKFAST  FOODS 


VITOS  BREAKFAST  FOOD. 

To  four  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  stir  in  gradually  one  cupful  Pillsbury's 
Vitos.  Let  boil  two  minutes  while  stirring,  then  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  thirty  minutes.  If  time  allows,  the  flavor  is 
much  improved  by  longer  cooking.  With  a  single  boiler  the 
cooking  of  Vitos  may  be  accomplished  in  fifteen  minutes,  but 
this  needs  careful  watching,  as  the  cereal  is  likely  to  become 
scorched,  and  this  manner  of  cooking  is  wasteful.  Serve 
Vitos  with  rich  cream  and  sugar. 

CREAMED  VITOS. 

To  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  boiling  water  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  stir  in  slowly  one  cupful  of  Pillsbury's 
Vitos.  Let  this  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time,  then 
put  it  in  a  double  boiler,  add  two  cupfuls  milk  and  let  it  cook 
for  thirty  minutes.     Serve  hot  with  cream. 

VITOS  WHEAT  FOOD  WITH  APPLES. 

Core  apples,  leaving  large  cavities ;  pare  and  cook  until 
soft  in  syrup  made  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  together.  Fill 
cavities  with  Pillsbury's  Vitos  mush  and  serve  with  sugar  and 
cream.    The  syrup  should  be  saved  and  re-used. 


136  SIMPLE    BREAKFASTS 


SIMPLE  BREAKFASTS 


Vitos.      Sugar  and  Cream. 

Liver  and  Bacon. 

Toast.    Coffee. 


Peaches.      Sugar  and  Cream. 

Egg  Omelet. 

Muffins.       Maple  Syrup. 

Coffee. 


Vitos.      Sugar  and  Cream. 

Broiled  Bacon.       Baked  Potatoes. 

Bread  and  Butter.      Coffee. 


Baked  Apples.      Sugar  and  Cream. 

Eggs  on  Toast. 

Coffee. 


Sliced  Oranges. 

Creamed  Chipped  Beef. 

Toast.    Coffee. 


SIMPLE    BREAKFASTS  137 

Raspberries.       Sugar  and  Cream. 

Batter  Cakes.      Maple  Syrup. 

Coffee. 


A  Cereal  with  Cream  and  Sugar. 

Veal  Steak.       German  Fried   Potatoes. 

Toast.    Coffee. 


Cantaloupes. 

Codfish  Balls.       Baked  Potatoes. 

Toast.    Coffee. 


Sliced  Peaches.       Sugar  and  Cream. 

Little  Pigs  in   Blankets. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Toast.     Coffee. 


Peaches.       Sugar  and  Cream. 

Waffles.      Maple  Syrup. 

Coffee. 


Cantaloupes. 

Lamb  Chops.      Baked  Potatoes. 

Toast.     Coffee. 


Strawberries.       Sugar  and  Cream. 

French  Toast.      Maple  Syrup. 

Coffee. 


Baked  Apples.  Sugar  and  Cream. 

Pork  Chops.      Creamed  Potatoes. 

Toast.    Coffee. 


138  SIMPLE  LUNCHES 


SIMPLE  LUNCHES 


Cold  Tongue.      Tomato  Ketchup. 

French    Fried    Potatoes. 

Rye  and  White  Bread. 

Peaches.  Sugar  and  Cream. 

Milk. 


Cold  Roast  Beef  Sandwiches. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Strawberry  Shortcake.       Cream. 

Coffee. 


Cold  Roast  Pork.       Hot  Biscuits. 

Apple  Salad. 

Cake.       Lemonade. 


Cold  Sliced  Ham.       Potato  Chips. 

Lettuce.       Bread  and  Butter. 

Cheese.       Soda  Wafers. 

Lemonade. 


SIMPLE  LUNCHES  139 

Cold   Sliced   Beef.       Horeradish. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. 

Bread  and  Butter. 

Strawberry  Shortcake.      Tea. 


Salmon  Salad.      Potato  Chips. 

Soda  Wafers.  Bread  and  Butter. 

Lemon  Cake.       Coffee. 


Schmier  Kase.  Rye  Bread  and  Butter. 

Hot  Baked  Apples.    Sugar  and  Cream. 

Iced  Tea. 


Chicken  Sandwiches.       Lettuce. 

Strawberries  and  Cream. 

Iced  Tea. 


140  A  SIMPLE   LUNCHEON 


A  SIMPLE  LUNCHEON 


Strawberry  Cocktail. 

Creamed  Fish  in  Ramekin  Cases. 

Soda  Biscuits. 

Fried  Chicken.      Cream  Sauce. 

French  Peas. 

Cucumber  Salad. 

Wafers.       Cream  Cheese. 

Coffee. 

Bouillon  in  Cups.    Croutons. 

Broiled  Chicken.       Cream   Sauce. 

Rolls.       Coffee, 

Celery   Salad.       Wafers. 

Nut  Sunde. 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH  141 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH 


WELSH  RAREBIT. 

One-half  pint  ale  heated  to  boiling  point,  cut  up  fine  one 
pound  ordinary  cheese,  beat  one  egg  and  add  to  the  cheese, 
together  with  two  teaspoonfuls  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper.  Put  all  into  the 
beer,  stirring  constantly,  but  carefully,  until  smooth,  but  no 
longer.     Serve  at  once  on  toast  or  crackers. 


ENGLISH  RAREBIT. 

Cut  finely  a  cup  of  cheese  and  crumb  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  put  in  your  chafing  dish  or  frying  pan  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  add  the  cheese  and  stir  it  to  a  cream. 
Moisten  the  bread  crumbs  with  a  cup  of  milk,  thicken  with 
three  eggs  well  beaten.    This  will  serve  six  or  eight  persons. 


CHEESE  DREAMS. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  with  butter;  between 
two  slices  of  the  bread  sandwich  a  thin  slice  of  cream  cheese. 
Fry  quickly  in  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  or  frying  pan. 


142  FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

SHRIMP  WIGGLE. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  pint  milk.  When  thick  add 
one-half  can  shrimps  and  one-half  can  green  peas.  Serve  when 
the  shrimps  and  peas  are  hot. 

NEW  YORK  CHAFED  OYSTERS. 

Put  one  pint  of  oysters  in  a  chafing  dish,  add  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste. 
When  the  oysters  begin  to  heat,  add  flour  a  little  at  a  time, 
to  prevent  lumps,  stirring  well,  until  the  gravy  is  slightly 
thickened.    Serve  on  hot  plates. 

PIGS   IN    BLANKETS. 

Drain  and  wipe  large  oysters.  Pin  around  each  a  thin 
slice  of  bacon.  Fasten  it  with  a  wooden  toothpick.  Cook 
them  in  the  hot  blazer  until  the  bacon  is  brown  and  crisp. 

STEWED  KIDNEYS. 

Split  the  kidneys  and  cut  each  in  three  pieces.  Brown  them 
in  butter.  Stir  flour  and  water  in  the  pan  to  make  a  brown 
sauce,  and  cook  the  kidneys  in  this  for  ten  minutes. 

BROILED   LAMB   CHOPS. 

Have  rib  chops,  with  the  bones  removed,  rolled  into  ros- 
ettes. Broil  in  the  hot  blazer  from  eight  to  ten  minutes,  turn- 
ing them  several  times.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter.    Broiled  tomatoes  should  accompany  this  dish. 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH  143 

BROILED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  large  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  without  peeling. 
Sprinkle  them  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  sugar  and  roll 
them  in  cracker  dust.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the 
blazer,  and  put  in  the  slices  of  tomato.  Turn  frequently  until 
done. 


WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Three  cups  of  cheese,  ale,  red  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one  saltspoonful  of  mustard,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
one  saltspoonful  of  soda  or  bicarbonate  of  potash.  Put  the 
butter  in  the  blazer  over  boiling  water.  Break  the  cheese 
in  small  pieces  and  stir  it  in  the  melted  butter.  Season  it  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  dry  mustard,  and  stir  in  the  soda  or  potash. 
As  the  cheese  begins  to  soften,  slowly  add  the  ale,  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls,  stirring  constantly.  In  a  few  moments 
it  will  be  a  smooth,  thick  cream.  Stop  cooking  at  once,  be- 
fore it  has  time  to  curdle.  If  the  cooking  stops  too  soon  it 
will  be  stringy.  Serve  on  toast  or  crackers.  A  soft,  rich 
cheese  should  be  used.  The  American  cream  cheese  is  very 
good.  The  Welsh  rarebit  calls  for  ale.  Cream  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  ale,  to  make  a  temperance  rarebit. 


BROWN  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  two  cups  of  beef  stock.  Cook 
the  onion,  butter  and  flour  until  it  is  brown,  add  the  stock, 
and  season  the  gravy.  Beef  extract  and  water  may  be  used 
instead  of  stock. 


144  FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Three  cups  of  cheese,  two  eggs,  one  saltspoonful  of  soda, 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  mustard,  one  ta- 
blespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Worcestershire,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  a 
little  red  pepper.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  blazer  over  the  hot 
water.  Put  in  the  cheese,  broken  in  small  pieces,  and  add 
the  seasoning.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  water  and  gradually 
pour  it  in  the  melting  cheese.  Beat  the  eggs  separately  until 
very  light.  Add  a  little  cold  water  to  the  yolk  while  beating, 
and  stir  them  into  the  cheese.  As  soon  as  it  is  smooth  and 
creamy,  put  in  the  Worcestershire  and  lemon  juice.  Whip 
in  the  white  of  the  egg  last.     Serve  at  once,  on  toast. 

CREAMED  SWEET  BREADS  AND  PEAS. 

Make  a  white  sauce  from  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
When  melted,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  when 
well  blended  add  gradually  one  pint  of  milk.  When  thick, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  add  one-half  pint  of  sweet- 
breads (boiled  and  cut  in  dice)  and  one-half  pint  of  green 
peas.     Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

CREAMED  MUSHROOMS. 

Cook  small  mushrooms  for  ten  minutes  in  a  little  salted 
water.    Drain  them  and  add  white  sauce. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN. 

Cold  roast  chicken  or  turkey,  two  cups  of  white  sauce  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil.  Cut  the  chicken  or  turkey  in 
slices  and  dip  them  in  the  oil.     This  should  be  done  an  hour 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH  145 

before  cooking  in  the  chafing  dish.     Then  prepare  the  white 
sauce  and  cook  the  chicken  in  it  for  about  five  minutes. 

DEVILED  TONGUE. 

Sprinkle  slices  of  tongue  with  mustard  and  red  pepper, 
and  pour  over  a  little  salad  oil.  Place  the  slices  together  in 
one  pile,  and  let  them  remain  an  hour.  Then  brown  them  in 
hot  butter.    Serve  with  slices  of  brown  bread. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Put  layers  of  buttered  bread  crumbs,  well  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  layers  of  oysters  in  the  blazer  over  hot 
water.  Have  crumbs  for  the  last  layer.  Cover  the  pan  and 
cook  ten  minutes. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

One  lobster,  one  cup  of  cream,  red  pepper,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry,  salt.  Cut  one  large  or  two  small  lobsters  in  small 
slices.  Cut  with  a  silver  knife.  Put  it  in  the  blazer  with  the 
butter.  Season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  and  pour 
over  the  sherry.  Cover  the  pan  and  cook  five  minutes.  Mix 
the  beaten  eggs  with  the  cream,  and  pour  it  on  the  lobster. 
Serve  as  soon  as  it  boils.  Shrimp  and  hard-shelled  crab 
may  be  prepared  the  same. 

SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Take  one  spring  chicken  and  split  open,  lay  in  cold  water 
for  one  hour;  one-half  Bermuda  onion  sliced  and  one-fourth 
pound  best  butter.  Braise  the  onion  to  a  delicate  brown ;  one- 
half  teaspoonful   of  paprika,  steam   chicken  thoroughly  and 


146  FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH 

braise  and  cover  until  nearly  done ;  do  not  break  the  chicken ; 
put  in  one  tablespoonful  flour,  shake  well,  add  one  pint  of 
rich  cream,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  season  to  taste,  strain 
the  sauce  and  pour  over  the  chicken  and  let  it  simmer  over  a 
slow  fire  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  when  ready  to  serve  add 
one  gill  of  sparkling  Tokay  wine.     Cook  in  chafing  dish. 

FRIED   CHICKEN. 

Cut  the  breast  in  pieces  and  lay  in  salt  and  water  for  a 
short  time,  wipe  dry  and  roll  in  flour;  fry  in  hot  lard  and 
butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  parsley  also.  Make 
a  gravy  of  cream  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  mace 
and  thicken  with  flour,  in  the  pan  in  which  the  chicken  has 
been  fried. 

ROAST  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  round  with  sharp  cookey  cutter,  toast 
lightly  and  butter.  Wash  and  wipe  some  fine  large  oysters, 
spread  as  many  as  possible  on  each  slice  of  toast,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  bits  of  butter;  put  in  hot  oven  till 
edges  of  the  oysters  curl ;  serve  at  once. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

To  one  pint  of  cream  or  white  sauce  add  one  pint  of  cold 
chicken  chopped  fine,  and  add  one-half  pint  mushrooms.  Heat 
and  serve  hot. 

PANNED   OYSTERS. 

Have  the  chafing  dish  hot  and  then  turn  in  a  pint  of  oys- 
ters, which  have  been  drained  well,  season  with  salt,  pepper 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH  147 

and  celery  salt,  adding  butter,  and  when  the  oysters  begin  to 
curl  on  the  edges,  serve  on  dry  toast. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  as  for  broiling,  dredge  with  flour,  fry  a 
light  brown  in  butter,  lay  them  in  a  hot  chafing  dish.  To  the 
butter  in  the  spider  add  a  little  more  butter,  add  as  much 
flour  as  you  did  butter,  stir  well  and  add  milk  or  cream, 
season  to  taste  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  It  is  best  to  serve 
either  fried  or  broiled  tomatoes  in  a  chafing  dish,  as  they  cook 
very  quickly. 

CREAMED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Cook  three  eggs  until  hard,  slice  when  cold  into  one  cup  of 
white  sauce.  When  boiling  hot  stir  in  carefully  two  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cheese  and  season  with  cayenne.  Serve  on 
rounds  of  toast. 

CHEESE  AND  HAM. 

To  one  cup  of  white  sauce  add  one-half  cup  chopped  ham, 
one-half  grated  cheese,  one-half  teaspoonful  cayenne.  Serve 
on  toast. 


148  PIES 


PIES 


All  of  the  materials  must  be  as  cool  as  possible. 

Pastry  flour  should  be  used. 

The  following  fats  may  be  used  alone  or  in  combinations 
of  two ;  butter,  butterine,  lard,  cottolene,  beef  drippings.  The 
fat  should  not  be  cut  very  fine,  if  a  flaky  crust  is  desired.  Bak- 
ing powder  is  sometimes  used. 

The  dough  should  be  mixed  with  a  knife  and  not  touched 
with  the  hands.  It  should  be  rolled  in  one  direction  only, 
and  on  one  side,  using  but  little  flour.  The  dough  is  rolled 
thin  and  baked  until  brown. 

All  pies  made  with  fresh  fruit  should  be  made  without  an 
under  crust,  and  cooked  in  a  deep  earthen-ware  plate.  Fill 
the  plate  very  full.  If  sugar  is  used  with  fruit  pies,  it  should 
be  placed  on  the  bottom  of  the  pie  plate.  Meat  and  oyster- 
pies  should  also  be  made  without  an  undercrust.  The  crust 
should  be  cut  in  several  places  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 

If  an  under  crust  is  used,  this  crust  should  be  baked  on  the 
outside  of  a  tin  plate,  then  filled.  In  this  case,  the  crust  must 
be  pricked  all  over  with  a  fork  so  that  it  may  keep  its  shape. 

If  two  crusts  are  used,  the  lower  one  should  be  moistened 
around  the  edge  with  cold  water,  then  a  half-inch  strip  of 
paste  should  be  placed  around  the  edge  of  the  under-crust. 


PIES  149 

This  strip  should  also  be  moistened,  and  the  upper  crust  placed 
over  the  pie  and  pressed  slightly  around  the  edge. 

The  paste  may  be  made  the  day  before  using,  then  covered 
and  placed  on  ice.  It  rolls  more  easily  if  placed  on  ice  after 
mixing. 

PLAIN  PASTRY. 

One  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-third  cupful  of  fat  and  butter,  one-half  of 
each,  ice  water.    Mix  in  the  order  given. 

PIE  CRUST  FOR  ONE  PIE. 

One  large  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  shortening  (lard  and  but- 
ter mixed)  rubbed  through  the  hands  into  the  flour,  a  little  salt, 
and  wet  with  ice-cold  water  to  make  the  dough  just  so  it  can 
be  handled;  flour  the  board,  or,  what  is  better,  a  marble  slab. 
Divide  the  crust  in  two  parts  and  cover  the  plate,  reserving 
the  rest  for  upper  crust.  This  is  a  plain  crust  and  just  enough 
for  one  pie.     Especially  good  for  fruit  pies. 

PIE  CRUST. 

One  even  cupful  of  flour,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift 
several  times.  Cut  into  the  flour  half  a  cup  of  ice  cold  lard, 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ice  cold  water,  stir  with  a  spoon. 
Divide  the  paste  in  two  equal  parts,  roll  out  one  part  for  the 
under  crust.  The  other  half  roll  out  an  eighth,  of  an  inch 
thick,  dot  it  with  a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  butter,  dredge 
very  lightly  with  flour,  fold  up  to  the  smallest  size  possible, 
pat  with  the  rolling  pin,  and  roll  out  once,  pressing  the  rolling 
pin  this  way  and  that.  Slash  with  a  knife  any  design  you 
like,  lay  upon  the  fruit  in  the  pan,  pinch  the  edges  together ; 
trim.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 


150  PIES 

GRANDMOTHER'S  PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Eight  tablespoons  pumpkin,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  molasses,  pinch  of  salt;  stir 
all  together  and  set  over  a  dish  of  hot  water  until  it  thickens; 
then  fill  the  crusts  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  APPLE  PIE. 

One  pint  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lard  and  two  of  butter,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  ice  water, 
five  good  sized  tart  apples,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  but- 
ter the  size  of  walnut,  one  half  fcupful  water  and  either  cin- 
namon, nutmeg  or  allspice  to  suit  the  taste;  put  flour,  salt, 
lard  and  butter  into  a  chopping  bowl  and  chop  until  the  lard 
and  butter  are  like  small  sized  peas;  then  add  the  water 
without  mixing;  turn  out  on  the  board  and  roll  and  fold  over; 
continue  to  do  so  until  the  crust  is  smooth ;  then  line  the  pie- 
tin  and  fill  with  sliced  apples  and  spice;  do  not  put  on  a 
particle  of  sugar;  then  the  upper  crust  with  a  slit  cut  in  it; 
bake ;  put  on  the  fire  the  sugar,  water  and  butter ;  boil  fifteen 
minutes  or  until  it  thickens;  then  pour  through  the  slit  you 
have  made  in  the  pie  before  it  was  baked;  this  sweetens  the 
pie;  the  crust  is  not  soggy,  and  the  juice  does  not  run  out  in 
the  oven  while  baking  as  in  the  old  way. 

RIPE  CURRANT  PIE. 

One  cupful  of  mashed  ripe  currants,  one  of  sugar,  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  water,  one  of  flour,  beaten  with  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Bake ;  frost  the  top  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 


PIES  151 

APPLE  LEMON  PIE. 

Two  tart  apples  chopped  fine,  two  eggs  beaten,  juice  of 
two  lemons,  grated  rind  of  one,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  bake  between 
two  crusts. 

RASPBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  shallow  pudding  dish,  or  deep  plate,  with  pie  crust 
and  fill  with  berries ;  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  mixed  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cover  with  a  tolerably  thick  sheet 
of  crust ;  make  several  incisions  for  the  escaping  steam ;  bake 
until  crusts  are  a  delicate  brown;  serve  cool. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

Line  your  pie  tin  with  good  crust,  fill  half  full  with  ripe 
stoned  cherries ;  sprinkle  over  them  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  flour  sifted,  dots  of  butter  here  and  there.  Now 
fill  the  crust  to  the  top  with  more  cherries.  Cover  with  the 
upper  crust  and  bake.     This  is  a  most  delicious  pie. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

One  half  a  cupful  of  mixed  candied  citron,  lemon  and  or- 
ange peels,  half  a  cupful  of  suet,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  mixed 
raisins  and  currants,  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  chopped  apples, 
one  cupful  of  cooked  beef  chopped  fine,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  molasses,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  brown 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  mixed  spices  (nutmeg, 
allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  black  pepper),  three  pinches  of 
salt,  half  a  cup  of  brandy  and  half  a  cup  of  cider  mixed. 
Cover  the  raisins  with  cold  water  and  seed  them.  Wash  and 
pick  over  the  currants,  cover  both  currants  and  raisins  with 


152  PIES 

cold  water  and  cook  slowly  until  the  water  has  boiled  away. 
Add  the  candied  fruit  and  suet  chopped  fine,  sugar,  molasses, 
spices  and  cider,  boil  slowly  one  hour  and  ten  minutes,  stirring 
quite  often.  Mix  apples  and  meat  together,  add  salt  and  other 
ingredients,  cook  thoroughly  fifteen  minutes.  Put  away  in 
jar  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted.  This  makes  one  large  pie. 
Before  covering  the  pie,  it  is  a  good  idea  to  lay  on  top  a  few 
nut  meats,  either  hickory  or  English  walnuts. 

Mince  meat  should  stand  at  least  three  days  before  using. 

PIE  PLANT  PIE. 

Wash  and  skin  the  pie  plant,  and  cut  in  inch  length  pieces, 
put  in  granite  pan  and  cover  with  cold  water  and  heat  to 
boiling  and  drain  off  the  water;  to  two  cupfuls  of  pie  plant 
add  one  cupful  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed.  Line 
the  plate  with  paste,  put  in  the  pie  plant  and  cover  with  thin 
crust  with  slashes  for  steam  to  escape,  and  keep  the  juice  from 
running  out  while  cooking.  Bake  till  the  crust  is  a  delicate 
brown. 


BAKERS'  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  cream.  Stir  thorough- 
ly a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  into  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar;  this  separates  the  particles  of  flour  so  that  there  will 
be  no  lumps ;  then  add  to  it  the  beaten  yolks,  put  in  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  next 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ;  and,  lastly,  a  pint  of  scald- 
ed milk  (not  boiled)  which  has  been  cooled;  mix  this  in  by 
degrees  and  turn  all  into  a  deep  pie-pan  lined  with  pufT  paste, 
and  bake  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 


PIES  153 

WHIPPED  CREAM  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust  and  bake  quickly  in  a 
hot  oven.  When  done,  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  jelly  or 
jam,  then  whip  one  cupful  of  thick  sweet  cream  until  it  is  as 
light  as  possible  ;  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar  and  flavor  with 
vanilla;  spread  over  the  jelly  or  jam;  set  the  cream  where 
it  will  get  very  cold  before  whipping. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

Take  fine,  sound,  ripe  cranberries  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
split  each  one  until  you  have  a  heaping  coffee  cupful ;  put 
them  in  a  vegetable  dish  or  basin ;  put  over  them  one  cupful 
of  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sifted  flour;  stir  it  all  together  and  put  into  your  crust.  Cover 
with  an  upper  crust  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven. 
You  will  find  this  the  true  way  of  making  a  cranberry  pie. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Wipe  and  cut  tart  apples  into  eighths ;  remove  the  cores 
and  skins.  Vary  the  amount  of  sugar  according  to  the  acidity 
of  the  apples,  using  two  tablespoonfuls  or  more  for  an  apple. 
If  the  apples  are  not  juicy,  add  from  one-half  tablespoonful  to 
one  tablespoonful  water,  according  to  the  size  of  the  apple. 

The  apples  may  be  flavored  with  lemon  juice,  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg,  and  should  be  covered  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  until 
the  apples  are  soft  and  the  crust  is  brown.  Apple  sauce  may 
be  used  on  a  baked  crust. 

LEMON  PIE. 

One-fourth  cupful  flour,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  four  tablespoon- 


154  PIES 

fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  two  eggs. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  light.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour 
together.  Add  the  boiling  water  slowly.  Cook  twenty  min- 
utes, stirring  frequently,  add  the  mixture  to  the  egg,  add  but- 
ter and  lemon,  and  cook  until  the  egg  thickens.  When  the  mix- 
ture is  cool,  place  it  in  a  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  meringue, 
and  bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 


LEMON  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  dish  with  crust  and  bake  a  nice  brown ;  take  one 
cupful  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  yolk  two  eggs,  juice 
and  rind  of  lemon ;  rub  together ;  place  on  stove,  and  add  one 
cupful  boiling  water;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water;  when  it  is  thor- 
oughly cooked,  place  in  crust  and  make  a  meringue  of  the 
whites ;  put  on  top  and  set  in  oven  to  brown ;  one  pie. 


SQUASH  PIE. 

Take  one  part  of  a  Hubbard  squash,  cut  in  half,  scrape  out 
the  seeds  and  peel ;  put  into  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  salt 
water.  Mash  fine ;  one  good  cupful  will  make  a  pie.  Use  the 
other  as  a  vegetable.  Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger, 
three  pinches  of  salt,  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  hot  milk; 
pour  on  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  a  teaspoonful  and 
a  half  of  butter  and  a  heaping  cup  of  hot  mashed  squash,  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  flour,  three  pinches  of  grated  nutmeg. 
Beat  all  together,  add  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  to  a  froth. 
Beat  thoroughly,  and  pour  in  pie  pan ;  sprinkle  a  little  brown 
sugar  over  the  top.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes. 


PIES  155 

FIG  PIE. 

Stew  one  dozen  large  figs  in  one  teacupful  of  water  and 
a  half  teacupful  of  sharp  vinegar.  Stew  the  figs  until  soft, 
then  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  butter,  sugar  to  taste  and  a  lit- 
tle flour.     Bake  with  an  under  and  upper  crust. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  rich  milk.  Flavor  to 
the  taste;  put  the  yolks  and  whites  together,  or  spread  the 
whites  over  the  top  of  the  pie. 

LEMON  PIE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of 
water,  one  lemon,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch.  Beat 
the  sugar  and  grated  rind  of  lemon  with  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
add  the  juice  of  lemon  and  the  water  and  corn  starch.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Fill  the  pie  and  bake.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  spread  over 
the  pie  when  baked,  then  bake  a  light  brown. 

SMALL  LEMON  PIE. 

Moisten  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  with  a 
little  water,  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Stir  over  the  fire 
until  it  boils  three  minutes ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and 
one  cupful  of  sugar.  Take  off  the  fire  and  when  slightly  cool- 
ed, add  one  beaten  egg  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.    Bake  with  a  crust. 


156  PIES 

HEART  MINCE  MEAT. 

One  beef  or  ox  heart,  boiled  down  in  its  own  liquor,  which 
can  be  added  to  the  mince  meat.  Chop  heart  fine  and  add  as 
much  chopped  apples  as  you  have  meat,  half  a  pound  each 
of  seeded  raisins,  currants  and  citron,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
orange  and  lemon  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
ingredients  and  boil  three  quarts  of  cider  with  enough  sugar 
to  sweeten,  then  add  one-half  cupful  each  of  butter  and  lard, 
pour  over  the  other  ingredients  boiling  hot,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Put  away  in  covered  stone  jar  in  a  cool  place  for 
future  use.  If  desired,  just  before  serving,  raise  the  crust 
and  allow  one  spoonful  of  brandy  for  each  portion.  Mince 
meat  should  be  at  least  one  week  old  before  using. 

LEMON  PIE. 

One  cupful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  two  eggs,  re- 
serving whites  for  frosting,  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind, 
one  and  one-half  cupfuls  hot  water,  two  good  slices  bread 
grated,  rejecting  the  crust;  when  pie  is  baked  frost  with  the 
beaten  and  sweetened  whites  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

CREAM  PIE. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  or  cream,  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
flour  and  cornstarch  mixed ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  cook  well 
and  flavor  with  vanilla ;  bake  the  crust  and  then  pour  in  the 
custard ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  little  sugar  and 
flavoring  to  taste ;  spread  over  the  pie  and  brown  in  the  oven ; 
this  will  make  custard  for  two  pies. 


PIES  157 

APPLE  PIE. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  green  apples  enough  for  a  pie ;  sprinkle 
over  three  tablespoonfuls  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Stir  all  to- 
gether with  a  spoon.  Put  into  a  pie  tin  lined  with  pie  paste. 
Cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes.  This  is 
a  delicious  pie. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 

Half  a  cupful  of  dried  cocoanut  soaked  in  one  cupful  of 
milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  This  will  make  one  small  pie.  Very  nice  with 
sugar  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  on  top. 

PEACH  PIE. 

Peel,  stone  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  a  pie  pan  with 
crust  and  lay  in  your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  liberally  over 
them.  Allow  four  peach  kernels  chopped  fine  to  a  pie.  Bake 
with  an  upper  crust.  You  will  find  the  perforated  pie  tin  the 
best. 


158  CAKES 


CAKES 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  cupfuls  of  Quaker  oats,  two  eggs, 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  cupful  of  shortening,  (butter, 
lard,  suet,  or  both),  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  in  the  flour,  and 
one  cupful  of  raisins.  When  all  stirred  together,  drop  on  the 
tin  in  drops  the  size  of  an  English  walnut.  Bake  in  a  hot  oveq. 
These  will  keep  for  months  in  a  covered  butter  jar. 


ANGEL  CAKE. 

The  whites  of  six  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  flour,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Flavor  according  to  taste  and  bake  in  a  small 
sized  angel  cake  tin. 

Directions — Sift  flour  seven  times  and  sugar  seven  times. 
Put  the  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  in  the  flour  the  last  time  you 
sift  it.  Have  your  oven  ready.  It  must  be  moderately  cool 
and  even.  Now  beat  the  eggs  quickly  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
sugar  gradually  while  stirring  rapidly  and  lastly  add  the  flour 
gradually,  still  stirring  rapidly  and  put  in  the  tin  and  bake 
forty  minutes  in  a  quiet  room.     Let  cake  cool  a  little  before 


CAKES  159 

taking  it  from  pan.     When  testing  cake  to  see  if  it  is  baked 
enough,  use  a  broom  straw. 

YALE  CAKE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  one  cupful  of  sugar  and 
three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter  which  has  been  creamed, 
two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  half 
a  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  When  well  mixed  bake  in  a  shallow 
pan. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla.   Bake  in  a  hot  oven  quickly. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of 
milk,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flavor  to 
suit  taste. 

Filling  and  Icing — One-half  cupful  of  grated  chocolate,  one 
large  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  English  walnut.  Mix  and  put  on  the  stove  to  boil. 
It  should  not  be  stirred  while  boiling.  Boil  ten  minutes  and 
then  set  ofif  and  let  cool,  stirring  occasionally.  When  cool  put 
between  and  on  top  of  the  cake.  If  it  is  not  thick  enough, 
put  back  on  stove  and  cook  a  little  more. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM   FOR  FILLING. 

Five  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  enough  cream 
or  milk  to  wet  it,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla  flavoring.     Stir  the  ingredients  over  the   fire 


i6o  CAKES 

until  thoroughly  mixed,  having  beaten  the  egg  well  before 
adding  it;  then  add  the  vanilla  flavoring  after  it  is  removed 
from  the  fire. 


BANANA  FILLING. 

Make  an  icing  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  this  on  the  layers,  and 
then  cover  thickly  and  entirely  with  bananas  sliced  thin  or 
chopped  fine.  This  cake  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla.  The 
top  should  be  simply  frosted. 

LEMON  SPONGE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  three-fourths  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  till  very  light,  add  flour 
and  whites  alternately,  and,  just  before  putting  in  the  oven 
stir  in  the  boiling  water.    Bake  in  a  large  pan  or  in  layers. 

Icing — White  of  one  egg,  large  cup  of  sugar,  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Spread  between  the  layers 
and  ice  over  the  top. 

BROWN  COOKIES. 

Two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cupful  each  of  lard 
and  butter,  two  eggs,  and  one  cupful  of  strong  hot  coffee  in 
which  dissolve  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda^  one  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  as  many  chop- 
ped raisins,  citron,  and  nuts  as  you  desire.  Thicken  with  flour 
and  drop  from  spoon  in  little  round  cakes.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 


CAKES  i6i 

SOPHIA'S  LADYFINGERS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one-half  cup 
of  hickory  nuts  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Mix  sugar  and  yolks,  add 
the  nuts  and  whites  of  eggs  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out,  sprin- 
kle lightly  with  sugar,  cut  into  strips  three  inches  long 
and  one  inch  wide,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.     Delicious. 

COCOANUT  DROPS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  cocoanut;  mix  light- 
ly and  drop  on  oiled  paper,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

One  cupful  and  three  quarters  of  chopped  almonds,  one 
cupful  and  three-quarters  of  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  three 
eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Beat  eggs  very 
stiff,  and  add  other  ingredients,  drop  on  parafined  pan  and 
bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sour  cream  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  two  beaten  eggs,  mix 
soda  with  cream  and  add  flour  enough  to  roll  out  thin. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar,  cut,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

FRUIT  CAKE.   (EXCELLENT.) 

Two  scant  teacupfuls  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  dark  brown 
sugar,  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  pound 


1 62  CAKES 

of  raisins,  seeded,  one  of  currants,  washed  and  dried,  and  half 
a  pound  of  citron  cut  in  thin  strips ;  also  half  a  cupful  of  cook- 
ing molasses  and  half  a  cupful  of  sour  milk.  Stir  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  to  that  half  a  grated  nutmeg, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  add  the  molasses  and  sour 
milk.  Stir  all  well ;  then  put  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs, 
a  wine-glass  of  brandy;  stir  again  all  thoroughly,  and  then 
add  four  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  alternately  with  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Now  dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and 
stir  in  thoroughly.  Mix  the  fruit  together  and  stir  into  it 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  then  stir  it  in  the  cake. 
Butter  two  common-sized  baking  tins  carefully,  line  them 
with  letter  paper  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
two  hours.  After  it  is  baked,  let  it  cool  in  the  pan.  Afterward 
put  it  into  a  tight  can,  or  let  it  remain  in  the  pans  and  cover 
tightly.     Best  recipe  of  all. 

PARIS  STICKS. 

One  and  three-quarters  cupfuls  of  chopped  almonds,  one 
cupful  pulverized  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Mix  ingredients  and  roll 
out  on  pulverized  sugar;  cut  into  strips  an  inch  wide  and  put 
into  parafined  pans.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven.    Excellent. 

MRS.  B'S.  COOKIES. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  four  beaten  eggs,  two  cups  and  a  half 
of  flour,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two  ounces  of  citron,  three  ounces  of 
chopped  almonds,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Beat 
eggs  and  sugar  and  add  other  ingredients.    Roll  out  thin  and 


CAKES  163 

cut  into  diamond  shape  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  take  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  slightly,  then  add 
enough  pulverized  sugar  to  stiffen,  spread  over  cookies  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.    Fine. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  lard,  one  pinch  of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  in  part  of  flour ;  add  flour  enough  to  roll  out 
the  dough,  cut,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard.  When  brown  on 
both  sides,  drain  on  unglazed  paper.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

BROD  TORTE. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  almonds,  rind  of  one  lem- 
on, four  tablespoonfuls  of  citron,  twelve  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cardamom,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and  mace,  one 
small  cup  of  sifted  stale  graham  bread  crumbs,  which  you 
moisten  with  one  glass  of  wine.  Mix  the  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  in  last,  and  bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour.  This  is  a  Ger- 
man Holiday  cake  and  very  fine. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

Cream  together  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  two 
of  white  sugar,  then  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  separately  beaten,  the  yolks  added  first  to 
the  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  whites.  Flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.  Mix  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in 
three  cups  of  sifted  flour  and  add  last.     Bake  in  jelly  pans. 

For  Filling — Make  an  icing  by  heating  the  whites  of  three 


i64  CAKES 

eggs  and  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  the 
cake  is  cooled,  spread  a  thick  layer  of  this  frosting  over  each 
cake,  and  sprinkle  very  thickly  with  grated  cocoanut. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

Part  1st.  Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  chocolate  shaved,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  the  chocolate  and  sugar  on  the 
stove,  add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  constantly;  cook  until 
smooth.  Add  the  vanilla  when  taking  from  the  stove.  Put  in 
a  pan  of  cold  water  to  cool. 

Part  2nd.  One-half  cup  of  butter,  and  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar  creamed;  add  two  eggs  and  beat  until  light.  Add  the 
cooled  chocolate  and  beat  well,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  with  two  cups  of  flour.  Beat 
hard,  line  the  tin  with  oiled  paper  or  butter  the  tin.  Bake  in 
two  layers. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling.  Six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  or 
shaved  chocolate,  enough  milk  or  cream  to  moisten,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  egg  beaten.  Stir  the  ingredients  over  the 
fire  until  smooth.  Take  from  the  stove  and  add  vanilla.  When 
cool  put  between  and  on  top  of  the  cake. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  arrowroot,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  half  a  pound  of  the  very  best  butter,  the  whites  of  six 
eggs,  flavor  with  essence  of  almonds  of  lemon.  Beat  the 
butter  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  arrowroot  gradually,  at 
the  same  time  beating  the  mixture ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to  the  other  and  beat  well  for  twent- 
five  minutes.    Then  put  in  the  flavoring.    Pour  the  cake  into 


CAKES  165 

a  buttered  mould  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  one  and 
a  half  hours. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  four  squares  of 
Baker's  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  essence.  Put  the  sugar  and  chocolate  in 
a  saucepan  with  the  milk  and  boil  until  melted;  add  the  butter 
and  boil  until  it  shreds ;  add  the  essences  and  beat  until  it  is 
thick  enough  to  spread  upon  the  cake. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Take  two  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  molasses,  one  of  sugar, 
one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  one-half  tablespoonful  of 
soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Mix  stiff,  and  bake  in  slow 
oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

NUT  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
butter,  the  white  of  one  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  one  cup  of  nut  meats  cut  fine.  Save  out  a  little 
of  the  flour  and  stir  the  nuts  around  in  it,  to  keep  them  from 
falling.    Add  the  nuts  last  of  all. 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  two-thirds  full,  two 
eggs,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  even  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  as  usual  and  add  the 
following  mixture :    One-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  one- 


i66  CAKES 

quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar  (scant),  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  egg.  Cut  the  chocolate  in 
pieces  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  the  milk,  stirring  all  the 
while.  When  dissolved  add  the  egg  beaten  with  the  sugar. 
When  cooked  thick  as  mustard  add  to  cake  mixture  and  bake. 
Ice  with  thick  white  icing.  The  mixture  will  look  very  soft 
when  ready  for  the  oven,  but  do  not  add  more  flour,  as  the 
softer  it  is,  the  nicer  the  cake  will  be. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Beat  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
granulated  sugar;  beat  and  mix  well.  Beat  four  eggs,  the 
lighter  the  better ;  add  these ;  then  add  one  cup  of  milk ;  stir 
well;  sift  two  cupfuls  of  flour  in  which  are  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  add,  mix  well  and  beat. 

Grease  three  layer  pans  with  lard,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  To  the  rind  and  juice 
of  one  orange,  add  the  white  of  one  egg,  and  sufficient  pow- 
dered sugar  to  make  a  stiflf  frosting.  Use  this  also  as  filling 
between  the  layers.  If  desired,  an  orange  may  be  divided 
into  sections  and  the  frosting  decorated  with  these.  This  cake 
is   delicious. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

White  Part. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  white  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon  and 
two  and  half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Dark  Part. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  cooking  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup 
of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoon- 


CAKES  167 

ful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  nutmeg  grated, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the  soda  to  be  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk  and  added  after  part  of  the  flour  is  stirred  in,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Drop  a  spoonful  of  each  kind  in  a  well-buttered  cake-dish, 
first  the  light  part,  then  the  dark,  alternately.  Try  to  drop 
it  so  that  the  cake  shall  be  well-streaked  through,  so  that  it 
has  the  appearance  of  marble. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  three-quarters  cup 
milk,  one-quarter  cup  butter,  strawberries. 

Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  and  sift  twice. 
Work  in  the  butter  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  and  add  the 
milk  gradually.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  divide  into  two 
parts,  pat  and  roll  out.  Bake  in  two  layers,  one  on  top  of  the 
other,  with  butter  between ;  when  cool,  open  with  a  knife. 
Sweeten  strawberries  to  taste.  Crush  slightly  and  put  be- 
tween and  on  top  of  the  short  cake.  Cover  the  top  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

To  one-half  pint  thick  cream,  add  one-quarter  cup  milk 
and  beat  until  stiff  with  the  egg  beater.  Add  one-quarter  cup 
powdered  sugar  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Serve 
at  once. 

The  cream  may  be  omitted.  Other  fruits  may  be  substi- 
tuted. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one 
cup  flour,  one  large  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  bake  in  a  flat 


i68  iCAKES 

tin;  when  cold  split  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  spread  with  a 
good  cup  of  cream  (measure  before  whipping)  whipped  stiff 
and  seasoned  with  vanilla  and  sweetened  to  taste. 

PLAIN  LAYER  CAKE. 

Cream  one  butter  ball  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs, 
beaten  separately;  mix  yolks  and  sugar  and  butter  together. 
Add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  flour  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted.  Add  the  beaten  whites 
last. 

Filling — One  egg  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  together;  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  of  milk,  let  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Add  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

Cream  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, two  eggs ;  beat  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  well,  then  add  the 
juice  of  two  large  lemons,  juice  only,  beat  all  together  and 
boil  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  consistency  of  jelly.  Let  cool, 
and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top.  Oranges  can  be  used 
instead  of  lemons. 


FROZEN   DESSERTS  169 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Two  lemons,  one  cupful  of  pineapple,  one  quart  of  water, 
one  pint  of  sugar.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  ten  min- 
utes. While  cooking,  drop  into  this  syrup  a  piece  of  yellow 
lemon  rind.  Mix  the  syrup  with  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and 
the  pineapple.    Freeze. 

RED  RASPBERRY  SHERBET. 

One  box  of  red  raspberries  crushed  and  heated  with  a  little 
water  and  the  seeds  strained  out,  one  pint  of  water  and  one 
cup  of  sugar  boiled  together,  and  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon. 
Freeze. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

Brown  one  and  one-fourth  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  in 
a  frying  pan,  without  water.  Stir  the  sugar  constantly  over  a 
hot  fire  till  it  melts  and  browns.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  milk 
heated  almost  to  boiling  point.  Pour  the  melted  sugar  into 
the  hot  milk,  when  it  will  at  once  form  in  a  large  lump,  but 
by  stirring  continually  it  will  again  dissolve.  Set  aside  to 
cool,  then  add  a  good  one-half  pint  of  cream  and  a  scant 


170  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

one-half   teaspoonful    of  vanilla.     Strain   and   freeze.     This 
makes  one  quart  of  ice  cream. 

BISQUE   ICE   CREAM. 

Make  a  soft  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  When  at  boiling  point  stir 
sugar,  cream  and  flavor  together ;  add  lightly  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on  ice  until  required. 

ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three-fourths  pint  of  granulated  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  six  bananas,  peeled  and  sliced.  Put 
the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  with  the  sugar.  When  scalding 
hot  pour  over  the  well-beaten  eggs,  stirring  all  the  while,  then 
return  to  the  boiler  and  cook  until  of  the  consistency  of  a  soft 
custard.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  bananas.  Stir 
until  well  mingled,  cool  thoroughly  and  freeze. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

Make  a  strong  lemonade  and  freeze.  When  half  frozen 
add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  one  or  more  eggs. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Three-fourths  of  a  quart  of  water,  grate  a  pineapple  and 
mix  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  cup  of  sugar. 

MILK  LEMON  SHERBET. 

Three-fourths  of  a  quart  of  milk,  two  lemons,  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Grate  the  rind  of  half  of  one  lemon  and  mix  with  the 
lemon  juice.    Mix  sugar  and  lemon  juice  well.    Have  freezer 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  171 

cold  as  possible  and  ready.    Add  milk  and  pour  quickly  into 
freezer.    When  half  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Six  lemons,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
sweet  cream,  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water.  Pour  water  over  the  rinds  of  the  lemons ;  mix  the 
sugar  with  the  juice,  add  the  water,  strained  and  cooled.  After 
partly  freezing,  add  the  cream  and  eggs. 

ICE  CREAM. 

A  pretty  ice  cream  for  luncheon  is  banana  ice  cream  of  a 
delicate  yellow  tint  served  in  the  skin  of  red  bananas.  The 
skins  can  be  made  firm  and  stiff  by  laying  them  carefully  in 
a  pail  and  burying  it  in  ice  and  salt. 

ICE  CREAM  WITHOUT  A  FREEZER. 

One  pint  of  rich  whipping  cream,  one  cup  of  grated  pine- 
apple or  mashed  peaches,  or  any  preferred  flavoring  or  fruit. 

First  whip  the  cream  till  perfectly  stiff,  then  add  the  fruit 
and  put  into  a  tin  pail  or  mould  and  bury  in  a  bucket  of  finely 
chopped  ice  and  salt.  In  fifteen  minutes  take  out  and  scrape 
the  cream  away  from  the  edges,  stir,  and  bury  again.  Do  this 
three  times  and  at  the  end  of  an  hour  you  will  have  most  de- 
licious ice  cream.  ^ 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  of 
cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flavor- 
ing, a  pinch  of  salt. 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  beat  the  eggs,  flour  and 


172  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

half  cup  of  sugar  together  until  light  and  then  turn  into  the 
milk.  Stir  constantly  until  thickened,  cooking  twenty  min- 
utes; then  add  the  second  half  cup  of  sugar  which  has  first 
been  stirred  over  the  fire  in  a  frying  pan  till  liquid  and  brown. 
Cool,  add  cream  and  freeze. 

ICE  CREAM  WITH  GELATINE. 

One  pint  of  rich  cream,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  hot  water.     Flavor  to  taste. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 
One  quart  of  cream,  one  small  cup  of  sugar.     Flavor  to 
taste. 


PEACH  ICE  CREAM. 

Mash  six  small  peaches  through  a  sieve  and  mix  with  the 
cream  and  make  as  above. 


SUNDAES. 

Cut  two  figs  (of  some  large,  fine  brand),  into  quarters 
and  mix  with  vanilla  cream,  put  in  stem  ice  cream  glasses  and 
pour  some  of  the  juice  over  the  top.  The  figs  give  a  fine  flavor 
to  the  cream. 

CENTRAL   SUNDAE. 

A  half  pound  of  English  walnuts,  half  pound  pecans  chop- 
ped together  with  one  teacupful  of  powdered  sugar;  add 
enough  maple  syrup  to  suit  taste.  Pour  over  plain  ice  cream 
and  serve  in  stem  glasses. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  173 

CHERRY  EARL. 
Very  popular.     Simple  maraschino  cherries  poured  over 


ice  cream. 


BLACK  AND  WHITE. 

Layer  of  ice  cream  with  chocolate  sauce  poured  over.    An- 
other layer  of  cream  and  sauce.    Dark  red  cherry  on  top. 


174  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC 


Fruits,  Jellies,  Preserves,  Etc. 


Fruit  for  preserving  should  be  sound  and  free  from  all  de- 
fects, using  dry  white  sugar.  If  the  sugar  is  the  least  bit 
moist,  put  in  the  oven  and  heat  it,  but  do  not  let  it  get  the  least 
brown.  There  cannot  be  too  much  care  taken  in  selecting 
fruit  for  jellies,  for  if  the  fruit  is  over  ripe,  any  amount  of 
time  in  boiling  it  will  never  make  it  jelly.  In  preserving  be 
generous  with  the  sugar. 

PRESERVED  CHERRIES. 

Take  large,  ripe  cherries,  and  to  each  pound  of  cherries 
allow  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Stone  the  cherries  and  save  the 
juice  that  comes  from  them  in  the  process.  As  you  stone 
them,  throw  them  into  a  large  pan  or  tureen  and  throw  half 
the  sugar  over  them  and  let  them  lie  in  it  two  hours  after  they 
are  all  stoned.  Then  put  them  in  the  kettle  with  the  remain- 
der of  the  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  them  till  the  fruit  is  clear  and 
the  syrup  thick.    Put  away  in  tightly  sealed  jars. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Stem  and  pick  over  the  berries  carefully.  Mash  well,  and 
pour  all  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  min- 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC  175 

utes  to  extract  the  juice.  Strain  through  a  colander,  and  then 
through  a  jelly-bag,  keeping  it  as  hot  as  possible  as  it  jellies 
much  quicker.  A  few  quince  seeds  boiled  with  the  berries 
the  first  time  tend  to  stiffen  it.  Allow  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to 
every  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  fast  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Try 
a  little  on  a  cold  dish  and  when  it  seems  done,  remove  and  put 
into  jelly  glasses. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Stem  three  quarts  of  currants  and  put  into  a  small-mouthed 
stone  jar,  tie  over  it  a  thick  brown  paper,  set  it  into  a  ket- 
tle of  water  and  let  them  cook  one  hour  after  the  water  begins 
to  boil.  Then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Pour  the  juice 
into  a  procelain  kettle  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil.  Take  it 
from  the  stove  and  stir  in  equal  amount  of  sugar  slowly,  that  it 
may  have  time  to  dissolve.  Pour  into  glasses  and  let  it  cool ; 
when  cool,  cover  with  white  paper  dipped  in  brandy  and  iaid 
on  the  top  of  the  jelly.  Tie  or  seal  over  a  large  piece  of  paper. 
Put  away  in  cool  dry  place.  A  good  thing  to  do  is  to  heat 
the  sugar  in  the  oven,  as  it  drives  out  the  moisture  and  causes 
the  fruit  to  jelly  more  readily.  Try  and  make  it  a  point  to 
make  jelly  on  a  bright,  sunny  day. 

PLUM  MARMALADE. 

After  the  juice  is  taken  from  the  plums,  rub  the  pulp 
through  a  colander.  To  this  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.     Put  up  like  jelly. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

To  one  peck  of  plums  add  three  pints  of  water,  boil  until 
soft,  pour  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  it  drip,  but  do  not  squeeze. 


176  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC 

Take  equal  weights  of  juice  and  sugair,  and  boil  twenty  min- 
utes or  until  it  jellies. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

To  one  pound  of  currant  juice  take  five  pounds  of  rasp- 
berries and  five  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  and  berries 
in  layers,  mash  them  and  let  them  stand  one  hour,  then  add 
the  currant  juice  and  boil  a  half-hour. 

PRESERVED  PEACHES. 

Select  sound,  ripe  peaches.  Peel,  halve,  and  stone  them. 
For  every  quart  of  peaches  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  To 
every  three  pounds  of  sugar,  add  one  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
Melt,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Then  drop  in  the  peaches  and 
cook  them  until  a  straw  will  pierce  them  easily.  Skim  care- 
fully and  put  into  heated  jars.  Boil  and  skim  the  syrup  eight 
minutes  longer,  fill  the  jars  with  the  syrup  and  seal. 

A  good  plan  is  to  halve  and  stone  them  before  peel- 
ing, or  take  a  dozen  or  more  peaches  and  scald  them  by  pour- 
ing boiling  water  over  them  and  let  stand  two  minutes,  no 
longer.    In  this  way  they  will  easily  peel. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

Above  all,  peaches  must  be  spotless  and  not  too  ripe. 
Peel  carefully,  but  do  not  stone  them,  as  it  adds  to  the  flavor. 
Allow  one  pint  of  water  and  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  every  quart 
of  peaches.  Boil  sugar  and  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  then 
add  the  peaches  a  few  at  a  time  and  boil  gently,  and  when  a 
broom  straw  will  pierce  them  easily  they  have  cooked  enough. 
Put  the  peaches  in  jars  that  have  been  well  heated  with  boil- 
ing water,  put  the  peaches  in  two  thirds  full.    Boil  and  skim 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC  177 

the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  peaches  until  the  jars  are  full. 
Seal  at  once.  Keep  canned  goods  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  the 
darker  the  better. 


SPICED  PEACHES. 

Five  pounds  of  peaches,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar, 
one-quarter  of  a  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  stick  cinnamon,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  whole  allspice,  and  an  eighth  of  a 
nutmeg  broken  into  bits.  Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  together 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  in  enough  peeled  peaches  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle  and  cook  gently  until  a  straw  will  pierce 
them  easily.  Skim  the  peaches  out  very  carefully.  Put  them 
on  a  hot  platter  and  cook  the  remainder  of  the  peaches  in  the 
same  way.  When  done,  drain  off  the  juice,  put  it  in  the  kettle, 
boil  up,  and  skim.  Put  the  peaches  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  the  hot 
syrup  over  them,  tie  the  spices  in  a  bag  and  lay  on  top.  Cover 
closely,  and  in  five  days  pour  off  the  juice,  boil  up,  and  pour 
hot  over  the  peaches.  Cover  tightly,  with  heavy  brown  paper 
or  a  coarse  cloth.    Keep  in  a  cold,  dry,  dark  place. 

PRESERVED  WATERMELON. 

Take  the  thick  rind  of  a  ripe  watermelon,  cut  it  into  small 
strips,  cut  off  all  the  red  part  and  scrape  the  outside.  Boil  the 
rind  with  peach  leaves  and  saleratus — twelve  leaves  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus  to  two  quarts  of  water.  This  will 
turn  them  green.  Boil  till  tender,  then  take  them  out  and  put 
them  into  cold  water  with  a  half  tablespoonful  of  alum  dis- 
solved in  it  to  make  them  brittle.  Let  them  soak  one  hour. 
Then  rinse  them  in  clear  water  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes  in  a  syrup  of  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  water  adding  lem- 


178  FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC 

ons  cut  into  small  pieces,  allowing  one  lemon  to  two  pounds  of 
rind.  When  cool,  add  a  little  extract  of  ginger.  Let  them 
stand  three  days.  Then  pour  the  syrup  off,  boil  it  till  very 
rich,  and  just  cover  the  rinds.    Pour  on  boiling  hot. 

CANNED  PEACHES,  OR  OTHER  FRUIT. 

Make  a  syrup  of  two  pints  of  water  and  four  pints  of  sugar. 
Let  it  boil,  put  in  the  peaches  and  cook  till  tender,  then  fill 
the  cans.  Add  more  sugar  as  the  syrup  thins  by  putting  in 
fruit. 

While  canning  fruit,  put  a  table  knife  all  around  inside  of 
the  jar,  moving  slowly,  until  the  bubbles  do  not  rise.  Then 
fill  again. 

AMBROSIA. 

Two  sweet  oranges  peeled  and  sliced,  four  slices  of  pine- 
apple, and  a  half  cupful  of  grated  cocoanut.  Place  alternate 
layers  of  orange  and  pineapple  with  the  grated  cocoanut  be- 
tween, and  sprinkle  pulverized  sugar  over  each  layer.  This 
is  delicious. 

PRESERVED  QUINCES. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  your  fruit,  then  weigh  it  and  allow 
an  equal  quantity  of  white  sugar.  Take  the  parings  and  cores 
and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle ;  cover  them  with  water  and  boil 
for  half  an  hour;  then  strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  put 
the  juice  back  into  the  kettle  and  boil  the  quinces  in  it  a  little 
at  a  time  until  they  are  tender,  lift  out  as  they  are  done 
with  a  drainer  and  lay  on  a  dish ;  if  the  liquid  seems  scarce 
add  more  water.    When  all  are  cooked,  throw  into  this  liquor 


FRUITS,  JELLIES,  PRESERVES,  ETC  179 

the  sugar,  and  allow  it  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  putting  in 
the  quinces;  let  them  boil  until  they  change  color,  say  one 
hour  and  a  quarter,  on  a  slow  fire ;  while  they  are  boiling  oc- 
casionally slip  a  silver  spoon  under  them  to  see  that  they,  do 
not  burn,  but  on  no  account  stir  them.  Have  two  fresh  lem- 
ons cut  in  thin  slices,  and  when  the  fruit  is  being  put  in  jars 
lay  a  slice  or  two  in  each.  Quinces  may  be  steamed  until 
tender. 


i8o  RELISHES 


RELISHES 


CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Select  small  cucumbers,  wash  and  wipe  them,  tip  the  ends, 
but  do  not  peel.  Slice  thin  and  pack  into  pint  jars.  When  full 
to  the  top,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  whole 
white  mustard  seed,  pour  over  enough  vinegar  to  cover.  Cov- 
er tightly  and  put  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Do  not  open  in 
less  than  two  weeks.    Excellent. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

Three  quarts  of  green  tomatoes  sliced  in  inch-thick  slices, 
one  pint  of  white  onions,  and  four  green  peppers  sliced  thin- 
ly. Put  them  with  salt  in  layers  in  an  earthen  jar  to  stand 
over  night.  Use  a  half  cupful  of  fine  table  salt.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  an  hour  in  a  colander,  then  put  them  into  the  kettle, 
pour  over  them  one  pint  and  a  half  of  cider  vinegar,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  tablespoonful  of  whole 
cloves,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon  broken  into 
bits,  and  a  few  allspice,  tied  up  in  a  bag.  Cook  slowly  for 
twenty  minutes.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  half 
an  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  stir  lightly  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  put  away  in  an  earthen  jar  well  covered  for  three  weeks,  in 


RELISHES  i8i 

a  cool  place.    Then  put  it  on  the  stove  again  and  boil  up  with 
a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  seal  in  hot  jars. 

WATERMELON  PICKLES. 

Cut  the  melon  into  any  shape  desired.  Make  a  weak  so- 
lution of  alum  and  pour  over  it,  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
then  scald  in  clear  water  and  drain.  To  seven  pounds  of  rind, 
take  one  quart  of  good  cider  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar  and 
a  half  pint  of  ginger  root.  Put  in  the  rind  and  boil  till  it  looks 
nice  and  clear,  then  remove  the  rind  to  a  jar,  boil  the  liquid 
until  it  is  a  rich  syrup,  and  pour  over  the  rind.  When 
cool,  cover  the  jar  tightly  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place. 

PICKLED   GREEN   PEPPERS. 

Take  one  dozen  large,  green,  bell  peppers,  extract  the  seeds 
by  cutting  a  slit  in  the  sides  so  as  to  leave  them  whole.  Make 
a  strong  salt  brine  and  pour  over  them,  and  let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  take  them  out  of  the  brine  and  soak  in  water 
sixteen  hours.  Turn  ofif  the  water  and  scald  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar, in  which  put  a  small  piece  of  alum  and  pour  over  them, 
letting  them  stand  three  days.  Prepare  a  stuffing  of  one  hard 
head  of  white  cabbage,  chopped  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with 
a  little  salt  and  a  half  cupful  of  white  mustard  seed.  Mix 
all  well  and  stuff  the  peppers  hard  and  full,  then  stitch  up 
each  pepper  with  a  darning  needle  and  coarse  thread,  place 
them  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  the  spiced  vinegar  scalding 
hot.    Cover  tightly. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Four  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  half  a 
pint  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  cloves  and 


i82  RELISHES 

cinnamon.  Put  in  an  agate  saucepan  and  boil  slowly  two 
hours.  Be  very  careful  not  to  burn ;  stir  often.  Put  away  in 
tightly  covered  jars. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Select  eighteen  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  five  good-sized  onions, 
and  two  red  peppers ;  chop  fine,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice, 
(ground),  an  eighth  of  an  ounce  of  mace  broken  into  bits.  Mix 
all  thoroughly,  then  add  one  pound  of  brown  sugar  and  three 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  vinegar  apd  half  an  ounce  of  ginger.  But 
into  a  granite  kettle.  Cook  till  thick  as  catsup,  stirring  often, 
but  do  not  strain.    Put  away  in  tightly  corked  bottles  or  jars. 

:  PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Peel  small  onions  until  they  are  white.  Scald  them  in 
salt  and  water  until  tender,  then  take  them  up,  put  them  into 
wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  pour  over  them  hot  spiced  vine- 
gar; when  cold,  cork  them  close.  Keep  in  a  dry,  dark  place. 
A  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  may  be  put  in  the  bottles  before 
the  cork.  The  best  sort  of  onions  for  pickling  are  the  small 
white  buttons. 

SPICED  CHERRIES. 

Select  fine  large  cherries ;  wash  well  and  drain  five  pounds ; 
boil  one  quart  vinegar  with  two  pounds  sugar,  two  ounces 
white  cloves  and  the  rind  of  lemon  peeled  thinly ;  tie  the  spices 
in  bit  of  cheesecloth,  simmer  all  together  for  twenty  minutes ; 
when  boiling  hot  pour  over  the  cherries ;  cover  closely  and  let 


RELISHES  183 

stand  till  the  next  day;  drain  off  the  juice  and  boil  again, 
and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  cherries,  repeat  this  twice  more 
and  seal.    These  are  delicious. 

RED  CURRANTS  WITH  ORANGES  AND  RAISINS. 

Five  pounds  of  currants,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  su- 
gar, one  pound  of  raisins,  three  pounds  of  oranges.  Wash 
and  stem  currants,  stone  raisins,  and  cut  oranges  into  small 
pieces.  Boil  the  currants  twenty  minutes ;  add  the  raisins  and 
cook  a  little  longer,  then  add  the  sugar  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  then  put  in  the  oranges.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  put 
in  jelly  glasses.    This  recipe  fills  fifteen  glasses. 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 


HOLIDAY  CANDY-MAKING  AT  HOME. 

The  cream  candies  should  be  put  into  a  closely  covered 
dish  as  soon  as  cold,  and  they  are  much  better  after  being  kept 
this  way  for  several  days.  Horehound,  butter-scotch,  tafify, 
etc.,  should  also  be  kept  covered,  as  this  prevents  them  from 
becoming  moist  and  sticky. 

Fondant  is  the  foundation  for  innumerable  kinds  of  cream 
candies  and  is  made  as  follows : 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  hot  water, 
and  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Place  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  If 
there  are  any  grains  around  the  sides  of  the  pan,  clean  off 
with  a  damp  cloth  before  letting  it  come  to  a  boil.  Boil  over 
a  quick  fire  until  a  little  of  it  dropped  into  cold  water  will 
make  a  soft  ball.  Remove  the  mixture  from  the  fire  and  put 
it  aside  to  cool,  leaving  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  cooked. 
Do  not  put  it  into  cold  water  to  cool.  When  cool  (not  cold) 
stir  until  it  becomes  a  thick  creamy  mass.  When  it  is  too  hard 
to  stir  any  more,  take  it  into  the  hands  and  knead.  Kneading 
the  fondant  has  somewhat  the  same  effect  on  the  candy  as 
kneading  dough  has  upon  bread ;  it  makes  it  light  and  smooth. 
Then  put  it  into  an  earthen  dish,  cover  with  a  slightly  damp- 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS  185 

ened  cloth  and  let  stand  until  desired  for  use.  It  will  be  better 
after  standing  for  two  or  three  days,  and  it  will  keep  for  a 
week  or  more.  If  the  fondant  is  grainy  after  being  stirred,  put 
more  water  with  it,  dissolve  again  and  cook  as  before,  taking 
care  not  to  jar  the  pan  either  while  it  is  cooking  or  cooling. 

For  pink  fondant  use  the  same  proportions  as  for  the  white, 
adding  half  a  tablespoonful  of  pink  sugar,  which  can  be  bought 
of  a  confectioner  and  is  inexpensive,  a  small  quantity  lasting  a 
long  time. 

For  maple  fondant  use :  Two  cupfuls  of  light-brown  (cof- 
fee C)  sugar,  a  cupful  of  maple  syrup,  a  cupful  of  hot  water 
and  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  This  is 
more  easily  made  than  either  of  the  other  kinds,  as  the  brown 
sugar  is  more  moist  than  the  white  and  is  not  as  likely  to 
grain.    It  is,  therefore,  a  good  one  with  which  to  begin. 

NUT  WAFERS. 

Use  white  fondant  for  these.  It  is  not  well  to  melt  too 
much  at  a  time,  because  it  will  get  hard  before  you  can  drop 
it  all.  Have  ready  over  the  fire  a  pan  with  about  half  an  inch 
of  water  in  it.  Put  the  fondant  into  a  small  stew-pan  and 
place  the  pan  in  the  water  for  the  fondant  to  melt.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  stir  in  broken  walnut  meats  and  drop  from  a 
spoon  on  parafine  paper.  Pecan  nuts,  black  walnuts,  hickory 
nuts,  etc.,  may  also  be  treated  in  this  way. 

WALNUT  CREAMS. 

These  may  be  made  with  either  the  white  or  maple  fondant. 
Roll  a  piece  of  the  fondant  into  a  ball  and  press  well  into  each 
side  half  a  walnut  meat,  then  lay  aside  on  parafine  paper  to 
harden.  The  white  fondant  should  have  a  few  drops  of  vanil- 
la worked  into  it  before  being  made  up  into  balls. 


i86  CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 

COCUANUT  WAFERS. 

Use  white  fondant.  Melt,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  mix  in 
shredded  cocoanut  until  quite  stiff;  then  drop  on  parafiine 
paper. 

PEPPERMINT  AND  WINTERGREEN  WAFERS. 

Use  white  fondant,  or  pink  for  the  wintergreen,  if  pre- 
ferred. Melt,  flavor  with  two  or  three  drops  of  peppermint  or 
wintergreen  oil  and  drop  on  the  paper  in  small  round  wafers. 
These  are  very  nice  and  are  more  quickly  made  than  any  of  the 
others,  as  well  as  less  expensive.  Maple  wafers  may  be  made 
in  the  same  way,  but  no  flavoring  is  necessary  for  them. 

BUTTERSCOTCH. 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  Golden 
Drip  syrup,  half  a  cupful  of  butter.  Cook  the  ingredients  un- 
til they  make  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  into  water.  Pour 
into  buttered  pans,  having  the  candy  about  half  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  squares  when  cool  and  wrap  in  parafline 
paper. 

HOREHOUND. 

Packages  of  the  horehound  can  be  bought  of  a  druggist 
at  trifling  expense.  Two-thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  of  this 
steeped  for  a  few  minutes  makes  a  flavor  strong  enough  for 
three  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Use  the  proportions  of  a  cupful  of 
water  to  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar.  Strain  the  tea  carefully  and  pour  it  over  the  sugar ; 
add  water  and  cream  of  tartar  and  stir  until  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Boil  until  when  dropped  into  water  it  is  very  brittle 
and  does  not  seem  at  all  chewy.     Pour  into  pans  and  mark 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS  187 

into  squares  when  cool.  If  covered,  this  will  keep  for  weeks 
without  getting  sticky.  Half  a  cupful  of  Coffee  C  sugar  add- 
ed to  the  granulated  makes  a  better  color  for  this  candy. 


FUDGE. 

'ihree  cupfuls  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk.  Boil, 
and  when  it  hardens  a  little  in  cold  water  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  butter  and  two  squares  of  chocolate.  Take  from  the  stove, 
beat  well  and  put  in  buttered  tin.     Walnuts  may  be  added. 

WALNUT  PANOCHA. 

Four  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream  or 
milk.  Boil  five  minutes.  Put  in  one  cup  chopped  walnut 
meats,  boil  about  three  minutes,  then  take  off  and  stir  until 
cool  and  thick  enough  to  put  on  buttered  platter. 

MACAROONS. 

Oncrhalf  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  dried  and  pounded 
in  a  mortar,  with  one  teaspoonful  rose  water;  beat  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  with  one  gill  of  powdered  sugar,  adding  one  ta- 
blespoonful  at  a  time,  one-half  teaspoonful  almond  extract, 
the  powdered  almonds,  and,  if  the  paste  is  too  soft,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful flour;  wet  the  hands,  shape  the  paste  into  balls; 
place  on  buttered  paper  and  bake  slowly. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  small  egg;  put  all  in  sauce- 
pan, except  chocolate;  test  by  dropping  in  cold  water;  when 
done  pour  on  buttered  pans. 


i88  CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 

HOME  CARAMELS. 

One-half  pint  baker's  chocolate  grated,  one-half  pint  sugar, 
one-half  pint  molasses,  one-half  gill  milk  and  butter  size 
of  an  egg;  boil  till  it  hardens  in  water. 

MAPLE  CANDY. 

One  cup  maple  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream;  boil  till  it 
creams  and  when  stirred  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  buttered 
dish ;  place  one-half  English  walnut  on  each  piece  of  candy. 

TO  CANDY  FRUITS  OR  NUTS. 

Boil  in  an  agate  sauce  pan,  one  pound  granulated  sugar 
and  one  gill  butter,  till  a  drop  of  syrup  is  brittle  in  ice  water ; 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  the  syrup  and  set 
the  sauce  pan  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  take  each  piece  of 
fruit  with  the  sugar  tongs ;  dip  into  the  syrup  till  each  piece 
is  covered ;  then  lay  on  waxed  paper  to  dry. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

Two  cups  sugar  and  one-half  cup  water ;  boil  till  it  crisps 
in  water;  then  remove  from  range  and  stir  till  creamy;  add 
one  grated  cocoanut  and  turn  in  buttered  tin ;  when  cold 
cut  in  squares ;  use  this  cream  for  peppermint  cream ;  flavor 
with  essence  of  peppermint. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL. 

When  oranges  are  used  save  the  peels  by  putting  in  a  jar 
of  salt  and  water ;  when  there  are  what  you  wish  to  candy  puf- 
them  on  the  stove  in  cold  water;  boil  up  well  and  drain  and 
put  in  clear  water,  changing  till  the  bitter  is  out  of  the  peel 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS  189 

and  they  are  tender ;  when  tender  chop  and  weigh ;  take  pound 
for  pound  of  sugar  and  orange  peel ;  add  a  little  water  to  dis- 
solve the  sugar;  put  in  the  peel  and  cook  till  clear;  remove 
from  the  syrup  and  put  on  plates,  with  sugar,  and  set  in  warm- 
ing closet  to  dry. 


OPERA  CREAMS. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  cream  and  boil  till  it  makes  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  stir  till 
cool,  then  work  on  the  bread  board.  Spread  on  a  plate  and 
cut  in  squares. 

KISSES. 

Six  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  three  ounces  of  butter; 
beat  to  a  cream.  Add  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  soda 
size  of  a  pea  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  flour  to  roll  in  a 
thin  sheet;  cut  in  small  cakes. 

EXTRA  GOOD  KISSES. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  pound  pulverized 
sugar.  Flavor  to  taste  and  beat  the  sugar  in  by  the  teaspoon- 
ful ;  after  adding  the  sugar  beat  one  hour.  The  kisses  to  be 
light  and  crisp  should  bake  thirty  minutes. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

Three-quarters  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molas- 
ses, a  pinch  of  soda;  boil  without  stirring  till  it  hardens  in 
water.  Turn  into  buttered  tins  and  when  nearly  cold  cut  in 
squares. 


igo  CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 

FUDGE. 

Two  cups  sugar  and  one  cup  cream  or  milk,  one-fourth 
pound  chocolate  unsweetened,  small  piece  of  butter;  when  it 
begins  to  boil  stir  constantly;  when  it  hardens  slightly  in 
water  take  from  range ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  stir  till  cool ; 
turn  on  a  buttered  tin ;  when  cold  cut  in  squares. 

BRANDY  TUTTI  FRUTTI. 

Just  before  strawberry  season  put  one  quart  of  brandy  and 
three  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  three  gallon  jar;  stir  this  frequently 
and  when  strawberries  are  ripe  hull  three  pounds  and  put  them 
in  the  jar,  with  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Always  add  an  equal 
weight  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Add  each  fruit  in  season.  Stone 
the  cherries ;  plums  must  be  cut  in  pieces ;  peaches  and  apri- 
cots pared  and  sliced;  pineapples  are  a  delicious  addition. 
This  mixture  must  be  covered  closely  in  a  cool  place  and 
stirred  every  day  until  the  jar  is  full.  Serve  with  ice  cream 
and  blanc  manges. 

CREAM  TAFFY. 

Take  two  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar;  pour  over  it 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  well  before  putting  it  over  the 
fire;  after  it  begins  to  boil  add  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar; 
just  before  the  taffy  is  done  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  small  eigg:  cook  till  it  will  be  quite  hard  when  dropped 
into  cold  water.  Do  not  stir  at  all  or  the  tafify  will  be  sugar 
before  pulled.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  put  in  flavoring; 
pour  quickly  into  well  buttered  platters  and  set  in  cool  place. 
Begin  to  pull  as  soon  as  it  is  possible  to  take  it  into  the  hands. 
The  quicker  it  is  pulled  the  better  it  will  be.  If  a  flavor  is  de- 
sired add  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate  to  each  platter 


CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS  191 

just  after  it  is  poured  out.  As  the  taffy  is  pulled  the  choco- 
late will  mix  with  it.  Pull  as  long  as  possible,  till  it  is  quite 
hard  and  very  white,  and  cut  in  small  pieces ;  put  aside  for  sev- 
eral hours.     It  will  cream  nicely. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  four  tablespoons  molasses,  four 
tablespoons  water,  small  half  cup  vinegar.  Cook  until  it  hard- 
ens in  cold  water,  then  add  one-half  cup  butter.  Flavor  with 
vanilla. 


192  INVALID  COOKING 


INVALID  COOKING 


INDIAN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

One  quart  boiling  water,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  white  corn  meal,  one-half  cupful  cold  water,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt;  mix  the  flour,  meal  and  salt  in  the  cold 
water,  add  to  the  boiling  water  and  cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  to  the  back  of  range  and  let 
cook  half  an  hour  longer,  stirring  it  occasionally;  strain 
through  very  fine  sieve  or  cloth.  To  each  cup  of  the  gruel 
add  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
more  salt  if  needed,  and  a  tiny  bit  of  sugar  if  the  gruel  is 
liked  better  sweetened ;  a  teaspoonful  of  whipped  cream  added 
to  a  cupful  of  gruel  makes  it  more  tempting ;  place  the  cream 
on  top  of  the  cup  just  as  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

One  neck  of  mutton,  one-fourth  cupful  pearl  barley,  one 
stalk  celery,  one  onion,  one  sprig  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  cover  the  meat  with  cold  water  after  it  is  washed  and 
cut  into  rather  small  pieces,  add  the  washed  barley ;  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  slowly,  add  the  vegetables  cut  small  and  one  tea- 
spoonful salt.    Simmer  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones ; 


INVALID  COOKING  193 

let  the  broth  become  cold.  Remove  every  particle  of  fat, 
strain  through  cloth  or  fine  wire  sieve;  boil,  pour  into  cups 
and  put  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each  cup  of  the 
hot  broth. 


OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

One  cupful  oatmeal,  three  pints  cold  water;  boil  slowly 
three  hours  or  more  until  the  oatmeal  is  creamy.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  rubbing  part  of  the  oatmeal  through. 
Do  not  try  to  rub  too  much  or  the  gruel  will  be  too  thick. 
This  can  be  set  in  the  ice  box  and  re-heated  as  needed,  but  it 
should  be  strained  from  the  dish  in  which  it  is  prepared  into 
cups,  as  the  jelly  is  apt  to  remain  in  little  particles  in  the 
milk.  For  each  cup  of  the  prepared  gruel  add  one-half  cupful 
milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  butter,  salt  to  taste.  One  tea- 
spoonful  sugar  is  considered  an  addition  by  some. 


CLAM  BROTH. 

This  will  be  found  specially  acceptable  before  breakfast  and 
it  is  so  easily  prepared  that  it  can  be  made  fresh  daily.  Pro- 
cure a  dozen  clams  in  the  shell,  scrub  well  in  cold  water  to 
remove  every  particle  of  sand,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water — about  a  pint — and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes, 
or  until  all  the  clams  are  open.  Take  out  the  shells,  chop  the 
clams  fine,  skim  the  broth,  return  the  clams  to  it,  season  to 
taste,  with  a  tiny  bit  of  butter  or  cream,  pepper  and  salt,  if 
necessary,  and  serve  piping  hot  in  a  cup  with  toast  or  crack- 
ers. It  may  be  necessary  to  strain  the  clams  out  entirely  for 
one  very  ill,  but  all  the  properties  of  the  clam  with  the  lime  in 
the  shells  are  preserved  in  the  broth. 


194  INVALID  COOKING 

FRUIT  SYRUP. 

A  refreshing  drink  to  use  in  fever  cases  may  be  made  from 
dried  peaches  or  apricots.  Thoroughly  wash  one-half  pound 
of  the  fruit,  taking  it  piece  by  piece  between  the  thumb  and 
forefinger.  Soak  over  night  in  one  quart  of  water.  In  the 
morning  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  strain  and  chill. 

BARLEY  GRUEL. 

Barley  gruel  is  made  the  same  as  the  oatmeal  gruel,  sub- 
stituting washed  barley  for  the  oatmeal. 

CRUST  COFFEE. 

Dry  stale  slices  of  bread  in  the  oven  until  it  is  as  brown 
as  the  coffee  berry,  but  do  not  scorch  it;  pour  boiling  water 
over  the  bread  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  a  few  min- 
utes, where  it  will  keep  very  hot  but  not  boil.  Pour  off  the 
liquid  carefully  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Toast  brown  bread  without  burning  it  and  put  into  cold 
water;  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  one  hour;  if  preferred  sweet 
add  loaf  sugar  to  taste. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Two  pounds  lean  beef,  one  and  one-half  quarts  cold  water; 
chop  the  beef  fine,  pour  on  the  water,  let  stand  one  hour,  then 
set  back  on  the  range  and  let  come  to  a  boil  slowly.  Simmer 
one  hour,  strain  through  cheese  cloth,  and  season  to  taste. 
Serve  very  hot. 


INVALID  COOKING  195 

TO  CLARIFY  BEEF  TEA. 

Add  one-half  white  of  egg  slightly  beaten  to  one  pint  of 
cold  beef  tea;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  strain  through  cheese 
cloth. 

BEEF  BROTH. 

A  nutritious  beef  broth  that  can  be  kept  a  week  in  the 
winter  is  made  in  this  way :  Order  three  pounds  of  solid  beef 
from  the  shoulder  or  shin  and  three  pounds  of  bone  from  the 
shank.  Have  the  butcher  crack  the  latter.  Trim  off  any 
dried  pieces  of  skin  or  soft  or  bloody  portions  of  meat,  and 
put  the  bones  and  meat  in  a  stone  jar.  Cover  with  four 
quarts  of  cold  water,  set  in  a  slow  oven  and  cook,  covered, 
from  eight  to  twelve  hours.  Strain  and  season  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt.  Set  aside,  uncovered,  to  cool.  If  you  wish 
to  keep  it  for  several  days  do  not  remove  the  fat,  which  will 
rise  to  the  top  and  harden.  Take  out  a  little  as  needed,  heat 
and  serve  very  hot. 

FLOATING   ISLAND. 

As  the  convalescent  nears  the  pudding  stage,  an  old-fash- 
ioned floating  island  is  nourishing  and  digestible.  Heat  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler  until  scalding,  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  boil.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  pour  over  the  egg  and  sugar  very 
gradually  a  cupful  of  the  hot  milk.  Return  to  the  boiler  with 
the  rest  of  the  milk  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  When 
cooked  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  orange  and 
pour  into  a  glass  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  adding  a  half  cup  of  currant  jelly  a  teaspoonful  at  a 


196  INVALID  COOKING 

time.    Spread  over  the  custard  and  place  in  a  rather  cool  oven 
for  a  few  moments  to  "set." 

FRIZZLED  EGGS. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  nut  in  a  cup  with 
a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  white  pepper.  Break  in  two  eggs  with- 
out stirring.  Cook  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  until  the  whites 
are  set.     Serve  immediately. 

CHICKEN  JELLY. 

Pound  one-half  raw  chicken,  bones  and  meat  together,  with 
a  wooden  potato  masher  or  mallet.  Heat  slowly  in  three  pints 
of  cold  water.  Cover  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  in  shreds  and 
the  water  reduced  one-half.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  let  it  simmer  about  five 
minuteSo  When  cold  skim ;  keep  on  ice,  and  serve  with 
wafers.    Very  nourishing  for  the  convalescent. 

APPLE  DAINTY. 

Wipe,  quarter,  pare  and  core  apples ;  to  each  pint  allow 
one-third  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one-third  cupful  of  cold  water, 
a  speck  of  cloves.  Put  into  an  earthen  dish,  cover  tightly 
and  bake  slowly  eight  hours.  When  candied  and  deep  red  in 
color  pile  lightly  on  a  dish,  and  pour  over  a  boiled  custard, 
made  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  su- 
gar, one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one  pint  of  scalded 
milk.  Pile  lightly  over  this  the  three  whites,  beaten  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

A  good  sponge  cake  served  with  sweet  cream  or  a  glass  of 
milk  makes  an  excellent  lunch  for  an  invalid.     To  make  the 


INVALID  COOKING  197 

cake,  beat  six  eggs  and  a  cup  of  sugar  together  until  perfectly 
creamy,  light  and  white.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  flavoring,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  beat  again.  Stir  in 
lightly  one  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  with  a  scant  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  with  it,  but  do  not  beat.  Merely  fold  it  in. 
Bake  in  a  deep  tin  in  a  rather  slow  oven. 


BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Many  cooks  believe  that  the  baked  custard  must  be  served 
in  the  baking  dish  or  cup,  and  they  never  attempt  to  unmould 
it ;  this  can  be  done  easily  if  the  mould  is  buttered  before  the 
custard  is  poured  in.  If  the  moulds  are  small  the  usual 
proportion  of  eggs  is  sufficient,  but  if  large,  it  is  well  to  add 
one  more  egg  to  a  quart  of  milk.  Scald  one  pint  of  milk  and 
pour  over  three  beaten  eggs,  beaten  with  one-quarter  cupful 
of  sugar,  one-quarter  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  flavoring.  Strain  into  buttered  mould  holding  one 
and  one-half  pints.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  bake  slowly  until  firm,  then  unmould  onto  a  dish 
for  serving. 


UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Cover  Concord  grapes  with  cold  water  (after  removing 
from  the  stems  and  washing  thoroughly  in  a  colander),  then 
boil  until  tender.  Press  the  juice  through  a  wire  sieve  and 
add  to  it  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  every  three  quarts  of  fruit 
juice.  Place  over  the  fire,  let  just  come  to  a  boil,  and  bottle 
hot.  Do  not  let  grapes  boil  too  long  the  first  time,  nor  any 
more  than  boil  up  the  last  time,  or  the  flavor  will  be  impaired. 
Serve  with  cracked  ice.     For  invalids,  dilute  one-half. 


198  INVALID  COOKING 

WINE  JELLY. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine,  one  and  one-half  quarts  of  water, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  three  lemons,  two  tumblers 
sherry  wine,  one  wine  glass  brandy,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
essence  of  cinnamon.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  water  till 
thoroughly  dissolved,  add  the  sugar  and  the  lemons  cut  in 
thin  slices,  the  wine,  brandy  and  cinnamon.  Let  it  come  just 
to  a  boil.     Strain  into  moulds  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 

EGG  NOG. 

Beat  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  mix  the 
yolks  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Beat  well  and  then 
add  one  pint  of  rich  milk  and  grated  nutmeg,  four  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  the  best  whiskey.  Lastly  whip  in  the  whites  of  the 
eggs. 

CHICKEN  CUSTARD. 

To  one-half  pint  of  cream  add  one-half  pint  of  strained 
chicken  stock;  heat  in  a  double  boiler.  When  hot  add  the 
well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Cook  to  the  consistency  of 
soft  custard.  Season  with  salt  and  turn  into  cups,  and  serve 
cold. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Heat  one  pint  of  chicken  stock  boiling  hot.  Beat  two 
eggs  and  yolks  well,  add  to  boiling  mixture  and  cook  three 
minutes.    Flavor  with  sherry  and  serve  hot. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

One  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatine.  Soak  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  boil- 


INVALID  COOKING  199 

ing  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one-half 
lemon.    Turn  into  a  mould  and  set  in  ice  water  to  harden. 


ROSE  GELATINE. 

Use  any  brand  of  gelatine  that  has  rose  coloring,  mould 
in  long  shallow  granite  pan,  just  thick  enough  to  cut  out 
heart  shaped  pieces  with  a  cookie  cutter.  These  come  in  heart 
shapes  and  can  be  used  in  cutting  sandwiches  too.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  not  sweetened. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  neck  of  mutton ;  cut  of?  all  fat 
and  skin,  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  add  to  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  barley  and  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water.  Heat 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  skim  carefully  and  set  back 
on  the  stove  where  it  will  just  simmer  (180  degrees  Fall.). 
Cover  the  bones  with  one  cupful  of  cold  water  and  cook  slowly 
forty  minutes,  strain  the  broth  from  the  bones  to  the  meat 
and  barley  and  cook  two  hours  more.  Strain  and  season  with 
salt. 

MUSHES. 

The  following  formula  will  apply  to  the  cooking  of  all 
cereals.  The  importance  of  the  long  cooking  of  all  starchy 
material  cannot  be  too  strongly  emphasized. 

To  one  cupful  of  cereal,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Have  the  water  boiling  rapidly,  drop  in  the  cereal  slowly, 
that  the  water  may  not  cease  boiling,  cook  rapidly  directly 
over  the  fire  until  the  starch  grains  have  swollen  and  burst 
open  the  cellulose  pockets,  and  the  mixture  has  thickened 
and  settled.     Now  place  the  top  of  the  double  boiler  over 


200  INVALID  COOKING 

the  lower  part  and  steam  from  six  to  eight  hours.  The 
amount  of  water  used  should  be  one-fourth  more  than  is  given 
on   the  package. 

An  attractive  method  of  serving  mush  is  to  remove  the 
core  of  an  apple,  making  a  large  cavity,  steam  it  and  when 
done  fill  the  cavity  with  the  cooked  cereal.  If  it  is  desired 
to  serve  more  cereal,  a  wall  of  cereal  may  be  formed  around 
the  apple.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  to  taste.  Dates, 
figs  and  raisins  properly  prepared  may  be  served  with  the 
cereals. 

OYSTER  TOAST. 

Serve  broiled  oysters  on  cream  toast  and  sprinkle  with 
minced    celery. 

BROILED  TENDERLOIN. 

Cut  an  inch  slice  of  tenderloin,  broil  eight  minutes  over 
coals,  turning  every  ten  seconds.  At  the  same  time  broil  a 
small  piece  of  round.  Press  the  juice  of  the  round  over  the 
tenderloin,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  A  little 
minced  parsley  may  be  added. 

EGG  TOAST. 

Brown  a  slice  of  bread  nicely,  dip  in  hot  water  slightly 
salted,  butter  it,  and  lay  on  top  of  this  toast  an  egg  that  has 
been  broken  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  until  the  white  is 
hardened.  Season  the  egg  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little 
salt. 

The  best  way  to  cook  an  egg  for  an  invalid  is  to  drop 
it  into  boiling  water,  or  pour  boiling  water  over  the  egg  in 
the  shell  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  on  the  back  of  the 
stove. 


INVALID  COOKING  201 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

Cook  celery  until  soft,  mash  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
This  is  celery  puree.  Add  five  or  six  drops  of  onion  juice  to 
the  puree.  Melt  one  level  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  the 
same  amount  of  flour  and  cook  together  until  frothy.  To 
the  flour  and  butter  add  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  celery 
puree  and  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  cook  together 
five  minutes,  then  add  one-fourth  cupful  of  milk  and  the  same 
of  cream.  Heat  to  160  degrees  Fah.  and  serve  seasoned  v^ith 
salt  and  pepper. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Cook  together  as  above  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  one-fourth  cupful  of  hot  milk,  cook  until  it 
thickens  a  very  little,  add  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked 
and  strained  pea-pulp,  seasoned  with  one-eighth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
You  may  add  a  little  whipped  cream.     Serve  hot. 

BEEF  JUICE. 

Beef  juice  obtained  from  best  round  steak,  which  has 
been  merely  heated  through  over  the  coals,  and  then  entirely 
deprived  of  soluble  substances  by  a  meat  press,  is  the  most 
concentrated  form  of  liquid  food.  If  prepared  with  the  most 
scrupulous  neatness  from  the  best  materials  and  served  at 
once,  it  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired.  To  prepare  the  press 
for  use  in  making  the  beef  juice,  it  should  stand  in  boiling 
water  for  thirty   minutes. 

Take  beef  from  upper  part  of  round,  broil  over  coals,  hold- 
ing broiler  close  to  the  coals  (when  it  is  not  possible  to  have 
coals  it  may  be  broiled  on  a  very  hot  pan)  until  well  browned. 


202  INVALID  COOKING 

Now  put  pieces  in  the  press  that  has  been  standing  in  hot 
water,  and  press  out  the  juices  into  a  cup  standing  in  hot 
water.  Season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve.  It  is  often  offered  to  a  sick  person  in  a  red  glass, 
that  the  color  may  not  be  offensive.  It  may  be  taken  to  the 
sick  room  in  a  bowl  of  hot  water  that  it  may  be  served 
hot.    Hot  water  added,  it  becomes  beef  tea. 


CLAM  BROTH. 

Procure  clams  in  the  shell,  scrub  the  shells  with  a 
brush,  put  ten  or  twelve  shells  in  a  kettle  with  a  very  lit- 
tle hot  water,  cover  kettle  and  let  steam  until  shells  open. 
Drain  out  the  juice,  dilute  the  broth  with  water  and  season 
with  salt. 


IRISH-MOSS  LEMONADE. 

Pick  over  and  wash  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  Irish-moss, 
pour  on  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  cook  two  hours,  just 
below  the  boiling  point,  200  degrees  Fah.  Strain  and  add 
lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  taste.  Excellent  for  bronchial 
troubles. 


EGG  LEMONADE. 

Separate  white  from  yolk  of  egg.  Beat  the  yolk  until 
stiff  and  creamy.  Add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  beat  thorough- 
ly, add  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  fold  in  the  white  of 
the  egg,  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Pour  over  shaved  ice  in  a 
glass,  let  stand  five  minutes,  and  serve.  The  yolk  may  be 
omitted  if  too  rich. 


INVALID  COOKING  203 

GRUELS. 

Any  kind  of  grain  requires  long,  slow  cooking. 

RICE  GRUEL. 

Two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  cracked  or  crushed  rice,  two 
cupfuls  of  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  two  hours  over  hot 
water.  Strain  out  the  grains  and  dilute  with  milk  or  cream. 
Serve  hot  or  cold.     It  is  delicious  with  whipped  cream. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

One-half  cupful  of  rolled  or  crushed  oatmeal,  the  same 
amount  of  cold  water.  Stir  well,  let  settle,  and  drain  wa- 
ter into  a  stewpan.  Repeat  this  four  times;  that  is,  add 
one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  to  the  same  oatmeal  four  times. 
Cook  the  strained  water  until  thickened,  directly  over  the 
fire.  Now  pour  into  the  top  of  a  double  boiler  and  steam 
two  hours,  add  salt,  season  with  lemon  juice,  beef  tea,  cream 
or  milk. 

EGG  GRUEL. 

Separate  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg,  beat  both  very 
stiff,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  to  the  yolk,  add  one 
tablespoonful,  more  or  less,  of  sugar  to  the  beaten  white, 
fold  the  white  into  the  yolk  and  pour  over  all  one  cup  of 
heated  milk,  beating  rapidly  all  the  time.     Flavor  as  desired. 

SOUPS. 

Milk  soups  are  another  way  of  serving  hot  milk,  flavored 
with  more  or  less  pulp  of  the  vegetables  that  grow  above 
the  ground,  which  are  tender  and  rich  in  mineral  substances. 
The  milk  should  not  be  heated  above  160  degrees  Fah. 


204  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 


Uhinffs  2uorth  jfinowinff 


To  clean  sponges,  wash  them  in  diluted  tartaric  acid, 
rinsing  them  afterward  in  water;  it  will  make  them  very  soft 
and  white. 

Before  buying  tinned  fruits  and  meats  see  if  the  top  is 
flat  or  depressed.  If  the  top  has  bulged  out,  then  air  has 
entered  the  tin  and  fermentation  set  in. 

Vinegar  should  not  be  kept  in  a  stone  jar,  as  the  acid 
may  affect  the  glazing  and  the  vinegar  be  rendered  unwhole- 
some.    Glass  jars  are  the  best  vinegar  receptacles. 

Freshen  the  house  by  putting  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  laven- 
der in  an  ornamental  bowl,  then  half  fill  it  with  very  hot  water. 
This  will  give  a  delightful  freshness  to  the  atmosphere. 

A  good  china  cement  is  made  by  mixing  with  a  strong  so- 
lution of  gum  arable  and  water  enough  plaster  of  paris  to  make 
a  thick  paste.  This  should  be  applied  to  the  broken  edges 
with  a  camel's  hair  brush. 

When  lighting  a  gas  stove  it  will  often  give  a  slight 
explosion  and  light  wrong,  thus  causing  no  heat.  Turn  the 
gas  off  very  quickly,  and  on  again.  It  will  then  light  proper- 
ly without  any  further  trouble. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  205 

If  you  have  left  boiled  eggs  in  the  water  a  little  too 
long,  break  the  top  of  the  shell  at  once  by  patting  it  with  a 
spoon.  This  lets  out  some  of  the  heat,  and  the  hardening  proc- 
ess will  be  stopped  immediately. 

A  Paint-Stained  Dress. — If  you  happen  to  get  wet  paint 
on  your  dress,  rub  the  stain  at  once  with  another  piece  of  the 
same  material,  and  the  stain  will  entirely  disappear.  You 
can  use  another  and  covered  part  of  the  same  garment.  What 
happens  to  the  paint  it  is  difficult  to  say,  but  it  certainly 
vanishes. 

Grease  Marks  on  Wall  Papers. — These  can  be  removed  by 
applying  a  paste  of  pipeclay  and  water  to  the  stains,  and  al- 
lowing this  to  dry  on  all  one  night  or  day.  Then  the  powdev 
should  be  gently  brushed  off  without  scraping  the  paper. 

To  Clean  Carved  Ivory  Articles. — The  beauty  of  carved 
ivory  curios  is  frequently  spoiled  by  the  amount  of  dust  which 
collects  in  the  interstices,  so  those  who  possess  them  will  be 
glad  to  hear  of  an  excellent  method  of  cleaning  the  ivory 
effectually.  A  paste  should  be  made  of  sawdust,  water  and  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  This  paste  should  be  applied  thick- 
ly all  over  the  carving,  and  be  permitted  to  dry  on.  When 
finally  brushed  off  with  a  soft,  firm  brush,  the  preparation  will 
be  found  to  have  left  the  ivory  pure  and  white  once  more. 

To  Remove  Rust  Stains  from  Matting. — Cover  the  stain 
v/ith  paper  and  place  a  warm  iron  on  this.  When  the  spot  is 
warm  dip  a  glass  rod  in  a  bottle  of  muriatic  acid  and  go  over 
the  rust  spot  with  it,  wetting  every  part  with  the  acid.  The 
spot  will  turn  a  bright  yellow.  Instantly  wash  it  with  an  old 
toothbrush    dipped   in  boiling  water,   rub   dry   with   woolen 


206  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

cloths.  Before  beginning  the  work  have  all  the  appliances 
ready,  and  then  work  rapidly  from  start  to  finish.  Muriatic 
acid  corrodes  metals,  therefore  keep  the  bottle  corked  tight 
when  not  using  it.  Two  or  three  ounces  of  the  acid  will  be 
ample. 

Flower  vases  can  be  easily  purified  and  cleaned  by  rins- 
ing them  out  with  warm  water  and  powdered  charcoal. 

When  cutting  new  bread  always  put  the  knife  in  hot  water 
first,  and  you  will  find  that  it  facilitates  the  cutting. 

To  Keep  Clothespins  New. — To  prevent  new  clothespins 
from  splitting,  let  them  stand  in  cold  water  a  few  hours  be- 
fore using. 

A  box  filled  with  lime  and  placed  on  the  shelf  in  a  pan- 
try and  frequently  renewed  will  absorb  the  damp,  and  keep  the 
air  pure  and  dry. 

When  weighing  molasses  for  cooking  purposes,  if  the  scale 
is  well  floured  first  the  syrup  will  run  off  quite  smoothly, 
without  leaving  any  stickiness  behind. 

Good  Polish  for  Oilcloth. — Save  all  candle  ends  and  melt 
in  the  oven;  mix  with  it  sufficient  turpentine  to  make  a  soft 
paste.     This  is  excellent  for  linoleum,  etc. 

Celery  should  be  allowed  to  lie  in  cold  water,  to  which 
a  little  salt  has  been  added,  for  an  hour  before  it  is  re- 
quired for  the  table.     This  will  make  it  very  crisp. 

To  Brighten  Copperware. — A'  little  crushed  borax  if 
sprinkled  thickly  on  a  flannel  cloth  that  is  wet  with  hot  water 
and  well  soaped  will  brighten  the  copper  like  magic. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  207 

To  darken  brown  boots  that  have  seen  their  best  days  rub 
all  over  with  a  piece  of  clean  white  flannel  wet  in  ammonia. 
Do  this  twice,  then  polish  with  the  usual  brown  liquid,  and 
they  will  look  as  nice  as  ever. 

Tapestry-Covered  Furniture. — To  clean  this,  first  brush 
thoroughly ;  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  ammonia  to  a  quart  of 
water.  Wring  a  cloth  out  of  this,  and  sponge  thoroughly,  rins- 
ing and  turning  the  cloth  as  it  gets  dirty,  changing  the  water 
when  necessary.    This  freshens  and  brightens  it  wonderfully. 

Scrubbing  Board  Floors. — Plenty  of  soap  and  cold  water 
and  no  soda  are  the  secrets  of  success  in  washing  board  floors, 
and  the  wood  must  be  scrubbed  the  way  of  the  grain  and  not 
round  and  round,  if  you  want  to  get  the  dirt  off.  Change  the 
water  often.  You  can't  expect  boards  to  be  a  good  color  if 
they  are  rinsed  in  dirty  water. 

Tissue  paper  should  never  be  thrown  away.  Save  it  all 
up  for  polishing  windows  and  mirrors,  or  for  removing  the 
first  coating  of  grease  from  dishes  previous  to  their  immersion 
in  the  dishpan. 

Few  housekeepers  pay  the  attention  they  should  to  their 
ice  boxes.  An  ice  box  can  be  kept  in  perfect  condition  if 
it  is  thoroughly  cleansed  once  a  week,  but  twice  is  better. 
The  box  should  be  thoroughly  washed  with  strong  soda  water, 
and  the  drain  pipes  should  be  washed  out.  An  ice  box  should 
always  be  full  of  ice,  it  is  the  poorest  economy  to  allow  the 
supply  to  decrease,  and  if  sufficient  ice  is  provided  the  box 
can  be  kept  at  an  even  temperature,  which  insures  the  pres- 
ervation of  the  food  it  contains.  There  are  people  who,  from  a 
false  idea  of  economy,  fail  to  get  the  best  results  from  the 


208  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

use  of  ice  and  refrigerators.  A  common  mistake  is  getting 
a  small  piece  of  ice  every  day  or  every  other  day,  instead  of 
filling  the  ice  chamber  two  or  three  times  a  week.  The 
small  piece  of  ice  cannot  reduce  the  temperature  sufficiently 
and  the  result  is  that  each  new  piece  melts  rapidly  and  the 
food  cannot  be  kept. 

Never  use  soda  for  washing  china  that  has  any  gilding 
on  it,  for  the  soda  vv^ill  in  time  surely  remove  it  all.  Instead 
of  soda,  use  a  little  soap ;  that  has  no  bad  effect. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  in  a  quart  of  water,  wash 
your  brushes  and  combs  in  this,  and  all  grease  and  dirt  will 
disappear.    Rinse,  shake,  and  dry  in  the  sun,  or  by  the  fire. 

To  renovate  leather  furniture,  wash  it  with  soap  and  water 
and  when  dry  apply  a  little  vaseline,  rubbed  in  with  the 
hand.  Let  it  remain  till  next  morning,  then  polish  with  a 
soft  duster.  This  treatment  will  prevent  the  leather  from 
cracking. 

Coal  that  is  kept  in  a  dry  and  airy  place  will  burn  much 
longer  than  that  which  is  kept  in  a  close  cellar,  with  no 
ventilation.  When  coal  remains  long  in  an  airless  place  it 
gets  rid  of  its  gas,  and  the  absence  of  this  renders  it  less 
powerful  and  more  wasteful  when  burned. 

Carpets  in  rooms  which  are  seldom  used  are  apt  to  be  at- 
tacked by  moths.  Salt  sprinkled  around  the  edges  and  well 
under  the  carpet  before  it  is  put  down  will  generally  prevent 
their  ravages.  Plenty  of  light  and  air  should  be  admitted 
into  the  rooms,  as  moths  favor  close,  dark  places. 

Boots    and   shoes   will    last    much    longer    if,    when   wet. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  209 

they  are  placed  on  their  sides  and  allowed  to  dry,  pulling 
the  uppers  as  flat  as  possible.  By  this  means  the  soles  are 
exposed  to  the  air  and  dry  better.  It  is  also  a  good  plan, 
when  one  does  not  possess  boot-trees,  to  fill  the  boots  or 
shoes  with  soft,  crumpled  paper  or  oats,  so  that  they  keep 
their  shape. 

To  prevent  portieres  catching  under  the  door  when  opened 
quickly,  screw  a  small  ring  (such  as  are  used  for  picture 
frames)  into  the  center  of  the  door  frame,  to  this  fasten  a 
blind  cord  sufficient  to  reach  to  the  bottom  of  curtain.  Put 
another  ring  in  center  of  door  at  top,  thread  cord  through, 
and  fasten  to  bottom  of  curtain.  As  the  door  is  opened  so 
the   curtain  rises. 

To  keep  ants,  moths  or  any  other  insects  out  of  the  closets 
or  pantry,  sprinkle  the  shelves  and  corners  wtih  sassafras  oil, 
and  they  will  soon  bid  you  ''good-bye." 

A  fairly  sizable  piece  of  black  velveteen,  perhaps  a  quarter 
of  a  yard,  makes  the  most  satisfactory  brush  for  silk  that 
can  be  had ;  it  removes  the  dust  perfectly  and  yet  does  not 
injure  the  fabric. 

Care  of  Bath  Rooms. — Plenty  of  fresh  air  and  a  generous 

flushing  of  pipes,  using  disinfectants  every  two  weeks  at 
least.  Copperas  is  the  very  best ;  dissolve  a  couple  of  pounds 
of  crystals  in  a  gallon  of  water,  pouring  a  portion  of  it  hot 
down  the  drains.  It  has  no  odor,  but  will  stain  any  clothing, 
and  must  be  used  with  care. 

For  backache  and  pain  in  the  chest  the  Belladonna  and 
Capsicum  plaster  is  the  best  and  can  be  obtained  at  all  drug 
stores. 


210  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

DAINTY  WAYS  OF  USING  ROSE   LEAVES. 

With  the  blooming  of  roses  the  woman  who  keeps  abreast 
of  the  times  is  on  the  alert  to  gather  in  every  leaf  of  the  fra- 
srrant  harvest.  From  time  immemorial  the  Orientals  have 
utilized  roses  for  their  choicest  sweets  and  flavors.  Our 
great  grandmothers  were  adepts  in  the  preparation  of  rose  fla- 
vors and  pot  pourris,  but  the  modern  woman  has  been  slow 
in   awakening  to  their  possibilities. 

The  rose  pillow  is  now  esteemed  the  acme  of  daintiness 
for  the  new  baby's  carriage  or  the  bride's  outfit. 

To  collect  a  sufficient  supply,  make  a  systematic  tour  of 
the  garden  each  morning  while  the  dew  is  still  on,  provided 
with  basket  and  shears.  Select  the  roses  whose  petals  are 
ready  to  fall,  shake  into  the  basket,  snip  off  the  denuded  stem 
and  throw  it  away.  Carry  the  fragrant  burden  to  the  garret 
or  spare  room,  where  papers  have  been  spread  upon  the 
floor,  and  empty  the  petals  upon  them.  Stir  and  turn  every 
day  until  perfectly  dry,  transferring  to  bags  when  that  is  ac- 
complished. 

When  a  sufficient  amount  of  petals  has  been  collected,  put 
in  pretty  cases  made  of  fine  hemstitched  handkerchiefs  fagot- 
ed together,  through  which  white  or  rose-colored  ribbon  may 
be  run.  These  wash  beautifully.  If  something  more  elab- 
orate is  desirable,  a  bolting  cloth  cover,  embroidered  or  hand 
painted  with  roses,  is  dainty  and  effective. 

For  rose  syrup,  collect  fresh  petals  each  morning  and 
spread  on  a  tray  to  dry.  When  enough  have  been  collected  for 
a  tumbler  of  preserve,  put  in  a  fresh  granite  or  porcelain 
kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  cover,  and  simmer  until  ten- 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  211 

der.  Add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  to  each  pint  of 
the  leaves  and  water  and  cook  to  a  rich  syrup.  The  Turkish 
women  frequently  use  honey  in  place  of  sugar,  one-half  pound 
of  the  honey  equaling  a  pound  of  sugar. 

This  syrup  gives  a  delicious  flavor  to  a  pudding  sauce  or 
mince  meat,  or  it  may  be  utilized  as  a  sweet  at  a  Turkish 
tea.     Pour  in  glasses  and  seal. 

To  secure  rose  flavoring,  fill  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  with 
fresh  petals,  packing  them  down  as  tight  as  possible.  Then 
pour  over  them  enough  pure  alcohol  to  submerge. 

Richer  and  stronger  is  rose  brandy.  Fill  a  glass  jar  with 
fragrant  petals,  and  cover  with  French  brandy.  Next  day 
pour  off  the  brandy,  take  out  the  leaves  and  replace  with  fresh 
ones.  Return  the  brandy.  Do  this  several  times,  until  the 
brandy  is  strongly  impregnated.  Then  strain  and  bottle 
tightly.    Keep  the  can  covered  during  the  distillation  process. 

The  petals  of  the  yellow  rose  infused  in  boiling  water 
furnish  a  delicate  dye,  which  is  attractive  with  old-fashioned 
rose  desserts  and  for  home-made  candy. 

To  make  candied  rose  leaves,  gather  fresh  leaves  and 
spread  them  on  an  inverted  sieve  or  oiled  paper  in  the  open 
air  until  slightly  dry,  but  not  crisp.  Make  a  syrup,  using 
a  half  pint  of  water  and  a  half  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  boil  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Dip  each  rose  leaf  in  this 
syrup,  using  a  hat  pin  or  fine  wire.  Then  lay  back  in  place. 
After  several  hours  melt  a  half  cupful  of  fondant,  add  two  or 
three  drops  essence  of  rose,  a  drop  of  cochineal  to  color,  and 
a  few  drops  of  water  to  thin.  Dip  the  leaves  in  this  one  by 
one,  sprinkle  with  crystallized  sugar,  and  return  to  the  oiled 
paper  to  harden. 


212  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

To  make  calico  wash  well  infuse  three  gills  of  salt  in 
four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  put  in  the  calicoes  while 
hot,  and  leave  them  till  cold.  In  this  way  the  colors  are 
rendered  permanent  and  will  not  fade  by  subsequent  washing. 

To  remove  paint  and  putty  from  window  glass  put  suffi- 
cient saleratus  into  hot  water  to  make  a  strong  solution  and 
with  this  saturate  the  paint  or  putty,  which  adheres  to  the 
glass.  Let  it  remain  till  nearly  dry,  then  rub  off  with  a 
woolen  cloth. 

To  disinfect  a  room  from  the  smell  of  tobacco  or  close- 
ness, place  in  an  open  mouthed  jar  one-half  spirits  of  laven- 
der and  a  lump  of  salt  of  ammonia,  leaving  it  uncovered.  It 
is  excellent. 

If  our  lady  readers  wish  to  keep  a  bouquet  fresh  let 
them  drop  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  charcoal  into  the  water 
intended  for  the  flower  stalks,  and  they  will  keep  their 
freshness  and  perfume  for  several  days,  and  look  and  smell 
the  same  as  those  just  gathered.  The  charcoal  settles  to  the 
bottom  of  the  vase,  the  water  remaining  clear. 

For  burns  nothing  excels  linseed  oil  and  lime  water.  Dip 
cotton  in  the  lotion  and  apply  to  burn  and  bandage. 

Many  jewels  require  an  occasional  sleep,  in  order  to  retain 
their  brilliancy.  Diamonds,  rubies,  opals  and  sapphires  are 
among  the  number.  They  should  be  put  away  in  total  dark- 
ness every  now  and  then.  The  usual  velvet  or  satin  lined 
cases  are  the  correct  receptacles.  It  is  best  to  wrap  them 
in  jewelers'  tissue  paper,  then  pack  them  in  wool  and  lay  in 
air-tight  compartments.     A  number  of  stones  are   seriously 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  213 

affected  by  fumes  from  furnaces,  sewer  gas,  moisture,   and 
sea  air. 

The  effect  of  ammonia  on  vegetation  is  very  beneficial. 
If  you  desire  your  plants  to  become  more  flourishing,  try  it 
upon  them  by  adding  six  drops  to  every  pint  of  water  you 
give  them.  Do  not  repeat  this  oftener  than  once  in  eight 
days,  lest  you  stimulate  them  too  highly. 

Two  pounds  of  alum  dissolved  in  three  quarts  of  boiling 
water  and  applied  to  all  cracks  and  crevices  will  keep  out 
ants,  roaches  and  bedbugs. 

To  clean  straw  matting,  use  a  coarse  cloth  dipped  in  salt 
and  water.  Wipe  dry.  The  salt  will  keep  the  matting  from 
turning  yellow. 

To  remove  ink  stains,  apply  lemon  juice  and  salt  and  lay 
the  articles  in  the  sun. 

No  housekeeper  should  be  without  a  bottle  of  spirits  of 
ammonia,  for  besides  its  medical  value,  it  is  very  desirable 
for  household  purposes.  With  a  pint  of  suds  mix  a  teaspoon 
of  spirits,  dip  in  your  silver  knives,  forks  and  spoons,  and 
rub  them  with  a  brush  and  polish  with  a  chamois  skin. 

■  For  washing  mirrors  and  windows,  put  a  few  drops  of  am- 
monia on  a  piece  of  paper  and  it  will  readily  take  off  every 
spot  of  finger  marks  on  the  glass. 

Ammonia  entirely  absorbs  all  obnoxious  smell  so  often 
arising  from  the  feet  in  hot  weather. 

To  take  spots  from  wash  goods,  rub  them  well  with  the 
yolk  of  egg  before  washing. 


214  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

Ammonia  is  a  most  refreshing  agent  at  the  toilet  table. 
A  few  drops  in  a  basin  will  make  a  better  bath  than  pure 
water. 

To  take  white  spots  from  varnished  furniture,  hold  a  hot 
plate  over  them  and  they  will  disappear. 

Salt  will  remove  the  stains  from  silver  caused  by  eggs. 
Apply  dry  with  a  soft  cloth. 

Never  allow  meat  to  remain  in  paper;  it  absorbs  the 
juices. 

To  prevent  the  odor  of  cabbage  or  onion,  throw  red  pepper 
pods  into  the  pan  they  are  cooking  in. 

A  package  of  Gold  Dust  and  a  cake  of  Sapolio  should  be 
kept  in  every  kitchen,  to  be  used  freely  on  all  dishes  that 
require  scouring  and  cleansing. 

Salt  will  curdle  new  milk,  hence  in  preparing  milk  por- 
ridge, gravies,  etc.,  the  salt  should  not  be  added  until  the 
dish  is  prepared. 

Salt  and  beeswax  will  make  rusty  flatirons  as  clean  and 
smooth  as  glass.  Tie  a  lump  of  wax  in  a  bag  and  keep  it  for 
the  purpose.  When  the  irons  are  hot,  rub  them  first  with  the 
wax  bag,  then  scour  them  with  a  paper  or  cloth  sprinkled 
with  salt. 

Blue  ointment  and  kerosene  mixed  in  equal  proportions 
and  applied  to  the  bedsteads  is  an  unfailing  bedbug  remedy, 
as  a  coat  of  white  wash  is  for  the  walls  of  a  log  house. 

Kerosene  will  soften  boots  or  shoes  that  have  been  hard- 
ened by  water  and  make  them  pliable  as  new. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  215 

When  cheese  becomes  too  hard,  grate  it  and  put  it  away 
in  covered  bottles ;  it  is  useful  for  macaroni. 

Salt  toughens  meat  if  added  before  it  is  done. 

Crackers  are  much  more  crisp  if  set  in  a  hot  oven  a  few- 
minutes  before  serving. 

To  brown  flour,  put  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  on  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  and  stir  until  it  has  become  brown. 
Bottle  and  keep  for  future  use. 

If  you  value  your  own  and  your  family's  digestion,  don't 
serve  tea  with  fish.  The  tannic  acid  hardens  the  fiber  and 
makes  it  indigestible.  It  should  not  be  offered  with  any 
form  of  fish,  shell-fish,  or  the  articulate  animals  like  lobsters 
and  crabs.  Iced  tea  and  soft-shell  crabs,  for  example,  are 
a  combination  that  should  be  avoided. 

One  of  the  dyed  chamois-skins  is  an  excellent  lamp  mat 
for  a  polished  table — the  rich  red,  green,  or  a  certain  shade  of 
peacock  blue.  A  red  one  goes  especially  well  with  a  lamp 
of  Egyptian  design. 

A  recent  addition  to  the  list  of  savory  salts  is  onion 
salt,  which  is  now  put  up  in  shaker  cans  or  bottles  for  flavor- 
ing use. 

As  most  of  the  people  cook  by  gas  perhaps  the  following 
suggestions  may  be  a  help  in  the  saving  of  gas.  Puddings, 
pies,  and  beans  can  be  baked  well  at  small  expense  by  using 
a  small  tin  oven,  such  as  comes  for  oil  stoves.  Place  the  oven 
over  one  of  the  single  burners,  and  you  will  find  it  will  give 
a  very  satisfactory  bake  with  only  a  low  flame.  This  little 
oven  is  fine  for  keeping  the  dishes  warm  and  the  victuals 
hot. 


2i6  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

If  you  wish  to  serve  peas  as  an  entree,  cut  out  with  a  cookie 
cutter  a  round  of  bread  from  an  ordinary  sized  slice  of  bread, 
then  two  rings  with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Dip  them  in  melted 
butter  and  toast  delicately  brown  in  the  oven.  Fill  the  cavities 
with  peas  cooked  in  a  delicate  cream  sauce. 

Tissue  paper  should  never  be  thrown  away.  Save  it  all  up 
for  polishing  windows  and  mirrors. 

Never  use  soda  for  washing  china  that  has  any  gilding 
on  it,  for  the  soda  will  in  time  surely  remove  it  all.  Instead 
of  soda,  use' a  little  soap;  that  has  no  bad  effect. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  ammonia  in  a  quart  of  water,  wash 
your  brushes  and  combs  in  this,  and  all  grease  and  dirt  will 
disappear.    Rinse,  shake,  and  dr}^  in  the  sun,  or  by  the  fire. 

Ink  spots  on  mahogany  may  be  removed  by  being  touched 
with  a  feather  dipped  in  oil  of  vitriol  diluted  with  twice  its 
quantity  of  water.  The  spot  should  be  well  and  quickly 
rubbed. 

To  renovate  leather  furniture,  wash  it  with  a  little  soap- 
and-water,  and  when  dry  apply  a  little  vaseline,  rubbed  in 
with  the  hand.  Let  it  remain  till  next  morning,  then  polish 
with  a  soft  duster.  This  treatment  will  prevent  the  leather 
from  cracking. 

A  few  drops  of  oil  of  lavender  in  a  silver  bowl  or  orna- 
mental dish  of  some  kind,  half  filled  with  very  hot  water,  and 
set  in  the  dining-room  just  before  dinner  is  served,  gives  a  de- 
lightful and  intangible  freshness  to  the  atmosphere  of  the 
apartment.  Hostesses  often  put  a  small  vessel  in  the  parlor 
and  dressing-rooms  when  arranging  the  house  for  a  festivity. 
The  suggestion  is  especially  valuable  to  the  hostess  in  a  small 
apartment,  which  sometimes  in  the  bustle  of  preparation  be- 
comes stuffy. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  217 

Household  Uses  for  Pure  Refined  Paraffine  Wax. 

For  Washing — One-half  teacup  of  Paraffine  Wax  shavings 
to  one  ordinary  bar  of  washing  soap,  both  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water,  is  sufficient  for  one  boiler  of  washing.  Pour  this 
mixture  when  dissolved  into  the  boiler  of  hot  water  (the  best 
results  are  obtained  by  dipping  the  clothes  into  cold  water 
then  wringing  and  putting  into  the  boiler).  Boil  the  clothes 
thirty  minutes,  after  which  all  that  is  required  to  have  beauti- 
ful, white  clothes  is  the  usual  sudsing,  rinsing  and  bluing.  Us- 
ing Paraffine  Wax  as  above  will  save  hard  rubbing  and  scrub- 
bing. Will  take  the  dirt  out  of  your  clothes  without  hard 
rubbing.  Absolutely  pure  and  will  not  injure  the  most  delicate 
fabrics.  Has  no  taste  or  odor.  Just  as  important  as  soap  for 
laundry  Avork. 

For  Ironing — A  teaspoon  of  MELTED  Paraffine  Wax 
mixed  with  the  hot  starch  insures  a  smooth,  glossy  finish. 

Irons  are  kept  smooth,  bright  and  clean  by  rubbing  them 
over  small  pads  made  of  Paraffine  Wax  covered  with  cheese- 
cloth or  old  linen. 

For  Sealing  Preserves — When  the  jam  or  jelly  is  cool,  wipe 
the  inside  rim  of  the  glass  with  a  cloth  to  insure  perfect  clean- 
liness ;  then  pour  in  the  melted  Paraffine  Wax  until  it  is  about 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Let  stand  until  the  Wax  hardens 
and  turns  white.  No  other  cover  is  necessary.  If  the  fruit  is 
thoroughly  cooled  before  pouring  on  the  melted  Wax  it  will 
not  mix  with  the  fruit. 

For  Cake  and  Pie  Pans — Warm  the  pans  and  rub  the  in- 
side with  Paraffine  Wax.  This  is  superior  to  the  old  method 
of  greasing  the  pans  with  butter. 

Manufactured  by  Standard  Oil  Co.    For  sale  by  all  dealers. 


2i8  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

Do  not  throw  away  bits  of  toilet  soap.  Get  a  quart  or 
pint  Mason  jar  and  put  in  the  bits  of  soap.  Pour  in  alcohol 
not  quite  enough  to  cover  the  soap.  This  will  make  a  jelly 
which  will  be  found  very  useful  for  the  hands,  in  the  bath, 
and  for  shampooing.  Just  before  using  add  three  drops  of 
lavender  or  rose. 

To  prevent  flannels  from  turning  yellow  lay  pieces  of 
white  wax  in  the  folds  of  white  flannel  or  Swiss  muslin. 

The  following  are  a  few  of  the  many  articles  which  should 
be  in  every  household  in  case  of  emergency — especially  if  a 
doctor  is  not  to  be  obtainable  immediately.  Absorbent  cotton, 
bandages  of  convenient  length  and  width  of  old  cotton  (which 
every  housekeeper  has  if  carefully  saved),  old  linen  hand- 
kerchiefs, pieces  of  soft  flannel,  prepared  mustard  leaves, 
adhesive  plasters,  arnica,  pure  vaseline,  Collodion,  Witch- 
hazel,  ammonia,  borax,  ipecac,  spirits  camphor,  aconite  No.  3 
labeled  "poison."  No.  2  is  invaluable  in  the  household  if  ad- 
ministered carefully  in  fever,  ten  drops  in  a  glass  of  water, 
dose  one  teaspoonful  each  hour.  Pure  wine,  whiskey,  or 
brandy  if  occasion  requires. 

The  hot  water  bags  are  indispensable  (and  can  be  obtained 
at  slight  cost).  One  per  cent  solution  of  carbolic  acid  is  very 
useful  (also  a  deadly  poison)  in  cases  of  injury  because  of  its 
cleansing  qualities.  If  a  cut  is  to  be  treated,  the  wound 
should  be  cleansed  in  clear  tepid  water,  then  rinsed  with  the 
carbolic  solution,  then  painted  with  collodion,  which  staunches 
the  blood  and  serves  as  a  varnish  to  keep  out  air  and  any  dirt. 

The  solution  of  carbolic  above  mentioned  is  excellent  for 
burns ;  saturate  the  cotton  and  put  on  to  the  afflicted  spot, 
bandage  and  keep  wet. 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  219 

Trifling  injuries,  whether  cuts  or  tears,  should  be  gently 
cleansed  with  luke  warm  water  poured  over  the  wound,  then 
replace  the  skin  or  tissue,  and  lay  a  clean  white  cloth  soaked 
in  laudanum,  or  alcohol,  or  water  over  the  injured  part  and 
loosely  bind  on. 

Aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  should  never  be  allowed  to 
run  low,  as  its  uses  are  so  many,  especially  where  there  are 
any  persons  in  the  family  with  a  tendency  to  fainting  spells, 
or  weak  heart,  as  it  facilitates  the  heart  action,  and  is  less 
dangerous  than  liquor.  In  case  of  fainting,  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  in  a  half  glass  of  water  may  be  given,  and  the  patient 
placed  on  the  floor  on  his  back,  with  the  head  low,  garments 
loosened  about  neck,  chest,  waist,  etc.  Sprinkle  water  on  the 
face,  and  hold  smelling  salts  or  spirits  of  camphor  under  the 
nose.  Care  should  be  taken,  however,  not  to  hold  it  too  near, 
and  produce  strangling — but  first  of  all  lay  the  person  on  the 
back  and  the  head  slightly  lower  than  the  body.  After  a  faint 
a  slight  stimulant  in  hot  water,  either  15  drops  of  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia,  or  a  very  little  wine  or  whiskey  in  water, 
may  be  useful. 

Bleeding  from  extracting  a  tooth. — Press  a  plug  of  cotton 
over  the  cavity,  holding  it  firmly  there.  Salt  and  water  is 
also  useful. 

Splints. — Great  ingenuity  may  be  used  in  this  matter. 
When  a  sudden  emergency  arises,  pasteboard,  shingles,  a  piece 
of  a  cigar  box,  or  anything  smooth  and  stiff  may  be  used,  and 
it  should  be  padded  to  make  it  as  comfortable  as  possible. 

For  Fractures. — Use  cloths  wet  in  cold  water  immediately, 
to  prevent  as  far  as  possible  the  swelling,  which  naturally  fol- 
lows soon  after  the  accident.    This  will  assist  the  doctor. 


220  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

Vegetables  to  be  cooked  by  boiling  should  be  put  into  boil- 
ing water  as  little  as  possible,  and  if  water  is  added  let  it  be 
boiling  hot.  Steaming  or  baking  is  best  for  most  vegetables, 
their  finer  flavors  being  retained. 

Vinegar  is  a  sure  and  swift  antidote  for  carbolic  acid 
poison.  It  has  been  stated  that  there  are  more  accidental 
deaths  from  poisonous  acids  than  any  other  poisonous  drugs. 
The  antidote  is  common  cider  vinegar,  which  is  to  be  found  in 
every  household. 

CROUP. 
A  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum  in  a  little  syrup  every 
half  hour  until  free  emesis  occurs,  or  one  teaspoonful  of  Syr. 
of  Ipecac  every  ten  minutes. 

SUMMER  COMPLAINT. 
For  adults  give  one  teaspoonfuli  of  Squibbs  Tr.  Opii  Com- 
pound every  hour  until  better. 

HAY  FEVER. 
Aqua  Ammonia  cautiously  inhaled  is  sometimes  very  effi- 
cacious. 

HEARTBURN. 
Soda  mint  tablets. 

SORE  THROAT. 
Use  equal  parts  of  Listerine  and  Hydrogen  Peroxide  and 
gargle  frequently  with  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  in  one 
half  cup  of  hot  water. 

VOMITING. 
Give  iced  champagne  or  brandy  in  small  quantities  fre- 
quently.   The  proportionate  dose  for  any  age  under  adult  life 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING  221 

is  represented  by  the  number  of  the  next  birthday  divided  by 
24,  i.  e.  For  one  year,  2-24  equal  1-12;  for  two  years  3-24 
equal  1-8. 

CONSTIPATION. 

For  children  glycerine  suppositories  infants'  size ;  for 
adults  one  fig  before  breakfast  or  prunes  stewed  with  senna 
tea  are  often  very  efficient. 

EAR-ACHE. 

Sweet  almond  oil  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne,  dropped  into 
ear.    Chloroform  on  swab ;  rub  behind  and  in  front  of  ear. 

PERSPIRING  FEET. 

Equal  parts  of  salicylic  acid  and  powdered  borax.  Put  in 
sufficient  water  to  dissolve  and  soak  the  stockings  in  this  so- 
lution, allowing  them  to  dry  on  the  feet. 

HOUSEHOLD  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

4  Teaspoonfuls  equal  one  tablespoonful  liquid. 

4  Tablespoonfuls  equal  one  wine  glass  of  ^  gill. 

2  Wine  glasses  equal  one  gill  or  half  a  cup. 

2  Gills  equal  i  coffee-cup  or  16  tablespoonfuls. 

2  Coffee-cupfuls  equal  one  pint. 

2  Pints  equal  one  quart. 

4  Quarts  equal  one  gallon. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  equal  one  ounce,  liquid. 

I  Tablespoonful  of  salt  equals  one  ounce. 

16  Ounces  equal  i  pound  or  i  pint  of  liquid. 

4  Coffee-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  equal  one  pound. 

I  Quart  of  unsifted  flour  equals  one  pound. 

I  Pint  granulated  sugar  equals  one  pound. 


222  THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING 

2  Coffee-cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  equal  one  pound. 

I  Coffee-cupful  of  cold  butter  equals  ^  pound. 

I  Tablespoonful  of  soft  butter,  well  rounded,  equals  one 

ounce. 
I  Pint  of  chopped  meat,  solidly  packed,  equals  one  pound. 
25  Drops  of  liquid  will  fill  an  ordinary  sized  teaspoon. 
An  ordinary  tumblerful  equals  one-half  a  pint. 

4  Teaspoonfuls  equals  one  tablespoonful. 

1  Tablespoonful  of  flour  equals  one-half  ounce. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  of  ground  spice  equal  one  ounce. 

5  Nutmegs  equal  one  ounce. 

I  Teacupful  of  rice  equals  one-half  pound. 
I  Teacupful  of  corn  meal  equals  six  ounces. 
I  Teacupful  of  stemmed  raisins  or    currants    equals    six 

ounces. 
I  Teacupful  of  stale  bread  equals  two  ounces. 


BIRTH  MONTH  GEMS 


223 


!Birth   7/fonth   Sems 


Uheir  Seniimeni  and  J'lower 


MONTH 

GEM 

FLOWER 

January- 

Garnet — Constancy 

Wild  Rose 

February 

Amethyst — Contentment 

Pink 

March 

Bloodstone — Courage 

Violet 

April 

Diamond — Innocence 

Easter  Lily 

May 

Emerald — Success  in  Love 

Lily  of  the  Valley 

June 

Pearl — Purity 

Rose 

July 

Ruby — Nobility  of  Mind 

Daisy 

August 

Moonstone — Conjugal 

Felicity 

Pond  Lily 

September 

Sapphire — Chastity 

Poppy 

October 

Opal — Hope 

Cosmos 

November 

Topaz — Fidelity 

Chrj'^santhemum 

December 

Turquoise — Success  and 

Happiness 

Holly 

224  WEDDING  ANNIVERSARIES 


Weddm£f  .Anniversaries 


First  Year — Cotton 
Second  Year — Paper 
Third  Year — Leather 
Fifth  Year — Wooden 
Seventh  Year — Woolen 
Tenth  Year — Tin 

Twelfth  Year — Silk  and  Linen 
Fifteenth  Year — Crystal 
Twentieth  Year — China 
Twenty-fifth  Year — Silver 
Thirtieth  Year — Pearl 
Fortieth  Year— Ruby 
Fiftieth  Year — Golden 
Seventy-fifth  Year — Diamond 


PILLSBURY'S  BRIDE'S  CAKE 

Cream  together  one  scant  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of 
sugar;  add  one  cup  of  milk,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  twelve 
eggs;  sift  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  into  one  cup  of 
corn  starch  mixed  with  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and  beat  in 
gradually  with  the  rest;  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  all  thoroughly, 
then  put  in  buttered  tins  lined  with  letter  paper  well  buttered; 
bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven.  Ice  the  top.  Double  the  re- 
cipe if  more  is  required. 


PILLSBURY'S  MUFFINS  (Fine) 

One  quart  of  flour,  sifted  twice;  three  eggs,  the  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately,  three  teacups  of 
sweet  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
lard  or  butter  and  two  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder.  Sift  together 
flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder;  rub 
in  the  lard  cold,  add  the  beaten  eggs 
and  milk;  mix  quickly  into  a  smooth 
batter,  a  little  firmer  than  for  griddle 
cakes.  Grease  well  some  muflin-pans  and 
fill  them  two-thirds  full.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  These  made  of  cream,  omit- 
ting the  butter,  are  excellent. 


The  Best  Cup  of  Coffee 
You  Ever  Drank 

can  be  made  only  with  the  Marion  Harland  Coffee-pot. 
If  you'll  serve  your  guests  next  time  with  Coffee  made 
with  this  famous  Coffee-pot  they'll  tell  you  you're  a  per- 
fect hostess. 

The  Marion  Harland  Coffee-pot 

makes  the  most  delicious 

coffee    you    ever   tasted 
It  is  so  constructed  that,  condensing  the 
vapor,  none  of  the  aroma  is  allowed  to  es- 
cape, and  as  the  coffee  is  not  boiled,  there 
is  no  after-taste  of  the  bean, 

SAVES  40%  OF  GROUND  COFFEE 

Nearly  half  of  your  coffee  bill  is  saved.  It 
is  so  simple  a  child  can  use  it,  and  two 
minutes  of  time  gives  you  a  perfectly  de- 
lightful cup  of  coffee. 

THE  MARION  HARLAND  COF- 
FEE-POTS are  all  full  nickel-plated  and 
ebony  trimmed.  Handsomely  and  sub- 
stantially made  throughout.  If  your  dealer  cannot  supply  you  the 
manufacturers  will  send  any  size  you  may  select,  delivered  free  by 
express,  to  any  address  east  of  the  Mississippi  (and  fifty  cents  addi- 
tional elsewhere)  at  the  following  prices: 


4=cup  size  (1  qt.)  $1.25 
8=cup  size  (2  qts.)  1.5S 


12=cup  size  (3  qts.)  $1.80 
16=cup  size  (4  qts.)     2.00 


Marion  Harland  writes:   "/«  my  opinion  it  has  no  equal.''' 


SILVER  &  CO., 


310  Hewes  Street, 


Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


WRITE  FOR  FULLY  DESCRIPTIVE  CIRCULAR 


,COPYDEL.TOCAT,ON. 


MAR  2  1905 


INDEX. 

Beverages ., 129-134 

Birth   Month   Gems    223 

Bread,   Biscuits,    Etc 80-88 

Breakfast  Foods   (Pillsbury's) i35 

Cakes 158-168 

Candies  and  Confections   , .184-191 

Chicken   Dinner 54 

Christmas  Dinner   14 

Duck  Dinner .  S3 

Eggs 74-79 

Fish    15-25 

Fish   Dinner 26 

For  the  Chafing  Dish   141-147 

Frozen  Desserts 169-173 

Fruits,   Jellies,    Preserves,    Etc 174-179 

Game  and  Poultry  43-52 

Garnishes 12S 

Household  Uses  for  Pure  Refined  Paraffine  Wax 217 

Invalid    Cooking    192-203 

Meats  and  Sauces    27-41 

Pies 148-157 

Puddings  and   Sauces    92-106 

Relishes     180-183 

Salads    107-120 

Sandwiches     121-128 

Simple  Breakfasts    136-137 

Simple  Luncheon  140 

Simple   Lunches    .- 138-139 

Soups    7-13 

Stale  Bread,  Uses  for  89-91 

Steak  Dinner 42 

Things  Worth  Knowing  204-222 

Vegetables    55-73 

Wedding   Anniversaries    224 


