Juat-Urti 
dunk  look 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live 

without  hearts; 
We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live 

without  hooks; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

-OWEN  MEREDITH. 


A  Present 

from 

The  Merchants  of  Reno,  Nevada 

1917 


\GRICI  "T  JRF 


evada  Credit  Co. 


The  Leading  Home  Furnishers 
of  the  State 

WE  JILWA  V5  SELL  FOR  LESS 

CASH  or  CREDIT 


Everything  Homes 

in  Furnished 

Furniture  Complete 

and                                ^:;J  for  Cash 

Home  or  Small 

Furnishings  Weekly 

of  Quality  or  Monthly 

and  Payments. 

Dependability.  I           iUm  w 

Give  Us                      l||  Guarantee 

a  Trial.  to  Please. 

GEO.  PYATT 
Prop,  and  Gen.  Mgr. 

We  make  a  specialty  in  furnish- 
ing homes  for  Newlyweds. 

Cor.  Fourth  and  Virginia  Sis.  T^eno,  Nevada 


(Eook  look 


TV7/5  BOOK  is  presented  free 
*  to  the  Bride  and  Groom,  with 
the  compliments  of  the  Advertisers 
therein,  who  ma^e  such  presentation 
possible.  We,  recommend  them  in 
their  respective  lines  and  they  will 
accord  you  the  fairest  £/n</  of 
treatment.  Your  patronage  will 
be  highly  appreciated  by  them. 

Look  f°r  the  Directory  with 
new  recipes.  It  will  be  mailed  you 
monthly,  free. 

Compiled  by  E.  RKIESSLINQ 
Published  by 

The  Just -Wed  Cook  Book  Co 

RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


Before 


-AN; 


After 


Marriage 


Let  Quality  Be  Your  Slogan 

As  it  is  the  Cheapest  in  the  End 

This  store  specializes  in 
QUALITY  Merchandise 

La  Vogue  Suits 

Gossard  Corsets 

Mdmme.  Mariette  Corsets 

Radmoor  Hosiery 

Waists 

Neckwear 

Etc. 


You  will  find  our  Prices  as  low,  considering  UNIQUE 
QUALITY  will  permit,  Our  Cash  Basis  enables  us  to  offer 
unusual  Values  at  all  times. 


Phone 
661 


135  VIRGINIA  STREET 


Reno 
Nevada 


AOKlLULTURt 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

A&fte, 


CONTENTS 


Page. 

Bread,  Muffiins,  Bolls,  Fritters,  Waffles,  etc 11  to  19 

Cakes 23  to  32 

Candy 94 

Eggs    82  to  84 

Fillings,  Frostings,  and  Icings 33 

Fish  63  to  66 

Household  Hints 98 

Ice  Cream,  Ices  and  Frozen  Dainties 44 

Index  to  Advertisements  4 

Jams  and  Jellies 91  to  92 

Pickles  and  Spiced  Fruits 89  to  90 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


Jeweler 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1592          RENO.  NEVADA 

Pies  40  to  42 

Puddings    34  to  38 

Poultry  and  Game 67  to  69 

3auces  for  Puddings  39 

Sauces  for  Meats,  etc 80  to  81 

Salads  57  to  61 

Shellfish  66 

Soups    47  to  52 

Stuffings    70 

Title  Page  1 

Vegetables 85  to  88 

Weights  and  Measures 96  to  100 

When  to  serve  Beverages  21 

725 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


Index  to  Advertisers 


Alpine  Winery  20 

Family  Wines. 
Anderson's   8 

Turkish  Baths. 

B 
Barnes  Bros 7 

Groceries,  Delicatessen,  etc. 
Barker 's  Bakery  54 

Bakery  Goods. 
Becker 's 46 

The  Popular  Family  Cafe. 
Bonham  Realty  and  Trust  Co 

Inside  Back  Cover 

High  Class  Eeal  Estate. 
Booth's   Studio  6 

Kodak  Finishing. 
C 
California  Market   73 

Choice  Meats,  Poultry,  etc. 

Chism  's  Ice  Cream Bottom  of  Pages 

Commercial  Hardware  Co—Back  Cover 

Stoves,  Kitchen  Utensils,  etc. 
Crescent  Creamery  56 

Blue  Eibbon  Butter. 

E 
Elderkin — "The  Piano  Shop" 22 

Expert  Piano  Tuning. 
Eagle  Express  54 

Quick  Service. 


French  Dyers  and   Cleaners. 


.26 


Gilcrease  Co 95 

Maxwell  Car. 
Goldstein,  S 101 

Ladies'    Tailor  and  Furrier. 


Jersey  Farm  Milk  Co 

Pasteurized  Milk  and  Cream. 


.98 


Kwong  Chung  Co 

Chinese  Merchant. 


Lewis  &  Lukey 97 

Gents'  Furnishings. 
Lincoln  Garage  45 

Chalmers  Car. 

M 
Meacham's  American  Grocery  Co 53 

Groceries,  Coffees,  Teas,  Spices, 

etc. 
Motor  Aid 102 

Cyclery  and  Repairing. 
Murray,  J.  J 8 

Sign  and  Pictorial  Painter. 
Mutual  Creamery  43 

Blanchard  Ice  Cream. 


N 

Nevada  Credit  Co.   ..Inside  Front  Cover 

Home  Furnishers. 
Nevada  Imp.  and  Supply  Co 101 

Farm  Implements,  etc. 
Nevada  Press  22 

Printers. 

Nevada  Tea  Store  58 

Coffees,  Teas,  Spices,  etc. 
Nevada  Transfer  Co 51 

Hauling,  Packing,  Storage,  etc. 

P 
Paige  Car  55 

The  Eeal  Car. 
Palace  Dry  Goods  House 35 

Eeno's  Big  Modern  Store. 

Palace  Postal  Card  House 98 

Parker's  Harp  Orchestra 6 

Music  for  all  occasions. 
Peoples'  Fish  Market  62 

All  kinds  of  Fresh  Fish. 
PesTfe  Emilio  C Center  of  Pages 

Jeweler  and  Watchmaker. 
Petritsch,  Dr.  J.  F 6 

Specialist. 

B 
Eeno  Brewing  Co 48-49 

Sierra  and  Eoyal  Beers. 
Eeno  Drug  Co 5 

Drugs  and  Prescriptions. 
Eeno  News  Co 9 

Newspapers  and  Stationery. 
Eiverside  Mill  Co 10 

Flour  and  Cereal  Products. 
Eock  Springs  Coal  Yards 36 

Coal  and  Wood  for  Fuel. 

S 
Saturno  Hotel 93 

Choice  Apartments. 
Semenza  &  Co „ 9 

Groceries  Wines,  Liquors,  etc. 

Sierra  Vulcanizing  Works 93 

Smitten,  Dr.  George  M 98 

Dentist. 
Stever,  Chas 54 

Sporting  Goods,  etc. 


Unique  Store  2 

Ladies'    Suits,   Gowns,   Millinery, 
etc. 

W 

Western  Music  Co Bottom  of  Pages 

Kimball  and  Player  Pianos. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


Reno  Drug  Co. 

Corner  2nd  and  Center  Streets 


Nevada's  Most 

Modern 

Pharmacy 


Prescriptions  a  Specialty 


For  Prompt  Delivery  Phone  310 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


Hours  9-12  A.  M. 

2-5  and  6-8  P.M. 

Sunday  by  Appointment 


Phone  523 
Res.  1383-W 


Dr.  J.  F.  Petritsch 

Special  Attention  Given  to 
Nerve,  Spine  and  Chronic  Diseases 


Booms  4-5,  Thoma  Bigelow  Bldg. 


EENO,  NEVADA 


Parker's  Harp  Orchesta 


Music  for  All  Occasions 

E.  EARL  BARKER, 

^Director 


iano  Tuning 


'Phone 
942] 


Booth  Studio 

L.  T.  BOOTH,  Manager 

KODAK  DEVELOPING  AND  FINISHING  EXCLUSIVELY 

Your  Photo  on  Post  Cards  4  for  50c 
Bring  or  Send  Your  Films  Prints  Ready  Following  Day 

Room  10,  Byington  Bldg.  EENO,  NEVADA 


THE   JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


If    You    Wish     to 

BE  HAPPY 

Save  Money  on  Your 

GROCERIES 

DELICATESSEN 
Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables 

Home-Made  Bread,  Pies, 
Cakes  and  Pastry 

Fresh  Butter  and  Eggs 


We  Specialize  in 

DOMESTIC  AND  IMPORTED  TEAS,  COFFEE,  SPICES  AND 
EXTRACTS 

The  BEST  30c  Coffee  in  Town 

ALL  LEADING  BRANDS  OF  COCOA  AND  CHOCOLATE 


BARNES    BROTHERS 

GROCERS 

PHONE  274 
141-143  North  Virginia  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


J.  J.  Murray 

The  Old  Reliable  Sign  and 
Pictorial  Painter 


Gold  Leaf  S 

Silver  Leaf  I 

Silk  Banners  6 

Cloth  and  Board  N 

Electric  S 


In  Fact  All  Kinds  of  Signs 
Window  Cards  a  Specialty 

Studio  234  Sierra  St.  Phone  1162-J 

RENO,  NEVADA 


Anderson's 
Turkish  Baths 

SWEDISH   MASSAGE 


Separate  Departments  for  Ladies  and  Gentlemen 

Lady  and  Gentlemen  Attendants 

Graduate  Nurses 


Phone  1107-W  for  Appointments 
Equipped  With  the  Gardner  Reducing  Machine 

Thoma  Bigelow  Bldg.  RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST -WED    COOK   BOOK 


Reno  News  Company 

Headquarters  for  All 

Eastern  and  Western  Papers 

Complete  Line  of  Periodicals, 
Stationery  and  Notions 


Agents  for 
Oliver  Typewriters  and  Supplies 


36  West  Second  Street  Phone  492 

RENO,  NEVADA 


Semenza  &  Company 

Groceries,  Hardware,  Fruits 
Vegetables 

«r  M 
Liquors  and  Cigars 

9S    X 

IMPORTED  GOODS  A  SPECIALTY 

A  Trial  Order  is  All  We  Ask 

Phone  230  25-27  East  Second  Street 

RENO,  NEVADA 


10 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


GOLD  MEDAL  FLOUR 


COSTS  LESS 


GOLD  MEDAL 

NCI  H4RD  WHEAT 

RIVERSIDE  MILLCO. 


WORTH  MORE 


Sold  with  a 

money  back 

guarantee. 


Full  Weight 


Sagebrush 

Sodas  are  just 

right. 


Riverside  Mill  Co. 

Reno,  Nevada 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  11 


MUFFINS,  ROLLS,  WAFFLES, 
FRITTERS,  ETC. 


WARNING 

The  making  of  bread  is,  to  a  large  degree,  a  chemical  operation,  and  should 
be  carried  on  with  as  much  accuracy  as  a  chemist  would  use  in  his  laboratory. 
The  flour  should  be  weighed  or  measured.  The  other  ingredients  should  also 
be  weighed  or  measured  accurately. 

Temperature  is  a  particularly  important  factor  in  making  good  bread.  Do 
not  let  sponge  or  dough  get  chilled. 

When  potatoes  are  used,  be  sure  that  they  are  sound,  white  and  mealy,  and 
in  the  fall,  when  the  new  crop  is  on  the  market,  be  careful  that  the  potatoes 
are  fully  ripe.  More  failures  in  bread  making  are  due  to  the  use  of  potatoes 
which  are  thought  to  be  ripe,  but  which  are  not  fully  matured,  than  any  other 
one  thing. 

In  making  cake,  a  difference  may  be  noted  if  the  eggs  are  large  or  small,  if 
small  use  either  more  eggs  or  more  water  or  milk. 

RECIPE    FOR   BREAD 
(University  of  Nevada  Method) 
Warm  Gold  Medal  Flour  in  over, 

2  cups  milk,  scalded,  yeast    in    %    cup    luke    warm 

2  cups  potato  water,  water, 

2  medium    potatoes,    mashed    very         1  teaspoonful  salt, 

fine,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 

1  cake     Fleishmann 's     compressed         1  teaspoonful  lard. 
Add  Gold  Medal  flour  until  mixture  has  appearance  of  cake  batter;  beat 
with  wooden  spoon  until  very  light.     Let  stand. 

Add  Gold  Medal  flour  and  knead  until  smooth,  brush  butter  over  top  of 
dough,  cover  and  let  raise  to  twice  original  size. 
Mould  into  loaves  and  let  raise  twenty  minutes. 

Put  in  very  hot  over  for  ten  minutes,  then  bake  in  slow  oven  forty-five 
minutes. 

WHITE   BREAD 

Quick  Method 

1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour  sifted,  y2  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  cup  or  y2  pint  milk  or  water,  2  teaspoonfuls   sugar, 

1  cake   compressed   yeast,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Dissolve  yeast  by  breaking  into  a  cup  and  adding  1  teaspoon  sugar,  mix 
and  let  it  stand  3  minutes.  Sift  flour  in  a  bowl,  make  well  in  center,  and  add 
water,  salt,  sugar,  butter  and  yeast,  mix  and  knead  well,  put  in  a  warm  place 
to  raise  1%  hours,  or  until  light.  Turn  out  on  molding  board,  knead  lightly, 
shape  into  loaves,  put  in  well  buttered  pans,  let  raise  %  hour.  Bake  45  minutes. 

BREAD 

Cook  2  medium  sized  potatoes  in  1  quart  water.  Use  the  water.  Must  be 
1  quart  to  scald  1  teacup  Gold  Medal  flour.  Mash  potatoes  and  add  to  the  flour, 
using  more  flour  if  necessary.  Soak  1  cake  of  yeast  in  a  cup  of  warm  water. 
When  this  is  cold,  stir  into  the  mixture  already  prepared.  Let  it  stand  over 
night,  stirring  occasionally.  Set  in  a  warm  place.  Next  morning  add  1  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  lard,  2  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  If  necessary  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir  in  flour  until  proper  consistency;  knead  hard.  Put 
to  rise  and  knead  lightly  the  second  time;  put  in  pans  to  rise  again.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  This  also  makes  nice  light  rolls. 


12  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

RflYAI  RFFR  If  purchased  fay  the  Wife 

nil  I  HL   ULLII   Husband  Home.        RENO 


RENO  BREWING  CO. 


WHOLE   WHEAT   BREAD 

1  pint  milk,  %  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  compressed  yeast  cake. 

1  pint  water, 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  water.  When  luke  warm  add  salt,  sugar,  yeast 
cake  (dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  water)  and  sufficient  Gold  Medal  Whole  Wheat 
flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Beat  continuously  for 
5  minutes.  Cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  3  hours;  then  add  sufficient 
Whole  Wheat  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  at  once  into  loaves.  Put  in  small 
greased  pans,  cover  and  stand  in  warm  place  for  an  hour.  Bake  in  a  moderately 
quick  over  45  minutes. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 

2  quarts  Gold  Medal  Graham  Flour,         1  tablespoonful   salt, 

2  cups  potato  water,  1  small  cup  molasses  or  sugar, 

1  yeast  cake,  1  tablespoonful  melted  lard. 

1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water.  Mix  all  ingredients  into  as  stiff  a 
dough  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  adding  lukewarm  water  to  make  it  the 
proper  consistency.  Let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  it  down  with 
a  spoon  thoroughly.  Have  bread  tins  greased.  Fill  each  one  about  %  full  and 
let  rise  to  the  top  of  the  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  1  hour  for  good-sized 
loaves. 

BYE  BREAD 

1  pint  milk,  %  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  pint  water,  1  compressed   yeast   cake. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  water  and  salt,  and  when  the  mixture  is  luke-warm 
add  the  yeast,  moistened  in  two  tablespoons  warm  water.  Add  sufficient  Eye 
Flour  to  make  a  batter,  and  beat  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes.  Cover  and  stand 
in  a  warm  place  for  2%  hours.  Knead  this  dough  quickly  until  it  loses  its 
stickiness.  Divide  it  into  three  or  four  loaves,  put  each  loaf  in  a  square  pan; 
cover  and  stand  for  an  hour  in  the  same  warm  place,  about  75  Fahr.,  until  it 
has  doubled  in  bulk,  brush  the  top  quickly  with  warm  water  and  put  it  in  a 
hot  oven.  When  brown,  reduce  the  heat  and  bake  %  of  an  hour.  Turn  each 
loaf  from  the  pan;  stand  on  a  board  covered  with  a  cloth  but  do  not  cover  the 
loaves.  It  is  better  to  tip  the  board  so  that  the  air  may  circulate  around  the 
entire  loaf.  This  makes  a  nice  crisp  crust. 

MUFFINS 

Break  2  eggs  in  a  dish,  salt  them,  and  add  2  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
piece  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  melted.  Leave  in  lumps  after  stirring  and 
bake  in  hot  iron  gem  pans. 

ROLLS 

To  1  pint  bread  sponge  add  %  cup  water,  1  egg,  %  cup  butter,  rubbing 
butter  and  sugar  together.  Let  rise  after  mixing;  roll  out;  rise  again  and 
bake. 

TEA  ROLLS 

One  cup  scalded  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  %  cup  melted  butter, 
2  eggs,  1  cake  yeast  foam  dissolved  in  %  cup  luke-warm  water,  1  pinch  nutmeg, 
3y2  cups  flour.  When  the  milk  is  luke-warm  add  2  cups  flour,  beat  well  and 
add  the  dissolved  yeast  foam.  Let  rise,  then  add  the  butter,  sugar,  salt,  nut- 
meg and  the  well-beaten  eggs.  To  this  add  enough  of  your  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Knead  well  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place.  Shape  into  small  ro^ls. 
Put  into  a  buttered  pan,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  15  minutes. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  13 

RAISIN  BREAD 

Dissolve  a  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  lard  in  a  cup  of  hot  milk  then  add 
a  cup  of  either  cold  water  or  milk  to  the  hot  milk  to  make  lukewarm.  Sift  a 
quart  of  Gold  Medal  Flour  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  three  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  make  a  hole  in  center  of  flour  and  stir  in  half  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water;  add  part  of  your 
milk,  stirring  in  the  flour,  then  break  in  one  or  two  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the 
milk;  beat  up  the  dough  lightly,  which  must  be  a  stiff  batter.  Let  it  raise  all 
night  in  a  warm  place  and  well  covered.  In  the  morning  add  a  cupful  each  of 
raisins  and  currants,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  either  some  nutmeg  or  cara- 
way seeds  or  lemon  peel.  Make  into  two  loaves,  working  very  little;  let  rise 
very  light  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

NUT  BREAD 

1  egg,  1  cup  sugar, 

y2  cup  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  salt, 

4  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder, 

1  cup  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  and  stir  in  the  milk.  Have  the  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder  sifted  and  pour  into  it  the  milk  mixture,  adding  the  nuts  and  raisins. 
Form  into  loaves  when  kneaded  smooth,  put  in  deep,  well  greased  pans,  let 
raise  twenty  minutes  in  a  warm  place  and  bake  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

Either  the  nuts  or  the  raisins  may  be  omitted. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


243  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1S92          RENO.  NEVADA 

NUT  BREAD 

1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  dissolved  yeast  cake,  1  quart  coarsely  chopped  walnuts, 

iy2  quarts  Whole  Wheat  Flour,  2  tablespoonfuls    molasses. 

1  cup  boiling  water, 

When  milk  and  water  are  lukewarm  add  yeast  cake  (dissolved  in  %  cup 
water),  salt  and  flour.  Beat.  Let  rise  to  double  the  size,  then  add  the  wal- 
nuts and  molasses.  Put  in  pan  and  let  rise  double. 

HOMEMADE  PRIZE  RAISIN  BREAD 

Make  a  sponge  of  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast  with  1  tablespoonful  sugar 
dissolved  in  %  cup  lukewarm  water.  To  1  cup  of  scalded  milk  add  1  cup  of  hot 
water  and  when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  and  2  cups  white  flour  and  beat  for 
five  minutes.  Let  rise  until  very  light.  Then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
sugar  and  Crisco  creamed  together,  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  iy2  cups  Seeded 
Raisins  cut  in  halves.  Stir  in  flour  until  stiff,  then  knead  until  dough  is  smooth 
and  elastic,  using  6  to  8  cups  of  Gold  Medal  Flour.  Cover  to  let  rise  and  when 
light,  double  in  bulk,  mould  into  loaves,  and  when  again  light  bake  about 
one  hour. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  ROLLS 

Sift  together  2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  y2  teaspoonful  salt  and  3  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder.  Work  3  or  4  tablespoonfuls  butter  into  flour  and  add  about 
%  cup  milk  to  make  soft  dough.  Knead  lightly  and  roll  out  thin  into  oblong 
sheet.  Brush  dough  with  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter;  sprinkle  over  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  y2  cup  chopped  nuts  and  % 
cup  finely  cut  Seeded  Eaisins.  Eoll  up  snugly,  cut  off  half-Inch  slices  and  lay 
cut  side  up  on  buttered  and  floured  baking  sheet.  Let  stand  ten  minutes,  then 
bake  in  hot  oven. 


14  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

SIERRA  BEER  FOB  HEALTH-Phone  581 

FRENCH  BOLLS 

Made  by  rolling  dough  between  the  hands  into  small  oval  shapes  about  a 
finger  long,  tapering  at  each  end,  and  put  together  in  pairs;  or  rolling  into 
egg-shaped  pieces  and  cutting  them  half  through  the  middle.  Another  shape 
is  first  a  ball,  then  cut  it  half  through  each  way,  top  to  bottom,  and  right  to 
left.  Long  rolls  are  shaped  and  cut  across  in  slanting  cuts;  or  the  whole  mass 
of  dough  is  rolled  under  the  hand  and  made  into  a  large  ring,  pinching  the  ends 
together;  then  cut  half  way  through,  two  inches  apart,  with  a  pair  of  scissors. 
A  knife  dipped  in  melted  Cottolene  keeps  these  cuts  from  coming  together. 

WHOLE  WHEAT   GEMS 

Mix  with  2  cups  of  Gold  Medal  Whole  Wheat  Flour  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
Mjteaspponful  salt,  1  cup  milk,  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  water. 
Into  this  mixture  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs.  Bake  in  hissing  hot 
gem  pans  thirty  minutes. 

GENUINE  PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

3  tablespoonfuls    butter,  2  cups   fresh   milk, 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 

y<i   cup  lukewarm  water,  Whites  two  eggs, 

1  yeast    cake,  6  cups    Gold    Medal    Flour. 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  to  it  the  sugar,  salt  and  butter.  Let  it  stand  until 
lukewarm  then  add  three  cups  of  flour  and  beat  for  five  minutes.  Add  the 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  let  it  stand  until  very  light  and  frothy;  then  the 
remaining  flour.  Let  it  rise  again  until  it  is  twice  its  original  bulk,  place  on 
your  molding  ty*ard,  knead  lightly  and  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick. 
Take  a  large  biscuit  cutter  and  cut  the  dough  into  rounds,  brush  with  melted 
butter,  fold  over  and  press  the  edges  together.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan  one 
inch  apart.  Let  them  rise  until  very  light  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes. 

BOSTON  MUFFINS 


iy2  pints   Gold   Medal  Flour,  3 

%  pint  Corn  Meal,  1  pint    (full  measure)    milk, 

1  tablespoonful   sugar,  1  teaspoonful      extract  m   cinnamon 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  (which  may  be  omitted  with- 

2  teaspoonfuls  baki*g  powde,r,  out  detriment). 
1  tablespoonful  butter, 

Sift  together  Gold  Medal  Flour,  corn  meal,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder;  rub  in 
butter  or  lard;  add  eggs,  beaten,  milk,  and  extract  cinnamon.  Mix  into  batter 
a  little  stiffer  than  ordinary  griddle-cake  batter.  Have  griddle  heated  regu- 
larly all  over;  grease  it,  lay  on  it  muffin-rings,  also  greased;  half  fill  them  with 
batter.  As  soon  as  risen  to  tops  of  rings,  turn  them  over  gently  with  cake- 
turner;  bake  nice  brown  on  either  side.  They  should  bane  in  7  or  8  minutes. 

POP-OVER  ROLLS 

3  eggs,  Little  salt, 

9  ounces  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  pint    milk. 

Put  the  eggs,  salt  and  flour  into  a  bowl;  mix  in  the  milk  and  pour  into  deep 
moulds.  The  moulds  must  be  2  inches  high.  Fill  half  full  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  25  minutes. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  15 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour,  2  large  teaspoonf  uls  baking  powder, 

%  teaspoonf ul  sugar,  1*4  pints  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  salt, 

Sift  together  Gold  Medal  Flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder;  add  milk,  and  mix 
into  smooth  batter  trifle  stiffer  than  for  griddle  cakes.  Have  griddle  heated 
regularly  all  over,  grease  it,  and  lay  on  muffin  rings;  half  fill  them,  and  when 
risen  well  up  to  top  of  rings,  turn  over  gently  with  cake-turner.  They  should 
not  be  too  brown — just  a  buff  color.  When  all  cooked,  pull  each  open  in  half, 
toast  delicately,  butter  well,  serve  on  folded  napkin,  piled  high  and  very  hot. 

BICE  MUFFINS 

2  cups  cold  boiled  rice,  1^  teaspoonf  uls  baking  powder, 
1  pint  Gold  Medal  Flour,  %  pint  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar, 

Dilute  rice,  made  free  from  lumps,  with  milk  and  beaten  eggs;  sift  together 
Gold  Medal  Flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder;  add  to  rice  preparation,  mix  into 
smooth,  rather  firm  batter;  muffin-pans  to  be  cold  and  well  greased,  then  fill 
2-3;  bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes.  One  cup  cold  boiled  hominy  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  rice. 

SOFT  WAFFLES 

1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  large   tablespoonful   butter, 

%  teaspoonful  salt,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoonful  sugar,  1%  pints  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  making  powder, 

Sift  together  Gold  Medal  Flour,  salt,  sugar  and  powder;  rub  in  butter  cold; 
add  beaten  eggs  and  milk;  mix  into  smooth,  consistent  batter  that  will  run 
easily  and  limpid  from  mouth  of  pitcher.  Have  waffle-iron  hot  and  carefully 
greased  each  time;  fill  2-3,  close  it  up;  when  brown  turn  over.  Sift  sugar  on 
them,  serve  hot. 

EICE  WAFFLES 

Into  a  batter  as  directed  for  soft  waffles  stir  1  cup  of  rice,  free  from  lumps; 
cook  as  directed  in  same  recipe. 

VIRGINIA  WAFFLES 

Cook  %  cup  white  Corn  Meal  in  1%  cups  boiling  water  30  minutes,  adding 
1%  teaspoonfuls  salt.  Add  1%  cups  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2  tablespoon- 
f uls  melted  butter,  2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour  mixed  with  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  and  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Cook  in  hot, 
well-greased  waffle-iron. 

GERMAN  WAFFLES 

1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour,  Bind  of  1  lemon,  grated, 

y2  teaspoonful   salt,  1  teaspoonful  extract  of  cinnamon, 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  4  eggs, 

2  large  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  pint  thin   cream. 
2  tablespoonfuls  lard, 

Sift  together  Gold  Medal  Flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder;  rub  in  lard  cold; 
add  beaten  eggs,  lemon  rind,  extract,  and  milk.  Mix  into  smooth,  rather  thick 
batter.  Bake  in  hot  waffle-iron,  serve  with  sugar  flavored  with  extract  of 
lemon. 


16  THE    JUST -WED    COOK    BOOK 


DfYV  A  ]      O17I7R    Small  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 

I\Vr  JL  rlLi     D£iJLI\    I  arap  Pprrpnt^aP  nf  FYtrarfrc 


Percentage  of  Extracts 


SWEET  MUFFINS 

1  cup   sugar,  3  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  sweet  milk, 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  milk  and  beaten  egg  and  butter.  Beat 
hard,  bake  in  greased  muffin-pans. 

COEN  BREAD 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  lard,  Corn  Meal  for  stiff  batter, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour. 
1  pint    sour   milk, 

Mix  together  milk,  beaten  eggs  and  sugar;  stir  these  into  the  flour  and 
corn  meal;  then  add  melted  lard.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling 
water;  add  it  and  beat  hard  for  several  minutes.  Have  ready  heated  greased 
dripping  pans;  pour  in  the  batter  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  from 
20  to  30  minutes. 

CORN  BREAD 

1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

Pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar  (oval),  1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  cup   sour   milk, 

Beat  egg  well,  add  salt,  sugar,  Gold  Medal  Flour,  stir  in  melted  butter  and 
add  soda  to  sour  milk.  While  foaming  pour  into  the  other  ingredients  and  stir 
in  enough  corn  meal  to  make  batter  grainy.  Turn  into  hot  buttered  pans 
and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

JOKERS 
iy2  cups   Graham  Flour,  1%  cups   Gold  Medal  Flour, 

2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Milk  enough  to  make  a  stiffer  batter  than  muffins.  Put  in  last,  2  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 

TEA  GEMS 

1  pint  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
4  eggs,  1  cupful  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

2  cups  Corn  Meal,  1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt, 

Separate  the  eggs;  beat  the  yolks  and  add  the  milk,  salt  and  butter  (melted). 
Add  the  corn  meal,  baking  powder  and  flour  sifted  together.  Beat  rapidly  for 
about  two  minutes.  Then  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  bake 
in  greased  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven  for  a  half -hour. 

ENGLISH  BUNS 

1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour,  %  cup  lukewarm  water, 

4  eggs,  5  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

y2  cup  butter,  %  cup  nut  meats, 

1%  cakes  compressed  yeast,  %  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Pour  flour  in  bowl,  break  eggs  in  whole,  add  butter  (melted),  yeast  which 
has  been  dissolved  by  breaking  into  a  cup  and  mixing  with  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  lukewarm  water.  Stir  until  all  are  mixed,  beat  well,  put  in  warm  place 
to  rise  1%  hours.  Then  sprinkle  sugar,  fruit  and  nuts  over  top,  mix  very  lightly 
with  spoon.  Drop  into  well  buttered  gem  pans,  let  rise  one-half  hour.  Bake 
25  minutes. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY    A    PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  17 

TEA  BISCUITS 

Sift  one  quart  of  Gold  Medal  Flour  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  4 
rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Into  this  rub  1  large  tablespoonful 
of  Califene  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  cornmeal.  Then  add  just  enough 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  dough  easily  handled.  Eoll  out  %  inch  thick,  place  in 
greased  pan  and  bake  for  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

CREAM  BISCUIT  (Baking  Powder) 

Sift  together  one  pint  of  Gold  Medal  Pastry  Flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  and  half  a  spoonful  of  salt.  Moisten  with  cream  as  soft  as  can 
be  handled.  Eoll  out  on  a  well  floured  board,  cut  in  small  biscuits  and  place 
in  a  pan,  brushing  over  with  melted  butter  or  cream  before  baking.  Have  oven 
very  hot,  and  bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  according  to  size.  For  milk  biscuits 
use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Cottolene  to  shorten.  Mixture  like  this  made  softer 
and  baked  in  gem  pans  gives  an  easy  and  satisfactory  drop  biscuit. 

OLD-FASHIONED   GINGER   BREAD 

4  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  %  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoonful  ginger,  1  cup   milk, 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  %  cup  of  oiled  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  soda, 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  molasses,  milk,  eggs  and  melted  butter.  Beat 
smooth  and  bake  in  a  sheet  for  about  one  hour. 

MILK  BREAD 

1  pint  milk,  scalded  and  cooled,       1    tablespoonful    butter    melted    in 

1  tablespoonful  sugar,  hot  milk, 
l/2  cup  yeast,                                          1  teaspoonful  salt, 

6  or  7  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour. 

Measure  the  milk  after  scalding  and  put  in  the  mixing  bowl;  add  the  butter, 
sugar  and  salt;  when  cool  add  the  yeast,  then  stir  in  the  flour,  adding  it  gradu- 
ally; knead  till  smooth  and  elastic.  Cover,  let  it  rise  till  light;  cut  it  down; 
divide  into  four  parts;  shape  into  loaves  or  biscuit;  let  it  rise  in  the  pans. 
Bake  40  to  50  minutes. 

WATER  BREAD 

2  quarts  sifted  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  cake  compressed  yeast   dissolved 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  in  y2  cup  water, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  pint   lukewarm   water, 

y%  cup  liquid  yeast,  or  1  tablespoonful     butter,     or     drip- 

pings, or  lard. 

Sift  the  flour  and  fill  the  measure  lightly,  not  heaping,  nor  shaken  down. 
Turn  it  into  a  large  bowl  holding  about  4  quarts.  Eeserve  1  cup  flour  to  add 
at  the  last  if  needed,  and  to  use  on  the  board.  Mix  the  salt  and  sugar  with 
the  flour;  rub  in  the  shortening  until  fine,  like  meal.  Mix  the  yeast  with  the 
water.  If  compressed  yeast  be  used,  dissolve  ^  of  a  cake  in  half  a  cup  of 
water.  This  is  in  addition  to  the  pint  of  water  to  be  used  in  mixing.  Pour 
the  liquid  mixture  into  the  center  of  the  flour,  mixing  it  well  with  a  broad 
knife  or  a  strong  spoon.  Knead  it  half  an  hour,  or  till  smooth  and  fine  grained. 
Cover  and  let  it  rise  until  it  doubles  its  bulk.  Cut  it  down;  let  it  rise  again; 
divide  into  four  parts,  then  shape  into  loaves  putting  2  in  each  pan,  or  reserve 
some  for  biscuit.  Cover  and  let  it  rise  again  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  nearly  an  hour. 


18  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

DCCD    Closer  to  a  Temperance  Drink 
DEER    Than  Any  Other  Beer.   Phone  581 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

Do  You  Like  'Em? 

Well,  I  Guess! 
Who  Don't? 

Listen — This  is  the  real  thing.    "Like  Mother  Made."     Remember? 

1  cup    Self -Rising   Buckwheat    and  1%  cups  milk, 

Wheat  Flour  Mixture,  1  tablespoonful  syrup. 

Grease  pan  with  half  lard  and  butter.     Serve  quickly  on  hot  plate. 

GENERAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

One  cup  and  cold  cooked  cereal,  mash  fine  to  free  from  lumps,  add  1  beaten 
egg,  yolk  and  white  separte,  %  tetaspoonful  baking  powder,  beat  thoroughly. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  hot  griddle  and  serve,  when  brown,  with  syrup. 

GRIDDIiE  CORN  CAKES 

2  cups  Yellow  or  White  Corn  Meal,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
Boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 

1  egg  beaten,  Cold  milk. 

Add  salt  to  corn  meal,  pour  on  boiling  water  to  form  a  thick  drop  batter; 
add  maple  syrup  and  sufficient  cold  milk  to  make  a  thick  pour  batter.  Drop 
by  tablespoonfuls  on  a  well-greased  hot  griddle  and  cook  as  griddle  cakes. 
Serve  immediately. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  WITH  EGGS 

3  cups   Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  teaspoonful    salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls    baking   powder, 

Mix  well  together,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  sufficient  sweet  milk  to  make 
a  thin  drop  batter.  Bake  at  once  on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.  Make  them 
thin. 

GENEVA  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

iy2  pints  Gold  Medal  Flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  4  eggs, 

%  teaspoonful  salt,  Nearly  %  pint  milk. 

1%  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  white,  light  cream;  add  yolks  of  eggs,  1  at  a  time. 
Sift  Gold  Medal  Flour,  salt,  and  powder  together;  add  to  butter,  etc.,  with  milk 
and  egg  whites  whipped  to  dry  froth;  mix  together  into  a  smooth  batter.  Bake 
in  small  cakes;  as  soon  as  brown,  turn  and  brown  the  other  side.  Have  buttered 
baking-tin;  fast  as  browned,  lay  them  on  it,  and  spread  raspberry  jam  over 
them;  then  bake  more,  which  lay  on  others  already  done.  Repeat  this  until 
you  have  used  jam  twice,  then  bake  another  batch,  which  use  to  cover  them. 
Sift  sugar  plentifully  over  them,  place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  finish  cooking. 

CINNAMON  BUNS 

Scald  a  pint  of  milk;  add  a  quarter  pound  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  1  yeast  cake,  dissolved;  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  sufficient  Gold 
Medal  Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  lightly;  put  aside  in  a  warm  place. 
When  very  light  roll  into  a  sheet;  spread  with  butter  and  dust  with  sugar  and 
then  with  currants.  Cut  into  buns.  Stand  them  in  a  greased  pan,  and  when 
very  light  bake, in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

QUICK  COFFEE  CAKE 

Sift  together  twice,  1  pint  of  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1-3  cup  of  sugar,  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  %  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  ground  cinna- 
mon. Mix  to  a  soft  dough  with  about  half  a  cup  of  milk  stirred  into  a  well 
beaten  egg.  Add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  Cottolene,  spread  in  a  shallow 
pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


19 


BRAN  OB  GRAHAM  BREAD 


1  pint  Gold  Medal  Flour  sifted, 
%  pint  bran  or  graham  flour, 
1  cup  lukewarm  water, 
%  teaspoonful  salt, 


2  teaspoonfuls  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter, 

1  cake   compressed  yeast. 


Dissolve  yeast  by  breaking  into  a  cup  and  adding  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  let 
stand  3  minutes.  Sift  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  graham  flour  or  bran,  make  well 
in  center;  add  salt,  sugar,  butter,  water,  yeast.  Mix  and  knead  well,  put  in 
warm  place  to  rise  1%  hours,  or  until  light.  Turn  on  moulding  board,  knead 
lightly,  shape  into  loaves,  put  in  a  well-buttered  pan,  let  rise  %  hour.  Bake  45 
minutes. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

To  1  pint  scraped  corn  add  %  cup  milk,  %  cup  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter,  2  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1-3  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, 1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Beat  well,  and  fry  in  small  spoonfuls  as 
directed. 

CLAM  FRITTERS 

Wash  and  dry  25  good-sized  clams  or  2  strings  soft-shell  clams,  discarding 
black  part.  Chop  fine.  Make  a  plain  fritter  batter,  using  the  clam  liquor  (or 
that  and  milk)  in  place  of  milk.  Stir  in  the  chopped  clams,  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  as  directed. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 

245  LAKE  ST. 


Watchmaker 


PHONE  1392 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

RENO.  NEVADA 


HOMINY  FRITTERS 


2  cups   hominy    (boiled), 
2  eggs  well  beaten, 
%  leve 


y2  cup   milk, 

%  cup  Gold  Medal  Flour, 
level  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful    baking    powder. 

Cook  all  the  above  in  a  double  boiler;  pour  out  in  biscuit  tin  and  allow  to 
cool.     Cut  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Good  with  wild  game. 


FRITTER  BATTER 


%  level  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  cup  milk. 


2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour, 
1  egg, 

(For  frying  fish,  vegetables  or  fruits) 

Mix  the  above  to  a  smooth  batter  and  coat  the  article  for  frying;  if  for 
fruit  add  a  little  sugar. 

FRUIT  FRITTERS 

Any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  made  into  fritters,  as  directed  for  apple  fritters. 
Whole  canned  fruits,  drained  from  syrup,  may  also  be  used.  Apples  and  other 
fruits  may  also  be  prepared,  coarsely  chopped,  stirred  into  a  plain  fritter 
batter,  and  dropped  by  small  spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat,  finishing  as 
already  directed. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


Q 

1 


3> 

•»— 

S 


WINES 

For  your  daily  table  use  as  well  as 
for  your  Special  Social  Entertainment 
must  be  the  Highest  Quality. 

GOOD  WINE  will  add  as  much  to 
the  success  of  a  well  appointed  table  as 
the  combined  efforts  of  a  good  cook 
and  a  charming  Hostess. 

Being  ourselves  wine  makers  of  long 
experience,  and  with  the  largest  stock 
of  wines  at  your  disposal,  we  believe 
we  are  in  the  be^t  position  to  serve  you 
and  serve  you  correctly. 

ALPINE  WINERY 

Telephone  Main  1348 
1  1 6  N.  Center  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


Largest  Wine.  Dealers 
in  Nevada 


Wholesale  and 
Retail 


^ 

^3 

^ 


3 
t> 
o 

*t 

*••* 

Hi 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  21 


RflYAI  RFFR  lf  purchased  fay  the  Wife  wi"  keep 

llU  I  flL    ULLn    Husband  Home.       RENO  BREWING  CO. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


WESTERN   MUSIC  CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


'EAT,  DRINK  AND  BE  MERRY' 

WHEN    TO    SERVE    BEVERAGES 

Appetizer — Dry,  pale  sherry,  plain  or  with  a  dash  of  bitters;  vermouth;  or 
a  cocktail. 

With  Oysters — Rhine  wine,  Moselle,  dry  Sauternes,  Chablis,  or  Capri  (cool). 

With  Soups — Sherry  or  Medeira   (cool). 

With  Fish — Sauternes,  Chablis,  Ehine  wine,  Mouselle  or  Capri  (cool). 

With  Entrees — Claret  or  Chianti   (temperature  of  room). 

With  Boast — Claret,  Burgundy  or  Chianti   (temperature  of  room). 

With  Game — Champagne  (cold),  old  vintage  champagne   (cool). 

With  Pastry— Madiera  (cool). 

With  Cheese — Port   (temperature  of  room). 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1592          RENO.  NEVADA 

With  Fruit — Tokay,  Malaga  or  Muscat   (temperature  of  room). 

With  Coffee — Brandy  or  Cordial   (temperature  of  room). 

If  you  do  not  wish  to  serve  such  a  variety,  use  the  following,  viz.:  Either 
Sherry,  or  Sherry  and  Bitters,  Vermouth,  or  a  cocktail  as  an  appetizer;  either 
Ehine  wine,  Moselle,  Sauternes,  Chablis  or  Capri  with  oysters  and  fish. 

Either  Sherry  or  Maleira  with  soup. 

Either  Champagne,  Claret,  Burgundy,  Chianti  or  Whiskey  highball  through- 
out the  meal. 

Either  Brandy,  Cordial  or  Port  after  dinner. 

Either  Ale  or  Stout  with  oysters,  fish,  cold  meats,  steaks,  chops  or  bread  and 


22  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


A  Home  Complete* 


Has  a  Piano  in 
Has  Yours? 


IF  NOT,  see  us.  New  and  good  used 
Pianos  and  Players  always  on  hand. 
They  are  right  in  quality  and  price  and 
terms  to  suit. 

Mail  orders  given  prompt  attention. 

TUNING,   REPAIRING  AND 
REBUILDING  A  SPECIALTY 

THE  PIANO  SHOP 

27  WEST  FIRST  STREET  RENO,  NEVADA 

Opposite  T.  &  D.  Theatre  P.  O.  Address,  Box  171 


RENO,  NEVADA 

AUSTIN  JACKSON      L.  O.  CANNON 

LESSEES 

*  PRINTING*  >? 

BOOKBINDING,  SEALS 
CERTIFICATES,    ETC. 

SPECIAL    RULED 
BLANK  BOOKS    * 

STEEL    DIE    EMBOSSING 

A  SPECIALTY 

Gazette  Building        ::        Reno,  Nevada 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


C*  A  K  F  S  AND  HOW  TO  MAKE 


THEM 


BRIDES  CAKE  LOAF 

%  cup  butter,  2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla, 

1  cup  milk,  Whites  of  8  eggs, 

1  cup  corn  starch,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  before  measuring.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well, 
then  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  unbeaten,  and  cream  or  beat  well.  Add  the 
flavoring,  then  add  a  little  of  the  milk,  sift  in  a  little  of  Gold  Medal  Flour 
which  has  been  measured  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  corn  starch. 
Beat,  then  add  a  little  more  milk  and  flour  and  so  on  until  all  is  used.  Lastly, 
fold  in  lightly  the  whites  of  the  remaining  6  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  light 
and  dry.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  when  cold,  ice  with  marsh- 
mellow  icing. 

BROWN   STONE   CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar  cream  with  one-half  cupful  butter,  add 
one-half  cupful  sweet  milk;  three  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  (rounding)  dissolved 
in  one-half  cupful  of  warm  water,  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing powder,  two  cupfuls  flour;  flavor  with  vanilla,  bake  in  long  pan. — Mrs. 
Cora  Dixon. 

FROSTING 

Two  small  teacupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  creamed  with  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
thin  with  cream,  add  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  one  cup  of  walnuts 
chopped  fine. — Mrs.  Cora  Dixon. 

WEDDING  CAKE 

1  pound  butter,  y2  teaspoonful  cloves, 

1  pound    sugar,  2  pounds   raisins, 

12  eggs,  2  pounds  currants, 

1  pound   Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  pound  citron, 

2  teaspoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon  1  pound  almonds, 
and  mace,  1  wineglass  brandy, 
1  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg  and  1  lemon. 

allspice, 

Line  the  pans  with  three  thicknesses  of  paper;  butter  the  top  layer.  Seed 
and  chop  the  raisins,  wash  and  dry  the  currants,  cut  the  citron  in  uniform 
slices,  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  blanch  the  almonds  and  chop  fine. 
Mix  all  the  fruit  but  the  citron  with  the  dough,  insert  pieces  of  citron  after 
dough  is  poured  into  pan. 

POUND   CAKE 

1  pound  butter,  1  pound    Gold    Medal   Flour, 

1  pound  sugar,  y2  wine  glass  wine, 

10  eggs,  y2  wine  glass  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  yolks  of  the  eggs,  wine,  brandy,  whites 
of  the  eggs,  and  the  flour.  Place  currants  into  one -quarter  of  the  dough,  and 
almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  in  rose  water,  into  another  part;  leave  the 
remainder  plain.  Fill  very  small  round  tins  three-quarter  full.  Into  half  of 
those  containing  the  plain  dough  put  small  pieces  of  citron,  three  in  each,  in- 
serting the  citron  upright  a  little  way  into  the  dough.  Sift  sugar  over  the  tops 
of  those  containing  the  citron  and  almond  before  putting  them  into  the  oven. 
Bake  20  minues.  Frost  the  plain  and  currant  cakes.  Pound  cake  is  lighter 
when  baked  in  small  cakes  than  in  loaves. 


24  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE 

2  cups    sugar,  1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract, 

^  cup  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  cup  corn  starch. 

Yolks  8  eggs, 

Sift  all  dry  materials  before  measuring.  Cream  sugar  and  butter  well,  add 
gradually  the  yolks  that  have  been  beaten,  beating  all  until  very  light  and 
creamy,  then  add  the  flavoring.  Then  alternate  milk  and  Gold  Medal  Flour 
that  has  been  mixed  with  the  corn  starch  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  well- 
buttered  layer  pans,  when  cold  put  between  the  layers,  rich  dry  whipped  cream, 
sweetened,  using  powdered  sugar  and  flavoring.  Add  ^  cup  more  sugar  to 
remaining  cream  and  use  as  icing,  allowing  2  hours  to  harden. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 

1  cup  butter,  3  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  rosewater, 

1  cup  milk,  Whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  dry. 

3%  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

Cream  the  butter  and  beat  in  the  sugar  gradually.  Sift  together  the  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar  alternately  with  the  milk 
and  rose  water.  Lastly,  add  the  egg  whites.  Bake  in  three  layer  cake  pans. 
Put  the  layers  together  with  the  following  frosting: 

FROSTING  FOR  LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 

3  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  raisins, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  chopped  nutmeats, 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  5  figs  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  let  boil  without 
stirring  until  the  syrup  from  a  spoon  will  spin  a  long  thread,  pour  upon  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  dry,  beating  constantly  meanwhile.  Contiue  the 
beating  until  the  frosting  is  cold.  Add  the  fruit  and  spread  upon  the  cake. 

DEVIL    CAKE 

y2  cup  butter,  y%  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 

1  cup  sugar,  ^4  teaspoonful  cloves, 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

%  cup  powdered  sugar,  3  ounces,  chocolate,  melted, 

%  cup  milk,  1%  cups  sifted  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  dry. 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  % 
cup  of  sugar  and  beat  the  two  sugar  mixtures  together.  Add  the  chocolate, 
then  the  flour,  sifted  three  times  with  the  baking  powder  and  spices,  then  the 
milk,  extract  and  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put  together  with  a 
fruit  icing.  Spread  white  icing  above. 

FROSTING    FOR    DEVIL    CAKE 

1%  cups    sugar,  %   cup  each  Sultana  raisins,  glace 

%  cup  water,  cherries  and  pecan  nut  meats. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  dry, 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread,  and  gradually  beat 
it  into  the  whites  of  eggs.  When  cold  put  a  few  spoonfuls  over  the  fruit  and 
nuts  and  put  between  the  layers.  Spread  the  rest  on  top  of  the  cake. 

TO  MIX  CAKES  CONTAINING  NO  BUTTER 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  very  light  and  thick.  Add  the  sugar  gradually, 
beating  till  very  light  and  spongy.  Add  the  flavoring  and  liquid,  if  used.  Have 
the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  them  alternately  with  the 
sifted  Gold  Medal  Flour  (mixed  with  baking  powder),  and  cut  both  in  very 
lightly  and  quickly. 


MARRIED 


START  RIGHT 

BUY    A   PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  25 


RETP 
DEiJLIX 


Smail  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 


TO    MIX    CAKES   CONTAINING   BUTTER 

Cream  the  butter,  beating  till  light.  Gradually  add  the  sugar,  beating  till 
light  and  creamy.  Add  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  till  light,  then  the  flavoring. 
Beat  in  alternately  the  liquid  and  Gold  Medal  Flour,  the  latter  mixed  with 
salt  and  baking  powder.  Lastly,  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  fruit,  if  used. 

CEEAM    PUFFS 

%  pint  milk,  5  eggs, 

5  ounces  sifted  Gold  Medal  Flour,  *4  pound  butter. 

Put  the  milk  and  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  on  the  fire.  When  butter  is  all 
melted  and  boiling  stir  in  the  flour.  When  partly  cool  add  5  eggs,  one  at  a 
time.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  bag  with  large  tube  and  lay  out  into  about  the 
size  of  large  sponge  drops,  on  a  buttered  pan;  brush  with  egg.  Bake  in  hot 
oven.  When  done  cut  open  on  one  side  and  fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened. 
Flavor  to  suit. 

CREAM    PUFF    FILLING 

1  quart  milk,  ^  pint    of   yolks, 

%  pound    sugar,  Flavor  to  taste. 

6  ounces  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

Put  the  milk  on  the  stove;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  in  the  sugar,  flour 
and  eggs,  after  beating  them  together  thoroughly.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it 
burn. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1393          RENO.  NEVADA 

SPONGE   CAKE 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately;  then  beat  together  2  cups  sugar  slowly  beaten 
in,  2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt; 
last  of  all  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  lemon.  Heat  the  pan. 

MAMMY    BELDON    CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  1%  cups  milk.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
together,  beat  and  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  milk,  3  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  thor- 
oughly mixed  with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  beat 
20  minutes,  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  stirring  in  gently. 
Bake  in  layers  or  40  minutes  as  a  whole. 

FILLING   FOR   ABOVE 

Take  about  24  marshmellows,  chopped  fine,  1  teacupful  sugar,  boiled  until 
thread;  stirring  briskly,  into  marshmellows  until  cool,  flavor  to  taste,  spread  be- 
tween layers.  Sprinkle  with  assorted  colored  sugar  for  rainbow  effect. — Mrs. 
E.  F.  Kiessling,  Eeno,  Nev. 


26 


THE   JUST -WED    COOK   BOOK 


Worka  (En 


All  Kinds  of 

Dyeing,  Cleaning  and 
Repairing 

Party  Dresses,  Fancy  Gowns 

and  Men's  Clothing 

Our  Specialty 


THREE  TELEPHONES 

Main  814 Main  58 Main  663 


233  E.  Plaza  Street     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  27 

Sierra  Beer  for  Health  Phone  581 

SPICE  CAKE 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  syrup,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  spices,  flour;  do 
not  stir  too  thick. — Mrs.  Cora  Dixon. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract, 

1/2  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  cup  corn  starch. 

Yolks  8  eggs, 

Sift  all  dry  materials  before  measuring.  Cream  sugar  and  butter  well,  add 
gradually  the  yolks  that  have  been  beaten,  beating  all  until  very  light  and 
creamy,  then  add  the  flavoring.  Then  alternate  milk  and  Gold  Medal  Flour 
that  has  been  mixed  with  the  corn  starch  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  well 
buttered  layer  pans,  when  cold  put  between  the  layers,  rich  dry  whipped  cream, 
sweetened,  using  powdered  sugar  and  flavoring.  Add  %  cup  more  sugar  to 
remaining  cream  and  use  as  icing,  allowing  2  hours  to  harden. 

LAYER   CAKE    (Plain) 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

y^  cup    butter,  1  teaspoonful   vanilla, 

2  good  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  sugar,  beat  till  creamy,  add  one  egg  at  a  time,  beating 

well,  then  pour  in  milk,  and  sifted  baking  powder  and  flour.  Add  vanilla  and 
stir  quickly.  Bake  in  four  well-greased  layer  tins.  Usually  requires  ten 
minutes  to  bake.  Use  any  good  filling. 

FUDGE   CAKE 

%  cup  butter,  14  cup  walnuts, 

1  cup   sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

%  cup  chocolate,  2  heaping  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour. 
Melt  butter  in  pan  over  steam,  cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add 
eggs,  beating  well,  add  milk.  Sift  in  flour,  baking  powder  and  ground  choco- 
late, put  in  broken  nuts,  stir  batter  quickly.     Bake  in  well-greased  cake  tins. 

POUND    LOAF    CAKE 

1  cup  butter,  5  eggs, 

1  cup   milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
iy2  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

Melt  butter,  add  sugar,  cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  yolks  of 
eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well,  then  milk,  sift  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder, 
and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  before  adding.  Bake  in  a  deep, 
well-greased  pan.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  Stir 
in  the  vanilla  with  the  milk. 

MARGUERITE  S 

Mix  %  cup  hickorynuts  with  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  1  tablespoonful 
sugar.  Heap  this  mixture  up  on  Saratoga  crackers  and  set  in  oven  to  brown 
slightly. 


28  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

NUT    CAKE 

y2  pound  hickory  nut  meats,  1  teaspoonful    vanilla, 

Scant  cup  of  sugar,  Whites  of  3  or  4  eggs,  according  to 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  size. 

Eoll  the  nut  meats  fine,  beat  the  eggs  stiff  and  add  sugar  to  them.  Mix  all 
ingredients  together.  The  consistency  must  be  stiff.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon 
on  buttered  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  If  hickory  nuts  are  not  procurable, 
English  walnuts  and  pecans  may  be  substituted. 

SPONGE    CAKE 

3  eggs,  %  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  scant    cup    sugar,  %  teaspoonful   extract   of   lemon, 

1  tablespoonful  hot  water,  1  cup   Gold   Medal   Flour, 

2  teaspoonfuls    vinegar,  %  teaspoonful   baking   powder. 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  light;  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue 
beating;  then  add  water  and  vinegar;  add  the  salt  to  the  whites  and  beat 
until  very  stiff;  sift  the  flour  with  baking  powder  three  times;  add  the  flavor- 
ing and  fold  in  the  flour  and  the  beaten  whites  alternately  as  gently  as  pos- 
sible. Bake  about  30  minutes  in  slow  oven  until  well  risen;  then  increase  the 
heat.  Invert  to  cool,  then  remove  from  pan. 

WALNUT    TORTE 

1  pound    English    walnuts    or    al-       9  eggs, 

monds,  y±  cup    grated    chocolate, 

1  cup   sugar,  %  cup  of  fine  cracker  crumbs. 

Chop  the  nuts,  reserving  twenty-three  halves  for  decorating  the  top.  Mix 
the  chopped  nuts  and  chocolate.  Beat  yolks  thoroughly  with  Dover  beater, 
add  sugar  and  beat  again.  Then  mix  with  the  nuts,  crumbs  and  chocolate, 
and  stir  well.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  lastly,  just  as  in  sponge 
cake.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes  in  prepared  spring  form. 

UNEEDA    BISCUIT    TORTE 

Yolks  of  8  eggs  with  1%  cups  sugar — beat  well.  Ten  Uneeda  Biscuits 
rolled  fine.  One  cup  grated  walnuts. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one-half  lemon — biscuits  added  to  eggs — then  nuts 
and  lemon — lastly  beaten  whites  of  8  eggs.  Bake  in  slow  oven  40  minutes.  Do 
not  grease  pan. 

CREAM   FOR   CREAM    CAKES 

1  quart  milk,  Whites  of  six  eggs, 

4  eggs,  A  little  salt, 

y2  pound  powdered  sugar,  Vanilla   flavor    to   taste. 
3  ounces    corn    starch, 

Put  the  milk  on  the  fire  in  a  pan  to  boil;  while  the  milk  is  coming  to  a  boil 
put  the  eggs,  sugar,  corn  starch  and  salt  into  a  dish  and  mix  well  together; 
when  the  milk  boils  turn  this  into  it,  stirring  the  while,  and  as  soon  as  it  all 
comes  to  a  boil  take  it  off,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs, 
beat  up  to  a  stiff  froth. 

JAM    CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  jam,  3  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  teaspoonful  cinna- 
mon, 5  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  making  powder,  I  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1 
nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  1  teaspoonful  soda. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  29 

CICDDA    DC  CD    Closer   to  a  Temperance   Drink 
OlEnnH    DEER    Than  Any  Other  Beer,    Phone  581 

LADY   FINGERS 

1  pound   sugar,  1  pound  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

1  dozen  eggs,  Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Mix  sugar  and  eggs  with  an  egg-beater  to  a  light  foam,  until  it  is  filled 
with  little  bubbles;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  mix  flour  in  care- 
fully, so  as  not  to  toughen  mixture;  lay  on  paper  the  shape  of  the  little  finger 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in  large  sheet  pans;  when  done 
take  from  the  pans  and  let  cool.  Wet  the  under  side  of  the  paper  and  they 
will  come  off  easily,  and  then  put  two  of  the  flat  sides  together. 

ORANGE   CAKE 

5  eggs,  y%  pound   Gold  Medal  Flour, 

%  pound   pulverized    sugar,  •  1%  dessert    spoonfuls    rose    water. 

1  orange, 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  eggs,  then  beat  the  whites  and  rose 
water  together  with  a  clean  whisp  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  the  sugar  and 
grated  rind  of  the  orange;  when  well  mixed  add  juice  of  the  orange  and  the 
yolks  of  eggs;  beat  until  smooth,  then  add  flour,  after  putting  it  through  a  fine 
sieve;  mix  up  lightly  and  put  in  a  deep  pan  and  bake  about  one  hour  in  a  cool 
oven.  Lemon  cake  may  be  made  the  same  way  by  substituting  lemons  for  the 
oranges. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1393          RENO.  NEVADA 

BOSTON    LEMON    SNAPS 

1  pound  Gold  Medal  Flour,  3  eggs, 

^4  pound  butter,  %  ounce  cream  of  tartar, 

12  ounces  sugar,  Lemon  flavor. 

Bub  the  butter  and  flour  together  then  add  the  sugar,  eggs,  cream  of  tartar 
and  flavor;  mix  all  together,  break  up  in  small  pieces  and  make  in  little  balls; 
put  on  pans  and  flatten  out  with  the  hand;  bake  in  a  cool  oven. 

GRAND    DUKE    CAKE 

Cream  together  2-3  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar.  Add  1  cup  milk  alternately 
with  3%  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  ^4 
teaspoonful  almond,  %  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  beat  well.  Fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  6  eggs.  Bake  in  three  square  layer-cake  tins.  Put  layers 
together  with  raisin  frosting.  Boil  3  cups  sugar  with  1  cup  water  until  syrup 
will  spin  thread.  Pour  onto  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Beat  until 
cool,  and  add  1^4  cups  seeded  raisins  cut  fine,  %  cup  chopped  nuts  and  ^  cup 
chopped  candied  apricots,  plums,  pineapple  or  cherries. 


30  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

ROYAI  RFFR  If  purcbased  by tbe  Wife  wil1  keep 

nUlfIL    DLCn    Husband  Home*       RENO  BREWING  CO. 

SOUR  MILK  DOUGHNUTS 

2  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

3  even  tablespoonfuls  melted  but-       %  teaspoonful  soda, 

ter,  1  saltspoonful  each  of  cinnamon 

4  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  and  salt. 

1  cup   sugar, 

Enough  more  Gold  Medal  Flour  to  make  just  soft  enough  to  roll  out.  Mix 
the  dough  rather  soft  at  first.  Have  the  board  well  floured,  and  the  fat  heating. 
Boll  only  a  large  spoonful  at  first.  Cut  into  rings  with  an  open  cutter.  Mix 
the  trimmings  with  another  spoonful.  Work  it  lightly  till  well  floured  and 
roll  again.  Eoll  and  cut  all  out  before  frying.  The  fat  should  be  hot  enough 
for  the  dough  to  rise  to  the  top  instantly. 

DOUGHNUTS  AND  CRULLERS 

The  fat  should  be  in  a  deep  pot  (to  obviate  any  danger  of  boiling  over), 
and  should  be  of  sufficient  depth  to  cover  the  dough,  when  first  dropped  in. 
It  should  be  smoking  hot,  or  the  dough  will  absorb  grease  and  be  soggy.  Not 
more  than  half  a  dozen  should  be  dropped  .in  at  any  one  time,  or  the  fat  will 
be  unduly  cooled  and  some  of  the  cakes  submerged  during  the  entire  cooking; 
in  which  case  the  cakes  when  cooked  will  be  greasy  and  not  light.  One  or  two 
pieces  of  dough  should  be  cooked  first  as  testers.  When  done  the  cakes  should 
be  drained  on  unglazed  paper,  then  rolled  in  powdered  sugar. 

ALMOND   COOKIES 

%  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar, 

1-3  cup  almonds  blanched  and  finely         1  egg  beaten  lightly, 

chopped,  %  teaspoonful   cinnamon, 

%  teaspoonful  cloves,  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 

%  teaspoonful  salt,  Grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 

2  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine,  1  cup   Gold   Medal  Flour, 

1  cup  Gold  Medal  Eolled  Oats,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar  gradually;  add  egg  well  beaten  without 

separating;  almonds,  Gold  Medal  Flour,  oats,  spices,  baking  powder,  thoroughly 
mixed;  add  lemon  rind  and  sherry.  Drop  in  piles  about  the  size  of  an  English 
walnut — 1%  inches  apart  on  a  buttered  sheet.  Spread  with  a  spatula  and 
press  the  half  of  an  almond  meat  on  top  of  each.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  12 
to  15  minutes. 

GERMAN    DOUGHNUTS 

Scald  1  pint  milk,  pour  hot  over  1  pint  Gold  Medal  Flour,  and  beat  till 
smooth;  add  %  teaspoonful  salt,  and  let  cool.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1 
tablespoonful  melted  butter,  1  teaspoonful  flavoring,  y2  cup  sugar,  beaten  whites 
of  eggs,  1  cup  flour  mixed  with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  more  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Eoll,  cut,  and  fry. 

DOUGHNUTS 

2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 
1  egg,                                                                           1  cup  milk. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  beat  the  egg  until  light  and  add  to  the 
milk,  and  if  flavor  is  used,  add  it  now.  Pour  the  liquid  into  the  flour  and  mix 
thoroughly  and  roll  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter  and  drop 
into  smoking  hot  fat. 


K 

I 

M 

B 

A 

L 

L 


WESTERN    MUSIC   CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 

I 

M 

B 

A 

L 

L 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  31 

BATH    BUNS 

Mix  and  sift  1  quart  Gold  Medal  Flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  % 
teaspoonful  salt,  2-3  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon.  Add  grated 
rind  1  lemon,  %  cup  chopped  citron.  Eub  in  y2  cup  butter.  Beat  6  egg  yolks, 
add  2-3  cup  milk,  and  mix  all  to  soft  dough,  adding  more  milk  if  needed.  Mold 
with  the  hands  in  round  buns.  Place  1  inch  apart  on  greased  pans.  Brush 
with  milk,  sprinkle  with  chopped  citron,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

ROLLED    OATS    CRISPS 

2  eggS)  1  teaspoonful    baking    powder, 
2y2  cups  Gold  Medal  Boiled  Oats,  1  tablespoonful  shortening, 

%  teaspoonful   salt,  y2  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

%  cup  brown  sugar, 

Beat  up  eggs  thoroughly;  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  with  the  beating; 
put  in  salt  and  extract;  mix  separately  the  shortening  with  the  rolled  oats 
and  then  mix  all  together.  Drop  in  small  pieces  on  greased  making  pan,  leav- 
ing a  good  space  between.  Bake  in  a  hot  quick  oven  until  crisp  and  brown. 
Take  off  with  a  knife. 

HUCKLEBERRY    SHORT    CAKE 

Two  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  pint  milk,  2  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  sifted  into  3  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  quart 
washed  and  well-drained  huckleberries,  more  flour  to  make  a  very  thick  batter. 
Bake  in  greased  dripping-pan,  break  in  squares,  serve  hot  with  butter. 

STRAWBERRY    OR    RASPBERRY    SHORT    CAKE 

Pick,  hull,  wash,  and  drain  berries.  Sweeten,  spread  between  layers  of 
short  cake.  Garnish  top  layer  with  large  whole  berries,  dust  with  sugar,  and 
serve  with  cream  or  custard. 

CURRANT   LOAF 

3  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  cup  cleaned  currants, 
2-3  cup   butter,  Grated  rind  1  lemon, 

y2  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

y2  teaspoonful  salt, 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  butter,  add  currants  and  lemon  rind,  mix  to  a 
very  thick  drop  batter  with  cold  milk.  Turn  into  well-greased  loaf-pan,  bake 
1  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

MOLASSES    COOKIES 

1  quart    molasses,  *4  pound  lard, 

2  ounces   soda,  Sufficient  Gold  Medal  Flour  to  mix. 
1  pint  and  one  gill  of  water, 

Put  the  molasses,  water,  soda  and  lard  in  a  bowl,  mix  them  together;  then 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  nice  dough,  suitable  to  roll  out  and  cut;  wash  with 
milk  or  water  on  top. 

Molasses  cookies  are  very  common  cakes,  but  they  are  not  easy  to  make, 
for  the  reason  that  there  is  no  rule  you  can  work  by  that  will  answer  in  all 
cases.  All  molasses  does  not  work  alike;  some  kinds  will  bear  more  water 
than  others,  and  the  weather  has  to  be  taken  into  consideration.  In  cold 
weather  you  can  use  more  water  than  in  warm  weather.  Sometimes  you  can 
use  the  same  quantity  of  water  as  molasses.  Be  very  careful  and  not  get  the 
dough  too  stiff,  and  do  not  work  any  mor  than  is  necessary  to  mix. 

SPICE    CAKES 

Two  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  a 
good  y2  teaspoonful  soda,  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  3  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  cloves,  2  teaspoonfuls  allspice,  1  nutmeg. 


32  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

ROYAL  BEER 


Percentage  of  Extracts 


OATMEAL   COOKIES 

Two  and  one-quarter  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  2y2  cups  oatmeal,  1  cup  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk,  flavor  to 
taste.  Boll,  cut  and  bake  quickly. 

COCOANUT    DROP    COOKIES 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sour  milk  or  14  cup  butter  and 
%  cup  cream,  sour,  1  teaspoonful  soda  in  milk,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  2 
cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  box  cocoanut.  Drop  from  spoon  on  greased  pans. 

GINGER  SNAPS 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  butter,  heat  them  boiling  hot, 
take  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  1  cup  Gold  Medal  Flour  while  hot,  let  cool,  add 
2  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolve  in  a  little  vinegar,  2  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  ginger  in  the  flour,  beat  all  the  rest.  Knead  enough  Gold  Medal  Flour  in 
to  roll  out  nicely. 

EGOLESS    CAKE    (Fine) 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  buttermilk,  4  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  teaspoonful 
each  nutmeg,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  2  cups  raisins,  chopped  fine,  1  cup 
butter,  1  cup  cold  coffee,  2  level  teaspoonfuls  soda,  1  cup  nuts,  chopped  fine. 
Mix  all  together.  Add  nuts  and  raisins  last. 

PLAIN    COOKIES 

%  cup  butter,  iy2  cups    sugar, 

3  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls    milk, 

2%  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Boll  thin. 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  add  beaten  eggs,  flour,  sifted  with  the  bak- 
ing powder,  and  milk.  Boll  out  thin  and  cut  in  circles. 

GRAHAM   WAFERS 

%  cup  butter  or  nut  butter,  1  teaspoonful  bicarbonate  soda, 

1  cup   sugar,  2  tablspoonfuls  milk, 

1  egg,  Graham  Flour. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  egg  and  beat  again  until  light.  Gradu- 
ally beat  in  the  sugar.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and 
add  it  to  the  sugar  mixture.  Add  the  milk  and  work  in  sufficient  graham 
flour — about  three  cupfuls  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Knead  until  the  mixture 
will  hold  together.  Boll  into  a  very  thin  sheet  and  cut  into  two-inch  squares. 
Lift  carefully  with  a  cake-turner,  put  into  slightly  greased  pans  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  thoroughly  crisp  and  lightly  browned — about  eight  minutes. 

PEANUT  SNAPS 

1%  cups  butter,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  extract  lemon, 

6  eggs,  y%  cup  chopped  peanuts  mixed  with 

1%  pints  Gold  Medal  Flour,  %  cup  granulated  sugar. 

^  cup  cornstarch, 

Bub  the  butter  and  sugar  smooth;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  the  Gold  Medal 
Flour,  corn-starch,  and  powder,  sifted  together,  and  the  extract;  flour  the 
board,  roll  out  the  dough  rather  thin,  cut  out  with  biscuit-cutter,  roll  in  the 
chopped  peanuts  and  sugar,  lay  on  greased  baking-tin;  bake  in  rather  hot  oven 
8  to  10  minutes. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY    A    PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  33 


Fillings,  Frostings  and  Icings 


BOILED    CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

2  ounces  chocolate,  Vanilla, 

y2  cup  cream,  Powdered   sugar. 

2  whites  of  eggs, 
Boil  chocolate  and  cream  and  when  cool  add  vanilla.    Beat  the  whites  to  a 

stiff  froth,  add  powdered  sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  cut.     Combine  the  two 

mixtures,  beat  and  spread. 

CARAMEL   FROSTING 

%  pound  maple  sugar,  scraped,  Butter,  size  of  an  egg, 

%  pound  brown  sugar,  iy2  cups    cream. 

Mix  and  bo.il  slowly  for  forty  minutes.     Remove  from  stove  and  stir  over 

ice  until  the  proper  consistency  to  spread.     If  too  stiff,  thin  with  cream.     Dip 

knife  in  cream  to  spread. 

NUT    OR    FRUIT    FILLING 

y2  cup  fruit  (chopped  fine),  %  cup   nuts    (chopped  fine). 

Boiled  frosting, 

To  boiled  icing  add  one  cup  chopped  walnuts,  almonds,  pecans,  hickory, 
hazel  nuts,  chopped  figs,  dates,  raisins,  or  selected  prunes,  separately  or  in 
combination. 

MARSHM ALLOW    FROSTING 

l/2  pound  marshmallows,  Whites  of  2  eggs, 

*4  cup  milk  or  water,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Break  the  marshmallows  in  pieces,  add  milk  or  water,  and  put  in  double 
boiler,  over  boiling  water.  Stir  until  melted.  Take  from  fire  and  while  hot 
pour  into  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add  vanilla. 

BOILED    ICING 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  flavoring, 

1-3  cup   water,  1  egg  white    (large). 

%  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar, 

Beat  white  of  egg  until  frothy,  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff 
and  dry.  Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  When  it  has  reached  the  honey 
stage,  or  drops  heavily  from  spoon,  add  5  tablespoonfuls  slowly  to  egg,  beating 
in  well.  Then  cook  the  remainder  of  the  syrup  until  it  threads  and  pour  over 
the  egg,  beating  thoroughly.  Add  flavoring  and  beat  until  cool  enough  to 
spread. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  FILLING  WITH  PINEAPPLE  AND  NUTS 

1  yolk  of  egg,  1  cup  nut  kernels,  or   %   cup  nuts 

2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  and   %   cup  pineapple. 
y2  cup   whipped   cream, 

Whip  cream,  same  as  above,  using  one-half  cupful  nuts  and  one-half  cupful 
pineapple,  all  chopped  up. 

WHIPPED    CREAM    FILLING 

%  cup  thick  cream,  White  of  1  egg, 

*4  cup  powdered  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Set  medium  sized  bowl  in  pan  of  crushed  ice  to  which  water  has  been 
added.  Place  cream  in  bowl  and  beat  until  stiff,  with  wire  whip  or,  if  possible, 
use  patent  cream  wripper.  Whip  up  well  that  air  bubbles  may  not  be  too  large. 
Add  sugar,  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff,  and  vanilla.  Keep  cool. 

CHOCOLATE    FILLING 

1/2  cup  sugar,  Yolk  of  1  egg, 

i/2  cup   milk,  %  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

i/2  cup  grated  chocolate, 

Melt  chocolate,  add  sugar  and  milk,  and  boil  when  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in 
cold  water,  remove  from  fire.  Add  beaten  yolk  and  vanilla.  Cool  and  spread 
between  layers. 

ICING   FOR   WHITE    CAKE 

iy2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water,  2  eggs  (whites). 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads  well,  pour  over  the  egg  whites  well 
beaten,  beating  all  the  time,  when  partly  cool  add  y%  cup  chopped  pineapple. 


34  THE    JUST -WED    COOK    BOOK 


PUDDINGS 


PEACH    COBBLER,    SOUTHERN    STYLE 

A  large  pie  baked  in  shallow  baking  tins  from  one  to  one  and  a  half  inches 
in  depth  with  bottom  and  top  crust,  glazed  and  sugared  on  top,  and  cut  out 
in  squares  or  triangular  pieces. 

Fine  puff  paste  is  too  rich  for  this  purpose;  ordinary  flaky  pie  crust  made 
with  ten  or  twelve  ounces  of  butter,  to  a  pound  of  Gold  Medal  Flour,  is  best; 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  a  sheet  of  paste  rolled  quite  thin,  fill  with 
ripe  peeled  peaches,  strew  over  them  half  their  weight  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
nutmg;  cover  with  another  thin  sheet  of  paste,  and  bake  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  when  half  done  brush  over  the  top  with  egg  and  water  and  strew 
granulated  sugar  over;  put  back  and  bake  to  a  rich  color;  when  the  fruit  is 
too  dry  to  make  its  own  syrup,  make  a  sauce  to  go  with  the  cobbler;  all  sorts 
of  fruit  or  rhubarb  can  be  used  this  way;  canned  fruit  should  be  stewed  down 
till  the  juice  becomes  thick  before  being  put  in  the  paste  lined  tins. 

BAKED   CUSTARD 

3  yolks,  11-3  cups  sugar, 

1  egg,  Pinch  of  salt. 

1  pint  milk, 

Bake  until  firm  in  center. 

When  you  want  carmel  custard,  then  take  2-3  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  melt 
the  sugar  until  it  turns  a  light  brown  then  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1592          RENO.  NEVADA 

PLUM    PUDDING 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  each  grated  bread,  very  fine  chopped  suet,  raisins, 
seeded,  currants,  mashed  and  picked,  and  coffee,  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  citron, 
milk  and  orange  marmalade,  four  eggs,  two  cups  Gold  Medal  Flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Mix  all  these 
together  in  large  bowl,  put  in  well-buttered  mold,  set  in  sauce  pan  with  boiling 
water  to  reach  one-half  up  its  sides.  Now  steam  three  and  a  half  hours,  turn 
out  carefully  on  dish  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

RAISIN   LAYER    PUDDING 

Pour  1  cup  boiling  water  over  %  cup  sugar  and  boil  three  or  four  minutes. 
Eemove  from  fire  and  add  1  tablespoonful  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  for 
15  minutes  in  ^4  cup  cold  water.  Let  cool  partially.  When  mixture  begins 
to  thicken,  heat  until  frothy,  and  stiffly  heaten  whites  3  eggs  and  beat  twenty 
minutes.  Divide  into  two  portions.  Use  new  oblong  bread  pan  for  mold.  Tint 
half  pale  green,  flavor  with  almond  or  lemon,  add  %  cup  rich  canned  apricots 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  drained  from  juice.  Put  into  pan  as  first  layer.  Let 
set  before  adding  second  layer,  which  should  be  tinted  light  pink,  flavored 
with  vanilla.  Into  the  pink  layer  beat  %  cup  seedless  raisins  cooked  until 
tender  and  drained  dry.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  garnish  with  chopped  nuts. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  35 

RENO'S  BIG,  MODERN,  STORE 

oTWake  this  Store  your  headquarters,  it  was 

built  for  YOU.     There  is  a  comfortable 

Rest  Room  here  for  your  benefit 

Do  You  Need  Draperies  ? 

We  carry  the  complete  line  of 
"Colonial  Draperies",  Cretonnes, 
Tapestries,  Scrims,  Curtains, 
Couch  Covers,  etc. 

Headquarters 

for  Table  Linens,  Bedding  of 
every  description,  Staple  Dry 
Goods,  Silks,  Dress  Goods  and 
Wash  Goods. 

Our  Ready  to  Wear 

We  at  all  times  show  the  very 
latest  novelties  as  regards  Ladies' 
Suits,  Dresses  and  Waists. 

Sole  Agents  For 

Merode  Underwear,  Trcfousse 
Kid  Gloves,  Pictorial  Review 
Patterns. 

PALACE  DRY  GOODS  STORE 

Cor.  West  Second  and  Center  Streets 

Mail  Orders  Carefully  Filled  the  Same  Day  Received 


36  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


ROCK  SPRINGS  COAL  YARDS 


J.  E.  MARTIN,  Proprietor 


ALL  KINDS  OF 

WOOD 


AND 


COAL 

FOR     FUEL 


Best  Attention  and 
Equality  to  All 

A  Trial  Is  All  We  Ask 


Phone  Us  Your  Orders 

PHONE  1248 


235  Ralston  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK  37 

DEED    Closer  to  a   Temperance  Drink 
DEER    Than  Any  Other  Beer.    Phone  581 

BREAD    CRUMB    PUDDING    WITH    CORNMEAL 

Carmelize  2-3  cup  sugar,  add  to  1  quart  milk  scalded  in  double  boiler,  let 
stand  until  dissolved;  then  add  2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  and  let  soak  until 
softened.  Beat  2  eggs  slightly,  add  1-3  cup  sugar,  *4  teaspoonful  salt,  %  tea- 
spoonful  each  Mapleine  and  vanilla,  2-3  cup  seeded  raisins  cut  in  halves  and 
dredged  with  2  tablespoonfuls  Gold  Medal  Flour.  Combine  mixtures,  turn  into 
buttered  earthenware  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream  sauce. 

RAISIN-APPLE    TAPIOCA    PUDDING 

Cook  1  cup  seeded  raisins  in  3  cups  water  until  tender.  Drain  water  from 
raisins  into  double  boiler.  There  should  be  2%  cups.  Add  %  cup  Minute  Tapi- 
oca, 2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  few  grains  salt  and  1  tablespoonf ul  butter  and  cook 
over  hot  water  until  mixture  is  transparent.  Pare  and  core  7  or  8  sour  apples, 
arrange  in  buttered  baking  dish,  fill  centers  with  1  cup  seeded  raisins  mixed 
with  y2  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoonfuls  sifted  cracker 
dust  and  grated  rind  1  lemon.  Pour  the  tapioca  over  the  apples.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  until  apples  are  well  done.  Serve  with  custard  sauce  or  cream, 
plain  or  whipped.  Sprinkle  shredded  cocoanut  over  the  top. 

PRUNE    WHIP 

Wash  a  half  pound  of  prunes  and  soak  them  over  night.  Cook  them  in  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked  until  quite  soft,  remove  the  stones  and  press 
the  prunes  through  a  potato  masher.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
cook  five  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  add  this, 
with  a  half  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  to  the  prunes  pulp,  stirring  in  lightly 
with  a  fork.  Put  all  in  a  buttered  shallow  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  a  custard  made  from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

RUSSIAN    CREAM 

8  ounces  sugar,  y2  gill   orange   juice, 

4  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice, 

10  leaves    of    gelatine,  y2  pint  white  wine, 

y2  pint  whipped  cream,  y2  gill   rum. 

Beat  the  sugar,  orange  juice,  eggs,  wine  and  rum  well  together.  Stir  in  a 
saucepan  till  it  thickens,  then  add  the  dissolved  gelatine.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  whick  briskly  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  snow.  •  Pour  into 
a  mould  rinsed  with  cold  water,  and,  when  set,  turn  out. 

FROZEN    PUDDING 

To  two  well-beaten  eggs  add  two  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  and  one-half 
cup  of  sugar;  put  on  the  stove  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk;  heat  until  it  has  the  consistency  of  a  thin  custard;  when 
cold  add  chopped  crystallized  cherries,  pineapple  and  walnuts,  and  flavor  to 
taste;  then  set  it  in  a  pail  of  ice  and  salt  for  four  or  five  hours. 

BLACKBERRY   PUDDING 

Three  eggs,  1  teacupful  sugar,  %  cup  Gold  Medal  Flour,  1  cup  jam,  %  cup 
butter,  1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sour  milk;  add  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg;  mix  and  bake  slowly  %  of  an  hour. 

Sauce  for  Pudding — One  pint  boiling  milk,  1  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal 
Flour  with  milk;  have  ready  1  teacup  sugar  and  y2  cup  butter;  mix  thoroughly; 
boil  2  or  3  minutes,  add  butter  and  sugar  but  do  not  boil. 


38  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

BOILED   CUSTARD 

1  quart  milk,  Yolks  of  4  eggs, 

1  cup   sugar,  Teaspoonful  vanilla, 

Pinch   of  salt,  1  ounce  butter. 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler  with  sugar,  salt  and  butter.  When  boiling  add 
cornstarch  which  has  been  blended  in  a  scant  cup  of  water,  or  milk.  Stir  con- 
stantly. When  thick  turn  heat  off  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Must  be 
done  deftly  so  as  to  prevent  curdling.  Add  vanilla  when  the  custard  is  taken 
from  stove. 

APPLE    TAPIOCA    PUDDING 

Pick  over  and  wash  %  of  a  cup  of  pearl  tapioca.  Pour  1  quart  of  boiling 
water  over  it,  and  cook  in  the  double  boiler  until  transparent;  stir  often,  and 
add  %  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Core  and  pare  7  apples.  Put  them  in  a  round 
baking  dish,  and  fill  the  cores  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  tapioca 
over  them  and  bake  till  apples  are  very  soft.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  sugar 
and  cream.  A  delicious  variation  may  be  made  by  using  half  pears,  or  canned 
quinces,  and  half  apples. 


DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 
RINGS 
LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 

Watchmaker 

^  pcsce 

Jeweler 

ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

245  LAKE  ST. 

PHONE 

1392          RENO.  NEVADA 

RAISIN    DUFF 

Dispose  1  quart  sliced,  pared  apples,  and  2-3  cup  seeded  raisins  cut  in  halves, 
in  buttered  granite  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  through  them,  as  placed  in  dish,  y2 
cup  brown  sugar,  few  grains  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  Gold  Medal  Flour,  %  tea- 
spoonful  each  mace  and  ginger  that  have  been  sifted  together.  Add  2-3  cup 
water,  cover  and  let  bake  while  preparing  the  crust.  Sift  together  1  cup  pastry 
flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  %  teaspoonful  salt  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar.  Work  in  4  level  tablespoonfuls  butter,  then  add  milk  to  make  dough 
^oft  as  possible  to  handle.  Eoll  thin  and  little  larger  than  pan  in  which  apples 
have  cooked.  Eemove  pan  from  oven,  dispose  crust  over  apples  loosely,  press 
edges  to  pan  and  cut  openings  in  dough  with  scissors.  Bake  until  crust  is  well 
done.  Serve  hot  with  custard  or  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

BLANC  MANGE 

Parboil  eighteen  ounces  of  Jordan,  and  three  ounces  of  bitter  almonds,  in  a 
quart  and  a  pint  of  water,  for  about  three  minutes;  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and 
remove  the  skins,  and  wash  them  in  cold  water;  after  they  have  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
until  the  whole  presents  an  appearance  of  a  soft  paste.  This  must  then  be 
placed  in  a  basin  with  eighteen  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  mixed  with  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water;  cover  the  basin  with  a  sheet  of  paper  twisted  around  the 
edges,  and  allow  the  preparation  to  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  about  an  hour  in 
order  to  extract  the  flavor  of  the  almonds  more  effectually.  The  milk  should 
then  be  strained  off  from  the  almonds  through  a  napkin,  with  pressure  by 
wringing  at  both  ends.  Add  three  ounces  of  clarified  gelatine  to  the  milk  of 
almonds.  Pour  the  blanc  mange  into  a  mould  embedded  in  rough  ice,  and  when 
set  firm  turn  it  out  on  its  dish  with  caution,  having  first  dipped  the  mould  in 
warm  water. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


WESTERN  MUSIC  CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


THE    JUST -WED    COOK    BOOK  39 

Sierra  Beer  for  Health  Phone  581 


SAUCES 


HARD    SAUCE 

14  cup    butter,  %  teaspoonful  lemon  or  vanilla,  or 

1/2  cup  powdered  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg. 

Kub  the  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  warm  bowl;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then 
the  flavoring.  Back  it  smoothly  in  a  small  dish,  and  stamp  it  with  a  butter 
mould  or  the  bottom  of  a  figured  glass.  Keep  it  on  ice  till  very  hard;  or  pile 
it  lightly  on  a  small  fancy  dish  and  you  may  call  it  snowdrift  sauce. 

HARD    SAUCE 

Beat  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  butter  to  white  cream;  add  whites 
two  eggs;  beat  few  minutes  longer;  add  tablespoonful  brandy  and  teaspoonful 
extract  nutmeg;  put  on  ice  until  needed. 

CREAMY    SAUCE 

Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  butter;  beat  in  by  degrees  one-half  cup  powdered 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  thick  cream  and  sherry.  Beat  long  and  hard. 
Just  before  serving  stand  bowl  over  hot  water  and  beat  until  sauce  looks 
creamy,  but  is  not  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter. 

BRANDY    SAUCE 

Melt  one  rounding  tablespoonful  butter.  Add  three  level  tablespoonfuls 
corn  starch,  %  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour,  few  grains  salt.  When  well 
blended,  add  one  pint  hot  water  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  and  cook  five 
or  six  minutes.  Then  add  three-fourts  of  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  cook  a  minute, 
add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract  and  one  tablespoonful  brandy.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  one  rounding  tablespoonful  butter,  and  beat  until  very  smooth. 
Strain  if  necessary.  Serve  with  steamed  puddings. 

ORANGE   SAUCE 

Mix  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Squeeze 
the  juice  from  three  oranges  and  heat  it.  When  sufficiently  hot  add  corn 
starch  and  sugar  and  cook  till  clear. 

WINE    SAUCE 

Three-quarters  pint  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  small  teaspoonful  corn  starch, 
one  teaspoonful  of  extract  lemon  and  cinnamon,  one-half  gill  of  wine.  Boil 
water,  add  corn  starch,  dissolved,  and  the  sugar;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  strain; 
when  about  to  serve,  add  extracts  and  wine. 

CARAMEL    SAUCE 

Put  1-3  cup  sugar  in  a  spider,  stir  over  the  fire  until  melted  and  light  brown; 
add  very  gradually  %  cup  of  boiling  water  and  simmer  10  minutes;  or,  melt 
sugar  in  sauce  pan,  add  1  pint  cream  and  set  over  hot  water  until  the  caramel 
liquifies. 

LEMON   SAUCE 

2  cups   hot   water,  2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  lemon  rind  and  juice, 

Mix  the  sugar  and  corn  starch,  add  the  boiling  water  gradually,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Cook  8  or  10  minutes,  add  lemon  juice  and  butter.  Serve  hot. 


to 

THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

PIES 

BANANA  RAISIN   PIE 

Cook  1/2  cup  chopped  seeded  raisins  in  1  cup  water  until  plump.  Take  from 
fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  sifted  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  1  tablespoonful 
flour  and  1  teaspoonful  butter.  Let  stand  covered  until  cold.  Cut  1  large 
banana  in  thin  slices,  add  %  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon 
juice,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  %  teaspoonful  lemon  extract  and  grated  rind  % 
lemon.  Combine  mixture,  add  1  well-beaten  egg  and  2  tablespoonfuls  seeded 
raisins  cut  in  pieces.  Bake  between  two  crusts. 

LEMON   PIE 

One  small  teacup  of  boiling  water,  put  in  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  to  thicken;  then  add  four  egg  yolks,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  mixed  together;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff  and  put  in  with  egg 
yolks  and  sugar.  After  custard  is  done  put  on  top  the  whites  of  the  other 
two  eggs,  put  in  oven  and  brown.  Bake  pie  crust  first. 

APPLE    PIE 

Stew  green  or  ripe  apples,  when  you  have  pared  and  cored  them.  Mash  to 
a  smooth  compote,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  while  hot,  stir  in  a  teaspoon  butter 
for  each  pie.  Season  with  nutmeg.  When  cool,  fill  your  crust,  and  either  cross- 
bar the  top  with  strips  of  paste,  or  make  without  cover.  Eat  cold,  with 
powdered  sugar  strewed  over  it. 

PUMPKIN   PIE 

The  following  measure  will  make  three  good  sized  pies:  Put  into  your 
mixing  dish  one  quart  and  a  pint  of  stewed  and  strained  pumpkin,  about  one- 
quarter  pound  sugar,  half  cup  molasses,  half  a  tablespoonful  each  ginger,  nut- 
meg, a  scant  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  salt,  one-quarter  cup  melted 
butter  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Beat  six  eggs  and  add  to  the  mixture,  and  stir 
until  the  ingredients  are  well  blended.  Bake  in  a  good,  deep  crust. 

RHUBARB   PIE 

Select  the  red  stalks,  cut  off  where  the  leaves  commence,  strip  off  the  out- 
side skin,  then  cut  in  pieces  one-half  inch  long;  line  a  pie  dish  with  paste,  put 
a  layer  of  the  rhubarb  nearly  an  inch  deep,  a  large  teacup  of  sugar,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  shake  over  a  little  Gold  Medal  Flour,  cover  with  a  crust,  slit  in  the 
center,  trim  off  the  edge  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  done.  Rhubarb  pies 
made  in  this  way  are  superior  to  those  made  of  the  fruit  stewed. 

LEMON  CUSTARD   PIE 

Make  a  good  pie  crust  and  prick  bottom.  Put  one  cup  sugar  and  one  cup 
water  in  a  saucepan  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  one  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
in  a  little  water  and  add  to  water  and  sugar  on  stove.  When  thick  take  off 
stove  and  add  a  small  chunk  of  butter;  stir  it  up.  Stir  in  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  until 
thick  and  spread  over  pie  when  cooked;  then  put  in  oven  to  brown. 

CRANBERRY    PIE 

Three  cups  cranberries,  stewed  with  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  and 
strained.  Line  pie  plate  with  paste;  put  in  cranberry  jam;  wash  the  edges, 
lay  three  narrow  bars  across;  fasten  at  edge,  then  three  more  across,  forming 
diamond-shaped  spaces.  Lay  rim  of  paste;  wash  with  egg  wash;  bake  in  quick 
oven  until  paste  is  cooked. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY    A   PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK  41 

RflYAI     RFFR   If  purchased  by  the  Wife  will  keep 
nUlnL   ULLII  Husband  Home.       RENO  BREWING  CO. 

PRUNE    PIE 

Stew,  stone  and  mash  enough  prunes  to  make  a  cupful  of  pulp.  Add  a  cup 
cream,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten,  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  pinch  of  salt;  bake 
in  a  rich  under-crust  as  quickly  as  possible;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  spread  over  top,  return  to  oven  and  brown  very 
highly. 

MINCE    MEAT 

The  following  is  an  excellent  recipe  for  mince  meat  and  it  will  fill  twelve  to 
fourteen  quart  jars.  Chop  fine  six  pounds  of  cooked  beef  and  mix  with  two 
pounds  of  chopped  suet;  add  twelve  pounds  of  chopped  apples,  five  pounds  of 
raisins,  three  and  a  half  pounds  currants,  one  pound  of  citron  and  two  pounds 
of  brown  sugar;  mix  thoroughly  and  then  add  seven  cups  of  molasses,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  three  of  nutmeg,  two  quarts  of  sweet  cider,  one 
quart  of  boiled  cider,  three  cups  of  sherry  wine  and  one  pint  of  brandy.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 

MOLASSES   PIE 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  two  cups  molasses.  Boil  sugar  and  molasses  two 
minutes,  then  pour  off  into  another  cup  sugar.  Flavor  with  spice,  cloves,  cinna- 
mon and  butter.  Bake  thin  crust. 

RASPBERRY    PIE 

Take  two  boxes  of  red  raspberries,  mash  and  add  about  1  cupful  of 
powdered  sugar.  Let  stand  at  least  2  hours  in  ice  box,  then  put  through 
cheese  cloth,  add  about  %  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  water,  juice  of  %  lemon 
and  small  bottle  of  cream.  Freeze.  This  mixture  makes  about  a  good  quart. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons  into  a  bowl,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice.  Make 
a  boiling  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  half  the  water  and  pour  it  hot  on  the  lemon 
zest,  and  juice,  and  let  it  remain  until  cold;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  water. 
Strain  the  lemonade  into  a  freezer  and  freeze  as  usual  and  at  last  add  the 
whites  whipped  to  a  firm  froth,  beat,  and  freeze  again.  The  scalding  draws 
the  flavor  from  the  lemons.  It  should  never  be  boiled  and  fewer  lemons  used 
when  they  are  very  large.  This  ice  is  perfectly  white. 

APPPLE   MERINGUE   PIE 

Pare,  slice,  stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  tart  and  juicy  apples,  mash  and  season 
with  nutmeg  (or  lemon  peel),  fill  crust  and  bake  till  done;  spread  over  the 
apple  a  thick  meringue  made  by  whipping  to  froth  whites  of  three  eggs  for 
each  pie,  sweetening  with  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar;  flavor  with 
vanilla,  beat  well,  and  cover  pie  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Set  back 
in  a  quick  oven  till  well  "set,"  and  eat  cold.  In  their  season  substitute 
peaches  for  apples. 

CUSTARD   PIE 

Six  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  or  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  three  cups  of  milk;  flavor  to 
taste.  This  is  sufficient  for  three  pies;  bake  with  one  crust  only. 

PINEAPPLE   PIE 

Slice  of  butter  and  a  cup  of  sugar  beat  to  a  cream;  add  yolks  of  four  eggs 
well  beaten;  then  add  a  small  can  of  grated  pineapple.  Last  of  all  add  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  enough  milk  to  suit  taste.  Line  a  deep  pie 
plate  with  a  rich  crust.  Put  in  custard  and  bake.  When  done  beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  spread  over  top  and  brown. 


42  THE   JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

Pf|V  A  I     RPTP    Sma11  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
1\U  i  AL   DEiCiIV  Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 

STANLEY   CURRANT   PIE 

For  each  pie,  take  one  cup  fresh  currants,  mash  with  potato  masher,  add 
three-quarters  cup  sugar.  Take  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat  to  a  froth;  add  one 
tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour  very  slowly,  a  little  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful 
water.  Beat  this  into  the  mashed  currants;  put  in  crust  and  bake.  When 
baked,  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  put  over  pie  and  set  back  in  oven  to  brown.  (Bake  with  only  under 
crust.) 

FAMOUS   CREAM   PIE 

One  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour, 
one  egg  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When  smooth  add  gradually  one  pint  milk. 
Add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Line  your  pie  tin  with  crust  and  put  holes  in 
it  with  a  fork  to  keep  from  blistering.  Bake  until  a  light  brown.  Put  the 
filling  in,  the  meringue  on  top  and  brown  in  over. 

SQUASH    PIE 

2  cups  squash,  2  tablespoonfuls   molasses, 

2  eggs,  1/2  tablespoonful  ginger, 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  Salt  to  taste, 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  2  cups  milk. 

1  cup  brown  sugar, 

Mix  in  order  given  and  strain  into  a  deep  plate  lined  with  paste. 

MINCE    MEAT   (English) 

4  pounds  boiled  beef,  4  pounds   of  sugar, 

4  pounds  of  beef  suet,  4  ounces    of   ground    spices    (equal 
4  pounds  of  currants,  proportions   of   nutmeg,    cloves 

4  pounds  of  raisins,  and    cinnamon), 

2  pounds   of  citron,  The  grated  rind  of  12  oranges  and 
1  pound  of  candied  lemon,  also  lemons, 

1  pound    of    orange    peel,  3  pints     of     brandy     or     madeira, 

6  pounds  of  peeled  apples,  sherry  or  port. 

Thoroughly  clean  the  currants  and  raisins,  cut  up  the  citron  in  small  pieces, 
remove  the  skin  from  and  cut  the  suet  up  fine;  place  these  with  the  lemon  and 
orange  peel,  currants,  raisins  and  candied  lemons  in  an  earthen  jar;  chop  the 
apples  and  add  them,  trim  the  meat  so  that  it  will  be  lean  and  clear  (see  that 
it  weighs  four  pounds  when  trimmed),  chop  this  and  add  to  the  rest;  then  add 
sugar  and  spice,  mix  all  together;  then  add  brandy  and  cover  the  jar.  Over  it 
place  a  cloth  and  tie  firmly,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air  and  prevent  the  evapora- 
tion of  the  brandy.  The  mince  meat  should  be  kept  in  a  cold  place.  It  is 
better  to  stand  a  week  after  being  made. 

COCOANUT   PIE 

Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  wit  htwo  teacupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and 
beat  in  a  half  grated  cocoanut.  Fold  in  lightly  the  stiffened  whites  of  six 
eggs,  turn  into  a  deep  pie  dish,  lined  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Eat  cold  with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

LEMON-RAISIN   PIE 

Cook  2-3  cup  ground  seeded  raisins  in  1*4  cups  water  about  20  minutes.  Mix 
2  tablespoonfuls  each  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  cornstarch  with  2-3  cup  sugar, 
dilute  with  4  tablespoonfuls  water,  add  to  raisins  and  cook  until  smooth  and 
clear.  Take  from  fire,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon,  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  yolks  2  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Bake  in  crust 
as  custard  pie.  When  crust  is  well  baked  and  filling  firm  cover  with  meringue 
from  stiffly  beaten  whites  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  %  tea- 
spoonful  lemon  extract. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


43 


For  that  Party,  Dinner, 
Reception 

"All's  well  that  end's  Well" 


Order 
Blanchard 
Ice  Cream 


1 00  Per  Cent  Cream 


in  Our  Sanitary 
Factory 

522-524  Surprise  Avenue 
From  the  Very  Best  Material 


Family  and  Club  Trade 
Solicited 


MUTUAL  CREAMERY  CO. 

PHONE  1109  Reno,  Nevada 


44  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


ICE  CREAM,  ICESDAAmT™?ZEN 


PEACHES  MELBA  ICE  CREAM 

1%  pint   cream,  6  eggs   (yolk), 

1  vanilla  bean,  y2  pound  powdered  sugar. 
Put  the  cream  in  a  double  boiler,  with  the  vanilla  bean  split  in  half.     Beat 

the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together  until  light,  add  to  the  hot  cream, 
stir  until  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken.  Strain  through  a  sieve;  when  cool,  freeze. 

Take  half  a  cup  strawberry  syrup,  half  a  cup  raspberry  syrup.  Put  on 
stove;  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  a  scant  teaspoonful  corn  starch  dissolved  in 
a  little  water.  Take  from  fire  and  put  in  cool  place. 

Peel  fresh  peaches  and  place  on  ice,  then  pour  the  above  syrup  over  the 
ice  cream. 

Whole  preserved,  sweet  peaches  are  used,  out  of  season. 

STRAWBERRY    ICE    CREAM 

2  quarts  berries    (red,  ripe  and  2  pounds  sugar, 

sweet),.  2  quarts  cream. 

Cover  the  fruit  with  the  sugar  and  mash  them  together,  and  rub  the  fruit 
and  syrup  through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl;  adding  a  cupful  of  water  to  the  pulp 
at  last.  Half  freeze  the  cream  by  itself,  and  then  add  the  strawberry  syrup 
and  finish  freezing  as  usual. 

RAISIN   AND    CRANBERRY   FRAPPE 

Simmer  %  cup  ground  raisins  (that  have  been  soaked  in  1  cup  cold  water 
for  two  hours)  until  reduced  to  pulp.  Cook  3  cups  cranberries  in  114  cups 
water  and  press  pulp  through  sieve.  Soften  1  tablespoonful  gelatine  in  %  cup 
cold  water  and  dissolve  by  standing  in  hot  water;  combine  ingredients,  add  1% 
cups  sugar,  juice  1  lemon  and  beat  well  together.  Turn  into  freezer,  pack  in 
ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  for  two  hours.  Delicious  to  serve  in  sherbet  glasses 
with  roast  turkey. 

PINEAPPLE   ICE 

2  cans  pineapple,  2  quarts  water, 

2  pounds  sugar,  6  or  8  whites  of  eggs, 

Strain  the  juice  from  one  lemon  into  the  freezer.  Make  a  boiling  syrup  of 
the  sugar,  and  one  quart  of  water,  and  throw  in  pieces  of  pineapple,  previously 
cut  in  large  dice.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes  and  then  strain  the  flavored  syrup 
also  into  the  freezer.  Add  the  other  quart  of  water  and  freeze.  Strew  some 
sugar  over  the  pieces  of  pineapple  and  set  them  on  ice;  when  the  syrup  is 
nearly  frozen,  add  some  red  fruit  juice  or  coloring  to  make  it  pink,  the  beaten 
whites,  and  freeze  again.  Throw  the  pieces  of  pineapple  on  top,  cover  down, 
and  let  remain  until  ready  to  serve,  and  then  mix  them  in. 

MARASCHINO   PUNCH 

2  pounds  sugar,  2  oranges    (juice    only), 

3  pints  water,  1  pint  maraschino, 
2  lemons    (juice   only),                                              6  whites  of  eggs. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water  and  juice  of  fruits  together;  strain  and  freeze, 
add  the  whipped  whites  and  beat  up. 


K 

I 

M 

B 

A 

L 

L 


WESTERN    MUSIC    CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 

i 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


45 


CHALMERS  1917 


Quality  First 


The  car  with  unlimited  power,  beauty  of  design,  and  such) 
flexability  that  gear  shifting  is  practically  unnecessary. 

Have  you  ever  owned  a  car?  If  not,  let  your  first  car  be  a 
Chalmers  3400,  R.  P.  M.,  thereby  avoiding  all  costly  automobile 
experience.  Or  are  you  now  the  owner,  if  so,  are  you  fully) 
satisfied  with  same?  If  not,  get  the  one  car  that  has  no  dis-t 
satisfied  owners.  Because  the  Chalmers  3400,  R.  P.  M.,  motor 
spells  satisfaction  in  its  P-U-R-R.  And  above  all  you  get  all 
of  this  at  a  nominal  initial  cost  and  very  low  up-keep  and  run- 
ning expense. 

If  you  want  to  know  more  about  this  car  we  will  be  pleased 
to  furnish  you  literature  descriptive  of  same,  or,  better  yet,  if 
you  will  call  at  the  " Lincoln  Garage,"  41-45  W.  Fourth  Street, 
the  home  and  service  station  of  the  Chalmers,  we  will  be  glad1 
to  explain  in  detail  the  embodied  quantities  of  this  3400,  R.  P. 
M.,  Chalmers. 

LINCOLN  GARAGE 

CORRECCO  BROS.,  Props. 

Phone  Main  996 
41-45  W.  Fourth  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


46 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


BECKER'S 


For  Dutch  Lunches 


A  Popular  Family 
Cafe 

BECKER'S 

32  Commercial  Row 

RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  47 


s 

o 

u 

p 

s 

>•••••»•»»•••••»< 

CONSOMME  OR  PLAIN  MEAT  STOCK  FOR  SOUP 

Consomme  o?  stock  forms  the  basis  of  all  meat  soups,  gravies  and  purees. 
The  simpler  it  is  made,  the  longer  it  keeps.  It  is  best  made  of  fresh  uncooked 
beef  and  some  broken  bones,  to  which  may  be  added  the  remnants  of  broken 
meats.  In  a  home  where  meat  forms  part  of  the  every-day  diet,  a  good  cook 
will  seldom  be  without  a  stock-pot. 

Four  pounds  of  beef  and  broken  bones,  one  gallon  of  cold  water  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Put  the  meat  and  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  let 
it  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  three  or  four  hours,  until  the  water  is 
boiled  away  one-half;  add  the  salt,  strain  and  set  to  cool,  in  an  earthenware 
dish  well  covered.  When  cold,  take  off  the  fat  from  the  top  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.  To  make  soup  for  a  family  of  six,  take  one-quarter  of  the  stock,  to 
which  add  one-quarter  of  boiling  water,  and  any  vegetables  desired — boil  three 
hours.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

BARLEY  BROTH 

Put  two  pounds  of  shin  beef  in  one  gallon  of  water.  Add  a  teacup  of  pearl 
barley,  3  large  onions  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  minced,  3  potatoes  sliced, 
a  little  thyme  and  pepper,  salt  to  taste.  Simmer  steadily  three  hours,  and  stir 
often,  so  that  the  meat  will  not  burn.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Always  stir  soup  or 
broth  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

TURKEY  SOUP 

Place  the  remains  of  a  cold  turkey  and  what  is  left  of  the  dressing  and 
gravy  in  a  pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water.  Simmer  slowly  four  hours,  and  let 
stand  until  the  next  day.  Take  off  what  fat  may  have  arisen,  and  take  out 
with  a  skimmer  all  the  bits  of  bones.  Put  the  soup  on  to  heat  until  at  boiling 
point,  then  thicken  slightly  with  flour  stirred  into  a  cup  of  cream,  and  season 
to  taste.  Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  bones,  put  it  back  in  the  soup,  boil  up  and 
serve. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP 

Take  a  calf 's  head,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  hock  of  ham,  six  potatoes  sliced  thin, 
three  turnips,  parsley  and  sweet  marjoram  chopped  fine,  and  pepper.  Forced 
meat  balls  of  veal  and  beef,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  one  dozen  egg  balls,  juice  of 
a  lemon.  The  calf's  head  must  have  had  the  brains  removed,  and  must  have 
been  boiled  previously  till  the  meat  slips  off  the  bone.  The  broth  must  be 
saved,  so  as  to  use  in  the  soup.  Cut  the  head  in  small  pieces  after  boiling.  The 
veal  and  ham  also  must  have  been  boiled  and  cut  up,  and  all  simmered  for  a 
couple  of  hours  in  the  broth  made  by  the  calf's  head.  Now  put  all  together. 
The  forced  meat  balls  and  egg  balls  should  be  added,  and  all  boiled  about  ten 
minutes. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  WITH  STOCK 

Cut  three  onions,  three  turnips,  one  carrot  and  four  potatoes.  Put  them 
into  a  stew-pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sugar.  After  it  has  cooked  ten  minutes,  add  two  quarts  of  stock,  and 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  aside  to  simmer  until  the  vegetables  are  tender — 
about  one-half  hour. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY    A    PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


48 


THE    JUST -WED    COOK    BOOK 


Reno  Brewing  Company 


INCORPORATED 


The  Home  of 


Sierra  and  Royal 
Beer 

NEVADA  PRODUCTS 


RENO 


NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  49 


In  the  City  of  Reno,  the 
greatest  little  city  in 
•^^^^^^^—•^~  forty-eight  states — a  city 
situated  by  the  most  beautiful  of  rivers,  the 
greatest  of  railroads  and  the  grandest  of  moun- 
tains— a  city  possessing  the  most  balmy  climate 
in  all  the  land. 


Why 


Because  these  are  the  bever- 
ages of  health  and  happiness; 
of  contentment  and  good 
cheer;  because  they  are  superbly  brewed  from 
the  finest  material,  aged  to  mellow  ripeness  and 
when  bottled  are  put  in  your  home  with  the  su- 
preme sparkle,  zest  and  flavor  that  prevailed  in 
the  original  casks. 


those  who  appreciate  the 
worth  of  a  modern  sunshiny 
^"•^"•i^™  brewery  —  a  bottling  plant 
equipped  with  every  device  to  insure  these  beers 
against  even  the  slightest  contamination;  by 
those  who  know  the  art  of  combining  sunshine, 
fresh  air,  pure  water  and  nutritious  grains  into 
the  concentrated  goodness  of  the  very  best  of 
beers — 

SIERRA  and 
ROYAL 

TELEPHONE  581  FOR  A  CASE 

Reno    Brewing   Company 


50  THE   JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

DC  CD    Closer  to  a  Temperance  Drink 
DEER   Than  Any  Other  Beer.    Phone  581 

CHICKEN  SOUP 

Time,  four  hours.  Boil  two  chickens  with  great  care,  skimming  constantly, 
and  keeping  them  covered  with  water.  When  tender,  take  out  the  chickens 
and  remove  every  bone  from  the  meat;  put  a  large  piece  of  butter  into  a  fry- 
ing-pan and  sprinkle  the  chicken  meat  well  with  flour,  lay  in  the  hot  pan;  fry 
a  nice  brown  and  keep  it  hot  and  dry.  Take  a  pint  of  the  chicken  water  and 
stir  in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  two  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  cayenne;  mix  it  with  the  broth  in  the  pot;  when 
well  mixed,  simmer  five  minutes,  then  add  the  browned  chicken.  Serve  with 
rice. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO  SOUP 

Fry  one  chicken;  remove  the  bones;  chop  fine;  place  in  kettle,  with  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  three  ears  of  corn,  six  tomatoes,  sliced  fine,  twenty -four 
pods  of  okra;  corn,  tomatoes  and  okra  to  be  fried  a  light  brown  in  the  gravy 
left  from  frying  the  chicken;  then  add  to  the  kettle  with  water  and  chicken 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  pepper  and  salt;  boil  slowly  one  hour. 


DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 
RINGS 
LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 

Watchmaker 

r  Pesc* 

iTtniUo 

&                   Jeweler 

ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

245  LAKE  ST. 

PHONE  1392          RENO.  NEVADA 

MACARONI  SOUP—  ITALIAN  STYLE 

Put  four  and  one-half  sticks  of  macaroni  into  a  saucepan  with  one  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  onion.  Boil  until  the  macaroni  is  tender;  when 
done  drain  and  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  good  broth,  beef,  chicken  or  other 
kind.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  to  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes,  watching  lest 
it  break  or  become  pulpy.  Add  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  serve. 

OX-TAIL  SOUP 

One  ox  tail,  two  pounds  lean  beef,  four  carrots,  three  onions,  parsley,  thyme, 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  four  quarts  cold  water.  Cut  tail  into  joints,  fry  brown 
in  good  drippings.  Slice  onions  and  2  carrots  and  fry  in  the  same,  when  you 
have  taken  out  all  of  the  pieces  of  tail.  When  done  tie  the  thyme  and  parsley 
in  lace  bag,  and  drop  into  the  soup-pot.  Put  in  the  tail,  then  the  beef  cut  into 
strips.  Grate  over  them  two  whole  carrots,  pour  over  all  the  water,  and  boil 
slowly  four  hours;  strain  and  season;  thicken  with  brown  flour  wet  with  cold 
water;  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 

In  three  pints  of  boiling  water  cook  three  cupfuls  of  celery,  cut  fine,  until 
tender  enough  to  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  One  pint  of  milk  thickened  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  Gold  Medal  Flour.  Add 
celery  salt,  or  extract,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  ten  minutes.  A  cupful  of 
scalded  cream  added  just  before  serving  is  an  addition. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  51 


Nevada  Transfer  Co. 

We  Haul  Anything 


MOVING 
PACKING 

and 

STORAGE 

Concrete  Warehouse 

We  check  your  baggage 
at  your  home. 

No  extra  charge. 

142  E.  Second  St.  Reno,  Nevada 

PHONE  3O 


52  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

RflYfll   RFFR  If  Purchased  fcy the  Wife  wil1  keep 

HU  I  flL    DLL  It   Husband  Home.       RENO  BREWING  CO. 

SPLIT  PEA  SOUP  WITH  SALT  PORK 

Wash  a  pint  of  split  peas  and  cover  with  tepid  water,  adding  a  pinch  of 
soda;  let  remain  over  night  to  swell.  In  the  morning  put  them  in  a  kettle  with 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  adding  half  a  pound  of  lean  salt  pork;  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  little  pepper.  Cook  gently  for  three  hours,  stirring  occasionally  till 
the  peas  are  all  dissolved,  adding  a  little  more  boiling  water  to  keep  up  the 
quantity  as  it  boils  away.  Strain  through  a  colander.  Serve  with  small  squares 
of  toasted  bread.  If  not  rich  enough,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter. 

BEAN  SOUP 

Soak  quart  of  white  beans  over  night;  in  morning  pour  off  water;  add  fresh, 
and  set  over  fire  until  skins  will  come  off;  throw  them  into  cold  water,  rub  well, 
and  skin  will  rise  to  top,  where  they  may  be  removed.  Boil  beans  till  perfectly 
soft,  allowing  two  quarts  of  water  to  one  quart  of  beans;  mash  beans,  add  flour 
and  butter,  which  have  been  rubbed  together,  also  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  bread 
into  small  pieces,  toast  and  drop  on  soup  when  you  serve. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

Two  quarts  of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
teacupful  hot  water;  pepper  and  salt.  Strain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters; 
add  the  water  and  heat.  When  near  the  boil,  add  the  seasoning,  then  the 
oysters.  Cook  about  five  minutes  from  the  time  they  begin  to  simmer,  until 
they  " ruffle."  Stir  in  the  butter,  cook  one  minute  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 
Stir  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  send  to  table. 

CLAM  SOUP 

Boil  juice  of  clams,  make  a  little  drawn  butter  and  mix  with  the  juice;  stir 
until  it  boils,  chop  up  clams  and  put  them  in;  season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt 
and  little  lemon  juice;  cream  or  milk  is  to  be  added.  Boil  over  slow  fire  about 
one  hour. 

CHICKEN  BROTH 

Cut  up  a  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish,  adding 
a  quart  of  cold  water,  and  setting  it  over  a  boiling  kettle.  Cover  closely  and 
let  it  steam  several  hours  until  the  meat  of  the  chicken  has  become  tender, 
after  which  strain  off  the  broth  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Skim  off  the  fat 
in  the  morning  and  pour  the  broth  into  a  bowl.  Into  the  dish  in  which  the 
broth  was  made  put  one-third  of  a  teacupful  rice  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water, 
and  steam  as  before  until  the  rice  is  soft;  then  pour  in  the  broth  and  steam  an 
hour  or  two  longer. 

CREAM  TOMATO  SOUP 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  quart  of  fresh,  ripe  tomatoes,  one-half  cup  rice,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of  Gold  Medal  Flour.  Peel  and  slice  the  to- 
matoes and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  granite  kettle,  with  one  quart  of  cold  water. 
Let  them  heat  gradually  and  then  add  an  additional  quart  of  cold  water.  When 
this  boils,  put  in  the  rice  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  continue  the  boiling 
until  the  rice  is  tender;  then  stir  in  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  butter,  half  tea- 
spoonful  baking  soda  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY   A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  53 


Meacham  s 


AMERICAN 
GROCERY  CO. 

Phone  Your  Orders  to  41 

Our  Specials: 

Meacham's  Spoon  Brand 
Coffee 

A  Silver  Spoon  in  each  package 

M.  J.  B.  COFFEE 

TREE  TEA-Full  Weight 

Folger's  Coffees,  Spices,  Extracts 

Prompt  Delivery 
226  North  Virginia  St.        *        RENO,  NEVADA 


54  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


For  Quick  Service  Call  Up 

The  Eagle  Express 

Phone  492 

We  do  All  Kinds  of  Hauling 
Office  36  West  Second  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


SOMETHING     NEW! 

Mrs.  Newly  wed: 

Why  bake  your  own  bread  when  you  can  save  time, 
trouble  and  money  in  buying  the  Prize  Bread  of  the 
World  and  delivered  at  your  door  daily?  The  most 
delicious  bread  you  ever  tasted,  baked  in  a  revolving 
oven.  Equal  distribution  of  heat  to  every  loaf.  Its 
golden  brown  color,  texture  and  taste,  always  the 
same.  Keeps  practically  fresh  for  three  days.  Only 
pure  sweet  milk  41/2  per  cent  butter  fat  used.  Baker's 
Home-Made  Bakery  goods. 

BARKER'S  BAKERY  No.  48 

Phone  488 
329  N.  Sierra  St.  Reno,  Nev. 


SPORTING  GOODS 

CHAS.  STEVER 

Bicycles  and  Sundries,  Fishing  Tackle,  Guns  and  Ammunition 

Baseball  and  Tennis  (roods,  Pocket  Cutlery,  Skates 

Sleds,  Snow  Shoes,  Skies,  Etc. 

233  Sierra  Street  Phone  644 

RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  55 

PAIGE- DETROIT 

MOTOR  CAR  COMPANY 

Manufacturers 
DETROIT,  MICHIGAN 


SERVICE  STATION 

112  North  Center  Street 
RENO,  NEVADA 

PAIGC 

/ie  Standard  of  Value  aad  Quality 


Buy  a  Real  Automobile 

5  Passenger  $1240    7  Passenger  $1525 

J.  S.  Malcolm  &  Son 

State  Distributors 
112  North  Center  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


56  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


Werft  3d  Street  Telephone  869 


Crescent  Creamery  Co. 

Manufacturers  of 

Extra   Creamery  Butter 


(Crescent  I  (jeamerf* 

BLUE  MElH      9        EXTRA 

RIBBON        *2  mm     EL     CREAMERY 

BRAND  l^i  BUTTER 

NET  WEIGHT  2  IBS.  ^  ^^ 

RENO,     •       NEV 


Made  from  the 
Pure  Pasteurized  Cream 


JOHN  CHISM,  Manager  RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  57 


s 

A 

L 

A 

D 

S 

IDEAS   IN   SALADS 

Prepare  celery  stalks  very  carefully  by  removing  the  stringy  fiber  until 
entirely  free  from  shreds.  Chop  quite  fine,  and  to  two  cupfuls  of  celery  add 
two  cupfuls  of  chopped  lettuce,  the  latter  crisp  and  fresh  as  possible.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  thyme,  vinegar,  olive  oil,  bay  leaf.  If  possible,  add  half 
a  teaspoonful  shoyu,  or  Japanese  sauce,  which  greatly  improves  the  flavor. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  and  then  add  crab,  shrimp,  sardine,  spiced  mackerel  or 
halibut  filling.  Boiled  halibut,  chilled  in  salt  water,  makes  a  good  combination 
with  crab,  and  when  broken  into  small  portions  and  allowed  to  stand  for  an 
hour  or  so,  in  the  same  salt  water  with  crab,  can  with  difficulty  be  distinguished 
from  the  crab  itself.  For  sardine,  potato,  and  meat  salads,  a  tablespoonful  of 
onion  juice  is  desirable. 

Make  mayonnaise  dressing  by  using  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  desired,  and  after  beating  add,  drop  by  drop,  pure  olive 
oil,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Then  a  larger 
quantity  of  oil  may  be  stirred  in  until  the  mixture  becomes  of  proper  con- 
sistency, about  like  heavy  cream;  do  not  season  until  thickened  for  fear  of 
curdling.  Salt  very  sparingly,  and  if  desired  sift  in  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  a 
few  drops  of  lemon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  spiced  mustard  vinegar  from  mustard 
pickles. 

CHICKEN    SALAD 

Cut  cold  roast  or  boiled  chicken  in  small  dice,  add  celery  cut  fine,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  with  French  dressing  and  put  aside  for  an  hour  or 
more.  Just  before  serving  stir  in  some  mayonnaise  slightly  thinned  with 
lemon  juice  or  French  dressing,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  thick 
mayonnaise. 

CRAB    SALAD 

One  pint  of  crab  meat,  two  stalks  of  celery,  cut  fine;  one  hard-boiled  egg, 
chopped  fine,  and  one  tomato  cut  into  small  pieces;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  vinegar,  mix  in  salad  bowl,  garnishing  it  with  crisp  leaves  of  Ittuce;  dress 
with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

LOBSTER    SALAD 

Cut  the  lobster  into  small  squares  and  season  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  two  of  oil,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  and  let  it  stand  in  a 
cool  place  for  an  hour.  When  ready  to  serve  line  the  salad  bowl  with  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  and  after  mixing  the  lobster  thoroughly  with  mayonnaise  place 
it  on  the  lettuce.  Serve  with  toasted  crackers  and  cheese. 

SALMON    SALAD 

Remove  bones  and  skin  from  salmon.  Drain  off  liquid.  Mix  with  French 
dressing  or  thin  mayonnaise;  set  away  for  awhile.  Finish  same  as  lobster 
salad.  Other  fish  salads  may  be  prepared  in  same  manner. 

TOMATO    SALAD 

Pare  with  sharp  knife.  Slice  and  lay  in  salad  bowl.  Make  dressing  in  the 
following  manner:  Work  up  saltspoon  of  each  of  salt,  pepper  and  mustard, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  adding  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  and,  when  thor- 
oughly mixed,  whip  in  with  an  egg,  beaten,  four  tablespoonfuls  vinegar;  toss 
up  with  fork. 


68  THE   JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


Mr.  and  Mrs. 


The  NEVADA  TEA  STORE  sincerely  congrat- 
ulates you  on  this  auspicious  occasion  and  wishes  you 
all  joy  and  happiness  and  trust  that  you  will  find 
this  useful  cook  book  helpful  to  you  in  your  house- 
keeping duties. 

The  NEVADA  TEA  STORE  also  can  be  very 
helpful  to  you,  if  you  will  do  your  trading  with  us 
and  on  your  first  order  of  goods  we  will  allow  you  a 
special  discount  of  10  per  cent,  in  order  to  induce 
you  to  try  our  goods. 

We  roast  all  our  Coffee  fresh  every  day  and  we 
manufacture  all  our  Baking  Powder  and  Extracts. 

Make  up  your  order  for  the  following  articles 
and  phone  to  us  and  we  will  allow  you  a  10  per  cent 
discount  and  also  give  you  premium  coupons : 

Teas,  Coffees,  Baking  Powder, 
Extracts,  Spices,  Chocolate  and 
Cocoa,  Salad  Oil,  Rice,  Laundry 
and  Toilet  Soaps. 

We  also  have  a  full  line  of  Bakery  Goods. 

We  pay  all  parcel  post  charges  on  out  of  town 
orders. 

Nevada  Tea  Store 

PHONE  986-J 

340  N.  Virginia  Street  Reno,  Nevada 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  59 

Sierra  Beer  for  Health  Phone  581 

COLD    SLAW 

Chop  or  shred  a  small  white  cabbage.  Prepare  a  dressing  in  the  proportion 
of  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  to  four  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  mustard,  salt  and 
sugar,  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the  salad,  adding,  if  you  choose,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  minced  celery;  toss  up  well  and  put  in  a  glass -bowl. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Four  large  potatoes,  one-half  a  small  onion,  a  little  celery,  chopped  fine. 
If  the  potatoes  have  been  boiled  in  their  skin  they  are  better.  The  dressing 
consists  of  one  cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  one  egg,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  one  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

CELERY  SALAD 

Two  bunches  celery,  one  tablespoonful  salad  oil,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  pepper  and  salt.  Wash  and  scrape  celery; 
lay  in  ice-cold  water  until  dinner  time.  Then  cut  into  inch  lengths,  add  above 
seasoning.  Stir  well  together  with  fork  and  serve  in  salad  bowl. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1393          RENO.  NEVADA 

APPLE  SALAD  WITH  HERRINGS  OR  CARDELLEN 

1  pound  apples,  4  ounces  chopped  Sardellen  or 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  pickled   herrings, 

y2  gill  vinegar,  4  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil, 

%  teaspoonful  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoonful  capers, 

Sugar  to  taste. 

Soak  the  herrings  or  Sardellen,  then  chop  them  finely  and  mix  with  the  oil, 
vinegar,  hard-boiled  eggs  (chopped  finely)  and  the  capers.  Add  the  apples, 
cut  into  tiny  dice,  flavor  with  pepper  and  sugar,  and  mix  all  thoroughly. 

EGG  SALAD 

Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  half  lengths,  rub  their  yolks  through  a  sieve,  mix 
with  equal  weight  of  Parmesan  cheese,  season  with  chopped  chives,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  enough  butter  to  moisten.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture,  serve 
on  lettuce,  and  garnish  with  sliced  tomatoes. 

ENDIVE  SALAD 

1  head  endive,  4  hard  cooked  eggs, 

French  salad  dressing,  1  pint  boiled  potatoes,  sliced. 

Wash  and  dry  endive  picked  off  the  green  outer  leaves  and  use  only  the 
light-colored  feathery  leaves.  Arrange  on  salad  dish  with  white  leaves  in  cen- 
ter. Place  eggs,  cut  into  quarters  lengthwise,  around  carefully,  and  mix  with 
potatoes  and  pour  over  all  French  dressing. 


K 

I 

M 

B 

A 

L 

L 


WESTERN    MUSIC   CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


60  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

EGG  SALAD 

Boil  six  eggs  until  the  yolks  are  very  mealy.  Boil  also  one  dozen  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  with  jackets  on.  Peel  eggs  and  potatoes  and  cut  in  dice.  Add 
two  slices  onions.  Put  first  a  layer  of  one,  then  of  the  other,  until  all  is  used. 
Pour  over  it  some  cream  salad  dressing. 

A  DELICIOUS  SALAD  FOB  STUFFED  PEPPERS 

One  can  of  sardines  picked  into  fine  pieces  with  a  fork,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  olives,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  pickles,  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Remove  the  seeds,  membrane  and  stem  end  from 
the  peppers  and  soak  in  salt  water.  Mix  the  olives,  pickles,  etc.,  with  the  sar- 
dines and  add  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  hold  it  together.  Then  drain 
the  peppers  dry  and  fill  with  the  salad.  Garnish  the  plate  with  lettuce  leaves 
and  olives. 

SARDINE  SANDWICH 

Take  one  can  of  sardines,  remove  the  back-bone  from  the  fish,  add  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix  the  above  thorough- 
ly and  spread  on  buttered  bread.  Before  placing  layers  of  bread  together,  add 
a  few  slices  of  pickled  onions. 

SARDINE  PASTE 

Work  required  amount  of  sardines  into  a  paste  with  a  broad  knife  or 
spatula.  Add  to  this  very  tiny  pickled  onions,  the  quantity  depending  upon  the 
taste,  about  one-quarter  as  much  onion  as  paste,  is  good.  Season  with  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  celery  salt  and  a  liberal  amount  of 
lemon  juice. 

This  is  delicious  for  sandwiches,  to  serve  on  small  pieces  of  toast  with  cock- 
tails, or  on  crackers  with  salad. 

SANDWICHES 

Take  each  fish,  lightly  scrape  off  skin  and  remove  the  tail,  and  pick  the 
meat  into  convenient  sized  pieces  with  a  fork.  Put  the  pieces  into  a  bowl  of 
lemon  juice  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Then  drain  and  spread  on  thin 
slices  of  bread  between  fresh  lettuce  leaves.  If  the  " Soused"  Sardines  are 
used,  substitute  mayonnaise  dressing  for  the  lemon  juice. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES 

Very  tasty  sandwiches  can  be  prepared  by  mincing  fish  with  half  the  quan- 
tity of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  moistening  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Place  this 
mixture  between  thin  slices  of  bread  and  cut  into  small  squares  with  a  sharp 
knife. 

CHICKEN  AND  LOBSTER  SALAD 

~y2  chicken,  1  pound  tinned  lobster, 

%  pound  tinned  peas,  Mayonnaise    dressing, 

1  tablespoonful   chopped   parsley  ^4  pint  oil. 

and   olives, 

Remove  the  meat  from  bones  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  over 
with  lemon  juice  and 'stand  on  one  side  for  thirty  minutes.  Then  mix  with 
peas,  stir  the  chopped  parsley  and  olives  into  a  mayonnaise  and  mix  all  well 
together.  Garnish  with  gherkins  and  tiny  onions.  Asparagus  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  peas. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  61 

n  f\  V  AT     D 17 17  D    Sma11  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
IVUI/\L    DIXlX    Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 

CABBABE  SALAD  a  la  CALAIS 

First  make  a  dressing  in  the  following  manner:  Take  two  raw  eggs,  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  mustard  and  * 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  or  paprika  and  about  five  teaspoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
mix  well  and  beat  with  a  fork.  Then  take  one  cup  of  vinegar  and  boil  separate- 
ly, pour  slowly  over  the  other  mixture  and  when  this  is  done  boil  slowly  until 
thick.  Grind  up  a  fair-sized  head  of  cabbage,  one  medium  sized  onion  and  two 
green  peppers  from  which  the  seeds  and  fibre  have  been  removed.  Then  mix 
with  the  dressing  and  serve. 

HOT  SLAW 

Pick  off  the  bad  leaves  from  head  of  small  cabbage,  slice  or  cut  the  cab- 
bage very  thin,  scald  it  5  minutes  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  drain 
through  a  colander.  Mix  it  well  with  a  sauce  made  of  *4  cup  of  hot  vinegar, 
1  cup  of  sour  cream,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

Make  the  chicken  jelly  and  set  it  in  a  border  mould.  Chop  three  bunches 
of  celery,  and  mix  with  one  can  of  asparagus  tips.  When  the  jelly  is  cold  set 
on  a  platter,  and  heap  the  celery  and  asparagus  in  the  center.  Slice  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  lay  around  the  jelly  in  little  piles,  alternating  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

This  is  also  nice  made  with  fruit  jelly  with  fruit  in  center,  omitting  the 
egg  and  using  French  dressing  made  with  lemon  instead  of  the  mayonnaise. 

ROMAINE  SALAD 

Take  the  heart  of  a  Eomaine,  don't  wash,  but  wipe  with  a  clean  towel,  one- 
half  pint  of  cream,  mix  in  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  This  is  the  proper  way  to 
eat  Eomaine,  and  the  only  way  it  is  served  in  Paris,  especially  in  private 
families.  No  dressing. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING 

Put  the  yolk  of  an  egg  into  a  cup  with  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  beat  until 
light,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  beat  again.  Then  add  olive  oil, 
drop  by  drop,  then  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  and  the  same  of  lemon  juice.  Con- 
tinue this  process  until  the  egg  has  absorbed  a  little  more  than  a  half  a  teacup 
of  oil;  finish  by  adding  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper  and  sugar. 

FRENCH   DRESSING 

Mix  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  dash  of  white  pepper,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  olive  oil.  Stir  for  few  minutes,  then  gradually  add  1  tablespoonful 
vinegar,  stirring  rapidly  until  mixture  is  slightly  thickened  and  vinegar  cannot 
be  noticed.  Mixture  will  separate  in  about  twenty  minutes. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


F.  G.  LISTON 
The  Fish  King 


FRESH 

Fish, 

Oysters, 

Crabs, 

Shrimps, 

Mussells 

and  Clams 


sue 


PHONE  725 


OfG 


28  W.  Second  Street  Reno,  Nevada 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


•    •         -  -  -----  —  

F 

I 

S 

H 

TO  FEY  FISH 

After  the  fish  is  well  cleansed,  lay  it  on  a  folded  towel  and  dry  out  all  the 
water;  when  well  wiped  and  dry,  roll  it  in  wheat  flour,  rolled  crackers,  grated 
stale  bread  or  Indian  meal,  whichever  may  be  preferred;  Gold  Medal  Flour  will 
generally  be  liked.  Have  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan  with  plenty  of  sweet 
lard  salted  (a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  each  pound  of  lard)  for  fresh  fish  which 
have  not  been  previously  salted;  let  it  become  boiling  hot,  then  lay  the  fish 
in  and  let  it  fry  gently  until  one  side  is  a  fine,  delicate  brown,  then  turn  the 
other;  when  both  are  done  take  it  up  carefully  and  serve  quickly,  or  keep  it 
covered  with  a  tin  cover,  and  set  the  dish  where  it  will  keep  hot. 

TO  BROIL  FISH 

Eub  the  bars  of  your  gridiron  with  dripping  or  a  piece  of  beef  suet,  to  pre- 
vent the  fish  from  sticking.  Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  into  a  dish,  enough  salt 
and  pepper  to  season  the  fish.  Lay  the  fish  on  it  when  it  is  broiled,  and  with 
a  knife  put  the  butter  over  every  part.  Serve  very  hot. 

TO  BAKE  FISH  WHOLE 

Cut  off  the  head  and  split  the  fish  down  nearly  to  the  tail;  prepare  a  dress- 
ing of  bread,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  moisten  with  a  little  water.  Fill  the  dish 
with  this  dressing,  and  bind  it  together  with  a  piece  of  string;  lay  the  fish  on 
a  bake-pan  and  pour  round  it  a  little  water  and  melted  butter.  Baste  frequent- 
ly. A  good-sized  fish  will  bake  in  an  hour.  Serve  with  the  gravy  of  the  fish, 
drawn  butter. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL 

Freshen  by  soaking  it  over  night  in  water,  being  careful  that  the  skin  lies 
uppermost.  In  the  morning  dry  it  without  breaking,  cut  off  the  head  and  tip 
of  the  tail,  place  it  between  the  bars  of  a  buttered  fish-gridiron,  and  broil  to 
a  light  brown;  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  dress  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and 
lemon  juice,  vinegar. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

Put  fish  in  cold  water,  set  on  back  of  stove;  when  water  gets  hot,  pour  off 
and  put  cold  again  until  fish  is  sufficiently  fresh;  then  pick  it  up.  Boil  po- 
tatoes and  mash  them,  mix  fish  and  potatoes  together,  while  potatoes  are  hot, 
taking  two-thirds  potatoes  and  one-third  fish.  Put  in  plenty  of  butter;  make 
into  balls  and  fry  in  plenty  of  lard.  Have  lard  hot  before  putting  in  balls. 
Variation  may  be  had  by  rolling  each  ball  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  dry  bread 
crumbs  before  frying. 

FISH  STEAKS  FRIED 

Cut  the  slices  of  fresh  fish  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with 
Gold  Medal  Flour,  or  cornmeal  slightly  salted  or  dip  them  in  eggs  lightly  salted 
and  roll  in  crumbs;  fry  a  light  brown.  Salmon  or  any  other  large  fish  can  be 
fried  this  way. 


64  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


Closer  to  a  Temperance  Drink 
Than  Any  Other  Beer.    Phone  581 


CREAMED  FISH 

Pick  (not  shred)  one  cupful  of  codfish;  place  in  a  spider  and  fill  and  cover 
with  cold  water.  Stir  a  moment  over  the  fire  and  pour  off  the  water.  Stand 
on  the  stove,  cover  the  fish  with  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk  and  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Stir  into  a  cup  of  cold  cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Gold  Medal  Flour  and  when  the  milk  on  the  stove  is  about  to  boil  mix  this  with 
it.  When  the  mixture  has  thickened  stand  where  it  will  boil  no  longer  and  stir 
into  it  one  egg.  Serve  at  once. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Two  pounds  of  fresh  white  fish,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  five  small 
potatoes,  one  small  onion,  six  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  hen  's  egg  and  a  teaspoon  Gold  Medal  Flour.  Pick  the  fish  to  pieces.  Re- 
move the  bone  and  skin;  cut  potatoes  into  small  squares;  the  bacon  in  small 
pieces;  rub  the  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream.  Spread  in  a  granite  kettle  half  of 
the  potatoes,  then  half  of  the  fish,  then  sprinkle  in  the  minced  onions,  then  the 
bacon,  then  half  of  the  tomatoes.  Then  a  shake  of  salt  and  pepper;  add  the 
rest  of  the  fish,  tomatoes,  potatoes,  and  more  salt  and  pepper,  using  in  all  one 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Cover  with  water,  let 
simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Scald  the  milk,  put  a  pinch  of  soda  into  the  chowder 
and  stir;  add  the  hot  milk  to  the  butter  and  flour;  stir  smooth;  then  add  to  the 
chowder.  Serve  very  hot. 


DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 
RINGS 
LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 

Watchmaker 

f*  pesc& 

CffitltO 

E*                   Jeweler 

ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1392          RENO.  NEVADA 

FISH  BALLS 

The  remnants  of  any  cold  fish  can  be  used  by  breaking  the  fish  to  pieces 
with  a  fork,  removing  all  the  bones  and  skin,  and  shredding  very  fine.  Add  an 
equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes,  make  into  a  stiff  batter  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter and  some  milk,  and  a  beaten  egg.  Flour  your  hands  and  shape  the  mix- 
ture into  balls.  Fry  in  boiling  lard  or  drippings,  to  a  light  brown. 

FISH  CROQUETTES 

Take  remnants  of  boiled  cod,  salmon  or  halibut  and  pick  the  flesh  out  care- 
fully. Mince  it  moderately  fine.  Stir  a  piece  of  butter,  a  small  spoon  Gold 
Medal  Flour  and  some  milk  over  fire  until  they  thicken.  Then  add  pepper,  salt 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  together  with  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  then  the 
minced  fish.  When  very  hot  remove  from  the  fire,  turn  on  a  dish  to  get  cold, 
then  shape  and  finish  the  croquettes. 

CLAMS  AND  RICE 

Chop  fine  one  onion  and  a  small  piece  of  ham  or  pork;  add  a  bruised  clove 
of  garlic,  one  cupful  of  tomatoes  and  a  little  saffron  water;  stew  all  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  pint  of  well  scrubbed  small  clams,  still  in  the 
shell;  steam  a  half  hour  in  a  tightly  covered  dish;  then  add  one  cupful  of  well 
washed  rice  and  about  one  pint  of  water;  season  with  salt  and  cook  until  the 
rice  is  done. 

M  A  R  R  1  BlTl  I  F  E 

START  RIGHT 

BUY    A    PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


65 


CHAFING  DISH  RECIPE 

Skin  the  fish  and  lay  on  brown  paper  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  roll  in  finely  powdered  cracker  crumbs. 

Place  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  so  that  when  melted  it  will  cover  bottom  of 
the  dish  to  the  depth  of  three-eighths  of  an  inch.  When  hot  place  the  sardines 
in  and  cook  until  nicely  browned,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  burn. 

Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

SARDINE  BALLS 

Pick  required  number  of  sardines  into  fine  pieces,  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper  and  onion  juice.  Make  into  small  balls,  handling  as  little  as  possible. 
When  the  chafing  dish  (or  saucepan)  is  hot,  butter  the  balls  enough  to  prevent 
sticking,  place  in  pan,  and  shake  gently  for  a  few  minutes  until  brown.  Serve 
hot. 

SHRIMP 

Have  a  pint  of  shelled  shrimps.  Then  make  a  thick  sauce;  a  heaped  tea- 
spoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour,  half  an  ounce  butter  and  a  quarter  pint  of  milk. 
Flavor  it  with  a  little  mace,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  in  the  shrimps.  When  well 
heated  pour  the  whole  out  onto  a  hot  dish,  trim  the  dish  round  with  cold  boiled 
rice,  and  serve. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 

245  LAKE  ST. 


Watchmaker 


r 


cler 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


PHONE  1592 


RENO.  NEVADA 


SARDINES  a  la  CAMBRIDGE 

Take  a  can  of  good  sardines  ("Mustard"),  remove  the  backbone  and  out- 
side skin  and  rub  the  meat  through  a  sieve;  mix  with  it  minced  raw  oysters, 
the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  tiny  dust  of  paprika,  three  ounces  of  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  warm  butter,  and  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters,  and  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs.  Divide  the  mixture  into  portions  about 
the  size  of  walnuts,  roll  each  up  in  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  dip  into  beaten  egg 
and  then  into  freshly  made  bread  crumbs,  and  put  into  a  frying  basket  and  fry 
for  three  or  four  minutes  in  clean  boiling  fat.  Dish  up  in  a  pile  on  a  hot  dish 
on  a  dish  paper,  and  serve  hot.  Garnish  with  a  little  fresh  parsley  around  the 
dish. 

Remove  the  skin  from  a  can  of  sardines  and  place  them  in  a  pan,  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  few  shrimp,  a  dozen  oysters,  a  few 
mushrooms  and  a  few  crusts  of  bread  fried  in  butter,  and  when  all  is  well 
cooked  make  the  following  sauce: 

Place  in  a  pan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  melt,  then  add  a 
spoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  when  brown,  half  a  glass  of  the  above  mixture 
except  the  fish;  use  a  wooden  spoon.  When  the  sauce  is  made,  add  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  take  from  the  fire.  Place  the  fish  in  a  dish,  spread  on  the  sauce, 
and  put  in  a  warm  oven  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 


66  THE   JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

SIERRA  BEER  FOB  HEALTH-Phone  581 

SCALLOPED  SARDINES 

One  can  of  sardines,  one  cupful  of  sauce  (as  below),  five  or  six  soda  crackers. 
Pick  the  fish  over,  removing  back-bone  and  tail,  and  flake  with  a  fork.  Place  a 
layer  of  the  sardines  in  an  agate  baking  dish,  cover  with  the  sauce,  then  a 
layer  of  the  cracker  crumbs,  another  layer  of  sardines,  and  so  on  until  the  fish 
is  all  used.  Cover  the  top  layer  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  brown.  Prepare  the  fish  sauce  as  follows: 

SAUCE — Two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  Gold  Medal  Flour,  butter,  cup  hot 
milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  the  butter  in  sauce-pan  until  it  bubbles, 
then  add  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  until  smooth,  and  pour  the  hot  milk  in  grad- 
ually, stirring  each  time.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  This  is  a  good  sauce  to  serve 
with  any  fish. 

LOBSTER  NEWBURG 

Season  one  pint  diced  lobster  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  dash  cayenne,  pinch 
nutmeg.  Put  in  sauce-pan  with  two  tablespoons  butter;  heat  slowly.  Add  two 
tablespoons  sherry;  cook  six  minutes;  add  one-half  cup  cream  beaten  with  yolks 
two  eggs,  stir  till  thickened.  Take  quickly  from  fire. 

STEWED  MUSSELS 

Take  about  five  dozen  good-sized  mussels,  clean  and  then  boil  them  until 
shells  open.  Put  very  little  water  on  when  boiling  them,  for  when  they  are 
heated  they  let  out  plenty  of  juice  themselves.  When  they  are  cooked  take 
from  shell  and  pick  over.  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  and  some  onions; 
fry  until  brown  and  add  the  mussels,  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  two  cupfuls  of  the 
juice  and  stew  all  together  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  lastly  thicken  the  gravy  with  some  Gold  Medal  Flour  dissolved  in  cold 
water. 

DEVILED  CRAB 

One  cup  crab  meat,  picked  from  shells  of  well-boiled  crabs,  two  tablespoons 
fine  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  crackers,  yolk  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  juice 
of  a  lemon,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  one 
cup  good  drawn  butter.  Mix  one  spoon  crumbs  with  chopped  crab  meat,  yolks, 
seasoning,  drawn  butter.  Fill  scallop  shells — large  clam  shell  will  do — with 
mixture;  sift  crumbs  over  top,  heat  to  slight  brown  in  quick  oven. 

CREAMED  CRAB 

Melt  a  half  inch  slice  butter,  add  half  a  cup  Gold  Medal  Flour,  stir  all  the 
time;  to  this  add  three  cups  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  cream;  season  with  salt, 
red  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  Worcestershire  sauce.  Cook  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  picked  meat  of  three  crabs  and  a  small  bottle  of  mushrooms.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil  once.  Serve  in  ramikins. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

Twenty-five  clams,  chopped — not  fine — one-half  pound  salt  pork  chopped 
fine,  six  potatoes  sliced  thin,  four  onions  sliced  thin.  Put  pork  in  kettle;  after 
cooking  a  short  time  add  potatoes,  onions  and  juice  of  clams.  Cook  two  and 
one-half  hours,  then  add  clams;  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  add  two  quarts 
of  milk. 


i    WESTERN  MUSIC  CO. 

J       PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  67 


Poultry  and  Game 


BOAST  TURKEY 

Carefully  pluck  the  bird  and  singe  off  the  down  with  lighted  paper;  break 
the  leg  bone  close  to  the  foot,  hang  up  the  bird  and  draw  out  the  strings  of 
the  thigh.  Never  cut  the  breast;  make  a  small  slit  down  the  back  of  the  neck 
and  take  out  the  crop  that  way,  then  cut  the  neck  bone  close,  and  after  the 
bird  is  stuffed  the  skin  can  be  turned  over  the  back  and  the  crop  will  look  full 
and  round.  Cut  around  the  vent,  making  the  hole  as  small  as  possible,  and 
draw  carefully,  taking  care  that  the  gall  bag  and  the  intestines  joining  the 
gizzard  are  not  broken.  Open  the  gizzard,  take  out  the  contents  and  detach  the 
liver  from  the  gall  bladder.  The  liver,  gizzard  and  heart,  if  used  in  the  gravy, 
will  need  to  be  boiled  an  hour  and  a  half  and  chopped  as  fine  as  possible.  Wash 
the  turkey  and  wipe  thoroughly  dry,  inside  and  out;  then  fill  the  inside  with 
stuffing,  and  sew  the  skin  of  the  neck  over  the  back.  Sew  up  the  opening  at 
the  vent,  then  run  a  long  skewer  into  the  pinion  and  thigh  through  the  body, 
passing  it  through  the  opposite  pinion  and  thigh.  Put  a  skewer  in  the  small 
part  of  the  leg,  close  on  the  outside  and  push  it  through.  Pass  a  string  over 
the  points  of  the  skewers  and  tie  it  securely  at  the  back. 

Sprinkle  well  with  Gold  Medal  Flour,  cover  the  breast  with  nicely-buttered 
white  paper,  place  on  a  grating  in  the  dripping-pan  and  put  in  the  oven  to 
roast.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes — a  few  times  with  butter  and  water,  and 
then  with  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.  Do  not  have  too  hot  an  oven.  A 
turkey  weighing  ten  pounds  will  require  three  hours  to  bake. 

BOAST  GOOSE 

Get  a  goose  that  is  not  more  than  eight  months  old,  and  the  fatter  it  is  the 
more  juicy  the  meat.  The  dressing  should  be  made  of  three  pints  of  bread 
crumbs,  six  ounces  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  sage,  black  pepper  and  salt 
and  chopped  onions.  Don't  stuff  very  full,  but  sew  very  closely  so  that  the 
fat  will  not  get  in.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water,  and  baste  often 
with  a  little  salt,  water  and  vinegar.  Turn  the  goose  frequently  so  that  it  may 
be  evenly  browned.  Bake  about  2%  hours.  When  done,  take  it  from  the  pan, 
drain  off  the  fat  and  add  the  chopped  giblets,  which  have  previously  been 
boiled  tender,  together  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  done.  Thicken  with 
Gold  Medal  Flour  and  butter  rubbed  together;  let  boil,  and  serve. 

BAKED  CHICKEN 

Take  a  plump  chicken,  dress  and  lay  in  cold  salt  Water  for  half  hour,  put 
in  pan,  stuff  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  lay  a  few  slices  of  fat  pork. 
Cover  and  bake  until  tender,  with  a  steady  fire.  Baste  often.  Turn  so  as  to 
have  uniform  heat. 

CHICKEN— SOUTHEBN  STYLE 

Wash  your  chicken  thoroughly  in  soda  and  water.  Dry  and  disjoint.  Put 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  cold  water  in  a  porcelain  pot  (Dutch  oven  preferred) ; 
pack  chicken  in  closely.  Mince  two  small  onions,  one  kernel  garlic,  little  pars- 
ley and  sprinkle  over  chicken.  Cover  closely  and  let  simmer  for  three  hours. 
One-half  hour  before  done  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Don't  lift  cover  dur- 
ing the  cooking.  When  done  remove  chicken  and  thicken  gravy  with  a  little 
Gold  Medal  Flour. 


68  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

RflYfll  RFFR  lf  purchased  fay  tbe  Wife 

nUlfiL    ULLn   Husband  Home"      RENO  BREWING  CO. 

WILD  DUCKS 

Nearly  all  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  have  a  fishy  flavor,  and  when  handled  by 
inexperienced  cooks,  are  sometimes  uneatable  from  this  cause.  Before  roasting 
them  guard  against  this  by  parboiling  them  with  a  small  carrot,  peeled,  put 
within  each.  This  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste.  An  onion  will  have  the 
same  effect;  but  unless  you  mean  to  use  onion  in  the  stuffing,  the  carrot  i» 
preferable. 

BOAST  WILD  DUCK 

Parboil  as  above  directed;  throw  away  the  carrot  or  onion,  lay  in  fresh 
water  one-half  of  an  hour;  stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  season  with  pepper,  sage, 
salt  and  onion,  roast  until  brown,  basting  for  half  the  time  with  butter  and 
water,  then  with  drippings.  Add  to  the  gravy,  when  you  have  taken  up  the 
ducks,  a  teaspoonful  of  currant  jelly  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Thicken 
with  browned  flour  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 

PIGEON  PIE 

Clean  and  truss  three  or  four  pigeons,  rub  outside  with  a  mixture  of  pepper 
and  salt;  rub  inside  with  a  bit  of  butter,  fill  with  a  bread-and-butter  stuffing, 
or  mashed  potatoes;  sew  up  the  slit,  butter  the  sides  of  a  tin  basin  or  pudding 
dish,  and  line  (the  sides  only)  with  pie  paste,  rolled  to  quarter  of  an  inch  thick- 
ness; lay  the  birds  in;  for  three  large  tame  pigeons,  cut  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  butter  and  put  it  over  them,  strew  over  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  with  finely  cut  parsley;  dredge  a  large  teaspoon- 
ful of  Gold  Medal  Flour  over;  put  in  water  to  nearly  fill  the  pie;  lay  skewers 
across  the  top,  cover  with  a  puff  paste  crust;  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  ornament 
the  edge  with  leaves,  braids,  or  shells  of  paste,  and  put  in  a  moderately  hot  or 
quick  over  for  one  hour;  when  nearly  done  brush  the  top  over  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  beaten  with  a  little  milk,  and  finish.  The  pigeons  for  this  pie  may  be 
cut  in  two  or  more  pieces,  if  preferred.  Any  small  birds  may  be  done  in  this 
manner. 

BOAST  PIGEON 

Clean  and  truss  two  young  pigeons,  mince  the  liver,  and  mix  with  them  two 
ounces  of  finely  grated  bread  crumbs,  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  finely  chopped 
onion,  a  teaspoonful  shredded  parsley,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg.  Fill  birds 
with  this  forcemeat,  fasten  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  over  the  breast  of  each,  and 
roast.  Make  a  sauce  by  mixing  a  little  water  with  the  gravy  which  drops  from 
the  birds,  and  boiling  it  with  a  little  thickening;  season  it  with  pepper,  salt 
and  chopped  parsley. 

QUAIL  ON  TOAST 

Take  five  quail,  but  don't  remove  the  legs,  for  you  would  lose  all  the  taste 
of  the  game.  Wipe  them  well;  string  them  tight,  so  as  to  raise  the  breasts. 
Put  a  little  butter  on  each,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  inside  each  the  quarter  of 
a  lemon  without  the  peel.  Then  put  a  very  thin  slice  of  pork,  about  two  inches 
square,  around  each  quail,  with  two  or  three  cuts  in  each  side,  and  string  it 
tight.  Let  cook  on  a  good  fire,  and  when  they  are  nearly  well  done,  for  white 
meat  game  must  be  well  done,  cut  the  strings;  dress  nicely  on  toast  and  serve 
hot.  Pour  the  juice  on  the  quail  after  having  taken  the  fat  off,  and  put  some 
slices  of  lemon  around  the  dish,  one  for  each  quail. 


M  A  R  R  1 


START  RIGHT 

BUY    A    PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  69 

Sierra  Beer  for  Health  Phone  581 

ROAST  TAME  DUCK 

Take  a  young  farmyard  duck  fattened  at  liberty,  but  cleansed  by  being 
shut  up  two  or  three  days  and  fed  on  barley  meal  and  water.  Pluck,  singe  and 
empty;  scald  the  feet,  skin  and  twist  round  on  the  back  of  the  bird;  head,  neck 
and  pinions  must  be  cut  off,  the  latter  at  the  first  joint,  and  all  skewered  firmly 
to  give  the  breast  a  nice  plump  appearance.  For  stuffing,  one-half  pound  of 
onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs, 
the  liver  of  a  duck  parboiled  and  minced  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Cut 
fine  onions,  throwing  boiling  water  over  them  for  ten  minutes;  drain  through 
a  gravy  strainer,  and  add  the  bread  crumbs,  minced  liver,  sage,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste;  mix,  and  put  inside  the  duck.  This  amount  is  for  one  duck,  more 
onion  and  more  sage  may  be  added,  but  the  above  is  a  delicate  compound  not 
likely  to  disagree  with  the  stomach.  Let  the  duck  be  hung  a  day  of  two,  accord- 
ing to  the  weather,  to  make  the  flesh  tender.  Roast  before  a  brisk,  clear  fire, 
baste  often,  and  dredge  with  flour  to  make  the  bird  look  frothy.  Serve  with  a 
good  brown  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  apple  sauce  in  a  tureen.  It  takes  about  an 
hour. 


DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 
RINGS 
LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 

Watchmaker 

EmiK°  < 

^  pesce 

ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE 

1592          RENO.  NEVADA 

RABBIT  PIE 

Cut  a  rabbit  into  seven  pieces,  soak  in  salted  water  one-half  hour  and  stew 
until  half  done  in  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Lay  slices  of  pork  in  the  bottom 
of  a  pie  dish  and  upon  these  a  layer  of  rabbit.  Then  follow  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  egg,  peppered  and  buttered.  Continue  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top 
layer  being  bacon.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  the  rabbit  was  stewed,  and 
adding  a  little  Gold  Medal  Flour,  cover  with  puff  paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle 
and  bake  one  hour,  laying  paper  over  the  top  should  it  brown  too  fast. 

VENISON  STEAK  BROILED 

Take  the  leg  and  cut  slices  from  it,  having  a  quick,  clear  fire.  Turn  them 
constantly.  They  should  be  served  underdone.  Butter  both  sides  of  the  steak; 
sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  the  venison,  garnish  with  parsley  and  accompany- 
ing it  by  a  jelly  sauce. 


70  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


STUFFINGS 


CHESTNUT    STUFFING    FOB    POULTRY 

One  pint  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  shelled  and  boiled  French  chestnuts 
chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsley  to  season,  one-half  cup  melted 
butter. 

OYSTER    STUFFING   FOR    POULTRY 

Substitute  small  raw  oysters,  picked  and  washed,  for  chestnuts  in  above 
recipe. 

CELERY  STUFFING 
Substitute  finely  cut  celery  for  chestnuts. 

STUFFING   FOR   TOMATOES,    GREEN   PEPPERS,    ETC. 

One  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  one-third  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon- 
ful  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  onion  juice,  one  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  two 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter.  Hominy,  rice,  or  other  cooked  cereal  may  take 
the  place  of  crumbs. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


r  Pe*ce 

• 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1S92          RENO.  NEVADA 

LAMB    AND    VEAL    STUFFING 

Three  cups  stale  bread  crumbs,  three  onions  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley, 
one-half  cup  melted  butter  or  suet. 

STUFFING  FOB   PORK 

Three  large  onions  parboiled  and  chopped,  two  cups  fine  bread  crumbs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sage,  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  or  pork  fat, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

SAGE   STUFFING   FOR   GEESE   AND   DUCKS 

Two  chopped  onions,  two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  salt, 
pepper,  and  powdered  sage  to  taste. 

POULTRY  STUFFING 

One  quart  stale  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  thyme  to  season 
highly,  one-half  cup  melted  butter. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 

THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  71 


M 

E 

A 

T 

S 

>„,»•  ...  ......4 

ROAST  PIG 

Select  a  pig  about  six  weeks  old,  wash  it  thoroughly  inside  and  outside; 
wipe  dry  with  a  towel,  salt  inside  and  stuff  it  with  a  rich  fowl  dressing,  making 
it  plump.  Sew  it  up,  place  it  in  the  dripping  pan,  salt  and  pepper  the  outside. 
Pour  a  little  water  into  the  dripping  pan,  baste  with  butter  and  water  a  few 
times  as  the  pig  warms,  afterward  with  gravy  from  the  dripping  pan.  Roast 
from  two  to  three  hours.  Make  the  gravy  by  skimming  off  most  of  the  grease; 
stir  in  the  pan  a  good  tablespoonful  of  Gold  Medal  Flour,  turn  in  the  water  to 
make  it  the  right  thickness,  season  and  let  all  boil  up  once.  Strain  and  turn 
into  the  gravy  dish.  Place  the  pig  upon  a  large  platter  surrounded  with  pars- 
ley. Send  to  the  table  hot.  In  carving,  cut  off  the  head  first;  split  the  back, 
take  off  the  hams  and  shoulders  and  separate  the  ribs. 

BAKED  HAM 

Put  a  medium-sized  ham  in  a  pot  and  cover  with  sweet  cider.  Let  it  sim- 
mer gently  for  three  and  one-half  hours.  Skim  frequently  to  remove  the  grease 
as  it  rises.  When  tender  take  out  and  remove  the  rind;  cut  the  fat  on  top  into 
diamonds  and  in  each  diamond  stick  a  clove;  then  rub  over  the  top  of  the  ham 
one-half  of  a  cupful  of  maple  syrup,  place  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for 
forty-five  minutes. 

TO  ROAST  A  LEG  OF  PORK 

Choose  a  small  leg  of  fine  young  pork;  cut  a  slit  in  the  knuckle  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  fill  the  space  with  sage  and  onions,  chopped,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt.  When  one-half  done,  score  the  skin  in  slices,  but  do  not  cut  deeper  than 
the  outer  rind.  Apple  sauce  should  be  served  with  it. 

SALT  PORK,  CREAM  GRAVY,  SOUTHERN  STYLE 

Cut  sweet  cured  salt  pork  into  half-inch  slices,  put  into  saucepan,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Drain  off  water,  add  cold  water, 
stand  a  few  minutes,  roll  in  Gold  Medal  Flour,  two  parts,  corn  starch,  one  part, 
mixed  and  seasoned  with  white  pepper.  Have  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  bacon 
fat  in  the  frying  pan  to  prevent  pork  from  sticking.  Pour  off  fat  as  it  melts 
while  frying,  brown  and  fry  until  reduced  one-half.  For  one  and  one-half  cups 
cream  gravy  allow  three  spoonfuls  melted  fat,  add  two  level  tablespoonfuls 
corn  starch.  Cook  three  minutes  in  the  hot  fat  without  browning,  then  add 
one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  until  smooth- 
ly thickened.  Serve  for  breakfast  with  baked  potatoes  and  hot  biscuit. 

ROAST  SPARE-RIB 

Trim  the  ragged  ends  of  a  spare-rib  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the  mid- 
dle, rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Fold  over,  stuff  with  a  turkey 
dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place  in  dripping  pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  baste 
often,  turning  it  once  or  twice  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  a  rich  brown. 

PORK  CHOPS  WITH  TOMATO  GRAVY 

Trim  off  skin  and  fat;  rub  the  chops  over  with  a  mixture  of  powdered  sage 
and  onion;  put  small  pieces  butter  into  frying-pan;  put  in  the  chops  and  cook 
slowly,  as  they  should  be  well  done.  Place  chops  on  hot  dish;  add  a  little  hot 
water  to  gravy  in  pan,  one  large  spoon  butter  rolled  in  Gold  Medal  Flour,  pep- 
per, salt  and  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  juice  drained  from  can  tomatoes.  Stew 
five  minutes  and  pour  over  the  chops  and  serve. 


72  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

P  f|  V  AT     D  C  C  D    Small  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
I\\/IAL   DEiCiIX   Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 

PORK  AND  BEANS 

Soak  one  quart  white  beans  over  night  in  cold  water.  Drain,  add  fresh 
water  and  simmer  till  tender.  Put  in  baking  pan  and  place  in  center  one-half 
pound  fat  salt  pork,  parboiled.  Mix  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  mus- 
tard and  one  tablespoon  molasses;  add  this  to  the  beans,  with  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Bake  eight  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  adding  more  water  as 
necessary. 

FILLET  OF  MUTTON 

Cut  a  fillet,  or  round,  from  a  leg  of  mutton;  remove  all  the  fat  from  the 
edges,  and  take  out  the  bone;  rub  it  all  over  with  a  very  little  pepper  and  salt; 
have  ready  a  stuffing  of  finely  minced  onions,  bread  crumbs  and  butter,  well 
seasoned  and  mixed;  fill  with  this  the  place  of  the  bone;  make  deep  incisions 
or  cuts  all  over  the  surface  of  the  meat  and  fill  them  closely  with  the  same 
stuffing;  bind  a  piece  of  cloth  around  the  meat  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  stew 
with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it;  let  it  cook  slowly  and  steadily  from  four  to 
six  hours,  in  proportion  to  its  size  and  toughness,  skimming  frequently.  When 
done,  serve  with  its  own  gravy. 

SHOULDER  OF  VEAL 

Remove  the  bone,  and  fill  the  space  it  occupied  with  a  dressing  made  as  for 
turkey  or  chicken;  keep  well  basted  and  proceed  as  with  above.  A  fillet  of  veal 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  by  removing  the  leg  bone  with  a  sharp  knife. 


TO  FRY  TRIPE 

Cut  in  pieces  convenient  for  serving;  beat  an  egg  lightly  and  dip  each  piece 
in  the  egg.  Have  your  frying-pan  hot  and  fry  brown  in  butter.  It  will  take  a 
good  deal  of  butter  to  make  it  nice  and  keep  from  burning. 

BEEF  OMELET 


One  and  one-half  pounds  of  good  beefsteak  chopped  fine,  one  cup  suet,  two 
slices  of  wheat  bread  soaked  in  water,  two  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream; 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mold  into  a  loaf  or  roll  and  bake  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour,  basting  frequently. 

ROAST  BEEF 

To  roast  in  a  cooking  stove,  the  fire  must  have  careful  attention  lest  the 
meat  should  burn.  Lay  it,  well-floured,  and  seasoned,  into  a  dripping  pan,  with 
rather  more  than  enough  water  to  cover  the  bottom;  turn  the  pan  around  often, 
that  all  parts  may  be  equally  roasted,  and  baste  frequently.  The  oven  should 
be  quite  hot  when  the  beef  is  first  put  in  that  the  outside  may  cool  quickly  and 
thus  retain  the  juices.  A  large  roast  of  eight  or  ten  pounds  is  much  better  and 
more  economical  than  a  small  one,  even  in  a  small  family.  Allow  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  for  every  pound  of  meat  if  you  like  it  rare.  It  can  be  re-roasted  on 
the  next  day.  If  much  remains  serve  cold  on  the  next,  or  in  very  thin  slices; 
dip  each  one  in  flour,  then  chop  two  onions  fine,  place  a  layer  of  meat 
in  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion;  above  this  place 
a  layer  of  sliced  or  canned  tomatoes;  alternate  the  layers  till  the  dish  is  nearly 
full,  moisten  with  the  gravy,  place  a  layer  of  tomatoes  upon  the  top,  fill  with 
boiling  water,  cover  with  a  plate  and  bake  two  hours. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


WESTERN    MUSIC    CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  73 

California 

Market 

James  ^Daniel,  Prop. 

PHONE  537 

Finest  class  of 

Beef,  Pork  Mutton  and 
Sausage 

always  ready  and  on  sale  to  families  at 

Popular  Prices 

We  handle  Poultry  also 

Wagon  mil  call  and  ma£e  deliveries 

TRY  OUR  MEATS 

355  N.  Virginia  Street  Reno,  Nevada 


74  THE   JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

BOAST  LOIN  OF  VEAL 

Leave  in  the  kidney,  around  which  put  considerable  salt.  Make  a  dressing 
the  same  as  for  fowls;  unroll  the  loin,  put  the  stuffing  well  around  the  kidney, 
fold  and  secure  with  several  coils  of  white  cotton  twine  wound  around  in  all 
directions;  place  in  a  dripping  pan,  with  the  thick  side  down,  and  put  in  a 
rather  hot  oven,  letting  it  cool  down  to  moderate;  in  one-half  hour  add  a  little 
hot  water  to  the  pan,  and  baste  often;  after  half  an  hour  turn  over  the  roast 
and  when  done  sprinkle  lightly  with  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  baste  with  melted 
butter.  Before  serving  carefully  remove  the  twine.  A  roast  of  four  or  five 
pounds  will  bake  in  about  two  hours.  For  a  gravy  skim  off  some  of  the  fat 
if  there  is  too  much  in  the  drippings;  dredge  in  Gold  Medal  Flour;  stil  until 
brown,  add  hot  water  if  necessary;  boil  a  few  minutes,  stir  in  sweet  herbs  as 
fancied  and  put  in  a  gravy  boat.  Serve  with  green  peas  and  lemon  jelly. 

ENTREE  OF  VEAL 

Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  three  pounds  of  raw  veal,  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  one  of  pepper  and  two  eggs.  Chop  fine  and  mix  together,  adding 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Mold  this  into  a  loaf,  then  roll  into  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pounded  crackers  and  bake  two  hours.  When  cold,  slice. 


DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 
RINGS 
LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 

Watchmaker 

r*  pescc 
Cffiilto 

**                   Jeweler 

ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1592          RENO.  NEVADA 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS 

For  every  mode  of  dressing  they  should  be  prepared  by  half  boiling,  and 
then  putting  them  in  cold  water;  this  makes  them  whiter  and  firmer.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  and  fry  in  lard.  Serve 
with  peas  or  tomatoes. 

VEAL  CUTLETS,  BREADED 

Trim  and  flatten  the  cutlets,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  roll  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  good  dripping,  turn  when  the  lower  side  is 
brown.  Drain  off  the  fat,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  upon  each,  and  serve  in  a 
hot  flat  dish. 

CALVES  LIVER  AND  BACON 

Cut  liver  in  one-half  inch  slices,  soak  in  cold  water  twenty  minutes,  drain, 
dry  and  roll  in  Gold  Medal  Flour.  Have  pan  very  hot.  Put  in  bacon  thinly 
sliced,  turn  until  brown;  put  on  hot  platter.  Fry  liver  quickly  in  the  hot  fat, 
turning  very  often.  When  done,  pour  off  all  but  one  or  two  tablespoons  fat, 
dredge  in  Gold  Medal  Flour  until  it  is  absorbed,  and  stir  till  brown.  Add  hot 
water  gradually  to  make  smooth  gravy,  season  and  boil  one  minute.  Serve 
separately. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY   A   PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  75 


DCCD 
DLLII 


If  purchased  by  the  Wife  will  keep 
Husband  Home.        RENO  BREWING  CO. 


VEAL  LOAF 

Three  pounds  chopped  veal,  one  pound  fresh  pork  chopped  fine,  three  well 
ten  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of 
salt,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  thyme  and  sage.  Make 


beaten  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of 

pepper,  one-h 
into  loaf,  take  piece  of  white  muslin  and  wrap  securely,  also  the  ends.     Place 


in  a  baking  pan  with  very  little  water.    Baste  often.    Turn  so  as  to  brown  both 
sides.    Leave  in  cloth  until  cold. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  ONIONS 

Take  thick  beefsteak  (that  which  is  not  so  tender  will  answer),  cut  it  in 
pieces  ready  to  serve;  put  into  a  spider  with  a  little  hot  water;  slice  up  three 
or  four  onions,  and  stew  very  slowly  several  hours.  Let  the  water  boil  out  and 
the  meat  become  brown,  then  stir  flour  into  the  fat  which  has  come  from  the 
meat.  If  there  is  too  much,  take  some  out  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  stir 
until  the  flour  is  cooked.  Pour  the  meat  and  gravy  into  a  deep  dish  or  platter 
and  serve.  Pieces  of  cold  roast  or  steak  can  be  used. 

Bay  leaves,  which  can  be  obtained  at  the  druggist's,  are  a  good  substitute 
for  those  who  do  not  like  onions,  but  the  leaves  should  be  taken  out  before 
sending  to  the  table. 

BROILED  STEAK 

Select  your  steak  carefully.  The  wide  end  of  the  slice  of  "Porterhouse" 
is  nice,  or  the  "loin."  Have  the  gridiron  hot  and  buttered,  and  over  hot 
coals;  place  the  beef  upon  the  gridiron,  and  cook  till  the  blood  begins  to  start 
upon  the  upper  side  before  turning,  if  the  fire  is  not  too  hot.  To  retain  the 
juice,  beef  should  be  cooked  rapidly  at  first.  Turn  frequently  rather  than 
scorch.  When  done,  remove  to  the  platter  and  season  to  the  taste.  Use  no  salt 
while  cooking.  This  prevents  the  blood  from  escaping.  Serve  with  mushrooms. 

BEEFSTEAK  ROLL 

Select  a  nice,  tender,  sirloin  steak;  pound  it  well,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; then  make  a  nice  dressing  of  chopped  bread,  well  buttered,  salted  and 
peppered,  with  a  little  sage,  and  mixed  together  with  a  very  little  warm  water. 
Spread  this  on  the  meat,  then  begin  at  one  end  and  roll  it  together;  tie  with 
strings.  Put  into  a  dripping  pan  with  a  little  water.  Bake  about  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  warm,  or  sliced  cold  for  tea. 

SPICED  VEAL 

Chop  three  pounds  of  veal  steak  and  one  thick  slice  of  salt  pork,  as  fine  as 
sausage  meat;  add  to  it  three  Boston  crackers,  rolled  fine;  half  a  teacup  of  to- 
mato catsup,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  salt,  one 
teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  one  grated  lemon;  mould  it  in  the  form  of  a  loaf  of 
bread,  put  it  into  a  small  dripping  pan,  cover  with  one  rolled  cracker,  and  baste 
with  a  teacupf  ul  of  hot  water  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Bake  three  hours, 
basting  very  often.  % 

CREAMED   DRIED    BEEF 

Pick  in  small  pieces  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  thinly-cut  rather  moist  dried 
beef  and  brown  in  a  little  butter.  When  brown  pour  in  it  a  coffecupful  of  milk 
and  cream.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  slightly  thicken  with  a  little  butter  and 
Gold  Medal  Flour  creamed  together.  When  it  boils,  pour  it  over  a  platter  of 
brown  toast  and  serve  it  at  once. 


76  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

BEEF  BALL 

Three  pounds  choice  beef  (rare)   chopped  fine,  ten  butter  crackers  crushed 
thoroughly,  half  teacup  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  half  cup  water, 
all  well  together,  press  down  hard  in  pans,  dip  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the 


Mix 

........  * r-          -  -     - water 

in  which  the  beef  was  boiled  over  the  top,  and  bake  one  and  a  half  or  two 
hours.    Slice  when  cold. 


VEAL  OB  LAMB  PATTIES 

Use  cold  veal  or  lamb;  chop  fine,  taking  equal  parts  of  meat  and  bread 
crumbs;  season  with  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  eggs  and  melted 
butter,  or  gravies  from  the  meat;  make  into  little  cakes,  and  fry  in  butter  till 
well  browned. 

VEAL  LOAF 

Three  pounds  of  veal,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  salt  pork,  both  chopped 
fine;  two  pounded  crackers,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons 
of  pepper,  two  teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley,  two  teaspoons  of  celery,  and  the 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Put  batter  on  the  loaf  after  kneading.  Bake  in 

TO  BOIL  COBNED  BEEF 

Wash  it  thoroughly  and  put  into  a  pot  that  will  hold  plenty  of  water;  the 
water  should  be  cold;  skim  with  great  care;  allow  forty  minutes  for  every 
pound  after  it  has  begun  to  boil.  The  goodness  depends  much  on  its  being 
boiled  gently  and  long.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  lay  it  in  a  vessel  which  will 
admit  of  its  being  pressed  with  a  heavy  weight,  as  salt  meat  is  very  much  im- 
proved by  pressing. 

MUTTON  CHOPS 

Trim  off  the  superfluous  fat,  and  broil  over  a  bright  fire;  season  and  butter 
them  when  cooked;  do  not  have  them  rare.  They  can  also  be  fried  by  first 
dredging  with  flour  or  bread  crumbs. 

BAKED  TONGUE 

Season  with  common  salt,  a  very  little  saltpetre,  half  a  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
pepper,  cloves,  mace  and  allspice,  powdered  fine.  Let  it  remain  for  a  fort- 
night, then  take  out  the  tongue,  put  it  in  a  pan;  lay  on  some  butter;  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  bake  slowly  till  so  tender  that  a  straw  will  easily  go  through 
it.  To  be  eaten  cold.  Will  keep  a  long  time,  and  is  very  nice  for  tea. 

FRIED  LIVER 

Cut  it  in  slices,  and  lay  in  cold  salt  water  to  draw  out  the  blood.  Some  place 
it  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  liver  turns  white.  Take  it  out,  roll  each  piece  in  flour 
or  bread  crumbs,  season  and  put  in  hot  lard.  Cover,  and  cook  slowly,  till  the 
liver  is  tender,  then  uncover  and  fry  quickly  till  brown.  Another  way  is  to 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  liver  for  a  few  moments,  and  proceed  as  above. 

IRISH  STEW 

Take  five  or  six  mutton  chops;  the  same  quantity  of  beef,  veal  and  pork; 
six  or  eight  Irish  potatoes,  peeled  and  quartered;  three  or  four  onions  sliced, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  flavored  with  catsup, 
if  liked.  Cover  all  very  closely,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours  (never 
allowing  it  to  stop  simmering).  A  slice  or  two  of  ham  is  an  improvement.  Stir 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


77 


SIERRA  BEER 


Closer   to  a   Temperance  Drink 
Than  Any  Other  Beer.     Phone  581 


BOILED  BEEF'S  TONGUE 

Boil  a  medium  sized  tongue  three  hours,  or  until  so  tender  a  broom  corn  will 
go  through  it  easily;  skim  frequently  when  it  begins  to  boil.  When  first  re- 
moved from  the  fire  skin  it  and  set  away  to  cool.  If  a  pickled  tongue,  the  water 
should  be  cold  when  put  on  to  boil;  if  a  fresh  one  salt  thoroughly  half  an  hour 
before  taking  it  up. 

HASH  ON  TOAST 

Cold  pieces  of  beefsteak  are  nice,  chopped  fine,  cooked  in  a  little  butter 
and  water,  and  thickened  with  flour;  pour  over  pieces  of  toast  laid  on  a  platter, 
and  moisten  with  hot  water,  salted.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

HASH,  WITH  POTATOES 

Cold  pieces  of  beef,  either  boiled,  broiled  or  baked,  can  be  used  for  the 
dish.  Free  the  meat  from  all  pieces  of  bone,  chop  fine,  and  mix  with  two  parts 
of  potatoes  to  one  of  beef.  Potatoes  boiled  with  the  skins  on  are  best.  They 
should  be  cold,  and  chopped  not  quite  so  fine  as  the  meat.  Put  them  in  a  spider 
with  melted  butter  or  clarified  drippings,  and  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  Season  to  taste,  and  keep  stirring  till  the  whole  is  cooked  to- 
gether. If  liked  crisp,  let  it  remain  still  long  enough  to  bake  a  crust  on  the 
bottom,  and  then  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish.  Other  meats  may  be  used  instead  of 
beef. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 

245  LAKE  ST. 


Watchmaker 


r  P«sce 


PHONE  1592 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

RENO.  NEVADA 


TO  ROAST  A  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON 

Season  and  roast  the  same  as  beef,  basting  with  butter  and  water  till  there 
is  gravy  enough  to  use.  It  requires  to  be  cooked  more  than  beef.  Serve  with 
currant  jelly. 

SOUSE 

Clean  pigs'  feet  and  ears  thoroughly,  and  soak  them  a  number  of  days  in 
salt  and  water;  boil  them  very  tender  and  split  open.  (They  are  good  fried.) 
To  souse  them  cold,  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them,  spiced  with  pepper  corns 
and  a  little  salt.  They  will  keep  good,  pickled,  for  a  month  or  two. 

LAMB    WITH    RICE 

Partly  roast  a  small  fore-quarter  of  lamb;  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  lay  in  a 
dish;  season,  and  pour  over  a  little  water;  boil  a  pint  of  rice  till  dry,  salt  it, 
and  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter,  also  the  yolks  of  four  well-beaten  eggs,  only 
reserving  enough  to  put  over  the  top;  spread  the  rice  and  the  remainder  of  the 
eggs  over  the  lamb,  to  form  a  covering;  bake  a  light  brown. 

TO    GLAZE    HAM 

The  ham  should  be  a  cold  boiled  one,  from  which  the  skin  was  removed 
when  hot.  Cover  the  ham  all  over  with  beaten  egg;  make  a  thick  paste  of 
cream,  pounded  cracker,  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Spread  this 
evenly  over  the  ham  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 


78  THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 

RflYfll  RFFR  If  purcbased  *>y tbe  wife  wil1  keep 

nU  I  n L    ULLu    Husband  Home.       RENO  BREWING  CO. 

BEEF'S   HEART    STUFFED 

After  washing  the  heart  thoroughly  cut  it  into  dice  one-half  inch  long;  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  water  enough  to  cover.  Remove  scum.  When  nearly 
done  add  a  sliced  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery  chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt  and  a 
piece  of  butter.  Stew  until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Stir  up  a  tablespoonful 
of  Gold  Medal  Flour  with  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  thicken  the  whole. 
Boil  up  and  serve. 

BEEF    STEWED    WITH    ONIONS 

Cut  two  pounds  of  tender  beef  into  small  pieces,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt;  slice  one  or  two  onions  and  add  to  it,  with  water  enough  to  make  a  gravy. 
Let  it  stew  slowly,  till  the  beef  is  thoroughly  cooked,  then  add  some  pieces  of 
butter  rolled  in  Gold  Medal  Flour,  enough  to  make  a  rich  gravy.  Cold  beef 
may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  but  the  onions  must  then  be  cooked  before 
adding  them  to  the  meat.  Add  more  boiling  water  if  it  dries  too  fast. 

BEEF    TIMBALES 

Free  left-over  meat  from  fat  and  gristle,  put  through  meat  chopper,  cutting 
finely.  To  one  pint  of  meal  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  put  one-half  cup  of  stock  or  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread, 
crumbs  and  one  t  ablespoonful  of  butter  together  in  a  saucepan  over  the  "sim- 
mering burner;  when  hot,  add  to  it  the  meat;  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in 
carefully  two  whole  eggs,  well  beaten.  Put  mixture  in  buttered  custard  or 
timbale  cups,  stand  in  baking  pan  half  filled  with  hot  water.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

FRIED    TRIPE 

Should  be  washed  in  warm  water  and  cut  into  squares  of  three  inches;  take 
one  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Gold  Medal  Flour,  a  little  salt  and  make  a 
thick  batter  by  adding  milk;  fry  out  some  slices  of  pork,  dip  the  tripe  into 
the  batter  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

TRIPE    STEW 

Meit  in  stew  kettle  two  tablespoonfuls  lard,  one  of  butter;  add  three  medium- 
sized  onions,  three  cloves  and  garlic,  all  chopped  very  fine;  one  cup  chopped 
greens,  a  little  parsley;  one-quart  can  strained  tomatoes,  a  pinch  of  dried  mush- 
rooms, if  handy;  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  taste;  six  large  potatoes  cut  in  quarters, 
lastly,  three  pounds  plain  boiled  tripe  cut  in  thin  strips.  Add  boiling  water 
if  too  dry.  Serve  hot. 

HASH 

Take  cold  pieces  of  beef  that  have  been  left  over  and  chop  them  fine;  then 
add  cold  boiled  potatoes  chopped  fine;  add  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  warm 
water;  put  all  in  a  frying-pan  and  cook  slowly  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

Take  a  piece  of  meat,  cross-rib  is  best,  put  a  slice  of  bacon  or  some  lard  in 
the  bottom  of  pot,  then  the  meat,  and  fill  up  with  water  till  the  meat  is 
covered;  then  take  two  onions,  some  pepper-corns,  cloves,  bay  leaves,  one  carrot 
and  a  crust  of  brown  bread,  salt  and  some  vinegar;  pepper,  sprinkle  flour  over 
top  and  boil  slowly. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY   A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.       RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  79 


DEED 
DLLR 


Closer  to  a  Temperance  Drink 
Than  Any  Other  Beer.    Phone  581 


OX-TAIL   SAUTE 

About  twenty  cents  worth  of  ox-tail  for  three  people.  Have  them  dis- 
jointed in  pieces  about  an  inch  long.  Take  one  large  onion  and  brown  in  butter, 
one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  small  piece  of  garlic,  enough  water  to  cover  and 
cook  slowly  for  four  hours. 

BOILED    BEEF    WITH    CABBAGE—  German  Style 

Take  one  head  of  cabbage,  and  after  removing  all  soiled  and  bruised  leaves, 
cut  in  sections  lengthwise  making  about  eight  or  nine  pieces,  leaving  the  piece 
of  heart  attached  to  each  piece  to  hold  it  together.  Place  in  the  kettle  on  top 
of  beef,  which  has  been  boiling  some  time;  boil  together  for  one  hour.  Salt  to 
taste  and  pepper.  Lift  out  the  meat,  let  the  cabbage  boil  a  few  moments  longer 
in  the  beef  broth  and  send  it  to  the  table. 

HOT   BEEF    LOAF 

Take  three  pounds  of  steak  from  the  round  and  grind  it  through  a  chopper. 
Beat  two  eggs,  pepper  and  salt,  one  and  one-half  of  fresh,  soft  bread  crumbs. 
Press  this  into  a  shallow,  oblong,  tin  loaf  -shaped  pan  and  cover  with  about 
eight  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  thin.  Add  one-half  cupful  of  water  to  the  pan, 
bake  an  hour,  basting  often,  then  put  in  on  a  warm  platter,  removing  pieces 
of  pork.  Thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pan  with  a  little  Gold  Medal  Flour,  and 
one-half  canful  of  stewed  mushrooms;  pour  over  and  around  the  meat  and 
serve  hot.  It  is  good  when  cold  if  cut  in  slices  and  served  with  lettuce  salad. 

BEEF  PIE  WITH  POTATO  CRUST 

When  you  have  used  the  best  of  a  cold  roast  of  beef  take  the  small  pieces, 
or  as  much  as  will  half  fill  a  granite  baking  pan;  also  any  gravy,  a  lump  of 
butter,  a  bit  of  sliced  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and  enough  water  to  make  plenty 
of  gravy;  put  over  a  fire,  thicken  by  dredging  in  a  tablespoonful  of  Gold  Medal 
Flour;  cover  it  up  where  it  may  stew  gently.  Now  boil  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
potatoes  to  fill  up  your  baking  dish,  mash  smooth  and  beat  light  with  milk  and 
butter  and  lace  in  a  thick  layer  on  top  of  meat.  Brush  it  over  with  egg,  place 
the  dish  in  an  over  and  let  remain  long  enough  to  become  brown.  There  should 
be  a  goodly  quantity  of  gravy  left  with  the  beef,  that  the  dish  be  not  dry  and 
tasteless. 

ROLLED   STEAK 

Take  a  good  rump  steak,  flatten  and  lay  upon  it  a  seasoning  made  of  bread 
crumbs,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  mixed  with  butter  beaten  to  a  cream.  Boll  up 
the  steak,  bind  it  evenly,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish  with  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cover 
with  another  dish  and  bake  forty  minutes,  baste  often. 


80  THE   JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


s 

A 

U 

c 

E 

S 

CAPER    SAUCE 

Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour;  mix  well; 
pour  on  boiling  water  till  it  thickens;  and  one  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  fine, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  capers. 

GIBLET   SAUCE 

Take  the  liver,  heart,  gizzard  and  neck  of  a  chicken,  wash  and  boil  in  salted 
water.  Let  boil  till  tender.  Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  chop  into 
coarse  pieces.  Put  them  back,  add  a  little  butter  and  thicken  to  a  cream 
Pepper  and  salt,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

SAUCE  ROBERT 

One  cup  brown  sauce  made  with  stock,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar.  Simmer  five  minutes. 

TOMATO   MUSTARD 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  boiled  with  two  onions,  six  red  peppers,  four 
cloves  of  garlic,  for  one  hour;  then  add  a  half  pint  or  half  pound  salt,  three 
tablespoonfuls  black  pepper,  half  ounce  each  ginger,  allspice,  mace,  cloves; 
boil  again  for  one  hour  longer,  and  when  cold  add  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  ? 
quarter  pound  of  mustard;  and  if  you  like  it  very  hot,  a  tablespoonful  of 
cayenne. 

MINT    SAUCE 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar  to  a  half  teacupful  of  good  vinegar; 
add  the  mint  and  let  it  infuse  for  half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place  before  sending  to 
the  table.  Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 

CELERY  SAUCE 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  Gold  Medal  Flour  with  half  teacupful  butter,  have 
ready  a  pint  of  boiling  milk;  stir  the  flour  and  butter  into  the  milk;  take  three 
heads  of  celery,  cut  into  small  bits  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes  in  water,  which 
strain  off;  put  the  celery  into  the  melted  butter  and  keep  stirred  over  the  fire 
for  five  or  ten  minutes.  This  is  very  nice  with  boiled  fowl  or  turkey. 
CURRANT  JELLY  SAUCE 

Melt  one-half  glass  currant  jelly  over  slow  fire.  Add  one  cup  hot  brown 
sauce;  stir  well  and  simmer  one  minute. 

CREAM  OR  WHITE  SAUCE 

One  cupful  milk,  a  teaspoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  butter  in  pan  when  hot,  but  not  brown,  add  the 
flour.  Stir  until  smooth;  gradually  add  the  milk.  Let  it  boil  up  once.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve.  This  is  nice  to  cut  cold  potatoes  into  and  let 
them  heat  through.  They  are  then  creamed  potatoes.  It  also  answers  as  a 
sauce  for  other  vegetables,  omelets,  fish  and  sweetbreads,  or,  indeed,  for  any- 
thing that  requires  a  white  sauce.  If  you  have  plenty  of  cream,  use  it,  and 
omit  the  butter. 

HOLLANDAISE    SAUCE 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter.  Add  four  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  then  the  juice 
of  one-half  of  a  lemon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Pour 
a  cupful  of  hot  water  in  slowly.  Mix  and  set  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water.  Stir 
until  the  sauce  becomes  a  thick  cream.  Do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Stir  a  few 
minutes  after  removing  from  the  fire.  It  is  a  fine  sauce  for  fish,  asparagus  or 
cauliflower. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  81 

D  AV  A  I     RCTP    Smal!  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
IVV/  I  fiL    DEEiIV    Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 

GOVERNOR'S   SAUCE 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  heavily  with  salt  and  let  them 
stand  over  night.  Drain  well  in  the  morning;  cover  them  with  vinegar;  simmer 
them  with  six  large  onions,  three  red  peppers,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  mustard, 
ginger,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  cupful 
of  grated  horseradish.  Let  them  all  simmer  a  trifle  over  two  hours. 

SAUCE    PIQUANTE 

To  one  cup  brown  sugar  add  one  tablespoonful  each  of  chopped  capers  and 
pickles  and  simmer  five  minutes. 

SALMON    SAUCE 

Yolk  of  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one-half  cupful  of  vinegar.  Stir  in  rapidly 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  cool  and  put  over  salmon. 

APPLE    SAUCE 

Peel,  quarter,  and  core,  rich,  tart  apples;  put  to  them  a  very  little  water, 
cover  them,  and  set  them  over  the  fire;  when  tender,  emash  them  smooth,  and 
serve  with  roasted  pork,  goose  or  duck. 


DIAMONDS         Watchmaker 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


245  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1393          RENO.  NEVADA 

HORSERADISH    SAUCE 

A  good-sized  stick  of  horseradish  is  required,  which  should  be  grated  into 
a  bowl  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream  and  vinegar  to  taste  added.  Stir  all  well  together. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Two  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  four  large  onions,  four  chili  peppers;  chop 
fine,  then  add  four  cupfuls  vinegar,  three  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  two  of 
salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger,  allspice  and  nutmeg; 
boil  all  thoroughly  together  and  bottle  after  straining  through  a  colander. 

MUSHROOM    SAUCE 

Dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  beef  in  one-half  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Fry  one  minced  onion  and  one  chopped  carrot  in  a  little  butter  or 
dripping  until  lightly  browned;  pour  the  liquid  over  them,  let  all  boil  together 
for  ten  minutes  and  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  skim,  strain, 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 


82  THE   JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK 


E 

G 

G 

S 

HAM   AND    EGGS 

Fry  the  ham  quickly;  remove  from  the  pan  as  soon  as  done.  Drop  the  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  into  the  hot  fat;  be  careful  not  to  let  the  yolks  break  and  run, 
and  keep  the  eggs  as  much  separated  as  possible,  to  preserve  their  shape.  The 
ham  should  be  cut  in  pieces  the  right  size  to  serve  and,  when  the  eggs  are  done, 
one  should  be  laid  on  each  piece  of  ham.  If  any  eggs  remain,  they  can  be 
placed  uniformly  on  the  edge  of  the  platter. 

CUREIED    EGGS 

Slice  two  onions  and  fry  in  butter,  add  a  tablespoonful  curry  powder  and 
one  pint  good  broth  or  stock,  stew  till  onions  are  quite  tender,  add  a  cupful  of 
cream  thickened  with  arrowroot  or  rice  flour,  simmer  a  few  moments,  then  add 
eight  or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices  and  beat  them  well,  but  do  not  boil. 

OMELET    SOULFLE 

Take  three  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, one  salt-spoonful  of  chopped  onions,  one  pinch  of  dried  herbs.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth;  mix  the  yolks  with  the  parsley  and 
a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  the  herbs  gently  into  them  and  continue  as  in  a 
plain  omelet.  Fold  the  omelet  and  serve  immediately. 

OMELET 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  beaten  separately;  half  pint  of  milk,  teaspoonful 
corn  starch,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  and  a  little  salt;  the  whites,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  last;  cook  in  a  little  butter. 

SPANISH    OMELET 

Mince  very  fine  enough  ham,  fat  as  well  as  lean,  as  will  fill  a  small  teacup 
and  add  two  finely-chopped  small  onions,  such  as  are  used  for  pickling.  Beat 
six  eggs,  stir  the  ham  into  them  and  fry  the  omelet  the  usual  way,  folding  it 
over  when  done. 

SCRAMBLED    EGGS 

3  eggs,  Sprinkle  with  pepper, 

!/2  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  butter. 

1-3  cup  milk  or  water, 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  milk  and  seasoning.  Cook  in  a  hot,  buttered 
frying  pan,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Serve  hot. 

OMELET    ATI    NATURAL 

Break  eight  or  ten  eggs  into  a  basin;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  water;  beat  the  whole  well  with  a  spoon  or  whisk.  In  the 
meantime  put  some  fresh  butter  into  an  omelet  pan,  and  when  it  is  nearly  hot, 
put  in  an  omelet;  while  it  is  frying,  with  a  skimmer  spoon  raise  the  edge  from 
the  pan  that  it  may  be  properly  done.  When  the  eggs  are  set  and  one  side  is 
a  fine  brown,  double  it  half  over  and  serve  hot.  These  omelets  should  be  put 
quite  thin  in  the  pan;  the  butter  required  for  each  will  be  about  the  size  of  a 
small  egg. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


WESTERN  MUSIC  CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


THE   JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  83 

Sierra  Beer  for  Health  Phone  581 

EGOS   A   LA  MODE 

Eemove  skin  from  ten  tomatoes,  medium  size,  cut  in  a  saucepan,  add  butter, 
pepper  and  salt;  when  sufficiently  boiled,  beat  up  five  or  six  eggs,  and  just 
before  you  serve  turn  them  into  the  saucepan  with  the  tomatoes,  and  stir  them 
one  way  for  two  minutes,  allowing  them  time  to  be  well  cooked. 

OMELET 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  One  cupful  milk,  one  table - 
spoonful  of  butter  melted  in  the  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  Gold  Medal  Flour; 
cook  slowly  in  a  buttered  skillet,  on  top  of  the  stove,  without  stirring. 

POACHED  OB  DROPPED  EGGS 

Fill  a  pan  with  boiling,  salted  water.  Break  each  egg  into  a  wet  saucer 
and  slip  it  into  the  water;  set  the  pan  back  where  water  will  not  boil.  Dip  the 
water  over  the  eggs  with  a  spoon.  When  the  white  is  firm  and  a  film  has  formed 
over  the  yolk,  they  are  cooked.  Take  them  up  with  a  skimmer,  drain  and  serve 
hot,  on  toast.  Season  with  salt. 

EGGS  AND  BACON 

Cut  eight  slices  of  bacon  very  thin,  and  fry  until  crisp;  take  them  out  and 
keep  hot  in  the  oven.  Break  four  eggs  separately  into  the  boiling  fat  and  fry 
until  brown.  Serve  with  the  eggs  laid  over  the  bacon,  and  small  fried  pieces 
of  bread  placed  round.  Hash  may  be  used  instead  of  bacon. 

POACHED  EGGS 

Have  the  water  boiling,  and  the  toast  moistened  in  a  little  salt  water,  and 
buttered.  Break  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  carefully  into  the  water,  let  them  boil 
till  the  white  sets,  remove  with  an  egg  slice,  pare  off  the  ragged  edges  and  lay 
each  egg  upon  a  slice  of  toast;  put  over  bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Eggs 
require  to  be  quite  fresh  to  poach  nicely. 

EGGS    A    LA    CARACAS 

Chop  finely  two  ounces  smoked  dried  beef  freed  from  the  fat  and  outside 
skin.  Add  one  cupful  tomatoes,  one-fourth  cupful  grated  Old  English  cheese, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a  few  grains  each  of  cinnamon  and  cayenne. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  mixture  and  when  heated,  add  three  eggs 
slightly  beaten.  Cook  until  of  a  creamy  consistency,  stirring  continually  and 
scraping  from  bottom  of  pan. 

CURRIED   EGGS 

Boil  eight  eggs  hard,  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Cook  together  in  a  saucepan 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  Gold  Medal  Flour 
into  which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder.  Stir  until  smooth, 
then  add  a  large  cupful  of  skimmed  soup  stock  and  cook,  stirring  all  the  time, 
to  a  smooth  sauce.  If  too  thick,  add  more  stock.  When  smooth  and  of  the 
consistency  of  cream,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  lay  into  the  sauce  the 
sliced  eggs,  sprinkled  lightly  with  salt.  Cook  until  very  hot. 


84  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

DAY  A I     RETR    Sma11  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
I\V/l/lLi   DEiEiIX  Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 

SHIRRED    EGGS 

Butter  an  egg  shirred  or  small  vegetable  dish,  cover  bottom  and  side  with 
fine  bread  crumbs.  Add  an  egg  very  carefully,  cover  with  seasoned  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  white  is  firm  and  crumbs  are  brown. 

FRIED   EGGS 

Fried  eggs  are  cooked  as  buttered  eggs  without  being  turned.  They  are 
usually  fried  with  bacon  fat,  which  is  taken  by  spoonfuls  and  poured  over  the 
eggs.  Do  not  have  the  fat  too  hot  as  that  will  give  the  egg  a  hard,  indigestible 
crust. 

BUTTERED    EGGS 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  slip  in  an  egg  and  cook  until  the  white 
is  firm.  Turn  over  once  while  cooking,  and  use  just  enough  butter  to  keep  it 
from  sticking. 

BREAD    OMELET 

2  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  milk, 

1  speck  salt,  1  egg, 

1  speck  pepper,  %  teaspoonful    butter. 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  salt 
and  pepper.  Separate  the  yolk  and  the  white  of  the  egg  and  beat  until  light. 
Add  the  yolk  to  the  bread  and  milk  and  cut  in  the  white.  Turn  in  the  heated 
buttered  pan  and  cook  until  set.  Fold  and  turn  on  heated  dish. 

ASPARAGUS   OMELET 

Omelet,  1   can   asparagus. 

1  cup  white   sauce, 

Follow  any  of  the  above  omelet  recipes.  Make  white  sauce.  Add  asparagus, 
drained  and  rinsed,  to  the  white  sauce,  spread  some  of  the  mixture  over  half 
of  the  baked  omelet,  fold  over  the  other  half,  turn  on  platter  and  pour  over  the 
rest  of  the  sauce.  Use  the  cut  asparagus.  Cooked  peas,  cauliflower,  or  rem- 
nants of  finely  chopped  cooked  chicken,  veal  or  ham  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  asparagus. 

EGGS    AND    TOMATOES 

Scrambled  eggs  with  tomatoes  make  an  appetizing  luncheon  dish.  Take  two 
good-sized  tomatoes,  peel,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  hot  olive 
oil.  When  cooked  drain  off  the  liquid  and  take  four  eggs  well  beaten,  add 
some  cream,  and  scramble.  Mix  the  tomatoes  with  the  eggs,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  on  thin  slices  of  toast. 

EGGS    AND    SPAGHETTI 

Take  spaghetti  and  cook  it  with  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese.  When  the 
spaghetti  and  cheese  are  cooked,  add  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Serve  in  a  bowl 
garnished  with  pieces  of  soft  toast. 

Among  many  other  excellent  dishes  made  with  this  paste  are  fried  chicken 
with  spaghetti  and  tomato  jelly  and  macaroni  au  gratin  in  an  Edam  cheese 
case. 

EGGS    IN    BAKED    POTATOES 

6  eggs>  6  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese, 

6  potatoes,  6  tablespoonfuls    butter. 

Bake  the  potatoes,  cut  off  the  top  and  remove  half  of  the  inside  of  potato, 
in  its  place  drop  an  egg  raw,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  cheese  in 
each  and  1  teaspoonful  butter.  Put  back  into  a  hot  oven  for  4  minutes. 

MARRIED    LIFE 

START  RIGHT 

BUY   A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  85 


VEGETABLES 


SWEET   POTATOES— Southern  Style 

4  boiled  sweet  potatoes,  Lemon  juice, 

14  pound  butter,  ^4  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  water, 

Skin  boiled  potatoes  and  quarter.  Place  in  baking  dish,  with  butter  on  top; 
sprinkle  with  the  brown  sugar;  add  the  water  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Brown 
in  oven  and  serve  hot. 

GLAZED    SWEET   POTATOES 

6  medium  sized  potatoes,  *4  cup  water, 

%  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Drain, 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  put  in  a  buttered  pan.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling 
three  minutes  the  sugar  and  water;  add  butter.  Brush  potatoes  with  syrup 
and  bake  15  minutes,  beating  twice  with  remaining  syrup. 

SPINACH  WITHOUT   WATER 

The  following  method  is  very  little  known  and  has  the  advantages  of  pre- 
serving all  the  nutriment  in  the  spinach  and  avoiding  the  use  of  boiling  water. 

Having  washed  and  drained  the  spinach  very  thoroughly,  cut  it  up  in  coarse 
pieces  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  in  which  you  have  heated  three  and  a  half 
ounces  of  butter  to  every  pound  of  spinach.  Add  salt,  grated  nutmeg  and  cook 
sharply. 

SPINACH    "AU   NATURAL" 

Having  cooked  the  spinach  in  salt  water  as  before,  wash  and  drain  the 
leaves  carefully,  then  remove  all  water  and  give  them  a  few  strokes  with  the 
knife  without  chopping  them  up.  Put  them  into  a  frying  pan  in  which  you 
have  heated  some  butter;  salt  to  taste  and  serve  very  hot. 

This  method  of  preparing  spinach  is  very  much  appreciated  in  Italy,  where 
they  add  filets  of  anchovies  to  it. 

DUCHESSE    POTATOES 

Mashed  potatoes,  1  egg. 

Take  freshly  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes  or  some  that  are  left  over,  add  to 
them  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  place  in  a  greased  tin  and  form  in  balls,  hearts  or 
flat  cakes,  brush  with  the  beaten  white,  and  brown  in  oven. 

POTATOES   WITH    CHEESE 

Hash  eight  cold  boiled  potatoes,  mix  them  with  one-half  cupful  of  cream, 
half  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  and  a  very  small  dash 
of  grated  nutmeg.  Place  them  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  American  cheese,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  a  large 
teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 

BAKED   PEPPERS 

Cold  rice  and  stewed  tomatoes  can  be  made  into  a  delicate  filling  for  peppers 
by  seasoning  highly  with  spices  and  a  little  opion.  These  can  either  be  baked 
directly  or  can  first  be  fried  in  hot  butter  or  olive  oil,  then  put  in  a  baking 
dish  covered  with  a  cupful  of  white  stock  and  baked  for  half  an  hour  or  more. 
All  baked  peppers  are  better  when  cooked  in  stock. 


86  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

LYONNAISB   POTATOES  (No.    1) 

Cook  one  onion  thickly  sliced  in  three  tablespoonfuls  butter  until  delicately 
browned.  Remove  onion  and  keep  in  a  warm  place.  Add  three  cups  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  cut  in  slices;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  stir  until  well  mixed 
with  butter.  Press  to  one  side  of  spider  and  let  brown  richly  underneath,  then 
sprinkle  onions  over  potatoes;  let  heat  thoroughly;  turn  on  a  hot  serving  platter, 
top  side  down;  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley.  Cooking  the  onion  separ- 
ately lessens  the  danger  of  burning. 

LYONNAISE    POTATOES    (No.  2) 

1  pint  boiled  potatoes,  cold,  2  tablespoonfuls    beef    dripping    or 
y2  teaspoonful   salt,  butter, 

Speck  of  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley. 
1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion, 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  slices,  season  with  teh  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  the 
onions  in  the  dripping  till  light  brown,  put  in  the  potato  and  cook  till  it  has 
taken  up  the  fat.  Add  the  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

ARTICHOKE    SAUTE 

Cut  six  fine,  green  artichokes  into  quarters  and  remove  the  chokes.  Trim 
the  leaves  neatly  and  parboil  them  five  minutes  in  salted  water,  drain.  Lay 
them  in  a  casserole,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  one-fourth  cupful  butter; 
one-fourth  cupful  mushrooms,  chopped  fine,  may  be  added.  Cover  and  cook 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty -five  minutes.  Serve  with  any  desired  sauce.  Hollan- 
daise  is  best. 

BAKED   BEANS 

1  quart  navy  beans,  1  tablespoonful  salt, 

1/2  pound  fat  salt  pork,  or  2  tablespoonfuls  molasses, 

1%  pounds  brisket  of  beef,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 

y2  tablespoonful  mustard,  1  cup    boiling   water. 

Wash,  pick  beans  over,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  soak  over  night.  In 
the  morning  cover  with  fresh  water,  heat  slowly  and  let  cook  just  below  the 
boiling  point  until  the  skins  burst,  which  is  best  determined  by  taking  a  few 
on  the  tip  of  the  spoon  and  blowing  over  them;  if  done,  the  skins  will  burst. 
When  done,  drain  beans  and  put  in  pot  with  the  brisket  of  beef.  If  pork  is 
used  scald  it,  cut  through  the  rind  in  half -inch  strips,  bury  in  beans,  leaving 
rind  exposed.  Mix  mustard,  salt,  sugar,  molasses  and  water,  and  pour  over 
beans  and  add  enough  more  water  to  cover  them.  Cover  pot  and  bake  slowly 
six  or  eight  hours.  Uncover  pot  the  last  -hour  so  that  pork  will  brown  and 
crisp. 

|  BRUSSELS   SPROUTS 

For  Six  Persons.    Time  of  Preparation,  Two  Hours 

3  pounds   Brussels   sprouts,  A  pinch  of  carbonate  of  soda, 

3  ounces  butter,  A  pinch   of  pepper, 

1  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour,  Salt, 

1  pint  stock,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley, 

A  pinch  of  nutmeg,  %  teaspoonful  chopped   onion. 

Throw  the  sprouts,  after  removing  the  outer  leaves,  into  three  quarts  boiling 
water,  with  salt  and  a  pinch  of  carbonate  of  soda.  After  bringing  up  to  the 
boil  again,  take  the  sprouts  out  and  drain  on  a  sieve  and  then  on  a  dry  cloth, 
so  that  no  water  remains  in  them. 

Brown  an  ounce  of  the  butter  with  the  flour  and  sugar,  add  the  stock, 
chopped  onion  and  parsley,  pepper,  nutmeg  and  the  remaining  butter.  Boil  up 
well,  then  put  in  the  sprouts  and  allow  all  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST- WED    COOK   BOOK  87 

DEED    Closer  to  a  Temperance  Drink 
DCCn   Than  Any  Other  Beer.    Phone  581 

CAEROTS    A    LA   CYBANO 

To  make  the  dish,  the  tenderest  young,  sweet  carrots  are  chosen.  These  are 
scraped  and  boiled  tender.  Then  they  are  cut  lengthwise  in  halves,  dipped  in 
thickest  honey  and  placed  in  a  baking  dish,  with  the  bottom  thinly  covered 
with  olive  oil.  They  are  then  thickly  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese  and  salt 
and  placed  in  a  hot  oven  and  browned  over  for  perhaps  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKED    CAULIFLOWER 

ll/2  pounds  cauliflower,  %  tablespoonful  meat  extract, 

2  ounces  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  , 

1  gill  cream,  A  pinch  of  ground  mace. 

Boil  the  cauliflower.  Heat  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls Gold  Medal  Flour  to  a  golden  brown,  add  the  cream  and  half  a  pint  of  the 
water  in  which  the  cauliflower  has  been  boiled,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  meat 
extract  dissolved  in  it.  Boil  this  sauce  till  thick,  then  flavor  with  ground 
mace.  Strain  and  pour  over  the  cauliflower,  which  has  been  placed  in  a  deep 
dish.  Melt  the  remaining  half  ounce  butter,  pour  it  over,  sprinkle  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  standing  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water. 

ESCALLOPED    CORN 

6  ears  of  cooked  corn,  or  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  can  of  corn,  %  teaspoonful  pepper, 

y2  cup  corn  liquid,  2  tablespoonfuls  Gold  Medal  Flour, 

3  tablespoons  cream,  1  cup  bread  crumbs, 

1  teaspoonful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  butter, 

Cut  fresh  boiled  corn,  too  old  to  serve  on  cobs,  from  the  cob;  or  use  the 
pulp  of  one  can  of  corn. 

Mix  corn  with  the  salt,  pepper,  flour  and  sugar  and  add  the  liquids.  Melt 
the  butter,  mix  with  the  bread  crumbs  and  cover  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with 
half  of  the  crumbs,  add  the  corn  mixture  and  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  hot  in  pudding  dish. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATOES  AND  MUSHROOMS        , 

%  pound  macaroni,  1  tablespoonful  finely  chopped 

2  quarts  boiling  water,  mushrooms, 

2  teaspoonfuls   salt,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  Cayenne  pepper, 

1  small  onion,  cut  fine,  1  teaspoonful  parsley,  chopped, 

1  teaspoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour,     3  tablespoonfuls  grated  Parmesan 
Cup  of  hot  beef  or  chicken  stock,  cheese. 

1  pint   stewed  tomatoes, 

Add  salt  and  then  the  macaroni  to  the  boiling  water.  Let  boil  20  minutes, 
stirring  to  avoid  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Drain  in  colander;  pour 
1  cupful  of  cold  water  through  it;  then  return  to  cleared  kettle. 

DUTCH   ONION  PIE 

Slice  six  onions,  fry  in  butter  to  delicate  brown,  add  one-half  cupful  of 
milk,  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  Gold  Medal  Flour,  one  well 
beaten  egg;  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready  a  baked  pie  crust  in  usual  pie  pan  and 
pour  in  onion  mixture.  Eeturn  to  oven  and  bake  to  good  brown.  White  of  egg 
may  be  added  to  top.  This  is  a  most  excellent  Holland  Dutch  dish. 


88  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

RflYfll  RFFR  If  purchased  by the  Wife  wili  keep 

nUlflL    DC  Lit    Husband  Home*       RENO  BREWING  CO. 

SPAGHETTI  ITALIENNE 

%  pound  spaghetti,  %  teaspoonful  white  pepper, 

3  quarts  boiling  water,  A  little  nutmeg, 

1  tablespoonful    salt,  1  cup  tomato  sauce, 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  2  ounces  grated  Parmesan  or  Swiss 
%  teaspoonful  salt,  cheese  or  1  ounce  of  each. 

Slide  spaghetti  without  breaking  it,  in  the  boiling  water  gradually  and  boil 
25  minutes.  Drain,  place  butter  in  sauce  pan,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  let  cook 
a  few  minutes,  add  the  hot  tomato  sauce,  gently  mix  with  a  fork,  then  add 
cheese  and  mix  well  again  with  a  fork  for  one  minute  or  longer.  Dress  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

SPINACH   COOKED   IN    BUTTER 

Cook  the  spinach  leaves  in  a  pan  with  salted  water.  Wash  them  freely  with 
water  to  remove  the  sand  which  they  may  contain  completely.  Drain  them, 
press  out  the  moisture  and  chop  them  up  very  fine.  Heat  some  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  the  chopped  spinach,  stir  them  up  with  a  long  wooden  spoon,  adding 
a  little  butter.  This  will  work  out  the  moisture.  Season  them  to  taste  with 
salt  and  a  little  scraped  nutmeg.  Finished  by  adding  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
fine  butter. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


243  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1S92          RENO,  NEVADA 

MACARONI   ESCALLOPED 

Break  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  into  short  lengths  and  cook  until  tender  in 
plenty  of  salted  water.  Make  a  sauce  of  two  level  teaspoonfuls  each  of  Gold 
Medal  Flour  and  butter  mixed  together  and  one  cupful  of  cream  cooked  together 
five  minutes.  Add  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Stir  in  one  egg  and  take  from  the  range  at  once.  Put  the  macaroni  into  a- 
buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  sauce  and  pour  over  all  one- 
quarter  cupful  of  milk  and  one-quarter  pound  grated  cheese  melted  together. 
Pour  this  mixture  all  over  the  top,  so  that  it  will  be  well  distributed  through 
the  dish.  Cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

CHILI    CON   CARNE 

One  and  one-half  pounds  Mexican  Chili  beans,  6  good  sized  onions,  6  cloves 
garlic,  1  can  tomatoes,  %  teaspoonful  paprika,  a  bay  leaf,  1%  pounds  ham- 
burger, 3  tablespoonfuls  of  Gebhardts  Eagle  Chili  Powder,,  salt  to  taste.  Soak 
the  beans  overnight,  then  cook  until  done,  add  can  of  tomatoes  and  paprika, 
bay  leaf,  salt,  slice  the  onions  and  garlic,  fry  until  done. 

Put  the  humburger  into  a  perfectly  dry  frying-pan,  no  grease,  cook  until  it 
is  separated  and  dry,  make  a  paste  of  the  chili  powder,  add  all  to  the  beans  and 
cook  a  little  longer. — Mrs.  E.  F.  Kiessling. 


THE    JUST -WED    COOK    BOOK  89 


Pickles  and  Spiced  Fruits 


FRENCH  PICKLES 

Slice  green  tomatoes  with  onions,  add  salt,  let  stand  over  night,  drain 
thoroughly  and  let  boil  one-half  hour  with  vinegar;  sugar  to  taste;  white 
mustard  seed,  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger  and  little  mustard. — Mrs.  Cora 
Dixon. 

GREEN   PEPPER  MANGOES 

Secure  nice  large  peppers;  cut  a  slit  in  them  and  take  out  the  seed.  Slice 
a  head  of  cabbage  very  fine,  salt  it  as  for  slaw,  and  mix  very  thick  with  black 
mustard  seed;  fill  the  peppers  with  this  dressing  and  sew  up  the  slit.  Lay 
them  in  a  jar  and  pour  over  enough  cold  vinegar  to  cover  them. 

GREEN    TOMATO    PICKLE 

Slice  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes;  add  one  cup  of  salt,  and  let  them  stand 
over  night;  drain  the  water  from  them  and  add  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  one  large 
spoon  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard,  four  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  grated 
horseradish,  and  simmer  together  ten  minutes;  add  more  sugar. 

SWEET   TOMATO   PICKLES 

Eight  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  a  half  ounce  of  cloves, 
a  half  ounce  of  allspice  and  a  half  ounce  of  cinnamon.  Peel  the  fruit  and  boil 
one  and  a  half  hours;  when  partly  cold  add  a  half  pint  of  vinegar.  Put  away 
in  jars. 

PICCALILLI 

Mix  tomatoes,  chopped  and  drained,  with  chopped  onions,  red  and  green 
peppers  and  horseradish;  add  spices,  sugar  and  a  little  curry  powder;  cover  with 
vinegar  and  boil  one  hour. 

WATERMELON   PICKLES 

Boil  the  melon  until  you  can  stick  a  fork  through  it  readily.  To  seven 
pounds  of  fruit  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  one  ounce 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  Scald  the  vinegar,  put  sugar  and  spices 
in,  and  pour  over  the  melon.  Do  this  for  three  mornings. 

BRINE   FOR   CUCUMBERS 

Wash  them  in  clear  water,  lay  them  in  a  jar,  and  sprinkle  them  well  with 
salt;  as  you  lay  in  fresh  cucumbers,  add  more  salt.  They  will  make  their  own 
brine. 

CHOW  CHOW 

Twenty -five  young,  tiny  cucumbers,  fifteen  onions  sliced,  two  quarts  of  string 
beans,  cut  in  halves,  four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  and  chopped  coarsely, 
two  large  heads  of  white  cabbage.  Prepare  these  articles  and  put  them  in  a 
stone  jar  in  layers  with  a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt  between  them.  Let  them 
stand  twelve  hours,  then  drain  off  the  brine.  Now  put  the  vegetables  in  a 
kettle  over  the  fire,  sprinkling  through  them  four  red  peppers,  chopped  coarsely, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  celery  seed, 
whole  allspice,  and  whole  cloves  and  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Pour  on  enough  of  the 
best  cider  vinegar  to  cover;  cover  tightly  and  simmer  well  until  thoroughly 
cooked.  Put  in  glass  jars  when  hot. 


90  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

Sierra  Beer  for  Health  Phone  581 

TOMATO    CATSUP 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  two  and  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then  press  through  a  hair 
sieve  and  add  spices  in  the  proportion  given  below,  after  which  boil  for  about 
three  hours  over  a  slow  fire.  Remove  from  fire,  turn  it  out,  and  let  stand  till 
next  day,  when  you  must  add  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  for  each  peck  of  tomatoes. 
For  every  like  amount  of  the  vegetable,  add,  while  boiling,  one -eighth  of  an 
ounce  of  red  and  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  black  pepper.  Half  an  ounce  each 
of  mace,  allspice  and  cloves,  and  two  ounces  of  mustard.  Salt  to  suit,  put  in 
a  little  ginger,  and  essence  of  celery,  if  you  so  desire.  Bottle,  seal  and  cork 
and  put  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

MIXED    PICKLES 

Slice  in  an  earthern  jar  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  and 
pour  over  them  one  cupful  of  salt.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  drain. 
Add  one  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-eighth  of  a 
pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 


DIAMONDS 

WATCHES 

RINGS 

LAVALLIERES 

CHAINS 


Watchmaker 


ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 


243  LAKE  ST.          PHONE  1S92          RENO.  NEVADA 

PICKLED    CHERRIES 

Stone  five  pounds  of  cherries.  Take  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cinnamon  and  mace.  Grind  the  spices  and  tie 
them  in  a  muslin  bag;  boil  the  spices,  sugar  and  vinegar  together  and  pour  hot 
over  the  cherries. 

ECONOMY  VINEGAR 

Save  the  sound  cores  and  the  parings  of  apples  used  in  cooking.  Put  into 
a  jar,  cover  with  cold  water,  stand  in  a  warm  place,  add  one-half  pint  of  mo- 
lasses to  every  two  gallons.  Cover  the  jar  with  gauze;  add  more  parings  and 
cores  occasionally.  This  will  make  a  good  vinegar. 

PICKLED  BEETS 

Take  the  beets  when  cold,  slice  them  across.  Make  a  liquid  of  half  vinegar 
and  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  put  the  beets 
in  this.  This  is  only  for  present  use,  as  if  they  stand  too  long  they  turn  white. 
You  can  make  a  bag  of  spices  and  boil  with  them,  also  a  few  whole  cloves. 


K 
I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


WESTERN    MUSIC   CO. 

PIANOS  and  PLAYER  PIANOS 

12-14  EAST  FOURTH  ST.        RENO,  NEV. 


K 

I 

M 
B 
A 
L 
L 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK  91 


Jams   and  Jellies 


APPLE    JELLY 

Select  sound,  red,  fine-flavored  apples  not  too  ripe;  wash,  wipe  and  core; 
place  in  a  granite  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  let  cook  slowly  until  the  apples 
look  red.  Pour  into  a  muslin  bag  and  drain;  return  juice  to  a  clean  kettle 
and  boil  one-half  hour;  skim.  Now  measure  and  to  every  pint  of  juice,  allow 
a  pound  of  sugar;  boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes.  Bed  apples  will  give  jelly 
the  color  of  wine  while  that  from  light  fruit  will  be  like  amber. 

SPICED    FRUITS 

These  are  also  called  sweet  pickle  fruits.  For  four  pounds  prepared  fruit 
allow  one  pint  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  whole  spices — 
cloves,  allspice,  stick  cinnamon,  and  cassia-bude.  Tie  spices  in  thin  muslin 
bag,  boil  ten  minutes  with  vinegar  and  sugar.  Skim,  add  fruit,  cook  till  tender. 
Boil  down  syrup,  pour  over  fruit  in  jars,  and  seal.  If  put  in  stone  pots,  boil 
syrup  three  successive  mornings  and  pour  over  fruit.  Currants,  peaches,  grapes, 
pears  and  berries  may  be  prepared  in  this  way,  also  ripe  cucumbers,  musk- 
melons,  and  watermelon  rind. 

PLUM   JELLY 

Take  plums  not  too  ripe,  put  in  a  granite  pan  and  set  in  a  pan  of  water 
over  the  fire.  Let  the  water  boil  gently  till  all  the  juice  has  come  from  the 
fruit,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  and  boil  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
twenty  minutes. 

CRAB-APPLE    JELLY 

Select  juicy  apples.  Mealy  ones  are  no  good.  Wash  and  quarter  and  put 
into  a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire  with  a  teacupful  of  water.  If  necessary 
add  more  water  as  it  evaporates.  When  boiled  to  a  pulp  strain  the  apples 
through  a  flannel  bag,  then  proceed  as  for  other  jelly. 

PRESERVED   PEACHES 

Select  the  yellow  red-cheeked  ones  if  possible  (skin  same  as  tomatoes,  by 
pouring  on  boiling  water,  then  thrusting  them  in  cold  water  and  separate  in 
halves).  Proceed  as  for  preserving  cherries,  only  using  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 

PRESERVED    CHERRIES 

Select  the  large  cherries,  remove  the  stems  and  stone  them  carefully.  To 
each  pound  of  sugar  allow  one  pound  of  cherries.  Put  fruit  in  granite  pan 
and  pour  over  them  the  sugar.  Stir  up  and  let  stand  over  night  to  candy.  In 
the  morning  put  all  into  the  preserving  pan,  place  on  the  stove  and  boil  gently 
until  the  cherries  look  clear,  skimming  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  the 
cherries  have  become  quite  clear,  remove  the  pan  from  the  stove  and  seal. 
Keep  in  dry,  dark  closet. 

PRESERVED    TOMATOES 

A  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  tomatoes.  Take  six  pounds  of  each;  the 
peel  and  juice  of  four  lemons  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger  tied  up  in  a 
bag;  put  on  the  side  of  the  range  and  boil  slowly  for  three  hours. 


92  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

D  A  Y  A  I     RFFP    Sma11  Percentage  of  Alcohol, 
IWl/\Li   DEiCiIV   Large  Percentage  of  Extracts 

STRAWBERRY  JAM 

To  six  pounds  of  strawberries  allow  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Procure  some 
fine  scarlet  strawberries,  strip  off  the  stalks  and  put  them  into  a  preserving 
pan  over  a  moderate  fire,  boil  them  for  half  an  hour,  keeping  them  constantly 
stirred.  Break  the  sugar  into  small  pieces  and  mix  them  with  the  strawberries 
after  they  have  been  removed  from  the  fire.  Then  place  it  again  over  the  fire 
and  boil  for  another  half  hour  very  quickly.  Put  it  into  pots,  and  when  cold 
cover  it  over  with  brandy  papers  and  a  piece  of  paper  moistened  with  the 
white  of  an  egg  over  the  tops. 

LEMON  MARMALADE 

Peel  as  many  lemons  as  you  wish  and  take  out  every  seed.  Boil  the  peel 
until  very  soft,  add  juice  and  pulp  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  lemons. 
Boil  until  thick  and  bottle. 

GRAPE   MARMALADE 

Take  sound  grapes,  heat  and  remove  the  seeds,  then  measure,  and  allow 
measure  for  measure  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Place  all  together  in  a  preserving 
kettle  and  boil  slowly  twenty  -five  minutes;  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every 
quart  of  fruit.  Set  away  in  jelly  glasses. 

TO    PRESERVE    PLUMS 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Divide 
the  plums,  take  out  the  stones,  and  put  the  fruit  on  a  dish  with  pounded  sugar 
strewed  over;  the  next  day  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan  and  let  them  simmer 
gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  about  thirty  minutes,  then  boil  them  quickly; 
removing  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  keep  them  constantly  stirred,  or  the  jam  will 
stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Crack  the  stones  and  add  the  kernels  to  the 
preserve  when  it  boils. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES 

Pare  and  core  the  fruit  and  boil  till  very  tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  the  fruit  and  after  removing  the  scum  boil  the 
quinces  in  this  syrup  for  one-half  hour. 

PRESERVED   LEMON   PEEL 

Make  a  thick  syrup  of  white  sugar,  chop  the  lemon  peel  fine  and  boil  it  in 
the  syrup  ten  minutes;  put  in  glass  tumblers  and  paste  paper  over.  A  teaspoon- 
f  ul  of  this  makes  a  loaf  of  cake,  or  a  dish  of  sauce  nice. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM 

Crush  a  quart  of  fully  ripe  blackberries  with  a  pound  of  the  bset  loaf  sugar 
pounded  very  fine;  put  it  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire 
until  thick,  add  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  stir  it  again  over  the  fire  for  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour;  then  put  it  into  pots  and  when  cold  tie  them  over. 


MARRIED 


START  RIGHT 

BUY    A    PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.     RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  93 

••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••-••••••••••••••••••••t 

As  you  start  married  life  you  may  want  select  apartments 
If  so,  come  and  see  us;  we  will  make  you  feel  at  home 

Saturno  Hotel 

MBS.  W.  FUNK,  Proprietor 

Furnished  Housekeeping  Apartments 

Booms  Single  or  En  Suite.    Steam  Heat,  Hot  and  Cold  Water 

Cor.  West  and  Second  Streets  RENO,  NEVADA 


Phone  Main  1162-J 

Sierra  Vulcanizing 
Works 

H.  A.  DE  LUCA 

Tube  Repairing,  Surface  Patches 
Reinforcements 

Sections,  Retreading,  Recapping 
Etc. 

All  Kinds  of  Rubber  Goods  Repaired  and  Vulcanized 
Tubes  Vulcanized,  25c 

232  Sierra  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 

Phone  1097  Opp.  City  Hall 

KWONG-CHUNG  CO. 

Manufacturers  of 

LADIES'  SILK  WEAR,  FANCY  GOODS,  ETC. 
TOILET  ARTICLES  OF  ALL  KINDS 

Give  us  a  trial.    We  carry  a  full  line  and  can 
sell   as   cheap   as   San   Francisco   merchants 

BUY  AT  HOME 
102  No.  Center  Street  RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


c 

A 

N 

D 

Y 

its  to  the  Sw< 
CREAM    TAFFY    CANDY 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  flavor  with  vanilla;  boil 
until  threads;  cool  and  pull. — Mrs.  Mary  Bowland,  Dayton,  Nev. 


PEANUT   CANDY 


Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  put  in  an  iron  or  granite  vessel  and  stir  until  it 
boils;  be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  When  the  sugar  is  melted  and  begins  to 
boil,  stir  in  one  cup  of  hulled  peanuts;  stir  in  and  remove  from  fire;  cool  in 
^buttered  tins.  |  __.. 

OLD-FASHIONED   MOLASSES   CANDY 

Stir  and  boil  one  quart  New  Orleans  Molasses  and  one-fourth  quart  of  water 
until  it  crisps  in  cold  water;  add  butter  size  of  an  egg;  pull  and  flavor  with 
vanilla. 


DIAMONDS 
WATCHES 
RINGS 
LAVALLIERES 
CHAINS 

Watchmaker 

^  pcsce 

Jeweler 

ROSARIES 
CROSSES 
IVORY  SETS 
CLOCKS 

PRECIOUS  STONES 

245  LAKE  ST. 

PHONE 

1392          RENO.  NEVADA 

FUDGE 

One  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  two  squares  chocolate, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  vanilla;  cook  until  crisp;  beat  until  it  sugars;  pour  on 
buttered  pan;  cut  into  squares. 

PINOCHE   CANDY 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  cream  or  one -half  cup  milk,  and  a  large 
piece  of  butter,  one  cup  chopped  walnuts.  Cook  sugar  and  cream  until  done; 
add  nuts.  Take  off  stove  and  let  cool  five  minutes.  Then  beat  till  right  con- 
sistency.— Abbie  Blanche  Wightman. 

MARSHMELLOWS 

Four  cups  sugar  dissolved  in  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  boil  four 
minutes;  one  package  of  Knox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  twenty  tablespoonfuls 
of  water;  beat  together  for  twenty -five  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and  roll  in 
powdered  sugar  and  a  little  corn-starch. — Ethel  Allen. 

HARMONY  IN  THE  HOME 
THAT  HAS  A  PIANO 

WESTERN  MUSIC  CO.      RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK  95 

PEERLESS  CARS  HUDSON 

and  TRUCKS  SUPER  SIX 

More  Miles  Per  Dollar 
FIRE  STONE  TIRES 
Red  Side  Wall,  Black  Tread 

L.  L.  GILCREASE  CO. 

MOTOR  CARS 

A.  L.  PETERSON,  Sales  Manager 

35  West  Plaza  Street 

RENO,  NEVADA 


MAXWELL  $685,  F.  O.  B.  Reno 
MAXWELL  ROADSTER  $670  F.  O.  B.  Reno 

Compare  a  MAXWELL  with  any  other  car  costing  less 
than  $900.  There  isn't  one  that  can  afford  you  the  great,  big 
real  value  that  is  in  the  MAXWELL.  Just  for  example,  con- 
sider the  equipment. 

The  MAXWELL  has  electric  lights  and  starter,  demount- 
able rims,  rain-vision  windshield,  speedometer,  mohair  top, 
irreversible  steering  gear,  linoleum  covered  running-boards  and 
many  other  refinements  such  as  are  found  on  cars  costing 
$1,100  and  more. 

And  these  MAXWELL  features  are  included  at  the  price 
of  $685.  Did  you  ever  hear  of  any  other  car  at  anywhere  near 
this  price  that  affords  such  big  values?  You  may  take  our 
word  for  it,  there  is  none. 

When  you  consider  further,  that  the  MAXWELL  is  a 
good  looking  car;  that  it  is  easy  riding;  that  it  carries  five 
passengers  in  comfort ;  that  it  is  the  World 's  Endurance  Cham- 
pion ;  that  it  is  light  in  weight  and  inexpensive  to  operate — 
than  you  will  agree  with  us  when  we  say  that  the  MAXWELL 
is  absolutely  the  biggest  value  in  the  automobile  field  today. 

Just  phone  or  drop  into  our  new  Sales  Room  and  let  us 
show  you  the  cars.  We  shall  gladly  give  you  a  ride. 


96 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


TIME 

TABLE 

BAKING     BREAD,     CAKES,     PUD- 
DINGS, ETC. 

Loaf  Bread  40  to  60    m. 

Eolls,  biscuit  10  to  20  " 

Graham  Gems  30  " 

Gingerbread    20  to  30  " 

•Sponge-cake  45  to  60  " 

Plain  cake  30  to  40  " 

Fruit  cake  2  to    3  hrs. 

Cookies  10  to  15    m. 

Bread  pudding  1  hr. 

Eice  and  Tapioca  1  " 

Indian  pudding   2  to    3  " 

Plum  pudding 2  to    3  " 

Custards   15  to  20    m. 

Steamed  brown-bread  3  hrs. 

Steamed  puddings  1  to    3  " 

Pie-crust  about  30    m. 

Potatoes   ; 30  to  45    m. 

Baked  beans  6  to    8  hrs. 

Braised  meat  3  to  4  " 

Scalloped  dishes  15  to  20    m. 

WHAT    TO    SERVE    WITH   MEATS 

Boast  Beef — Grated  Horseradish. 

Eoast  Mutton — Currant  jelly. 

Boiled  Mutton — Caper  sauce. 

Eoast   Pork — Apple  sauce. 

Eoast  Lamb — Mint  sauce. 

Venison  or  Wild  Duck — Black  cur- 
rant jelly. 

Eoast  Goose — Apple  sauce. 

Eoast  Turkey — Oyster  sauce. 

Eoast  Chicken — Bread  sauce. 

Compote  of  Pigeon  —  Mushroom 
sauce. 

Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel — Sauce  of 
stewed  gooseberries. 

Broiled  Bluefish  —  White  cream 
sauce. 

Broiled  Shad — Eice. 

Fresh  Salmon — Green  peas  with 
cream  sauce. 

BAKING  MEATS 

Beef,  sirloin,  rare,  per  Ib... .  8  to  10    m. 
Beef,  sirloin,  well  done,  per 

Ib 12  to  15    m. 

Beef,   rolled,   rib   or   rump, 

per  Ib 12  to  15    m. 

Beef,  long  or  short,  filet 20  to  30    m. 

Mutton,  rare,  per  Ib 10  " 

Mutton,  well  done,  per  Ib...  15  " 

Lamb,  well  done,  per  Ib 15  " 

Veal,  well  done,  per  Ib 20  il 

Pork,  well  done,  per  Ib 30  " 

Turkey,  10  Ibs.  wt 3  hrs. 

Chickens,  3  to  4  Ibs.  wt ltol%  " 

Goose,  8  Ibs : 2  " 

Tame  duck  40  to  60    m. 

Game  duck  ..  ....30  to  40  " 


Grouse,  pigeons 30  " 

Small  birds  15  to  20  " 

Venison,  per  Ib 15  " 

Fish,  6  to  8  Ibs.;  long,  thin 

fish  1  hr. 

Fish,    4    to    6    Ibs.;    thick 

Halibut  1  hr. 

Fish,  small  20  to  30    m. 


Ice  Cream 


FREEZING 


BOILING 


30    m. 


Coffee    3  to    5    m. 

Tea,  steep  without  boiling  5  " 

Corn  meal  3  hrs. 

Hominy,  fine  1  hr. 

Oatmeal,  rolled  30    m. 

Oatmeal,  coarse,  steamed..  3  hrs. 

Eice,  steamed  45  to  60    m. 

Eice,  boiled  15  to  20  " 

Wheat  granules   20  to  30    m. 

Eggs,  soft  boiled 3  to    6  " 

Eggs,  hard  boiled 15  to  20  " 

Fish,  long,  whole,  per  Ib....  6  to  10  ' 

Fish,  cubical,  per  Ib 15  ' 

Clams,  oysters  3  to    5  ' 

Beef,  corned  and  a  la  mode  3  to    5  hrs. 

Soup  stock  : 3  to    6 

Veal,  mutton  2  to    3 

Tongue    3  to    4  ' 

Potted  pigeons  2 

Ham    5 

Sweetbreads    20  to  30    m. 

Sweet  corn  5  to    8  " 

Asparagus,  tomatoes,  peas.. 15  to  20  ' ' 
Macaroni,  potatoes,  spinach, 
squash,      celery,       cauli- 
flower, greens  20  to  30  " 

Cabbage,  beets,  young 30  to  45  " 

Parsnips,  turnips  30  to  45  " 

Carrots,  onions,  salsify 30  to  60  " 

Beans,  string  and  shelled..  1  to    2  hrs. 
Puddings,  1  qt.,  steamed....  3  " 

Puddings,   small  1  hr. 

FRYING 

Croquettes,  fish  balls 1    m. 

Doughnuts,  fritters  3  to  5  " 

Bacon,  small  fish,  potatoes..  2  to  5  ( l 

Breaded  chops  and  fish 5  to  8  " 

BROILING 

Steak,  one  inch  thick 4    m. 

Steak,  1V2  inch  thick 6  " 

Small,   thin   fish 5  to    8  " 

Thick  fish  12  to  15-  " 

Chops  broiled  in  paper 8  to  10  tl 

Chickens    20  " 

Liver,  tripe,  bacon 3  to    8  " 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


97 


This  Page  Will  Interest  Hubby 


Don't  Hesitate 
About  Clothes 

If  You  Would 

Dress  Well 

Let  us  demon- 
strate how  we 
can  give  you  the 
utmost  satisfac- 
tion in  the  latest 
fabrics,  latest 
style  and  perfect 
fit. 


LEWIS  &  LUKEY 

CLOTHERS  and  HATTERS 

Gent's  and  Children's 
FURNISHERS 


We  Carry  a  Full  and 
Up-to-Date  Line 

Trunks,  Suit  Cases,  Bags 


221  N.  Virginia  Street 


Reno,  Nevada 


98  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 

Phone  Main  1123-J 

Dr.  George  M.  Smitten 

Dentist 


Soome  10-11-12-11  Journal  Bldg.  16  East  Second  Street 

RENO.  NEVADA 


Jersey  Farm  Milk  Co. 

For 

Good  Cream  and  Milk 

Best  of 
Sanitary  Conditions 


S.  MURRAY  RENO,  NEVADA 

Palace  Postal  Card 
House 

MILLER  &  HOEGAN 

We  Carry  the  Largest  Assortment  of  Postal  Cards  in  the  City 

Opp.  S.  P.  Depot  RENO,  NEVADA 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK   BOOK  99 


Weights  and  Measures 


1  cup,  medium  size %  pint  or  %  pound 

4  cups,  medium  size,  of  flour  weigh 1  pound 

1  pint  flour  weighs %  pound 

1  pint  white  sugar  weighs 1  pound 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh 1  ounce 

8  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh 1  ounce 

1  gill  of  liquid  weighs 4  ounces 

1  pint  of  liquid  weighs 16  ounces 

HOW  TO  MEASURE  AN  OUNCE 

Housekeepers  are  often  confused  by  the  mingling  of  weights  and  measures 
in  a  recipe,  therefore  an  accurate  schedule  is  a  good  thing  to  have  around.  The 
following  of  the  most  generally  used  articles  will  be  found  correct: 

One  ounce  granulated  sugar  equals  two  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  flour,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  butter,  two  level  teaspoonfuls. 

One  ounce  ground  coffee,  five  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  cornstarch,  three  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  thyme,  eight  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  grated   chocolate,   three   level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  pepper,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  salt,  two  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  mustard,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  cloves,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  cinnamon,  four  and  a  half  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  mace,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  curry,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

One  ounce  chopped  suet,  a  fourth  of  a  cupful. 

One  ounce  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonfuls. 

TABLE  OF  MEASURES 

60  drops equals     1    teasp. 

1    tabsp. 
14       cup. 
y%      pint. 
1    ounce. 
%  pound. 

2  cups  flour  ~ ~~ "        %  pound. 

9  large   eggs "         \  pound. 

TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS 

1  cup  liquid,  3  cups  flour  for  bread.  *4  teaspoonful  salt  to  1  quart  custard. 

1  cup  liquid,  2  cups  flour  for  muffins.        1  teaspoonful  salt  to  1  quart  water. 
1  cup  liquid,  1  cup  flour  for  batters.  %  teaspoonful  salt  is  a  pinch. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  to  1  pint  sour  milk.       *4  square  inch  pepper  is  a  shake. 
1  teaspoonful  soda  to  1  cup  molasses. 

ROLLED  OATS— A  Perfect  Infant's  Food 

Put  two  teacups  Rolled  Oats  into  three  pints  of  boiling  water  into  which 
has  been  put  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Boil  this  about  two  hours  or  until  the 
quantity  is  reduced  to  one  quart.  Press  the  liquid  portion  through  a  sieve  with 
a  tablespoon  until  the  meal  remaining  in  the  sieve  is  dry.  Put  away  in  bottle, 
and  at  feeding  time  use  one-half  Rolled  Oats  and  one-half  milk.  This  quantity 
should  last  twenty-four  hours. 


3  teaspoonfnls 

4  tablespoonfuls 
1  cup 

1  round  tablespoonful  butter 

1  solid  cup  butter,  granulated  sugar,  milk,  chopped  meat 


100  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


Household   Hints 


Mildew  in  white  clothes  may  be  removed  by  soaking  for  a  short  time  in  a 
pail  of  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  chloride  of 
lime.  Then  hang  in  sun.  Repeat  if  necessary. 

When  frying  potatoes,  etc.,  try  chopping  with  empty  baking  powder  can 
instead  of  knife.  You  will  find  it  much  more  handy  and  quicker. 

Try  greasing  cake  and  bread  pans  with  a  small  five-cent  paint  brush.  Keep 
grease  in  round  tin  can;  cut  hole  in  cover  and  insert  handle  of  paint  brush 
when  not  in  use.  It  is  then  always  ready  for  use  and  does  not  soil  the  hands. 

To  prevent  cake  from  burning  when  using  new  tins,  butter  the  new  tins 
well  and  place  them  in  a  moderate  over  for  fifteen  minutes.  After  this  the 
cake  may  be  cooked  in  them  without  danger  of  burning. 

When  ironing  with  gas,  place  a  lid  of  the  coal  stove  over  the  gas  burners 
and  place  the  irons  over  this.  The  irons  will  always  be  clean  and  heat  much 
better  than  if  they  are  put  directly  over  the  gas  flame. 

To  clean  plaster  of  paris  figures,  use  toilet  soapsuds  and  a  shaving  brush. 
Einse  well.  Dipping  them  in  a  strong  solution  of  alum  water  will  give  them 
the  appearance  of  alabaster. 

To  preserve  gilt  frames,  cover  them  when  new  with  a  coat  of  white  varnish. 
All  specks  can  be  washed  off  with  water  without  injury. 

To  keep  lemons,  put  them  in  water.  Change  once  a  week.  Will  keep  a 
long  time. 

DO    YOU    KNOW— 

That  a  small  piece  of  butter  added  to  the  water  prevents  vegetables,  maca- 
roni or  rice  from  boiling  over? 

That  the  water  from  macaroni  or  rice  after  they  have  been  cooked  should 
be  saved  for  soup  and  gravies? 

That  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  added  to  boiled  meat,  while  cooking,  makes 
the  meat  tender? 

That  after  peeling  onions  if  celery  salt  is  rubbed  over  the  hands  before 
washing  the  odor  will  disappear? 

That  if  you  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  ground  coffee  before  boiling  it  will  im- 
prove the  flavor? 

That  if  kid  gloves  are  rubbed  gently  with  bread  crumbs  after  each  time 
them  are  worn  they  will  remain  clean  much  longer  than  otherwise? 

That  a  poultice  made  of  tobacco  and  warm  water,  put  between  two  cloths 
and  placed  over  the  breast  and  pit  of  the  stomach  will  relieve  convulsions  when 
nothing  else  will?  It  will  do  no  harm. 

That  any  one  who  has  aching  feet,  ^f  the  feet  are  placed  in  kerosene  for 
about  ten  minutes  each  day  will  receive  the  greatest  relief.  If  used  regularly 
for  a  month  is  said  to  cure  all  corns  and  callous  places  on  the  feet.  Will  not 
blister  or  do  any  injury. 

To  relieve  burns  get  a  small  bottle  of  picric  acid  and  with  a  feather  paint 
the  burned  or  scalded  parts,  allowing  it  to  dry.  In  a  few  minutes  all  the  pain 
will  be  gone  and  you  will  never  feel  it  again.  Where  the  burns  are  very  severe 
more  than  one  application  is  sometimes  necessary.  This  is  an  invaluable 
remedy,  especially  where  there  are  children  in  the  home,  for  they  are  getting 
burned  continually. 

There  is  nothing  better  than  sulphur  tea  for  the  hair.  It  cures  dandruff, 
promotes  the  growth,  makes  the  hair  soft  and  glossy  and  is  very  good  to  keep 
the  hair  from  turning  gray. 

The  whitish  stain  left  on  a  mahogany  table  by  a  jug  of  boiling  water  or  a 
very  hot  dish  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  in  oil  and  afterward  pouring  a  little 
spirits  of  wine  on  the  spot  and  rubbing  it  dry  with  a  cloth. 

Wash  your  weathered  oak  woodwork  and  furniure  with  milk. 

To  rid  your  home  of  ants  mix  thoroughly  two  parts  borax  with  one  part 
powdered  sugar  and  put  around  where  the  ants  come.  For  two  or  three  days 
the  ants  will  come  in  swarms,  but  after  that  they  will  disappear.  Leave  the 
powder  around  for  a  week  or  two  and  you  will  never  be  bothered  again  with 
ants. 

If  food  becomes  slightly  burned  in  cooking,  set  the  saucepan  in  cold  water 
and  it  will  take  away  burned  taste. 


THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


101 


S.  Goldstein 

v 

High  Class 

Ladies  Tailor 
and  Furrier 

Fit  Guaranteed 

SUITS  MADE  TO  ORDER 
REASONABLE  PRICES 

OPEN  EVENINGS  UNTIL  9  O'CLOCK 
228  North  Virginia  Street 

Up- Stairs 

Reno,  Nevada      Phone  Main  154 


You  now  have  the  wife !  Let  us  furnish  the  home  and  save 
you  money. 

It  will  pay  you  to  investigate  the  TA  BED,  three  pieces  of 
furniture  in  one.  Nothing  on  the  market  so  convenient. 

Kitchenware,  Dry  Goods 

Gents*  Furnishings 

and  Farming 

Machinery 

All  Moderately  Priced 

Nevada  Implement  and 
Supply  Co. 


214  Sierra  Street 


RENO,  NEVADA 


102  THE    JUST-WED    COOK    BOOK 


Utataraifc 


Thor  and  Lightweight  Cleveland 
MOTORCYCLES 

ODEN,  The  Cyclist 

and 

Ford  Specialist 

All  Kinds  of  Repairing  Promptly  Done 
Baby  Buggy  Wheels  Re-tired 

New  and  Second-Hand  Wheels 
Bought,  Sold  and  Exchanged 

Agency  For 
The  Diamond  Squegee  Tires 


15  West  Fourth  Street 
RENO  ::  ::  NEVADA 


A  Rare  Opportunity 

77ie  highest  class  sub-division  in  the 
State  of  Nevada 

University 
Terrace 


Large  Lots    —     Beautiful  View 

No  Taxes  --  No  Assessments 

All  Improvements  Free 

Cement  Sidewalks:  14  feet  from  curb  to  property  line,  8 
feet  for  parking;  cement  curbs  and  gutters,  22  in.  wide;  streets 
graveled,  rolled  and  finished;  electric  lights,  telephone;  city 
water  piped  to  every  lot ;  pillars  and  arches  at  main  entrances 
and  every  lot  well  drained. 

Why  not  make  the  wife  a  present  of  one  of  these  lots?  They 
are  increasing  in  value  all  the  while. 

We  sell  on  very  easy  payments.  Do  not  delay.  The  lots^ 
are  being  sold  rapidly. 

We  are  the  owners 

Bonham  Realty  and  Trust 
Company 

131  N.  VIRGINIA  ST.  RENO,  NEVADA 

Phone  756 


[*}ril!lllMllU!UIIII<1lllllllim 

I  MRS.  HOUSEWIFE:  I 


We   guarantee  | 

that  your  dollar  1 

will    buy     as  ?. 

much    depend-  1 

able    merchan-  i 

dise  from  us  as  f 

can  be  had  any-  i 

where,      and  = 

further  that  if  for  | 

any    reason,  1 

what   you   buy  | 

is  not  satisfac-  1 

tory,    we     will  = 

gladly  exchange  1 

it      or     refund  1 

your  money,  | 

|     You  are  insuring  satisfaction  when  you  come  = 

|     here  to  do  your  shopping.  t 

We  Open  Monthly  Accounts  f 

with  Responsible  People  J 

1  COMMERCIAL  HARDWARE  CO.  ] 

24  W.  Commercial  Row  \ 

Phone  46O                                        RENO,  NEVADA  | 


iiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiuiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHi 


NEVADA  PRESS 


GAZETTE   BLDG..  RENO 


