w^  mw  ^|f  ^"^"^  ^^.1?  i'^'"??^^^' -^  w'^m'$  m^. 
tm  i^x^  Mdk  t(^:^  tm  t(fm.ciii  t,^m.m  ^m 


Kentuckv 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


DDD173b33DA 


(Â§C!.A3;3U5, 


Ikcntuck^  Cook  Book 


EASY  AND  SIMPLE  F0R  ANY  COOK 


BY    A    COLORED    WOMAN 


St.   Louis: 

J.  H.  Tomkins  Printing  Company 

1912 


i^;'i^ 


Â»/^;^@>sÂ» 


INTRODUCTION 


I'XNHIS  book  is  the  work  of  a  colored  cook  of  many  years' 
l^^ai]  experience,  and  who  has  had  ample  opportunity  for 
experimenting  and  testing  the  recipes  presented.  They 
are  simple  and  easily  made,  and  have  proved  to  be  excellent.  The 
book  will  be  found  a  most  useful  addition  to  any  kitchen. 
Sincerely, 

MRS.  W.  T.  HAYES. 

Author  of  the  Kentucky  Cook  Book 


^^X^W^ 


TABLE  OP  MEASURES. 

Two  saltspoons make  one  coff eespoon 

Two  coffeespoons make  one  teaspoon 

Four  teaspoons  (liquid) make  one  tablespoon 

Three  teaspoons    (dry) make   one   tablespoon 

Four  tablespoons  (liquid) make  one  wineglass 

Two  wineglasses   make  one  gill 

Two  gills   ( Vz   pint) make  one  cup 

Two  cups  make  one  pint 

Four  cups make  one  quart 

One  cup  butter  (solid) makes  one-half  pound 

One  cup  granulated  sugar makes  one-half  pound 

One  round  tablespoon  butter  makes  one  ounce 

A  dash  of  pepper  is  quarter  of  a  saltspoon. 


TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING. 

Loaf  Bread 40  to  60  minutes  Bread  Pudding  ...  20  to  30  minutes 

Rolls  and  Biscuits.  .  .10  to  20  min.      Rice   and   Tapioca 1   hour 

Graham  Gems 30  minutes      Indian    Pudding    2   to   3  hours 

Gingerbread   20  to  30  min.      Steamed  Pudding 1  to  3  hours 

Sponge  Cake   45  to  60  min.      Steamed  Brown  Bread 3  hours 

Plain  Cake 30to  40  minutes      Custards 15  to  20  minutes 

Fruit  Cake  2  to  3  hours      Pie  Crust about  20  minutes 

Cookies    10  to  15  minutes     Plum  Pudding 2  to  3  hours 


BREAD,  ROLLS,  ETC. 


SPONGE  BREAD  NO.  1. 


1  cake  yeast  foam,  1  pint  lukewarm  water,  1  quart  flour,  dough.  Mix 
above  sponge  as  follows:  1  pint  warm  water,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  table- 
spoons lard,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  quarts  (2  lbs.)  flour. 

Recipe  for  above:  In  the  evening  soak  1  cake  of  yeast  foam  in  1  pint 
lukewarm  water  (80  degrees  F.)  for  about  1  hour.  When  dissolved  mix 
with  1  quart  of  flour  to  medium  sponge.  Cover  sponge  and  let  rise  in 
warm  place  over  night.  Early  in  the  morning  mix  sponge  with  1  pint  of 
warm  water,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  each  of  sugar  and  lard.  Then 
add  2  quarts  flour  and  mix  to  medium  dough.  Knead  dough  for  about  15 
minutes  and  let  rise  from  3  to  4  hours.  Knead  dough  down  and  let  rise 
for  about  1  hour  and  then  mould  into  loaves.  Let  loaves  rise  to  double 
their  size  and  bake  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

RYE  BREAD. 

One  pint  yeast  foam  bread  sponge,  one  large  cup  rye  flour,  the  same 
of  yellow  cornmeal  scalded  and  cooled,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  of 
molasses,  a  little  salt.  Knead  with  white  flour.  When  light  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

TEA  ROLLS. 

1  cup  scalded  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  14,  cup  melted  but- 
ter, ^V2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cake  yeast  foam;  dissolve  in  14  cup  lukewarm 
water,  1  pinch  nutmeg.  When  the  milk  is  lukewarm  add  2  cups  flour. 
Beat  well  and  add  the  dissolved  yeast  foam.  Let  rise;  then  add  the  but- 
ter, sugar,  salt,  nutmeg  and  the  well  beaten  eggs.  To  this  add  enough  of 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place. 
Shape  into  small  rolls.  Put  into  a  buttered  pan,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a 
brisk  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes. 

RUSKS. 

2  cups  warm  milk,  Vz  cup  butter,  Vz  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  cake  yeast  foam,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  cinnamon,  flour.  Dissolve  the 
yeast  foam  in  the  warm  milk,  then  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  batter. 
Let  this  rise  until  light.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten.  Now  add  this  to  the  batter  with  the  salt,  raisins  and 
Bufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mould  the  dough  with  your  hands 
into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  large  egg.  Set  these  close  together  in  a  but- 
tered pan  and  let  rise  until  fully  twice  their  bulk.  Brush  with  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  thirty  min- 
utes.   Nuts  may  be  substituted  for  raisins. 


CORN  BREAD. 

Mix  together  21/2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  scant  tea- 
spoon salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Beat  together  2  eggs,  add  1  1-3  cups 
of  milk,  and  stir  into  the  dry  mixture,  add  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
and  beat  well.  Stir  in  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  pour 
into  a  well  greased  pan.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

3  cups  scalded  milk,  4  tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  8  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cake  yeast  foam  dissolved  in  %  cup  luke- 
warm water.  Pour  the  scalded  milk  over  the  salt,  sugar  and  butter. 
When  lukewarm  beat  in  4  cups  of  flour.  Mix  well  and  add  the  dissolved 
yeast  foam.  Cover  closely  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  light  add 
enough  more  flour,  knead  (4  cups).  Cover,  let  rise  until  light.  Roll  out 
to  V2  inch  thickness.  Shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  brush  each  shape  with 
melted  butter,  crease  through  the  center,  fold  over  and  press  edges  to- 
gether. Place  in  a  buttered  pan  1  inch  apart  and  let  rise  until  very  light, 
then  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  15  m.inutes. 

INDIAN  BREAD. 

11/2  cups  Graham  flour,  1  cup  Indian  meal,  3  teaspoons  Price's  Bak- 
ing Powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  V^  cup  molasses,  1%  cups  milk.  Mix  and 
steam  as  Boston  Brown  Bread. 

HOMINY  MUFFINS. 

Mix  1  cup  of  warm  boiled  hominy  cooked  to  the  proper  consistency 
for  the  breakfast  table  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  1  pinch  of  salt 
and  1  cup  of  milk.  Add  this  mixture  gradually  to  1^/^  cups  of  flour  in  which 
has  been  added  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Lastly  add  2  well-beat- 
en eggs  and  bake  in  hot  buttered  muffin  tins. 

STEAM  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

3  cups  Graham  flour,  1  cup  flour,  3  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder, 
2  teaspoons  salt,  1  cup  molasses,  2V^  cups  milk.  Mix  as  Boston  Brown 
Bread  and  steam  four  hours. 

FLAKED  FISHCAKES. 

2  cups  of  hot  riced  potatoes,  1  cup  fish  flakes,  1  teaspoon  minced  pars- 
ley, V2  teaspoon  onion  juice,  %  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  of  pepper,  8 
slices  of  bacon,  hot  milk  or  cream  to  moisten,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Mix  potatoes,  fish,  seasoning  and  butter,  moisten  with  milk  or  cream,  form 
into  flat  cakes  and  cook  in  fat  of  bacon.  Serve  slice  of  fried  bacon  on 
each  cake.  Tomato  or  cream  sauce  may  be  used  with  these  cakes  if  de- 
sired. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

3  cups  of  flour,  1/2  cup  of  butter,  scant  teaspoon  salt,  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Tablespoon  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour, 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  mixed  together  to  sprinkle  on  top.  Mix  as  for 
biscuits,  roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick.  Cover  with  sugar,  flour  and 
cinnamon  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 


WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

3  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  %  teaspoon  salt, 

2  teaspoons  sugar,  milk.  Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  pow- 
der, -salt  and  sugar,  then  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff 
enough  to  handle  conveniently.  Handle  as  little  as  possible  with  the 
hands,  shape  into  a  loaf  and  place  in  a  deep  buttered  pan.  Allow  it  to 
stand  five  minutes  before  placing  in  the  oven.  Bake  slowly  and  for  a 
little  longer  time  than  is  necessary  to  bake  white  bread.  Protect  the  loaf 
by  placing  a  sheet  of  paper  on  top  of  it,  buttering  the  side  which  comes 
next  to  the  bread. 

FRUIT  ROLLS. 

2  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i/^  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  2-3  cup  milk,  1-3  cup  stoned  raisins  (chopped  fine),  2  ta- 
blespoons citron  (chopped  fine),  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1-3  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon. Mix  as  baking  powder  biscuits.  Roll  to  one-quarter  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  the  fruit,  sugar  and 
cinnamon,  and  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  into  pieces  three-quarters  inch 
in  thickness,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKING   POWDER  BISCUIT,  NO.   1. 

2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Vo  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  %  cup  milk.  Mix  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and 
sift  twice.  Work  in  the  butter  and  lard  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Add 
gradually  the  liquid  (more  or  less  is  required  according  to  quality  of  the 
flour),  mixing  with  a  knife  until  of  the  consistency  of  a  soft  dough.  Toss 
on  a  floured  board,  pat  and  roll  lightly  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Put 
into  shape  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS,  NO.  2. 

2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  I/2  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons butter.     Mix  the  same  as  Baking  Powder  Biscuits  No.  1. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

3  cups  of  graham  flour,  1^/4  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  dark  molasses, 

3  level  teaspoons  soda,  a  little  salt  and  a  cup  of  raisins  if  preferred.  Boil 
three  hours. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD,   NO.   1. 
1  quart  graham   flour,  unsifted,  1  teaspoon  salt,   1   teaspoon  baking 
powder  in  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  pint  buttermilk,  1  cup  of  baking 
molasses,  1  cup  of  raisins.    Bake  1  hour  in  slow  oven  in  1  lb.  baking  pow- 
der tins.    4  loaves. 

NUT  BREAD. 

^Vz  cups  of  flour,  sifted  before  measuring,  1^/4  cups  nut  meats,  1  cup 
milk,  Vz  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
After  measuring  flour  sift  again  with  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar,  add 
bi'oken  nut  meats,  mix  well,  beat  in  eggs  well  beaten,  then  add  milk. 
This  will  make  a  soft  dough.  Put  into  well-buttered  pan,  let  stand  20 
minutes,  then  bake  about  40  minutes. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD,  NO.  2. 

3  coffee  cups  corn  meal,  1  coffee  cup  white  flour,  1  coffee  cup  rye 
flour,  1  coffee  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  milk  to 
make  thin  as  cake  batter.  Stir  soda  into  the  molasses  until  it  turns  near- 
ly white.     Steam  for  three  hours. 

MUFFINS. 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  cups  flour.  Heat  butter  and 
sugar.  Put  baking  powder  and  salt  in  the  flour.  Add  eggs  well  beaten 
to  the  milk,  stir  well  in  the  flour  and  bake  in  pans  well  heated. 

BREAD  SERVED  WITH  SOUP. 

Cut  crust  from  light  bread,  cut  bread  in  strips  1-inch  thick,  brush 
scrips  with  butter  and  toast  light  brown.  Stack  log  cabin  fashion  and 
pass  with  soup.  Yeast  bread  can  be  made  into  rolls  not  larger  than  the 
finger  and  served  with  soup. 

GRAHAM  POPOVERS. 

2-3  cup  graham  flour  or  whole  wheat  flour,  1-3  cup  flour,  M  teaspoon 
salt,  %  cup  milk,  1  egg,  i/^  teaspoon  melted  flour.  Mix  salt  and  flour, 
add  milk  gradually  to  keep  batter  smooth.  Add  egg  beaten  light  and  but- 
ter, beat  two  minutes  using  Dover  egg  beater.  Turn  into  hissing  hot 
buttered  iron  gem  p^ns  and  bake  thirty  or  thirty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

WAFFLES. 

2  eggs,  1  quart  flour.  1  tablespoon  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  lard 
size  of  an  egg  worked  in  the  flour  while  dry,  1  teaspoon  baking  and  Vg  of 
soda  mixed  if  sour  milk  is  used  or  IVz  teaspoon  baking  powder  if  no  soda 
is  used.  Mix  corn  meal  and  flour  together,  add  the  soda,  mix  lard  well 
through  the  dry  flour.  Stir  in  the  milk  and  beat  till  smooth.  Add  Vz  tea- 
spoon of  salt.    Lastly  mix  or  beat  in  the  eggs.    Bake  in  hot  irons. 


CAKES 


FUDGE  CAKE. 

Cream  together  Yz  cup  butter  with  1  cup  of  sugar;  add  the  well  beat- 
en yolks  of  2  egg,  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  in  Vz  cup 
of  milk,  21/2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  IVz  cups  of  flour;  add 
2  ounces  of  melted  chocolate  and  V2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  shal- 
low pan  and  frost  with  chocolate  nut  fudge,  made  as  follows: 

Put  over  fire  in  a  granite  pan  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  Vz  cup  of 
milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  %  cup  of  grated  chocolate.  Bring  to 
a  boiling  point,  stir  a  little  at  first,  then  let  cook  without  stirring  until  it 
will  form  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Just  as  it  reaches  the  thickening  point  add  a  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts  or  peanuts  and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  pour  over  the  cake  quickly. 

SPONGE  GINGER  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses  and  one  of  sugar,  3%  cups  of 
flour,  one  teacup  of  sour  milk  with  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  it. 
About  a  tablespoon  of  ginger  or  to  the  taste. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  14  or  not  quite  of  cottolene,  1-3  teaspoon 
salt,  1  cup  of  milk,  2i/4  cups  of  flour,  2  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch,  3 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  extract  of  orange.  Bake  in 
layers,  sift  flour  in  a  pan,  then  measure  the  21  cups,  not  shaking  down 
any.    Add  corn  starch  and  baking  powder  and  sift  all  together. 

BROWN   STONE  FRONT  CAKE. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  Yz  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  soda.  Dark  part:  One  cup  grated  chocolate,  Yz  cup  brown 
sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  Iteaspoon  vanilla;  boil  together  and  pour  hot  into 
first  batter  made  as  above.  Bake  in  two  parts  and  put  together  with 
boiling  icing. 

ICING  FOR  FILLING. 

One  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  hot  water,  boil  until  it  threads,  then 
pour  into  the  whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten. 

EGOLESS  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  cup  chopped  raisin,  1  tea- 
spoon each  cloves  and  cinnamon,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups 
flour.    Bake  in  loaf. 


WHITE  CAKE. 
Three-fourths  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  i/^  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla,  3  cups  Iglehart's  Swandown  cake  flour,  3  rounding  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  whites  of  8  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
until  very  light,  then  add  the  milk.  Sift  flour  with  baking  powder  three 
times  and  add  alternately  with  whites  of  the  eggs  which  have  been 
beaten  very  stiff. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  whites  of  1,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk, 
Yz  cup  of  butter  (scant),  2i/^  cups  Swansdown  Cake  Flour,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  of  allspice,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  V^  teaspoon  clove,  V2 
nutmeg,  grated. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM   CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  separately;  %  cups 
strawberry  jam,  1-3  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
the  milk;  2  cups  of  Iglehart's  Swansdown  Cake  Flour,  1  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon; and  %  nutmeg,  grated;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  and  continue  beating,  then  the  strawberry  jam;  add  a 
little  of  the  flour  to  bind  the  mixture  together,  the  sour  milk  and  the 
rest  of  the  flour,  beating  well;  add  the  spices,  add  lastly,  fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  bake  in  square  shallow  pan  about  thirty-five 
minutes.  This  is  very  nice  covered  with  boiled  icing,  and -if  in  strawberry 
season  mark  the  icing  in  squares  before  it  is  cold  and  in  each  square  put 
a  ripe  strawberry. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE   FOR   HOLIDAYS. 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar,  %  pound  grated  chocolate,  12  oz.  chopped  al- 
monds, the  whites  of  7  eggs.  Mix  powdered  sugar,  chocolate  and  almonds, 
then  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  on  buttered  paper  with 
teaspoon.     Bake  15  minutes. 

WEDDING   FRUIT   CAKE. 

2  pounds  raisins  stoned,  2  pounds  currants,  1  pound  sliced  citron,  a 
few  figs  cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour  over  this  1  goblet  sherry  and  port 
wine,  1/2  goblet  brandy  or  whiskey,  let  stand  over  night  and  in  morning 
pour  on  what  liquor  has  not  soaked  into  fruit,  1  pound  butter,  1  pound  su- 
gar, yolks  12  eggs,  2  tablespoons  mace,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon.  2  nut- 
megs, 1  pound  browned  flour  and  whites  of  12  eggs.  Dissolve  1  teaspoon 
soda  in  a  little  water,  add  just  before  putting  in  fruit. 

INEXPENSIVE   SOUR   MILK   CAKE. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard,  1 
egg,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixed,  1  teaspoon  soda  in 
sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  of  raisins  chopped.  Bake  in  loaf  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Whites  of  9  large  eggs,  ten  small  ones,  1%  cups  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  14 
teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Pinch  salt  added  to  eggs  before  whipping.  Whip 
eggs  stiff,  add  cream  tartar,  whip  again;  beat  in  sugar  and  flavor,  add 
flour  and  fold  it  lightly  through  the  mixture.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  from 
20  to  40  minutes. 

10 


BANANA  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  gelatine  in  three  or  four  spoons  of  cold  water. 
Press  enough  bits  of  banana  through  a  strainer  to  fill  a  cup;  stir  and  cook 
this  pulp  with  the  juice  of  ,1/2  lemon  and  y^  cup  of  sugar  until  boiling. 
Add  the  gelatine,  cool  in  ice  water.  When  beginning  to  set  fold  in 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  dry.  When  cold  enough  to  hold  its  shape, 
pour  in  glass  cups.  Decorate  with  whipped  cream  or  blanched  pistachio 
nuts  chopped  fine. 

COCOANUT    LAYER   CAKE. 

Cream  together  quarter  pound  of  butter  and  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  beat  until  light.  Add  %  cupful  of 
milk,  21/2  cups  of  flour  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
sifted  three  times,  1  cup  Baker's  Cocoanut,  and  the  whites  of  eggs,  stiffly 
beaten.  Mix  carefully  and  divide  into  medium  sized  layer  pans  which 
have  been  buttered  and  floured,  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30 
minutes.  When  cold  put  together  with  cocoanut  filling  and  dust  over 
with  sugar.  The  filling:  Boil  together  1  cup  sugar  and  %  cup  water 
until  they  form  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water,  pour  slowly  while 
hot  into  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  2  eggs,  beating  all  the  time.  When 
stiff  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract  and  1  cup  cocoanut.  Put  this  between 
two  layers  of  the  cake. 

FAIRY   LOAF   CAKE. 

4  eggs  beaten  separately,  I14  cups  of  sugar,  1^  cup  sweet  milk,  2V2 
cups  flour,  44  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  V2  teaspoon  soda.  Add 
cream  tartar  and  soda  to  flour  and  sift  three  times.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  together,  beat  yolks  stiff  and  stir  in.  Whip  to  a  foam  and  add 
with  milk,  lastly  flour  and  any  flavor,  beat  very  hard.  Bake  in  slow 
oven  30  to  40  minutes. 

LILY  CAKE. 

1-3  cup  butter,  V^,  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1%  cups  flour,  21/^  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  3  eggs,  whites  only,  1-3  teaspoon  extract  lemon,2-3 
teaspoon  extract  almond.    Cover  with  frosting. 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE. 

3  eggs  beaten  separately,  V-k  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y^.  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  ly^  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
and  2  squares  of  chocolate.  Dissolve  chocolate  in  i^  the  milk  and  add  I/2 
cup  of  sugar.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth.  Cream  butter  with  1  cup 
of  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  then  beaten  whites,  add  chocolate,  milk,  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  flavoring.     Bake  30  to  40  minutes. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

Vs  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  creamed  together,  %  cold  water,  V2  cup 
melted  chocolate.  2  teaspoons  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  11/2 
cups  flour,  whites  of  3  eggs  folded  in.  Mix  all  in  the  order  given,  bake  in 
moderate  oven  40  minutes.  By  doubling  the  recipe  and  baking  in  three 
layers  a  very  nice  and  attractive  layer  cake  can  be  made  if  put  together 
with  boiled  frosting. 

11 


POTATO  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1 
cup  English  walnuts,  %  cup  milk,  i-^  cup  melted  chocolate,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  4  eggs,  yolks  and  white  separated.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
yolks,  milk,  chocolate,  potatoes,  spices,  flour  ahd  a  little  salt  and  nuts. 
Bake  in  tins  and  ice  with  marshmallows. 

POVERTY  CAKE. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  molasses,  2i/^  cups  flour,  1  cup  raisins  floured, 
1/2  teaspoon  cloves,  i/^  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  pinch  ginger,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  2  eggs.     Butter  size  of  an  egg. 


ICING  VERY  NICE  FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  i/^  cup  water,  cook  till  it  drops  from  spoon.  Pour  slow- 
ly over  the  whites  of  2  beaten  eggs  very  stiff.  Put  this  over  hot  water. 
When  the  water  begins  to  boil  add  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  and 
cook  till  the  icing  stands  alone  and  tastes  creamy.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  fold  in  the  flavoring.  Do  not  beat  after  it  is  done,  but  fold  over  and 
over  till  cool. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICING. 

Put  1  lb.  marshmallow,  %  cup  water  in  double  boiler,  stir  until  melt- 
ed. Add  1-3  cup  or  more  orange  juice  and  14  cup  chopped  fruits  and  nuts. 
Remove  from  fire  and  beat  till  cold.  Spread  between  cakes  and  ice  over 
top  with  plain  white  icing. 

DIVINITY    ICING. 

3  full  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  glucose  or  corn  syrup, 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Cook  2  cups  of  sugar  and  %  cup  of  water  together 
till  it  hairs.  Cook  1  cup  of  sugar  and  V2  cup  of  water  and  2  spoons  of 
glucose  together  until  it  hairs.  Pour  the  first  mixture  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites,  beating  constantly,  while  the  second  mixture  is  cooking. 
Then  pour  the  second  mixture  over,  beating  constantly.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  when  it  begins  to  cream  add  chopped  nuts  or  fruits  or  both, 
if  desired.  Spread  between  cakes,  ice  on  top  with  plain  white  icing. 
Nuts  and  fruits  can  be  omitted  if  desired. 

PRAULINE  ICING. 

21/2  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs.  Cook  2  cups  of  the  sugar  in  % 
c.ip  of  water  until  it  drops  from  the  spoon.  Melt  V2  remaining  cup  of 
s  igar  and  pour  into  tlio  syrup.  Cook  until  it  hairs,  pour  slowly  over  the 
lieaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Spread  between  layers  and  over  top  of  cake. 


ORIENTAL  FUDGE. 


1  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  milk,  %  cup  of  strained  honey,  white  of  one 
egg;  boil  milk  and  sugar  two  minutes,  add  honey  and  boil  to  soft  ball 
stage,  pour  one-half  of  it  over  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  eggs.  Return 
the  other  half  and  boil  to  hard  ball  stage.  Pour  into  the  first  mixture  and 
beat  until  it  stiffens.     Pour  in  shallow  pans  and  cut  in  cubes. 

12 


PUDDINGS,  PIES.  ETC. 


ALMOND  PUDDING. 


Turn  boiling  water  on  to  %  of  a  lb.  of  sweet  almonds,  let  it  remain 
until  the  skin  comes  off  easily,  rub  with  a  dry  cloth,  when  dry 
fine  with  three  spoons  of  rose  water,  beat  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
3  sponss  of  fine  white  sugar;  mix  with  one  qt.  of  milk,  3  spoons  of  lb. 
crackers,  four  ounces  of  melted  butter,  and  the  same  of  citron  cut  into 
bits;  add  almonds,  stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  small  pudding  dish 
with  lining  and  rim  of  pastry.  This  pudding  is  best  when  cold.  Bake  in 
hot  oven. 

LEMON   RICE   PUDDING. 

11/2  cup  of  rice,  3  cups  of  milk,  1  egg,  juice  and  rind  V2  lemon,  1/2 
cup  sugar.  Mix  in  order  given,  pour  in  buttered  pudding  dish,  set  in 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  slowly  until  firm  in  the  center.  Serve  hot  or 
cold  with  currant  jelly  sauce. 

STRAWBERRY  ROLL  PUDDING. 

2  cups  bread  flour,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  Yz  teaspoon  salt,  about  %  cup  of  milk,  1  box 
strawberries,  sugar.  Make  a  baking  powder  biscuit  mixture  of  the  flour, 
salt,  sugar,  baking  powder,  butter  and  milk.  Roll  into  an  oblong  i/i  inch 
thick  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  i/^  box  of  berries  quartered.  Then  dredge 
with  sugar.  Roll  like  jelly  roll,  cut  across  in  slices  1  inch  thick,  lay  in 
pan  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  strawberry 
sauce  made  from  the  remainder  of  berries. 

COCOA   PUDDING. 

Put  1  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  1  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  thick  and  smooth,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  scant  cup 
of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cocoa  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Remove  from 
fire  and  beat  2  minutes.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  then  the 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  baking  dish.  Place  this  in  a  pan  of  water 
and  bake  45  minutes.     Serve  with  a  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

KING'S  PUDDING. 
2  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  V2  cup  of  suet,  V2  cup  of  molasses,  1  egg,  1 
cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  14  teaspoon  of  salt,  V2  teaspoon  of 
soda,  1  cupful  of  raisins  and  Vz  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Soak  bread  crumbs 
one-half  hour,  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Stir  well,  steam  three 
hours.     Serve  hot  with  a  hard  sauce. 

IS 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING,  NO.  1. 

12  eggs,  1  qt.  bread  crumbs,  1  qt.  suet  (chopped  fine),  1  qt.  sugar,  1 
qt.  raisins,  1  qt.  Malaga  raisins,  1  qt.  Sultana  raisins  (seeded),  %  lb. 
candied  peel  mixed  and  sliced  thin,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  all- 
spice, 1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i/^  pint  brandy,  i^  pint  sherry,  salt.  Mix  dry 
ingredients  together,  flour  and  fruit  thoroughly,  add  spices,  peels  and  eggs 
well  beaten.  Mix  well  and  add  brandy  and  sherry.  If  not  moist  enough 
add  a  little  more  sherry.  Put  in  one  or  more  buttered  bowls,  tie  well- 
floured  pudding  cloth  on  top  and  boil  for  six  (6)  hours,  then  boil  or  steam 

2  more  hours  before  serving.     These  keep  a  long  time. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING,  NO.  2. 

1  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  1  lb.  of  currants,  1  lb.  suet  (chopped 
flne),  1  lb.  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  \i  lb.  of  candied  lemon 
peel  chopped  fine,  1  nutmeg,  little  cinnamon.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  pow- 
der and  salt  separately,  then  together.  When  well  mixed  add  sufficient 
cold  water  or  milk  to  make  a  batter  just  thick  enough  to  spoon  into  the 
mold;  leave  room  for  it  to  raise.   Cover  closely  and  boil  from  4  to  6  hours. 

PIG   PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet,   2  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  1  lb.  of  figs,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

3  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk.  Wash,  pick  over  the  figs  and  chop.  Chop  the  suet. 
Beat  the  eggs  light  without  separating.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  thorough- 
ly, turn  into  a  well-greased  mold,  cover  and  boil  3  hours.     Serve  hot. 

CHERRY   PUDDING. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  egg,  i^  cup  of  sugar,  1 
quart  of  cherries,  %  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  cups  of  flour  or  enough  to  make 
batter  as  thick  as  for  cake.  Stone  the  cherries.  Beat  the  eggs  light  with- 
out separating,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and,  when  light,  the  butter  melt- 
ed. Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  warm  water,  add  to  sour  milk  and  add 
this  to  the  butter  alternately  with  the  flour.  Beat  until  light  and  smooth, 
add  the  cherries  and   bake   for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

JELLIED  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Soak  1  cup  of  pearl  tapioca  in  1  cup  of  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  it  in  the  double  boiler  and  add  3  cupfuls  of  cold  water; 
cook  slowly  until  it  becomes  transparent,  then  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1 
cup  currant  jelly  or  a  cup  of  strawberry  jam.  Let  it  get  very  cold  and 
serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

MRS.  BELLE  JOHNSON'S  ROMAN  PUDDING. 

8  eggs,  2  cups  sr.gar,  1  quart  fresh  milk,  1  quart  cream,  4  maccaroons, 
1  gill  brandy,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  stiff  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  into  2 
cups  of  sugar,  rcU  4  maccaroons  fine,  add  to  the  eggs  and  stir  in.  Add 
1  quart  rich  cream,  stir  in  well,  also  1  quart  of  new  milk,  add  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla  and  freeze.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  in  dish,  first  placing 
several  long  lady  finders  on  botton  of  dish.  The  maccaroon  should  be 
dried  in  the  hot  oven  to  roll  well.  Add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 
just  before  putting  cream  into  the  freezer. 

14 


PRUNE   PUDDING. 

Stew  1  pound  of  prunes  until  tender,  then  let  cool.  Mash  fine,  sweet- 
en to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  in 
prunes.  Flavor  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  from  12  to  15  minutes.  Be 
sure  to  drain  all  the  juice  from  prunes  before  mashing.  For  Vz  pound  of 
prunes  use  whites  of  6  eggs. 

ORANGE  PIE. 
Beat  1/2  cup  of  butter,  2^/2  cups  sugar,  5  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour  or  corn 
starch,  1  cup  of  cream.     Cook  mixture  over  hot  water.     Use  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  for  meringue. 

MERINGUE  FOR  PIES. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  beat  into  them  gradually  and  slow- 
ly 2  level  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar  or  pulverized  sugar  to  each 
white  of  egg.  If  the  eggs  are  beaten  very  stiff  at  first  and  the  sugar 
beaten  in  slowly  you  can  use  your  meringue  to  make  designs  by  pressing. 
For  this  it  should  stand  aloiie  ana  be  stiff  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife. 

COCOANUT    PIE. 

1  grated  cocoanut,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  melted  in  a  cup  of  milk.  Measure  a  teacup  of  milk  and 
if  the  butter  is  not  thin  enough  after  you  mix  the  ingredients  you  can  add 
a  little  more  milk.     Bake  in  oven. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

4  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  2  oranges,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
scant  teaspoon  of  butter,  1  cup  of  water,  the  whites  beat  to  a  froth,  ta- 
blespoon of  sugar.  Cook  pastry  before  pouring  ingredients  in.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler,  then  spread  the  whites  over  the  filling  and  bake. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Boil  in  double  boiler  the  juice  of  2  large  lemons,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups 
of  water,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  1  teaspoon  butter,  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  beaten  well.  Then  bake.  After  the  crust  is  baked  take  from 
oven  after  being  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon 
of  sugar,  then  put  back  in  over  and  bake  until  brown. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Skin  the  stalk,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  wash  and  put  them  in  a 
stew  pan  with  no  more  water  than  what  adheres  to  them;  when  cooked 
mash  them  fine  and  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter.  When  cool,  sweeten  to 
taste;  if  liked,  add  a  little  lemon  peel,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  line  your  pan 
with  thin  crust,  put  in  the  filling,  cover  with  crust  and  bake  in  quick 
oven.     Sift  sugar  over  it  when  served. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Beat  together  until  very  light  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla  flavor,  then  add  the  4  beaten  whites. 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  lastly  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  mix  well  and  pour  into 
tins  lined  with  paste.    Bake  until  firm. 

15 


CORN  PUDDING. 

10  ears  of  corn  grated,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
scant  2  ozs.  of  butter  melted.  Toss  together  lightly,  pour  into  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  %  of  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

QUEEN   PUDDING. 

iy2  cups  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  cup  stewed  apples  over  the  top  of  pudding.  Make  a  meringue 
of  the  remaining  white  of  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  powder.  Sugar  and 
spread  over  the  apple.  Return  to  the  oven  until  it  is  delicate  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

COCOANUT   CREAM   PIE. 

1  heaping  cup  of  Baker's  Shredded  Cocoanut,  %  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  4  tablespoons  cold  water,  3  eggs,  2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  1 
cup  cream,  1  cup  milk,  6  tablespoons  sugar.  Some  pastry.  Line  two 
pie  plates  with  good  pastry.  Put  milk  and  cream  into  a  saucepan,  bring 
to  boiling  point,  add  corn  starch  mixed  with  water.  Remove  saucepan 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  butter.  Let  stand  until  perfectly  cold.  Beat 
up  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together,  then  add  cocoanut  to  this.  Add 
this  mixture  to  the  milk  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Divide  into  pre- 
pared pie  plates  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve 
hot. 

MOCK  CREAM  PIE. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  crust  and  bake.  Fill  with  a  mixture 
made  of  the  following  ingredients.  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  ta- 
blespoons of  cornstarch,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  vanilla  to  flavor.  Cook  until 
thick,  then  fill  the  crust  with  the  cream.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  place  in  the  oven 
until  a  light  brown. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

1  quart  of  cherries,  IV^  cups  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Stone  the 
cherries,  saving  all  the  juice.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  flour  and  stir  until 
well  mixed.  Fill  the  pie  plate,  lined  with  pastry,  cover  with  the  upper 
crust  and  bake.  When  canned  cherries  are  used  take  only  half  the  juice 
to  the  same  amount  of  cherries,  sugar  and  flour.  Pastry:  1  quart  of 
flour,  1  cup  of  lard,  i^teaspoon  of  salt,  little  baking  powder.  Mix  the 
lard  and  flour  thoroughly  and  add  enough  water  to  make  it  roll  smooth. 
Roll  thin.  Make  the  pastry  the  night  before  using  and  it  is  always  better. 
This  amount  makes  pastry  enough  for  three  pies. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE. 

1  cup  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  corn  starch,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
for  the  meringue.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together,  add  the  corn  starch, 
moistened  with  a  little  cold  water  and  cook  flve  minutes.  Then  put  in  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  lemon  juice,  rind  and  salt.  Cool  slightly  and  turn 
into  a  previously  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  beating 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Put  into  a 
moderate  oven  to  set  and  brown  the  meringue. 

16 


PEACH  COBBLER. 
Two  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two  large  heaping  tablespoons 
baking  powder,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
melted.     Pour  over  one  dozen  sliced  peaches  with  one  cup  of  sugar.    Any 
fruit  may  be  used  with  this  batter. 


MINCE  MEAT. 


2  pounds  of  lean  beef.  1  quart  of  apples  measured  after  chopping,  3 
cups  of  raisins,  %  pound  of  citron,  %  cup  of  candied  orange  peel,  i^  cup 
of  molasses,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
1  orange,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  cloves,  V2  cup  of  brandy,  1 
pound  of  suet,  1  cup  of  currants,  %  cup  of  candied  fruit,  14  cup  of  candied 
lemon  peel,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  V2  teaspoon  of  allspice, 
y2  cup  of  sherry,  1  cup  of  cider.  Chop  the  beef  and  suet  very  fine  and 
mix.  Add  the  chopped  apples.  Seed  the  raisins,  chop  the  candied  fruit, 
candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  and  slice  the  citron  Add  to  the  meat  and 
suet  with  the  currants,  spices  and  salt.  Mix  and  add  the  sugar,  molasses, 
lemon  and  orange  juice;  when  well  mixed  add  the  brandy,  sherry  and 
cider.  It  should  stand  several  days  before  using  to  ripen  or  blend,  and 
should  keep  all  the  winter.  Two  cups  of  hard  cider  may  be  used  in 
place  of  brandy  and  sherry,  and  the  quantities  of  beef,  suet  and  apples 
may  be  doubled  to  the  amount  of  fruit  given  if  desired.  If  this  is  done, 
be  careful  to  add  sufficient  moistening,  and  remember  that  the  liquor  is 
added  to  keep  the  mince  meat,  not  especially  flavoring,  as  the  quantity  is 
so  small  that  this  is  disseminated  in  cooking. 

LEMON  MINCE  MEAT. 

3  large  lemons  or  4  small  ones,  4  large  apples  or  6  small  ones,  V^  lb. 
of  suet  chopped  fine,  1  lb.  of  currants,  Vz  lb.  of  sugar,  i^  small  glass  of 
syrup  or  jelly,  3  oz.  citron  sliced  fine,  V2  nutmeg  grated;  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  mace  to  taste;  V2  glass  of  sherry,  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  whiskey. 
Peel  the  lemons  very  thin,  squeeze  the  juice  from  them.  Boil  the  rind  un- 
til tender  enough  to  rub  to  a  paste.  Add  the  rest  of  materials  and  keep 
closely  covered  in  a  jar.    This  makes  2  quarts. 


OATMEAL  COOKIES. 


1  egg,  V4,  cup  sugar,  14  cup  thin  cream,  i/4  cup  milk,  V2  cup  fine  oat- 
meal, 2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  eggs 
until  light,  add  sugar,  cream  and  milk,  then  add  oatmeal,  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt,  mixed  and  sifted.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  roll,  cut  in 
shape  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

SUSIE'S  COOKIES. 
1  qt.  of  flour,  2  cups  of  sugar,  5  eggs,  I14  cup  of  butter,  2  teaspoons 
of  vanilla  and  a  little  salt,  half  cup  of  milk;  put  all  ingredients  in  dry 
flour  and  rub  well  into  flour.  Add  milk  last;  this  makes  them  very  thin, 
roll  out  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  before  cutting,  lift  from  the  making 
board  with  a  pancake  turner,  put  in  pan,  not  close  together.  Bake  quickly 
m  a  hot  oven. 

* 

17 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  AND  DESSERTS 


MAPLE  MOUSSE,  NO.  1. 
1  pint  sweet  cream,  1  small  cup  maple  syrap,  4  eggs  beaten  separate- 
ly.  Put  syrup  and  beaten  yolks  Into  a  bowl,  stir  well  together,  then  put 
on  stove  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  custard. 
Whip  cream  stiff,  also  whites  of  eggs  and  add  the  custard.  Let  it  stand 
in  a  freezer  well  packed  for  three  hours. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE,  NO.  2. 
4  eggs,  1  cup  of  maple  syrup,  1  quart  cream  whipped.     Beat  yolks  of 
eggs  very  light,  stir  in  1  cup  of  syrup  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring 
constantly.     Add  1  quart  whipped  cream  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.    Pack  in  molds  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  for  at  least  3  hours. 

HERMITS. 
Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  four  ta- 
blespoons sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  three 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
one  cup  raisins  chopped.    Drop  on  tins  and  bake. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 
1  pint  milk,  1/2  cup  sugar,  1  square  chocolate,  1  saltspoon  cinnamon,  2 
tablespoons  corn  starch.     Heat  milk  in  double  boiler  with  chocolate  and 
sugar.     Thicken  with  cornstarch  and  cook  until  smooth.     Put  in  shei'bet 
cups  and  serve  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

LEMON  E'OAM. 
Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  4  tablespoons  sugar.    Add  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon  and  two  tablespoons  hot  water.     Cook  in  double  boilei' 
until  thick.    Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  whites  of  eggs.    Serve  very  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  SPONGE. 
Soak  114  ounces  of  gelatin  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Heat  2  cups  of  milk 
in  a  double  boiler,  add  to  this  2%  ounces  of  melted  chocolate  and  five 
tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar.  When  hot  pour  over  the  gelatin  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  When  cool  add  1  cup  of  thick  cream,  l^  cup  of 
crushed  almonds  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Let  it  get  cold,  but  before  it 
sets  whip  lightly  and  pour  into  a  wet  mold. 

PRUNES  IN  AMBUSH. 
Boil  one  cupful  of  rice  in  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  pour  into  a  ring' 
mold.     When  cold  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  fill  the  center  with  stewed 
prunes.     Pour  some  of  the  prune  juice  over  the  rice  and  cover  the  prunes 
with  whipped  cream. 

PEACH   MERINGUES   NO.   1. 
Bake  a  cake  in  layer  cake  tins  or  in  a  long  shallow  cake  tin.    Spread 
with  sliced  peaches,  cover  thickly  with  a  soft  nleringue,  dust  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  brown  in  the  oven.    Cut  in  squares  and  serve  warm. 

18 


PRAULINE  FILLING. 

2  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  sv/eet  milk, 
3  tablespoons  maple  syrup,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  milk  and  sugar 
until  it  boils.  Add  maple  syrup.  Cook  until  it  creams  when  tried  in 
water.    Add  butter  and  beat  until  cool. 

PUFF  PASTE  NO.  1. 
2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Enough  water  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Wash  the  butter,  put  a  tablespoon  in  the  flour,  shape 
the  other  in  a  square  cake,  wrap  in  a  napkin  and  put  it  in  cool  place. 
Mix  the  tablespoon  of  butter  with  the  flour  with  the  tips  of  the  Angers, 
working  it  to  a  stiff  dough  with  1-3  cup  of  ice  water  and  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Roll  out  twice  as  long  as  wide,  put  the  cake  of  butter  in  the 
center,  fold  the  sides  and  then  the  ends  of  thepa  ste  over  the  butter.  Let 
it  stand  ten  minutes.  Turn  the  paste  half  around.  Roll  again  and  turn 
as  before.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  between  each  rolling.  It  should  be 
rolled  5  or  6  times,  cut  into  shape,  chilled  and  baked. 

MARSHMALLOW  PARFAIT. 
Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  %  cup  of  sugar  and  i^  cup  of  boiling 
water  boiled  to  thread  stage.  Pour  this  over  whites  of  eggs  beating  all 
the  while.  When  it  begins  to  cool  add  14  pound  of  chopped  marshmal- 
lows.  Beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  add  the  whip  from  2  cups  of 
cream.    Pour  in  a  mould,  seal  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours. 

ANGEL  AND  NUT  PARFAIT. 
1  cup  of  sugar,  i^  cup  of  water  cooked  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball.  Pour 
slowly  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff.     Fold  in  4  cups  of  cream 
whipped.     Add  2  cups  more  or  less  of  ground  nuts.     Put  in  a  mould,  seal 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  4  hours. 

NOUGATINE  CREAM. 
Sweeten  2  quai'ts  of  cream  with  1  cup  of  sugar.     Pour  into  this  the 
liquor  from  one  pint  bottle  of  creme  de  menthe  cherries.     Freeze  to  a 
mush  and  add  the  chopped  cherries,  M  pound  of  chopped  marshmallo\\'s 
and  1  cup  of  chopped  blanched  almonds. 

FROZEN  WHIPPED  CREAM. 
Whip  cream  very  stiff,  sweeten,  flavor  and  color  if  desired,  and  pack 
in  moulds.     Add  fruit,  nuts  and  different  flavoring  and  colors  packed  in 
irregular    layers.      Use    baking    pov/der   cans    if    desired    for    packing    to 
freeze. 

PLAIN   ICE   CREAM   WITH   CHOCOLATE   SAUCE. 
1   qt.   rich   cream   whipped   stiff,    1   qt.   rich   milk,   11/2   cups  of  sugar 
dissolved  in  the  hot  milk.     Do  not  let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil,  but  hot 
enough  to  melt  sugar.     Let  the  milk  cool,  then  add  cream.    Use  whatever 
flavor  is  desired. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 
1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  squares  of  chocolate,  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Put  the  sugar  on  Are  in  water  enough  to  cover.  When  dissolved,  add  choc- 
olate and  let  all  boil,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Add  milk  and  let  simmer. 
Chopped  nuts  of  any  kind  are  an  improvement.  Sauce  can  be  used  bote  if 
desired  and  is  preferred  by  many. 

19 


PEACH  MERINGUES  NO.  2. 
6  good  sized  rounds  of  sponge  or  plain  cake,  6  halves  of  peaches,  mer- 
ingue made  of  2  egg  whites  and  1-3  cup  powdered  sugar,  2i/^  tablespoons 
candied  fruits  and  nuts  chopped  together.  Bake  sponge  or  plain  cake  in 
a  thin  sheat.  Cut  out  in  rounds  and  place  on  each  slice  a  peach  half,  fill- 
ing in  the  cavity  with  the  fruit.  Cover  with  the  meringue  and  bake  8  to 
10  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with  peach  or  fruit  sauce  or  boiled 
custard. 

PRUNE  ROLY  POLY. 

Soak  one-half  pound  of  prunes  over  night.  In  the  morning  cook  till 
tender,  remove  the  pits  and  shred  with  a  fork.  Add  sugar  to  taste  and 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Make  a  soft  dough  of  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  1  heaping  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Roll  out  until  the  dough  is  about  %  of  an  inch  thick. 
Spread  with  stewed  prunes,  roll  about  45  minutes.  Serve  with  a  lemon 
sauce  or  a  hard  sauce. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

Melt  y2  cups  of  sugar  in  an  omelet  pan,  letting  cook  until  delicate 
brown  color.  Have  ready  3  cups  scalded  milk,  add  the  caramel  to  it, 
then  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  the  mixture  over  3  well  beaten 
eggs;  flavor  to  taste  and  strain  into  a  buttered  dish.  Bake  until  set  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Having  the  dish  containing  the  custard  set  into  another 
dish  of  hot  water.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD. 

1  pint  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  eggs.  Put  in  cups,  sprinkle 
cocoanut  over  the  top  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  bake. 

FRUIT  PUFFS. 

1  pint  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  1  table- 
spoon of  cream.  Add  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  a  table- 
spoon of  this  mixture  into  buttered  cups,  then  some  cooked  fruit,  another 
spoonful  of  batter  and  steam  twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  sauce. 

JUDITHA. 
Cook  1  pint  of  gooseberries,  mash  and  strain,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs 
and  sugar  to  taste.     Scoop  out  the  center  of  a  mold  of  vanilla  ice  cream, 
fill  with  the  gooseberries,  return  to  the  mold,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  till 
ready  to  serve. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

%  cup  of  butter,  put  the  butter  in  one  cup  boiling  water,  and  boil 
three  minutes  together.  Remove  the  mixture  from  the  fire  and  over  1 
cup  flour  sifted,  pour  this  boiling  mixture  in  a  crock.  Sift  1  cup  of  flour 
in  this  boiling  mixture,  beaten  till  smooth  with  an  egg  beater,  4  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beat  well  together.  Put  in  muffin  rings  well  greased  with 
butter,  30  or  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  12  large  cream 
puffs. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

V2  box  gelatine,  1  pt.  cream,  1  pt.  milk,  1^/^  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  whites  of  seven  eggs.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  milk  by  beating 
slowly.  Beat  cream  until  a  little  stiff,  add  sugar,  vanilla  and  milk  with 
dissolved  gelatine.  As  it  stiffens  add  eggs  well  beaten.  Line  a  dish  with 
lady  fingers  and  pour  on  mixture.    Put  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 

â€˘20 


FILLING  FOR  CREAM  PUFFS. 
2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  flavor  to  taste,  1  pint  of 
milk  put  in  double  boiler,  boil  till  it  thickerls.     Pour  hot  milk  over  tvi^o 
well  beaten  eggs.     A  quart  of  milk  is  better.     Serve  with  whipped  cream 
on  the  top.    Dotted  with  plum  jelly  if  preferred. 

CREAM  PTJFFS,  NO.  1. 
%  cup  of  boiling  water,  %  cup  butter,  1/2  cup  flour  (sifted  twice),  2 
eggs.  Put  butter  and  water  in  saucepan  over  fire.  When  butter  is  melted 
let  boil  3  minutes,  tui-n  in  the  flour  and  stir  rapidly  until  free  from  lumps. 
Add  eggs  (one  at  time) ;  stir  again  until  smooth.  Bake  40  minutes  in 
muffin  rings. 

FILLING    FOR   CREAM   PUFFS,   NO.    2. 

2  eggs,  1/2  cup  sugar,  y^  pt  milk,  butter  (half  the  size  of  an  egg),  1 
teaspoonful  vanilla,  small  pinch  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch. 
Heat  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  to  this  the  salt  and  butter.  Mix  sugar 
cornstarch  and  yolks  of  eggs,  add  a  little  cold  milk  to  eggs  and  pour  this 
into  boiling  milk  and  stir  until  custard. 

VANILLA  STICKS. 
Whites  of  5  eggs,  1%  lb-  powdered  sugar  (sifted),  5c  worth  of  vanilla 
bean  grated,  1  lb.  almonds  chopped  fine  without  blanching.  Beat  eggs 
stiff,  add  sugar,  and  beat  very  light.  Add  the  vanilla  bean  and  divide  the 
mixture  into  two  equal  parts.  Add  the  almonds  to  the  one  part,  using  the 
other  for  icing.  Sift  flour  pretty  thick  on  the  baking  board,  spread  the 
nut  mixture  upon  it  to  the  thickness  of  about  i/4  inch.  Spread  the  icing 
mixtures  over  this  and  cut  into  strips.  Place  on  buttered  pan,  leaving 
plenty  of  space  between  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ORANGE  STRAWS. 
Peel  oranges  in  quarters  and  with  shears  cut  into  strips.  Cover  with 
cold  water  and  boil  2  minutes.  Do  this  3  times,  draining  water  off  each 
time.  1  cup  of  orange  to  one  cup  of  sugar  and  enough  water  to  just  cover, 
and  boil  till  it  threads.  Then  take  out  with  a  fork  and  roll  in  granulated 
sugar  and  lay  on  a  platter  to  dry. 

MOCK  CHARLOTTE. 
1  pint  of  cream,  1%  quart  of  milk,  y^  cup  of  raisins,  1  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  %  grated  nutmeg.  Wash  the  rice  through  several  cold  waters, 
cover  it  with  a  quart  of  milk  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  Next 
morning  add  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  the  remaining  pint  of  milk  and  raisins. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (280  degrees  F.)  %  hour,  stirring  down  the  first 
crust  only.     This  pudding  must  be  creamy  and  soft. 

BREAD   CUSTARD. 

3  slices  of  bread,  4  eggs,  14  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  milk.  Beat  the 
eggs  without  separating,  add  the  sugar  and  milk.  When  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved pour  the  mixture  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  the  top  with  bread  but- 
tered side  up.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  set  or  solid.     Serve  cold. 

SWEET  PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM. 
1  pint  of  chestnuts,  1/2  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  1  pint 
of  cream.  Shell  and  blanch  the  chestnuts.  Cover  them  with  boiling  wa- 
ter, add  the  juice  of  %  lemon,  cook  until  tender,  drain  and  sprinkle  them 
with  sugar,  add  the  vanilla  and  press  the  whole  through  a  colander,  ar- 
ranging it  carefully  in  the  center  of  a  round  dish.  Whip  the  cream,  put 
it  around  the  dish  and  when  cool  serve. 

21 


MAPLE  CUSTARD. 

1  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  Vz  cup  maple  syrup.  Bake  in  cups,  let  in  hot 
water. 

APPLE  WHIP. 

Pare  and  quarter  %  dozen  sour  apples.  Steam  until  tender  and 
then  rub  through  sieve.  Take  1  cupful  of  pulp,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  very  gradually,  beating  all  the 
time  if  liked.  Pile  into  a  glass  dish  and  chill.  Serve  with  cream  or  a  thin 
boiled  custard. 

RICE  WHIP. 

1%  pt.  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  boiled  add  Vz  cup  rice,  14  teaspoon 
salt.  Cook  until  rice  is  tender  and  milk  is  nearly  gone.  Add  carefully  Vz 
cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  V2 
cup  of  cold  water.  Melted  by  setting  cups  in  hot  hot  water.  When  slight- 
ly cold  add  3  teaspoons  sherry  wine,  maraschino  cherries  or  vanilla. 
When  cold  add  Vz  pt.  whipped  cream  and  set  in  moulds. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  gelatine,  whites  of  5  eggs.  Small  can  of 
shredded  pineapple  or  other  fruit.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  1/2  cup  of  cold 
water.  Put  1-3  cup  water  on  the  sugar  and  boil  for  2  or  3  minutes,  then 
add  gelatine.  Beat  the  eggs  and  when  the  syrup  is  cool  pour  gradually  in 
the  eggs,  beating  all  the  time.    Add  fruit,  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


NOUGAT  LOAF. 


Syrup  No.  1:  2i^  cups  sugar  granulated,  1  cup  of  water.  Syrup  No, 
2:  1%  cups  granulated  sugar  14  cup  of  water,  3  tablespoons  gluco-se, 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Cook  syrup  No.  1  till  it  threads  and  pour  on  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Cook  syrup  No.  2  until  it  is  brittle  when 
tried  in  cold  water.  Add  to  mixture  No.  1.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen  add 
nuts  and  fruit,  poured  in  greased  pan  or  pans  lined  with  greased  paper. 


22 


VEGETABLES 


MASHED  POTATOES. 

Take  the  quantity  needed,  pare  off  the  skins  and  lay  them  in  cold 
water  half  an  hour; ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  salt,  cover  with 
water  and  boil  them  until  done.  Drain  off  the  water  and  mash  them  fine 
with  a  potato  masher.  Have  ready  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
melted  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  hot  milk  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt;  mix 
well  with  the  mashed  potatoes  until  they  are  a  smooth  paste,  taking  care 
that  they  are  not  too  wet.  Put  them  into  a  vegetable  dish,  heaping  them 
up  and  smooth  over  the  top,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  in  the 
center  and  have  dots  of  pepper  here  and  there  on  the  surface  as  large  as 
a  half  dime.  Some  prefer  using  a  heavy  fork  or  wire  beater  instead  of 
a  potato  masher,  beating  the  potatoes  quite  light  and  heaping  them  up  in 
the  dish  without  smoothing  over  the  top. 

BROWNED  POTATOES. 

Wash  them  as  the  above,  put  them  into  a  dish  that  they  are  to  be 
served  in,  smooth  over  the  top  and  brush  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  or 
spread  on  a  bountiful  supply  of  butter  and  dust  well  with  flour.  Set  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  It  will  brown  well  in  fifteen  minutes  with  a  quick 
oven. 

NUT  AND  POTATO  BALLS. 

To  4  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  add  1  cup  of  chopped  walnut  meats, 
tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  whites  of  2  eggs  and  milk  if  necessary. 
Make  into  balls  and  roll  in  chopped  walnut  meats,  then  in  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  and  walnut  meats.    Fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CHOWDER. 

1/4  pound  of  ham  cut  into  dice,  6  potatoes  cut  in  dice,  2  small  on- 
ions, sliced,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Melt 
butter  and  add  ham  and  onions.  Cook  until  brown,  cover  with  1  pint 
boiling  water  and  add  the  potatoes.  Cook  slowly  for  20  minutes.  Just 
before  serving  add  milk  thickened  with  flour  and  let  boil  1  or  2  minutes. 

HASTY  COOKED  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  peel  some  potatoes,  cut  them  into  slices  of  about  a  l^  of 
an  inch  in  thickness,  throw  them  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  if  of  good 
quality  they  will  be  done  in  about  ten  minutes.  Strain  off  the  water,  put 
the  potatoes  into  a  hot  dish,  chop  them  slightly,  add  pepper,  salt  and  a 
few  small  pieces  of  fresh  butter  and  serve  without  loss  of  time. 

POTATOES  AND  PEAS. 

Place  mashed  potatoes  on  a  plate  and  hollow  out  in  center  and  place 
creamed  peas  and  garnish  around  the  edge  of  plate  with  parsley. 


BAKED  POTATOES. 
Wash  the  potatoes  and  wipe  and  rub  a  meat  skin  over  them  and 
bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

POTATOES  GOLDEN  ROD. 
Three  cups  diced  cooked  potatoes,  2  tablespoons  flour,  3  hard  cooked 
eggs,  2  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  finely  minced  onions,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3 
tablespoons  butter,  %  teaspoon  pepper.  Separate  egg  whites  from  yolks, 
cut  into  dice  and  add  to  potato.  Fry  onions  in  butter  till  softened,  add 
flour  and  seasonings  and  gradually  the  milk,  stirring  well.  Let  boil,  add 
potatoes  and  when  very  hot  turn  into  serving  dish.  Put  egg  yolks  in 
potato  ricer  and  rice  over  dish.     Serve  at  once. 

MASHED  POTATOES  WARMED  OVER. 
To  two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  %  cup  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  2  eggs  beaten  to  a 
troth.  Mix  the  whole  until  thoroughly  light;  then  put  into  a  pudding  or 
vegetable  dish,  spread  a  little  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  a  golden 
brown.  The  quality  depends  upon  very  thoroughly  beating  the  eggs  be- 
fore adding  them,  so  that  the  potato  will  remain  light  and  porous  after 
baking  similar  to  a  sponge  cake. 

POTATOES  EN  CASSEROLE. 
Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  rubbed  to- 
gether until  smooth.  Add  a  little  salt  and  1  cupful  of  boiling  milk.  Slice 
cold  boiled  potatoes  in  the  casserole  dish,  season  and  cover  with  the 
white  sauce.  Sprinkle  over  with  breadcrumbs  and  grated  cheese,  brown 
in  the  oven. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI. 

1  lb.  of  spaghetti,  1  3  lb.  can  tomatoes,  3  large  onions  chopped  fine,  2 
sprigs  garlic  chopped  fine,  %  cup  dried  mushrooms,  put  in  2  cups  cold 
water  and  bring  slowly  to  a  simmer,  1  lb.  lean  beef,  6  tablespoons  olive 
oil,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2  cups  grated  cheese. 

SCRAMBLED    TOMATOES. 
Put  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan.    When  hot  turn  in 
a  mixture  made  of  2  cups  of  ripe  tomatoes,  chopped,  1  cup  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese,  6  minced  mushrooms  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  sugar.     Stir  briskly  until  cooked  and  serve  on  toast. 

SPAGHETTI  ITALIAN. 

2  cups  spaghetti  in  inch  lengths,  %  cup  strain  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  14  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet,  1  teaspoon  minced  onions;  1/2  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  tablespoons  dried  mushrooms,  soak  in  14  cup  cold  water  a 
few  grains  cayenne  and  1  tablespoon  fiour,  14  cup  Romano  or  Pafmesan 
cheese.  Cook  spaghetti  till  tender  in  plenty  of  boiling  salted  water;  drain 
and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Melt  butter,  add  onions  and  mushrooms  and 
saute  3  minutes.  Then  add  flour,  mtishroom  liquor  and  tomatoes.  Let 
boil,  season  and  stir  in  spaghetti;  spiinkle  over  cheese  and  let  stand 
to  become  very  hot. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 
Remove  seeds  from  green  peppers  and  parboil  5  minutes.     Prepare  a 
tilling  of  bread  crumbs,  any  kind  of  chopped  meat  or  chicken.   Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with  a  beaten  egg.     Fill  the  shells  and  bake 
half  an  hour. 


ASPARAGUS  LOAF. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  %  cup  minced  chicken  or  veal,  4  tablespoons 
flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  cooked  asparagus,  cut  in  inch  lengths  14  tea- 
spoon pepper  and  1  cup  milk,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  2  cups  of  asparagus  tips 
tor  lining  mold.  Cut  the  tips  from  2  bundles  of  cooked  asparagus  in  3-inch 
lengths.  Select  a  quart  mold  about  3  inches  deep,  butter  it  thickly  and 
line  the  bottom  Avith  paper:  line  it  with  the  tips,  putting  the  green 
tops  pointing  downward,  line  the  bottom  with  some  pretty  pattern.  Then 
make  a  sauce  by  melting  butter,  adding  flour  and  milk  slowly  allowing  it 
to  boil.  Then  add  chicken,  seasoning  and  asparagus  and  when  boiling  pour 
onto  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Pour  carefully  into  mold  and  set  into  a  pan 
having  bottom  covered  with  several  thickness  of  brown  paper.  Surround 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  till  firm  in  an  open  so  slow  that  water  will 
not  boil.     Serve  with  mousseline  sauce  or  with  creamed  asparagus  tips. 

FRENCH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
V2  lb.  of  fresh  mushrooms,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  6  tablespoons  of 
cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper. 
Wash  the  mushrooms,  do  not  peel.  Cut  them  into  quarters,  throw  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  cover  the 
saucepan,  place  it  over  a  very  moderate  fire  where  the  mushrooms  will 
soak  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Rub  the  mushrooms,  flour  and  cream 
together.  Dip  a  little  of  the  mushroom  liquor  into  the  bowl,  then  stiuin 
this  and  pour  on  mushrooms,  stir  until  boiling  and  serve.  This  is  the 
foundation  when  fresh  mushrooms  are  used  with  sweetbreads.  Simply 
add  the  par-boiled  sweetbreads  to  this  sauce  and  serve  while  hot.  This 
also  is  the  foundation  wlien  chicken  is  used  with  mushrooms,  or  used  as 
a  sauce  with  chicken  cutlets,  broiled  or  fried  chicken. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS. 

Choose  large  cucumbers,  pare  and  half  them  lengthwise,  simmer  in 
boiling  water  until  tender,  take  out  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Put  shells  in 
baking  dish  and  fill  with  following:  V2  cup  cucumber  pulp,  V2  cup  meat 
chipped,  1/2  cup  onions  chopped  fine,  white  of  egg  beaten,  salt  and  pep- 
per, cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  brown.  The  filling  may 
be  doubled  or  trebled  if  desired;  one  white  of  an  egg  does  for  twice  the 
quantity. 

CORN  RELISH. 

4  dozen  ears  of  corn,  2  heads  of  cabbage  (small),  6  white  onions,  12 
large  sweet  peppers,  6  red  peppers,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard,  2 
heaping  tablespoons  of  celery  seed,  %  cup  of  salt,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  2 
quarts  of  water.  When  served  cold  add  a  little  more  vinegar  and  red 
pepper.  Put  bacon  grease  in  skillet  and  put  corn  in  to  cook  for  a  few 
minutes. 

SCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Cook  cauliflower  whole.  When  done  pour  enough  white  sauce  to 
cover  it.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  butter  and  seasoning  over  the 
top  anu  brown  in  oven. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

12  large  smooth  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper.  1  table- 
spoon bvitter.  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  onion 
juice.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  in  a  baking  pan.  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the 
smooth  end  of  each.  With  a  small  spoon  scoop  out  as  much  of  the  pulp 
and  juice  as  possible  without  injuring  the  shape.  When  all  have  been 
treated  in  this  way,  mix  the  pulp  and  juice  with  the  other  ingredients,  and 
fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  mixture.  Put  on  the  tops  and  bake  %  of  an 
hour.  Slide  the  cake  turner  under  the  tomatoes  and  lift  gently  on  to  a 
flat  dish. 

25 


CELERY  AU  GRATIN. 
1  pint  cooked  celery,  %  cup  grated  cheese,  1  pint  white  sauce,  %  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  1-3  cup  melted  butter.  Cut  celery  in  V2  inch  pieces,  use 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  with  white  stock  and  cream  in  making 
the  sauce.  Put  alternate  layers  of  celery  and  sauce  in  a  buttered  dish, 
sprinkle  each  layer  with  cheese.  Cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs  mixed 
with  melted  butter  and  cheese.     Set  in  oven  to  brown. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 
Cook  egg  plant  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover.  Cut  a  slice 
from  top  and  with  a  spoon  remove  pulp,  taking  care  not  to  work  too  * 
closely  to  skin.  Chop  pulp  and  mix  with  it  one  cup  soft  bread  crumbs. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  and  add  i/^  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion 
and  cook  five  minutes,  or  use  three  slices  of  bacon,  using  bacon  fat  in- 
stead of  butter.  Add  to  the  chopped  pulp  and  bread  crumbs  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  necessary  moisten  with  little  stock  or  water. 
Cook  five  minutes,  cool  slightly  and  add  one  beaten  egg.  Fill  egg  plant, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  25  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Take  large  perfectly  shaped  green  peppers,  cut  off  the  top,  leaving  the 
stem,  scrape  out  the  seed,  mix  the  seed  with  sufficient  piccalilli  to  fill  the 
peppers.  When  filled  tie  on  the  stem  piece,  pack  in  a  jar,  pour  over  scald- 
ing vinegar,  let  stand  over  night  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  vinegar  and 
cover  with  fresh  vinegar. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT. 

Slice  plant,  let  stand  in  salt  water  or  what  is  best,  put  salt  between 
the  slices.  Let  stand  15  minutes.  Have  the  fat  hot  and  dip  the  slices  in 
beaten  yolk  of  egg  in  which  has  been  put  a  little  milk,  then  dip  in  crack- 
er or  stale  bread  crumbs,  fry  and  serve  immediately. 

These  recipes  have  all  been  tried.  Success  will  attend  the  preparing 
of  them  if  time  and  care  is  used. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 
Boil  potatoes  with  the  skins  on,  mash  free  from  lumps.     Use  a  little 
cream,  butter,  sugar  and  season  with  cinnamon.     Irish  potatoes  make  a 
very  fine  croquette  also,  omitting  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES,  CHEESE  SAUCE. 
For  the  croquettes  take  enough  cold  boiled  macaroni  to  make  2  cups 
when  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  to  this  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  V2 
teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  a  little  celery  salt  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Mix 
with  1  cup  of  white  sauce  made  of  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  tablespoons 
of  flour,  seasoning  and  one  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Let  the  mixture  cool. 
Form  in  cone  shaped  croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  fat  till  a  very  light  brown.  Stick  a  small  spray  of  parsley  in  the 
top  of  each  croquette.  Cheese  Sauce:  To  1  cup  of  white  sauce  add  i/^ 
cup  of  grated  cheese  and  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  chopped  walnut  meats. 


GRAVY. 
Brown  beef,  onions  and  garlic  in  oil  and  butter,  add  tomatoes,  mush- 
rooms and  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  1  hour  or  so  until  water  has  dis- 
appeared. Into  5  quarts  boiling  water  salted  put  1  lb.  spaghetti,  boil 
till  done,  then  put  in  colander  to  drain.  Put  a  layer  of  cheese  in  the 
bottom  of  a  dish  and  layer  of  spaghetti,  then  some  gravy  and  a  sprink- 
ling of  cheese,  and  so  one  until  all  the  spaghetti  and  cheese  are  used, 
having  cheese  on  top. 

26 


MEATS 


SWEET  BREAD  CUTLETS. 

Boil  1  pair  sweet  breads  in  salt  water  until  tender.  Remove,  dip  in 
ice  water  and  skin.  Slice  them,  also  dice  1/2  can  of  mushrooms  or  a  whole 
can  if  desired.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of 
ttour,  1  scant  cup  of  milk,  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  onion  juice.  When 
smooth  remove  from  the  fire,  add  one  well  beaten  egg,  Vz  cup  of  soft 
bread  crumbs  and  to  this  add  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms.  Spread  on  a 
platter  to  cool.  Shape  in  cutlets,  dip  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve 
with  tartar  sauce. 

ROAST   BEEF. 

Prepare  for  the  oven  by  dredging  lightly  with  flour  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  place  in  the  oven  and  baste  frequently  while  roasting. 
Allow  a  14,  of  an  hour  for  a  pound  of  meat  if  it  is  desired  rare,  longer  if 
well  done.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  drippings  in  the  pan,  to 
which  add  a  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  tablespoon  of  to- 
mato catsup. 

ROASTED  SPARERIBS. 

Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle,  rub 
with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  fold  over.  Stuff  with  turkey 
dressing,  sew  tightly,  place  in  dripping  pan  with  pint  of  water,  baste  fre- 
quently, turning,  over  once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  until  brown. 

STEWED  LAMB. 
Cut  lamb  into  small  pieces  after  removing  all  the  fat)  about  2  inches 
square.  Wash  it  well  and  put  over  the  fire,  with  just  enough  water  to 
cover  and  let  it  heat  gradually.  It  should  stew  gently  until  partly  done, 
then  add  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  one  or  two  onions  sliced  fine,  some 
salt  and  pepper  if  needed,  and  two  or  three  raw  potatoes,  cut  up  into  inch 
squares.  Cover  closely  and  stew  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Drop  in  a  few 
dumplings,  thicken  the  gravy.    Serve. 

VEAL  PATTIES  FOR  LUNCHES. 
Mince  very  fine  1  pound  cold  roast  veal,  with  1  pound  cold  boiled  ham, 
fat  and  lean  equally  mixed.  Put  it  into  a  stew  pan  with  3  ounces  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  1  gill  cream,  also  1  gill  of  veal  broth.  Season  to  taste  with 
cayenne  pepper,  nutmeg,  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  lemon  juice.  Set  pan 
on  fire,  simmer  till  well  heated  through.  Have  ready  some  small  shells 
of  puff  paste,  fill  them  with  the  mixture  and  eat  either  warm  or  cold. 

ROASTED    PORK    TENDERLOIN    WITH    DRESSING. 
Cut  tenderloin  into  small  pieces,  put  some  bread  dressing  into  the 
middle  of  each  piece,  roll  up  and  tie.     Bake  in  an  oven  until  brown  and 
tender.    Remove  strings  before  serving. 

STEWED  KIDNEY  WITH  TOMATO. 
After  soaking  a  beef  kidney  in  salt  water  over  night,  stew  until  ten- 
der and  until  little  water  is  left  in  the  kettle.  Cut  the  kidney  into  small 
pieces  and  thicken  with  flour  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Add  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  kidney.  Serve  with  boiled  tomato  and  mush- 
room sauce  on  toast. 

27 


BEEF  OLIVES. 
1  thin  round  steak,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  Yz  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  pt.  stock,  1  table- 
spoon of  kitchen  bouquet,  V2  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper.  Cut 
steak  into  strips  4  inches  long  and  2  inches 'wide.  Put  bread  crumbs  in 
bowl,  add  %  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  sufficient  melted  butter 
(extra)  to  moisten.  Spread  each  slice  with  bread  crumbs,  roll  them  up 
compactly  and  tie  with  string.  Put  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  sauce  pan, 
mix,  when  boiling  add  stock  and  kitchen  bouquet  and  olives  as  they  are 
now  called.  Bring  this  to  a  boiling  point,  push  on  back  of  stove  to  sim- 
mer for  1  hour,  add  salt,  pepper,  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  and  a  bay 
leaf  if  desired.  Cook  slowly  30  minutes  longer.  When  ready  to  serve, 
iveep  on  center  of  platter  a  mound  of  mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice. 
Put  olives  around  as  a  garnish,  fill  bottom  of  dish  with  strained  brown 
sauce.     Take  to  table  at  once. 

BAKED  HAM. 
Soak  ham  over  night.  Make  a  stiff  dough,  wrap  it  around  the  ham, 
having  it  about  an  inch  in  thickness  and  put  in  oven  to  bake  for  three 
hours,  then  take  it  out  of  oven  and  remove  the  dough  and  skin  of  ham. 
Spice  it  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  brown  sugar  moistened  with  a 
little  vinegar  and  put  back  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

SWEET  BREAD  CROQUETTES  FOR  LUNCH. 

1  scant  cup  of  potatoes  mashed  very  fine  and  one  set  of  sweet 
breads  cooked  and  mixed  with  the  potatoes  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Mushrooms  chopped  fine  and  added  are  an  improvement.  Work  the  mass 
well,  add  salt  and  pepper,  form  into  croquettes,  roll  in  cracker  meal  and 
fry  in  hot  fat. 

TOMATOES  AND  FRIED  LAMB  KIDNEYS. 

Skin  and  half  lamb's  kidneys,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
in  hot  dripping  lard  from  5  to  7  minutes,  take  out  and  keep  hot,  and  in 
same  fat  fry  tomatoes  cut  in  halves.  Serve  very  hot  on  rounds  of  buttered 
toast,  the  kidneys  on  top  of  tomatoes,  pour  any  grease  left  in  pan  around 
them.     Mushrooms  may  be  used  instead  of  tomatoes. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Yoke  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  open  the  meat  and  insert  the  dressing,  pour  over  the  meat 
after  rubbing  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and 
meat  drippings  mixed  with  water  and  a  little  flour.  Shape  well  into  a 
loaf,  baste  often  while  cooking. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Three  pounds  of  raw  veal  chopped  very  fine,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  cream  or  milk.  If  milk  is  used  add  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  Mix  the  eggs  and  cream  together,  mix  with  the  veal  four 
pounded  crackers,  one  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  one  large  tablespoon 
of  sage,  mix  well  and  form  into  a  loaf.  Bake  214  hours.,  basting  with  but- 
ter and  water  while  baking.  Place  a  hard  boiled  egg  in  center  of  loaf  be- 
fore baking.     Slice  and  serve. 

SHEPARD'S  PIE. 
Line  a  pudding  dish  with  nicely  seasoned  mashed  potatoes.  Fill  with 
a  mixture  of  cold  cooked  meat  cut  in  small  squares.  Add  the  gravy,  some 
finely  chopped  onions  and  seasoning.  Spread  the  remainder  of  the  po- 
tatoes on  top,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  dot  with  small  pieces  of 
butter.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

28 


POULTRY  AND   GAME 


FRIED  CHICKEN.  MRS.  E.  HAYES. 
Before  frying  the  chicken  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll 
each  piece  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  with  a  little  flour.  Have  the  fat 
hot,  but  not  boiling,  in  order  that  the  chicken  will  cook  through  slowly. 
When  browned  nicely  on  both  sides,  pour  a  little  cold  water  in  the  pan, 
cover  over  and  push  back  on  the  stove  to  steam.  When  ready  to  serve 
take  up  the  chicken,  remove  some  of  the  grease,  add  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  A  few  pieces  of 
mushrooms  also  improves  the  gravy. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 
Singe,  clean  and  draw  the  chickens,  split  down  the  back.  Season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  ginger,  put  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
over  them  and  add  bits  of  butter.  Put  about  2  cups  of  water  in  the  pan, 
and  set  in  a  hot  oven;  baste  often  and  brown  nicely  on  both  sides.  Dis- 
solve a  little  flour  in  the  pan  after  chickens  have  been  removed,  also  add 
a  little  parsley.     Pour  gravy  over  chickens  before  sending  to  the  table. 

FRICASSEE  OF  SQUIRREL. 
Clean  as  many  young  squirrels  as  required.  Cut  into  joints  and  lay 
in  salted  water  for  an  hour;  then  wipe  each  piece  dry,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  ginger  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  flour.  Put  on  a  fryer  with  a 
tablespoon  of  butter;  when  hot  cut  up  an  onion  in  it  and  fry  light  brown; 
then  add  the  pieces  of  squirrel  and  brown  lightly;  add  also  1  or  2  table- 
spoons of  tomatoes  and  1  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Pour  a 
pint  of  water  over  all,  add  some  celery  cut  up,  also  a  little  parsley;  cover 
with  a  lid  and  stew  until  tender,  about  2  hours.  If  the  gravy  is  too  thin 
thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

ROAST  DUCKS. 
Wash  and  dry  the  ducks  carefully.  Make  a  dressing  of  sage  and 
onion,  salt  and  pepper;  insert,  and  if  tender  do  not  require  more  than 
an  hour  to  roast.  Keep  them  well  basted  and  a  few  minutes  before  serv- 
ing dredge  lightly  with  flour.  Send  to  the  table  hot,  with  a  good  brown 
gravy,  poured  not  around  but  over  them.  Accompany  with  currant  jelly 
and,  if  in  season,  green  peas. 

CHICKEN  CURRY. 
3  pounds  chicken,  1-3  cup  butter,  2  onions,  1  tablespoon  curry  powder, 
2  teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  vinegar.  Clean,  dress  and  cut  chicken  in 
pieces  for  serving.  Put  butter  in  a  hot  frying  pan.  add  chicken  and  cook 
ten  minutes,  then  add  liver  and  gizzard  and  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 
Cut  onions  in  thin  slices,  and  add  to  chicken  with  curry  powder  and  salt. 
Add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  and  simmer  until  chicken  is  tender. 
Remove  chicken,  strain  and  thicken  liquor  with  flour  mixed  with  enough 
cold  water  to  pour  easily.  Pour  gravy  over  chicken  and  serve  with  a 
border  of  rice  or  Turkish  Pilaf. 

29 


SWEET  STUFFING   FOR  TURKEY. 
The  crumbs  of  1  loaf  of  bread  mixed  with  cranberries  prepared  as 
for  the   table,   14   lb.   blanched  almonds  chopped,   2   eggs,   salt,   1  table- 
spoon of  butter. 

CHESTNUT  STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY. 
Cook  3  cups  of  blanched  chestnuts  until  tender  in  boiling  salted 
water,  drain  and  pass  through  a  sieve  14  cup  of  melted  butter  and  %  cup 
of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  Vs  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Moisten  1  pt.  of  bread  crumbs  with 
milk  and  combine  the  mixture. 


FISH 


SALMON  LOAF. 

Grate  one  slice  of  stale  bread.  Put  it  in  a  double  boiler  with  one  cup 
of  milk.  While  it  is  cooking  pick  over  one  can  of  salmon,  removing  all 
skins  and  bones  Mash  with  a  silver  fork.  Add  to  the  milk,  season  high- 
ly and  stir  in  1  cup  of  cream  and  three  well  beaten  eggs.  Whip  for  a 
tew  minutes  and  then  pour  into  a  buttered  pan  to  mold.  Set  the  mold  in 
hot  water  and  bake  until  firm  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SAUCE  FOR  SALMON  LOAF. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  hot  milk.  Boil  until 
creamy,  then  add  salmon  juice  and  a  beaten  egg.  Seasoning  and  lemon 
juice  last. 

BROILED  MACKEREL. 

Take  a  fresh  mackerel,  wash  and  wipe  it,  then  salt  and  pepper  and 
place  in  broiler  over  coals.  Put  salt,  pepper  and  butter  on  dish  before 
placing  mackerel. 

SALT   MACKEREL. 

Soak  over  night  and  cook  next  morning  until  tender,  then  pour  the 
water  off  and  make  a  cream  dressing.  Three  to  five  minutes  is  long 
enough  to  cook  mackerel,  because  if  it  cooks  longer  it  will  become  tough. 

BAKED   HALIBUT. 

In  one  tablespoon  of  butter  brown  i^  an  onion  chopped  fine,  add  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes.  Place  the  halibut  on  a  baking  dish,  pour  the  tomato  sauce  on 
the  halibut  and  bake  %  of  an  hour. 


A  NICE  CHEESE  DISH. 

Butter  slices  of  toast  well  and  line  the  bottom  of  a,  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  well  with  grated  cheese,  season  with  salt,  pepper.  Mix  with 
four  well-beaten  eggs,  three  cups  of  milk,  pour  over  the  bread  and  cheese 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  garnish  around  the  edge  with  toast 
points. 

20 


OYSTERS 


OYSTER  SAUTE. 

Steam  large  oysters  a  few  minutes,  dry  between  towels,  dip  in 
crumbs,  then  in  mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dressing,  then  again  in 
crumbs  and  saute  in  butter  until  they  are  brown.  Serve  with  slices  of 
lemon  dipped  in  chopped  parsley. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

Lime  the  bottom  of  a  casserole  dish  with  pieces  of  nicely  cooked 
bacon.  Put  in  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  cream  sauce.  Sprinkle  over  this 
1/2  cup  of  oyster  crabs,  seasoned.  Then  a  layer  of  celery  chopped  fine, 
and  minced  parsley.  Another  layer  of  oysters  and  cream  sauce  seasoned- 
Put  a  rich  pie  crust  on  top  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

OYSTER  LOAF. 

cut  the  crust  from  a  loaf  of  hot  bread,  cut  out  the  center,  li/^  inches 
from  the  edge.  Brush  over  with  butter  and  toast  brown,  fill  with  creamed 
Oysters. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Scald  a  pint  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until  the  edges  curl,  drain 
and  reserve  the  liquor.  Cook  2  tablespoons  of  butter  until  it  bubbles,  add 
2  tablespoons  of  flour,  pour  in  the  liquor  and  1  cup  of  fresh  milk,  cook 
Until  it  thickens,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Move 
to  the  side  of  the  stove  and  add  yolk  of  2  eggs  slightly  beaten,  stir  until 
thick,  add  oysters  and  serve. 

WHITE  CREAM  SAUCE. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  milk  or  cream.  Cook 
butter  until  it  bubbles,  add  flour  and  stir  till  smooth,  add  milk  gradually. 
Cook  till  it  thickens,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stock  can  be  used  in* 
stead  of  milk.    White  stock  is  made  from  veal,  chicken  or  fish. 

BERNAISE  SAUCE. 

V2  cup  of  vinegar,  a  little  chopped  onion  till  reduced  to  half,  add  yolk 
of  4  eggs  Very  slowly  when  thick.  Add  I14  tablespoons  each  of  clarified 
butter  and  oil,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  salt.  Serve  with  fish  and 
tenderloin  cutlets. 

CREAMED   OYSTERS   WITH   CHEESE. 

COok  in  a  double  1  rounding  tablespoon  butter.  When  melted  add  2 
tablespoons  of  grated  Edam  or  other  cream  cheese.  When  melted  and 
smooth  add  1-3  cup  of  tomato  catsup  and  y^  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  i/^  cup  cream  and  the  meat  of  a  crab  cut  very  fine;  when 
Creamy  add  V2  pint  small  oysters  (blue  points  are  especially  nice).  Cook 
Until  the  edges  curl.    Serve  at  once  on  buttered  toast. 

31 


FISH  TIMBAL. 

2  cups  of  cold  cooked  fish  ground,  add  %  cup  of  cream  sauce,  well 
seasoned,  and  beat  the  mixture  till  very  light.  Add  2  eggs  well  beaten. 
Butter  timbal  molds,  pour  in  fish  mixture,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover 
over  and  cook  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  stove  till  firm  to  the  touch.  Serve 
with  any  fish  sauce. 

OYSTERS  IN  PEPPERS. 

Cut  the  stem  end  from  sweet  bell  peppers  of  uniform  size  (not  too 
large).  Remove  seed  and  parboil  10  minutes.  Pill  with  creamed  oysters, 
cover  with  the  stem  of  peppers,  stand  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  enough  stock 
or  water  in  the  dish  to  prevent  burning,  about  Vz  cup  to  6  or  8  peppers, 
and  bake  till  the  peppers  are  tender,  but  do  not  let  them  loose  their  shape 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Break  Vz  lb.  spaghetti  into  very  small  pieces.  Wash  well  and  cook 
in  enough  boiling  salt  water  to  cover  it.  Cook  till  tender.  Melt  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  level  tablespoon  of  flour  and  cook.  Add  %  cup 
sweet  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice.  Continue  to  cook 
till  thick.  Add  spaghetti  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  V2  tablespoon  of 
grated  cheese.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  well  buttered  deep  pan.  Cover 
with  buttered  paper,  put  under  a  weight.  When  cold  turn  out  and  cut 
into  rounds  or  squares,  dip  into  bread  crumbs  and  egg  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Cut  out  the  center  and  fill  with  creamed  oysters. 

OYSTERS   AND   MACARONI. 

Carefully  look  over  and  wash  1  pint  of  oysters.  Cook  %  cup  of 
macaroni,  broken  in  1-inch  pieces  in  salted  boiling  water,  drain.  Put  a 
layer  of  macaroni  in  a  small  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  oysters.  Sea- 
son and  add  a  little  buttei'.  Repeat  and  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs. 
Add  1/2  cup  of  milk  and  sprinkle  a  very  little  grated  cheese  on  top.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. 


EGGS 


PARISIENNE  EGGS. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  into  rather  thin  slices,  season  with  paprica,  salt, 
chopped  parsley  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Dip  in  grated  Parmesian 
cheese.  Butter  well  a  baking  dish,  line  it  with  sliced  tomatoes  seasoned 
same  as  eggs.  Cover  them  over  with  a  cream  sauce,  put  in  a  layer  of 
eggs,  then  the  sauce,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  filled,  making  the  last  layer 
of  sauce  ornamental  by  forcing  it  through  a  tube.  Put  a  garnish  of  pota- 
to balls  around  the  dish.  Made  very  rich  with  yolk  of  eggs  and  butter, 
set  in  the  stove  to  heat  and  brown. 

A  very  nice  sauce  for  the  above  dish:  2  cups  of  heavy  cream,  2  full 
tablespoons  of  Parmesian  cheese,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  %  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  teaspoon  each  of  French  and  English  mustard  and  the  juice  of 
one  lemon. 

CREAMED   EGGS. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  remove  shell,  cut  the  eggs  half  in  two  and  serve 
In  a  white  in  which  are  put  bits  of  parsley. 

32 


FRENCH  SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  till  they  are  light.  Pour  them 
into  a  skillet  in  which  has  been  put  a  piece  of  butter.  When  the  butter 
is  hot,  but  not  so  hot  as  to  turn  the  egg  brown,  season  to  taste.  A  little 
cream  improves  the  dish. 

OMELET. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately.  Have  a  piece  of  butter  in 
the  pan  hot,  season  the  eggs  with  salt,  pepper,  some  like  suspicion  of 
onion.  This  is  gained  by  rubbing  a  knife  over  an  onion;  pour  the  eggs 
when  very  light  into  the  pan  and  as  soon  as  it  browns  turn  one-half  over 
the  other  and  dish,  serve  immediately.  A  very  nice  dish  can  be  made  by 
omitting  pepper  and  spreading  jelly  over  the  omelet  and  rolling  it  up. 
Tomatoes  which  have  been  cooked  and  are  hot  can  be  used  instead  of  the 
jelly. 

EGG  NEST. 

Toast  a  slice  of  bread  for  each  person  to  be  served,  then  beat  the 
white  of  one  egg  very  stiff  for  each  slice.  Pile  this  on  top  of  the  toast, 
make  a  little  depression  in  the  center  of  each  in  which  to  drop  a  bit  of 
butter  and  the  unbeaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  if 
liked.     Place  the  slices  in  the  oven  till  sufficiently  cooked. 


SOUPS 


CREAM   POTATO  SOUP. 

Boil  12  peeled  potatoes  until  tender,  drain  and  mash;  melt  1  table- 
spoon butter  in  porcelain  kettle;  stir  in  1  pint  sweet  cream,  let  boil,  then 
stir  in  the  mashed  potatoes;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  thin  to  proper 
consistency  with  the  water  in  which  to  the  potatoes  were  boiled. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP  NO.  1. 

Two  stalks  of  celery  cut  up  in .  pieces  and  boiled  tender.  Mash 
through  a  colander,  adding  a  little  cold  water.  Mix  with  strained  soup 
stock;  then  add  %  pint  milk  and  i/^  pint  cream.  If  not  sufficiently  thick 
add  a  little  flour  dissolved  in  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 
Drop  in  croutons  just  before  serving. 

CREAM  OP  CELERY  SOUP  NO.  2. 

Boil  1  small  cup  of  rice  in  three  pints  of  milk  until  it  will  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Grate  the  white  part  of  3  heads  of  celery  and  add  to  the 
milk  after  it  has  been  strained.  Put  to  it  1  quart  of  strong  soup  stock, 
boil  until  celery  is  perfectly  tender,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
nad  serve  with  batter  crouton  in  the  dish.  If  procurable  milk  and  i/^ 
sweet  cream  instead  of  all  milk  is  better. 

CREAM   OF  ASPARAGUS. 

Boil  until  tender  in  some  soup  stock  2  bunches  of  asparagus.  Remove 
from  fire.  Cut  tips  off  one  bunch  and  set  aside.  Pass  remainder  through 
colander.  Add  to  the  other  soup  stock  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour.  Heat  1  pint  sweet  cream  in  double  boiler  and  pour  while  boiling 
into  the  soup  tureen,  then  stir  in  the  prepared  stock.  Put  in  asparagus 
tips,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  drop  in  the  small  egg  custards  for 
soup. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Cook  1  quart  tomatoes  (fresh  or  canned)  with  1  pint  water  until  done 
and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Boil  1  pint  cream,  or  1/2  cream  and  V2  milk; 
drop  in  some  finely  chopped  celery  and  parsley  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Just  before  ready  to  serve  stir  the  strained  tomatoes  in  the  milk 
or  cream,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  the  tomatoes  be- 
fore adding  to  the  cream.  Serve  at  once.  If  soup  stock  is  convenient, 
use  instead  of  water. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Drain  oysters  well.  Put  liquor  on  in  porcelain-lined  kettle,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  finely  chopped  parsley  and  celery  and  a  good 
lump  of  butter.  When  boiling  drop  in  oysters  and  remove  as  soon  as  oys- 
ters are  plump.  Put  a  few  oyster  crackers  in  a  soup  tureen,  pour  boiling 
soup  over  them  and  serve  at  once. 

34 


CREAM  OP  OYSTER  SOUP. 

Put  on  1  pint  oyster  liquor  in  1  boiled  and  1  pint  of  sweet  cream  or 
^2.  milk  and  %  cream  in  a  double  boiler.  When  liquor  boils  skim  and  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  parsley.  Just  before 
ready  to  serve  drop  oysters  in  the  liquor  and  boil  just  long  enough  to  get 
plump.  Thicken  the  cream  with  1  tablespoon  flour  or  cornstarch  that  has 
been  wet  with  a  little  milk.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  in  the  soup 
tureen,  pour  the  boiling  cream  over  them  stirring  all  the  time,  then  stir 
in  the  oysters  and  liquor  and  serve  at  once. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Peel  and  wash  six  medium  sized  Irish  potatoes,  cut  them  in  dice 
shaped  pieces,  put  in  a  large  stewpan,  add  some  white  celery,  cut  in  very 
small  pieces,  cut  2  carrots  in  small  pieces,  also  1  small  onion  and  1  turnip 
and  add  to  the  potatoes,  season  with  a  small  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  add 
two  quarts  of  water,  place  on  the  stove  and  boil  slowly  until  the  potatoes 
are  nearly  done.  Stew  one  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  sauce  pan  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  mash  through  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  vegetables,  add  also  1  ta- 
blespoon fresh  butter.  Cut  a  nice  slice  of  bacon  in  small  pieces  and  fry 
spoon  flour  in  the  bacon  grease  and  add  it  to  the  broth.  Brown  1  table- 
spoon flour  In  the  bacon  grease  and  add  also  to  the  broth.  Cut  3  dozen 
clams  in  quarters,  add  to  the  broth,  also  add  the  liquor  of  the  clams.  Boil 
about  5  minutes.  Add  a  few  broken  crackers  if  desired,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  also  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  if  desired,  but  do  not  boil 
after  cracks  are  added.    Serve  at  once. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

Peel  1/2  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  wash  and  chop  with  a  silver  knife.  Put 
in  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  of  chicken  or  veal  stock,  cover  and  simmer 
gently  30  minutes,  add  teaspoon  of  salt,  simmer  ten  minutes  longer.  Put 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  another  saucepan,  with  3  tablespoons  of  flour, 
mix  and  cook  a  minute  without  browning,  add  %  pint  of  thick  cream  to 
the  mushrooms,  then  pour  all  together  with  butter  and  flour,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  a  dash  of  white  pepper. 

PUREE  OF  CLAMS. 

25  clams,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  cream,  1  cup  cold  water,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  14  cup  bread  crtmibs,  pepper  to  taste.  Drain  the  clams,  sav- 
ing the  water  and  strain.  Put  the  liquor  in  a  sauce  pan  over  the  fire; 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  skim.  Chop  clams  fine,  add  them  to  the  liquor, 
boil  and  skim.  Rub  butter  and  flour  till  smooth,  add  to  the  broth  with 
the  crumbs;  stir  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Press  through  a  sieve,  re- 
turn to  the  kettle  and  when  heated  add  the  cream  which  has  been  pre- 
viously heated  in  farina  boiler.  Do  not  let  the  soup  stand  on  the  stove 
after  adding  the  cream,  as  it  will  curdle. 

BISQUE  OF  CLAMS. 
1  pint  of  oysters,  1  tablespoon  butter,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  1  pint  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drain  the  oysters  free  from 
their  liquor,  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  cup  of  liquid.  Chop  half 
the  oysters  fine.  Bring  the  oyster  liquor  to  a  boil,  skim,  add  the  chopped 
oysters,  simmer  10  minutes.  Scald  the  milk,  rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together  until  smooth,  add  the  milk  and  stir  till  thickens.  Add  the 
whole  oysters  to  the  oyster  liquor,  and  as  soon  as  the  edges  carl  remove 
all  from  the  fire.  Add  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg  to  the  milk,  take  at 
once  from  the  ure  and  mix  with  the  oysters  and  their  liquor.  Season 
and  serve  at  once. 


CREAM  OF  CHESTNUT  S.OUP, 

Peel  and  blanch  1  quart  of  large  chestnuts.  Cook  for  one-half  hour 
and  rub  through  sieve.  Add  1  quart  of  white  stock  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  blend  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  one  of  butter,  add  to  the  soup 
stirring  briskly.  Put  through  a  sieve  again.  Serve  with  croutons  of  fried 
bread. 

CHICKEN  BISQUE. 

Cook  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  stir  until  blended,  pour  on  gradually  3  cups  of  chicken  stock  and  1 
cup  of  rich  milk.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  add  1  cup  of  ground  cooked 
chicken  and  cook  until  it  thickens  to  the  proper  consistency.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  put  three  tablespoons  of  cream  well  whipped  in 
the  bottom  of  bowl  and  pour  the  bisque  onto  it. 

MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

1  can  of  mushrooms  put  in  saucepan,  1  qt.  of  chicken  stock  or  milk 
if  preferred.  Simmer  gently  30  minutes,  add  teaspoon  and  simmer  10 
minutes  longer.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  butter  to  3  tablespoons  of  flour 
and  Mj  pt.  thick  cream.  Add  the  whole,  stir  constantly  till  it  reaches  the 
boiling  point,  add  a  dash  of  white  pepper  and  serve. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

1  qt.  chicken  giblets  boilad  till  tender,  cut  in  bits,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  2  hard  boiled  eggs  grated  fine,  1  grated  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  1/2  cup  of  cream  thickened  with  flour,  %  cup  sherry  wine  added 
just  when  ready  to  serve. 


SALADS 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  FRUIT  SALADS. 

Arrange  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce  in  salad  bowl  and  put  over  them  any 
one  of  the  following:  Thinly  sliced  apples  with  French  dressing.  Stone 
cherries  with  French  dressing.  Sliced  oranges,  or  a  combination  of 
orange  and  sliced  pineapple,  or  peaches  or  pears  with  French  dressing. 
Diced  pineapple  and  raspberries  tossed  together  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Green  gages  aiid  bananas  cut  up  and  dressed  with  a  little  sugar 
and  mayonnaise. 

SPINACH   SALAD. 

Chop  cold  cooked  spinach  very  fine  and  pack  into  claret  glasses  or 
egg  cups.  Make  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves,  place  a  slice  of  tongue  in  the 
center  and  turn  spinach  out  on  it.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD. 

Select  young  very  tender  beans;  cut  the  strings  from  both  sides  and 
then  cut  the  beans  lengthwise  into  three  pieces.  Throw  them  into  cold 
water  till  ready  to  cook.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoon  salt; 
boil  20  minutes;  drain  and  then  throw  water  away.  Cover  with  salt 
water  and  let  them  stand  for  10  or  15  minutes,  then  put  them  back  into 
boiling  unsalted  water.  Bring  to  a  boiling  point  and  cook  15  minutes. 
Drain,  and  when  very  cold  arrange  them  neatly  in  your  salad  bowl  or 
on  a  platter.     Pour  over  a  French  dressing. 

BEET    SALAD. 

Cut  cold  cooked  beets  into  thin  slices.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  the 
beets  Into  dice.  Mix  them  with  lettuce  leaves,  cress  or  chicory,  and  pour 
over  French  dressing. 

OKRA  SALAD. 

Boil  in  slightly  salted  water  a  sufficient  number  of  okra  pods,  ^^^len 
tender  cool  and  slice  crosswise.  Line  a  salad  dish  with  lettuce  leaves, 
add  a  layer  of  okra,  then  one  of  tomatoes,  sliced  very  thin,  then  a  sprink- 
ling of  onions  minced  fine,  a  layer  of  chopped  peppers  and  some  grated 
horseradish.    Repeat  and  marinate  with  French  dressing. 

CPIICKEN  AND  CORN  SALAD. 
Cook  together  in  double  boiler  for  20  minutes  *  cup  of  milk,  2  cups 
grated  corn,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Add  1 
tablespoon  of  gelatin  which  has  been  dissolved  in  cold  water  and  remove 
from  fire.  Whip  in  1  cupful  of  cold  chicken,  1  tablespoon  of  minced 
green  peppers  and  the  same  of  chopped  pimento.  Turn  into  individual 
molds.     Serve  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

CHESTNUT  SALAD. 
Shell  large  chestnuts  and  blanch  them.    Then  boil  until  tender.   While 
they  are  still  hot  immerse  them  in   French  dressing  to  which  has  been 
added  a  little  onion  juice.    Drain  and  chill  thoroughly.     Serve  in  a  bed  of 
watercress. 

37 


FRENCH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

y^,  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  1  tablespoon  flour,  6  tablespoons  cream,  1  ta- 
blespoon butter,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  white  pepper  or  paprica'. 
Wash  but  do  not  peel  the  mushrooms,  cut  them  into  bits,  put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  the  butter,  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  saucepan, 
place  it  over  a  moderate  fire  to  cook  slowly  for  20  minutes,  rub  flour  and 
cream  together  with  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  mushrooms  are 
cooking  and  stir  all  together  and  let  boil  up  once  more  and  serve.  This 
is  the  foundation.  When  cooked  with  sweetbreads,  simply  add  the  par- 
boiled sweetbreads  to  this  sauce  and  serve  red  hot.  This  sauce  is  also 
very  nice  used  with  chicken  or  broiled  cutlets.  Instead  of  chickens  or 
cutlets,  brains  can  be  substituted. 


EUROPEAN  PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

1  pt.  chestnuts,  %  cup  of  sugar,  1  pt.  vanilla.  1  pt.  cream.  Shell 
and  blanch  the  chestnuts  by  pouring  over  them  boiling  water.  Cover  them 
with  boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  the  juice  of  1/2  lemon.  Cook 
until  tender,  drain  and  sprinkle  them  with  sugar,  add  vanilla,  press  the 
whole  through  the  colander.  Arrange  the  mass  in  a  dish,  whip  the  cream 
and  pour  it  around  and  over  the  mixture  and  serve  when  quite  cold. 


SWEET  BREAD  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Boil  sweet  breads  till  tender,  remove  fibers,  when  cold  cut  into  dice. 
Mix  them  equal  parts  of  celery  and  1-3  as  much  cucumber  cut  into  pieces. 
Pour  on  French  dressing,  serve  in  small  round  cups  made  by  moulding 
ielly  in  small  round  moulds,  remove  center,  mold  and  fill  cavity  with  the 
salad. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Free  grape  from  partitions,  pull  in  pieces.  Mix  with  blanched,  dried 
out  almonds  and  creme  de  menthe  cherries.  Allow  8  or  10  cherries  to  each 
grape  fruit.  Do  not  mix  with  salad  until  ready.  Serve  in  border  of 
chopped  green  jelly,  flavored  with  creme  de  menthe  or  mold  the  jelly  in 
a  border  mold,  molding  in  some  of  the  green  cherries.  Serve  salad  in 
the  center. 

MACEDONIA  SALAD. 

1  qt.  cooked  strained  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  can 
or  bottle  of  macedones,  strain  the  tomato  juice  and  dissolve  it  in  1  ta- 
blespoon of  gelatin,  stir  this  into  the  strained  tomatoes,  pour  into  molds, 
when  cold  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


SALAD  A  LA  ROMOULADE. 

Cut  six  potatoes  cold  and  boiled  out  in  dice.  Mix  with  it  six  dozen 
sardines  which  have  been  skinned,  boned  and  broken  in  small  bits.  Add 
1/2  cup  of  shredded  cabbage  (the  red  cabbage,  if  possible)  and  one  sweet 
green  pepper  chonped.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled 
eggs  rubbed  smooth,  2  tablespoons  olive  oil,  4  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  onion 
grated,  and  pour  over  the  salad.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley.  Serve  on 
lettuce  and  garnish  with  rings  cut  from  the  whites  of  eggs. 


MINT  SALAD. 

Peel  six  oranges  and  after  removing  the  white  membrane  arrange  the 
pulp  on  lettuce  leaves.  Sprinkle  with  minced  mint  and  garnish  with 
sprays  of  mint.     Dress  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice  or  a  French  dressing. 


POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  potatoes  in  jackets  and  while  still  warm  peel  and  slice  with 
onion.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celer  yseed.  Add  sugar  and  vinegar 
or  iemon  juice  to  sour  cream  to  suit  taste  and  pour  over  potatoes;  garnish 
with  hard  boiled  eggs 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Before  beginning  the  dressing  chill  the  plate,  eggs  and  oil,  even  the 
fork.  Put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  carefully  freed  from  the  whites  in  a  good 
sized  bowl;  add  V2  tablesoon  of  salt  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  and  add 
a  teacup  of  oil,  drop  by  drop  at  first,  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar  and  the  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper  and  Vi  teaspoon  of  mus- 
tard. When  finished  the  dressing  should  be  thick  and  smooth  and  a  per- 
fect mayonnaise  should  not  be  strongly  acid,  as  that  destroys  the  flavor  of 
the  oil.    Mayonnaise  dressing  should  never  be  served  with  a  heavy  dinner. 


CHICKEN   SALAD. 

Chop  cold,  cooked  chicken  and  one  pound  of  veal  if  preferred,  into 
even  sized  pieces,  not  too  small,  and  season.  Select  the  tender  stalks  of 
celery  as  the  outer  tough  pieces  spoil  the  salad.  Wash,  scrape  and  chop 
into  small  pieces.  A  cup  of  shelled  pecans  chopped.  Marinate  the  chick- 
en and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve.  Mix  with  celery  and 
pecans.  For  every  quart  of  salad  take  one  cup  of  thick  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Mix  gently  with  the  salad,,  leaving  sufficient  to  use  as  a  garnish  with 
lettuce  leaves  or  celery  tops. 


CABBAGE  AND  PEPPER  SALAD. 

For  this  shred  finely  a  pint  measure  of  young,  crisp  cabbage  and  add 
to  it  two  shredded  peppers  and,  if  liked,  a  very  slight  grating  of  onion, 
or  use  onion  salt  for  part  of  the  seasoning.  Make  a  boiled  dressing,  using 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon dry  mustard,  %  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepi>er.  Put  all  ingre- 
dients except  vinegar  in  the  inner  vessel  of  a  double  boiler  and  cook  over 
hot  water  until  they  begin  to  thicken;  then  add  the  vinegar  and  continue 
the  cooking  3  minutes  longer.  Beat  the  dressing  occasionally  while  cook- 
ing.   If  not  all  used,  this  will  keep  for  future  use. 

LIMA  BEANS   SALAD. 

iy2  cooked  lima  beans,  i/^  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  olive  oil,  Vs 
teaspoon  pepper,  lettuce,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  horseradish, 
boiled  dressing,  1  tablespoon  minced  pimento.  Mix  pimento  with  beans. 
Combine  oil,  vinegar,  horseradish,  catsup,  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  stand 
at  least  30  minutes,  place  on  lettuce  leaves.  Pour  over  French  dressing. 
Serve. 

39 


CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  cup  cream  (sweet  or  sour),  3  eggs,  %  cup  vinegar,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
y2  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  saltspoon  paprica;  cook  all  to- 
gether in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Keep  in  a  covered  jar  in  a  cool  place. 

LETTUCE    SALAD. 

Wash  and  drain  lettuce  leaves,  dry  to  remove  the  water.  Rub  salad 
bowl  with  a  clover  or  garlic.  Sprinkle  with  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
tossing  gently  after  each  addition.  When  each  leaf  glistens  with  oil, 
shake  over  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  then  dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
sprig  or  two  of  chopped  chives,  parsley  and  fresh  tarragon,  if  convenient. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Chop  ripe  cucumbers,  after  peeling,  and  a  little  salt  to  taste,  put  into 
colander  with  plate  and  a  weight,  allow  it  to  drip  12  hours;  mix  with  cold 
vinegar  and  a  few  mustard  or  celery  seeds  as  taste  demands,  and  pack  in 
jars.  This  will  keep  for  years  and  is  nice  with  cold  meat  or  mixed  with 
salads  in   winter. 

PEANUT  SALAD. 

2  cups  chopped  cabbage,  1  cup  chopped  or  ground  nuts,  peanuts,  V2 
cup  cracker  crumbs,  3  eggs  (yolks  of)  or  2  whole,  well  beaten  eggs,  3  ta- 
blespoons vinegar  stirred  into  eggs.  Mix  these  dry  ingredients:  1  table- 
spoon flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt,  i/^  teaspoon  mustard. 
Then  stir  into  the  eggs  and  vinegar  and  mix  in  cup  sour  cream.  Cook 
until  thick,  beating  all  the  time.  Pour  over  the  mixed  cabbage,  peanuts 
and  crumbs. 

LOBSTER   SALAD. 

Cut  the  boiled  lobster  meat  into  as  even  pieces  as  possible.  Marinate 
and  put  in  a  .cool  place  until  wanted.  When  ready  to  serve  mix, with 
shredded  lettuce  leaves  and  mayonnaise  dressing  in  the  proportion  of  one- 
half  cup  of  dressing  to  every  pint  of  salad.  Serve  on  curly  lettuce  leaves, 
garnished  with  dressing  and  the  powdered  coral  of  the  lobster  if  desired. 
Fish  salads  of  any  description  siiould  be  served  at  once  after  mixing. 

SARDINE  SALAD. 

1  box  sardines,  1  lemon,  1  head  of  crisp  lettuce,  1  teaspoon  Worces- 
tershire sauce.  Remove  the  sardines  from  the  oil  and  carefully  skin; 
arrange  them  at  once  on  the  lettuce  leaves  Squeeze  the  lemon  juice  over 
them  and  sprinkle  on  the  Worcestershire  sauce  Dust  lightly  with  pepper 
and  baste  with  Italian  dressing.  Garnish  with  a  tablespoon  chopped  pars- 
ley or  a  few  olives. 

WALDORF   SALAD. 

The  original  was  made  by  mixing  thin  slices  of  tart  apples  with  white 
mayonnaise  dressing.  It  is  usually  served  without  lettuce.  It  may,  how- 
ever, be  served  with  both  lettuce  and  celery.  In  many  cases  an  equal 
quantity  of  apples  and  celery  are  mixed  and  served  in  apple  shells  on 
lettuce  leaves  with  French  nressing;  this  is  one  of  the  most  attractive 
and  wholesome  of  dinner  salads. 

40 


SWEKT-BREAD  SALAD. 

1  pair  sweet-breads,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  %  cup  of  mayonnaise 
dressing,  1  saltspoon  of  white  pepper  or  paprica,  1  head  of  lettuce.  Wash 
and  cook  until  tender  and  cut  in  dice;  then  use  the  sweet-breads  and 
green  pepper  choped  fine.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  on  lettuce 
leaves;   garnish  with  capers. 


BOHEMIAN   SALAD. 

This  is  an  exceedingly  nice  salad  to  serve  with  braised  beef  or  mut- 
ton. Cover  the  bottom  of  a  salad  dish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  put  over 
the  top  alternately  slices  of  boiled  beets  and  hard  boiled  eggs.  Sprinkle 
with  a  tablespoon  of  onion  chopped  and  cover  with  Italian  dressing. 


MACEDOMES   SALAD. 

1  quart  can  of  tumatoefc,  put  on  to  cook,  strain,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  can  or  bottle  macedomes,  strain  the  tomato  juice;  after  it  boils 
dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  gelatine;  put  the  macedomes  in  it,  then  put  in 
little  molds  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Use  %  oil  to  Vs  vinegar.  For  every  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  3  of  oil 
take  1/2  tablespoon  salt  and  V4,  of  a  teaspoon  of  black  or  white  pepper. 
Mix  the  salt  and  pepper  with  the  oil  and  add  the  vinegar  slowly,  stirring 
all  the  while  until  it  becomes  white  and  a  little  thickened.  The  dressing 
must  be  used  or  served  at  once  or  it  will  separate. 

To  marinate  is  to  cover  with  French  dressing  and  allow  to  stand  two 
or  three  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  the  dressing  not  absorbed  should  be 
drained  from  the  meat  or  vegetable  marinated  and  the  salad  mixed  with 
dressing  to  be  used. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

1  cup  of  oil,  1  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  mustard,  paprica  or  red  pepper, 
1  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  juice  of  i^  lemon,  yolk  of  3  eggs.  Have  yolk  chill- 
ed, also  the  oil;  drop  oil  drop  at  a  time  into  the  eggs  and  continue,  mean- 
while to  stir.  The  oil  will  not  blend  with  the  egg  if  used  hastily.  When 
the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  teaspoon  of  vinegar  and  lemon  juice 
which  are  mixed  together  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly.  Now  add 
the  other  ingredients.  When  ready  to  use,  if  too  thick,  thin  with  cream 
or  beaten  white  of  eggs.    The  cream  must  be  whipped  if  used. 

(    ' 

CHEESE  SALAD. 

Soak  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  i/^  cup  of  boiling  water.  When  cool 
and  beginning  to  set,  beat  into  this  1/2  cup  of  whipper  cream,  Vz  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  cup  whipped  cream,  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  %  cup  chopped 
nuts,  14  cup  chopped  olives,  3  or  4  drops  of  tobasco  sauce,  i/i  teaspoon 
mustard.     Mold  in  baking  cans.     When  cold  slice.     Nice  for  sandwiches. 

41 


BOHEMIAN    SALAD. 

A  very  nice  salad  to  serve  with  beef  or  roast  mutton.  Cover  bottom 
of  salad  dish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  place  on  these  sliced  tomatoes,  al- 
ternating slices  of  boiled  beets  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  followed  by  chopped 
onion,  cover  with  Italian  or  any  other  salad  dressing. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Cook  1  can  of  tomatoes  with  a  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  bit 
of  bay  leaf  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  strain,  cook  two  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  saucepan  till  it  bubbles,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  cook  until  it 
thickens,  add  the  strained  tomato  and  cook,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH  NO.  1. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  cook  until  it  bubbles,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
stir  till  smooth,  add  11/2  cup  of  white  stock,  either  chicken  or  fish,  stir 
until  it  thickens.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  the  yolk  of 
four  eggs  slightly  beaten,  season,  remove  from  the  fire  and  when  slightly 
cool  add  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH  NO.   2. 

Use  mayonnaise  dressing,  made  with  one-half  tarragon  vinegar  and 
one-half  lemon  juice.  .  Add  one  teaspoon  each  of  chopped  olives,  pickles 
and  capers;  one-half  cup  whipped  cream  to  one  cup  mayonnaise. 


PATE-DE-FOI-GRAS. 


Boil  12  chicken  livers.  Mash  to  a  pulp,  add  a  little  onion  juice,  4  or  5 
drops  of  tobasco  sauce,  yolk  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  vinegar  to  moisten 
to  a  stiff  paste.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  slice  when  cold.  Nice  for  sand- 
wiches.   Calf's  liver,  if  quite  young  is  equally  good  as  chicken. 


42 


PICKLES 


PICKLES. 


Pickles  should  never  be  put  in  vessels  of  copper,  iron  or  tin.  Use 
only  earthenware  or  glass.  Use  only  the  best  white  wine  vinegar  and  al- 
ways keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place.  Examine  at  frequent  intervals.  When 
cooking  them  always  use  agate  or  porcelain  kettles,  as  acids  will  not 
affect  them.  In  putting  up  pickles  in  brine  always  weight  the  contents 
of  the  jars  with  heavy  stones.  Cover  with  a  clean  cloth  which  must  be 
removed  and  washed  every  day. 

SWEET   PICKLED   PEACHES. 

Peel  large  clingstone  peaches.  To  9  lbs.  peaches  take  4i^  lbs. 
granulated  sugar.  Put  on  the  sugar  with  3  cupfuls  water,  add  3  pints 
best  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  whole  cloves,  with  heads  removed,  and  some 
pieces  cinnamon  bark.  When  it  boils  15  minutes,  lay  in  the  peaches,  boil 
until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw  (no  longer),  remove  peaches 
with  a  perforated  skimmer,  put  in  jars  and  continue  cooking  syrup  until 
somewhat  thick,  pour  over  the  peaches  and  when  cold  seal  tightly.  Be- 
fore cooking,  the  peaches  should  be  dropped  in  boiling  strong  soda  water 
and  the  fur  rubbed  off. 

VINEGAR  PEACHES. 

Drop  peaches  a  few  at  a  time  in  strong  (washing)  soda  water,  then 
in  cold  water  and  rub  off.  4  pounds  peaches  to  2  pounds  of  sugar  and  1 
cup  of  vinegar.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  2  cups  water.  Drop  the 
peaches  into  the  syrup,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  add  vinegar  and  boil  five  min- 
utes longer.    Seal  tight  while  hot. 

PICKLES. 

To  3  gallons  of  cider  vinegar  add  4  ounces  of  mace,  4  ounces  of  all- 
spice, 2  ounces  cloves,  4  ounces  white  ginger,  1  pound  white  mustard 
seed,  1/2  lb.  tumeric,  1  ounce  red  pepper,  teacup  garlic,  1  lb.  horse  radish 
peeled  and  cut  up,  15  lbs.  white  sugar.  After  cucumbers  and  onions 
have  been  in  brine  about  a  week  or  ten  days,  rinse  them  in  fresh  water 
and  peel  the  onions,  cut  the.  cucumbers  in  suitable  pieces  and  scald  to- 
gether in  a  large  kettle.  Put  in  stone  jars  with  covers;  do  not  close  till 
cold. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

2  qts.  large  cucumbers  sliced,  2  qts.  small  cucumbers,  2  qts.  small 
white  onions,  2  qts.  coarsely  cut  celery,  12  green  peppers.  Put  all  in 
weak  salt  water  for  24  hours,  then  scald  in  same  water. 

43 


FRENCH    PICKLE. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes,  2  large  heads  cabbage,  12  large  onions,  12 
cucumbers  chopped  fine' and  thoroughly  drained.  Add  to  these  3  quarts 
strong  vinegar.  Put  on  in  kettle  with  1  pound  white  sugar,  3  tablespoons 
cinnamon,  3  tablespoons  mustard,  3  tablespoons  allspice,  3  tablespoons 
black  pepper,  3  tablespoons  celery  seeds,  1  tablespoon  tumeric  dissolved 
in  vinegar  and  put  in  last,  cook  well.  Should  this  seem  too  fliick,  add 
more  vinegar.    Add  salt  if  desired. 

PASTE. 
12  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  3  tablespoons  tumeric,  6  qts.  cider 
vinegar,  3  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  celery  seed.  Mix  well 
together  and  cook  sufficiently  to  cook  the  flour,  drain  pickles  well  and 
stir  in  the  kettle  of  paste  until  well  scalded,  put  in  stone  jars  and  do  not 
cover  until  cool. 

PICCALILLI. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes,  3  cabbages,  a  large  package  of  good  sized  cu- 
cumbers, 8  large  white  onions,  6  large  green  peppers,  6  red  peppers,  3 
bunches  of  celery.  Chop  each  rather  fine,  put  tomatoes,  onions  and  cu- 
cumbers in  weak  brine  over  night,  drain  well,  and  mix  the  other  ingred- 
ients, sprinkle  through  one  gill  white  mustard  seed,  one  gill  celery  seed, 
cover  with  scalding  vinegar,  and  in  24  hours  cover  with  fresh  vinegar. 


DRINKS  AND  BEVERAGES 


GRAPE  JUICE. 


Pull  grapes  oft"  stems,  wash  and  mash  in  preserving  kettle.  Add  a 
very  little  water  to  start  juice  and  to  prevent  sticking.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
strain  and  measure.  3  quarts  .iuice,  1  quart  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  add 
2  pounds  granulated  sugar,  bring  to  a  boil  and  bottle  at  once,  sealing  with 
wax.  In  bottling,  pour  through  both  strainer  and  funnel  and  let  juice 
overflow  to  get  out  all  air.  Put  in  cork  immediately.  Have  bottles  warm 
before  filling.  Use  best  sealing  wax.  Strain  through  a  flour  bag  or 
cheese  cloth  bag.    One  small  basket  of  grapes  makes  about  a  quart. 

FRUIT   PUNCH. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  tea,  1  pint  strawberry  syrup,  5  lemons  (juice),  1 
can  grated  pineapple,  1  cup  water,  ice  water,  1  quart  Apollinaris,  5  or- 
anges (juice),  1  can  grated  pineapple,  V2  pint  candied  cherries.  Make  a 
syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  the  cup  of  water  ten  minutes;  add  tea,  fruit, 
juices,  pineapple  and  strawberry  syrup;  let  stand  thirty  minutes;  strain, 
add  enough  ice  water  to  make  l^^  gallons  of  liquid;  turn  into  large  punch 
bowl  over  piece  of  ice,  add  cherries  and  Apollinaris  water.  Will  serve 
fifty  people. 

LEMONADE. 

1  pint  water,  1  quart  ice  water,  3  lemons  (juice),  1  cup  sugar  and  1 
can  pmeapple  (grated)  if  desired.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  by 
holing  ten  minutes,  add  pineapple  and  lemon  juice,  cool,  strain  and  add 
ice  water. 

COFFEE,  NO.  1. 

Measure  the  coffee  after  grinding,  allow  the  usual  tablespoon  for  each 
cup;  put  it  in  the  pot  and  pour  boiling  water  over  in  the  proportion  of  % 
of  a  pint  for  each  tablespoon  of  coffee.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  instantly  lift 
the  pot  form  the  fire,  uncover  and  let  stand  a  minute  or  two;  cover,  set 
back  on  fire  and  let  boil  up  again;  stand  aside  five  minutes  to  settle  and 
serve.  Note  that  no  egg,  neither  white  nor  shells  is  used  to  clear  coffee, 
yet  it  pours  perfectly  clear  and  with  an  aroma  decidedly  appetizing. 

COFFEE,  NO.   2. 

Put  five  tablespoons  freshly  ground  coffee  into  pot  which  has  been 
scalded.  Put  half  egg  and  half  cup  cold  water  into  pot  with  coffee,  shake 
or  stir  with  a  spoon,  pour  on  about  a  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil 
up  once,  then  set  aside  to  simmer,  not  boil,  until  breakfast  is  ready. 
Throw  in  a  dash  of  cold  water  and  you  have  a  cup  of  coffee  that  will 
make  any  man  glad  he  has  left  his  mother. 

45 


NEW  RECIPES 


NEW  RECIPES 


NEW  RECIPES 


DEC  31  mt 


