KENTUCKY 
RECEIPT   BOOK 


MARY   HARRIS    FRAZER 


L|BP»»v  -.«  10NGRFSS 
Two  Oootes  R»rmv«d 

AUG   81    1904 

Cooyrtfht  Entry 

M/iu,.  b~;«  od. 
CLASS    Co  XXb.  No. 

£  flo    I  7. 

COPY  B 


4^ 


Copyright,  1903,  by  Mary  Harris  Frazer 


PEI  - 
THE    Iill.vl'l.KV    t    QILBEET   COMPANY 
l  OUISVILLE,   KV. 


TO 

MY   SON  AND   DAUGHTER 

I   AFFECTIONATELY 

DEDICATE 

THIS  VOLUME 


"It  is  the  bounty  of  nature 
that  we  live,  but  of  philosophy 
that  we  live  well." 

— Senecca. 


PREFACE 


THERE  have  been  many  cook  books  published  in  America, 
but  fully  aware  of  this  fact  and  of  their  excellence,  the 
author  of  this  volume  yet  claims  for  her  work  an  entirely 
unique  value.  Receipts  are  found  herein  which  have  been 
collected  for  generations,  including  Creole  and  French 
receipts  known  only  to  the  wealthy  planter  families  of 
the  far  South,  whose  trained  chefs  seldom  liked  to  reveal 
the  secret  of  their  delicious  creations.  Having  spent  her 
girlhood  as  a  resident  of  Louisiana,  the  author  early  conceived  the  idea 
of  collecting  formulas  for  all  the  delicacies  of  the  table  served  in  the 
homes  of  her  relatives  and  friends.  In  later  years,  coming  further 
North,  all  that  was  best  in  Virginia  and  Kentucky  cookery  she  also 
obtained,  and  it  is  not  claiming  more  than  truth  to  state  that  a  more 
comprehensive    cook    book    has    never   been    issued    in    the   South. 


MARY     HARRIS    FRAZER. 


©UP 


Kentucky  Burgoo. 

Twenty-five  gallons  of  water,  5  shin  bones  of  beef,  1  blade  of 
beef,  12  chickens,  1  bushel  Irish  potatoes,  12  cans  tomatoes,  12  cans 
corn,  1  peck  onions.  Wash  the  meat  carefully,  put  on  with  water 
to  boil  3  hours,  then  add  prepared  vegetables  with  pepper  and  salt, 
When  done,  chop  meat  and  return  to  kettle.   Cook  burgoo  12  hours. 

This  quantity  makes  60  gallons  of  burgoo. 

Tomato  Soup,  With  Stock. 

Take  the  bones  and  trimmings  from  a  roast,  with  any  scraps 
of  meat.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water;  have  twice  as 
much  water  as  meat.  Add  1  onion,  2  whole  cloves,  6  pepper  corns, 
a  piece  of  celery  root,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  cook  4 
hours,  skimming  often;  then  add  6  sliced  tomatoes,  or  a  one-quart 
can  of  tomatoes.  Cook  1  hour  longer,  then  skim  out  the  bones  and 
meat  and  strain  the  liquor  through  a  puree  strainer,  rubbing  all  the 
tomato  pulp  through.  Heat  again  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  1  of  flour  well  blended.  Boil  a  minute  and  serve. 

Cream  of  Cauliflower  Soup. 

Heat  1  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  stock,  1  pint  of  milk,  y2  coffee 
cup  of  sweet  cream.  When  boiling  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of 
fine  whole  wheat  flour;  add  salt  and  white  pepper.  Cook  half  a 
cauliflower  in  boiling  salted  water  20  minutes.  Cut  off  the  little 
flowerets,  using  none  of  the  stalk;  put  in  enough  to  thicken  the 
broth. 

To  Prepare  Stock  for  Use. 

The  stock  may  be  seasoned  only  with  pepper  and  salt.  Remove 
fat  from  stock,  and  put  one  quart  of  this  liquid  into  kettle  over  a 
quick  fire.  Simmer  carefully,  and  more  stock  may  be  added :  also 
one  bay  leaf,  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  %  blade  of  mace,  a  little 
thyme,  or  summer  savory.  Vegetables  may  be  added  in  proportion 
of  %  tablespoon  each,  of  onion,  carrot  and  turnips  to  each  quart 
of  soup — these  should  be  cut  fine,  and  scalded  before  adding  to 
soup.  Simmer  1  hour;  it  can  be  then  strained  and  set  away  or  al- 
lowed to  settle.  It  may  be  used  for  clear  soup  or  served  as  a 
vegetable  soup. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    HOOK. 


Thickening  for  Soup. 

Soup  may  be  thickened  with  bread,  instead  of  flour,  corn  starch 
or  arrowroot.  When  this  is  used,  force  meat  balls,  e<^  or  spinach 
balls  may  be  served  in  it,  instead  of  vegetables.  The  French  and 
German  niles  say  bread  must  be  saturated  with  broth  and  fat  from 
top  of  kettle,  and  baked  until  broth  has  evaporated  and  crusts  are 
brown.  Otherwise  the  bread  should  be  dried,  and  browned  lightly. 
Add  a  small  amount  of  stock,  and  simmer  until  soft.  Stir  until  re- 
duced to  a  panada.  Two  tablespoons  of  dried  bread  crumbs  to  1 
quart  of  soup.  Strain  again.  The  German  rye  bread  is  excellent  for 
this  thickening.  It  may  be  used  with  stock,  or  simply  boiled  in 
water,  and  enriched  with  eggs.  Or  use  Caraway  sauce  and  toasted 
brown  sugar. 

Soup  Stock. 

Meat  bones  for  stock  must  be  absolutely  fresh,  and  about  equal 
in  proportion.  Hock  or  shins  of  beef,  ends  of  rib  roast,  and  portions 
of  the  neck  or  shoulder  are  suitable.  The  first  mentioned  furnish 
chiefly  gelatine,  the  latter  yield  flavor.  Sponge  outside  of  bone 
with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  warm  water,  but  do  not  wet  the  freshly- 
cut  surface  of  meat,  Cut  meat  from  the  bones  and  put  in  soup 
kettle,  having  first  inserted  in  it  a  perforated  plate  to  prevent  bones 
from  touching  bottom  of  kettle.  It  should  have  a  close-fitting  top. 
Place  the  meat  upon  the  bones  and  cover  with  cold  water.  It  should 
be  at  least  an  hour  in  coming  to  a  boil.  Let  it  boil  gently  5  minutes. 
then  put  on  back  of  range  to  simmer  8  hours.  After  cooking  2  hours, 
seasoning  is  added ;  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt  and  4  pepper  corns  to 
each  quart  of  liquid.  After  it  has  been  strained  the  meat  and  bones 
with  2  quarts  of  water  simmered  2  hours  will  yield  a  stock  of  lighter 
quality,  but  of  much  value,  which  may  be  used  for  tomato,  bean  or 
clear  soup.  Cool  stock  quickly  and  put  in  ice  box  until  needed  for 
use.    Skim  off  all  grease  and  strain  again. 

Tomato  Puree. 

Take  1  quart  of  tomatoes  and  put  them  on  to  cook ;  when  hot 
add  a  pinch  of  soda,  let  it  foam,  skim  well  and  press  through  a 
sieve;  set  on  back  of  range  to  keep  hot.  Have  1  quart  of  milk  in 
double  boiler,  after  it  boils  add  7  butter  crackers  that  have  been 
pulverized,  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  When  ready 
to  -serve,  add  tomatoes  to  the  milk. 

Soup  Stock. 

Meat  and  bones  for  soup  must  be  absolutely  fresh.  Hock  or  shin 
of  beef  or  end  of  rib  roast  and  portions  of  neck  and  shoulder.  The 
first  mentioned  furnish  chiefly  gelatine,  the  latter  give  flavor.  A 
knuckle  of  veal,  or  the  hone  trimmed  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  and 
a  few  ounces  of  sliced  ham  may  be  used  in  making  stock  or  soup. 
Sponge  outside  of  meat  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  warm  water,  but 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


do  not  wet  the  freshly-cut  surface  of  meai.  Cut  meat  from  hones 
and  put  in  a  soup  kettle.  Put  a  perforated  pie  pan  in  hottom  to 
prevent  meat  touching  the  hottom.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  sim- 
mer one  hour.  There  should  be  a  close-fitting  top.  on  kettle.  Then 
boil  5  minutes  and  put  on  back  of  range  to  simmer  8  hours. 

Consomme. 

Cut  3  pounds  of  lean  beef  in  small  pieces,  with  1  large  carrot 
and  1  large  onion.  Have  the  vegetables  washed  and  peeled,  then 
put  with  the  beef  4  cloves,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  very  small 
piece  of  red  pepper  pod.  Put  this  in  a  soup  pot  with  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  then  fill  up  the  pot  with  stock  from  a  boiled  chicken. 
You  can  boil  the  carcass  of  a  roasted  turkey,  and  put  this  stock  in 
instead  of  the  chicken.  Let  it  come  to  a  good  boil,  skim  thoroughly, 
and  set  pot  on  back  of  range  to  simmer  slowly  1  hours.  Strain 
this  and  keep  in  cool  place  until  the  next  day.  Skim  off  all  grease, 
put  in  porcelain  kettle  with  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  egg,  let  it 
come  to  a  good  boil  and  serve  very  hot.  One  teacup  of  sherry  wine 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

Thickening  for  Soups. 

Soups  are  thickened  with  flour,  corn  starch  or  rice  flour,  1 
tablespoon  for  each  quart  of  soup,  heaping  if  flour  is  used;  scant  if 
rice  flour  or  corn  starch.  Mix  flour  with  cold  water  to  a  smooth 
paste,  then  add  liquid  until  it  is  easily  poured  into  soup.  Let  it  boil 
20  minutes.  If  butter  is  used,  put  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  bubbling 
stir  in  flour  quickly  until  smooth ;  then  add  gradually  1  cup  of  hot 
soup :  it  should  be  thin  enough  to  pour.  In  vegetable  soups  or  purees 
as  soon  as  butter  and  flour  are  blended  it  can  be  added  to  the  soup. 
If  a  brown  thickening  is  desired,  melt  the  butter  and  let  it  become 
brown,  then  add  the  flour  at  once  and  stir  quickly.  Add  water  or 
soup  gradually.  Flour  that  is  browned  while  dry  colors,  but  does 
not  thicken.  Thickened  soups  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  good 
cream.    Purees  are  thicker. 

To  Clear  Soup  Stock. 

Remove  fat  and  allow  the  white  and  shell  of  1  egg  for  every 
quart  of  stock.  If  you  wish  to  flavor  the  stock  more  highly,  add 
a/2  a  saltspoon  of  celery  seed,  and  the  thinnest  possible  shavings  from 
the  rinds  of  half  a  lemon.  Add  also  the  lemon  juice,  and  more  salt 
and  pepper  if  needed  .Mix  celery  seed,  lemon  and  egg  with  the 
cold  stock  and  beat  well.  Stir  constantly  until  liquid  is  hot,  then 
allow  it  to  boil  10  minutes.  Put  on  back  of  range,  and  add  i/.  cup 
of  cold  water.  Let  it  remain  10  minutes,  then  strain  through  cloth 
wrung  out  of  hot  water,  which  must  be  placed  in  a  colander.  Allow 
it  to  drain  slowly.  Serve  as  a  clear  soup.  Heat  to  boiling  point  and 
have  in  tureen  thin  slices  of  lemon,  1  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine, 
yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  or  delicately  flavored  force  meat  balls. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Tomato  Soup. 

Two  cans  of  tomatoes,  2  pints  of  new  milk,  6  butter  crackers,  1 
cooking  spoon  of  butter,  V2  teaspoon  of  soda,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste.  Rub  tbe  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  put  them  into 
a  saucepan  and  boil.  Stir  in  the  soda  until  it  ceases  to  foam,  add 
the  milk,  let  it  boil  for  5  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Take  from 
fire,   add  crackers,   salt  and  pepper. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

Take  6  stalks  of  celery  cut  into  pieces  and  put  on  the  fire  with 
1  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  the  same  quantity  of  milk  or  cream. 
Let  it  simmer  until  celery  is  tender,  then  pass  the  whole  through 
a  sieve.  Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  when  it  bubbles 
add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  rub  until  smooth  and  let  cook  2  or  3 
minutes.  Add  the  liquid  that  has  been  strained,  stir  until  it  boils, 
season  to  taste.  Add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  sweet 
cream.   Asparagus  or  cauliflower  can  be  used  instead  of  celery. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

Take  3  pints  of  beef  soup  or  stock,  20  heads  of  asparagus,  small 
quantity  of  cream,  butter,  flour  and  a  little  spinach.  Cut  tops  off 
asparagus  about  V2  inch  long  and  boil  the  rest,  use  all  the  tender 
portion  and  run  through  a  sieve,  add  salt.  Warm  3  pints  of  stock 
and  add  a  roux  matle  of  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  flour,  stirring  in  3  tablespoons  of  cream.  Color  soup  with 
1  teaspoon  of  spinach,  and  just  before  serving  add  asparagus  tops 
which  have  been  boiled  separately. 

Tomato  Bisque. 

One  can  of  tomatoes  put  in  double  boiler.  When  it  begins  to 
boil  stir  in  a  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Let  it  foam,  then  strain  through 
a  sieve,  add  1  teaspoon  of  corn  starch,  and  set  on  back  of  range. 

Put  on  1  quart  of  cream  to  boil,  with  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  cream  to  tomatoes,  also  1  can  champignons, 
without  liquor,  that  have  been  boiled  and  chopped.    Serve  hot. 

Bouillon  Soup. 

Three  pounds  of  beef  chopped  fine.  Put  on  in  cold  water,  1 
quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  onion  and 
a  little  parsley.  Set  on  back  of  range  to  simmer,  skimming  con- 
stantly. Remove  meat  and  strain  soup.  Beat  white  of  egg.  Chop 
another  onion  and  put  in  with  the  egg.  Drop  in  a  little  piece  of 
lean  ham;  salt  and  pepper.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Strain  through  a 
cloth  into  tureen. 

Clam  Broth. 

Twenty-five  clams  washed  and  drained;  steam  until  the  shells 
open  easily.   Save  the  juice  and  add  enough  water  to  make  1  quart. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


With  a  pair  of  scissors  trim  off  the  soft  part  of  the  clam  and  reserve 
to  serve  with  the  broth.  Chop  the  tough  portions  a  little,  and  sim- 
mer for  15  minutes  in  the  broth.  Strain,  add  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
in  bouillon  cups.  The  reserved  portion,  serve  with  melted  butter 
and  lemon  juice  poured  over  it. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

One  soup  bone,  1  quart  of  canned  tomatoes,  3  Irish  potatoes, 
1  gallon  of  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Wash  bone  and  put  in  soup 
pot  with  water.  Simmer  for  3  hours,  skimming  constantly;  then 
press  tomatoes  through  sieve  and  add  to  soup ;  also  potatoes  diced, 
black  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  2  hours  longer ;  then  add  2  tablespoons 
of  sifted  flour,  made  into  a  paste  with  cold  water.  Stir  well  to  pre- 
vent lumping.    Cook  about  15  minutes.    Serve  soup  in  hot  tureen. 

Oyster  Soup. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  milk,  12  butter 
crackers,  1  tablespoon  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  cream  and  milk 
in  double  boiler.  When  it  comes  to  boiling  point  add  crackers  pul- 
verized, with  pepper  and  salt,  butter  and  oysters  drained  of  liquor. 
A  little  chopped  celery  may  be  added.  When  oysters  curl,  serve 
immediately  in  hot  tureen. 

White  Navy  Bean  Soup. 

One  gallon  of  cold  water,  1  pint  of  navy  beans,  pepper  and  salt. 
Cover  beans  with  cold  water  and  soak  12  hours.  Then  drain  off 
water  and  put  beans  in  soup  pot  with  the  cold  water.  Boil  5  hours, 
then  put  through  a  colander ;  return  to  pot  and  season  the  soup.  If 
not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  thickening.   Boil  10  minutes  and  serve. 

Black-Eyed  Pea  Soup. 

Four  quarts  of  cold  water,  1  pint  of  black-eyed  peas,  pepper 
and  salt.  Cover  peas  with  cold  water  and  soak  12  hours.  Drain  off 
water.  Put  peas  in  soup  pot  and  add  4  quarts  of  cold  water,  pepper 
and  salt.  Boil  5  hours,  then  put  through  sieve  and  return  to  pot. 
If  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  thickening.  Boil  10  minutes  and 
serve. 

Bouillon. 

A  2-pound  knuckle  bone  of  beef,  5  quarts  of  cold  water,  2  large 
carrots,  1  large  onion,  14  cloves,  y2  can  of  tomatoes,  1  level  tablespoon 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Wash  bone  and  put  in  soup  pot, 
with  the  cold  water,  tomatoes,  carrots,  peeled  and  sliced,  onion  with 
the  cloves  stuck  in  it,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Simmer  9  hours; 
there  should  be  4  quarts  of  liquid  remaining.  Strain  through  flannel 
bag  into  tureen.  Set  aside  until  next  day.  Then  strain  into  sauce- 
pan, adding  2  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup,  a  caramel  made  of  l1/? 
heaping    tablespoons  light  brown  sugar,  white  of  1   egg    slightly 


10  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


frothed  and  the  shell;  boil   about   V/2   hours;  then  strain  3  times. 
Serve  hot  in  bouillon  cups  with  wafers. 

Puree  of  Lima  Beans 

One  pint  of  Lima  beans  soaked  all  night  in  cold  water,  then 
boil  the  water  or  stuck  with  1  pint  of  tomato  juice  for  3  hours.  Press 
through  sieve,  add  cayenne  and  black  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  dasb 
of  onion  juice:  add  1  tablespoon  flour  and  1  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter; stir  until  smooth;  then  pour  in  1  cup  of  hot  soup  and  stir 
hard,  then  add  to  soup.  Slice  3  fresh  tomatoes  quite  thin  and  put  in 
soup,  let  come  to  boiling  point  and  serve  at  once. 

Puree  of  Cucumbers. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  quart  of  veal  broth,  3  cucumbers,  y2  pint 
of  cream,  2  ounces  of  butter,  Y2  teaspoon  sugar.  Pare  cucumbers 
and  cut  in  slices ;  boil  with  water  5  minutes.  Drain  and  cook  in 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt,  white  pepper  and  nut- 
meg. Cover  and  simmer  1  hour.  Bring  milk  and  broth  to  boiling 
point,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  stir  to  prevent  lumping;  boil  15 
minutes.  Press  puree  through  sieve,  return  to  saucepan  with  cu- 
cumbers, heat  to  boiling  point ;  add  cream,  sugar  and,  if  not  rich 
enough,  1  dessert  spoon  butter.    Serve  with  croutons  in  hot  tureen. 

For  Bouillon. 

Allow  1  pound  of  meat  and  bone  to  each  pint  of  broth ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  onion  and  cloves.  Prepare  soup  the  day  before  it 
is  to  be  used,  as  all  grease  must  be  removed  while  it  is  cold. 

Spinach  Soup. 

Use  1  peck  of  spinach,  wash  it  thoroughly  and  chop  fine,  put 
piece  of  butter  in  saucepan,  size  of  an  e»;^;  when  hot  add  1  onion 
chopped  fine ;  fry  until  brown,  then  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  stir 
a  few  minutes.  Add  chopped  spinach,  stir  well,  then  add  2  quarts 
water.  Let  it  simmer  half  an  hour,  put  through  sieve,  season  just 
before  serving.     Add  3  yolks  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  cream. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

Scrape  thoroughly  and  parboil  2  cups  of  celery,  cutting  into 
small  pieces.  Put  into  2  cups  of  water  for  10  minutes,  then  drain 
and  add  2  cups  of  chicken  stock  with  a  thin  slice  of  onion.  Cook 
until  it  is  soft  enough  to  mash.  Replenish  with  water  if  the  stock 
is  reduced  in  boiling.  Have  the  same  amount  of  liquid  when  done 
as  started  with.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  same  of  granum,  which  must  be  cooked  but  not  browned; 
also  add  2  cups  of  hot  milk  and  1  cup  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  a  little  pepper.   Let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  at  once. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  11 


Bouillon. 

Two  pounds  of  shank  soup  bone  crushed,  2  gallons  of  cold 
water,  1  onion  with  14  cloves  stuck  in  it,  2  large  carrots  sliced,  2 
parsnips  sliced,  1  can  of  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  caramel,  1  well- 
beaten  egg  with  shell,  1  even  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  black 
pepper.  Put  bone  and  all  vegetables  in  kettle  with  the  cold  water 
and  simmer  slowly  for  10  hours.  Then  strain  through  several  thick- 
nesses of  cloth  and  squeeze  well  to  extract  juice.  Set  away  until 
next  day,  then  skim  off  grease  and  strain.  Put  bouillon  in  kettle, 
adding  the  caramel,  egg  and  shell;  let  it  boil  up  3  times,  then  strain 
again.  Set  aside  to  congeal;  heat  when  ready  to  serve,  or  it  may  be 
served  in  cups  as  a  jelly. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Take  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  add  to  it  1  onion,  1  turnip,  1 
carrot,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  1  hour,  then  press  through  a  sieve. 
Return  to  kettle  and  add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter  and  1  heaping 
teaspoon  of  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  cold  water.  Let  come  to 
a  boil  and  serve. 

Gumbo. 

One  chicken,  4  tomatoes,  2  ears  of  corn,  2  quarts  of  water,  1 
quart  okra,  1  onion.  Cut  up  chicken  and  put  in  salted  water  1  hour. 
Fry  the  chicken,  then  remove  from  the  skillet  and  fry  sliced  onion 
with  the  fat  of  the  chicken.  Brown  2  tablespoons  of  flour  in  the 
same  fat.  Put  chicken  in  kettle  with  2  quarts  of  water.  AIix  browned 
flour  with  the  other  quart  of  water  and  add  to  chicken.  Slice  the 
okra  and  tomatoes,  cut  the  corn  from  cob,  put  all  in  the  kettle 
with  1  corn  cob,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Set  on  back  of 
range  to  simmer  for  4  hours.    Serve  rice  with  gumbo. 

Gumbo. 

One  large  chicken,  4  quarts  of  boiling  water,  2  quart  cans  of 
Dunbar's  okra,  4  ears  of  corn,  1  ear  cut  from  the  cob,  1  pod  of  red 
pepper,  1  onion,  salt  to  taste.  Cut  up  chicken,  put  in  salted  water 
for  1  hour,  and  fry  a  chestnut  brown;  also  fry  the  onion.  Add 
this  to  gumbo  with  the  corn,  okra  and  pepper.  Cook  4  hours.  Serve 
with  rice. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Take  sonp  bone  and  crush,  put  in  kettle  with  1  gallon  of  cold 
water,  cook  4  hours.  Two  hours  before  the  soup  is  done  add  1 
quart  of  peeled  tomatoes  and  a  half  hour  before  serving  add  half 
a  pint  of  sliced  Irish  potatoes  and  a  half  pint  of  tender  corn.  Then 
serve. 

Beef  Puree. 

One  pint  of  good  beef  broth.  Boil  in  it  1  tablespoon  of  scalded 
sago,  until  soft  and  partially  dissolved.  Add  the  yolk  of  1  egg  mixed 


12  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    HOOK. 

-with  a  little  broth.  Heat  for  3  minutes,  then  stir  in  2  ounces  of 
tender  raw  beef  reduced  to  a  pulp  and  free  from  fat.  Nice  for  the 
invalid  or  old  persons. 

Oxtail  Soup. 

"Wash  and  cut  up  2  oxtails,  separating  them  at  the  joints.  Select 
about  half  of  the  nicest  joints  to  brown  in  hot  fat  before  cooking. 
Cover  with  water  and  simmer  until  tender.  Remove  the  brown 
joints  and  boil  the  rest  to  pieces.  Strain,  cool  and  take  out  fat.  Re- 
heat this  stock,  adding  1  quart  of  strong  brown  stock,  more  pepper 
and  salt  if  needed,  and  the  reserved  joints.  Serve  very  hot,  with 
wafers. 

White  Soup. 

One  large  knuckle  of  veal  thoroughly  cracked,  3  quarts  of  cold 
water,  1  tablespoon  salt.  As  it  boils  skim  well  and  add  1  scraped 
carrot,  1  white  turnip,  3  leeks,  1  parsley  root  and  2  white  stalks 
of  celery.  Boil  slowly  for  6  hours,  then  strain  through  a  wet  cloth 
into  a  stone  jar,  and  when  cold  remove  all  fat.  Take  a  very  small 
head  of  firm  white  cabbage,  shred  it  fine  and  put  in  a  pan  in  which 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  is  bubbling ;  covering  closely  for  a  few  min- 
utes. Then  add  1  pint  of  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  half  tea- 
spoon of  white  pepper,  and  stew  half  an  hour.  Put  mixture  through 
a  puree  sieve.  Bring  the  white  broth  to  boiling  point,  in  the  mean- 
time making  a  thickening  of  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon 
butter.  Stir  until  smooth,  but  not  brown.  Add  boiling  soup  slowly 
and  stir  constantly  until  creamy.  Then  pour  into  the  soup  and  add 
the  puree  of  cabbage  and  %  coffee  cup  of  cream. 

Potato  Soup. 

Nine  good  size  potatoes,  %  an  onion,  1  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  2  quarts  of  good  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Slice  the 
potatoes  and  onion  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  with  1  large  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Cook  until  a  light  brown,  then  add  the  stock  and  parsley. 
Cook  potatoes  done,  then  put  through  colander ;  add  to  soup,  boiling 
6  minutes.   Just  before  serving  stir  in  2  well-beaten  yolks. 

Soup  Stock. 

Raw  bones  and  the  bones  from  cooked  fowls  may  be  utilized 
by  adding  water  to  them  and  cooking  several  hours.  Skim  off 
grease  and  put  in  a  jar  until  needed.  Clear  it  with  the  shells  and 
whites  of  2  well-beaten  eggs. 

Beef  Tea. 

Take  2  pounds  of  lean  beef  chopped  finely,  put  this  in  double 
boiler  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Let  it  steep  1  hour,  then 
simmer  for  3  hours;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  through 
a  cloth  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water. 

For  invalids,  heat  the  quantity  required  and  serve. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  13 


Beef  Tea. 

One  pound  of  lean  beef,  1  large  soup  bone,  1  small  onion  with 
14  cloves  stuck  in  it,  1  bunch  of  celery,  or  celery  seed.  Wash  beef 
and  soup  bone,  and  put  in  kettle  with  1  gallon  of  cold  water.  Boil 
until  reduced  to  3  pints.  When  done  set  away  to  cool.  Skim  off 
grease.  When  ready  to  serve  return  to  kettle  and  add  1  dessert 
spoon  of  toasted  brown  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Crab  Gumbo. 

One  knuckle  of  veal,  2  large  onions,  1  heaping  pint  okra,  6 
large  crabs,  1  gallon  water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Slice  onions 
and  okra  and  fry  in  butter;  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  When 
a  chestnut  brown  put  in  kettle  with  the  boiling  water,  and  when 
half  done,  have  the  crabs  fried  in  butter  and  add  to  soup.  Let  it 
cook  41/2  hours,  then  serve. 

Beef  Tea. 

One  pound  of  lean  beef,  1  soup  bone,  1  small  onion  with  14 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  bunch  of  celery  or  some  celery  seed.  Wash  beef 
and  soup  bone,  and  add  to  it  one  gallon  of  water.  Boil  until  re- 
duced to  three  pints.  When  done  set  away  to  cool;  skim  off  all 
grease.  Just  before  serving  return  to  kettle  and  add  1  dessert  spoon 
of  toasted  brown  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Beef  for  the  Invalid. 

Take  a  piece  of  lean  beefsteak  and  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  for  1  minute,  or  until  seared ;  then  chop  very  fine  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  bread ;  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Consomme. 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  2-pound  knuckle  of  veal,  3  quarts  of 
cold  water,  2  stalks  of  celery,  1  small  onion,  2  slices  of  carrot,  a 
little  parsley,  2  pepper  corns,  6  cloves,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  beef 
in  small  pieces,  also  the  veal.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  sauce- 
pan with  the  meat;  cook  a  nice  brown.  Add  1  quart  of  water  and 
cook  1  hour,  then  add  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  cook  slowly ;  sim- 
mer for  6  hours,  skimming  often.  One  hour  before  soup  is  done  put 
in  the  vegetables  that  have  been  nicely  browned  in  butter,  add  also 
the  herbs,  spices  and  salt.  Remove  from  fire  and  strain.  Put  back 
on  fire  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  caramel,  the  shells  and  whites  of 
2  partially  beaten  eggs.  Serve  hot- 
Bouillon. 

Take  2  large  soup  bones  very  lean,  2  onions  with  1  dozen  cloves 
stuck  in  them,  2  carrots,  2  parsnips,  1  pint  of  tomatoes  or  1  teacup 
of  tomato  catsup,  1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper,  salt  and  6  quarts  of  water.  Let  boil  6  hours;  as  it  is  re- 
duced, add  more  water,  keeping  always  the  original  quantity.  When 


14  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

the  meat  and  vegetables  are  thoroughly  done  strain,  without  mash- 
ing, through  a  double  cloth.  Set  away  until  next  day.  Skim  off 
grease  and  put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  to  cook.  Add  a  caramel  made 
of  1  teacup  of  brown  sugar  melted,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  the  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  whites  and  shells  of  3  eggs.  Let  this  boil  half  an 
hour,  or  until  it  looks  clear;  have  cotton  well  rinsed  and  strain 
again.    Add  1  teacup  of  best  sherry  wine  just  before  serving. 

Clear  Soup. 

One  large  chicken,  2  pounds  lean  beef,  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  it,  1  carrot  sliced.  Boil  until  thoroughly  done.  Let  stand  12 
hours,  skim  off  grease  and  strain  the  liquid.  Put  in  porcelain  kettle 
with  a  caramel,  and  the  frothed  white  of  1  egg  with  shell;  boil 
about  10  minutes  and  strain  through  flannel  bag. 

Gumbo  Fille. 

Take  1  large  chicken  and  fry  in  butter,  with  1  onion  chopped 
finely  (prepare  chicken  day  before  needed).  Pour  into  a  covered 
dish  with  the  gravy  and  set  away  until  next  day.  Then  to  the 
chicken  add  3  quarts  of  cold  water  and  cook  until  done.  Remove 
chicken  from  kettle ;  have  2  large  spoons  of  gumbo  fille  poAvder ; 
put  in  cup  with  cold  water,  stir  until  ropy;  then  add  this  to  the 
soup  and  boil.  Take  1  quart  of  large  oysters,  plump  in  their  liquor, 
drain  on  a  sieve;  add  them  to  gumbo,  also  the  chicken.  Have  1 
pint  of  rice  well  cooked  and  serve  at  same  time. 

Oyster  Gumbo. 

To  1  quart  of  oyster  juice  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  boil  10 
minutes,  then  have  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  gumbo  fille  powder  in 
cup  and  add  to  it  cold  water;  stir  until  ropy.  Add  to  oyster  juice 
and  boil  20  minutes,  then  put  in  oysters  with  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per.  Let  come  to  boiling  point  and  serve  very  hot. 

Congealed  Bouillon. 

One  knuckle  of  veal,  3  pounds  of  lean  beef,  1  slice  of  raw  ham, 
%  gallon  of  water.  Wash  the  meat,  then  add  water  and  let  it  sim- 
mer more  than  1  hour;  remove  scum.  Add  the  vegetables  and  sea- 
soning, 1  teaspoon  of  celery  seed  or  bunch  of  celery,  1  onion  with 
14  cloves  stuck  in  it,  3  blades  of  mace,  2  bay  leaves,  1  large  carrot, 
salt  to  taste.  Strain  meat  from  soup  and  strain  second  time  through 
a  cloth  dipped  in  cold  water.  Put  back  in  kettle  and  add  ^  box 
of  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in  cold  water,  the  whites  of  6 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth ;  also  the  shells,  that  have  been  washed  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  in  1  tablespoon  of 
ice  water  and  strain  again,  adding  1  teacup  of  sherry  wine.  Put 
soup  in  a  bowl ;   when  congealed  fill  bouillon  cups  and  serve. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  15 


Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Take  1  quart  of  soup  stock  and  add  to  it  1  pint  of  cooked  calf's 
head,  cut  in  small  pieces,  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  salt  and  1 
tumbler  of  sherry  wine.  Boil  15  minutes  and  serve  with  thin  slices 
of  peeled  lemon ;  put  2  slices  in  each  plate  and  serve  very  hot. 

Cream  of  Celery. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  frying  pan ;  add  2  stalks  of  celery 
cut  in  small  pieces,  then  add  1  quart  good  soup  stock,  pepper  and 
salt.  Let  boil  half  an  hour.  Put  through  fine  sieve  and  add  1  quart 
of  soup  stock;  thicken  with  2  teaspoons  corn  starch,  dissolved  in 
%  teacup  of  water,  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  and  serve. 

Glaze. 

Glaze  is  simply  clear  stock  boiled  down  to  *4  of  its  original 
quantity.  Put  2  quarts  of  rich  strong  stock  in  saucepan  and  boil  un- 
covered until  reduced  to  1  pint.  Keep  in  a  sealed  jar  in  a  cool  place. 
It  is  excellent  for  browning  meats  that  have  not  been  colored  by 
cooking.  For  enriching  a  weak  stock  or  gravy  or  adding  flavor  and 
consistency  to  sauces  it  is  excellent. 

Winter  Julienne. 

One  quart  brown  stock,  1  pint  mixed  vegetables,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  V-2  saltspoon  pepper.  Dice  the  celery,  turnips,  carrots  and  a 
small  onion  cut  in  half.  Some  cabbage  coarsely  chopped  may  be 
added.  Cook  the  vegetables  in  boiling  salt  water  until  tender.  Drain 
them  and  add  to  soup  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  Macaroni  and 
tapioca  may  be  similarly  prepared  and  substitued  for  the  vegetables. 

Summer  Julienne. 

One  quart  of  consomme.  ^  cup  cooked  onions  cut  in  rings,  \2 
cup  of  cooked  peas,  y2  cup  of  asparagus  tips,  %  cup  of  cooked  string 
beans,  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  the  vegetables,  put  them  into  soup 
tureen  and  pour  over  the  boiling  soup.    Serve  at  once. 

Velvet  Soup. 

One  quart  of  good  stock,  1  coffee  cup  cream,  seasoned  to  taste. 
Pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  diluted  with  Y2 
cup  of  cream.    Reheat  and  serve  at  once  in  bouillon  cups. 

Okra  Soup. 

One  quart  okra,  1  quart  tomatoes,  2Y2  pounds  shin  of  beef, 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  the  okra  in  small  pieces,  skin  and 
slice  the  tomatoes.  Cut  the  meat  in  thin  slices  across  the  grain, 
and  put  all  together  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
and  simmer  gently  6  or  7  hours.  Skim  well  at  first,  add  salt  and 
pepper  at  the  end  of  first  hour.  Remove  all  bones  and  skim  off 
grease.     It  is  then  ready  to  serve. 


16  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Oyster  Soup. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  quart  oysters,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  flour, 
y%  coffee  cup  celery,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
Let  cream  come  to  boiling  point,  then  add  oysters  drained  from, 
liquor,  flour  that  has  been  sifted,  celery  cut  in  blocks,  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.     Serve  as  soon  as  it  boils. 

Chili  Con  Carni. 

One  small  bowl  of  chopped  beef,  8  large  fresh  tomatoes,  2 
tablespoons  cooked  Chili  beans,  1  large  onion,  y2  small  Chili 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Pare  tomatoes  and 
chop  with  other  ingredients.  Put  in  soup  kettle  with  a  little  water 
and  boil  half  an  hour.  II  ix  1  tablespoon  flour  with  cold  water  and 
add  to  soup  15  minutes  before  removing  from  fire.  Serve  hot  for 
dinner   or   luncheon. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Let  1  quart  of  milk  come  to  a  good  boil,  add  about  1  dozen 
crackers  pulverized,  also  pepper  and  salt,  then  the  oysters,  a  piece  of 
butter,  and  3  tablespoons  of  chopped  celery.  Let  all  come  to 
a  boil,  and  serve  immediately. 

Clear  Soup. 

Take  a  good  size  soup  bone  and  cover  with  water,  let  it  cook  1 
hour,  add  1  carrot  sliced,  1  turnip  and  a  little  parsley  chopped 
fine.  Skim  off  grease.  Let  simmer  for  about  5  hours,  then  pour  into 
a  bowl  until  next  day.  Skim  off  grease  and  put  into  a  kettle  with 
1  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar  that  has  been  toasted,  the  white  of  1  egg 
well  beaten,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  into 
tureen  adding  1  teacup  of  wine.  A  few  peas  can  be  put  into  each 
plate  if  desired. 

Pea  Soup. 

Put  on  pea  hulls  and  let  them  boil  2  hours,  then  strain  through 
a  colander,  and  add  1  pint  of  new  milk,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  boil 
about  y2  an  hour,  add  a  few  peas  while  it  is  cooking,  then  serve.     • 

Pepper  Pot. 

Boil  the  tripe  the  day  before  you  wish  to  make  soup.  To  1  quart 
of  tripe,  cut  into  small  dice,  add  1  quart  of  sliced  raw  potatoes,  and 
1  chopped  onion.  To  this  add  2  quarts  of  water,  or  chicken  stock 
is  better.  Boil  until  potatoes  are  done.  A  few  minutes  before  you 
are  ready  to  serve,  add  the  dumplings,  and  Worcestershire  sauce 
to  taste. 

Dumplings — 1  pint  of  flour,  a  little  salt  and  1  heaping  spoon  of 
baking  powder  mixed  with  sweet  milk.  Mix  with  tablespoon  and 
do  not  make  too  stiff,  drop  into  the  soup  with  spoon.  Add  butter  if 
not  rich  enough.    Do  not  let  boil  too  long,  or  they  will  be  hard. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  17 

Farina  Soup. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  4  tablespoons  of 
farina,  */o  teaspoon  salt.  Sprinkle  farina  into  boiling  water  gradual- 
ly ;  cover  and  let  it  boil  slowly  30  minutes,  then  add  milk.  Beat  yolks 
of  3  eggs  light,  add  3  tablespoons  cream.  When  ready  to  serve  soup 
add  eggs  and  cream.    Stir  well  and  pour  into  hot  tureen. 

Noodles. 

Take  1%  quarts  of  good  beef  stock,  put  in  soup  pot  and  boil; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  drop 
noodles  in  soup  with  spoon.  A  little  thickening  may  be  added  to 
soup  if  required. 

Barley  Soup. 

Two  pounds  beef  soup  bone,  trimmings  from  shoulder' and  neck, 
6  quarts  of  cold  water,  4  ounces  barley,  4  pepper  corns,  1  carrot,  1 
turnip,  1  onion  with  6  cloves  stuck  in  it,  1  leek,  1  stalk  of  celery, 
salt  to  taste.  Wash  the  meat  and  put  in  soup  pot.  Add  the  water 
and  vegetables  and  seasoning ;  simmer  3  hours.  Wash  the  barley  and 
boil  separately  in  1  quart  of  salted  water  2  hours.  Dice  some  mut- 
ton, and  cook  separately  in  some  of  the  broth  for  1  hour.  Drain 
meat  into  mutton  broth,  then  drain  water  from  barley ;  skim  grease 
from  broth  and  strain  3  quarts  of  broth  over  the  meat  and  barley. 
Boil  10  minutes;  add  a  caramel  made  with  iy2  tablespoons  light 
brown  sugar.    Serve  hot. 

White  Soup. 

Boil  1  large  chicken  until  done.  There  should  be  1  quart  of 
liquor  left,  into  which  put  a  few  pieces  of  mace.  Leave  it  to  simmer 
while  preparing  the  paste.  Cut  white  meat  from  the  chicken. 
Blanch  12  almonds  and  pound  them  fine  in  a  mortar,  add  the 
chicken,  little  at  a  time,  and  pound  with  the  almonds  until  smooth. 
Add  the  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs  and  4  biscuits  that  have  been 
grated  and  soaked  in  1  pint  of  milk.  Pound  until  all  is  smooth, 
strain  the  liquor  and  thin  the  paste;  put  the  other  half  in  a  kettle 
and  let  come  to  a  quick  boil.  Add  thickening,  and  let  it  simmer  a  few 
minutes  to  avoid  having  it  curdle. 

Gumbo. 

Put  on  a  soup  bone  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water,  let  it  simmer 
for  3  hours.  Add  half  of  a  fried  chicken,  1  pint  of  orka,  1  teacup  of 
rice,  1  Irish  potato  and  1  onion.  Let  it  boil  until  reduced  to  2  quarts. 
Add  a  small  quantity  of  finely  chopped  ham,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Put  on  soup  bone  at  9  o'clock,  adding  chicken  and  ham  at 
11  o'clock,  and  the  vegetables  at  12  o'clock. 

Black  Bean  Soup. 

Soak  1  coffee  cup  of  beans  at  night.    Put  on  next  day  with  a 


18  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


knuckle  of  veal  or  a  soup  bone.  After  4  hours  boiling  take  off  and 
strain.  Shred  some  of  the  meat  and  put  back  into  the  kettle  with 
the  soup.  Thicken  with  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  browned  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  While  cooking  add  spice  and  cloves.  When 
done  pour  into  tureen  and  add  3  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced,  2  lemons, 

1  tea  cup  of  port  wine.    Serve  at  once. 

Noodles. 

Half  pound  of  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  butter,  2  tablespoons 
lukewarm  water.  Sift  flour  on  marble  slab ;  stir  the  water  and  well- 
beaten  eggs  together  for  several  minutes;  gradually  add  the  flour. 
Knead  paste  for  10  minutes,  folding  over  like  bread  dough;  then 
set  aside  for  20  minutes.    Roll  noodles  quite  thin,  and  cut  into  strips 

2  inches  wide.  Leave  them  on  board  half  an  hour  to  dry.  About  1 
cup  of  noodles  is  required  for  1  quart  of  consomme.  Boil  rapidly 
for  10  minutes  in  soup,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Soup  Paste. 

These  pastes  may  serve  as  a  garnish  for  consomme  or  puree.  A 
mixture  of  cream  and  eggs  form  their  foundation.  To  make  paste, 
break  in  a  bowl  4  yolks  and  white  of  1  egg,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
salt  and  nutmeg.  Beat  egg  and  seasoning  together.  Then  add  1 
gill  of  cream  and  1  gill  of  milk.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  put  in 
timbale  molds  and  place  them  in  pan,  surround  with  boiling  water, 
set  pan  in  oven  until  the  paste  is  firm  in  center.  When  cool  cut  in 
slices  of  fancy  shape.  Place  in  tureen  and  add  1  quart  of  consomme. 
Serve  at  once. 

Corn  Chowder. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  fresh  sweet  corn,  %  pint  potatoes. 
^4  cup  of  butter,  1  pint  new  milk,  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  coffee  cup 
croutons,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  each  row  of  corn 
and  scrape  the  cob.  Cover  cobs  with  cold  water  and  boil  25  minutes. 
Pare  potatoes,  and  cut  into  small  dice,  pour  over  boiling  water ;  drain 
and  set  aside  while  cobs  are  boiling.  Remove  the  cobs,  add  potatoes, 
pepper  and  salt.  When  they  are  nearly  done,  add  milk  and  corn 
and  cook  6  minutes.  Cook  flour  in  hot  butter,  add  1  coffee  cup  of 
corn  liquor.  When  thick,  add  to  chowder,  also  white  of  eggs  chop- 
ped fine  and  yolks  rubbed  through  a  sieve.    Serve  with  croutons. 

Turtle  Soup. 

After  turtle  is  killed,  let  bleed  12  hours,  open  the  side,  remove 
meat  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  then  blanch  5  minutes  in  boiling  water. 
If  turtle  is  medium  size,  take  off  shell  and  put  in  soup  kettle,  cover 
with  white  broth,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  pepper  corns,  1  dozen  cloves, 
2  sprigs  of  thyme,  4  bay  leaves,  salt  to  taste ;  boil  1  hour.  Then  strain 
the  broth,  remove  bones  and  dice  the  meat.  Boil  the  broth  until 
reduced  %  in  quantity,  then  add  meat  and  boil  10  minutes.  When 
ready  to  serve,  add  1  tumbler  of  Maderira  wine.    When  turtles  cannot 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  19 

be  obtained,  get  1  pint  of  canned  turtle  meat  and  prepare  soup  same 
way  as  when  using  live  turtle.  Soup  will  keep  a  long  while  if  put  in 
stone  jars,  and  when  cold  pour  hot  lard  over  the  top.  Reheat  when 
needed  for  use. 

White  Soup  Stock. 

Three-pound  knuckle  of  veal,  1  pound  lean  beef,  3  quarts  boil- 
ing water,  1  onion,  6  slices  of  carrot,  2  pieces  celery,  4  pepper  corns, 
y2  bay  leaf,  2  sprigs  thyme,  6  cloves.  "Wash  the  meat  and  cut  in 
small  pieces ;  put  bone  and  meat  in  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
bring  to  boiling  point,  then  drain  off  the  water.  Return  to  kettle, 
add  vegetables,  3  quarts  of  water  and  the  seasoning,  boil  4  hours. 
The  stock  should  be  reduced  y2. 

Shrimp  Soup. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1-pint  can  shrimps,  y2  coffee  cup  cream,  1 
pint  of  veal  stock  or  water,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
cayenne  and  black  pepper,  and  salt.  Parboil  the  oysters,  then  strain 
liquor  and  put  in  saucepan  to  boil  with  the  stock  or  water.  Thicken 
soup  with  flour  cooked  in  hot  butter,  add  pepper  and  salt.  Cut 
shrimp  fine,  and  remove  the  black  vein.  Add  them  to  soup,  and 
simmer  five  minutes,  then  put  in  the  oysters  and  cream,  when  hot 
serve. 

Brown  Soup  Stock. 

Four  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  2  pounds  bone,  6  quarts  of  cold 
water,  y2  of  a  Chili  pepper,  1  large  onion,  one  level  tablespoon  salt. 
Wash  meat  and  cut  it  from  bone  into  thin  slices,  across  the  grain. 
Reserve  several  large  slices  with  all  the  marrow;  put  remainder  of 
bones  and  meat  in  soup  pot  with  the  cold  water,  onion,  pepper  pod 
and  salt.  Bring  to  boiling  point  very  slowly ;  fry  the  reserved  slices 
in  the  marrow  carefully  not  allowing  it  to  scorch.  Add  it  to  stock, 
which  must  simmer  nine  hours,  then  strain  into  china  bowl.  The 
next  day  remove  all  fat,  this  stock  can  be  used  as  a  basis  for  ver- 
micelli, macaroni  or  vegetable  soup,  and  is  excellent  for  brown  meat 
sauces.  To  clear  soup  stock,  allow  frothed  white  of  one 
egg  with  the  shell,  for  every  %  gallon  of  stock. 

Turkey  or  Chicken  Soup. 

Utilize  scraps  remaining  from  roast  turkey  or  chicken  by  mak- 
ing into  soup.  Scrape  meat  from  the  bones,  reserving  any  tender 
portions  to  be  diced,  also  reserve  the  dressing.  Break  the  bones  and 
put  them  in  soup  pot  and  cover  with  cold  water,  add  y2  onion  sliced, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  3  hours. 
Strain  and  remove  fat  and  return  stock  to  pot.  Allow  1  cup  of  diced 
meat  and  %  cup  dressing  for  each  quart  of  the  liquid.  Simmer  un- 
til meat  is  tender.    Serve  in  hot  tureen,  with  flakes. 


20  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Mutton  Broth. 

For  every  pound  of  lean  meat  and  bone,  allow  1  quart  of  cold 
water.  Crush  bones  and  dice  the  meat,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point, 
add  1  slice  of  onion.  1  teaspoon  s.dt,  tyg  saltspoon  pepper.  Simmer 
until  meat  is  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Strain  broth  and  when  cold  remove 
fat.  For  each  quart  of  broth,  use  2l/2  tablespoons  of  rice  which  has 
been  soaked  30  minutes.  A  few  leaves  of  fresh  mint,  or  a  dash  of 
celery  salt  may  be  added  to  the  broth. 

A  simple  mode  to  prepare  mutton  broth  is  to  take  1  pound  of 
lean  mutton,  chop  fine,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  it  steep  1 
hour.    Simmer  20  minutes,  season  to  taste,  strain  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken  Broth. 

Prepare  chicken  in  usual  way,  then  separate  at  the  joints,  and 
remove  skin  and  fat.  Put  in  soup  pot,  cover  with  cold  water,  add 
1  small  onion  sliced,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper. 
Simmer  until  chicken  is  tender.  Remove  chicken,  cut  meat  in  small 
pieces,  return  bones  and  gristle  to  kettle,  and  simmer  until  free  of 
all  substance.  Soak  2%  tablespoons  of  rice  30  minutes.  Strain 
broth  and  remove  all  grease,  then  put  back  in  pot,  adding  the  diced 
meat  and  the  rice.  Cook  until  rice  is  tender ;  if  required,  add  more 
seasoning.  Serve  at  once.  Three  tablespoons  of  cream  may  be  add- 
ed, which  enriches  the  broth. 

Julienne  Soup. 

Take  2  carrots,  3  celery  leaves,  1  leek,  y2  onion,  1  small  turnip 
and  4  cabbage  leaves,  cut  all  into  shreds,  brown  in  a  saucepan,  with 
1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  1  quart  of  rich  soup  stock,  pepper  and 
salt.  Cook  y2  hour,  then  add  4  tablespoons  of  cooked  peas,  1  fable- 
spoon  of  string  beans;  let  boil  again  and  serve. 

Noodles. 

Beat  1  egg  slightly,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  a 
little  salt ;  knead  on  a  floured  board,  and  roll  very  thin.  Cover  and 
let  stand  %  hour,  then  use  sharp  knife  to  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Dry, 
and  when  needed  cook  20  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain  and 
add  to  soup.    They  may  be  used  as  a  vegetable. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Take  2  gallons  of  cold  water  and  put  in  it  1  calf's  head  or  \ 
veal  shanks,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed  (put  in  a  mus- 
lin bag),  pepper  and  salt,  carrots,  onions  and  tomatoes,  cook  well. 
After  the  meat  is  done,  take  it  out,  chop  fine  and  return  to  the  soup ; 
thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour.  Have  %  teacup  brown  sugar 
toasted,  mix  with  it  1  pint  boiling  water,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Have 
4  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  2  lemons  sliced  in  tureen,  pour  in  the  soup. 
Can  add  1  cup  of  wine.    Serve  at  once. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  21 

French  Gumbo. 

Take  1  good  size  chicken,  and  fry  a  nice  brown,  add  to  it  2 
quarts  of  cold  water,  1V2  pints  of  okra  sliced  thin,  1  slice  of  mid- 
dling, 1  pod  of  red  pepper,  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  simmer  2  hours.  Al- 
ways serve  rice  with  gumbo. 

Chicken  Soup. 

One  large  chicken,  4  quarts  of  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Wash  the  chicken  and  put  in  soup  pot  with  cold 
water ;  boil  slowly  4  hours.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  but- 
ter a  short  while  before  it  is  done.  If  stock  is  not  thick  enough,  add 
1  tablespoon  of  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  cold  water.  Stir  rapidly 
to  prevent  lumping.  If  preferred  %  teacup  uncooked  rice  may  be 
added  after  chicken  has  cooked  2  hours.  Skim  soup  often,  when  be- 
ginning to  boil. 

Chicken  Soup. 

Take  a  roasted  chicken  and  cut  all  meat  from  the  bone,  put  bones 
in  soup  pot  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  for  2  hours. 
Add  1  teacup  of  boiled  rice  to  the  meat,  and  pound  to  a  paste.  Strain 
broth  over  this;  stir  well  and  rub  through  a  puree  sieve.  When 
ready  to  serve  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  %  cup  of  cream  and  sea- 
son with  white  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot.  If  preferred,  the  rice 
may  be  omitted,  leaving  it  a  delicious  soup. 

Noodle  Soup. 

One  and  one-half  quarts  of  white  soup  stock,  1  cup  of  noodles,  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  stock  in  soup  pot, 
cook  3  hours,  add  salt  and  pepper.  About  15  minutes  before  serv- 
ing, drop  in  noodles  with  a  spoon;  also  add  butter. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

One  small  can  of  asparagus,  2  quarts  of  white  stock,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  y2  coffee  cup  of  cream,  3  pepper 
corns.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  and  when  it  boils  stir  in  the  flour; 
stir  until  smooth,  adding  broth  gradually.  Cut  off  tips  of  asparagus, 
and  reserve.  Add  rest  of  asparagus  to  broth ;  add  pepper  corns  and 
salt ;  boil  30  minutes.  Strain  broth  through  sieve ;  add  the  tips  and 
cream;  bring  to  boiling  point.    Serve  very  hot  with  croutons. 

Clear  Soup. 

Take  1  large  chicken  and  soak  in  cold  water  with  1  tablespoon 
of  salt.  Let  it  remain  1  hour,  then  put  in  kettle  with  2  pounds  of 
lean  beef  and  4  quarts  of  cold  water ;  boil  until  thoroughly  done.  Set 
away  until  next  clay,  skim  off  grease  and  strain  the  liquid.  When 
ready  to  serve  add  the  white  of  1  egg  and  the  shell,  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil ;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  One  cup 
of  wine  mav  be  added. 


22  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Cream  of  Chestnut  Soup. 

Cook  1  quart  of  chestnuts  in  water  enough  to  cover  them,  with 
3  green  stalks  of  celery,  1  small  blade  of  mace,  and  a  bay  leaf.  As 
soon  as  the  nuts  are  tender,  mash  them  through  a  sieve.  Return  to 
the  fire  and  add  2  quarts  of  clear  stock,  1  saltspoon  of  paprika,  2 
cups  of  hot  milk.  When  the  liquid  boils  remove  to  cooler  part  of 
range  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  until  light  with  1  cup  of 
cream.    Strain  the  soup  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Corn  Soup. 

Take  6  ears  of  corn,  cut  from  cob  (cut  the  grains  twice),  put  on 
cobs  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  After  it  boils  15  min- 
utes, remove  from  fire  and  scrape  cobs  again,  adding  to  soup ;  also 
2  tablespoons  of  corn.  Let  it  boil  until  tender.  When  ready  to 
serve  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper ;  1  teacup  of  hot 
cream  may  be  added  if  desired.    Serve  immediately. 

Scotch  Broth. 

Cover  a  neck  of  mutton  with  cold  water,  quarter  1  turnip  and 
1  carrot ;  grate  1  quarter  of  each,  cut  the  remaining  quarters  in 
small  pieces  and  add  to  kettle;  also  1  large  onion,  and  1  cup  of 
cabbage  chopped  fine.  Simmer  slowly  3  hours.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving  add  %  cup  of  barley,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Consomme. 

Take  3  pounds  of  shin  beef,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  1  leek — (peel,  but 
do  not  slice  them),  a  little  parsley,  3  cloves,  4  pepper  corns,  1  bay 
leaf.  Add  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  the  meat.  Scraps  of  cold  fowl 
may  be  added.  Boil  slowly  for  3  hours,  skimming  often ;  then  strain 
through  cheese  cloth,  which  should  be  dipped  in  cold  water.  Set 
away  to  cool.  Skim  off  grease.  Put  in  kettle,  and  add  to  it  the 
beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  y2  cup  of  cold  water.  Boil  2  minutes, 
then  strain  through  a  wet  cloth.    Add  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot. 

Bisque  of  Crab  Soup. 

Take  1  dozen  fresh  crabs,  and  cook  perfectly  done.  Then  pick 
to  pieces,  and  put  in  double  boiler  with  1  quart  of  cream,  1  pint 
of  strained  tomato  juice,  a  pinch  of  soda,  ^4  pound  of  butter.  Cook 
15  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  Add  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine,  1  tablespoon  of  corn 
starch  while  cooking.    This  quantity  will  serve  ten  persons. 

Consomme  of  Chicken. 

One  large  chicken  cut  in  pieces  and  put  in  cold  salted  water  to 
soak  y>2  an  hour.  Then  wash  thoroughly  and  put  in  kettle  with  3 
quarts  of  water,  1  bunch  of  parsley,  1  even  teaspoon  celery  seed,  a 
small  piece  of  mace.     (Put  this  seasoning  in  a  muslin  bag).     Add 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  23 

pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  3  hours,  skim  frequently  and  when 
done,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  One  coffee  cup  of  wine  may  be 
added. 

Mushroom  Soup. 

One  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms,  1  pint  of  water,  1  quart  of  new 
milk,  14  pound  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  cup  cream,  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  on  the  mushrooms  with  the  water  and  but- 
ter. Boil  half  an  hour.  Have  the  milk  boiling  and  add  water  from 
mushrooms,  also  a  roux  of  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Before  serving  add  the  cream. 
Put  6  mushrooms  in  each  plate,  pour  soup  over  them  and  serve. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

Take  1  ox  tail,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  in  soup  kettle,  add 
to  it  3  pints  of  good  soup  stock.  Cook  1  hour,  then  add  1  teaspoon 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  pepper  and  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  barley 
and  Yo  glass  of  sherry  wine.  Boil  1  hour ;  skim  off  grease  and  serve 
with  sliced  lemon  in  each  plate. 

Cream  of  Asparagus. 

Take  2  bunches  of  asparagus  and  cook  thoroughly,  press  through 
a  sieve.  Have  1  quart  of  new  milk,  y2  teacup  of  butter,  2  tablespoons 
of  sifted  flour.  When  milk  is  hot,  add  butter  and  flour  which  must 
be  creamed.  Stir  well  to  prevent  lumping.  Then  add  asparagus,  salt 
and  pepper.  Two  bunches  of  celery  may  be  substituted  for  asparagus. 

Macaroni  Soup. 

One  quart  of  brown  soup  stock,  ^  cup  macaroni  broken  in  % 
inch  pieces,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  done,  drain  and  add  to  stock,  which  must  be  heated  to  boiling 
point.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Have  1  calf's  head  or  4  veal  shanks.  Soak  more  than  1  hour  in 
cold  water  enough  to  cover.  Wash  carefully  and  put  in  kettle  with 
2  gallons  of  cold  water;  add  1  tablespoon  of  cloves  and  allspice 
mixed;  they  should  be  in  muslin  bag.  Have  1  onion,  1  carrot,  and 
1  pint  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  add  to  soup;  also  pepper  and  salt. 
When  meat  is  thoroughly  done  remove  from  kettle  and  chop  fine. 
Put  back  in  soup  with  2  tablespoons  of  browned  flour  made  into 
a  paste  with  cold  water.  Toast  %  teacup  of  brown  sugar,  and  mix 
with  it  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  put  in  soup  and  stir  well.  Have  in 
tureen  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices,  and  2  sliced  lemons.  Pour 
in  the  soup.    Add  1  cup  of  wine  if  desired. 

Calf's  Head  Soup. 

Take  1  calf's  head  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Add  1  tablespoon 
of  salt,  let  it  soak  8  hours  and  wash  well.    Then  put  in  a  kettle  with 


24  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

5  quarts  of  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  of  ground  allspice,  y2  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  onion,  1  bunch  of  parsley,  cayenne,  black  pepper  and  salt. 
When  meat  is  thoroughly  done,  remove  from  kettle  and  take  out  all 
bones.  Chop  meat  fine  and  add  to  it  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  butter  well  blended,  1  egg  beaten  until  light; 
then  form  into  round  balls,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Half 
an  hour  before  soup  is  done,  add  to  it  2  kitchen  spoons  of  browned 
flour,  moistened  with  enough  water  to  make  a  paste.  When  ready  to 
serve,  put  in  tureen  3  sliced  lemons,  the  cold  forcemeat  balls  and  4 
hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  round  slices.  Pour  in  the  soup;  add  1  coffee 
cup  of  best  sherry  wine. 

Bisque  of  Lobsters. 

One  quart  of  milk,  \y2  pounds  of  lobster,  \y2  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 2  tablespoons  corn  starch,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  white 
pepper,  1  pint  of  water,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Remove  meat 
from  lobster  and  dice,  take  any  tough  portions  of  meat  with  the 
bones  and  put  in  saucepan,  adding  1  pint  of  cold  water;  boil  20 
minutes,  replenishing  with  more  water  as  it  boils  out.  Dry  coral 
in  oven,  placing  on  paper.  Boil  the  milk,  add  butter,  thicken  with 
corn  starch,  cook  10  minutes;  strain  broth  from  the  bones  and  add 
to  milk  with  the  seasoning ;  rub  through  a  sieve  enough  coral  to  make 
soup  pink.  Have  lobster  and  fat  in  hot  tureen  and  strain  in  soup. 
Serve  at  once.  Vary  this  soup  by  using  1  pint  of  stock  and  1  pint  of 
milk ;  or  make  forcemeat  balls,  reserving  half  of  meat,  mixing  with 
milk,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  butter  and  seasoning,  moisten  with  1  raw 
egg,  make  in  balls ;  simmer  in  soup  5  minutes. 

Oyster  Stew. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1  pint  of  milk,  iy2  tablespoons  butter,  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler  to  cook,  rinse  oysters  in  cold 
water,  pass  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve  and  put  it  on  to  boil.  Remove 
scum,  when  clear  place  in  oysters  to  plump.  Strain  liquor  into  hot 
milk.  Put  oysters  where  they  will  keep  hot.  Boil  stew  5  minutes, 
then  add  oysters  and  butter,  leave  a  moment,  then  serve. 

Fruit  Soup. 

One  pint  of  fruit,  1  pint  water.  Stew  any  kind  of  fruit  pre- 
ferred, then  mash  and  put  through  fine  sieve,  then  add  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  thicken  with  arrow  root,  flavor  with  wine  or  lemon  juice. 
Serve  cold  in  bouillon  cups  with  crushed  ice  and  toasted  reception 
flakes.    Cherries  are  especially  nice  for  this  soup. 

Cream  of  Mushroom  Soup. 

Half  pound  of  mushrooms,  4%  cups  chicken  stock,  a  dash  of 
onion,  %  cup  butter,  y±  cup  flour,  1  cup  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  of 
Sauterne,  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  the  mushrooms,  add  to  chicken 
stock  with  onion  and  cook  20  minutes,  then  press  through  a  fine 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  25 

sieve.     Return  to  saucepan.     Add  butter  and  flour  well  blended, 
then  cream,  salt  and  pepper.    When  ready  to  serve,  add  the  wine. 

Clear  Soup  Stock. 

Have  4-pound  knuckle  of  veal,  with  2  ounces  of  lean  ham,  or  a 
bone  from  bacon,  add  4  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  piece  of  red  pepper 
pod,  i/o  onion  sliced,  simmer  5  hours,  skimming  frequently.  When 
done  pour  through  a  cloth.  If  ready  to  use,  return  to  kettle,  add 
the  beaten  white  and  shell  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  1 
saltspoon  of  celery  seed ;  bring  quickly  to  a  boil  and  strain  again. 

Chowder. 

Take  any  kind  of  firm  fresh  fish  (cod  or  haddock  is  generally 
used)  cut  into  slices;  boil  some  salt  pork  about  %  done,  cut  in  as 
many  pieces  as  you  have  fish.  Put  a  layer  of  pork  in  the  bottom  of 
an  iron  pot,  a  layer  each  of  fish,  sliced  potatoes,  minced  onion  and 
crackers,  that  have  been  soaked  for  a  few  minutes  in  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  and  so  on,  until  all  the  chowder  is  used.  Have  a  layer  of 
buttered  crackers  on  top;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  %  hour. 
Take  out  the  chowder  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  put  into  a  tureen, 
thicken  the  stock  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  rolled  in  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  boil  a  moment,  then  add  a  little  more  seasoning.  Pour  the 
stock  over  the  chowder.    Serve  at  once  with  sliced  lemon. 

Rhode  Island  Chowder. 

Cook  fat  salt  pork,  (*4  pound  cut  in  3-inch  cubes),  Avith  1  large 
onion  sliced,  and  Y2  cup  of  water,  10  minutes,  drain  and  reserve 
liquor.  Wash  1  quart  clams  and  reserve  liquor.  Parboil  4  cups  po- 
tato cubes,  and  drain.  To  potatoes  add  reserved  liquors,  hard  part 
of  clams  finely  chopped,  and  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  When  potatoes 
are  nearly  done  add  1  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  %  teaspoon 
soda,  soft  part  of  clams,  1  cup  each  scalded  milk  and  cream,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Split  common  crackers, 
soak  in  enough  cold  milk  to  moisten,  and  heat  in  chowder. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Take  2  pounds  of  cod  or  haddock  fish,  14  pound  of  salt  pork,  1 
quart  of  new  milk,  4  Irish  potatoes,  1  onion,  1  tablespoon  butter,  6 
butter  crackers,  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  the  fish  in 
pieces  2  inches  long,  take  the  head  of  fish  and  all  bones  and  season- 
ing, and  put  in  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  cold  water  and  boil.  Pare 
and  slice  the  potatoes  into  pieces  y8  of  an  inch  thick,  and  parboil 
10  minutes,  then  drain  from  water.  Cut  pork  in  dice  and  fry  in  a 
pan,  then  have  onion  minced  and  fry  in  the  same  fat.  When  a  light 
brown  color,  put  all  ingredients  in  kettle,  place  in  the  potatoes, 
strain  in  the  water  from  fish  bones,  when  it  comes  to  boiling  point, 
add  the  fish  and  simmer  15  minutes,  then  add  hot  milk  and  but- 
ter blended  and  boil  ud  once.  Split  crackers  and  put  in  hot  tureen, 
and  pour  over  the  chowder.    Serve  at  once  with  slices  of  lemon. 


H 


Fish  A  La  Hollandaise. 

Take  a  4-pound  fish,  using  Pompano,  Brook  Trout,  Shad  or  Pink 
Salmon.  Prepare  fish  in  usual  way,  split  through  the  back,  wipe 
dry  and  dust  with  pepper  and  salt.  Grease  double  wire  broiler  with 
butter,  place  fish  on  and  broil  flesh  side  first,  then  reverse  and  cook 
until  done. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Half  a  pint  of  butter  creamed,  1  small  bottle  capers,  chopped,  a 
little  parsley  chopped  fine,  juice  of  1  small  lemon,  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt.  Add  all  ingredients  to  creamed  butter  and  mix  well.  Re- 
move fish  from  broiler  and  spread  with  this  sauce ;  set  in  oven  a 
few  minutees  to  melt.  Take  Bermuda  potatoes,  cut  in  round  shape 
with  cutter  and  boil.  When  done  pour  over  a  cream  sauce.  Serve 
hot  with  fish ;  at  the  same  time,  serve  some  thinly  sliced  cucumbers. 

Fish  Au  Gratin. 

Three  pounds  of  any  fish  with  white  meat,  steam  and  remove  all 
bones.  Flake  the  fish  and  cook  in  baking  dish.  Make  a  sauce  with 
1  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Moisten  1  coffee  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 
with  melted  butter.  Put  a  layer  of  fish  in  dish,  season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  salt  and  celery  salt,  a  dash  of  chopped  parsley;  then  pour 
over  half  of  the  cream  sauce,  repeat  until  all  fish  is  used,  then  pour 
over  rest  of  sauce,  put  buttered  bread  crumbs  over  top,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  crumbs  are  a  chestnut  brown.  Serve  hot  with 
potato  chips. 

For  Baking  Fish. 

The  best  fish  for  this  purpose  are  "White  fish,  Bass,  Pickerel, 
Red  Snapper  and  Shad.  Clean  fish  and  wipe  dry,  it  should  be  shiny, 
scald  first  with  hot  water,  rub  with  salt  inside  and  out.  Gash  fish 
about  3  inches  apart  and  place  narrow  strips  of  salt  pork  in  each 
gash,  add  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  rub  with  butter; 
put  in  hot  oven  without  water,  baste  frequently  with  1  pint  of  hot 
water  and  two  tablespoons  butter  mixed  together.  After  it  begins  to 
brown  add  stuffing  to  fish,  baste  every  10  minutes.  When  done,  place 
on  a  hot  dish,  after  draining  off  fat.  Serve  Hollandaise  sauce  around 
the  fish,  or  drawn  butter  sauce  flavored  with  lemon.  Garnish  with 
watercress. 

(26) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  27 

Fish  For  Broiling. 

Spanish  Mackerel,  Salmon,  Shad,  Pompano,  Bine  fish  and  Bass 
are  good  fish  for  broiling.  Large  fish  should  be  split  through  the 
back  to  broil.  Use  a  double  wire  broiler,  and  grease  with  butter  be- 
fore putting  on  the  fish.  Dust  fish  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  flesh 
side  first  until  almost  done,  then  reverse.  Large  fish  require  from 
15  to  25  minutes  for  cooking ;  small  fish  10  minutes  or  longer.  When 
fish  is  done,  spread  with  butter  and  set  in  hot  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
allow  it  to  penetrate.    Watercress,  or  parsley,  is  nice  for  garnishing. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

Have  in  kettle  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  salmon,  let  come 
slowly  to  boiling  point.  Simmer  slowly  until  done.  A  short  while 
before  removing  from  kettle,  add  1  dessert  spoon  of  salt.  Drain,  and 
serve  fish  on  hot  dish  with  drawn  butter  sauce. 

To  Fry  Fish. 

Prepare  fish  in  usual  way,  cut  in  slices,  and  dry  on  a  cloth,  sea- 
son each  slice  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten 
light,  dip  slices  in  the  egg  first,  then  in  sifted  flour,  and  lastly  in 
meal.  Fry  in  boiling  hot  fat,  until  a  chestnut  brown.  Place  fish 
on  a  hot  platter,  and  spread  with  a  rich  Mayonnaise  dressing,  gar- 
nish with  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  with  sliced  cucumbers  and  hot 
rolls  for  dinner. 

Boiled  Shad. 

Take  shad,  split  through  back,  scale  and  remove  the  backbone, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  rub  well  with  melted  butter.  Let  it  stand 
10  minutes,  then  broil  over  a  slow  fire  for  15  minutes  on  the  skin 
side,  do  not  broil  too  long.  Put  on  a  platter,  with  sprigs  of  water- 
cress or  parsley  and  sliced  lemon.    Serve  with  a  good  sauce. 

Boiled  Halibut. 

Take  2  pounds  of  halibut  and  wash  carefully,  then  put  in  a 
saucepan  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Add  1  onion  sliced,  2  table- 
spoons of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  cook  slowly  and  boil  for  5  min- 
utes. Lift  out  fish,  drain  well  and  serve  with  egg  sauce.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  parsley. 

Baked  Fish. 

Wash  fish  carefully,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  1  heaping  kitchen  spoon  of  but- 
ter, and  a  dash  of  onion.  Stuff  fish  with  this  dressing  and  tie  up  se- 
curely, put  in  a  baking  pan  with  1  pint  of  water.  Have  your  fish 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  dredge  well  with  flour  and 
baste  often.  Cook  iy2  hours,  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in 
rings  and  sprigs  of  parsley.     Serve  with  creamed  potatoes. 


28  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Dressing  for  Baked  Fish. 

Take  1  coffee  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion,  1  teaspon  capers,  1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley.    Mix  well  and  stuff  fish,  and  bake  until  done. 

Fish  Coquilles. 

Boil  4  pounds  of  white  fish  or  any  kind  of  fish  will  answer. 
"When  cool,  remove  bone  and  pick  to  pieces.  Make  a  dressing  of 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Blend  well, 
.then  put  in  hot  skillet;  stir  until  smooth.  Add  1  pint  of  rich  milk, 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  stir  until  it  thickens,  remove  from  fire 
when  cool,  and  add  1  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine.  Mix  fish  with  this 
dressing,  put  in  individual  dishes  or  baking  dish,  sprinkle  cracker 
crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top,  set  in  oven  to  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Fish  Turbot. 

Take  a  white  fish,  stew  until  tender;  mince  it  fine  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  1  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  14 
pound  of  flour,  14  pound  of  butter  rubbed  into  the  flour.  When 
cool  add  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Boil  in  the  milk  a  part  of  an  onion 
chopped  very  fine,  and  a  little  parsley.  Put  in  baking  dish  or  in- 
dividual dishes,  a  layer  of  fish  and  a  layer  of  the  dressing  until  fill- 
ed. Coves  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  %  hour.  Any  fish 
will  do  and  canned  salmon  is  nice. 

To  Boil  Fresh  Fish. 

Clean  well  and  rub  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  it  into  a  cloth  and 
drop  in  boiling  water;  keep  it  boiling  fast.  A  large  fish  will  take 
94  of  an  hour.  A  small  one  less  time.  When  done  put  it  on  a  dish 
and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  drawn  butter  and  parsley.  Serve 
with  walnut  or  mushroom  catsup. 

Baked  Fish. 

Clean  the  fish  thoroughly  and  salt  it.  Have  ready  some  bread 
crumbs  well  seasoned  with  a  few  celery  seed,  a  little  chopped  onion 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  stuff  your  fish  with  this 
dressing  and  place  in  a  baking  pan  with  water  enough  to  cover  it. 
Add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Put 
inside  the  stove  and  when  it  begins  to  cook,  baste  frequently  until 
done.     Garnish  fish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

Baked  Fish. 

Wash  fish  carefully  and  wipe  dry.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter  and  dredge  well  with  flour.  After  cooking  1  hour,  add 
a  dressing  made  with  1  coffee  cud  of  bread  crumbs,  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  saltspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoon 
of  capers,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.    Mix  well  and  stuff  fish.    Cook 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  29 

30  minutes  longer,  basting  often.  Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs 
cut  into  rings,  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  with  creamed  pota- 
toes. 

Fish  Turbot. 

Shred  1  can  of  salmon,  and  remove  all  bones.  Have  as  many 
creamed  Irish  potatoes  as  there  is  salmon.  Put  in  baking  dish  in 
alternate  layers;  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons 
cream,  pepper  and  salt,  and  sprinkle  finely  rolled  bread  crumbs  on 
top,  with  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Set  in  oven  to  brown.  If  turbot  is 
not  sufficiently  moist,  add  a  little  more  cream. 

Fried  Haddock  or  Cod. 

Prepare  fish,  then  remove  the  skin  and  backbone;  scrape  all 
flesh  from  the  bones,  and  press  with  a  knife  into  larger  pieces,  as 
the  entire  fish  must  be  cut  in  square  pieces.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  roll  in  finely  sifted  meal.  Pry  enough  slices  of  pork  to 
get  1  cup  of  fat.  Have  this  fat  smoking  hot,  place  in  it  the  fish  and 
cook  a  chestnut  brown  on  each  side.  Drain  and  serve  hot.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon.  Any  fish  having  firm  white  flesh  may  be  pre- 
pared in  this  way. 

Frog  Legs. 

Use  only  the  hind  legs,  skin  and  put  them  in  salt  and  water  for 
a  few  moments.    Fry  or  broil  them  as  you  would  chicken. 

Baked  Blue  Fish. 

Remove  the  intestines,  wash  and  dry  the  fish.  Make  a  dress- 
ing with  %  pint  of  bread  crumbs  and  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
season  with  black  pepper  and  salt.  Then  stuff  fish.  Place  it  in  a  pan 
with  y2  cup  of  boiling  water  and  set  in  the  oven,  basting  often. 
Dredge  fish  with  flour,  and  put  on  top  bits  of  butter,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  50  minutes.  Serve  with  potato  balls  and  Worces- 
tershire sauce. 

Bla,ck  Bass. 

Prepare  fish  in  usual  way.  Stuff  with  pulverized  bread  crumbs 
and  oysters  cut  in  half,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  dash 
of  onion.  Place  fish  in  pan,  with  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  top,  add 
y>2  pint  of  cold  water.  Baste  the  bass  frequently,  and  if  water  boils 
out,  add  a  little  warm  water,  and  let  cook  about  1  hour  and  15  min- 
utes.   Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  cucumbers  and  potato  balls. 

Clams. 

Select  1  dozen  large  Guilford  clams,  wash  thoroughly,  and 
plunge  into  boiling  water  for  a  moment.  Drain  and  open  them,  and 
use  only  the  round  plump  part.  Put  in  chafing  dish  a  pat  of  butter, 
and  when  hot  add  a  dust  of  flour,  and  cayenne  pepper.  Simmer  the 
clams,  until  they  are  slightly  cooked ;  about  4  minutes,  and  pour  in  1 


30  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


gill  of  sherry  wine.     Cover,  and  simmer  5  minutes.     Serve  on  hot 
toast. 

To  Cook  Fish. 

Take  any  kind  of  fish,  sole  or  turbot,  skin  and  bone  the  fish, 
chop  it  fine,  have  3  yolks  well  beaten  and  add  to  fish,  also  2  mush- 
rooms chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  of  Chutney  sauce.  Mix  well,  form 
into  balls,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  butter  over  slow  fire  until 
done. 

To  Broil  Spanish  Mackerel. 

Split  mackerel  in  the  back,  wash  thoroughly,  then  wipe  dry,  rub 
well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  fish  pan  hot,  with  a  large 
lump  of  butter,  when  it  melts,  put  in  the  fish,  turn  frequently.  When 
done  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  drawn  butter  sauce,  and  the  juice  of 
1  lemon  may  be  added.  Garnish  the  dish  with  parsley.  Serve  at 
once. 

Broiled  Soft  Shell  Crabs. 

Take  as  many  crabs  as  required,  wash  them  and  wipe  dry,  rub 
with  melted  butter  and  put  on  each  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in 
a  broiler,  cook  5  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  toast  with  sauce  and  lemons 
cut  in  quarters,  a  sprig  of  parsley  across  each  quarter.  Serve  crabs 
hot. 

Broil  Fresh  Mackerel. 

Split  mackerel  down  the  back,  take  out  backbone ;  score  several 
places.  Rub  the  fish  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Broil  over  a  brisk  fire  for  10  minutes.  Serve  with  Maitre  d' 
Hotel  sauce.    Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Baked  White  Fish. 

Take  a  nice  fish,  wash  well  and  rub  dry,  and  remove  the  lins. 
Rub  2  teaspoons  of  salt  in  the  fish.  For  dressing,  y2  coffee  cup  oi 
bread  crumbs,  y2  onion  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley, 
1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  (if  preferred  1  pint  of 
oysters  can  be  added  to  this  dressing  but  must  be  plumped  in  tlieir 
liquor.)  Sew  fish  together.  Place  in  pan  well  greased  with  but- 
ter, and  dredge  with  flour.  Pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water  in  pan,  set 
in  a  hot  oven.  Have  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  2  tablespoons  of 
hot  water  mixed ;  baste  often.  Dredge  fish  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt 
each  time  after  basting.  Add  more  water  to  pan  if  needed.  Serve 
with  white  sauce. 

To  Broil  Lobster. 

Wash  lobster,  put  on  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  with  1  dessert 
spoon  of  salt.     Cook  15  minutes  then  remove  from  kettle.     When 
cold,  split  down  the  breast.    Rub  well  with  butter,  put  in  broiler  and 
let  it  remain  until  brown  (about  3  minutes).    Chop  3  sprigs  of  pars 
ley  and  haave  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.     Pour  on  the  lobster. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  31 

Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  on  buttered  toast.     Garnish  with  parsley  and 
slices  of  lemon. 

Terrapin  Stew. 

Immerse  live  terrapins  in  boiling  water,  let  them  boil  V2  hour. 
Take  out,  remove  lower  shell  carefully,  cutting  out  the  meat.  Re- 
move the  gall  bag  without  cutting  or  breaking  (throw  away.)  Re- 
move the  liver  and  cut  into  cubes.  Take  meat  from  upper  shell  dis- 
joint and  place  in  kettle  with  the  liver  cubes  and  1  pint  of  the  liquor 
in  which  the  terrapin  was  boiled.  Watch  carefully,  cook  until  ten- 
der. Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  2  ounces  of  butter,  !/2  pint  of 
cream,  a  pinch  of  flour,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Serve  on 
each  plate  a  slice  of  breakfast  bacon  broiled  until  very  crisp. 

Planked  Fish. 

Planking  is  broiling  on  a  plank.  Heat  the  plank  thoroughly, 
put  fish  on,  skin  side  down,  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
it  back  into  oven  or  near  the  fire,  cook  quickly  for  15  minutes. 
Have  ready  1  quart  of  mashed  potatoes,  put  in  a  pastry  bag  with  a 
tube,  press  them  out  as  a  garnish  around  the  fish,  return  to  fire  and 
broil  20  minutes  longer.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  sprigs  of 
parsley.  Serve  on  plank.  Chickens  and  beefsteak  are  delicious  cook- 
ed this  way.  In  planking  a  steak,  a  pan  must  be  placed  under- 
neath to  catch  the  dripping. 

Fish  Balls. 

One  cup  of  cod  fish,  2  heaping  cups  of  potatoes,  1  egg,  1  dessert 
spoon  of  butter,  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  fish  and  pick  in  small  pieces. 
Have  potatoes  boiled  and  mash  smooth,  add  to  fish  with  egg,  butter 
and  pepper.  Beat  several  minutes,  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown, 
drain  on  wire  basket. 

Fish  A  La  Creme. 

Two  cups  cold  flaked  fish,  1  cup  of  white  sauce,  a  small  piece  of 
bay  leaf,  a  little  parsley,  %  teaspoon  onion  juice,  y2  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Scald  milk,  add  the  seasoning.  Put  fish 
in  baking  dish,  pour  on  half  of  sauce,  then  add  rest  of  fish  and 
sauce,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Set  in  oven  to 
brown.  Fish  may  be  put  in  shells  and  baked.  Serve  for  luncheon 
or  dinner. 

Stewed  Frogs. 

Trim,  truss  and  marinate  as  for  frying.  Put  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  saucepan,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Cook 
briskly  until  water  is  evaporated.  Add  2  glasses  of  white  wine,  and 
1  pint  of  velvet  sauce;  cover  and  boil  until  tender.  Skim,  and  add 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  y2  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  3 
little  chopped  parsley.    Mix  well  and  serve  with  fried  croutons. 


32  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Fried  Fish. 

Fillet  de  Sole,  Cod,  Haddock.  Halibut,  Smelts,  New  Lights,  Sal- 
mon and  Perch ;  any  of  these  fish  are  excellent  for  frying.  After 
cleaning,  dry  the  fish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  sifted  meal, 
or  bread  crumbs  may  be  used  if  preferred.  Fry  slices  of  fish  in  hot 
fat  until  a  chestnut  brown,  drain  on  wire  basket,  and  serve  on  hot 
dish. 

Fried  Smelts. 

Make  a  small  opening  at  the  gills,  then  press  fish  between  the 
thumb  and  finger  and  this  forces  out  the  entrails.  Wash  fish  and 
dry,  then  dip  in  egg,  the  white  and  yolk  beaten  together,  and  then 
in  sifted  meal  or  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  Tar- 
tare  sauce. 

Panned  Fish. 

Use  Bass,  Perch,  Herring,  Trout  or  Bream  for  panned  fish. 
Clean  fish,  wipe  dry,  cut  in  slices,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs.  Have  a  fish  pan  with  drippings  from  salt  pork, 
when  it  begins  to  smoke  blue,  place  in  the  fish  and  brown  quickly 
on  both  sides,  then  cover  closely  and  set  back  on  the  range  to  cook 
more  slowly  from  10  to  20  minutes,  as  size  of  fish  varies.  Serve  hot 
with  creamed  potatoes  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel. 

Wash  fish  and  soak  12  hours  in  cold  water,  changing  water  sev- 
eral times.  Dry  mackerel  and  place  on  a  wire  broiler  with  flesh  side 
down,  cook  a  chestnut  brown,  then  reverse  it  and  cook  quickly. 
Pour  over  melted  butter,  season  with  lemon  juice  and  serve  at  once 
on  hot  dish. 

Salt  Mackerel. 

Soak  fish  until  free  of  salt.  Then  put  in  skillet  and  cover  with 
lukewarm  water,  and  cook  about  10  minutes.  Drain  off  water,  and 
serve  on  hot  dish  with  melted  butter  and  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in 
rings. 

Scallops. 

The  only  edible  part  of  the  scallop  is  the  central  muscle  by  which 
the  mollusk  opens  and  closes  its  shell.  Select  medium  size  scallops 
of  a  creamy  color.  To  fry  scallops  rinse  in  salt  water,  put  in  a  cloth 
and  dry.    Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot  pork  fat. 

Scallops  In  Shell. 

Drain  1  pint  of  scallops  and  put  them  in  saucepan  with  1  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Let  brown  lightly  about  10  minutes.  Then  re- 
move from  pan  and  chop  fine.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  pan 
and  add  1  small  onion  minced  fine ;  fry  a  chestnut  brown.  Add  1 
heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  and  stir  in  slowly  1  cup  of  liquor  drained 
from  the  scallops.     Season  with  1  teaspoon  salt,  white  pepper,  a 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  33 


dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Mis  with  the  scallops  4  tablespoons  of  bread 
crumbs  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Stir  well  and  cook  3  minutes.  Fill 
shells,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  over  top,  and  set  in 
hot  oven  to  brown  for  10  minutes.  Serve  on  platter,  and  garnish 
with  crisp  lettuce  or  other  green. 

Steamed  Fish. 

Clean  fish  without  removing  fins  or  head.  Rub  inside  and  out 
with  salt,  lemon  juice  and  pepper.  Place  on  a  buttered  paper,  and 
steam  until  done.     Garnish  with  lemon,  serve  with  Tartare  sauce. 

Small  Fish  Baked. 

Prepare  fish,  and  put  in  baking  dish  1  handful  of  mushrooms, 
a  dash  of  chopped  onion  and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  spread  in  small  pieces  on  fish;  add  enough  white 
stock  to  cover  bottom  of  dish,  and  the  juice  of  %  lemon.  Bake  until 
done. 

Salmon  Baked. 

Take  2  slices  of  salmon,  nearly  1  pound  in  each,  rub  on  both 
sides  with  this  seasoning :  Two  tablespoons  salad  oil,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  gherkin,  1  shallot  chopped,  and  1  anchovy  chopped,  1  tea- 
spoon parsley,  %  teaspoon  Chili  vinegar.  Wrap  the  salmon  in  but- 
tered paper  and  bake  in  oven  half  an  hour.     Serve  in  the  paper. 

To  Boil  or  Steam  Fish. 

Use  large  White  fish  or  Salmon  for  boiling  or  steaming.  Pre- 
pare fish,  and  cover  with  salt  inside  and  out,  leave  for  1  hour 
before  cooking.  Then  wash  off  salt  and  put  fish  in  coarse  muslin, 
sew  up  and  drop  into  kettle  of  fresh  boiling  water,  or  place  in 
steamer  over  boiling  water.  Allow  6  minutes  boiling  for  each  pound 
of  fish,  and  test  by  lifting  flesh  from  bones  in  thickest  part ;  if  it  sep- 
arates easily,  the  fish  is  done.  Eemove  from  water  and  drain.  Serve 
with  a  cream  sauce,  and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in 
rings. 

Fish  Pie. 

One  can  of  salmon  picked  into  small  pieces  and  put  aside  until 
the  pap  is  made.  Put  1  quart  of  fresh  milk  to  boil.  Have  about  2 
dozen  crackers  pulverized  and  add  to  the  milk  until  about  the  con- 
sistency of  mush;  when  almost  cool  stir  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  and  a  little  suet.  Fill  your  baking  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  this  pap  and  the  fish,  beginning  and  ending  with  the  pap. ' 
Between  each  layer  grate  a  little  nutmeg  and  bake  only  until  it  is 
very  warm. 

Sauce  for  Fish. 

Take  the  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  well  pulverized,  add  mixed 
mustard,  pepper,  salt  and  3  tablespoons  of  salad  oil  and  3  table- 

3 


34  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

spoons  of  vinegar  and  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup.    Mix  well  and 
serve. 

Fish  Sauce. 

A  half  pint  of  milk  and  cream  mixed,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  on  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  un- 
til it  thickens. 

Lobster  A  La  Cordelaise. 

Cut  the  lobster  into  4  pieces  cross  ways.  Take  off  the  claw* 
without  breaking ;  then  put  the  pieces  on  the  fire  with  a  pint  or  more 
of  white  wine,  some  garlic,  thyme,  parsley  in  branches,  pepper  and 
salt.  Stir  once  in  a  while.  In  about  40  minutes  remove  the  pieces 
from  the  fire,  dry  them  and  put  into  another  saucepan.  In  still  an- 
other saucepan  fry  some  shallots  and  onions  in  butter,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  make  a  roux.  Add  the  stock  in  which  the  pieces 
have  been  boiled  and  let  it  cook  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  often. 
Add  half  pint  of  good  tomato  sauce.  If  too  thick,  add  some  of  the 
stock  and  cayenne  pepper.  When  done  add  the  lobster  and  stir  on 
the  stove  a  few  minutes  and  they  are  ready  to  serve.  Use  the  claws 
to  garnish. 

Shad  Roe. 

Put  1  or  2  pounds  of  roe  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  with 
1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Let  them  remain  more  than  1  hour ;  wipe  dry, 
dip  in  sifted  meal,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  then  fry  in  hot  lard, 
but  not  too  rapidly  or  they  will  harden.    Serve  for  lunch  or  tea. 

Breaded  Shad  Roe. 

Parboil  the  roe  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  drain  and  wipe  dry ; 
then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  sifted  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  hot  lard 
until  a  deep  brown ;  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  with  either  cucum- 
ber or  tomato  sauce. 

Fried  Scallops. 

"Wash  scallops  and  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  roll  first  in  flour,  then 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  fine  dry  cracker  crumbs.  Shake  off  loose 
crumbs,  put  in  frying  basket,  fry  in  hot  lard.     Serve  on  hot  dish. 

Baked  Red  Snapper. 

Cleanse  a  4-pound  fish  and  remove  the  back  bone,  rub  inside  with 
salt  and  pepper :  grease  fish  pan  with  lard  and  place  fish  in  it,  pour  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  1  tablespoon  butter  cut  in  small  pieces,  pepper  and 
salt.  Bake  in  oven  1  hour.  Put  fish  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  over 
this  sauce  and  serve  with  potato  croquettes  and  beaten  biscuit.  Al- 
most any  large  fish  may  be  baked  and  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Turbot. 

Take  a  4-pound  white  fish,  boil  until  tender,  bone  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.    For  the  dressing,  boil  1  pint  of  rich  milk,  add 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  35 


to  it  1  slice  of  onion  and  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  then  put  through  a  fine 
sieve,  return  to  saucepan,  add  to  it  3  tablespoons  of  butter  and  3 
tablespoons  of  flour  worked  to  a  cream,  and  2  eggs.  Put  in  a  bak- 
ing dish  a  layer  of  fish  and  1  of  sauce,  alternating  until  dish  is  full. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.    Bake  1  hour  and  serve. 

Broiled  Scrod. 

Take  4  pounds  of  scrod,  prepare  as  usual.  Rub  broiler  with 
fat  pork,  and  broil  inside  of  fish  first,  cook  about  20  minutes,  serve 
with  melted  butter  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Salmon  Bone  Broiled. 

In  filleting  a  fish  to  be  broiled,  leave  more  than  half  an  inch 
of  meat  on  the  backbone ;  rub  well  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper, 
and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  This  fish  is  nice  for  breakfast,  prepare  by 
filleting. 

Broiled  Halibut. 

After  preparing  fish,  cut  in  slices  1  inch  thick,  place  in  melted 
butter  for  half  an  hour  then  roll  in  flour.  Broil  10  minutes  over  a 
clear  fire.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  drawn  butter  sauce.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

To  Stew  Fish. 

Rub  fish  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  in  a  pan  with  1  pint  of 
water  to  fish  weighing  5  pounds.  When  half  done  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  ^  pound  of  butter,  1  teacup  of  flour,  parsley  and  thyme. 
This  can  be  stirred  into  a  pint  of  oysters,  or  the  oysters  may  be 
omitted.  Serve  with  gravv  in  a  dish.  Instead  of  oysters,  six  hard 
boiled  eggs  sliced  may  be  used. 

Cod  Fish  Balls. 

Take  cod  fish  and  soak  at  night,  then  boil  to  pieces  and  pick  into 
shreds.  Take  out  all  the  bone  and  let  it  drain.  To  one  pound  of 
fish  allow  1  dozen  Irish  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  very  fine.  Season 
with  pepper,  salt  and  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk.  Break  in  1  egg,  then 
mix  all  well  together.    Make  into  balls  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Stewed  Cod  Fish. 

Put  1  quart  of  water  in  a  skillet,  and  pick  to  pieces  1  quart  of 
fish,  break  2  eggs  in  the  skillet,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Make  a  little  thickening  of  flour  and  milk.  Stew  until  of  right 
consistency. 

Coquilles  of  Fish. 

Take  3  pounds  of  white  fish  or  red  snapper,  put  on  in  salted 
water,  boil  until  done.  Strain  off  the  water,  remove  skin  and  bones, 
pick  to  pieces.  Then  have  1  quart  of  cream  put  in  double  boiler, 
when  hot  add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  tablespoons  of  flour  well  blend- 


36  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


ed,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg;  cook  a  few  minutes,  then 
pour  over  the  fish.  Can  bake  either  in  cups  or  baking  dish;  sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  or  grated  cheese  on  top  of  fish,  with  bits  of  butter,  set 
in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Halibut. 

Cut  3  pounds  of  halibut  into  pieces  3  inches  square.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg.  thru  in  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut 
brown.  Cream  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  add  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  ingredients 
and  spread  on  the  hot  halibut,  set  in  oven  to  melt,  then  serve.  This 
dish  is  delicious  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Turtle  Steak. 

Cut  turtle  in  slices  half  in  inch  thick,  from  fleshy  portion  of 
green  turtle.  Rub  slices  with  salad  oil,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  leave  to  marinate  for  1  hour.    Broil  until  well  done.    Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Salmon. 

Remove  the  skin  and  bone  from  one  can  of  salmon,  strain  off 
liquor  and  break  into  flakes.  Put  in  chafing  dish,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  tablespoon  flour  well  blended,  %  teaspoon  white  pepper,  ^2 
teaspoon  salt.  When  butter  is  melted  add  1  cup  cream  or  milk,  10 
drops  of  onion  juice,  a  pinch  of  mace,  %  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1 
teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  add  salmon,  stir 
a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

Broiled  Shad. 

Take  shad  and  rub  lightly  with  salt  and  put  in  ice  for  12  hours. 
Then  broil  and  serve  hot  with  butter  and  parsley. 

Salmon  Cream. 

Take  2  cans  of  salmon,  remove  the  bone  and  pick  to  pieces;  sea- 
son with  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper ;  mix  well  and  put  in  timbale 
cups.    Set  in  pan,  surround  with  water  and  cook  1  hour. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

One  quart  of  tarragon  vinegar,  4  eggs,  put  vinegar  to  boil  and 
when  scalding  hot,  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks,  with  a  little  sugar. 
Boil  until  consistency  of  cream.  When  cool  add  the  whites  beaten 
stiff.    When  serving  salmon  pour  on  the  sauce. 

Fish  Fritters. 

Take  cold  fish,  remove  bones  and  mince  fine.  Have  as  manjr 
bread  crumbs  as  fish,  mix  with  %  teacup  of  cream,  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  Anchovy  sauce.  Beat  through- 
ly, make  in  small  cakes,  dip  in  cracker  dust  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  37 

Salmon  With  Cream  Dressing. 

Take  1  can  of  steak  salmon,  remove  bones  and  drain;  put  in 
saucepan  to  heat ;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Make  a  sauce  with  1  pint  of 
new  milk  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  well  blend- 
ed, cook  until  it  thickens.  Salmon  may  be  served  on  thin  slices  of 
buttered  toast,  with  the  sauce  poured  over,  or  serve  in  dish  with 
the  sauce. 

Fish. 

Take  3  pounds  of  white  fish,  boil  in  salt  water  until  done,  then 
remove  bones;  put  fish  in  baking  dish  with  1  teacup  of  cream,  1 
kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  add  to  cream  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour,  stir 
to  a  paste,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cook  10  minutes.  Serve  hot 
for  luncheon  or  tea. 

To  Cook  Crabs. 

Select  1  dozen  nice  crabs  and  put  in  kettle  to  boil.  Have  enough 
water  to  cover  them  well.  Cook  more  than  half  an  hour,  then  pour 
off  water.  "When  they  are  cool,  pick  meat  carefully  from  the  shell. 
Take  1  pint  of  new  milk,  let  it  boil  and  stir  in  %  teacup  of  butter 
and  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour  well  mixed,  1  saltspoon  curry  powder 
or  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  about  10  minutes, 
stirring  often.  When  cold  add  this  dressing  to  the  meat,  also  a  little 
dash  of  onion.  Fill  the  shells,  strew  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and 
small  bits  of  butter.  Bake  20  minutes.  The  shell  is  a  bright  red,  if 
crabs  are  fresh. 

Baked  Halibut. 

Take  fish  and  rub  with  a  cloth,  then  stuff  with  bread  crumbs  and 
pieces  of  butter,  add  pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  baking  pan  with  a 
little  water  and  baste  it  often.     Let  cook  until  thoroughly  done. 

Halibut  Steak. 

Cut  thick  slices  from  halibut ;  dip  it  into  2  well-beaten  eggs,  then 
in  meal  and  put  into  skillet  and  let  cook  until  brown. 

Fresh  Crabs. 

Remove  the  fin  part  from  crabs,  wash  carefully,  dry  them  on  a 
cloth,  dip  crabs  in  sweet  milk,  then  flour  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook 
in  hot  lard  about  10  minutes.  Place  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  serve  on 
a  hot  dish  with  sauce. 

Sauce  For  Crabs. 

One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  %  teacup  of  capers  or  green  sour 
pickle.  Work  butter  until  creamed,  then  stir  in  1  well-beaten  yolk 
and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  stir  well  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  serv- 
ing crabs,  put  1  teaspoon  of  this  sauce  on  each  one,  place  crabs  on 
buttered  toast,  and  put  slice  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley  on  each 
plate. 


38  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

To  Fry  Salmon. 

Take  salmon  from  can  and  separate  carefully.  Add  a  little  salt, 
roll  in  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

One  can  of  salmon,  1  egg  well-beaten,  y2  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  juice  of  %  lemon.  Drain  liquor  from  sal- 
mon and  mince  fine,  add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  the  season- 
ing, and  if  not  moist  enough,  a  little  of  the  liquid,  with  the  crumbs, 
form  in  shape,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  and  set  on  ice  for  1  hour. 
Fry  in  hot  lard,  drain  in  wire  basket,  and  serve  hot,  with  cheese 
sticks. 

Deviled  Crabsl 

Boil  1  dozen  hard  shell  crabs  15  minutes,  when  cold  remove 
meat  and  chop  fine ;  add  3  tablespoons  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  %  wine 
glass  of  cream,  yolks  of  3  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  fill  shells,  sprinkle  top 
of  each  with  rolled  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Deviled  Lobster. 

One  can  of  lobster,  1  pint  of  rich  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
salt  and  cayenne  permer.  Put  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  on  lobster, 
then  put  cream  and  lobster  in  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add 
butter  and  flour  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and 
cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  set  in  oven  to  brown.    Serve  hot. 

Cod  Fish  Souffle. 

Take  %  pound  of  cod  fish,  put  in  cold  water  to  soak  12  hours, 
then  drain  and  pick  to  pieces.  Add  to  it  1  pint  of  light  mashed  Irish 
potatoes,  4  tablespoons  of  hot  cream  or  hot  milk,  and  2  well-beaten 
yolks.  Mix  and  fold  in  the  whites  well  frothed ;  make  into  balls,  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

Cod  Fish  Croquettes. 

One  pint  of  cold  boiled  cod  fish,  %  pint  of  sweet  cream,  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1 
tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  *4  nutmeg  grated,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Put  cream  in  double  boiler,  blend  buttter  and  flour  and  add 
to  cream,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  fish  minced 
fine,  yolks,  salt,  parsley  and  nutmeg,  shape  and  din  in  beaten  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs ;  fry  in  hot  lard ;  drain  on  wire  basket.  Serve  hot  for 
lunch  or  tea. 

Deviled  Crabs. 

Take  15  crabs,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  coffee  cup  of  cream, 
V/2  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Boil  the  crabs, 
remove  meat  care'fully,  put  the  cream  in  double  boiler  and  when  it 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  39 

scalds,  add  the  flour  and  butter  well  blended.  Stir  mixture  until 
smooth,  then  add  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed  fine,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper,  %  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  the  crab  meat  mix  well 
and  have  it  highly  seasoned.  Wash  shells  and  wipe  dry,  fill  with 
the  mixture,  leave  them  until  cold.  Beat  1  egg,  put  a  little  on  each 
shell,  then  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  wire  basket,  dip 
in  hot  lard  until  a  light  brown.  Or  if  preferred  omit  the  egg,  use 
bits  of  butter  on  top  of  each  crab,  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Set  in 
oven  to  brown. 

Brook  Trout. 
Wash  trout  in  salted  water,  score  a  little  across  the  back,  rub 
well  with  Lucca  oil  and  broil  slowly.   Serve  on  a  very  hot  dish  with 
melted  butter,  or  Maitre  d 'Hotel  sauce. 

Spanish  Mackerel. 

Draw  by  the  gills,  wash  and  rub  with  coarse  salt,  trim  off 
fins  closely.  Split  down  the  back,  remove  the  bone,  wipe  dry  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Rub  well  with  butter  or  oil.  Broil  slow- 
ly until  done.    Put  on  a  hot  dish.    Serve  with  butter  sauce. 

Deviled  Crabs. 

Drain  liquor  from  canned  crabs.  Make  a  dressing  of  1  hard 
boiled  egg,  1  raw  egg,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1%  tablespoons  of  vine- 
gar, 1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  %  teacup  of  boiling  water,  cayenne  pee- 
per to  taste,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Rub  the  cooked  yolk  in  the  butter,  then 
the  vinegar,  pepper,  mustard  and  salt.  Stir  in  the  raw  yolk  beaten 
light,  and  the  white  chopped  fine,  the  uncooked  white,  then  boiling 
water.  Add  this  dressing  to  crabs,  mix  well.  Fill  shells  carefully  and 
sprinkle  grated  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top  of  each  shell ; 
set  in  oven  to  brown.  This  quantity  fills  12  shells.  Serve  hot 
in  the  shells. 

Creamed  Shrimp. 

Set  blazer  over  hot  water  in  chafing  dish,  put  in  it  1  pint  of 
cream,  1  can  of  shrimp  drained  of  all  liquor;  %  teaspoon  paprika, 
%  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  When  cream  is  hot,  add 
2  well-beaten  yolks  and  a  wine  glass  of  Madeira  wine.  Serve  on 
rounds  of  toast. 

Shrimp  Newburg. 

One  can  of  shrimp,  1  cup  mushrooms,  1  pint  rich  milk,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  wineglass  sherry  wine,  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  butter  and  flour  in  chafing  dish  and  stir 
until  smooth,  then  add  milk,  and  when  it  boils,  salt  and  pepper, 
shrimp  and  mushrooms.  Stir  until  it  boils,  then  add  sherry.  Serve 
with  reception  flakes  or  squares  of  toast. 

Broiled  Shrimp. 

Dip  shrimp  in  flour  and  broil  in  butter  until  a  chestnut  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  on  toasted  crackers. 


40  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Clams. 

Take  2  dozen  clams  and  chop  fine,  put  in  frying  pan  1  heaping 
kitchen  spoon  of  butter;  when  melted  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  then  add  clams  with  1  coffee  cup  of  their  liquor.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  10  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve  add 
Y2  coffee  cup  of  cream.   Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

Boiled  Fish. 

"Wash  fish  carefully  and  rub  with  salt;  wrap  in  a  strong 
cloth  and  put  in  a  kettle  filled  with  lukewarm  water.  Allow  15 
minutes  to  each  pound  of  fish  in  cooking.  When  done  remove  care- 
fully from  cloth  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Boil  9  eggs  hard,  then  take 
1  pint  of  water  the  fish  was  boiled  in,  ^  pound  of  butter  and  a  little 
salt.  Mash  yolks  of  6  eggs  in  the  butter  which  must  be  rolled  in 
a  little  flour;  then  add  the  broth  gradually.  Put  mixture  in  sauce- 
pan and  boil  until  it  thickens.  Slice  3  eggs'into  rings  and  put  over 
the  fish,  then  pour  on  this  sauce.     Serve  immediately. 

Broiled  Fish. 

In  preparing  large  fish  to  broil,  split  through  the  back,  remove 
head  and  tail.  Use  a  double  wire  broiler,  and  grease  well  before 
placing  in  the  fish;  dust  fish  with  salt  and  pepper;  broil  flesh  side 
first  until  almost  done.    If  a  large  fish  broil  almost  25  minutes. 

Stuffed  Clams. 

Steam  20  large  clams,  chop  fine.  Brown  3  onions  in  butter,  add 
1  well-beaten  egg,  *4  cup  of  melted  butter,  iy2  cups  solid  tomatoes, 
%  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  pepper.  Chop  all  together.  Fill 
the  half  shell  of  clam  with  this  mixture,  cover  with  cracker  dust 
and  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Bake  20  minutes  in  hot  oven,  and  serve 
at  once  with  catsup. 

Cod  Fish  Balls. 

Soak  salt  cod  fish  24  hours,  then  boil  until  tender,  pick  into 
shreds  and  remove  all  bone  and  drain.  To  1  pound  of  fish,  allow 
1  dozen  Irish  potatoes;  boiled  and  mashed  fine.  Add  1  teacup  rich 
milk,  pepper  and  salt,  and  1  beaten  egg.  Mix  well,  shape  into  balls. 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  Drain  on  a 
wire  basket. 

Shad. 

Dress  the  shad  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  fresh  water.  Cut  the 
thick  skin  in  center  of  back  with  a  sharp  knife.  Kemove  the 
head  and  wash  again.  Then  cut  through  center.  Place  fish  in  4 
quarts  of  water  with  1  dessertspoon  salt.  Boil  until  done.  Set  on 
back  of  range  until  ready  to  serve  with  this  sauce :  Take  8  ounces 
of  butter  and  melt,  add  to  it  1  dessertspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 
Serve  in  gravy  boat  over  shad. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  41 

Lobster  Newburg. 

Two  boiled  lobsters  removed  from  shells  and  cut  into  small 
pieces,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of. 
flour.  Melt  butter  and  stir  in  the  flour  until  smooth;  add  cream 
and  cook  until  thick.  Then  add  the  lobster,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
beaten  light  and  1  glass  of  sherry  wine. 

Fricassee  of  Lobster  and  Mushrooms. 

Two  pounds  of  lobster,  %  coffee  cup  butter,  %  pound  mush- 
rooms, %  cup  of  flour,  iy2  cups  new  milk,  2  tablespoons  sherry 
wine,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  paprika,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Boil  lobster  30  minutes,  when  cold  cut  in  strips,  remove  the  in- 
testinal vein  in  back  of  lobster,  cut  mushrooms  in  half,  cook  with 
butter  and  onion  juice  3  minutes ;  add  flour,  pour  milk  in  gradually, 
then  lobster  meat;  season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Soon  as  lobster  is 
heated,  add  wine.    Serve  very  hot. 

Shrimp. 

Put  in  frying  pan  2  tablespoons  of  butter ;  when  hot  add  1  table- 
spoon tomato  sauce,  2  teaspoons  of  onion  juice,  %  cup  of  cream, 
y2.  cup  of  boiled  rice  and  1  pint  of  fresh  or  canned  shrimp.  Stir 
until  it  begins  to  boil.   Let  cook  slowly  for  5  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Mock  Terrapin. 

Take  y2  of  a  calf's  liver,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon 
of  dry  mustard,  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  y2  pint  of  water,  1  gill  of  sherry 
wine,  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  liver,  then  cut  in  dice ;  put  but- 
ter in  pan  and  stir  in  1  teaspoon  of  flour;  when  it  thickens  add  a 
little  water,  then  the  liver,  to  which  all  seasoning  must  have  been 
added.  When  the  mixture  boils  add  the  wine  and  chopped  eggs. 
Serve  immediately. 

To  Cook  Lobsters. 

While  alive  put  them  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  with  1  table- 
spoon of  salt,  let  boil  about  30  minutes.  Put  them  on  a  dish  to  cool 
(they  are  nice  served  in  the  shell),  remove  the  head  and  crack  the 
shell.  Place  them  on  a  flat  dish,  with  drawn  butter  sauce,  or  they 
can  be  made  into  a  Lobster  a  la  Newburg.  After  lobster  is  cold  re- 
move a  dark  cord  that  extends  down  the  back ;  it  is  poisonous. 

Lobster  Souffle. 

Cook  a  2-pound  lobster ;  when  cold  cut  in  dice.  Have  Sy2  table- 
spoons of  mayonnaise  dressing,  1  cup  of  aspic  jelly,  y2  cup  tomato 
sauce,  beat  until  it  is  light,  then  stir  in  the  lobster,  add  a  little  tar- 
ragon vinegar,  and  set  on  ice  to  stiffen.  This  souffle  can  be  put  in 
individual  ramaquin  cases,  allowing  one  for  each  cover.  When  mix- 
ture is  set,  garnish  with  coral  or  toasted  bread  crumbs. 


42  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Lobster  Quenelles. 

Boil  1  lobster,  remove  meat  and  pound  to  a  paste,  mix  with  it 
2  tablespoons  fine  bread  crumbs,  2^>  tablespoons  butter,  salt,  black 
and  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  the 
white  of  1  egg.  If  too  stiff,  add  a  little  water,  if  too  soft,  white  of 
1  egg.  Cool  after  poaching,  then  fry  in  butter.  Use  as  a  garnish 
for  steamed  fish  or  in  soup.  Or  poach  quenelles  and  serve  cold  with 
Tartare  sauce. 

Fish  Cutlets. 

Cut  fish  in  slices  across  the  back,  removing  all  the  bone.  Dry 
fish,  dip  slices  in  butter  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  When  a  chestnut  brown 
drain  on  brown  paper.  Put  on  each  plate  with  water  cress  and  thin 
slices  of  lemon.  Serve  with  Tartare  sauce  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Fried  Halibut. 

Cut  halibut  in  thick  slices  and  marinate  in  this  dressing.  Enough 
cold  water  to  cover,  with  1  cup  of  vinegar,  and  salt,  leave  for  15 
minutes.  Dry  slices  and  roll  in  cracker  dust.  Cook  in  smoking  hot 
salad  oil  until  a  golden  brown.   This  will  require  4  or  5  minutes. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. 

Take  one  lobster,  boil  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  for  y%  hour  with  1 
tablespoon  of  salt ;  when  done  set  away  to  cool.  Put  in  double  boiler, 
y-2  pint  of  cream.  When  hot  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  well  blended,  also  pepper  and  salt,  1  gill  of  sherry 
wine  and  1  tablespoon  of  Madeira  wine.  Stir  well.  Serve  very  hot 
in  lobster  cups  with  a  fork. 

Terrapins  a  la  Philadelphia. 

Plunge  terrapins  into  boiling  water  and  boil  15  minutes,  then 
set  away  until  cool.  Rub  the  skin  from  legs,  pry  shells  apart  and 
remove  the  meat.  Rub  to  a  paste  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs, 
y4  pound  of  butter,  add  gradually  to  this  y2  pint  of  cream,  stir  con- 
stantly. Whisk  in  y>  gill  of  sherry  wine.  When  hot  add  the  terrapin, 
simmer  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

Fried  Frog  Legs. 

Select  fresh  frogs,  trim  off  the  feet.  Put  in  a  bowl  2  teaspoons 
of  olive  oil,  2  teaspoons  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  the  legs  in 
this  dressing  for  15  minutes.  Make  a  batter  with  2  eggs,  beaten 
light,  V-/2  teacups  of  flour,  1  cup  new  milk  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  well, 
then  add  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Dip  the  legs  in  this  batter  -,  fry 
in  very  hot  lard  about  6  minutes.  Serve  with  Tartare  sauce  and 
parsley. 

Boiled  Cod  With  Oysters. 

Put  the  fish  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  add  a  little 
lemon  peel,  a  few  white  peppers  and  cloves.   Cook  until  done.  Serve 


KENTUCKY    KECEIPT    BOOK.  43 


with  oyster  sauce  prepared  in  this  manner:  One  dozen  oysters 
scalded  in  y2  pint  of  oyster  liquor.  Remove  oysters,  and  to  the 
liquor  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  small  piece  of  mace,  pepper  and  salt ; 
stir  into  it  1  gill  of  cream  or  milk,  containing  1  heaping  teaspoon 
flour.  Simmer  a  few  minutes,  add  the  chopped  oysters  and  serve 
with  the  fish. 

Fried  Roe. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  roe,  fry  about  20  minutes  in  hot  fat,  turn 
them  over  while  cooking;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with 
slices  of  lemon. 

Fish  Roe. 

Take  2  pounds  of  fish  roe  and  put  in  salted  water  for  30  min- 
utes. Then  drain  roe  and  roll  in  corn  meal;  season  with  pepper 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown. 

Shad  Roe  Croquettes. 

Four  shad  roe,  1  pint  of  cream,  4  tablespoons  corn  starch,  4 
tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  a  dash  of 
nutmeg  and  one  of  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  the  roe  20  minutes  in  salted 
water,  then  drain  and  mash.  Put  cream  in  saucepan  to  boil.  Blend 
butter  and  corn  starch  and  stir  into  boiling  cream.  Add  seasoning 
and  roe,  boil  up  once  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Form  in  shape,  dip  in 
cracker  dust  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Broiled  Shad. 

Clean  shad  and  cut  open.  Wash,  then  dry.  Grease  broiler,  put 
on  the  fish,  flesh  side  downward.  Place  over  a  clear  fire  and  cook  20 
minutes. 

Box  Clam  Roast. 

Take  2  dozen  clams,  drain  oft*  the  liquor.  Chop  the  meat  fine. 
Have  saucepan  with  tight-fitting  cover.  Put  in  the  bottom  of  sauce- 
pan a  layer  of  bread  (not  sliced  too  thick),  then  clams,  butter,  salt 
and  pepper ;  another  layer  of  bread  and  clams,  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per; then  pour  in  some  of  the  liquor.  Cover  closely,  set  saucepan 
in  kettle  of  hot  water  and  boil  l1/^  hours.    Serve  hot. 

Salt  Mackerel  a  la  Fernandina. 

After  soaking  salt  mackerel  12  hours  parboil  in  2  waters.  Saute 
in  chafing  dish,  with  1  kitchen  spoon  of  melted  butter,  2  sprigs  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  a  dash  of  thringarian  pepper ;  also  a  few  sweet 
Spanish  peppers. 

Pike. 

Cleanse  as  usual,  leaving  on  head  and  tail.  Place  on  drainer  in 
fish  kettle  4  pounds  of  fish,  1  even  tablespoon  salt,  5  pepper  corns,  2 
sprigs  of  parsley,  %  onion  sliced,  1  cup  of  white  wine,  %  carrot 
sliced  thin,  1  pint  of  water.    Cover  with  a  thickly  buttered  paper 


44  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


and  simmer  45  minutes.  Prepare  a  sauce,  1  ounce  of  butter  and  1 
tablespoon  flour  worked  to  a  cream.  Add  enough  gravy  from  fish 
to  make  a  white  sauce.  Beat  yolk  of  1  egg  with  same  quantity  of 
water,  strain,  add  lemon  juice  and  1  tablespoon  "Worcestershire 
sauce  and  a  little  more  butter.  Slide  fish  on  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  potato  chips.  Have  sauce  in  a  bowl  and  pour  on  fish 
when  serving. 

Broiled  Shad. 

Take  a  shad,  split  through  back,  scale  and  remove  the  back- 
bone, sprinkle  with  a  little  sale,  rub  well  with  melted  butter.  Let 
it  stand  10  minutes,  then  broil  over  a  slow  fire  for  15  minutes — on 
the  skin  side  do  not  broil  too  long.  Put  on  a  platter,  with  sprigs 
of  watercress  or  parsley  and  sliced  lemon.   Serve  with  a  good  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Fish. 

Take  %  pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and  add  to  it  4  olives,  1 
gherkin  and  I  tablespoon  of  capers,  1  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped 
fine  and  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice. 


©Y.ST 


To  Prepare  Oysters  for  Cooking. 

Pour  y2  cup  of  cold  water  over  1  quart  of  oysters  and  remove 
bits  of  shell.  The  oyster  liquor  may  be  strained  and  used  for  soup 
stew  or  escallops.  Broiled  or  fried,  oysters  are  nicer  if  parboiled 
slightly  before  cooking.  Place  1  pint  of  creamed  oysters  in  frying 
basket  and  dip  %  a  minute  in  kettle  of  boiling  water  deep  enough 
to  cover  them.  Drain,  dry  on  a  soft  cloth  and  proceed  as  usual. 

Oyster  Stew. 

Boil  1  cup  of  strained  oysters,  y2  cup  of  water,  skim  and  add 
Y2  saltspoon  of  pepper,  y>  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  table- 
spoon rolled  crackers.  When  it  begins  to  boil  add  y2  cup  of  cream 
or  milk,  stir  a  moment.   Serve  in  hot  tureen. 

Fricassee  Oysters. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  iy2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  cayenne,  black  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  oysters  in  colander  to  drain,  blend  butter  and  flour,  melt 
in  saucepan,  stir  until  smooth  and  slightly  browned,  then  add 
oysters  and  seasoning,  stir  for  5  minutes,  then  add  eggs  beaten  light ; 
stir  continuously,  cook  about  5  minutes.    Serve  in  hot  dish. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  45 

Oysters  in  Ice. 

Have  a  10-pound  block  of  ice,  scoop  out  center  large  enough  to 
contain  as  many  oysters  as  are  required  for  serving.  Place  fold  of 
cotton  on  platter,  cover  with  napkin  and  spread  with  bunches  of 
parsley,  then  place  on  ice.  Put  oysters  in  cavity  of  ice  and  garnish 
edges  with .  parsley  and  celery  tips.  Serve  in  oyster  plates  with 
quarters  of  lemon. 

Oyster  Stew. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1  pint  of  cream,  10  crackers  pulverized, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Put  oysters  in  saucepan  with  their  liquor. 
When  hot  drain  well  and  add  to  hot  cream,  also  butter  and  crackers, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  slice 
of  onion,  a  dash  of  mace,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  cream  in  double 
boiler  with  onion  and  mace,  bring  to  a  boiling  point.  Mix  flour  with 
cold  milk,  stir  into  boiling  cream.  Let  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in 
their  own  liquor,  skim  carefully,  drain  off  liquor,  add  oysters  to 
the  cream,  remove  mace  and  onion.    Serve  very  hot. 

Oyster  Saute. 

Two  dozen  large  oysters,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  4  tablespoons 
of  cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  oysters  in  colander,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Have  butter  very 
hot  in  a  pan,  put  in  enough  oysters  to  cover  bottom  of  pan  at  a  time 
and  continue  until  all  are  cooked;  fry  a  chestnut  brown.  Serve  on 
hot  buttered  toast. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 

Put  into  each  cocktail  glass  shaved  ice  and  6  large  oysters,  1 
tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  2  dashes  of  Tobasco  sauce,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
1  teaspoon  of  grated  horseradish,  on  top  of  each  glass  a  few  cubes 
of  white  celery.   Serve  for  luncheon  or  dinner. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  %  pint  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  butter, 
i/2  teacup  of  powdered  crackers.  Let  oysters  scald  in  their  own 
liquor  and  drain,  then  put  them  into  the  cream  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.    Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Oysters  au  Natural. 

Put  oysters  in  chafing  dish  and  cook  until  thoroughly  done. 
Strain  and  put  back  in  chafing  dish  and  add  a  little  water  if  there 
is  not  enough  liquor  to  cover  the  oysters.  Have  ready  1  dessertspoon 
of  butter  and  1  dessertspoon  of  flour  which  have  been  made  into  a 
paste  and  cooked.  Add  to  juice,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when 
thick  add  ovsters  and  serve. 


46  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Put  a  layer  of  pulverized  cracker  crumbs  in  baking  dish,  then 
a  layer  of  Oysters  with  bits  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  an- 
other layer  of  oysters  and  cracker  crumbs,  butter  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  them  1  pint  of  cream  and  milk  mixed. 
Put  in  stove  and  cook  a  light  brown. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Take  oysters  and  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  then  dip  in  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  a  chestnut 
brown. 

Skewered  Oysters. 

For  6  persons  take  2  dozen  large  oysters,  2  ounces  of  bacon,  6 
small  slices  of  thin  toast.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  fill  skewers  with 
bacon  and  oysters  alternately.  Put  skewer  cross  grain  through  the 
muscle  of  the  oyster,  stringing  bacon  by  the  edge  so  that  each  slice 
will  lap  on  oyster.  Put  skewers  in  baking  pan,  cook  in  quick  oven 
5  minutes.  Lay  each  skewer  on  slices  of  toast,  pour  over  them  the 
drip  from  the  pan.   Serve  at  once. 

Coquilles  of  Oysters. 

Select  large  oysters  and  drain  in  a  cloth;  fry  them  in  butter 
with  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 
As  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook  remove  them  from  the  fire.  Take  the 
coquilles  and  partly  fill  with  the  oysters  and  pour  over  the  following 
sauce,  spreading  over  the  whole  fried  bread  crumbs. 

Sauce. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  stewpan.  When  it 
bubbles  add  1  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour;  stir  until  quite  smooth. 
Let  it  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  1%  pints  of  oyster  liquor.  Stir 
until  it  thickens.  Season  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg.  Just 
before  using  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  i/o  cup  of  cream  and  the  juice 
of  y2  a  lemon!  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  oysters  in  the  coquilles  and 
put  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Take  1  quart  of  oysters  and  put  in  saucepan  with  1  kitchen 
spoon  of  butter,  cayenne  and  black  pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil.  Have  a  rich  pastry,  line  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  a  chestnut 
brown.  "When  ready  to  serve  pour  in  the  oysters  and  put  on  top 
pastry,  which  must  have  been  previously  cooked.  Serve  at  once. 

St.  Bernard  Oysters. 

One  dozen  oysters,  1  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  grated  onion, 
%  coffee  cup  of  cream,  1  egg,  1  dessertspoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  pars- 
ley, salt  and  pepper.    Roll  the  oysters  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  47 

egg,  and  in  crumbs  again,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Put  butter  in  chafing 
dish.   When  hot  add  the  oysters  and  fry  a  little. 

Gravy  for  Oysters. 

Take  one  dessertspoon  butter,  a  dash  of  grated  onion,  1  heap- 
ing teaspoon  flour,  the  parsley  finely  chopped  and  a  little  hot  water. 
Mix  well,  then  add  the  cream,  stirring  constantly.  When  sauce' is 
creamy  add  oysters  and  leave  a  short  while  to  warm.  Serve  on  thin 
slices  of  hot  toast. 

Curried  Oysters. 

Put  in  chafing  dish  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  curry  pow- 
der, 1  level  tablespoon  flour.  Cook  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is 
brown,  then  add  1  teaspoon  grated  onion,  cook  1  minute  longer, 
then  pour  in  1  cup  oyster  liquor,  1  tablespoon  grated  apple,  pepper 
and  salt.  Stir  until  mixture  is  thick  and  smooth,  then  drop  in  the 
oysters  and  cook  until  the  edges  begin  to  curl.   Serve  on  hot  toast. 

Brown  Fricassee  of  Oyster. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  one  scant 
tablespoon  flour,  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  y2  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley.  Brown  butter  and  flour  in  saucepan,  add  oysters 
washed  and  drained,  turn  carefully.    Serve  on  hot  toast. 

Spindled  Oysters. 

Two  dozen  large  oysters,  2  ounces  of  bacon,  6  small  slices  of 
thin  toast,  6  silver  or  steel  skewers.  Cut  two  dozen  wafers  of  bacon 
and  fill  skewers  with  oysters  and  bacon  alternately,  putting  skewer 
cross  grain  through  the  muscle  of  oyster  so  that  each  slice  may  touch 
oyster.  Lay  skewers  in  baking  pan  and  cook  in  quick  oven  5  min- 
utes. Place  each  skewer  on  slice  of  toast  and  pour  over  the  drip 
from  pan.    Serve  at  once. 

Griddled  Oysters. 

Scald  and  drain  2  dozen  large  oysters.  Have  a  large  griddle 
heated,  put  on  it  lumps  of  butter,  each  size  of  a  pea,  place  one  oyster 
on  each  piece  of  butter,  using  y2  the  oysters,  turn  and  remove  oys- 
ters as  soon  as  done.  Place  rest  of  oysters  in  same  way.  Brown 
quickly.  Serve  on  rye  shortcake  or  rounds  of  toast. 

Oysters  a  la  Baltimore. 

Scald  and  drain  two  dozen  large  oysters,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
red  pepper,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  dip  in  cold,  thick  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, then  in  egg  mixed  with  an  equal  amount  of  thick  cream,  drain 
and  roll  in  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown. 
Serve  at  once. 

Oysters  Sauted. 

To  one  pint  of  prepared  oysters  add  1  pint  stale  bread  crumbs, 


48  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  two  lightly  beaten  eggs.  Leave 
for  1  hour,  then  put  by  spoonful  in  frying  pan  and  brown  quickly 
on  both  sides  in  hot  butter.    Serve  at  once. 

Oysters  on  Toast. 

Put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  skillet,  have  shell  or  bulk  oysters 
well  drained,  then  put  them  in  skillet,  cook  until  they  curl.  Remove 
carefully  and  place  oysters  on  hot  toast.  Blend  1  tablespoon  flour 
and  1  tablespoon  butter,  add  to  sauce  in  skillet  and  cook  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  over  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Fried  Oysters  a  la  Virginia. 

Scald  and  drain  2  dozen  large  oysters,  dust  with  cayenne  pep- 
per, roll  in  cracker  dust,  dip  in  egg  mixed  with  an  equal  amount  of 
thick  cream,  drain  and  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Fry  %  dozen  at 
a  time  in  smoking  hot  fat.  As  soon  as  done  lift  out  the  basket  and 
drop  in  a  few  slices  of  raw  Irish  potatoes  to  prevent  the  fat  burning. 
Proceed  in  this  way  until  all  are  fried.  Serve  immediately  with  to- 
mato catsup. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Take  2  dozen  large  oysters,  clean  and  dry  on  a  soft  cloth, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  frying 
pan,  place  in  half  of  the  oysters;  when  last  one  is  in  turn  the  first 
one  and  continue  until  all  have  been  turned,  then  remove  quickly 
from  pan,  place  on  buttered  oyster  broiler,  cook  a  chestnut  brown 
over  moderate  fire.  While  these  are  browning  put  others  in  the  but- 
ter. Have  6  rounds  of  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  put  four  oysters  on 
each,  sprinkle  on  the  butter  from  the  pan  and  serve  with  lemon  cut 
in  eighths. 

Oysters  Panned  in  the  Shell. 

Wash  shells  and  wipe  dry,  place  them  in  a  pan  with  the  round 
shell  down.  Set  in  hot  oven  3  minutes,  then  take  out  and  remove 
the  upper  shell.  Put  three  oysters  into  round  shells,  bits  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  and  cover  with  cracker  crumbs.  Return  to  oven 
and  brown. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

Scald  1  pint  of  oysters  in  their  liquor  until  the  edges  begin  to 
curl,  then  drain. 

Cream  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  dessertspoon  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon 
flour,  %  teaspoon  salt,  %  saltspoon  pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour  and  stir  briskly,  add  cream 
slowly  and  beat  hard,  then  salt  and  pepper.  Drop  oysters  into  this 
sauce  and  leave  for  5  minutes.  Serve  oysters  in  timbale  or  pate 
shells  or  on  thin  slices  of  hot  toast. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  49 

White  Fricassee  of  Oysters. 

One  pint  of  oysters,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  y2 
teaspoon  salt,  %  saltspoon  pepper.  Put  butter  in  saucepan;  when 
hot  add  the  oysters  washed  and  drained,  cook  until  plump,  then 
drain  again.  Pour  oyster  liquor  in  a  cup  and  fill  up  with  cream. 
Blend  flour  and  butter  and  cook  it,  then  add  to  cream  and  oyster 
liquor,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  1  egg  light  and  pour  on 
the  oyster  sauce  and  oysters  and  return  to  saucepan  to  heat,  but 
must  not  boil.  Stir  gently.  Serve  in  pastry  shells  for  lunch  or  din- 
ner or  for  breakfast  on  thin  slices  of  hot  toast. 

Roasted  Oysters. 

For  18  large  oysters  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  %  pint  of  cream, 
salt  and  pepper.  Have  toast  buttered  and  on  a  hot  dish,  then  put 
butter  in  saucepan;  when  hot  add  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  add 
cream  and  let  it  boil  up  once,  put  oysters  in  their  liquor  in  hot  oven 
for  3  minutes,  then  add  them  to  cream,  season  and  pour  over  the 
toast.  Garnish  dish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  serve  very  hot. 

Deviled  Oysters. 

One  heaping  saltspoon  of  dry  mustard,  %  saltspoon  of  pepper 
and  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  and  coat  6  large  oys- 
ters ;  roll  in  fine  crumbs  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  For  more  oysters 
increase  quantity  of  dressing;  arrange  on  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Take  1  quart  of  oysters  and  drain  off  all  liquor,  dip  in  cracker 
dust,  to  which  a  little  salt  must  be  added.  Put  in  a  greased  broiler 
and  cook  for  several  minutes.  They  are  nice  served  on  hot  toast  with 
slices  of  lemon  and  a  drawn  butter  sauce. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

Blend  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
then  put  in  chafing  dish.  When  melted  add  %  pint  of  cream;  let 
come  to  boiling  point.  Have  oysters  well  drained  and  add  to  sauce, 
cook  until  very  hot,  add  pepper  and  salt.  When  ready  to  serve  1 
glass  of  sherry  wine  may  be  added.  Serve  on  buttered  toast  or  in 
dish. 

Oysters  Cooked  on  Half  Shell. 

Use  %  dozen  oysters  for  each  guest,  1  tablespoon  of  tap  sauce, 
%  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped 
fine.  Put  salt  and  pepper  into  tap  sauce  and  shake  well.  Pour  this 
over  parsley,  stir  with  a  fork.  Put  a  little  of  this  mixture  on  each 
oyster,  then  put  oysters  in  oven,  bake  3  minutes.  Serve  as  you  would 
raw  oysters  on  half  shell. 


50  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Blazer  of  Oysters. 

Take  1  quart  of  oysters  and  with  a  fork  lift  them  into  colander, 
let  drain  perfectly  dry.  Have  chafing  dish  hot,  put  in  2  ounces  of 
butter,  let  it  melt  until  it  begins  to  sizzle.  Add  oysters,  stirring  until 
the  edges  curl.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  While  they  are  cook- 
ing add  y~2  pint  of  cream,  strain  liquor  from  oysters,  thicken  the 
whole  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  until  smooth.  Allow  it  to  cook 
a  few  minutes  longer.   Serve  on  hot  toast. 

Oyster  Omelette. 

Take  15  oysters  and  chop  them,  mix  as  much  flour  as  can  be 
taken  up  Math  a  teaspoon,  %  gill  of  cream,  add  2  ounces  of  melted 
butter  and  6  well-beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt;  stir  in  the  oysters, 
fry  and  fold  as  an  ordinary  omelette. 

Oyster  Coquilles. 

Select  1  quart  of  large  oysters,  drain  on  a  cloth,  fry  in  butter, 
add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice.  When  they  begin  to  boil  remove  from  fire.  Take  the 
coquilles  (shells),  fill  nearly  full  with  the  oysters.  Pour  over  this 
sauce.  Put  in  saucepan  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter;  when  it  bubbles 
add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  then  cook  a  few  min- 
utes; add  11/2  pints  of  oyster  liquor,  stir  until  it  thickens.  Season 
with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  When  ready  to  serve  add  4  well- 
beaten  yolks,  14  cup  of  cream,  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  pour  sauce  on 
oysters,  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

Spiced  Oysters. 

Take  1  quart  of  oysters,  pour  in  colander,  then  put  liquor  into 
saucepan  with  %  coffee  cup  of  vinegar,  2  blades  of  mace,  1  dessert- 
spoon of  allspice ;  let  it  boil,  then  add  oysters,  pepper  and  salt.  When 
they  curl  pour  in  dish.   Serve  cold  for  lunch  or  tea. 

To  Pickle  Oysters. 

One  quart  of  large  oysters,  y2  pint  of  vinegar,  y*  pint  of  white 
wine,  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoons  of  whole  black  pepper,  2  pieces 
of  mace.  Strain  the  liquor  and  add  these  ingredients.  Let  it  boil 
up  once  and  pour  while  boiling  hot  over  the  oysters ;  let  them  remain 
10  minutes,  then  pour  off  this  liquor,  allow  oysters  to  get  cold,  then 
put  them  into  self-sealing  jars.    These  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Roasted  Blue  Points. 

Take  as  many  oysters  as  required,  wash  the  shells  clean  and 
wipe  dry.  Place  them  on  top  of  range;  the  shell  will  begin  to  open 
when  hot ;  then  remove  upper  shell  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
serve  with  melted  butter. 

Raw  Blue  Points. 
Wash  shells  clean  and  wipe  them;  open  with  an  oyster  knife, 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  51 

then  serve  on  plates  with  crushed  ice  and  slices  of  lemon.    Horse- 
radish may  be  substituted  for  lemon,  with  pepper  and  salt. 

To  Feed  Oysters  in  Shell. 

Wash  the  shells  clean,  lay  the  bottom  downward,  pour  on  them 
1  gallon  of  water,  1  quart  of  corn  meal,  1  handful  of  coarse  salt. 
Feed  on  alternate  days.   It  is  best  to  keep  them  in  a  cellar. 

Oyster  Truffle. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter  in  chafing  dish  and  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  stir  until  mixture  is  frothy  (being  careful  it  does  not  brown)  ; 
stir  in  y%  pint  of  cream  and  2  dozen  oysters  with  3  tablespoons  of 
their  liquor,  cook  until  oysters  begin  to  curl,  then  add  1  well-beaten 
yolk  and  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  2  minced  mushrooms.  Serve 
very  hot  on  buttered  toast. 

Panned  Oysters. 

One  pint  of  oysters,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  % 
saltspoon  of  white  pepper.  Put  butter  in  covered  saucepan  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  dash  of  cayenne ;  when  hot  add  the  oysters,  that 
must  be  washed  and  wiped ;  keep  closely  covered  and  shake  the  pan 
to  prevent  sticking;  cook  until  plump.  Serve  on  toasted  bread  or 
heated  crackers. 

Pigs  in  Blankets. 

Select  large  oysters  and  roll  each  one  in  a  thin  slice  of  middling, 
skewer  with  wooden  toothpick.  Have  some  melted  butter  in  a  pan, 
place  in  the  oysters  carefully ;  add  pepper  and  salt ;  let  them  remain 
until  edges  curl.    Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Fricassee  Oysters. 

Brown  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  then  blend  with  1  tablespoon  of 
butter.  Put  this  in  a  hot  skillet;  after  it  melts  add  1  quart  of  oys- 
ters, cook  15  minutes  and  add  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 
When  ready  to  serve,  2  Avell-beaten  eggs,  cook  5  minutes. 

I  Puff  Paste. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  1  pound  of  butter,  1  pint  of 
ice  water.  Put  butter  and  flour  together,  add  ice  water,  roll  as  little 
as  possible.   To  be  used  for  pies  and  pate  shells. 

Oyster  Pates. 

Take  1  pint  of  flour,  %  pint  butter  solid,  take  %  °f  the  butter 
and  add  to  flour.  Put  rest  in  cloth  and  work  in  ice  water  until  waxy 
and  pliable.  Work  butter  well  with  flour,  adding  ice  water  enough 
to  make  a  dough.  Work  until  smooth,  roll  a  little  longer  than  wide, 
put  in  rest  of  butter  and  fold  3  times,  each  time  rolling  well.  Put 
on  ice  for  20  minutes,  repeat  this  several  times,  then  let  stand  for 
1  hour  or  longer  on  ice.    Roll  %  of  an  inch  thick,  lay  cutter  on 


52  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

paste,  cut  around  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  with  a  small  cutter  in 
center,  cut  through  y*  the  thickness  and  set  in  oven  to  bake.  Put 
y<z  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler,  let  come  to  boiling  point.  Take  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  the  milk 
a  little  at  a  time  until  it  is  a  smooth  paste,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little  celery  salt.  Add  enough  milk 
to  oysters  to  moisten  well. 

To  Prepare  Oysters. 

Drain  oysters,  put  liquor  in  saucepan  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
skim,  add  oysters,  let  edges  curl,  then  add  sauce.  Fill  pate  shells 
and  serve. 

Pate  Shells. 

Roll  puff  paste  y±  of  an  inch  thick,  shape  with  a  pate  cutter 
dipped  in  flour.  Remove  centers  from  y2  the  rounds  with  small  cut- 
ter. Brush  over  with  cold  water,  chill  in  refrigerator,  place  on  tin 
sheet,  cover  with  brown  paper  and  bake  in  hot  oven  25  minutes. 
Use  pieces  cut  from  center  for  pate  covers. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Take  1  dozen  oysters,  wash  well  in  their  own  liquor,  chop  them 
a  little,  make  a  batter  with  1  coffee  cup  of  flour,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
%  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Dip  the 
oysters  in  batter,  fry  in  hot  lard,  drain  in  wire  basket.  Serve  very 
hot  with  butter  and  sliced  lemon.    Garnish  with  parsley. 

Oysters  a  la  Marguerite. 

One  teaspoon  of  butter,  1  dozen  large  oysters,  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  celery,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  simmer  for  3  minutes,  then 
add  wine  glass  of  sherry.  Simmer  2  minutes  longer.  Serve  on  hot 
toast. 

Oysters  Newburg-. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  1  pint  of  rich  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  oysters  in  their 
liquor  and  drain  in  colander.  Put  butter  and  flour  in  chafing  dish; 
stir  until  smooth,  then  add  the  oysters  and  cook  several  minutes. 
Serve  on  square  crackers  or  rounds  of  toast. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 

Allow  8  raw  oysters  for  each  guest.  Season  with  1  tablespoon 
of  vinegar,  iy2  tablespoon  tomato  catsup,  1  teaspoon  shallot  finely 
chopped,  3  drops  Tobasco  sauce,  a  little  salt.  Serve  in  cocktail 
glasses  with  some  chopped  celery. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

One  pint  of  large  oysters,  %  cup  of  melted  butter,  -3  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.   Wipe  oysters  dryr 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  53 

then  lift  on  a  fork  and  dip  in  butter,  then  cracker  dust.  Place  on 
a  buttered  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Turn  while  broiling. 
Serve  with  Maitre  d 'Hotel  sauce  on  a  hot  dish. 

Oyster  Croquettes. 

Boil  1  pint  of  oysters  3  minutes  in  their  liquor,  then  drain  them 
dry;  cut  each  oyster  in  6  pieces.  Make  a  cream  sauce  with  1  cup  of 
cream  or  half  milk  and  half  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  to  boiling 
cream  also  the  butter  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  %  saltspoon  of  white 
pepper,  %  teasooon  of  celery  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Mix  well,  add  oysters  to  sauce;  when  cool  form  into  rolls,  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  hot  hard. 

Oyster  Pate. 

Blend  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  put 
in  saucepan.  Add  1  teacup  of  cream  and  1  pint  of  oysters,  pepper 
and  salt;  cook  until  the  oysters  curl.  Have  pate  shells  ready;  fill 
with  the  oysters.    Serve  very  hot. 

Fricasseed  Oysters. 

Twenty-five  large  oysters,  2  ounces  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  1  teaspoon 
lemon  juice  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Put  oysters  on  the  fire  in  their 
own  liquor;  the  moment  they  begin  to  boil  turn  them  into  a  colan- 
der (let  the  liquor  go  into  a  hot  dish).  Put  into  a  saucepan  the  2 
ounces  of  butter,  when  it  bubbles  sprinkle  in  1  tablespoon  of  sifted 
flour,  stir  until  it  cooks.  Let  cool  a  moment,  stirring  well  with  a 
wire  whisk.  Add  1  teacup  of  oyster  liquor,  take  it  from  the 
fire,  mix  well  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  2  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
lemon  juice.  Beat  and  return  to  fire  to  set  the  eggs.  Do  not  let  it 
boil;  put  in  oysters  last  and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 


n^AT: 


"The  turnpike  road  to  peoples'  hearts,  I  find,  lies 
through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind." 

— WOLCOTT. 


Cannelon  of  Beef. 


Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  (cut  from  the  round),  grated  rind  of  % 
lemon,  1  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  1  egg,  %  teaspoon 
onion  juice,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  *4  teaspoon  pepper.  Chop  meat  fine  and  add  ingredients, 
Shape  in  a  roll  6  inches  long;  wrap  in  buttered  paper;  place  on 
rack  in  dripping  pan.  Cook  30  minutes.  Baste  often  with  ^  cup 
of  butter  melted  in  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Serve  with  brown  mush- 
room sauce. 

Beef  A  La  Mode. 

Take  2  pounds  of  bouillon  beef,  lard  it  with  4  slices  of  salt  pork ; 
put  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  having  a  piece  of  pork  at  the  bottom; 
add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  sliced  onion,  2  bay  leaves,  salt  and 
pepper.  Let  it  brown  on  both  sides  for  20  minutes,  then  add  1 
pint  of  soup  stock  or  water.  Boil  1  hour,  then  take  2  tablespoons 
of  flour,  moisten  it  with  water  and  put  in  the  roasting  pan.  Potatoes 
may  be  cooked  with  it  if  desired. 

Roast  Beef. 

Take  3  pounds  of  rib  roast,  wash  and  put  in  roasting  pan ;  add  to 
it  1  coffee  cup  of  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  cook  1%  hours, 
then  add  %  cup  of  water  and  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs ;  cook  y2 
hour  longer  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Beef. 

Four  pounds  of  rib  roast,  wash  and  put  in  roasting  pan;  pour 
over  it  1  teacup  of  strained  tomatoes,  1  teacup  cold  water,  pepper 
and  salt.  Baste  often.  When  done  remove  meat  from  pan  and  add 
1  teaspoon  of  flour.    Stir  until  smooth. 

To  Cook  Corned  Beef. 

Put  meat  on  with  hot  water,  cook  until  tender.  Leave  in  same 
water  until  cold,  then  slice  and  serve. 

(54) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  55 


Beef  Stew. 

Take  2  pounds  of  beef,  cut  in  cubes  3  inches  square.  Heat  frying 
pan  very  hot  and  put  in  the  meat,  turn  with  a  fork  until  all  is  seared, 
then  roll  in  flour;  put  back  in  pan,  pour  in  carefully,  at  one  side,  1 
cup  of  boiling  water,  place  on  stove,  simmer  3  hours.  One  hour 
before  serving,  add  salt  and  pepper,  cover  tight  while  cooking  and 
serve. 

Rolled  Beef. 

Wipe  and  trim  a  thin  round  of  beef,  wet  with  vinegar.  Mix  1 
coffee  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  with  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  salt 
pork,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  celery,  1  teaspoon 
chopped  onion,  a  little  sage  or  any  seasoning  preferred,  and  1  well- 
beaten  egg.  Spread  this  dressing  on  meat,  roll  tight  and  tie  with 
a  string.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  1  hour,  or  boil  3  hours.  Serve  hot 
with  brown  sauce. 

Hunter's  Beef. 

Twelve  and  one-half  pounds  of  beef,  %  ounce  cloves,  1^ 
ounces  saltpeter,  1%  ounces  coarse  sugar,  ^4  ounce  allspice,  3 
ounces  common  salt,  %  nutmeg.  The  beef  should  be  hung  up  2  days, 
then  remove  bone.  Rub  spices  and  salt  well  together  and  into  the 
beef  on  both  sides ;  cover  beef,  turn  and  rub  it  every  day  for  2  or  3 
weeks.  When  ready  to  use,  dip  in  cold  water  to  remove  the  loose 
spice.  Bind  it  closely  several  times  around  with  strips  of  cotton. 
Place  beef  in  pan  with  %  pint  of  water.  Cover  top  of  meat  with 
shredded  suet  and  a  paste  made  with  flour  and  water.  Lay  a  brown 
paper  over  crust  and  bake  slowly  5  or  6  hours.  The  gravy  from  this 
may  be  used  for  soup,  beef  pie  or  hash. 

Spiced  Tongue. 

Make  a  strong  brine  and  add  a  small  lump  of  saltpeter.  Boil 
brine  and  skim  it,  let  cool  and.  put  in  a  stone  jar.  Have  butcher 
trim  tongue,  and  wash  it.  Rub  with  brown  sugar  and  powdered 
cinnamon.  Immerse  in  brine,  and  keep  well  covered  5  weeks,  then 
canvas  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Scrambled  Mutton. 

Two  cups  of  cold  chopped  mutton,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut.  When  meat  is  hot,  break  into  it  3  eggs; 
cook  until  they  begin  to  stiffen,  stirring  constantly ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt. 

French  Roast. 

If  meat  is  lean,  rub  with  a  mixture  made  of  3  tablespoons  of  olive 
oil,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  %  tablespoon  of  sliced  onion, 
juice  of  %  lemon.  Rub  over  meat  and  leave  in  this  dressing  6  hours 
to  marinate,  turning  it  several  times.  While  cooking  baste  meat 
frequently,  add  pepper  and  salt.     Cook  about  2  hours. 


56  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

To  Corn  Beef. 

Two  gallons  of  water,  2  pounds  of  salt,  l^  ounces  of  saltpeter, 
11/2  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Mix  these  ingredients;  boil  15  minutes, 
skim  well.  When  cold,  put  beef  in  a  large  jar  and  pour  mixture  over 
it.    Let  remain  7  days. 

To  Boil  Corn  Beef. 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  of  beef,  put  in  kettle  with  cold  water 
to  cover  it,  8  whole  cloves,  8  whole  allspice,  1  sliced  carrot  may  be 
added.    Let  it  simmer  several  hours. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Have  the  cutlets  well  shaped,  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  lard 
in  a  hot  skillet,  drop  in  the  cutlets  and  cook  slowly  on  one  side,  then 
reverse.    Let  remain  until  a  nice  brown  color. 

Jellied  Daube  Beef. 

Six  pounds  of  beef.  Make  incisions  in  this  and  insert  small  strips 
of  breakfast  bacon,  bay  leaves  and  onion.  Boil  slowly  5  hours,  skim 
off  grease,  add  1  box  of  gelatine  to  juice  of  meat  and  salt  to  taste. 
Pour  this  over  meat,  reserving  some  to  mold  and  put  on  top  of 
daube.     Serve  cold. 

Beef  Roll. 

One  pound  of  ground  meat,  3  eggs,  1  teacup  of  cracker  crumbs, 
1  large  onion  chopped  fine,  black  pepper  and  salt,  %  teacup  melted 
butter.  Mix  well  and  shape  into  roll.  Put  in  pan  with  %  Pmt  of 
water,  baste  often.  Make  gravy  by  adding  1  dessert  spoon  sifted 
flour  to  the  pan.  Stir  until  brown,  serve  with  the  meat.  Can  use 
either  raw  or  cooked  meat  for  the  roll. 

Beef  Tongue. 

Put  tongue  on  in  kettle  of  water,  adding  brown  sugar,  red  pep- 
per, salt  and  spices.    Boil  several  hours.    Slice  when  cold. 

Rolled  Rib  Roast. 

Have  the  butcher  remove  all  bones  from  a  rib  roast;  roll  the 
meat  and  tie  with  twine.  Cook  same  as  roast  beef.  It  can  be  larded 
before  roasting.    Serve  with  tomato  or  horseradish  sauce. 

Spanish  Hash. 

One  cup  of  cold  meat,  3  mashed  potatoes,  1  small  onion,  piece  of 
celery  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  tomatoes,  1  egg,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  until  brown.  Garnish  with  parsley 
or  watercress. 

To  Broil  Ham. 

Place  ham  on  broiler  over  hot  coals ;  cook  until  crisp ;  turn  of- 
ten, pour  on  melted  butter,  add  pepper. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  57 


To  Corn  Beef. 

Make  brine  enough  to  cover  meat  (let  it  be  strong  enough  to 
bear  an  egg),  boil  and  skim  well.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  saltpeter 
and  1  quart  of  molasses  when  you  remove  from  the  fire ;  then  stir 
until  thoroughly  dissolved.  When  brine  is  cold  put  in  the  beef. 

Beef  Souffle. 

Take  2  cups  of  cold  chopped  meat,  1  cup  of  bread  cut  in  small 
dice,  1  scant  cup  of  canned  tomatoes;  put  layer  of  meat  in  bot- 
tom of  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the  bread  and  tomatoes,  a  small  pinch 
of  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full;  pour  1 
cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  whole,  cook  in  a  hot  oven  1  hour.  Serve 
for  luncheon. 

Pot  Roast. 

Take  5  pounds  of  lean  rump  roast,  wash  well.  Have  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  1  onion  sliced  in  kettle,  stir  until  brown,  then 
put  in  the  roast ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  about  3  hours ; 
keep  it  well  covered.  After  beef  is  seared,  turn  on  other  side ;  when 
done  remove  beef  and  thicken  gravy  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour. 

Stuffed  Beef  Steak. 

Beat  steak  well,  then  make  a  dressing  with  1  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  %  teaspoon  mace,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  pepper  and  salt;  mix 
well  and  spread  over  the  steak.  Roll  the  steak  and  tie  at  each  end  and 
in  the  center;  put  in  a  pan,  add  enough  water  to  prevent  burning, 
also  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  set  inside  of  stove.  Baste  fre- 
quently; when  done  thicken  gravy  with  1  tablespoon  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Beef  Steak. 

Have  skillet  hot  with  a  piece  of  fat  from  the  steak,  then 
put  in  the  steak,  sear  on  one  side,  then  turn  it  over  and  continue 
to  do  "so  until  done.  Have  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  pour  on 
steak  and  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Take  3  pounds  of  lean  beef  from  the  rump,  put  into  a  pot  with 
a  half  can  of  tomatoes,  a  half  teacup  of  vinegar,  not  quite  a  hale 
teacup  of  brown  sugar,  spices  of  all  kinds,  1  turnip,  1  Irish  potato, 
celery  tops,  chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  on  early  and 
let  it  simmer  but  do  not  let  it  boil.    Let  it  simmer  4  or  5  hours. 

To  Roast  Beef. 

Put  the  roast  in  the  pan.  Dredge  -with  flour,  and  add  pepper 
and  salt;  pour  in  a  little  water  and  baste  frequently. 


58  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Stewed  Hash. 

One  pint  of  beef  ent  in  small  pieces,  some  uncooked  potatoes  cut 
in  dice,  a  dash  of  onion,  have  more  meat  than  potatoes,  put  in  sauce- 
pan and  cook.  "When  nearly  done  add  1  teacup  of  cream,  1  kitchen 
spoon  of  butter,  with  1  dessertspoon  of  flour  well  blended.  Cook  10 
minutes  longer. 

Roast  Shoat. 

Put  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  minced  onion  on  shoat;  put  in  a 
pan  with  a  little  water  and  baste  frequently.    Cook  until  done. 

Daubed  Roast  Beef. 

Take  3  pounds  of  rib  roast,  wash  and  put  in  roasting  pan  with 
i/o  pint  cold  water,  dust  meat  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  IV2 
hours,  basting  often.  Half  an  hour  before  meat  is  done,  have  a  daub- 
ing made  with  rolled  bread  crumbs,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
onion,  moisten  with  gravy,  spread  on  the  roast  and  return  to  the 
oven  to  brown. 

Smothered  Beefsteak. 

Wipe  steak  and  place  in  hot  broiling  pan,  adding  2  tablespoons 
of  water,  pepper  and  salt,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Have  a  close 
fitting  cover  on  broiling  pan,  baste  with  gravy,  cook  until  done. 
Serve  with  fried  onions. 

Scrapple. 

Boil  2  hogs'  heads  until  tender,  reserving  the  liquor.  When 
heads  are  cold,  remove  grease  and  cut  meat  into  small  pieces.  Re- 
turn meat  and  liquor  to  saucepan,  and  stir  in  equal  portions  of  meal 
and  flour,  until  the  consistency  of  mush.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, boil  several  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  Mold  in  pans, 
when  cold  cut  in  slices,  roll  in  corn  meal  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
Serve  hot  for  lunch  or  breakfast. 

Stuffing  for  Ham,  Venison  or  Mutton. 

One  cup  of  bacon  cut  fine,  1  cup  of  onions  minced,  1  cup 
of  parsley,  thyme  and  celery  seed  mixed,  %  cup  of  sweet  mace, 
3  large  spoons  of  mustard,  3  spoons  of  brown  sugar,  black  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  After  this  is  mixed,  take  as  many 
bread  crumbs  as  all  the  other  dressing  and  mix  together,  then  beat 
the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  put  on  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  in  to 
bake. 

Sauteing. 

Sauteing  is  cooking  meat  in  a  shallow  pan  with  fat,  brown- 
ing first  on  one  side,  then  the  other. 

In  Selecting  Beefsteaks. 
A  porterhouse,  tenderloin  or  T.  beefsteak  are  considered  the 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  59 


best  kind  for  broiling.  Tenderlions  of  beef,  too,  are  considered  by 
epicures  to  be  the  most  delicious  meat  for  broiling.  And  should  be 
served  with  a  brown  champignon  gravy. 

To  Cook  Beefsteak. 

Take  a  smooth  thick  pan,  scald  with  hot  water,  then  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  bottom  with  melted  butter,  place  in  steak  or  chops,  re- 
verse often  until  done.  Put  on  a  hot  dish,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  cover  with  melted  butter.     Serve  immediately. 

To  Fry  Beefsteak. 

For  frying,  a  steak  does  not  require  to  be  as  thick  as  when  for 
broiling.  Put  butter  or  drippings  in  frying  pan,  when  hot  place  in 
the  steak,  turn  often.  Have  melted  butter,  and  pour  over  the  steak, 
after  removing  from  pan. 

Porterhouse  Beefsteak. 

Trim,  season  and  broil  rare  a  porterhouse  beefsteak.  Pour  over 
melted  butter  and  a  brown  champignon  sauce.  Serve  with  French 
fried  potatoes  and  hot  rolls  for  breakfast. 

Beefsteak  and  Onions. 

Have  beefsteak  1%  inch  thick.  Prepare  in  usual  way,  and  cook 
inside  of  stove.  Baste  frequently,  with  butter,  softened  with  a  little 
hot  water.  Have  drippings  or  hot  fat  in  another  skillet,  add  the 
sliced  onions  and  fry  a  chestnut  brown.    Serve  with  beefsteak. 

Beef  Steak. 

Have  beefsteak  cut  thick  (at  least  1  inch),  trim  off  suet.  Dredge 
with  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  on  a  hot  broiler.  Turn  frequently. 
"When  done  serve  on  a  liot  dish  with  melted  butter,  mushroom  sauce 
or  hot  tomato  sauce.  In  boiling  as  in  roasting  the  principle  to  be 
observed,  is  to  subject  the  meat  to  a  high  degree  of  heat  in  the  be- 
ginning, then  lower  the  temperature. 

Larding. 

Select  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork,  having  a  close  grain.  Remove 
the  rind  as  closely  as  possible ;  cut  slices  parallel  with  it,  from  %  to 
14  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  again  into  strips  and  lay  in  refrigerator.  Use 
a  larding  needle  to  draw  on  these  meat  strips,  (a  short  deep  stitch  is 
best). 

Pan  Broiling. 

Heat  a  cast  iron  or  steel  frying  pan  to  a  blue  heat.  Rub  with 
fat  until  well  oiled,  but  do  not  leave  any  in  the  pan.  Season  the 
meat  and  lay  in  pan  long  enough  to  sear.  Then  turn  and  sear  the 
other  side  and  continue  to  do  so  until  done.    In  frying  have  skillet 


60  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

dry,  also  spoon  or  skimmer  used  in  removing  croquettes,  as  a  drop  of 
water  will  ruin  them. 

Braising 

Is  particularly  desirable  for  meats  that  are  tough,  or  lacking 
in  flavor.  A  roasting  pan,  with  tight  fitting  top,  is  required  for  per- 
fect cooking. 

Daubing. 

Cut  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  as  long  as  meat  is  thick.  C~».t  a 
slit  in  the  meat,  and  force  the  strips  of  pork  through.  This  answers 
same  purpose  as  larding,  though  not  so  ornamental. 

A  Stewed  Beefsteak. 

Put  in  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  lump  of 
butter,  with  %  pint  of  cold  water.  Cover  with  top,  cook  in  oven. 
Baste  frequently.    Serve  hot. 

Smothered  Beefsteak. 

Select  a  nice  thick  steak,  slask  the  edges  to  prevent  shrinking. 
Place  in  a  hot  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  pepper,  salt  and  add  1  dessert- 
spoon of  butter,  with  1  dipper  of  cold  water.  Cover  and  place  in 
the  oven.  After  cooking  5  minutes,  reverse  the  steak,  baste  fre- 
quently. Add  a  little  hot  water  if  needed.  "When  almost  done,  re- 
move the  top  and  add  1  dessertspoon  of  butter.  Take  about  1  dozen 
onions,  slice  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown.  Put  steak  on  a 
hot  platter  and  pour  over  the  onions.     Serve  immediately. 

Pan  Broiled  Beefsteak. 

Select  a  thick  porterhouse  steak,  slash  the  edges,  and  if  too  fat. 
remove  some  from  the  edges.  Place  steak  in  a  hot  pan,  dredge  with 
flour,  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  dessertspoon  butter,  and  1  dipper  of 
cold  water.  After  cooking  about  5  minutes,  reverse  the  steak  and 
baste  frequently  with  the  drippings.  If  water  becomes  too  reduced2 
add  a  little  more  water  to  prevent  scorching.  "When  ready  to  serve, 
add  1  generous  tablespoon  of  butter  and  place  on  a  hot  platter. 

Cream  Gravy. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  butter  in  a  pan,  when  it  bubbles, 
add  flour  and  mix  until  smooth,  then  milk,  salt  and  pepper ;  let  come 
to  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  This  gravy  is  nice  used,  in  the  prep- 
aration of  macaroni. 

Gravy. 

Take  1  pound  of  lean  beef,  make  incisions  with  a  knife  and 
dredge  with  flour ;  put  in  a  saucepan  with  1  kitchen  spoon  of  melted 
butter.  Let  the  beef  fry  brown,  then  add  a  little  boiling  water; 
shake  well,  and  put  in  more  boiling  water,  3  blades  of  mace,  6  cloves, 
4  pepper  corns,  %  onion,  1  small  carrot,  a  little  browned  crust  of 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  61 


bread.    Cover  closely  and  let  cook  a  long  while.    This  should  make 

1  pint  of  gravy. 

To  Marinate. 

Make  a  mixture  of  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of 
olive  oil,  salt  and  pepper,  %  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  1  bay  leaf  and 
a  little  parsley.  Stir  ingredients  well  together.  Lay  fillets  of  fish, 
or  any  raw  meat,  in  this  dressing  for  1  hour  before  cooking,  as  it 
gives  it  a  fine  flavor. 

Beefsteak  Pate. 

Chop  1  pound  of  round  beefsteak  until  a  soft  pulp ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  also  a  little  of  the  tender  fat  chopped  fine;  mix  2 
beaten  eggs  with  1  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Have  1  cup  of  flour  with  1 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  it,  add  eggs  and  milk,  then  stir 
this  into  meat,  put  in  pan.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour. 

To  Broil  Beefsteak, 

Have  steak  1^  inches  thick,  then  put  on  a  hot  broiler  over  coals, 
sear  on  one  side  and  then  the  other,  and  continue  to  do  so  until  done. 
Place  on  a  hot  dish,  and  add  pepper  and  salt  and  melted  butter ;  set 
in  oven  a  few  minutes. 

Baked  Calf's  Head. 

Soak  head  in  cold  water  to  cover  it,  with  1  tablespoon  of  salt, 

2  hours,  then  wash  well.  Put  in  a  pot  with  cold  water,  1  sliced  onion, 
1  teaspoon  of  thyme,  pepper  and  salt ;  boil  until  meat  can  be  easily 
removed  from  the  bones,  then  skin  the  tongue,  also  the  jaws;  put  m 
saucepan  with  brains,  1  teaspoon  ground  allspice ;  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  small  nutmeg  grated.  Take  some  of  the  water 
in  which  head  was  boiled,  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour; 
pour  on  the  head,  and  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  it;  set  in  the 
oven  long  enough  for  the  gravy  to  thicken.  When  taken  from  the 
oven  add  1  wine  glass  of  good  sherry  wine.  Boil  3  eggs  hard,  when 
cold,  slice  and  garnish  the  dish. 

Dry  Beef  Hash. 

Run  1  pint  of  cold  beef  through  grinder,  have  1  pint  of  mash- 
ed potatoes,  y2  coffee  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped 
onion,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  strew  bread  crumbs  and 
pieces  of  butter  on  top.    Place  in  oven  to  brown. 

Broiled  Venison. 

Soak  venison  in  cold  salt  water  2  hours;  cut  in  slices.  When 
the  broiler  is  hot,  grease  the  bars  with  olive  oil,  place  steak  or 
slices  on  broiler,  sear  quickly,  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other, 
turn  often.  It  is  best  served  rare.  When  done  put  on  a  hot  dish, 
pour  over  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  very 
hot. 


62  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Beef  With  Brown  Gravy. 

Put  3  pounds  of  roast  beef  in  roasting  pan,  dredge  with  flour, 
add  pepper,  salt  and  1  teacup  of  boiling  water,  baste  frequently; 
let  it  cook  V/2  hours,  then  remove  the  beef.  Add  %  cup  of  hot 
water,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Breast  of  Veal. 

Remove  the  bones,  spread  the  meat  on  a  board,  flatten  with 
a  rolling  pin.  and  spread  with  a  thick  layer  of  sausage  meat,  mixed 
with  some  bread  crumbs,  herbs  and  3  eggs,  then  roll  the  meat  and 
tie  with  a  tape  string.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  baste  often, 
cook  until  done.  Remove  the  string  and  put  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon,  serve  with  a  brown  gravy. 

Veal  Birds. 

Slices  of  veal  from  the  loin,  cut  very  thin;  remove  the  bone, 
skin  and  fat,  and  pound  until  ^  of  an  inch  thick,  trim  into  pieces, 
21/2  by  4  inches.  Chop  the  trimmings  fine,  with  1  square  inch  of  fat 
salt  pork,  for  each  bird.  Add  half  as  much  fine  cracker  crumbs  as 
you  have  meat ;  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  cayenne 
pepper  and  onion.  Moisten  with  1  egg  and  a  little  hot  water,  spread 
the  mixture  on  each  slice  nearly  to  the  edge,  roll  up  tight  and  fasten 
with  skewers,  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  fry  them  slowly  in 
hot  butter  until  a  golden  brown,  then  half  cover  with  cream  and 
simmer  20  minutes.  Remove  the  strings,  serve  on  toast  and  pour 
the  cream  over  them,  garnish  with  points  of  toast  and  slices  of 
lemon. 

Barbecued  Rabbit. 

Take  a  fat,  young  rabbit,  skin  and  wash  well,  place  in  salt  water 
for  1  hour,  then  wine  dry;  rub  over  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  put  on  a  broiling  iron  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire ;  when  done, 
put  rabbit  in  baking  pan,  spread  with  butter;  set  in  a  hot  oven  10 
minutes.  Put  in  a  saucenan  2  tablesnoon  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of 
French  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  walnut  and  mushroom  catsup.  Let 
it  heat,  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per and  a  little  salt.    Pour  over  rabbit,  serve  hot. 

Saddle  of  Venison. 

Take  a  5-pound  saddle  of  venison  and  soak  6  hours  in  cold 
water,  with  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  pare  it  and  remove  the  sinews  from 
the  surface ;  lard  with  a  larding  needle  as  finely  as  possible,  tie  it  3 
times  around,  put  in  the  roasting  pan  1  sliced  onion,  1  sliced  car- 
rot, place  in  the  saddle,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  spread  ^2 
ounce  of  butter  over  it,  and  cook  in  a  brisk  oven  48  minutes,  'baste 
frequently  with  the  gravy.  Untie  it  before  removing.  Place  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  into  the  pan  %  glass  of  Madeira  wine,  and  1  gill  of 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  63 


white  broth.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  skim  all  fat  from  the  gravy, 
straining  the  lean  part  over  the  venison.  Serve  with  %  pint  of  hot 
currant  jelly  sauce. 

Fillets  of  Venison. 

Have  as  many  fillets  as  covers;  trim  and  flatten,  lard  one 
side  of  each  fillet  with  small  strips  of  pork.  Put  fillets  in  bowl 
and  marinate  6  hours  in  this  mixture :  One  sliced  onion,  1  minced 
carrot,  2  bay  leaves,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  %  gill  of  salad  oil,  1  gill  of 
vinegar,  a  little  salt;  turn  frequently.  Drain  and  wipe  fillets,  fry 
about  20  minutes  in  salt  pork  fat  over  hot  fire.  Cook  a  chestnut 
brown.  Remove  as  soon  as  done,  or  they  become  tough.  Arrange  on 
hot  dish,  the  larded  side  uppermost.  Have  croutons  of  puff  paste,  cut 
in  fancy  shapes  and  baked,  put  fillets  and  croutons  alternately. 
Serve  with  a  brown  gravy  made  of  the  marinated  mixture.  Serve  for 
dinner  with  French  peas. 

Venison  Pasty. 

Use  for  pasty,  meat  from  breast,  neck  or  flank.  "Wash  the  meat 
with  vinegar,  rub  with  brown  sugar  and  hang  up  in  a  cool  place; 
examine  each  day  and  wipe  with  a  dry  cloth.  When  ready  to  use 
sponge  with  lukewarm  water  and  dry  on  a  cloth.  Bone  it  and  cut 
into  pieces  2  inches  square.  Remove  the  skin;  parboil  meat  until 
tender,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  if 
necessary  a  little  flour.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  pastry,  arrange 
meat  in  dish,  fat  and  lean,  cover  with  dots  of  butter  and  enough  stock 
to  cover  bottom  of  dish;  put  to->  on  pie  and  bake.  Put  bones  and 
trimmings  in  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  add  1 
piece  of  mace,  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  until  stock  is  reduced  one- 
half.  Strain,  cool  and  skim  off  grease.  When  pie  is  done,  reheat  this 
stock,  adding  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  and  1  wine  glass  port  wine. 
Put  funnel  through  hole  in  crust  and  pour  in  this  gravy.  Serve  hot 
for  luncheon. 

Roast  Venison. 

Take  an  8-pound  roast  of  venison  and  soak  6  hours  in  cold  water 
to  cover,  with  one  tablespoon  of  salt.  Wash  roast  and  wipe  dry,  then 
lard  it,  using  about  %  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  in  small  strips.  'Trim 
saddle  into  good  shape ;  put  in  roasting  pan  with  3A  of  a  pint  of  cold 
water,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  baste  every  5  minutes  at  the  beginning, 
then  every  15  minutes,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt.  Claret  wine  may 
be  used  for  basting  the  venison,  instead  of  the  dripping  of  the 
pan.  Cook  134  hours.  All  trimmings  from  the  roast  must  be  made 
into  stock  which  is  added  to  drippings  in  pan;  also  1  tablespoon 
browned  flour ;  stir  until  smooth.  Serve  this  gravy  with  the  venison. 
Also  serve  with  wild  plum  jelly. 

Venison  Steak. 
Have  steak  of  venison  cut  %  of  an  inch  thick,  dust  with  pepper 


64  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


and  salt :  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  broiling  pan ;  put  in  the  steak, 
sear  first  on  one  side,  then  the  other;  continue  turning  steak  until 
done.  Put  steak  on  hot  platter  and  spread  with  butter,  set  in  oven 
a  minute  to  melt.  Serve  with  Saratoga  chips  and  hot  rolls.  Slices  of 
cold  rare  roasted  venison  are  delicious  when  reheated  in  a  brown 
or  curry  sauce.    Serve  for  luncheon. 

Deviled  Venison. 

Cut  thick  slices  from  rare  roasted  venison,  make  slanting  in- 
cisions and  fill  with  mixed  mustard  and  salad  oil.  Brush  slices  with 
melted  butter  and  dredge  with  flour.  Broil  and  serve  with  melted 
butter. 

Venison  Hash. 

Chop  meat  from  a  cold  roast  into  blocks,  season  with  salt,  black 
pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne ;  gravy  from  roast  is  added  to  hash, 
or  else  make  a  brown  stock  from  the  bones  and  trimmings;  add  the 
meat  only  long  enough  to  be  heated.  Serve  hash  on  hot  buttered 
toast  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Fillet  of  Veal  Roast. 

Remove  bone  from  a  3-pound  roast  and  fill  with  a  forcemeat. 
Have  enough  pork  and  lean  veal  run  through  the  grinder  to  fill  the 
aperture  from  where  the  bone  was  taken.  Add  to  it  %  cup  of 
butter,  1  ounce  of  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  milk,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1 
dessertsooon  of  lemon  juice,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt. 
Mix  well  together  and  press  into  the  veal.  Skewer  and  tie  the 
fillet  into  a  round  shape.  Lay  in  roasting  pan  a  few  slices  of  pork. 
Add  enough  hot  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Place  in  the 
oven  and  cook  slowly.  Replenish  with  water  if  it  boils  out.  After 
cooking  1  hour  take  slices  of  pork  from  the  top  of  the  fillet,  spread 
thickly  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour.  In  half  an  hour  add 
more  butter  and  brown  the  fillet.  Put  in  saucepan  1  kitchen  spoon 
of  butter  and  1  heapinsr  tablespoon  of  flour;  stir  until  brown,  then 
add  y2  pint  of  stock,  stir  well,  then  set  on  back  of  range  to  keep 
warm.  Take  out  the  fillet  and  skim  off  all  grease,  add  a  little  more 
water  to  pan  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  other  sauce,  with 
the  juice  of  %  lemon,  strain  and  pour  around  the  fillet,  garnish  dish 
with  slices  of  lemon,  serve  with  potato  puff. 

Shoulder  of  Veal. 

Cut  veal  into  square  pieces,  parboil  until  tender,  put  bones  and 
trimmings  in  another  kettle,  boil  slowly  several  hours,  then  season 
meat  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  the  rind  of  1  lemon  grated,  a  dash 
of  powdered  mace  and  nutmeg.  Strain  gravy  from  pot  and  add  to  it 
1  dessert  spoon  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  set  in  oven  to  brown.  When 
nearly  done  add  2  glasses  of  white  wine  and  serve  very  hot  poured 
over  veal. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  65 


Eoast  Veal. 

Three  pounds  of  breast  of  veal.  Rub  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour.  Set  on  grate  in  a  hot  oven  until  surface  is  brown. 
Have  water  in  pan  to  prevent  burning.  Allow  30  minutes  to  each 
pound  for  cooking.  Add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter  1  hour  before 
it  is  done,  and  baste  frequently.  The  veal  may  be  made  into  a 
fillet,  same  as  beef,  by  removing  the  bone  and  stuffing  with  a  force- 
meat and  serving  with  sauce  prepared  same  as  for  beef. 

Calf's  Head. 

Remove  brains  and  put  in  ice  cold  salted  water.  Wash  head  and 
cover  with  cold  water  for  2  hours.  Then  put  in  kettle  with  cold 
water.  Boil  until  meat  is  easily  removed  from  the  bones.  Take  from 
kettle,  remove  all  bones.  Set  the  stock  back  on  range,  add  to  it  % 
pound  of  lean  ham.  Let  boil  3  hours.  .  Then  strain  through  cloth 
in  stone  jar,  and  use  for  turtle  soup.  Cut  meat  from  calf's  head 
into  strips,  keep  it  warm. 

Larded  Liver  With  Claret  Sauce. 

To  1  calf's  or  lamb's  liver  take  l1/^  pounds  of  fat  salt  pork,  cut 
in  strips  *4  of  an  inch  thick ;  draw  through  liver  with  larding  needle, 
then  put  liver  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  cook  20  minutes.  Re- 
move from  kettle  to  roasting  pan,  add  1  cup  of  water  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  20  minutes.  Place  meat  on  hot  dish,  then  add  to  gravy  1 
pint  of  claret  wine,  1  dessertspoon  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  pour 
some  on  the  liver  and  put  rest  in  gravy  boat.  Garnish  dish  with 
parsley.    Serve  hot. 

Lamb's  Liver. 

Slice  liver  %  an  inch  thick,  then  roll  in  meal,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  have  a  hot  skillet  with  melted  lard  and  fry  a  chest- 
nut brown.   Serve  for  breakfast  with  thin  slices  of  breakfast  bacon. 

Veal  Tongues. 

Put  fresh  tongues  in  brine  for  24  hours,  then  wash  and  put  in 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  well.  Bring  to  boiling  point  rapidly 
and  boil  5  minutes,  then  remove  to  back  of  range  and  let  simmer 
and  skim.  As  the  water  boils  out  add  cold  water  (allow  1  hour  to 
each  pound  of  a  large  tongue,  smaller  ones  require  less  time.)  Peel 
carefully,  reheat  and  serve  with  a  sauce,  or  serve  cold,  cut  in  thin 
slices. 

Pork  Chops. 

Have  chops  cut  from  the  loin  or  ribs,  put  in  frying  pan  until 
well  seared  on  each  side,  then  drain  off  fat  and  put  in  hot  oven  10 
minutes.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  melted  butter.  Serve  with 
fried  apples  for  breakfast. 


66  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Roast  Pork. 

The  chine  and  spare  ribs  are  best  pieces  for  roasting;  rub  well 
with  flour,  pepper,  salt  and  sage;  allow  20  minutes'  baking  for  each 
pound.  Baste  often.  Do  not  have  oven  as  hot  as  for  other  meats. 
Serve  with  rice. 

Barbecued  Mutton. 

Four  pounds  of  mutton,  rinse  in  cold  water.  Place  in  roasting 
pan,  adding  1  pint  of  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt;  baste  often.  One 
hour  before  it  is  done  prepare  following  dressing:  y'i  coffee  cup 
of  tomato  catsup,  J/i  cup  Worcestershire  sauce,  Yi  cup  of  vinegar, 
1  saltspoon  of  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard.  Mix  well, 
make  incisions  all  over  meat  and  press  in  this  mixture  and  pour  rest 
over  meat  and  cook  slowly.  When  mutton  is  done  put  dots  of  cur- 
rant jelly  on  top  and  serve  with  this  sauce.  Skim  grease  from  gravy, 
add  1  coffee  cup  of  wine,  1  tablespoon  of  currant  jelly,  1  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  V/2  teaspoons  ground  allspice.  Mix  well  and  cook  several 
minutes.    Serve  warm. 

Sanders. 

Mince  cold  mutton,  season  with  onion  juice,  pepper  and  salt 
and  moisten  with  gravy.  Put  sanders  into  patty  pans,  cover  with 
mashed  Irish  potatoes  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Squirrel  Pot  Pie. 

Four  squirrels  skinned  and  cleaned  and  cut  in  pieces,  flour  them 
and  fry  brown  in  dripping.  Take  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  1  large 
onion  minced,  %  of  a  lemon  thinly  sliced,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon pepper,  a  small  glass  of  sherry  wine.  Fry  the  onion  brown 
in  1  tablespoon  butter ;  then  add  to  the  boiling  water.  Cover  closely 
and  stew  1  hour.  Make  a  delicate  biscuit  dough  and  cut  in  rounds, 
laying  them  on  top  of  the  squirrels;  boil  15  minutes.  Pile  squirrel 
in  center  of  platter  and  place  dumplings  around,  thicken  gravy  with 
1  tablespoon  of  browned  flour.  Pour  over  squirrels  and  serve  hot. 
Chicken,  beef  or  lamb  may  be  substituted  for  squirrels. 

Mutton  Chops. 

Trim  chops,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  have  2  eggs  beaten 
light  and  some  rolled  bread  crumbs ;  dip  chops  in  egg,  then  crumbs, 
melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  frying  pan  and  put  in  the  chops;  cook 
slowly.  Blend  1  teaspoon  flour  with  1  dessertspoon  of  butter  and 
add  to  gravy.  Let  remain  a  few  minutes.   Serve  hot. 

To  Cook  Mutton. 

Allow  15  minutes'  cooking  to  1  pound  of  mutton;  for  roasting 
the  same  time.    Serve  with  caper  sauce  or  currant  jelly. 

Spring  Lamb. 

Rub  the  saddle  of  lamb  with  butter  and  salt.    While  roasting 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  67 


baste  often  with  the  gravy.    Cook  10  minutes  to  the  pound.    Serve 
with  mint  sauce. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Chop  fine  3  tablespoons  of  young  mint,  add  to  it  2  tablespoons 
of  powdered  sugar.  Pour  over  6  tablespoons  of  white  wine  vinegar, 
Mix  well.  It  is  nice  served  in  this  way  or  boiled  a  few  minutes. 
Serve  cold. 

To  Cook  Mutton. 

Put  pepper  and  salt  on  mutton;  place  in  a  pan  with  sufficient 
water  to  prevent  burning.   Baste  frequently.    Cook  until  done. 

Wine  Sauca  for  Mutton. 

One  tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  1  tumbler  of  tomato  catsup,  1 
teacup  of  brown  sugar,  1  tumbler  of  wine  and  1  wine  glass  of  brandy, 
1 2  pint  of  mutton  gravy  from  which  the  grease  has  been  skimmed. 
Thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  let  get  cold  before  using. 

Broiled  Mutton. 

Select  lean  mutton,  remove  fat  and  membranes.  Put  on  board 
and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Fold  and  press  into  a  mass  %  an  inch  thick. 
Put  carefully  on  a  greased  gridiron ;  turn  often  and  cook  rare.  Serve 
very  hot  with  melted  butter  and  tomato  sauce. 

Lamb  Chops. 

Take  nice  lamb  chops,  remove  fat  and  scraggy  bones  and  have 
bone  flattened;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  in  a  hot  skillet, 
with  melted  butter;  turn  often,  and  when  done  place  on  a  hot  dish 
and  pour  over  melted  butter. 

Mutton  Chops. 

Trim  fat  from  2  pounds  of  chops  and  parboil  them.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  rolled  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut 
brown. 

Meat  Pie. 

Make  pastry,  line  a  pudding  dish,  reserving  enough  for  top 
of  pie.  Cut  in  blocks  remnants  of  cold  roast,  either  beef  or  lamb; 
put  in  pastry,  adding  2  tablespoons  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Add 
a  few  strips  of  pastry  dough  or  dredge  in  a  little  sifted  flour,  put 
on  pastrv  top.    Set  in  oven  to  cook. 

Southern  Hamburg  Steak. 

To  1  pound  of  lean  tender  beef  (the  upper  round  is  preferable), 
chopped  very  fine,  add  %  teacup  of  rich  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  onion 
to  taste  and  mix  thoroughly.  Mold  into  7  cakes,  rolling  each  one 
as  formed  into  flour.  Make  into  a  good  shape  with  the  hand.  Have 
ready  a  hot  frying  pan  with  a,  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  put  in 
steak;  fry  a  light  brown.   When  done  remove  from  the  pan.    Make 


68  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

a  brown  gravy  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  added  to  the  butter 
in  pan ;  add  %  cup  of  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly ;  boil  2  min- 
utes. 

Backbone. 

Wash  backbone,  add  pepper  and  salt ;  put  in  roasting  pan  with 
1  pint  of  cold  water.  Cook  until  done  (about  2  hours). 

To  Make  Sausage. 

Run  through  grinder  14  pounds  of  lean  pork,  10  pounds  of  back- 
bone fat.  Mix  well  and  add  10  tablespoons  of  black  pepper,  3  table- 
spoons of  salt,  8  tablespoons  of  sage.  Put  sausage  meat  in  buckets 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place.   Make  into  cakes  when  ready  to  use. 

Rabbit. 

Skin  rabbit,  put  in  salt  water  1  hour,  then  wipe  each  piece  dry, 
roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown ;  add  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
in  saucepan  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  gravy,  a  little  garlic 
or  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley.  If  desired  %  can  of  champignons  and 
%  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce  may  be  added.  Put  rabbit  in 
this  mixture,  simmer  until  tender,  garnish  with  olives  and  thin 
slices  of  lemon. 

Broiled  Rabbit. 

Skin  and  wash  rabbit,  then  cut  up  and  put  in  salt  water  1  hour. 
Have  a  skillet  tolerably  hot  with  some  melted  butter  in  it ;  sprinkle 
a  little  flour  over  the  rabbit  and  put  in  the  skillet,  adding  a  little 
cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  inside  of  the  stove  and  baste  fre- 
quently. If  necessary  add  a  little  more  water.  When  nearly  done 
put  in  a  lump  of  butter.   Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Beef  Balls. 

Chop  cold  roast  beef  very  fine,  removing  gristle,  but  leave  in 
the  fat.  To  a  half  pint  of  meat  add  1  small  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 
that  have  been  rolled  and  sifted,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Moisten 
the  whole  with  soup  or  stock,  add  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
stir  in  1  well-beaten  egg,  set  mixture  away  to  cool.  When  cold  form 
into  balls,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

To  Cook  Mutton. 

Wash  mutton  and  put  in  pan  with  a  little  cold  water,  %  onion 
sliced,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  cook  until  tender,  then  put  in  baking 
pan,  stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  spices  and  chopped 
onion.  Moisten  crumbs  with  butter ;  pour  in  pan  1  pint  of  water.  Put 
on  mutton  a  few  slices  of  bacon.  Just  before  serving  add  to  the 
gravy  1  coffee  cup  of  wine,  1  tablespoon  of  currant  jelly,  1  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  1%  teaspoons  of  ground  allspice.  Skim  all  grease  from 
gravy  before  adding  wine  and  spices. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  69 


Saddle  of  Venison. 

Soak  venison  in  cold  water,  with  1  tablespoon  of  salt  for  6 
hours,  then  put  in  roasting  pan  with  a  little  water.  "When  half  done 
make  incisions  on  either  side  and  press  in  with  a  knife,  rolled  bread 
crumbs,  highly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  ^  cup  of  tomato  cat- 
sup* V-2  cup  of  black  molasses.  Into  this  stir  1  tablespoon  of  brown 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  allspice.  Pour  this  on  meat  and  cover  with 
bread  crumbs.  Baste  frequently.  Before  removing  from  pan  dot  it 
with  currant  jelly. 

Pickled  Tongue. 

Wash  the  tongues,  score  with  a  knife,  rub  with  the  following 
mixture:  Salt,  black  pepper  and  a  few  whole  peppers,  some  salt- 
peter, cloves  and  garlic  cut  in  strips.  Put  some  of  the  mixture  in 
bottom  of  a  crock,  place  the  tongues  in  it.  Sprinkle  a  little  of  mix- 
ture on  top.  Add  a  little  water  and  press  down  the  tongues  with 
a  plate,  as  they  must  be  in  the  brine.  Let  them  stay  2  weeks,  turn 
occasionally.  When  ready  to  use  cook  same  as  any  other  tongue. 
Nice  served  hot  or  cold.  A  soup  plate  of  salt  is  enough  for  2  tongues 
in  making  the  brine. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. 

Wash  meat  and  place  in  a  kettle ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
bring  quickly  to  boiling  point;  then  set  on  back  of  range  and  sim- 
mer until  meat  is  tender.  When  half  done  add  1  dessertspoon  of 
salt.    Serve  with  caper  sauce. 

Pressed  Veal. 

Take  3  pounds  of  veal,  minced  as  for  Hamburg  steak,  */.  onion 
chopped  fine,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ,1  teaspoon  pepp  ^r, 
1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  grated  horseradish,  2  tablespoons 
of  cream,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  4  rolled  crackers,  mix  all  to- 
gether; put  in  pan.   Bake  1%  hours. 

Boiled  Backbone. 

Wash  backbone  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  a  plate 
in  bottom  of  pot  and  put  in  the  backbone  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  it.  It  requires  about  3  hours  to  cook;  15  minutes  before 
it  is  done  drop  in  some  dumplings,  which  are  to  be  served  with  the 
backbone.  Dumplings — Take  %  pint  of  flour,  mix  with  buttermilk 
and  a  pinch  of  soda.   Roll  very  thin;  cut  into  blocks  with  a  knife. 

Veal  Loaf. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  raw  veal,  %  pound  of  fresh  raw 
pork,  14  pound  of  butter,  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  dash  of  minced 
onion,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  %  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and 
salt,  3  yolks  and  4  whites  of  eggs  beaten  together.  Run  meat  through 
a  grinder.  Take  bread  crumbs  and  make  into  panada  with  stock  or 
water.    Add  to  it  the  eggs,  butter  and  seasoning.    When  it  leaves 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


side  of  saucepan  it  is  done.  When  cold  add  to  meat  and  mix  well. 
Grease  mold  with  butter  and  flour  it;  then  make  a  hole  in  the 
center  of  loaf  and  put  in  y2  coffee  cup  of  chopped  champignons. 
Cook  2  hours.    Serve  hot  with  this  sauce. 

Sauce. 

One  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  y2  teacup  of  butter,  blended 
with  1  tablespoon  of  flour:  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  until 
it  thickens.  Just  before  serving  add  y2  can  of  chopped  champignons. 

Lamb's  Liver. 

Slice  liver  V2  an  inch  thick,  then  roll  in  flour,  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  Have  a  hot  skillet  with  melted  lard  and  fry  a  chest- 
nut brown.   Serve  for  breakfast  with  thin  slices  of  breakfast  bacon. 

To  Boil  a  Ham. 

Fill  the  pot  with  water,  put  in  the  ham,  fill  all  around  with 
nice  hay,  add  garlic,  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  thyme  and  pepper.  Let 
it  boil  several  hours  until  quite  done  and  then  add  1  quart  of  cider 
or  wine. 

Baked  Ham. 

Wash  ham  clean,  wrap  it  in  a  bundle  of  hay  and  boil  until  done ; 
take  it  out  and  skin  it ;  take  2  flat  sticks  and  lay  in  the  bottom  of 
a  stovepan ;  lay  the  ham  on  the  sticks  and  make  a  batter  of  flour 
and  water,  spread  all  over  the  ham.  Bake  about  2  hours,  then  take 
the  batter  off  and  dress  the  ham. 

Stuffed  Ham. 

After  boiling  the  ham  skin  it.  Have  ready  a  dressing  made  of 
corn  meal  muffins  or  grated  biscuit;  add  1  moderate  size  onion 
chopped  very  fine,  1  or  2  leaves  of  sage,  pepper  and  sugar  to  taste 
and  a  few  celery  seed.  Make  incisions  all  over  the  ham  with  a  large 
knife  and  press  down  the  dressing,  then  bake  it. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veal  ground  fine,  6  soda  crackers  pul- 
verized, 4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  thick  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter ; 
season  with  black  and  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  minced 
onion,  chopped  parsley,  celery  seed.  Beat  all  well  together.  After 
it  has  been  formed  into  a  loaf  rub  1  egg  over  the  top  of  it  and  put 
in  pan,  cover  with  grated  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Put 
water  in  pan  and  baste  as  it  cooks ;  bake  2  hours.  Serve  with  cream 
sauce.  Have  both  hot.  It  is  nice  served  with  cream  potatoes,  green 
peas,  asparagus  or  dressing  of  champignons. 

Baked  Ham. 

Soak  ham  6  hours  in  cold  water;  wash  well  and  put  on  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Boil,  allowing  20  minutes  to  the  pound. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  .  71 


Have  ham  wrapped  in  hay;  when  done  set  away  until  cold.    Cover 
with  a  dressing  and  set  in  oven  to  bake. 

To  Roast  a  Ham. 

After  soaking  6  hours  in  cold  water  make  a  batter  of  flonr  and 
water  and  cover  ham.  Lay  it  on  2  sticks  in  roasting  pan ;  when  hock 
is  loose  take  from  pan,  set  away  until  cold;  remove  skin.  Have  a 
dressing  made  with  1  teacup  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon 
of  dry  mustard,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  1  dessert- 
spoon of  allspice,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Moisten  with  vine- 
gar, spread  over  ham  and  make  incisions  and  press  in  some  of  the 
dressing.  One  cup  of  sherry  wine  may  be  poured  over  ham.  Set  in 
oven,  bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

To  Cook  a  Ham. 

Soak  ham  in  cold  water  about  10  hours,  then  wipe  dry.  Make  a 
biscuit  dough  without  shortening ;  envelop  entire  ham,  then  place  in  a 
covered  pan  with  cold  water  and  cook  inside  of  stove;  add  more 
water  if  necessary.  Let  it  cook  until  the  hock  gets  loose ;  it  is  then 
done ;  set  away  until  next  day ;  remove  the  skin  carefully ;  make  a 
dressing  with  more  than  %  cup  of  cracker  dust,  1  heaping  tablespoon 
of  dry  mustard,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  nearly  1%  teacup  of  vinegar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Make  incisions  in  ham,  press  in  the  dress- 
ing; pour  over  it  %  cup  of  sherry  wine.   Bake  until  a  light  brown. 

Stuffed  Ham. 

Wash  well  and  put  on  in  cold  water;  let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
pour  off  water  and  replenish  with  cold  water,  and  if  ham  is  old  pour 
off  water  once  more  and  add  fresh  cold  water.  Let  boil,  allowing 
20  minutes  to  the  pound.  Set  away  until  cold,  then  skin  it;  make 
a  dressing  with  some  cold  grated  biscuit,  a  dash  of  onion  juice,  a 
little  brown  sugar,  pepper  and  salt ;  mix  well.  Make  incisions,  press 
in  the  dressing  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs. 

Pork  Tenderloin. 

Slice  tenderloin  and  broil  on  broiler,  dredge  with  flour,  add 
pepper  and  salt.  When  done  pour  over  melted  butter  and  serve  hot. 

Liver  With  Chestnuts. 

Boil  livers  from  2  turkeys;  when  done  mash  fine,  boil  1  pint  of 
shelled  chestnuts  until  soft ;  blanch  and  mash  to  a  smooth  paste ;  rub 
liver  and  chestnuts  through  a  strainer;  season  with  melted  butter, 
lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt ;  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Heart. 

Soak  heart  in  salt  water,  then  stuff  with  1  heaping  tablespoon 
of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  melted  butter,  onion  juice,  thyme, 


72  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

salt  and  pepper.  It  can  be  larded  with  slices  of  salt  pork.  Turn  sev- 
eral times. 

Kidneys  Stewed. 

Take  2  pairs  of  lamb's  kidneys,  split  in  two,  trim  sinews  and 
fat  from  inside;  cnt  in  small  pieces,  put  in  stew  pan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  have  it  come  to  boiling  point;  repeat  this  3  times, 
put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  frying  pan ;  stir  well  until  a  nice  brown ; 
add  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Cook  3  minutes,  then  add  y2  pint  of  stock 
or  boiling  water.  Stir  until  it  boils,  then  add  1  tablespoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoon  of  mushroom  catsup,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  the  kidneys.  Let  them  get  hot,  add  1  wine  glass  of  sherry 
wine.   Serve  immediately. 

To  Boil  Pigs  Feet. 

Put  1  set  of  feet  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  When 
half  done  add  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  They  require  about  3  hours  to 
cook. 

Spare-Rib. 

Wash  meat  and  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  then  put  in  roast- 
ing pan;  pour  in  1  pint  of  cold  water.  Baste  frequently.  Cook  un- 
til done. 

Baked  Spare-Rib. 

Take  3  pounds  of  sparerib,  wash  it  and  dust  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  in  roasting  pan  with  1  pint  of  cold  water,  baste  frequently. 
It  requires  about  1  hour  and  15  minutes  to  cook.  Half  an  hour  be- 
fore it  is  done  put  in  about  5  Irish  potatoes  cut  in  thick  slices  and 
brown  in  the  gravy.  Serve  around  the  meat  or  in  separate  dish. 

Boiled  Spare-Rib. 

Wash  rib,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  in  kettle  and  cover 
with  cold  water;  have  on  close-fitting  top.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
it  is  done  drop  in  some  dumplings  with  a  spoon  and  boil  rapidly. 
Prepare  dumplings  according  to  the  recipe  for  boiled  backbone. 

Spare-Rib  Pie. 

Boil  2  pounds  of  sparerib  until  done;  remove  bones  and  dice 
the  meat.  Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  a  raw 
paste,  have  top  on  pastry.    Cook  a  chestnut  brown. 

Pickle  for  Pork. 

Four  gallons  of  water,  1%  pounds  of  sugar,  6  pounds  of  salt, 
2  ounces  of  saltpeter ;  boil  and  skim.   When  cold  pour  over  pork. 

Pickled  Pigs  Feet. 

After  cooking  feet  done  place  in  a  jar,  cover  well  with  vinegar 
and  tie  up  securely;  put  a  plate  on  top  to  weight  them  and  keep 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  73 

down  in  vinegar ;  they  can  then  be  dipped  in  batter  and  fried.  "Will 
keep  a  long  while. 

Pigs  Feet — Cream  Dressing. 

"When  done  remove  largest  bones;  put  in  saucepan  whole  and 
add  1  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  1  dessertspoon  of  flour  and  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  well  blended,  salt  and  pepper.  After  this  comes  to 
a  good  boil  serve. 

To  Fry  Pigs  Feet. 

When  done  remove  large  bones,  press  feet  closely  in  a  crock, 
making  as  compact  as  if  in  a  mold ;  when  cold  cut  in  slices  and  fry 
in  batter  made  with  %  pint  of  flour,  1  egg  beaten  light,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  lard,  %  teacup  of  buttermilk  with  a  pinch  of 
soda;  add  milk  until  of  right  consistency;  dip  feet  in  batter,  fry  a 
chestnut  brown. 

To  Fry  Hog  Brains. 

Take  1  pound  of  brains,  skin  and  put  in  cold  water  with  a  lit- 
tle salt.  Let  it  soak  1  hour,  wash  thoroughly,  then  have  skillet  hot ; 
with  a  large  lump  of  melted  butter  add  the  brains.  After  they  cook 
a  while  stir  in  5  well-beaten  eggs.  When  they  begin  to  leave  side 
of  skillet  they  are  done.    Serve  in  a  dish  or  on  toast. 

Tripe. 

Take  tripe,  scrape  and  wash  it,  then  soak  6  days  in  cold  water, 
with  a  little  salt,  changing  Avater  frequently.  Put  on  with  water  and 
cook  all  day.  If  you  wish  to  keep  it  for  some  time  cover  with  cold 
vinegar  and  put  in  a  jar.  To  serve  for  breakfast  make  a  batter  with 
1  well-beaten  egg  and  flour,  cut  tripe  in  strips,  fry  in  hot  lard.  To 
stew  tripe  cut  in  blocks  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  water  and  cook 
%  hour,  then  add  1  coffee  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  1  of  flour  well  blended,  stir  well,  cook  about  10  min- 
utes. Can  add  2  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped,  a  little  made  mustard 
and  vinegar  if  desired. 

To  Fry  Hog  Brains. 

Take  1  pound  of  brains,  soak  in  cold  water  with  1  tablespoon 
of  salt  for  1  hour,  then  skin,  leaving  them  whole ;  roll  in  meal  with 
pepper  and  salt.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Squirrels  Stewed. 

Skin  squirrels,  wash  thoroughly  and  put  in  cold  water  with  1 
dessertspoon  of  salt,  cut  in  quarters  and  let  remain  1  hour.  Put  in 
frying  pan  some  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  very  thin;  then  the  squirrels. 
Add  to  pan  1  dessertspoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  enough 
hot  water  to  prevent  burning ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  until  they  are 
tender.  When  nearly  done  remove  cover  so  water  will  evaporate, 
then  add  enough  cream  to  moisten.  Let  them  heat  again.  Serve 
very  hot. 


74  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Broiled  Rabbit. 

Prepare  same  way  as  pan-broiled  rabbit;  cook  on  broiler  over 
charcoal  embers.   Serve  with  same  kind  of  sauce  on  a  hot  dish. 

Pan-Broiled  Rabbit. 

Skin  and  lay  in  salted  water  1  hour,  then  put  in  pan,  dredge 
with  Hour,  salt  and  pepper ;  add  1  dessertspoon  of  butter,  1  dipper  of 
cold  water,  baste  often,  turn  occasionally;  just  before  serving,  mix 
1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  made  mustard,  2  tablespoons 
of  vinegar,  pour  over  rabbit  on  dish.    Serve  with  Ravigote  sauce. 

Hasenpfeffer. 

Cut  up  rabbit  and  soak  1  hour  in  salt  water,  then  cover  with 
vinegar  and  let  remain  12  hours.  Put  in  kettle  with  water  and  par- 
boil, then  add  a  dash  of  sugar  and  pepper,  some  allspice,  cloves, 
a  few  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  a  little  browned  flour.  Cook  until 
done.    It  may  be  served  hot  or  cold  for  luncheon. 

Hasenpfeffer. 

Take  a  10-pound  rabbit,  cut  into  pieces  and  wash  well,  and  put 
raw  into  an  earthen  pot.  Mix  %  pint  of  blood,  1-10  quart  of  vine- 
gar, 3  pints  of  good  red  wine,  2  chopped  onions,  2  bay  leaves,  parsley 
and  cloves.  Pour  this  on  the  rabbit  and  let  marinate  .for  2  days. 
Then  put  rabbit  in  roasting  pan  with  1-7  pound  of  bacon,  cut  into 
small  cubes  and  some  chopped  onion.  Roast  a  chestnut  brown. 
Sprinkle  4  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour  over  rabbit  and  stir  well.  Mix 
1  pint  of  bouillon,  2  cubes  of  lemon  to  the  marination  liquid  and  boil 
until  done.  To  the  gravy  add  1  gill  of  onion,  1  gill  of  champignons 
and  glazed  cubes  of  bacon,  salt  and  pepper. 

Roasted  Rabbit. 

Take  a  large  rabbit,  wash,  make  incisions  and  with  larding 
needle  insert  small  strips  of  breakfast  bacon.  Put  in  roasting  pan 
and  pour  over  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Baste  frequently  and  cook  thoroughly  done.  This  is  a  German  re- 
cipe. 

To  Fry  Rabbit. 

Cut  up  rabbit,  soak  in  salt  water  for  1  hour.  Drain  and  dip  each 
piece  in  sifted  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  in  hot  fat  a 
chestnut  brown. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  75 


FOWL 


The  Selection  of  Fowls. 

In  choosing  fowls  select  those  that  are  heavy  in  proportion  to 
their  size.  For  fricassee,  roast  or  boiled  chicken  a  hen  is  best.  For 
croquettes,  highly  seasoned  entrees  or  soups  a  cock  may  be  used. 
White  flesh  poultry,  such  as  turkeys  and  chickens,  require  to  be  well 
done.  Game  with  dark  meat,  such  as  canvas-back  ducks,  venison  and 
almost  all  birds,  should  be  cooked  rare. 

To  Dress  Poultry. 

Poultry  should  be  dressed  as  soon  as  killed,  as  the  feathers 
come  out  more  easily.  To  pluck  poultry  pull  out  2  feathers  at  a 
time,  with  a  quick  motion  toward  the  head.  Remove  pin  feathers 
with  the  aid  of  sharp  knife.  To  singe  the  fowls  put  in  a  pan,  roll  of 
lighted  paper  and  singe  the  bird  thoroughly,  but  use  care  not  to 
scorch  the  skin.  Take  off  the  head  and  legs,  cut  open  the  skin  on 
the  back  of  the  neck,  disjoint  the  latter  and  cut  off  close  to  the  body. 
Separate  the  crop  carefully  from  the  skin  of  the  neck,  remove  that 
and  the  windpipe,  insert  one  finger  into  the  opening  and  loosen 
the  organs  from  the  breast  bone.  Be  sure  not  to  break  the  entrails  or 
the  gall  bladder,  but  pull  out  all  together,,  for  should  it  happen 
the  chicken  or  fowl  is  almost  ruined,  as  it  imparts  a  bitter  tasttr 
which  spoils  the  delicate  flavor. 

To  Truss  a  Fowl. 

Push  the  legs  up  until  the  knees  are  above  point  of  the  breast 
bone,  cross  them  at  the  tail  and  tie  firmly.  Put  a  skewer  through 
body  at  the  wings  and  thighs,  press  close  to  the  body  and  tie  across 
the  back. 

To  Prepare  Giblets. 

Be  careful  not  to  use  giblets  unless  sound.  They  should  be  a 
light  color.  Cut  away  any  portion  that  has  been  discolored  by  the 
gall  bladder  and  be  careful  it  does  not  touch  the  meat.  Cut  through 
the  thick  muscle  of  the  gizzard  and  peel  it  off,  without  breaking  into 
the  little  gristmill  inside.  Put  them  in  salted  water  1  hour.  Cook 
neck  of  fowl  with  the  giblets.  The  legs  and  wing  tips  may  be  added 
to  the  stock  pot  after  scalding  and  peeling. 

To  Stuff  a  Fowl. 

Put  fowl  in  a  deep  bowl,  fill  the  breast  with  dressing  until 
plump,  but  allow  for  expanding  while  cooking.  Fold  skin  of  the 
neck  loosely  back  and  fasten  with  a  bird  skewer.  Have  opening  not 
more  than  3  inches,  can  close  by  sewing  with  large  darning  needle 
and  soft  cotton.    Leave  long  ends  on  thread. 


76  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Roast  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

For  a  roast  turkey  or  chicken  cut  through  the  skin  of  the  leg 
2  inches  below  the  joint,  break  the  bones  by  a  light  blow  and  draw 
out  the  tendons,  picking  them  up  with  a  stout  fork.  Leave  on  bits 
of  leg  bone  until  the  fowl  is  roasted,  then  remove  before  serving. 

Stewed  Chicken. 

Take  1  large  chicken  or  2  small  ones,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1 
gallon  of  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Wash  chicken  and  disjoint, 
put  in  pot  with  cold  water.  After  it  boils  30  minutes  add  pepper 
and  salt.  Prepare  some  dumplings,  cut  in  narrow  thin  strips.  Fif- 
teen minutes  before  chicken  is  done  drop  in  dumplings  with  a  spoon ; 
also  add  the  butter ;  boil  rapidly.   Serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Chicken  a  la  Hollandaise. 

Remove  the  breast  bone  of  a  large  young  fowl,  rinse  inside  with 
1  teaspoon  soda  and  water,  wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Fill  the 
cavity  with  a  force  meat  of  pate  de  foie  gras  and  put  in  roasting 
pan  with  y2  pint  cold  water,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt  and  spread 
on  chicken  2  teaspoons  butter.  "When  half  roasted  prepare  a  batter 
as  for  fritters  and  pour  over  the  fowl,  and  when  dry  pour  over  bat- 
ter until  thickly  coated  and  a  chestnut  brown.  Cut  meat  into  pieces 
as  for  fricassee.  Serve  slices  with  melted  butter  and  lemon  cut  in 
quarters. 

Chaud-Froid  of  Chicken. 

Cut  a  cold  boiled  chicken  into  smooth  joints,  remove  the  skin. 
Mask  each  piece  with  Bechamel  sauce  and  arrange  on  lettuce.  Mix 
sliced  cucumbers,  diced  beets  and  chopped  tarragon  with  white  crisp 
lettuce  and  put  in  center  of  dish.    Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Take  1  large  chicken  or  2  small  ones.  Cut  in  pieces  and' wash 
in  cold  water.  Put  chicken  in  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
it.  Cook  until  done.  Add  2  tablespoons  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour  if  needed. 

Pie  Crust. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  1  heaping  kitchen  spoon  of  lard, 
enough  ice  water  to  moisten  dough,  %  teaspoon  of  salt.  "Work  with 
silver  spoon  only  long  enough  to  make  pastry  hold  together.  Roll 
in  thin  sheet,  line  a  pudding  dish,  reserving  enough  for  the  top ;  set 
in  oven,  cook  a  delicate  brown ;  also  cook  pastry  to  cover  top  of  pie. 
When  ready  to  serve  pour  in  the  chicken,  put  on  top.  Serve  imme- 
diately. 

Chicken  a  la  Terrapin. 

Three  pints  of  cold  boiled  chicken,  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  3  heap- 
ing tablespoons  of  flour  that  has  been  browned,  %  pint  of  chicken 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  77 


stock,  1  pint  of  rich  milk,  1  wine  glass  Madeira  wine,  1  even  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  cup  of  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  y2  teaspoon 
mace.  Mince  the  chicken  fine;  rub  eggs  through  a  sieve,  melt  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  then  add  flour,  stock  and  milk  (the  latter  must  be 
scalded),  then  the  chicken  in  which  all  the  seasoning  has  been  well 
mixed,  with  the  eggs.  Cook  slowly  half  an  hour  on  the  back  of  range. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  the  wine.   Serve  on  toast. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Select  a  young,  plump  chicken,  wash,  draw  the  tendons  in  the 
leg,  put  a  little  soda  inside  of  chicken  and  rinse  several  times;  put 
a  little  butter  on  the  breast  of  chicken ;  dredge  with  flour,  add  pep- 
per and  salt ;  put  in  roasting  pan,  add  1  dipper  of  cold  water.  Baste 
frequently,  add  a  little  more  water  if  needed.  It  requires  about  2 
hours  to  cook.  Half  an  hour  before  chicken  is  done  put  in  a  skillet  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  enough  rolled  bread  crumbs 
for  dressing,  5  tablespoons  of  chicken  stock,  a  little  minced  onion, 
pepper  and  salt ;  stir  until  tolerably  brown,  then  stuff  the  chicken ; 
return  to  pan  for  half  an  hour.  Kemove  from  pan  and  add  1  dessert- 
spoon of  flour,  stir  until  smooth.  Have  giblets  chopped  and  add  to 
gravy. 

To  Broil  Chicken. 

Wash  chicken  and  put  in  pan  with  breast  upward ;  put  on  bits 
of  butter ;  dredge  with  flour.  Add  pepper  and  salt  and  1  dipper  of  cold 
water;  after  cooking  a  while  turn  them  over  and  baste  frequently; 
cook  a  delicate  brown;  add  more  butter  to  pan  for  gravy.  Serve 
very  hot. 

To  Broil  Chicken. 

Put  chickens  in  a  hot  skillet,  after  dredging  with  flour,  pepper 
and  salt;  there  must  be  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  for 
each  chicken.  Press  down  with  a  flat  iron.  Turn  frequently.  Add 
more  butter  and  serve  as  a  gravy.  Have  dish  hot  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 

Chicken  Curry. 

One  chicken,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  onion,  1  tablespoon  curry 
powder,  2  ounces  sweet  almonds,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  dessertspoon 
lemon  juice,  Y2  pint  of  water.  Cook  the  sliced  onion  in  the  butter, 
but  it  must  not  brown.  Then  add  the  chicken  cut  in  pieces  and 
sprinkle  on  the  curry  powder,  stir  and  cook  it  5  minutes.  Blanch 
almonds  and  pound  with  a  little  water ;  when  fine  add  remainder  of 
water  and  grind.  Strain  this  through  a  cloth  and  add  to  chicken 
with  salt  and.  simmer  until  tender.  When  ready  to  serve  add  lemon 
juice.    Serve  with  rice.   Veal  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

To  Broil  Chickens  or  Birds. 

Put  on  chickens,  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter,  place  in  the  pan 


78  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

and  add  a  little  cold  water.  Baste  frequently  and  pour  over  melted 
butter  when  ready  to  serve. 

Chicken  Livers  en  Brochette. 

Take  12  chicken  livers  cut  in  half.  Soak  well  in  salted  water 
1  hour,  then  parboil  them.  Have  an  equal  number  of  slices  of  break- 
fast bacon,  cut  very  thin.  Alternate  the  livers  and  bacon  on  a  skewer. 
They  are  nice  broiled  on  a  broiler.  Cook  in  a  pan.  Do  not  parboil 
them.  Add  a  little  water  to  prevent  burning  and  put  on  bits  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  until  done.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish.  They 
are  nice  served  for  breakfast. 

Dressing  for  Fowls. 

Take  stale  bread,  roll  fine.  Have  a  skillet  hot  with  1  dessert- 
spoon of  melted  butter  and  %  dessertspoon  of  lard.  When  hot  add 
the  crumbs,  a  dash  of  onion,  5  tablespoons  of  stock  from  fowl.  Sea- 
son highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  To  this  dressing  may  be  added,  1 
pint  of  raw  oysters  and  cook  until  done,  or  1  pint  of  pulverized 
chestnuts  may  be  added.  In  that  case  omit  the  oysters.  It  requires 
about  30  minutes  for  dressing  to  cook. 

Smothered  Chickens. 

Take  2  chickens,  size  of  broilers,  and  prepare  in  usual  way.  Put 
them  in  pan,  flesh  side  up,  dredge  with  flour,  add  pepper,  salt  and  1 
tablespoon  of  butter;  put  in  bits  on  chickens  and  %  pint  of  cold 
water.  Set  in  oven  to  cook,  baste  every  few  minutes  with  the  drip- 
pings. If  it  is  too  reduced  add  a  little  warm  water.  When  half  done 
reverse  chickens  and  continue  to  baste;  cook  until  tender  and  a 
chestnut  brown.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  pouring  over  1  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter. 

Salmi  of  Duck. 

Take  a  pair  of  wild  ducks,  using  either  teal,  widgeon  or  wood 
ducks.  Roast  in  pan,  then  cut  in  small  pieces.  Eemove  all  bones, 
crush  bones  and  put  in  saucepan  with  trimmings  from  duck,  add  2 
wine  glasses  of  sherry,  1  quart  of  Spanish  stock,  1  pint  beef  stock, 
1  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  4  pepper  corns,  y2  onion  sliced,  1  teaspoon  pars- 
ley. Cover  saucepan  and  boil  gently  1  hour.  Strain  and  add  1 
tablespoon  butter,  juice  of  %  lemon.  Have  slices  of  fried  bread 
put  on  the  duck;  pour  over  hot  gravy  and  serve  with  plum  jelly. 

Teal  Duck. 

Teal  duck  when  roasted  has  a  dressing  made  with  bread  crumbs, 
seasoned  with  minced  onion,  celery  chopped,  pepper  and  salt. 
Garnish  with  watercress.    Serve  for  dinner  with  grape  jelly. 

Wild  Turkey. 

Wild  turkey  is  preferable  to  any  of  the  large  game  birds  and 
is  prepared  similarly  to  the  domestic  turkey.  Roast  turkey  and  stuff 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  79. 


with  boiled  chestnuts  pulverized  or  a  veal  forcemeat  or  rolled  bread 
crumbs,  seasoned  with  minced  onion,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  mixed 
with  drippings  from  the  pan. 

Meat  Souffle. 

Make  1  cup  of  cream  sauce,  season  with  chopped  parsley  and 
a  dash  of  onion  juice.  Prepare  1  cup  of  chopped  chicken  or  veal 
and  add  to  sauce.  When  hot  add  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  cook  1 
minute  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
Bake  in  buttered  pudding  dish  20  minutes.  Serve  at  once  with  cham- 
pignon sauce. 

Chicken  Panada. 

One  coffee  cup  of  roasted  or  boiled  chicken,  pounded  to  a  paste, 
%  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  enough  hot  stock  from  chicken 
to  make  a  thick  gruel,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  1  minute  and  serve 
hot.  If  using  a  roasted  chicken  boil  the  bones  with  enough  cold 
water  to  obtain  the  stock.    Serve  for  ill  or  delicate  persons. 

Marengo  Chicken. 

One  young  chicken,  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil,  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  celery,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon  of  minced 
onion,  juice  of  %  lemon,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. Disjoint  chicken  and  put  in  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover,  and  the  salt.  Stew  until  done,  then  add  rest  of  ingredients. 
If  gravy  is  too  thin  thicken  with  1  teaspoon  flour  made  into  a  paste 
with  cold  water.    Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

Cream  Turkey  Hash. 

Have  2  pints  of  cooked  turkey  breast,  1  pint  of  cold  water,  1 
cup  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  dessertspoon  flous,  a  dash  of 
onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  turkey  in  small  blocks  and  put  in  sauce- 
pan with  the  water,  onion  juice,  pepper  and  salt.  Add  a  little  more 
water  if  needed ;  cook  about  20  minutes.  Then  add  butter,  cream  and 
the  flour  made  into  a  smooth  paste  with  water ;  boil  a  few  minutes. 
Serve  on  thin  slices  of  hot  toast  or  in  a  dish  for  breakfast  or 
luncheon. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Wash  chicken  in  cold  water,  then  disjoint  and  put  in  pot  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover ;  cook  until  done.  Make  a  crust,  roll  in 
sheet  and  line  a  pudding  dish,  reserving  some  for  top.  Put  chicken 
in  raw  crust,  adding  2  tablespoons  butter,  cut  in  small  pieces,  pep- 
per and  salt,  some  raw  pastry  cut  in  narrow  strips  may  be  added 
to  pie,  then  put  on  the  top,  prick  with  a  fork.   Set  in  oven  to  cook. 

Turkey  Hash. 

One  pint  of  turkey  that  has  been  put  through  the  grinder.  1 
pint  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  1  teacup  of  cream,  1  kitchen  spoon  of 


80  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  baking  dish  to  cook,  sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  on  top  with  bits  of  butter.   Cook  until  a  light  brown. 

Dressing  for  Turkey  or  Goose. 

Take  60  large  chestnuts,  scald  and  peel  them;  put  in  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  of  butter,  a  dash  of  onion  and  a  sprig  of  parsley,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Chop  this  dressing  fine;  add  to  it  1  pint. of  good  stock 
and  stew  until  thick.  Then  stuff  the  fowl.  If  cooking  a  goose  add 
some  currant  jelly  to  the  gravy. 

For  Broiled  Chickens. 

In  serving  broiled  chickens  pour  over  a  brown  champignon 
sauce,  as  that  is  considered  better  than  the  white  sauce,  when  serving 
with  chickens  or  any  other  meat. 

Pan  Broiled  Chickens. 

Prepare  chickens  as  usual  and  place  them  in  a  pan.  Dredge 
with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  dessertspoon  of  butter  and  1  dipper 
of  cold  water.  Baste  often,  and  if  water  becomes  too  reduced  add  a 
little  hot  water.  Reverse  chickens  several  times  and  cook  until  a 
chestnut  brown.  When  done  pour  over  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
serve  on  a  hot  platter.  A  few  chopped  champignons,  boiled  in  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan  and  served  with  chicken,  are  quite  an  addition. 

Roast  Wild  Duck. 

Prepare  duck  as  usual  and  put  in  roasting  pan  with  %  pint  cold 
water;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Make  a 
dressing  with  chestnuts,  prepare  in  skillet,  then  stuff  the  duck.  Baste 
frequently  with  butter  moistened  with  hot  water.  Serve  on  a  hot 
dish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  have  in  gravy  boat  a  gravy  enriched 
with  1  tablespoon  currant  jelly  and  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine. 

Stewed  Duck. 

Prepare  duck  by  cutting  them  same  way  as  for  chicken  fric- 
assee. Cut  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  and  place  in  bottom  of 
stewpan,  then  place  on  pieces  of  duck,  cover  and  stew  slowly  1  hour. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  green  sage  finely  minced, 
y~2  of  small  onion  chopped.  Stew  39  minutes  longer,  then  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  browned  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  cold  water. 
Let  it  boil  up,  then  serve  with  plum  jelly  or  French  peas. 

Chicken  and  Macaroni. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender,  then  remove  all  bones  and  mince  the 
meat  fine.  Take  y^  pound  of  macaroni,  break  into  pieces  "an  inch 
long  and  cook  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Butter  a  deep  pudding 
dish  and  cover  with  the  layer  of  the  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of 
chicken,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  then  a  little  chicken  stock 
to  moisten ;  add  another  layer  of  the  macaroni  and  another  of  chicken 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  81 


with  butter  until  all  has  been  used.   Pour  over  the  whole  1  cup  of 
rich  cream  and  bake  30  minutes.   Serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Roast  Duck. 

Pick  the  duck,  draw,  cleanse  thoroughly  and  dry.  Place  duck 
in  baking  pan  with  %  pint  of  cold  water,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  One  hour  before  it  is  done  remove  from  pan  and  fill  with  a 
bread  dressing,  seasoned  with  onion,  pepper  and  salt  and  1  table- 
spoon of  butter.  When  almost  done  baste  with  butter  and  flour  fre- 
quently. Make  a  gravy  with  the  neck  and  gizzards  by  putting  them 
in  1  quart  of  cold  water  and  boil  until  reduced  to  1  pint.  "When 
done  the  giblets  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  to  gravy.  One  table- 
spoon of  Madeira  or  sherry  wine  may  be  added  with  a  dash  of  onion 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Strain  gravy  through  a  sieve,  pour  a  little 
over  ducks  and  the  remainder  in  a  gravy  boat.  Serve  ducks  with 
plum  or  currant  jelly.  It  requires  more  than  1  hour  to  roast  a 
large  duck,  about  35  minutes  for  a  small  one.  These  rules  apply 
equally  to  the  cooking  of  tame  geese.  If  ducks  or  geese  are  tough 
parboil  until  tender.  Then  season  and  stuff  the  fowl  and  put  in 
roasting  pan  to  cook. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Wash  turkey  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour 
and  put  3  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  on  breast  of  turkey,  1  link  of 
sausage  in  pan  with  1  quart  of  water.  It  requires  3  hours  to  roast 
a  large  turkey.  Baste  frequently.  One  hour  before  turkey  is  done 
put  in  a  hot  skillet  1  dessertspoon  of  lard,  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
add  enough  rolled  bread  crumbs  for  dressing  with  5  tablespoons  o£ 
turkey  stock;  stir  constantly,  add  pepper  and  salt;  cook  a  chestnut 
brown,  then  stuff  turkey  and  cook  %  hour  longer ;  1  pint  of  oysters 
may  be  added  to  dressing  in  skillet  if  desired.  If  any  dressing  is 
left  add  to  gravy  with  the  giblets,  or  roasted  chestnuts  ma.v  be  pul- 
verized and  added  to  dressing ;  in  that  case  omit  the  oysters. 

Roast  Duck. 

Wash  duck  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  in  roasting  pan 
with  1  pint  of  water.  When  half  done  dredge  with  flour;  baste 
often.  One-half  hour  before  duck  is  done  put  in  a  hot  skillet  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  enough  bread  crumbs  for  dressing, 
5  tablespoons  of  stock,  a  dash  of  onion,  season  highly  with  pepper 
and  salt;  stir  until  a  chestnut  brown,  then  stuff  duck  and  put  back 
in  pan.  Cook  %  hour  longer.  Serve  with  currant  jelly.  Add  any 
crumbs  left  to  gravy,  also  giblets. 

To  Roast  Canvas-Back  Duck. 

Having  trussed  the  ducks  put  in  each  a  thick  piece  of  soft  bread 
that  has  been  soaked  in  port  wine;  place  them  before  a  quick  fire, 
roast  1  hour.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  over  the  juice  of  1  orange, 

6 


82  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


juice  of  1  lemon.  Serve  very  hot  with  the  gravy  from  ducks;  also 
have  gravy  in  boat  made  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  dessert- 
spoon of  flour  blended,  the  giblets  rolled  in  flour,  diced  and  added 
to  gravy.    Serve  with  currant  jelly. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Wash  the  turkey  thoroughly  and  rub  with  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per; have  ready  a  filling  made  of  bread  toasted  until  crisp  and 
moistened  with  water.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  salt.  Put  into  a  pan  with  1  quart  of  water.  Dredge 
the  turkey  with  flour  and  baste  frequently.  It  requires  3  hours  to 
cook  a  large  turkey ;  a  small  one  IV2  hours.  Cut  up  the  giblets  and 
serve  in  the  gravy,  which  will  be  thick  enough  from  the  flour  with 
which  the  turkey  was  dredged. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Have  the  turkey  nicely  cleaned  and  placed  in  salt  water  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  fill  with  a  stuffing  of  bread,  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  parsley.  Tie  the  legs  and  wings  and  then  pin  up  in  a  cloth. 
Drop  a  little  salt  in  the  water,  which  should  not  boil  too  fast.  Serve 
with  drawn  butter  and  4  eggs  chopped  and  some  parsley.  It  may 
be  served  with  oyster  sauce. 

To  Roast  Ducks. 

Wash  the  ducks  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  them  in  a 
pan  with  1  pint  of  cold  water  and  cook  3  hours.  Toast  the  bread 
for  the  filling  and  crush  with  a  rolling  pin.  Season  highly  with 
pepper,  salt  and  chopped  onion.    Baste  often. 

To  Roast  a  Goose. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  ducks.  Sage,  thyme  and  parsley  may 
be  added  to  the  dressing.  It  requires  only  a  little  butter.  Cook  3 
hours.  Remove  nearly  all  fat  that  drips  from  the  goose,  as  it  will 
make  the  gravy  too  oily.   Add  the  giblets  to  the  gravy. 

Deviled  Turkey. 

Place  the  wings  and  legs  of  cold  turkey  on  a  greased  gridiron 
and  brown  slowly  on  both  sides.  When  done  place  on  a  hot  dish 
and  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  of  one  dessertspoon  each  of  vinegar, 
mustard,  pepper  sauce  and  currant  jelly.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt. 

Giblets  With  Sauce. 

Take  6  chicken  giblets,  put  in  saucepan  with  1  dessertspoon  of 
butter  and  y2  slice  onion.  Let  them  brown,  then  add  1  quart  of  soup 
stock  and  1  small  turnip  sliced,  1  tablespoon  of  rice,  1  small  carrot 
chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper,  boil  y2  hour,  then  serve. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  83 

Chestnut  Dressing  for  Turkey. 

Remove  the  shells  and  skins  from  2  quarts  of  large  roasted 
chestnuts,  mash  them,  add  1  ounce  of  melted  butter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  If  desired,  can  add  1  teaspoon  of  olive  oil.  Mix 
well  and  stuff  turkey  as  with  bread  dressing. 

Pishpash  of  Lamb. 

Cut  lamb  from  bone  and  chop,  put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  baking 
dish,  then  layer  of  thinly  sliced  tomatoes  and  a  layer  of  stale  bread 
crumbs ;  season  with  salt,  celery  salt  and  pepper ;  have  bits  of  but-, 
ter  over  top  and  enough  new  milk  to  moisten.  Bake  about  20  min- 
utes. 

Meat  Balls. 

Grind  lx/4  pounds  of  round  steak,  ^  pound  of  salt  pork,  5 
crackers.  Mix  meat  with  1  chopped  onion,  2  eggs  and  1  pint  milk, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.   Fry  in  hot  butter. 

Quail  a  la  New  Orleans. 

Dress  as  many  quails  as  there  are  to  be  covers.  Dry  them  and 
put  the  liver  inside  again  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  and 
salt  to  taste.  Wrap  each  bird  in  2  thin  slices  of  salt  pork;  tuck  a 
leaf  of  sage  under  the  wing.  Wrap  each  bird  in  well  buttered  thick 
white  paper.  Roast  half  an  hour  in  hot  wood  ashes.  Remove  the 
paper,  serve  with  gravy  and  add  to  it  1  wine  glass  of  Sauterne  wine. 
Serve  with  French  peas. 

Broiled  Squab. 

The  bird  should  be  full  grown.  Singe,  draw  and  split  down  the 
back.  Crack  the  large  bones,  flatten  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  broil  slowly. '  Serve  on  dry  toast  with  hot  melted  butter  poured 
over.   Garnish  dish  with  watercress. 

Wild  Turkey  or  Wild  Goose. 

Pluck  carefully,  not  to  tear  the  skin.  Draw  and  wipe,  but  do 
not  wash  it.  Cut  off  head  and  truss  like  fowls  (larding  improves 
them,  or  can  fasten  thin  slices  of  fat  pork  over  the  breast  or  put  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  in  each  bird,  either  way  is  good.)  Baste  every 
5  minutes.  Parboil  the  liver  and  pound  to  a  paste  with  butter, 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Toast  nice  slices  of  bread,  remove  the 
crust  and  spread  with  this  paste  about  10  minutes  before  serving. 
Place  on  the  birds  and  serve  with  brown  gravy. 

Wild  Grouse. 

Is  prepared  similarly  to  the  domesticated  ones,  except  they 
should  be  seasoned  more  highly.  They  are  nice  stuffed  with  chest- 
nuts. 

Stuffed  Partridge. 

Wash  birds  and  leave  them  whole.    Put  in  pan,  dredge  with 


84  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

flour,  pepper  and  salt,  put  bits  of  butter  on  top  of  each  bird.  Pour 
in  pan  1  dipper  of  cold  water,  cover  and  let  steam  half  an  hour, 
then  have  rolled  bread  crumbs,  a  few  chestnuts  cooked  and  pulver- 
ized. Add  to  this  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Brown  it  a  little  in  skillet,  then  stuff  bird  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 
If  water  evaporates  add  a  little  hot  water.  Remove  birds  when  done ; 
add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  dessertspoon  of  flour,  well  blended; 
add  to  gravy,  stir  until  smooth ;  pour  over  birds  when  ready  to 
serve. 

Broiled  Partridge. 

"Wash  partridge,  put  in  pan,  dredge  with  flour,  add  pepper  and 
salt  and  bits  of  butter  on  top  of  each  bird ;  pour  in  1  dipper  of  cold 
water,  cook  slowly  and  baste  every  few  minutes,  turning  birds  oc- 
casionally. Add  a  little  more  hot  water  if  needed ;  cook  until  done ; 
add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  dessertspoon  of  flour  well  blended ; 
put  birds  on  a  hot  dish;  stir  this  gravy  until  smooth;  then  pour  on 
birds  and  serve. 

To  Roast  Goose. 

"Wash  the  goose  and  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  roasting 
pan,  dredge  with  flour.  Cook  3  hours ;  %  hour  before  it  is  done  put 
in  a  skillet  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  lard;  when  melted  add 
enough  bread  crumbs  for  dressing,  a  dash  of  onion  with  5  table- 
spoons of  the  stock  from  the  goose.  Stir  until  a  chestnut  brown; 
then  stuff  the  goose  a'nd  put  back  into  pan ;  skim  off  nearly  all  the 
grease  from  gravy,  adding  to  it  any  crumbs  that  are  left  with  the 
giblets,  cut  into  dice.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Have  turkey  washed  and  put  in  salted  water  a  few  minutes, 
then  fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  rolled  bread  crumbs,  a  dash  of 
onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Tie  the  legs  and  wings,  then  pin  up  in  a 
cloth;  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water.  A  large  turkey  will  require  3 
hours,  boiling  all  the  time,  but  not  too  rapidly.  Serve  with  drawn 
butter  and  4  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped;  oyster  sauce  is  also  nice 
served  with  boiled  turkey. 

To  Fry  Chicken. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  put  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt ;  let 
it  stay  1  hour,  then  wash  off  in  clear  water.  Dip  pieces  of  chicken 
in  sifted  flour  with  plenty  of  black  pepper.  Have  hot  lard  in  a  skil- 
let ;  fry  a  light  brown.  Make  a  biscuit  dough  and  cut  in  long  straight 
pieces  and  cook. 

To  Make  the  Gravy — "When  the  chicken  is  done  take  out  and  put 
in  the  skillet  1  tablespoon  of  flour ;  when  it  is  well  mixed  add  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  stirring  all  the  while.  This  is  to  be 
served  with  the  chicken. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  85 


Grouse. 

Pluck  carefully  not  to  tear  the  skin,  draw  and  wipe,  but  do  not 
wash  it.  Cut  off  head  and  truss  like  fowls.  Larding  improves  them 
or  can  fasten  thin  slices  of  fat  pork  over  the  breast  or  put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  each  bird;  either  way  is  good.  Baste  every  5 
minutes,  parboil  the  liver  and  pound  to  a  paste  with  butter,  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt.  Toast  thin  slices  of  bread,  remove  the  crust  and 
spread  with  this  paste  about  10  minutes  before  serving;  place  on 
the  birds.     Serve  with  a  rich  brown  gravy. 

Roast  Quail. 

Rinse  quail  in  ice  water  and  steam  over  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Dredge  with  flour,  put  on  bits  of  butter  liberally,  add  pep- 
per and  salt,  put  inside  of  oven  and  cook  until  a  chestnut  brown. 
Thicken  gravy  with  green  grape  jelly,  garnish  with  parsley.  Any 
kind  of  fowl  may  be  cooked  in  same  manner. 

Smothered  Grouse. 

Split  in  half,  wash  thoroughly,  rub  well  with  salad  oil  and  salt, 
brown  delicately,  then  set  on  back  of  range  to  steam.  Add  1  cup  of 
brown  stock  to  pan,  let  it  simmer  a  while,  then  pour  on  birds.  Serve 
with  French  peas. 

Snipe. 

After  cleaning  the  snipe,  remove  skin  and  eyes  from  the  head, 
draw  it  down  to  the  legs  and  skewer  the  bill  through  the  lower 
part  of  the  legs;  pin  a  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  around  each  bird 
and  string  them  on  a  skewer.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  black 
pepper.  Roll  the  ends  in  melted  butter  or  salad  oil.  Broil  on  either 
side  5  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  toast  moisten  with  Maitre  de  Hotel 
butter.    Garnish  with  watercress. 

Roasted  Snipe. 

Prepare  same  as  for  broiling  snipe.  Roast  10  minutes  in  hot 
oven.  Mince  hearts  and  livers  fine,  adding  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon chives,  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  slices  of  stale  bread  with  this 
paste,  a  few  fresh  crumbs  on  top ;  set  in  hot  oven  3  minutes.  Place 
birds  on  this  toast.  Garnish  with  watercress.  Serve  gravy  in  bowl. 
Plover,  reed  or  woodcock,  prepare  same  way. 

Potted  Grouse. 

Prepare  grouse  as  for  roasting,  season  highly,  add  1  dessert- 
spoon of  butter  for  each  bird  and  dot  with  the  butter.  Allow  1 
wine  glass  of  claret  for  1  pair  of  grouse.  Tie  two  folds  of  buttered 
paper  over.  Bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Pack  1  pair  of  grouse 
in  china  pot,  cover  with  clarified  butter,  keep  in  a  cool  place ;  reheat 
for  breakfast  or  lunch. 


86  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Roast  Pigeon. 

To  roast  pigeons,  prepare  same  way  as  for  roasting  chickens, 
if  they  are  tough,  steam  30  minutes  before  placing  them  in  roasting 
pan.  In  roasting  allow  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  for  each  bird. 
Serve  on  hot  toast  or  on  a  hot  platter. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Use  4  young  pigeons  for  making  pie.  Parboil  birds  and  prepare 
same  as  for  chicken  pie. 


A^AT  AND  FBSfH  SAUCI 


To  Prepare  Roux. 

The  foundation  for  nearly  all  common  sauces  is  a  roux. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  until  it  begins  to 
change  color,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir  briskly.  Add 
1  pint  of  hot  milk,  or  milk  and  water  in  equal  proportion,  or 
water,  pour  in  slowly,  beat  hard,  add  %  teaspoon  salt,  y2  saltspoon 
white  pepper  and  a.  dash  of  cayenne.  When  ready  to  use,  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  butter  and  let  it  melt  in  the  sauce.  This  is  ex- 
cellent for  plain  white  sauce,  or  drawn  butter  sauce. 

For  Brown  Sauce. 

Use  the  above  recipe,  but  allow  the  flour  and  butter  to  brown. 
Use  for  soups,  stews  or  gravies  for  meat  and  fish. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  %  teaspoon  onion  juice,  3  tablespoons  of 
flour,  1  cup  of  brown  stock,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper. 
Cook  onion  in  butter  until  a  light  brown.  Remove  onion  and  stir 
butter  until  well  browned,  add  flour  with  the  seasoning.  Brown  the 
flour,  add  stock  gradually.  Chop  %  cup  mushrooms  and  simmer  for 
a  few  minutes  in  their  liquor.    Add  to  sauce  when  ready  to  serve. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Six  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  of  mint,  2  teaspoons 
of  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  mix  well.  Let  stand  1  huiir 
before  serving.    Serve  with  lamb. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Take  a  handful  of  mint,  rinse  in  cold  water,  chop  very  fine, 
then  put  in  saucepan  %  cup  of  vinegar,  2  dessert  spoons  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  the  mint.  Let  it  simmer  10  minutes.  It  can  be  used 
hot  or  cold  for  meats. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  87 


Sauce  for  Lamb  or  Mutton. 

One  coffee  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar,  1  handful  of  fresh  mint,  5  tablespoons  toma- 
to catsup.  Put  all  ingredients  in  chopping  bowl,  exceot  tomato  cat- 
sup, chop  fine,  add  the  catsup  and  serve  cold  with  meat. 

Brown  Sauce  for  Beef. 

Heat  1  coffee  cup  of  stock,  blend  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1 
tablespoon  flour,  add  to  the  hot  stock,  with  2  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  1 
teaspoon  of  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Cook  for  a 
few  minutes.  Strain  and  serve  hot  with  cannelon  of  beef,  or  rolled 
beef. 

Wine  Sauce  For  Meats. 

Three-fourths  pound  of  butter,  1%  pints  of  jelly,  3  tablespoons 
of  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  allspice,  1  quart  of  wine.  Mix  in- 
gredients well ;  cook  tolerably  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  This  is 
delicious  served  with  venison,  lamb  or  mutton. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Put  in  saucepan  %  can  of  tomatoes,  %  small  onion,  6  cloves. 
Boil  30  minutes,  then  strain.  Have  in  frying  pan  1  kitchen  spoon 
of  butter,  when  melted  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour ;  mix  until 
smooth,  add  the  tomato  juice  and  1  pint  of  stock.  Let  come  to  a 
boil.    Serve  with  meats  or  croquettes. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  %  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  wash  them  and  cut  out  im- 
perfections. Put  in  porcelain  kettle  with  6  sliced  onions.  Boil  till 
thoroughly  done.  Rub  through  a  sifter,  return  juice  to  kettle  and 
add  1  quart  best  cider  vinegar,  ^4  pint  of  brown  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon cayenne  peper,  2  heaping  teaspoons  black  pepper,  1  tablespoon 
of  celery  seed,  1  tumbler  of  grated  horseradish,  1  heaping  teaspoon 
of  salt,  spices  of  all  kinds.  Put  in  a  muslin  bag,  cook  tolerably  thick. 
Have  bottles  hot  and  put  in  the  catsup,  seal  at  once. 

Lamb  Dressing. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  black  molasses,  yi  cup  of  catsup,  1  dessert 
spoon  of  allspice,  1  dessertspoon  of  cloves,  onion,  bread  crumbs,  pep- 
per, salt  and  brown  sugar.  Half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done, 
make  incisions  in  it  and  stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  onion,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Stick  in  some  cloves,  then  cover  top  with  bread 
crumbs,  brown  sugar  and  crumbs  again.  Pour  over  some  of  the 
molasses  and  catsup;  add  allspice  to  the  gravy  after  skimming  off 
all  grease.  If  necessary  add  to  it  a  little  hot  water.  The  meat  must 
be  in  a  covered  pan  while  cooking.    Baste  frequently. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Tartare  Sauce. 

To  y2  pint  of  Mayonnaise  dressing,  add  3  olives,  1  gherkin  chop- 
ped, 1  tablespoon  of  capers,  1  tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar.  It  is 
then  ready  for  use. 

Tortue  Sauce. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  brown  consomme,  1  bay  leaf,  the  liquor 
from  y2  can  of  champignons,  y2  can  of  tomatoes ;  boil  15  minutes  and 
strain,  put  back  in  saucepan  with  iy2  dozen  mushrooms  cut  in  half,  2 
truffles  chopped,  y2  coffee  cup  sherry  wine.  Let  it  boil  5  minutes, 
stir  in  at  the  last  1  teaspoon  flour  blended  with  butter ;  let  it  boil  up 
once  and  pour  over  the  calf's  head;  garnish  with  tender  beets,  sliced 
watercress,  or  parsley.    Serve  at  once. 

Dressing  for  Lamb. 

Take  %  cup  of  gravy,  skim  off  all  grease,  put  this  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  add  1  coffee  cup  of  tomato  catsup,  y2  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
y-z  cup  of  black  molasses  and  1  dozen  whole  cloves.  Set  on  the  back 
of  range ;  let  it  simmer  for  a  while.  When  ready  to  serve  add  y2  cup 
of  currant  jelly  and  y2  cup  of  sherry  wine.  Beat  well,  then  serve 
tolerably  warm  over  the  lamb. 

Spanish  Sauce. 

Take  2  carrots  and  1  onion,  cut  fine,  cook  in  2  ounces  of  bacon 
or  sausage  dripping,  add  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  6  pepper  corns, 

1  clove  of  garlic,  4  stalks  of  celery,  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  y2  teaspoon 
of  celery  seed.  Simmer  2  quarts  of  white  stock  gently  for  y2  hour, 
then  add  2  quarts  of  brown  soup  stock.  Boil  slowly  for  3  hours. 
Any  bones  from  roast  or  ham  improves  the  stock.  Brown  2  ounces 
of  flour  in  dripping  until  a  light  brown,  moisten  with  some  of  the 
boiling  stock,  skim  well  before  straining.  Put  in  self-sealing  jar 
and  set  in  cold  place ;  it  will  keep  a  long  while  in  winter.  It  can  be 
used  as  the  basis  for  many  fancy  sauces. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Take  1  can  of  tomatoes,  %  of  a  small  onion,  10  cloves;  put  on 
and  boil  until  tolerably  thick,  then  strain  through  colander;  return 
to  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  blended  with  1  table- 
spoon of  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  until  consistency  of  cream. 
Serve  with  spaghetti  or  beefsteak. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  2  onions  chopped,  16  cloves,  y2  teacup 
of  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  cayenne,  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar.  Add  soda  to  tomatoes.  Let  boil 
until  it  foams,  then  press  through  a  fine  sieve,  return  to  sauce- 
pan and  add  all  seasoning.  When  nearly  done  stir  in  1  dessertspoon 
of  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  water;  cook  about  5  minutes  and 
strain.    Serve  with  croquettes  or  peppers. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  89 


Tomato  Sauce. 

Take  1  pint  of  tomato  catsup,  put  in  saucepan  to  heat,  then  add 
1  teaspoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  stir  well  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve.    It  is  nice  served  with  baked  peppers  or  croquettes. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce. 

One  can  of  mushrooms,  y±  cup  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice,  a/4  cup  of  flour,  2  cups  of  consomme  or  brown  stock.  Drain 
mushrooms  and  chop  fine  one-half  of  them,  then  cook  with  butter 
and  lemon  juice.  Remove  from  the  pan  and  brown  the  butter.  To 
this  add  the  flour;  when  well  browned  add  consomme  gradually, 
cook  15  minutes  and  skim.  Then  add  rest  of  mushrooms  cut  in  half. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Sauce  Piquante. 

Three  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  dash  o£ 
cayenne  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  teaspoon  of 
lemon  juice,  %  cup  of  tomatoes  chopped  and  strained.  Cook  until 
brown,  then  add  rest  of  ingredients  and  stir  well.  Serve  with  fish 
and  meats. 

White  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk, 
y±  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper.  Put  butter  in  saucepan,  stir- 
ring until  it  bubbles,  add  flour  with  seasoning  and  stir  until  well 
blended.  Pour  on  gradually  the  milk  and  stir  until  mixed.  Then 
beat  until  smooth. 

Indian  Chutney. 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  pound  of  seeded  raisins  1 
ounce  of  salt,  6  ounces  of  preserved  ginger,  juice  of  4  lemons,  1  pint 
of  cider  vinegar,  12  large  apples,  1  ounce  of  garlic.  Pare  and  cut 
the  apples,  then  boil  them  in  the  vinegar  until  quite  soft.  Chop  all 
other  ingredients  fine  and  mis  with  the  apples  and  vinegar.  Add 
sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Simmer  until  thick.  Put  in  self-sealing  jars. 
Serve  with  meats. 

Tartare  Sauce. 

Make  mayonnaise  dressing  and  add  3  chopped  pickles  and  1 
tablespoon  of  capers.    Serve  with  fish. 

Butter  Maitre  D'  Hotel. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  bowl  with  2  teaspoons  of  pars- 
ley, chopped  fine,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix  well,  set  aside  to 
cool.  Put  in  a  frying  pan  2  tablespoons  of  butter ;  add  to  it  2  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Stir  constantly  for  5  minutes,  then  add  3  teacups 
of  boiling  milk  gradually.  Beat  well,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt.    Cook  15  minutes  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 


90  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Picalilli  Sauce. 

Chop  1  quart  of  green  tomatoes;  add  4  chopped  onions  and 
4  green  penners,  with  seed  removed.  Sprinkle  ingredients  with  1 
coffee  cup  of  salt,  and  let  remain  2  days.  Squeeze  dry;  add  2  table- 
spoons of  celery  seed  and  1  tablespoon  of  mustard  seed.  Mix  1  table- 
spoon of  mustard  with  some  cold  vinegar,  add  i/o  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  2  quarts  of  cider  vinegar.  Let  it  come  to  a 
boil  and  pour  over  the  chopped  vegetables.  Seal  while  hot.  Serve 
with  meat. 

Olive  Sauce. 

One  coffee  cup  of  brown  stock,  1  dessertspoon  each  of  chopped 
carrot  and  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2 
cloves,  14  stoned  olives,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  butter  in  saucepan. 
When  it  bubbles  add  onion  and  carrot.  Let  it  brown,  then  put  in 
flour  and  the  stock.  Cook  olives  %  hour.  After  sauce  has  cooked 
25  minutes,  strain  and  add  the  olives.  Simmer  for  5  minutes.  Ex- 
tract of  beef  may  be  used  instead  of  the  brown  stock.  Allow  1  tea- 
spoon extract  to  1  cup  of  hot  water. 

White  Sauce. 

Put  in  a  frying  pan  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  sifted  flour.  Mix  until  smooth.  Add  1  coffee  cup  of  new  milk 
and  stir  until  it  thickens,  pepper  and  salt. 

To  Make  Roux. 

Put  in  saucepan  1  tablespoon  of  butter ;  when  it  bubbles,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  flour;  let  cook  several  minutes.  If  used  for  thicken- 
ing white  sauce  or  soups  do  not  allow  it  to  brown,  but  for  brown 
sauce,  cook  until  brown.  This  amount  is  sufficient  for  1  pint  of  soup 
or  gravy. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Beat  to  a  cream  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  %  coffee  cup  of  but- 
ter, then  add  juice  of  y2  lemon,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a 
little  salt ;  add  gradually  1  coffee  cup  of  hot  water ;  stir  well,  put  in 
a  double  boiler  to  cook,  stirring  constantly;  cook  until  consistency 
of  cream,  (but  it  must  not  boil).  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  hard. 
Serve  with  fish  or  cold  meats. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Peel  and  core  6  tart  apples,  cut  up  and  put  in  saucepan;  cover 
with  water.  Boil  until  tender  and  press  through  a  colander ;  add  1 
dessertspoon  of  butter,  a  little  sugar  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Serve 
with  fowls  or  meats. 

Tartare  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs,  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  6  tablespoons 
of  olive  oil,  2  dessertspoons  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion, 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  91 


salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Mash  hard  boiled  eggs,  then  add  raw  ones. 
Beat  until  smooth,  using  alternately  oil  and  vinegar ;  add  onion  and 
2  tablespoons  of  capers,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.    Serve  cold. 

Tartare  Sauce. 

Take  1  cup  of  Mayonnaise,  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  capers,  1 
tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley  and  1  tablespoon  of  sour  pickle 
well  drained.  If  preferred,  olives  may  be  used  instead  of  pickle. 
This  sauce  is  nice  served  with  lobster,  soft  shell  crabs  or  hot  fish. 

Mustard  Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  of  mustard,,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon 
of  black  pepper,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  white  sugar, 
beaten  well  together.  One  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Take  1  cup  of  gravy 
from  fowl  or  beef  and  add  to  this  sauce,  beating  well,  then  put  on 
stove  and  beat  frequently.  When  of  proper  consistency,  take  off  and 
serve  cold. 

Tomato  Dressing. 

One  pint  of  tomatoes,  half  dozen  cloves,  black  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt,  half  onion  grated,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  of  flour 
and  1  of  sugar.  Put  all  except  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan.  Boil 
10  minutes.  Cream  butter  and  flour,  then  strain  the  tomatoes  and 
add  to  it,    Cook  until  it  thickens  and  serve  hot  with  meats. 

French  Dressing. 

Three  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  scraped  onion,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

Mustard  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  well-beaten,  1  tumbler  of  jelly  and  4  heaping 
tablespoons  of  brown  sugar  mixed  together,  4  heaping  teaspoons  of 
mustard  with  vinegar  enough  to  make  a  batter,  (about  a  tumbler  of 
vinegar),  1  small  spoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  all  together,  add  a 
cup  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken ;  stir 
often  and  take  off  to  cool. 

Sauce  for  Venison  or  Beef. 

Four  large  tablespoons  of  currant  jelly,  4  pickles,  sliced  very 
thin,  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of 
mace,  1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard.  Mix  all 
together  and  let  come  to  a  good  boil. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

Two  spoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  y2  pint  of  "boiling 
water,  half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  butter  and  flour  to  a  smooth  paste 
in  a  bowl;  set  on  fire  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Add  the  y2  pint 
of  boiling  water  gradually,  stirring  all 'the  while  until  it  thickens, 


92  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


also  add  salt.  Take  from  fire  and  use  at  once.  Serve  with  aspara- 
gus, boiled  fish  or  cauliflower.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  capers  to  this 
sauce  and  it  is  nice  for  fish  or  boiled  mutton. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Take  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  1  dessert- 
spoon of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  butter,  size  of  a  hen  egg, 
rolled  in  flour,  %  of  a  cap  of  vinegar;  add  to  it  1-3  cup  water.  Beat 
all  together,  put  on  stove  and  cook  to  a  light  mush.  Add  a  few 
celery  seed,  if  desired,  then  butter. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  beat  until  very  light  with  a  silver 
fork,  then  add  olive  oil,  drop  at  a  time,  and  heat  very  hard.  Add 
1  saltspoon  of  mustard  powder  and  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  al- 
ternating with  oil,  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  until  it  looks  like 
jelly  and  add  oil  until  stilt'  enough,  then  set  on  ice. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  7  eggs  well  beaten,  %  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  *4  CUP 
of  water.  First  put  in  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  and  beat  well,  then  l1/^ 
tablespoons  of  white  sugar.  Add  vinegar  and  cook  until  it  begins  to 
thicken;  take  off  and  beat  until  smooth. 

Egg  Sauce. 

Use  the  recipe'  for  white  sauce  and  add  to  it  2  hard  boiled  eggs 
cut  in  slices,  1  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  Serve  with  boiled 
fish. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  frying  pan ;  when  it  melts  add  2 
tablespoons  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  1%  pints  of  milk, 
salt,  nutmeg  and  pepper ;  cook  1  hour.  Take  3  eggs  beaten  separate- 
ly and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  add  this  to  other  ingredients  slowly.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  stir  well  and 
serve. 

Cream  Sauce. 

Put  1  pint  of  cream  in  double  boiler  and  when  it  boils  add  to  it 
1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  well  blended ;  1  can 
of  chopped  champignons  may  be  added.  If  used  do  not  cook  them. 
Let  it  remain  a  few  minutes  to  thicken  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Almond  Sauce. 

Use  preceding  recipe  except  omit  the  champignons  and  take 
y±  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine;  add  to  cream 
sauce  just  before  serving.    Nice  served  with  peppers. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  93 


Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

Take  %  pound  of  butter,  divide  into  4  parts,  then  put  %  in 
saucepan  to  melt.  When  it  sizzles  shake  from  the  dredging  box  1 
teaspoon  of  flour ;  stir  constantly  until  blended.  Add  a  dash  of  pap- 
rika and  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water;  stir  until  the  consistency  of 
cream,  then  .put  in  rest  of  butter,  stirring  all  the  while.  When 
smooth  mit  through  a  fine  sieve  and  serve  very  hot,  with  baked  fish. 

Brown  Champignon  Sauce. 

One  can  of  champignons,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  1  table- 
spoon browned  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 

Cut  champignons  in  half  and  put  in  saucepan  with  their  liquor, 
and  boil  30  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  If  liquor  is  reduced,  add 
a  little  hot  water.  Blend  butter  and  browned  flour,  and  add  to 
champignons  with  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  continually,  cook  until  it 
thickens.     Serve  hot  with  chicken,  beefsteak  or  chops. 

Poivrade  Sauce. 

Melt  in  saucepan  l/o  ounce  of  butter;  then  put  in  %  onion  and 
%  carrot  to  fry.  Add  4  pepper  corns,  4  whole  cloves,  y%  sprig  of 
thyme  cut  in  small  pieces,  5  leaves  of  parsley,  y>  ounce  raw  ham. 
Cook  6  minutes  then  add  1  pint  of  Spanish  sauce,  and  2y2  table- 
spoons of  tarragon  vinegar.  Boil  20  minutes ;  skim  off  all  grease  and 
strain. 

Danish  Sauce. 

Three  Spanish  onions,  2  ounces  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Peel, 
slice  and  parboil  onions;  then  drain  and  put  them  in  saucepan  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  until  reduced  to  a  pulp,  then  put 
through  a  fine  sieve,  return  to  saucepan,  and  add  1  pint  of  Bechamel 
sauce.    Simmer  15  minutes,  then  serve. 

Sauce  for  Beefsteak. 

One  can  of  champignons  chopped  and  boil  15  minutes  in  their 
own  liquor;  add  1  dessertspoon  of  browned  flour,  and  1  dessert- 
spoon of  butter.    Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  cream,  iy2  pints  of  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon of  salt,  nearly  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  mus- 
tard, 1  cup  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  eggs  until 
light,  add  sugar,  mustard,  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  stir,  then 
boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  boiling  hot  into  the  mixture.  Beat  well. 
If  bottled  this  dressing  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Cream  Dressing. 

One  tumbler  of  thick  sweet  cream,  yolks  of  5  hard  boiled  eggs, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  dry  mus- 


94  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

tard.  Mash  the  eggs  smooth,  add  the  sugar  and  mustard,  then 
cream,  gradually,  until  well  mixed;  thin  with  vinegar,  until  the  con- 
sistency of  good  cream.  Keep  in  a  self-sealing  jar  on  ice.  Serve 
with  tomatoes  or  salads. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Peel  tart  apples  and  quarter  them,  (if  very  large  cut  the  quar- 
ters once  in  two).  Have  2  quarts  when  peeled.  Put  them  in  a 
granite  kettle,  add  2  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  on  the 
back  of  range;  let  cook  in  their  own  juice.  Cook  tolerably  thick, 
till  the  syrup  looks  clear.    Serve  with  meat. 

Sauce  for  Beefsteak. 

Chop  1  can  of  chamnignons  (and  boil  15  minutes  in  their  own 
liquor),  then  add  1  dessertspoon  of  browned  flour,  and  1  dessert- 
spoon of  butter.    Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve  over  beefsteak. 

Green  Tomato  Mince. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
let  stand  1  hour  then  put  in  a  crash  bag  and  squeeze  out  all  water. 
Mix  with  the  dry  pulp,  4  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  1  quart  of  cider 
vinegar,  put  mixture  in  a  kettle  and  simmer  1  hour  or  until  well  cook- 
ed. Chop  fine  2  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  1  pound  of  stoned  dates ; 
add  to  kettle  also  the  juice  of  10  lemons,  2  tablespoons  of  cinna- 
mon and  1  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  set  on  back  of  range,  cook  a  few 
minutes;  put  in  self-sealing  jars,  serve  with  meats. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 

Take  1  pint  of  gravy  and  add  1  anchovy.  Roll  %  pound  of  but- 
ter in  a  little  flour,  stir  until  it  boils ;  a  little  lemon  juice,  catsup,  red 
wine  or  walnut  liquor,  may  be  added  which  ever  preferred. 

Sauce. 

Butter  melted  with  1  tablespoon  of  walnut  pickle  or  catsup, 
makes  a  good  sauce  for  meats. 

Currant  Catsup. 

Five  pounds  of  currants,  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  pint 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  teaspoon  allspice,  and  1  teaspoon  of  black  and  red  pepper  mixed. 
Boil  30  minutes.    Serve  with  meats  or  game. 

Plum  Sauce. 

To  each  pound  of  damsons,  add  %  coffee  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  %  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves  (put  spice  in 
a  bag).  Take  the  seed  from  plums  and  boil  with  sugar  until  toler- 
ablv  thick.    Serve  with  meats. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  95 

Cucumber  Sauce. 

Peal  and  slice  2  large  cucumbers  into  small  cubes.  Boil  till 
tender  in  salt  water  and  drain.  Then  let  1  pint  of  rich  milk  come 
to  a  boil,  adding  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  well 
blended,  and  a  little  salt.    Add  cucumbers  to  this  and  serve. 

Wine  Sauce  for  Mutton. 

One  tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  1  tumbler  of  tomato  catsup,  1  tea- 
cup of  brown  sugar,  1  tumbler  of  sherry  wine,  %  tumbler  of  brandy. 
Take  x/2  pint  of  gravy,  skim  off  grease,  then  add  ingredients. 
Thicken  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
"When  ready  to  serve  add  brandy  and  wine. 

Wine  Sauce. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  2y2  coffee  cups  of  consomme  or  stock,  2  cloves, 
5  pepper  corns,  1  bay  leaf,  a  little  sugar  and  y2  cup  of  mushrooms. 
Liquor  may  be  added.  Blend  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  2  table- 
spoons of  flour ;  cook  10  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  then 
add  to  sauce.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  in  1  coffee  cup  of 
champagne  or  substitute  1  cup  of  white  wine.    Serve  immediately. 

Caper  Sauce. 

One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  capers,  salt  to  taste.  Cream  butter,  add  flour 
and  gradually  the  hot  water.  Let  boil  until  consistency  of  cream, 
then  add  capers  and  serve. 

Sauce  Piquante. 

Two  coffee  cups  brown  stock,  1  tablespoons  butter,  4  table- 
spoons vinegar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  2 
tablespoons  chooped  pickle,  iy2  tablespoons  chopped  capers,  1  tea- 
spoon tarrao-on  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Put 
butter  in  saucepan,  when  it  begins  to  brown,  add  flour,  then  slowly 
add  to  stock,  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Simmer  12  min- 
utes. Have  in  another  saucepan  vinegar,  sugar  and  onion  boiled 
rapidly  5  minutes.  Then  add  it  to  sauce,  also  pickle,  capers  and 
vinegar.  Stir  well,  cook  long  enough  to  heat  the  pickle.  If  sauce 
is  too  thick,  add  a  little  water.  Serve  this  sauce  with  baked  or 
boiled  meats  or  baked  fish. 

Sauce  For  Timbales. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour. 
Put  cream  in  double  broiler,  and  when  hot,  add  flour  and  butter 
well  blended.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Turn  out  timbales  on  each 
plate,  and  pour  over  the  sauce  while  hot. 

Bordelaise. 

Three-fourths  pint  of  Spanish  sauce,  Y2  pint  sauterne  wine,  1 


96  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


tablespoon  chopped  shallots,  1  tablespoon  cooked  marrow,  %  pod 
red  pepper.  Boil  the  shallots  in  the  wine  until  reduced  one-half,  add 
Spanish  sauce  and  cook  15  minutes,  then  marrow  and  pepper  cut  in 
round  slices.     Boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Sauce  for  Fish. 

Two  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup,  %  coffee  cup  melted  butter, 
y-2  coffee  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  made  mustard,  and  salt.  Mix 
well  and  boil  10  minutes. 

Amherst  Sauce. 

Take  %  pint  of  brown  sauce  and  add  2y2  tablespoons  currant 
jelly,  2%  tablespoons  wine,  1  teaspoon  made  mustard.  Mix  well,- 
then  put  in  saucepan  to  melt  jelly.  Add  wine  when  ready  to  re- 
move from  fire. 

French  Sauce. 

Heat  3  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  water;  put 
in  it  1  slice  of  onion.  Cream  3  tablespoons  butter  and  beat  yolks 
of  3  eggs.  Add  1  saltspoon  paprika  and  1  saltspoon  salt.  Re- 
move the  onion  and  add  hot  liquid  to  the  egg.  Cool  and  stir  the 
sauce  until  of  good  consistency  and  smooth;  then  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  at  a  time  and  stir  until  blended.  When  finished  put  in 
gravy  boat.     Serve  with  broiled  steak  or  chops. 

Celery  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  milk,  %  coffee  cup  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  sifted 
flour,  3  heads  of  celery.  Cut  celery  into  small  cubes  and  boil  in 
water  5  minutes.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler.  When  it  comes  to  boil- 
ing point,  add  butter  and  flour  blended,  and  the  celery,  drained 
from  water.  Simmer  5  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  Serve  with 
boiled  turkey  or  chicken. 

Pepper  Sauce. 

Take  12  red  peppers,  remove  the  seed,  chop  very  fine;  add  1 
tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  4  large  white  onions 
chopped,  6  tumblers  of  vinegar.  Cook  in  porcelain  kettle.  Boil  until 
thick,  keeping  it  covered  all  the  while;  strain  through  a  sieve. 
Cook  about  2  hours. 

Chili  Sauce. 

Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes,  8  onions,  5  coffee  cups  of  vine- 
gar, 1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons  of  salt,  1  of  cinnamon,  1 
of  allspice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cloves  mixed,  3  of  celery  seed,  4  of 
horseradish.  Boil  all  well  together ;  cook  about  6  hours.  Seal  while 
hot. 

Velvet. 

Melt  1  ounce  of  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  stir  until 
smooth,  moisten  with  1  quart  of  chicken  stock  or  veal  stock,  %  cup 
of  mushroom  liquor,  5  pepper  corns,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  97 


nutmeg.  Boil  20  minutes ;  stir  constantly,  skim  well  and  set  on  back 
of  range;  simmer  for  1  hour;  strain  again;  add  more  pepper  and 
salt  if  needed. 

Bordeau  Sauce. 

Chop  separately  1  large  head  of  white  cabbage,  1  dozen  green 
tomatoes,  2  onions,  6  green  peppers,  remove  the  seed.  Sprinkle  all 
with  salt ;  let  it  stand  one  night.  The  next  morning  squeeze  dry  and 
mix  together.  Take  1  quart  of  vinegar  and  add  to  it  1  tablespoon 
each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  mustard  seed ;  let  it  scald.  Then  pour  it 
over  the  mixture,  leave  until  next  day;  repeat  the  process  for  two 
consecutive  mornings,  then  seal  while  hot.  This  is  excellent  for  stuff- 
ing cucumbers  or  peppers  or  to  serve  with  meats. 

French  Dressing. 

One  teacup  of  olive  oil,  y2  teacup  of  vinegar,  white  cayenne  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.    Beat  with  egg  whisk  until  very  light. 

English  Sauce. 

Three  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  cup  of 
white  stock,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  ehives  chopped  finely,  y2  teaspoon  made  mustard,  1  tea- 
spoon grated  harseradish,  y±  cup  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 
Melt  butter ;  add  flour,  then  gradually  the  stock,  salt,  pepper,  mus- 
tard, chives  and  horseradish.  Cook  this  2  minutes,  strain  and  re- 
turn to  saucepan.  Add  cream  and  lemon  juice.  Heat  before  serving. 
Serve  with  hamburg  steak  or  tenderloin  of  beef. 

Horseradish  Sauce. 

Three  tablespoons  of  horseradish,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  ^4 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  4  tablespoons  of  rich 
cream.    Mix  ingredients  and  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff. 

Wine  Sauce  For  Game. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  y2  tumbler  of  port  wine,  y2  tumbler  of 
currant  jelly,  y2  tumbler  of  cold  water,  juice  of  y2  lemon,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  4  whole  cloves,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Simmer  all 
ingredients  5  minutes,  adding  4  tablespoons  gravy  from  the  game. 
Strain  sauce  and  add  the  wine.    Serve  hot  with  venison  or  game. 

Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

Half  a  tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  2%  tablespoons  butter,  y2  onion 
sliced,  1  pint  of  stock,  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  tablespoons  tarragon 
vinegar,  1  bay  leaf,  1  piece  of  celery,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  onion 
and  butter  until  onion  begins  to  color,  then  add  flour  and  herbs,  stir 
until  brown ;  add  the  stock  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Strain  and  re- 
move all  fat,  return  to  saucepan ;  add  jelly,  stir  until  melted.  Serve 
with  meat  or  game. 


98  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Mushroom  Sauce. 

Mushroom  sauce  is  made  by  adding  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
to  1  cup  of  cream  sauce  and  y2  cup  mushrooms  finely  chopped.  Brown 
sauce  may  be  used  instead  of  white  sauce. 

Cream  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons sifted  flour,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Heat  cream,  then 
add  butter  and  flour  well  blended  and  the  seasoning.  Serve  with 
vegetables.  This  sauce  is  nice  for  croquettes  by  using  y2  pint  of 
chicken  stock  and  y2  pint  of  cream. 

Sauce  Julienne. 

To  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  Mayonnaise,  add  %  teaspoon 
each  of  finely  chopped  capers  and  parsley,  1  gherkin  chopped  fine, 
y2  can  of  tomatoes,  strained  and  cooked  until  reduced  to  2  table- 
spoons.    Served  with  any  kind  of  fried  fish. 

Creole  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoons  of  chopped  onion,  2  tablespoons  of  green 
pepper  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  tomatoes,  y±  cup  of 
sliced  mushrooms,  6  stoned  olives,  1  1-3  cups  of  brown  sauce,  salt  and 
pepper.  Use  sherry  wine  for  seasoning.  Cook  onions  and  pepper 
with  butter  5  minutes;  add  the  tomatoes,  mushrooms  and  olives; 
cook  a  few  minutes  and  then  add  brown  sauce.  Bring  to  boiling 
point.    Serve  with  boiled  beefsteak. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

One-third  cup  of  butter,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  \y2  cups 
of  hot  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  half  of  butter,  then  add  flour 
and  seasoning,  adding  gradually  the  hot  water.  Boil  6  minutes,  then 
add  rest  of  butter.    Cook  a  minute. 

Caper  Sauce. 

Use  recipe  for  drawn  butter  sauce,  with  %  cup  of  capers  add- 
ed.   Serve  with  mutton  and  steaks. 

Brown  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  onion  juice,  3  table- 
spoons of  flour,  1  cup  of  brown  stock,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon of  pepper.  Cook  onion  in  butter  until  light  brown;  remove 
onion  and  stir  butter  until  well  brown.  Add  flour  with  the  season- 
ing. Brown  the  flour,  adding  stock  gradually.  Chop  y2  cup  of  mush- 
rooms and  simmer  for  a  few  minutes  in  their  liquor.  Add  the  sauce 
when  ready  to  serve. 

Celery  Sauce. 

Boil  1  head  of  celery  in  cold  water  until  tender,  then  press 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  99 


through  a  sieve.  Beat  yolk  of  1  egg  and  add  to  it  strained  juice  of 
1  lemon,  the  celery  and  4  tablespoons  gravy  from  fowl,  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Mix  well  and  serve  with  meat  or  fowl. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

One  quart  of  cranberries,  1  quart  of  sugar,  1  teacup  cold  water. 
Wash  cranberries  and  put  in  saucepan  with  the  water.  After  it  boils 
15  minutes,  add  sugar,  and  stir  frequently;  cook  about  25  minutes. 
To  mold  cranberries,  when  done  press  through  sieve  into  a  mold,  that 
must  be  rinsed  in  cold  water. 

Brown  Sauce. 

Slice  1  onion  and  fry  in  butter  until  it  changes  color ;  then  add 
1  pint  of  gravy  from  roast  beef,  1  heaping  teaspoon  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  may  be  added. 
Let  sauce  boil  up  once ;  if  too  thick,  thin  with  stock,  pour  through 
a  fine  sieve. 

Bouquet. 

One  stalk  celery,  4  stalks  of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  %  blade 
of  mace,  %  sprig  of  thyme.  Wrap  all  in  the  parsley,  tie  closely  at 
end.    Dry  for  winter  use. 

Nut  Sauce. 

Put  1  pint  of  cream  in  double  boiler,  when  hot  add  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour  well  blended  and  %  pound  of 
chopped  pecans.    Use  with  croquettes  or  peppers. 

Chutney  Sauce. 

Chop  together  very  fine  6  green  sour  apples,  2  green  peppers 
with  seed  removed,  2  onions,  1  coffee  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  table- 
spoon mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  coffee  cup  of  brown  sugar ; 
simmer  for  half  an  hour,  pour  into  small  bottles  and  seal.  Serve 
with  meats  or  fowls. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Remove  the  stems  and  inside  skin  from  1  pint  of  small  mush- 
rooms; add  1  pint  of  cream  and  cook  slowly;  then  1  kitchen  spoon 
of  butter,  x/2  onion,  pepper  and  salt ;  cook  until  consistency  of  cream. 
Serve  with  steak,  poultry  or  fish. 

Sauce  For  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish. 

Let  1  pint  of  rich  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  y2  coffee  cup  of 
butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  worked  to  a  cream,  pepper  and  salt. 
When  ready  to  serve  %  coffee  cup  of  sherry  wine  and  1  tablespoon 
of  capers  may  be  added. 

Sauce  For  Fish. 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter  creamed,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1 
tablespoon  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  stir  until 
smooth  and  serve. 

L.ofC. 


100  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Put  3  yolks  in  a  cold  bowl  which  must  rest  on  a  block  of  ice; 
add  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  stir  rapidly ;  add  the  oil,  drop  at  a  time 
(more  than  1  pint  of  oil  may  be  used),  also  1  tablespoon  of  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice,  with  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  The  quantity  may 
be  increased  by  adding  to  it  when  ready  to  serve,  the  same  amount 
of  whipped  cream  stirred  in  lightly.    Serve  at  once. 

Sauce  For  Fish. 

Take  %  pint  of  Mayonnaise  dressing  and  add  to  it  4  olives,  1 
gherkin,  1  tablespoon  of  capers,  1  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped  fine 
and  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice. 

French  Dressing. 

Put  4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  in  a  cold  bowl,  add  to  it  1  salt- 
spoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  %  saltspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of 
tarragon  or  cider  vinegar. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Cook  1  cup  of  cream  in  double  boiler ;  add  %  cup  of  mushrooms 
that  have  been  previously  cooked  in  their  liquor  and  chopped,  1 
tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  1  dessertspoon  of  butter,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  flour.     When  it  comes  to  boiling  point,  serve. 

Madeira  Sauce. 

Take  1  pint  of  Spanish  sauce,  add  to  it  1  gill  of  Madeira  wine, 
1  gill  of  liquor  from  mushrooms,  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  slowly  for' 
30  minutes.    Skim  off  grease  and  strain. 

Orange  Sauce. 
Add  to  pan  where  game  has  been  cooked,  1  pint  of  broth; 
strain   and  add  %  pint  thick  brown  gravy,   and  the  juice   of  2 
oranges.    Strain  and  add  the  rind  of  1  orange,  shredded.    Serve  with 
duck  or  game. 

Champagne  Sauce. 

Cream  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  flour. 
Put  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  slowly  into  it  %  pint  of  hot,  brown  soup 
stock.  Let  it  boil  up  twice;  remove  from  fire  and  add  y2  pint  of 
champagne.     Serve  with  venison  or  game. 

Horseradish  Sauce. 

One  coffee  cup  freshly  grated  horseradish,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
y2  saltspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  made  mustard,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Mix  well  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  1 
coffee  cup  of  cream,  whipped  until  very  stiff. 

Cucumber  Sauce. 

Grate  2  large  cucumbers  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Squeeze  out  all 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  101 


water,  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper.    Serve  at  once  with  meats. 

Bechamel  Sauce. 

One  pint  white  stock,  2  tablespoons  butter,  4  tablespoons  flour, 
6  mushrooms  or  the  liquor  from  a  half  can,  1  cup  cream,  1%  tabie- 
spoons  lemon  juice.  Cook  flour  and  butter  together;  add  salt  a  ad 
pepper  if  needed.  Add  stock,  then  mushrooms;  simmer  20  min- 
utes partially  covered,  skim  off  fat.  Strain  through  fine  sieve,  then 
add  cream  and  lemon  juice,  boil  4  minutes.  Pour  out  and  stir  while 
cooling.  This  sauce  may  be  used  to  mask  a  chaudfroid  sauco  by 
adding  2  tablespoons  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water  1 
hour. 

Yellow  Bechamel. 

To  make  yellow  Bechamel  use  preceding  recipe  and  add  1  blade 
of  mace,  1  tablespoon  minced  carrot.  After  it  boils  add  yolks  of 
4  eggs  beaten  light  and  stir  into  %  cup  of  cream  just  before  serv- 
ing. 

Russian  Sauce. 

Have  1  pint  of  Bechamel  sauce  and  add  1  teaspoon  powdered 
sugar,  1  scant  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  2  tablespoons  grated  horse- 
radish and  2  tablespoons  of  thick  cream,  or  use  yolks  of  4  eggs 
beaten  light  and  %  pint  of  wine  with  the  Bechamel  sauce. 

Ravigote  Sauce. 

Add  1  tablespoon  each  of  parsley  chopped  fine,  chives,  tarragon 
and  shallot  to  1  pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing.    Serve  cold. 


^SA 


' ' The  various  cares  in  one  great  point  combine . 
The  business  of  their  lives,  that  is  to  dine. ' ' 

—Young. 


Yeast. 

One  large  Irish  potato,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  cake  of  yeast,  1 
tablespoon  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar.  Peel  Irish 
potato,  cover  with  1  quart  of  cold  water  and  boil  until  done,  mash 
and  strain,  then  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  and  enough  lukewarm  water 
from  the  potato  to  mix  it.  Set  aside  to  cool,  then  add  1  tablespoon 
cold  water,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  cake  of  yeast;  stir  up  in  the 
sponge,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  set  to  rise. 

Rolls. 

One  and  one-half  quarts  of  flour  sifted,  4  ounces  cold  lard,  1 
teaspoon  pranulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Add  these  ingredients  to 
flour,  then  the  sponge  and  enough  cold  water  to  mix  it.  In  winter 
use  lukewarm  water.  Knead  dough  until  smooth,  bearing  on  it 
lightly.  Put  in  a  covered  bucket  and  set  to  rise,  then  make  into 
pocketbook  shape  rolls,  put  in  pan,  grease  with  butter,  turn  thin  side 
over,  place  in  pan  to  rise ;  cover  with  cloth  to  exclude  the  air.  Be- 
fore putting  in  oven  to  bake,  brush  top  with  melted  butter. 

Rusk. 

Use  preceding  recipe  for  rolls,  make  in  morning,  and  set  to  rise. 
In  afternoon  add  to  the  dough,  1  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  yolks 
of  4  eggs.  Knead,  then  pinch  off  pieces  of  dough,  shape  with  the 
hand,  place  in  buttered  pan,  grease  top  of  rusk  generously  with 
melted  butter.    Set  to  rise,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Yeast. 

Put  one  good-sized  potato  in  a  quart  of  water  and  boil  until  the 
water  is  reduced  to  one  pint,  then  mash  the  potato  and  add  a  half 
pint  of  flour.  Use  the  water  from  the  potato  and  stir  well.  Set  aside 
to  cool,  and  add  %  cake  of  yeast,  and  2  teaspoons  of  sugar;  set  to 
rise. 

Rolls. 

Sift  1  quart  of  flour,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  teacup  of  yeast.  Work  dough  until 
smooth ;  if  not  soft  enough,  add  a  little  water.    Set  to  rise. 

(102) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  103 

Sally  Lunn. 

Sift  iy2  pints  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
not  quite  a  teacup  of  good  yeast,  1  egg  well  beaten.  "Work  the  but- 
ter and  flour  together,  add  salt,  then  egg  and  yeast  slowly.  Have 
batter  soft  and  let  rise  4  hours ;  take  from  pan  and  put  in  dish  to  rise 
2  hours  before  baking. 

Sally  Lunn  Without  Yeast. 

Beat  3  eggs  separately ;  2  pints  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  use  sweet  milk, 
make  a  batter  and  bake  quickly. 

Rusk. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour  (sifted),  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, a  small  piece  of  lard,  1  egg  well  beaten,  a  little  nutmeg,  half  a 
teacup  of  granulated  sugar;  add  these  to  flour,  then  %  of  a  cup  of 
yeast.  Stir  lightly  with  a  spoon  in  the  beginning,  then  work  with 
the  hand,  and  if  necessary  add  a  little  more  flour.  Mix  a  little  flour 
and  butter  to  rub  on  the  top ;  put  in  pan  and  set  to  rise  about  11 
o'clock  a.  m. 

Yeast. 

Boil  1  good-sized  potato  until  well  done,  then  put  in  a  bowl  and 
mash  thoroughly,  add  3  kitchen  spoons  of  flour  and  enough  hot  po- 
tato water  to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Set  aside  to  cool,  add  1  cake  of 
yeast  after  dissolving  it  in  cold  water.    Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 

Rolls. 

One  quart  of  flour  sifted,  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  1  teacup  of  yeast,  enough  water  to  make  of  good  consistency. 
Put  in  a  bucket ;  cover  with  top  and  allow  it  to  rise.  When  shaping 
the  rolls,  grease  the  top  and  also  the  pan. 

Sally  Lunn. 

One  quart  of  flour  sifted,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  1  kitchen 
spoon  of  lard,  1  even  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  eggs. 
Beat  the  eggs,  stir  into  the  flour  and  add  about  2  teacups  of  yeast. 
Stir  well ;  add  all  ingredients.  Set  to  rise,  then  roll  out  and  put  in 
well-greased  pan.  Also  grease  between  the  layers  and  on  top.  Set 
to  rise  again.    Bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

One  egg  well  beaten,  1  pint  of  butter  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.    Beat  well  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Pin  Perdu. 

Take  slices  of  stale  light  bread,  2  eggs,  iy2  teacups  new  milk, 
%  teacup  of  sugar.    Make  a  custard  of  milk,  sugar  and  eggs.    Dip 


104  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 


bread  in  this  and  fry  on  a  greased  hot  griddle,  using  butter;  turn 
while  cooking.    Serve  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Apple  Bread. 

One  quart  of  flour,  3  large  apples  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  lard, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  2  coffee  cups  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Sift  flour,  with  soda  and  salt  added ;  then  lard  well  worked  in,  and 
the  armies  and  milk.  Make  hoecake  an  inch  thick.  Bake  in  oven 
a  chestnut  brown. 

Fruit  Biscuit. 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2y2  pounds  of  flour,  3  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  %  pound  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4  ounces 
granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  some  citron  and.  raisins,  enough  new  milk 
to  make  soft  dough.  Cut  with  a  cutter.  Brush  the  top  with  milk 
and  eggs.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Rolls. 

Add  to  1  pint  of  hot  milk  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
butter  and  lard;  let  it  cool,  add  1  compressed  yeast  cake ;  place  in  the 
center  of  1  quart  of  flour,  stirring  in  flour  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter. Cover  and  let  it  rise,  knead  in  rest  of  flour,  let  it  rise  double. 
Roll  out  to  %  inch,  cut  with  form,  indent  each,  brush  over  with 
butter,  fold  y2  over  the  other,  put  in  pan,  cover  for  1  hour,  then  bake 
20  minutes. 

Pulled  Bread. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  cud  sour  buttermilk,  21/2,  kitchen  spoons  of 
goose  grease,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  together,  then 
put  in  covered  bucket  to  sour  one  day.  Set  bucket  in  pot  of  hot 
water,  boil  3  hours.  Remove  from  bucket,  place  in  oven  15  minutes 
to  dry.    Cut  in  slices  and  serve  cold. 

Pinch  Rolls. 

Use  roll  recipe;  make  bread  in  the  morning;  in  the  afternoon, 
pinch  off  pieces  of  dough  size  of  an  egg,  shape  with  the  hand,  put 
rolls  close  together  in  covered  pan,  grease  well  on  top  with  butter. 
Set  to  rise,  then  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Krimneys. 

One  pint  of  sifted  flour,  2  ounces  cold  lard,  %  teaspoon  salt.  \  9 
teacup  ice  water,  with  1  tablespoon  milk.  Mix  in  lard  dry,  the  salt, 
then  water  and  milk;  if  not  soft  enough  add  more  milk;  beat  until 
dough  blisters.  Cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter,  then  roll  each  one  into  a 
thin  sheet,  stick  with  fork,  place  in  pan  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

Wafers. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
enough  new  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough.    Knead,  then  break  off  pieces 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  105 


of  dough  and  roll  into  thin  sheet.     Bake  in  hot  oven  a  chestnut 
brown. 

Graham  Bread. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  Graham  flour,  %  cup  white  flour,  % 
cup  sugar,  \V2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  %  teaspoon  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly,  usmg  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter,  stir  with 
a  spoon.  Water  may  be  substituted  for  milk;  in  that  case  add  1 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter.    Bake  in  a  greased  pan. 

Tea  Rolls. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  y>  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  lukewarm 
milk,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  1-3  cup  of  butter,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  enough  lukewarm  milk  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff 
dough ;  set  to  rise.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes.  If  desired  for 
breakfast  make  rolls  at  night. 

Corn  Bread.    (Use  "Indian  Meal"). 

One  egg,  %  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  pint  meal,  1  pint  milk, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter.  1  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  sugar  and  egg 
together:  add  to  this  half  of  the  milk,  all  of  the  meal,  butter  and 
salt,  half  of  flour,  and  rest  of  milk;  sift  baking  powder  into  flour 
and  beat  hard.   Grease  the  pan  with  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Hoecake. 

Take  1  quart  of  sifted  corn  meal,  1  dessertspoon  lard,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  sufficient  boiling  water  to  moisten,  beat  hard  with  a 
kitchen  spoon,  shape  into  round  cakes,  bake  on  the  griddle ;  turn 
while  cooking. 

Corn  Meal  Scones. 

Put  2  cups  of  corn  meal  in  a  bowl,  add  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder ;  mix  well  together,  1  heap- 
ing teaspoon  butter,  1  cup  flour.  Add  to  this  milk  to  make  a  batter" 
that  will  drop,  not  pour  from  a  spoon.   Bake  in  muffin  rings. 

French  Rolls. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
2/4  cup  of  yeast,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  flour  for  a  stiff  dough.  Make 
at  night  and  set  to  rise ;  in  the  morning  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  knead 
and  let  rise  again.  Pinch  off  pieces  of  dough  size  of  an  egg,  then 
shape  into  roll  3  inches  long,  place  close  together  in  a  buttered  pan, 
cover  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  a  chestnut  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

English  Buns. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  %  cup  yeast,  flour  for  a  thick 
batter.  Set  this  sponge  at  night:  next  morning  add  %  cup  melted 
butter,  y2  cup  granulated  sugar,  *4  nutmeg  grated,  y>  saltspoon  salt, 
y±  teaspoon  soda  and  enough  flour  to  make  it  roll  out  as  biscuit. 


106  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Knead  and  set  to  rise  5  hours.  Roll  dough  %  inch  thick,  cut  in 
round  shape  and  place  in  a  buttered  pan,  indent  on  top  with  a  knife ; 
let  rise;  bake  a  chestnut  brown.  Brush  over  top  with  white  of  1 
egg  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sugar. 

Raised  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  butter  and  lard  mixed,  y2  cup  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  moderately  thick  batter.  Set  in  a  warm  place  until  light, 
then  stir  in  2  well-beaten  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  water ;  leave  for  30  minutes  to  rise,  then  bake  in  greased 
muffin  rings  in  quick  oven. 

Plain  Muffins. 

One  pint  buttermilk,  %  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  2  tablespoons  of  sour  cream.  Put  in  hot  greased 
muffin  rings :  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour  sifted,  lard  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
34  pint  of  water  and  ^  pint  of  sweet  milk  mixed ;  make  dough  stiff, 
work  until  smooth ;  cook  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  4  ounces  of  cold  lard,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  1  teacup  of  ice  water  with  1  tablespoon  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  in 
lard  dry  with  the  salt  in  flour,  then  add  the  milk  and  water.  Beat 
until  they  blister ;  if  not  soft  enough  a  little  more  ice  water  can  be 
added.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Glazed  Bread. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread,  sprinkle  thickly  with  rolled  lump 
sugar;  glaze  in  a  moderate  oven. 

New  English  Muffins. 

Sift  2  coffee  cups  of  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt ;  mix  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Make  a  soft  dough 
by  adding  sweet  milk.  Have  muffin  rings  buttered  and  quite  hot; 
pour  in  the  batter;  cook  slowly,  browning  each  side.   Serve  at  once. 

To  make  perfect  biscuit  use  a  kitchen  spoon  of  right  size  in 
measuring  the  lard.  Stick  biscuit  with  a  silver  fork  3  times  entirely 
through.  Have  lard  and  flour  quite  cold  before  beginning  to  make 
biscuit. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  Indian  meal,  %  cup  white 
flour,  i/2  cup  of  molasses,  V/o  cups  sour  milk,  %  teaspoon  soda,  1 
teaspoon  salt.    Mix  well,  put  bread  ^n  greased  mold  and  steam  3^ 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  107 

hours.     After  removing  from  mold  place  in  oven  to  dry  about  10 
minutes.    Serve  hot. 

German  Bread. 

One  pint  of  milk  boiled,  1  teacup  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  lard,  2-3  cup  of  baker's  yeast.  Make  a  sponge 
with  the  milk  and  yeast,  set  to  rise.  When  light  add  shortening, 
sugar  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  as  can  be  handled.  Flour  the 
board,  place  on  the  dough  and  roll  into  loaf  Y2  inch  thick,  put  in 
pan,  make  indentures  on  top  with  the  finger  and  put  in  bits  of  but- 
ter, sift  over  the  sugar  and  a  dash  of  cinnamon.  Set  to  rise,  then 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes. 

Rye  Bread. 

Take  1  pint  of  warm  water  and  add  enough  wheat  flour  to  make 
a  smooth  batter,  then  stir  in  y±  gill  of  made  yeast  and  set  to  rise. 
In  the  morning  add  iy2  pounds  of  rye  flour,  make  a  hole  in  the 
center  of  flour  and  pour  in  the  sponge  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  y2 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Knead  the  dough, 
if  needed  add  warm  water,  make  into  loaf  and  cover,  leave  for  3 
hours  to  rise,  then  knead  again,  make  into  loaf  and  bake  in  oven. 

Raised  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  y2  pint  of  new  milk  or  warm  water,  14  cup 
of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  %  cup  of  yeast,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Put  flour 
in  mixing  pan,  make  a  hole  in  center,  pour  in  the  milk,  add  shorten- 
ing, salt,  then  the  yeast;  add  a  little  more  flour,  stir  with  the  hand. 
Leave  to  rise  until  morning,  then  add  y2  teaspoon  soda,  and  if 
needed  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mould  in  loaf,  let  rise  30  min- 
utes, roll  about  y2  inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  put  in 
pan  to  rise  again,  rub  top  and  side  of  biscuit  with  melted  butter. 
When  light  set  in  oven  to  bake. 

Lemon  Biscuit. 

One  cup  butter,  2%  cups  sugar,  \y2  pints  of  flour,  4  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  extract  of  lemon.  Mix  butter, 
sugar  and  beaten  eggs  until  smooth,  add  flour,  sifted  with  baking 
.powder  and  the  lemon  extract.  Flour  the  board,  roll  out  the  dough 
14  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  put  biscuit  on  a  greased 
tin.  brush  over  with  milk,  place  t&  slice  of  citron  on  each  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  10  minutes. 

London  Crumpets. 

One  pint  of  cream  and  milk  in  equal  proportion,  V/2  pints  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  egg,  1  teaspoon  extract  of  cinnamon.  Sift  together  flour,  sugar, 
salt  and  baking  powder,  add  cream,  egg  and  extract.  Mix  into 
rather  firm  batter,  grease  muffin  rings,  fill  half  full,  place  on  hot 
greased  griddle,  bake  only  on  one  side.  Serve  hot  with  cottage 
cheese. 


108  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Sally  Lunn. 
One  quart  of  flour,  %  cake  yeast,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon water,  4  eggs,  1%  pints  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 

1  tablespoon  melted  lard.  Dissolve  yeast  in  water ;  have  yolks  beaten 
and  stir  into  milk,  put  lard  and  butter  in  flour,  but  it  must  not  be 
hot  enough  to  kill  the  yeast;  add  the  milk,  then  add  the  sponge. 
Mix  with  spoon,  put  in  crock  and  set  to  rise.  In  afternoon  when 
ready  to  make  out  add  stiffly-beaten  whites,  roll  on  biscuit  board, 
put  in  greased  Sally  Lunn  pan,  grease  on  top,  set  to  rise.  Place  pan 
in  oven,  bake  20  minutes,  pour  melted  butter  between  layers.  Slice 
and  serve  at  once. 

Milk  Rising  Bread. 

Take  %  pint  of  new  milk  and  boil  it,  then  cool  sufficiently  with 
water,  so  it  does  not  burn  the  fingers.  Add  to  milk  2  tablespoons 
of  sifted  meal,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  put 
yeast  in  a  pitcher.  Set  it  in  a  pot  of  warm  water.  Beat  it  down  3 
times  (once  everj^  hour.)  By  12  or  1  o'clock  it  should  be  ready  to 
make  the  bread.  Do  not  allow  it  to  cool.  Have  6  pints  of  flour 
sifted  and  add  the  yeast  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  a  toler- 
ably stiff  dough.  Add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  lard.  Make  into  loaf,  let 
rise  again,  then  bake. 

Fresh  Corn  Griddle  Cakes. 

Twelve  ears  of  corn  grated,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  but- 
ter, 1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  well,  bake  on  a  hot  griddle.  Serve  for 
breakfast. 

Corn  Popovers. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  pint  of 
sifted  corn  meal.  When  cool  add  3  well-beaten  eggs.  Put  in  hot 
gem  pans  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

Popovers. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1%  cups  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  or  lard,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat 
yolks,  add  to  it  the  butter,  then  milk,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Stir 
in  lightly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  hot  muffin  rings. 

Potato  Biscuit. 

Boil  6  Irish  potatoes  in  their  jackets,  then  drain  and  squeeze 
in  a  cloth  to  insure  being  dry;  remove  skin,  mash  smooth,  add  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  1  egg.  Stir  until  free  of  lumps. 
"When  cold  beat  in  y2  cup  of  yeast  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Set  to  rise,  then  make  in  small  round  cakes.  Let  rise  again 
and  bake  a  chestnut  brown.  This  dough  is  excellent  dropped  into 
meat  soups  or  for  pot  pie. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  109 


Cracknels. 

One  enp  rich  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  %  gill  of  yeast,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  add  flour  enough  for  a  light  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  in 
long  pieces  3  inches  wide,  stick  with  a  fork.   Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Squash  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sifted  squash,  4  tablespoons 
granulated  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt.   Bake  like  tea  cakes. 

Rye  Muffins. 

One  cup  rye  meal,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  rich  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  y2 
teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  egg.  Mix  the  dry  in- 
gredients, add  milk  to  beaten  egg  and  stir  well  with  rest  of  mix- 
ture. Bake  20  minutes  in  rings  in  a  quick  oven. 

German  Waffles. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  creamed  butter,  add  yolks  of 
6  eggs,  one  at  time,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel.  Mix  well,  bake 
in  greased  irons.    Serve  hot  with  powdered  sugar  or  maple  syrup. 

Gluten  Wafers. 

One-half  cup  of  cream,  1  saltspoon  salt,  and  gluten  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Knead,  roll  thin  in  long  rolls,  place  on  unbuttered  tin ; 
bake  a  chestnut  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cream  Biscuit. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Work  until 
dough  blisters.     Cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  whole  wheat  flour,  2  even  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  well-beaten  egg,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Mix  the  beaten  egg,  with  the 
milk,  pour  it  over  the  flour,  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients,  add 
the  melted  butter,  beat  well.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  hot  buttered 
gem  iron ;  bake  about  30  minutes.  . 

Graham  Gems. 

Cream  1%  tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  heaping  tablespoons  of 
light  brown  sugar.  Add  1  well-beaten  egg  and  1  teacup  of  sweet 
milk.  Sift  together  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  cup  of  white  flour  and  %  cup  of  Graham  flour.  Bake  in  gem  pans 
in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  for  breakfast  or  tea. 


110  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Beaten  Biscuit. 

Take  1  quart  of  flour  after  it  has  been  sifted  and  add  1  table- 
spoon of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  teacup  of  icewater  and  milk, 
mix  a  stiff  dough  and  beat  until  soft.    Cook  in  hot  oven. 

Yeast  Powder  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Cut  biscuit  out,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

English  Biscuit. 

One  and  one-fourth  pints  of  flour,  1  coffee  cup  of  corn  starch,  3 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der, 3  tablespoons  of  lard,  1  egg,  %  pint  of  milk,  x/2  cup  of  currants. 
Sift  together  flour,  corn  starch,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Rub 
in  the  lard  cold,  add  egg  well-beaten;  milk,  currants  (picked  and 
dried).  Mix  into  smooth  dough  soft  enough  to  handle.  Flour  the 
board  and  turn  out  the  dough.  Roll  to  half  inch  thickness;  cut  with 
round  cutter.  Lay  on  greased  tins,  and  bake  in  rather  hot  oven  20 
minutes.    Rub  over  with  a  little  butter  when  taken  from  the  oven. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  1  pint  of  buttermilk.  Sift  flour  and  add  lard,  salt 
and  soda.  Mix  well ;  add  buttermilk  and  work  very  little.  Cut  out 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Delicate  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  %  cup 
butter,  1  teaspoon  granulated  sugar,  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Roll 
into  sheet  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  small  round  or  square  bis- 
cuit.   Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Serve  for  tea,  or  as  a  simple  dessert  with  preserves  or  maple 
syrup.    Half  the  recipe  may  be  used. 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuit. 

Take  1  pint  of  whole  wheat  flour  sifted,  %  pint  buttermilk,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  soda,  1  kitchen  spoon  lard.  Mix  and  bake 
in  hot  oven. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  buckwheat  flour  sifted,  2  tablespoons  granulated 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  white  flour,  %  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little 
lukewarm  water,  enough  milk  and  water  in  equal  proportions  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  "When  yeast  is  dissovled,  mix  in  flour  and  sugar, 
milk  and  water.  Put  in  crock  to  rise,  in  morning  add  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  soda;  more  milk  and  water  may  be  added  to  make 
batter  of  right  consistency.    Stir,  bake  on  hot  greased  griddle. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  '        111 


Waffles. 

One  pint  of  flour,  l1/^  coffee  cups  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  2  round- 
ed teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  yolks,  add  milk  and  flour,  reserving  a  little  of  the  batter 
for  baking  powder.  It  must  all  be  beaten  to  a  cream;  then  stir  in 
lightly  the  flour,  the  baking  powder  and  whites.  Grease  waffle  irons 
with  butter,  and  fill  %  full  of  batter.    Cook  to  a  chestnut  brown. 

Mush. 

One  pint  of  sifted  meal,  1  quart  of  cold  water,  salt  to  taste.  Let 
water  come  to  a  boil;  stir  in  meal  gradually,  then  add  salt.  If  it 
should  be  too  thin  add  more  meal,  and  if  too  thick,  thin  with  sweet 
milk. 

Mush  is  very  nice  served  hot  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  put  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  when  cold  cut  in  strips;  sprinkle  with  sifted  flour; 
fry  in  hot  lard ;  serve  for  breakfast. 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuit. 

Sift  1  quart  of  whole  wheat  flour,  add  to  it  1  kitchen  spoon  of 
lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  sufficient  buttermilk  to 
make  a  stiff  dough;  work  it  and  cut  in  round  shape.  Bake  in  hot 
oven. 

Whole  Wheat  Rolls. 

Take  2  pints  of  flour,  sift  it ;  add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  lard,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  coffee  cup  of  yeast  and  enough  warm 
water  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  work  it  and  set  to  rise;  form 
into  rolls ;  set  to  rise  again,  then  bake. 

Cream  Waffles. 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  cornmeal, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs.  Beat  eggs  light  and  add 
the  cream,  stir  in  flour,  cornmeal  and  salt;  add  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  sweet  milk,  then  stir  in  lightly,  whites  beaten  to  a  froth;  cook 
in  hot  greased  waffle  irons. 

Rice  Waffles. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  2  eggs,  %  pint  new  milk,  %  cup  warm  boiled  rice,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder 
together,  rub  butter  into  flour,  then  add  beaten  yolks  and  rice,  lastly 
add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.    Bake  in  hot  greased  waffle  irons. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

Heat  y2  pint  of  new  milk,  add  to  it  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 
let  it  melt,  then  add  y2  pint  of  cold  milk,  2  yolks  beaten  light,  2  table- 
spoons of  yeast,  1  teaspoon  salt,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  set  over 
night,  or  allow  4  hours  to  rise.    "When  ready  to  bake,  add  the  frothed 


112  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


whites.    Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle.    To  vary  the  cakes,  use  half 
flour  and  half  cornmeal  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

French  Bread. 

One  quart  of  flour,  y2  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
1  tablespoon  melted  lard,  ^  cup  of  yeast,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients,  then  stir  in  the  sifted  flour;  knead  lightiy 
and  put  in  covered  bucket  to  rise ;  make  into  1  large  roll,  gash  on  top 
with  a  knife  and  set  in  oven  to  bake. 

Waffles. 

One  quart  of  flour,  3  eggs,  lard  size  of  a  hen  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
%  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  with  sour  cream  until  of  right  consistency. 
Bake  in  hot  greased  irons. 

Wheat  Muffins. 

Six  ounces  of  flour,  3  ounces  butter  and  lard  mixed,  %  pint  of 
new  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs.  Put  butter  in  flour,  beat  yolks 
and  with  milk,  add  to  flour,  salt  and  the  frothed  whites  stirred  in 
lightly.     Put  in  hot,  greased  muffin  rings  and  bake  quickly. 

Yeast  Muffins. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  1  pint  new  milk,  1  dessertspoon 
butter,  ^cup  of  yeast,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  eggs.  Mix  milk  with  flour, 
also  beaten  yolks,  salt  and  melted  mutter,  then  pour  in  yeast.  Set  to 
rise  at  night.  When  ready  to  bake  in  morning,  add  stiffly-beaten 
whites.    Grease  muffin  rings  and  bake  in  quick  oven  30  minutes. 

Graham  Muffins. 

One  coffee  cup  of  Graham  flour,  1  coffee  cup  white  flour,  1  pint 
new  milk,  1  kitchen  spoon  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  egg.  Stir  sifted  flour  into  the  milk,  add  melted  butter, 
salt  and  beaten  egg ;  mix  well,  then  sift  in  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
greased  muffin  rings,  in  quick  oven. 

Wheat  Muffins. 

One  heaping  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon 
of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  not  quite  a  pint  of  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon 
of  soda,  thin  with  sweet  milk.  Have  muffin  rings  greased,  and  toler- 
ably hot;  pour  in  the  batter. 

Waffles. 

One  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  lard  size  of  a  walnut,  1 
pint  of  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  mix  and  stir  in  lightly  and 
beat  well.    Thin  with  sweet  milk,  cook  in  hot  irons. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  rye  flour,  2  cups  of  cornmeal,  2  cups  of  but- 
termilk, 1  cup  black  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  %  teaspoon  of  salt. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  113 


Bake  2y2  hours  with  slow  fire.    Fill  the  tin  mold  only  half  full  so 
that  it  may  rise. 

Velvet  Muffins. 

One  heaping  pint  of  flour,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  4  eggs  beaten 
separately,  lard  size  of  a  walnut.  Beat  very  hard  until  batter  is 
light ;  add  whites  and  cook  at  once  in  hot  rings. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  egg  beaten  separately,  add  1  pint  of  butter- 
milk to  the  yolk  and  beat  lightly,  %  teaspoon  of  soda,  then  salt. 
Add  flour  gradually,  beat  until  smooth,  then  whites  and  lastly  1  tea- 
spoon of  cool  melted  lard. 

Graham  Gems. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  Graham  flour  sifted,  3  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard,  and  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  egg  well  beaten,  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Stir  well  and  add  sweet 
milk,  making  a  batter ;  fill  the  muffin  rings  and  bake. 

Snails. 

In  making  snails,  use  recipe  for  light  rolls.  Make  bread  in  the 
morning  and  set  to  rise.  In  afternoon,  take  dough  and  with  rolling 
pin  roll  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  Then  spread  with  melted 
butter,  sprinkle  thickly  with  granulated  sugar  and  cover  with  rais- 
ins; sprinkle  over  a  little  powdered  cinnamon.  Form  into  a  long 
roll,  cut  with  knife  into  pieces  y2  inch  long ;  butter  each  snail  on  top, 
sprinkle  on  sugar  and  add  three  raisins.  Place  in  bread  pan  suffi- 
ciently far  apart  to  allow  for  rising.  When  risen  bake  a  chestnut 
brown.     They  are  delicious  served  hot  or  cold  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  pint  buckwheat  flour  sifted,  stir  into  it  1  teacup  of  made 
yeast,  enough  warm  water  for  a  stiff  batter  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let 
it  rise  several  hours.  When  ready  to  cook,  stir  it  down  and  add 
lard  size  of  an  egg  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Use  enough  hot  sweet  milk 
to  make  right  consistency.    Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  sifted  buckwheat  flour,  1  coffee  cup 
of  cornmeal,  1  coffee  cup  yeast,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  lard,  mix- 
ed and  melted,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar.  Mix  the  buck- 
wheat with  the  yeast,  using  a  granite  spoon;  add  meal,  salt  and 
enough  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  In  the  morning  stir 
it,  add  sugar,  lard  and  a  pinch  of  soda,  thin  with  a  little  sweet  milk. 
If  wanted  for  breakfast  make  at  8  o'clock  in  the  evening,  and  for  tea, 
make  about  10  a.  m. 


114  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Bread  Sticks. 

Ordinary  bread  dough  can  be  used  by  adding  more  shortening, 
but  if  the  sticks  are  to  be  served  with  a  green  salad,  use  above  roll 
recipe.  Tear  off  pieces  from  the  risen  dough,  size  of  a  butternut, 
roll  into  sticks,  lay  in  an  oiled  nan  which  comes  for  this  purpose. 
Bake  15  minutes.  Tie  3  or  4  with  baby  ribbon,  serving  each  guest 
with  a  bundle. 

Pop  Overs. 

Three  eggs,  2  coffee  cups  of  flour,  2  coffee  cups  of  sweet  milk. 
y%  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  eggs  together  until  very  light;  add  milk, 
then  flour  gradually  and  salt.  Beat  very  hard;  strain  the  batter,  fill 
muffin  rings  %  full,  and  cook  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Pop  Overs. 

Have  2  well-beaten  eggs,  add  1  teacup  of  milk,  V2  teaspoon  of 
salt.  In  another  bowl,  put  1  sifted  cup  of  flour,  and  pour  gradually 
the  milk  mixture  into  this,  beating  until  smooth,  strain  this  batter: 
then  fill  hot  oiled  cups  or  gem  iron  a  little  more  than  half  full.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Squash  Bread. 

One  cup  stewed  and  sifted  squash,  1  tablespoon  butter,  y2  cup 
yeast,  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  1%  cups  scalded  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  flour  enough  for  a  dough.  Add  sugar  and  salt  to  the 
squash,  the  butter  melted  in  hot  milk ;  when  cool  add  flour  and  yeast ; 
knead  20  minutes,  set  to  rise.  Make  into  loaf  or  biscuits,  let  rise 
again,  then  bake. 

Brown  Bread. 

One  pint  Graham  flour,  1  pint  cornmeal,  1  cup  molasses,  1  pint 
sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  meal  and  flour, 
salt  and  soda,  add  sour  cream  and  molasses,  beat  well,  if  not  moist 
enough,  add  a  little  lukewarm  water.  Pour  into  a  greased  mold,  fill 
about  2-3  full,  cover  with  greased  top,  steam  3  hours  in  a  steamer, 
or  put  mold  in  pot  for  boiling  water,  replenish  with  boiling  water 
as  needed.    Remove  top,  set  mold  in  oven  15  minutes. 

Rice  Flannel  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  pint  milk,  y2  cup  boiled  rice,  1  dessertspoon 
butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  yolk, 
add  milk,  flour,  rice,  butter  melted  and  salt,  add  white  well  frothed. 
Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

One  pint  flour,  1  pint  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  y2  tea  soda,  1  teaspoon  melted  butter  or  lard.  Beat  yolk,  add 
sour  cream,  flour  gradually,  salt,  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  sour 
cream,  then  frothed  white.    Bake  on  a  greased  hot  griddle. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  115 

Pumpkin  Bread. 

One  quart  of  meal  sifted,  1  pint  of  pumpkin  (after  cooking),  1 
kitchen  spoon  of  lard,  2  teaspoons  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Work  all  together,  make  in  pones  and  bake  in  oven. 

Rye  Bread. 

One  cup  of  scalded  milk,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  of 
lard,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1-3  cup  of  brown  sugar,  3  cups  flour, 
y±  cup  yeast  dissolved  in  ^  cup  lukewarm  water,  iy2  teaspoons  salt, 
rye  meal.  Add  butter,  lard  and  salt  to  milk  and  water,  and  when 
lukewarm  add  the  yeast  and  flour.  Mix  well  and  put  in  pan  to  rise 
several  hours.  Add  rye  meal  until  dough  is  stiff  enough ;  knead  well* 
let  rise,  shape  in  loaves ;  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Take  one  coffee  cup  full  of  meal  after  it  is  sifted,  2  cups  of 
Graham  flour,  sift  it,  then  put  in  the  bran,  also  1  cup  of  black  mo- 
lasses, enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  1  teaspoon  of  soda ; 
grease  mold  with  lard  and  let  it  get  warm,  then  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture.   Fill  mold  half  full  and  bake  slowly  for  2  or  3  hours. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Sift  1  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  dissolve  %  cake  of  yeast  in  a 
little  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Stir  well,  and  put  in  a 
little  salt.  Let  rise  until  morning  in  a  tolerably  warm  place.  Stir  it 
down,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard  and  butter  mixed,  1  well- 
beaten  yolk,  a  pinch  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint 
of  sweet  milk.    Bake  on  a  greased  hot  griddle. 

Croutons. 

Cut  bread  in  slices,  y±  inch  thick.  Remove  the  crust  and  cut  in 
squares,  or  use  the  biscuit  cutter.  Dip  each  piece  in  melted  butter, 
toast  a  nice  brown  and  serve  with  cream  soups,  or  garnish  any 
stewed  dish. 

Cream  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  flour,  iy±  cups  of  cream,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  twice, 
add  yolks  beaten  light,  then  cream,  and  fold  in  the  whites.  Bake 
in  muffin  tins,  and  serve  hot.  Substitute  meal  for  flour  and  prepare 
same  way,  as  it  makes  delicious  muffins. 

Muffins. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  dessertspoon  butter  and  lard  mixed,  3  eggs,  1 

teaspoon  salt,  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.    Cook  in  hot  muffin  rings. 

For  corn  muffins,  substitute  meal  for  flour  and  prepare  same  way. 


116  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Rusk. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  teacup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs, 
1  teacup  of  good  yeast.  Make  it  in  morning  and  set  to  rise;  if  it 
comes  too  early,  work  down  the  dough  and  let  rise  a  second  time. 
Put  in  buttered  pan,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  same  pan.  Spread  with 
melted  butter  and  serve  at  once. 

Swedish  Rolls. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk  scalded,  14  cup  of  butter,  %  cup  of  sugar, 
white  of  1  egg,  %  teaspoon  salt,  y±  cup  yeast,  Sy2  cups  flour.  Melt 
butter,  put  sugar  and  salt  in  hot  milk,  when  lukewarm  add  yeast 
and  beaten  white,  enough  flour  to  make  a  sponge  batter,  set  to  rise. 
In  the  morning,  add  rest  of  flour  and  knead  20  minutes ;  let  rise  again, 
knead  lightly,  roll  into  sheet  %  inch  thick.  Spread  top  with  soft 
butter,  dredge  with  sugar,  put  on  some  currants,  grated  lemon 
rind,  a  dash  of  cinnamon.  Roll  up,  cut  off  slices  an  inch  wide,  place 
on  a  well-greased  pan,  let  rise,  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  "When  done, 
glaze  top  with  sugar  dissolved  in  milk,  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
glaze. 

Salt  Rising  Bread. 

Take  %  pint  of  new  milk,  and  i/>  pint  of  water,  put  on  to  boil. 
After  you  take  from  the  fire  add  1  light  spoon  of  salt ;  when  it  cools 
a  little,  stir  in  a  handful  of  meal,  and  set  to  rise ;  next  morning  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise  in  a  pan  surrounded 
by  hot  water,  then  add  it  to  3  pints  of  flour,  lard  size  of  an  egg,  and 
enough  warm  water  to  make  a  dough,  not  too  stiff.  Let  it  rise  again, 
then  bake  in  a  loaf. 

Croutons. 

Cut  bread  in  small  dice,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  cream 
soups. 

Whole  Wheat  Puffs. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  cup  of  thin  cream,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  egg. 
Beat  white  of  egg  to  stiff  froth,  to  the  yolk  add  the  cream  and  milk. 
Beat  until  very  light,  then  gradually  add  the  flour.  Beat  hard  for  10 
minutes,  then  stir  iu  lightly  the  beaten  white  of  egg;  turn  at  once 
into  heated  irons  and  bake.     Serve  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Wafers. 

One  pint  of  whole  wheat  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon salt;  make  into  a  stiff  dough,  with  sweet  milk.  Break  off 
pieces  of  dough;  roll  into  a  thin  sheet.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a 
chestnut  brown. 

Sweet  Potato  Bread. 

Three  good-sized  sweet  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  flour,  %  teacup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil 
potatoes  in  jacket  and  when  thoroughly  done,  run  through  a  sieve. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  117 


Add  all  ingredients  and  beat  well,  bake  in  loaf  or  in  a  pudding  dish. 
Serve  hot. 

Corn  Bread. 

One  quart  of  cornnieal,  1  kitchen  spoon  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1 
teacup  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs.  Scald  meal  with  a  little  boiling 
water,  add  salt,  beaten  yolks,  milk,  butter  melted,  frothed  whites. 
Put  bread  in  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Cracklin  Bread. 

One  quart  of  cornmeal,  %  Pmt  cracklins,  mashed  fine,  %  tea- 
spoon salt,  mix  with  fresh  buttermilk  or  lukewarm  water.  Bake  in 
pan  in  hot  oven  or  make  in  oval  cakes  and  bake  on  a  greased  griddle. 

Corn  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  cornmeal,  1  teacup  buttermilk,  1  light  tablespoon 
lard,  1  tablespoon  sifted  flour,  1  beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon soda.  Beat  yolks  light,  add  milk,  reserving  some  to  dissolve 
soda,  meal,  lard,  then  soda  and  stiffly  beaten  white.  Bake  in  hot 
greased  muffin  rings  or  in  pan. 

Flour  may  be  substituted  for  meal  and  prepared  in  same  way. 

Spoon  Bread. 

Have  one  pint  of  mush  tolerably  soft  and  add  to  it  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt ;  add  more  milk  if  the  batter  is  not  thin  enough ;  cook 
about  2  hours. 

Grits  Cakes. 

Have  one  pint  of  cold  grits,  add  to  it  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  1%  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
salt  to  taste ;  add  whites  last  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Corn  Bread. 

One  pint  of  meal  sifted,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  pint  of  buttermilk.  Beat  3  eggs  light 
and  add  them  to  meal.  Stir  well,  then  put  in  butter  and  salt,  add 
buttermilk  with  soda  dissolved  in  it.    Mix  and  bake  quickly. 

Breakfast  Buns. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  flour,  %  cup  of  cornmeal,  a  small  half  cup 
of  melted  butter,  ^4  cup  sugar,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  in  hot 
oven  20  minutes. 

Rice  Bread. 

One  coffee  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1 
pint  of  cream  or  milk,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  handful  of  meal, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt.    Cook  in  a  quick  oven. 


118  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Cornmeal  Fritters. 

One  pint  sour  cream,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  molasses  or  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  1  handful  flour,  enough  cornmeal  for  a  stiff  batter.  1 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Fry  on  a  griddle. 
Rye  flour  may  be  substituted  for  cornmeal. 

Corn  Dodgem 

One  pint  of  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  cold  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
mix  with  water  and  sweet  milk  in  equal  proportion.  Make  into 
dodgers,  cook  on  dry  skillet  until  a  chestnut  brown. 

Sally  Lunn  Corn  Bread. 

One  pint  cornmeal  sifted  fine,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter, 1  pint  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
soda.  Add  beaten  eggs  to  meal,  then  butter  and  salt,  milk  with 
soda  dissolved  in  it.  Stir  rapidly,  pour  in  hot  greased  pan  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. 

Thin  Corn  Cakes. 

One  cup  of  yellow  cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  butter,  y±  teaspoon 
salt,  \x/>2  cups  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  sugar.  Pour  the  boiling  water 
on  meal,  sugar  and  salt,  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  butter ;  mix  w<jll. 
Spread  thin  on  buttered  tin  sheets,  bake  slowly  about  20  minutes; 
butter  while  hot. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of  cornmeal,  2  tablespoons  sugar,,  sour 
milk  to  make  a  thick  batter,  mix  at  night.  In  the  morning,  add  2 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  1  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  hot  greased 
muffin  rings. 

Pancakes. 

One-half  pound  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
2  heaping  teaspoons  of  sugar.  Mix  together  and  add  %  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  enough  cold  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  1  egg  without 
beating. 

Sweet  Potato  Bread. 

Boil  2  large  sweet  potatoes  until  soft,  while  hot  mash  them  and 
add  a  lump  of  butter.  Work  into  this,  finely  sifted  cornmeal  until 
tolerably  stiff;  then  add  enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let 
this  rise  3  hours  or  longer,  and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  pones. 

Griddle  Cakes. 

Take  2  coffee  cups  of  flour,  l1/-?  coffee  cups  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the 
eggs  together  very  lightly;  add  V^  of  the  milk,  then  the  flour,  then 
the  rest  of  milk,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat  all  until  very 
light  and  bake  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  119 

Cornmeal  Puffs. 

Boil  1  pint  of  new  milk,  and  stir  into  it  4  tablespoons  of  Indian 
meal,  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  %  teaspoon  of  nutmeg. 
Let  it  boil  5  minutes,  stir  continuously,  then  remove  from  fire,  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  Add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  mix  and  pour  into  butter- 
ed cups,  fill  %  full.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes.  Serve  with 
lemon  sauce. 

Cornmeal  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  cornmeal.  Y^  pint  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour,  1  egg,  1  scant  tablespoon  of 
lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  Y-2  teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix  well,  and  bake  on 
a  greased  soapstone  griddle. 

Virginia  Ash  Cake. 

Moisten  cornmeal  with  cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,  add 
salt.  Mold  into  oval  cakes  2  inches  thick.  Place  on  hearth,  cover 
with  wood  ashes,  and  bake  %  of  an  hour.  Wipe  bread  when  ready 
to  serve.  This  bread  is  considered  excellent  for  dyspeptics  with  an 
acid  stomach. 

Bread  Cakes. 

•  One  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  Y>  pint  °f  flour,  1  dessertspoon 
butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Pour 
1  pint  sAveet  milk  over  bread  crumbs,  let  soak  1  hour,  add  yolks  and 
flour  alternately;  stir  in  butter,  lard  and  salt.  If  too  stiff  add  a  little 
more  milk,  if  not  stiff  enough  some  flour ;  then  stir  in  lightly  the  bak- 
ing powder  and  the  white  of  eggs.     Cook  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  cornmeal,  2-3  pint  of  buttermilk,  1  dessertspoon  of 
lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  well-beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  soda.  Dis- 
solve soda  in  the  milk,  add  lard  to  meal,  with  the  salt  and  well-beaten 
egg,  then  the  milk,  beat  hard.    Bake  quickly  in  hot  greased  rings. 

Cornmeal  Mush  Batter  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  cornmeal  mush,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  yolks  very 
light,  stir  in  the  mush ;  then  flour ;  beat  hard ;  add  salt  and  the  white 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Lastly  baking  powder;  cook  on  a  hot,  well-greased 
griddle. 

Corn  Bread. 

Two  cups  of  sifted  meal,  Y2  cup  of  flour,  2  cups  sour  cream  or 
buttermilk,  Y2  cup  of  sugar  or  molasses,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  flour  and  meal  together, 
gradually  add  the  milk,  then  butter,  molasses,  salt,  the  beaten  eggs, 
and  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Pour  in  a  greased 
pan  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown.  Sweet  milk  and  baking  powder, 
substituted  for  sour  cream  and  soda  makes  an  excellent  bread. 


120  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    ROOK. 


Boston  Corn  Bread. 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  %  cup  new  milk,  1-3  cup  molasses,  ^  cup 
flour,  2  cups  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Put  in  pan,  steam  3  hours ; 
then  brown  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven. 

Cornmeal  Dodgers. 

One  quart  of  cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard,  1  teaspoon 
salt.  Mix  with  cold  water,  make  into  oval  cakes  with  the  hand ;  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  or  greased  pan,  until  crust  is  a  chestnut  brown. 

New  England  Corncake. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  cornmeal,  1  teacup  flour,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Scald  the  milk,  gradually  pour  it 
on  the  meal ;  when  cool,  add  butter  and  salt,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  % 
teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Pour  mixture  into  butter- 
ed deep  pans,  leave  for  20  minutes  to  rise,  then  bake  30  minutes. 

Hominy  Batter  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  cold  cooked  hominy,  scant  measure,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, iy2  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  2  eggs,  1  pint  new  milk,  1  teaspoon 
salt.  Have  hominy  cooked  and  cool,  stir  in  beaten  yolks,  add  rest  of 
ingredients,  then  the  frothed  whites.    Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 


T©  AST 


Toast. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  toast  a  chestnut  brown,  then  trim 
off  crust,  dip  in  hot  water,  with  some  melted  butter  in  it ;  set  in  hot 
oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

Toast. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  toast  a  chestnut  brown,  then  trim 
off  crusts,  and  pour  over  a  cream  dressing. 

Dressing  for  Toast. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  dessertspoon  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt. 
Put  cream  in  double  boiler,  and  when  scalding  hot,  add  butter  and 
salt ;  pour  over  toast.    Serve  immediately. 

Ham  Toast. 

Three  ounces  of  lean  ham,  1  ounce  of  butter,  a  dash  of  chopped 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt.    Mince  ham  very  fine,  and  put  in  a  sauce- 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  121 

pan  with  butter  and  seasoning;  shake  until  it  comes  to  the  boiling 
point.    Serve  at  once  on  buttered  toast. 

Cheese  Toast. 

Mince  cheese  fine,  season  with  mustard,  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt.  Spread  on  buttered  bread,  and  set  in  hot  oven  to  brown.  Serve 
at  once. 

Fish  on  Toast. 

Put  into  boiling  salted  water,  %  pound  of  fresh  halibut,  or  any 
fish  with  white  meat ;  cook  until  done.  Remove  from  the  water  and 
chop  fine;  add  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  6  eggs  beaten  until 
light,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  frying  pan  1  tablespoon  of 
butter ;  when  it  melts  tilt  the  pan  to  grease  sides,  pour  in  eggs  and 
fish,  stir  same  way  until  eggs  are  cooked  lightly.  Dip  toast  in  hot 
salted  water,  pour  on  the  fish,  serve  at  once. 

Meat  Toast. 
Dice  any  scraps  of  cold  meat,  put  in  saucepan  with  1  pint  of 
water,  simmer  20  minutes  closely  covered.     Then  add  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  1  dessertspoon  flour  well  blended,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
until  it  thickens,  then  pour  on  thin  slices  of  toast.    Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Toast. 

Put  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter  in  frying  pan ;  when  hot  add  3y2 
ounces  fresh  cheese,  whisk  until  melted.  Have  2  eggs  and  1  cup  of 
cream  beaten  together,  add  to  cheese  with  a  dash  of  salt.  Stjr  rapid- 
ly and  pour  at  once  over  hot  toast. 

Chicken  Toast. 

Remove  from  the  bones  all  meat  of  roast  or  boiled  fowls  of  any 
kind.  Reserve  meat;  put  in  saucepan  bones  and  gristle,  cover  with 
cold  water,  boil  until  reduced  half,  strain  the  liquid  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Skim  off  grease,  return  to  saucepan  with  y2  coffee  cup  of 
cream,  2  tablespoons  butter  blended  with  1  dessertspoon  of  flour. 
Stir  until  mixture  boils,  then  add  chopped  meat  with  2  hard  boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Shake  the  saucepan  to  prevent 
sticking.  When  steaming  hot  pour  over  hot  toast  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

Mushroom  Toast. 

Take  mushrooms,  chop  a  little  and  cover  slices  of  buttered  toast ; 
let  bake  in  oven  15  minutes.     Serve  for  lunch. 

Cheese  Toast. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread,  after  removing  crust,  cover  lightly 
with  fresh  grated  cheese.  Prepare  a  dressing  with  1  pint  of  milk; 
when  boiling  add  1  tablespoon  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  cold 
water,  1  tablespoon  butter,  a  dash  of  salt.  Set  toast  in  oven  5  min- 
utes, then  pour  over  sauce  and  serve. 


122  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Two  fresh  tomatoes.  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  ounce  of  cook- 
ed ham,  a  dash  of  onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Wash  and  wipe  the  toma- 
toes and  chop  fine.  Mince  ham  and  onion,  melt  butter  in  saucepan, 
then  add  and  cook  10  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  beaten  egg, 
stir  until  it  is  set,  then  pour  over  toast  and  serve. 

Roasted  Oysters  on  Toast. 

Twenty  large  oysters,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  flour,  salt 
and  pepper.  Have  bread  toasted  and  in  a  hot  dish.  Put  butter  in 
saucepan ;  when  hot  add  the  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  1  cup 
cream;  let  it  boil  up  once.  Place  oysters  in  their  liquor  in  hot  oven 
5  minutes ;  drain  off  liquor  and  add  them  to  cream ;  season.  When 
steaming  hot  pour  over  the  toast.  Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
and  serve  at  once. 

Broiled  Oysters  on  Toast. 

Prepare  slices  of  bread  and  toast  a  chestnut  brown,  set  aside 
to  keep  hot.  Select  large  oysters,  dry  on  a  cloth,  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  dust;  broil  on  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  reverse  the 
oysters,  cook  until  they  plump.  Place  oysters  on  toast  and  pour 
over  a  cream  sauce.    Serve  at  once. 

Eggs  on  Toast. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  remove  crust,  dip  toast  in  hot  salted 
water ;  then  pour  over  poached  or  creamed  eggs.    Serve  at  once. 

Anchovy  Toast. 

Five  anchovies,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  2  ounces  butter,  lemon  juice, 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Wash  and  bone  the  anchovies,  and  pound 
them  to  a  paste,  add  yolks,  butter  and  cayenne  pepper,  press  through 
a  puree  sieve.  Fry  rounds  of  bread,  spread  with  this  paste,  then  the 
whites  chopped  fine. 

Cheese  Toast. 

Mince  cheese  fine,  add  mixed  mustard,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt ; 
spread  on  buttered  bread.  Set  in  hot  oven  to  brown.  Serve  at  once. 
Large  crackers  may  be  similarly  prepared  and  are  quite  appetizing. 

Toast  with  Tongue. 

One  boiled  tongue,  1  teacup  of  cream,  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  y2  tea- 
spoon of  made  mustard.  Boil  the  tongue  and  mince  fine,  and  add  to 
it  the  beaten  egg,  cream,  and  mustard.  Simmer  3  minutes.  Remove 
crust  from  thin  slices  of  bread,  toast  and  spread  with  butter,  then 
cover  with  the  mixture.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Boiled  ham  or 
livers  may  be  substituted  for  tongue. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  123 


Milk  Toast. 

Heat  1  quart  of  new  milk,  arid  add  1  tablespoon  butter ;  dissolve 
1  heaping  teaspoon  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk  with  a  dash  of  salt,  add 
when  milk  boils.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  dip  in  the  thin  slices  of  toast, 
place  in  hot  dish  and  pour  over  rest  of  hot  sauce.   Serve  at  once. 

French  Toast. 

To  one  egg  well  beaten,  add  1  cup  of  rich  milk,  a  dash  of  salt. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  dip  in  this  mixture  long  enough  to  be- 
come moistened,  then  brown  on  hot  buttered  griddle.  Spread  with 
butter  and  serve  hot. 

Clam  Toast. 

Chop  2  dozen  clams  into  small  pieces,  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Beat 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  2  wine  glasses  of  cream  and  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Pour  over  clams,  simmer,  pour  over  buttered  toast  and  serve. 

Nun's  Toast. 

Boil  5  eggs  and  cut  into  slices.  Put  in  frying  pan.  1  dessertspoon 
of  butter ;  when  it  bubbles  add  1  small  onion  chopped  fine,  let  it  cook 
but  not  change  color ;  add  1  teaspoon  flour,  1  cup  new  milk,  salt  and 
pepper;  stir  rapidly  to  prevent  lumping;  then  put  in  slices  of  egg  to 
heat.  Have  thin  slices  of  hot  buttered  toast  and  pour  on  this  sauce. 
Serve  at  once. 

Mushrooms  on  Toast. 

Cut  in  pieces  1  can  of  mushrooms,  mince  y±  pound  raw  beefsteak. 
Put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  the  steak,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  3  tablespoons  hot  water.  Fry  until  juices 
are  extracted  from  the  meat,  and  press  with  a  spoon  until  a  dry  pulp. 
Then  remove  meat  and  add  mushrooms  to  this  gravy  for  a  few  min- 
utes. If  not  moist  enough,  add  more  butter.  Stir  with  a  fork. 
Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast.  One  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine  may  be 
added  to  mushrooms  in  frying  pan,  if  preferred. 


ANDWIIC1H1I 


Sweetbread  Sandwiches. 

Parboil  1  set  of  sweetbreads,  remove  membranes  and  put 
through  a  grinder.  Moisten  with  whipped  cream,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread,  or  bread  cut  round  with  a  cutter.  Cover  with  leaves  of  water- 
cress, add  another  slice  of  bread  and  press  together. 


124  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Cucumber  Sandwich. 

Cut  thin  strips  of  cucumbers,  put  in  cold  salt  water  1  hour,  then 
dry  on  a  cloth.  Butter  thin  squares  of  brown  bread,  place  on  the 
cucumber,  cover  with  French  dressing,  add  another  square  of  bread, 
and  press  together.    Serve  with  fish,  or  as  an  entree. 

Nut  Sandwich. 

Take  equal  parts  of  grated  cheese,  and  English  walnuts  pounded 
to  a  powder,  moisten  with  cream,  and  add  a  dash  of  salt.  Spread  on 
thin  squares  of  buttered  bread. 

Candied  Cherry  Sandwich. 

Take  1  r>int  of  candied  cherries,  and  chop  fine,  moisten  with 
orange  juice.  Spread  on  squares  of  bread  lightly  buttered,  add  an- 
other square  of  bread,  and  press  together. 

Fig  Sandwich. 

Use  canned  figs  and  chop  to  a  paste.  Spread  sandwich  with 
creamed  butter,  then  the  fig  paste,  press  together,  and  add  another 
slice  of  bread.  The  sandwich  should  be  dainty,  and  forms  an  attrac- 
tive addition  at  a  small  function. 

Date  Sandwich. 

Have  1  pint  of  dates  after  removing  pit  and  scales,  break  in 
small  pieces,  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  pecans  crushed  fine. 
Moisten  with  creamed  butter  and  add  a  dash  of  salt.  Spread  be- 
tween rounds  or  triangles  of  bread. 

Chocolate  Sandwich. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  white  bread,  and  trim  off  crusts.  Grate 
Bakers  chocolate,  and  sweeten  with  granulated  sugar,  add  1  des- 
sertspoon butter,  and  the  chocolate,  boil  a  few  minutes.  Cool,  and  if 
too  thick,  thin  with  cream,  and  spread  on  squares  or  rounds  of  but- 
tered bread.    Serve  with  a  cup  of  tea. 

Olive  Sandwich. 

Have  1  pint  of  olives  after  removing  the  pit,  add  1-3  quantity  of 
capers  and  chop  fine.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  spread  on 
rounds  or  triangles  of  buttered  bread. 

Lettuce  Sandwich. 

Select  tender  crisp  lettuce,  wash  and  wipe  it  dry.  When  ready 
to  serve,  have  bread  cut  in  thin  slices,  butter  and  place  on  lettuce 
leaf,  spread  lightly  with  Mayonnaise  and  add  another  slice  of  bread, 
press  together  and  continue  to  add  bread  until  a  sufficient  quantity 
has  been  prepared. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  125 


Marmalade  Sandwich. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  white  bread,  spread  lightly  with  creamed  but- 
ter on  one  side,  and  then  spread  with  orange  or  quince  marmalade, 
Press  slices  together,  trim  off  crusts.  Serve  with  a  cup  of  chocolate 
or  tea  for  luncheon. 

Mushroom  Sandwich. 

Cook  1  can  of  mushrooms  until  tender,  drain  off  liquor  and  chop 
fine.  Cut  thin  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread,  spread  lightly  with 
creamed  butter,  then  add  the  mushrooms,  place  a  slice  of  bread  on 
top,  and  press  together.    Serve  at  once  with  chocolate  or  tea. 

Wafer  Sandwich. 

Take  2  thick  slices  of  Roquefort  cheese,  mash  until  soft,  then  add 
1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter,  %  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  and  % 
teaspoon  salt.  Mix  with  ale  to  make  soft.  Spread  on  wafers,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Jelly  Sandwich. 

Cut  whole  wheat  bread  into  thin  slices,  spread  with  thick  cream, 
add  a  dash  of  salt,  cover  lightly  with  acid  jelly,  and  press  slices  to- 
gether.    Serve  with  orangette  or  lemonade. 

Lettuce  Sandwich. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  spread  with  butter.  Broil  slices  of 
breakfast  bacon  until  crisp.  Place  1  leaf  of  lettuce  on  bread,  cover 
with  a  cooked  mustard  dressing,  then  add  1  slice  of  the  breakfast 
bacon  and  add  another  slice  of  bread,  and  press  closely  together. 

Egg-  Sandwich. 

Boil  fresh  eggs,  when  cold  cut  in  thin  slices  and  place  in  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Watercress  Sandwich. 

Wash  watercress,  dry  on  a  cloth,  mix  with  them  4  hard  boiled 
eggs,  chopped  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  thin  slices  of 
bread,  and  butter,  cut  watercress  into  small  pieces,  remove  the  stem, 
place  on  bread  with  egg  and  a  dash  of  lemon  juice,  put  slices  on  hard 
surface,  cut  into  rounds  or  squares  removing  all  crust. 

Mushroom  Sandwich. 

Mince  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  tongue  and  boiled  mushrooms, 
add  French  mustard;  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

Sardine  Sandwich. 

Chop  the  contents  of  1  box  of  French  sardines,  squeeze  on  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice ;  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 


126  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Cheese  Sandwich. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  bread,  then  cut  round  with  biscuit  cutter, 
and  butter  lightly.  Spread  with  chopped  olives  and  small  slices  of 
Neuchatel  cheese. 

Liver  Sandwich. 

Take  livers  from  turkey  or  chicken :  boil  until  tender,  pound  to 
a  paste  and  season.     Spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

Ham  Sandwich. 

Make  a  dressing  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  mixed 
mustard,  yolk  of  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Cream  butter,  add  rest  of 
ingredients  and  mix,  adding  enough  chopped  ham  to  be  of  right  con- 
sistency.    Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Lettuce  Sandwich. 

Cut  bread  with  round  cutter,  place  on  crisp  lettuce  and  cover 
with  mayonnaise   dressing. 

Sardine  Sandwich. 

Take  2  boxes  of  sardines,  drain  off  oil,  and  put  them  in  hot 
water;  dry  on  a  cloth,  remove  skin,  pound  to  a  paste,  add  a  little  let- 
tuce, pepper  and  salt.     Spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

Cucumber  Sandwich. 

Pour  cucumbers  peeled  and  grated;  put  on  sieve  to  drain.  Cut 
fresh  bread  in  thin  slices,  or  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  butter  care- 
fully, then  have  a  mayonnaise  dressing  ready  and  mix  with  the  cu- 
cumbers. Spread  on  the  sliced  bread.  Put  a  slice  of  bread  on  top  of 
each.  Place  on  a  flat  dish,  cover  with  a  damp  napkin.  Set  in  re- 
frigerator until  ready  to  serve,  either  with  fish  or  as  an  entree. 

Club  Sandwiches. 

Allow  2  slices  of  bread  for  each  sandwich.  Toast  a  delicate 
brown,  then  butter  it.  Spread  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  put  on 
top  1  lettuce  leaf  and  a  thin  slice  of  chicken  breast,  3  slices  of  hot 
broiled  breakfast  bacon,  3  slices  of  sour  or  sweet  pickle.  Have  both 
slices  of  toast  fixed  same  way  and  place  together.  Serve  immedi- 
ately. 

Caviar  Sandwich. 

Cut  bread  in  diamond  shape,  or  round  with  a  cutter.  Spread 
with  caviar.     Serve  for  lunch. 

Anchovies. 

Serve  anchovies  on  rounds  of  toast,  or  slices  of  fresh  tomatoes, 
Serve  for  an  informal  lunch. 

Sandwich. 
Mince  fine,  boiled '  or  roasted  chicken ;  also  some  almonds  or 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  127 


roasted  peanuts.  Trim  the  crusts  from  thin  slices  of  bread,  and 
cut  in  fancy  shape.  Butter,  and  put  a  layer  of  chicken,  and  spread 
over  it  a  Mayonnaise  dressing,  then  a  layer  of  minced  nuts.  Serve 
for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Olive  Sandwich. 

Take  1  pint  of  olives,  remove  the  seed,  and  chop  meat  fine ;  then 
mix  with  a  rich  Mayonnaise  dressing;  spread  on  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered bread.     Serve  for  luncheon. 

Anchovy  Sandwiches. 

Rub  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  to  a  paste ;  moisten  with  melted 
butter,  and  season  with  anchovy  essence.  Have  bread  sliced  thin  and 
buttered,  then  spread  with  the  paste. 

Pate  De  Foie  Gras  Sandwiches. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  butter  lightly,  spread  with  pate 
de  foie  gras.    Serve  for  luncheon. 

Rye  Bread  Sandwich. 

Cut  fresh  rye  bread  in  thin  slices,  and  place  between  thin  slices 
of  Sweitzer  cheese,  having  it  lightly  spread  with  butter  and  mixed 
mustard. 

Salmagundi  Sandwich. 

Have  thin  slices  of  bread  toasted,  trim  off  the  crust,  butter  and 
spread  with  potted  ham ;  then  minced  pickle  cut  in  thin  slices ;  cook- 
ed asparagus  tips  at  each  corner,  and  slices  of  chicken  breast.  Cover 
with  a  boiled  salad  dressing;  garnish  with  shredded  olives.  Serve 
cold. 

For  Sandwiches. 

Use  potted  ham  or  any  other  potted  meat ;  spread  with  a  mayon- 
naise or  mustard  dressing  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Rolled  Sandwich. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  fresh  bread,  remove  crust,  and  spread  with 
chopped  ham  and  lettuce ;  a  mayonnaise  dressing  may  be  combined 
with  it.  Use  minced  chicken  or  goose  livers  similarly  prepared.  Roll 
the  sandwich  and  wrap  in  a  damp  napkin  until  ready  to  be  served. 


VEQETABLl 


Chicago  Potatoes. 

Take  6  good-size  Irish  potatoes,  wash  and  boil  in  jackets  until 
half  done.  Remove  and  set  aside  to  cool,  then  cut  in  blocks.  Put  1  pint 
of  cream  and  milk  mixed  in  double  boiler,  add  the  potatoes,  1  table- 
spoon butter  and  1  tablespoon  flour  well  blended,  and  salt.  Set  on 
back  of  range  20  minutes,  then  put  in  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  toasted 
bread  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Serve  for  luncheon  or 
tea. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Parboil  4  large  sweet  potatoes  until  done,  then  mash  fine  and 
cream  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  pile  on  plate  and  set  in  oven  to 
brown. 

Cheese  Potatoes. 

Take  6  Irish  potatoes,  cut  in  blocks,  and  put  in  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  top  of  range,  and  let  cook  until 
done.  Then  drain  off  water,  and  put  potatoes  in  baking  dish  with  % 
teacup  milk.  Add  salt,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top,  set  in  oven 
and  brown  lightly. 

Potatoes  Cooked  With  Meat. 

Slice  Irish  potatoes  in  tolerably  thick  slices.  Put  on  and  boil 
until  half  done.  Then  drain  off  water,  and  put  in  pan  with  roast  beef, 
sparerib,  or  backbone,  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown  in  the  gravy. 

Potato  Fillets!. 

Select  long  potatoes,  pare,  and  cut  into  fillets  ^4  of  an  inch 
square,  and  drop  into  icewater.  Then  partially  cook  in  deep  boiling 
fat.  Remove  and  drain.  Bring  the  fat  to  boiling  point  again,  drop  in 
the  fillets  and  cook  until  done.     Serve  hot. 

Fried  Potatoes. 

Pare  potatoes,  cut  in  long  thin  slices,  drop  in  cold  water.  Cook 
in  hot  fat.  When  almost  done,  remove  with  a  skimmer,  drain  and 
return  to  fat,  which  must  boil  up  once  more ;  leave  for  a  minute  and 
they  are  done. 

Shoe  String  Potatoes. 

Pare  potatoes,  cut  in  thin  narrow  strips,  put  in  cold  water  1 
hour.    Dry  on  a  cloth  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  straw  color. 

(128) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  129 

Potatoes  a  la  Neige. 

Prepare  potatoes  as  for  mashed  potatoes.  Cream  until  free  of 
lumps,  add  butter.    Press  through  sieve  into  heated  dish. 

English  Potatoes. 

Peel  potatoes,  cut  in  round  shape  with  cutter,  drop  in  ice  water. 
Dry  on  a  cloth;  put  balls  in  a  frying  basket,  dip  in  hot  fat  until  a 
chestnut  brown.    Serve  for  tea,  or  use  as  a  garnish  for  broiled  fish. 

Crusted  Potatoes. 

Mash  some  warm,  boiled  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  spider  with 
%  cup  of  cream,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Beat  3  eggs, 
stir  into  the  potatoes.  Let  brown  at  the  bottom  until  there  is  a  crust, 
turn  out  on  a  dish.    Serve  at  once. 

Filled  Potatoes. 

Take  as  many  potatoes  as  needed ;  wash  them  and  put  in  a  pan, 
to  bake  until  they  are  soft;  then  cover  with  a  damp  cloth  about  5 
minutes.  Cut  off  the  tops  about  2  inches.  Take  a  small  spoon  and 
remove  interior  of  each.  Add  a  little  scalded  milk,  some  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  the  potatoes ;  work  smooth  and  fill  each  peel.  Put  in 
pan  to  bake.  Brush  each  one  with  yolk  of  egg.  Cook  in  a  hot  oven 
10  minutes. 

Kidney  Potatoes. 

Select  smooth  potatoes,  boil  in  their  skins,  then  remove  skin, 
dredge  with  flour  and  brown  with  roast  beef. 

Cabbage. 

Cut  cabbage  in  pieces,  wash  thoroughly,  put  in  cold  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Put  piece  of  bacon  in  kettle  of  cold  water  and  let  it 
cook  1  hour ;  then  put  in  cabbage  with  %  pod  of  red  pepper.  Cook  1 
hour  longer.     If  bacon  is  salty,  it  will  not  require  any  salt. 

Cabbage  a  la  Cauliflower. 

with  y2  gallon  of  cold  water,  and  boil  1  hour;  then  serve  with  a 
cream  dressing. 

Prepare  in  the  usual  way,  1  white  head  of  cabbage.    Put  in  kettle 

Hash  Brown  Potatoes. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  with  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  onion,  let  cook  until  a  good  brown,  then  add  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  some  chopped  parsley,  salt,  cayenne,  black  pepper 
and  1  pint  of  rich  milk,  stirring  all  the  time  to  keep  from  lumping. 
Slice  potatoes  round  and  quite  thin;  fill  baking  dish  and  pour  over 
it  this  sauce ;  cook  on  bottom  shelf  1%  hours.  While  cooking  keep 
covered;  when  done  remove  cover,  put  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of 
butter  on  top,  and  let  it  brown;  serve  hot. 

9 


130  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    HOOK. 


Hash  Brown  Potatoes. 

Fry  salt  pork  cut  in  small  cubes,  remove  scraps  (there  should  be 
about  1-3  cup  of  fat),  add  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  finely 
chopped,  Ys  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  salt  if  needed.  Mix  potatoes 
thoroughly  with  fat,  cook  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Leave  to 
brown  underneath.     Fold  as  an  omelet,  and  turn  on  hot  platter. 

Potato  Balls. 

Boil  6  large  white  potatoes.  When  done,  mash  and  add  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  1  grated  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Then  shape  into 
balls.  In  each  ball  make  an  opening,  and  pour  into  it  1  teaspoon  of 
French  peas  or  any  kind  of  chopped  meat.  Close  the  opening;  roll 
the  ball  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs ;  fry  in  hot  lard ;  serve  for 
luncheon  or  tea. 

To  Boil  Potatoes. 

Peel  potatoes  and  put  in  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt ; 
cook  30  minutes.  Pour  off  water,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  remove 
lid  and  leave  about  5  minutes.  Pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  or 
serve  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Potato  Sautes. 

Cut  potatoes  with  a  vegetable  cutter  into  small  balls  and  drop 
in  ice  water.  Place  over  the  fire  a  frying  pan,  containing  some  meat 
drippings,  and  when  hot  add  potato  balls.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Cover  closely  and  cook  until  mealy.  Shake  the  pan  to  prevent 
burning. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Potatoes  can  be  baked  in  jacket  or  peeled.  Wash  potatoes,  put 
in  oven  and  turn  them  often.  It  requires  about  45  minutes  for  them 
to  bake.  Press  slightly  when  removing  from  stove.  Cover  dish  with 
napkin  and  the  steam  will  escape,  which  keeps  them  from  becoming 
sodden. 

Stewed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Pare  small  sweet  potatoes  and  boil  until  tender.  Remove  nearly 
all  water  and  add  1  cup  of  cream  and  milk  in  equal  proportion,  1 
teaspoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  let  boil  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

French  Potatoes. 

Pare  Irish  potatoes  and  put  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Cut  in  blocks, 
strips  or  fancy  shapes  with  cutter  and  dry  on  a  cloth.  Drop  in  a 
sautoir  of  hot  fat ;  when  they  come  to  the  surface  they  are  done ;  put 
in  wire  basket  to  drain,  sprinkle  with  salt.   Serve  immediately. 

Sweet  Potatoes. 

Parboil  potatoes,  then  remove  skin;  slice  and  put  in  baking 
dish.  Take  1  pint  of  sugar  and  enough  water  to  moisten  them,  make 
into  a  syrup,  pour  this  over  the  potatoes  and  add  1  kitchen  spoon 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  131 


of  butter;  set  in  oven;  cook  a  chestnut  brown.    When^  ready^  to 
brown  a  few  chopped  pecans  may  be  sprinkled  on  top  if  desired. 

Potato  Balls. 

Boil  potatoes  and  cream  them  light,  moisten  with  cream,  add 

butter  and  salt.   Form  into  balls  larger  than  a  walnut.  Place  balls 

in  pyramid  shape  on  a  plate  and  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  with 
a  fork,  without  removing  from  plate. 

Sweet  Potato  Souffle. 

Boil  4  medium  size  potatoes,  mash  till  smooth.  Scald  %  cupful 
of  sweet  milk  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  mix  with  the  potato  and 
beat  until  light.  Add  one  at  a  time  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  beat  well. 
Fold  in  the  whites,  turn  mixture  into  a  buttered  ramekin  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven. 

French  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cut  in  strips,  wash  in  cold  water  and  fry  hot  in  lard.  Add  a 
little  salt  when  eating. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin. 

Pare  and  boil  6  medium  size  potatoes.  When  cold  cut  into  slices 
and  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  add  same  amount  of  flour  and  stir  until  smooth.  Let  cook 
a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  cup  of  milk.  Stir  and  cook  until  it  broils. 
Kemove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  2  heaping  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese;  add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  this 
sauce  over  the  potatoes,  cover  top  with  a  thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  potatoes  are  done  and  a  nice 
color.   Serve  in  the  same  dish  in  which  they  are  cooked. 

New  Potatoes. 
Wash  and  scrub,  but  do  not  peel;  put  in  boiling  salted  water; 
cook  rapidly  20  minutes.  Pour  off  water  and  serve  with  a  cream 
dressing;  they  can  be  served  by  adding  a  drawn  butter  sauce. 
Another  way  to  serve — Sprinkle  potatoes  with  salt  and  shake  them 
until  the  skins  crack.    Serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

Old  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  put  in  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then  put  in  kettle  of 
hot  water,  cook  rapidly  20  minutes,  mash  fine ;  add  %  teacup  cream, 
1  dessertspoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Julienne  Potatoes. 

Select  large  Irish  potatoes,  peel  and  cut  into  long  thin  strips; 
lay  in  ice  water  for  2  hours,  then  dry  on  a  cloth;  fry  in  hot  lard' 
When  a  chestnut  brown  remove  from  skillet  and  put  in  a  wire 
basket  with  either  cloth  or  brown  paper  to  absorb  the  grease.  Just 
before  serving  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  heat.  Serve  immediately. 


132  KENTUCKY   RECEII>T    BOOK. 

Fried  Cabbage. 

In  boiling  cabbage  put  in  a  pinch  of  soda,  cook  1  hour,  then  chop 
fine  and  fry  in  hot  grease. 

Stewed  Endive. 

Take  6  heads  of  endive,  wash  and  remove  green  part  of  leaves, 
put  into  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  Cook  10  minutes,  then  drain 
and  chop  fine.  Put  into  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  broth,  1  lump  o 
sugar,  a  dash  of  salt.  Cook  endive  until  tender,  then  add  1  table- 
spoon lemon  juice,  a  little  butter  and,  flour  blended.  When  it  boils 
up,  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Baked  Mushrooms. 

Place  mushrooms  in  baking  pan,  in  a  moderate  oven,  season  with 
lemon  juice,  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  peper,  baste  with  butter ;  cook 
about  15  minutes.  Make  a  sauce  with  1%  ounces  of  butter,  1  coffee 
cup  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, 1  tablespoon  white  stock,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Put  in  sauce- 
pan, stir  until  thick,  but  do  not  let  boil.  Serve  with  the  mush- 
rooms. 

Stewed  Carrots. 

Wash  and  scrape  carrots,  slice,  put  in  saucepan  with  enough 
water  to  cover,  add  1  spoon  of  salt,  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Drain, 
return  to  saucepan  with  2  dessertspoons  butter  rolled  in  flour,  dust 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  enough  cream  or  milk  to  moisten.  Let 
come  to  boiling  point  and  serve. 

Carrots  prepared  in  same  way  and  mashed  until  free  of  lumps, 
affords  a  variety. 

Lyonnaise  Beets. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  beets  cut  into  half  inch  blocks,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  water,  1  tablespoonful  chopped 
parsley,  *4  teaspoonful  salt,  %  teaspoonful  pepper.  Put  all  the  in- 
gredients in  double  boiler,  except  the  beets.  When  well  heated,  add 
the  beets  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  hot.  They  may  be  put 
in  turnip  cups,  as  it  makes  an  attractive  dish. 

Cashaw. 

Eemove  rind  from  cashaw,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  in  saucepan, 
adding  1  kitchen  spoonful  water.  Cook  until  tolerably  thick.  Put 
the  amount  required  on  a  plate,  seasoned  with  1  tablespoon  butter, 
Vo  teacupful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  if  desired  a  little  nutmeg  may 
be  added.  Set  in  oven  to  brown.  In  making  pies,  use  y2  coffee  cupful 
of  cashaw  for  flavoring  the  custard.  Have  a  paste,  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture and  set  in  oven  to  bake. 

Corn  Fritters. 

One  pint  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  %  coffee  cup  buttermilk,  2 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  133 


tablespoons  sifted  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  lard,  *4  teaspoon  soda,  1 
scant  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  yolk,  add  corn,  milk  and  flour,  then  lard, 
beat  bare!,  add  soda  dissolved  in  water.  Put  by  spoonful  in  skillet 
and  fry  a  chestnut  brown  in  hot  fat. 

Baked  Beans. 

Take  2  quarts  of  small  navy  beans  and  soak  12  hours  in  cold 
water.  Drain  off  water  and  put  in  bean  pot  with  3  quarts  of  cold 
water ;  set  in  oven  to  cook,  replenish  with  hot  water  if  needed.  Cook 
from  7  to  8  hours.  One  hour  before  removing  from  oven,  season  and 
place  on  top  a  few  slices  of  bacon  or  pork  and  2  tablespoons  of 
molasses.  Keep  beans  well  covered  with  water  until  they  are  nearly 
done,  then  brown  them  in  oven. 

Potato  Snow. 

Select  white  potatoes,  peel  and  cook  until  thoroughly  done, 
drain,  mash  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  keeping  them 
in  hot  saucepan:  When  ready  to  serve  press  potatoes  through  a  wire 
sieve  into  hot  dish.  A  little  powdered  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over 
the  top.    Serve  at  once. 

Saratoga  Chips. 

Peel  large  potatoes,  cut  with  cutter  into  thin  pieces,  drop  in 
water  and  leave  for  2  hours  to  crisp.  Dry  on  a  cloth  and  drop  one 
at  a  time  into  hot  lard,  which  should  be  deep  enough  to  float  them. 
Turn  and  then  remove  with  wire  whisk.  Put  in  wire  basket  to  drain. 
Sprinkle  with  salt. 

Creamed  Celery. 

Take  2  stalks  of  tender  celery,  scrape  clean  and  cut  into  small 
cubes.  Put  1  pint  of  rich  milk  in  a  chafing  dish  (some  cream  is  bet- 
ter), add  celery  and  let  it  boil  until  tender.  Rub  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  butter  and  1  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  and  stir  it  into 
the  boiling  celery,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  until  creamy.  This  is 
nice  served  with  cold  chicken  or  turkey. 

Escalloped  Potatoes. 

To  1  quart  of  thinly-sliced  potatoes  in  baking  dish,  add  scant 
y2  pint  of  sweet  milk,  pieces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  1  teaspoon 
of  flour,  sifted  carefully  on  top  of  potatoes.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  20  minutes. 

Potatoes  a  la  Lyonaise. 

One  pound  of  boiled  potatoes,  V/2  teaspoons  minced  onion,  2 
teaspoons  chopped  parsley,  1  large  kitchen  spoon  butter,  salt  and 
black  pepper.  Slice  the  potatoes,  put  butter  in  skillet;  when  hot 
add  potatoes,  onion  and  parsley.  Fry  a  light  brown.  Serve  in  a 
hot  dish. 


134  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Spinach. 

Pick  spinach  carefully  and  wash  in  cold  water,  put  in  double 
boiler  to  cook,  add  a  little  salt,  cook  more  than  1  hour.  When  done 
add  %  cup  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt.   Serve  hot. 

Pickled  Beets. 

When  beets  are  done  slice  them  and  have  1  pint  of  vinegar  with 
y%  cup  of  granulated  sugar  thoroughly  dissolved  and  pour  over 
beets.    Set  aside  to  cool. 

Baked  Tomatoes  With  Corn. 

Peel  tomatoes  of  uniform  size,  cut  slice  from  stem  end,  scoop 
out  the  inside  and  add  to  green  corn  and  grated  bread,  chop  fine. 
Add  bits  of  butter,  a  little  sugar,  pepper  and  salt,  mix  well  and  fill 
the  tomatoes.  Replace  the  slice.  Bake  %  of  an  hour.  Serve  for 
dinner. 

Asparagus  Masked. 

Boil  2  bunches  of  asparagus  until  tender,  cut  fine.  Have  long 
rolls,  cut  off  top  and  remove  all  crumbs,  put  in  oven  to  crisp.  Heat 
1  cup  of  milk  and  pour  on  2  well-beaten  eggs,  add  1  dessertspoon 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  beat  hard  to  prevent  curdling,  add  asparagus, 
return  to  saucepan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  until  it 
thickens,  stir  constantly.  Fill  rolls  with  the  asparagus  and  put  on. 
the  top.    Serve  hot. 

French  Peas. 

Put  peas  in  saucepan  with  the  liquor  and  let  them  get  very  hot, 
then  strain  off  the  liquor;  add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.    Serve  at  once. 

Fresh  Peas. 

If  pods  are  gritty  wash  before  shelling;  have  ready  boiling 
water;  cook  rapidly  20  minutes  uncovered;  when  water  has  almost 
evaporated  add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  or  2 
tablespoons  of  cream  may  be  added  to  peas,  after  draining  off  all 
liquor,  and  1  dessertspoon  of  butter.  Serve  as  soon  as  butter  is 
melted. 

Stuffed  Cymblings. 

Remove  pulp  from  cymblings  and  put  on  to  stew  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  water.  When  done  mash  fine  and  add  pulverized  bread 
crumbs,  butter  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Fill  the  hull  and  bake  until 
a  chestnut  brown.  Cymblings  may  be  put  in  baking  dish  and 
browned. 

Giblets  With  Rice. 

Take  6  chicken  giblets,  put  in  saucepan  with  1  dessertspoon  of 
butter  and  ^2  sliced  onion,  let  broAvn,  add  1  quart  of  soup  stock  and 
1  small  turnip  sliced,  1  tablespoon  of  rice  and  1  small  carrot  chopped 
fine,  salt  and  pepper.   Boil  y2  hour,  then  serve. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  135 


Onions. 

Take  onions,  peel  them,  wash  and  put  on  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover.  Let  boil  %  hour,  then  drain  off  water  and  serve 
with  a  cream  dressing. 

Peas. 

Shell  peas,  wash  in  cold  water  and  put  in  kettle  with  enough 
cold  water  to  cover.  Boil  about  30  minutes,  then  drain  off  water 
and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.   Serve  hot. 

Cymblings. 

Peel  cymblings,  remove  the  seed  and  slice.  Put  them  on  in  cold 
water,  with  y2  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook  till  tender,  then  strain  off 
water  and  add  a  lump  of  butter,  %  teacup  of  cream,  pepper,  salt, 
Cook  a  few  minutes.    Mash  till  smooth.    Serve  hot. 

Spinach. 

Pick  over  carefully  while  dry,  throw  a  few  plants  at  a  time  in 
a  large  pan  of  cold  water,  wash  well  on  both  sides ;  wash  in  3  waters. 
Put  in  kettle  piece  of  fat  bacon  with  water  to  cover  it;  when  half 
done  add  spinach  and  cook  about  30  minutes,  then  drain  off  liquor, 
put  in  dish  and  garnish  with  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced. 

Rice. 

Take  1  pint  of  rice  and  wash  3  times  in  cold  water,  rubbing  the 
rice  carefully  in  the  hands,  then  drain.  Have  1  quart  of  water  boil- 
ing, sprinkle  in  the  rice,  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  cover  kettle  closely. 
Boil  15  minutes,  then  put  rice  in  colander  and  drain.  When  thor- 
oughly dry  put  into  oven  to  heat.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish.  If  rice  is 
served  as  a  vegetable  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  but  if  served 
with  gumbo,  omit  the  butter. 

Succotash. 

Cut  the  grains  from  5  ears  of  corn,  mix  with  1  pint  of  shelled 
lima  beans,  boil  until  tender  and  drain.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  pour  over  the  corn  and  beans,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
simmer  10  minutes,  add  %  cup  of  sweet  cream;  when  hot  serve. 
Succotash  is  nice  made  with  snap  beans,  broken  in  small  pieces  and 
cooked  with  the  corn ;  it  can  be  seasoned  with  a  few  slices  of  break- 
fast bacon  or  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  or  %  cup 
rich  milk  and  1  dessertspoon  butter,  blended  with  1  teaspoon  flour. 

Fried  Corn. 

Cut  corn  from  cob,  put  in  a  warm  skillet  with  a  little  water  to 
prevent  burning;  after  cooking  a  while  add  some  bacon  grease,  pep- 
per and  salt;  stir  frequently;  cook  until  done. 


136  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Stewed  Corn. 

Cut  corn  from  cob,  but  not  too  close,  then  scrape  the  cob,  put 
in  skillet  with  either  warm  or  cold  water;  stir  often.  It  can  be 
seasoned  with  a  slice  of  breakfast  bacon,  pepper  and  salt,  or  omit 
the  bacon,  and  when  done  season  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt.   Serve  hot. 

Truffles. 

Cleanse  truffles  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Put  in  baking  dish,  season 
with  butter  or  salad  oil,  mace,  garlic,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Bake 
almost  1  hour.  Pour  over  1  dessertspoon  lemon  juice  when  ready 
to  serve. 

Escalloped  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  slice  fresh  tomatoes  Y^  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  in 
pudding  dish  in  layers,  season  each  one  with  pepper,  salt,  granu- 
lated sugar  and  bits  of  butter,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full.  Cover 
with  plate  and  bake  30  minutes.  Remove  plate  and  set  in  oven  15 
minutes.  When  ready  to  remove  pour  over  top  4  tablespoons  whipped 
cream  and  1  dessertspoon  melted  butter.    Serve  immediately. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Slice  fresh  tomatoes  in  pieces  %  of  an  inch  thick;  butter  side 
and  bottom  of  baking  dish.  Cover  bottom  with  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  bits  of  butter,  a  little  granulated 
sugar,  pepper  and  salt  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full  with  tomatoes  for 
top  layer.  Sprinkle  with  more  bread  crumbs,  add  bits  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  on  cover  and  set  in  oven  to  cook.  When  done 
remove  cover  and  brown  quickly. 

Truffles  a  la  Francais. 

Cleanse  truffles  by  washing  in  several  waters  with  a  brush,  then 
wrap  each  truffle  in  buttered  paper ;  bake  in  hot  oven  1  hour,  remove 
paper,  wipe  truffles  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

Okra. 

One  quart  of  tender  okra  cut  in  rings  and  put  in  cold  salt 
water  for  1  hour.  Drain  and  pick  over,  put  in  saucepan  with  cold 
water  to  cover  and  cook  30  minutes,  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Serve  hot.  Okra  may  be  sliced  and  cooked  with  an  equal 
amount  of  raw  sliced  tomatoes  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  1   sweet  pepper. 

Okra  Stew. 

Prepare  okra  and  tomatoes,  having  1  quart.  Put  in  saucepan, 
add  Vi  pound  ham  finely  minced  and  Y±  coffee  cup  of  rice.  Before 
serving  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  pepper  and  salt.   Serve  hot. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  137 


Fried  Okra. 

Prepare  1  quart  of  okra  and  cut  in  slices.  Put  cubes  of  fat  bacon 
in  frying  pan  and  fry  1  onion,  then  add  okra  and  fry  a  chestnut 
brown.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Cabbage  With  Cream  Dressing. 

Remove  outer  leaves  from  one  solid  white  head  of  cabbage  and 
cut  fine.  Put  in  deep  hot  skillet  with  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover 
and  cook  rapidly  15  minutes.  Drain  off  water  and  add  %  pint  of 
cream  and  milk  in  equal  proportion;  when  it  boils  add  1  teaspoon 
of  flour  moistened  with  cold  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  come  to  boil- 
ing point  and  serve. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Chop  .1  head  of  firm,  white  cabbage  and  set  aside.  Take  1  coffee 
coup  of  sour  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  yolks  of  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  dry  mustard,  salt  and  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper.  Put  cream  in  frying  pan;  as  soon  as  hot  stir 
in  lightly  with  the  beaten  eggs  and  season;  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Remove  pan  from  fire,  hastily  add  the  cabbage  to  dressing  and  mix 
well.  Pour  in  dish  and  serve  when  cold. 

Rice  Patties. 

Boil  1  pint  of  rice  and  when  cold  add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and 
enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  then  add  some  flour,  and 
1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  beat  well.  Have  a  skillet  with  hot  lard, 
and  put  in  a  kitchen  spoon  full  at  a  time ;  fry  a  light  brown. 

Fried  Squash. 

Peel  squash  and  slice  %  an  inch  thick  and  1  finger  long.  "Wash 
and  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  butter  and  lard  in 
frying  pan  in  equal  proportion;  add  squash  and  cover  with  a  top; 
cook  slowly  almost  30  minutes.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  pre- 
pare winter  or  summer  squash. 

Cymbling  Puree. 

For  each  pint  of  stewed  cymbling  add  1  cup  new  milk  or  cream, 
simmer  until  thick.    Serve  hot. 

Spanish  Asparagus. 

Prepare  1  pound  of  asparagus  and  put  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  add  1  heaping  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  until 
tender.  Cut  off  the  tender  portion  and  place  on  a  buttered  pie  pan 
with  1  tablespoon  melted  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  2  eggs  only  enough 
to  break  the  yolks  and  pour  over  the  asparagus.  Bake  10  minutes 
in  moderate  oven.   Serve  with  broiled  ham  for  luncheon. 


138  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Broculi. 

Prepare  broculi  and  cook  same  as  brussel  sprouts.  Drain,  then 
prepare  nearly  a  pint  of  yellow  Bechamel  sauce.  Have  a  slice  of 
buttered  toast  in  a  deep  platter,  put  the  largest  head  in  the  center 
and  the  smaller  ones  around,  pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 

Asparagus. 

Wash  asparagus,  skin  with  a  sharp  knife  and  remove  the  tough 
end  and  put  in  cold  water  15  minutes.  Arrange  in  bunches  and 
fasten  with  band  of  coarse  muslin,  put  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water,  adding  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt;  boil  about  20 
minutes.  Drain  and  serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce  or  a  cream  dress- 
ing. 

In  serving  asparagus  on  toast  it  is  far  better  to  prepare  as  many- 
plates  as  there  are  covers  with  the  toast  and  asparagus.  .Otherwise 
the  dish  becomes  unattractive  after  serving  one  or  two  guests. 

Cooked  Peaches. 

Take  enough  clingstone  peaches  to  fill  baking  dish,  peel  them 
but  do  not  remove  the  seed;  place  in  baking  dish  and  pour  over 
them  a  syrup  made  with  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  pint  of 
water,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  cook  until  done.  Serve 
hot  as  a  vegetable. 

Okra. 

Wash  okra  and  put  in  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover ;  cook  about  20  minutes,  then  drain  off  water  and  season  with 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.    Serve  hot. 

Slaw. 

Take  a  small  head  of  cabbage,  cut  very  fine.  Dressing  for  it: 
Two  eggs,  scant  x/2  cup  of  vinegar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  well,  put  in  double  boiler.  Re- 
move from  fire  as  soon  as  it  thickens.  Pour  over  cabbage,  add  3 
tablespoons  of  cream.   Garnish  with  celery  leaves. 

To  Cook  Mushrooms. 

Skin  them  and  put  in  salt  water  for  several  hours.  Put  on  your 
mushrooms  with  water  and  boil  10  minutes.  Drain  off  and  add  new 
milk  enough  to  cover  them.  Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  flour.    Stir  well. 

Jambalaya. 

One  cup  of  boiled  rice,  1  pork  sausage,  ^  of  an  onion,  ^4  cup  of 
stewed  tomatoes,  y8  cup  of  stock,  1  sprig  of  parsley.  Melt  1  table- 
spoon butter,  then  add  1  onion  and  stir  until  brown;  add  tomatoes, 
then  stock,  1  saltspoon  of  paprika  and  parsley.  Fry  sausage  and 
cut  in  small  pieces,  add  sausage  and  boiled  rice.  This  may  be  pre- 
pared in  chafing  dish. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  139 


Baked  Tomatoes. 

Take  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  %  CUP  bread  crumbs,  1  dessertspoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Chop  tomatoes  and  put  in  baking 
dish!,  add  sugar,  butter,  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt;  mix  well. 
Set  on  top  of  range,  cook  until  juice  thickens,  then  set  in  oven  to 
brown. 

Scrambled  Tomatoes. 

Put  1  dozen  tomatoes  in  hot  water,  remove  skin  and  chop  fine. 
Put  in  saucepan  with  1  dessertspoon  butter,  pepper  and -salt.  Cook 
until  almost  done,  then  add  5  eggs  beaten  light.  Stir  same  way  3 
minutes  and  serve. 

Raw  Tomatoes. 

Select  firm,  smooth  tomatoes,  peel  and  cut  into  thin  slices. 
Chill  and  serve  with  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt,  or  leave  whole  and 
serve  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  on  crisp  lettuce. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Butter  a  bakiug  dish,  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  at  bottom, 
then  a  layer  of  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  dredge  with  granulated 
sugar,  add  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter,  alternating  until  dish  is 
full,  with  tomatoes  on  top,  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Cover 
and  cook  until  done,  then  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Asparagus  Omelet. 

Boil  1  bunch  of  asparagus  until  tender.  Cut  off  the  tip  end,  put 
in  pudding  dish  with  1  teaspoon  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  4 
eggs  separately,  combine  with  2  tablespoons  of  cream,  1  heaping 
dessertspoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  asparagus  tips 
and  set  in  oven  to  cook.  Canned  asparagus  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  fresh  asparagus. 

Brown  Potato  Balls. 

Mash  and  season  cold-boiled  potatoes,  roll  into  balls,  place  on 
a  buttered  plate  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and 
bake  in  oven  a  chestnut  brown. 

A  Boiled  Dinner. 

Take  Vo  of  a  fresh  hog's  head,  wash  well.  Put  it  in  pot  and 
cover  with  cold  water  in  which  is  dissolved  one  light  tablespoon 
salt;  boil  about  2%  hours.  Keplenish  with  a  little  warm  water  if 
needed,  then  add  1  head  of  white  cabbage,  prepared  in  usual  way, 
y2  dozen  large  Irish  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  slices  %  an  inch 
thick,  y-2  P°d  red  pepper.  Cook  %  hour  longer  over  hot  oven.  Serve 
all  on  a  meat  platter. 

When  cooking  cabbage  put  vinegar  in  a  cup  and  place  on 
stove  and  it  will  destroy  all  odor. 


140  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Baked  Bananas. 

Peel  bananas  and  cut  in  thick  slices  lengthwise.  Put  in  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  over  some  granulated  sugar,  cook  a  chestnut  brown. 
One  wineglass  of  sherry  wine  may  be  poured  over  if  desired,  then 
serve. 

Fried  Bananas. 

Cut  bananas  in  thick  slices  lengthwise.  Sprinkle  lightly  with 
flour  and  fry  in  melted  butter  a  chestnut  brown. 

Corn  Oysters. 

Take  6  ears  tender  corn  and  shave  fine  with  sharp  knife.  To  this 
add  one  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
in  cakes  on  hot  pan  greased  with  butter.    Serve  for  breakfast. 

Fresh  Peas. 

Hull  peas,  put  them  on  in  saucepan  with  a  little  cold  water; 
cook  slowly  for  more  than  15  minutes  if  the  peas  are  tender ;  longer 
if  they  are  hard.  Just  before  they  are  done  add  salt  and  pepper,  a 
large  lump  of  butter,  simmer  a  few  minutes  and  they  are  ready  to 
serve. 

Broiled  Tomatoes. 

Put  as  many  tomatoes  as  are  needed  in  boiling  water;  remove 
the  skin,  cut  into  slices,  have  a  skillet  quite  hot  and  put  in  a  large 
lump  of  butter;  sprinkle  the  tomatoes  thickly  with  flour,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  them  in  skillet  with  1  pint  of  brown  sugar; 
turn  while  cooking.    Serve  very  hot. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Take  6  tomatoes  and  12  mushrooms,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  bread 
crumbs,  y2  cup  of  finely  chopped  chicken,  salt  and  pepper.  Select  nice 
firm  tomatoes.  Remove  a  small  circular  piece  from  each  and  take 
out  seed.  Cut  mushrooms  in  pieces  and  mix  with  chicken ;  add  other 
ingredients  and  fill  tomatoes.    Set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Baked  Apples. 

Peel  apples,  then  core  them;  put  in  baking  dish;  if  not  juicy 
enough  add  a  little  water  and  1  pint  granulated  sugar,  1  kitchen 
spoon  of  butter;  cook  a  light  brown.  An  acid  apple  is  host  for 
cooking. 

Stewed  Corn. 

Cut  from  cob  twice,  then  put  in  skillet  with  a  little  water  and 
a  few  slices  of  bacon;  stir  often  and  cook  until  done. 

Snap  Beans. 

String  beans  and  break  in  pieces;  put  in  kettle  ^4  pound  of 


KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK.  141 

pork  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  well.  Let  it  cook  1  hour,  then 
add  the  beans  and  cook  1  hour  longer  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

Tomatoes. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes  and  remove  part  of  the  pulp,  then  drain 
them  and  put  in  some  onion  juice,  chopped  parsley  and  grated  bread 
crumbs.  Break  an  egg  in  each  tomato  and  set  in  oven  to  cook.  Serve 
for  tea. 

Shelled  Beans. 

Wash  beans  and  put  on  with  cold  water  to  cover.  Lima  or  white 
beans  are  improved  by  cooking  with  y±  pound  fat  pork  or  bacon 
and  a  little  salt  just  before  removing  from  fire. 

Cauliflower. 

Trim  off  outside  leaves  of  cauliflower  and  put  blossoms  down 
in  cold  salted  water  for  1  hour;  gently  shake  while  in  water.  Tie 
up  in  mosquito  netting  and  put  in  porcelain  kettle  with  enough  cold 
water  to  cover,  add  a  dash  of  salt  if  needed;  boil  1  hour.  Drain 
and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Cheese  Cauliflower. 

Prepare  cauliflower  as  above.  Make  a  cream  sauce,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  Parmesan  cheese,  put  cauliflower  in  baking  dish,  pour 
over  this  sauce  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  5  minutes. 

Egg  Plant  Fried. 

Peel  egg  plant  and  cut  in  slices  y>  an  inch  thick;  add  pepper 
and  salt,  place  a  weight  over  for  1  hour ;  arrange  dish  so  that  water 
may  drain  off.  Dry  each  slice,  dip  in  batter  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a 
chestnut  brown,  or  simply  roll  slices  in  flour,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Curried  Rice. 

Have  3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  sprinkle  in  the  rice,  boil  rap- 
idly uncovered  until  the  grains  swell.  Drain  in  a  colander,  cover 
with  cloth  to  keep  warm  15  minutes,  shake  up  light  3  times.  Mix  1 
teaspoon  curry  powder  with  white  sauce  or  gravy  and  pour  over 
rice.    Serve  with  mutton  or  veal. 

Fried  Cabbage. 

After  preparing  cabbage  chop  very  fine,  put  in  skillet  some 
slices  of  fat  bacon ;  when  hot  put  in  the  raw  cabbage  and  fry  until 
done. 

Turnip  Greens'. 

Remove  all  hard  part,  then  wash  greens  in  4  waters  and  put  in 
cold  water  to  soak  %  an  hour.  Have  in  kettle  a  piece  of  jowl  or  fat 
bacon ;  cook  until  almost  done,  then  add  the  greens  and  cook  1  hour. 


142  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Parsnips. 

Peel  parsnips,  slice  them  and  put  in  cold  water  %  an  hour; 
cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  They  can  then  be  put  in  skillet 
with  slices  of  bacon  and  fry  until  a  chestnut  brown,  or  they  can  be 
mashed  fine;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Make  into  round 
cakes  and  fry  brown. 

Brussel  Sprouts. 

Cut  the  sprouts  from  2  medium  size  stalks,  remove  all  defective 
leaves  and  put  in  salted  water  for  1  hour;  drain  well,  cook  in  ket- 
tle with  plenty  of  boiling  water;  do  not  cover  kettle;  cook  until 
tender,  possibly  y2  an  hour.  Drain  in  colander.  Serve  with  a  Hol- 
landaise  sauce  or  without  sauce,  as.  preferred. 

Artichokes  a  la  Soudan. 

Wash  in  vinegar  and  water,  lay  in  salted  water  1  hour,  then 
cook  long  enough  to  remove  the  choke ;  place  in  cold  water  5  min- 
utes, then  drain.  Make  a  forcemeat ;  mince  fine  4  ounces  of  fat  pork ; 
fry  a  little  with  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  shallots;  then  add  1  pint 
of  chopped  mushrooms,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  simmer  10 
minutes.  Blend  with  it  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  flour, 
%  coffee  cup  of  Spanish  sauce,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt. 
Fill  the  artichokes  with  this  forcemeat  and  tie  with  a  string.  Put  in 
saucepan  with  olive  oil  and  brown  the  outside,  then  add  %  pint 
white  broth  and  1  wine  glass  of  white  wine,  cover  and  cook  40  min- 
utes in  moderate  oven.  Serve  on  hot  dish.  Put  one  whole  mushroom 
on  top  of  each  artichoke  and  pour  sauce  over  them. 

Artichokes. 

Cut  stems  off  even  with  the  leaves  and  cut  top  leaves  across 
and  remove  the  choke.  Wash  them  well  and  place  upside  down  to 
drain;  tie  with  string  to  keep  leaves  in  place,  put  in  kettle  with 
boiling  water,  cook  until  the  leaves  come  off  easily,  drain  and  serve 
with  Hollandaise  sauce.    The  bottom  leaves  only  are  eatable. 

Spaghetti  a  la  New  York. 

Take  about  12  sticks  of  this  spaghetti  (do  not  break  them),  put 
in  a  kettle  of  salted  water ;  cook  y2  hour ;  serve  on  meat  platter  with 
grated  cheese  and  tomato  catsup. 

Cauliflower. 

Take  cauliflower,  remove  outer  leaves,  wash  thoroughly  and 
put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Just  before  it  is  done  add  a  little 
salt;  drain  and  serve  with  a  cream  dressing. 

Salsify. 
Peel  salsify,  cut  in  round  pieces,  put  in  cold  water  2  hours,  then 
in  kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover.    Cook  until  thoroughly 
done ;  drain  off  water.    Serve  very  hot  with  cream  dressing. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  143 

Turnips. 

Peel  turnips,  slice  thin  and  soak  in  cold  water  30  minutes,  then 
put  in  kettle  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover.  After  they  boil 
pour  off  first  water  and  add  fresh  boiling  water.  Cook  until  tender. 
Mash  while  hot,  add  butter  and  a  little  cream,  pepper  and  salt. 
Serve  hot. 

Asparagus. 

Take  asparagus,  peel  and  place  in  cold  water,  then  tie  up  in 
bunches,  put  in  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  thor- 
oughly. Cook  until  tender.  When  done  drain  off  water.  Serve  with 
a  cream  dressing  or  melted  butter  on  toast. 

To  Cook  Grits. 

One  coffee  cup  of  grits,  3  coffee  cups  of  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Add  water  and  salt  to  the  grits  and  boil  2  hours.  Just  be- 
fore it  is  done  add  %  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  a  lump  of  butter. 

Roasted  Green  Corn. 

Husk  the  corn  and  roast  on  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire,  reversing 
it  often.    Serve  with  butter  and  salt. 

Stewed  .Corn. 

Take  8  ears  of  corn,  cut  off  grains  with  a  sharp  knife  from  top 
of  cob  down  and  scrape  the  cob.  Put  corn  in  saucepan,  cover  with 
water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Add  1  teacup  of  cream  or  milk,  1  dessert- 
spoon of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  until  it  thickens  and  serve  hot. 

Scalloped  Corn. 

Cut  fresh  corn  from  the  cob,  put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  baking 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  with  dots  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  alternating  until  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  cream  or  milk  to 
moisten,  sprinkle  crumbs  on  top ;  bake  in  oven  30  minutes. 

Cabbage. 

Take  1  head  of  firm  white  cabbage,  cut  fine  and  wash  in  cold 
water,  soak  %  an  hour.  Put  in  saucepan  with  water;  add  a  little 
salt,  cook  until  tender,  then  drain  and  put  in  baking  dish  with 
enough  milk  to  cover  it,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Cook  until  a  light  brown. 

Baked  Stuffed  Cucumbers. 

Take  8  cucumbers  about  8  inches  long,  cut  them  in  half  length- 
wise, scoop  out  the  pulp  and  be  careful  not  to  break  the  peel;  put 
pulp  in  chopping  bowl,  add  several  ripe  tomatoes  that  have  been 
peeled;  bits  of  green  pepper.  After  removing  the  seed  some  bread 
crumbs  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  place  in  baking  pan 
and  pour  in  a  little  stock  to  prevent  burning ;  cook  a  light  brown. 


144  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Corn  Fritters. 

Take  6  good  ears  of  corn,  cut  half  the  grain,  then  scrape  it; 
put  in  a  pan  and  add  to  it  2  well-beaten  eggs,  nearly  1  pint  of  sifted 
flour,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  and  enough 
SAveet  milk  to  make  a  batter.  Beat  well,  put  a  heaping  kitchen  spoon 
of  this  batter  to  form  a  fritter  and  allow  as  many  as  will  fry  at  a 
time ;  have  the  skillet  and  lard  hot  in  which  they  are  to  be  cooked. 
Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  then  cut  in  thick  slices,  dip  in  sifted  meal, 
season  with  black  pepper  and  salt ;  have  hot  lard  in  a  skillet  and 
fry  a  chestnut  brown;  turn  slices  often. 

Beets  and  Cabbage. 

One  quart  of  chopped  boiled  beets,  1  quart  of  raw  chopped  cab- 
bage, 1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  black  pep- 
per, i/4  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  cup  of  grated  horseradish. 
Cover  well  with  cold  vinegar,  put  in  a  jar  and  tie  up  securely.  Serve 
with  meats. 

Butter  Beans. 

Shell  beans  and  wash,  put  in  kettle  with  cold  water;  cook 
slowly  for  1  hour.  Serve  with  a  cream  dressing,  pepper  and  salt  or 
serve  with  melted  butter,  very  hot. 

Dry  Butter  Beans. 

Soak  beans  in  cold  water  for  12  hours,  then  prepare  same  as 
fresh  beans. 

Spring  Carrots. 

Wash  and  scrape  them,  parboil  for  10  minutes,  then  dry  on  a 
cloth.  Eeturn  to  saucepan  with  1  cup  of  stock,  1  heaping  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Boil  gently  for  30  minutes, 
or  until  tender,  then  take  off  cover  and  boil  till  stock  is  reduced  to 
glaze. 

Onions. 

Peel  under  warm  water,  cut  a  small  slice  from  each  end,  put 
in  cold  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda  for  1  hour.  Cook  in  boiling  water ; 
change  water  and  finish  cooking  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then 
drain  and  serve  with  a  cream  or  milk  sauce. 

Baked  Onions. 

Select  large  onions,  parboil  and  have  a  pinch  of  soda  in  water; 
when  done  wipe  dry  and  wrap  each  one  in  a  buttered  paper.  Lay 
in  baking  pan,  cook  in  hot  oven  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a 
straw.  Serve  with  Spanish  sauce. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  145 

To  Cook  Spinach. 

Pick  leaves  to  pieces,  wash  carefully  and  put  in  cold  water 
with  a  little  salt.  Cook  2  hours.  Drain  on  a  sieve.  Serve  with  melted 
butter  and  3  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

Beets. 

In  preparing  beets  leave  the  tops  on  %  a  finger  long  or  else  they 
bleed.  "Wash  carefully  and  put  on  in  cold  water;  cook  until  they 
are  thoroughly  done,  then  put  in  cold  water  and  skin  them.  If  beets 
are  small  serve  them  whole  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  if 
large  slice  and  pour  over  them  cold  vinegar. 

Rice  and  Tomatoes. 

Cook  tomatoes  in  skillet  without  sugar;  have  a  dish  of  boiled 
rice.   Put  in  separate  dishes,  but  serve  together  on  a  plate. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Roast  potatoes  in  jacket.  "When  done  cut  off  end  and  remove 
inside  of  potato.  Mash  and  add  a  few  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  that 
has  been  quickly  broiled  and  chopped  fine,  also  cream  to  moisten 
it,  with  butter  and  salt.  Make  into  round  balls  and  sprinkle  grated 
cheese  on  top.   Bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

To  Fry  Apples. 

Wash  apples  and  cut  in  thin  round  slices,  put  in  hot  skillet  with 
slices  of  breakfast  bacon  or  lard.  While  cooking  sprinkle  with  light 
brown  sugar  and  cook  until  done.   Fry  on  each  side. 

Lima  Beans. 

Boil  1  pint  of  tender  lima  beans,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  then  add  %  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms ;  put  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter in  saucepan ;  when  melted  add  beans  and  mushrooms  with  %  gill 
of  cream;  let  it  simmer  10  minutes.   Serve  hot. 

Dried  Lima  Beans. 

Soak  in  cold  water  12  hours,  then  prepare  same  as  fresh  lima 
beans. 

To  Cook  Salsify. 

Take  3  bunches  of  salsify,  peel  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  long. 
Let  soak  in  cold  water  1%  hours,  then  put  in  kettle  with  boiling 
water  and  a  little  salt.  Cook  until  tender ;  drain  off  water  and  add 
1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  dessertspoon 
of  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  boil  until  it  thickens  and  serve  at  once. 

To  Fry  Apples. 

Wash  apples  and  cut  them  in  pieces,  put  in  a  hot  skillet  with 

10 


146  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

slices  of  breakfast  bacon;  after  they  cook  a  while  add  %  pint  of 
sugar;  cook  a  delicate  brown. 

Fried  Cucumbers. 

Slice  cucumbers  lengthwise  and  put  in  salt  water  2  hours,  then 
wipe  dry  and  sprinkle  with  cracker  dust  or  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 
Fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown. 

Snap  Beans  With  Cream  Dressing. 

String  beans  and  break  in  pieces,  put  in  kettle  with  */>  gallon 
of  cold  water.    Boil  1  hour,  then  drain  off  water. 

Cream  Dressing. 

One  teacup  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  salt, 
black  pepper.  Put  dressing  in  saucepan,  stir  well  and  when  almost 
boiled,  pour  on  beans  and  serve. 

Corn  Pagout. 

Cut  ham  or  bacon  in  small  squares,  and  fry  brown;  add  6  ripe 
tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  the  grains  cut  from  6  ears  of  corn ;  season 
with  red  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cook  slowly  half 
an  hour;  serve  hot  with  toast  or  slice  of  fried  bread.  Nice  for 
luncheon. 

Corn  Pudding. 

Take  1  dozen  ears  of  corn  and  cut  from  the  cob,  about  half  of 
the  grain,  then  scrape  it  and  put  in  baking  dish,  with  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  almost  1  table- 
spoon of  granulated  sugar,  pepper  and  salt;  beat  well  and  cook  in 
pudding  dish  until  done  and  serve  at  once. 

To  Boil  Corn. 

If  corn  is  tender,  cook  15  minutes,  put  in  kettle  of  cold  water, 
and  when  done  serve  immediately. 

Parsnips. 

Wash  parsinps,  and  put  on  in  cold  water,  cook  20  minutes.  When 
done  peel  and  slice  them,  then  put  in  baking  dish  with  a  few  thin 
slices  of  breakfast  bacon ;  sprinkle  on  top  a  little  brown  sugar  *  set 
in  oven  about  10  minutes  to  dry  out ;  and  serve  very  hot. 

Rice. 

Take  %  teacup  of  rice  and  wash  4  times  in  cold  water.  Have 
2  quarts  of  boiling  water  into  which  sprinkle  the  rice,  and  boil  for 
15  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  on  it  cold  water,  set  on  back 
of  range,  remove  cover  and  all  water  will  evaporate.  If  serving 
with  gumbo,  do  not  season  with  butter. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  147 

Hominy. 

Take  1  pint  of  hominy,  soak  6  hours,  then  put  on  in  cold  water ; 
cook  4  hours,  dry  out,  and  add  a  large  lump  of  butter  and  salt. 

Fried  Hominy. 

Put  hominy  in  a  skillet  with  hot  lard,  turn  and  fry  a  chestnut 
brown. 

Lye  Hominy. 

Shell  large  white  corn,  enough  to  make  2  quarts  and  have  lye 
made  from  wood  ashes,  which  must  boil  half  hour,  then  add  corn 
and  cook  %  hour  longer,  take  out  hominy  and  put  it  in  cold  water 
and  husk  it.    Put  on  with  cold  water  and  cook  6  hours. 

For  Asparagus. 

Make  a  white  roux,  then  take  1  pint  of  water  in  which  asparagus 
has  been  boiled ;  when  smooth  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  and 
%  teaspoon  of  sugar. 

Scrambled  Tomatoes. 

Remove  skin  from  8  tomatoes,  cut  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
dessertspoon  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  tolerably  cook- 
ed and  ready  to  serve,  add  4  well-beaten  eggs;  allow  them  to  re- 
main 3  minutes,  stirring  same  way.    Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 

Cucumbers. 

Peel  cucumbers  and  cut  in  slices  lengthwise,  boil  in  salted  water 
until  tender.     Drain  off  water,  and  serve  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Fried  Cucumbers. 

Pare  and  cut  cucumbers  in  thick  slices  lengthwise.  Wash  and 
dry  on  a  cloth.  Dredge  with  flour ;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  frying  pan,  brown  on  both  sides.    Serve  hot. 

Fried  Parsnips. 

Boil  parsnips  in  hot  salted  water  until  tender;  scrape  and  cut 
into  long  slices.  Dredge  pieces  with  flour,  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
ping a  chestnut  brown.    Drain  and  serve. 

Parsnips  may  be  boiled  and  mashed  as  potatoes,  seasoned  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  made  in  round  cakes  and  fried. 

Rhubarb. 

Take  2  bunches  of  rhubarb ;  peel  and  cut  into  cubes.  Wash  in 
cold  water ;  put  in  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water,  and  1 
heaping  pint  of  sugar.  Cook  until  tender,  stirring  often ;  serve  with 
meats  or  as  a  vegetable. 

Salsify  Patties. 

Take  2  bunches  of  salsify ;  if  tender  scrape  it ;  but  if  tough  peel 


148  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


it,  and  soak  in  cold  water  1  hour,  then  put  in  saucepan  with  cold 
water.  When  half  done  add  a  little  salt ;  when  well  done  mash  fine. 
Season  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  cream  salt  and 
pepper.  Make  into  round  cakes,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  fry  in  hot 
bacon  grease,  or  butter,  a  chestnut  brown. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Put  1  quart  of  beans  to  soak  at  night;  next  morning  drain  off 
the  water,  put  them  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  water,  let  simmer  until 
tender ;  just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoons  of  mo- 
lasses, with  y2  teaspoon  of  soda.  Then  put  beans  in  baking  jar,  with 
1  pound  of  fat  pickled  pork.  Let  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
dinner  is  ready  to  serve.  If  pork  is  not  salty,  can  add  a  little  more 
salt  to  the  beans. 

Hot  Lettuce. 

Fry  several  slices  of  ham,  then  remove  from  skillet.  Add  a 
little  hot  water  to  gravy  with  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  dry 
mustard,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  a  few  minutes  until  hot,  add  lettuce 
lightly  chopped,  and  leave  for  a  few  minutes  to  heat,  then  serve. 

Potato  Puffs. 

Two  cups  of  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  butter,  %  cup 
milk,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  the  whole 
thoroughly  until  light ;  while  hot  shape  in  balls  size  of  an  egg.  Have 
a  thin  sheet  buttered,  and  place  on  the  balls ;  as  soon  as  done,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg  and  brown  in  oven.  Slip  a  knife  under  balls 
and  slide  upon  a  hot  platter.   Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

Vegetable  Hash. 

Chop  coarsely  any  vegetables  left  from  a  boiled  dinner,  such  as 
potatoes,  cabbage  or  beans,  dust  with  pepper.  Put  in  saucepan  1  des- 
sertspoon butter,  when  it  melts,  shake  so  as  to  grease  side  of  the  pan, 
then  add  chopped  vegetables,  with  2  tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Cover, 
and  leave  for  5  minutes,  then  uncover,  and  stir  frequently.  Serve 
hot. 

Baked  Beets. 

"Wash  beets,  and  put  in  oven  to  bake,  turn  often  with  a  spoon. 
"When  done,  remove  skin,  and  cut  in  slices.  Serve  with  mefted  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

Fried  Salsify. 

Scrape  salsify,  cut  in  round  pieces  and  put  in  cold  water  2  hours. 
Drain  and  stew  until  tender,  mash  fine,  beat  1  egg  and  add  1  teacup 
of  milk,  a  little  flour,  the  salsify,  pepper  and  salt.  Make  in  little 
cakes,  roll  in  beaten  eggs,  then  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut 
brown. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  149 

Fried  Bananas. 

Peel  bananas,  slice  them  lengthwise,  put  in  frying  pan,  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  butter;  when  melted,  put  in  the  bananas;  fry  a 
chestnut  brown.  Put  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar, 
serve  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 

Remove  pulp  from  egg  plant  and  soak  in  cold  water  with  1 
tablespoon  of  salt,  1  hour.  Boil  egg  plant  until  tender;  cut  shell 
lengthwise;  when  egg  plant  is  done  mash  fine,  season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  then  fill  the  shell  with  the  mixture,  and  put  on  top 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter ;  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Egg  Plant. 

Remove  the  peel  and  cut  in  slices;  place  in  cold  salt  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Dip  each  slice  in  a  batter  made  with  1  egg  well  beaten, 
enough  sweet  milk  and  flour  to  make,  a  batter ;  add  the  sliced  egg 
plant ;  fry  a  chestnut  brown. 

Spaghetti. 

Two  pounds  of  chuck  roast,  1  can  tomatoes,  1  can  champignons, 
1  pint  water,  1  large  handful  imported  spaghetti,  1  pound  New  York 
cream  cheese,  1  large  onion,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Cut  meat  in 
small  pieces.  Put  butter  in  skillet,  add  the  onion  chopped  fine,  then 
the  meat,  fry  carefully  so  as  not  to  burn  onion.  Put  the  tomatoes 
in  skillet  with  the  water  and  the  champignons  with  their  liquor.  Re- 
move meat  from  skillet,  add  a  little  hot  water,  and  then  pour  in  with 
the  tomatoes,  also  add  the  meat.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  let  it  simmer  for  3  hours.  Boil  the  spaghetti  in  hot  salted 
water  until  done,  then  drain.  Take  a  large  meat  platter  and  put 
first  the  spaghetti  then  grated  cheese,  alternating  until  all  is  used. 
Pour  the  tomato  dressing  over  this.  Place  platter  in  oven  long 
enough  to  melt  the  cheese  but  not  bake  it. 

Escalloped  Cabbage. 

When  cabbage  is  done,  chop  fine,  put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish 
and  pour  over  this  dressing :  Two  well-beaten  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of 
cream,  1  dessertspoon  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  a  chestnut  brown.    Serve  hot. 


Egg  Toast. 

Cook  5  eggs  20  minutes,  drop  in  ice  water  to  cool.  Make  a  sauce 
with  1  coffee  cup  milk,  1%  dessertspoons  butter,  iy2  dessertspoons 
cornstarch,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  cook  in  double  boiler,  until 
of  good  consistency.  Place  small  squares  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot 
platter,  cover  with  the  sauce,  then  sprinkle  on  whites  chopped  fine, 
and  put  yolks  through  sieve  on  top.     Serve  at  once. 

Eggs  And  Toast. 

Spread  6  slices  of  hot  toast,  with  a  thin  layer  of  potted  ham. 
Beat  5  eggs  slightly  with  a  fork,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  1 
hot  cup  of  cream  and  milk  in  equal  proportions.  Turn  into  hot  pan 
or  chafing  dish,  stir  with  fork  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  spread  on 
toast,  and  serve  at  once. 

Parmesan  Eggs. 

Two  ounces  of  grated  parmesan  cheese,  1  spring  onion,  2  table- 
spoons sherry  wine,  1  ounce  of  butter,  6  eggs.  Put  the  cheese  in 
saucepan,  with  chopped  onions  and  wine,  stir  until  cheese  is  melted. 
Add  eggs  beaten  together,  stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  done,  have  thin 
slices  of  hot  toast,  and  spread  on  quickly  the  eggs.    Serve  at  once. 

Shirred  Eggs. 

Break  1  egg  at  a  time  in  a  saucer  for  shirring,  set  in  oven  and 
cook  about  15  minutes.  "When  ready  to  serve  pour  1  teaspoon  melted 
butter  on  each  egg. 

Steamed  Eggs. 

Place  eggs  in  steamer,  and  cook  5  minutes  or  less  as  required, 
break  in  egg  cup,  serve  hot. 

Steamed  Eggs  in  Cups. 

Break  eggs  in  buttered  cups,  and  set  in  steamer  to  cook.  Serve 
immediately. 

To  Preserve  Eggs  For  Winter  Use. 

Take  a  stone  jar ;  have  ready  some  wheat  bran,  thoroughly  dry, 
pack  in  alternate  layers,  eggs  and  bran,  putting  the  small  end  of  the 
egg  down.    Keep  in  a  dry  place,  where  they  will  not  freeze. 

Scalloped  Eggs. 

Boil  6  eggs  until  hard,  drop  in  ice  water.    Slice  when  cold,  put  in 

(150) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  151 

baking  dish,  with  1  teaspoon  parsley  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter cut  in  bits  and  added,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  1  pint  white 
sauce,  made  with  stock,  or  milk.  Sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs,  and 
pieces  of  butter,  bake  in  modern  oven  10  minutes. 

Eggs  For  The  Invalid. 

Beat  eggs  light,  season  with  salt  and  pspper,  put  in  buttered 
cups,  and  place  in  steamer  long  enough  to  become  thoroughly  heat- 
ed.   Serve  at  once. 

Picnic  Eggs. 

Boil  6  eggs  until  hard,  halve  lengthwise,  and  remove  yolks.  Chop 
fine,  with  cold  chicken,  or  cheese,  season  with  butter.  Fill  white  of 
eggA  then  press  halves  together.  Roll  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown.  Drain  in  wire  basket,  serve 
cold. 

Parisian  Eggs. 

Make  cases  of  heavy  letter  paper  and  butter,  put  in  each  case 
a  bit  of  butter,  a  dash  of  onion  or  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  up- 
on gridiron  over  moderate  fire.  When  butter  melts,  break  1  egg  in 
each  case,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top,  glaze  with  hot  shovel.  Serve 
in  cases  at  once. 

Lyonnaise  Eggs. 

Chop  1  onion,  and  cook  in  butter  a  straw  color,  then  add  whites 
of  6  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  season  with  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper.  Heap  on  a  hot  platter,  rub  yolks  through  sieve  over 
them,  with  1%  dessertspoons  butter,  3  dessertspoons  potted  ham, 
yolk  of  1  raw  egg,  shape  in  balls,  poach  or  fry  in  hot  butter  a  chest- 
nut brown. 

Fried  Eggs. 

Have  hot  fat  in  skillet,  break  eggs  1  at  a  time  in  saucer,  slip  into 
hot  fat,  turn  and  cook  until  done. 

Sunset  Eggs. 

Cook  in  hot  fat,  without  turning. .  Remove  when  done. 

Eggs  For  The  Invalid. 

Beat  white  of  1  egg,  put  on  a  thin  slice  of  toasted  bread,  then 
add  beaten  yolk  to  white,  cover  with  1  tablespoon  of  cream.  Set 
in  hot  oven  over  3  or  4  minutes  to  cook. 

Curried  Eggs. 

Boil  eggs  until  hard,  cut  in  half,  then  remove  white  end  suffi- 
ciently to  stand  upright.  Pour  white  sauce  around,  to  which  1  tea- 
spoon of  curry  powder  has  been  added.  Set  in  oven  a  few  minutes 
to  brown. 


152  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Egg  a  la  Golden  Rod. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  frying  pan;  when  it  bubbles  add 
1  tablespoon  of  flour,  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and  pepper.  Add  gradual- 
ly 1  coffee  cup  of  rich  milk,  and  the  whites  of  3  hard  boiled 
eggs  chopped  until  very  fine.  Pour  this  mixture  on  buttered  toast. 
Rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve,  on  top  of  toast ;  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Fill  a  saucepan  with  hot  water,  and  break  in  the  eggs ;  cook  un- 
til whites  are  done  and  serve  either  on  toast  or  in  a  dish. 

Griddled  Eggs. 

Heat  griddle  almost  as  much  as  for  baking  cakes,  butter  and  ar- 
range small  muffin  rings  on  it,  drop  an  egg  in  each,  and  turn  as  soon 
as  lightly  browned. 

Eggs  With  Cream  Sauce. 

Boil  eggs  until  hard;  when  cold  peel  and  serve  in  dish  with  a 
cream  sauce. 

Egg  Timbales. 

Six  eggs,  iy2  cups  of  rich  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  *4  teaspoon  of  onion  juice. 
Break  eggs  into  a  bowl,  beat  well;  add  the  seasoning  and  beat 
1  minute.  Add  milk  and  stir  well,  butter  timbale  molds,  and  pour 
in  the  mixture.  Place  in  a  deep  pan,  and  pour  in  enough  hot  water 
to  reach  almost  to  top  of  mold.  Place  in  moderate  oven,  and  cook 
about  15  minutes.  Then  turn  out  on  a  warm  dish.  Serve  either  with 
cream  or  tomato  sauce.  Put  a  sprig  of  parsley  on  each  timbale  and 
serve. 

French  Scrambled  Eggs. 

Beat  4  eggs  until  well  broken,  then  add  4  teaspoons  of  stock,  4 
teaspoons  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter;  turn  into  chafing  dish  or 
frying  pan,  and  stir  constantly  until  they  begin  to  thicken.  Add  ^ 
teaspoon  of  salt,  *4  teaspoon  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  frying  pan ;  when  hot  add  %  teacup 
of  cream,  and  6  well-beaten  eggs,,  salt  and  pepper ;  stir  constantly. 
Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

To  Poach  Eggs. 

Put  1  pint  of  water  in  skillet  with  %  teaspoon  of  salt ;  let  it  boil. 
Break  eggs  carefully  into  it,  letting  them  remain  about  4  minutes. 
They  are  nice  served  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

Egg  Timbales. 
Beat  together  4  eggs,  1  small  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  onion, 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  153 

1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  pepper  to 
taste.  Cook  in  timbale  cups,  surrounded  with  water.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

Ox  Eyes. 

Cut  slices  of  bread  round  and  an  inch  thick;  also  cut  a  hole  in 
the  center.  Spread  with  butter  and  crisp  in  a  quick  oven.  Break  1  egg 
in  each,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  1  table- 
spoon of  cream;  put  in  oven,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Twelve  eggs  boiled  hard;  cut  them  cross  ways;  take  the  yolks 
and  add  to  them  2  teaspoons  of  raw  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  celery 
seed  crushed,  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  a  little 
lemon  juice.  A  small  quantity  of  chopped  ham  or  chicken  may  be 
added.  Use  oil  enough  to  make  a  thick  paste,  then  stuff  yolks  in 
whites  and  set  in  stove  a  few  minutes.    Garnish  with  parsley. 

To  Boil  An  Egg. 

Put  egg  in  a  saucepan  filled  with  cold  water,  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Serve  at  once. 

Sardined  Eggs. 

Twelve  eggs  boiled  hard  and  dropped  in  cold  water;  cut  them 
cross  ways.  Mash  the  yolks  and  add  2  teaspoons  of  raw  mustard,  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper,  6  or  7  sardines  chopped  fine  with  some  of  the  oil, 
then  put  back  in  whites  and  set  away  to  cool.  Can  serve  with  a  lit- 
tle melted  butter  if  desired. 

Eggs  a  la  Shearer. 

Boil  5  fresh  eggs  3  minutes;  remove  shells,  without  breaking  the 
whites ;  put  eggs  in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Make  a  cream  sauce  with 
1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  of  flour 
worked  to  a  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook  5  minutes.  Cover  the 
eggs  with  this  sauce,  and  sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top.  Put  bits  of 
butter  on  top.    Brown  in  the  oven.    Serve  from  the  baking  dish. 


©^\e  lit 


In  making  omelets,  allow  1  dessertspoon  of  cream  for  each  eggf 
%  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Break  eggs  separately, 
and  beat  until  light,  fold  yolks  into  whites,  stir  as  little  as  possible, 
have  omelet  pan  hot,  with  1  dessertspoon  of  butter.  Put  on  top  of 
range  until  omelet  is  set,  then  place  in  oven  to  cook.  To  vary  omelet, 
use  1  teacup  French  peas,  heated  and  seasoned,  minced  ham,  or  1  cup 


154  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

fresh  mushrooms,  peeled,  chopped  and  browned  in  butter.    Whatever 
is  used,  spread  on  omelet,  when  ready  to  fold. 

Mushroom  Omelet. 

One  can  of  mushrooms,  1  kitchen  spoon  butter,  8  eggs,  pepper 
and  salt.  Drain  mushrooms  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  melt  butter 
in  chafing  dish  or  omelet  pan,  then  add  them  to  butter,  and  cook 
until  tender.  Beat  eggs  together,  until  light,  add  to  mushrooms,  with 
pepper  and  salt,  stir  constantly  until  cooked.  Serve  on  hot  toast. 
Asparagus  tips  may  be  substituted  for  mushrooms. 

French  Omelet. 

Six  fresh  tomatoes,  y2  can  French  peas,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
6  eggs,  pepper  and  salt.  Scald  tomatoes,  remove  seed,  and  dice, 
put  in  saucepan  a  moment.  Pour  peas  in  another  saucepan  to 
heat,  adding  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Prepare  omelet,  have  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter  in  omelet  pan ;  when  done,  have  peas  and  toma- 
toes combined,  and  quickly  spread  over  center,  and  roll.  Serve  at 
once. 

Egg  Omelet. 

Take  6  eggs  and  beat  separately.  Allow  6  tablespoons  of  sweet 
milk  to  the  yolks,  add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  the  milk,  pepper  and 
salt.  Stir  in  the  beaten  whites  lightly,  pour  the  mixture  in  a  hot 
skillet  with  a  lump  of  butter,  and  as  it  cooks  roll  omelet  with  a 
spoon. 

Omelet. 

Take  6  eggs  and  beat  separately.  To  yolks  add  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  y2  pint  of  sweet  milk,  stir  in  whites  lightly  and  put  in  bak- 
ing dish  to  cook.  Have  some  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
pour  over  omelette.     Serve  at  once. 

Spanish  Omelet. 

Cut  4  ounces  of  bacon  in  thin  slices,  and  then  into  half  inch 
squares,  fry  gently  until  crisp.  Add  1  small  onion,  a  medium-size 
tomato,  and  6  mushrooms,  chopping  all  fine.  Rub  a  freshly  cut  clove 
of  garlic  on  the  spoon  to  be  used  for  stirring ;  cook  15  minutes.  Break 
in  a  bowl,  6  eggs;  season  with  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  *4  saltspoon 
of  white  pepper.  Give  it  a  dozen  strong  strokes  and  turn  into  fry- 
ing pan,  in  which  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  has  been  melted,  and 
spread  over  the  bottom  and  side.  Shake  until  nearly  set.  Spread 
the  bacon  and  vegetables  quickly  over-,  fold,  and  put  in  oven  for  1 
minute ;  turn  upon  a  heated  platter,  and  serve  at  once. 

Rolled  Egg  Omelet. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  minced  ham.  1  heaping  table- 
spoon of  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  add  ingredients  to  eggs.  Put  but- 
ter in  a  hot  skillet,  and  pour  in  the  omelet.     Set  inside  of  stove  to 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  155 

cook;  when  done  begin  to  fold  it  from  the  end  with  a  battercake 
turner.  If  desired  pour  on  a  gill  of  rum,  and  set  on  fire  when  ready 
to  serve. 

Mushroom  Omelet. 

Prepare  X  cup  of  large  button  mushrooms,  or  canned  mushrooms, 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  saucepan  1  ounce  of  butter  and  let  melt, 
add  mushrooms,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  pepper,  %  cup  of 
cream  or  milk.  Dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
and  stir  rapidly  to  prevent  lumping.  Boil  10  minutes,  then  set  aside 
until  omelet  is  ready.  Make  an  omelet  of  6  eggs  in  usual  way,  when 
ready  to  fold,  turn  mushrooms  over  the  center,  and  serve  at  once. 

Chicken  Omelet. 

Mince  fine  1  cup  of  cold  chicken,  put  in  saucepan  1  cup  of 
cream,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  thicken  with  1  dessert- 
spoon flour,  cook  sauce  until  of  good  consistency.  Prepare  an  ome- 
let of  6  eggs,  in  usual  way,  when  ready  to  fold,  pour  on  this  chicken, 
serve  at  once. 

Oyster  Omelet. 

Parboil  10  oysters  in  their  liquor,  remove  and  drain.  Chop  oys- 
ters, and  keep  hot  in  saucepan,  when  ready  to  fold  omelet,  quickly 
spread  and  fold.    Serve  at  once. 

Sweet  Omelet. 

Beat  6  eggs  separately,  add  to  yolks  6  teaspoons  powdered  sugar, 
and  stir  lightly  into  whites.  Cook  in  omelet  pan,  with  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter.  When  ready  to  fold,  spread  with  jelly,  marmalade,  or 
cover  surface  thickly  with  powdered  sugar,  and  score  with  hot 
poker.    Serve  at  once. 

Rice  Omelet. 

Boil  1  coffee  cup  of  rice,  when  cool  add  1  cup  of  milk,  and  1 
tablespoon  butter,  stir  until  light,  add  1  eggs  well  beaten,  pepper 
and  salt.  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  pan,  when  hot  add  the  omelet, 
place  on  top  of  range  a  few  minutes  to  set,  then  set  in  oven  to 
bake.    When  done,  fold  and  serve  at  once. 

Tomato  Omelet. 

A  2-pound  can  of  tomatoes,  1  can  of  champignons,  12  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 
Heat  tomatoes,  then  pass  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seed,  return  to 
saucepan  and  season,  cook  until  tolerably  thick.  Chop  champignons 
and  put  in  another  saucepan  with  their  liquor,  add  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  cook  until  tender.  Beat  eggs  separately,  prepare  omelet, 
have  1  tablespoon  melted  butter  in  a  broad  pan,  pour  in  the,  omelet. 
A  short  time  before  it  is  done  combine  tomatoes  and  champignons, 
spread  quickly  on  omelet,  fold  and  serve  at  once. 


156  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Cheese  Omelet. 

Take  5  eggs  and  5  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  large  tablespoon  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  separately.  Put  the 
beaten  yolks. into  a  small  baking  dish,  add  the  cheese,  pepper,  salt 
and  butter.  Put  it  in  the  oven  and  let  it  get  thoroughly  heated,  then 
take  it  out  and  beat  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  whipped.  Let  it 
get  brown  on  top.    Serve  hot. 

Mushroom  Omelet. 

One  can  of  mushrooms,  2  tablespoons  cream,  1  heaping  table- 
spoon butter,  8  eggs,  salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Put  but- 
ter in  skillet  or  chafing  dish,  when  melted  add  mushrooms,  cut  fine 
with  scissors.  Let  them  get  very  hot,  then  put  in  the  cream,  and 
break  in  the  eggs.  Stir  with  a  spoon.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  or  on  but- 
tered toast. 

Spanish  Omelet. 

Take  4  or  6  eggs  and  beat  them  separately,  a  piece  of  raw  or 
cooked  ham,  size  of  an  egg,  1  green  pepper,  1  ripe  tomato,  a  few  olives 
or  1  cucumber  pickle ;  a  few  peas  may  be  added.  Chop  ingre- 
dients fine,  and  put  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  skillet,  when  it  melts, 
add  ingredients  and  shake  constantly;  cook  several  minutes.  The 
omelette  may  be  prepared  in  another  skillet,  and  just  before  it  is 
done  spread  over  the  vegetables,  fold  and  serve  immediately.  Or, 
vegetables  may  be  put  in  skillet  with  the  melted  butter  and  omelette 
in  the  beginning.  Shake  skillet  up  and  down  continuously,  and  fold 
omelet  in  skillet. 

Fresh  Tomato  Omelet. 

Six  fresh  tomatoes,  %  can  champignons,  6  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Scald  tomatoes,  peel,  remove  seed  and  dice, 
put  in  a  saucepan  to  heat,  not  cook.  Have  champignons  chopped 
and  cooked  in  their  liquor,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pre- 
pare omelet,  put  in  pan  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Combine  tomatoes  and  champignons,  spread 
quickly  on  omelet,  when  done,  roll  and  serve  at  once. 

Rum  Omelet. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  1  large  wineglass  of  rum,  6 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  yolks  until  light, 
add  Y-2  tablespoon  butter,  the  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt,  then  fold 
in  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Have  rest  of  butter  in  the  hot 
skillet,  pour  in  omelet  and  cook  inside  of  stove.  When  done,  pour 
over  rum,  set  on  fire  and  serve  immediately  on  hot  dish. 

Omelet  Souffle. 

Break  6  eggs  separately,  take  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  mix  with 
them  1  teaspoon  flour,  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  a  dash  of  salt, 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon.     Beat  whites  to  a  froth,  fold  lightly 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  157 


into  yolks,  pour  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Remove  omelet  when  a  chestnut  brown,  slide  on  a  hot  platter,  sprin- 
kle with  powdered  sugar.    Serve  at  once. 

Baked  Omelet. 

Beat  6  eggs  separately,  to  yolks  add  1  teacup  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoon flour  or  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon 
of  salt,  then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  in  a  buttered  pudding 
dish,  and  bake  30  minutes  in  regular  oven.    Serve  at  once. 

Ham  Omelet. 

Dice  i/i  pound  of  raw  ham  and  fry  in  butter,  when  done,  add 
to  a  plain  omelet,  made  with  6  eggs.  ,Cook  in  omelet  pan,  with 
melted  butter;  when  done  fold  quickly  and  serve. 


CH 


Cheese  Patties. 

Take  y2  pound  of  grated  cheese,  1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  lard  size 
of  an  egg,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Add  ingredients  to  flour,  then 
the  lard  and  mix  with  ice  water,  working  only  enough  to  mix  it,  then 
roll  in  a  sheet  iy2  inches  thick  and  place  on  a  platter,  set  in  re- 
frigerator half  an  hour.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter  y2  inch  thick  and 
with  smaller  cutter,  make  hole  in  the  center,  brush  over  top  with  the 
unbeaten  white  of  an  egg  and  set  in  stove  to  cook  a  delicate  brown. 
Hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  may  then  be  put  in  center,  or  nicely 
cooked  fish  that  has  been  prepared  with  a  cream  dressing,  or  serve 
plain  with  chicken  salad. 

Cream  Macaroni. 

Boil  V±  pound  of  macaroni  in  hot  water  salted.  Put  in  double 
boiler  1  teacup  of  milk,  let  come  to  boiling  point,  and  add  2  table- 
spoons butter,  and  1  tablespoon  flour  blended,  and  y2  cup  of  cream, 
salt,  white  pepper  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  1  teacup  of  grated 
cheese.    Mix  well,  put  macaroni  in  hot  dish  and  pour  over  the  sauce. 

Escalloped  Macaroni. 

Boil  8  sticks  of  macaroni  thoroughly  done,  in  salted  water.  Put 
a  layer  of  macaroni  in  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese, 
with  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  another  layer  of  macaroni,  al- 
ternating until  dish  is  full.  Cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs,  and 
bits  of  butter,  and  pour  over  1  teacup  of  cream  or  milk.  Bake  about 
30  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 


158  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Cheese  Shells. 

Fill  the  empty  shell  of  an  Edam  or  Pineapple  cheese,  with  cook- 
ed  macaroni,  seasoning-  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  moisten  with 
hot  milk,  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Set  in  oven  until  hot,  replace  top 
on  the  cheese.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

French  Macaroni. 

Boil  12  sticks  of  Nicola  D'Agostino  spaghetti  in  salted  water, 
until  tender.  Drain,  and  mix  with  this  dressing.  One  pint  of  new 
milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  butter  in  a  pan,  when  it  bubbles,  add  flour,  and  mix  until 
smooth,  add  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  come  to  boiling  point. 
Put  spaghetti  and  cream  in  baking  dish,  and  add  5  tablespoons  of 
grated  cheese,  sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs,  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Timbale  Of  Spaghetti. 

Cook  8  sticks  of  Nicola  D'Agostino  spaghetti  in  salt  water  30 
minutes,  breaking  it  in  pieces  of  uniform  size.  Season  with  butter 
and  grated  cheese,  work  into  it  1  well-beaten  egg.  Have  a  mold 
greased  with  butter,  and  dust  it  with  bread  crumbs,  and  when  spa- 
ghetti is  nearly  cold,  fill  mold,  and  press  down,  leaving  a  hole  in  cen- 
ter. Put  in  a  force  meat  of  chicken  or  game,  cover  with  the  mixture. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven,  turn  out  on  flat  platter,  and  serve  with  a 
hot  cream  sauce. 

Spaghetti  A  La  Italienne. 

Bread  Y±  pound  of  Nicola  DAgostino  spaghetti,  into  3  inch 
pieces.  Cook  15  minutes  in  boiling  salt  water,  then  drain.  Put  spa- 
ghetti in  saucepan,  with  enough  stock,  to  prevent  scorching,  sprinkle 
over  1  ounce  of  grated  cheese,  and  let  remain  until  it  melts.  Place 
in  baking  dish,  pour  over  the  stock  and  bake  30  minutes. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  Y2  cup  of  new  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  butter  in  saucepan ;  when  it  melts  add  flour.  Let  it  cook  a  min- 
ute; stir  constantly.  Add  milk,  gradually  stirring  all  the  while,  then 
salt  and  pepper.  Take  from  fire,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  the  grated 
New  York  or  Parmesan  cheese.  Set  on  stove,  stir  until  cheese  is  melt- 
ed, put  mixture  on  a  buttered  dish,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
ready  to  serve  stir  in  lightly  the  well-beaten  whites,  put  in  pudding 
dish,  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  about  25  minutes.  Do  not  shake  it 
while  cooking.    Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

Tomatoes  and  Cheese. 

Boil  quart  of  solid  tomatoes  with  %  green  pepper  cut  fine  and 
1  small  onion  for  5  hours  or  until  they  are  thick.  Melt  1  teaspoon 
of  butter  in  chafing  dish  and  add  1  pound  of  cheese ;  when  it  is; 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  159 


thoroughly  melted,  the  tomatoes.    Let  it  boil  slowly;  add  salt  and 
Worcestershire  sauce  with  a  dash  of  red  pepper.   Serve  on  hot  toast. 

Cheese  Patties. 

Cut  bread  into  round  shape  %  of  an  inch  thick,  removing  the 
crust ;  dip  each  piece  in  melted  butter  and  toast  a  nice  brown.  Fill 
the  center  of  toast  with  this  mixture,  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  % 
tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  cream,  a  dash  of  pepper  and 
salt.  Place  in  pan  and  set  in  oven  to  melt  the  cheese.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Cheese  Pudding. 

Two  teacups  of  new  milk  scalded,  1  teacup  of  powdered,  stale 
bread.  Beat  2  eggs  until  light  and  add  the  scalded  crumbs,  % 
teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  y2  pound  of  grated 
cheese.  Put  all  in  a  pudding  dish;  cover  lightly  with  cracker 
crumbs;  cook  until  it  assumes  shape,  then  brown  quickly. 

Crackers  With  Cheese. 

Split  some  water  biscuit,  or  crackers,  moisten  with  hot  water, 
and  pour  over  melted  butter  and  a  little  French  mustard.  Spread 
with  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese,  sprinkle  over  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Place  in  hot  oven  until  cheese  is  soft.  Serve  at  once  for 
luncheon  or  tea. 

Uneeda  biscuit,  spread  with  grated  cheese  and  set  in  hot  oven 
to  melt,  makes  a  palatable  dish  for  luncheon.  Use  marrow  of  beef 
bones  on  hot  buttered  toast  for  lunch. 

Ramaquins. 

Four  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  gill  of 
milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  ounces  of  bread  grated,  1-3  teaspoon  of 
mustard,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  whites  of  3  eggs. 

Put  milk  and  bread  in  saucepan,  boil  until  smooth,  stir  often. 
Add  cheese  and  butter,  remove  from  fire.  As  soon  as  butter  melts, 
stir  in  yolks  and  seasoning.  Let  cool  a  little,  add  stiffly  beaten 
whites.    Bake  in  small  china  dishes,  and  serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Croutons. 

To  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  add  ^4  teaspoon  each  of  mustard  and 
salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Heat  a  little 
and  mash  to  a  smooth  paste ;  cut  bread  into  strips  3  inches  long  and 
an  inch  wide  ;  butter  slightly  and  toast.  Spread  with  the  cheese  mix- 
ture and  set  in  oven  a  minute  to  brown. 

Cheese  Sticks. 

Four  ounces  of  butter,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  3  ounces  of 
grated  cheese,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  white  pepper,  nutmeg 
and  cayenne  pepper.    Mix  together,  add  2  tablespoons  of  cream,  and 


160  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


6  ounces  of  flour;  put  spices,  sugar  and  egg  together;  sprinkle  board 
-with  flour  and  roll  thin ;  cut  in  sticks  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

Cheese  Balls. 

Take  2  cakes  of  Neufchatel  cheese,  8  English  walnuts,  and  some 
chopped  chives;  mix  all  together;  roll  into  balls  and  put  in  re- 
frigerator to  cool.    Serve  with  chicken  salad. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Mix  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  kitchen  spoon  of 
butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  enough 
water  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Cut  in  strips  and  put  in  tins.  Bake  in 
quick  oven  10  minutes.     Serve  with  salad. 

Cheese  Straws. 
« 

Put  6  heaping  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour  on  the  pastry  board, 
make  a  hole  in  the  center  and  pour  into  it  2  tablespoons  of  cream, 
3  tablespoons  of  dry,  grated  cheese,  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  half  a 
saltspoon  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  the  yplks  of  2  lightly 
beaten  eggs.  Mix  all  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers ; 
roll  %  of  an  inch  thick  and  cut  in  narrow  straws.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered pan,  in  moderate  oven  to  a  light  brown. 

Cheese  Wafers. 

Take  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  2  ounces  of  flour,  2  ounces  of 
outter;  mix  well  together,  add  a  little  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Knead  well 
but  do  not  use  any  water;  roll  thin  on  a  floured  board;  cut  into 
small  cakes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  4  or  5  minutes.  They  will  keep 
for  a  month,  but  it  is  well  to  heat  them  before  using. 

Curd. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  a  pan  of  clabber;  let  it  remain  until 
cool  then  pour  in  a  colander  to  drain.  A  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  may  be  worked  in ;  just  before  serving  moisten  with  cream. 

Cheese  Fondu. 

Soak  1  teacup  of  bread  crumbs  in  2  teacups  of  new  milk;  stir 
into  this  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  %  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  *4  teaspoon, of  pepper.  Before  using  the  milk,  dis- 
solve a  pinch  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  into  it.  Add  to 
the  mixture  %  pound  of  grated  cheese.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and 
pour  the  fondu  into  it.  Strew  the  top  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  at  once  in  the  same 
dish. 

Cheese  Cakes. 

Take  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  2  ounces  of  butter,  2  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs,  1  gill  of  milk,  1-3  teaspoon  of  mustard,  1-3  teaspoon  of  salt, 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  161 


a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  whites  of  3  eggs.  Crumb 
the  bread,  boil  it  soft  in  the  milk,  add  the  butter,  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper,  cheese,  and  the  yolks.  Beat  thoroughly.  Then  stir  in  well- 
beaten  whites.  Pour  into  paper  cases  or  well-heated  egg  cups.  Bake 
5  or  6  minutes.    Serve  immediately. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  cheese,  a  slice  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  cup  of  cream,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  2  dessert- 
spoons of  prepared  mustard  and  1  egg  well  beaten.  Beer  may  be 
used  instead  of  cream.  Put  all  in  a  chafing  dish,  cook  until  smooth 
and  serve  on  square  crackers. 

Macaroni. 

Make  a  cream  dressing;  boil  12  sticks  of  macaroni  in  salted 
water  until  done,  then  mix  with  the  cream  dressing.  Put  in  a  bak- 
ing dish;  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top  and  bake 
until  a  chestnut  brown. 

English  Monkey. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  New  York  cream  cheese  cut  in 
small  pieces,  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon 
Armour's  beef  extract  dissolved  in  2  teaspoons  hot  water,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Prepare  on  chafing  dish ;  let  it  stand  for  5  minutes, 
then  serve. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

One  pound  New  York  cream  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  2-3  of 
a  cup  of  milk,  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  Armour's  extract  of  beef. 
Dissolve  the  latter  in  2  teaspoons  of  hot  water.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.   Prepare  on  chafing  dish. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Grate' 1  pound  of  cheese.  Rub  the  bottom  of  chafing  dish  with 
a  clove  of  garlic;  put  in  the  cheese  and  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  a 
walnut,  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  1  gill  of  beer  or  ale.  Stir 
constantly  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Add  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Turn  at  once  on  buttered  toast  or  large 
crackers  heated,  and  serve  immediately. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Take  %  pound  of  fresh  cheese,  %  teacup  of  cream,  1  teaspoon 
of  made  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
to  taste.  Mix  ingredients,  stir  constantly  while  cooking,  let  stand 
a  few  minutes  after  it  is  done,  and  serve  oh  square  crackers,  that 
have  been  heated. 

11 


1()2  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Welsh  Rarebit. 

Half  pound  of  grated  cheese,  2  medium-size  butter  balls,  a/2  CUP 
of  cream,  2  eggs  beaten  until  very  light,  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and 
mustard.  Put  cheese  in  chafing  dish,  when  nearly  melted  add  but- 
ter, mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  When  well  mixed  put  in  cream,  stir 
until  smooth,  then  add  beaten  eggs,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 
stirring  all  the  while.  Serve  on  nicely  browned  toast  dipped  in  hot 
milk. 


TR 


Boned  Turkey. 

Bone  a  small  turkey  after  having  cut  off  the  wings,  the  legs  and 
the  neck.  Begin  by  cutting  the  skin  down  its  entire  length,  com- 
mencing with  the  middle  of  the  neck  and  ending  with  the  middle  of 
the  rump.  Use  a  small  thin  knife  and  follow  the  outlines  of  the  rib 
bones.  Then  remove  the  breast  bone  and  the  second  joint  bones, 
take  the  meat  from  the  latter  and  chop  very  fine.  Remove  all  sinews 
from  the  fillets,  cut  away  a  part  of  their  thickness  and  place  them 
where  the  legs  were  taken  off.  Prepare  a  well-seasoned  choppd 
forcemeat,  mix  well  together,  adding  %  gill  of  brandy,  truffle  essence 
and  1  ounce  of  chopped  truffles.  Cut  %  pound  of  fat  pork  into  % 
inch  squares,  blanch  and  drain.  Have  also  %  pound  of  unsmoked 
beef  tongue  cut  in  %  inch  squares,  5  ounces  of  peeled  truffles  cut  in 
pieces  and  %  of  a  pound  of  duck  or  goose  livers,  parboiled  and 
cold,  cut  in  y2  inch  dice.  With  this  and  the  forcemeat  stuff  the 
turkey,  then  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  and  let  cook  in  some  good  stock  for 
2  hours,  drain  well,  take  off  the  cloth  and  wrap  it  up  again  before 
setting  under  press.  When  thoroughly  cold,  unwrap,  prepare  and 
cover  with  a  white  fecula  Chaudfroid  sauce.  Decorate  with  aspic 
jelly. 

Boned  Turkey. 

Select  a  large  turkey,  split  in  the  back,  take  out  all  bones,  cut 
the  first  joint  of  the  legs,  remove  bones,  then  the  second  joint,  also 
take  bones  from  the  wings,  turn  in  both  legs  and  wings.  Have  an- 
other turkey  boiled,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  through  grinder,  add  to  it 
2  cans  of  champignons,  sliced  in  half,  1  large  can  of  truffles,  season 
with  1  nutmeg  grated,  a  little  onion,  ground  mace,  pepper  and  salt. 
Take  1  thick  slice  of  raw  ham  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  thick,  also  ^ 
pound  of  raw  salt  pork,  cut  %  inch  thick,  1  beef  tongue  boiled  and 
cut  the  same  way,  put  the  forcemeat  in  turkey,  then  the  meat  cut  in 
strips,  champignons  and  truffles,  add  meat  and  the  strips  of  bacon 
until  the  turkey  is  stuffed  quite  full.  Sew  it  in  the  back  with  strong 
white  thread,  put  turkey  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag  and  tie  it  very  tight. 
Put  in  a  kettle,  cover  well  with  water  and  boil  2  hours.  Take  from 
fire  and  let  it  get  cold.  It  can  then  be  molded  in  aspic  jelly,  or 
cut  in  slices.    Serve  with  Chaudfroid  sauce. 

Chaudfroid  Sauce. 

Put  in  saucepan  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  when  it  bubbles  add 
2  tablespoons  of  flour ;  mix  well,  stirring  all  the  time.    Put  in  2  coffee 

(163) 


ltlt  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    i:<"»k. 


eupa  of  chicken  or  veal  stuck,  cook  until  tolerably  thick;  season  with 
s.-ilt  and  pepper.  Soai  '  -  box  of  gelatine  in  '  -  cup  of  cold  water 
for  1  hour,  ;i<l<l  to  stock  and  Btir  mil i I  dissolved,  Strain  in  sauce. 
Lei  it  Btiffen  a  little  before  using.  Set  a  little  of  this  mixture  on  ice 
and  try  if  it  is  firm  enough  or  too  stiff;  if  too  still',  add  more 
stock:  if  imt  stiff  enough  more  gelatine;  it  should  not  be  bo  aofl  aa 
to  run.  It  .-.in  iw  made  yellow  by  adding  the  yolks  of  3  well-beaten 
eggs  before  removing  from  fire.  A  brown  Chaudfroid  is  made  by 
browning  the  mux.  diluting  it  with  beef  stock.  Prepare  this  way 
Eor  serving  with  dark  meal  or  game.  If  boned  turkey  is  no1  smooth, 
pour  over  it  some  of  this  sauce  which  must  have  been  on  ice.  For 
boned  turkey  and  boned  chicken  have  the  sauce  white. 

Turkey  Souffle. 

one  cup  of  white  soup  stock,  1  cup  of  turkey  chopped  fine,  1 
cup  rich  milk,  %  cup  pf  rolled  crackers  soaked  in  milk,  yolks  of  3 
eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper,     ^lix  thoroughly,  then  add  th< 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth;  put  in  buttered  pudding  dish.  bake"%  hour. 
Serve  at  once. 

Turkey  Timbales. 

One  cup  of  cold  turkev,  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  V2  cup  cream  or 
milk,  1  teaspoon  minced  onion,  1  teaspoon  chopped  celery  leaves. 
Put  in  double  boiler  turkev  chonned  fine  with  the  bread  crumbs, 
onion,  celery  leaves  and  milk.  Add  the  mixture  to  the  beaten  white 
of  1  egg,  also  !  2  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  celery  salt,  Y8  teaspoon 
penner.  Cook  15  minutes.  Grease  9  molds,  line  with  dried,  sifted 
bread  crumbs,  then  with  the  timbale  mixture,  fill  with  the  following  : 
Heat  1  cu^  of  rich  milk,  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  2  table- 
spoons flour,  then  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stir  until  smooth, 
each  time  milk  has  been  added  cho^  fine  and  add  to  the  sauce  % 
cu^  of  cooked  cold  turkey,  1  hard  boiled  egg  and  6  mushrooms ;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt;  pour  in  molds;  place'the  cups 
in  a  ^an  of  hot  water.  Bake  20  minutes,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Sauce  For  Turkey  Timbales. 

Heat  1  en  of  new  milk  and  1  cun  of  turkey  stock;  melt  ^  table- 
spoon of  butter,  %  tablespoon  of  flour,  then  the  hot  liquid,  a  little  at 
;i  time;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celerv  salt.  Just  before  serv- 
ing, add  1  well-beaten  egg. 

Sauce  For  Timbales. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  1  tablespoon  flour; 
pul  cream  jn  double  boiler,  and  when  hot  add  flour  and  butter  well 
blended.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Turn  out  timbales  on  each  plate, 
and  pour  over  the  sauce  while  hot. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  165 


Forcemeat. 

In  preparing  forcemeat  it  is  important  to  know  that  in  case  it 
should  be  tough,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  each  half  pint  of 
the  meat.  If  too  soft,  add  1  well-beaten  egg  to  every  pint  of  force- 
meat. 

Chicken  Forcemeat. 

Three  eggs,  %  pint  of  raw  chicken,  %  pint  of  cream,  1  gill 
bread  crumbs,  4  dessertspoonfuls  butter,  1  large  teaspoonful  salt,  14 
blade  of  mace,  black  pepper.  Chop  meat  to  a  pulp  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Boil  cream,  bread  crumbs  and  mace  until  cooked  to  a 
smooth  paste,  which  requires  about  10  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  the  meat,  butter  and  seasoning,  then  whites,  beaten  stiff.  Set 
aside  until  wanted. 

This  forcemeat  may  be  used  for  boudins,  quenelles  or  tim- 
bales. 

Panada. 

Panada  is  bread  crumbs  with  cream,  milk  or  stock  in  the  pro- 
portion of  half  as  much  bread  as  liquid,  cooked  until  a  smooth  paste. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  of  veal  or  beef  chopped  fine,  1  pound  of  fresh  pork 
chopped  with  veal,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  pepper,  same  of  salt  and  sage, 
8  large  crackers  rolled  fine,  l1/^  cups  of  water.  Grease  pan  before 
putting  in  mixture.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done. 
A  little  onion  may  be  added.    * 

Cream  Chicken. 

One  chicken,  3  sets  of  sweet  breads,  1  can  of  champignons,  1 
quart  of  cream.  Boil  chicken,  sweetbreads  and  champignons^  and 
chop  them  fine  as  for  salad.  Beat  the  cream,  thicken  with  1  dessert- 
spoon of  flour;  add  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover  the  top 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  20  minutes.  If  pre- 
ferred sweetbreads  may  be  omitted. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Pick  the  chicken  to  pieces,  used  in  the  clear  soup;  remove 
skin,  gristle  and  bone,  put  through  meat  grinder.  Make  a  panada 
of  1  teacup  of  bread  crumbs,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  %  cup  of  stock  or  hot 
water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  stir  until  thick  as  mus£,  add  1 
kitchen  spoon  of  butter.  Let  it  cool  a  little  then  stir  in  the  meat 
until  smooth..  Pour  into  mold,  which  must  have  been  filled  with  ice 
water.  Fill  the  molds  1-3  full  with  the  aspic.  A  sprig  of  parsley 
may  be  dropped  into  this  if  cool  enough.  When  congealed  put  in 
the  chicken,  pour  on  the  rest  of  the  jelly  slowly,  so  as  not  to  wash 
off  any  of  the  chicken.    Let  it  harden,  turn  out  of  molds  and  serve. 


16(5  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Veal  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veal,  ground  fine,  6  soda  crackers  pulver- 
ized, 4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  thick  cream:  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
season  with  black  and  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  minced 
onion,  chopped  parsley,  celery  seed.  Beat  all  well  together.  After 
it  has  been  formed  into  a  loaf,  rub  1  egg  over  the  top  of  it  and  put  in 
pan,  cover  with  grated  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Put 
water  in  pan  and  baste  as  it  cooks,  bake  2  hours.  Serve  with  cream 
sauce.  Have  both  hot.  Serve  with  cream  potatoes,  green  peas,  as- 
paragus or  dressing  of  champignons. 

Chicken  Souffle. 

One  pint' of  cold  chicken,  chopped  fine.  Melt  in  a  saucepan  1 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  gradually  1 
pint  of  hot  milk  or  stock.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  to  this  %  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the 
chicken,  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth. 
Pour  in  a  buttered  dish.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  y2  hour,  serve  at 
once,  English  fashion. 

Chicken  a  la  Soudan. 

Remove  the  breast  bone  of  a  large  young  chicken.  Fill  the  aper- 
ture with  a  forcemeat  of  Pate  de  Foi  Gras.  Make  a  batter,  as  for  frit- 
ters. When  fowl  is  half  done,  pour  over  some  of  the  batter,  and 
when  dry,  add  more  until  thickly  coated.  Let  cook  a  delicate 
brown.  Cut  into  pieces,  and  serve  with  melted  butter,  and  slices  of 
lemon. 

Coquilles  of  Chicken. 

Run  through  grinder  the  breast  of  1  cooked  chicken,  1  cup  of 
chopped  mushrooms  and  truffles.  Fill  individual  shells  with  the 
chicken,  and  sprinkle  on  top  bread  crumbs,  and  bits  of  butter.  Bake 
in  hot  oven,  a  chestnut  brown. 

Turkish  Chicken. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  and  stew ;  when  nearly  done,  add  1  cup  of  to- 
•  matoes,  a  small  piece  of  onion,  1  cup  of  rice,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Let  all  cook  together  until  quite  soft. 
Just  before  taking  off  put  in  the  mixture  1  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
the  same  of  mushrooms  that  have  been  boiled  and  cut  fine.  Serve 
very  hot.    Add  a  little  celery. 

Chicken  Turpine. 

Put  in  chafing  dish  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
half  teacup  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  mace,  %  teaspoon  of  cloves,  salt 
and  pepper.  Add  1  pint  of.  chopped  chicken  or  veal,  the  whites  of 
3  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine,  the  yolks  made  smooth  with  a  little 
cream,  and  1  gill  of  sherry  wine  if  desired.  Serve  hot  or  put  in  a 
mold  and  serve  cold. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  167 

Jellied  Tongue. 

Wash  a  fresh  tongue,  cook  until  done,  then  remove  skin.  Have 
1%  quarts  of  soup  stock,  and  season  with  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
pepper,  celery  salt  and  some  herbs.  Strain  and  add  to  it  the  whites 
and  shells  of  3  eggs,  a  box  of  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  for  two 
hours  in  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Put  mixture  in  saucepan,  set  on 
stove,  stirring  until  it  begins  to  simmer.  Boil  until  a  thick  scum 
rises  to  the  top,  then  strain  it  through  a  cloth.  Slice  the  boiled 
tongue,  and  pour  a  thin  layer  of  the  jelly  into  a  wet  mold,  which 
must  be  on  ice.  When  it  has  set,  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  tongue  and 
add  more  jelly.    Continue  this  until  molds  are  full.    Set  to  congeal. 

Turkey  Pates. 

Mix  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  saltspoon 
of  salt,  and  half  as  much  pepper.  When  melted  add  1  cup  of  rich 
milk.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  while,  then  add  1  cup  of  cold 
chopped  turkey.  Let  simmer  5  minutes,  stir  in  1  pint  of  fresh  oys- 
ters ;  cook  until  they  are  plump.    Fill  the  pate  shells  and  serve. 

Jellied  Chicken. 

Boil  a  fowl  until  it  will  slip  easily  from  the  bones.  L'et  water 
b'e  reduced  to  1  pint  in  boiling.  Pick  the  meat  from  the  'bones  in- 
good  size  pieces,  removing  also  fat  and  gristle.  Place  in  a  wet  mold. 
Skim  fat  from  the  liquor,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  %  ounce  of  gelatine.  When  this  dissolves,  pour  it  hot  over  the 
chicken.  Season  well,  as  the  chicken  absorbs  a  good  deal.  Turn  out 
on  a  platter. 

Sauce  for  Chicken  Timbales, 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour. 
Blend  flour  and  butter,  and  add  to  cream.  When  it  boils  add  pepper 
and  salt.    Cook  until  it  thickens,  serve  with  timbales. 

Cream  Chicken. 

One  chicken,  1  set  of  sweetbreads,  a  dash  of  onion,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Boil  the  chicken  and  cut  as  for  salad;  parboil  sweetbreads, 
and  dice  them.  Cook  champignons  15  minutes  in  their  liquor,  and 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Mix  with  the  chicken  ^  pound  of  butter,  1 
pint  of  bread  crumbs;  put  all  ingredients  in  baking  dish,  and  pour 
over  1%  pints  of  thick  cream.  Bake  about  30  minutes,  serve  hot. 
This  is  nice  served  in  pate  shells  of  pastry. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads. 

Soak  2  pairs  of  sweetbreads  in  salt  water  for  1  hour,  then  put 
in  saucepan  with  cold  water  and  boil  1%  hours.  When  cold  cut 
into  pieces.  Put  in  chafing  dish  or  frying  pan  1  dessertspoon  of 
butter  and  1  dessertspoon  flour  well  blended.    When  it  melts  add 


168  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 


%  pint  of  cream  and  the  sweetbreads.   Cook  15  minutes.   If  desired 
1  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine  may  be  added  when  ready  to  serve. 

Sweetbread  Pates. 

Soak  2  pairs  of  veal  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  with  1  dessert- 
spoon of  salt  for  1  hour,  then  put  into  boiling  water.  Simmer  gently 
for  20  minutes.  Remove  and  put  in  cold  water  to  blanch.  "When 
cold  remove  the  pipes  and  membrane ;  pick  into  small  pieces  with 
a  silver  fork.  Chop  fine  1  can  of  champignons.  Put  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  blended  with  1  tablespoon  of 
flour.  Mix  until  smooth,  then  add  1  pint  of  cream,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper;  when  it  boils  add  champignons  and  sweetbreads;  let  them 
cook  a  few  minutes.    Serve  in  shells  of  puff  paste  or  paper  cases. 

Sweetbreads  in  Shells. 

Put  2  pairs  of  sweetbreads  in  cold  salt  water  for  1  hour,  then 
parboil  them.  Have  1  can  of  champignons  and  same  amount  of 
sweetbreads,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1 
cup  of  eream  or  milk  and  the  champignon  liquor.  Cut  sweetbreads 
in  small  pieces.  Let  champignons  cook  30  minutes.  Put  the  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  flour,  then  champignon  liquor  gradually.  Stir 
constantly  to  prevent  lumping.  Add  cream  or  milk  slowly,  salt  and 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Cook  to  a  thick  sauce,  then  add  %  cup 
of  sherry  wine,  the  champignons  and  sweetbreads.  When  cool  put  in 
shells  with  dots  of  butter  on  top.   Bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

Chicken  Newberg. 

One  pint  of  chopped  chicken  breast,  1  cup  mushrooms,  1  pint 
rich  milk,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  wine  glass 
sherry  wine,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Put  butter  and  flour  in 
chafing  dish,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  milk.  When  it  boils  add 
the  chicken  and  mushrooms,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  a  few  minutes. 
Add  sherry  and  serve. 

Aspic  Jelly. 

Four  pounds  of  lean  raw  beef  cut  fine,  1  knuckle  of  veal,  1 
slice  of  raw  ham,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  onion  with  6  cloves  stuck  in 
it,  2  blades  of  mace  and  1  bay  leaf.  Put  all  ingredients  in  porcelain 
kettle  with  1  quart  of  cold  water.  When  scum  rises  on  top  add  % 
gallon  more  of  cold  water;  skim  off  all  grease,  boil  2  hours.  Strain 
through  flannel  and  set  away  to  cool.  Soak  1  box  of  gelatine  in  1  pint 
of  cold  water  for  1  hour,  then  drain  off  water  and  add  gelatine  to  the 
soup  with  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  tolerably  stiff  and  the  shells. 
Add  1  spoon  vinegar,  1  pint  good  sherry  wine,  cook  until  clear; 
when  done  add  %  teacup  of  cold  water,  strain  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Pour  some  jelly  in  the  mold;  when  stiff  enough  add  chicken  in 
center,  then  more  jelly  on  top  and  set  to  congeal. 

Pate  de  foi  gras  may  be  substituted  for  chicken,  or  sweetbreads, 
parboiled,  and  prepared  same  way.   Serve  for  lunch  or  tea. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  169 


Sweetbread  a  la  New  York. 

Take  1  pair  of  sweetbreads,  soak  in  salt  water,  then  parboil. 
Skin;  cut  sweetbreads  in  squares  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Put  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  butter  in  chafing  dish ;  when  hot  drop  in  the  sweet- 
breads and  let  cook  5  minutes,  then  add  %  pint  of  rich  cream  and 
cook  5  minutes  longer.  Add  gradually  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  light, 
with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  As  soon  as  eggs  are  added  extinguish 
flame,  add  stiffly-beaten  whites,  with  1  large  wine  glass  sherry  wine 
and  1  tablespoon  of  brandy.  Soak  thin  slices  of  toast  in  brandy 
and  pour  on  the  sweetbreads.    Serve  immediately. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Four  eggs,  4  ounces  grated  cheese,-  %  of  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  1 
dessertspoonful  butter,  2%  tablespoonfuls  flour.  Make  a  thin  white 
sauce  with  the  milk,  butter  and  flour,  then  add  the  yolks  and  cheese 
after  they  are  well  minced.  Fold  in  stiffly-beaten  whites  and  bake 
mixture  in  shells  or  a  buttered  dish  in  quick  oven.    Serve  at  once. 

Chicken  Souffle. 

One  pint  of  cooked  chicken,  1  pint  sweet  milk  or  stock,  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  %  cup  bread  crumbs,  4  eggs, 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Chop  chicken  fine, 
melt  butter  in  saucepan,  then  add  flour  and  gradually  the  hot  milk 
or  stock ;  stir  until  smooth.  Add  bread  crumbs,  parsley,  yolks  of 
eggs,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  well,  then  put  in  the  whites,  beaten  to  a 
froth,  turn  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes. 
Serve  at  once.    For  luncheon  or  tea. 

Chicken  Fricassee  With  Oysters. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender  in  3  quarts  of  water,  season  with  salt, 

2  bay  leaves,  1  onion,  a  piece  of  mace.  Remove  the  chicken  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  Have  2  dozen  oysters  come  to  boiling  point  in 
their  liquor.  Drain  the  oysters  and  save  the  liquor,  put  %  pound 
butter  in  a  saucepan;  when  melted  add  %  pound  of  flour,  then 
chicken  and  oyster  broth ;  the  latter  should  be  strained.  Cook  until 
a  thick  sauce;  mix  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  some  cream  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Beat  well  with  a  little  of  the  hot  sauce,  then 
mix  it  with  the  rest  of  the  sauce.  Remove  legs  of  the  fowl,  cut  at 
the  joints,  then  slice  off  the  wings,  leaving  the  first  part  of  the 
bone,  then  sever  the  breast  in  three  places.  Remove  the  skin,  put 
meat  in  saucepan.  Wash  the  oysters  in  lukewarm  water  and  add 
them  to  chicken.  Have  sauce  nice  and  smooth  and  pour  over  chicken 
when  ready  to  serve.  Can  add  some  toasted  bread,  cut  in  half 
moons,  which  has  been  fried  in  butter. 

Cream  Chicken. 

One  pint  of  cold  chicken  cut  in  small  pieces;  butter  the  size  of 


170  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

an  egg,  1  small  onion  chopped  fine,  a  little  salt,  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  parsley,  1  cup  of  cream,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  %  teaspoon 
celery  salt.    Serve  on  toast  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Sweetbreads  With  Mushrooms. 

One  pint  of  cream,  2  sets  of  sweetbreads  parboiled  and  cut  up 
fine,  1  can  of  champignons,  butter  size  of  an  egg ;  rub  with  4  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  cook  with  the  cream,  then  add  sweetbreads 
and  champignons,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  French 
bread  or  erutons. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  juice  of 
14  lemon,  %  box  gelatine,  2  slices  onion,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  tomatoes  in  saucepan  with  onion,  cloves,  salt  and  pep- 
per :  let  it  boil,  then  put  through  sieve ;  press  tomatoes  until  a  dry 
pulp.  Have  gelatine  soaked  in  1  cup  of  cold  water  for  1  hour.  To 
tomato  juice  add  gelatine,  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  then  pour  in  molds  that  have  been  cooled  with  ice  water  and 
do  not  wipe  them.  Set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  jelly  on  crisp  let- 
tuce with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

One  can  tomatoes,  %  teacup  gelatine,  %  teacup  sherry  wine, 
2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Cover 
gelaitne  with  cold  water  and  stir  on  stove  until  dissolved.  Put 
tomatoes  through  colander,  stirring  till  pulp  is  fine.  Add  all  in- 
gredients and  pour  in  mold  to  congeal. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Take  1-quart  can  of  tomatoes  and  add  1  box  of  gelatine,  1  tea- 
cup of  hot  water,  1  bay  leaf,  2  whole  cloves,  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  the  shells  and  whites  of  3  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  all 
together  and  boil  20  minutes ;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  and  pour 
in  melon  mold  to  congeal.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing  on  a  dish 
garnished  with  lettuce. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Take  1-quart  can  of  tomatoes,  heat  until  they  come  to  boiling, 
then  strain  through  a  colander  until  all  seeds  are  removed.  Pour 
into  this  %  box  of  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in  cold  water; 
let  this  mixture  come  to  boiling  point;  add  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Cool  thoroughly; 
pour  into  melon  mold  to  congeal.    Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Use  tomato  jelly  recipe.  Put  the  jelly  in  mold  and  when  it 
begins  to  stiffen  add  a  few  French  peas,  Harricot  beans,  some  sliced 
almonds  and  pecans.    Stir  well,  then  set  on  ice  to  congeal.    Celery 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  171 

alone  cut  in  blocks  may  be  added  to  the  jelly,  as  it  imparts  a  de- 
licious flavor. 

To  Make  Aspic  Jelly  Quickly. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  2  coffee  cups  of  cold  water,  1  tablespoon 
each  of  chopped  carrot  and  celery,  1  very  small  onion,  1  bay  leaf, 
4  cloves  and  1  teaspoon  of  beef  extract  dissolved  in  %  cup  of  hot 
water.  Cover  and  let  it  simmer  for  %  an  hour.  Soak  %  box  of  gela- 
tine in  i/o  cup  of  cold  water  for  1  hour,  then  add  to  saucepan  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  simmer.  A  little  caramel  may  be  added  and 
3  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine.    Strain  through  a  double  cloth. 

Aspic  Jelly. 

Take  1  quart  of  clear,  pure  soup  with  %  box  of  gelatine,  1 
tablespoon  of  wine  with  the  white  and  shell  of  1  egg  well  beaten. 
Boil  until  gelatine  dissolves  and  looks  clear,  then  strain  and  set  on 
ice  to  congeal. 

Mock  Creme  de  Volaille. 

One  pound  of  raw  veal,  14  pound  breakfast  bacon,  2  table- 
spoons cream,  i/o  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  2 
eggs.  Run  meat  through  grinder,  add  seasoning  and  cream,  break 
eggs  in  mixture  and  knead.  Put  all  in  a  greased  mold,  cover  and 
steam  V/2  hours;  surround  mold  with  water  to  prevent  burning. 

Aspic  Jelly. 

Three  and  one-half  pints  of  clear  soup,  1  box  of  gelatine,  dis- 
solved in  cold  water.  1-2  pint  of  wine,  1  cooking  spoon  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  whites  and  shells  of  3  eggs,  6  whole  cloves,  1  teaspoon  pep- 
per,  juice  of  1  lemon;  salt  to  taste.  Put  soup  in  saucepan  with  the 
wine,  gelatine,  vinegar,  cloves,  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon,  add 
salt,  pepper,  the  egg  shells,  lastly  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Boil  20  minutes  over  a  brisk  fire.  Let  it  settle  5  min- 
utes and  strain  through  flannel  bag. 

Mushroom  Timbales. 

Beat  6  eggs  very  light.  Add  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  some 
minced  onion,  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped  fine,  %  cup 
of  cream.  Butter  molds,  lay  mushrooms  in  bottom,  fill  2-3  full  of 
egg  mixture.  Set  molds  in  blazer  in  boiling  water.  Cook  centers 
firm,  turn  out  on  hot  platter.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  mush- 
rooms. 

Chicken  Cutlets. 

Make  a  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  1  cup  of  rich  milk;  put  in  saucepan,  season  with  lemon 
juice  or  a  dash  of  onion,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  When  it  boils 
add  1  pint  of  choked  chicken  cut  fine  or  y2  pint  of  chicken  and  ^ 
pint  of  veal.    Spread  on  dish.   "When  cold  shape  into  cutlets,  roll  in 


172  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


beaten    egg    and    cracker    crumbs;    fry   in   hot   lard.     Serve   with 
Bechamel  or  champignon  sauce  and  French  peas. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Put  1  large  chicken  in  pot,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook 
thoroughly  done.  Also  prepare  a  cooked  mayonnaise  dressing  with 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  salad  oil  and  vinegar.  Set  both  aside  until  next 
day.  Reserve  the  broth  from  chicken  for  the  aspic  jelly.  Take 
breast  of  the  chicken  and  run  through  meat  grinder.  Add  1-3  as 
much  crisp  celery  as  there  is  meat;  also  put  through  grinder,  then 
mix  chicken  and  the  celery  with  the  cooked  dressing  and  add  1 
tablespoon  gelatine  dissolved  in  some  of  the  broth.  The  chicken 
may  be  put  in  fancy  mold  to  cool.  Skim  grease  from  broth  and 
put  in  porcelain  kettle,  adding  1  pint  bouillon,  white  of  1  egg  slightly 
frothed,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  until  clear,  then  strain  and 
add  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  dissolved  gelatine.  Pour  jelly  in  bot- 
tom of  mold.  "When  it  stiffens  carefully  place  in  the  chicken  and  fill 
up  mold  with  the  jelly.  It  may  be  decorated  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  in  slices  and  sprigs  of  parslev.  Set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  on 
a  flat  batter. 

Quick  Aspic  Jelly. 

Pour  into  saucepan  1%  cups  of  cold  water,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  celery,  1  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  3 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  beef  extract  dissolved  in  1  teacup  of  hot  water. 
Cover  and  let  simmer  y2  an  hour,  then  add  %  box  of  gelatine  which 
has  been  soaked  in  %  cup  cold  water  1  hour.  Stir  until  gelatine  is 
dissolved.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  tablespoon  sherry 
wine.  A  caramel  may  be  added  if  a  deep  color  is  desired.  Strain 
through  double  cloth,  pour  in  a  mold.  If  wished  for  garnishing  put 
in  a  sli allow  pan  to  harden. 

Molded  Chicken  and  Sauterne  Jelly. 

Cover  a  4-pound  fowl  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  add  4 
slices  of  carrot,  1  onion  stuck  with  8  cloves,  2  stalks  of  celery,  a 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  %  teaspoon  of  peppercorns  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Bring  quickly  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  meat  is  tender. 
Remove  meat  from  bones  and  chop  fine.  Reduce  stock  to  %  of  a 
cup,  cool  and  remove  fat.  Soak  1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine  in  1 
teaspoon  of  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  stock  which  has  been  re- 
heated; add  to  meat.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  lemon 
and  onion  juice.  Pack  solidly  in  a  slightly  buttered  1-pound  mold 
and  chill.  Remove  from  mold,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  arrange  around 
Sauterne  jelly. 

Sauterne  Jelly. 

Soak  2  tablespoons  of  granulated  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold 
water  and  dissolve  in  1%  cups  of  boiling  water,  add  1%  cups  of 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  173 

sauterne,   3   tablespoons   of  lemon   juice,   3   tablespoons   of  sugar. 
Strain  into  a  shallow  pan.  chill  and  cut  in  inch  cubes. 

Aspic  Jelly. 

Three  pounds  lean  beef,  1  knuckle  of  veal,  1  slice  raw  ham,  ^ 
gallon  cold  water,  salt  to  taste,  1  good  size  onion  with  8  cloves  stuck 
in  it,  3  blades  of  mace,  1  stalk  of  celery  or  1  teaspoon  celery  seed, 
2  boxes  gelatine,  whites  of  6  eggs.  Cut  meat  in  small  pieces  and 
put  in  saucepan  with  water;  simmer  and  remove  all  scum  as  it 
rises ;  when  clear  add  the  seasoning  and  simmer  5  hours ;  strain 
through  cloth  and  set  aside  to  cool,  then  return  to  saucepan,  add 
gelatine,  which  must  have  been  soaked  more  than  1  hour  in  cold 
water;  drain  off  water  before  adding,  then  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth  with  the  washed  shells.  When  it  begins  to  boil  add  %  pint 
of  sherry  wine,  1  tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar.  When  sufficiently 
boiled  to  settle  it  pour  in  1  tablespoon  of  ice  water  and  set  on  back 
of  range  a  few  minutes  to  clear.  Strain  through  cloth  and  set  aside 
to  cool. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Breast  of  1  boiled  chicken,  1  small  can  of  truffles,  yolks  of  4 
raw  eggs,  %  pint  vinegar.  Put  chicken  through  grinder  with 
truffles,  make  a  cooked  dressing  with  eggs  and  vinegar.  Form  meat 
into  a  flat  cake;  after  mixing  with  this  dressing  add  pepper  and 
salt  if  needed.  Pour  some  jelly  into  a  mold  rinsed  in  cold  water. 
When  it  stiffens  place  in  pressed  chicken,  garnish  side  with  truffles 
cut  in  dice.  When  stiff  enough  add  rest  of  jelly  carefully  and  set 
on  ice  to  stiffen.  Pressed  chicken  may  be  put  in  individual  molds 
if  preferred.  Serve  on  a  flat  platter;  garnish  with  branches  of 
parsley. 

To  Mold  the  Jelly. 

Have  the  mold  very  cold  and  pour  in  it  about  half  of  the  jelly; 
after  that  congeals  lay  on  top  of  it  some  slices  of  cooked  sweet- 
breads, champignons  and  truffles,  then  add  rest  of  jelly.  When 
ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish. 

Creme  de  Volaille. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  raw  breast  of  chicken,  ^4  pound 
fresh  fat  pork,  14  pound  of  lean  pork.  Run  this  meat  through  the 
grinder.  Parsley,  nutmeg,  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  %  pound 
of  butter,  14  pound  of  bread  crumbs  made  into  a  panada,  using 
a  little  water  or  stock.  After  it  is  finished  cream  this  and  the  but- 
ter together,  add  4  yolks  well  mixed  in  meat,  then  all  the  season- 
ing. If  too  thick  add  1  teacup  of  cream.  Grease  and  flour  the  mold, 
then  put  in  the  mixture  and  steam  1%  hours.  Serve  hot  with  cham- 
pignon sauce. 

Sauce. 

One  quart  of  cream,  put  on  in  double  boiler;  have  2  cans  of 


174  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


champignons,  1  small  box  of  truffles  cooked  in  their  liquor  and 
chopped,  then  add  them  to  the  cream.  One  large  kitchen  spoon  of 
butter  well  blended  with  a  little  flour,  a  little  nutmeg  and  1  gill 
of  sherry  wine.    Cook  tolerably  thick.    Serve  hot. 

Boudins. 

One  pound  of  raw  chicken  breast,  %  pound  of  fresh  or  pickled 
pork,  put  through  the  grinder  3  times,  ^  pound  of  butter,  ^  can 
of  champignons,  3  eggs,  onion,  parsley,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 
To  the  meat  add  eggs,  beating  in  one  at  a  time,  then  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  a  dash  of  onion,  chopped  parsley  and  beat  very  hard.  Add  to 
this  %  can  of  chopped  champignons  and  their  liquor;  stir  well, 
then  put  mixture  in  cups  and  surround  with  water.   Steam  3  hours. 

Sauce  for  Boudins. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk,  1  teacup  of  butter  blended  with  1  table- 
spoon of  flour;  boil  until  it  thickens,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  add  ^  can  of  champignons  chopped  fine;  pour  sauce  on 
boudins  when  serving. 

Boudins. 

One  pound  of  raw  turkey  or  chicken  breast,  ^  pound  of  pickled 
pork,  y2  teaspoon  of  onion  chopped  fine,  2  teaspoons  of  chopped 
parsley.  Run  all  this  through  the  grinder  until  a  smooth  pulp. 
Cream  %  pound  butter,  add  to  mixture,  then  break  in  3  eggs,  1  at  a 
time ;  beat  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed.  Pour  water  from  truffles 
into  this.  Line  the  molds  with  mixture,  leaving  small  hole  for  the 
following:  Take  %  can  champignons  and  rest  of  truffles  in  the 
box.  Stew  in  some  of  their  liquor.  Pour  some  into  the  hole,  over 
which  put  a  covering  of  the  mixture.  Before  serving  stew  the  rest 
of  champignons  in  1  quart  of  cream  and  pour  over  the  boudins; 
add  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  They  should  be 
steamed  3  hours  in  molds. 

Rissoles. 

One-fourth  pound  of  chicken  breast,  a/4  pound  sweetbreads,  ^4 
pound  butter,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  parsley,  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  nutmeg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Chop  chicken,  sweet- 
breads and  parsley  fine ;  add  butter,  cream  and  eggs,  then  season- 
ing. Put  in  a  saucepan,  stir  until  it  boils.  Set  in  refrigerator  to  cool. 
Put  this  mixture  in  a  rich  puff  paste  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sweetbreads  Larded  and  Baked. 

Put  sweetbreads  in  cold  salt  water  for  1  hour,  then  draw 
through  each  one  4  thin  pieces  of  pork  size  of  a  match;  drop  in  cold 
water  5  minutes,  then  in  hot  water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Remove 
from  kettle,  spread  with  butter ;  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven;  serve  with  French  peas.    Put  peas 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  175 

in  center  of  dish  and  lay  the  sweetbreads  around  them.    Pour  a 
cream  sauce  on  sweetbreads.   Garnish  with  parsley.   Serve  very  hot. 

Boudins. 

One  pound  of  raw  chicken  breast,  %  pound  of  lean  pork,  ^4 
pound  of  fat  pork,  ^  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  }4  pound  of  butter, 
3  eggs.  Put  meat  through  grinder  and  cream  all  together;  take 
bread  crumbs,  make  into  a  panada,  add  eggs,  butter,  minced  onion, 
chopped  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  cook  until  it 
leaves  side  of  saucepan ;  set  away  to  cool.  Add  meat,  then  fill  molds ; 
cook  3  hours:  place  them  in  a  steamer.  Serve  hot  with  cham- 
pignon and  truffle  sauce :  Pour  1  quart  of  cream  over  cham- 
pignons and  truffles:  cook  till  tolerably  thick;  pour  over  boudins 
when  ready  to  serve. 

Head  Cheese. 

Boil  the  forehead,  ears,  feet  and  trimmings  from  the  hams  of 
a  fresh  pig  until  meat  slips  easily  from  the  bones.  Separate  meat 
and  put  in  chopping  bowl,  season  with  summer  savory,  sage,  pepper 
and  salt;  chop  coarsely.  Return  to  kettle  with  enough  liquor  that 
it  was  boiled  in  to  prevent  sticking;  warm  and  mix  ingredients 
thoroughly,  then  put  in  a  strong  bag  between  2  flat  surfaces  under  a 
heavy  press.   When  solid  it  can  be  cut  in  slices  and  served. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Put  a  pan  of  sour  milk  on  stove,  but  not  too  hot;  let  it  scald 
until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top;  be  careful  it  does  not  boil.  Place 
a  cloth  over  a  sieve  and  pour  in  this  curd;  leave  several  hours  to 
drain.  Put  in  dish,  chop  fine  with  a  spoon,  then  add  1  dessertspoon 
butter,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  enough  cream  to  moisten.  Make  into 
round  balls,  slightly  flattened  with  the  hand.  Set  in  a  cool  place. 
Serve  with  cream. 

Sauce. 

One  quart  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  %  teacup  of  butter  blended 
with  1  tablespoon  of  flour ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  until 
it  thickens.  Just  before  serving  add  %  can  of  chopped  champig- 
nons. 


CROQUeTTI 


Chicken  Croquettes. 

Boil  1  chicken  for  several  hours  and  when  cool  enough  to 
handle  pick  to  pieces  and  put  through  a  meat  grinder.  Chop  some 
parsley  very  fine  and  add  to  the  meat.  Having  soaked  a  loaf  of 
bread  in  cold  water  for  a  short  while,  wring  it  out  and  put  in  a 


176  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

saucepan.  Add  to  this  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  nearly  a  pound  of 
butter,  a  small  quantity  of  chopped  onion,  cayenne  pepper,  salt 
and  y~2  nutmeg ;  mix  this  with  the  hand  until  well  blended,  then  set 
over  the  fire  and  stir  without  one  instant's  neglect  until  it  is  suf- 
ficiently cooked  to  leave  the  side  of  the  pan.  Leave  until  cool  and 
mix  in  the  meat.  Now  see  if  you  have  enough  salt  and  pepper  and 
begin  to  mold  or  shape  the  croquettes.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  the 
two  eggs  and  some  crumbs  which  have  been  prepared  as  follows: 
Put  the  crust  cut  from  the  loaf  of  bread  in  the  oven  and  let  it 
toast  very  brown,  roll  it  with  the  rolling  pin  and  sift.  Now  with 
one  hand  cover  the  croquette  with  white  of  egg  and  with  the  other 
roll  it  in  the  crumbs.  Have  the  lard  not  only  boiling  but  smoking 
before  you  put  them  in  to  fry.  Unless  the  chicken  is  very  large  do 
not  use  the  whole  loaf  of  bread. 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

Take  one  can  of  salmon  and  after  removing  fat  and  bones  add 
as  much  mashed  Irish  potato  as  salmon,  beat  in  two  eggs,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Make  into  pear  shape;  dip 
in  raw  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  then  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Boil  8  large  Irish  potatoes,  mash  until  smooth,  add  1  teaspoon 
parsley  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
enough  cream  to  moisten  them;  have  the  mixture  stiff. 
Shape  croquettes  and  roll  in  cracker  dust.  Have  in  skillet 
1  tablespoon  hot  lard,  in  which  place  croquettes  and  set  on 
top  of  stove  a  minute  to  get  hot,  then  set  at  bottom  of  inside  oven 
to  brown.     Serve  with  fish. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Peel  potatoes  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done.  Beat  to  a  cream, 
add  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  5  drops  of  onion  juice,  1  beaten  egg 
and  1  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped  fine  for  each  pint  of  potatoes.  If 
not  moist  enough,  add  cream.  Roll  in  balls  or  make  pear  shape.  Dip 
in  egg  and  milk,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  cracker  dust  or  flour.  Fry 
in  hot  lard  a  chestnut  brown. 

Nut  Croquettes. 

Blanch  2  dozen  almonds,  and  add  to  them  Y2  pint  of  pecan  nuts 
chopped  fine,  mix  with  them  an  equal  quantity  of  boiled  hominy  or 
cold  boiled  rice,  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well  and  form  into  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Macaroni  Croquettes. 

Put  4  ounces  of  macaroni  in  kettle  of  boiling  water,  with  1 
teaspoon  of  salt ;  let  it  boil  30  minutes,  then  chop  into  small  pieces ; 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  177 

put  in  saucepan  1  pint  of  milk;  when  hot  add  1  heaping  table- 
spoon of  flour,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  well  blended.  Stir  till 
smooth  and  thick,  add  hastily  the  yolks  of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  just 
before  removing  from  the  fire ;  then  add  macaroni,  pepper  and  salt. 
When  cool  form  into  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  Put  in  wire  baskets  to  drain.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

Macaroni  Croquettes. 

Put  macaroni  in  salted  water,  and  boil  until  tender,  then  remove 
from  fire  and  set  away  to  cool.  Break  macaroni  in  small  pieces.  To 
each  cup  of  macaroni,  allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese, 
1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  and  cream  to  make  of  good  consistency; 
add  pepper  and  salt.  Mold  in  shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs ;  fry  in  hot  lard,  and  put  in  wire  basket  to  drain. 

Cheese  Croquettes. 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  2 
tablespoons  of  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  milk. 
Add  flour  to  melted  butter;  stir  until  smooth,  put  in  gradually  the 
milk.  Boil  1  minute  then  add  cheese,  seasoning  and  beaten  eggs. 
Let  cool  and  mold  about  the  size  of  a  marble ;  roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  yolk  of  1  egg  and  fry.    Serve  with  chicken  salad. 

Croquettes. 

Run  through  the  grinder  %  pound  of  chicken  or  turkey  breast, 
1  set  of  sweetbreads  that  have  been  parboiled;  then  take  1  heaping 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  %  of  a  teacup  of  butter,  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, 1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  cayenne  pepper  and 
a  little  salt.  Put  bread  crumbs  in  a  saucepan,  use  enough  stock  to 
soften  it,  then  beat  in  the  yolks;  put  on  to  cook  and  when  it  leaves 
the  saucepan  it  is  done.  Stir  in  the  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  beat 
until  smooth,  then  set  away  to  cool.  You  may  substitute  brains  for 
sweetbreads.  When  all  is  cool  add  the  panada  to  the  meat,  form  in 
pear  shape  balls.  If  the  mixture  is  not  soft  enough  add  %  teacup  of 
sweet  cream.   Fry  in  boiling  lard  and  put  in  wire  basket  to  drain. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  seasoned  well  with  pepper 
and  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  beat  whites  of  2  eggs  and  mix  all 
together.  Make  in  balls  slightly  flattened,  dip  in  beaten  yolks  of 
eo'o's,  then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Croquettes. 

One  pound  of  chicken  breast,  %  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  ^ 
pound  butter,  3  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  a  dash  of  onion.  Take  bread 
crumbs  and  make  into  a  panada.  Put  in  saucepan  and  moisten  with 
stock  from  the  chicken,  add  seasoning.   When  it  leaves  the  side  of 

12 


178  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

saucepan  it  is  done;  stir  constantly.  When  cold  add  the  unbeaten 
whites,  butter  and  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Mix  with 
meat,  form  in  pear  shape.  Dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs: 
fry  in  hot  lard.    Drain  in  wire  basket. 

Croquettes. 

Have  1  pound  of  cold  chicken  and  3  teaspoons  of  parsley  run 
through  the  grinder.  Boil  1  small  onion  in  1  pint  of  cream.  Strain 
through  a  sieve  and  pour  the  cream  over  *4  pound  of  bread  crumbs. 
Let  it  get  hot,  then  set  to  cool.  Add  %  pound  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Mix  with  the  meat.  If  not  soft  enough  moisten  with  cream. 
Form  into  shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  hot 
lard  a  chestnut  brown.    Serve  with  French  peas  and  tomato  sauce. 

Chicken  Timbales. 

Breast  of  2  chickens  uncooked,  whites  of  4  eggs.  Run  meat 
through  grinder  and  add  to  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  1  kitchen 
spoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Stir  well.  Have  the  rings  dredged  with  flour  and  grease,  then 
put  in  the  mixture,  turn  a  pan  over  it  and  cook  on  top  of  the  stove 
about  20  minutes.   Serve  on  hot  platter  with  sauce  for  timbales. 

Veal  Croquettes. 

Put  2  pints  of  meat  after  it  has  been  cooked  through  a  grinder 
with  some  parsley  and  a  little  onion.  Take  1  heaping  pint  of  bread 
crumbs,  moisten  with  some  of  the  stock,  4  well-beaten  yolks,  1 
kitchen  spoon  of  butter.  Put  meat  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  until 
it  leaves  pan,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  scorching.  Take  from 
fire,  set  away  to  cool,  add  it  to  meat,  seasoning  highly  with  cayenne, 
black  pepper  and  salt.  If  the  croquettes  are  not  soft  add  cream. 
Form  in  pear  shape  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Chicken,  Turkey  or  Veal  Croquettes. 

One  pound  of  meat  chopped  very  fine,  %  pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  3  teaspoons  of  parsley,  %  pound  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of 
onion  and  4  eggs.  Mix  all  together,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
also  powdered  mace  and  y2  a  nutmeg.  Break  the  eggs  into  the  bread 
crumbs  and  make  a  stiff  panada,  add  a  little  water  and  cook  until 
stiff.  When  cold  mix  with  the  meat  and  2  more  eggs,  then  work 
in  the  butter  thoroughly;  add  as  much  cream  as  it  will  admit. 
Shape  like  a  pear,  dip  in  raw  egg  and  then  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in 
boiling  lard. 

Egg  Croquettes. 

Boil  3  eggs  hard  and  chop  fine,  season  with  onion,  parsley, 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Take  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  put  in 
a  pan  and  brown;  add  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  and  %  pint 
of  cream.  Mix  this  into  the  eggs  and  set  away  to  cool.  Form  into 
croquettes  and  roll  in  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  179 

Potato  Chicken  Croquettes. 

One  large  chicken,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  medium  size  Irish 
potatoes,  Y2  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  flour,  y2  pint  of 
cream,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Boil  chicken  and  put  through  meat 
grinder,  boil  potatoes  until  soft.  Cream  potatoes,  add  butter,  salt, 
flour  and  beat  well;  then  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  in  cream 
and  let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  all  the  while.  When  done  remove 
from  fire  and  set  away  until  cold.  Add  meat  and  shape  into  cro- 
quettes.   Dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.   Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Egg  Croquettes. 

Twelve  eggs  boiled  hard,  ^4  pound  of  butter,  1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  whites  and  yolks  separate- 
ly. Add  the  butter  to  the  yolks ;  also  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir 
in  the  whites,  shape  and  put  in  refrigerator  several  hours,  then  roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Quenelles. 

Take  1  pound  of  chicken  or  turkey  breast  and  put  through  a 
grinder,  use  %  pound  of  chopped  beef  suet,  y^  pound  of  butter,  1 
tablespoon  of  ground  pork,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion,  3  table- 
spoons of  cream,  nutmeg  and  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  y2  pound  of 
bread  crumbs.  Put  crumbs  in  saucepan,  moisten  with  some  of  the 
stock,  stir  constantly;  when  it  leaves  side  of  saucepan  it  is  done. 
Stir  in  the  butter,  add  pepper  and  salt;  set  away  to  cool.  It  can 
then  be  added  to  the  meat,  with  all  other  ingredients.  Stir  well  with 
the  hand.  Make  into  an  oblong  shape,  3  inches  long  and  2  inches 
thick.    Roll  in  flour,  fry  in  hot  lard.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Quenelles. 

One  can  of  champignons  chopped  fine,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  kitchen 
spoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
champignons  on  in  their  liquor.  Cook  about  y2  hour,  then  add 
cream,  flour  and  butter,  well  blended.  Boil  about  5  minutes.  Serve 
hot  over  quenelles.  One  small  can  of  chopped  truffles  can  be  added 
to  same  before  cooking. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Peel  8  large  potatoes,  wash  them  and  put  in  saucepan  with  hot 
water  and  boil  thoroughly  done  -.  then  beat  smooth.  Add  y2  cup  of 
cream,  2  tablespoons  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  salt.  When  cold 
form  into  shape.  Dip  into  beaten  eggs  and  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in 
hot  lard. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes. 

Parboil  2  sets  of  sweetbreads  in  salted  water;  cut  them  in  dice. 
Take  1  can  of  mushrooms  and  cut  in  dice,  make  a  roux  with  y2 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan.   When  it  bubbles  sprinkle  in  2  ounces 


180  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


of  flour;  mix  and  cook  well  and  pour  in  1  gill  of  stock  or  cream. 
"When  this  is  mixed  add  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  heated.  Take  from  fire  and  add  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Return 
to  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  to  set  without  boiling,  then  pour  out 
to  cool.  Form  into  croquettes,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  egg  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

Halibut  Timbales. 

One  coffee  cup  of  minced  halibut,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
1  tablespoon  of  flour  worked  to  a  cream.  Cook  thoroughly,  then 
add  1  coffee  cup  of  rich  milk,  1  dessertspoon  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  3  well-beaten  yolks,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  When  done  set  away  to  cool,  then  stir  in  3  whites  beaten  to 
a  froth.  Fill  small  molds  2-3  full ;  bake  20  minutes,  turn  out.  Serve 
at  once  with  this  sauce. 

.  .Sauce  for  Timbales. 

Put  1  pint  of  cream  in  double  boiler;  when  hot  add  to  it  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  well  blended,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  a  few  minutes  until  it  thickens.  Pour 
on  timbales  when  serving. 

Cream  de  Volaille. 

One  boiled  chicken,  1  loaf  of  bread,  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice, 
1  tablespoon  parsley,  1  tumbler  of  cream,  5  eggs,  1  teacup  of  butter, 
^4  pound  fresh  pork,  14  pound  salt  pork;  mace  and  red  pepper. 
Steam  3  hours. 

Sauce. 

One  tumbler  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour.  Blend  butter  and  flour ;  add  yolk  of  1  egg,  well  beaten.  Stir 
in  at  the  last  1  tablespoon  of  sherry  wine.  Mushrooms  or  French 
peas  can  be  served  with  the  chicken. 

Cream  de  Volaille. 

Take  Xo  pound  of  chicken  breast  and  %  pound  of  beef  suet,  run 
through  meat  grinder.  Have  %  pound  butter,  1  can  of  champignons, 
1  teacup  of  boiled  beef  tongue  chopped,  1  coffee  cup  of  truffles,  3 
tablespoons  of  cream,  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  mace  to  taste,  5 
eggs,  one  at  a  time  to  the  meat,  then  liquor  of  champignons,  salt, 
pepper  and  mace,  stirring  briskly ;  mix  well.  Line  a  mold,  leaving  a 
hole  in  center  for  the  sauce. 

Champignon  Sauce. 

Cut  up  champignons  and  add  to  tongue,  then  add  cream  and 
butter  (possibly  some  salt  and  pepper)  ;  pour  this  in  the  center  of 
mold  and  spread  over  it  a  little  of  the  chicken  mixture.  Have  a  tight- 
fitting  top  for  mold ;  steam  3  hours.  Put  on  a  flat  dish,  decorate  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  and  a  few  truffles.   Serve  very  hot. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  181 


Salmon  Croquettes. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  %  can  salmon,  %  cup  milk,  1  dessert- 
spoon lemon  juice,  3  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  parsley, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs,  a  dash  of  pepper.  Melt  butter  in  double 
boiler,  then. add  flour.  Stir  rapidly  to  prevent  lumping.  Add  milk 
gradually  with  seasoning;  stir  until  thick  and  smooth,  then  put  in 
salmon  minced  fine;  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  set  aside  to  cool. 
Beat  eggs  light;  make  croquettes  a  pear  shape,  dip  in  eggs,  theu 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  chestnut  brown. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

One  large  chicken,  2  sets  of  sweetbreads,  1  teacup  of  pecan 
meats,  1  large  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  2  rolls,  1  egg,  1  small  onion, 

1  dessertspoon  of  parsley,  1  teacup  of  hot  water.  Boil  chicken  and 
sweetbreads;  when  cold  put  through  grinder.  Make  a  panada  with 
the  grated  rolls,  butter,  beaten  egg,  onion,  parsley  and  hot  water. 
Mix  and  cook,  stirring  all  the  white.  "When  it  leaves  side  of  sauce- 
pan it  is  done.  Set  away  to  cool,  then  add  meat  and  pecans,  chopped 
fine,  mixing  well.  Remove  stems  and  seed  from  peppers.  Boil  10 
minutes  and  put  into  ice  water  to  harden;  wipe  dry  and  fill  with 
the  mixture.  Place  in  a  pan  and  pour  in  some  of  the  chicken  stock 
to  keep  from  burning.  Have  grated  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  but- 
ter on  each  pepper;  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  with  mushroom 
sauce. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

Take  as  many  peppers  as  required;  pour  boiling  water  on  them; 
cook  gently  for  5  minutes;  drain  thoroughly.  Have  a  filling 
made  with  cold  chicken,  pork  or  veal;  put  through  grinder 
(about  1  cupful)  and  1%  cups  of  cracker  crumbs  moistened  with 
a  little  hot  water.  Peel  1  large  tomato  and  cut  it  fine;  also  add  a 
little  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  ounce  of 
butter,  1  egg  (beat  until  broken),  add  salt,  pepper  and  mace.  Stir 
well  and  fill  the  peppers  lightly.  Put  in  a  pan;  pour  a  little  stock 
or  water  around  them  to  prevent  burning  and  cook  about  30  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot,  with  a  tomato  or  champignon 
sauce. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

One  dozen  large  green  bell  peppers,  3  sets  of  sweetbreads, 
breast  of  1  large  chicken,  1  small  box  deviled  ham,  1  teacup  of 
cream,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  large  green  pickle.  Parboil 
chicken  and  sweetbreads ;  when  cold  remove  white  meat  of  chicken, 
add  sweetbreads  and  rest  of  ingredients  and  put  through  grinder, 
then  add  cream.   Remove  seed  from  peppers  and  soak  in  cold  water 

2  hours,  then  dry  them  on  a  cloth  and  fill  with  the  forcemeat.   Place 


182  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


in  stovepan,  put  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Partially 
surround  peppers  with  water  or  stock  to  prevent  burning.  Cook 
a  chestnut  brown,  which  requires  from  10  to  15  minutes.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

One  set  of  sweetbreads,  1  can  champignons.  Parboil  sweet- 
breads and  champignons,  then  chop  both  finely.  Cover  with  a  cream 
dressing  and  fill  the  peppers.  Put  in  baking  pan,  add  a  little  stock 
to  pan  to  prevent  scorching.  Serve  with  a  cream  dressing,  with  a 
few  cooked  champignons,  boiled  and  chopped  fine. 

Stuffed  Peppers'. 

Use  veal  croquette  recipe  with  a  smaller  quantity  of  bread. 
Remove  the  seed  and  put  peppers  on  to  boil  hard  for  13  minutes, 
then  put  them  in  cold  water  to  harden.  After  they  are  cold  fill  with 
the  forcemeat.  Put  peppers  in  a  pan,  surround  with  water  to  pre- 
vent burning;  have  bits  of  butter  on  top  of  each  with  a  little  pul- 
verized cracker  crumbs.    Cook  until  a  light  brown.    . 

Green  Peppers. 

Take  green  peppers  and  remove  inside ;  boil  45  minutes,  then 
put  in  cold  water  15  minutes.  Fill  with  chicken  which  has  been 
covered  with  a  cream  dressing  and  put  in  pan  with  a  little  hot  water 
around  them.    Cook  until  a  light  brown. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  tomato  catsup,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter,  a 
dash  of  salt.   Heat  this  sauce  and  pour  over  peppers  when  serving. 

Swedish  Timbales. 

One  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs,  i/o  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  salad  oil, 
a  dash  of  salt.  Beat  yolks  light,  add  flour,  salt  and  use  water 
gradually.  Boil  to  make  a  smooth  paste ;  add  oil  and  rest  of  water. 
Froth  the  whites  and  add  to  mixture.  Set  aside  for  2  hours,  then 
heat  iron  molds,  dip  in  batter,  then  in  hot  lard.  When  done  drop 
on  paper  and  fill  with  chopped  meat. 

Rice  Croquettes. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  coffee  cup  rice,  4  ounces  sugar,  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Have  rice  boiled.  Stir 
sugar,  yolks  of  eggs  and  rice  well  together  and  boil  in  the  milk  5 
minutes.  Set  aside  to  cool,  then  form  in  pear  shape;  fry  in  hot  fat 
a   chestnut  brown. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  183 


Sweetbread  Croquettes. 

Soak  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  with  1  dessertspoon  of  salt, 
then  parboil  them.  When  cold  chop  fine,  remove  stringy  part.  Have 
twice  as  much  bread  crumbs  as  sweetbreads;  season  with  minced 
onion,  salt  and  pepper,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  but- 
ter, 1  tablespoon  rich  cream.  Make  the  crumbs  into  a  panada, 
moistened  with  water  and  the  yolk;  add  seasoning.  Cook  until  it 
leaves  the  side  of  saucepan.  Mix  with  sweetbreads  when  cold.  Form 
in  shape  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


ALAD 


"To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spend- 
thrift for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt, 
and  a  madcap  to  stir  the  ingredients  up  and  mix  them 
well  together."  —Spanish  Proverb. 


One  of  the  requisites  for  success  in  the  making  of  perfect 
salads  is  that  all  vegetables  and  herbs  must  be  perfectly  fresh,  for 
without  that  the  salad  is  insipid,  as  the  best  of  mayonnaise  dressing 
fails  to  give  it  the  piquant  flavor,  which  is  so  highly  appreciated  by 
the  epicure.  Also  a  salient  point  to  be  remembered  is  that  oil, 
vinegar  and  eggs  must  be  perfectly  cold.  Otherwise  a  perfect  salad 
is  not  obtainable. 

Sweetbread  and  Nut  Salad. 

Take  1  pair  of  veal  sweetbreads,  remove  the  pipes  and  mem- 
branes, then  soak  in  cold  salt  water  1  hour;  put  in  saucepan  with 
boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  a  little  salt;  cook  30 
minutes;  drain  and  drop  them  into  ice  water;  when  perfectly  cold 
dry  sweetbreads  on  a  cloth;  cut  in  %  inch  dice  with  a  silver  knife. 
Take  1  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  1 
blade  of  mace,  6  cloves,  10  peppercorns,  1  tablespoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  juice  of  %  lemon,  %  box  of  gelatine,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  Y2  cup  of  cold  water.  Cook  the  tomatoes  with  season- 
ing for  15  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Dissolve  the  gelatine 
in  the  cold  water  and  add  to  the  tomatoes ;  also  the  lemon  juice  and 
14  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  strain  again  through  a  cloth  and  place 
on  ice  to  harden.  One  cup  of  English  walnuts  and  pecans  mixed,  1 
cup  of  chopped  apples,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  10  tablespoons  of  olive  oil, 
3  tablespoons  vinegar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoon  of  granulated 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of  French  mustard.  Stir 
the  yolks  to  a  cream;  slowly  add  5  tablespoons  of  oil,  stirring  con- 
stantly; when  well  mixed  add  the  vinegar  and  lemon  juice.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  stirring  all  the  while :  then 
remove  and  stir  till  cold.  Slowly  add  the  remainder  of  oil,  sugar, 
mustard  and  salt.  Before  using  add  *4  Pm"t  °f  rich  cream.  Mix 
sweetbreads,  apples  and  nuts.  Marinate  with  %  of  the  mayonnaise 
and  set  in  cool  place  for  2  hours,  then  add  the  tomato  jelly;  cut 
into  small  slices  and  add  rest  of  the  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves. 

(184) 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  185 


Jellied  Cucumber  Salad. 

Three  cups  of  cucumbers  cut  into  small  blocks,  1  cup  of  white 
wine  vinegar,  1  ounce  gelatine,  1  large  bay  leaf,  2  teaspoons  salt, 
1  teaspoon  peppercorns,  2  blades  of  mace,  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  %  cup  of  cold  water  %  hour.  Put  the  bay 
leaf,  peppercorns  and  mace  into  a  saucepan.  Add  2  cups  of  boiling 
water;  cover  the  pan,  simmer  for  15  minutes,  strain  and  measure 
the  liquid.  If  not  V/2  cups,  add  more  boiling  water.  Turn  in  the 
gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved  and  add  the  vinegar.  Let  stand  till 
cool,  but  not  congealed.  Have  seed  removed  from  cucumbers,  put 
in  small  molds  and  pour  over  the  gelatine  to  cover  well.  Put  in  re- 
frigerator to  congeal.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  thinned  with  whipped  cream. 

Potato  and  Beet  Salad. 

Boil  3  white  crisp  potatoes.  "When  cool  cut  in  halves,  then 
across  in  thin  slices.  With  a  fork  mix  in  a  little  grated  onion.  Put 
in  center  of  salad  dish  and  surround  with  beets  that  have  been 
cooked  and  cut  in  blocks.    Pour  over  a  French  dressing  and  serve. 

Fruit  Salad. 

One  dozen  oranges,  1  dozen  bananas,  1  bottle  Maraschino  cher- 
ries, 2  fresh  pineapples,  1  teacup  pulverized  sugar,  sherry  wine. 
Dice  the  fruit,  except  cherries.  Put  in  freezer  to  chill.  When  ready 
to  serve  put  in  Roman  punch  glasses  with  1  tablespoon  pulverized 
sugar  and  1  tablespoon  fine  sherry  wine  on  top  of  each  glass.  Serve 
at  once.    Enough  for  fifteen  guests. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Cut  up  equal  parts  of  fresh  pineapple  and  oranges  and  1  banana. 
Add  some  Maraschino  cherries.  Pour  over  this  a  syrup  made  of  1 
teacup  of  sugar  and  water  to  moisten.  Put  mixture  in  freezer 
to  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  put  in  Roman  punch  glasses  with  1 
tablespoon  of  sherry  wine  on  top  and  sprinkle  1  tablespoon  of 
powdered  sugar  on  each  glass.    Serve  immediately. 

Frozen  Cucumber  Salad. 

Take  6  large  green  cucumbers,  cut  a  slice  lengthwise  from  each 
and  with  a  silver  spoon  remove  the  seed  and  pulp.  Put  hulls  in  cold 
water  until  ready  to  use.  Peel  and  chop  coarsely  2  whole  cucum- 
bers. Add  to  them  the  seed  and  pulp  of  the  other  6 ;  let  it  remain 
in  salted  ice  water  1  hour.  Cucumbers  should  have  thick  peeling 
taken  off,  as  they  are  bitter  near  the  skin.  Put  pulp  on  a  sieve  to 
drain,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  celery,  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  chives,  1  teaspoon  grated  onion,  1  tablespoon  Durkee's 
dressing  and  one  cup  of  mayonnaise,  salt  and  Tobasco  sauce  to  taste. 
Color  with  spinach  a  light  green  and  freeze.  When  frozen  fill  the 
cucumber  hulls.   Place  them  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.    Serve  at  once. 


186  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Salad. 
One  large  chicken,  1  pound  of  Malaga  grapes,  y2  pound  shelled 
pecans.   Boil  chicken;  when  cold  cut  in  blocks.    Cut  grapes  in  half, 

re ve  the  seed  and  add  to  chicken,  also  pecans  chopped.    Pour 

over  1  his  mayonnaise  dressing,  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  until  light, 
1  teaspoon  olive  oil,  3  teaspoons  vinegar,  alternating  oil  and  vinegar. 
Beat  until  light  and  creamy,  adding  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 

Potato  Salad. 

Take  6  hard-boiled  eggs,  4  large  Irish  potatoes  boiled  in  their 
jackets,  2  bunches  of  celery,  1  medium  size  onion.  Chop  celery  and 
onion  finely,  cut  the  hard-boiled  eggs  in  dice,  peel  potatoes,  cut  in 
dice  also,  then  add  this  dressing,  mixing  lightly;  1  even  tablespoon 
of  flour,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1-3  cup  of  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  dry  mustard,  butter  size  of  2  walnuts, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  this  until  tolerably  thick,  stir  in  the  onion 
and  celery  while  hot,  then  the  potatoes  and  the  hard-boiled  eggs. 
This  salad  must  be  made  quickly  and  put  together  while  potatoes 
and  eggs  are  hot.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Potato  Salad. 

Boil  6  potatoes.  When  cold  cut  into  dice.  Have  same  amount 
of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  chop  1  onion  and  add  1  tablespoon  of 
capers,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well  with  a  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Sweetbread  Salad. 

Two  sets  of  sweetbreads,  1  can  of  mushrooms,  3  bunches  of  cel- 
ery. Boil  the  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms  until  done.  Cut  in  blocks, 
also  the  celery.    Mix  well  and  pour  over  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Salad. 

Peel  6  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  cut  hole  in  top  and  remove 
seed  and  pulp;  sprinkle  inside  with  salt  and  invert  to  drain  for  1 
hour.  Put  the  pulp  on  a  sieve  to  drain,  also  1-3  cup  cooked  cold 
peas,  1-3  cup  cucumbers  cut  in  dice,  14  cup  finely  chopped  pickles, 
1-3  cup  tomato  pulp,  %  cup  cold  chicken,  diced.  Mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Peel  the  tomatoes  and  place  each  on  a  crisp  lettuce 
leaf,  pour  a  little  dressing  on  top  of  tomatoes.    Chill  on  ice. 

Potato  Salad. 

The  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  celery  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  flour,  1  teaspoon  pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  2  small 
onions  chopped  fine.  1  teacup  of  rich  cream,  1  teacup  of  vinegar. 
Mix  well  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  put  in 
refrigerator.  Have  5  white  potatoes  boiled  and  diced,  slice  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  cut  finely  2  stalks  of  celery.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add 
the  dressing. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  187 


Pepper  Salad. 

Take  as  many  green  peppers  as  required,  remove  the  seed,  and 
slice  across  the  grain,  into  thin  even  rings;  put  in  ice  water,  for  2 
hours.  Place  in  center  of  a  flat  dish,  border  with  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  and  pour  over  them  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Mix  the  pep- 
pers with  shredded  lettuce,  and  garnish  with  Nasturtium  blossoms. 
Serve  with  French  dressing.  Or  peppers  can  be  added  to  thinly 
sliced   cucumbers   and   served   with   French   dressing. 

Russian  Salad. 

Eussian  salad  must  have  for  a  foundation  some  cold  chopped 
meat.  One  kind  of  meat  may  be  used,  or  several  kinds  chopped 
together.  Serve  the  meat  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  over  a 
French  dressing. 

Sweetbread  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Select  6  large  fresh  tomatoes  and  remove  the  skin.  Scoop  out  the 
pulp  carefully  and  set  to  drain.  Parboil  1  set  of  sweetbreads,  and 
when  cold  cut  into  small  pieces.  Have  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
add  the  sweetbreads.  Chill  the  tomatoes,  then  fill  with  the  dressing, 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Bean  Salad. 

String  1  quart  of  beans  and  break  in  pieces.  Put  in  sauce- 
pan with  cold  water  and  cook  until  done.  Set  in  refrigerator.  Pour 
over  a  French  dressing  half  an  hour  before  serving. 

Endive  Salad. 

Pick  over  the  leaves  carefully,  wash  and  soak  in  cold  water  1 
hour.     Serve  very  cold,  with  a  French  dressing. 

Vegetable  Salad. 

Breast  of  1  large  chicken,  1  can  champignons,  1  can  Harricut  or 
French  beans,  1  can  artichokes,  3  stalks  of  celery.  Boil  chicken  and 
cut  in  blocks  and  dice  the  celery.  Cook  champignons  30  minutes 
in  their  liquor,  and  cut  in  half.  Mix  meat  and  vegetables,  add  pep- 
per and  salt.    Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  beaten  biscuit. 

Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad. 

Peel  as  many  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  as  there  are  to  be  covers. 
Remove  pulp,  and  place  on  ice.  Pare  cucumbers,  removing  a  thick 
peel,  and  chop  coarsely,  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt,  and  set  to  drain. 
When  ready  to  serve,  combine  the  cucumbers  and  tomato  pulp, 
pour  over  a  French  dressing,  and  fill  the  tomatoes  lightly.  Place  on 
crisp  lettuce,  and  add  more  of  French  dressing. 

Dandelion  Salad. 

In  the  spring  select  tender  dandelion,  pick  over  and  wash  care- 


188  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BO<>k. 


fully,  and  place  in  ice  water  41/£  hours  to  crisp.    Break  in  medium 
size  pieces,  and  serve  with  bacon  dressing. 

Orange  Salad. 

Take  4  acid  oranges,  slice  very  thin,  cutting  down  the  side,  in- 
stead of  across,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  powdered  sugar.  Mix  1 
tablespoon  of  chartreuse,  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine,  and  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice.  Set  on  ice  to  chill,  and  pour  over  salad  1  hour  before 
serving.    This  salad  should  precede  a  game  course  at  dinner. 

A  Vegetable  Salad. 

Cook  6  medium-size  Irish  potatoes,  2  beets,  and  2  carrots.  Dice 
potatoes,  and  beets,  slice  2  small  peeled  cucumbers,  %  of  a  small 
onion.  Combine  vegetables  and  put  crisp  lettuce  in  salad  dish,  put 
in  the  vegetables.  Put  a  few  capers  on  top,  and  pour  over  this 
dressing.  Put  %  cup  of  vinegar  to  heat  in_porcelain  kettle,  stir  in  a 
bowl  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  mixed  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  these  ingredients 
into  vinegar,  cook  2  minutes.  When  cool,  stir  in  Vo  pint  of  rich 
cream. 

Hungarian  Salad. 

Take  small  Irish  potatoes,  boil  and  peel  while  warm,  and  slice 
very  thin.  For  each  pint  of  potatoes,  mince  1  small  onion,  1  pickled 
beet,  1  fresh  cucumber,  a  Dutch  herring,  4  sardines,  and  1  table- 
spoon of  cold  chonped  ham.  Mix  together  and  pour  over  1  teacup 
of  cider  vinegar.     Garnish  with  walnut  pickles. 

Artichoke  Bottoms. 

Take  1  can  of  Dunbar's  artichokes,  drain  from  the  liquor;  sea- 
son with  olive  oil,  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  Set  on  ice,  when  ready 
to  serve  place  a  small  shape  of  truffle  pate  de  f oi  gras  on  each  one ; 
or  it  is  nice  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese.  Serve  either  with  mayon- 
naise dressing,  or  without,  as  preferred. 

Breakfast  Salad. 

Scald  2  fresh  tomatoes,  peel  and  put  on  ice,  drain  and  slice  them. 
Peel  and  slice  thin  1  cucumber,  put  in  water,  with  a  little  salt,  drain. 
Put  crisp  lettuce  leaves  in  salad  dish,  add  the  tomatoes  and  cucum- 
ber, with  a  few  bladeS  of  chives,  1  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley,  and 
a  few  green  tarragon  leaves.  Pour  over  a  French  dressing  and 
serve. 

Potato  Salad. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  5  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  all 
together  and  put  in  a  double  boiler.  Let  cook  until  tolerably  thick. 
After  it  is  cold,  pour  on  potatoes,  then  pour  over  the  whole  a  %  tea- 
cup of  cream. 

t 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  189 


Tomato  Salad. 

Peel  as  many  tomatoes  as  required,  scoop  out  pulps,  drain  and 
set  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve,  fill  tomatoes  with  equal  quanti- 
ties of  chopped  celery  and  English  walnuts.  Pour  over  them  a 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Take  1  box  of  gelatine  and  soak  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  20  min- 
utes. Add  1  quart  of  boiling  water;  slice  2  oranges  and  2  bananas, 
adding  sugar  to  taste.  Chop  1  quart  of  English  walnuts,  mix  fruit 
and  nuts  in  jelly,  let  it  congeal.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Salad. 

Take  6  oranges,  %  cup  pulverized  sugar,  juice  of  y%  lemon.  Cut 
oranges  in  half,  and  scoop  out  pulp;  place  the  peels  on  ice;  mix 
pulp,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  together.  When  ready  to  serve  fill  the 
peels  and  put  1  spoon  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each. 

Celery  and  Nut  Salad. 

Use  an  equal  quantity  of  celery  and  English  walnuts,  cut  into 
blocks.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Pour  over  them  this  dress- 
ing :  Yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  until  light,  ]/2  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
mustard.  Beat  well,  add  4  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  6  table- 
spoons of  vinegar,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  well-beaten  whites.  Just  before  serving  add 
1  coffee  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Salad  Royal.  ' 

Parboil  one  head  of  cauliflower ;  when  cold  cut  into  small  pieces, 
also  cut  asparagus  tips.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  chop- 
ped truffles.     Garnish  the  salad  with  truffles  and  serve. 

A  Mixed  Salad. 

One  cucumber,  2  heads  of  white  crisp  lettuce,  2%  teaspoons  of 
green  mustard  leaves,  4  tender  radishes,  a  bunch  of  watercress,  3 
hard  boiled  eggs,  1  dessertspoon  of  granulated  sugar,  1  scant  tea- 
spoon salt,  %  teaspoon  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  5  table- 
spoons of  tarragon  or  cider  vinegar,  2%  tablespoons  of  olive  oil. 
Prepare  vegetables  and  dressing,  mix  well,  pour  over  salad,  which 
should  be  well  chilled  before  serving. 

Radish  Salad. 

Take  tender  radishes,  wash  in  cold  water,  cut. on  potato  grater, 
but  do  not  peel  them.  Put  radishes  in  plate,  and  sprinkle  over  a 
little  salt,  leave  for  10  minutes,  cover  with  another  plate,  and  shake 
well.    Drain  off  salt  water,  and  serve  with  a  French  dressing. 


190  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Ham  Salad. 

Take  cold  boiled  ham,  using  both  fat  and  lean,  chop  into  pieces, 
size  of  a  pea.  Combine  with  an  equal  proportion  of  celery  chopped 
fine.  Have  salad  dish  lined  with  white  crisp  lettuce,  and  pour  in  the 
salad.  Cover  with  a  cooked  salad  dressing,  and  serve.  Substitute 
crisp  lettuce,  if  celery  is  not  obtainable. 

Canned  Lobster  Salad. 

Take  1  can  of  lobsters,  pour  in  a  dish  and  skim  off  all  oil. 
Chop  the  meat  coarsely  and  have  an  equal  amount  of  crisp  celery, 
cut  in  cubes.  Make  a  dressing  with  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  gill  of  vinegar,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pep- 
per, 1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Boil  2  eggs  hard,  re- 
move yolk  and  mash  to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  rest  of  ingredients. 
Add  a  little  of  this  dressing  to  lobster  and  celery,  and  place  on  ice. 
When  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  rest  of  dressing.  Garnish  with 
hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  rings  and  coral  of  the  lobster. 

Salmon  Salad. 

One  can  of  red  salmon,  pour  in  a  bowl  and  remove  all  skin  and 
small  bones,  mince  tolerably  fine.  Serve  with  this  dressing:  Two 
eggs  beaten  until  light,  1  dessertspoon  of  butter,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon dry  mustard,  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  pepper,  salt, 
and  lastly  add  1  teacup  of  tarragon  or  cider  vinegar.  Put  dressing 
in  double  boiler,  and  cook  until  a  soft  custard,  serve  cold.  The  same 
may  be  varied  by  using  only  %  cup  of  vinegar,  and  %  cup  of  rich 
cream,  prepared  in  same  way. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad. 

Remove  skin  from  good  firm  tomatoes,  and  scoop  out  some  of  the 
pulp,  and  place  on  ice.  Make  a  dressing  of  chopped  celery:  pecans, 
green  peppers,  some  minced  onion  and  the  pulp.  Fill  the  tomatoes, 
and  pour  over  this  French  dressing — 4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  and 
1  tablespoon  vinegar,  a  dash  of  onion,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Put 
tomatoes  on  ice  for  1  hour.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  a  mayon- 
naise dressing  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Cheese  Salad. 

One  head  lettuce,  *4  pound  of  grated  cheese.  Wash  and  put 
the  lettuce  to  crisp,  then  grate  the  cheese  and  add  enough  of  the 
salad  dressing  to  make  it  smooth  and  creamy.  Arrange  the  light 
green  lettuce  leaves  on  a  small  platter,  then  put  the  prepared  cheese 
through  a  potato  sieve.  Garnish  with  capers,  and  serve  with  this 
dressing:  One  even  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  even  teaspoon  of  mustard, 
1  even  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar,  %  teaspoon  of  paprika,  2 
tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2  eggs,  l1/^ 
cups  of  olive  oil.     Thoroughly  chill  the  oil,  bowl,  and  spoon  to  be 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  191 


used  before  making  the  dressing.  Separate  the  eggs,  mis  the  dry 
ingredients  in  the  bowl,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  mix  well,  then 
add  the  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time  in  the  beginning.  Stir  constantly,  and 
as  the  mixture  thickens,  fill  it  with  the  lemon  juice  and  vinegar  alter- 
nately. Then  add  more  oil  until  all  has  been  used.  Lastly  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites.  If  weather  is  warm,  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
ice  while  mixing  the  dressing.  If  a  white  dressing  is  desired,  use 
all  lemon  juice,  stirring  very  thoroughly.  After  %  of  the  oil  has 
been  used,  it  may  be  added  in  larger  quantities.  If  the  mixture 
should  curdle,  add  this  dressing  to  a  fresh  yolk  of  egg  very  slowly. 

Waldorf  Salad. 

Pare  3  large  apples;  wash  3  bunches  of  celery,  cut  both  into 
blocks,  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 

Banana  Salad. 

Peel  6  large  firm  bananas,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  place  in  re- 
frigerator until  wanted ;  then  pour  over  them  the  following  dressing : 
Four  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  1  wine  glass  of  Sherry  or  Ma- 
deira wine  and  10  dessertspoons  of  Maraschino  cordial.  Mix  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  and  pour  over  fruit. 

Oyster  Salad. 

One  solid  pint  of  oysters  with  this  dressing :  Beat  2  eggs  light. 
Add  to  them  %  cup  of  cream,  y±  cup  of  vinegar,  %  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, r/-2  teaspoon  celery  seed,  and  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Put  mixture  in  double  boiler,  cook  until 
the  consistency  of  cream.  Parboil  the  oysters,  drain  them  and  add 
the  dressing.  Let  them  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  1  pint 
of  diced  celery. 

Banana  Salad. 

Four  bananas,  1  head  lettuce,  6  English  walnuts,  and  parsley. 
Strip  1  section  of  the  skin  from  bananas,  remove  the  fruit,  and  cut 
into  dice  *4  of  an  inch  square.  Put  the  diced  bananas  in  a  deep  dish, 
pour  over  them  a  French  dressing  and  put  them  on  ice  for  30  min- 
utes. Then  fill  the  skins  with  the  prepared  fruit  and  arrange  on  a 
bed  of  lettuce  leaves  that  have  been  washed  and  crisped.  Garnish 
with  finely  minced  parsley  and  halves  of  English  walnuts. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

One  small  head  of  white  crisp  cabbage,  1  scant  tablespoon  of 
salt,  14  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  ^  teaspoon  mustard,  2  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  %  cup  of  vinegar.  Remove  the  outside  leaves 
and  chop  the  cabbage  very  fine.  Sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  let  it 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  make  a  dressing  with  the  eggs, 
vinegar,  sugar,  mustard  and  white  pepper.  Put  the  vinegar  to  scald 
in  saucepan;  with  the  sugar,  mustard  and  pepper.     When  it  comes 


192  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

to  boiling  point,  pour  over  the  eggs,  which  must  be  beaten  light, 
stir  lightly  and  return  to  saucepan  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Then 
pour  over  the  cabbage,  mixing  well,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Serve  as 
a  relish  with  fish  or  meat. 

Oyster  Salad. 

Parboil  oysters  in  their  liquor,  drain  dry,  then  cut  in  small  bits. 
Mix  them  with  chopped  lettuce.  Boil  6  eggs  until  hard,  chop  the 
whites  and  add  to  oysters  and  lettuce.  Put  yolks  in  a  dish,  adding 
2  raw  yolks.  With  spoon  mash  the  yolks ;  then  pour  in  enough  olive 
oil  to  make  a  stiff  paste ;  add  mustard,  lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt, 
Beat  the  2  whites  until  stiff  and  add  to  dressing;  place  in  a  dish 
and  garnish  with  lettuce. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Select  large  ripe  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  and  put  in  hot  water. 
Remove  the  skin,  then  scoop  a  hole  in  the  center.  Set  in  refrigerator 
until  ready  to  serve.  Fill  with  a  rich  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  with  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  top  of  each  tomato. 

Cherry  Salad. 

Take  2  quarts  of  May  cherries  or  Black  Hearts;  remove  the 
seed  carefully;  then  put  them  in  a  bowl  and  place  in  refrigerator 
until  ready  to  serve.  Have  pecans  cracked  and  put  1  pecan  in  each 
cherry.  Place  about  2  dozen  in  each  plate  on  crisp  lettuce  or  Nas- 
turtium leaf,  and  pour  over  French  dressing. 

Lobster  Farcie. 

The  meat  from  2  lobsters,  1  can  of  French  mushrooms,  *4  pound 
of  butter,  1%  pints  of  rich  milk,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  with 
a  dash  of  mace,  mixed  mustard  and  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Boil 
the  lobster,  when  cold,  remove  the  meat  and  chop  fine,  drain  liquor 
from  mushrooms  and  chop  fine,  and  add  the  seasoning.  Heat  milk, 
add  butter  and  flour  well  blended,  stir  until  thick,  then  add  meat  and 
champignons,  remove  from  fire;  mix  well  and  leave  for  1  hour.  Fill 
the  shells,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake 
a  chestnut  brown.  Serve  in  shells,  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
parsley. 

Salmon  Timbales. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  cold  boiled  or  canned  salmon,  %  cup 
of  cream  or  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  lemon 
juice,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  3  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Put  cream  in 
saucepan,  add  all  seasoning,  when  hot,  add  salmon  and  mash  fine, 
when  boiling,  add  the  beaten  yolks.  Remove  from  fire,  and  fold 
in  lightly  the  beaten  whites.  Fill  greased  timbale  cups  2-3  full. 
Place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Turn  out  oh 
plates,  and  serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  193 


Ham  Salad. 

Cut  cold  ham  in  thin  slices,  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce.  Make  a 
French  dressing,  with  4  tablespoons  salad  oil,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
y2  teaspoon  Rochefort  cheese,  a  little  minced  onion,  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  dressing,  and  serve  salad  with 
reception  flakes. 

White  Chicken  Salad. 

One  pound  of  chicken  breast,  %  pound  of  white  crisp  celery,  1 
pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  1  pint  of  cream.  Boil  chicken,  and  dice 
the  white  meat,  and  cut  celery  in  cubes.  Set  on  ice  to  chill,  when 
ready  to  serve,  add  the  whipped  cream  to  mayonnaise,  marinate 
some  with  the  salad.    Pour  rest  over,  and  garnish  with  stuffed  olives. 

Salad. 

Six  ripe  tomatoes,  6  fresh  cucumbers,  4  green  bell  peppers,  1 
small  white  onion.  Peel  cucumbers  and  tomatoes,  and  slice  very 
thin.  Remove  seed  from  peppers  and  cut  into  rings,  chop  the  onion 
fine.  Mix  ingredients  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  set  on  ice,  then 
drain  and  pour  on  dressing.  Make  a  French  dressing,  of  oil,  vine- 
gar and  sweet  cream.  Chill  and  pour  on  salad,  which  must  be  serv- 
ed on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Endive  Salad. 

Take  2  bunches  of  endive,  cut  off  the  root,  and  pick  the  crisp 
leaves,  wash  and  drain,  add  a  few  chives.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Bean  Salad. 

String  tender  green  beans,  and  break  into  ^-inch  pieces,  wash 
and  cook  in  salted  water.  Drain,  and  mix  with  the  beans,  chopped 
onion,  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar,  when  cold,  add  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil. 

Fish  Salad. 

Take  a  white  fish  or  trout,  boil  and  dice  it,  add  an  equal  quanti- 
ty of  lettuce,  cabbage  or  celery.  Garnish  with  tender  leaves  of  let- 
tuce.      Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Crab  Salad. 

Boil  2  dozen  hard  shell  crabs  for  25  minutes,  drain  and  cool 
gradually.  Remove  upper  shell  and  tail,  break  apart  and  pick  out 
meat.  Place  in  salad  bowl  white  leaves  of  crisp  lettuce,  add  the 
crab  meat,  and  pour  over  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish  dish  with 
the  claws  and  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings,  watercress  added  to 
salad  gives  a  piquant  flavor. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Take  an  equal  quantity  of  fresh  pineapple,  and  fresh  cherries 

13 


194  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

seeded,  reserving  all  juice  from  the  latter.    Mix,  and  place  on  crisp 
lettuce,  and  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing.    Serve  immediately. 

Fresh  Fruit  Salad. 

Have  an  equal  amount  of  diced  pineapple,  seeded  cherries  and 
fresh  strawberries.  Chill,  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce.  Serve  with 
French  dressing. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

One  can  of  shrimp,  6  tablespoons  olive  oil,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4 
teaspoons  lemon  juice,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  hard  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  and  combine  with  the  yolks  of  2  unbeaten  eggs.  Mix 
eggs  until  smooth,  add  oil  slowly,  with  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  when 
light,  add  salt  and  pepper.  In  winter  have  as  much  crisp  celery 
cut  in  blocks,  as  there  is  shrimp.  In  summer,  can  substitute  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves.  Place  dressing  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve,  then  com- 
bine with  the  salad. 

Delmonico  Salad. 

Six  small  cucumbers  sliced  very  thin,  1  small  head  of  white  cab- 
bage (chopped  fine),  4  green  bell  peppers,  remove  the  seed.  Cut  fine. 
Put  on  a  flat  dish  and  garnish  with  slices  of  fresh  tomatoes.  Can 
be  served  either  with  a  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing.  Have  all 
ingredients  very  cold. 

Nut  Salad. 

Two  cups  of  celery  cut  into  dice,  1  cup  of  chicken  cut  tolerably 
fine,  1  cup  of  nuts  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together,  and  add  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Celery  and  Nut  Salad. 

Put  1  cup  of  shelled  walnuts  in  a  saucepan2  add  1  slice  of  onion, 
and  y~2  teaspoon  of  salt;  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  about  half 
an  hour,  then  put  into  ice  water  to  blanch.  Dry  on  a  cloth,  and, 
rub  off  the  skin.  Have  2  cups  of  celery  cut  in  blocks.  Mix  with  a 
cream  dressing.    Acid  apples  may  be  substituted  for  nuts. 

Pineapple  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes.  Peel  and  remove  some  of  the  pulp;  drain 
tomatoes  and  set  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve,  fill  with  pineapple 
cut  in  blocks.  Place  the  tomatoes  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  pour 
on  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Pineapple  Salad. 

One  can  of  pineapple  cut  into  small  blocks,  and  an  equal  quanti- 
ty of  tender  white  celery  cut  same  way,  1  pint  of  almonds  blanched 
and  cut  in  pieces.  Dressing :  Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  4  table- 
spoons of  vinegar,  boil  until  thick,  then  stir  in  1  heaping  tablespoon 
of  butter  or  olive  oil.  When  cool  add  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon of  dry  mustard,  a  little  pepper,  and  1  cup  of  whipped  cream. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  195 


Marinate  a  little  of  the  dressing  and  put  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 
Place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  dressing  on  top. 

Sweetbread  Salad. 

One  set  of  sweetbreads  put  in  cold  salt  water  1  hour,  then  par- 
boil them  until  tender,  put  in  saucepan  with  cold  water,  y2  onion 
sliced,  1  lemon  sliced,  2  bay  leaves.  Boil  20  minutes.  Blanch  and 
chop  1  pound  of  almonds,  cut  sweetbreads  in  blocks,  place  on  ice, 
and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  over  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Three  oranges,  3  bananas,  y2  pound  of  (Malaga)  grapes,  5  slices 
of  pineapple.  Peel  the  fruit  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Add  the  juice 
of  1  lemon,  and  some  grated  cocoanut.  Mix  well,  put  in  salad  dish, 
and  pour  over  this  dressing:  Five  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon maraschino,  2  tablespoons  of  champignons,  1  gill  of  sherry 
wine.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  pour  on  salad  when  ready  to 
serve. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Breast  of  2  large  chickens,  4  large  stalks  of  celery.  Boil  chicken 
and  cut  into  blocks,  also  the  celery.  Combine  salad,  and  serve  with 
this  dressing. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad. 

Take  y2  dozen  oranges,  y2  dozen  bananas,  ^  pound  pecans  or 
almonds,  1  pint  Maraschino  cherries,  1%  bunches  celery.  Have  as 
much  grape  fruit  as  required,  cut  them  in  half,  remove  seeds  and, 
with  paring  knife  loosen  the  sections  of  fruit.  Dice  oranges,  bana- 
nas aud  celery,  add  cherries  and  pecans,  mix  well.  Make  a  dressing 
with  y2  pint  tarragon  vinegar,  %  cup  olive  oil,  pepper  and  salt.  Fill 
center  of  crape  fruit  with  the  salad  and  pour  over  dressing.  This 
salad  is  delicious  served  on  crisp  lettuce,  when  grape  fruit  must  be 
omitted. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad. 

Take  grape  fruit,  cut  in  sections  and  remove  the  white  inner 
skin.  Dice  an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  mix  with  fruit,  a  few  pecans 
may  be  added.  Pour  over  French  dressing.  Serve  with  Neuchatel 
cheese  and  reception  flakes. 

Pineapple  Salad. 

Take  chunk  pineapple  and  chopped  celery  in  equal  quantities. 
Mix  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce,  then  pour  over  a  white  mayonnaise 
dressing,  set  in  refrigerator  to  chill  before  serving. 

Asparagus  Salad. 

One  bunch  of  asparagus  or  1  can  of  asparagus,  1  head  lettuce, 
14  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  %  teaspoon  of  salt.  Serve  with  this 
French  dressing:    One-fourth    teaspoon    of     salt,    %    teaspoon    of 


19(>  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


white  pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  10  drops  of  onion  juice, 
1  tablespoon  vinegar  and  y2  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Mix 
the  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  and  1  tablespoon  oil,  then  add  alter- 
nately the  remaining  oil,  vinegar  and  lemon  juice.  Wash  and  crisp 
the  lettuce,  cook  and  cool  the  asparagus ;  if  fresh  asparagus  is  used, 
or  canned  asparagus,  drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water,  dry  on  a  cloth, 
cut  into  inch  pieces,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.  Season  with 
salt  and  white  pepper.  Pour  over  the  dressing.  Serve  on  individual 
salad  plates. 

Beet  Salad. 

Four  good  sized  beets,  1  head  lettuce.  Wash  and  put  the  lettuce 
to  crisp,  also  wash  and  cook  the  beets.  When  tender,  plunge  into 
cold  water,  and  remove  the  skins.  When  thoroughly  cold,  cut  into 
cubes,  Y^  of  an  inch  square.  Sprinkle  with  *4  teaspoon  of  salt,  ar- 
range lettuce  on  individual  plates.    Pour  over  a  French  dressing. 

Orange  Salad. 

Take  as  many  sour  oranges  as  required  and  cut  in  thick  slices. 
Remove  the  seed  and  place  on  salad  plate.  When  ready  to  serve, 
pour  over  this  dressing  made  of:  One  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  3 
tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  salt,  cayenne  pepper  or  a  dash  of  paprika. 
Grape  fruit  may  be  substituted  for  oranges.  Serve  with  ham  or 
other  meats. 

Swiss  Salad. 

Mix  1  cup  of  cold  chicken,  cut  in  cubes,  1  cup  of  cucumbers  par- 
ed and  cut  in  cubes,  1  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts,  and  1  cup  of 
French  peas.  Pour  over  French  dressing  and  chill.  Arrange  on  a 
salad  dish,  and  garnish  with  mayonnaise. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes  and  remove  all  pulp,  then  turn  upside  down 
to  drain.  Use  the  pulp  and  an  equal  amount  of  cucumbers  and  chop 
fine.  Fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  and  pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

German  Salad. 

Select  small  Irish  potatoes,  boil  and  drain.  Peel  and  set  aside 
to  cool;  serve  with  this  dressing.  Cut  *4  pound  of  fat  bacon 
into  small  dice,  put  in  frying  pan  over  slow  fire.  Shred  an  onion 
in  a  bowl,  add  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  cup  of  vinegar  and  hot  water  in 
equal  proportion.  When  the  fat  is  a  chestnut  brown  and  the  dice 
well  crisped  add  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil  gradually  to  onion  and 
vinegar.  Have  potatoes  thinly  sliced,  stir  often.  If  salad  is  dry  add 
a  little  hot  water ;  it  must  not  be  greasy  or  lumpy.   Serve  at  once. 

Fruit  Salad. 

One-half  a  pound  of  almonds,  1  can  of  pineapple,  4  oranges,  1 
teacup  of  French  cherries.    Blanch  and  grate  the  almonds,   grate 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  197 

pinepapple,  pare  and  slice  the  oranges.  Put  alternate  layers  of 
powdered  sugar  and  fruit,  reserving  almonds  for  top  layer.  It  may 
be  garnished  with  fresh  strawberries  or  any  bright  fruit.  Serve  with 
this  dressing  y2  a  cup  of  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  of  Maraschino 
and  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine.  Chill  salad  before  adding  the 
dressing. 

Sardine  Salad. 

One  large  box  of  sardines,  6  hard-boiled  eggs.  Drain  oil  from 
fish,  remove  backbone,  tail  and  skin.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  eggs 
minced  fine ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.   Serve  plain  with  vinegar. 

Orange  Salad. 

Four  oranges,  2  lemons,  6  bananas,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of 
sifted  powdered  sugar,  %  scant  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  eggs  until 
light,  add  sugar  gradually  with  the  salt,  beat  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, add  lemon  juice  and  stir  well.  Peel  oranges,  remove  seed 
and  slice  across  in  thin  slices.  Put  in  salad  dish  a  layer  of  sliced 
bananas,  then  layer  of  dressing,  then  orange,  with  bananas  on  top. 
Pour  over  remainder  of  dressing  and  chill  until  ready  to  serve. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Take  2  dozen  lemons  and  %  dozen  oranges  and  squeeze  them. 
Then  have  1%  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  1  pint  of  water  made 
into  a  syrup.  Add  this  to  juice  and  freeze.  When  frozen  remove 
dasher  and  let  harden,  then  chop  %  dozen  oranges,  y2  dozen 
bananas,  a  few  strawberries  may  be  added.  In  winter  take  2 
bunches  of  Amalga  grapes,  wash  and  renlove  from  the  stem,  then 
put  sherbet  on  a  flat  dish,  add  the  chopped  fruit  on  top  and  sides 
of  the  ice.  Put  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  with  1  gill  of  sherry 
wine*.    Serve  immediately. 

Apple  Salad. 

Cut  the  top  from  firm  red  apples  and  remove  some  of  the  pulp. 
Chop  fine  and  add  pecans  and  celery  chopped.  Fill  the  apples  with 
this  dressing  and  pour  over  a  French  dressing  and  put  on  ice.  Be- 
fore serving  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  them  and  place  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves. 

Pineapple  Salad. 

One  fresh  pineapple,  1  coffee  cup  of  shelled  pecans,  a  white 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut  pineapple  in  blocks  and  combine  with 
the  pecans,  left  whole.  Chill  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  on  salad 
plates.   Pour  over  a  white  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Salad  in  Jelly. 

Make  aspic  jelly  and  fill  bottom  of  salad  dish  with  the  jelly  and 
set  on  ice.  When  it  stiffens  put  in  the  salad  dish  filled  with  cracked 
ice  and  pour  around  the  jelly  until  it  almost  reaches  the  top  and 


198  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

leave  to  harden.  When  jelly  is  hard  remove  ice  from  bowl  and  fill 
with  warm  water  for  a  moment,  then  remove  bowl  from  jelly  care- 
fully. Make  a  salad  of  chicken,  veal,  lobster  or  sliced  tomatoes  and 
cut  celery  or  Lettuce.  Place  salad  in  place  where  bowl  was  and 
cover  with  remainder  of  jelly  and  set  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve 
set  in  warm  water  a  moment  and  turn  out  on  a  salad  dish.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise  dressing-.  This  may  be  made  an  attractive  border 
mold  and  till  center  with  a  salad,  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

Chicken  Salad. 

One  turkey  or  -1  hens,  yolks  of  12  eggs,  16  tablespoons  of  olive 
oil,  15  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  9  tablespoons  of  ice  water,  4  bunches 
of  celery.  4  tablespoons  of  dry  mustard,  1  pint  of  thick  cream, 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  turkey  or  hens;  when  cold  cut  into 
blocks,  also  the  celery.  Beat  yolks  light,  add  1  tablespoon  of  oil 
and  1  of  vinegar  alternately  until  all  has  been  used,  then  the  mus- 
tard mixed  with  vinegar,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Put  this  in  dou- 
ble boiler  and  cook  until  consistency  of  custard,  stirring  all  the 
while.  When  cold  add  the  cream.  Mix  dressing  with  turkey  and 
celery:  garnish  dish  with  olives  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

French  Fruit  Salad. 

Two  oranges,  12  English  walnuts.  3  bananas,  1  head  lettuce,  Yz 
pound  Malaga  grapes.  French  dressing.  Peel  oranges:  remove  pulp 
separately  from  each  section.  Peel  bananas  and  cut  in  Yi,  inch 
slices.  Remove  skin  and  peel  from  grapes;  break  walnut  meats  in 
pieces.  Mix  ingredients,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with 
French  dressing. 

Cream  Dressing. 

One  tumbler  of  thick  sweet  cream,  yolks  of  5  hard-boiled  eggs, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  dry  mus- 
tard: mash  the  eggs  well,  add  the  sugar  and  mustard,  then  cream, 
gradually,  until  well  mixed;  thin  with  vinegar  until  the  consistency 
of  good  cream;  keep  in  a  self-sealing  jar  on  ice.  Serve  with  toma- 
toes or  salads. 

Salad  Dressing. 

The  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard  made  into  a  paste 
with  hot  water,  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teacup  of 
sweet  cream.  Cook  eggs,  mustard  and  lemon  juice  in  a  double  boiler 
until  thick ;  set  aside  to  cool,  then  add  the  cream  slowly,  little  at  a 
time.    Place  on  ice.     This  is  nice  served  with  asparagus  salad. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  cream,  V/2  pints  of  vinegar.  1  table- 
spoon of  salt,  nearly  y2  cup  of  sugar.  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  mus- 
tard. 1  cup  butter.  Y2  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  eggs  light, 
add  sugar,  mustard,  cream,  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  stir  well,  then 


KENTUCKY  REOKIPT  BOOK.  199 

boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  boiling  hot  into  the  mixture  and  beat  well. 
If  bottled  this  dressing  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Salad  Dressing-. 

Two  eggs,  1  tablespoon  mixed  mustard,  1  scant  saltspoon  salt, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar.  Beat  eggs,  add  mustard,  salt  and  sugar;  beat  well  and  add 
the  butter  melted  and  vinegar.  Set  the  bowl  over  boiling  water  and 
stir  constantly  until  thick  and  smooth.  Use  cold ;  when  ready  to 
serve  add  1  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Dressing  for  Salad. 

One  cup  rich  cream,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  or  flour,  whites  of 
2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  2  tea- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  tea- 
spoon mixed  mustard.  Moisten  corn  starch  or  flour  with  a  little 
cold  milk,  *heat  the  cream  almost  to  boiling  point,  stir  in  flour  or 
corn  starch,  boil  2  minutes  and  add  sugar,  then  remove  from  fire. 
Froth  the  whites  and  add  to  cream;  when  about  cold  whip  oil  in 
cream  with  swift  strokes,  but  not  many;  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold  add  oil,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  1  pound  chicken  breast  cut  in 
blocks  with  %  pound  of  crisp  celery,  combine  and  chill.  Add  vine- 
gar to  the  dressing  and  pour  over  salad.  Serve  at  once.  This  dress- 
ing may  be  served  with  potato  salad,  slaw  or  lettuce. 

Dressing  for  Potato  Salad  or  Ham. 

Break  in  saucepan  2  eggs,  beat  well,  and  to  them  add  %  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  %  teaspoon 
sugar,  black  and  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  5  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 
Put  mixture  in  bowl  and  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  stir  continu- 
ously until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  lump  of  butter  size  of  a 
walnut :  stir  and  pour  out  to  cool. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 

One-half  a  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  ^> 
lemon,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  %  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Cream  butter,  then  add  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  this  mixture  on  double  boiler,  and  beat  with  an  egg 
beater,  until  the  same  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  gradually  the 
boiling  water,  beating  continuously.  When  it  is  like  soft  custard, 
serve  immediately. 

French  Dressing'. 

Four  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Take  a 
lump  of  ice,  and  beat  rapidly,  just  before  it  is  finished,  add  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper.    Set  on  ice  to  chill. 

Dressing. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs  beaten  until  light,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  but- 


200  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

ter,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar, 
1  pint  of  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  vinegar  and  pour  over  the 
ingredients,  stirring  well.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  of 
good  consistency.  If  too  thick  when  cold,  add  some  cream;  stir 
well.  Set  on  ice  1  hour.  Before  serving  mix  this  dressing  with 
chicken :  Make  a  mayonnaise  with  2  yolks  beaten  until  light,  1 
pint  of  olive  oil,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  or  2  tablespoons  tarragon 
vinegar.  AVhen  ingredients  are  cold,  add  the  oil,  drop  at  a  time,  then 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Stir  with  a  silver  fork.  When  ready  to 
serve  salad,  pour  on  the  mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  stuffed  olives. 
Serve  with  beaten  biscuit  or  wafers,  and  cheese  balls. 

French  Dressing. 

One  teacup  of  olive  oil,  %  teacup  of  vinegar,  white  pepper  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  with  egg-whipper  till  very 
light.  9 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  a  little  cream,  5  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  2 
spoons  of  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

Mix  %  tablespoon  mustard,  %  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  1  egg  slightly  beaten,  2y2  tablespoons  butter,  %  cup  of  fresh 
cream,  %  cup  vinegar.  Put  all  ingredients  in  double  boiler  except 
vinegar.  After  it  is  hot  add  that  slowly,  cook  until  it  thickens,  then 
strain  and  cool. 

A  Cream  Dressing. 

Two  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream,  V/2  table- 
spoons of  granulated  sugar,  3%  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Mix  well, 
chill  and  serve  over  vegetable  salad. 

A  French  Dressing. 

Chop  finely  1  teaspoon  of  onion,  put  in  a  bowl  and  add  4  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  dry  mustard 
and  salt.  Add  oil  drop  at  a  time  for  15  minutes,  then  more  rapidly, 
alternating  with  vinegar  until  all  has  been  used.  Work  dressing  at 
last  with  a  piece  of  ice,  as  it  causes  it  to  jelly  more  quickly.  The 
bowl  should  rest  upon  a  block  of  ice  while  preparing  it. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste,  add 
gradually  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  *4  teaspoon  granulated  sugar, 
Yo  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  1  teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  2  table- 
spoons vinegar.  Take  1  pint  of  rich  cream,  chill  and  whip  until  stiff 
and  smooth.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  thick  cream  at  a  time  into  the 
mixture  with  a  wire  whisk. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  201 

Melted  Butter  Dressing. 

Put  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  with  1  ounce  of  butter  in  saucepan 
and  place  in  pan  of  hot  water,  stir  rapidly  until  butter  is  melted 
and  sauce  begins  to  thicken.  Remove  farther  from  fire,  add  1  ounce 
of  butter  and  continue  cooking  to  a  cream,  repeat  process,  adding 
2  more  ounces  of  butter,  add  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  in  a  sauce 
bowl.  A  few  tarragon  leaves  finely  chopped  or  a  dash  of  lemon 
juice  should  be  added  just  before  serving. 

Cream  Dressing. 

One  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  or  flour, 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2  table- 
spoons of  oil,  2  teaspoons  of  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  % 
teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  made  mustard.  Wet  flour  with 
a  little  milk,  heat  cream  almost  to  boiling  and  stir  in  flour.  Boil  two 
minutes  and  add  sugar,  then  take  from  fire.  Whip  whites  and  add 
to  cream.  When  about  cold  put  in  oil  with  swift  strokes,  but  not 
many,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  If  salad  is  ready  add  to  sauce  the  vine- 
gar and  pour  over  at  once. 

Champignon  Sauce. 

Two  cans  of  champignons  cut  in  half,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
to  taste.  Boil  champignons,  salt  and  pepper  together  for  10  minutes, 
then  add  1%  pints  of  rich  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  flour. 
Serve  the  peppers  on  salad  plates  and  pour  sauce  over  them. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  7  eggs  well  beaten,  %  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  fill  up  with 
water.  First  put  in  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  and  beat  well,  then 
l1/-.  tablespoons  of  white  sugar.  Add  vinegar  and  cook  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken;  take  off  and  beat  smooth. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

One  pint  of  olive  oil,  juice  of  1  lemon,  yolks  of  2  unbeaten  eggs, 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Place  a  bowl  on  block  of  ice,  and  break 
in  the  yolks,  add  oil  slowly,  stir  with  silver  fork,  then  add  lemon 
juice  and  oil,  alternately,  until  all  has  been  used.  Add  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  when  it  begins  to  thicken.  Set  on  ice,  until  ready 
to  serve. 

Nut  Mayonnaise. 

Yolks  of  4  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard  made  into  a 
paste  with  cold  water,  1  teacup  of  olive  oil,  adding  very  slowly  and 
beating  all  the  while,  3  tablespoons  of  white  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Mix  well  and  cook  slowly  in  pan  of  boiling  water.  When 
thick  as  mush  remove  from  fire,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Chop  2  dozen 
English  walnuts  and  2  apples.    Scoop  out  tomatoes  and  drain,  then 


202  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

set  on  ice;  when  ready  to  serve,  fill  the  tomatoes,  place  on  crisp  let* 
tuce  leaves,  and  pour  over  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

To  make  mayonnaise  white  add  1  coft'ee  cup  of  whipped  cream 
or  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  when  ready  to  serve. 

White  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

One-half  cup  of  veal  jelly  highly  seasoned  and  whipped  to  a 
froth,  y2  pint  salad  oil,  6  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  granulated  sugar,  *4  saltspoon  white 
pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Put  dressing  in  a  china  bowl  and  place 
upon  a  block  of  ice  and  stir  until  it  jellies. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Six  yolks,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  y2  cup  of  water;  sugar  to  taste. 
Put  vinegar  and  water  (sweetened)  on  stove  and  let  it  get  hot;  beat 
yolks  and  pour  hot  vinegar  over  them,  adding  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
salt,  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch.   Stir  until  smooth. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  (must  be  cold),  put  in  a  bowl  and  beat  with  a 
silver  fork  until  light;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  y2  pint  of  olive 
oil  (a  few  drops  at  a  time),  beating  lightly;  when  quite  stiff  add 
2  tablespoons  of  Tarragon  vinegar  or  juice  of  one  lemon.  "When  con- 
sistency of  jelly  1  teaspoon  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  in  refrigerator 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Put  3  yolks  in  a  cold  bowl,  which  must  rest  on  a  block  of  ice; 
add  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  stir  rapidly;  add  the  oil  a  drop  at  a 
time  (more  than  1  pint  of  oil  may  be  added),  also  1  tablespoon  of 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  with  cayenne  pepper  to  taste;  the  quantity 
may  be  increased  by  adding  to  it  when  ready  to  serve  the  same 
a  mount  of  whipped  cream  stirred  in  lightly.    Serve  at  once. 


%STRY 


"Good  digestion  waits  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both." 

—Shakespeare. 


Pastry. 

One  pint  of  flour,  3  tablespoons  of  lard,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  ice 
water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Add  lard  and  salt  to  flour,  knead  as 
little  as  possible  and  roll  very  thin. 

Puff  Paste. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  coffee  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  lard,  beaten  white  of  1 
egg  and  y2  cup  of  ice  water.  Sift  flour  second  time  with  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Have  butter  and  lard  ice  cold,  rub  lard  into  the 
flour  until  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  water  with  the  egg  in  it  and 
make  a  stiff  dough,  roll  paste  into  a  thin  sheet,  spread  with  %  of 
the  butter,  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour,  then  roll  closely  in  a  long 
roll,  double  ends  to  center,  flatten  and  re-roll,  spread  with  another 
quarter  of  the  butter,  repeat  process  until  all  butter  has  been  added. 
Put  in  an  earthen  dish,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  leave  in  refrigerator 
for  1  hour  before  making  out  the  paste.  This  paste  is  excellent  for 
patte  or  pie. 

To  Prepare  Butter  for  Cakes  and  Pies. 

Put  butter  in  a  bowl  that  has  been  rinsed  first  in  hot  water 
then  in  cold  water.  Cream  butter  with  the  hand  is  best,  as  it  soon 
becomes  waxy  and  pliable  and  free  of  salt,  then  place  in  ice  box  to 
harden. 

Pie  Crust. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  cup  of  butter  and  lard 
in  equal  proportion,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  y2  cup  ice  water.  Have  dough  stiff  and  mix  as  little  as  pos- 
sible.   This  quantity  makes  2  pies. 

Jelly  or   Preserve   Pies. 
For  jelly  or  preserve  pies  bake  the  shell,  put  in  jelly  or  preserve 
and   cover  with  whipped  cream. 

To  Make  Crust  Flaky. 

Roll  upper  crust  proper  size,  then  spread  with  butter  and 
dredge  with  sifted  flour  to  cover.  This  is  considered  preferable  to 
adding  butter  to  the  flour,  as  it  imparts  a  fine  flavor. 

(203) 


204  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Orange  Pie. 

One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  scant  tablespoons  of  butter, 
2  oranges,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour,  2  eggs.  Cream  but- 
ter, add  sugar,  flour,  yolks  of  eggs,  juice  of  the  oranges  and  grated 
rind  of  1  orange.  Mix  well,  pour  into  pie  pan  lined  with  a  rich  paste 
and  bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven.  Add  3  tablespoons  granulated 
sugar  to  unbeaten  whites,  beat  stiff  with  wire  whisk,  add  juice  of 
%  lemon.    Meringue  pie,  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Individual  Pies. 

Individual  pies  can  be  made  by  putting  filling,  in  small  tarts, 
cut  round  with  cutter.   Bake  in  quick  oven.    Meringue  and  brown. 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

One-half  cup  dessicated  cocoanut,  1  coffee  cup  milk,  1  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar, 
the. yolks  well  beaten,  then  cocoanut  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Put  fill- 
ing in  raw  paste,  set  in  oven,  let  rise,  then  bake.  Add  2  heaping 
tablespoons  granulated  sugar  to  unbeaten  whites,  beat  with  wire 
whisk  until  stiff.   Meringue  pie  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Currant  Pie. 

Two  pints  of  ripe  currants,  1  heaping  coffee  cup  granulated 
sugar,  1  dessertspoon  butter.  Wash  berries,  stem  and  put  in  sauce- 
pan with  the  sugar  and  %  cup  cold  water;  stew  until  tender,  add 
butter  when  currants  are  almost  done.  Make  a  pastry,  fill  with  fruit 
and  add  a  top  of  the  pastry,  stick  three  times  on  top  with  silver 
fork.    Set  in  oven  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown. 

Cranberry  Shortcake. 

Two  pints  of  flour,  %  teacup  lard  and  butter  in  equal  propor- 
tion for  the  shortcake,  2  scant  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  %  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  enough  new  milk  to  slightly  mix  to  handle.  Place  on 
the  board,  divide  dough  into  2  parts,  roll  half  about  %  of  an  inch 
thick  and  place  on  buttered  tin  with  a  knife,  spread  over  this  por- 
tion a  little  melted  butter.  Roll  remainder  of  dough  the  same  size 
and  shape  and  place  on  top  of  other  shortcake.  Put  in  hot  oven  and 
bake  a  chestnut  brown.  Take  1  quart  of  cranberries  and  put  in 
porcelain  kettle  with  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  little  cold 
water  to  moisten ;  stew  until  done.  When  shortcake  is  done  remove 
from  tin  and  place  on  a  pie  plate,  then  separate  the  layers,  put  up- 
per one  inverted  on  another  plate  and  butter  well  the  two  surfaces. 
Fill  the  lower  layer  plentifully  with  cranberries  and  dredge  well 
with  granulated  or  powdered  sugar.  Then  place  upper  layer  on 
crust  downwards,  press  together  lightly  with  the  fingers  and  fill 
top  inside  surface  in  same  way.  Set  in  a  warm  place  and  cover  with 
a  deep  pan  until  ready  to  serve.  Use  rest  of  juice  on  cake  as  a 
sauce  when  serving. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  205 


Molasses  Pie. 

One  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  teacup  molasses,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  eggs,  juice  of  %  lemon,  a  dash  of  nut- 
meg. Mix  ingredients  and  put  in  raw  paste  and  cook.  Add  3  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar  to  unbeaten  whites,  beat  with  wire  whisk 
until  very  stiff.    Meringue  pie  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Damson  or  Plum  Pie. 

Stew  damsons  whole  in  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching, 
cook  until  tender  and  sweeten  while  hot,  then  set  aside  to  cool. 
Have  pie  pan  lined  with  paste,  pour  in  damsons,  dredge  with  flour, 
cover  with  top  of  paste,  pinch  edges  together,  cut  slit  in  center  for 
steam  to  escape.  Bake  20  minutes,  dredge  top  with  powdered  sugar. 

Peach  Pie. 

Peel,  stone  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  pie  pan  with  crust,  place 
in  peaches,  sprinkle  generously  with  granulated  sugar.  Allow  3 
peach  kernels  to  each  pie,  chop  fine ;  if  fruit  is  not  juicy  add  a  little 
water.  Bake  with  an  upper  crust  or  strips  of  pastry  across  top. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

Two  blocks  of  chocolate,  4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups 
brown  sugar,  2  teacups  cream,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  or  flour. 
Beat  yolks  light,  add  sugar,  butter,  chocolate,  cream  and  corn- 
starch. Put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  tolerably  stiff.  Have  2 
crusts  baked.  "When  cold  spread  on  the  chocolate.  Beat  whites  stiff 
with  4  tablespoons  granulated  sugar.  Meringue  pies  and  set  in  oven 
to  brown. 

Pastry. 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  tablespooonful  lard,  %  tea- 
spoon salt,  %  cup  of  ice  water.   This  quantity  makes  one  pie. 

Jam  Pie. 

One  coffee  cup  of  jam,  1  cup  cream,  1  dessertspoon  butter,  1 
heaping  teaspoon  cornstarch.  Mix  well  and  put  this  filling  in  an 
uncooked  crust  with  strips  of  pastry  on  top.  Cook  in  moderate  oven. 

Francotellis. 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  puff  paste  and  fill  with  this  mixture.  Three 
tablespoons  cornstarch,  mixed  with  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  4  eggs,  iy2 
cups  granulated  sugar.  Add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil  5  min- 
utes. Take  from  fire,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons. 
When  cool  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  then  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  froth,  folding  it  lightly.  Fill  the  pie  pan,  which  is  lined 
with  the  puff  paste,  and  brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven.   Serve  cold. 


206    .  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Cream  Pie. 

One  pint  of  cream,  2  pints  new  milk,  2  coffee  cups  granulated 
sugar,  J/2  cup  butter,  %  coffee  cup  cornstarch,  6  eggs,  1  dessertspoon 
vanilla.  Put  cream  and  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  it  comes  to 
boiling  point  pour  over  eggs  and  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  stir  well 
and  return  t<>  saucepan,  then  add  cornstarch  dissolved  in  some  of 
the  milk.  Cook  until  consistency  of  mush,  remove  from  fire,  add 
butter  and  vanilla.  Have  3  baked  crusts,  fill  with  the  mixture.  Put 
the  6  unbeaten  whites  in  bowl  and  add  3  small  teacups  granulated 
sugar,  beat  until  very  stiff,  beat  in  light  teaspoon  vanilla.  Meringue 
pies,  set  in  oven  and  cook  a  chestnut  brown.  One-third  of  recipe 
may  be  used  for  1  pie. 

Whipped  Cream  Pie. 

Make  a  rich  pastry  and  line  pie  pan;  set  in  oven  and  bake. 
"While  warm  cover  with  jelly  about  ^  of  an  inch  thick.  Have  1 
large  coffee  cup  of  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  whip  very  stiff 
and  spread  on  jelly.    Serve  immediately. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  and  white  of  1  egg,  %  cup  of  butter,  2  teacups 
of  granulated  sugar,  4  large  spoons  of  cream  or  milk,  enough  choco- 
late to  color  it  dark,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Have  a  rich  pastry,  fill  with 
this  mixture;  cook  till  done. 

Meringue — Three  whites  well    beaten    with    enough    granulated 
sugar  to  make  a  stiff  icing.  Put  on  pies  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Have  1  pint  of  pumpkin  (after  it  has  been  cooked  and  strained), 
y2  pint  granulated  sugar,  %  pint  of  cream,  14  pound  butter,  4  eggs 
beaten  separately,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  ginger;  can  use  1  tea- 
spoon of  allspice  if  preferred  to  ginger.  Before  cooking  the  pies 
sift  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar  over  the  top ;  this  makes  a  thin 
crust.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Pumpkin  Sweetmeat. 

Peel  the  pumpkin  and  cut  in  narrow  strips  or  blocks;  then  put 
with  water  to  boil  (can  add  a  very  small  piece  of  alum).  When 
nearly  done  cover  with  molasses  and  cook  till  clear.  Serve  as  a 
vegetable. 

Jam  Pie. 

Take  1  pint  of  jam,  2  eggs,  1  teacup  of  cream,  lump  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  beat  eggs  separately.  After  yolks  are  light  add  the 
jam  and  cream:  stir  well,  then  add  whites.  Fill  2  crusts  and  set  in 
moderate  oven  to  bake. 

Pastry. 

Take  1  pint  of  flour,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  lard.   Sift  flour  and  mix 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  207 


in  the  lard  with  a  knife  and  fork;  add  ice  water  to  moisten  it.  Work 
only  enough  to  get  in  the  lard;  roll  in  a  sheet  and  put  on  a  plate. 
Set  in  refrigerator  till  ready  to  bake. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

One  cup  of  cranberries,  y2  cup  of  raisins  chopped  together ;  add 
1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  tablespoon  of  cold 
water ;  mix  well  and  put  in  pastry ;  also  have  top  crust.  Set  in  oven 
to  bake. 

Buttermilk  Pie. 

One  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  %  teacup 
of  butter,  3  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  tablespoons  flour 
made  into  a  paste  with  some  of  the  milk.  Use  the  whites  with  4 
tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar  and  meringue  the  pies.  Set  in  oven 
to  brown. 

Pastry. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  flour,  3/±  cups  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
y2  cup  of  ice  water.  Work  as  little  as  possible.  This  quantity  makes 
crust  for  2  pies. 

Tartlets. 

Have  paste  a  little  thicker  than  for  ordinary  pies.  Dip  a  round 
cutter  in  hot  water  and  cut  the  paste,  stick  a  few  holes  at  the  bot- 
tom with  fork,  bake  in  oven  15  minutes.  Let  cool,  fill  with  preserves 
or  jam.  To  glaze  the  tartlets  brush  over  with  beaten  white  of  egg, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  powdered  sugar  and  set  in  oven.  Dried  fruit 
or  cranberries,  stewed  and  sweetened,  are  excellent  for  making  tart 
pies. 

Whipped  Cream  Pie. 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  pastry  and  bake  quickly  in  hot  oven. 
Spread  with  marmalade,  jelly  or  jam.  Have  1  pint  cream  sweetened 
with  powdered  sugar  and  flavored  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla ;  beat 
very  stiff  and  cover  pie.    Serve  at  once. 

Green  Tomato  Pie. 

Take  medium  size  green  tomatoes,  pare  and  remove  stem  end. 
Line  pie  pan  with  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  put  in  tomatoes  sliced  thin, 
1  2  teacup  granulated  sugar,  14  cup  butter,  y2  grated  nutmeg,  dredge 
with  flour,  pour  over  V4  cup  vinegar.  Cover  with  crust,  bake  30 
minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Serve  hot. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Yolks  of  7  eggs,  3  teacups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  grated  nut- 
meg, the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Use  3 
whites  in  making  the  filling,  the  other  4  whites  beaten  stiff  with  5 
tablespoons  of  sugar  for  the  meringue.  Set  in  oven  for  a  few  min- 
utes. 


208  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    HOOK. 


Lemon  Pie. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter,  iy2  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
juice  of  3  lemons,  1  cup  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  When  pies 
are  done  meringue  with  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  1^ 
cups  of  sugar;  cook  a  light  brown. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Take  4  eggs  beaten  light,  juice  of  2  lemons,  2  teacups  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  6  grated  crackers,  1  cup 
of  cold  water.  Beat  all  very  light  and  fill  2  crusts.  Set  in  hot  oven 
to  bake. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Three-fourths  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour,  yolks  of 
3  eggs  and  white  of  1  egg  well  beaten,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
two  lemons,  %  cup  ice  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  over,  meringue 
with  2  beaten  whites  and  y2  cup  powdered  sugar.  Set  in  oven  to 
brown. 

Molasses  Pie. 

Take  1  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  teacup  of  cream,  lump 
of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  flour  beaten  with  2  eggs  (not 
separately).  Put  mixture  in  2  crusts,  set  in  oven  to  bake.  About 
five  minutes  before  it  is  done  peel  outside  of  lemon;  slice  thin  and 
lay  slices  on  each  pie;  let  stay  about  5  or  8  minutes. 

Genoese  Pastry. 

Four  ounces  of  flour,  8  ounces  butter,  4'  ounces  almond  paste,  5 
eggs.  Melt  butter,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  get  hot.  Break  eggs  in  a 
bowl  and  add  sugar.  Place  the  bowl  in  saucepan  of  hot  water  and 
whip  eggs  and  sugar  20  minutes,  but  it  must  not  get  hot.  Remove 
from  hot  water,  add  almond  paste  crumbled  fine.  Beat  until  smooth, 
then  add  butter  and  stir  in  flour  lightly.  Line  a  round  jelly  cake 
pan  with  buttered  paper,  standing  1  inch  above  edge  of  pan.  Bake 
in  a  rather  quick  oven  30  minutes  (until  it  will  not  dent  when 
tested  with  the  finger.) 

Pineapple  Pie. 

One  pineapple,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  3  eggs. 
Beat  eggs  separately;  have  sugar  and  butter  creamed,  add  the 
yolks,  then  the  pineapple  grated,  lastly  the  whites.  Bake  pie  and 
meringue.    Set  in  oven  until  a  chestnut  brown. 

Molasses  Pie. 
One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  syrup,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  soda.   Have  a  rich  pastry  and  fill  with 
the  mixture.    Set  in  oven  to  bake. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 
Three  teacups  mashed  potatoes,  1  teacup  granulated  sugar,  2 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  209 


tablespoons  butter,  1  teacup  cold  water,  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake 
in  a  crust  and  serve  with  quince  preserves. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Two  lemons,  1%  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch,  y2  pint  water,  6  eggs,  1  tablespoon 
butter.  Bake  lemons  a  short  while,  then  squeeze  and  strain  the 
juice.  Boil  rind  in  the  water  and  stir  into  the  mixture,  using  yolks 
and  rest  of  ingredients.  Bake  in  rich  pastry.  Meringue  with  the 
beaten  whites  and  6  tablespoons  sugar.   Set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Lemon  Pie. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  4  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  tablespoons  of 
cornstarch,  2  lemons,  juice  of  both  and  rind  of  1,  1  pint  of  milk, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Heat  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  cornstarch, 
that  must  be  moistened  with  a  few  spoons  of  cold  water.  Boil  a  few 
minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  while  hot  add  the  butter  and  set  away 
to  cool.  Beat  yolks  light  and  add  sugar ;  mix  thoroughly  before  put- 
ting in  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind.  Beat  this  to  a  stiff  cream  and 
add  gradually  to  the  cornstarch.  After  pies  are  done  beat  white  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  sugar,  then  meringue  and  place  pies  in 
the  oven  to  brown. 

Cream  Pie. 

One  cup  of  rich  milk,  1%  cups  of  sugar,  4  eggs,  %  cup  of  but- 
ter, cream,  sugar  and  butter;  beat  eggs,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
then  milk.  Meringue  with  the  well-beaten  whites  and  5  tablespoons 
of  granulated  sugar.  Have  2  crusts  ready  and  fill  with  the  mixture ; 
set  in  oven  to  bake ;  meringue  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Raisin  Pie. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  %  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup 
water,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  or  corn  starch. 
Cream,  butter,  add  sugar,  then  eggs  beaten  light  and  water.  Sim- 
mer the  raisins  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  to  the  mixture.   Have 

2  pie  crusts  ready  and  fill";  put  crust  on  top ;  set  in  oven  to  brown. 

Mince  Meat. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  beef  or  a  large  beef  tongue  boiled  until 
tender.  If  you  use  a  tongue  take  one  that  has  been  in  salt  four  or 
five  days  not  smoked.  When  cold  chop  fine  and  add  2  pounds  of 
suet,  3  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  2  pounds  of  currants  well  washed 
and  drained,  %  of  a  pound  of  citron,  12  large  apples  chopped,  4 
oranges,  3  lemons,  1  teacup  of  strawberry  or  raspberry  jam,  1  cup 
of  quince  preserves,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  cin- 
namon, 1  tablespoon  of  nutmeg.  Moisten  with  vinegar  from  sweet 
pickle  if  possible  or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cooking  sherry.  Work  in 
well  and  tie  up  tightly  in  a  stone  jar. 

14 


210  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Lemon  Pie  Without  Butter. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  coffee  cup  of  sugar  aud  3  tablespoons  of 
flour  mixed  with  the  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  light.  Add  the  sugar  and 
flour  a  little  at  a  time,  then  the  strained  juice  of  1  lemon  and  lastly 
a  coffee  cup  of  boiling  water.  Set  in  hot  water  and  cook  until  it 
thickens.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  nice  pastry;  prick  well  with  a  fork 
and  bake  done.  When  cool  put  in  the  mixture,  which  has  also 
cooled.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  by  beating  them  stiff  and 
adding  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cover  pie  with  the  meringue  and 
let  brown  in  the  oven.    This  will  make  one  pie. 

Mince  Pie. 

Use  recipe  for  pastry  and  make  2  pie  crusts.  Fill  tolerably  full 
with  the  mince  meat  and  pour  over  1  tablespoon  of  brandy  or 
whisky.  Cover  with  top  of  pastry  and  stick  several  times  with  silver 
fork.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  a  chestnut  brown.  Sprinkle  lib- 
erally with  powdered  sugar.    Serve  warm. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Peel  and  remove  the  soft  part  and  seed  from  a  pumpkin;  cut 
into  pieces  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water ;  stew  until  tender. 
Drain  well  and  strain  through  a  colander.  To  1  quart  of  strained 
pulp  add  1  kitchen  spoon  of  butter,  1  quart  of  rich  milk,  6  beaten 
eggs,  12  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  1-3  cup  of  molasses,  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  ginger,  a  pinch  of  salt,  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg to  taste.  If  not  sweet  enough  add  more  sugar.  A  wine  glass  of 
brandy  improves  it.  Fill  a  deep  pie  plate  with  this  mixture  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 

Victoria  Pie. 

Pare  and  stew  some  tart,  juicy  apples  until  tender2  then  rub 
through  a  sieve.  To  each  cup  of  apples  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
stirring  until  it  is  melted;  then  add  1  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  %  lemon,  y2  cof- 
fee cup  of  wine  and  %  cup  of  cream.  Prepare  a  nice  puff  paste  and 
line  a  deep  pie  pan.  Brush  with  white  of  1  egg  and  add  to  it  %  cup 
of  chopped  raisins  and  almonds,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  When  done  use  2  well-beaten  whites  and  3  table- 
spoons of  granulated  sugar  for  meringue.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Caramel  Pie. 

Take  1  cup  of  damson  or  grape  preserves  and  put  through  a 
sieve,  then  add  yolks  of  3  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  3  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter  to  the  preserves.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Have 
pie  crust  made  and  brown  slightly,  then  add  the  filling:  set  in  the 
oven  and  bake.  Whip  whites  of  3  eggs  and  add  enough  powdered 
sugar  to  make  it  stiff;  also  a  little  vanilla.    Meringue  the  pie  and 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  211 

set  in  oven  until  brown.   It  is  nice  to  serve  the  whipped  cream  pie 
with  the  caramel  pie. 

Queen  Pie. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  cream,  1  cup 
of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  whites  for  meringue  with  1  teacup 
sugar. 

Chocolate  Pie. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  light,  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  butter,  Y2  cup  of  cream.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  y2  cup 
of  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  When  done  use  whites 
and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  to  meringue  pies.  Set  in  oven  a  few  mim 
utes  to  brown. 

Mince  Meat. 

Select  6  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  1  fresh  tongue.  Wash  thor- 
oughly, put  in  a  kettle  with  1  pod  of  red  pepper,  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Remove  the  scum  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point;  add 
hot  water  from  time  to  time.  Cook  until  tender,  then  season  with 
salt ;  take  the  cover  from  the  kettle ;  let  boil  until  almost  dry ;  take 
out,  set  aside  to  cool.  They  should  be  cooked  the  day  before  you 
wish  to  use  them.  Remove  all  the  bone  and  gristle  before  chopping. 
Chop  the  tongue  and  beef  very  fine,  also  6y2  pounds  of  kidney  suet, 
5  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded,  3  pounds  of  currants  (they  must  be 
washed  and  dried),  6  pounds  of  green  tart  apples  chopped,  1% 
pounds  of  citron,  cut  fine,  3  oranges,  3  lemons.  Remove  the  seed  and 
cut  very  fine,  add  9  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  2  grated  nutmegs, 
1  ounce  of  cinnamon,  y2  an  ounce  each  of  allspice,  cloves  and  mace. 
Mix  thoroughly,  then  add  3  quarts  of  good  whisky,  1  pint  of  French 
brandy,  3  quarts  of  sweet  cider.    Cover  it  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Boston  Cream  Pie. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  V/2 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  full  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons 
of  milk  or  water.  Divide  batter  into  half  and  bake  on  2  medium 
size  pie  pans.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  straw  color.  When  done 
and  cool  split  each  one  in  half  with  a  sharp  broad  knife  and  spread 
half  the  cream  between  each. 

Cream — Put  1  pint  of  milk  to  boil.  Break  2  eggs  in  a  dish  and 
add  1  cup  of  sugar.  y2  cup  of  flour.  After  beating  well  stir  it  in 
the  milk.  Just  as  the  milk  begins  to  boil  add  1  ounce  of  butter  and 
stir  one  way  till  it  thickens.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Spread  on  pies 
and  serve  them  cold. 

Mince  Meat. 

One  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  good  lean  beef,  chopped  fine 
after  being  boiled,  %  pound  of  beef  suet,  carefully  shredded,  1 
pound  of  seeded  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants  washed  and  run 
through  sifter,  1  pound  of  tart  apples  peeled  and  put  through  a 


212  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 

grinder,  %  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  *4  ounce  of  cloves,  ^  ounce  of 
ground  ginger,  1  nutmeg,  grated,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  a/4 
tablespoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  %  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  %  piut  of  molasses  or  syrup,  ^4  pound  of  butter,  *4  ounce  of 
mace;  1  quart  of  good  whisky.  A  little  cider  is  an  improvement. 
Have  water  boiling  when  beef  is  put  on  to  cook,  with  enough  water 
to  cover  it.  Cook  until  tender.  Use  some  of  this  stock  to  moisten 
meat.    This  makes  1  gallon  of  mince  meat. 

Orange  Roley  Poley. 

Make  a  light  dough  and  roll  out  into  a  long  narrow  sheet  }4 
of  an  inch  thick.  Slice  the  oranges  and  remove  the  seed.  Spread  the 
oranges  thickly  over  the  dough;  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Fold  well  at 
the  edges.  Boil  in  floured  cloth  for  1%  hours.  Add  the  juice  of 
orange  to  the  sauce. 

Huckleberry  Pie. 

Put  1  quart  of  picked  huckleberries  into  cold  water,  take  up 
and  reject  all  imperfect  ones.  Line  a  buttered  pie  pan  with  paste, 
let  berries  be  %  inch  deep,  for  each  quart  of  berries  allow  y2  coffee 
cup  of  brown  sugar,  dredge  over  1  teapsoon  flour,  a  dash  of  salt  and 
a  little  nutmeg.  Put  top  of  pastry,  make  several  incisions  on  either 
side,  press  crust  together  around  edge  and  trim  off  with  sharp  knife. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  %  of  an  hour. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie. 

One  cup  of  raw  cranberries,  %  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Cover 
bottom  of  pie  pan  with  a  raw  paste,  reserving  enough  for  upper 
crust.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  flour,  the  cranberries  mashed  and 
cut  in  half,  also  the  raisins ;  mix  well,  put  this  filling  in  paste,  cover 
with  top  and  stick  with  a  fork.  Bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,. 

Cherry  Pie. 

One  pint  seeded  cherries,  %  pint  of  sugar,  1  dessertspoon  but- 
ter. If  cherries  are  very  ripe  put,  uncooked,  in  a  raw  paste,  with 
top  of  pastry.    Stick  with  fork,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Cherry  Tart. 

Wash,  and  stone  1%  pounds  of  murillo  or  black  cherries,  put  in 
saucepan  with  1  teaspoon  cold  water,  enough  granulated  sugar  to 
sweeten,  cook  until  tender.  Have  a  rich  paste,  fill  with  the  cherries, 
and  set  in  moderate  oven  to  bake.  Strips  of  pastry  may  be  put 
across,  or  a  top  of  pastry.  Prepare  cherries,  same  way,  and  put  in  a 
sheet  of  pastry,  rolled  thin.  Cook  in  baking  dish,  or  put  in  bag  and 
cook  in  kettle  of  boiling  water.    Serve  with  a  rich  sauce. 

Gooseberry  Pie. 

Stew  gooseberries  until  tender,  sweeten,  add  1  tablespoon  but- 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  213 

ter  cut  in  bits,  dredge  with  1  teaspoon  flour.  Fruit  can  be  put  in  raw 
crust,  with  top  of  pastry,  or  put  in  cooked  shell  with  bars  of  pastry. 
Can  mash  fruit  or  leave  whole.     Serve  with  rich  cream. 

Ripe  Berry  Pies. 

Line  piepan  with  crust,  fill  half  full  of  berries,  dredge  with  1 
tablespoon  sifted  flour,  if  fruit  is  juicy,  and  sugar  to  sweeten,  add 
more  berries,  cover  with  crust,  slit  in  center.  Bake  a  chestnut  brown, 
dredge  with  pulverized  sugar.  Huckleberry  and  blackberry  pies  are 
improved  by  adding  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  and  1  teaspoon 
ground  ginger.     Prepare  according  to  preceding  recipe. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Stone  enough  cherries  to  half  fill  a  raw  crust,  sprinkle  over  them 
1  teacup  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  sifted  flour,  1  dessertspoon 
butter,  cut  in  bits,  add  more  cherries.  Cover  with  upper  crust,  slit 
in  center  and  bake. 

Green  Apple  Pie. 

Peel,  core,  and  slice  enough  tart  apples  for  a  pie,  add  to  them 
3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cold  water.  1  des- 
sertspoon of  butter,  1  even  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  ground  cin- 
namon, stir  well.  Put  in  piepan  lined  with  a  rich  crust,  cover  with 
top  crust,  slit  in  center.    Bake  40  minutes. 

To  Ice  Pastry. 

Have  white  of  1  egg  on  a  cold  plate,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  when 
pastry  is  nearly  baked,  brush  over  top  with  egg,  sift  over  powdered 
sugar,  and  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  glaze. 

Sweet  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  flour,  %  cup  new  milk,  1  tablespoon  granulated 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  a  dash  of  salt,  2  eggs.  Sift  together  the 
flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Beat  yolks  light,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  this 
slowly  into  flour,  add  butter,  melted,  set  aside  for  1  hour.  When 
ready  to  use,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  The  batter  should  be 
stiff  enough  to  cover  any  fruit  desired  for  fritters.  Apples,  bana- 
nas, apricots  or  any  fruit  preferred  may  be  thinly  sliced  and  stirred 
into  this  batter.  Drop  by  spoonful  into  a  skillet  of  hot  fat.  When 
done,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Apple  or  peach  fritters  may 
be  served  with  maple  syrup  or  orange  sauce,  or  simply  powdered 
sugar. 

Two  oranges  thinly  sliced  may  be  used  in  fritter  batter,  cover 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Sweet  Potato  Buns. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  coffee  cup  of  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  teaspoon  of  allspice,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil 
potatoes  until  soft,  peel  and  mash  them  while  hot,  add  flour,  spice, 


214  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

sugar  and  1  coffee  cup  of  yeast.  "When  well  risen,  work  in  the  but- 
ter. Make  dough  in  small  rolls.  Bake  a  chestnut  brown.  Serve 
hot. 

Jam  Pie. 

One  coffee  cup  jam,  1  pint  cream,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 2  tablespoons  flour,  1%  cups  granulated  sugar.  Cream  yolks 
and  butter,  add  sugar,  flour,  then  jam,  stir  in  cream  and  beat  well, 
fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Put  this  filling  in  two  raw  crusts,  and 
put  in  moderate  oven  to  bake.  Have  2  unbeaten  whites  in  bowl, 
to  which  add  1  small  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  beat  until  very 
stiff.   Meringue  pies  and  cook  a  chestnut  brown. 

Date  Cream  Pie. 

Bake  a  rich  crust  in  a  pie  tin.  To  each  pie  allow  l1/^  cups  of 
stoned  and  chopped  dates,  half  pint  of  whipped  cream,  sweetened  to 
taste.  Cover  top  with  a  meringue,  brown  lightly,  and  when  cold  dot 
with  bright  red  jelly. 

Peach  Cobbler. 

Peel  and  stew  1  quart  of  peaches  till  nearly  done,  sweeten  with 
1  heaping  pint  of  granulated  sugar  and  boil  a  little  longer,  stirring 
often.  Leave  stone  in  peaches,  it  gives  a  nice  flavor.  Take  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter  cut  in  bits  and  strew  over  cobbler.  Cover  with 
a  top  crust  and  bake.  Reserve  a  little  of  the  peach  juice,  pour  over 
the  pie  just  before  serving. 

Firmity. 

Take  1  pint  of  new  wheat,  have  it  cracked,  put  on  with  water 
and  cook  until  a  light  mush.  Pour  off  water,  and  add  fresh  water, 
cook  till  soft.  Have  3  eggs  beaten,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  sugar  to 
taste.  Drain  off  water  from  wheat  and  pour  1  quart  of  milk  into 
it.  Cook  until  eggs  are  set,  stirring  often.  Season  with  nutmeg. 
Serve  for  dessert. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. 

One  teacup  of  grated  apple,  1  teacup  of  new  milk,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  214  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  juice  of  %  lemon 
with  a  little  rind,  %  wineglass  of  brandy  or  whisky.  Mix  well,  pour 
into  deep  pie  plate,  lined  with  paste,  put  strip  of  paste  around  edge 
of  pan.    Bake  30  minutes.    It  is  delicious  served  with  rich  cream. 

Caramel  Pie. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  peach  marma- 
lade, 1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  5  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Cream  butter, 
add  sugar  and  other  ingredients,  beat  well  and  bake  in  pastry. 

Almond  Pie. 

One-fourth  pound  of  macaroons,  2  ounces  almonds,  y2  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  14  pound  of  butter,  whites  of  5  eggs,  1  teaspoon 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  215 


vanilla.  Blanch  almonds  and  chop  fine,  also  the  macaroons.  Mix 
with  other  ingredients';  stir  in  whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  Make  a  puff 
paste  and  fill  with  the  mixture.  Set  in  oven  to  bake.  Can  be  served 
either  hot  or  cold. 

Pancakes. 

One-half  pound  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
2  heaping  teaspoons  of  sugar.  Mix  together  and  add  %  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  enough  cold  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  add  1  egg  without 
beating. 

Mock  Cream  Pie. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch,  3  eggs,  1  dessertspoon  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Make  a 
custard,  with  yolks  of  eggs,  milk,  sugar  and  cornstarch,  cook  until 
consistency  of  mush.  Have  a  baked  shell,  fill  with  the  custard,  grate 
over  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  and  set  in  oven  to  bake.  To  unbeaten  whites, 
add  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  beat  with  wire  whisk  very 
stiff,  meringue  pie,  and  brown  in  quick  oven.  Serve  quince  pre- 
serves or  peach  preserves  with  pie. 

Custard  Pie. 

One  pint  rich  milk,  2%  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs, 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  yolks  until 
light,  then  add  sugar,  flavoring,  the  beaten  whites,  salt,  and  milk. 
Mix  well,  pour  in  pie  pan  lined  with  paste.  Bake  until  custard  is 
firm.    Double  recipe  for  2  pies. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. 
One  teacup  of  grated  apple,  1  teacup  of  new  milk,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  2%  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  juice  of  y% 
lemon,  with  a  little  rind,  %  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  whisky.  Mix 
well,  pour  into  deep  pie  plate,  lined  with  paste,  put  strip  of  paste 
around  edge  of  pan.  Bake  30  minutes.  It  is  delicious  served  with 
rich  cream. 

Buttermilk  Pie. 

Take  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  add  to  it  1  teacup  of  granulated 
sugar,  1  kitchen  spoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  beat  well.  Have 
2  pie  crusts  ready  and  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  set  in  moderate 
oven  to  bake. 


216  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


FUDD1NO 


'The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." — Anon. 


Spiced  Apple  Pudding. 

Three  teacups  of  bread  crumbs,  3  teacups  of  chopped  apples,  1 
teacup  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  pound  of  raisins,  a  little  chopped  cit- 
ron, 2  tablespoons  of  brandy,  1  tablespoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  half 
teaspoon  of  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  mace,  3  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately. Cook  the  bread  crumbs  a  few  minutes  with  1  pint  of  milk, 
before  adding  the  other  ingredients.  Add  the  ingredients  and  beat 
well,  then  stir  in  the  whites  lightly.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  hot 
oven.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce. 

One  and  one-half  teacups  of  brown  sugar,  1%  cups  of  water, 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  let  all  boil,  stir  in  a  little  flour. 
After  it  boils,  remove  from  fire  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  brandy. 

Black  Pudding. 

One  coffee  cup  of  black  molasses,  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  des- 
sertspoon of  soda,  1  cup  of  chopped  suet,  1  pound  of  raisins,  little 
citron,  a  few  almonds  blanched  and  cut  fine,  y±  pound  of  figs,  3  ap- 
ples, 3  coffee  cups  of  flour.  Mix  well  and  steam  for  3  hours  in  a 
melon  mold. 

Hard  Sauce. 

One  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  a  good  slice  of  butter, 
cream  until  light,  then  add  sugar  and  sherry  wine  before  serving. 

Kentucky  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  new  milk,  1  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup 
raisins,  1  cup  currants,  2%  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Mix  well,  put  in  bag  and  steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  rich  saiice,  flav- 
ored with  brandy. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Two  coffee* cups  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  granulated 
sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  quart  new  milk,  6  eggs,  and  1  cup  blackberry 
jam.  Beat  all  together,  put  in  pudding  dish  and  bake  lightly.  Take 
from  stove,  cover  the  top  with  jam,  and  then  meringue  with  three  of 
the  whites  and  enough  sugar  to  make  it  stiff.  Brown  in  the  oven; 
eat  cold  with  hard  sauce. 

Steamed  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  flour,  %  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  %  pound 
butter,  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  pound 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  217 

raisins,  4  eggs  beaten  separately.  Mix  like  cake  and  put  in  a  greased 
melon  mold.  Set  in  steamer  and  cook  3  hours.  Or  it  is  nice  baked 
in  a  cake  mold  inside  of  stove.   Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs  well  beaten:  the  rind  of  1  lemon 
grated,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  1  teacup  of  sugar  into  which  has  previously  been  stirred  the 
juice  of  1  lemon.  Spread  over  the  pudding  a  layer  of  jelly,  then  the 
whites.  Set  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  with  sauce  flavored  with  lemon 
or  cream. 

Puff  pudding. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  cup  sweet  milk.  Put  in  a  buttered  mold 
and  steam  2  hours.     Serve  with  a  rich  sauce. 

• 

Fruit  Pudding. 

Take  1  pint  of  milk,  5  eggs,  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  slices  of  peaches  or  apples, 
must  be  thin  and  drop  in  the  butter.  Boil  pudding  in  mold  2  hours. 
Serve  with  sauce. 

Ginger  Pudding. 

Cream  l1/?  pounds  of  butter  and  y2  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  stir 
into  it  alternately  1  pint  of  molasses  and  3  pints  of  flour,  6  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Add  ginger  and  other  spices  to  taste.  Lastly  stir  in  y2 
pint  of  sour  cream.  Put  a  little  soda  in  cream  and  add  lastly  cur- 
rants.   Raisins  may  be  used  instead  of  currants. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants,  y2  pound  of  beef 
suet,  y-2  pound  of  butter,  iy2  pounds  of  stale  bread  grated,  y2  pound 
of  flour>  8  eggs,  1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  %  of  a  pound  of  chopped 
apples,  1  glass  of  brandy,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  of  wine,  2  nutmegs 
grated,  1  tablespoon  of  mace,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  beat  eggs  light.  Add  half 
the  milk  to  the  whites,  stirring  in  flour  and  grated  bread.  Add  sugar 
and  butter,  then  suet,  and  fruit  alternately,  then  spice  and  liquor 
and  balance  of  milk,  and  stir  the  whole  well  together.  If  not  stiff 
enough  add  flour  and  bread  crumbs.    Boil  6  hours. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins  seeded  and  cut  fine,  1  pound 
of  brown  sugar,  1  pound  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  y^  pound  of  but- 
ter, y2  cup  of  sour  cream,  with  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  8  eggs.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  in  the  sugar,  sprinkle  the  rais- 
ins with  flour.     Cream  the  butter  add  the  cream.,  then  add  both  to 


218  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

the  eggs  and  sugar.     Beat  in  the  bread  and  the  whites,  last  of  all 
stir  in  the  raisins.    Pour  into  a  melon  mold  and  cook  4  or  5  hours. 

Pineapple  Pudding. 

Butter  pudding  dish  and  line  bottom  and  side  with  slices  of  stale 
cake ;  pare  and  slice  thin  pieces  of  pineapple ;  place  the  pineapple  in 
first,  then  strew  with  sugar,  more  pineapple  and  so  on  until  dish  is 
full.  Pour  over  a  small  teacup  of  water.  Have  the  top  of  dish  eov- 
ered  with  the  slices  of  cake  which  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  pour  sugar  over  the  whole.  Cover  with  buttered  plate  and  bake 
slowly  for  two  hours. 

Banana  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  milk  or  water,  add  whites  last.  Slice  3  bananas  round 
and  stir  into  the  batter,  a  little  lemon  improves  it.  Fry  by  spoon- 
fuls in  hot  lard,  having  a  slice  of  banana  in  each  fritter.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  over  them  and.  serve. 

The  same  recipe  is  used  for  pineapple  fritters,  omitting  the 
bananas  and  lemon. 

Cherry  Pudding. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder, 
flour  to  make  stiff  batter,  as  many  cherries,  or  fruit  of  any  kind  as 
can  be  stirred  in.    Boil  or  steam  2  hours.     Serve  with  fruit  sauce. 

Use  this  recipe  for  cornstarch  pudding,  omitting  cherries. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

Break  in  the  baking  dish  4  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  them  well.  Put 
in  !/2  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  10  tablespoons  of  flour  (not  heaping),  % 
teaspoon  of  salt,  beat  hard,  add  2^  teacups  of  milk,  then  the  whites 
of  eggs.  Beat  into  the  mixture.  Bake  %  of  an  hour.  Sauce — Two 
teacups  of  sweet  milk,  1  large  tablespoon  butter.  Let  it  boil,  beat 
1  egg  and  nearly  teacup  of  sugar  together.  Pour  milk  on  eggs  and 
sugar,  then  boil.    Add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.     Serve  it  cold. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  1  large  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  *4  cake 
of  Baker's  chocolate.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler  and  when  it  gets 
hot,  stir  in  the  chocolate,  which  must  have  been  made  into  a  smooth 
paste  with  hot  water ;  let  it  come  to  boiling  point,  then  pour  over  the 
well  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  cornstarch,  and  return  to  fire.  Cook 
until  it  thickens,  add  vanilla,  put  in  pudding  dish,  cook  until  done. 
When  cool  meringue  on  top  with  the  well-beaten  whites  and  5  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar;  set  in  oven  few  minutes  to  brown.  Serve 
cold  writh  whipped  cream. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  219 

Jam  Pudding-. 

Four  eggs,  1  eup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  jam,  iy2  cups  of 
flour,  4  tablespoons  of  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  stirred  in  the 
cream.  Have  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  meringue  on  top  when  done. 
Then  set  in  the  oven  to  dry.    Bake  in  a  loaf  and  serve  very  hot. 

Sauce. 

Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  cream  1  teacup  of 
butter  with  1%  cups  of  sugar,  stir  in  the  whites,  flavor  with  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  or  1  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine. 

Stuffed  Apples. 

Peel  apples,  core  them  and  drop  in  boiling  water,  cook  until 
tender,  let  get  cool  and  fill  with  chopped  raisins,  almonds  and  Eng- 
lish walnuts.    Put  in  pan  to  brown,  serve  cold  with  a  custard. 

Custard. 

One  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
put  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  hot  pour  on  eggs  and  sugar,  return 
to  fire.     Cook  until  tolerably  thick,  serve  cold  on  apples. 

Chocolate  Pudding-. 

One-fourth  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  2  pints  of  new  milk,  1 
coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  cornstarch,  put 
milk  in  double  boiler.  When  hot  pour  on  the  beaten  yolks,  sugar 
and  cornstarch;  cook  till  consistency  of  cream;  stir  constantly,  then 
put  in  pudding  dish.  When  cold,  meringue  with  3  unbeaten  whites, 
rind  3  heaping  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar,  beaten  until  stiff. 
Set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Rice  Pudding. 

Take  5  tablespoons  of  cooked  rice,  4  tablespoons  of  granulated 
sugar,  1  quart  of  new  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  milk,  sugar 
and  vanilla  to  rice  and  stir  well;  then  put  in  pudding  dish.  Cook 
from  3  to  4  hours  in  a  slow  oven;  stir  it  several  times  in  the  be- 
ginning.    Serve  cold  with  cream,  or  hot  with  a  rich  butter  sauce. 

Fruit  Biscuit. 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2y>  pounds  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  14  pound  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4  ounces  sugar,  2  eggs 
beaten  light,  Vo  pound  raisins,  y±  pound  citron.  Add  milk  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough ;  cut  out  with  cutter,  and  moisten  on  top  with 
white  of  egg  and  a  little  milk.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Queen  Pudding-. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  1  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  granulated 
sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  extract  of 


220  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

lemon.  Mix  well,  and  pour  in  pudding  dish;  cook  until  done.  Then 
spread  with  a  layer  of  fruit  jelly.  Beat  eggs  to  a  froth,  with  1  tea- 
cup sugar,  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  meringue  pudding  and  cook  a 
chestnut  brown.     Serve  with  a  rich  sauce. 

Custard  Pudding-. 

Two  pints  of  new  milk,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  6  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  vanilla.  Pour 
hot  milk  over  eggs  and  sugar.  Put  in  pudding  dish,  and  bake  1  hour, 
Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

German  Pudding. 

Soak  1  coffee  cup  of  dried  apples  and  chop  fine,  put  in  a  bowl 
with  1  cup  of  molasses,  and  let  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning, 
add  1  cup  of  dried  sweet  cherries,  1  cup  currants,  %  pint  of  chopped 
suet,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1  teacup  cold  water.  Add  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  to  flour  before  sifting.  Mix  well,  and  put  pud- 
ding in  a  greased  and  floured  cloth.  Sew  up,  and  boil  2  hours. 
Serve  with  brandy  sauce. 

Meringue  Pudding-. 

Line  a  pudding  dish  with  slices  of  sponge  cake,  put  a  layer  of 
jelly  or  jam  over  it.  Then  pour  over  a  custard,  and  bake  a  lisrht 
brown.  Meringue  on  top  with  icing,  and  set  in  oven  to  dry.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

Black  Pudding. 

Three  eggs,  %  pint  of  black  molasses,  %  coffee  cup  of  butter, 
y±  coffee  cup  light  brown  sugar,  14  cup  sour  cream  or  buttermilk, 
3  cups  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  2  coffee  cups  raisins,  1  cup  citron,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
y-2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Cut  citron  in 
thin  pieces,  add  flour  and  soda  last.  Mix  well,  and  put  the  mixture 
in  a  cloth  that  is  greased  with  lard,  and  sprinkle  with  flour;  steam 

2  hours. 

Sauce  For  Pudding. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  milk,  yolk 
of  1  egg,  1  wine  glass  of  brandy.  Put  sugar,  butter  and  milk  in  double 
boiler,  stir  well,  then  place  on  range  for  20  minutes  until  melted.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  beat  well,  then  put  in  the  yolks  and  beat  again 
until  smooth.    Add  brandy  and  serve. 

Transparent  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  light,  3  teacups  of  4-X  sugar,  3  teaspoons 
of  cornstarch,  %  teacup  of  butter  well  creamed,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Almost  1  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Put  this 
in  a  double  boiler,  cook  until  tolerably  thick.  Have  2  pie  crusts  (not 
cooked)  and  spread  on  the  mixture  and  bake.    Use  the  beaten  whites, 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  221 

allowing  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  white.    Meringue 
the  pies,  set  in  oven  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Suet  Pudding-. 

Take  1  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 
1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, y2  nutmeg  grated,  3  cups  flour,  2  eggs.  Mix  as  you  would  cake, 
a  little  more  flour  may  be  added  if  too  soft.  Put  in  greased  mold 
and  steam  3  hours. 

Graham  Pudding. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  Graham  flour,  1  cup  chop- 
ped suet,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  of  milk,  y2  pound  citron  cut  in  small 
pieces,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  dissolved  in  V2  cup  of  boiling  water,  3  teaspoons  mixed 
spices,  1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Rub  suet  in  flour ; 
add  other  ingredients;  beat  hard,  put  in  pudding  bag  and  boil  5 
hours. 

Sauce. 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  %  cup  of  butter,  1  pound  powdered 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  wine  glass  of  brandy. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Peel  tart  apples  and  quarter  them  (if  very  large  cut  the  quarters 
once  in  two).  Have  2  quarts  when  peeled.  Put  them  in  granite  ket- 
tle, add  2  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  on  back  of  range; 
let  cook  in  their  own  juice  until  tolerably  thick,  and  syrup  looks 
clear.    Serve  with  meat. 

Tyler  Pudding. 

Four  eggs,  3  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  1  teacup  of  butter,  1  teacup  of 
cream.    Season  with  lemon  and  bake  in  a  paste. 

Banana  Pudding. 

Take  %  dozen  bananas,  peel  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch  thick,  put 
in  baking  dish  and  pour  over  custard  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner: Custard — One  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  light,  add 
milk,  also  2  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar.  Have  the  milk  boiling, 
add  the  eggs  and  let  it  cook  until  it  thickens ;  when  cool  pour  over 
the  bananas.  Make  a  meringue  with  whites  of  the  eggs  and  granu- 
lated sugar,  put  on  top  of  custard,  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
brown.     Serve  at  once. 

Indian  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  4  ounces  of  cornmeal,  2  ounces  of  butter; 
stir  together  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes,  then  add  4 
ounces  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger ;  stir 
together  for  a  few  minutes.  Cook  10  minutes  longer  and  then  pour 
into  a  buttered  mold  and  bake  y2  hour.    Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


222  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Apple  Dumpling. 

Peel  enough  apples  to  fill  a  baking  dish,  add  1  cup  of  granulat- 
ed sugar.  Roll  pastry  thin,  cut  in  strips,  and  put  around  each  ap- 
ple and  put  sugar  in  the  aperture,  after'  removing  the  core.  Bring 
the  pastry  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  apples  and  sprinkle  sugar  over, 
all :  put  in  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  done.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce,  flavored  with  wine  or  whisky. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  plums,  1  pound  currants,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound 
beef  suet,  1  pound  sugar,  %  pound  candied  peel,  %  pound  of  bread 
crumbs,  %  pound  of  flour,  8  eggs,  spices  to  taste.  Mix  it  with  stout, 
old  ale  or  milk,  which  ever  preferred.  Grease  mold  and  fasten  tight, 
boil  12  hours.  Do  not  allow  water  to  cover  pudding  when  first  put 
on.  One-half  the  quantity  may  be  used  if  desired.  Pour  on  brandy 
and  set  on  fire.  Serve  with  brandy  sauce.  This  is  the  original  Eng- 
lish plum  pudding  recipe. 

Apple  Pudding. 

Peel  and  core  6  tart  apples,  and  fill  with  chopped  raisins.  Put 
in  baking  dish  and  set  inside  stove  and  cook  until  soft.  Make  a 
custard  with  1  pint  of  new  milk,  1  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  2 
eggs,  i/o  pound  of  almond  macaroons.  Pour  scalding  milk  on  yolks 
and  sugar,  return  to  boiler  and  add  the  macaroons.  Stir  constant- 
ly, then  pour  over  apples.  Bake  a  light  brown.  If  served  hot,  use 
a  rich  sauce  flavored  with  sherry  wine  or  brandy.  If  preferred 
cold,  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Peel  5  oranges,  cut  in  thin  slices,  remove  the  seed.  Sprinkle 
over  them  1  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  1  pint  of  rich  milk 
in  double  boiler,  let  it  get  hot.  Have  3  yolks  well  beaten,  with  1 
tablespoon  of  cornstarch.  Pour  the  hot  milk  over  this,  and  stir  well, 
then  return  to  boiler  and  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while. 
(Can  add  a  little  cold  milk  to  make  it  smooth).  As  soon  as  thicken- 
ed pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  add  3  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  meringue  and  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes.  Berries  or  peaches 
can  be  substituted  for  oranges. 

Plum  Pudding. 

Five  eggs,  1  teacup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  .3  cups  of  flour, 
1  teaspoon  of  soda,  %  pound  of  raisins,  %  pound  of  citron;  mix 
thoroughly,  put  in  a  buttered  mold  and  steam  3  hours.  Serve  with 
this  sauce. 

Sauce. 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter.  Blend 
together,  then  put  in  a  bowl,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  stirring 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  223 

constantly.     Add  a  little  cream,  when  of  right  consistency  remove 
from  fire  and  add  a  wine  glass  of  sherry  or  brandy. 

Almond  Pudding. 

Tie  closely  in  a  muslin  bag  %  of  a  vanilla  bean  cut  fine.  Boil  in 
1  quart  of  rich  cream  until  it  is  flavored ;  take  the  bag  from  cream, 
pour  over  y2  pound  of  sponge  or  almond  cakes  sliced,  thin ;  put  in  a 
pudding  dish,  cover  the  dish  till  cake  is  dissolved.  Have  ready  4 
ounces  sweet  almonds,  2  ounces  bitter  almonds,  that  have  been 
blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  with  enough  rose  water  to  keep 
them  from  oiling  in  the  mortar.  Beat  8  eggs,  light.  When  the 
cream  and  cake  are  cold,  stir  alternately  with  them  the  eggs,  al- 
monds and  %  pound  powdered  sugar.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  put  in  the 
mixture.  Have  ready  a  star  cut  from  citron  and  several  smaller 
ones  to  garnish  the  pudding.  Set  in  a  quick  oven  and  bake.  Cover 
with  paper  if  it  gets  too  brown.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  sherry  wine. 

Blackberry  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  % 
cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  jam,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor 
with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Cook  in  baking  dish.  Serve  with  a 
rich  sauce. 

Cold  Pudding. 

Soak  1  box  of  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  cold  water,  beat  the  yolk 
of  1  egg  and  add  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  and  pour  over  this  1  pint 
of  hot  cream.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the 
gelatine,  flavored  with  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Line  a  glass  bowl 
with  almond  macaroons  and  lady  fingers  that  have  been  soaked  1 
hour  in  rum.  Put  alternate  layers  of  cake,  candied  cherries,  apri- 
cots and  raisins.  Pour  over  the  mixture  and  let  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Orange  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  with  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  it  tolerably  stiff.  Peel  3  oranges ;  remove 
the  seed  and  slice  thin;  dip  pieces  in  batter  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 
Serve  hot  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  generously  over  them. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  pint  of 
flour,  little  more  than  y2  pint  of  sugar,  y2  teacup  of  milk.  Cream 
butter,  add  sugar,  then  yolks.  Strain  in  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  then 
the  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  until  very  light.  In  making  the  pastry, 
put  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  same  of  lard.  Mix  with  cold 
water  and  roll  lightly.  Use  same  recipe  for  orange  pudding  and 
cornstarch  pudding. 


224  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Black  Pudding. 

One  large  coffee  cud  of  beef  suet,  1  coffee  cup  black  molasses, 
y*  pound  of  citron,  5  large  apples,  1  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  1 
pound  currants,  3  heaping  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  dessertspoon  of 
soda,  1  cup  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  half  of 
soda  in  molasses,  the  rest  in  milk.  Wash  currants  and  rub  in  a 
sifter ;  pick  stems  and  seeds  from  raisins.  Chop  apples  and  suet  fine. 
Put  suet  in  bowl,  add  molasses  and  soda,  then  apples  and  sour  cream 
with  soda  well  dissolved.  Fruit  and  flour  alternately.  Stir  well 
with  a  spoon.  Grease  3  pieces  of  cloth,  and  sprinkle  with  flour. 
Divide  pudding  into  equal  parts  and  put  in  the  cloth.  Sew  up  side, 
and  tie  the  ends  with  cord.  Place  them  in  steamer,  over  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  and  steam  4  hours.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Sauce — Take  1  heaping  pint  of  light  brown  sugar  and  1  coffee 
cup  of  butter,  and  cream  together  ;  then  break  in  one  egg  and  stir 
well.  Cook  in  a  china  bowl,  and  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  stirring 
all  the  while.  Cook  till  consistency  of  custard.  When  ready  to 
serve,  beat  in  1  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  whisky. 

Cake  Pudding. 

Take  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter. 
Cream  and  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  1  cup  of  rich  milk.  Stir  well, 
then  add  1  pint  of  flour  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  pudding  dish  half  an  hour. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Three  tablespoons  of  tapioca  soaked  at  night,  1  quart  of  milk,  1 
teacup  of  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Put  on  the  milk  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  add  tapioca  and 
cook  15  minutes ;  put  sugar  in  yolks  and  beat  well,  then  cornstarch. 
Take  from  fire  tapioca,  and  pour  in  yolks  and  put  in  the  pudding 
dish  to  cook.    Serve  with  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. 

Butter  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  deep  pudding  dish;  butter  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  put  in  the  dish.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar, 
add  a  little  cinnamon,  chopped  apple  or  any  kind  of  preserves  be- 
tween each  slice  until  dish  is  full.  Beat  2  eggs  and  add  a  tablespoon 
of  sifted  flour ;  stir  3  cups  of  milk  and  a  little  salt ;  pour  it  over  the 
bread  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Bake  slowly  with  cover  on,  %  of  an 
hour.    Remove  cover  and  let  it  brown.    Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Apples  and  Custard. 

Cut  up  apples  and  put  in  a  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers 
of  sugar;  let  cook  till  thoroughly  done.  When  they  are  cold  use  3 
whites  and  enough  sugar  to  meringue  the  apples,  then  place  in  an 
oven.    Bake  a  light  brown ;  beat  the  yolks  and  add  to  them  3  table- 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  225 

spoons  of  sugar.  Have  1  quart  of  milk  come  to  boiling;  pour  the 
milk  slowly  into  the  eggs  and  sugar ;  return  all  to  saucepan  and  let 
boil  for  a  minute.    ►Season  with  vanilla.    Serve  with  the  apples. 

Apple  Pudding. 

Steam  tart  apples  until  done.  Wash  and  drain  dry.  Take  1 
pint  of  the  pulp,  and  mix  with  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  granulated 
sugar,  juice  of  %  lemon,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Brown  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs  in  omelet  pan  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Butter,  pud- 
ding dish  with  cold  butter,  and  sprinkle  on  bottom  and  side  as  many 
crumbs  as  will  adhere.  Pill  with  the  apple  mixture,  cover  with  but- 
tered crumbs,  and  bake  20  minutes.  When  cold,  turn  on  a  platter, 
and  serve  with  cream.  Or  leave  in  pudding  dish,  and  serve  hot  with 
sauce. 

Woodford  Pudding. 

One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  jam,  y2  cup 
butter,  y2  cup  ,sour  cream,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, 1  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and  yolks,  add  sugar,  jam, 
flour  and  the  spices,  then  sour  cream  with  the  soda  dissolved  in  it. 
Put  in  baking  dish,  and  cook  in  moderate  oven.  Add  1  teacup  sugar 
to  whites,  and  a  dash  of  salt,  beat  until  very  stiff,  then  meringue 
pudding  and  cook  a  chestnut  brown.    Serve  with  a  rich  butter  sauce. 

Cabinet  Pudding1. 

Take  1  pound  of  stale  sponge  cake,  %  cup  seeded  raisins,  %  cup 
canned  peaches,  %  cup  blanched  almonds,  %  cup  citron.  Place 
slices  of  cake  in  bottom  of  mold,  cover  with  fruit,  add  more  slices 
of  cake,  pour  over  %  pint  cream  or  milk,  4  beaten  eggs  and  1  cup 
granulated  sugar.    Steam  1  hour,  and  serve  with  fruit  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Cabinet  Pudding. 

Put  in  saucepan,  1  cup  white  wine,  1  cup  hot  water,  a  dash  of 
orange.  Let  come  to  boiling  point,  remove  from  fire  and  add  %  cup 
raisins,  1  tablespoon  chopped  almonds,  1  tablespoon  candied  orange 
peel.  Let  stand  1  hour.  When  ready  to  serve,  bring  to  boiling 
point. 

Sponge  Pudding1. 

One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  %  teacup  boiling  water.    Mix  and  bake  in  jelly  tins. 

For  filling — Take  1  quart  of  milk,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 
flavor  with  lemon.  Make  a  custard;  cook  about  the  consistency  of 
mush.  When  cool,  pour  over  cakes,  then  have  1  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  spread  over  the  custard.  Set  in  a  cool  place.  Eat  cold 
with  sauce,  or  serve  with  fruit. 


15 


226  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  1  teacup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Beat  whites,  add  butter,  sugar,  milk  of  cocoanut.  Have  crust  ready 
and  fill  Mi  full  of  the  mixture.     Let  it  rise  before  baking. 

Fig  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  figs,  *4  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  1 
teacup  of  sweet  milk,  2%  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  3  ounces  of 
suet,  2  eggs  beaten  separately.  Chop  figs  and  suet  fine,  put  in  sugar 
and  eggs.  Beat  all  together,  add  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  1 
of  cloves  and  allspice  mixed.  Have  mold  buttered  and  sprinkle 
with  flour.     Steam  3  hours. 

Hard  Sauce — One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  well  creamed.  Add 
to  it  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar.  Beat  hard  15  minutes.  Add  wine 
glass  of  sherry. 

Prune  Whip. 

One  pound  of  prunes,  1  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  whites  of 
4  eggs.  Cover  prunes  with  water  and  allow  to  simmer  for  4  hours, 
press  prunes  and  %  teacup  of  the  juice  through  a  colander,  add  to 
this  the  sugar  and  let  stand  until  dissolved.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
very  stiff  and  stir  into  prunes  lightly.  Bake  on  the  upper  grate,  in 
quite  a  hot  oven  until  a  light  brown.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding. 

Take  1  heaping  pint  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Beat  yolks  light,  add  butter  and  beat  hard,  then  flour 
and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Have  whites  beaten  to 
a  froth  and  stir  in  lightly  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  put  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish,  and  cook  about  20  minutes.  Serve  at  once  with  a  rich 
butter  sauce. 

Kenilworth  Pudding. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2  coffee  cups  of  bread  crumbs, 
\y~2  cups  of  sweet  milk,  4  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  butter,  1 
cup  of  currants,  2  cups  of  raisins,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  ground  oloves,  V-2  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and  allspice,  1 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Put  in  a  greased  mold  and  bake  a  light 
brown.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Scald  1  quart  of  new  milk,  2  squares  of  chocolate,  6  eggs,  6  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Grate  chocolate  and  moisten  with  the  scalded  milk. 
Beat  yolks  light  and  add  the  sugar;  stir  all  together  and  bake  in 
pudding  dish  30  minutes.  Meringue  with  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
froth  and  6  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  When  pudding  is  done 
put  on  the  meringue  and  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  cold  with 
rich  cream. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  227 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  pint  of  hot  milk,  1  teacup 
granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  i/o  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
mixed  spices,  3  eggs,  2  cups  of  fruit.  Use  currants  and  raisins,  chop- 
ped apples  or  peaches.  Put  in  buttered  pudding  mold,  and  steam 
2  hours.    Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding. 

One-half  pint  of  flour,  %  pint  of  berries  or  ripe  fruit  cut  in 
small  pieces,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  %  cup  of  milk,  iy2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  egg,  a  dash  of  salt.  Mix  baking  powder 
and  salt  with  flour,  add  milk  and  the  butter,  add  beaten  yolk  and 
sugar,  then  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff,  and  the  fruit  rolled  in  flour. 
Put  mixture  in  pudding  bag,  steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  a  rich  but- 
ter sauce.     Double  recipe,  if  a  larger  pudding  is  desired. 

Cherry  Roll. 

Seed  1  quart  of  cherries,  sweeten  and  let  simmer  in  their  juice, 
until  quite  thick.  Pour  1  quart  of  new  milk  over  1  loaf  of  grated 
bread.  Have  3  eggs  beaten  light,  add  the  milk,  with  1  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  and  a  little  flour.  Put  cherries  in  the  batter,  and  stir 
well.     Steam  in  cups  or  cans  2  hours.    Serve  with  a  rich  sauce. 

A  Dainty  Dessert. 

Line  a  glass  dish  with  lady  fingers,  or  slices  of  any  kind  of  cake. 
Fill  center  with  fresh  berries,  or  sliced  fruit,  dust  thickly  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  cover  with  whipped   cream,  sweetened.     Serve  at  once. 

Suet  Pudding. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  coffee  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of 
suet,  1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of 
raisins,  1  cup  of  currants,  %  cup  of  citron,  1  teaspoon  soda,  */2  a  nut- 
meg  grated,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  2 
eggs  beaten  separately.  Chop  suet  and  fruit  fine;  add  milk  and 
molasses;  stir  well,  then  flour,  bread  crumbs  and  spices,  and  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange.  Stir  in  soda  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle warm  water,  put  in  a  greased  mold,  steam  3  hoursi  when  done 
set  in  stove  on  tin  plate  for  5  minutes.  Sauce  for  above :  One  pint 
of  granulated  sugar,  1  teacup  of  butter,  white  of  1  egg,  1  large 
wine  glass  of  whisky  or  brandy.  Cream  butter,  then  add  sugar. 
"When  ready  to  serve  add  the  white  beaten  to  a  froth  and  the  whisky. 

Orange  Roley  Poley. 

Take  4  sweet  oranges;  peel  and  slice  them.  Then  sift  1  pint  of 
flour,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
y2  teaspoon  salt.  Add  to  this  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  enough 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Put  on  a  floured  board,  and  roll 
into  a  long  sheet,     spread  with  the  sliced  oranges  and  granulated 


228  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

sugar.  Roll  it  and  pinch  the  ends  to  prevent  the  juice  escaping. 
Place  on  a  huttered  plate  and  steam  l1/^  hours,  set  in  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  dry.    Serve  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  orange  juice. 

Stuffed  Prunes. 

Take  French  prunes  and  soak  2  hours  in  cold  water,  then  boil 
until  soft  enough  to  remove  seed.  Stone  and  pour  over  sherry  wine ; 
let  remain  several  hours;  then  stuff  with  chopped  pecans  and  chop- 
ped marshmallows.  Roll  in  pulverized  sugar  and  sprinkle  sugar 
thickly  on  top  after  placing  on  flat  dish.  Place  six  prunes  on  each 
plate  and  serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Apple  Dumpling. 

Chop  apples  and  put  in  baking  dish  with  a  little  water,  cook 
half  an  hour.  Remove  apples  from  the  water  and  set  aside  until 
cool,  reserving  water.  Make  a  rich  pastry  and  put  around  apples, 
leaving  hole  at  top  and  bottom.  Cream  2  tablespoons  butter  and 
work  into  it  1  coffee  cup  light  brown  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Fill 
apples  with  this  mixture  and  place  in  baking  dish;  add  the  re- 
served water  and  bake  on  top  of  stove. 

Chestnut  Souffle. 

Half  a  pound  of  chestnuts,  8  eggs:  4  tablespoonfuls  granulated 
sugar.  Boil  chestnuts  and  press  through  sieve.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs 
until  light,  add  the  sugar,  then  stir  in  lightly  the  beaten  whites,  and 
sprinkle  in  the  chestnuts.  Put  in  a  buttered  mold,  and  bake  10  min- 
utes.   Serve  at  once,  with  cream  if  preferred. 

Brown  Betty. 

Cut  light  bread  into  medium  size  slices;  spread  liberally  with 
butter,  then  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover  each  slice  with  blackberries 
and  granulated  sugar,  some  ground  allspice  and  a  little  cinnamon. 
Put  alternate  layers  till  dish  is  full  and  then  cover  with  a  plate  and 
set  in  oven  to  cook.  When  done  remove  the  plate  and  let  it  brown. 
Apples  may  be  used  instead  of  blackberries.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Apple  Charlotte. 

Use  light  bread  cut  into  slices  and  buttered.  Put  in  baking 
dish;  cover  slices  with  apples  cut  very  thin.  Put  alternate  layers  till 
dish  is  filled,  then  make  a  custard  with  one  pint  of  milk,  1  teacup 
of  granulated  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  light.  Pour  over 
the  bread,  bake  until  done;  then  take  the  whites  with  one  cup  of 
sugar  beaten  together  and  cover  the  charlotte.  Put  in  stove  and  let 
get  a  light  brown.     Serve  cold  with  cream,  or  hot  with  sauce. 

Sponge  Pudding. 

Place  on  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  1  pint  of  rich  milk,  %  cup 
of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.     Mix  together  half  a  cup  each  of  flour 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  229 


and  butter,  add  to  the  boiling  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Remove 
from  the  fire.  When  partially  cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  5  eggs ; 
stir  the  whites  to  a  froth,  add  them,  stirring  well.  Pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  place  the  dish  in  a  pan  half 
filled  with  water  that  is  boiling;  set  in  a  brisk  oven.  Bake  from 
30  to  45  minutes.  Test  it  with  a  splint.  Serve  as  soon  as  done  with 
this  sauce. 

Sauce. 

Boil  1  pint  of  milk.  Stir  to  a  cream  %  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup 
granulated  sugar;  add  1  egg  well  beaten.  Stir  this  mixture  into 
the  boiling  milk.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla. 

Irish  Potato  Pudding". 

Take  4  medium  size  potatoes  and  boil  them.  When  done,  mash 
fine  and  add  4  eggs,  beaten  light,  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  1 
teacup  of  cream.  Melt  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  add 
(it  must  not  be  hot),  beat  hard.  Have  2  pie  crusts  ready  and  fill  with 
the  mixture;  set  in  oven  to  bake. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 

Use  preceding  recipe,  and  substitute  sweet  potatoes  for  Irish 
potatoes. 

Woodford  Pudding. 

Take  3  eggs,  1  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  %  teacup  of  butter, 
%  teacup  of  flour,  1  teacup  jam  or  preserves,  3  teaspoons  of  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  well 
together,  and  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  and  the  sour  milk,  with  soda 
dissolved  in  it.    Bake  in  pudding  dish. 

Sauce. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  4  tablespoons  of 
water,  4  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream.  Heat  to  boiling  point  the  wine  and  water,  and  stir  rapidly 
into  butter  and  sugar  until  frothy.    Serve  at  once. 

Potato  Pudding. 

Two  coffee  cups  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  1%  cups  granulated 
sugar,  1  cup  butter,  %  teacup  cream  or  milk,  4  eggs  beaten  separate- 
ly, 4  tablespoonfuls  acid  jelly,  4  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar 
for  meringue.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  yolks,  milk  and  po- 
tatoes. Fill  2  raw  crusts  with  this  mixture,  having  previously 
spread  on  the  jelly.  When  done,  meringue  and  bake  a  chestnut 
brown. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  y±  cake  of  chocolate,  1  teacupful  sugar, 
3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch;  flavor  with  vanilla.     Make  S 


230  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    KOOK. 


custard  with  1  pint  of  milk.  3  yolks  and  the  sugar.  When  it  begins 
to  thicken,  mid  •".  tahlespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  which  has  been  dis- 
solved in  the  rest  of  the  milk,  stir  quickly  to  prevent  lumping.  Cook 
tolerably  still',  then  put  mixture  in  baking  dish;  make  a  meringue 
with  the  whites  and  1  small  teacup  granulated  sugar.  Spread  on 
pudding,  set  in  oven,  and  brown  slowly  until  a  crust  forms  on  top. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream,  or  plain  cream. 

For  Cold  Pudding. 

Use  egg  nogg  as  a  sauce. 

Woodford  Pudding. 

Three  eggs,  %  teacup  of  butter,  1  teacup  of  sugar,  1  teacup  of 
flour,  1  teacup  of  jam,  y2  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Dissolve  soda  in 
cream  and  add  last.  Put  in  baking  dish  and  cook  in  oven.  AVhen 
done  meringue  with  the  whites  and  4  tablespoonfuls  granulated 
sugar,  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Ginger  Pudding. 

Cream  1%  pounds  of  butter  and  half  pound  of  brown  sugar; 
stir  into  it  alternately  1  pint  of  molasses  and  3  pints  of  flour,  6  well 
beaten  eggs.  Add  ginger  and  other  spices  to  taste.  Lastly  stir  in 
half  pint  of  sour  cream.  Put  a  little  soda  in  cream  and  add  last.  Cur- 
rants or  raisins  may  be  added. 

Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants,  %  pound  of  beef  suet, 
V-2  pound  of  butter,  l1/*  pounds  of  stale  bread  grated,  %  pound  of 
flour,  8  eggs,  1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  %  of  a  pound  of  chopped  ap- 
ples, 1  glass  of  brandy,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  of  wine,  2  nutmegs 
grated,  1  tablespoon  of  mace,  1  of  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  beat  eggs  light.  Add  half  the  milk  to  whites,  stir- 
ring  in  flour  and  grated  bread.  Add  sugar  and  butter,  then  suet 
and  fruit  alternately,  spice  and  liquor  and  balance  of  milk.  Stir  the 
whole  well  together.  If  not  stiff  enough  add  flour  and  bread  crumbs. 
Boil  6  hours. 

Rice,  With  Raisins. 

One  large  coffee  cup  of  raw  rice,  wash  and  cook  until  done. 
Stem  1  cup  of  raisins,  without  removing  seed,  put  in  boiling  water, 
and  cook  10  minutes.  Drain,  and  stir  well  into  the  rice.  Serve 
warm,  with  rich  cream  and  sugar.    A  light  dessert  for  luncheon. 

Date  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  whole  wheat  meal,  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  %  cup  of 
molasses,  1  cup  stoned  dates,  "■  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Put 
dates  into  meal,  and  mix  until  floured,  add  rest  of  ingredients.    Put 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  231 

in  melon  mold,  and  steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  wine  sauce  or  whip- 
ped cream.  Raisins,  figs  or  preserved  fruits,  may  be  substituted 
for  dates. 

Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1-3  cup  cream  of  wheat,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt.  Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler,  then 
add  gradually  wheat  and  salt;  cook  30  minutes.  Then  pour  milk 
over  beaten  eggs  and  stir  lightly;  add  the  vanilla.  Put  mixture  in 
pudding  dish  and  bake  until  a  chestnut  brown.  Serve  warm  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

Yorkshire  Pudding1. 

One -half  a  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs,  2-3  of  a  pint  of  milk,  scant  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  milk  and  salt,  pour  y2  cup 
of  mixture  on  flour,  stir  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  the  rest  of  the  mix- 
ture and  beat  hard.  Bake  pudding  in  hot  gem  pans  45  minutes. 
Baste  with  the  dripping  from  the  beef.  Serve  as  a  garnish  for  roast 
beef. 

Cream  Fritters. 

One  coffee  cup  of  cream,  whites  of  5  eggs,  2  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Stir  stiffly-beaten  whites  into 
cream,  then  flour,  nutmeg  and  salt ;  beat  hard.  The  batter  is  rather 
stiff,  fry  by  spoonful  in  hot  fat.  Drain  and  serve  with  powdered 
sugar  or  jelly  sauce.  Any  chopped  fruit  may  be  added  to  batter 
before  cooking.    They  should  be  light  and  crisp. 

Apples  With  Meringue. 

Bake  apples;  when  cold  place  in  pyramid  shape  on  a  pan  and 
cover  with  meringue  and  bake  a  chestnut  brown.  Serve  cold  with 
rich  cream. 

Banana  Croquettes. 

Six  bananas,  y2  cup  powdered  sugar,  juice  of  2  oranges,  1  egg, 
2  cups  of  biscuit  crumbs.  Strip  skin  from  bananas,  cut  into  halves 
crosswise,  make  straight  at  the  end,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  pour  over  the  orange  juice.  Put  them  in  a  cool  place  for  1  hour, 
turning  occasionally,  until  all  are  flavored  with  the  orange,  then 
roll  in  the  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with  or 
without  sauce. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

Rub  y2  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  warm  bowl,  add  gradually 
1  wine  glass  of  brandy,  y2  grated  nutmeg  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon; 
now  stir  it  slowly  into  V2  cup  of  boiling  water  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes. 

Pineapple  Sauce. 

Make  heavy  syrup  with  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water,  boiling  until 
it  will  spin.    Then  strain  and  add  whatever  juice  has  drained  from 


232  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


the  cut  pineapple  or  syrup  from  canned  pineapple.  Remove  from 
fire,  and  add  enough  white  wine  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  also  1  tea- 
spoon of  rum  or  1  teaspoon  curacoa. 


CA 


Twentieth  Century  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1%  pounds  of  but- 
ter, etfeamed,  15  eggs,  beaten  separately,  2  pounds  of  flour  in  which" 
has  been  sifted  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar  and  1  of  soda,  % 
cup  of  molasses,  in  which  grate  the  yellow  rind  of  2  lemons  and 
juice  of  1.  One  pound  of  pecans,  1  pound  of  almonds,  %  pound  of 
citron  cut  very  fine,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  greased 
mold  2  hours. 

Chocolate  Clairs. 

One  pint  of  water,  let  boil,  then  add  6  ounces  butter,  1-3  tea- 
spoon of  ammonia,  stir  in  10  ounces  of  flour,  to  a  smooth  thick  paste, 
add  9  eggs  gradually  while  paste  is  warm,  grease  tins,  dust  with 
flour,  put  paste  in  cotton  bag  and  squeeze  out.  After  they  are  baked 
let  stay  10  minutes  longer.  Ice  with  chocolate  and  use  custard  or 
chocolate  filling. 

Paris  Buns. 

One  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  flour,  5  ounces  granulated  sugar, 

1  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  5  ounces  butter  or  lard, 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  eggs,  and 
salt,  milk,  flour  and  baking  powder.  Brush  top  with  milk  and  egg, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Drop  on  greased  buttered  paper  in 
pan,  cook  a  chestnut  brown. 

Peanut  Cookies. 

One  pint  rolled  peanuts,  %  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  1 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y2  cup  milk,  1^>  eggs.  Mix,  add 
flour  and  baking  powder  last,  brush  top  with  milk  and  egg,  drop  on 
buttered  paper,  cook  in  moderate  oven. 

Sweet  Potato  Buns. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  coffee  cup  of  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil 
potatoes  till  soft,  peel  and  mash  them  while  hot,  add  flour,  spice, 
sugar  and  yeast.  When  well  risen  work  in  the  butter ;  make  dough 
in  small  rolls.   Bake  a  chestnut  brown.    Serve  hot. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  233 

Chocolate  Empire  Cake. 

Take  5  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  granulated 
sugar.  Beat  for  V2  hour,  then  add  1  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  1  heap- 
ing cup  of  cracker  dust,  ^  of  a  pound  of  almonds  (cut  fine),  the 
juice  of  %  a  lemon.  Bake  %  hour  in  a  slow  oven  (have  a  cup  of 
boiling  water  in  oven  while  baking). 

Crullers. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  milk,  2  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg>  V2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  this  out 
till  y2  inch  thick,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  then  roll 
in  powdered  sugar.   Serve  hot. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

One-half  pint  of  lard  and  butter  mixed,  %  pint  of  sugar,  y2 
pint  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  %  tablespoon 
of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  gill  of  cold  water,  3 
pints  of  flour.  Roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  A 
little  cayenne  pepper  improves  them. 

Plum  Cake. 

One  pound  of  butter,  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pound  of 
flour,  1  dozen  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  1%  pounds 
of  plums,  3  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants  after  they 
have  been  cleaned,  %  pound  of  citron  cut  in  thin  slices,  1  coffee 
cup  of  mixed  spices,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  la/2  pounds  of  blanched 
almonds  sliced,  1%  pounds  of  candied  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces, 
cherries,  apricots  or  peaches  are  the  best,  but  do  not  cut  the  cher- 
ries. The  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  juice  of  2  oranges,  1  coffee  cup 
of  golden  syrup,  1  champagne  glass  of  good  rum,  1  champagne  glass 
French  brandy.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  yolks 
that  have  been  beaten;  spices  and  liquor;  then  the  white;  beaten 
stiff.  Flour  your  fruit  from  the  pound  of  flour.  Put  in  flour,  then 
add  fruit,  beating  it  well  together;  grease  the  mold  and  put  a  piece 
of  white  paper  at  the  bottom,  sift  in  flour.  Pour  in  the  mixture  by 
degrees,  putting  the  split  almonds  in  layers. 

Fig  Cake. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 1%  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  yolks,  milk,  then  flour  with 
baking  powder;  stir  in  whites,  add  vanilla.  Bake  in  square  jelly 
tins. 

Filling  for  Cake. 

One-half  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  2%  coffee  cups  granulated 
sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water;  cook  icing  until  it  strings;  then  pour 
on  figs  and  stir  until  cool  enough  to  spread  on  cake. 


234  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 


Black  Cake. 

One  dozen  eggs,  \y2  pounds  of  butter,  1\2  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.  1%  pounds  browned  flour,  y2  teacup  of  molasses,  y2  pint  of 
whisky,  y2  cup  of  sour  cream,  with  1  teaspoon  soda,  5  pounds  of 
raisins,  _  pounds  pecans,  1  pound  of  dates,  y2  nound  citron,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cloves.  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon 
allspice.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  molasses  and  sour  cream,  whisky 
and  spices.  Flour  fruit  from  the  flour  for  cake.  Stir  in  flour  and 
fruit  alternately.  Put  in  a  greased  mold  with  buttered  paper  and 
cook  slowly  4  or  5  hours.  Test  with  a  straw;  when  done  leave  in 
mold  until  partially  cool. 

Black  Cake. 

One  pound  of  browned  flour,  1  pound  of  butter,  1  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  12  eggs.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  whites 
in  alternately  with  the  flour,  add  gradually  2  pounds  raisins  dredged 
with  flour,  2  pounds  of  currants,  2  tablespoons  of  cloves,  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  of  mace,  2  nutmegs  grated,  1  tumbler 
of  molasses,  1  tumbler  of  brandy.  Slice  1  pound  of  citron  thin,  put 
a  layer  of  the  batter  in  mold,  then  several  slices  of  citron  and  so  on 
until  all  has  been  added.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  4  hours. 

Jam  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  coffee  cups  of  butter,  2  coffee  cups  sugar,  4 
cups  flour,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  8  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  teaspoons 
baking  poivcler,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  2  cups  of 
jam,  y2  pound  citron,  1  pound  raisins.  Mix  in  usual  way.  Put  in  a 
greased  mold  and  bake  slowly  4  hours. 

Fruit  Cake.    . 

Sixteen  eggs,  1  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of 
citron,  4  pounds  of  currants,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  molasses, 
1  wine  glass  of  whisky,  1  pound  of  butter,  2  teaspoons  of  allspice, 
1  teaspoon  of  cloves,  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon  and  2  teaspoons  of 
nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  mix  in  yolks  well  beaten,  then 
whites  and  lastly  the  flour.  Have  the  fruit  floured  with  some  of 
the  same  flour.  Add  a  little  more  flour  if  necessary.  Work  thor- 
oughly. 

Angel  Food  Cake. 

AVhites  of  13  eggs,  11  ounces  of  sugar,  4  ounces  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  1  even  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar;  put  it  in  flour 
and  sift  4  times,  also  sift  the  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  in  a  large  (lish 
to  a  stiff  froth,  then  sift  in  the  sugar  and  the  flour  very  lightly. 
Add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

One  Egg  Cake. 

One  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour, 
Cream  butter  and  flour  together  until  light;  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  235 


1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  well  and  add  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla.  By  using  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  omitting  the  yolks  it 
will  make  white  cake. 

Loaf  Cake. 

Two  large  coffee  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1^  coffee  cups  of 
butter.  Stir  to  a  cream,  5  cups  of  flour  with  3  teaspoons  of  yeast 
powder,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  %  pound  of  raisins,  2  ounces  of  citron 
cut  into  small  pieces,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  wine  glass  of  wine  and  1 
of  brandy,  8  eggs.  Add  the  flour  with  milk,  sugar  and  butter  and 
yolks  well  beaten;  then  whites,  wine,  spice  and  fruit.    Make  this  in 

2  loaves  and  bake  slowly  1  hour. 

Black  Cake. 

Three  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded,  3  pounds  of  currants,  1  pound 
of  citron,  1  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  l1/^  pounds  of  butter,  15 
eggs.  1  pound  of  flour,  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  ground  cloves, 
mace  and  ginger,  2  nutmegs,  y<%  cup  of  molasses,  1*4  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Flour  fruit  with  some  of  same  flour,  1  teaspoon  of 
soda. 

Pecan  Cake. 

One  pound  of  New  Orleans  sugar,  1  pound  of  flour,  1-3  pound 
of  butter,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of  pecans  before  cracking, 
1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  nutmeg,  6  eggs  beaten  separately, 
wine  glass  of  whisky.    Put  in  mold  and  bake  about  3  hours. 

Cup  Cake. 

Whites  of  5  eggs,  %  teacup  of  butter,  1  teacup  milk,  2  teacups 
of  sugar,  3  teacups  of  flour  sifted  3  times,  2  teaspons  baking  powder 
put  in  flour.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  milk,  then  flour  and  lastly 
the  whites  well  beaten.   Bake  in  small  mold  or  muffin  rings. 

Marble  Cake. 

For  the  Light  Part — Take  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  y2  coffee  cup 
butter,  2  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  teasnoon  of  soda  and  one  of  cream 
of  tartar. 

For  the  Dark  Part — Yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  coffee  cup  of  molasses, 
a/2  coffee  cup  of  butter,  2  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
1-3  of  a  cup  of  milk ;  flavor  with  mixed  spices,  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg.  Butter  the  tin  and  put  the  mixture  in  alternate  layers  of 
light  and  dark,  having  the  light  part  on  top. 

Pecan  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  teacup  of  molasses, 
1  pound  of  flour,  1-3  of  a  pound  of  butter,  6  eggs  (whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately),  1  pound  of  pecans  after  they  are  cracked,  l^j 
pounds  of  raisins,  1  nutmeg,  1  wine  glass  of  whisky.  Bake  about  3 
hours  in  a  mold. 


236  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  mo- 
lasses (not  too  dark),  4  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  dessertspoon  of 
cinnamon,  1  cup  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk.  Dissolve  soda  in  the 
buttermilk  and  bake  in  a  mold. 

Orange  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  10  eggs,  %  pound  flour,  1  orange,  2  lemons. 
Beat  eggs  separately.  To  the  yolks  and  whites  of  7  eggs  add  the 
sugar  and  rind  of  lemons  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  To  whites  of  3 
eggs,  1%  pounds  of  powdered  sugar;  beat  until  stiff.  Take  out 
enough  for  icing;  to  the  rest  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  orange. 
When  cake  is  nearly  cold  put  this  between  layers  and  ice. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  5  coffee  cups  flour,  1 
cupful  butter,  cupful  sweet  milk,  iy2  pounds  blanched  almonds,  1 
pound  citron,  2  cupfuls  grated  cocoanut,  whites  of  12  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  y2  teaspoonful  soda.  Flour  fruit,  using 
from  that  of  cake.  Mix  as  usual,  and  put  in  a  greased  and  floured 
mold. 

Walnut  Cake. 

Two  coffee  cupfuls  granulated  sugar,  4  cupfuls  flour,  1  cupful 
butter,  1  teacupful  sweet  milk,  4  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder.   Bake  in  3  layers. 

Filling  for  Cake. 

Two  heaping  pints  brown  sugar,  1  pint  walnut  meats,  1  dessert- 
spoonful butter.  Dissolve  sugar  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  the  but- 
ter and  cook  slowly  25  minutes.  When  it  strings  add  the  chopped 
walnut  meats.   Beat  till  cold  and  spread  on  the  cake. 

Doughnuts. 

Eggs,  2  yolks,  1  white,  V/2  scant  cupfuls  granulated  sugar,  % 
cups  buttermilk,  y2  teaspoonful  soda,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  nut- 
meg, cinnamon  and  salt  to  taste;  enough  flour  to  make  a  tolerably 
soft  dough. 

Queen's  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pound  of 
raisins,  ^  of  a  pound  of  citron,  y2  pound  of  butter,  6  eggs  beaten 
separately,  1  wine  glass  of  whisky  or  sherry  wine,  1  wine  glass  of 
cream,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Flour  fruit 
from  the  pound  of  flour.   Bake  in  a  greased  mold. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  butter,  1  pound  of  sugar,  iy2 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  237 


pounds  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  hickory  nut  meats,  1  nutmeg  grated, 
y2  tumbler  of  sherry  wine,  %  tumbler  of  brandy,  12  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Use  flour  from  the  pound  for  flouring  the  fruit.  Beat 
well  and  bake  in  a  greased  mold. 

Orange  Cake. 

One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  coffee  cup  water,  1-3  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  2%  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Cream  the  butter;  add.  sugar,  water  and  flour, 
beat  well,  then  add  whites  of  the  eggs  and  lastly  the  baking  pow- 
der.   Bake  in  layers. 

Icing — Take  the  white  of  1  egg,  beaten  to  froth,  and  \y2  cups  of 
powdered  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  make  into 
an  icing  and  frost  the  cake. 

Angel  Food  Cake. 

Thirteen  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1  tumbler  of  flour  sifted  3  times,  with 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  in  it,  \y2  tumblers  of  sugar  sifted  3  times. 
Stir  sugar  in  white  of  eggs  as  rapidly  as  possible,  then  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Wet  the  mold  with  cold  water,  then  sift  in  flour 
and  put  in  the  cake.  Cook  1  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Have  a  pan  of 
water  above ;  when  well  risen  pour  out  water,  but  leave  pan  above 
till  cake  is  done. 

White  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  3  coffee  cups 
of  flour,  1  cup  of  ice  water,  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  heaping  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mis  as  usual,  bake  in  4  layers 
in  jelly  tins.   When  cold  cover  with  chocolate  or  white  icing. 

Watermelon  Cake. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  new  milk, 

2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  Sy2  cups  of  flour, 
whites  of  8  eggs.  These  ingredients  are  used  for  white  part  of  cake. 
One  cup  red  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1-3  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour, 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  whites  of  4  eggs 
and  1  cup  seeded  raisins.  These  ingredients  are  used  for  red  part  of 
cake.  Mix  dough,  put  a  layer  of  the  white  at  bottom  of  pan,  all  red 
dough  in  the  middle,  rest  of  white  dough  around  the  sides  and  on 
top.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Silver  Cake. 

Two  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  4  cups  sifted  flour,  2-3  cup 
butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  milk,  flour  and  beaten  whites  alternately, 
sift  powder  into  dough,  add  vanilla.  Mix  and  put  in  a  greased  mold 
or  bake  in  jelly  tins. 


238  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Harlequin  Cake. 

Two  enps  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  butter,  3 
cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  and 
divide  dough  into  4  equal  parts.  Have  cakes  baked  in  round  jelly 
tins.  Cover  1  cake  with  2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  melted. 
Color  1  cake  pink  with  fruit  coloring  or  cochineal  and  when  all  are 
cooked  place  a  white  cake,  then  chocolate  cake,  another  white  cake 
and  the  pink  cake  on  top.  Spread  each  layer  with  lemon  jelly  and 
cover  top  with  white  icing. 

Sand  Tarts. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  flour,  5  eggs,  yolks  only,  6 
ounces  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Roll  very  thin, 
sprinkle  top  with  cinnamon  and  sugar,  1  almond  blanched  and  split 
in  half  on  top  of  ecah  cake.   Keep  in  a  closely-covered  jar. 

Lemon  Drops. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
1  coffee  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  lemon  extract.   Bake  in  muffin  rings  and  ice. 

Fruit  and  Feather  Cake. 

"Whites  of  6  eggs,  2  teacups  of  sugar,  butter  twice  as  large  as 
an  egg,  2  teacups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  teaspoons  of  cream 
of  tartar. 

Dark  Part — Yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  2  teacups  of  flour,  i/o  teaspoon  of  soda,  %  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  %  cup  of  sour  cream  with  soda  in  it,  %  pound  of 
raisins,  %  pound  of  currants,  2  tablespoons  of  sliced  citron,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  as  usual  and 
bake  in  a  greased  mold. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  heaping  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of 
granulated  sugar,  %  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  tea- 
spoons of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  hard  and  add  whites  last.  Bake  in  a 
mold  or  square  pan. 

Coffee  Cake. 

Five,  eggs,  l1^  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  of 
butter,  4  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  all- 
spice, 1  teaspoon  of  cloves,  %  grated  nutmeg,  1%  cups  of  raisins, 
y~2  cup  of  citron,  1  cup  of  currants,  1  cup  of  cold  coffee,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  dissolved  in  warm  water;  use  part  of  the  flour  on  the  fruit. 
Bake  in  a  loaf. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  coffee  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  239 


soda,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  ginger,  1  dessertspoon  of  cinnamon  and 
1  of  spice  mixed. 

White  Cake. 

One  light  pound  of  flour,  1  light  pound  granulated  sugar,  whites 
of  13  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  %  pound  white  butter,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  %  teaspoon  soda,  %  teacup  of  cream,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light,  then 
add  whites.  Put  the  soda  and  extract  in  cream;  add  to  the  mixture. 
Sift  in  the  cream  of  tartar  with  flour.  Stir  well  and  bake  in  a 
greased  mold. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs,  2-3  cup 
of  boiling  water,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  lemon 
juice  or  vanilla.    Bake  in  a  greased  mold. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  2  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  3%  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins.  Grate  1  fresh  cocoanut  or  use  dessicated  cocoanut  soaked 
in  milk  and  drained.  Cover  the  layers  with  boiled  icing  and  sprinkle 
thickly  with  cocoanut. 

Angel  Cake. 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  l1/^  cups  of  granulated  sugar  sifted  once,  1 
cup  of  flour  with  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  4  times,  1 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  mold  40  minutes,  do  not  take  out  cake 
until  partially  cold. 

Wafer  Cakes. 

Beat  6  eggs  very  light,  add  14  pound  of  butter  and  %  pound  of 
granulated  sugar  to  yolks.  Beat  well  and  stir  in  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  flavor  with  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Heat  wafer  irons 
and  grease  them,  put  in  2  large  spoons  of  batter  and  cook;  turn 
them  as  you  take  from  the  irons.  Have  a  nice  round  stick  to  roll 
them  on  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Almond  Cream  Cake. 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  1  tumbler  of  flour,  V/2  tumblers  pulverized 
sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Have  whites  beaten  stiff: 
and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them ;  then  flour,  into  which  cream  of  tartar 
has  been  sifted;  stir  gently,  but  do  not  beat  it;  bake  in  jelly  pans. 

For  Filling. 

Take  %  pint  of  sweet  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  pul- 
verized sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch.  Dissolve  starch  with  a  lit- 
tle milk;  add  yolks  and  sugar.  Beat  well;  boil  the  cream  and  stir 
in  these  ingredients;  cook  tolerably  thick.  Blanch  and  chop  fine  % 
pound  of  almonds  and  stir  into  this  cream.   Ice  cake  while  filling  is 


240  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

soft;  decorate  with  almonds  that  have  been  blanched  and  split  in 
half. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  21/4  cups  of  flour,  l1/^  cups  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  %  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  kernels  and  whites  of  5  eggs, 
iy±  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  as  any  other  cake,  alternating 
kernels  and  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  flat  square  pan,  cut  in  fancy- 
shapes  and  ice  with  white  icing. 

Custard  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  butter,  4  eggs,  % 
cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Custard  for  Cake — Half  pint  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  cornstarch, 

1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  %  cup  of  sugar. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour,  2%  cups  of  sugar,  l1-.'  tea- 
spoons of  yeast  powder,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  new  milk  with 
%  cup  of  pearl  starch  dissolved  in  it.    Mix  and  bake  in  a  mold. 

Pound  Cake. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour, 

2  cups  of  sugar,  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der in  flour.   Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  milk,  and  lastly  whites. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  1  heaping  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  sugar,  5 
cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teacup  of  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.   Bake  in  mold  or  square  pans. 

Sponge  Cake  Roll. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  teacup  of  sugar,  1  teacup  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  mixed  in  flour.  Bake  in  biscuit 
pan,  add  a  little  water  if  necessary.  Turn  out  on  a  damp  cloth.  Put 
in  dressing  and  roll  while  warm. 

White  Cake. 

Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  cream,  whites 
of  9  eggs,  4  teacups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  or  almond  extract.  Beat  eggs  light,  add  sugar  and  stir  well ; 
then  cream  and  creamed  butter  to  sugar  and  eggs ;  then  flour,  reserve 
a  little  of  flour  to  sift  in  last  with  baking  powder  and  flavoring. 
Put  in  a  greased  mold,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  kitchen  spoon  ginger,  1 
tablespoon  of  mixed  spices,  3%  cups  flour,  1  cup  cream,  1  cup  mo- 
lasses, 5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda.   Beat  yolks  light,  add  creamed  but- 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  241 


ter,  sugar,  molasses,  cream,  flour,  spices,  soda  dissolved  in  warm 
water.  Stir  in  whites  lightly;  bake  in  a  square  pan  in  rather  quick 
oven.    Serve  with  sauce,  flavored  either  with  brandy  or  wine. 

Walnut  Wafers. 

Beat  2  eggs  very  light  without  separating ;  add  gradually  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  with  this  2  tablespoons 
flour  and  1  cup  of  walnut  meats  chopped  fine.  If  not  stiff  enough 
add  more  flour,  but  the  batter  should  drop  easily  from  the  spoon; 
grease  tins  and  drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls,  bake  in  quick  oven 
5  minutes. 

Nut  Cake. 

One  pound  flour,  1  pound  sugar,  6  eggs,  %  pound  butter,  2 
pounds  pecans,  2  pounds  raisins,  2  nutmegs,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, %  cup  cream,  y2  pint  wine,  y2  pint  whisky.  Bake  in  well- 
greased  mold  for  4  hours.   Flour  fruit  from  the  pound  of  flour. 

Snow  Cake. 

One  large  coffee  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  8  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  This  recipe  can  be 
used  for  a  mold  or  a  filling  cake. 

Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk, 
1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  2  pints  of  pecans  and  1*4  pounds  of 
raisins. 

Vanilla  Wafers. 

Four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  4  ounces  of  butter  rubbed 
to  a  cream,  stir  in  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  3  tablespoons  of 
milk  and  4  ounces  of  sifted  flour.   Drop  by  spoonful  on  greased  tin. 

Orange  Teacakes. 

One  cup  of  butter,  4  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar ;  take  the  sugar  first 
and  squeeze  juice  of  1  orange  over  it,  then  cream,  sugar  and  butter 
together;  add  a  litle  nutmeg.  Break  the  eggs  into  the  sugar  and 
butter;  sift  3  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder  into  3  pints  of  flour,  then 
sift  flour  into  the  batter,  stir  until  stiff.  Add  more  flour  and  knead 
with  the  hands.   Roll  out  and  cut  with  cake-cutter. 

White  Heather  Cake. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  cold  water, 
iy2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  extract  of  almond,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 3  eggs.   Mix  as  usual  and  bake  in  jelly  tins  in  a  hot  oven. 

Filling  for  Cake. 

Boil  \y2  cups  granulated  sugar  with  6  tablespoons  of  water 

16 


242  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


until  it  threads.  Have  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  froth  and  pour 
the  syrup  slowly  into  it,  beating  all  the  time  with  a  wire  whisk. 
Flavor  with  extract  of  almond.  Spread  between  layers  of  cake  while 
warm  and  sprinkle  each  layer  thickly  with  dessicated  cocoanut.  Ice 
the  top  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  the  whole  cake. 

Mocha  Cake. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  lA/o  cups  flour,  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  *4  cup  new  milk,  a  dash  of 
salt.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  yolks,  milk,  salt  and  flour,  with 
baking  powder,  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  or  lemon  juice.  Butter  a  papered  tin  and  sprinkle  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  sugar  and  flour. 

Cream  of  Almond  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter  creamed,  3  coffee  cups  of  pulverized  sugar, 
4  cups  of  flour,  y%  cup  of  water,  whites  of  11  eggs,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder.  Work  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add 
water,  then  flour  and  eggs  alternately,  baking  powder  last,  with  1 
cup  of  flour  and  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans. 

Cream  Filling'. 

One  pint  of  sweet  cream,  whipped  to  a  froth,  sweeten  it  with 

1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar,  add  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla.    Have 

2  pounds  of  almonds  blanched,  chopped  fine,  stir  them  lightly  into 
the  cream.  Have  a  few  cut  in  half  to  decorate  the  top  and  side  of 
cake. 

Zollicoffer  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  4  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk, 
whites  of  6  eggs,  2  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  any  preferred 
flavor.  Bake  in  layers. 

The  Filling — Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  3  cups  of  fine  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water  over  sugar  and  cook  like 
candy  and  pour  on  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  while.  Add  to  the  icing 
1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts  (any  kind),  4  or  5 
figs  (cut  in  thin  strips),  and  put  on  between  layers  and  on  top  of 
the  cake. 

Almondines. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  2  ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped 
fine,  %  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  eggs  until  stiff,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, then  almonds.  Have  pastry  rolled  thin  and  cut  in  strips  3 
inches  long  and  1%  inches  wide.  Spread  this  mixture  on  center  of 
pastry,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  15 
minutes. 

Pecan  Cake. 

One  pound  of  light  brown  sugar,  1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  with  1 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  V2  pound  of  butter,  1%  pounds  of  seeded 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  243 


raisins,  the  whites  and  yolks  of  6  eggs  beaten  separately,  3  heaping 
tumblers  of  pecan  kernels,  1  tumbler  of  whisky,  1  teacup  of  mo- 
lasses, y2  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  greased  mold  in 
moderate  oven  for  3  hours. 

Angel  Cakes. 

Sift  together  y2  coffee  cup  of  flour,  y2  coffee  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  V?  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  the  whites  of  5  eggs  very 
stiff  and  fold  lightly  in  the  mixture,  with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  into  muffin  rings  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Ice  with  white  icing. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter,  2  coffee  cups  granulated 
sugar,  4  coffee  cups  of  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  % 
teacup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar, 
then  milk.  Have  whites  beaten  to  a  froth  and  add  alternately  with 
flour;  use  a  little  of  this  flour  for  sifting  in  the  baking  powder  at 
the  last,  then  vanilla.    Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans. 

White  Velvet  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  pound  of 
butter,  1  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  8  eggs,  2  level  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  almond  extract.  Cream 
the  butter,  add  sugar  and  stir  well,  then  add  milk.  Sift  flour  3 
times,  the  last  time  adding  baking  powder.  Stir  in  lightly,  alter- 
nately with  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake  in  a  well-greased 
mold. 

Marble  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  white  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
3  cups  of  flour,  whites  of  7  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  1 
teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon. 

Dark  Part — One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  molasses,  5  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  7  eggs,  a 
pinch  of  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  of  nutmeg, 
cloves  and  allspice,  1  teaspoon  each  of  vanilla  and  soda.  Butter 
the  cake  tin  and  put  in  alternately  1  spoonful  of  the  light  and  dark 
batter. 

Pineapple  Cake. 

One-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  pound  butter,  3  eggs, 
2  cups  of  flour,  2  light  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  with  2  table- 
spoons of  pineapple  juice.    Bake  in  3  jelly  cake  tins. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  4  cups  butter,  8  cups  of  flour,  12 
eggs,  1  pint  of  cream,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of  dates,  2 
pounds  of  currants  ,1  pound  of  citron,  2  whole  nutmegs,  1  tablespoon 
spice,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves,  4  cups  of  molasses,  2  teaspoons  baking 


244  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

powder.  Flour  fruit  well  from  the  flour  to  be  used  in  the  cake. 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  yolks  beaten  light,  molasses,  spices, 
flour,  fruit  and  whites  stirred  in  lightly.  Grease  mold  and  place  but- 
tered paner  at  the  bottom ;  cook  in  slow  oven  6  or  7  hours.  This  quan- 
tity makes  2  fruit  cakes.   It  will  keep  a  year  in  cake  tin  box. 

Pecan  Cake. 

One  pound  of  C  sugar,  iy2  pounds  flour,  3  heaping  tumblers  of 
pecan  kernels,  1  tumbler  of  whisky,  1  teacup  molasses,  y2  pound 
butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  6  eggs-,  flour  fruit  from  the  pound 
of  flour.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  molasses,  whisky,  flour,  fruit  and 
whites  stirred  in  lightly.  Bake  in  a  greased  mold  about  3  hours; 
test  with  a  straw. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Two  tumblers  of  powdered  sugar,  2  tumblers  of  flour,  8  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  flour,  then  measure  it,  and  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  sift  3  times,  also  sift  sugar,  beat  yolks  well,  then 
add  sugar.  Beat  until  white  and  light.  Add  flour  and  whites  alter- 
nately, stir  in  very  lightly,  1  teaspoon  of  extract  of  lemon.  Bake  in 
a  ouick  oven  1  hour. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  1  teacup  of  brown  sugar,  1  teacup  of  molasses,  1  tea- 
cup of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  3  teacups  of  flour,  1  teacup  of  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg  and  1  tablespoon  of  ginger. 
Cream,  butter  and  sugar  and  add  2  yolks  well  beaten,  then  flour, 
whites  and  milk  with  soda  dissolved  in  it. 

Sauce — One  pint  of  white  sugar,  %  pint  of  water.  Let  come  to 
boiling  point,  add  1  tabl'espoon  of  butter  with  1  dessertspoon  of 
butter  rubbed  in  it.  After  it  boils  well  take  off  and  flavor  with  wine 
glass  of  wine  and  nutmeg. 

Spice  Cake. 

Yolks  of  7  eggs,  2  teacups  of  brown  sugar,  1  teacup  of  molasses, 
1  teacup  of  butter,  5  teacups  of  flour.  Spices  of  all  kinds  mixed,  1 
teacup  of  sour  cream  with  1  teaspoon  of  soda  stirred  in  the  last 
thing. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  small  teacups  of  sugar,  5%  teacups  of  flour,  1  dessertspoon 
of  butter,  2  light  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  y2  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste,  2  eggs.  Beat  butter  and  sugar 
together;  add  yolks  well  beaten,  then  milk;  flour  and  whites  alter- 
nately. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Two  ounces  of  Baker's  chocolate,  4  eggs,  %  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  %  cup  of  butter,  1%  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1%  cups  of  flour.  Dissolve  the 
chocolate  in  5  tablespoons  of  boiling  water.    Beat  the  butter  to  a 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  245 

cream,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  beating  all  the  while;  then  the 
yolks;  beat  again,  the  milk  and  melted  chocolate  and  flour.  Give 
the  whole  a  vigorous  beating.  Have  whites  very  stiff  and  stir  lightly 
into  the  mixture,  add  baking  powder  and  vanilla,  stirring  very 
lightly.  Put  in  a  greased  cake  pan,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  45 
minutes.   Ice  with  chocolate  icing  when  cold. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  2  coffee  cups  of  sugar,  1  coffee  cup  of  but- 
ter, 3  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  Yk  teaspoon 
soda,  1  tablespoon  of  ice  water.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  greased  mold. 

Potsdam  Cake. 

Sift  into  a  mixing  bowl  2  cups  of  flour  and  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  To  this  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  cup  of  butter  creamed. 
Break  into  tumbler  2  whole  eggs  and  fill  it  up  with  sweet  milk ;  stir 
and  pour  into  the  mixture.  Beat  briskly.  Currants  or  nuts  may  be 
added.    Bake  in  small  cake  pans. 

Layer  Cake. 

Use  raisin  cake  recipe  and  omit  raisins.  Divide  mixture  into 
4  parts  and  bake  in  jelly  tins ;  when  cakes  are  cold  spread  currant 
jelly  or  icing.  Use  Angel  Food  recipe  and  bake  in  jelly  tins.  Ice 
with  white  icing. 

Black  Cake. 

Two  scant  pounds  of  flour  lightly  browned,  1%  pounds  butter. 
1%  pounds  brown  sugar,  1  dozen  eggs,  4  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded 
and  flattened,  2  pounds  of  currants,  washed  and  dried,  1  pound  fig? 
cut  in  pieces,  1  pound  citron  thinly  sliced,  1  pound  pecans,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  tumbler  of  whisky,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  nutmeg,  1  des- 
sertspoon cinnamon,  Y2  teaspoonful  cloves,  %  cup  of  candied  orange 
peel,  Y2  teaspoon  soda.  Flour  fruit  and  mix  well.  Bake  in  mold  with 
greased  paper  at  bottom  in  a  slow  oven. 

Chocolate  Cake  With  Whipped  Cream. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  but- 
ter, iy2  cups  granulated  sugar,  3  eggs,  2  scant  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  8  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate,  3  tablespoons  granulated 
sugar,  Y2  teacup  sweet  milk.  Cook  chocolate,  milk  and  sugar  until 
dissolved.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  eggs,  without  separating 
chocolate  and  rest  of  milk,  lastly  the  flour  sifted  with  baking  pow? 
der.  Bake  in  a  pan  with  greased  paper  at  bottom.  When  cold  cut 
in  blocks  and  place  on  a  plate.  Have  1  quart  cream  sweetened 
with  Y>,  teacup  sugar  flavored  with  vanilla.  Whip  until  stiff,  then 
pile  on  top  of  cake  and  serve. 

Chocolate  Cake  With  Beaten  Cream. 

Beat  to  a  cream  V/2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  but- 


246  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


ter,  3  eggs,  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  To  this  add  8  heaping  tablespoons 
of  grated  chocolate,  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
of  sweet  milk  scalded.  Dissolve  thoroughly,  then  add  \y2  cups  of 
flour,  with  iy2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Bake  in 
jelly  cake  pans.  "When  cold  have  1  quart  of  sweet  cream  with  1 
tablespoon  sugar  whipped  to  a  froth;  put  between  layers  and  use 
rest  of  cream  when  serving  the  cake. 

Devil's  Food. 

One  cup  of  Baker's  chocolate  grated,  1  cup  of  A  sugar,  y2  cup 
of  water,  boil  all  this  until  thick ;  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  A  sugar, 
3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour.  Stir  in  chocolate  while  warm, 
add  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Ice  with 
white  icing. 

Ribbon  Cake. 

Whites  of  13  eggs,  1  pound  granulated  sugar,  y2  pound  of  but- 
ter, 1  pound  of  flour  weighed  with  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  cream  of 
tartar  sifted  with  flour.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add 
sugar,  butter  and  lastly  the  flour.  Stir  well.  Take  1  coffee  cup  of 
batter  and  stir  in  enough  fruit  coloring  for  a  pretty  pink  color,  then 
take  1  cup  more  of  batter  and  add  pulverized  spices,  \y2  teaspoons 
allspice,  1%  teaspoons  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
mixed.  Put  in  greased  mold  1  layer  of  white  batter,  then  1  of  dark 
spread  over  evenly,  then  pink  batter  and  cover  with  remainder  of 
white  batter.    Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  and  test  with  a  straw. 

Orange  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  2  light 
cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  2  oranges,  juice  and  peel. 
Serve  hot  with  this  sauce.  One  pound  of  granulated  sugar  made  into 
a  thick  syrup,  with  y2  glass  of  water.  Let  it  boil  30  minutes  and  add 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Just  before  serving  stir  into  the  sauce  1  small 
teacup  of  sweet  cream. 

Lady  Fingers. 

Three  eggs,  1-3  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1-3  cup  of  flour,  a  little 
salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  whites  very  stiff  and  add  sugar 
gradually,  beat  hard,  then  the  yolks  and  vanilla;  sift  the  salt  with 
the  flour  and  fold  in  lightly.  Make  cakes  4  inches  long  and  about 
an  inch  wide,  put  on  a  pan  covered  with  paper.  Sprinkle  cakes 
with  sugar  and  bake  10  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven;  remove  from 
paper  with  a  knife.  They  are  nice  for  lining  Charlotte  Russe  molds 
or  put  whipped  cream  between  the  cakes  and  serve  as  a  dessert. 

Pecan  Cake. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  pound  of  sugar,  %  pound  of  but- 
ter, y2  cup  of  black  molasses,  1  cup  of  whisky,  2  nutmegs  grated,  1 
pound  of  flour,  good  weight,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  247 

%  teacup  of  orange  peel  cut  fine,  2  pounds  seeded  raisins,  1  pound 
of  shelled  pecans,  crush  them  slightly.  Put  all  the  fruit  together 
and  flour  well,  using  from  the  pound  of  flour.  Bake  about  3  hours 
in  a  greased  mold. 

Fig  Cake. 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  \y2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  mix 
V-2  cup  of  Imperial  Granum,  V/2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  lastly  add  whites  of 
6  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,l  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  2  layers  in 
jelly  tins. 

Marble  Cake. 

Whites  of  7  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1  coffee  cup  of  butter,  creamed, 
3  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  coffee  cup  of  sour  milk,  4  coffee 
cups  of  flour  sifted,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.   This  is  white  part  of  cake. 

Dark  Part — Yolks  of  7  eggs  beaten  light,  3  coffee  cups  of  brown 
sugar,  1  coffee  cup  of  butter,  1  coffee  cup  of  sour  milk,  4  coffee  cups 
of  flour,  y2  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  If  put  in  mold  bake  l1/^  hours,  the  white  and  dark 
in  alternate  layers  so  the  cake  may  be  nicely  marbelized.  Put  in 
jelly  pans  if  preferred. 

Sand  Tarts. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1%  cups  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  white  of  1  egg,  y2  cup  blanched  almonds. 
1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  y^  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar.  Add  well-beaten  egg,  then  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with 
baking  powder.  Put  y2  the  dough  on  floured  board;  roll  %  inch 
thick,  cut  in  squares  3  inches  long;  brush  over  with  white  of  egg; 
sprinkle  with  sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon.  Split  almonds,  arrange 
in  the  center  of  each.  Place  on  buttered  sheets.  Bake  8  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Orange  Pineapple  Cake. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  2y2  cups  flour,  y2  cup  butter,  y2 
cup  new  milk,  y2  cup  water,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  separate  the  eggs  and  add  yolks, 
stir  milk,  water  and  flour  with  baking  powder  and  grate  the  peel 
of  1  orange  into  the  batter.  Beat  whites  to  a  froth  and  add  last. 
Bake  in  jelly  tins. 

Icing — Grate  3  oranges,  rind  and  pulp,  but  remove  seed  and 
add  1  small  box  grated  pineapple.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stir  into  oranges  and  pineapple  with  1  cup  powdered 
sugar.  Spread  this  icing  thickly  between  the  layers  when  cakes  are 
cold. 

Sponge  Cake  Roll. 

One  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  flour,  7  eggs,  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.    Beat  eggs  separately;  mix  bat- 


248  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


ter,  fold  in  whites  last.  Bake  in  large  biscuit  pan.  When  done  spread 
with  damson  or  grape  preserves.  Koll  quickly  and  wrap  in  cloth 
wrung  out  of  tepid  water.  Serve  with  chocolate  sauce. 

Egg  Kisses. 

Put  the  unbeaten  whites  of  3  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  add  V-/2  tea- 
cups granulated  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  until  very 
stiff,  then  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  greased  paper  placed  on  top 
of  a  stove  pan.    Set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake. 

Peanut  Cookies. 

Pound  or  chop  1  cup  peanuts,  reserving  a  few  whole  ones  for 
decorating  top.  Prepare  a  dough  of  1  teaspoon  butter,  y2  cup  sugar, 
1  egg,  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Add  the 
peanuts  and  with  teaspoon  mold  into  balls.  Put  whole  peanuts  on 
top  and  bake  15  minutes.  % 

Layer  Cake. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  cornstarch,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
%  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  6  eggs,  iy2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  sift  flour,  cornstarch  and 
baking  powder  together;  add  slowly,  then  the  milk  a  little  at  a  time 
and  lastly  the  whites,  well  beaten.  Bake  in  three  layers;  ice  with 
white  icing.  Use  whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  teacups  pulverized  sugar; 
flavor  to  taste. 

Tipsy  Pudding. 

Use  Angel  Food  recipe,  and  bake  in  large  square  pan;  when 
done  pour  over  1  cup  of  sherry  wine  and  let  remain  1  hour.  AVhen 
ready  to  serve  cover  with  whipped  cream  and  decorate  top  with 
sugared  almonds.  It  can  be  served  with  wine  sauce,  omtting  the 
cream  and  sherry. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  2^4  cups  of  flour,  iy2  cups  granu- 
lated sugar,  %  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  kernels  and  whites  of  5  eggs,  l1/^ 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  as  any  other  cake,  alternately  ker- 
nels and  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  flat  square  pan;  cut  in  fancy 
shape  and  ice  with  white  icing. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  4  cups  flour,  1  cup  butter,  5  eggs, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  as  usual  and 
bake  in  .jelly  tins.    Half  of  recipe  will  make  4  cakes. 

Cream  Cake. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  layers  in  jelly  tins. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  249 

Lady  Fingers. 

One-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  6  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  oil 
lemon  extract,  y2  pound  of  flour.  Beat  whites  stiff;  add  to  sugar 
and  yelks ;  then  flour.  Stir  with  an  egg-beater ;  cut  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  even  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  y2  cup  sweet  milk.  Beat  but- 
ter and  sugar  together,  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten.  Sift  baking  pow- 
der into  flour,  then  add  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Add  more  milk  if  neces- 
sary. Bake  in  round  pans.  "When  cool  cover  top  of  each  cake  with 
whole  strawberries  and  spread  on  them  well-beaten  cream  that  has 
been  sweetened.  Fill  up  all  spaces  with  cream.  Place  the  cakes  on 
top  of  one  another.    The  cream  used  must  be  very  thick. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

Break  3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  into  a  pan,  add  2  cups  of  brown 
sugar  and  beat  light,  add  1  cup  of  common  molasses,  1  cup  sour 
cream,  1  cup  melted  butter,  4  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  tablespoon  of 
ginger,  cloves  and  allspice  to  taste,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the  but- 
termilk and  beat  in  the  last  thing. 

Bride's  Cake. 

Whites  of  14  eggs,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  flour,  %  pound 
of  butter.  Eggs  and  sugar  well  beaten  together  and  mix  in  the  but- 
ter, well  creamed,  flour  and  whites  alternately;  flavor  to  taste. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 

Not  quite  y2  pint  of  flour,  1  dessertspoon  lard,  1  teacup  ice 
water,  %  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  litle  salt.  Mix  in  a  bowl  and 
put  through  the  kneader,  bake  in  pie  pans.  When  done  split  the  pie 
in  half  and  cover  with  melted  butter  and  1  quart  of  berries  that 
have  been  chopped  and  sweetened. 

Rolled  Wafers. 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  */£  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  %  of  a  cup  of  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cream  but- 
ter, add  sugar  gradually  and  milk  very  slowly,  th«n  flour  and  flavor- 
ing. Spread  thinly  with  a  broad  blade  knife  on  a  buttered  inverted 
pan.  Mark  in  3-inch  squares  and  bake  in  slow  oven  a  delicate  brown. 
Place  pan  on  back  of  range,  cut  squares  apart  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Roll  while  warm  in  tubular  or  cornucopia  shape.  If  cake  gets  too 
brittle  to  roll  set  in  oven  to  soften.  If  rolled  in  tubular  shape  tie 
with  narrow  ribbon  and  sprinkle  with  sugar;  serve  with  ices  or 
chocolate.  If  cornucopia  shape,  fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored.    Serve  immediately. 


250  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Almond  Wafers. 

Use  preceding  recipe.  Before  cooking  wafers  sprinkle  top  with 
finely  chopped  almonds  and  bake. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Eight  eggs,  leave  out  the  yolks  of  2,  1  pint  of  powdered  sugar, 
1  pint  of  flour,  the  juice  and  yellow  rind  of  1  lemon.  Beat  all  the 
whites  till  stiff,  then  add  sugar,  next  the  yolks,  that  have  been  well 
beaten,  then  flour,  sifted  3  times,  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der.   Stir  very  lightly.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  a  mold. 

Nut  Cake. 

One  coffee  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  coffee  cups  of  flour, 
4  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  2  pints  of  pecans, 
1*4  pounds  of  raisins.    Bake  in  a  greased  mold. 

Tea  Cakes. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  1  large  cup  granulated  sugar, 
y2  cup  sour  cream,  %  cup  butter,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  egg  and  y2 
nutmeg.  Add  all  ingredients  to  flour  and  milk;  handling  dough  as 
little  as  possible.  Roll  and  cut  with  cutter.  Put  1  teaspoon  of  beaten 
white  of  egg  on  top  of  each  cake,  with  1  raisin.  Sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  bake. 

Marble  Cake. 

One  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  4  tablespoons 
sweet  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggk,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  1  of  cinnamon 
and  1  of  cloves. 

White  Part — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  y2  cup 
butter,  6  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar.   Bake  in  a  mold  or  in  layers. 

Lemon  Crackers. 

"Whites  of  2  eggs,  2%  cups  granulated  sugar,  y2  pint  of  lard,  1 
pint  sweet  milk,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  carbonated 
ammonia,  1  tablespoon  oil  of  lemon,  flour  enough  to  handle.  Roll 
thin  and  cut  in  round  shape. 

White  Cake. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  %  cup 
butter,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Mix  in 
usual  way.  Can  be  used  for  a  mold  cake  or  layer  cake.  Ice  with 
white  or  chocolate  icing. 

Doughnuts. 

Two  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  scant  pint  of  cream,  4  pints 
of  flour,  3  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2-3 
cup  butter,  flavor  with  nutmeg  and  lemon.  Mix  well,  pinch  off  piece 
of  dough,  give  it  a  twist  into  shape,  cook  in  hot  fat  and  roll  in  a 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  251 


bowl  of  granulated  sugar,  then  place  on  a  dish.    They  are  better 
served  hot. 

Devil's  Cake. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  %  coffee  cup  sour  milk,  2 
cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  soda  sifted  in  flour.  Beat  sugar, 
butter  and  eggs  together.  Cook  %  cup  chocolate,  %  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  cup  brown  sugar.  When  almost  done  stir  in  the  yolk  of  1  egg. 
Add  this  to  batter ;  if  not  stiff  enough  use  a  little  more  flour.  Bake 
in  mold  or  layers.   Ice  with  white  icing  or  chocolate. 

Cookies. 

One  heaping  cup  of  butter  and  lard  in  equal  parts,  2  cups  light 
brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  buttermilk,  1  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda  in 
the  milk,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Use  flour  enough  to 
make  a  batter  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Roll  thin  and  sprinkle  with 
granulated  sugar.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Raisin  Cake. 

Half  a  pound  of  raisins,  4  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  granulated 
sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  flavor  with  lemon.  Do  not  cut 
the  raisins,  but  flatten  and  flour  them.  Mix  as  usual,  put  a  layer  of 
batter  in  mold,  then  a  layer  of  raisins,  alternating  until  all  has  been 
used.    Bake  in  mold,  with  greased  paper  at  the  bottom. 

Dutch  Cake. 

For  making  Dutch  cake  use  light  roll  recipe  and  add  1  small 
teacup  brown  sugar.  Set  to  rise  in  the  morning;  in  afternoon  make 
into  loaf  and  dent  deeply  all  over  top  with  the  finger  and  put  in 
pieces  of  butter.  After  it  rises  cook  in  moderate  oven  a  chestnut 
brown. 

Coffee  Cake. 

To  1  quart  of  light-risen  dough  add  1  teacup  sugar,  1  cup 
seeded  raisins,  %  cup  butter,  season  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Set 
to  rise,  then  roll  out  in  large  round  cakes  and  bake  a  chestnut 
brown.  Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  top.  Serve  hot  or  cold 
for  tea  or  luncheon. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Two  coffee  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  not  quite  a  quart  of  flour, 
3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  ground  ginger,  *4  teaspoon  black  pepper,  y^ 
cup  buttermilk,  1  teacup  black  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon.  Mix  eggs,  butter,  molasses,  then  buttermilk  with 
soda  dissolved  in  it,  lastly  sifted  flour.  Beat  well,  put  in  square 
pan  and  bake.  Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Walnut  Wafers. 
Beat  2  eggs  very  light  without  separating;  add  gradually  1  cup 


252  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

of  brown  sugar  rolled  fine,  beating  all  the  while.  Mix  2  tablespoons 
of  Imperial  Granum  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  add  to  the  first  mixture, 
together  with  1  cup  of  walnut  meats  chopped  fine.  Bake  1,  and 
if  not  stiff  enough  add  a  little  more  Granum.  The  batter  should 
drop  easily  from  a  spoon.  Drop  a  spoonful  on  greased  tins,  bake 
5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Chopped  almonds,  peanuts  or  butternuts 
may  be  used  if  preferred. 

Egg  Kisses. 

Put  the  unbeaten  whites  of  3  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  add  \y2  tea- 
cups granulated  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  until  very  stiff, 
then  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  greased  paper  placed  on  top  of 
stove  pan.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter,  1%  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
%  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  coffee  cups  of  flour,  \y2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  coffee  cup  of  hickory  nut  meats ;  mix  and 
put  in  a  greased  mold.   Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Doughnuts. 

Ten  ounces  of  sugar,  3  ounces  of  butter  or  lard,  3  eggs,  y2  tea- 
spoon extract  of  lemon,  2y2  pounds  of  flour,  1  ounce  of  baking  pow- 
der, a  pinch  of  salt,  1  pint  of  milk.  Mix  all  together.  Put  in  flour 
last.    When  done  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  boiling 
water,  2  to  3  cups  of  flour  as  required,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  eggs,  y2  saltspoon 
salt.  Add  the  melted  butter  to  molasses,  then  spices.  Dissolve  soda 
in  boiling  water  and  stir  it  into  molasses.  Add  flour  enough  for 
a  very  soft  dough,  too  soft  to  roll.  Bake  in  biscuit  pan  lined  with 
paper  in  moderate  oven  35  minutes.  It  must  be  mixed  quickly  and 
put  at  once  into  oven. 

Lemon  Cookies. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed, 
1  egg,  1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  2  ounces  carbonate  ammonia,  flavor 
with  lemon  extract,  flour  enough  for  a  tolerably  stiff  dough.  Out 
with  cutter  and  bake  quickly. 

One-Egg  Cake. 

Half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour, 
1  egg,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  light  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix 
well  and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  muffin  rings.  Ice  with  white  icing. 

Date  Cake. 

One-fourth  pound  of  dates,  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  2y2  cups  of 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  253 

flour,  Y2  cup  butter,  %  tumbler  currant  or  blackberry  jelly,  1  des- 
sertspoon cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  y%  nutmeg  grated,  V/2  cups 
brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
2  tablespoons  warm  water.  Seed  dates  and  chop  a  little,  flour  fruit 
and  add  just  before  putting  in  soda.  Put  in  greased  pan  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  1%  hours. 

Marshmallow  Cake. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  5  cups  flour,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  8  eggs, 
1  dessertspoon  of  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Have  whites 
beaten  to  a  froth,  add  half  of  them  to  butter  and  sugar,  with  half 
of  flour,  milk,  y2  baking  powder  and  vanilla ;  continue  beating  hard 
and  add  rest  of  flour  and  eggs ;  stir  well.  Bake  in  2  square  jelly  cake 
tins.   Ice  when  cold. 

Marshmallow  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2%  cups  granulated  sugar,  4^  cups  flour, 
1  cup  of  water,  whites  of  8  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.    Mix  as  in  preceding  recipe. 

Sunshine  Cake. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1-3  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar,  whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5  eggs.  Sift  flour 
and  sugar,  whip  whites  stiff,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  sugar  to  the 
whites  and  beat  hard;  then  yolks  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Stir  in 
flour  lightly.   Put  in  greased  mold  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Nut  Cake. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  granulated  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  2-3 
cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  yolks  of  8  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
%  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  nuts.  Sift  flour  once,  add  soda  and  sift  3 
times.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  eggs  beaten  light  anci 
cream  of  tartar.  Beat  well,  add  milk,  then  flour,  and  stir  very  hard. 

Lemon  Cake. 

Three  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  4  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cup 
butter,  1  cup  milk,  5  eggs,  1  even  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk, 
juice  and  grated  peel  of  1  lemon  added  last.  Bake  in  tins.  When 
cold  cut  into  squares  and  ice  with  lemon  icing. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  V/2  cups  flour,  1 
cup  seeded  raisins,  %  cup  sherry  wine,  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Mix  and  bake  in  3  layers  in  jelly  tins.   Cover  with  white  icing. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  12  eggs,  3  large  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1 
cup  of  butter,  4  heaping  cups  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 


254  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  of  water.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar, 
with  flour  and  eggs  alternately,  vanilla,  then  add  baking  powder 
sifted  in  with  a  cup  of  the  flour.  Bake  in  4  layers  of  jelly  tins  and 
ice,  or  bake  in  mold  or  muffin  rings  and  cover  with  white  icing. 

Cocoanut  Cakes. 

The  grated  meat  of  1  cocoanut,  white  of  1  egg,  %  cup  of  flour, 
the  same  amount  of  sugar  as  there  is  of  cocoanut.  Mix,  shape  in 
cakes  and  bake  20  minutes. 

Cookies. 

One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon of  milk,  2  light  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  enough  for 
a  dough.  Roll  tolerably  thin,  cut  with  cutter  and  bake  in  oven  about 
10  minutes. 

Cornucopia. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  egg,  2-3 
of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1%  cups  of  flour,  2  even  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Mix  and  beat  well.  Drop  1  tablespoon  of  butter  on  flat 
tins,  which  must  be  well  greased;  make  in  small  thin  cakes.  When 
nearly  cold  roll  in  shape  of  cornucopia  and  fasten  with  a  wooden 
toothpick.  When  cold  fill  with  this  cream.  One  well-beaten  egg,  1 
tablespoon  granulated  sugar,  1  teacup  new  milk.  Put  ingredients 
in  saucepan;  when  it  boils  add  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  which 
must  be  mashed  smooth  with  cold  sweet  milk,  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.  Boil  1  minute,  stir  until  it  begins  to  cool,  then  fill  cornu- 
copias, add  a  little  bright  jelly,  candied  cherries  or  sugared  almonds 
to  center  of  each  one.    Serve  for  dessert. 

Almond  Macaroons. 

One-half  a  pound  of  almonds,  y2  cup  powdered  sugar,  whites 
of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  rosewater.  Blanch  almonds,  dry  and  pound 
to  a  paste,  add  the  rosewater,  then  sugar,  1  teaspoon  at  a  time  to 
unbeaten  whites,  until  all  sugar  has  been  added,  then  %  teaspoon 
almond  extract  and  the  almonds.  Roll  with  wet  hands  into  balls 
size  of  a  walnut.  Place  on  buttered  paper,  quite  far  apart,  and  bake 
in  slow  oven.  If  mixture  is  not  stiff  enough  to  handle  add  1  table- 
spoon of  sifted  flour. 

Lemon  Drops. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
1  coffee  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
a  little  nutmeg  and  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  and  ice 
with  white  icing. 

Macaroons. 

One-half  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  %  pound  of  fine  white  sugar, 
whites  of  2  eggs.  Blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  them  to  a  paste 
and  add  sugar  and  eggs  after  they  have  been  beaten  to  a  froth. 
Work  the  whole  well  together  with  the  back  of  a  spoon^  then  roll 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  255 


the  mixture  in  balls  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Place  macaroons  on 
a  sheet  of  paper  1  inch  apart.  Bake  in  a  cool  oven  until  a  light 
brown. 

Cocoanut  Kisses. 

One  pound  powdered  or  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  freshly  grated 
cocoanut  or  y2  package  of  dessieated  cocoanut,  3  eggs,  %  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Put  whites  in  a  broad  shallow  dish,  add  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  beat  until  slightly  frothed.  Add  spoonful  of  sugar  at  a  time 
and  beat  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  dry.  Then  put  in  the  cocoa- 
nut  slowly  and  beat  hard.  Set  over  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  place  on 
stove  and  beat  steadily  until  the  mass  swells  to  double  the  original 
quantity.  Remove  from  fire ;  add  the  vanilla.  Place  buttered  paper 
on  a  broad  pan,  dip  spoon  in  cold  water  and  put  a  spoonful  of  mix- 
ture on  the  paper  at  a  time  several  inches  apart ;  dust  thickly  with 
sugar  and  cook  in  slow  oven  about  30  minutes,  as  kisses  must  be 
of  pale  color. 

Spice  Cakes. 

Six  eggs,  1  small  coffee  cup  of  lard,  1  large  coffee  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  i/o  cup  of  black  molasses,  1  cup  of  buttermilk  (smaller  cup), 
1  nutmeg  grated,  1  light  tablespoon  of  soda,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1 
tablespoon  allspice,  4  coffee  cups  of  flour.  Put  lard  in  bowl  and 
cream  it.  Break  in  the  eggs,  add  other  ingredients  except  flour; 
beat  all  to  a  cream,  then  put  in  flour  gradually  and  stir  well.  Cut 
with  biscuit-cutter  and  cook  in  hot  oven.    Ice  when  cold. 

Doughnuts. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  sep- 
arately, 1  teacup  buttermilk  with  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  it, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  dough,  spices  to  taste. 
Cut  in  shape ;  have  hole  in  center  of  each  cake.  Fry  them  in  hot  lard 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Take  1  coffee  cup  hot  water  and  put  into  it  %  coffee  cup  but- 
ter and  let  it  boil,  then  stir  in  1  coffee  cup  of  flour,  remove  from  fire. 
"When  almost  cold  break  in  3  eggs  one  at  a  time  without  beating. 
Drop  1  tablespoon  of  dough  in  a  pan  that  is  hot,  but  not  greased. 
It  should  make  1  dozen  puffs.  Scald  1  pint  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  3  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  then  stir  in  4  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar  and  2  eggs; 
flavor  with  vanilla.   Cut  the  puffs  open  and  fill  with  the  cream. 

Egg  Kisses. 

One  pint  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  6  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.  Have  eggs  cold,  break  into  a  bowl,  add  sugar  and  beat  until 
stiff,  then  add  vanilla.  Drop  spoonful  at  a  time  on  buttered  foolscap 
paper,  cook  in  moderate  oven  from  20  to  25  minutes.   When  done 


256  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


a  few  almonds,  blanched  and  sliced^  may  be  put  in  the  kisses.  Serve 
cold  with  berries  or  ice  cream,  or  decorate  top  of  meringues  with 
maraschino  cherries  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

English  Pound  Cake. 

One  pound  granulated  sugar,  sifted,  1  pound  white  butter,  1^4 
pounds  flour,  1  pound  currants,  2  ounces  of  candied  peel,  %  ounce 
citron,  %  ounce  sweet  almonds,  9  eggs.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar, 
then  yolks  beaten  light,  flour  citron  and  peel;  cut  in  thin  slices,  al- 
monds blanched  and  chopped,  currants  washed  and  dried,  fruit  must 
be  floured,  using  some  of  the  same,  1  wine  glass  brandy  or  sherry 
wine,  then  beaten  whites.  Mix  well,  put  cake  in  mold  lined  with 
buttered  paper,  bake  more  than  2  hours,  have  good  heat  in  oven  at 
beginning  to  prevent  fruit  sinking  to  the  bottom.  Cool  a  little  be- 
fore removing  from  the  mold. 

Cream  Meringues. 

One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  1  quart  of  cream,  whites  of  8 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  vanilla,  a  small  pinch  of  alum.  Beat  eggs  to  a 
froth,  add  while  beating  half  of  sugar,  half  of  vanilla  and  the 
alum.  Allow  1  tablespoon  of  mixture  for  each  meringue,  shape  and 
drop  on  buttered  paper,  place  on  top  of  biscuit  pan  and  brown.  Whip 
cream,  add  rest  of  sugar  and  vanilla,  have  very  stiff  and  fill  the 
meringues.  A  few  maraschino  cherries  may  be  put  on  top  of  each 
meringue. 

Lemon  Toast. 

Take  yolks  of  3  eggs,  iy2  cups  of  new  inilk,  beat  yolks,  then 
add  milk,  cut  bread  in  slices,  dip  in  milk  and  eggs,  place  in  spider 
with  melted  butter  and  fry  a  chestnut  brown.  Beat  whites  to  a 
froth  and  add  y2  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1 
cup  of  boiling  water;  cook  until  a  syrup.  Serve  as  a  sauce  for  the 
toast. 

Tea  Cakes. 

Five  pints  of  flour,  2%  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  iy2  teacups 
of  butter,  3  teaspoons  carbonate  of  ammonia,  6  eggs.  Cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar,  then  break  in  3  eggs,  then  add  the  other  3  eggs  and 
the  ammonia,  and  lastly  the  flour,  until  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out,  cut 
tolerably  thin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

English  Walnut  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  1%  cups  granulated  sugar,  l1/^  cups  new 
milk,  3  cups  of  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  6 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Mix  as  usual,  divide  dough  into  3  parts 
and  bake  in  jelly  tins  in  a  quick  oven.  Use  a  white  icing  and  spread 
thickly  with  fresh  walnut  meats. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  257 


Nut  Cake. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  butte^  3  cups  of  flour,  1 
cup  of  cold  water,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of 
tartar,  2  cups  kernels  of  hickory  nuts  or  white  walnuts.  Remove  all 
shell  from  nuts  and  add  last.  Bake  in  a  greased  mold  or  in  jelly  tins. 

Peel  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  1%  cups  granulated  sugar,  Z1/^  cups  flour. 
%  cup  sour  milk,  2y2  eggs,  %  wine  glass  of  brandy,  a  dash  of  nut- 
meg, Y2  pound  of  raisins,  %  pound  of  mixed  peel,  %  pound  almonds 
finely  chopped,  %  teaspoon  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  greased  mould  in 
rather  a  slow  oven. 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  %  cup  of  butter,  %  cup  sweet 
milk,  1%  cups  granulated  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  3  squares  of  chocolate.    Mix  cake  and  add  chocolate  last. 

Ice  Cake  With  White  Icing. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  3  whites,  add  hot  water  to  sugar  and  cook 
till  almost  candy.  Whip  eggs  and  pour  over  the  syrup,  beating  rap- 
idly.  Add  a  little  flavoring. 

Cream  Cake. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  cups  of  flour,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.   Bake  in  2  layers. 


^flLLOTOS  AND  E€WG< 


Boiled  Frosting. 

One  pound  pulverized  sugar,  3  wine  glasses  of  cold  water, 
whites  of  4  eggs.  Pour  water  on  sugar,  leave  until  dissolved,  boil 
until  it  threads  from  a  spoon,  pour  over  eggs  and  beat  when  syrup 
becomes  lukewarm,  beat  30  minutes.  Flavor  icing  with  vanilla, 
orange  or  lemon  juice  or  almonds. 

Yellow  Frosting1. 

Use  preceding  recipe  for  frosting  and  substitute  yolks  of  eggs 
for  the  whites.  For  orange  or  lemon  cake  it  is  especially  nice. 

Almond  Frosting. 

One  pound  sweet  almonds,  3  coffee  cups  powdered  sugar,  whites 
of  3  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla.   Blanch  almonds  and  pound  to  a 

17 


258  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

paste,  adding  a  little  sugar,  then  add  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  sugar 
and  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly.  Ice  cake  and  place  in  a  cool  oven 
to  dry;  a  plain  icing  may  be  put  over  top  of  cake. 

Cream  Filling. 

One  pint  of  rich  milk,  %  cup  of  cornstarch  or  2y2  tablespoons 
of  sifted  flour,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs.  Put  more  than 
half  of  milk  to  boil,  mix  remainder  with  sugar,  -flour  and  eggs, 
then  pour  boiling  milk  over  sugar  and  eggs;  return  to  sauce,  cook 
until  of  good  consistency,  add  a  little  vanilla  when  cool.  One  cup 
of  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  to  the  filling.   Spread  on  layer  cake. 

Fruit  Filling. 

Four  tablespoons  of  raisins,  4  tablespoons  of  citron,  %  cup  of 
almonds,  %  pound  figs,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  icing  sugar.  Blanch 
and  chop  almonds  with  the  fruit,  beat  whites  and  add  gradually 
the  sugar  and  fruit  and  stir  hard.  When  cake  is  hot  spread  filling 
between  layers  of  the  cake. 

Cream  Filling. 

One  pint  of  thick  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cut 
a  loaf  of  cake  in  half  or  bake  layer  cake  in  jelly  tins.  Spread  with 
cream  filling.    Serve  at  once. 

Lemon  Filling. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  juice  of  1  lemon 
with  the  grated  rind,  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Beat  egg,  add  water  and 
lemon,  put  flour  with  sugar  and  pour  water  over  it  slowly  and  stir. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth  and  consistency  of  cream.  Use 
when  cool. 

Caramel  Filling. 

Three  cups  of  caramel  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  glass  of  cream. 
Boil  and  stir  until  thick.   Add  1  teaspoon  of  water. 

Cream  Filling. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  coffee  cup  of  water. 
Dissolve  and  boil  until  a  clear  syrup,  then  pour  over  beaten  whites 
of  3  eggs,  stir  rapidly  with  wire  whisk  until  all  has  been  added  to 
the  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla,  orange  or  lemon.  Spread  on  layer 
cake  or  mold  cake. 

Lemon  Filling. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  lemons,  yellow  from  the  rind  and 
the  juice,  2  eggs,  1  cup  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  sifted  flour. 
Mix  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  whites  and  lemon  juice.  Pour 
on  the  boiling  water,  stir  into  this  the  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  % 
cup  of  water,  then  add  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  cook  until  it 
thickens.    When  cold,  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  259 

Uncooked  Filling. 

The  juice  of  2  lemons  with  the  grated  rind,  2  cups  icing  sugar, 
whites  of  2  beaten  eggs."  Add  sugar  gradually  to  beaten  whites, 
with  lemon  juice,  beat  until  stiff.    Spread  on  layer  cake. 

Orange  Filling. 

Use  preceding  recipe,  for  cooked  or  uncooked  filling,  substitut- 
ing oranges  for  lemons. 

French  Almond  Paste. 

Blanch  1  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  with  6  bitter  almonds.  Dry 
thoroughly  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  moisten  them  gradually  with 
the  whites  of  2  eggs,  till  a  smooth  paste  is  formed.  Put  in  a  pan 
with  1  pound  pulverized  sugar,  over  a  clear  fire,  and  stir  until  the 
paste  is  dry;  then  remove  and  place  on  dishes.  It  may  be  spread 
over  a  cake,  or  cut  into  fancy  shape,  and  served  alone,  ornamented 
with  candied  cherries. 

Caramel  Filling. 

Use  same  recipe,  omitting  the  chocolate. 
Banana  Filling. 

Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Add  sugar  to  heat- 
ed whites,  stir  hard,  spread  filling  between  layers  of  cake,  then  place 
small  thin  slices  of  bananas  over  cake,  and  frost  the  top. 

A  Cheap,  Good  Icing. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  new  milk, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  ^  cake  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
sugar  and  milk  together,  then  put  in  saucepan,  when  it  comes  to 
boiling  point,  drop  in  chocolate  and  butter,  cook  until  tolerably 
thick,  remove  from  fire  and  add  vanilla.  Yolk  of  1  beaten  egg  may 
be  added  to  icing  while  cooking.  Beat  after  removing  from  fire. 
This  quantity  of  icing  is  sufficinet  to  ice  a  2-layer  cake. 

Pink  Coloring  For  Cake  and  Creams. 

One-half  ounce  of  cochineal,  y2  pound  granulated  sugar,  % 
ounce  alum,  y2  ounce  of  salts  of  tartar,  y2  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar, 
y2  pint  of  boiling  water.  Add  boiling  water  to  cochineal,  cream  of 
tartar  and  alum.  Put  in  porcelain  saucepan,  stir  and  place  on  back 
of  range  for  20  minutes,  as  it  should  not  boil,  add  salts  of  tartar 
gradually,  stirring  all  the  while,  then  add  sugar,  cook  for  a  few 
minutes.  Strain,  and  bottle  for  use.  One  or  two  teaspoons  are  used 
for  coloring,  according  to  depth  of  shade  required. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter,  %  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  of 


260  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

vanilla/  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  butter  and  chocolate, 
cook  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  After  re- 
moving from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  icing  is  stiff  enough  to 
spread  on  cake.  If  it  cooks  too  rapidly,  add  a  little  hot  milk  and 
stir  briskly. 

Marshmallow  Icing. 

Two  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  pound  fresh  marshmal- 
lows,  2  eggs,  1  cup  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Dissolve  sugar 
with  water  in  saucepan,  cook  until  it  strings.  Beat  whites,  add' 
marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces,  then  pour  over  in  the  boiling 
candy,  beat  hard,  until  cool  enough  to  spread  on  cake,  add  vanilla. 
Reserve  enough  marshmallows  to  decorate  cake,  cut  in  half,  put  on 
top  and  side   of  cake. 

Pistachio  Paste. 

To  the  marshmallow  paste  add  T3  of  a  cup  of  pistachio  nuts, 
chopped,  4  drops  of  extract  of  almond  and  leaf  green  to  color. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling. 

Five  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate,  enough  cream  or  milk  to 
moisten  it,  1  teacup  of  sugar,  1  egg;  stir  all  the  ingredients  over 
the  fire  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Beat  the  eggs  well  before  adding; 
after  removing  from  the  fire  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling. 

Five  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate,  enough  cream  or  milk  to 
moisten  it,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  stir  all  ingredients  over  fire  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  Beat  the  egg  well  before  adding,  after  remov- 
ing from  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Filling. 

Five  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  cream  or  sweet  milk,  2  squares 
of  chocolate,  1  tablespoon  molasses,  1  kitchen  spoon  butter.  Cook* 
until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water,  then  pour  on  the  beaten  whites 
of  3  eggs,  beat  hard  and  when  nearly  cold  ice  the  cake;  ornament 
top  with  pecan  kernels. 

Tutti-Frutti  Filling. 

Four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  pound 
seeded  raisins,  %  pound  citron,  1  pound  almonds,  *4  pound  figs. 
Moisten  sugar  with  water  and  boil  until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold 
water.  Have  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in  half,  and  rest  of  fruit 
chopped;  reserve  some  of  fruit  to  ornament  cake.  Pour  icing  on 
the  beaten  whites  and  fruit,  stirring  rapidly  with  an  egg  whisk; 
when  cool  spread  on  cake  and  ornament  with  rest  of  fruit.  This 
quantity  is  for  an  unusually  large  cake — half  the  amount  can  be 
used. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  261 

Marshmallow  Filling". 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  cream,  *4  pound  of 
marshmallows,  y±  pound  candied  pineapple.  Boil  sugar  and  cream 
until  almost  candy,  without  stirring;  then  remove  from  fire  and 
beat  very  hard.  Have  cherries  and  marshmallows  chopped  fine  and 
add  to  filling.   When  cool  spread  on  cake. 

Marshmallow  Paste. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  %  pound  of  marshmallows,  ^4  cup 
milk,  2  tablespoons  hot  water,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  sugar  and 
milk  in  saucepan,  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point  (without  stirring.) 
Boil  1  minute.  Break  marshmallows  in  pieces  and  melt  in  double 
boiler.  Add  hot  water.  Cook  until  mixture  is  smooth,  then  add  hot 
syrup  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Beat  until  cool.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.   This  may  be  used  for  both  filling  and  frosting. 

Filling. 

Boil  2  cups  granulated  sugar  with  2-3  cup  of  cream  for  10  min- 
utes; remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  smooth;  to  1-3  of  this  icing 
add  1  cup  of  grated  pineapple  to  spread  between  the  layers ;  to  rest 
icing  add  enough  pineapple  juice  to  make  it  of  right  consistency. 

Fig  Filling. 

Chop  fine  1  pound  of  figs,  boil  2%  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and 
1  cup  of  hot  water  ,until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water ;  then  pour 
over  figs  and  stir  rapidly.   Spread  on  top  and  side  of  cake. 

For  Frosting. 

One  coffee  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  2 
tablespoons  of  water  or  milk,  use  any  flavor  preferred.  Mix  well, 
as  it  does  not  require  to  be  cooked.  Use  a  broad  knife,  immersed 
in  cold  water  to  spread  on  the  frosting. 

Chocolate  Filling-. 

One  pint  new  milk,  y2  pint  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  3  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate.  Put  milk  in 
saucepan  with  chocolate  and  half  of  sugar.  Beat  yolk  and  add  rest 
of  sugar  and  a  little  cold  water,  flour  and  salt.  Stir  until  smooth. 
When  chocolate  has  dissolved  add  the  flour;  stir  constantly  until 
it  boils  and  thickens;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  cool  spread  be- 
tween layers  of  cake. 

Filling. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  2  whites  beaten  light,  1  tablespoon  orf 
butter,  iy2  coffee  cups  of  granluated  sugar,  5  tablespoons  of  corn- 
starch or  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and 
cornstarch,  moistened  with  milk,  pouring  boiling  hot  over  eggs; 


262  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

stir  well  and  return  to  double  boiler.    Cook  until  consistency  of 
cream ;  stir  constantly.    When  cool  enough  spread  on  cake. 

Filling. 

One  quart  of  new  milk  boiled,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  iy2  cups  of  sugar,  5  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  or  flour, 
season  with  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  then  milk,  and 
when  hot  the  cornstarch  moistened  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Put  be- 
tween layers  over  the  top  and  side.  Have  saucepan  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  while  cooking. 

In  making  a  jam  cake,  pecans,  citron  and  raisins  are  quite  an 
addition,  as  it  compares  favorably  with  a  black  cake. 

Chocolate  Cake  Icing. 

One-third  of  a  package  of  chocolate,  grated,  1  egg,  well  beaten 
and  stirred  into  it,  1  pint  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  new  milk  boiled. 
Add  other  ingredients  to  boiled  milk  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Put 
on  stove  and  stir  until  of  proper  consistency.  Beat  well  after  re- 
moving from  the  fire. 

Icing. 

Two  teacups  of  granulated  sugar,  dissolved  in  1  teacup  of 
cream,  add  to  it  ^4  cake  of  melted  chocolate,  butter  size  of  an  eggf 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Cook  until  it  strings;  remove 
from  fire  and  add  the  vanilla.    Beat  until  cold  enough  to  ice  cake. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Two  teacups  of  granulated  sugar,  ^  cake  chocolate,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  teacup  of  cream,  whites  of  2  beaten  eggs. 
Dissolve  sugar  with  milk,  put  in  double  boiler  and  add  butter,  stir 
in  sugar  and  cook  until  it  strings. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

One-fourth  pound  of  grated  sweet  chocolate,  %  pound  of  pow-» 
dered  sugar,  %  cup  of  boiling  water.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  boil- 
ing water,  add  water  and  sugar,  stir  until  smooth.  Add  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Peppermint  Icing. 

Two  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  pound  of  almonds,  ^4 
pound  peppermint  stick  candy,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Make  a  boiled 
icing  with  the  sugar  and  enough  cold  water  to  moisten;  cook  until 
it  strings.  Blanch  almonds  and  roll  fine;  crush  the  candy  and  mix 
together.  Have  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  add  almonds  and  candy 
and  pour  over  gradually  the  icing,  stir  rapidly  with  a  wire  whisk 
when  cool,  ice  the  cakes  and  decorate  top  with  split  almonds.  Cakes 
may  be  iced  and  pulverized  almonds  and  candy  spread  between 
lavers. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  263 

Tutti  Fruitti  Icing". 

Add  to  boiled  icing,  1  ounce  of  candied  cherries,  1  ounce  chop- 
ped citron,  1  ounce  candied  pineapple,  seeded  raisins,  and  blanched 
almonds.  Any  of  these  fruits  may  be  added,  in  proportion  as  pre- 
ferred. In  making  cooked  fillings  for  cakes,  place  dish  with  filling  in 
pan  of  hot  water.    As  it  avoids  danger  of  scalding. 

Icing'. 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  3  teacups  of  granulated  sugar.  Moisten  sugar 
with  1  teacup  of  water  and  put  in  saucepan  to  boil.  Beat  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Have  %  pound  of  marshmallows,  cut  in  small  pieces; 
when  the  sugar  candies  pour  over  the  eggs  and  marshmallows  slow- 
ly and  beat  until  smooth;  spread  on  cake.  Ornament  top  of  cake 
with  marshmallows  cut  in  half.         , 

Icing. 

Three  coffee  cups  granulated  sugar,  moisten  with  1  cup  of 
water;  cook  until  it  string's,  then  pour  over  3  well-beaten  whites. 
Beat  until  cold  enough  to  ice  the  cakes. 

White  Icing. 

Take  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  moisten  with  cold  water. 
Put  on  and  cook  until  it  drops  hard  in  water.  Have  the  whites  of 
3  eggs  well  beaten  and  pour  the  icing  gradually  over  them,  stirring 
rapidly.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  To  the  above  icing  add  tutti-frutti 
icing,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins  and  1  cup  of  chopped  almonds  when 
it  begins  to  cool. 


AUC 


Fruit  Sauce. 

Strawberries,  raspberries,  apricots  and  peaches  make  excellent 
sauce  for  puddings.  Use  the  fruit  preferred.  Mash  and  press 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Sweeten  to  taste.  If  it  is  to  be  served  hot, 
let  come  to  boiling  point  and  allow  1  teaspoon  of  arrow  root  to  each 
cup  of  the  liquid. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  strawberries,  1  orange,  1  banana,  juice  of  1  lemon, 
2  teaspoons  of  grated  cocoanut,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1%  cups  of  water, 
2  teaspoons  of  arrow  root.  Mix  sugar  and  arrow  root ;  add  water 
and  boil  5  minutes,  then  add  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  little  orange 
or  lemon,  and  cook  5  minutes.     Set  on  ice. 


264  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Pineapple  Sauce. 

Chop  fresh  or  canned  pineapple,  thicken  with  arrow  root;  add 
sugar  to  taste.    Let  boil  a  minute.    Serve  with  pudding. 

Sauce. 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  1. tumbler  of  water,  %  of  a  pound 
of  butter.  Add  flour  (just  a  little)  and  blend  with  the  butter.  Put 
in  a  saucepan  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  stirring  all  the  while  until  of 
right  consistency,  then  serve. 

Sauce  for  Cake. 

One  pint  granulated  sugar,  y2  teacup  of  rich  cream,  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  whisky,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Beat  eggs  separately  and 
cook  the  sauce  slowly  in  a  double  boiler,  add  whisky  after  removing 
from  the  fire. 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  cream,  y2  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
or  vanilla,  white  of  1  egg.  Mix  cream,  vanilla  and  sugar,  whip  with 
wire  whisk  until  stiff,  then  add  the  beaten  white  and  stir.  Serve 
with  hot  cake  or  pudding. 

Ice  Cream  Sauce. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  boiling  milk,  whites 
of  2  eggs,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Beat  whites  until  foamy,  but  not  dry; 
add  the  sugar,  beat  hard,  then  add  hot  milk  and  lemon  juice. 

A  Rich  Sauce. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2 
tablespoons  sherry  wine,  %  cup  boiling  water,  white  of  1  egg.  Cream 
butter,  add  sugar,  vanilla  and  wine;  just  before  serving  add  the 
boiling  water:  stir  well,  add  the  egg  and  beat  until  foamy. 

Sauce. 

One  pint  granulated  sugar,  y2  teacup  of  rich  cream,  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  whisky,  y2  nutmeg.  Beat  eggs  separately  and  cook  sauce 
slowly  in  double  boiler.   When  ready  to  serve  add  the  whisky. 

Sauce. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  cream. 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  stir  wellj  then  add  cream.  Flavor 
with  1  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  sherry  wine  or  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Caramel  Sauce. 

Two  teacups  of  brown  sugar,  with  enough  water  to  moisten 
it,  put  in  a  saucepan  and  set  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Cook  until  toler- 
ably thick.    Serve  hot. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  265 


Chocolate  Sauce. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  new  milk,  butter  size  of  a 
walnut.  Put  on  fire  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Have  on  stove  %  cake 
of  chocolate  which  has  been  melted,  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter. 
Let  it  get  tolerably  thick.  When  nearly  cold  add  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.    Serve  lukewarm  with  ice  cream. 

Wine  Sauce. 

Take  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  into  it  1  tablespoon  of 
cornstarch  which  must  be  moistened  with  cold  water.  After  this 
boils  10  minutes,  add  %  cup  of  sherry  wine.  Cream  1  cup  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  egg  and  pour  boiling 
mixture  over  sugar  and  egg;  stir  quickly  until  smooth.  Serve  at 
once. 

Sauce. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  %  cup  of  cream. 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  stir  well,  then  cream.  Flavor  with  1 
wine  glass  of  brandy  or  sherry  wine,  or  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Sauce. 

Two  ounces  of  Baker's  chocolate,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  enough 
water  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Then  add  2  teacups  of  brown  sugar, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  cup  of  cream ;  put  on  the  fire 
and  boil,  until  it  begins  to  thicken ;  take  off  and  add  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.     Serve  with  ice  cream. 

White  Wine  Sauce. 

"Whites  of  2  unbeaten  eggs  and  iy2  cups  of  granulated  sugar. 
Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar  and  beat 
hard ;  then  3  tablespoons  of  white  wine:  and  2-3  cup  of  thick  cream ; 
stir  until  smooth. 

Sauce. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg,  1%  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  2 
eggs,  %  cup  of  sherrj^  wine.  Beat  yolks  light,  and  add  the  sugar 
gradually,  then  wine  slowly.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler,  but  do  not 
boil.  Just  before  serving  add  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  froth  (it 
should  be  perfectly  smooth).     Serve  hot  with  cake  or  puddings. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream, 
1  wine  glass  of  brandy.  Add  enough  water  to  moisten  sugar ;  when 
nearly  done  add  the  butter,  and  just  before  serving,  the  brandy. 

Chocolate  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  milk,  %  pint  of  Baker's  chocolate,  y2  cup  of  sugar. 
Cook  in  double  boiler;  stir  until  smooth. 


266  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Sauce  for  Puddings  or  Rolls. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  iy2  cups  water,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour.  Put  sugar  and  butter  in  pan 
and  brown,  then  add  water  and  flour;  cook  until  of  right  consistency. 

Sauce. 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter.  Blend 
together,  then  put  in  a  bowl,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  a  little  cream,  when  of  right  consistency  remove 
from  fire  and  add  a  wine  glass  of  sherry  or  brandy. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  strawberries,  1  orange,  1  banana,  juice  of  1  lemon, 
2  teaspoons  of  grated  cocoanut,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1%  cups  of  water, 
2  teaspoons  of  arrow  root.  Mix  sugar  and  arrow  root;  add  water 
and  boil  5  minutes,  then  add  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  little  orange 
or  lemon,  and  cook  5  minutes.    Set  on  ice. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  1  wine  glass  of 
brandy,  a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Warm  butter  slightly,  and 
work  to  a  cream  with  the  sugar,  and  spices.  Beat  hard  and  leave 
until  wanted.    Add  brandy  when  ready  to  serve. 

Wine  Sauce. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  dessertspoon 
butter,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cornstarch.  Make  cornstarch  into  a 
paste  with  cold  water,  then  add  to  sugar  and  boiling  water,  and 
butter.  Boil  10  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  and  when  cool,  add  y% 
cup  of  brandy  or  wine. 

A  Rich  Sauce. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  %  cup  sherry  wine. 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  add  the  wine  which  must 
be  hot,  a  little  at  a  time,  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Place  the  bowl 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  stir  for  3  minutes.  The  sauce  should 
be  smooth. 

Sauce  For  Pudding". 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  1  large  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter.  Beat  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar 
and  butter.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor 
with  sherry  wine  or  lemon. 

Sweet   Sauce. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  creamed  butter,  1  egg  beaten 
separately,  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Put  in  bowl  and  cook  in  pan  of 
hot  water.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  2  tablespoons  of  whisky,  or 
flavor  with  lemon. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  267 


Hard  Sauce. 

Cream  4  ounces  of  butter,  and  4  ounces  of  granulated  sugar  to- 
e-ether. When  light,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  top,  and  set  in  ice  box 
1  hour  to  chill.  Two  tablespoons  wine  or  brandy  may  be  stirred  in, 
when  ready  to  serve. 

Strawberry  Sauce. 

Cream  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  gradually  iy2  cups 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Beat  until  very 
light,  and  just  before  serving  add  1  pint  of  mashed  strawberries. 

Caramel  Sauce. 

Brown  in  a  skillet,  1  pint  of  light  brown  sugar,  and  dissolve 
in  y2  Pmt  of  hot  water.    Cook  a  few  minutes,  until  it  thickens. 

Sugar  Sauce. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  1  dessertspoon  but- 
ter, 1  dessertspoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Mix  ingredients, 
cook  in  bowl  over  hot  water,  until  of  good  consistency. 

Rum  Sauce. 

Three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  \y2  tablespoons  of  flour,  iy2  cups  of 
milk,  1  wine  glass  of  rum.  Mix  flour  and  sugar  together  with  a  lit- 
tle milk,  then  add  rest  of  milk.  Cook  in  bowl  over  hot  water,  until 
of  right  consistency.    Add  rum  after  removing  from  the  fire. 

Plain  Sauce. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  water,  1  dessertspoon  but- 
ter. Mix  well  and  boil  until  the  consistency  of  syrup.  Flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla. 

Custard  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  flavor 
with  brandy  or  wine.  Heat  milk  to  boiling  point,  gradually  add 
the  beaten  eggs,  and  sugar,  flavor  and  put  over  hot  water  to  cook 
until  of  good  consistency. 

Sauce  for  Cake. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  egg,  1  dessertspoon  butter,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Beat  all  together,  and 
pour  in  y2  pint  boiling  milk  or  water.  Cook  in  china  bowl,  over 
hot  water,  until  of  good  consistency. 

Hard  Sauce. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  y>  cup  butter.  Cream  butter  until 
light,  then  add  the  sugar.  Flavor  sauce  with  rum,  or  juice  of  fresh 
strawberries  or  raspberries.    Serve  with  cakes  or  delicate  puddings. 


268  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Jelly  Sauce. 

Melt  2y2  tablespoons  jelly  and  2y2  tablespoons  sugar  in  sauce- 
pan over  boiling  water.  Then  add  2  dessertspoons  butter,  with  1 
teaspoon  cornstarch,  which  must  be  made  into  a  paste  with  cold 
water.  Let  sauce  come  to  boiling  point.  Keep  warm  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Sauce  For  Pudding. 

One  heaping  teaspoon  cornstarch,  rub  smooth  in  cold  water. 
Prepare  in  a  coffee  cup,  adding  slowly  boiling  water  until  the  cup  is 
full,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  set  on  back  of  range.  Beat  together 
1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  egg  in  a  china  bowl.  Add  slowly  the  corn- 
starch, stirring  well.  Flavor  with  brandy,  vanilla  or  lemon.  If 
served  hot,  place  on  back  of  range.  If  preferred  cold,  set  on  ice  until 
wanted. 

Cocoanut  Sauce. 

Scald  1  pint  of  dessicated  cocoanut,  and  leave  for  6  hours.  Then 
remove  cream  carefully  from  the  surface,  and  put  in  a  cold  bowl, 
heat  rapidly,  add  gradually  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  dash  of 
nutmeg.    Put  in  sauce  bowl,  and  place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Liquid  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  juice  from  cocoanut,  y2  tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  1 
heaping  dessertspoon  cornstarch.  Put  cocoanut  milk  in  double  boil- 
er, with  the  jelly,  and  when  hot,  add  the  cornstarch  moistened  with 
cold  water.  Stir  until  of  good  consistency,  then  add  %  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar.     Stir  a  few  minutes,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  2 
eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  brandy,  and  *4  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  whites  of  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  without  beat- 
ing, then  the  brandy.  Place  bowl  in  hot  water,  and  stir  until  frothy. 
Serve  with  cakes  or  puddings. 

Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  when  creamy,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks. 
Stir  into  this  1  wine  glass  of  brandy,  1  cup  of  hot  cream,  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Beat  mixture  thoroughly,  then  put  in  saucepan  over  hot  water, 
stir  until  of  a  good  consistency.  It  must  not  boil.  Serve  with  plum 
pudding. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  egg,  juice  of  1 
lemon  with  the  grated  rind,  y2  cup  of  boiling  water.  Put  in  sauce- 
pan over  hot  water,  and  cook  until  it  thickens. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  269 

Lemon  Cream  Sauce. 

One-half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  4  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  of  wheat  flour  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  lemon  juice  with  the  grated  rind,  stir  well.  Serve  hot 
with  cakes  or  puddings. 

Orange  Cream  Sauce. 

Use  preceding  recipe,  and  substitute  orange  for  lemon. 

Caramel  Sauce. 

Four  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  water. 
Put  ingredients  in  a  hot  saucepan,  stir  continuously  until  a  chest- 
nut brown.  Add  to  it  1  cup  of  sugar  dissolved  in  1  pint  of  water, 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  simmer  10  minutes.  Add  y2  glass  of 
brandy  or  wine. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  apricot  juice,  or  juice 
of  any  other  fruit,  1  teaspoon  flour.  Mix,  and  boil  all  together  5 
minutes,  then  strain  and  serve. 

Yellow  Sauce. 

One-fourth  pound  of  light  brown  sugar,  %  pound  butter,  1  wine 
glass  of  brandy,  yolk  of  1  egg,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Cream  butter,  add 
sugar,  and  stir  over  hot  water  until  melted,  add  beaten  yolk.  Stir 
until  it  thickens,  then  serve  at  once. 

Wine  Sauce. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  14  cup  butter,  2 
heaping  teaspoons  cornstarch,  y2  cup  sherry  wine,  1  egg,  a  dash  of 
nutmeg.  Dissolve  cornstarch,  and  stir  into  boiling  water,  and  boil. 
Cream  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  egg  well  beaten,  and 
nutmeg.  After  cornstarch  cooks  10  minutes,  add  wine,  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  butter,  sugar  and  egg,  stir  until  well  mixed. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  hot  water,  1  heaping  des- 
sertspoon cornstarch,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  heaping 
dessertspoon  butter.  Boil  water  and  sugar  5  minutes,  then  add  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  cold  water.  Cook  10  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  while,  add  butter,  and  lemon,  stir  until  butter  is  melted.  Serve 
at  once. 

A  Favorite  Sauce. 

Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  cream  until  light. 
Flavor  with  wine  or  brandy  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 

Cream  Sauce. 

One-half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  tablespoons 


270  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

of  wine,  and  2  tablespoons  of  rich  cream.  Cream  butter,  add  the 
sugar  slowly,  then  wine  and  cream.  Beat  well,  put  in  bowl  over 
hot  water,  stir  until  creamy,  but  it  should  not  melt  the  butter.  Serve 
at  once. 

Egg  Sauce. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  until  very  light,  add  a  lump  of  but- 
ter size  of  a  small  egg,  %  teacup  of  sherry  wine  and  1  pint  of  light 
brown  sugar.  Place  cup  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  put  on  stove.  Keep 
very  hot  until  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Stir  very  frequently  to  prevent  the  sugar  from  settling  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  cup. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Soak  1  ounce  of  gelatine  1  hour,  in  2  teacups  of  cold  water, 
then  put  in  saucepan  to  heat  until  dissolved.  Pour  into  a  large  dish 
and  beat  with  a  wire  whisk  until  thoroughly  stiff.  Sweeten  3  cups 
of  rich  cream,  and  beat  until  stiff,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Add  to  this 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  then  the  gelatine.  Mix  well,  put 
in  glass  dish,  line  with  lady  fingers,  set  on  ice  to  congeal. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Churn  1  quart  of  cream,  and  place  whips  on  a  sifter,  set  on  a 
large  flat  dish.  Then  take  %  b°x  of  gelatine  and  pour  over  it  %  pint 
cold  water;  let  remain  1  hour,  put  in  saucepan,  add  %  pint  of  hot 
water;  cook  until  reduced  to  %  pint.  Have  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten 
to  a  cream,  with  y2  pint  granulated  sugar.  Pour  gradually  the  hot 
gelatine  on  sugar  and  eggs.  Stir  well  to  prevent  lumping,  then  re- 
turn to  saucepan,  and  cook  until  tolerably  thick.  Any  cream  that 
drains  from  whips  may  be  added  to  gelatine  and  cooked.  When 
lukewarm  add  1%  teaspoons  of  vanilla.  Have  bowl  lined  with  lady 
fingers,  when  mixture  is  cool,  stir  rapidly  into  the  whipped  cream. 

Decorate  charlotte  russe  with  candied  cherries.  "When  serving 
put  over  each  plate,  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine  or  rum  and  some  whip- 
ped cream. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Half  pound  of  white  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  %  of  a  box  of  gel- 
atine, %  gallon  of  cream.  Take  gelatine  and  pour  over  it  1  teacup 
of  water.  Beat  yolks  and  add  sugar,  then  gelatine.  Put  on  stove 
and  cook  until  thick  as  mush.  Have  cream  whipped  and  what  drips 
from  it  pour  in  this  custard.  When  custard  gets  cool,  add  whips  as 
fast  as  possible.  Have  a  pan  lined  with  lady  fingers,  when  cold,  turn 
out  on  a  flat  dish. 

Ambrosia. 

Take  6  sweet  oranges,  slice  and  remove  the  seed.  Peel  and  shred 
1  pineapple.  Grate  1  eocoanut.  Arrange  on  glass  dish  in  alternate 
layers.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top  of  each  layer:  cover  top 
with  the  eocoanut  and  sugar.  Serve  very  cold.  A  half  glass  of 
sherry  wine  may  be  poured  over  fruit  if  desired. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  271 

Meringues  and  Whipped  Cream. 

Take  enough  fresh  egg  kisses  to  fill  a  bowl  and  crush  them.  Then 
put  alternate  layers  of  kisses  and  the  whipped^ cream  until  dish  is 
full.    Decorate  top  with  candied  cherries. 

Wine  Jelly. 

Take  box  of  gelatine  and  pour  on  it  1%  pints  of  cold  water.  Let 
stand  several  hours,  then  add  2y2  pints  of  hot  water,  stir  until  dis- 
solved. Add  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  the  shells  of  2  eggs,  the 
juice  of  2  lemons,  y±  stick  of  cinnamon  and  12  seeded  raisins.  Put  on 
stove  to  boil.  When  it  begins  bubbling  add  1  pint  of  wine  and  1 
wine  glass  of  whisky.  Let  cook  15  minutes.  Strain  3  times  through 
a  flannel  bag.  Have  molds  rinsed  with  cold  water  and  ready  for 
jelly.    Set  on  ice  to  congeal. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  1  pound  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  cold 
water,  2  pints  of  boiling  water,  12  raisins  with  stems  removed,  juice 
of  2  lemons,  Y±  stick  of  cinnamon,  1  pint  of  wine,  1  wine  glass 
whisky,  the  washed  shell  of  1  egg  broken  in  pieces.  Put  gelatine  in 
the  cold  water  and  leave  for  12  hours.  Then  add  the  boiling  water, 
sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  raisins,  and  put  in  porcelain  kettle.  When 
it  begins  to  bubble,  add  the  wine  and  whisky  and  boil  15  minutes. 
Strain  3  times  through  jelly  bag.  Put  in  mold,  previously  filled  with 
cold  water.  Set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  with  rich  cream,  lightly 
sweetened. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine.  2  teacups  of  granulated  sugar,  Yi  pint 
of  cold  water,  l1/^  pints  of  boiling  water,  %  pint  of  wine,  juice  of  4 
lemons.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  1  hour,  then  pour  in  the  hot 
water;  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  when  it  boils,  the  wine.  Boil  15 
minutes,  strain  and  set  on  ice  to  congeal. 

Spanish  Jelly. 

One-half  a  box  of  gelatine,  %  coffee  cup  cold  water,  juice  and 
rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar, 
1  pint  orange  juice,  1  coffee  cup  candied  fruits,  or  sections  of 
oranges.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  until  soft,  also  yellow 
part  from  rind  of  lemon.  Add  boiling  water  to  gelatine,  with  lemon 
and  orange  juice.  Strain  jelly  into  pitcher,  then  pour  in  mold  H 
inch  deep;  when  it  hardens  add  a  layer  of  fruit,  then  cover  with 
more  jelly;  when  it  stiffens  another  layer  of  fruit,  alternating  until 
all  jelly  has  been  added.  The  jelly  in  pitcher  must  be  kept  in  a 
liquid  state,  but  not  hot.  Otherwise  jelly  would  be  rough.  Pack 
mold  in  ice  and  salt  and  leave  to  congeal.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
lightly  sweetened. 


272  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Ice  Cream. 

For  1  gallon  of  cream,  use  1  pint  of  the  above  jelly,  and  add  it 
when  the  cream  begins  to  freeze. 

Jelly  Pudding  and  Cream. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  cold  water,  y2  pint  whisky,  6 
oranges,  a  few  cloves,  a  little  mace,  juice  of  6  lemons,  1  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  the  well-beaten  whites  and  shells  of  2  eggs,  1 
cup  raisins  chopped,  y±  pound  of  thinly  sliced  citron,  y2  can  Cali- 
fornia cherries.  Pour  the  cold  water  over  gelatine  and  let  soak  y2 
hour ;  put  all  of  the  ingredients  in  kettle  and  let  it  boil  hard  for  20 
minutes,  then  pour  through  flannel  bag  several  times.  Put  in  shal- 
low dish  to  congeal.  Just  before  it  hardens  have  ready  a  large  mold, 
into  which  you  put  the  fruit,  dip  the  half  congealed  jelly  with  a 
spoon  and  put  in  this  mold,  set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  on  a  flat 
dish,  surrounded  with  whipped  cream,  then  add  more  whipped 
cream  when  serving. 

Fruit  Dessert. 

Take  as  many  oranges  as  there  are  covers.  Remove  sections  of 
oranges,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Have  equal  quantity  of  Malaga 
grapes,  cut  in  half  and  remove  the  seed.  Mix  fruit  and  add  pulver- 
ized sugar;  pour  over  sherry  wine,  and  set  aside. 

Shape  orange  peel  into  basket,  and  fill  with  the  fruit,  and  serve 
immediately  with  a  delicate  cake. 

Smothered  Figs. 

Three  cups  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch.  When  milk  boils  put  al- 
ternate layers  of  custard  and  figs.  Ice  the  top  and  serve  cold  with 
cream. 

Orange  Jelly. 

Eight  oranges,  2  lemons,  %  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  soaked  in  y2 
pint  of  cold  water,  %  pound  of  white  sugar,  1  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  in  whites  and  shells  of  2  eggs.  Rub  sugar  on  peel  of  2  oranges 
and  lemon.  Squeeze  juice  from  6  or  7  oranges  and  2  lemons,  and 
strain.  Take  off  carefully,  the  peel  of  2  oranges  leaving  only  the 
transparent  skin  surrounding  the  quarters.  Separate  all  sections 
without  breaking  them.  Soak  gelatine  %  hour  in  y2  pint  of  water 
and  sugar  together.  Take  off  all  skimming,  then  put  in  sections  of 
oranges.  When  boiled  1  minute  take  out  and  lay  aside.  Pour  this 
syrup  over  the  soaked  gelatine,  adding  the  orange  and  lemon  juice, 
the  beaten  whites  and  shells  of  eggs.  Put  this  on  stove  and  allow 
to  boil  y&  of  a  minute  without  stirring.  Take  off  all  skimming  and 
strain  through  jelly  bag.  When  y2  of  jelly  is  in  mold,  put  on  the 
ice  and  let  it  get  hard  enough  to  hold  the  orange  sections  which 
place  in  a  circular  row  around  the  edge  of  mold.    Then  add  enough 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  273 

jelly  to  cover  the  sections.  Serve  with  either  whipped  cream  or  if 
you  prefer,  can  pour  over  the  whole  a  wine  glass  of  sherry  and 
not  use  the  cream. 

Ebony  Cream. 

One  box  of  gelatine.  Pour  on  it  1  pint  of  cold  water,  V/2  pints 
of  hot  water,  then  strain.  Add  iy±  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 
juice  of  2  lemons  and  y2  teaspoon  extract  of  lemon.  Let  stand  1 
hour,  then  boil.  Take  1  pound  of  prunes  and  soak  2  hours.  Cook 
and  stone  them  and'  add  4  ounces  of  sugar  to  the  prunes.  "When 
done  add  them  to  gelatine,  fill  mold  and  set  to  congeal.  Turn  out 
on  a  flat  dish  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Take  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes ;  heat  until  they  come  to  boiling  j 
then  strain  through  a  colander  until  all  seed  are  out.  Pour  into  this 
y2  box  of  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved  in  cold  water,  then  let 
this  mixture  come  to  boiling  point ;  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Cool  thoroughly;  then 
pour  into  a  melon  mold  to  congeal.    Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Orange  Jelly. 

Pour  1  cup  of  cold  water  over  y2  box  of  gelatine;  halve  6 
oranges,  remove  the  pulp,  leaving  the  skins  intact ;  drop  them  in  ice 
water;  stir  thoroughly  y2  pint  of  boiling  water,  6  tablespoons  of 
granulated  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons,  the  orange  (pulp  and  juice), 
nutmeg,  and  gelatine.  Strain  it,  wipe  the  orange  skins  dry  and  fill 
with  the  mixture.    Set  on  ice  to  congeal. 

Macaroon  Custard. 

One-fourth  pound  of  stale  macaroons  rolled  fine,  1  teaspoon  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Separate  3  eggs.  Add  4  table- 
spoon of  granulated  sugar  to  the  yolks,  beat  light  and  pour  slowly 
into  1  pint  of  milk  brought  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  double  boiler. 
Add  the  gelatine,  then  the  macaroons.  When  a  little  cool,  stir  in  the 
beaten  whites  and  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine.  Set  in  the  refrig- 
erator until  ready  to  serve. 

Baked  Custard. 

One  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  milk, 
yolks  of  12  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  light.  Put 
cream  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  set  on  stove.  Cut  into  it  y2  vanil- 
la bean.  Let  it  get  scalding  hot  and  pour  on  the  eggs  and  sugar. 
Fill  12  custard  cups  with  the  mixture,  and  place  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water.  "When  half  done  set  a  pan  of  hot  water  over  custard  and 
cook  about  20  minutes. 

18 


274  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Calves  Foot  Jelly. 

Prepare  and  wash  4  calves  feet,  put  in  pot  with  1  gallon  of 
cold  water,  and  simmer  5  hours,  then  pour  in  bowl.  When  cold  re- 
move the  grease,  put  jelly  in  porcelain  kettle,  adding  1  pound  loaf 
sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Dissolve  sugar,  add  whites 
of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  with  their  shells,  and  1  wineglass  of  cold 
water,  boil  7  minutes  or  until  clear ;  then  add  a  half  tumbler  of  Ma- 
deira wine,  boil  1  minute  then  strain  through  flannel  bag  into  mold. 

Orange  Cups. 

Cut  oranges  in  half,  and  with  spoon  scoop  out  pulp  and  juice, 
place  the  peels  in  a  pan  of  ice.  Take  an  equal  amount  of  Malaga 
grapes  and  bananas,  peel  and  cut  in  half.  Mix  the  juice  of  3  oranges, 
and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar,  and  add  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Fill  the  peel  with  the  fruit,  pour  over  this  mixture, 
and  put  two  spoons  of  whipped  cream  on  each  cup.  Serve  very 
cold. 

Jelly. 

One  package  of  gelatine,  2  quarts  of  boiling  water,  1%  pints  of 
granulated  sugar,  %  pint  of  sherry  wine,  1  tablespoon  of  brandy  or 
whisky.  Add  wine  after  it  boils,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Cook  until  clear 
and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Have  mold  filled  with  cold  water, 
pour  out  and  fill  with  the  jelly;  set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Jelly. 

Take  1  box  of  gelatine  and  pour  on  1%  pints  cold  water;  let 
soak  1  hour.  Chop  and  drain  1  quart  of  canned  or  fresh  peaches. 
Add  to  it,  the  juice  of  4  oranges,  2  sliced  bananas,  and  ^  cupful 
granulated  sugar.  To  the  gelatine,  add  V/2  pints  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pour  over  the  fruit.  Put  into  a 
mold,  and  set  on  ice  to  congeal.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  on  a 
flat  dish.     Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Cream. 

Take  1  pint  of  heavy  cream,  and  add  to  it  %  cupful  powdered 
sugar.  Whip  cream  stiff,  then  chop  some  candied  cherries  and  al- 
monds, and  spread  over  the  cream,  and  dust  thickly  with  powdered 
sugar.    Serve  at  once. 

Orange  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  %  box  of  gelatine,  %  cup  of  cold  water,  juice 
of  6  oranges,  and  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges,  iy2  cups  granulated 
sugar,  yolks  of  6  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water,  and  grate  over 
the  orange  rind.  Strain  the  orange  juice,  and  add  the  sugar.  Put 
%  pint  of  plain  cream  in  double  boiler,  heat  and  pour  over  well- 
beaten  yolks,  return  to  saucepan,  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
add  the  gelatine.     Remove  from  fire,  and  leave  for  2  minutes,  then 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  275 


add  orange  juice  and  sugar.  Beat  all  together  until  the  consistency 
of  soft  custard,  add  whipped  cream  and  mix  well.  Turn  into  mold 
to  harden.     Serve  with  cream,  lightly  sweetened. 

Calves  Feet  Jelly. 

Boil  2  calves  feet  in  1  gallon  of  water  until  it  is  reduced  to  1 
quart,  then  strain  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  Skim  off  all  fat  and 
take  up  the  jelly  carefully.  If  there  is  sediment  in  the  bottom,  leave 
it.  Put  the  jelly  in  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  wine,  %  pound  loaf 
sugar,  the  juice  of  4  lemons.  Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  very  stiff 
then  put  into  saucepan.  Stir  all  well  together  and  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  several  times  until  perfectly 
clear.  Have  a  china  bowl  with  some  of  the  lemon  peel  cut  thin.  Take 
a  silver  spoon  and  fill  glasses. 

Velvet  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  milk,  14  ounces  of  sugar,  y±  box  gel- 
atine, y<z  pint  sherry  wine.  Soak  gelatine  in  milk  half  an  hour.  Put 
in  double  boiler,  add  sugar,  set  on  range,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
"While  warm,  add  whipped  cream  and  wine.    Put  in  mold  to  harden. 

Whipped  Jelly  With  Fruits. 

Prepare  2  cups  of  preserved  pineapple,  peaches  and  berries ;  cut 
the  peaches  in  pieces.  Make  1  quart  of  gelatine  jelly.  When  it  be- 
gins to  congeal,  stir  in  the  fruits,  whip  with  an  egg  beater,  and  pour 
in  mold  to  harden. 

Jellied  Fruit. 

Two  oranges,  2  bananas,  1%  dozen  candied  cherries,  1%  dozen 
blanched  almonds,  1  ounce  gelatine,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  y%  lemon, 
1  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  sherry  wine. 
Dice  fruit  and  nuts,  put  in  a  glass  bowl,  and  mix  well.  Soak  gela- 
tine in  the  cold  water  1  hour,  then  add  hot  water,  sugar,  lemon  juice 
and  sherry  wine.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Pour  slowly  over  the  fruit, 
and  set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream.  Any 
mixture  of  fresh  fruits  may  be  used  in  same  way.  Raisins  may  be 
substituted  for  cherries,  peaches  or  pears  used  alone. 

Orange  Jelly. 

Use  wine  jelly  recipe  for  orange  jelly,  except  use  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  juice  of  6  oranges.  Cut  oranges  in  halves  and  be  careful 
not  to  break  the  peel.  Remove  the  pulp  and  juice.  When  jelly  is 
finished  and  cool,  fill  the  peel  with  it  and  place  on  ice  to  congeal. 
Serve  with  game  or  as  a  dessert. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  1%  pints  cold  water,  3  pints  boiling  water, 
1  pint  wine,l  pound  and  1  teacup  granulated  sugar,  2  lemons,  %  stick 


276  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 


of  cinnamon,  1  wine  glass  whiskey,  12  seeded  raisins.  Dissolve  gela- 
tine in  the  cold  water,  then  put  rest  of  ingredients  in  procelain  ket- 
tle, except  wine.  When  it  begins  to  bubble,  add  the  wine  and  boil 
15  minutes.  Strain  3  times  through  flannel  bag,  then  put  in  mold, 
previously  filled  with  cold  water,  and  set  to  congeal.  Serve  with 
plain  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

A  French  Pudding. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  2  oranges, 
9  dates,  6  figs,  12  blanched  almonds,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Dissolve 
gelatine  in  y2  pint  cold  water  for  1  hour,  then  add  y2  pint  boiling 
water,  and  the  lemon  juice.  Strain,  and  set  aside  until  it  begins  to 
harden,  chop  fruit  coarsely  and  leave  the  nuts  whole.  Set  on  ice  to 
congeal.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  lightly  sweetened  and  flavored 
with  vanilla  or  rum. 

Jelly  For  Summer. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  cold  water,  2y2  pints  boiling 
water,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  y2  stick  cinnamon,  1 
pound  and  1  teacup  of  loaf  sugar,  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  1  pint  of 
sherrv  or  Catawba  wine.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  and  leave 
for  1  hour.  Then  add  boiling  water,  and  rest  of  ingredients,  with 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  wine.  Stir  well,  put  into  mold  pre- 
viously filled  with  cold  water.  Set  on  ice  to  congeal,  serve  with 
whinr>ed  cream  or  plain  cream  lightly  sweetened. 

Rice  en  Surprise. 

One-fourth  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  box  of  gelatine,  1 
wine  glass  of  sherry  wine,  %  pint  of  rich  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  boil- 
ed rice,  y2  pound  of  chopped  figs.  Put  gelatine  in  cold  water  and 
leave  1  hour  to  dissolve.  Put  whipped  cream  and  rest  of  ingredients 
into  gelatine,  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  in  mold  to 
congeal.     Serve  with  rich  cream  lightly  sweetened. 

Virginia  Cream. 

One  pint  of  milk,  y2  box  of  gelatine,  1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla.  Put  milk  in  saucepan, 
add  dissolved  gelatine,  and  heat  slowly,  when  it  comes  to  boiling 
point,  add  the  sugar  and  beaten  yolks.  When  mixture  thickens,  add 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor  with  strawberry 
or  vanilla,  and  pour  in  mold  to  congeal. 

Banana  Fluff. 

One-half  pint  of  cream,  *4  box  of  gelatine,  1  cup  powdered 
sugar,  4  bananas.  Whip  the  cream,  dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water, 
add  sugar  and  bananas  chopped  fine.  Beat  the  mixture  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken,  then  add  y2  teaspoon  extract  of  almond,  and  pour 
into  a  mold.     Serve  cold,  with  delicate  sponge  cake. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  277 

Biscuit  au  Rhum. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  dozen  macaroons,  1  quart  of  cream, 
the  whites  of  3  eggs,  1%  large  wine  glasses  of  rum.  Beat  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  then  pulverized  macaroons.  Mix  well,  and 
make  into  round  cakes,  and  lightly  brown.  "Whip  the  cream,  sweeten 
lightly  and  add  the  rum.  When  ready  to  serve,  line  a  glass  dish 
with  the  cakes,  and  cover  with  the  whipped  cream.  Decorate  the 
top   with  marron   glace. 

French  Charlotte. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  ^  box  of  gelatine,  %  cup  of  water, 
1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  pint  cream,  1  dessertspoon  vanilla,  5  stale 
macaroons.  Soak  gelatine  in  water  1  hour,  then  set  it  over  boil- 
ing water  to  dissolve.  Scald  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  beat  until  light, 
and  pour  hot  water  over  and  stir  continuously,  removing  from  fire, 
add  gelatine  and  vanilla  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Whip  the  cream  and 
add  the  custard,  pour  in  a  mold  previously  filled  with  cold  water, 
set  on  ice  to  congeal.  When  ready  to  serve,  cover  with  pulverized 
macaroons. 

Blanc  Mange. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine,  1  teacup  boiling  water,  1  quart  of  cream, 
%  pint  sherry  wine,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Cook 
gelatine  in  boiling  water,  until  dissolved,  stir  continuously.  Add 
lemon  juice  to  sugar,  then  add  to  cream,  with  the  wine,  mix  well, 
and  pour  in  gelatine.  Pour  in  a  mold,  previously  filled  with  cold 
water.  Set  on  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  with  rich  cream,  lightly  sweet- 
ened. 

Blanc  Mange. 

One  box  gelatine,  1  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pound 
granulated  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  milk 
half  an  hour ;  add  sugar,  put  in  double  boiler ;  set  on  range,  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  When  cool,  add  the  cream  beaten  to  a  froth,  stir  in 
lightly,  add  vanilla;  pour  in  mold  and  set  aside  to  harden. 

Blanc  Mange. 

One-half  a  cup  of  Irish  moss,  1  quart  of  new  milk,  ^  saltspoon 
salt.  Wash  moss  and  pick  over  carefully  and  put  in  double  boiler 
with  the  milk.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  when  dropped  on  cold  platter 
add  salt,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Pour  in  a  mold  that  has  been  filled  with  cold  water.  Set  to  congeal. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

For  Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 
Use  preceding  recipe,   and  add  4  heaping  tablespoonfuls   of 
grated  chocolate. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 

One  quart  of  new' milk,  1  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  of  gran- 


278  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   15QOK. 


ulated  sugar,  %  box  of  gelatine,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanil- 
la. Cover  gelatine  "with  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  1  hour.  Put  1 
pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  it  comes  to  boiling  point,  pour 
over  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  then  return  to  boiler,  add  the  choco- 
late and  gelatine,  stir  continuously,  when  of  good  consistency  add 
the  other  pint  of  cold  milk,  stir  well.  Remove  from  fire,  strain 
through  sieve  into  mold,  set  on  ice  to  congeal. 

Sauce  for  Blanc  Mange. 

One  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  a/2  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Let  cream  or  milk  come  to  boiling 
point,  then  pour  over  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  return  to  double  boil- 
er and  cook  until  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Serve  cold  over  the 
blancmange.  Or  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  plain  cream  sweet- 
ened. 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange. 

Stew  fresh  cherries,  raspberries  or  strawberries,  strain  off  juice 
and  sweeten.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  let  come  to  boiling  point,  add 
1%  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  made  into  a  paste  with  cold  water, 
to  each  pint  of  juice,  stir  while  cooking.  When  of  right  consistency, 
pour  into  a  mold,  previously  filled  with  cold  water.  Set  on  ice  to 
congeal.    Serve  with  cream  lightly  sweetened  and  powdered  sugar. 

Syllabub. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  cup  of  wine,  %  cup  of  granulated  sugar. 
Put  sugar  and  wine  in  a  bowl,  and  have  cream  lukewarm  in  another 
bowl.  When  sugar  is  dissolved  in  the  wine,  pour  in  the  cream,  hold- 
ing it  far  above  the  bowl,  continue  pouring  cream  back  and  forth, 
until  frothy.    Grate  nutmeg  over  top,  and  serve. 

Bavarian  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  scant  cup  granulated  sugar,  y2  box  gela- 
tine, yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Whip  cream  until  a  stiff 
froth;  make  a  custard  with  the  cream  that  drains  from  the  whip, 
adding  enough  milk  to  make  1  pint;  have  the  gelatine  dissolved  in 
cold  water,  add  to  the  milk,  also  sugar,  eggs  and  vanilla;  cook  1 
minute,  then  strain  into  a  broad  pan  and  set  on  ice.  Watch  care- 
fully, when  it  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Pour  in 
mold  and  set  on  ice  to  congeal. 

Almond  Cream. 

To  1  quart  of  rich  new  milk  add  8  tablespoons  of  ground  rice. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  till  consistency  of  mush,  add  1  tumbler  of 
granulated  sugar  and  flavor  with  bitter  almond.  Put  in  melon  mold 
and  set  on  ice.  Decorate  with  blanched  almonds  and  turn  out  on 
a  flat  dish.    Serve  with  rich  cream  that  has  been  sweetened. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  279 

For  Chocolate  Cream. 

Add  1  ounce  of  melted  chocolate  to  the  custard  before  straining. 
Almond  Cream.    , 

One  pint  sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste.  Dis- 
solve the  gelatine  in  milk,  and  use  preceding  recipe. 

Caledonia  Cream. 

Whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  stiff,  6  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar 
added  gradually;  beat  hard  for  30  minutes.  Beat  into  the  eggs  1 
glass  of  currant  jelly,  raspberry  jam  or  any  kind  of  preserves  pre- 
ferred; beat  this  for  15  minutes.  Serve  with  rich  cream  flavored 
with  vanilla. 

Snow  Cream. 

AYhites  of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  1  pint  of 
cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  whites  stiff,  then  add  sugar, 
gradually  beating  all  the  while.  Beat  until  it  will  stand  alone ;  add 
vanilla  and  stir  in  the  whipped  cream  very  lightly.  Serve  in  small 
Roman  punch  glasses. 

Sufficient  for  eight  persons. 

Snow  Custard. 

One  pint  new  milk,  3  eggs,  2  teacups  of  granulated  sugar,  % 
box  gelatine,  1  lemon,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  gelatine  in  pan  with 
1  teacup  cold  water,  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Then  add  1  pint  boiling 
water,  place  on  range  and  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add  2-3 
cup  of  sugar  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Stir  well.  Eemove  from  fire. 
Have  whites  beaten  stiff  and  add  spoonful  of  gelatine  at  a  time  to 
them  until  all  has  been  used.  Beat  hard  for  1  hour.  Then  put  cus- 
tard in  mold  and  let  remain  4  hours. 

Custard  For  Sauce. 

Beat  yolks,  add  rest  of  sugar.  Stir  well.  Put  milk  in  double 
boiler  and  let  scald.  Then  add  milk  gradually  to  sugar  and  eggs.  Re- 
turn to  fire,  cook  till  it  begins  to  thicken.  When  nearly  cold,  add 
vanilla. 

Baked  Custard. 

One  quart  new  milk,  4  eggs,  6  tablespoons  sugar,  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  nutmeg.  Beat  eggs  separately,  to  yolks  add  the  sugar 
and  beat  until  light.  Have  milk  scalding  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Add  milk  gradually  to  sugar  and  eggs,  then  whites,  stirring  until 
mixture  is  smooth,  add  the  vanilla  and  nutmeg.  Put  in  cups  or  pan, 
surround  with  water  and  set  in  oven  and  cook  until  firm.  Serve 
cold  with  cream  if  preferred. 

Boiled  Custard. 

Beat  3  yolks  very  light,  stir  into  them  2  small  tablespoons  of 


280  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  1  teacup  of  sugar.  Boil  2  quarts 
of  new  milk,  take  from  fire  and  pour  into  eggs,  a  little  at  a  time. 
Then  return  to  fire  and  let  remain  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Stir  in  lightly  4  well-beaten  whites.  Let  custard  stay  on  stove 
half  a  minute  to  set   the  eggs.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Baked  Custard. 

Four  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  milk,  nutmeg  or 
vanilla  to  taste.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  sugar  to 
yolks  and  beat  well.  Have  milk  scalding  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Add 
milk  gradually  to  sugar  and  eggs,  then  beat  whites  in  until  it  is 
smooth ;  put  in  pan,  surround  with  water,  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  un- 
til firm.    Serve  cold. 

Ambrosia. 

Slice  oranges  or  pineapples  in  a  glass  bowl.  Have  them  well 
sweetened.  Add  a  layer  of  pineapple  and  then  oranges,  and  so  on 
until  the  bowl  is  full.     Sprinkle  over  each  layer  grated  cocoanut. 

Grape  Sponge. 

One-fourth  box  of  gelatine,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  lemon, 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  Welch's  grape  juice.  Soak  gela- 
tine, in  14  cup  of  cold  water,  put  this  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  dis- 
solve, add  the  sugar  to  the  grape  juice;  stir  until  dissolved;  add  the 
juice  of  the  lemon,  then  beat  in  the  gelatine;  stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken ;  stir  in  lightly  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Pile  on  a  dish 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.    Serve  with  cream  a  little  sweetened. 

Jellied  Prunes. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  French  prunes,  %  box  of  gelatine,  %  cupful 
of  cold  water,  1  coffee  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  %  pint  sherry 
wine.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  half  an  hour;  wash  prunes 
in  4  waters,  rubbing  well  between  the  hands.  Put  them  in  sauce- 
pan with  1  pint  cold  water,  and  simmer  slowly  1%  hours;  then 
skim  out  prunes,  remove  the  pit  and  put  prunes  back  in  same  water 
and  let  them  boil  up  once.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  gelatine  and 
stir  until  dissolved ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  wine.  Put  in  a  bowl  and 
surround  with  ice,  beat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  and 
then  pour  into  a  mold.     Serve  with  whipped  or  plain  cream. 

Banana  Charlotte. 

Line  sides  of  mold  with  sliced  sponge  cake,  and  the  bottom  with 
sliced  bananas,  2  layers  deep.  Fill  the  mold  with  stiffly  whipped 
cream;  set  on  ice.    Remove  carefully  from  mold  and  serve. 

Baked  Custard. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  6  eggs,  %  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  a 
dash  of  salt.  Have  milk  boiling  and  pour  over  beaten  eggs  and 
sugar ;  flavor  with  vanilla.    Strain  custard  into  mold  or  cups ;  place 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  281 


in  a  deep  pan  and  fill  2-3  of  the  way  to  top  of  cups  with  water.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Test  with  a  knife  to  tell  when  it  is  done. 

Caramel  Custard. 

Brown  the  sugar,  as  for  caramel  sauce,  and  dissolve  it  in  the 
milk,  prepare  as  in  preceding  recipe. 

It  may  be  served  as  a  pudding,  with  caramel  sauce,  plain  cream 
or  whipped  cream,  as  preferred. 

Chocolate  Custard. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk,  2  eggs,  2  ounces  of  Baker's  chocolate,  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  it  boils  stir  in 
the  chocolate,  after  making  it  into  a  smooth  paste  with  hot  water. 
When  it  boils  pour  on  the  well-beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  and  re- 
turn to  the  fire.  Cook  tolerably  thick,  then  add  vanilla.  Serve 
very  cold,  with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Tapioca. 

Fill  a  bowl  half  full  of  sliced  oranges  and  pineapple.  Have 
ready  1%  cups  of  tapioca  made  into  jelly  (the  tapioca  is  cooked 
with  cold  water),  and  1  teacup  of  granulated  sugar.  Beat  this  jelly 
until  almost  cold,  then  pour  over  the  fruit.  Sweeten  1  pint  of  cream, 
and  whip  until  stiff,  and  pile  on  top  of  bowl,  when  ready  to  serve.  ' 

Boiled  Custard. 

Allow  a  dessertspoon  of  sugar  to  each  egg  (5  yolks  are  sufficient 
for  1  quart  of  new  milk).  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  and  stir 
in  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  double  boiler  to  cook.  Stir  constantly  un* 
til  it  thickens  a  little  and  is  cool.  Do  not  let  remain  too  long.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. 

Stuffed  Apples. 

Peel  apples,  core  them  and  drop  in  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
done.  Let  get  cool  and  fill  with  chopped  raisins,  almonds,  and  Eng- 
lish walnuts.    Put  in  pan  to  brown.    Serve  cold,  with  a  custard. 

Custard. 

One  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  cup  of  sugar. 
Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  when  hot  pour  on  eggs  and  sugar,  return 
to  fire.     Cook  until  tolerably  thick.     Serve  cold  on  apples. 

Macaroon  Custard. 

One-fourth  pound  stale  macaroons  rolled  fine ;  1  teaspoon  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  a  little  water ;  separate  3  eggs.  Add  4  tablespoons 
granulated  sugar  to  the  yolks,  beat  light  and  pour  slowly  into  1  pint 
of  milk  brought  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the 
gelatine,  then  the  macaroons;  when  a  little  cool,  stir  in  the  beaten 


282  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

whites  and  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine.    Set  in  the  refrigerator  un- 
til ready  to  serve. 

Orange  Mince. 

Three  bananas,  2  lemons,  2  apples,  y2  pound  raisins,  %  pineap- 
ple and  the  pulp  of  6  oranges  cut  fine,  1  heaping  pint  granulated 
sugar.  Cut  hole  in  the  stem  end  of  orange  large  enough  for  a  spoon, 
then  fill  with  the  mince,  pour  on  a  little  sherry  and  place  on  ice. 
Serve  cold. 

Apple  Float. 

One  dozen  firm  apples,  pared  and  cored,  1  pound  granulated 
sugar.  Put  apples  in  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  let 
them  stew  until  almost  done.  Then  remove  carefully  from  saucepan, 
and  add  sugar  to  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked.  Let  syrup 
come  to  boiling  point,  return  apples  to  syrup,  and  leave  until  trans- 
parent, then  remove.  Add  1  large  lemon  thinly  sliced  and  1  ounce 
of  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  pint  of  cold  water  to  the  syrup  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  apples  in  a  glass  dish,  and  set  on  ice  to 
congeal.    Serve  cold  with  rich  cream,  lightly  sweetened. 


CRiAn 


Nesselrode  Pudding. 

Two  quarts  of  rich  cream,  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  y2  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  12  eggs,  2  ounces  raisins,  2  ounces  currants,  2 
ounces  candied  citron,  2  ounces  candied  ginger  or  cherries,  pine- 
apple or  any  candied  preferred-,  about  1  pound  of  fruit  in  all,  1 
vanilla  bean.  Prepare  fruit  and  pour  over  3  wine  glasses  of  Mara- 
schino cordial  and  let  soak  all  night.  Blanch  4  dozen  chestnuts  or 
almonds  in  boiling  water  and  place  them  in  the  oven  to  dry.  When 
cold  pulverize  in  a  mortar  with  the  sugar  and  vanilla  bean,  sift 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Have  milk  in  double  boiler,  beat  yolks  light, 
add  the  sugar,  nuts  and  bean:  stir  all  into  the  boiling  milk.  Let 
this  mixture  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  strain  through  a 
sieve.  "When  cold  put  in  freezer  and  partially  freeze,  whip  cream, 
and  stir  into  the  custard,  with  the  prepared  fruit,  at  same  time  12 
macaroons  may  be  crushed  fine  and  added.  Freeze,  beat  hard  with 
granite  spoon,  remove  dasher.  It  may  then  be  put  in  mold,  re- 
packed with  salt  and  ice  and  left  a  few  hours  to  harden.  The  pud- 
ding may  be  served  with  whipped  cream,  highly  flavored  with  rum, 
or  a  fruit  sauce. 

Nesselrode  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  yolks  of  8  eggs,  1  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler  and  when  scald- 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  283 


ing  hot  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  add  nutmeg.  Return 
to  boiler,  cook  until  consistency  of  cream,  then  set  to  cool.  Blanch 
*4  pound  of  almonds,  roll  fine  y±  pound  of  pecans,  stir  into  the  cus- 
tard. Pour  the  juice  of  4  oranges  on  y2  pound  of  macaroons,  !/£ 
pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  y%  pound  crystalized  cherries.  Have 
1  pound  of  fruit  in  all,  add  fruit  to  the  custard,  also  %  pint  of 
Maraschino  cordial,  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine ;  if  not  sweet 
enough  add  more  sugar,  then  add  %  gallon  of  cream  and  freeze. 

Nesselrode  Pudding". 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  quart  of  new  milk.  Take  2  ounces  each 
of  seeded  raisns,  candied  cherries,  candied  peaches  or  apricots  and 
candied  citron,  4  wine  glasses  Maraschino  cordial,  1  dozen  almond 
macaroons,  14  ounces  granulated  sugar,  3  dozen  Spanish  chestnuts, 
1  -  vanilla  bean,  yolks  of  12  eggs.  Blanch  chestnuts  and  remove 
skin,  boil  until  tender.  When  cold  pound  with  the  vanilla  bean  and 
mix  with  sugar;  rub  through  a  sieve.  Make  a  custard  with  eggs 
and  milk,  add  chestnuts  and  bean.  The  fruit  must  be  soaked  12 
hours  in  the  Maraschino  cordial.  Pulverize  meringues.  When  cus- 
tard is  half  frozen  stir  in  fruit  and  meringues  and  cream  whipped 
to  a  froth.    Mix  well;  freeze  hard,  then  mold  the  pudding. 

Nesselrode  Pudding". 

Prepare  a  custard  of  1  pint  of  cream,  y2  pint  of  milk  and  y2 
pound  of  sugar,  1  ounce  of  sweet  almonds  pounded,  yolks  of  6  eggs, 
%  of  a  vanilla  bean.  Put  them  in  a  pan  over  slow  fire  until  of  a 
proper  consistency.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  When  cold  add  a  wine  glass 
full  of  brandy.  Partially  freeze,  then  add  ^4  of  a  pound  of  raisins, 
%  pound  of  preserved  fruit  cut  fine.    Mix  well  and  mold. 

Bisque  Glace. 

Take  3  pints  of  rich  cream,  14  ounces  granulated  sugar,  1  dozen 
fresh  egg  kisses,  %  of  a  vanilla  bean.  Dry  egg  kisses  in  the  oven 
and  roll  fine,  cut  bean  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  granite  cup  with 
y<%  pint  of  cold  water;  cook  until  reduced  to  %  of  a  pint  and  cool. 
Sweeten  the  cream,  add  vanilla.  When  cream  begins  to  freeze  stir 
in  the  egg  kisses  and  freeze  hard. 

Frozen  Rum  Pudding". 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs.  Beat  the 
yolks  light  with  y2  cup  of  sugar,  then  add  the  stiffly-beaten  whites, 
flavor  with  2  tablespoons  of  rum  or  vanilla.  Whip  cream  until  very 
stiff,  then  whip  into  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar.  Line  a  mold  with 
lady  fingers,  split  in  half,  then  a  layer  of  the  cream  mixture  and 
use  alternately  until  all  has  been  used.  Pack  mold  in  salt  and  ice 
and  leave  for  4  hours.   Turn  out  on  a  flat  dish. 


284  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Frozen  Cherry  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  cream,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  Mara- 
schino cherries  or  cherry  preserves,  %  wine  glass  of  rum.  Beat  yolks 
until  light,  then  add  the  whipped  cream,  rum  and  stiffly-beaten 
whites,  then  fold  in  lightly  the  cherries.  Turn  into  a  mold  that  has 
been  filled  with  ice  water,  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  5  hours.  Turn 
on  a  flat  platter,  serve  with  whipped  cream,  flavored  lightly  with 
rum  or  Maraschino. 

For  Frozen  Puddings. 

Use  recipe  for  ice  cream,  with  gelatine,  adding  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Cook  custard  2  minutes  and  strain  over  the  gelatine.  For  frozen 
puddings  add  wine  or  cordials  when  half  frozen.  Add  fruit  or  nuts 
when  packing  cream.  Any  kind  of  candied  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces 
or  pounded  nuts  may  be  added  to  frozen  pudding. 

Ice  Cream  Pudding1. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1%  tumblers  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
candied  cherries,  %  cup  of  citron,  %  cup  raisins,  3  macaroons  and 
3  lady  fingers.  Chop  fruit  finely,  pulverize  macaroons  and  lady 
fingers,  over  the  latter  pour  y<>  cup  of  sherry  wine  and  leave  3  hours. 
Add  sugar  to  cream  and  whip  until  stiff.  Put  some  fruit  in  bottom 
of  mold,  then  add  cream  and  fruit  alternately  until  all  has  been 
used.  Pack  mold  in  salt  and  cracked  ice  and  leave  for  5  hours.  Turn 
out  on  a  flat  dish  and  serve. 

Ice  Cream  Pudding*. 

One  quart  of  cream  whipped  very  stiff,  1  heaping  tumbler  of 
granulated  sugar,  a  few  macaroons  and  lady  fingers  soaked  in  rum 
or  sherry  wine,  some  candied  cherries,  citron  and  raisins  cut  fine, 
put  cream  in  a  mold  and  put  fruit  through  it,  pack  in  salt  and  ice 
for  5  hours;  serve  on  a  flat  dish. 

Iced  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  custard  made  of  4  yolks,  1  pint  of 
milk,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  8  ounces  of  fruit 
of  any  kind  preferred,  %  Pmt  of  whipped  cream,  freeze  the  custard 
to  a  mush,  then  mix  in  fruit  and  cream.  A  gill  of  Maraschino  im- 
proves it.  Add  at  the  same  time  the  fruits  with  %  pint  more  of 
whipped  cream.  Pour  into  mold  and  put  in  ice  and  salt.  Place  on 
dish  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  around  it. 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Cut  fine  %  pound  of  raisins,  i/2  pound  of  figs,  *4  pound  citron, 
%  pound  almonds  and  %  pound  of  English  walnuts.  Make  1  quart 
of  rich  custard  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  fruit  and  let  remain 
8  hours.  Add  4  tumblers  granulated  sugar  to  custard  and  stir  well, 
put  in  freezer  and  when  partially  frozen  add  whipped  cream  till 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  285 

there  is  1  gallon.  Just  before  serving  add  %  coffee  cup  of  brandy 
or  whisky  and  beat  well.  One-half  the  quantity  may  be  made  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Rum  Pudding1. 

Make  a  custard  with  1  pint  of  new  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Crush 
fine  2  dozen  almond  macaroons.  When  custard  is  done  stir  in  the 
macaroons  until  soft.  After  it  is  cold  add  3  pints  of  cream  and  14 
ounces  granulated  sugar.  "When  nearly  frozen  %  pound  of  candied 
cherries  cut  in  half  and  %  pound  of  raisins  cut  fine,  which  must 
have  been  soaked  in  sherry  wine  several  hours,  also  1  teacup  of  rum. 

Lallah  Rookh. 
Use  eggnog  recipe  and  freeze.    This  makes  a  delicious  dessert. 

French  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  milk,  l1/^  cups  granulated  sugar, 
yolks  of  6  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  Scald  the  milk  in  double 
boiler;  cream  yolks  and  sugar,  then  pour  over  the  hot  milk;  put 
back  in  double  boiler;  stir  constantly  till  thick  enough  to  coat  the 
spoon.  Kemove  from  fire,  add  cream  and  flavoring,  stir  until  cold 
and  then  freeze. 

Sultana  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  tumbler  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Pour  on  raisins  enough  whisky  to  cover  them  and  let 
remain  12  hours.  Make  cream  and  when  nearly  frozen  add  the 
raisins.  Serve  with  this  sauce:  One  pint  claret  wine,  1%  teacups 
of  granulated  sugar.  Put  these  ingredients  in  a  saucepan  and  boil 
15  minutes.    Serve  cold  with  the  cream. 

Spanish  Cream. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk,  !/2  box  gelatine,  1  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  add 
the  gelatine  and  stir  until  it  dissolves.  Beat  yolks  light  and  add 
the  sugar;  pour  boiling  milk  on  eggs  and  sugar;  return  to  sauce- 
pan a  few  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  stirring  in  the  beaten  whites 
and  vanilla.  Rinse  out  cups  with  cold  water  and  put  6  candied  cher- 
ries at  bottom  of  each  and  fill  with  the  mixture.  Set  in  refrigerator 
to  harden.  Turn  out  on  a  flat  dish.   Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Cream  en  Surprise. 

Use  recipe  for  vanilla  cream;  after  it  is  frozen  take  brandy 
peaches  and  envelop  in  this  cream,  making  a  circular  ball.  Return 
to  freezer  and  let  harden. 

Snowballs. 

Make  a  vanilla  ice  cream.   When  thoroughly  frozen  make  into 


286  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

round  balls  and  roll  in  freshly-grated  coeoanut  until  well  covered. 
Serve  at  once. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  rich  cream,  1  Large  pineapple,  1  pound 
of  powdered  sugar.  Slice  the  pineapple  thin  and  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
cover  and  let  it  remain  3  hours;  cut  or  chop  it  in  the  syrup,  strain 
through  a  sieve ;  then  beat  gradually  into  cream  and  freeze  rapidly. 
Reserve  a  few  pieces  of  pineapple  without  sugar  and  add  when 
cream  is  half  frozen.   Peach  ice  cream  may  be  made  the  same  way. 

Frozen  Tom  Jerry. 

Two  cups  of  milk,  %  cup  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  % 
teaspoon  salt,  2%  cups  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  rum,  1  tablespoon 
of  brandy.  Make  a  custard,  with  milk  and  sugar,  pour  on  beaten 
eggs  with  salt.  Return  to  saucepan  and  cook  till  of  good  consistency 
and  strain.  When  cool  add  the  cream  and  freeze  to  a  mush ;  add  rum 
and  brandy  and  finish  freezing. 

Frozen  Peaches. 

Put  1  can  of  soft  peaches  through  a  sieve ;  dissolve  2  coffee  cups 
of  granulated  sugar  in  1  cup  of  hot  water ;  add  3  cups  of  cold  water, 

2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  freeze. 

Orange  Parfait. 

Have  1  cup  of  orange  juice,  %  cup  of  lemon  juice,  2  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  thick  cream,  4  eggs.  Add  the  sugar  and 
juice  and  when  hot  pour  on  yolks  beaten  light.  Return  to  fire  and 
cook  until  it  scalds,  then  strain  through  sieve.  "When  cold  add 
whites  beaten  stiff  and  the  cream.     Freeze. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. 

One-half  pound  of  pineapple,  %  pound  of  sugar,  1  pint  of 
cream,  y2  pint  of  milk,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Grate  pineapple;  add  sugar 
and  lemon  juice;  put  cream  and  milk  in  freezer;  when  partially 
frozen  add  sugar  and  fruit  and  finish  freezing. 

Banana  Ice  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  of  milk,  %  pound  of  sugar,  yolks  of 

3  eggs,  4  bananas.  Scald  the  milk,  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar. 
Stir  until  it  thickens,  add  cream  and  when  cool  the  bananas,  which 
should  be  mashed  through  a  colander.    Freeze  at  once. 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream. 

Beat  together  2  eggs  and  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  1  pint 
of  rich  milk  in  double  boiler.  When  hot  pour  on  the  eggs,  return 
to  boiler,  let  it  remain  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool. 
^4  teacup    of    citron,    y±    pound    of    candied     cherries,    1    teacup 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  287 


of  chopped  raisins,  %  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped 
fine.  Pour  1  teacup  of  rum  on  fruit,  let  it  remain  12  hours.  Add 
this  fruit  to  the  custard  with  1  quart  of  rich  cream,  1  tumbler  of 
granulated  sugar.  Put  in  a  mold  or  freezer,  pack  in  salt  and  ice  till 
hard. 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  of  new  milk,  14  ounces  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  i/4  pound  of  candied  cherries,  %  pound  almonds,  ^4 
teacup  of  citron,  1  teacup  raisins,  %  cup  of  rum,  2  eggs.  Make  a 
custard  with  the  milk,  put  it  in  double  boiler;  when  it  scalds  pour 
over  beaten  eggs  and  1  cup  of  the  sugar,  return  to  saucepan,  stir 
continuously  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  remove  from  fire  and 
cool.  Chop  the  fruit  and  pour  over  the  rum  and  leave  for  12  hours. 
Combine  custard  with  the  cream  and  when  partially  frozen  add  the 
fruit  and  freeze  hard.   It  may  then  be  molded  if  preferred. 

Tutti-Frutti. 

Use  recipe  for  French  ice  cream.  Cut  into  dice  4  ounces  candied 
apricots,  4  ounces  candied  cherries,  4  ounces  raisins,  1  dozen  pul- 
verized almond  macaroons.  Cover  fruit  with  rum  and  let  stand  6 
hours.  The  macaroons  must  be  added  to  the  hot  custard.  Put  fruit 
in  cream  when  almost  frozen,  then  leave  for  several  hours  to  harden. 

Sauce  for  Glace  Pudding  or  Tutti-Frutti. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  pint  of 
cream,  2  tablespoons  of  rum  or  brandy.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  to 
a  cream,  then  put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  beat  until  cool,  add  the  rum  and  whipped 
cream  and  serve  immediately. 

Tutti-Frutti  Ice  Cream. 

One  gallon  of  cream,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  candied 
cherries,  %  pound  of  almonds,  1  teacup  candied  citron,  3^  cups 
granulated  sugar,  1  teacup  whisky.  Blanch  almonds  and  chop  fine 
with  citron  and  raisins.  Sweeten  cream  and  pour  whisky  over  the 
fruits.  When  cream  begins  to  freeze  add  the  fruit  and  turn  freezer 
for  about  5  minutes,  then  leave  to  harden.  Stir  again  before  it  is 
time  to  serve  the  cream. 

Tutti-Frutti. 

Half  gallon  of  cream,  1  pound  of  almonds  after  they  are 
blanched  and  cut  fine,  Y2  pound  of  raisins,  not  quite  %  pound  of 
currants  and  a  little  citron  cut  fine.  Pour  1  cup  sherry  wine  over 
fruit  and  leave  4  hours. 

Tutti-Frutti. 

One  quart  of  rich  custard  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste,  to 
this  add  1  teacup  of  strawberry  preserves,  %  pound  of  blanched  al- 


288  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


monds,  %  of  a  cup  of  raisins  seeded  and  cut  fine,  freeze  to  a  mush, 
then  add  1  quart  of  rich  cream.  Pour  1  cup  sherry  wine  over  fruit 
and  leave  for  6  hours. 

Peach  Custard. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  coffee  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  yolks  of  6  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  until  light.  Put  milk 
in  double  boiler.  When  scalding  hot  milk  pour  on  the  yolks  and 
sugar,  return  to  boiler  for  a  few  minutes.  "When  cold  add  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  froth,  also  the  cream.  Have  1-3  vanilla  bean  cut  in 
pieces  and  boil  in  cold  water.  Cook  until  reduced  to  %  pint.  "When 
cold  add  the  cream.  After  it  begins  to  freeze  have  %  can  of  peaches 
cut  in  small  blocks  and  add  the  cream;  or  fresh  peaches  are  de- 
licious, instead  of  the  canned  peaches. 

Bivevous. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  teacup  of  new  milk,  2  tumblers  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  i/4  box  of  gelatine.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  milk,  put 
in  a  bowl  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  stir  until  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, set  away  to  cool.  Whip  the  cream  until  very  stiff,  and  as 
you  beat  it  add  the  gelatine  and  two  spoons  of  vanilla  (teaspsons.) 
Have  the  freezer  packed  and  then  put  in  the  cream  to  harden,  but 
do  not  freeze.    Serve  with  chocolate  or  caramel  sauce. 

Three  of  a  Kind. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  1  quart  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  quart 
of  strawberries,  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  3  oranges  and  2  bananas. 
Mash  berries  and  take  1  teacup  of  sugar  from  this  amount  and  pour 
over  it.  When  it  begins  to  freeze  add  bananas  and  strawberries.  Put 
in  a  mold  and  surround  with  ice  and  salt,  pour  on  a  dish.  Slice  with 
a  knife. 

Fruit  Pot-Pourri. 

Take  fresh  cherries,  peaches,  strawberries  and  pineapple.  Chop 
the  peaches  and  pineapple,  put  in  a  bowl,  add  to  it  granulated  sugar, 
allowing  *4  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit.  Let  it  stand 
until  it  forms  a  syrup,  then  cover  with  good  brandy  and  put  in 
self-sealing  jar  and  serve  with  ice  cream. 

Diplomat. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar,  beaten  light, 
1  quart  of  cream,  1  heaping  tumbler  of  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla,  whip  very  light.  Place  in  bottom  of  mold  %  of  a  pound 
of  candied  cherries.  Add  cream  to  sugar  and  eggs  and  stir  lightly 
into  the  mold.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  5  hours.   Serve  on  a  flat  dish. 

Cream  Diplomat. 

One  pint  of  cream,  %  tumbler  of  sugar,  y2  box  gelatine,  1  cup 
of  French  fruit,  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  289 


of  4  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water,  chill  and  whip  the  cream. 
Take  cream  that  drains  from  whips  and  add  enough  milk  to  make  1 
pint.  Boil  this  milk  in  double  boiler  and  when  hot  add  the  sugar  and 
gelatine,  stir  until  dissolved,  then  strain  into  the  beaten  whites,  add 
wine  and  vanilla.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  whipped  cream, 
when  stiff  enough  to  drop  add  the  French  fruit.  Put  in  mold  and 
pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  5  hours.  Chopped  nuts  may  be  substituted 
for  fruits.  It  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream  lightly  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  sherry  wine  or  rum.  Add  a  few  Maraschino  cher- 
ries to  each  plate  when  serving. 

Caramel  Cream. 

Take  1*4  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  put  in  a  biscuit  pan  and 
toast,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  nearly  done  put  on  stove  the  cus- 
tard made  of  1  quart  of  new  milk  and  2  eggs.  When  it  begins  to 
boil  stir  in  sugar  until  all  is  dissolved.  Let  it  get  cold,  then  whip  1 
quart  of  cream  and  add  to  it. 

Chocolate  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  \y2  pints  of  custard,  2  bars  of  chocolate; 
dissolve  it  in  a  little  hot  water  until  it  is  smooth.  Let  stand  until 
it  is  cool.  Sweeten  cream  to  taste,  also  the  custard.  In  making  the 
custard  use  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  iy2  pints  of  new  milk,  y2  of  a  vanilla 
bean  boiled  in  custard.    Add  this  to  the  cream. 

To  Serve  With  Ice  Cream. 

Take  1  quart  of  best  alcohol  and  put  in  a  large  jar  and  add  to 
it  fresh  fruits  of  all  kinds  and  put  as  much  sugar  as  there  is  fruit. 
It  will  keep  a  long  while. 

Italian  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  6  ounces  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  2  wine 
glasses  of  white  wine,  juice  of  2  lemons,  2  ounces  isinglass,  4  small 
teacups  of  water.  Mix  1  pint  of  cream,  sugar,  wine  and  juice  of 
lemons.  Add  the  rest  of  cream  and  stir  very  hard.  Boil  isinglass 
in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  to  half  the  original  amount.  When 
lukewarm  add  to  cream  and  put  in  mold  to  congeal. 

Bavarian  Cream. 

One  box  of  gelatine,  y2  gallon  cream,  2  teacups  granulated 
sugar,  1  pint  cold  water,  %  of  a  vanilla  bean,  iy2  pints  boiling 
water.  Pour  cold  water  over  gelatine  and  leave  1  hour,  then  add 
boiling  water  and  sugar.  When  almost  cold  add  the  vanilla,  also 
the  whipped  cream  stirred  into  the  jelly.  Put  in  mold  to  congeal. 

Orange  Bavarian  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  of  orange  juice,  with  the  grated 
rind  of  1  orange,  y2  box  of  gelatine,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  y2  pint  of 

19 


290  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 


cream,  drained  from  the  whips.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water, 
make  a  custard  with  the  beaten  yolks,  %  pint  of  cream,  add  the 
gelatine  with  Vfc  cup  granulated  sugar.  When  cool  add  orange  juice 
with  grated  rind,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  fold  in  the  whipped  cream- 
Put  in  a  mold  to  congeal. 

Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  new  milk,  14  ounces  granulated 
sugar,  Ys  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  1  dessertspoon  vanilla.  Dissolve  gela- 
tine in  cold  water,  drain  off  water.  Scald  milk,  add  half  of  sugar 
and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  gelatine;  strain  and  cool.  Add  rest 
of  sugar  and  the  vanilla  to  cream,  whip  cream,  then  add  to  milk. 
Freeze  hard. 

Mock  Ice  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  to  whips  from  cream,  add  1  scant  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  1  cup  of  cream  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Scald  this  cream 
and  milk,  add  the  sugar  and  1  dessertspoon  of  vanilla.  Freeze  to  a 
mush,  then  add  the  whipped  cream  and  freeze.  Leave  to  harden  for 
30  minutes. 

For  Nut  Creams. 

Use  pistachio  nuts,  almonds  or  filberts.  They  should  be  blanched 
and  pounded  to  a  paste,  or  if  preferred  nuts  may  be  chopped  a 
little  and  added  to  the  cream. 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream. 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  Bavarian  cream,  adding  1  ounce  of  melt' 
ed  chocolate  to  hot  custard  before  straining. 

Fruit  Bavarian  Cream. 

Use  same  recipe  and  take  1  pint  of  sifted  pulp,  pineapple,  peach 
or  pear  instead  of  the  pint  of  milk,  and  omit  the  eggs. 

Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream. 

Three  pints  of  berries  mashed  fine  and  strain  the  juice.  Add 
2%  tumblers  of  granulated  sugar  and  %  box  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Prepare  and  add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream. 
Put  in  mold  to  congeal. 

Bavarian  Cream. 

One  pint  of  rich  cream,  1  scant  cup  granulated  sugar,  J  L.  box 
of  gelatine,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Whip  cream  to  a 
froth,  and  to  cream  that  drains  from  the  whip  add  enough  milk  to 
make  1  pint.  Pour  cold  water  over  gelatine  to  dissolve.  Let  milk 
coin e  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  gelatine,  yolks  and  sugar;  return 
to  saucepan  and  cook  1  minute.  Strain  into  broad  pan,  set  in  ice 
water.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Put 
in  wet  mold  and  set  on  ice  to  harden. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  291 


Coffee  Bavarian  Cream. 

Use  1  cup  of  strong  coffee  and  1  cup  of  milk  for  the  custard. 
Prepare  same  as  Bavarian  cream. 

Almond  Bavarian  Cream. 

One-half  a  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  of  sweet  al- 
monds, blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  milk, 
add  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Prepare  the  custard 
with  gelatine,  stir  and  cook  1  minute.  When  cold  add  almonds  and 
whipped  cream.    Put  in  mold  to  congeal. 

Frozen  Orange  Souffle. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  orange  juice,  1  pound  powdered 
sugar,  y2  box  crelatine,  %  cup  cold  water,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  y%  cup 
boiling  water.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then 
add  boiling  water  and  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Mix  orange 
juice  and  sugar,  then  add  yolks  beaten  to  a  cream,  then  add  gela- 
tine. Beat  mixture  until  frothy,  strain  and  freeze.  When  frozen 
stir  in  the  whipped  cream  and  leave  2  hours  to  ripen. 

Raspberry  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  pink  raspberry  juice,  1%  tumblers 
granulated  sugar.  Add  1  tumbler  of  sugar  to  cream  and  whip,  then 
rest  of  sugar  to  juice.  Dissolve  thoroughly.  Add  the  cream  and 
freeze. 

Pineapple  Cream. 

Three  pints  of  cream,  1  fresh  pineapple,  14  ounces  granulated 
sugar.  Chop  pineapple  fine.  When  cream  is  nearly  frozen  stir  in 
pineapple  and-  freeze. 

Velvet  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  of  milk,  14  ounces  of  granulated 
sugar,  14  box  of  gelatine  and  y2  pint  of  sherry  wine.  Soak  gela- 
tine in  milk  30  minutes.  Put  in  double  boiler,  add  sugar  and  set  on 
range;  stir  until  dissolved.  While  warm  add  whipped  cream  and 
wine.    Put  in  mold  to  harden. 

Nougat  Charlotte. 

One-half  cup  of  blanched  almonds,  %  cup  of  grated  cocoanut, 
1  •>  pint  of  cream,  %  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs,  5  drops 
of  almond  extract.  Chop  almonds  and  cocoanut  in  14  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  then  pound  to  a  paste.  Whip  cream  stiff  and  add  sugar 
and  beaten  whites,  cocoanut,  almonds  and  flavoring.  Pour  this  into 
a  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers. 

Velvet  Mousse. 

One  quart  of  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  granulated  sugar, 


292  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


V/2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  cook  until 
almost  candy.  Beat  yolks  light  and  pour  the  syrup  slowly  over,  stir 
well,  add  vanilla.  Have  the  cream  whipped,  add  syrup.  Grease  mold 
on  the  edge  at  top,  pour  in  the  cream  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  4 
hours.   Half  the  recipe  may  be  used. 

Frozen  Coffee. 

Put  1  quart  of  cream  in  a  bowl  and  add  1  pint  of  granulated 
sugar,  1  pint  of  strong  cold  coffee.  Whip  till  a  stiff  froth,  then  pour 
into  freezer  and  pack  with  salt  and  ice.  Let  stand  2  hours.  Serve 
in  small  glass  cups. 

Pineapple  Cream. 

Chop  1  can  pineapple  very  fine  and  sprinkle  over  y2  cup  granu- 
lated sugar.  Add  this  to  1  quart  of  cream  with  1  tumbler  of  sugar 
and  freeze. 

Glace. 

Half  gallon  of  cream,  iy2  dozen  macaroons  pounded  fine.  Pour 
a  little  of  this  cream  over  them  and  allow  to  stand  until  they  soften. 
Beat  until  very  fine,  then  add  remainder  of  cream  and  freeze. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

Vanilla  Cream. 

Three  pints  of  rich  cream.  Have  %  of  a  vanilla  bean,  put  on 
the  stove  with  y2  pint  of  water  and  let  it  reduce  y2.  Set  it  out  to 
cool.  To  cream  add  \y2  tumblers  of  sugar  and  this  vanilla  when 
it  is  cold.  Freeze. 

Peppermint  Cream. 

Take  1  pound  of  peppermint  candy  and  crush  fine,  pour  over  it 
2  quarts  of  cream  and  let  soak  all  night.  The  next  day  add  2  more 
quarts  of  cream,  then  freeze. 

Lallah  Rookh. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  of  rich  milk,  1  tumbler  of  granulated 
sugar,  y2  vanilla  bean,  yolks  of  6  eggs.  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  with  the  vanilla  bean  cut  in  pieces.  Have  yolks  and  sugar 
beaten  to  a  cream  and  stir  in  gradually  the  hot  milk;  return  to 
boiler  for  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire ;  when 
cold  add  the  cream ;  after  it  is  frozen  1  coffee  cup  of  Jamaica  rum. 
Let  it  harden.    Serve  in  punch  glasses. 

Pistachio  Cream. 

Blanch  2  ounces  of  Pistachio  nuts,  pound  them  in  a  mortar  to 
a  smooth  paste,  using  a  little  cream.  Add  these  nuts  to  1  quart  of 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla  and  1  teaspoon  of  orange 
flower  water.    Freeze. 

Pineapple  Parfait. 

One-half  gallon  of  cream,  2  cans  grated  pineapple,  3  tumblers: 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  293 


granulated  sugar;  mix  well  and  freeze.  Serve  in  glasses.  Have  1 
pint  of  cream  whipped  and  put  on  top  of  each  glass  with  a  little 
chopped  mint  and  %  dozen  Maraschino  cherries. 

Almond  Ice. 

Two  pints  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cream,  14  ounces  of  sugar,  2  ounces 
of  orange  flower  water,  6  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  3  ounces  bitter 
almonds.  Pound  almonds  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  add  a  few  drops 
of  water  at  a  time  to  moisten.  When  reduced  to  a  powder  add  half 
of  milk,  with  orange  flower  water,  squeeze  through  a  cloth.  Boil 
cream  with  rest  of  milk  and  stir  continuously;  when  of  good  con- 
sistency add  the  almond  milk.  Leave  a  moment  and  pour  in  bowl 
to  cool.   Put  in  mold  to  freeze. 

Bisque  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  dozen  large  macaroons, 
1  pound  of  sugar,  1-3  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  good  sherry  wine. 
Dissolve  macaroons  in  the  wine.  Bring  1  pint  of  milk  to  boiling 
point,  add  the  gelatine  and  half  of  sugar.  Add  rest  of  sugar  to 
cream,  with  1  pint  of  milk.  Mix  cream  and  macaroons  and  freeze 
hard.  It  may  then  be  put  in  melon  mound  and  packed  in  salt  and 
ice  for  2  hours. 

Cocoanut  Ice  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  1  pint  new  milk,  1  cup  prepared  cocoanut, 
whites  of  2  eggs,  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  iy2  cups  granulated 
sugar.  Beat  eggs  and  grated  lemon  rind,  have  milk  scalding  hot 
and  pour  over  eggs  and  sugar.  Eeturn  to  double  boiler,  cook  until 
it  thickens.  Add  cocoanut  and  set  away  to  cool,  then  add  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  cream.   Freeze. 

For  Fruit  Creams. 

Use  1  pint  of  rich  cream,  with  1  pint  of  fruit  pulp,  mashed, 
strained  and  sweetened;  also  add  1  cup  granulated  sugar  to  cream 
and  whip  stiff.  One  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine  or  Maraschino  added 
to  peaches  or  other  fruit  if  preferred. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  rich  cream,  1  quart  strawberries,  2  tumblers  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Put  1  tumbler  of  sugar  over  berries  and  leave  3  hours, 
then  press  and  strain  through  jelly  bag,  add  rest  of  sugar;  when 
thoroughly  dissolved  add  the  cream  and  freeze.  Pineapple,  rasp- 
berries or  any  fruit  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Cafe  Frappe. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  quart  of  coffee,  2  tumblers  granulated 
sugar.  Mix  and  freeze.  Serve  in  glasses  with  1  spoon  of  sweetened, 
whipped  cream  on  top  of  each  glass. 


294  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Irish  Cream. 

Three  pints  of  cream,  14  ounces  granulated  sugar,  the  rind  and 
juice  of  1  orange,  1  ounce  isinglass.  Whip  cream  to  a  froth,  dis- 
solve isinglass  in  1  pint  of  water  and  just  before  it  congeals  stir  it 
into  tht'  whipped  cream. 

Biscuit  a  la  Creme. 

Six  ounces  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  cream,  8  eggs,  4  ounces 
flour,  a  little  vanilla.  Beat  the  cream,  adding  yolks  of  egg'  and 
sugar  and  vanilla.  Beat  whites  and  mix  with  other  ingredients. 
Make  small  paper  molds  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.   Serve  with 

jelly. 

Zarina  Cream. 

Take  %  box  of  gelatine  and  %  pint  of  water;  let  it  simmer 
until  dissolved,  add  to  this  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Have  *4  pound  of 
candied  cherries,  %  pound  of  candied  peaches,  ^  pound  of  almonds 
that  have  been  blanched  and  cut  in  small  pieces ;  also  cut  peaches  in 
small  pieces.  Pour  over  this  fruit  a  champagne  glass  of  sherry  wine, 
Let  it  stand  for  some  time.  Add  to  it  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar. 
Beat  1  quart  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  and  mix  in  the  gelatine,  while 
it  is  lukewarm  (the  same  as  in  Charlotte  Russe),  at  the  same  time 
stir  in  the  liquor  and  the  fruit.  Use  any  kind  of  liquor  preferred. 
Use  Cox's  gelatine.  Line  mold  with  lady  fingers,  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture, set  in  a  cool  place  to  congeal. 

Eggnog  Served  With  Zarina  Cream. 

One  quart  of  thick  cream,  beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  very  light, 
then  stir  in  7  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar,  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Pour  over  this  7  wine  glasses  of  any  kind  of  liquor  preferred.  Let 
stand  1  hour.   Add  the  whipped  cream. 


HERilT 


Fruit  Sherbet. 

Squeeze  2  dozen  lemons  and  %  dozen  oranges.  Make  a  syrup 
with  1  pint  of  water  and  l1/^  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  add  this 
syrup  to  the  juice  and  freeze,  when  frozen  remove  dasher  and  let 
it  harden.  Chop  y2  dozen  oranges  and  %  dozen  bananas,  a  few- 
strawberries  may  be  added.  In  winter  substitute  2  bunches  of 
Malaga  grapes  if  preferred  to  oranges  and  bananas.  Wash  the 
grapes  and  remove  from  the  stem.  Put  sherbet  on  a  flat  dish  and 
garnish  the  top  and  side  with  fruit ;  pour  over  1  gill  of  sherry  wine 
and  sprinkle  fruit  with  powdered  sugar.    Serve  at  once. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  295 


Fruit  Sherbet. 

Two  bananas,  2  cups  of  berries,  1  pineapple,  3  lemons,  4  oranges, 
3  cups  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  water.  Cut  the  berries,  slice  bananas,  chop, 
the  pineapple.  Use  pulp  of  oranges  and  juice  of  lemons,  dissolve 
the  sugar  in  water  and  pour  over  mixture.   Freeze. 

Cranberry  Sherbet. 

Boil  2  quarts  of  cranberries  until  soft,  then  strain  through  a 
jelly  bag.  Add  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar  to  the  liquid  and  par- 
tially freeze.  Then  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Freeze  and 
let  stand  for  2  hours.  Serve  in  punch  glasses  with  whipped  cream 
on  top  of  each  glass. 

Grape  Sherbet. 

Sweeten  1  quart  of  grape  juice  and  add  2  coffee  cups  of  orange 
juice ;  when  partially  frozen  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  1 
tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar.  Remove  the  dasher  and  let  it 
harden. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

The  juice  of  10  lemons,  2  quarts  of  water,  2  pints  of  granulated 
sugar.     Mix  well  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Ginger  Sherbet. 

Two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  8  lemons,  2  tumblers  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  i/4  pound  of  candied  ginger.  Wash  lemons  and  shave 
thin  rind'  from  2  lemons.  Put  sugar,  water,  ginger  and  the  rind  into 
porcelain  kettle  and  boil  until  clear.  Eemove  the  scum  as  it  forms, 
then  add  lemon  juice  and  strain.   Leave  until  cold,  then  freeze. 

Fruit  Preserved  in  Alcohol. 

Take  1  pound  of  strawberries,  cap  them  and  put  in  stone  jar, 
with  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Cover  with  best  alcohol.  As 
different  fruit  ripens  continue  adding  1  pound  of  each  fruit,  with 
1  pound  of  sugar,  and  cover  with  alcohol.  Raspberries,  currants, 
plums,  fresh  pineapple  and  peaches  peeled  and  sliced  are  the  most 
delicious  fruits.    Serve  with  ice  cream. 

Chestnut  Mousse. 

One  pint  of  cream,  y2  cup  of  candied  cherries,  2-3  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  1  cup  of  chestnut  puree,  1  scant  tablespoon  of  vanilla. 
Cut  cherries  in  half  and  mix  with  the  chestnut  puree.  Prepare 
puree,  pass  the  chestnuts,  shelled,  blanched  and  boiled  through  a 
sieve.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Cool  and 
fold  in  mixture  the  cream,  which  must  be  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into 
a  mold,  fill  it  to  overflowing  and  press  the  cover  down  tightly  over 
a  piece  of  heavy  paper.  Pack  mold  in  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ice. 
Let  remain  4  hours,  then  turn  on  a  platter,  decorate  with  whipped 
cream  or  sliced  chestnuts. 


296  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Tea  Frappe. 

Use  English  breakfast  tea,  1  teaspoon  for  each  cup.  After 
steeping  it  sweeten  to  taste.  When  cold  freeze.  Serve  in  sherbet 
glasses  with  sprigs  of  mint  around  edge  of  glass  and  slices  of  thinly- 
shaved  lemon  on  top. 

Fruit  Frappe. 

Line  a  mold  with  vanilla  ice  cream.  Fill  the  center  with  fresh 
berries  or  peaches  cut  in  small  thin  slices.  Cover  with  the  ice  cream 
and  have  the  mold  full.  Pack  mold  in  salt  and  ice  for  two  hours 
until  fruit  is  thoroughly  chilled.   Turn  out  on  a  flat  dish  and  serve. 

Maple  Mousse. 

One-half  pint  of  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  1  pint  of  whipped 
cream.  Boil  syrup  and  add  beaten  yolks,  cook  until  thick.  When 
cold  add  to  whipped  cream,  put  in  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt 
for  5  hours.  Do  not  freeze. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

One  can  of  grated  pineapple,  1  pint  granulated  sugar,  1  pint 
of  water,  1  tablespoon  dissolved  gelatine.  A  syrup  may  be  made  of 
sugar  and  water  and  added  to  fruit,  or  simply  add  sugar  to  fruit 
and  freeze. 

Frozen  Peaches. 

Put  1  can  of  soft  peaches  through  sieve.  Dissolve  2  coffee  cups 
of  granulated  sugar  in  1  cup  of  hot  water ;  add  3  cups  of  cold  water, 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Freeze. 

Yukon  Sherbet. 

Juice  of  1  dozen  lemons,  juice  of  1  dozen  oranges,  %  pound 
candied  cherries,  1  pineapple,  1  quart  of  claret  wine,  %  pint  brandy, 
y±  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  hot  water,  3  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water,  chop  pineapple  fine.  When 
gelatine  is  cold  add  all  ingredients,  except  claret  and  brandy,  and 
when  partially  frozen  add  them;  stir  well  and  leave  to  harden. 

Cranberry  Frappe. 

Boil  1  quart  of  cranberries  in  1  quart  of  water  for  5  or  6  min- 
utes, then  strain  through  cheesecloth.  Add  1  pint  of  sugar,  stir  and 
boil  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  cold  add  juice  of  2  lemons. 
Freeze  to  a  mush.  Serve  in  punch  glasses,  either  with  or  after  meats. 

Pineapple  Sorbet. 

Take  %  pineapple  and  cut  into  small  pieces  and  crush  to  a 
pulp.  Add  %  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  pound  again,  then  add 
juice  of  3  lemons  and  1  quart  of  water ;  strain  through  a  sieve  and 
add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Stir  well  into  the  liquid 
and  freeze. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  297 

Peach  Ice. 

Three  pints  of  mashed  peaches,  1  pint  of  water  and  juice  of  1 
lemon,  sweeten  to  taste.  When  it  begins  to  freeze  add  whites  of  2 
well-beaten  eggs. 

Raspberry  Ice. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  \y2  quarts  red  raspberries,  juice  of  4 
lemons,  2  pints  granulated  sugar.  When  partly  frozen  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

Grate  2  pineapples,  boil  3  pints  of  water,  add  \y2  pounds  granu- 
lated sugar.  Add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  pineapple.  Strain 
through  cloth  and  freeze.    Some  of  the* pulp  may  be  added. 

Strawberry  Sherbet. 

One  quart  of  strawberries,  1  quart  cold  water,  \y2  pints  granu- 
lated sugar,  2  lemons.  Squeeze  berries  and  put  in  the  pulp ;  strain 
the  juice ;  add  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.   Freeze. 

Blackberry  Sherbet. 

One  quart  of  blackberries,  1  quart  water,  iy2  pints  granulated 
sugar,  2  lemons.  Squeeze  berries  and  strain  through  a  cloth;  add 
water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.    Freeze. 

Three  of  a  Kind. 

Two  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  juice  of  3  lemons  and  3 
oranges.  Slice  3  bananas  and  add  to  them,  2  teacups  of  sugar  and 
freeze. 

Orange  Water  Ice. 

Eight  large  oranges,  4  lemons,  V/2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 
Rub  and  squeeze  the  oranges  as  you  do  lemon.  Pour  juice  over 
sugar,  mix  thoroughly.  Add  water  until  it  measures  2  quarts,  then 
freeze. 

Strawberry  Frappe. 

The  juice  from  1  quart  of  strawberries,  add  double  the  amount 
of  water,  V/2  tumblers  granulated  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix 
and  freeze. 

Green  Gage  Ice. 

One  can  of  green  gages  mashed  fine ;  add  3  pints  of  water  and 
sweeten  to  taste  and  the  white  of  1  beaten  egg  when  it  begins  to 
freeze. 

Orange  Ice. 

.  Four  cups  of  water,  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  of  orange 
juice,  y2  cup  of  lemon  juice,  the  grated  rind  of  2  lemons  or  oranges. 
Boil  water  and  sugar  20  minutes;  add  fruit  juice  and  rind;  cool, 
strain  and  freeze. 


298  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Raspberry  Sherbet. 

Take  1  gallon  of  water  and  add  to  it  3  pints  of  granulated 
sugar,  boil  to  a  syrup.  Let  get  cool,  add  juice  of  10  lemons  and  juice 
of  2  quarts  of  pink  raspberries  that  have  been  strained,  then  freeze. 

Apricot  Ice. 

Take  more  than  a  quart  of  water  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Let 
come  to  boiling  point,  then  let  cool.  Add  1  can  of  apricots  that  have 
been  well  mashed. 

Orange  Ice. 

Take  1  quart  of  water  and  add  to  it  1%  pints  of  granulated 
sugar.  Boil  to  a  syrup;  when  cold  add  the  juice  of  8  oranges  and 
juice  of  3  lemons,  then  freeze. 

Grape  Sherbet. 

Add  to  1  quart  of  grape  juice,  sweetened  to  taste,  2  coffee  cups 
of  orange  juice  sweetened;  when  partially  frozen  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar.  Remove 
dasher  and  let  it  harden. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  10  lemons  and  add  2  quarts  of  water 
and  V/2  pints  of  granulated  sugar;  then  freeze. 

Lemon  Ice. 

The  juice  of  6  lemons  with  the  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  2  large 
sweet  oranges,  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind.  Squeeze  out  juice 
and  steep  in  it  2  hours  the  rind  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon.  Press 
through  sieve  and  add  1  pint  of  cold  water  and  2  tumblers  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved,  then  freeze.  Remove  dasher  and 
leave  for  several  hours  to  harden. 

Currant  Ice. 

Take  pink  raspberries  and  currants  in  equal  proportion.  Mash 
fruit  and  press  through  jelly  bag.  Have  1  pint  of  fruit  juice,  1  pint 
of  cold  water  and  1%  pints  granulated  sugar  and  freeze,  or  make 
a  sherbet  by  heating  juice,  water  and  sugar  and  pour  boiling  hot 
over  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.    Cool  and  freeze. 

Orange  Frappe. 

Make  a  syrup  with  2  tumblers  of  granulated  sugar  and  2 
tumblers  of  <cold  water ;  boil  about  20  minutes,  the  grated  rind  of 
1  orange  m.ay  be  added.  Have  2  tumblers  of  blood  orange  juice 
or  Florida  orange  juice,  add  to  the  syrup  with  juice  of  2  lemons. 
Strain  and  freeze.  Use  preceding  recipe  and  substitute  juice  from 
white  canned  cherries.    Prepare  and  freeze. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  299 

Watermelon  Ice. 

One  quart  of  juice  from  watermelon,  1  pint  of  cold  water,  2y2 
tumblers  granulated  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Squeeze  juice  from 
melon  and  strain ;  add  the  cold  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Freeze 
hard. 

Apricot  Ice. 

One  quart  can  of  apricots,  1-3  box  of  gelatine,  1  quart  of  water. 
Put  gelatine  to  soak  15  minutes  in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  then  dis- 
slove  it  by  pouring  in  1  quart  of  hot  water.  Mash  the  apricots  with 
the  juice  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  squeezing  it  well,  then  sweeten  to 
taste.  The  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  may  be  added  when 
it  begins  to  freeze. 


WO^miH  PUNCH 


Roman  Punch. 


Three  dozen  lemons,  1  dozen  oranges,  1  pound  granulated  sugar, 
]  quart  of  cold  water,  %  pint  of  whisky.  Make  sugar  into  a  syrup 
and  add  enough  water  to  moisten  it.  When  cold  put  in  orange  and 
lemon  juice,  also  the  water,  rum  and  whisky.  Freeze  to  a  mush. 
This  quantity  will  serve  3  dozen  people. 

Frozen  Punch. 

Boil  1  quart  of  strong  lemonade  10  minutes,  add  1  tablespoon 
each  of  canned  cherries,  peaches,  pineapple  and  strawberry  juice. 
Freeze  to  a  mush.  "When  serving  place  thin  slices  of  bananas  and  a 
few  cherries  in  each  glass  with  1  slice  of  lemon  on  top. 

Roman  Punch. 

Squeeze  1  dozen  oranges  and  1  dozen  lemons.  Make  a  syrup 
of  1%  pints  granulated  sugar  and  enough  water  to  moisten.  Add 
V/2  quarts  of  water  and  orange  and  lemon  juice.  When  it  begins  to 
freeze  add  1  pint  of  rum.    Serve  in  punch  glasses. 

Claret  Punch. 

Three  pints  of  water,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  the  juice  of  1 
pineapple.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  cold  add  the  juice 
of  10  oranges  and  the  juice  of  6  lemons,  2  tablespoons  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water.  Put  in  freezer  and  pack;  when  par- 
tially frozen  add  %  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  pint  of  rum,  y2 
pint  sherry  wine  and  1  quart  of  claret  wine.  Remove  the  dasher 
and  let  it  harden.   Serve  in  punch  glasses. 


300  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Punch  a  la  Romain. 

One-half  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  3  large  lemons,  3  oranges, 
1  quart  of  water,  %  tumbler  of  Jamaica  rum.  To  the  sugar  and 
water  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  boil  5  minutes.  When  cool 
add  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons;  strain,  pack  and  freeze.  When 
frozen  stir  in  the  rum  and  let  it  remain  2  hours  to  harden.  Serve  in 
tall  glasses  with  Maraschino  cherries  on  top. 

Orange  Punch. 

Seven  oranges,  3  lemons,  l1/^  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  2 
pints  of  water,  %  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  4  tablespoons  of  Maraschino. 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  oranges  and  the 
lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  1  orange.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  saucepan 
and  1  pint  of  water.  Cook  slowly  and  boil  for  5  minutes.  When 
cool  add  the  pint  of  cold  water  and  the  strained  juice  of  oranges 
and  lemons,  then  freeze  hard.  Stir  in  gradually  the  rum.  Maraschino 
and  the  vanilla.   Let  stand  for  2  hours  and  serve  in  punch  glasses. 

Champagne  Frappe. 

One  dozen  oranges,  \y%  dozen  lemons,  1  pint  of  Maraschino 
cherries,  2  pints  of  Apollinaris  water,  y2  pint  of  rum,  y2  pint  of  good 
whisky,  1  pint  of  champagne,  1  quart  of  water,  1  pint  of  sugar. 
Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  Squeeze  the  oranges  and  lemons. 
Add  the  syrup  and  the  chopped  cherries.  Freeze.  When  ready  to 
serve  turn  into  a  glass  bowl  and  pour  over  it  all  liquors  except 
champagne,  which  must  be  poured  on  last.    Serve  at  once. 


The  best  blend  of  coffee  is  %  of  a  pound  of  Java  and  ^4  of  a 
pound  of  Mocha.  Properly  prepared  this  makes  the  most  delicious 
coffee  obtainable.  A  most  important  fact  to  be  remembered  is  al- 
ways to  have  freshly-boiled  water,  but  it  must  boil  hard  only  for 
about  3  minutes,  as  much  of  its  natural  properties  escape  by  evap- 
oration. Clear  coffee  is  obtained  by  using  the  white  and  shell  of  1 
egg  for  1  heaping  cup  of  ground  coffee.  Another  most  important 
point  for  making  good  coffee  is  in  the  roasting.  For  a  few  overdone 
or  scorched  berries  will  ruin  the  whole  amount,  and  consequently  a 
uniformly  roasted  berry,  each  grain  coated  with  white  of  egg,  will 
insure  perfection  in  the  art  of  making  coffee.  And  always  use  the 
best  coffee,  as  it  is  cheaper  in  the  end,  as  a  less  quantity  is  required 
and  the  best  results  obtained.  A  poor  cup  of  coffee  is  not  only  ob- 
jectionable, but  a  menace  to  good  health. 

Roasting  Coffee. 

Put  1  pound  of  raw  coffee  in  pan,  place  on  range,  stir  con- 
stantly for  15  minutes,  until  coffee  begins'  to  color,  then  cover  pan 
and  shake  until  a  chestnut  color.  When  it  cools  a  little  add  1  beaten 
egg  with  the  shell;  beat  until  each  grain  of  coffee  is  coated.  Re- 
move and  put  in  airtight  cans ;  grind  coffee  as  needed. 

Mock  Cream. 

Froth  the  white  of  1  egg  and  add  to  it  a  small  lump  of  butter. 
When  ready  to  serve  coffee  pour  it  very  gradually  upon  this  mock 
cream  and  stir  well  to  prevent  curdling.  It  proves  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute for  cream. 

French  Drip  Coffee. 

Allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  for  each  person 
and  1  tablespoon  to  the  pot ;  moisten  the  whole  with  hot  water.  Put 
in  upper  division  of  coffee  pot  and  pour  on  %  cup  boiling  water  at 
a  time,  drip  slowly.  After  using  the  required  amount  of  water  re- 
drip  several  times,  keep  coffee  hot,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  It 
is  excellent  served  with  hot  cream  or  scalded  new  milk. 

Drip  Coffee. 

Put  1  coffee  cup  of  ground  coffee  into  the  upper  division  of  the 
coffee  pot  and  pour  over  it  1  quart  of  boiling  water.  Place  where  it 
will  be  kept  hot  without  boiling.  If  it  drips  through  rapidly  pour 
in  a  china  pitcher  and  pour  back  over  the  coffee  4  times  very  slowly. 

(301) 


302  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    HOOK. 


It  is  nice  served  with  hot  or  cold  cream,  or  use  ^  coffee  cup  of 
boiled  milk  with  the  coffee.  In  making  coffee  have  freshly-boiled 
and  boiling  water.   Always  scald  the  pot  with  hot  water. 

Boiled  Coffee. 

Take  1  heaping  teacup  of  ground  coffee,  moisten  with  cold 
water  and  stir  in  white  of  1  egg.  Let  it  stand  10  minutes.  Scald  the 
coffee  pot  with  hot  water ;  put  in  the  coffee  and  pour  over  it  1  quart 
of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  stir  down,  pour  out  a 
little  of  the  coffee  and  pour  it  back  again  to  settle.  Can  add  1  spoon 
of  cold  water.    Serve  very  hot. 

Cafe  au  Lait. 

Take  1  heaping  cup  of  ground  coffee,  mix  in  a  china  bowl  with 
enough  cold  water  to  moisten.  Put  coffee  in  upper  division  of  a 
French  drip  coffee  not,  pour  over  %  pint  of  boiling  water  and  allow 
it  to  steep  5  minutes,  then  pour  on  gradually  1%  pints  of  boiling 
water.  As  fast  as  the  coffee  drips  through  sieve  continue  to  pour 
back  again,  using  a  china  pitcher  It  should  be  perfectly  clear  and 
very  strong.  Set  pot  on  range,  where  it  will  keep  very  hot  and  not 
boil.  A  few  minutes  before  serving  add  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water 
and  leave  a  few  minutes  to  settle.  Fill  cup  %  full  of  boiled  milk 
and  pour  in  the  hot  coffee.    Serve  immediately  with  cut  sugar. 

Filtered  Coffee. 

Allow  1  dessertspoon  of  pulverized  coffee  for  each  cup  of  cof- 
fee and  put  in  upper  part  of  double  coffee  pot.  Put  boiling  water 
for  as  many  cups  as  required,  set  on  back  of  range  5  minutes,  but 
it  must  not  boil.    Remove  and  serve. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  cereal  coffee  into  the  pot  and  pour  over  1 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  15  minutes,  strain  and  serve  with  hot 
cream  and  cut  sugar. 

Vienna  Coffee. 

For  Vienna  coffee  use  equal  parts  of  Mocha  and  Java  coffee. 
Allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  coffee  for  each  cup  and  2  tablespoons 
to  the  pot.  Grind  coffee  and  mix  with  1  egg,  add  as  much  freshly- 
boiled  water  as  required  when  coffee  froths,  then  stir  down  with  a 
silver  spoon.  Let  it  boil  6  minutes  and  remove  to  back  of  range, 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  it  must  not  boil;  leave  for  10  minutes 
and  add  rest  of  water.  To  1  pint  of  cream  add  the  white  of  1  egg 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Put  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  this  cream  in  each  cup 
and  fill  up  with  the  hot  coffee.  Place  3  or  4  lumps  of  cut  sugar  in 
each  saucer,  to  be  added  when  serving. 


T 


To  attain  the  perfection  of  tea-making  pour  water  upon  the 
tea  as  soon  as  it  conies  to  a  good  boil.  Oolong  tea  is  fine,  also  the 
English  breakfast  tea,  also  Lipton's  tea,  No.  1,  Ceylon  and  India. 
Green  tea  and  black  tea  blended  in  equal  proportion  or  He-No-Chop 
are  especially  good  to  be  used  for  iced  tea. 

Russian  Tea. 

Eussian  tea  is  a  delicious  beverage.  It  may  be  served  hot  with 
1  slitfe  of  lemon  and  1  tablespoon  of  Jamaica  rum  in  each  cup,  or 
serve  cold  with  sliced  lemon  and  cracked  ice. .  In  straining  the  tea 
it  is  well  to  use  a  silver  strainer.  Fill  a  tea  ball  with  the  requisite 
amount  of  tea,  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  cup  and  pour  on  boiling 
water.  It  is  then  .ready  to  be  served.  Add  sliced  lemon  and  cut 
sugar. 

Tea. 

In  making  tea  allow  2  teaspoons  of  tea  for  1  large  coffee  cup  of 
boiling  water.  Put  tea  with  the  required,  amount  of  water  in  a 
china  teapot  and  let  steep  about  10  minutes.  Strain  and  serve  hot 
with  rich  cream  and  cut  sugar. 

Apple  Tea. 

Eoast  4  large  acid  apples,  cover  with  boiling  water.  "When  cool 
pour  off  water  and  strain.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

Tea. 

Scald  well  the  teapot,  put  in  1  teaspoon  of  tea  for  each  per- 
son, but  a  less  proportionate  amount  for  many  persons;  pour  over 
a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  on  back  of  range 
to  steep  for  several  minutes,  then  pour  on  the  desired  amount  of 
freshly-boiled  and  boiling  water;  in  a  few  moments  it  is  ready  to 
be  served. 

Iced  Tea. 

It  is  prepared  as  in  preceding  recipe.  Make  early  in  the  morn- 
ing and  pour  in  a  glass  pitcher,  set  in  refrigerator.  When  cool  it  is 
then  ready  to  be  served  at  dinner  or  supper  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  cracked  ice. 

Russian  Tea. 

Take  %  pound  of  Lipton's  tea,  No.  1  Ceylon  and  India.  Put 
in  a  jar  with  1  gallon  of  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  12  hours.  Strain 
twice  through  cheesecloth  bag  and  sweeten  to  taste.   Use  the  juice 

(303) 


304  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


of  20  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  few.   Serve  in  a  punch  bowl 
with  a  large  block  of  ice. 

Russian  Tea. 

Take  as  many  spoons  of  English  breakfast  tea  as  there  are 
covers.  Pour  on  a  little  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  a  minute,  then 
add  as  many  cups  of  boiling  water  as  there  are  spoons  of  tea  and 
let  it  steep  for  several  minutes.  Add  Jamaica  rum,  thin  slices  of 
lemon  and  powdered  sugar  to  each  cup.   Serve  hot. 

Orange  Piquot  Tea. 

Allow  1  teaspoonful  of  orange  piquot  tea  for  each  cup  and  steep 
a  few  minutes.    It  is  delicious  served  hot  or  cold  for  luncheon. 


CHOCOLAT 


Chocolate. 


One  quart  of  new  milk,  2  ounces  Baker's  chocolate,  3  table- 
spoons of  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  2  table- 
spoons of  hot  water.  Mix  the  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  the  milk. 
Put  rest  of  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  it  comes  to  boiling  point 
stir  in  the  cornstarch  and  cook  10  minutes.  Cut  chocolate  in  fine 
bits  and  put  in  a  small  granite  pan,  add  the  sugar  and  water  and 
place  the  pan  over  a  hot  fire.  Stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  is 
smooth  and  glossy.  Add  this  to  hot  milk  and  beat  the  mixture  with 
a  .whisk  until  it  is  frothy.  Serve  at  once,  with  1  tablespoon  of 
whipped  cream  on  each  cup.  If  a  thinner  chocolate  is  preferred 
omit  the  cornstarch. 

Vienna  Chocolate. 

Four  ounces  of  Baker's  vanilla  chocolate,  1  quart  of  new  milk, 
3  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  1  tablespoon  granulated  sugar.  Cut  the 
chocolate  in  fine  bits.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  it  comes  to 
boiling  point  put  chocolate,  sugar  and  water  in  a  small  granite  pan 
and  stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Stir  this  mixture 
into  the  hot  milk  and  beat  well  with  a  whisk.  Serve  at  once  with 
1  tablespoon  whipped  cream  in  each  cup  and  fill  with  the  hot  choco- 
late. If  plain  chocolate  is  used  instead  of  the  vanilla  use  3  heaping 
tablespoons  granulated  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

French  Chocolate. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  new  milk,  2  cups  boiling  water,  1  cup  of 
grated  chocolate.  When  water  boils  add  the  chocolate  as  soon  as  it 
boils  up,  stir  well  with  a  spoon  and  add  the  milk.  Cook  a  few  min- 
utes and  serve  chocolate  with  whipped  cream  on  top  each  cup.    One 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  305 


teacup  of  granulated  sugar  may  be  added  while  cooking,  then  beat 
well  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  or  sugar  and  vanilla  may  be 
omitted  while  cooking  and  served  with  cut  sugar. 

Chocolate. 

To  1  pint  of  water  and  1  pint  of  milk  allow  y%  cup  of  grated 
chocolate.  Break  chocolate  in  small  pieces  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Add  the  milk  and  boil  10  minutes  longer ; 
stir  continuously,  add  %  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Serve  with  1 
tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  on  each  cup. 

Cocoa. 

One  pint  of  new  milk,  1  pint  of  water,  6  tablespoons  of  cocoa, 
sugar  to  taste.  Rub  the  cocoa  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  little  cold 
water ;  when  the  pint  of  water  comes  to  boiling  point  add  the  cocoa 
and  stir  well.  Boil  20  minutes,  then  add  the  milk  and  boil  5  min- 
utes, stir  continuously.  Serve  at  once,  with  several  lumps  of  cut 
sugar  on  each  saucer. 

Breakfast  Cocoa. 

Into  a  cup  put  1  teaspoon  of  the  powder;  add  1  tablespoon  of 
boiling  water  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  add  equal  parts  of  boiling 
water  and  boiled  milk,  sugar  to  taste.  Boil  it  2  or  3  minutes  and 
serve. 

Chocolate. 

Scrape  fine  1  ounce  of  Baker's  chocolate  and  add  to  it  2  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  hot 
water.  Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth,  then  stir  it  all  into  1  quart 
of  boiling  milk.  Mix  well  and  serve  at  once  with  whipped  cream 
on  top  of  each  cup. 

Chocolate. 

Put  1  quart  of  new  milk  in  bucket  and  place  in  pot  of  hot 
water.  Dissolve  1  bar  of  chocolate  in  milk  over  boiling  water,  re- 
move from  fire,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  1  well-beaten  yolk,  stir- 
ring briskly.  Add  chocolate  to  milk  and  cook  about  30  minutes. 
Churn  milk  with  ehurner  while  boiling.  Serve  whipped  cream  on 
top  of  each  cup. 

To  Make  Chocolate. 

Have  new  milk  in  a  bucket  set  in  hot  water.  Dissolve  choco- 
late in  a  little  milk  over  boiling  water;  take  it  off  and  let  it  get 
nearly  cold,  and  beat  into  it  yolk  of  1  egg.  Pour  this  into  the  milk 
beating  again.  Have  your  ehurner,  and  churn  all  the  time  it  is  on  the 
fire. 


20 


;VEiRA< 


"Thou  cans't  not  reach  the  light  that  I  shall  find, 
A  generous  soul  is  sunshine  to  the  mind." 

— Norward. 


Currant  Wine. 


The  currants  must  be  thoroughly  ripe.  Stew,  mash  and  strain 
them ;  to  1  quart  of  fruit  add  Yo  pint  of  water  and  %  of  a  pound 
of  granulated  sugar.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  clean  cask,  leaving 
open  the  bunghole,  but  cover  with  coarse  muslin.  Leave  for  30  days 
to  ferment,  then  add  a  little  brandy  or  good  whisky  and  bottle. 

Florida  Orange  Wine. 

Select  perfect  oranges  and  wipe  with  a  wet  cloth,  remove  the 
yellow  rind  in  thin  pieces  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Measure  juice  and  allow  for  each  gallon  of 
juice  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1-3  of  a  gallon  of  cold  water, 
the  white  and  shell  of  1  egg.  Put  water  on  with  the  sugar,  egg  and 
crushed  shell,  stir  every  few  minutes  until  egg  begins  to  harden; 
boil  until  syrup  looks  clear.  Strain  the  syrup  and  pour  it  upon  the 
orange  rind  and  leave  12  hours.  Strain  it  the  second  day  and  put 
into  a  tight  cask;  for  10  gallons  wine  use  1  small  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast.  Leave  unstopped  until  fermentation  ceases,  which  is 
known  by  the  hissing  sound  having  stopped.  Put  in  the  bung 
and  leave  for  9  months,  then  add  1  tumbler  of  brandy  to  each  gal- 
lon of  the  wine,  bottle  and  leave  for  60  days.  It  is  then  ready  to  use. 

Raisin  Wine. 

Two  pounds  of  raisins,  2  gallons  boiling  water,  1  pound  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  1  lemon.  Seed  the  raisins  and  chop  them  and  put  in 
a  stone  jar  with  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  juice  of  lemon.  Stir 
daily  for  7  days,  then  strain,  bottle  and  put  in  a  cool  place  for  about 
10  days.    It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

Grape  Wine. 

Remove  grapes  from  stem,  wash  and  mash.  Let  stand  1  night, 
then  squeeze  through  bag.  To  1  gallon  of  juice  add  1  quart  water 
and  3  pounds  granulated  sugar.  Put  in  demijohns,  covering  with 
cloth.  Reserve  some  of  the  juice  to  refill  the  demijohns  during  fer- 
mentation. Let  remain  1  month,  then  cork  securely  and  it  is  ready 
for  use. 

(306) 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  307 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

Wash  and  pick  1  gallon  berries.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  and 
mash  with  wooden  spoon.  Let  them  boil,  then  strain  through  bag. 
To  each  pint  of  juice  add  %  pint  of  water,  1  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  1  ounce  whole  cloves,  1  ounce  mace,  %  ounce  cinnamon,  1 
grated  nutmeg,  1  ounce  of  powdered  sugar.  Boil  half  an  hour,  then 
strain  through  bag.  When  cold  add  to  each  pint  of  cordial  1  gill 
of  brandy.    Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Sherry  Cobbler. 

One  orange  sliced,  1  lemon  sliced,  slices  of  pineapple  quartered, 
V±>  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  tumbler  sherry  wine.  Place  fruit  in  wide 
mouthed  pitcher,  with  powdered  sugar  and  pounded  ice  between 
each  layer.  Cover  with  sugar  and  ice,  let  stand  5  minutes.  Add 
2  tumblers  cold  water  and  rest  of  sugar.  Stir  well  and  add  more 
pounded  ice.  Pour  in  wine  and  stir  again.  Place  a  slice  of  each  kind 
of  fruit  in  glass  before  filling  with  cobbler. 

Eggnogg. 

One  quart  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  5  tablespoonfuls  granulated 
sugar,  7  wine  glasses  whisky,  1  wine  glass  rum.  Beat  yolks  light, 
then  add  sugar  and  stir  until  smooth;  add  whisky  and  rum.  Have 
cream  beaten  stiff  and  stir  in  very  lightly.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and 
it  will  keep  many  hours. 

Silver  Fizz. 

One  jigger  of  gin,  white  of  1  egg,  l1/^  teaspoons  of  pulverized 
sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  shaved  ice.  Put  in  a  shaker  and 
shake  until  foamy,  then  strain  and  top  off  with  seltzer.  Serve  in 
lemonade  glasses.    Use  Old  Tom  gin. 

Gold  Fizz. 

Use  preceding  recipe  and  add  the  whole  egg. 
Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Two  quarts  raspberries,  1  quart  cider  vinegar.  Pour  vinegar 
over  berries,  cover  and  set  aside  for  48  hours,  then  drain  liquid  and 
pour  it  over  a  third  quart  of  berries  and  strain  through  a  muslin 
bag.  To  every  pint  of  liquid  add  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil 
slowly  for  5  minutes.  Remove  scum  and  let, it  cool  15  minutes  and 
bottle.  Use  2  tablespoons  of  this  vinegar  in  a  glass  of  water  and 
crushed  ice.  Blackberry  and  strawberry  vinegar  can  be  made  in 
the  same  way. 

Raspberry  Cordial. 

Take  ripe  raspberries  and  pick  them  over  carefully,  bruise  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice.  To  3  pints  of  juice  add  1  pint  of  white 
brandy.  Put  in  a  demijohn,  cork  tight  and  let  it  stand  for  2  weeks. 
Strain  through  a  muslin  bag  and  dissolve  in  it  2%  pounds  of  gran- 


308  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

ulated  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice.  Bottle  and  cork.  Strawberry- 
cordial  can  be  made  by  the  same  recipe.  Never  boil  delicate  fruit 
for  cordial,  as  it  injures  the  flavor. 

Blackberry  Wine. 

To  1  quart  of  mashed  berries  put  1  quart  of  water,  set  aside 
until  next  day,  then  strain,  and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  add  3  pounds 
of  sugar.    Remove  all  scum,  then  rack  off  and  put  in  jugs. 

Koumiss. 

Fill  champagne  bottles  %  full  of  fresh  sweet  milk ;  to  each  bot- 
tle add  1  tablespoon  of  fresh  brewer's  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  syrup 
made  from  granulated  sugar  and  water  boiled  together.  Shake  the 
bottles,  then  add  more  milk  and  shake  again.  Cork,  place  bottles 
upright  in  a  cool  place  for  2%  days,  then  turn  them  on  the  side  and 
they  are  ready  for  use.  It  is  important  to  keep  in  a  cool  place  to 
prevent  souring.  Use  a  champagne  tap  to  draw  koumiss  from  the 
bottle.    It  is  excellent  for  ill  or  debilitated  persons. 

Hop  Beer. 

Take  1  handful  of  hops  and  boil  1  hour,  add  1  pint  of  molasses 
and  enough  water  to  make  2  gallons.  When  milk  is  warm  add  1 
cake  of  yeast.  Let  it  stand  all  night,  skim  and  pour  it  off  from  the 
yeast  carefully;  put  in  1  tablespoon  of  wintergreen  and  bottle. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Take  the  berries  partially  pressed  that  have  been  used  for  rasp- 
berry syrup,  cover  with  clear  cold  vinegar,  put  in  a  covered  crock 
until  next  morning,  keep  in  cellar  or  other  cool  place.  Press  out 
very  dry  and  to  1  pint  of  juice  put  %  pint  granulated  sugar,  boil 
to  a  syrup,  then  strain  through  cheesecloth,  bottle  and  cork  at  once. 
Use  this  syrup  with  glass  of  water,  according  to  taste.  Add  crushed 
ice  when  serving. 

Cherry  Bounce. 

Take  4  pounds  of  sour  cherries  and  the  same  quantity  of  sweet 
cherries.  Put  them  in  a  wooden  bowl  and  crush  with  a  mallet,  being 
sure  to  break  all  the  seed.  Put  into  a  deep  jar  and  add  2%  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar,  then  cover  with  1  gallon  of  good  whisky.  Stir 
well  and  pour  into  a  demijohn,  cork  tight  and  let  it  stand  a  month, 
shaking  every  day;  then  another  month  without  shaking.  Strain 
and  bottle.    It  is  ready  for  use  in  6  months. 

Cream  Nectar. 

Dissolve  2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  2  ounces  of  tartaric 
acid  in  3  pints  of  water ;  boil  5  minutes.  When  cool  beat  the  whites 
of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  y2  teacup  of  cornstarch  and  the  juice 
of  3  lemons,  add  1  teaspoon  of  essence  of  strawberry  or  pineapple, 
bottle  and  seal  securely,  keep  in  a  cool  dark  place.  Put  2  tablespoons 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  309 


of  nectar  in  a  tumbler  half  full  of  cold  water,  add  a  pinch  of  soda, 

stir  well  and  it  will  effervesce.     Drink  at  once. 

To  Grate  Orange  or  Lemon  Peel. 

Wipe  the  rind;  grate  the  yellow  rind  from  either  one  wanted 
while  whole,  as  it  is  much  easier. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

Wash  berries,  heat  and  squeeze  them  through  flannel  bag.  To 
each  pint  of  juice,  allow  1  pound  granulated  sugar,  y2  ounce  of 
ground  cinnamon,  %  ounce  of  mace,  2  teaspoons  of  cloves,  2  tea- 
spoons allspice.  Mix  spices  with  juice,  and  boil  %  of  an  hour,  then 
strain  the  liquid.  To  each  quart  of  cordial,  add  2  tumblers  of  French 
brandy.    It  is  excellent  to  be  used  in  many  forms  of  illness. 

Grape  Juice. 

Ten  pounds  of  grapes,  2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  2  quarts 
water.  Boil  grape  juice  and  water  10  minutes,  then  strain  and  add 
the  sugar.  Let  come  to  boiling  point,  and  strain  the  juice,  but  it 
must  not  be  squeezed.  Put  in  patent  cork  bottles.  It  is  a  delicious 
beverage,  fill  a  tumbler  and  add  crushed  ice. 

Pineapple  Vinegar. 

Slice  fresh  pineapples,  and  cover  with  pure  cider  vinegar.  Leave 
for  3  days,  then  mash  and  strain  through  a  cloth,  until  clear.  To  3 
quarts  of  juice,  add  Sy2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  juice  and 
sugar  10  minutes,  skim  until  free  of  all  scum.  Remove  from  fire, 
cool  and  bottle.  Raspberries,  or  blackberries  may  be  substituted  for 
pineapple.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  syrup  in  a  glass  of  ice  water,  and 
fill  with  crushed  ice.    This  makes  a  refreshing  drink  in  hot  weather. 

Manhattan  Cocktail. 

Equal  parts  of  whisky  and  Italian  vermouth,  a  few  pieces  of 
lemon  and  add  a  few  drops  of  the  bitters.  Shake  up  with  the  crack- 
ed ice,  and  serve  very  cold. 

Bitters  for  Manhattan  Cocktail. 

Four  ounces  Angostura  bitters,  y2  ounce  orange  bitters,  y2  ounce 
orange  Curacao  (2  tablespoons  equal  1  ounce),  y2  teaspoonful  of 
bitters  is  enough  for  two  cocktails. 

Strawberry  Acid. 

Three  ounces  of  Citric  acid  dissolved  in  1  quart  of  cold  water, 
pour  this  over  8  pounds  of  strawberries  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place 
24  hours,  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  1 
pint  of  granulated  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved,  put  in  a  kettle  and  boil 
about  10  minutes.    Bottle  and  seal  tight.    It  is  then  ready  for  use. 


310  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Penora. 

One  dozen  oranges,  1%  dozen  lemons,  1  pound  of  Malaga  grapes, 
y~>  dozen  bananas,  1  quart  of  water,  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar. 
Squeeze  oranges  and  lemons.  Add  sugar  and  the  sliced  bananas; 
slice  4  more  oranges.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  in  bowl  with  a  block 
of  ice  and  1  pint  of  champagne  or  1  pint  of  Apollinaris  water  as  pre- 
ferred.   Serve  in  glasses. 

A  Summer  Drink. 

Take  2  pounds  of  ripe  Catawba  grapes,  picked  from  the  stems, 
squeeze  in  a  coarse  cloth  and  add  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar. 
"When  dissolved,  add  1  cup  of  water,  set  on  ice  until  very  cold,  then 
put  a  lump  of  ice  in  pitcher  and  pour  the  mixture  upon  it  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve.    If  not  sweet  enough  add  more  sugar. 

Mullein  Beer. 

Two  quarts  mullein  leaves,  1  gallon  boiling  water,  1  pint  mo- 
lasses. Flavor  with  wintergreen.  Cover  leaves  with  water  and  al- 
low them  to  steep.  Strain,  and  add  the  boiling  water  and  molasses. 
Let  mixture  boil,  and  add  yeast  and  flavoring.  Leave  till  it  ferments, 
which  will  require  several  hours.    Bottle,  and  cork  securely. 

Fruit  Cocktail. 

One-half  dozen  oranges,  %  dozen  bananas,  y±  pound  pecans,  1 
pint  Maraschino  cherries.  Dice  oranges  and  bananas,  add  pulverized 
pecans  and  the  cherries ;  chill  the  cocktail  and  when  ready  to  serve, 
put  in  champagne  glasses  and  add  pulverized  sugar  and  1  tablespoon 
sherry  wine  to  each  glass. 

Egg  Lemonade. 

Break  1  egg  into  a  pitcher  and  beat  with  patent  egg  beater  until 
it  foams.  Then  add  to  it  gradually  a  good  lemonade,  and  continue  to 
beat  until  very  light,  serve  at  once.  It  is  excellent  for  persons  need- 
ing an  appetizer. 

A  Fruit  Beverage. 

Have  1  pint  of  orange  juice,  1  pint  strawberry,  currant,  raspber- 
ry or  juice  of  any  fresh  fruit.  Strain  and  add  to  orange  juice.  Put 
in  porcelain  kettle,  and  when  it  comes  to  boiling  point,  add  3  tea- 
spoons of  arrow  root,  moistened  with  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  until 
clear,  then  add  y2  tumbler  of  powdered  sugar.  Let  dissolve  and  pour 
in  bowl  to  cool.     Serve  in  punch  glasses  with  crushed  ice. 

Unfermented  Grape  Juice. 

Wash  the  grapes  and  remove  from  the  stems.  Reject  all  that 
are  not  sound.  Put  grapes  in  a  granite  kettle,  add  only  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point;  cook  until  the 
fruit  is  soft,  then  strain  as  for  jelly.    Place  the  juice  in  an  earthen- 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  311 


ware  jar,  keep  well  covered  in  a  cool  place.  The  next  morning  let  it 
boil,  then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Continue  this  for  3  successive 
mornings,  rejecting  all  sediment  each  time.  The  last  morning  meas- 
ure the  juice,  and  to  each  quart  allow  %.  pound  of  granulated  sugar. 
Boil  4  minutes,  then  strain  through  cheesecloth.  Bottle,  cork,  and 
seal  immediately.  Dilute  with  water  when  ready  to  use.  Serve  in 
glasses  half  filled  with  cracked  ice.  Seltzer  or  Appollinaris  water 
can  be  used  instead  of  plain  water  if  desired. 

Pineapple  Lemonade. 

One  pint  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  ice  water,  1  can  of 
grated  pineapple,  juice  of  3  lemons.  Make  syrup  by  boiling  water 
and  sugar  10  minutes.  Add  pineapple  and  lemon  juice,  cool,  strain 
and  add  ice  water  and  crushed  ice. 

Mint  Julep. 

One  quart  of  water,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  claret  wine,  1  cup 
of  strawberry  juice,  1  cup  of  orange  juice,  juice  of  8  lemons,  12 
sprigs  of  fresh  mint.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  20 
minutes.  Break  mint  in  pieces  and  add  to  boiling  water.  Cover  and 
let  it  stand  5  minutes,  strain  and  add  to  syrup.  Add  fruit  juice.  Pour 
in  punch  bowl  and  add  claret  and  cracked  ice.  Dilute  with  water. 
Add  fresh  mint  and  whole  strawberries. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

Put  1  bucket  of  berries  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  water,  let 
them  boil  a  few  minutes.  Pour  in  a  colander  and  press  out  the  juice, 
strain  and  put  back  in  kettle.  Allow  3  pounds  of  sugar  to  1  gallon 
of  juice ;  set  on  range,  cook  slowly  until  tolerably  thick.  Add  1 
heaping  teaspoon  of  powdered  cinnamon,  %  ounces  of  allspice,  1 
ounce  of  cloves.  Put  the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag ;  when  done  pour  in 
a  china  bowl;  when  cold  add  1  quart  of  whisky.    Bottle  and  seal. 

Raspberry  Syrup. 

Use  red,  ripe  raspberries.  Put  in  a  crock  and  bruise  them. 
Cover  and  let  stand  1  night.  In  the  morning  press  out  the  juice,  but 
not  very  hard,  as  the  same  berries  can  be  used  for  raspberry  vine- 
gar. To  1  pint  of  the  strained  juice,  allow  1  piet  o£  granulated 
sugar.  Boil  about  5  minutes,  or  until  a  rather  thick  syrup ;  but  do  not 
let  it  jelly.  Strain  through  cheesecloth  and  bottle.  Keep  in  a  cool 
dry  place.  In  using,  put  about  2  tablespoons  to  a  glass  of  water, 
pour  water  slowly  over  the  syrup,  stirring  well,  and  add  cracked 
ice. 

Raspberry  Acid. 

Dissolve  5  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  in  2  quarts  water,  and  pour 
it  over  12  pounds  of  berries.  Let  it  stand  24  hours,  then  strain 
without  bruising  the  berries.  To  each  pint  of  clear  juice  put  1% 
pints  of  dissolved  sugar,  if  a  slight  fermentation  takes  place  delay 
corking  the  bottles  for  a  few  days.    Then  cork  and  seal. 


312  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


Refreshing  Drinks  in  Fever. 

Crush  1  bunch  of  Malaga  grapes  and  pour  over  1  pint  of  hot 
water,  leave  until  cold. 

Pour  1  pint  boiling  water  over  1  tablespoon  currant  jelly,  and 
stir  until  jelly  is  dissolved. 

Any  jelly  preferred  may  be  prepared  in  a  similar  manner.  And 
it  is  excellent  for  a  fever  patient. 

Flaxseed  Tea. 

One  pint  of  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  of  flaxseed.  Boil  slowly 
1  hour.  Strain  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  several  lumps  of 
cut  sugar.    Use  for  a  cough,  or  cold. 

Barley  Water. 

Put  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  pearl  barley  in  a  pitcher,  pour  over 
it  1  pint  boiling  water,  and  leave  until  cold.  Drain  off  water,  add 
juice  of  1  lemon,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  several  lumps  of  cut  sugar. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade. 

Four  tablespoons  of  whole  flaxseed,  1  quart  of  boiling  water, 
juice  of  2  lemons,  sugar  to  taste.  .  Let  it  remain  in  a  covered  pitcher 
3  hours.  If  too  thick  add  a  little  cold  water,  with  the  lemon  juice 
and  sugar.  Add  crushed  ice,  when  ready  to  use.  Excellent  for 
colds. 

Wine  Whey. 

Boil  1  cup  of  new  milk,  then  add  1  cup  of  wine.  Let  it  stand  on 
back  of  range  5  minutes.  Strain  and  sweeten  the  whey.  It  is  ex- 
cellent for  weak  and  debilitated  people. 

Hot  Milk. 

Heat  milk  over  boiling  water,  but  it  must  not  scald,  shake  in  a 
few  grains  of  salt.  Often  times,  hot  milk  may  be  taken  by  the  in- 
valid, as  it  assimilates  more  readily  than  cold  milk. 

Cocoa. 

When  cocoa  is  prepared  for  the  invalid,  boil  1  minute  and  cool. 
Remove  globules  of  fat,B  and  reheat  when  needed. 

Toast  Water. 

Toast  1  pint  of  crusts  until  brown,  and  pour  over  1  pint  of  cold 
water,  and  leave  for  30  minutes.  Then  strain,  and  add  cream  and 
sugar.  This  is  excellent,  when  persons  are  too  ill  to  take  solid 
food. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  313 

Barley  Water. 

One  tablespoon  of  pearl  barley,  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  juice 
of  %  lemon,  and  4  lumps  of  cut  sugar.  Wash  barley  in  cold  water, 
then  drain.  Put  barley,  sugar  and  lemon  into  the  boiling  water, 
cover  and  let  steep  3  hours,  then  strain.  Orange  juice  may  be 
substituted  for  lemon  juice.  This  is  excellent  used  for  colds  and 
fevers. 

Egg  Nogg. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs,  1  quart  of  cream,  8  tablespoons  of  granulated 
sugar,  %  quart  of  whisky,  Jamaica  rum  to  taste.  Beat  yolks  light, 
add  gradually  the  sugar,  and  beat  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  add 
whisky  and  rum  ;  mix  well,  and  stir  in  lightly  the  whipped  cream. 
Serve  immediately. 

Vinegar  Stew. 

One-half  coffee  cup  of  vinegar,  %  coffee  cup  of  water,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  butter,  sugar  to  taste.  Put  vinegar  and  water  in  saucepan, 
sweetened  to  taste.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  remove  from  fire 
Drink  hot. 

Lemon  Stew. 

Peel  2  lemons,  and  slice  thin.  Put  in  saucepan  with  1  pint  of 
water  sweetened  to  taste.    Boil  until  reduced  to  ^  pint.    Drink  hot. 

Fruit  Syrups. 

Take  1  quart  of  fresh  raspberries,  strawberries,  cherries,  or  cur- 
rants,  put  in  porcelain  kettle  with  1  pint  of  water.  Cook  until  soft, 
then  press  through  a  cloth.  When  cold  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  in 
punch  glasses,  adding  water  and  crushed  ice.  Serve  at  noon  with 
delicate  wafers. 

Orangette. 

Two  parts  of  orange  juice,  1  part  lemon  juice ;  sweeten  to  taste. 
Put  in  a  shaker  with  shaved  ice,  and  shake  until  chilled.  It  is  then 
ready  to  drink. 

Lemonade. 

Use  juice  of  4  lemons  to  1  quart  of  water ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
serve  in  lemonade  glasses  with  crushed  ice. 


PUNCH 


Champagne  Punch. 

One  quart  of  orange  juice,  juice  of  4  lemons,  1  teacup  syrup 
from  strawberry  preserves,  y2  teacup  of  Maraschino,  2%  pints  of 


314  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

granulated  sugar,  3  quarts  of  champagne,  V/2  quarts  of  whisky,  % 
pint  of  water.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  add  this  to  orange 
and  lemon  juice,  add  p1!  ingredients  except  the  liquor,  put  block  of 
ice  in  punch  bowl.  Add  liquor  and  champagne  last  when  ready  to 
serve. 

Lemon  Punch. 

Dissolve  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  in  1  quart  of  water;  add 
2  wine  glasses  of  lemon  juice,  2  wine  glasses  of  whisky,  1  wine  glass 
of  rum  and  the  lemon  sliced. 

Hot  Punch. 

One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  boiling 
water,  14  of  a  pint  of  rum,  14  pint  of  brandy,  1  large  lemon,  %  tea- 
spoon of  nutmeg.  Rub  cut  sugar  over  the  lemon  until  it  has  absorbed 
all  the  yellow  from  rind.  Put  sugar  in  punch  bowl,  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  mix  well,  then  pour  over  the  boiling  water  and  stir  well, 
add  rum,  brandy  and  nutmeg.    The  punch  is  then  ready  to  serve. 

Cardinal  Punch. 

One  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  quart  red  raspberries, 
juice  of  3  lemons,  V->  coffee  cup  of  Maraschino,  ^  cup  of  curacoa,  1 
quart  of  Apollinaris  water.  Mash  the  raspberries  fine  and  strain 
through  a  cloth;  add  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice;  strain  again.  Put 
in  the  Maraschino  and  curacoa,  then  the  Apollinaris.  Serve  very 
cold. 

Punch. 

One-half  teacup  of  English  breakfast  tea,  and  1  quart  of  boil- 
ing water ;  set  on  range  to  steep.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  it  over 
the  peels  of  2  lemons;  add  2  pints  granulated  sugar,  and  stir  well. 
Then  put  in  punch  bowl,  and  add  2  bottles  of  St.  Julian  claret,  1 
quart  whisky,  1  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  juice  of  2  dozen  lemons,  juice 
of  6  oranges.  Set  away  until  ready  to  serve.  Dice  6  oranges,  also 
6  bananas.  Put  large  block  of  ice  in  bowl,  the  fruit  and  1  orange 
sliced  very  thin,  and  1  bunch  Malaga  grapes.  This  quantity  will 
serve  30  people. 

Fruit  Punch. 

Take  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  cold  water  and  dis- 
solve. Add  1  cup  of  orange  juice,  1  cup  of  pineapple,  one-half  cup 
of  lemon  juice,  2  dozen  Maraschino  cherries,  1  pint  of  Rhine  wine 
may  be  added  if  desired.  If  not  sweet  enough  add  more  sugar.  Put 
in  punch  bowl  a  large  block  of  ice,  then  pour  over  this  mixture.  Put 
a  little  pineapple  and  orange  sliced  on  top.    Serve  in  glasses. 

Claret  Punch. 

Take  the  juice  of  4  oranges,  2  large  lemons,  4  heaping  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  4  slices  of  pineapple,  4  slices  of  orange.    Put  in  glass 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  315 


pitcher,  .set  in  refrigerator  several  hours.    When  ready  to  serve  fill 
nitcher  with  cracked  ice.    Add  1  pint  of  claret.    Serve  in  glasses. 

Tea  Punch. 

To  1  quart  of  rum,  put  V-fc  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  juice  of 
6  lemons  and  1  cup  of  strong  green  tea.  Peel  the  lemons  carefully 
and  pour  the  tea  boiling  hot  upon  the  mixture.  Mix  the  lemon  juice 
and  sugar.    Stir  all  together,  pouring  the  rum  on  last. 

Fruit  Punch. 

One  quart  of  Apollinaris,  1  cup  of  tea,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
water,  1  cup  of  Maraschino  cherries,  2  cups  of  strawberry  syrup, 
juice  of  5  lemons,  juice  of  5  oranges,  1  can  grated  pineapple.  Boil 
sugar  and  water  10  minutes.  When  cool  add  other  ingredients.  Let 
stand  for  1  hour.  Then  strain  and  add  Apollinario  and  cherries; 
add  enough  water  to  make  1  gallon  of  punch,"  serve  in  bowl  with 
large  block  of  ice. 

Claret  Punch. 

One  quart  of  cold  water,  2  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  raisins,  *4 
stick  of  cinnamon,  a  little  lemon  rind,  1-3  cup  lemon  juice,  1  cup 
orange  juice,  1  pint  of  claret.  Put  raisins  in  cold  water;  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  boil  20  minutes ;  strain,  add  sugar,  cinnamon,  rind 
of  lemon,  boil  5  minutes.  Add  fruit  juice ;  when  cool,  strain ;  pour  in 
claret  and  dilute  with  ice  water. 


.VI 


Quince  Marmalade. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  quinces,  and  cut  in  small  squares.  Meas- 
ure fruit  and  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Place  quinces  in 
porcelain  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  boil  until 
tender,  and  skim  out  carefully.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  and 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Let  come  to  boiling  point,  skim 
well,  and  drop  in  the  quinces  gently.  Boil  15  minutes,  dip  out  and 
put  in  jelly  bowls;  the  syrup  forms  a  jelly  around  the  fruit.  Turn 
out  on  a  dish. 

Apple  Butter. 

One  peck  of  apples,  2  gallons  reduced  cider,  cinnamon,  and  nut- 
meg. Use  new  cider,  and  boil  until  reduced  %.  It  must  be  boiled 
the  day  before  it  is  needed.  Pare,  core  and  quarter  the  apples, 
put  in  porcelain  kettle  as  many  at  a  time  as  the  cider  will  moisten, 
add  until  all  are  cooked.  Stir  constantly  and  beat  apples  to  a 
pulp,  as  fast  as  they  soften.  When  reduced  to  a  thick  paste,  add 
some  brown  sugar  and  the  spices.  Boil  a  few  minutes  longer.  Then 
put  in  jars.  Water  may  be  substituted  for  cider,  and  in  that  case 
use  more  sugar. 

Orange  Peel  Preserves. 

Remove  the  peel  in  quarters,  and  place  in  strong  salt  water  24 
hours.  For  1  pound  of  peel,  %  pound  granulated  sugar,  1  pint 
water.  Drain,  peel,  and  cook  slowly  1  hour  in  cold  water,  then  dizain 
again.  While  this  is  cooking,  make  the  syrup.  Boil  sugar  and  water, 
removing  the  scum ;  when  it  ceases  to  rise,  add  the  peel.  Cook  until 
transparent.  When  the  syrup  again  boils,  take  kettle  from  fire  and 
set  in  cool  place  until  next  day.  With  a  skimmer  remove  the  peels 
and  spread  on  a  flat  dish,  set  in  the  oven  4  hours.  Boil  syrup  again 
15  minutes,  then  add  peels  and  set  away  until  next  day,  continue 
this  process  until  peels  are  clear  and  the  syrup  has  granulated  them 
thoroughly,  drain,  sift  thickly  with  granulated  sugar  and  place  in 
the  sun  or  oven  to  dry.  When  quite  dry  put  the  peel  in  boxes,  be- 
tween layers  of  waxed  paper.  Serve  as  a  conserve,  or  put  in  cakes  or 
puddings. 

To  Preserve  Quinces. 

Use  the  orange  quince,  wash  in  cold  water,  then  wipe,  pare,  and 
quarter  them,  remove  all  the  core  and  hard  part.  Take  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  cover  quinces  with  cold  water,  let  them  come  slowly 
to  boiling  point,  skim  when  nearly  soft,  put  2/4  of  the  sugar  on  top 

(316) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  317 

but  do  not  stir,  when  this  boils,  add  another  part  of  the  sugar  and  so 
on  until  all  is  in  the  kettle,  let  them  boil  slowly,  until  transparent, 
then  put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Grape  Preserves. 

Use  only  ripe  grapes,  squeeze  the  pulps  and  juice,  put  in  a 
granite  kettle  over  the  fire  until  tender  enough  to  remove  the  seed 
easily,  take  off,  remove  seed  and  put  back  pulp  with  the  hulls  and 
cook  15  minutes.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  cook  15  minutes  longer.  Put 
in  jars  and  seal  tight. 

Tomato  Jam. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  %  peck  of  half  ripe  grapes.  Boil  about  3 
hours  or  until  the  tomatoes  are  about  the  consistency  of  jam ;  press 
through  a  sieve  and  add  nearly  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  jam ;  also 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  cinnamon  and  1  level  tablespoon  cloves.  Re- 
turn to  kettle  and  boil  again. 

Pineapple  Preserves. 

After  paring  pineapple,  extract  the  eyes  with  a  sharp-pointed 
knife,  and  strip  the  fruit  from  the  edge  to  the  core  (never  slice  it). 
Use  granulated  or  loaf  sugar  with  all  delicate  fruits,  and  it  is  im- 
portant to  use  granite  or  porcelain  lined  kettle  for  fruits.  Allow  % 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 

Jam. 

Jam  is  made  with  whole  small  fruit,  or  large  fruit  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Allow  %  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 
Jam  requires  to  be  cooked  tolerably  stiff,  or  there  is  danger  of  fer- 
mentation. 

Marmalade. 

Marmalade  is  made  of  the  pulp  of  fruits  with  the  juice.  Cook 
fruit  until  tender,  and  press  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Use  1  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  cook  slowly,  for  almost 
1  hour,  stir  frequently.  Put  in  china  bowls,  and  cover  with  white 
paper  dipped  in  whisky.  Oranges,  quinces,  peaches,  or  pears  mako 
fine  marmalade. 

Grape  Butter. 

Stew  grapes,  squeeze  out  each  pulp  from  the  skin,  removing 
seed.  Keep  skins  in  a  small  thin  bag.  To  each  pound  of  pulp,  al- 
low 1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  %  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg. 
Boil  this  slowly,  putting  in  the  bag  of  skins  and  have  them  tied  se- 
curely.   When  it  jellies  by  dropping  in  cold  water,  it  is  done. 

Apple  Preserves. 

One  pound  pippin  apples,  %  pound  granulated  sugar,  y2  pint 
foiling  water,  2  lemons.    Pare,  core  and  quarter  apples.    Boil  water 


318  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

and  sugar  together  5  minutes,  remove  scum.  Add  the  lemon  juice 
and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Cook  apples  in  this  syrup  slowly 
until  they  look  clear.  Skim  out  fruit  as  soon  as  done,  and  add  rest 
of  apples  until  all  are  cooked.  "When  done,  place  them  in  syrup 
again  until  heated.    Fill  jars,  and  seal. 

Siberian  crab  may  be  substituted  for  pippins,  leaving  them 
whole,  with  stem  intact.     Prepare  in  same  manner  as  apples. 

Quince  Honey. 

Take  12  apples  and  8  quinces ;  wash  and  peel  them,  then  put 
through  meat  grinder,  or  else  chop  very  fine ;  put  in  a  kettle  with 
enough  water  to  cover  them  well;  to  1  pint  of  the  fruit,  add  more 
than  Y2  pint  granulated  sugar.     Cook  until  tolerably  thick. 

Spiced  Currants. 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  currants,  2%  pounds  brown  sugar 
3  tablespoons  of  cloves,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  pint  cider  vine- 
gar. 

Wash  currants,  drain  and  pick  from  stem  removing  all  imper- 
fect ones.  Put  in  porcelain  kettle,  add  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  in 
muslin  bag;  heat  to  boiling  point,  then  cook  slowly  1%  hours.  ServQ 
with  meats. 

Peach  Leather. 

Peel  and  stone  soft  peaches,  cook  thoroughly  done  and  mash 
fine.  Sprinkle  ^  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Spread  fruit 
on  a  smooth  board  that  has  been  greased  with  meat  skin.  Let  re- 
main in  sun  for  several  days,  cut  in  blocks  or  sheet,  and  put  white 
paper  between  each  layer.  Eat  dry,  or  can  be  dissolved  in  milk  for 
custard,  and  used  as  filling  for  rolls. 

Tomato  Figs. 

Scald  and  skin  small  pear  shaped  tomatoes.  To  8  pounds  of 
tomatoes,  add  3  pounds  brown  sugar.  Cook  without  water  until 
the  sugar  penetrates,  and  the  tomatoes  look  clear.  Remove  from 
kettle,  and  spread  on  dishes,  dry  in  the  sun.  Sprinkle  on  a  little 
syrup.  Pack  in  layers  in  boxes,  with  powdered  sugar  between. 
Peaches  may  be  prepared  in  same  way. 

Prepared  Fruit. 

Take  1  peck  of  apples,  6  oranges,  %  pound  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit,  a  little  water.  Peel  apples  and  quarter  them;  also  peel 
oranges,  quarter  them  and  remove  seed.  Put  fruit  in  alternate  lay- 
ers in  kettle,  add  sugar  and  water.  Cook  until  fruit  is  easily  pierced 
by  a  straw,  then  remove  it  carefully  and  allow  the  syrup  to  boil  a 
short  while  longer.     Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Crystallized  Oranges. 
Cut  oranges  crosswise  in  thick  slices ;  remove  the  seed.    Dip  each 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  319 

slice  separately  in  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  then  in  fine  crys- 
tallized sugar.  Dry  on  sieve  in  cool  oven.  Serve  with  nuts,  raisins, 
and  after-dinner  coffee. 

Maple  Syrup. 

Three  pounds  brown  sugar,  y2  pound  maple  sugar,  iy2  tum- 
blers cold  water.  Dissolve  sugar,  and  cook  slowly  until  a  good  syrup. 
When  maple  sugar  is  not  obtainable,  flavor  syrup  with  5  drops  of 
vanilla. 

Watermelon  Sweetmeat. 

Cut  melon  in  long  strips,  and  notch  it.  Soak  in  strong  salt 
water  24  hours,  then  put  in  fresh  water,  changing  it  twice  a  day, 
until  salt  is  removed.  Put  in  strong  alum  water  and  leave  36  hours: 
soak  again  in  fresh  water.  Boil  in  clear  water  until  tender,  then 
make  a  syrup  with  %  pound  of  sugar,  to  1  pound  rind.  Put  in  the 
rinds,  season  with  white  ginger,  mace,  cloves  and  orange  peel.  Cook 
until  the  syrup  thickens,  and  the  sweetmeat  looks  clear  and  done. 

Apple  Butter. 

For  1  gallon  of  apples,  \y2  pounds  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  all- 
spice. 

To  Preserve  Ginger. 

Pare  the  roots  of  fresh  green  ginger,  using  a  sharp  knife ;  place 
each  piece  in  cold  water  as  peeled.  Drain  ginger,  and  weigh.  Put  in 
preserving  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water.  When  water  boils,  re- 
move ginger  and  place  in  cold  water.  When  cool,  return  to  kettle  and 
add  more  cold  water.  Repeat  this  3  times,  when  the  ginger  will  be 
tender ;  leave  it  last  time  in  cold  water.  Allow  %  pound  granulated 
sugar  to  1  pound  ginger  root,  1  pint  of  water,  white  of  1  egg.  Put 
sugar  and  water  in  kettle,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point,  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Beat  egg  until  stiff,  and  stir  into  syrup.  When  it  boils, 
skim  until  clear,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Drain  ginger,  wipe  dry,  and 
when  syrup  is  cold  place  in  the  ginger  to  remain  36  hours.  Reheat 
syrup  and  pour  over  ginger  once  more.    Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Orange  Preserves. 

Cut  Florida  oranges  in  4  sections,  reserving  all  juice  to  add  to 
syrup.  Allow  34  pound  granulated  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit.  Add 
enough  water  to  juice  and  sugar  to  dissolve  well.  Cook  to  a  thin 
syrup,  then  add  the  fruit,  cooking  until  transparent. 

Brandied  Cherries. 

Take,  large  sweet  cherries  and  remove  the  stems  or  clip  them 
within  an  inch  of  the  fruit.  Put  in  porcelain  kettle  1  pound  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  1  quart  of  water.  Boil  and  skim  the  syrup  until 
clear;  scald  cherries  in  this  syrup  for  2  or  3  minutes,  but  not  long 
enough  to  break  the  skins.  Then  remove  from  syrup  with  a  skimmer 
and  spread  on  dishes  to  cool.    There  must  be  sufficient  syrup  to  cover 


320  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK. 

cherries.  "When  syrup  is  clear  set  away  to  cool.  Mix  with  this  syrup 
an  equal  quantity  of  the  best  French  brandy.  Put  cherries  into 
wide-mouth  bottles  and  pour  over  the  syrup.  Dip  corks  into  melted 
resin  and  wax. 

Brandy  Peaches. 

Fourteen  pounds  of  clingstone  peaches,  8  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar.  Put  peaches  in  wood  ash  lye,  and  rub  off  skin  with  a  cloth, 
then  drop  in  cold  water.  Put  sugar  in  porcelain  kettle,  with  as  lit- 
tle water  as  possible,  to  dissolve  it,  and  boil  to  a  thin  syrup;  then 
put  in  the  fruit  and  cook  slowly,  until  a  straw  can  be  thrust  through 
the  peaches.  Remove  fruit  carefully,  and  cook  the  syrup  thick.  Re- 
turn to  kettle  to  heat,  Fill  the  heated  jars  nearly  full  of  peaches, 
and  put  half  juice  and  half  brandy,  covering  well  the  fruit.  Seal 
immediately. 

Brandy  Peaches. 

Four  pounds  of  fruit,  3  pounds  granulated  sugar,  1  quart  cold 
water,  1  pint  of  brandy.  Peel  clingstone  peaches,  leaving  in  the 
pit.  Then  make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar  and  water,  removing  the 
scum.  Put  in  peaches  to  cover  bottom  of  kettle,  remove  when  trans- 
parent, adding  rest  until  all  the  fruit  has  been  cooked.  Set  aside 
until  syrup  is  cold,  add  the  brandy,  fill  the  jars  and  seal. 

To  Preserve  Peaches. 

Select  white  clings,  if  you  desire  to  preserve  them  whole.  Yel- 
low peaches  make  the  most  transparent  preserve.  If  white  clings  are 
used  peel  and  weigh.  To  each  pound  of  fruit,  put  1  pound  of  sugar 
and  %  pint  of  water.  Put  the  syrup  to  boil,  clear  it  with  1  tolerably 
well  beaten  white.  As  it  boils  skim  well.  Have  the  peaches  in 
cold  water  all  the  time  the  syrup  is  boiling.  When  the  syrup  is  clear 
put  in  the  peaches ;  let  them  boil  gently  for  y2  hour,  then  place  on  a 
dish  for  2  hours ;  boil  again  until  they  are  clear.  Place  in  jars  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  and  seal. 

Melon  or  Citron  Preserves. 

Take  watermelon  rind  and  peel ;  then  put  1  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  citron,  1  ounce  of  ginger  root,  1  lemon  and  %  pint  of 
water.  Scrape  the  ginger  root,  and  tie  in  a  cloth  with  the  yellow 
rind  of  the  lemon  pared  very  thin.  Squeeze  the  lemon  juice  and 
strain,  put  the  sugar  and  water  in  porcelain  kettle;  let  them  come 
to  boiling  point;  skim  often.  "When  syrup  is  free  from  scum  put  in 
citron  rind  and  boil  until  it  looks  clear.  Let  it  cool  in  the  kettle 
and  put  in  jars. 

Preserve  Greengages. 

To  1  pound  of  fruit  allow  1  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  %  pint  of 
water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together  for  about  10  minutes.  Divide 
the  greengages;  take  out  seed  and  put  fruit  into  syrup  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  until  nearly  tender ;  remove  from  fire,  pour  in  a  bowl 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  321 


until  next  day.  Then  put  on  and  boil  for  10  minutes ;  also  add  the 
kernels  which  must  be  blanched.  After  removing  from  fire  skim 
again ;  then  put  carefully  in  jars  and  seal. 

Gooseberry  Jam. 

To  8  pounds  of  ripe  gooseberries  allow  1  quart  of  red  currant 
juice,  5  pounds  loaf  sugar.  Prepare  the  currant  juice  same  as  for 
jelly;  add  sugar  to  juice  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Boil  for  5  min- 
utes, skim  well,  then  add  the  gooseberries,  let  boil  nearly  %  of  an 
hour ;  pour  in  a  bowl.  Boil  again  until  it  looks  clear ;  skim  well ;  put 
in  jars  and  seal. 

Tomato  Preserves. 

One  pound  of  yellow  tomatoes,  1  pound  of  sugar,  2  lemons,  2 
ounces  of  preserved  ginger.  Peel  tomatoes,  add  the  sugar  and  let 
stand  all  night.  In  morning  pour  off  the  syrup  and  boil  tolerably 
thick,  skim,  then  add  tomatoes,  ginger  and  sliced  lemons,  having 
removed  the  seed  of  latter.    Cook  until  tomatoes  are  transparent. 

Preserve  Pears. 

Take  acid  pears  for  preserving.  If  fruit  is  small,  peel  and  pre- 
serve whole,  if  large  cut  in  half;  peel  with  a  silver  knife  and  drop 
in  cold  water  as  fast  as  peeled.  When  prepared,  allow  1  pound  of 
granulated  sugar  to  each  pound  of  pears.  Put  fruit  in  procelain 
kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  gently,  till  ten- 
der, to  a  slight  pressure  of  the  fingers,  then  put  in  the  sugar.  To 
each  pound  allow  1  pint  of  cold  water,  and  to  every  5  pounds  of 
sugar  add  the  thinly  pared  yellow  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons  and 
2  ounces  of  green  ginger  root,  scalded  and  scraped. 

Boil  the  syrup,  skim  well.  When  the  pears  are  boiled  put  them 
into  the  syrup,  and  boil  till  clear,  in  the  syrup.  Take  off  and  let  the 
preserves  cool.    Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

Currant  Preserves. 

Three  pounds  of  currants,  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  V/2 
cups  of  water,  2  oranges  sliced  thin,  also  use  the  skin.  Put  ingre- 
dients in  a  bowl  and  let  remain  12  hours,  then  put  in  preserving  ket- 
tle and  let  boil  15  minutes,  after  reaching  the  boiling  point.  Skim 
often  and  put  in  jars. 

To  Preserve  Quinces. 

Use  the  orange  quince,  wash  in  cold  water,  then  wipe,  pare,  and 
quarter  them,  remove  all  the  core  and  hard  part.  Take  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  cover  quinces  with  cold  water,  let  them  come  slowly 
to  a  boil,  skim  when  nearly  soft,  put  ^4  of  the  sugar  on  top  but  do 
not  stir,  when  this  boils,  add  another  part  of  the  sugar  and  so  on  un- 
til all  is  in  the  kettle,  let  them  boil  slowly,  till  transparent,  then  put 
in  jars  and  seal. 

21 


322  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

Grape  Preserves. 

Use  only  ripe  grapes,  squeeze  the  pulps  and  juice,  put  in  a 
granite  kettle  over  the  fire  until  tender  enough  to  remove  the  seed 
easily,  take  off,  remove  the  seed  and  put  back  the  pulps  with  the 
hulls  and  cook  15  minutes.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  cook  15  minutes 
Longer.    Put  in  jars  and  seal  tight. 

Tomato  Jam. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  a/->  peck  of  half-ripe  grapes.  Boil  about  3 
hours  or  until  the  tomatoes  are  about  the  consistency  of  jam;  press 
through  a  sieve  and  add  nearly  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  jam;  al- 
so 1  heaping  tablespoon  of  cinnamon  and  1  level  tablespoon  cloves. 
Return  to  kettle  and  boil  again. 

Preserve  Citron. 

Pare  the  citron,  cut  them  in  slices,  1%  inches  thick,  leaving 
full  length  of  the  fruit.  Remove  seed,  allow  1  pound  of  granulated 
sugar  to  1  pound  of  the  fruit.  Make  a  syrup  of  10  pounds  of  sugar, 
use  1  pint  of  water.  Simmer  gently  for  20  minutes,  then  put  in  citron 
and  boil  until  tender.  Before  removing  from  fire  add  2  lemons  sliced 
very  thin,  2  ounces  of  root  ginger  (only  boil  a  few  minutes,  do  not 
stir  while  boiling).  Removing  from  fire,  skim  carefully;  then  put  in 
jars  and  seal. 

Cherry  Preserves. 

Put  juice  and  sugar  on  fire.  Let  it  come  to  a  good  boil  for  5 
minutes,  then  put  %  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit.  Cook 
25  minutes.  If  syrup  is  not  thick  enough,  remove  fruit  carefully 
and  boil  syrup  10  minutes  longer. 

Pineaple  Preserves. 

Pare  the  fruit,  remove  the  eyes  and  discolored  part.  Cut  in 
slices,  taking  out  the  core.  Weigh  the  fruit  and  put  in  a  bowl,  al- 
lowing y~2  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit.  Let  it  stand  all  night. 
In  morning  put  in  kettle,  boil  rapidly  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  in 
self-sealing  jars. 

Preserved  Cherries. 

Four  pounds  of  cherries  (remove  the  pit),  3  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  1  pint  of  white  currant  juice.  Make  syrup  of  this ;  boil 
15  minutes  with  cherries  in  it.  Skim  and  pour  them  in  a  bowl  until 
next  day,  then  drain  cherries  on  a  sieve.  Return  the  syrup  and  cur- 
rant juice  to  kettle.  When  tolerably  thick  add  cherries,  let  boil  5 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  skim  well,  put  in  jars  and  fasten  se- 
curely. 

To  Conserve  Fruits. 

One  and  one-quarter  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  2-3  pint  of 
water.    Boil  water  and  sugar  together  until  at  a  degree  of  thickness 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  323 


known  as  the  ball.  Test  it  by  placing  some  of  the  syrup  on  a  tea- 
spoon; when  a  little  cool,  dip  the  forefinger  into  the  syrup  and  if  a 
ball  can  be  formed  by  rolling  the  syrup  between  the  thumb  and  fore- 
finger, it  is  done.  Cook  in  this  syrup  any  kind  of  fruit  that  is  to  be 
conserved,  heating  slowly  after  the  fruit  is  added.  Have  ready  to 
receive  the  fruit  a  flat  pan  sprinkled  thickly  with  granulated  sugar. 
Put  on  the  fruit  and  set  in  the  oven  or  run  to  dry.  It  requires  about 
2  days.  When  dry  make  a  syrup  as  before,  add  the  fruit  and  stir  un- 
til the  sugar  commences  to  grain  and  cling  to  the  fruit.  Set  aside  the 
kettle  with  the  fruit  and  syrup.  "When  cold  sift  off  the  sugar,  and 
place  fruit  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Dry  and  put  in  boxes  with  waxed 
paper  between  each  layer.  Peaches  and  cherries  make  a  delicious 
conserve. 

Currant  Preserves. 

Three  pounds  of  currants,  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  iy2 
cups  of  water,  2  oranges  sliced  thin,  also  use  the  skin.  Put  ingre- 
dients in  a  bowl  and  let  remain  12  hours,  then  put  in  preserving  ket- 
tle and  let  boil  15  minutes,  after  reaching  the  boiling  point.  Skim 
often  and  put  in  hot  jars. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Preserves. 

Two  pounds  of  raspberries,  1  pint  currant  juice,  3  pounds  granu- 
lated sugar.  Cook  20  minutes.  Do  not  cook  more  than  this  quantity 
at  a  time. 


JELL 


Fruit  Jellies. 


Fruit  jellies  are  made  of  equal  parts  of  clear  fruit  juice  and 
sugar.  Berries,  currants  and  grapes,  being  juicy,  require  no  water. 
Mash  them  with  wooden  or  silver  spoon,  put  fruit  in  bag  to  drain 
.slowly  for  12  hours,  but  it  must  not  be  squeezed.  Measure  and  allow 
as  many  pints  of  granulated  sugar  as  there  are  of  juice.  Put  juice 
in  porcelain  kettle  to  cook,  and  put  sugar  in  earthen  dish,  and  set 
in  oven  to  heat.  Boil  juice  20  minutes,  and  skim  frequently,  then 
add  hot  sugar  and  boil  about  5  minutes.  Try  liquid  in  saucer,  before 
removing  from  fire,  if  it  jellies  pour  into  heated  tumblers,  set  in  sun  a 
few  days  to  harden.  Cover  with  rounds  of  white  paper,  dipped  ir 
brandy  or  whisky. 

Quince,  Apple  or  Peach  Jelly. 

Quinces,  apples  and  peachees,  are  not  very  juicy,  hence  a  little 
water  must  be  added,  to  prevent  scorching.  Boil  until  tender,  mash 
and  strain.  Allow  1  pint  of  sugar  for  each  pint  of  juice.  In  making 
currant  jelly,  use  equal  parts  of  red  and  white  currants.  Currant 
jelly  is  equally  delicious  made  with  equal  parts  of  pink  raspber- 
ries and  red  currants.  Prepare  same  as  when  currants  only  are 
used. 

Siberian  crabapple,  huckleberries,  blackberries  and  wild  red 
plums  make  excellent  jellies. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Five  pints  of  currant  juice,  2  pints  of  water.  After  it  begins  to 
boil,  skim  well  and  add  1  pound  granulated  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
juice.    Boil  5  minutes,  and  test  if  it  jellies. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Put  currants  on  fire  and  let  cook  until  soft.  Strain  through  a 
flannel  bag.  Put  juice  on  fire  and  let  come  to  a  good  boil.  Skim 
well,  then  measure  to  1  pint  of  juice,  1  pint  of  sugar.  Let  cook  about 
25  minutes,  skimming  all  the  while. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Select  currants  that  have  been  freshly  picked  and  not  too  ripe. 
Wash,  but  do  not  stem.  Mash  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  in  a  stone 
jar  with  a  potato  masher;  squeeze  through  a  flannel  bag.  Strain 
again  without  squeezing;  put  the  liquid  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  set 
over  a  brisk  fire.  Put  the  sugar  into  earthen  basins,  place  in  the 
oven  to  heat.  Boil  the  juice  20  minutes.  After  it  begins  boiling,  stir 
in  quickly  the  hot  sugar,  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.     Skim 

(324) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  325 

thoroughly  and  bring  to  a  quick  boil;  cook  two  minutes.  Dip  the 
tumblers  in  hot  water  and  fill  with  the  jelly.  Set  away  24  hours.  If 
not  sufficiently  jellied,  cover  the  tumblers  with  common  window 
glass  and  put  in  the  sun  several  days.  Cover  with  paper  and  put 
top  on  tumblers. 

Crabapple  Jelly. 

Wash  the  apples,  cut  and  remove  all  defects,  but  do  not  peel 
them.  Put  in  preserving  kettle,  cover  with  water.  Boil  until  soft, 
but  do  not  mash  them.  Drain  off  water  and  mash  apples  with  the 
back  of  a  silver  spoon,  put  this  in  jelly  bag  and  drain  into  bowl.  To 
every  pint  of  juice  allow  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  and  skim 
well  (it  should  de  done  in  half  an  hour).  Dip  jelly  with  silver  spoon 
and  put  in  tumblers  that  has  been  heated.. 

Grape  Jelly. 

To  make  grape  jelly,  select  grapes  not  fully  ripe,  wash,  drain 
and  put  in  porcelain  kettle.  Mash,  and  cook  until  juice  flows  freely, 
then  strain  juice,  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Prepare  same 
as  other  jelly,  and  put  in  tumblers. 

For  Quince  Jelly. 

In  making  quince  jelly,  always  add  the  seed,  as  they  contain 
much  of  the  gelatinous  substance.  The  core  and  peel  also  may  be 
utilized.  Cover  with  water,  after  removing  defective  parts,  cook 
until  tender,  mash  and  strain.     Prepare  same  as  other  jelly. 

Peach  Jelly. 

The  peel  and  stones  of  the  peach  may  be  used  for  jelly.  Put 
them  in  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water,  let  boil  to  ex- 
tract juice,  then  strain  through  flannel  bag.  Measure  liquid,  and 
put  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice,  also  the  juice  of 
1  lemon  for  each  pint.  Cook  until  it  jellies,  and  put  in  tumblers. 
Cover  top  with  letter  paper  dipped  in  whisky.  If  it  fails  to  jelly,  put 
tumblers  in  sun  for  several  days. 

Quince  Jelly. 

Take  the  peel  and  core  of  quinces,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
boil  until  juice  is  extracted,  then  strain  through  flannel  bag.  Meas- 
ure liquid,  and  add  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  pint.  Boil 
until  it  begins    to  jelly,  and  put  in  tumblers. 

Spiced  Grapes. 

Wash  and  stem  3  pounds  of  grapes ;  place  in  a  kettle ;  mash  so 
as  to  allow  the  juice  to  flow ;  cook  gently  until  soft,  rub  through  a 
fine  sieve.  Wash  kettle,  put  back  the  juice  with  y2  pint  of  vinegar, 
1  pound  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  y2  tablespoon  each  of 
mace  and  cloves.  Simmer  gently  %  an  hour,  stirring  frequently,  seal 
while  hot.     Serve  with  meats. 


F1CKL 


Sweet  Cucumber  Pickle. 

Slice  4  pounds  of  cucumbers  and  soak  in  brine  a  week.  Put  in 
clear  water  until  salt  is  extracted.  Boil  cucumbers  in  strong  alum 
water  y2  an  hour,  then  in  ginger  tea  %  an  hour.  Make  a  syrup  of 
1  quart  cider  vinegar,  1  pint  water,  3  pounds  granulated  sugar.  Sea- 
son with  mace,  cinnamon,  cloves,  sliced  ginger  and  celery  seed.  Put 
in  the  cucumbers  and  boil  until  syrup  is  tolerably  thick. 

Watermelon  or  Citron. 

Pare  the  rind  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Boil  1  ounce  of  alum 
in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  pour  over  the  sliced  melon.  Let  stand  on 
back  of  range  6  hours.  Remove  from  the  alum  water,  and  put  in 
cold  water.  AVhen  cold,  drain.  Take  1  quart  vinegar,  3  pounds 
brown  sugar,  1  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  %  ounce  cloves.  Boil  sugar 
and  vinegar,  strain,  add  the  spices  and  rind  and  boil  until  rind  is 
soft,  Put  in  jar,  and  tie  up  securely.  Pears  and  apples  make  ex- 
cellent sweet  pickle. 

Peach  Sweet  Pickle. 

Twelve  pounds  of  peaches,  4  pounds  granulated  sugar,  1  quart 
cider  vinegar.  Season  with  stick  cinnamon,  put  in  a  bag.  Boil 
peaches  in  the  syrup  until  tender. 

Onion  Pickle. 

Take  1  peck  small  white  onions  and  pour  over  them  boiling 
water ;  add  a  good  deal  of  salt.  Let  them  stand  3  or  4  days.  Then 
skin,  wash  and  pack  in  jars;  putting  2  small  red  peppers  in  each 
jar.  Boil  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them,  with  1  ounce  white  mustard 
seed,  y-2  ounce  celery  seed,  1  ounce  cinnamon  bark,  y2  ounce  mace, 
sugar  to  taste.     Pour  this  over  the  onions,  and  tie  up  while  hot. 

Cucumber  Pickle. 

If  cucumbers  are  fresh  from  the  vines,  lay  them  in  brine  24 
hours;  then  scald  in  vinegar  with  the  same  amount  of  water.  For 
1  gallon  of  cucumbers,  add  1  heaping  pint  of  sugar  and  enough  vine- 
gar to  cover  well;  1  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  1  pod  red  pepper, 
%  ounce  grated  nutmeg,  1  ounce  celery  seed.  Boil  all  together  and 
pour  over  the  cucumbers.  Tie  up  while  hot.  Always  use  a  spoon  in 
taking  pickle  from  the  jar. 

Oil  Cucumbers. 

Take  %  peck  cucumbers,  pare  and  slice  them,  but  not  too  thin. 

(326) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  327 

Put  a  thick  layer  of  cucumbers  and  a  layer  of  white  onions  sliced 
thin ;  a  few  pods  of  fresh  red  pepper,  with  seed  removed  and  chop- 
ped fine.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  alternating  cucumbers,  onions,  pep- 
per and  salt  till  jar  is  full.  Let  them  remain  12  hours,  if  too  salty 
pour  fresh  water  over  them  for  a  few  minutes,  then  put  in  cheese- 
cloth bag  and  squeeze  dry.  Put  the  cucumbers,  onions  and  red  pep- 
per in  a  stone  jar.  Have  hot  white  wine  vinegar,  seasoned  with 
celery  and  mustard  seed.  Cover  the  top  of  pickle  with  2  inches  of 
salad  oil.    Tie  up  securely. 

Fresh  Figs. 

Fresh  figs  make  delicious  sweet  pickle,  in. the  same  proportion 
as  other  sweet  pickle.     They  also  make  splendid  preserves. 

Peach  Pickle. 

Eight  pounds  of  peaches,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar. 
Stick  3  cloves  in  each  peach,  add  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon.  Put  in 
peaches  and  cook  until  tender.  Pour  on  a  dish  to  cool,  let  remain 
6  hours;  then  put  fruit  in  glass  jars  and  pour  over  the  syrup. 

Sweet  Pickle. 

Take  cantaloupes  that  are  just  beginning  to  ripen,  remove  the 
rind  and  seed,  cut  into  tolerably  narrow  slices  and  put  into  stone 
jars.  Fill  a  kettle  with  vinegar  and  1-3  water,  add  to  it  a  piece  of 
alum  the  size  of  a  partridge  egg,  boil  it,  and  while  hot  pour  over 
the  melon.  Let  it  remain  14  hours,  then  take  out  the  melon  and 
throw  away  the  vinegar  and  water.  Have  a  gallon  of  good  cider 
vinegar  and  add  to  it  5  pounds  of  white  sugar,  1  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon, 1  ounce  of  mace,  nutmeg  and  allspice,  some  cloves  and  orange 
peel.  While  the  melon  is  draining  put  on  the  vinegar  and  spices  to 
boil.  While  hot  add  the  melon  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Take  off 
and  pour  into  jar. 

White   Cucumber  Pickle. 

If  cucumbers  have  been  in  brine  take  them  out,  soak  and  drain, 
cut  lengthwise,  remove  the  inside  and  fill  with  this  dressing :  Twelve' 
bell  peppers  chopped  fine,  1  dozen  small  onions  chopped,  y2  head 
of  cabbage;  a  few  cucumbers  also  may  be  added.  Mix  all  together, 
then  add  1  teacup  of  white  mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  of  celery  seed, 
2  tablespoons  of  oil,  y2  pint  of  brown  sugar,  1  kitchen  spoon  of 
tumeric,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard.  Fill  pickle  with  this  dressing 
and  sew  up,  then  put  in  a  kettle  and  add  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
them.  Season  with  tumeric,  sugar,  oil,  about  a  big  tablespoon  of  each. 
Let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Take  off  the  stove  and  pour  into  a  stone 
jar.  Put  in  a  small  piece  of  alum,  when  you  heat  the  vinegar.  Tie  up 
securely. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Pickle. 

Take  white  cucumbers  from  brine  and  soak  in  fresh  water  until 


328  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 

free  of  salt.  Then  cut  a  slice  from  side  of  cucumbers  and  carefully 
remove  the  pulp.  Fill  with  chopped  citron  and  chopped  raisins,  re- 
place the  slice  and  sew  up  cucumbers.  Make  a  heavy  syrup  with  1 
quart  of  cider  vinegar,  1  pint  granulated  sugar,  to  which  add  1 
ounce  white  mustard  seed.  1  ounce  cinnamon  bark  and  1  ounce  of 
mace.  When  a  good  syrup  put  in  cucumbers,  let  remain  until  syrup 
comes  to  a  boil.  Put  in  jars  and  tie  up  securely.  There  must  be  suf- 
ficient syrup  to  cover  the  cucumbers. 

Chow-Chow. 

Two  dozen  cucumbers  sliced,  2  large  heads  of  cabbage,  y2  peck 
of  green  tomatoes,  1  dozen  large  white  onions,  1  pint  whole  small 
onions,  1  gallon  cider  vinegar,  1  pint  grated  horseradish,  y2  pound 
white  mustard  seed,  14  pound  celery  seed,  1  pound  and  7  ounces 
brown  sugar,  y2  pint  salad  oil,  2  ounces  mustard,  1  ounce  cinnamon, 
%  ounce  tumeric,  y±  teacup  black  pepper.  Chop  ingredients  toler- 
ably fine,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  put  in  a  bag  to  drain  12 
hours.  Heat  vinegar  in  porcelain  kettle  with  all  of  seasoning,  ex- 
cept mustard  and  salad  oil.  When  it  boils  pour  over  the  vegetables, 
which  must  be  in  jar,  and  tie  up  at  once.  Repeat  for  2  consecutive 
mornings.  The  third  time  dissolve  mustard  in  some  of  the  vinegar 
and  add  to  kettle.   When  cold  pour  in  the  oil  and  stir  well. 

Peach  Mangoes. 

Steep  large  freestone  peaches  in  brine  for  2  days;  then  wipe 
each  peach  carefully  and  cut  a  hole  sufficiently  large  to  remove  the 
pit.  Put  them  in  cold  vinegar  until  you  make  a  filling  with  3  ounces 
of  white  mustard  seed  wet  with  vinegar,  and  let  remain  2  hours ;  y2 
cup  horseradish  grated,  powdered  ginger,  3  pods  of  red  pepper  with 
seed  removed,  2  small  onions  or  2  cloves  of  garlic.  Mix  with  vinegar 
and  add  half  as  many  chopped  peaches,  stuff  peaches  with  this  mix- 
ture ;  replace  the  piece  cut  from  it  and  fasten  securely  with  thread. 
Boil  1  quart  cider  vinegar  for  each  dozen  peaches ;  season  with  same 
spices  as  the  filling.  Have  spices  in  a  muslin  bag,  then  put  in  peaches 
.and  let  them  scald  15  minutes,  or  long  enough  to  get  very  hot. 
Place  peaches  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  the  scalding  vinegar;  cover 
top  of  pickle  with  salad  oil  and  tie  up  securely. 

Oil  Mangoes. 

Take  green,  tender  melons,  cut  them  open  and  remove  the  seed ; 
fill  with  salt  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Make  a  filling  of  y2  pound  of 
white  mustard  seed,  1  pound  of  grated  horseradish,  y2  pound  of  gar- 
lic, 1  ounce  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  1  ounce  race  ginger  cut  fine, 
2  ounces  of  allspice,  1  ounce  of  mace,  2  ounces  of  celery  seed,  4 
tablespoons  of  olive  oil.  Mix  all  together,  rinse  the  salt  from  the 
melons  and  fill.  Sew  together  and  put  in  jars.  If  any  filling  is  left 
put  it  in  the  jar  with  the  mangoes.  Cover  with  boiling  vinegar  and 
tie  up  at  once. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  329 

Peach  Mangoes. 

Select  large  clingstone  peaches,  ripe  but  not  soft,  put  them  in 
weak  brine  for  3  days,  soak  2  hours  in  fresh  water ;  wipe  with  coarse 
linen  to  remove  the  fuzz.  Cut  carefully  from  the  seed  and  fill  with  a 
chopped  dressing  of  cabbage,  white  mustard  seed,  cinnamon  and 
some  garlic.  Sew  or  tie  them  together,  put  in  jars,  pour  over  boiling 
vinegar,  made  very  sweet  with  brown  sugar.  One  tablespoon  of 
olive  oil  added  to  the  filling  is  an  improvement. 

Pickled  White  Walnuts. 

Take  walnuts  that  are  well  grown,  pierce  them  several  times 
with  a  large  needle.  Make  a  strong  brine  and  put  in  the  walnuts. 
Let  them  remain  10  days,  but  renew  brine  every  day.  Then  drain 
nuts  and  expose  them  to  the  air,  till  they  turn  black.  Put  in  jars. 
Boil  1  gallon  of  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  ginger  root,  mace,  allspice,  cloves 
and  12  pepper  corns.  Boil  this  for  15  minutes  and  pour  over  the  wal- 
nuts.   Let  them  stand  about  3  weeks  before  using. 

Yellow  Pickle. 

Have  2  gallons  of  best  cider  vinegar,  add  2  tablespoons  celery 
seed,  2  tablespoons  black  pepper,  2  tablespoons  tumeric,  1  tablespoon 
mace,  %  teaspoon  of  cayenne,  1  tablespoon  allspice,  1  tablespoon 
whole  cloves,  V±  pound  white  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  mix- 
ed mustard.  Horseradish  and  sugar  to  taste.  Onions  must  be  kept, 
in  brine  a  few  days ;  cucumbers  till  they  take  salt  well.  Cabbage 
must  have  boiling  brine  poured  over,  and  leave  in  it  for  a  few  hours ; 
dry  in  sun  several  hours  and  lay  in  weak  tumeric  vinegar  a  few 
days  to  color.    Then  cover  with  spiced  vinegar,  and  put  in  jar. 

Pepper  Mangoes. 

Take  large  green  bell  peppers  (the  best  variety  is  the  sweet), 
that  are  tender,  cut  a  slit  in  the  side,  remove  the  seed  and  pulp ;  pour 
boiling  water  over  them.  Let  stand  24  hours,  then  drain  off  the 
water.  Take  %  pint  of  salt  and  2  tablespoons  of  saltpeter,  boil  in 
weak  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  peppers,  scalding  them  every  morn- 
ing for  5  or  6  days  or  until  green.  Keep  well  covered  with  grape  or 
cabbage  leaves ;  then  drain  and  wipe  dry.  Fill  with  a  dressing  made 
of  2  heads  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  y*  Pmt  of  white  mustard  seed, 
2  tablespoons  of  celery  seed.  2  tablespoons  of  ground  ginger.  Mix 
well  together,  add  small  white  onions,  small  cucumbers,  string  beans. 
Sew  up,  place  in  jar  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them;  put  1  whole 
nutmeg  in  each  jar  after  placing  in  peppers.  Keep  the  peppers  well 
covered  with  vinegar  or  they  will  become  soft. 

Pepper  Mangoes. 

Take  green  peppers,  remove  seed  and  put  stem  back  in  each  pep- 
per ;  put  them  in  a  strong  brine  for  10  days,  then  put  in  cold  water, 


330  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


changing  it  several  times.  Have  some  chopped  cucumbers,  green  to- 
matoes and  1  head  of  white  cabbage;  run  all  through  the  grinder. 
Put  these  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl,  add  brown  sugar  and  dry  mus- 
tard. Pour  over  it  1  quart  salad  oil.  Mix  with  the  hands,  then  fill 
the  peppers.  Have  enough  boiling  vinegar  to  cover  peppers;  season 
it  with  3  ounces  celery  seed;  put  the  pickle  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  over 
the  vinegar,  and  tie  up  securely. 

Pickles. 

If  cucumbers  have  been  in  brine,  take  them  out,  soak  and  drain, 
cut  lengthwise,  remove  the  inside  and  fill  with  this  dressing :  Twelve 
bell  peppers. chopped  fine,  1  dozen  small  onions  chopped,  %  head  of 
cabbage,  you  may  add  a  few  cucumbers  also.  Mix  all  together,  then 
add  1  teacup  of  white  mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  of  celery  seed,  2 
tablespoons  of  oil,  y2  pint  of  brown  sugar,  1  kitchen  spoon  of  tumeric, 
1  tablesooon  of  mustard.  Fill  pickles  with  this  dressing  and  sew 
them  up  and  then  put  them  in  a  kettle  and  add  enough  vinegar  to 
cover  them  well.  Season  with  tumeric,  sugar,  oil  (about  a  big  table- 
spoon of  each).  Let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Take  off  the  stove  and 
pour  into  a  stone  jar.  Put  in  a  small  piece  of  alum  when  you  heat 
the  vinegar  and  tie  up  securely. 

Spanish  Pickle. 

One  and  one-half  dozen  cucumbers,  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  2 
"heads  of  firm  white  cabbage,  8  green  bell  peppers,  with  seed  re- 
moved, 12  medium  size  white  onions,  1  ounce  of  tumeric,  1  ounce 
celery  seed,  1  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  1  pint  of  dry  mustard,  1 
pound  brown  sugar.  Chop  vegetables  fine,  and  sprinkle  well  with 
salt.  Put  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  and  drain  all  night.  Next  morning 
squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Put  all  ingredients  in  porcelain  kettle 
with  vinegar  and  spices.  Let  it  come  to  a  scald,  then  pour  in  jar  and 
tie  up  securely. 

Brine. 

Take  2  buckets  of  water,  and  enough  salt  to  make  it  strong 
enough  to  balance  an  egg,  alum  half  size  of  an  egg;  boil  well,  then 
set  away  to  cool.  All  kinds  of  tender  vegetables  may  be  put  in  this 
brine  during  the  summer. 

Chopped  Pickle. 

Take  1  gallon  of  cabbage,  1  gallon  green  tomatoes,  1  pint  of 
green  pepper  with  seed  removed,  1  quart  onions  chopped,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  let  it  drain  one  night.  Then  add  5  tablespoons  made 
mustard,  2  tablespoons  ground  ginger,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1 
tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed,  3  tablespoons  tumeric,  3 
pounds  sugar.  Mix  well,  cover  with  vinegar ;  boil  till  tender.  Have 
vegetables  cut  fine.    Measure  after  draining. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  331 

Sliced  Tomato  Pickle. 

One  peck  of  small  green  tomatoes  sliced  thin,  4  quarts  of  cider 
vinegar,  2  coffee  cups  brown  sugar,  1  small  onion  sliced,  2  table- 
spoons of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  grated  nutmeg.  Put  a 
layer  of  tomatoes  and  one  of  salt.  Let  remain  12  hours ;  then  drain 
well;  add  2  quarts  vinegar,  and  scald  slightly.  Remove  tomatoes 
and  discard  the  vinegar.  Heat  2  quarts  of  fresh  vinegar,  add  the 
sugar,  onion,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  the  tomatoes;  cook 
slowly  till  tomatoes  are  heated.  Have  the  spices  in  bags,  pour  pickle 
in  jar  and  tie  up  securely. 

Oil  Pickles. 

Slice  thin  100  medium  size  cucumbers  without  paring.  Lay  in 
salt  3  hours,  then  drain,  and  if  too  salty  wash  off  with  cold  water, 
then  add  3  pints  of  small  white  onions,  sliced  and  put  in  water  for 
several  hours,  with  alum  size  of  a  oea.  Take  3  ounces  of  white  mus- 
tard seed,  2  ounces  white  pepper,  1  ounce  celery  seed,  1  pint  of  olive 
oil.  Mix  ingredients  together  with  the  hand,  and  cover  with  cold 
vinegar.     This  quantity  makes  almost  2  gallons  of  pickle. 

Chopped  Tomato  Pickle. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  6  green  peppers,  remove  seed,  6 
large  white  onions.  Chop  these  ingredients  and  sprinkle  over  it_,  1 
cup  of  salt,  let  remain  one  night.  In  morning  drain  well,  add  2  cups 
of  sugar,  spices  of  all  kind  (put  in  a  bag),  and  vinegar  to*cover  it 
well  and  14  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  boil  tomatoes  until  quite 
soft,   put  in  jar,  tie  up  securely. 

Tomato  Soy. 
Take  1  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  1  pound  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
of  cloves,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  2  large  red  peppers,  4  large  onions 
chopped  fine  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  ingredients  well  and  boil  2  hours, 
add  14  pint  of  cider  vinegar;  when  ready  to  remove  from  fire,  bottle 
and  seal.  Serve  with  meats.  Remove  seed  from  peppers  before 
using. 

Spanish  Pickle. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  50  cucumbers  cut  in  large 
pieces,  1%  dozen  white  onions  chopped  fine,  1  dozen  cloves  of  garlic 
chopped  fine,  1  dozen  green  bell  peppers  chopped  and  divested  of 
seed.  Sprinkle  with  salt  in  separate  dishes,  and  let  remain  one  night. 
Squeeze  in  a  crash  bag.  Put  vegetables  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  5 
large  heads  of  white  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  very  small  lump  of 
alum.  Cover  with  cider  vinegar,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  drain  off 
the  vinegar  and  mix  with  the  following  dressing:  One  pound  of 
white  mustard  seed,  4  ounces  of  curry  powder,  4  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  2  tablespoons  celery  seed,  2  tablespoons  ground  cinna- 
mon, 4  tablespoons  olive  oil,  1  teacup  grated  horseradish.  Mix  well 
with  vinegar,  put  pickle  in  jar,  pour  on  boiling  vinegar,  place  strips 
horseradish  on  top  each  jar;  this  will  prevent  pickle  moulding. 


332  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Tomato  Pickle. 

Take  1  peek  of  little  red  tomatoes  (the  dwarf  variety )_,  not  too 
ripe,  prick  them  with  a  fork ;  put  in  a  strong  brine  for  24  hours,  then 
put  in  a  stone  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  onions  and  spices.  Slice 
1  dozen  white  onions ;  add  3  tablespoons  of  mustard,  1  ounce  cloves, 
1  ounce  ground  black  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  salt,  1  ounce  of  ground 
cinnamon,  1  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Fill  the  jar  with  cold  cider 
vinegar  and  tie  up  tight.  In  a  week  it  is  ready  for  use.  Serve  with 
meats. 

Yellow  Pickle. 

Two  gallons  cider  vinegar,  1  pound  white  ginger  cracked,  1 
pound  horseradish  sliced,  2  ounces  cloves,  2  ounces  pepper,  2  ounces 
mace,  1  ounce  tumeric,  4  ounces  allspice,  3  ounces  celery  seed,  1 
pound  mustard  seed,  1  dozen  large  onions,  6  cloves  of  garlic,  2  pounds 
brown  sugar,  1  pod  red  pepper  cut  finely,  1  box  ground  mustard. 
Have  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  put  in  the  cabbage  and 
vegetables  and  let  remain  2  weeks.  Then  soak  in  clear  water  24 
hours,  and  bleach  in  the  sun.  Put  in  jar  and  cover  with  weak 
vinegar,  and  leave  for  one  week.  Then  drain  and  pour  over  the  vine- 
gar boiling  hot,  to  which  all  seasoning  has  been  added. 

Spanish  Pickle. 

Take  2  dozen  large  cucumbers,  if  fresh  put  in  brine  for  several 
days.  Otherwise  soak  in  fresh  water  for  24  hours,  slice  in  pieces  an 
inch  thick.  Have  2  heads  of  firm  white  cabbage,  and  1  dozen  green 
bell  peppers  cho^^d,  after  removing  the  seed,  add  1  quart  of  white 
seed  onions.  Sprinkle  all  with  salt  and  let  remain  24  hours,  then 
squeeze  dry.  Make  a  dressing  of  %  pound  of  mustard,  4  ounces 
white  mustard  seed,  2  ounces  of  tumeric,  2  ounces  celery  seed,  2 
pounds  brown  sugar,  %  ounce  of  mace,  %  ounce  of  cinnamon,  2 
dessertspoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  1  gallon  of  cider  vinegar.  Boil 
all  ingredients,  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add  pickle  and  let 
remain  till  thoroughly  heated,    Put  in  jar  and  tie  up  securely. 

Spanish  Pickle. 

Take  1%  dozen  large  cucumbers.  If  fresh  put  in  brine  4  days, 
if  in  brine,  soak  in  fresh  water  24  hours.  Slice  them  in  large  pieces. 
Chop  fine  2  heads  of  cabbage  and  put  in  salt  8  hours.  One  dozen 
large  onions  chopped,  7  pods  of  green  pepper,  with  seed  removed, 
soak  in  salt  water  8  hours.  Then  squeeze  out  and  put  in  a  kettle  in 
alternate  layers  with  the  seasoning,  composed  of  2  ounces  of  white 
mustard  seed,  1  ounce  of  tumeric,  1  ounce  of  celery  seed,  %  teaspoon 
ground  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger,  %  pound  of  best  mustard 
and  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Cover  with  strong  vinegar  and  boil 
until  it  begins  to  thicken. 

Sweet  pickle  may  be  made  of  any  fruit  that  can  be  preserved. 
Plums  and  smooth  skinned  fruit  should  be  well  pricked  before  cook- 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  333 


ing.  Examine  sweet  pickle  often  and  scald  the  syrup  again  if  there 
be  any  signs  of  fermentation.  The  usual  proportions  in  making  it 
are  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1  quart  of  vinegar  to  7  pounds  of 
fruit.  Best  spices  to  use  are  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Use  whole 
spices. 

Green  Chow  Chow. 

One  quart  of  large  firm  cucumbers  cut  in  thin  slices,  then  cut 
across  in  half,  1  quart  of  small  cucumbers  2  inches  long,  1  quart  of 
white  button  onions,  1  quart  of  green  tomatoes  sliced.  Measure  cu- 
cumbers and  tomatoes  after  they  are  sliced.  One  large  head  of  cauli- 
flower divided  into  pieces,  4  large  green  peppers ;  remove  the  seed 
and  cut  in  coarse  bits.  Put  these  ingredients  into  brine,  made  of  1 
cup  of  salt  to  1  gallon  of  water ;  let  it  remain  24  hours,  then  scald  in 
same  brine  and  drain  well.  Make  a  paste  of  1  cup  of  flour,  6  table- 
spoons of  ground  mustard,  1  tablespoon  tumeric.  Mix  smooth  with 
cold  vinegar.  Put  on  the  stove  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  2  cups  of  light 
brown  sugar,  1  teacup  of  grated  horseradish,  1  ounce  white  mustard 
seed,  1  ounce  of  celery  seed.  Let  this  boil,  then  add  mixture  and  boil 
until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  pickle  and  let  it 
remain  until  very  hot. 

Chopped  Pickle. 

One-half  peek  of  green  tomatoes,  1  large  head  of  cabbage,  24 
large  cucumbers,  30  onions.  Chop  fine  and  salt.  Let  them  remain  1 
night,  then  squeeze  and  add  x/2  pint  of  grated  horseradish;  cover 
with  either  weak  vinegar  or  vinegar  and  water.  Let  this  mixture 
set  for  2  days.  Then  press  dry.  Pour  over  it  for  three  consecutive 
mornings,  3  quarts  of  boiling  vinegar,  using  the  same  vinegar  each 
time.  The  last  time  add  3  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  small  teacup  of 
tumeric,  and  1  small  teacup  of  celery  seed.  Mix  this  with  the  vine- 
gar and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  but  before  this  vinegar  is  poured  over, 
for  the  last  time,  mix  well  with  the  vegetables,  1  pound  of  ground 
mustard,  y2  pint  of  salad  oil.  Stir  well.  Put  in  jar  and  tie  up  se- 
curely. 

Pickle  for  Pork. 

Four  gallons  of  water'.  iy2  pounds  of  sugar,  6  pounds  of  salt,  2 
ounces  of  ealtpeter,  boil  and  skim,  when  cold  pour  over  the  pork. 


CATSUP 


"They  have  been  to  a  great  feast  of  languages  and 
stolen  the  scraps."  — Shakespeare. 


Tomato  Catsup. 

Scald  and  skin  y2  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  removing  the  hard 
part  near  the  stem.  Cut  up  and  put  in  porcelain  kettle,  with  three 
sliced  onions,  12  cloves  of  garlic,  5  tablespoons  of  salt,  4  tablespoons 
of  black  pepper,  5  pods  of  red  pepper  (with  seed  removed),  2  table- 
spoons of  allspice,  2  tablespoons  of  cloves,  2  coffee  cups  of  light 
brown  sugar,  1  blade  of  mace,  1  handful  of  peach  leaves  after  they 
have  been  washed.  Allow  peach  leaves  to  boil  %  hour,  then  re- 
move them.  Put  all  the  spices  in  a  muslin  bag.  Cook  catsup  until 
reduced  one-half;  add  1  tablespoon  of  celery  seed,  and  1  quart  of 
best  eider  vinegar.  Boil  about  20  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and 
seal  while  hot. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes  after  they  have  been  boiled  and  strained, 

1  tablespoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of  black  pepper,  2  ounces  of  cloves, 

2  ounces  of  allspice,  1  large  pod  of  red  pepper  chopped  very  fine,  4 
chopped  onions,  1  teacup  of  brown  sugar,  12  cloves  and  some  garlic. 
Pour  water  on  tomatoes  and  remove  skins,  put  them  in  kettle  with 
a  quart  of  vinegar  and  the  other  ingredients  and  boil  2  hours.  Put 
spices  in  bag  to  keep  from  turning  catsup  dark.  Add  1  tablespoon  of 
brandy  to  each  bottle  and  it  will  keep  for  years.  Serve  cold  with 
meats. 

Sliced  Catsup. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  onions,  tomatoes  and  peppers  and  slice 
them.  Put  an  alternate  layer  of  salt,  pepper  and  onion.  Let  remain 
all  night ;  the  next  morning,  if  too  salty,  pour  over  a  bucket  of  cold 
water,  squeze  and  put  on  a  sieve  to  drain;  then  add  vinegar  that 
will  cover  it  and  spices  of  all  kinds.  After  the  vinegar  boils  add 
the  mixture  and  let  remain  a  few  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
put  in  the  jar. 

French  Catsup. 

Two  heads  of  cabbage,  4  dozen  cucumbers,  1  dozen  onions,  2 
dozen  green  peppers,  half  peck  of  green  tomatoes.  Chop  the  onions 
and  pour  hot  water  over  them  and  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Put  all 
the  other  ingredients  together,  chop  fine,  sprinkle  salt  over  them, 

(334) 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  335 

adding  the  onions.  Let  stand  1  hour,  put  them  to  drain  2  hours; 
pour  cold  vinegar  over  them  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Pour  off  the 
vinegar,  and  into  every  gallon  of  the  mixture  put  half  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  and  as  much  vinegar  as  will  well  cover  them,  cloves, 
mustard  seed,  mace  and  horseradish.  Put  on  the  fire  and  let  come  to 
a  boil;  add  pickle  and  let  remain  until  thoroughly  heated  and  pour 
into  jars. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

One  hundred  walnuts,  2  quarts  vinegar,  6  ounces  shallots,  2 
tablespoons  anchovies,  2  tablespoons  pepper,  1  medium  size  onion,  *4 
tablespoon  mace,-  Y2  tablespoon  cloves.  Walnuts  must  be  tender 
enough  to  be  pierced  by  a  pin.  Crush  them  in  a  mortar,  and  put  in 
a  stone  jar  with  the  shallots  cut  in  pieces,  the  onion  chopped  fine,  the 
vinegar  and  salt.  Let  stand  2  weeks.  Stir  3  times  each  day.  Then 
drain  off  liquid,  and  put  in  saucepan  with  rest  of  ingredients,  boiling 
slowly  one  half  hour  and  stirring  well.  Strain,  and  when  cold,  bottle 
and  cork  tight.    Keep  in  a  dry  place. 

George  Washington  Catsup. 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  1  pint  vinegar,  garlic,  allspice,  cloves, 
salt  and  pepper.  Grate  tomatoes  on  a  coarse  grater,  and  strain 
through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  liquid  in  a  bag  and  let  it  drip.  Take  the 
pulp  and  thin  with  vinegar.  Season  with  the  spices  and  garlic.  Bot- 
tle and  seal.    Use  for  flavoring  meat,  sauces  and  soups. 

Tarrragon  Vinegar. 

One  pound  of  leaves,  4  quarts  white  vine  vinegar.  Strip  leaves 
from  stalk  when  the  plant  is  ready  to  flower,  then  weigh  leaves. 
Place  them  in  a  stone  jar  with  the  vinegar,  put  in  a  warm  place  and 
let  remain  2  weeks.  Strain  the  liquid  through  flannel  bag,  and  allow 
to  2  gallons  of  vinegar,  V4  ounce  gelatine.  Soak  gelatine  in  a  little 
cold  water  for  1  hour,  then  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  dissolve 
it,  and  add  this  to  vinegar.  Put  vinegar  in  large  fruit  jars,  leave 
4  weeks,  then  put  in  small  bottles  and  cork  tight. 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

Peel  and  slice  1  dozen  large  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  1  cup  of 
salt ;  let  stand  1  night,  and  the  next  morning  chop  2  green  peppers 
after  removing  the  seed,  half  a  dozen  tarragon  leaves,  2  small  onions. 
Have  the  cucumbers  well  drained,  before  adding  other  ingredients. 
Put  1  tabelspoon  of  dry  mustard  in  a  saucepan,  mix  with  it  2  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil  and  1  pint  of  vinegar;  let  it  get  hot,  then  pour 
over  the  chopped  mixture ;  bottle  and  seal.    Serve  with  meats. 

A  Catsup  for  Meats. 

Grate  nice  large  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand 
all  night.    Next  day  squeeze  out  the  pulp  and  add  to  each  V2  Pmt  of 


336  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

pulp,  %  pint  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  grated  horseradish,  1  tea- 
spoon grated  onion,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  well,  and  it  is  ready  for 
use. 

Currant  Catsup. 

Five  pounds  of  currants,  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  %  pint 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  teaspoon  allspice,  and  1  teaspoon  of  black  and  red  pepper  mixed. 
Boil  30  minutes.    Serve  with  meats  or  game. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  y2  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  wash  them  and  cut  out  imper- 
fections. Put  in  porcelain  kettle  with  6  sliced  onions,  boil  until 
thoroughly  done.  Rub  through  a  sifter,  return  juice  to  kettle  and 
add  1  quart  best  cider  vinegar,  %  pint  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  2  heaping  teaspoons  black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of 
celery  seed,  1  tumbler  of  grated  horseradish,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
salt,  spices  of  all  kinds.  Put  in  a  muslin  bag,  cook  tolerably  thick. 
Have  bottles  hot  and  put  in  the  catsup,  seal  at  once. 

Catsup. 

Twelve  large  bell  peppers,  4  large  white  onions  chopped,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  6  tumblers  of  vinegar.  Chop  in- 
gredients finely  and  put  in  with  vinegar  to  cook.  Have  top  on  kettle ; 
cook  2  hours.     Strain  through  sieve  and  bottle. 

Worcestershire  Sauce. 

One  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes.  Wash  and  simmer  them  in  3  quarts 
of  water,  boil  until  half  done  and  strain  through  sieve.     Then  add 

2  tablespoons  of  ginger,  2  tablespoons  mace,  2  tablespoons  black 
pepper,  2  tablespoons  salt,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  scant  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper.  Put  ingredients  in  the  liquid,  and  let  simmer  until 
reduced  to  1  quart,  pour  in  %  pint  best  cider  vinegar,  then  strain 
through  a  hair  sieve.  Put  sauce  in  %  pint  bottles,  cork  and  set  in  a 
cool  place. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  337 


t©  can  fruit* 


When  canning  ripe  or  mellow  fruit,  it  requires  but  a  small 
amount  of  cooking.  Only  long  enough  for  sugar  to  penetrate  the 
fruits,  otherwise  it  would  become  mushy,  and  soon  spoil.  Harder 
fruits,  such  as  quinces  or  pears,  require  longer  boiling.  One-half 
a  pound  of  sugar  or  a  less  amount  is  sufficient  for  1  pound  of  fruit 
in  canning.  One  of  the  most  important  points  to  be  observed  is  That 
all  fruit  jars  be  absolutely  air  tight.  And  another  important  fea- 
ture to  be  remembered  is,  have  fruit  boiling  hot,  and  fill  jars  to  the 
brim.  Keep  all  canned  fruits  or  vegetables  in  a  dark,  dry  place. 
Otherwise  they  have  a  mouldy  taste,  which  renders  them  unfit  for 
use.  It  is  important  that  all  vegetables  and  fruits  to  be  canned 
must  be  prepared  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  for  a  copper  kettle  is  dan- 
gerous, as  the  verdigris  that  forms  is  a  deadly  poisen.  It  is  well  to 
examine  preserves  and  fruits,  for  the  first  few  weeks,  as  fermenta- 
tion often  ensues  at  that  time. 

Bartlett  Pears. 

The  Bartlett  pear  is  the  best  for  canning.  Pare  neatly  and  halve, 
but  do  not  core  them.  Put  into  cold  water  at  once  to  prevent  dis- 
coloraion.  Pears  and  quinces  should  be  simmered,  closely  covered, 
until  tender,  then  add  sugar.  Strain  boiling  water  for  the  syrup,  and 
add  sugar.  Put  in  hot  jars  and  seal  at  once.  The  fruit  selected  for 
canning  must  be  large  and  perfect.  Strawberries  are  the  exception 
to  this  rule.  For  the  medium  size  berry  that  ripens  toward  the  last 
of  the  season  is  preferable,  having  a  fine  flavor. 

To  Can  Red  Raspberries. 

When  canning  red  raspberries,  make  the  syrup  of  equal  parts  of 
red  currant  juice  and  water.  Add  granulated  sugar  and  boil  until 
almost  done.    Put  in  hot  jars  and  seal. 

To  Can  Peaches. 

Take  freestone  peaches,  peel  and  remove  pit.  Put  in  preserving 
kettle  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them;  when  half  done  add 
granulated  sugar  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Have  jars  hot,  put 
in  peaches  and  seal  at  once. 

To  Can  Butterbeans. 

Put  beans  in  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Add  salt 
and  cook  until  almost  done.  Have  cans  heated,  and  put  in  beans, 
seal  at  once. 

To  Can  Corn  and  Tomatoes. 

Put  tomatoes  in  hot  water  and  remove  the  skin,  cut  tender  corn 

22 


338  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK. 


from  the  eob  and  put  both  in  preserving  kettle.     Cook  until  almost 
done.    Add  salt  and  pepper,  seal  while  hot. 

Canned  Quinces. 

Peel  and  core  quinces,  quartering  them.  Allow  y%  pound  sugar 
to  each  pound  of  fruit ;  cover  with  water.  Let  water  and  sugar  cook 
until  almost  a  syrup,  then  drop  in  the  fruit  and  cook  till  easily 
pierced  by  a  straw.  Put  in  cans  and  seal.  To  serve  as  a  vegetable, 
put  quinces  in  baking  dish  with  a  little  water  added,  and  set  in  oven 
to  brown. 

Canned  Blackberries. 

Boil  the  berries  in  water  until  tender,  then  add  y2  pound  susrar 
to  1  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  15  minutes.  Prepare  huckleberries  in  the 
same  way. 

To  Can  Peaches. 

Peaches  may  be  canned  whole,  or  cut  in  half.  Remove  a  few 
of  the  pits,  and  cook  in  the  syrup,  as  it  greatly  improves  the  flavor. 

To  Can  Cherries. 

To  can  cherries,  they  may  be  seeded  or  left  whole.  Allow  a/4 
pound  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit.  Acid  fruits  require  more  sugar. 
Add  a  little  water  if  not  sufficiently  juicy.  Cook  fruit  until  tender, 
and  seal  at  once.  If  fruit  is  in  tin  cans,  remove  as  soon  as  opened, 
and  leave  in  china  dish  for  30  minutes,  before  using,  as  it  greatly  im- 
proves the  flavor. 

To  Can  Fruit. 

To  can  fruit,  peaches,  cherries,  or  quinces,  %  pound  of  sugar 
may  be  added  to  fruit,  or  a  less  quantity,  if  fruit  is  sweet.  Use  as 
little  water  as  possible  to  cover  fruit,  as  it  lessens  the  fruit  flavor. 

To  Can  Apples.    • 

For  table,  use  the  Rambeau  apples ;  for  pies,  the  Northern  Spies. 
Peel  and  core  them.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  with  a  little  water. 
After  cooking  some  time,  add  sufficient  granulated  sugar  to  sweeten 
them.    Put  in  hot  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

To  Can  Blackberries. 

Wash  and  cover  with  water,  when  scalding  hot  add  granulate  1 
sugar.    Put  in  hot  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

To  Can  Pears. 

Peel  pears  and  put  in  preserving  kettle,  with  cold  water  and 
granulated  sugar.  Let  cook  until  almost  done.  Put  in  glass  jars 
and  seal. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  339 


To  Can  Cherries. 

Seed  cherries  and  put  in  kettle  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  gran- 
ulated sugar.    When  almost  done,  put  in  hot  glass  jars  and  seal. 

To  Can  Gooseberries. 

Cap  and  scald  in  hot  water.  Then  put  in  preserving  kettle,  add 
granulated  sugar,  and  cook  until  almost  done.  Put  in  jars  and 
seal. 

To  Can  Green  Grapes. 

Stem  grapes  and  put  in  kettle,  when  scalding  hot  add  sugar; 
put  in  hot  self-sealing  jars. 

To  Can  Strawberries. 

Ca^>  berries  and  put  in  kettle,  when  scalding  hot,  add  granulated 
suo-ar.    Put  in  hot  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

To  Can  Greengage  Plums. 

Scald  and  seed  them  and  put  through  a  colander,  and  put  in 
kettle  with  cold  water,  after  they  cook,  add  granulated  sugar.  Let 
come  to  a  good  scald,  put  in  hot  jars  and  seal  at  once.  Loosen  the 
skins  of  plums  or  fresh  prunes  by  placing  in  a  wire  basket,  and 
plunge  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  cover  with  cold 
water  and  peel.    Use  skins  for  making  syrup. 


T©  can  veoeTABiu 


To  Can  Corn. 


Take  sugar  corn  and  cut  from  the  cob,  put  in  preserving  ket- 
tle with  a  little  water  and  let  it  come  to  good  boil  before  remov- 
ing from  the  fire. 

Take  a  little  citric  acid  on  the  blade  of  a  knife  and  allow  that 
much  for  each  can  of  corn.  Dissolve  thoroughly  in  hot  water  and 
add  to  the  corn  and  cook  a  short  while  longer.  Have  new  tin  cans 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  fill  while  hot.    Seal  at  once. 

To  Cure  Corn. 

Have  1  gallon  of  tender  corn  cut  from  the  cob  and  allow  1  pint 
of  salt  to  that  quantity  of  corn ;  pack  in  stone  jar  in  alternate  layers, 
pressing  down  with  a  plate  and  tie  up  securely.  When  ready  to  use 
soak  36  hours  in  cold  water  and  change  the  water  frequently. 

To  Can  Tomatoes. 

Put  tomatoes  in  hot  water  and  remove  the  peel;  then  pjit  them 


340  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 

in  preserving  kettle.  Let  them  come  to  a  good  scald,  add  pepper  and 
salt.  Have  new  tin  cans  in  boiling  water,  and  pour  in  the  hot  toma- 
toes and  seal  while  hot.  If  there  are  evidences  of  air  holes,  pour  out 
the  tomatoes  and  scald  again. 

To  Can  Okra. 

Okra  must  be  young  and  tender.  Wash  it  carefully,  either  cut 
in  slices  or  can  it  whole.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  with  a  little 
water.  When  almost  done,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  new 
tin  cans  in  boiling  water ;  when  hot  fill  with  okra  and  seal  at  once. 

To  Can  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  put  potatoes  on  to  boil.  When  almost  done,  peel  and 
slice.  Pour  over  a  syrup  made  with  granulated  sugar  and  water. 
Pour  on  potatoes,  and  have  tin  cans  in  boiling  water.  Fill  with  the 
potatoes  and  seal  at  once. 

To  Can  String  Beans. 

String  beans  and  put  on  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  add 
a  little  salt,  and  cook  until  almost  done.  Put  in  cans  that  are  heat- 
ed and  seal. 

To  Can  Pie  Plant. 

Peel  the  pie  plant,  and  put  in  preserving  kettle,  let  come  to  a 
good  scald,  add  sugar,  have  glass  jars  hot,  put  in  the  mixture  and 
seal  at  once. 

Dried  Corn. 

Select  nice  tender  corn,  remove  shuck  and  put  on  in  boiler  of 
cold  water ;  cook  until  half  done,  then  cut  from  the  cob  and  spread 
on  a  cloth  out  of  doors  to  dry;  turn  it  over  occassionally.  When 
dry  put  in  a  bag  and  hang  in  cool  place.    It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

Dried  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Take  nice  solid  sweet  potatoes  and  wash  them,  put  on  in  boilec 
of  cold  water,  cook  until  half  done,  then  peel  and  slice  them;  put 
out  on  a  cloth  in  the  air  to  dry.  turn  until  thoroughly  dried,  then 
nut  in  sack  and  hang  up.    They  may  be  prepared  in  the  usual  way. 

To  Can  Tomatoes  Whole. 

Select  nice  firm,  smooth  tomatoes,  scald  and  remove  skin  care- 
fully. Take  out  the  stems  with  a  knife,  place  the  whole  tomato  in 
glass  jars.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  salt ;  place  jars  in  a  boiler  of  cold 
water.  Let  the  water  boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  thoroughly  heated, 
then  take  jars  from  water  and  seal  tight. 


iWEET! 


'Sweets  to  the  sweet.  "—Shakespeare. 


Forbidden  Fruit. 


One  and  one-half  pints  of  granulated  sugar,  1-3  pint  glucose,  1-2 
pint  of  hot  water,  whites  of  2  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  ^4  pound  pecans, 
handful  of  candied  cherries,  handful  of  candied  citron.  Add  glucose 
to  sugar,  then  the  water.  Dissolve  thoroughly  and  cook  over  a  tol- 
erably hot  fire  until  candy  cracks  on  side  of  glass  in  ice  water,  then 
add  the  salt.  Beat  eggs  a  little.  When  candy  is  done,  pour  syrup 
slowly  over  the  eggs,  beating  hard  all  the  while,  until  the  syrup  has 
been  used.  Then  hastily  add  pecans  and  fruits  chopped.  Pour  on 
a  marble  slab.  When  cool  break  into  irregular  pieces,  size  of  a  large 
walnut.  It  may  be  flavored  with  any  essence  preferred  and  colored 
with  fruit  coloring. 

Fondant. 

Foundation  for  cream  candies. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  white  of  1  or  more  eggs,  according  to 
quantity  required,  and  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  water;  stir  in 
sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  mold.    Use  XXX  sugar. 

English  walnut  creams,  cream  cherries,  pineapple  cream  may  be 
made  with  this  fondant. 

Roll  out  a  small  piece  of  cream  until  very  thin,  use  a  small  tin 
cake  cutter,  cut  into  shape ;  cut  pieces  of  preserved  pineapple  into 
small  strips,  place  on  that  formed,  and  let  opposite  sides  of  the  cake 
meet  over  the  pineapple.  A  very  narrow  ribbon  may  be  tied  around 
each,  forming  a  bow  knot  on  top. 

Almond  Creams. 

Make  an  oblong  roll  of  cream,  and  press  into  the  sides  of  it  an 
almond  meat;  if  rolled  while  soft  in  granulated  sugar,  the  outside 
will  present  a  crystallized  appearance. 

Cocoanut  Creams. 

Take  some  cream  while  quite  soft;  add  freshly  grated  cocoanut 
to  taste,  and  sufficient  XXX  sugar  to  mold  into  balls ;  then  roll  the 
balls  in  grated  cocoanut ;  they  may  be  colored  pink  with  a  few  drops 
of  cochineal  syrup.  Make  brown  by  adding  several  spoons  of 
grated  chocolate. 

(341) 


342  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Raspberry  Drops. 

Use  raspberry  juice  instead  of  water  to  moisten  sugar;  put  in 
a  saucepan  to  heat.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Then  add  a  little  more  sugar. 
Let  it  get  hot ;  then  drop  on  buttered  paper.  Stir  all  the  time  it  is 
cooking.  Drops  of  this  kind  may  be  made  from  all  kinds  of  ber- 
ries. 

Sugar  Plums. 

Take  small  pieces  of  fondant  flavored  to.  taste,  and  form  into  olive 
shaped  balls.  Hold  in  the  hand,  cut  it  half  through,  and  press  into  it 
an  almond,  press  fondant  around  it,  leaving  almond  partially  cover- 
ed. The  almond  may  be  blanched,  and  color  fondant  with  melted 
chocolate.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  or  leave  plain,  as  pre- 
ferred. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Put  into  saucepan  %  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  cud  brown  sugar, 
Vi  cup  molasses,  1  cup  cream  or  milk,  1  cup  grated  chocolate,  1 
tablespoon  vanilla,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Beat  until  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Put  on  fire,  stir  constantly  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball 
when  dropped  in  ice  water,  then  add  vanilla.  Pour  on  a  greased  mar- 
ble slab,  and  let  it  be  an  inch  thick.  One  teacup  of  pecans,  broken  in 
pieces  may  be  added  after  taking  candy  from  the  fire.  Mark  into 
squares,  and  cut  before  it  becomes  cold. 

Iced  Figs. 
Take  cressa  figs,  and  cut  with  scissors  in  half,  leaving  them  in- 
tact at  the  stem.  Make  icing  with  %  pound  icing  sugar,  and  whites 
of  2  unbeaten  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Break  whites  into  dish,  add 
spoon  of  sugar  at  a  time,  and  beat  with  silver  fork.  If  not  stiff 
enough,  more  sugar  may  be  added.  Put  1  heaping  teaspoon  icing 
and  y2  pecan  in  each  fig;  press  together  and  a  dash  of  icing  may  be 
added  at  the  top.  Dates  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Cook- 
ed icing  may  be  used  if  preferred. 

Maple  Loaf. 

One  pound  maple  sugar,  2  pints  brown  sugar,  1  pint  pecan 
meats,  1  coffee  cup  cream  or  milk,  1  dessertspoon  butter.  Crush 
maple  suerar  and  put  in  saucepan  with  the  brown  sugar  and  cream. 
Place  on  range  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  until  syrup 
forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  add  butter  just  before 
removing  from  fire.  Beat  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then 
quickly  add  pecan  meats ;  form  into  loaf.  When  cold,  cover  with  a 
damp  napkin. 

Filled  Dates. 

Remove  pit  from  dates,  and  fill  with  y2  pecan  and  some  marsh- 
mallows  broken  in  small  pieces.  Press  together  and  roll  in  coarse 
white  sugar.  Dates  may  be  filled  the  same  way,  then  dipped  in 
whiskey  and  rolled  in  powdered  sugar. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  343 

To  Crystallize  Fruit. 

Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  4  tablespoons  of 
water,  2  tablespoons  vinegar.  When  this  boils  stir  in  a  small  pinch 
of  soda.  Stir  as  little  as  possible  and  boil  until  it  hairs.  Separate 
fruit  from  stem  24  hours  beforehand,  dip  fruit  or  nuts  in  the  warm 
syrup ;  place  on  waxed  paper  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  If  first  dip- 
ping is  not  successful,  dip  it  again,  and  a  little  more  water  may  be 
added  to  the  syrup,  and  6  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

Nougat. 

Put  1  pound  granulated  sugar  into  an  iron  skillet,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  melted,  and  an  amber  color.  Have  ready  1%  cups  of 
shelled  almonds  or  any  nut  desired,  which  must  have  been  warmed 
in  a  slow  oven.  After  sugar  melts,  add  the  nuts,  stir  until  mixed, 
and  pour  into  a  greased  pan. 

To  Glace  Fruits. 

Have  fruit  perfectly  dry,  if  oranges,  separate  each  section  care- 
fully without  breaking  the  skin.  Put  1  pound  granulated  sugar  in 
kettle,  and  add  to  it  V-2  cup  water  and  place  over  fire  to  boil,  do  not 
stir  after  sugar  is  dissolved.  After  mixture  boils  ten  minutes  hold 
the  fingers  in  ice  water,  and  try  the  candy,  if  it  is  brittle  it  is  just 
right,  take  from  fire  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  stand  in 
a  basin  of  boiling  water.  Take  fruit  on  sugar  tongs  and  dip  in  the 
syrup.  Put  on  buttered  paper  in  a  warm  place  to  dry.  Glace  English 
walnuts  and  almonds  in  same  manner. 

Chocolate  Creams. 

One-fourth  pound  of  Baker's  chocolate,  3  tumblers  granulated 
sugar,  1  tumbler  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  sugar  with  this  water  be- 
fore putting  on  range ;  cook  until  jt  forms  a  ball  in  water ;  when  cold 
remove  from  saucepan,  and  knead  as  you  would  bread,  until  it  be- 
comes creamy,  then  put  back  in  pan,  cover  with  a  damp  cloth  for  3 
hours.  Knead  again,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Make  into  balls  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Have  the  chocolate  melted  and  dip  in  the  balls ;  place 
on  oil  paper  to  cool. 

Butter  Scotch. 

Take  1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  1  pint  of  water.  Dissolve  it 
thoroughly  and  put  in  saucepan  to  boil ;  when  done  add  1  teaspoon 
of  butter ;  flavor  with  lemon  juice  and  the  oil  of  lemon.  Pour  on 
marble  slab,  when  cold  cut  into  squares. 

Cream  Candy. 

Three  pints  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  boiling  water,  4  table- 
spoons cream,  1  teaspoon  vinegar,  lump  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Dissolve  well  before  putting  on  to  cook;  let  it 
boil  hard  until  it  will  drop  in  balls  in  water;  then  pour  on  marble 
slab  until  cool  enough  to  pull.    When  pulling  add  the  vanilla. 


344  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Chocolate  Fudge. 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  14  cake  of  cho- 
colate, 1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  together  then  add 
grated  chocolate  and  milk.  Mix  well  before  cooking  and  cook  20 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire,  beat  until  stiff 
and  cut  into  squares. 

Candied  Orange  Peel. 

Eemove  peel  in  quarters  from  4  oranges  and  cover  with  cold 
water ;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook  slowly  until  soft.  Drain,  re- 
move white  portions,  using  a  spoon.  Cut  the  yellow  part  in  strips 
with  the  scissors.  Boil  a  half  cup  of  water  and  a  cup  of  sugar  until 
syrun  will  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Cook  strips  in 
syrup  5  minutes,  drain  and  coat  with  fine  granulated  sugar. 

Caramels. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  half  cup  each,  of  white  sugar,  brown  sugar 
and  molasses,  1  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  of  cream.  When  al- 
most done  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  turn  into  a  greased  mold  and 
mark  in  inch  squares,  and  cut  before  it  is  cold.    Wrar>  in  paper. 

Chocolate  Drops. 

Two  cups  of  confectioner's  sugar,  1  cup  of  cold  water.  Boil 
rapidly  for  about  10  minutes,  remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  stiff 
enough  to  mould  with  the  fingers.  Form  into  cone  shaped  balls  and 
drop  into  melted  chocolate,  then  lay  on  oiled  paper.  Add  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla  to  the  cream  as  it  is  taken  from  the  fire. 

Molasses  Candy. 

Two  cups  of  C  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  water, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  half  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  all 
together  until  brittle,  then  pour  on  buttered  plates  to  cool.  When 
partially  cold,  begin  to  pull  it  and  cut  into  blocks. 

Cocoanut  Balls. 

Wet  2  pounds  of  sugar  with  the  milk  of  a  cocoanut.  Boil  and 
stir  until  it  begins  to  granulate;  then  stir  in  cocoanut  grated  fine. 
Boil  a  short  time  longer,  then  pour  into  buttered  dishes.  As  soon 
as  you  can  handle,  make  into  balls. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

The  white  part  of  a  cocoanut  grated,  whites  of  4  eggs  well  beat- 
en, y2  pound  sifted  white  sugar,  flavor  with  rosewater  or  lemon. 
Mix  all  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred.  Lay  in  heaps  half  an  inch  apart 
on  paper  or  on  a  baking  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  Take  them  out  when 
they  begin  to  look  a  straw  color. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  345 

Candy. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  y±  of  a  pound  of 
butter  (light  weight),  1%  wine  glasses  of  vinegar,  1-3  teaspoon  of 
soda,  good  pinch  of  salt,  just  enough  warm  water  to  dissolve  sugar. 
Put  in  all  the  above  ingredients ;  place  over  a  hot  fire  and  cook 
quickly,  not  stirring  at  all.  After  boiling,  try  if  done  by  dropping 
a  spoonful  in  cold  water.  If  it  cools  quickly  and  cracks  on  the  side 
of  a  glass,  it  can  be  taken  off  and  pulled.  Pour  out  without  shaking 
the  kettle,  into  buttered  dishes.  It  desired.  Baker's  chocolate  or  co- 
coanut  can  be  grated  into  the  plate  of  candy  and  pulled  in.  Flavor 
with  any  extract  preferred. 

Sugar  Pop  Corn. 

Put  into  a  kettle  of  white  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  water  and  1  of 
butter.  Boil  until  it  is  candy;  then  put  in  three  quarts  of  popped 
corn.    Stir  briskly  and  remove  from  fire. 

Hickory  Nut  Candy. 

Take  3  cups  of  sugar  and  1  of  water ;  boil  until  it  becomes  brit- 
tle, when  dropped  into  cold  water.  When  nearly  done,  add  1  table- 
spoon of  vinegar.  Have  buttered  pans  lined  with  hickory  nuts  and 
pour  the  candy  over  them.  Peanut  candy  may  be  made  in  same 
way. 

Butter  Scotch. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  2-3  cup  of  water,  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg.  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  will  harden  in  water ; 
then  pour  on  buttered  plates  to  cool.  If  preferred,  a  very  little 
cream  of  tartar  may  be  added  to  this.  "When  it  begins  boiling  and 
when  partially  cold,  it  may  be  pulled.    Add  flavoring. 

Popcorn  Balls. 

Three  quarts  of  popcorn,  1  pint  molasses.  Boil  molasses  15  min- 
utes, have  corn  in  a  large  pan  and  pour  the  boiled  candy  over  and 
stir  briskly,  until  well  mixed,  then  form  into  balls  with  the  hands. 

Candied  Orange  Peel. 

Dip  oranges  in  hot  water,  wipe  with  a  soft  cloth,  then  rub  with 
lump  sugar  to  extract  the  oil.  Roll  sugar  fine  and  set  aside,  peel  the 
oranges  and  put  the  skins  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender : 
change  water  twice ;  drain  well,  cut  into  strips,  weigh  and  allow  1 
pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  peel  and  %  cup  of  water.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  together  a  moment,  add  peel,  simmer  until  transparent. 
Drain  and  roll  each  piece  in  the  sugar.    Put  in  warm  oven  to  dry. 

Candied  Watermelon  Rind. 

Cut  watermelon  rind  into  pieces  1%  inches  square,  boil  in  alum 
water  until  tender,  then  drain  well.   Make  a  rich  syrup  with  granu- 


346  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

Lated  sugar  and  water:  cook  melon  until  clear  and  the  syrup  nearly 
cooked  down,  then  spread  on  plates  and  partly  dry  in  the  oven. 
Sprinkle  granulated  sugar  on  both  sides  and  drop  3  drops  Jamaica 
ginger  on  each  piece.  Dry  until  you  can  handle,  so  that  pieces  will 
not  stick  together  when  put  in  jars. 

Chocolate  Chips. 

Make  a  filling:  One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses.  2-3  cup  of 
sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  candy  until 
hard:  pull  thin  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  when  cold  dip  in  hot  melted 
chocolate  flavored  with  vanilla  and  sweetened. 

French  Candy. 

Two  teacups  of  granulated  sugar,  x/2  teacup  water.  Dissolve 
sugar  and  water,  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  most  of  the  time.  Put  in  a 
bowl,  flavor  to  taste  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Roll  into  a  sheet.  Have 
enough  fruit  placed  together  to  form  a  ball,  and  cover  with  this 
cream. 

Walnut  Candy. 

One  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  dessertspoon  vinegar.  Put  ingredients  in  double  boil- 
er, place  on  range  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Cook  slowly,  until  syrup 
hardens  when  dropped  in  ice  water.  Have  walnuts  prepared  and 
put  them  in  a  shallow  pan,  greased  with  butter,  and  pour  over  the 
candy.     When  cold,  cut  into  bars. 

Nut  Crackle. 

Cover  bottom  of  a  greased  shallow  pan  with  mixed  nuts.  Have 
1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  in  saucepan,  stir  until  melted.  Pour 
over  nuts,  and  let  remain  until  cool,  then  mark  into  squares. 

Pecan  Candy. 

Three  heaping  coffee  cups  of  caramel  sugar,  l1/^  cups  of  cream 
or  milk,  14  pound  pecans,  a  generous  half  ounce  of  butter.  Put  all 
ingredients  in  saucepan,  and  beat  until  smooth,  then  place  on  range, 
stirring  all  the  while.  "When  candy  cracks  hard  on  side  of  glass,  re- 
move from  fire,  add  the  pecans  broken  in  pieces.  Stir  until  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  then  pour  on  a  marble  slab  greased  with  butter. 
When  cool,  cut  into  squares. 

Maple  Pinocha. 

Grate  1  pound  of  maple  sugar,  add  1  cup  of  milk  and  cream  mix- 
ed. Place  on  range,  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  until 
syrup  forms  a  soft  ball,  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
fire,  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  hastily  add  1  teacup  of  pe- 
cans, and  turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  pan.  When  partially 
cold,  mark  into  squares  with  a  greased  knife. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  347 

Crystallized  Oranges. 

Cut  oranges  crosswise  in  thick  slices,  remove  the  seed.  Dip  each 
slice  separately  in  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  and  then  in  fine  crystal- 
lized sugar.  Dry  on  sieve  in  a  cool  oven.  Serve  with  nuts,  raisins 
and  after  dinner  coffee. 

Peppermint  Creams. 

Two  pints  of  granulated  sugar,  y2  teacup  warm  water,  2  drops 
or  more  of  oil  of  peppermint,  white  of  1  egg.  Put  the  sugar  and 
water  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  syrup  will  just  form  a  ball  in 
ice  water.  Then  pour  over  the  well-beaten  eggs;  add  the  pepper- 
mint and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Drop  on  marble  and  let 
remain  until  they  harden. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  Baker's  chocolate  grated, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut,  1  cup  of  hot  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Dissolve  sugar  with  water;  add  chocolate,  when  it 
begins  to  boil,  the  butter,  and  let  boil  10  minutes.  Try  candy  in  cold 
water.  When  thick  as  molasses  pour  on  buttered  tins.  Mark  into 
small  squares. 

Fruit  Loaf. 

Three  large  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  3 
tablespoons  of  cream,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Stir  sugar  and  water 
until  dissolved ;  then  put  in  saucepan  and  boil  8  minutes,  and  if  hard 
enough  to  pull,  pour  on  a  marble  slab.  Then  pull  it  until  it  begins 
to  cream,  and  work  it  like  dough.  Add  to  it  some  chopped  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  candied  cherries,  raisins,  and  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Mould  into  a  loaf.  If  the  candy  should  get  too  stiff,  moisten  with 
cream.    Cover  loaf  with  a  damp  napkin,  and  slice  when  cold. 

Cream  Candy. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  IV2  cups  rich  cream,  1  heaping 
tablespoon  butter.  Beat  this  together  until  light  and  creamy ;  set  on 
stove  to  melt  thoroughly  before  cooking,  then  place  on  perforated 
pan  to  cook.  After  boiling  a  few  minutes  add  the  butter ;  cook  until 
it  cracks  hard  on  side  of  glass,  pour  on  marble  slab.  While  pulling 
add  vanilla,  and  must  be  pulled  until  very  white ;  cut  in  large 
blocks. 

To  Crystallize  Fruits  and  Nuts. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  3/±  cup  of  water,  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Boil  until  the  syrup  will  thread,  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Keep 
this  in  another  saucepan,  surrounded  with  hot  water  while  using. 
Dip  the  small  sections  of  oranges,  grapes,  cherries,  whole  English 
walnuts  and  pecans  in  this  syrup,  place  on  buttered  plates  in  a  dry 
place  to  harden. 


348  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


To  Glace  Oranges. 

Peel  oranges,  and  remove  all  white  skin  from  them,  and  sepa- 
rate into  sections,  take  out  seed  carefully ;  then  dip  sections  in  a  clear 
candy  syrup.  Put  on  a  dish,  and  sift  over  powdered  sugar ;  set  in  a 
cool  place  to  harden. 

Cream  Candy. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  coffee  cup  of  cream,  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter.  Beat  the  sugar  and  cream  15  minutes. 
Put  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  a  perforated  pan  on  top  of  the  stove 
until  it  dissolves;  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  the  butter;  let  it  get 
harder  than  ordinary  candy.  Try  it  by  dropping  1  teaspoonful  in 
cold  water;  if  it  cracks  take  off  and  pour  on  a  marble  slab.  While 
pulling  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Do  not  make  more  than  this 
quantity  at  a  time. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream,  y±  pound  of 
butter,  %  cake  chocolate.  Mix  the  cream  and  sugar  thoroughly,  put 
on  to  boil ;  after  it  has  boiled  add  the  butter,  then  the  chocolate.  Let 
it  cook  until  quite  hard  and  will  crack  on  a  glass.  Just  before  tak- 
ing it  off  add  2  tablespoons  of  vanilla,  pour  on  a  marble  slab,  cut  in 
squares. 

Walnut  Candy. 

Three  coffee  cups  srranulated  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Add  milk  to  sugar,  and  place  on  back  of 
range  and  stir  until  dissolved;  then  set  on  perforated  pan  to  boil; 
when  half  done  add  the  butter.  Cook  until  it  cracks  on  side  of  glass, 
try  in  water.  When  done  pour  on  a  marble  slab ;  as  you  pull  the 
candy  add  the  walnuts,  and  a  little  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Fudge. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  Yi  cup  rich  milk,  %  cup  of  butter, 
V-2  cup  molasses,  %  cup  grated  chocolate,  2  tablespoons  of  figs,  2 
tablespoons  raisins,  %  cup  English  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix 
sugar,  milk,  molasses  and  butter  together  and  boil  7  minutes,  then 
add  chocolate  and  boil  7  minutes  longer,  then  fruit,  nuts  and  vanil- 
la.    Pour  on  a  greased  marble  slab,  when  cool  mark  into  squares. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Two  pints  of  sugar,  boiled ;  add  to  it  %  of  a  teacup  of  butter,  }4 
teacup  of  cream,  %  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated.  Boil  slowly 
without  stirring  until  it  drops  hard  in  water.  Pour  on  buttered 
plates  and  cut  in  squares. 

Macaroons. 

Half  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  %  pound  of  fine  white  sugar, 
whites  of  2  eggs,  blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  them  to  a  paste,  add 
to  them  the  sugar  and  the  eggs  after  they  have  been  beaten  to  a 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  349 

froth.  Work  the  whole  well  together  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  then 
roll  the  preparation  in  balls  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Lay  them 
on  a  sheet  of  paper,  an  inch  apart.  Bake  them  in  a  cool  oven  to  a 
light  brown. 

Marshmallow  Fudge. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream,  2  squares  Baker's 
chocolate,  butter  size  of  butternut,  x/o  pound  marshmallows.  Put 
sugar  and  water  in  saucepan  and  bring  to  boiling  point,  then  add 
chocolate  and  boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  just  before  it  is 
done,  add  the  butter  and  the  marshmallows  crushing  and  beating 
them  with  a  spoon.  Continue  to  stir  in  marshmallows  after  fudge 
has  been  removed  from  fire,  until  all  are  in.  Cool  in  sheets  %  of  an 
inch  thick  and  cut  in  cubes. 

Candied  Figs. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1-3  cup  of  water,  %  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar.  Dissolve  sugar  and  water  and  put  in  saucepan  to  boil,  and 
do  not  stir  while  cooking,  add  cream  of  tartar  just  before  removing 
from  fire,  cook  until  it  strings,  dip  figs  in  this  syrup  and  place  on 
buttered  plates  to  dry. 

Orange  Straws. 

Cut  orange  peel  into  strips  with  scissors,  put  in  cold  water  and 
boil  20  minutes ;  change  the  water ;  boil  20  minutes  longer ;  renew 
with  fresh  water  and  boil  20  minutes  more.  Take  1  cup  of  the  peel 
and  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  with  water  to  cover,  roll  in  granulated 
sugar,  place  on  platter  to  dry.    Handle  with  sugar  tongs. 

Chocolate  Kisses. 

One-half  pound  of  sugar,  1  ounce  finely  powdered  chocolate, 
whites  of  4  eggs.  Mix  sugar  and  chocolate,  and  add  to  it  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  froth.    Drop  on  buttered  paper  and  bake. 

To  Glace  Fruits,  Marshmallows  or  Nuts. 

One  pint  granulated  sugar,  add  enough  water  to  moisten,  cook 
until  it  cracks  on  side  of  glass.  Take  marshmallows,  oranges  in  sec- 
tions, lemons  cut  in  thin  round  slices,  English  walnuts,  pecans,  Ma- 
laga grapes  in  bunches  or  singly  to  glace.  Dip  in  syrup  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  place  on  a  marble  slab  greased  with  butter. 

Pinocha. 

Three  coffee  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  lump 
of  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Cook  until  almost  candy,  then  pour  in 
dish  and  beat  hard,  just  before  it  is  cold,  beat  in  blanched  almonds 
or  pecans.    Cut  in  squares  when  cold. 

Fruit  Loaf. 
Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  butter  size 


350  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


of  a  walnut,  1-3  pound  raisins  chopped,  V2  pound  pecans.  Put  sugar 
and  water  in  saucepan,  dissolve  before  cooking.  When  it  begins 
to  boil,  add  butter,  and  cook  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  in  water. 
Remove  from  fire,  and  let  cool  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  with  a 
wooden  paddle  until  white  and  creamy,  when  nearly  cold  add  the 
fruit  and  nuts,  form  in  loaf,  and  cover  with  a  damp  napkin. 

Prallines. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar,  y%  cup  cream,  butter  size 
of  an  egg.  Mix  cream  with  sugar,  and  cook  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  in  water.  Have  ready  some  English  walnuts  or  pecans,  and  pour 
over  the  syrup,  when  cold  form  into  balls. 

Butter  Scotch. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  !/2  cup  butter,  2  tablespoons  vine- 
gar. When  done  put  in  buttered  pans,  before  it  cools,  mark  into 
squares. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  1%  pounds  powdered  sugar, 
whites  of  6  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake. 

Glace  Nuts. 

Boil  Y2  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  %  cup  of  water,  un- 
til it  cracks,  remove  from  fire  at  once.  Have  ready  some  warm 
blanched  almonds,  or  any  nut  preferred,  drop  into  the  syrup  one  at 
a  time.  When  well  covered,  lift  out  on  a,  fork,  place  on  waxed 
paper.    It  must  be  done  rapidly  or  the  syrup  will  harden. 

Grilled  Almonds. 

Blanch  1  cup  of  almonds;  boil  1  cup  of  sugar;  and  ^4  cup  of 
water  until  it  strings;  then  put  in  almonds.  Cook  until  a  light 
brown,  before  the  sugar  changes  color,  remove  from  stove  and  stir  it 
until  the  syrup  goes  back  to  sugar  and  clings  to  the  nuts. 

Maple  Sugar  Taffy. 

Take  3  coffee  cups  of  maple  molasses,  and  boil  until  it  will  stiffen 
when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Then  remove  from  fire,  and  place 
where  it  will  cool  rapidly.  Do  not  stir,  until  it  has  become  a  thick 
wax.  Then  with  a  spoon  beat  until  white  and  hard.  Some  hickory 
nut  meats  or  pecans  may  be  added  before  stirring  it.  The  taffy 
should  not  be  grainy.  If  an  inch  in  depth  around  the  saucepan  is 
buttered,  it  will  prevent  boiling  over. 

Hard  Nut  Candy. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  nut  kernels.  Melt  the  sugar 
in  a  spider  stirring  all  the  while,  until  it  is  liquid.  As  soon  as  melted, 
add  the  nuts.    Mix  hastily  and  pour  in  a  dish  to  harden. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT    BOOK.  351 

Spanish  Candy. 

Roast  1  pound  of  shelled  peanuts  until  brown,  skin  and  grind 
fine.  Put  in  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  sugar  syrup,  boil  until  thick; 
when  cold  enough  to  handle  roll  in  balls  size  of  a  large  marble.  Have 
y^  pound  of  peanuts  roasted  and  ground  fine,  drop  in  these  balls  as 
fast  as  made,  put  on  broad  platter. 

Ice  Cream  Candy. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  scant  %  cup  of  water,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut  and  V4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Boil  candy  until  it  cracks  when  dipped  into  ice  water.  Do  not  stir; 
pour  in  buttered  plates;  when  cool,  pull  until  white. 

Maple  Creams. 

One  cup  maple  sugar,  V2  cup  of  cream,  1  dessertspoon  butter, 
boil  until  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  until  cool, 
then  beat  to  a  cream.   Put  in  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. 

Almond  Nougat. 

Blanch  1  coffee  cup  of  almonds,  chop  them  and  put  in  oven  to 
dry,  but  must  not  brown.  Put  in  a  saucepan  2y2  cups  of  powdered 
sugar  and  2  teasnoons  of  lemon  juice,  put  on  fire,  stir  until  melted, 
then  pour  in  the  hot  almonds.  Mix  them  rapidly,  pour  on  a  greased 
marble  slab.  While  warm  mark  into  squares. 

Burnt  Almonds. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  1  coffee  cup  of  brown  sugar,  wet  with  a  lit- 
tle water,  stir  until  dissolved.  Boil  1  minute,  then  add  y2  coffee  cup 
of  almonds,  stir  until  a  light  brown.  When  nuts  are  coated  pour 
on  a  marble  slab. 

Creamed  Almonds. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  boil  4  minutes.  Beat  until  cool  enough  to  handle.  Mold 
over  blanched  almonds.   Roll  in  coarse  sugar. 

Chocolate  Loaf. 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  butter 
size  of  walnut,  y±  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put 
sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  dissolve  before  cooking;  when  it  com- 
mences to  boil  add  butter  and  chocolate,  cook  until  it  will  form 
a  soft  ball  in  water.  Remove  from  fire,  let  cool  a  few  minutes,  then 
stir  with  wooden  paddle  until  creamy.  Add  vanilla.  Cover  with  a 
damp  napkin. 

Stuffed  Dates. 

One  pound  of  dates,  y2  cup  blanched  almonds.  y2  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  y>  cup  powdered  sugar;  blanch  almonds  and  dry  on  a 
cloth.  Open  the  dates  lengthwise  and  remove  the  seed.  Make  a  cara- 


352  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

mel  of  granulated  sugar  by  melting  the  sugar  slowly  in  a  saucepan ; 
stir  until  a  golden  brown,  then  set  the  saucepan  in  pan  of  hut  water 
and  dip  each  almond  in  the  caramel  by  piercing  it  with  a  long  pin. 
Drop  on  a  plate  until  all  are  done.  Place  the  almond  in  the  cavity  of 
the  date.  Press  lightly  together  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Peanut  Sandwich. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  remove  the  crust  and  spread  with  rat- 
ter.   Have  1  pint  of   toasted  peanuts,  roll  fine    and  spread  on  the 
bread.    Serve  at  once.    Almonds  or  pecans  may  be  substituted  for 
peanuts  and  similarly  prepared. 

Peanut  Balls. 
Take  1  pint  of  peanuts  and  chop  tolerably  fine.  Have  white  of 
1  egg,  well  frothed,  combine  with  the  egg  and  shape  into  balls.  Place 
on  greased  paper  in  pan  and  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Pecans  or  English  walnuts  may  be 
substituted  for  peanuts 


SALTED  aLn©N©s 

Salted  Almonds. 
One-half  pound  Jordan  almonds,  1-3  cup  of  Lucca,  oil,  salt. 
Blanch  and  dry  the  almonds.  Put  the  Lucca  oil  in  blazer  and  when 
hot  put  in  1-3  of  the  almonds  and  fry  until  of  a  delicate  brown.  Skim 
from  the  oil,  drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt .  Continue 
in  the  same  manner  with  the  remaining  almonds  until  all  are  salted. 

Salted  Almonds. 
Shell  1  pound  of  almonds  and  pour  over  boiling  water;  remove 
the  brown  skin  and  dry  well.  Put  2  tablespoons  butter  or  2  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil  in  a  pan ;  when  hot  add  the  almonds,  and  let  re- 
main until  a  light  brown.  Stir  often,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and 
sprinkle  with  fine  salt,  and  serve. 

Salted  Almonds. 

Take  one  pound  of  almonds,  hull  and  blanch  them  in  boiling 
water,  remove  the  skin  and  spread  on  a  dish  to  dry.  Melt  one 
kitchen  spoon  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  a  !/4  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Place  the  almonds  carefully  in  a  stove  pan,  pour  the  butter  over 
them,  cook  until  a  light  brown. 

Deviled  Almonds. 
One-fourth  pound  J<  rdan  almonds,  3  tablespoons  butter,  2  table- 
spoons minced  capers,  2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  Ys  tea- 
spoon paprica,  Yi  teaspoon  salt.  Blanch,  dry  and  cut  the  almonds 
into  fourths,  lengthwise.  Melt  the  butter  in  blazer  and  fry  almonds 
until  light  brown.  Mix  the  capers,  Worcestershire  sauce,  paprica 
and  salt  and  add  to  almonds  and  serve  with  oysters  as  soon  as  thor- 
oughly heated. 


;AU 


Cream  of  Wheat. 

One  quart  of  boiling  water,  %  of  a  cup  of  cream  wheat,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Have  water  boiling  in  double  boiler,  stii  the  wheat 
in  slowly  and  cook  1  hour.  Serve  hot  with  cream  and  su  gar.  Leave 
wheat  for  1  hour  after  it  is  done  and  it  becomes  the  coi  isisteney  of 
jelhT.  then  serve. 

Egg-O-See. 

Heat  Egg-O-See  in  the  oven  and  serve  hot  with  crean   and  sugar. 

Malta  Vita. 

Malta  Vita  may  be  heated  in  the  oven  and  serv<  d  hot  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or  eaten  cold  with  cream  and  sugar,  t  s  it  is  crisp 
and  of  delicate  flavor. 

Cream  of  Wheat. 

Prepare  according  to  directions;  when  done,  pour  in  pudding 
dish.   When  cold,  cut  in  slices  and  fry  in  butter.  Serve  fo  ?  breakfast. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Two  cups  of  cracked  wheat,  1  quart  cold  water,  1  te  aspoon  salt. 
Cover  wheat  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  soak  6  hour* ,  then  drain 
off  water  and  put  1  quart  of  cold  water  in  double  boil  3r ;  when  it 
comes  to  boiling  point  add  the  wheat  and  salt.  If  water  Decomes  too 
reduced  add  hot  water.  Simmer  3  hours.  Serve  hot  witl  t  cream  and 
si  mar. 

Steamed  Oatmeal. 

Allow  1  quart  of  cold  water  for  each  cup  of  oatmeal  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Put  in  double  boiler,  over  cold  water,  gradually  steam 
1 j  2  hours  after  it  begins  cooking.   Serve  hot  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Oat  Flakes. 

One  quart  of  boiling  water,  1  coffee  cup  of  oat  flakes,  %  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Have  water  in  double  boiler;  when  boiling  hot  grad- 
ually sprinkle  in  the  flakes,  add  the  salt  and  stir  frequently.  Cook 
2  hours  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit. 

Serve  biscuit  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 

23  (353) 


354  KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK. 


Force. 

Force  may  be  heated  in  the  oven  and  served  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  Force  may  be  served  cold  if  preferred. 

Scotch  Oatmeal. 

Take  1  cup  of  coarse  oatmeal,  5  cups  of  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Pick  over  oatmeal  carefully  and  put  in  double  boiler 
with  the  hot  water  and  salt.  Simmer  9  hours  and  do  not  stir  after  it 
begins  cooking.  Replenish  with  hot  water  if  it  becomes  too  reduced; 
Serve  hot  with  rich  cream  and  sugar. 

Oatmeal  Gruel. 

Mix  together  2  tablespoons  of  oatmeal,  Vi  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon granulated  sugar  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cook  30  minutes 
and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  1  cup  of  milk  and  bring  to 
boiling  point. 

Cornmeal  Gruel. 

One  quart  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sifted  cornmeal,  a 
little  salt.    Cook  20  minutes,  stir  often ;  if  too  thick  add  hot  water. 

Oat  Flakes. 

Two  coffee  cups  of  oat  flakes,  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Put  water  in  double  boiler  with  the  salt,  stir  in  the 
oat  flakes.  Boil  1  hour,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  hot  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

To  Cook  Oatmeal. 

Take  1  large  coffee  cup  of  oatmeal  and  put  in  double  boiler  with 
1  quart  of  cold  water:  simmer  9  hours.  If  water  becomes  too  re- 
duced add  enough  hot  water  to  thin  the  oatmeal  and  add  1  teaspoon 
of  salt  2  hours  before  it  is  done.  Stir  frequently  with  a  granite 
spoon.  Serve  hot,  with  rich  cream  and  sugar,  for  breakfast. 

Rolled  Oats. 

Have  freshly  boiled  water  in  double  boiler,  in  proportion  1  part 
oats  to  2  parts  salted  water.  Boil  1  hour  or  longer.  If  oats  become 
too  stiff  add  a  little  boiling  water  and  stir  vigorously.  Serve  hot 
with  rich  cream  and  sugar  for  breakfast.  The  oats  may  be  put  in 
mold  and  served  cold  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  decorate  the  top 
with  strawberry  preserves  or  fresh  fruit  and  use  as  a  light  dessert 
for  luncheon. 

Fried  Oats. 

Mold  oats  in  pudding  dish;  when  cold  cut  in  narrow  thin  slices. 
Dip  in  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg  and  fry  on  a  greased  hot  griddle.  Serve 
for  breakfast. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  355 


HUNTS  FOR  H©U< 


Ego-  used  for  covering  croquettes  may  be  the  whole  egg  or  only 
the  white,  never  the  yolk  alone.  Beat  the  egg  till  broken,  but  not 
light.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  water  for  each  white  or  2  tablespoons 
for  the  whole  egg.  Mix  well  before  using. 

Bread  crumbs  are  much  better  for  frying  than  cracker  dust. 
All  stale  bread  should  be  run  through  the  meat  chopper. 

Chop  suet  in  a.  cool  place,  sprinkle  with  flour  to  prevent  stick- 
ing. 

Add  a  feAV  drops  of  rosewater  to  almonds  to  prevent  their  oil- 
ing when  chopped. 

Raisins  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  before  stoning  them. 

Cover  pickle  jar  with  a  large  plate,  then  heavy  brown  paper 
to  exclude  the  air ;  pickle  will  then  keep  fresh  for  a  long  time.  Never 
put  the  hands  in  a  jar  of  pickle,  as  it  causes  it  to  spoil.  Use  a  per- 
forated spoon. 

In  preparing  meat  salad  mix  with  some  of  the  dressing  and  let 
it  stand  for  several  hours,  then  add  the  rest  when  combining  the 
salad. 

To  keep  tomatoes  fresh  for  winter  use  take  a  large  stone  jar 
and  fill  it  with  nice  ripe  tomatoes  (they  must  be  perfect.)  Take  good 
cider  vinegar,  add  as  much  water  as  vinegar.  Have  the  tomatoes 
well  covered,  then  put  over  a  fresh  cloth  that  may  catch  the  scum 
arising.  Weight  gently  to  keep  the  tomatoes  under  cover.  When 
needed  peel  with  a  sharp  knife.  n 

To  Make  Baking  Powder. 

Two  ounces  cream  of  tartar,  1  ounce  soda,  1  ounce  cornstarch. 
Mix  together  and  sift  4  times.    Put  in  sealed  jar. 

To  Remove  Mildew. 

Put  green  tomatoes  and  salt  on  the  material,  lay  in  the  sun  1 
day,  then  wash  with  soap  and  dry  in  the  sun  again. 

Curry  Powder. 

Four  ounces  coriander  seed,  3  ounces  turmeric,  1  ounce  black 
pepper,  1  ounce  ginger,  !/•>  ounce  cardamon  seed,  %  ounce  cumin 
seed,  14  ounce  cayenne  pepper.  Dry  ingredients  and  pound  to  a  pow- 
der in  a  mortar.  Sift  and  bottle.  Can  be  used  to  flavor  meat,  sauces 
or  soups. 

To  Freshen  a  Room. 

A  room  that  has  become  stuffy  from  constant  use  or  from  to- 


356  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

baeco  smoke  may  be  rendered  fresh  and  sweet  by  placing  1/2  an 
ounce  of  spirits  of  lavender  and  a  lump  of  salts  of  ammonia  in  a  wide 
mouth  fancy  jar  or  bottle.  Leave  it  uncovered.  This  is  a  deodorizer 
and  disinfectant,  filling  the  room  with  a  pleasant  perfume. 

To  Keep  Eye-Glasses  Clear. 

Hub  the  glasses  with  a  soft  potash  soap  every  morning.  After 
soap  is  applied  the  glasses  can  be  polished  bright. 

In  Broiling  Meat. 

In  broiling  meat  over  coals  never  allow  it  to  smoke.  After  the 
coals  have*  burned  down  throw  on  a  handful  of  salt.  If  the  dripping 
takes  fire  remove  meat  from  stove  for  a  few  minutes. 

Scorched  Linen. 

If  any  article  has  been  scorched  by  ironing  lay  it  where  the  sun 
will  shine  directly  on  it  and  it  will  disappear  entirely. 

Pans  and  Kettles. 

Do  not  put  pans  and  kettles  full  of  water  on  the  stove  to  soak, 
as  it  makes  them  more  difficult  to  clean.  Fill  them  with  cold  water 
and  allow  to  stand  for  several  hours. 

To  Clean  Zinc. 
To  clean  zinc  utensils  dip  a  piece  of  cotton  in  kerosene,  then 
rub  it  on  the  utensil  to  be  cleaned.  Afterward  dry  with  a  clean  cloth. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  From  Woolen. 

Apply  some  absorbent  cotton  at  once  and  the  spots  will  disap- 
pear. 

Hard  Soap. 

Pour  12  quarts  soft  boiling  water  on  2Y2  pounds  of  unslacked 
lime.  Dissolve  5  pounds  of  salsoda  in  12  quarts  soft  hot  water,  then 
mix  and  let  remain  from  12  to  24  hours.  Pour  off  the  clear  fluid  care- 
fully. Boil  3y2  pounds  of  clear  grease  and  3  ounces  of  resin  in  the 
above  lye  until  the  grease  disappears ;  pour  in  a  box  and  let  remain 
1  day.  Cut  in  bars.  After  pouring  off  the  liquid  add  3  gallons  of 
water  and  let  remain  with  lime  and  soda  dregs  for  a  few  days.  Add 
1  pint  of  this  fluid  to  a  boiler  of  water  and  it  is  an  excellent  wash  for 
clothes. 


^isceLLA^eou: 


Uses  of  Lemons. 


The  juice  of  %  a  lemon  in  %  a  glass  of  water,  taken  several 
times  a  day,  will  destroy  the  germs  of  typhoid  fever. 


KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK.  357 

Lemon  juice  is  excellent  for  biliousness. 

The  juice  from  a  pineapple  is  good  for  throat  affections,  also 
for  croup. 

To  Prevent  Color  Fading. 

Use  1  tablespoon  of  oxgall  in  a  bucket  of  cold  water.  Allow 
goods  to  soak  in  this  water  6  hours,  then  hang  up  to  dry. 

For  Materials  That  Fade. 

One  ounce  sugar  of  lead  in  a  bucket  of  rainwater.  Soak  12  hours 
to  set  the  color. 

Vinegar  Stew. 

One-half  coffee  cup  of  vinegar,  %  coffee  cup  water,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  of  butter,  sugar  to  taste.  Put  vinegar  and  water  in  sauce- 
pan, sweetened.  "When  it  comes  to  a  boil  remove  from  fire.  Drink 
hot. 

Lemon  Stew. 

Peel  2  lemons  and  slice  thin.  Put  in  saucepan  with  1  pint  of 
water,  sweetened  to  taste.  Boil  until  reduced  to  %  pint,  Drink  hot. 

Fig  Paste. 

One  pound  of  best  figs,  1  pint  New  Orleans  molasses.  2  ounces 
of  senna  leaves.  Chop  all  ingredients  fine,  put  in  porcelain  kettle 
and  boil  tolerably  stiff.  When  done  add  juice  of  1  lemon ;  stir  while 
cooling,  cut  in  blocks  and  roll  in  oiled  paper  and  put  in  boxes  or  jars. 

An  Aperient. 

One  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  1  pound  of  strained  honey,  % 
pound  senna,  rubbed  fine  and  sifted;  put  in  self-sealing  jar. 

Fostoria  Fruit  Tablets. 

Two  ounces  of  raisins,  2  ounces  prunes,  2  ounces  figs,  2  ounces 
dates,  1  ounce  senna  leaves.  Put  these  ingredients  in  water,  remov- 
ing seed  and  hard  portions  of  fruit ;  chop  all  fine,  spread  thin  and  cut 
in  squares.  "Wrap  each  piece  in  wax  paper,  put  in  glass  jars  and 
fasten  securely.    Two  pieces  are  a  dose. 

Senna  Prunes. 

Twenty-four  prunes,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  senna 
leaves.  Steep  senna  in  the  water  where  it  will  keep  hot  2  hours, 
then  strain.  Wash  saucepan  and  put  in  senna  water  and  prunes, 
cover  and  simmer  until  the  primes  have  absorbed  all  the  water,  then 
put  in  a  jar  and  use  as  required.  They  will  keep  fresh  in  a  cool 
place  for  several  months. 

Imperial  Granum. 

Food  for  Invalids  and  Babies — Use  2  heaping  teaspoons  of 
granum,  1  teacup  water,  2  teacups  of  new  milk.   Take  a  little  water 


358  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 


and  make  into  ;i  paste;  add  a  little  salt  and  rest  of  water  and  milk. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  30  minutes,  stir  occasionally.  Water  may  be 
used  entirely  instead  of  milk,  if  one  has  Indigestion. 

Cologne. 

Oils,  lemon,  bergamot,  lavender,  orange  Mower  water,  each  ' - 
ounce,  extract  voilette  1  ounce,  oil  neroli  V±  ounce,  oil  citronella  V& 
ounce,  cologne  spirits  1  gallon.  Oils  with  3  ounces  cologne  spirits. 
Shake  occasionally  for  a  few  days  and  add  to  alcohol. 

Lime  Water. 

Take  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  unslacked  lime  and  put  in  a  quart 
jar.  Fill  with  cold  water;  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Stir  occa- 
sionally for  12  hours,  then  pour  in  a  bottle.  Be  careful  not  to  put  in 
the  sediment  from  the  bottom  of  the  jar.    It  is  then  ready  f,or  use. 

Croup. 

Beat  1  teacup  of  molasses  and  1  teaspoon  soda  till  it  foams,  then 
'jive  1  teaspoon  every  few  minutes. 

For  the  Gums. 

Use  2  parts  of  listerine  and  1  part  tincture  of  myrrh.  Mix  and 
put  in  a  bottle,  apply  with  a  cloth.  It  hardens  the  gums  and  pre- 
vents bleeding.    Use  occasionally. 

For  Headache. 

Take  1  teaspoon  essence  of  peppermint,  1  teaspoon  soda,  dis- 
solve in  a  tumbler  of  cold  water  and  drink. 

Smallpox  Cure. 

One  grain  solid  extract  digitalis,  1  grain  sulphate  of  zinc,  % 
teaspoon  sugar,  4  ounces  of  water.  Dissolve  the  digitalis  and  the 
zinc  separately,  then  compound  the  prescription. 

The  Dose  for  an  Adult — One  teaspoon  every  hour  for  12  con- 
secutive hours. 

The  Dose  for  an  Infant — Ten  drops  for  same  length  of  time.  For 
children  under  10  years  of  age,  M>  teaspoon. 

This  is  a  powerful  medicine  and  should  only  be  given  by  a  phy- 
sician. It  can  be  used  for  any  eruptive  disease. 

For  Malaria. 

Cut  1  lemon  into  a  pint  of  water,  also  the  peel ;  boil  until  re- 
duced to  !/o  pint  of  liquid.   Take  1  teaspoon  before  each  meal. 

Full  deep  breathing  is  excellent  for  indigestion  or  a  bilious  at- 
tack. 

Cough  Syrup. 

Simmer  together  a   handful  each  of  mullein  leaves  and  hoar- 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT    BOOK.  359 


hound  iii  1  quart  of  water,  strain  and  add  1  quart  of  molasses.   Cook 
slowly  until  syrup  is  of  good  consistency. 

For  Cold. 

Two  ounces  of  flaxseed  with  1  quart  of  water,  2  ounces  of  rock 
candy,  1  pint  of  honey,  juice  of  3  lemons.  Boil  together  until  con- 
sistency of  cream.  Take  1  teacup  of  the  mixture  very  hot  upon  re- 
tiring. 

For  Burns. 

Apply  linseed  oil  immediately  and  cover  burn  with  absorbent 
cotton  to  exclude  the  air. 

For  Slight  Burns  or  Scalds — Use  fresh  butter  at  once  on  burns 
or  scalds. 

For  Corns. 

Apply  linseed  oil  on  a  cloth  morning  and  night.  This  will  soften 
the  corn  so  that  it  is  easily  removed. 

For  Burns  or  Scalds. 

Use  Resinol  ointment,  and  it  is  also  excellent  for  eczema  or  any 
cutaneous  trouble. 

Hoarseness. 

Use  a  little  grated  horseradish,  and  if  not  obtainable,  a  roasted 
lemon ;  put  it  in  a  piece  of  wet  batting,  cover  with  hot  ashes  and 
cook  until  roasted,  then  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  mix  with  honey. 
Take  1  teaspoon  of  mixture  every  hour. 

For  a  Gargle. 

Take  15  drops  of  carbolic  acid  and  put  in  a  glass  of  cold  water 
and  gargle  the  throat  once  every  hour. 

For  Toothache. 

Apply  essence  of  peppermint  above  the  tooth. 

For  Gum  Boils. 

Paint  the  gum  three  times  a  day  with  tincture  of  iodine. 

For  Dew  Poison. 

Apply  zinc  ointment  to  part  affected  twice  a  day. 

For  Itching1. 

Twenty  drops  of  carbolic  acid  in  tumbler  of  water.  Apply  ex- 
ternally for  itching. 

For  Headache. 

Rub  slices  of  lemon  on  the  temple.   It  is  excellent. 


360  KENTUCKY  RECEIPT  BOOK. 

For  Asthma. 

Slice  1  fresh  pineapple  and  put  in  quart  jar,  cover  with  brandy 
and  take  teaspoonful  occasionally. 

To  Cure  Sore  Throat. 

One  teaspoon  of  powdered  borax,  1  teaspoon  of  powdered  alum, 
1  teaspoon  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  in  a  pint  of  cold  water;  boil 
till  reduced  to  %  pint,  then  gargle  the  throat.  Always  have  it  luke- 
warm when  using. 

Barley  Water  for  a  Cough. 

Take  of  Robinson  patent  barley  1  tablespoon.  Mix  well  with 
a  little  cold  water ;  add  about  2  quarts  of  hot  water,  boil  for  5  min- 
utes. Season  with  plenty  of  sugar  and  juice  of  fresh  lemon  (it  needs 
to  be  highly  seasoned.)  Cut  a  few  shreds  of  the  outside  rind  of  the 
lemon  and  put  in  the  pitcher.    It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

Ointment. 

One-fourth  cup  of  turpentine,  %  cup  cider  vinegar,  }4  cup  com- 
mon salt,  14  cup  coal  oil,  1  egg.  Beat  egg,  add  salt,  then  other  in- 
gredients. Beat  well  and  bottle  for  use.  For  cough  or  cold  in  chest 
apply  externally  and  cover  with  flannel. 

Uses  of  Soda. 

For  insect  stings  moisten  1  teaspoon  soda  with  water  and  apply 
to  the  wound.  For  blisters,  caused  by  burns,  moisten  soda  with 
water  and  apply  with  a  soft  cloth.  It  is  also  excellent  for  poison 
caused  by  the  ivy  vine. 


HINTS  FOR  TOHLBT 


A  Cure  for  Pimples  and  Blackheads. 

Bathe  the  face  with  Castile  soap  and  hot  water.  Dip  a  soft  cloth 
in  boiling  water  and  cover  the  face,  and  as  soon  as  it  cools  dip  again 
in  hot  water  and  apply.  This  brings  the  blood  to  the  sluggish  glands 
and  stimulates  their  activity.  Continue  treatment  twice  a  day  and 
5  minutes  at  a  time  until  relieved. 

A  French  Prescription  for  Powder. 

Take  1  pint  of  laundry  starch  and  pulverize,  then  add  %  pint  of 
soda,  combine  and  put  in  a  starch  bag.   Use  after  a  bath. 

To  Remove  Freckles. 

Add  some  grated  horseradish  to  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  then  strain. 
It  is  a  fine  lotion  for  removing  freckles.    One  ounce  of  lemon  juice 


KENTUCKY  RECEIPT   BOOK.  361 

in  1  pint  of  rosewater  will  answer  the  same  purpose.   They  are  ex- 
cellent remedies  and  harmless. 

For  Moist  Hands. 

Use  a  little  powdered  borax  in  bathing,  dusting  afterward  with 
boracic  powder. 

When  the  hands  are  stained  use  salt  and  lemon  juice. 

To  prevent  a  shiny  appearance  of  the  skin  use  a  few  drops  of 
camphor  in  the  water. 

To  Wash  the  Hair. 

Make  an  egg  shampoo  by  beating  the  yolk  of  1  egg  in  warm 
water.  Rub  well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair ;  rinse  several  times  with 
warm  water,  then  cold  water.    Dry  the  hair  and  brush  it  V-2  hour. 

To  Make  the  Hands  Soft. 

Rub  sweet  almond  oil  on  the  hands  for  several  consecutive  days. 

Listerine. 

Listerine  is  excellent  used  as  an  antiseptic.  For  sore  throat  1 
tablespoon  of  listerine  and  1  tablespoon  of  water.   Use  as  a  gargle. 

As  a  Dentifrice. 

Put  6  drops  of  listerine  in  y2  tumbler  of  water. 

To  Strengthen  the  Hair. 

Dissolve  1  ounce  of  borax  and  1  ounce  of  camphor  in  2  quarts^ 
of  water.  Wash  the  hair  with  this  once  a  week. 

A  Remedy  for  Sunburn. 

Make  a  wash  with  12  ounces  of  elderflower  water,  6  drachms 
each  of  soda  and  pulverized  borax.  It  makes  the  skin  clear  and  soft. 

Cold  Cream. 

One  ounce  of  white  rose  perfume,  %  ounce  spermacetti,  %  pint 
of  rosewater  and  sweet  almonds  pulverized  enough  to  make  a  paste. 
Beat  all  together. 

To  Remove  Dandruff. 

Put  a  pinch  of  powdered  borax  in  warm  water  and  dissolve 
thoroughly.  Wash  the  scalp  and  afterward  brush  the  hair  80  min- 
utes. 

For  Chapped  Hands. 

Equal  parts  of  lemon  juice  and  glycerine  rubbed  on  the  lands 
after  thoroughly  rinsing  them.  Dry  the  hands  well  in  cold  weather 
is  important. 

For  Chapped  Hands. 

Four  ounces  of  rosewater,  2  ounces  glycerine,  10  drops  carbolic 
acid.   Mix  well  and  perfume  it  with  violet  or  heliotrope. 


362  KENTUCKY   RECEIPT   BOOK. 

For  Oily  Skin. 
Put  a  pinch  of  borax  in  water  when  bathing. 

For  Corns. 
Use  Papier  Fayard,  cut  in  pieces,  heal  side  and  it  will  adhere 
to  the  corn.    Leave  on  until  relieved  of  soreness. 

Cold  Cream. 

One  ounce  of  pure  white  wax,  2  ounces  spermacetti,  Y-2  pint  of 
almond  oil.  -Melt  together  and  add  3  ounces  of  glycerine.  12  drops 
Attar  of  Roses.  Stir  until  nearly  cold,  then  let  it  settle.  Put  in  fancy 
jar. 

For  Oily  Skin. 

Apply  best  alcohol  on  raw  cotton  to  face.  Use  occasionally. 
Wash  for  the  Skin. 

One  ounce  of  dried  rose  leaves,  Y2  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar, 
•%  pint  of  rosewater. 

Dioxogen. 

Dioxogen  is  considered  fine  as  a  bleach  for  the  face.  Apply  with 
soft  cotton  and  leave  on  face  to  dry.  It  is  excellent  applied  to  the 
gums  when  there  is  inflammation  or  gum  boils. 

For  Greasy  Moist  Hair. 

Powdered  bicarbonate  of  soda,  biborate  of  soda,  Y±  ounce  of 
each,  also  powdered  Eau  de  Cologne,  1  fluid  ounce. 

To  Soften  the  Hands. 

Before  retiring  bathe  the  hands  well  with  warm  water  contain- 
ing 2  or  3  teaspoons  of  bran  and  oatmeal,  then  wipe  very  dry,  rub 
freely  with  mixture  of  1  part  lemon  juice  and  2  parts  glycerine.  Put 
on  loose  kid  gloves  and  wear  until  morning. 

To  Whiten  the  Nails. 

Rub  the  nails  at  night  with  sliced  lemon;  in  morning  rinse  well 
with  warm  water. 


niSaSUREf  AHB  VEBSHTf— LIQUBD! 


Six  drops  make   1   small  teaspoonfnl. 
Two  teaspoons  equal  1  dessertspoon. 
Two  dessertspoons  equal  1  tablespoon. 
Four  tablespoons  equal  1  wine  glass. 
Two  wine  glasses  equal  1  gill. 


KENTUCKY    RECEIPT   BOOK.  363 


Two  gills  equal  1  coffee  cup. 

Two  coffee  cups  equal  1  pint  of  liquid  or  1  pound  dry  material. 

Four  gills  make  1  pint. 

Two  pints  make  1  quart. 

Four  quarts  make  1  gallon. 

Two  ordinary  tumblers  make  1  pint  liquid. 

One  coffee  cup  equals  Yz  pint  liquid  or  %  pound  dry  material, 
namely,  sugar,  salt,  meal. 

•  One  heaping  tablespoon  butter  makes  1  ounce. 

Four  cups  sifted  flour  weighs  1  pound. 

One  pint  or  2  cups  of  oatmeal  or  cracked  wheat  in  coarse  grains 
weighs  1  pound. 

Two  cuffee  cups  of  meal  or  1  pint,  good  measure,  weighs  1 
pound. 

One  pint  liquid  weighs  1  pound. 

Five  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour  equals  1  cupful. 

Seven  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar  or  salt  equals  1  cupful. 

One  coffee  cupful   of  butter  packed  solid  is  ^  pound. 

One  tablespoon  of  salt  is  equal  to  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar. 


ORDER    OF    INDEX 


PAGE 

Soups 5-25 

Fish,  Crabs,  Clams,  Lobsters  and  Shrimp 26-44 

Oysters 44-53 

Meat  and  Meat  Sauces,  Fowls  and  Game 54-101 

Bread,  Rolls,  Biscuit,  Waffles,  Cakes,  Corn  Bread,  Corn  Muff- 
ins, Corn  Cakes,  Toast,  Sandwiches 102-127 

Vegetables,  Macaroni,  etc 128-149 

Eggs  and  Omelets 150-157 

Cheese,  Spaghetti 157-162 

Entrees 163-183 

Salads 184-202 

Pastry,  including  Pies  and  Puddings 203-232 

Cakes,  Layer  Cakes,  Small  Cakes,  and  Fillings 232-263 

Sauces  for  Puddings  and  Cakes 263-282 

Charlotte  Russe 270 

Creams,  Water  Ices,  Sherbets,  Roman  Punch 282-300 

Coffee,  Tea,  Chocolate,  Cocoa,  Beverages,  Wines  and  Cordials  301-315 

Preserves  316-323 

Jellies 324-325 

Pickles,  Catsups 326-336 

Canned  Fruits  and  Canned  Vegetables 337-340 

Candies  and  Salted  Almonds 341-352 

Cereals 353-354 

Hints  to  Housekeepers 355-356 

Miscellaneous  Receipts 356-360 

Hints  for  the  Toilet 360-362 

Measures  and  Weights 362-363 


(365) 


31  1904 


