Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices 


r$ 


owe 


ilSSERl 


lKri8'SS4  V 


,** 


^SHseanwtirw 


lUHWflttfe' 


Leaflet  No.  359 

U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
Washington,  D.  C.  March  1954 


By  C.  W.  Culpepper,  formerly  physiologist,  and  J.  M. 
Lutz,  principal  horticulturist,  Biological  Sciences 
Branch,  Agricultural  Marketing  Service;  and  H.  H. 
Moon,  horticulturist,  Horticultural  Crops  Research 
Branch,  Agricultural  Research  Service 

THE  KIEFFER  PEAR  is  grown  more  gen- 
erally than  any  other  variety  throughout 
the  United  States,  except  in  Washington,  Ore- 
gon, California,  and  western  New  York.  The 
tree  is  vigorous,  very  productive,  and  more  re- 
sistant to  blight  and  insect  attack  than  most 
varieties,  which  accounts  for  its  popularity  in 
farm  and  home  orchards. 

The  fruit  is  large  and  attractive.  However, 
if  the  Kieffer  pear  is  not  ripened  properly  after 
it  is  picked,  the  fruit  is  hard,  coarse,  and  taste- 
less. As  a  consequence  the  fruit  is  often  allowed 
to  go  to  waste  because  the  necessity  for  proper 
storage,  in  order  to  soften  or  ripen  the  fruit, 
is  not  always  known  by  many  who  grow  it  for 
home  use.  The  Kieffer  pear  never  ripens  on  the 
tree  to  the  soft  texture  that  is  desirable  in  fresh 
fruit,  although  in  some  localities  the  skin  be- 
comes yellowish.  Even  when  cooked  immedi- 
ately after  picking,  the  fruit  generally  does  not 
soften  to  an  entirely  satisfactory  product. 

Many  of  the  objectionable  characteristics  of 
the  fruit  can  be  overcome  by  proper  methods  of 
harvesting,  followed  by  correct  methods  of  stor- 
age to  promote  ripening,  and  finally  by  employ- 
ing suitable  methods  of  preparation  for  final 
consumption. 

HARVESTING 

The  fruit  may  be  harvested  at  any  time  after 
it  has  reached  two-thirds  to  three-fourths  full 
size.  The  quality  after  ripening  is  not  greatly 
affected  by  the  size  when  picked,  although  fruit 
that  has  reached  only  two-thirds  full  size  is  not 
so  desirable  as  that  picked  later.  On  the  other 
hand,  fruit  left  on  the  trees  until  very  late  in 
the  season  is  apt  to  ripen  poorly  in  storage.  In 
areas  south  of  Washington,  D.   C,  the  fruit 

This  leaflet  takes  the  place  of  material  on  home  use  of  Kieffer  pears 
formerly  included  in  F.  B.  1796  entitled,  "Handling  and  Preparing 
the  Kieffer  Pear  for  Use  as  Food." 


should  not  be  left  on  the  tree  until  ready  to 
drop;  in  northern  sections,  such  as  Michigan 
and  New  York,  the  pears  should  be  picked  as  late 
in  the  season  as  possible.  In  some  sections  con- 
siderable loss  will  occur  as  a  result  of  dropping 
if  picking  is  delayed.  The  best  stage  appears 
to  be  when  the  green  in  immature  fruits  grad- 
ually fades  and  the  fruit  becomes  lighter  or 
slightly  yellow. 

Kieffer  pear  trees  tend  to  grow  very  tall.  In 
practice,  they  are  generally  not  pruned,  so  lad- 
ders must  be  used  to  harvest  the  fruit.  The 
fruit  should  be  picked  carefully  to  prevent 
bruising,  as  bruised  areas  become  brown  dur- 
ing ripening.  Also,  bruised  areas,  especially  if 
the  skin  is  broken,  provide  an  entrance  for 
fungi,  which  cause  the  fruit  to  decay.  The  stem 
will  frequently  puncture  the  skin  of  another 
pear  if  the  fruit  is  carelessly  dropped  into  the 
picking  container.  Strong  well-made  baskets 
V2  to  1  bushel  size  are  satisfactory  for  gather- 
ing and  ripening  the  fruit. 

RIPENING 

In  order  to  develop  the  maximum  dessert  qual- 
ity in  Kieffer  pears,  it  is  necessary  to  place  the 
fruit  under  the  proper  storage  conditions  for  a 
certain  length  of  time  after  harvest.  This 
storage  period  is  generally  called  the  ripening 
period.  The  fruit  should  be  stored  at  a  tem- 
perature of  60°  to  65°  F.  for  2  to  3  weeks  to 
obtain  a  good  product.  At  this  temperature  the 
fruit  becomes  uniformly  soft,  its  flavor  and  tex- 
ture improve,  and  it  becomes  quite  satisfactory 
for  eating  fresh  as  well  as  for  cooking  and  pre- 
serving. Even  pears  that  have  attained  only 
two-thirds  to  three-fourths  normal  size  become 
soft  and  develop  a  pleasing  flavor. 

The  homeowner  can  usually  ripen  the  fruit 
satisfactorily.  The  Kieffer  pear  matures  in 
September  and  October,  when  the  weather  is 
generally  such  that  it  is  possible  to  obtain  the 
proper  ripening  temperature  without  artificial 
refrigeration.  In  almost  any  home- some  room 
may  be  found  that,  with  the  exercise  of  judg- 
ment as  to  ventilation,  can  be  converted  into  a 
ripening  room.  The  temperature  may  vary  be- 
tween 55°  to  65°  F.,  but  the  fruit  still  will  ripen 
satisfactorily.  If  the  temperature  of  the  out- 
side air  is  too  high  during  the  middle  of  the  day, 
the  windows  or  ventilators  should  be  closed  and 
then  opened  again  at  night,  when  the  outside 
temperature  is  about  60°.  Generally,  a  clean 
cellar  that  can  be  easily  ventilated  will  be  most 
satisfactory.  ig-tooot-i 


Humidity  of  Ripening  and  Storage  Rooms 

Air  should  be  allowed  to  circulate  around  the 
fruit  at  all  times  during  storage.  Ventilating 
the  room  is  generally  not  so  difficult  as  main- 
taining the  proper  humidity.  The  air  should 
be  sufficiently  dry  to  keep  the  surface  of  the 
fruit  dry  or  free  from  any  condensed  moisture. 
If  the  air  is  too  dry  the  fruit  will  lose  water  and 
shrink  or  shrivel.  Heavy  losses  from  decay  may 
occur  if  moisture  condenses  on  the  surface  of 
the  fruit.  A  little  attention  to  the  storage  con- 
ditions will  enable  one  to  avoid  excessive  mois- 
ture or  dryness  in  the  air. 

Odors  in  Storage  and  Ripening  Rooms 

The  air  of  the  storage  and  ripening  rooms 
should  be  free  from  foreign  odors.  When  stored 
in  the  same  room  with  Kieffer  pears,  certain 
vegetables  give  the  pears  an  objectionable 
flavor.  Potatoes  especially  give  an  "earthy" 
flavor  to  the  fruit.  It  is  probable  that  meats 
and  many  other  foods  would  also  impart  objec- 
tionable flavors. 

USES1 

After  the  fruit  has  been  ripened  it  has  a  short 
storage  life  and  should  be  used  or  preserved  by 
processing  as  soon  as  possible.  Temperatures 
of  70°  F.  or  above  will  greatly  hasten  the  break- 
down of  the  fruit,  but  temperatures  of  60  °  or 
below  will  retard  the  changes.  If  the  fruit  must 
be  held  for  more  than  a  few  days  it  should  be 
stored  as  near  32c  as  possible.  Even  at  32c  it 
cannot  be  expected  to  be  of  best  quality  for  more 
than  2  or  3  weeks.  For  use  for  any  extended 
period  it  must  be  preserved  in  some  way. 

Kieffer  pears  may  be  canned,  made  into  pre- 
serves, dried,  pickled,  or  frozen.  For  any  of 
these  methods  of  preservation,  pears  that  have 
been  properly  ripened  give  best  results.  The 
fruit  is  usually  pared  and  cored  before  process- 
ing. In  removing  cores,  care  should  be  taken 
to  cut  out  the  surrounding  tissues  that  contain 
objectionable  stone  cells. 

Some  general  directions  for  preserving  pears 
by  various  methods  are  given  below.  Detailed 
instructions  can  be  obtained  from  State  Exten- 
sion Services  or  from  the  following  publications 
of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture:  Home 
and  Garden  Bulletin  8,  Home  Canning  of  Fruits 
and  Vegetables;  Leaflet  269,  Pickle  and  Relish 
Recipes;  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  10,  Home 
Freezing  of  Fruits  and  Vegetables. 

'This   section   w  ration   with    Human    Nutrition 

rch   Branch.   Agricultui 


Canning 

One  of  the  most  important  uses  of  the  Kieffer 
pear  is  for  canning.  When  the  fruit  is  properly- 
ripened,  canned  Kieffer  pears  are  agreeable  in 
texture  and  pleasing  in  flavor.  For  canning,  the 
fruit  is  usually  cut  in  halves,  pared,  and  cored. 
The  pared  fruit  turns  dark  rather  rapidly  when 
exposed  to  the  air.  To  retard  the  darkening 
action,  it  is  best  to  submerge  the  fruit,  as  soon 
as  it  is  pared,  in  a  solution  containing  2  table- 
spoons each  of  salt  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
to  1  gallon  of  water.  The  prepared  fruit  is 
either  heated  through  in  a  sugar  sirup  made 
with  1,  2,  or  3  cups  water  to  1  cup  sugar,  accord- 
ing to  sweetness  desired,  and  packed  hot,  or 
packed  cold  and  covered  with  boiling  sirup.  For 
hot-packed  pears  processing  time  in  a  boiling- 
water-bath  canner  is  20  minutes  for  pint  or 
quart  glass  jars,  25  minutes  for  No.  2  tin  cans, 
35  minutes  for  No.  21/9  cans.  For  cold  packs, 
the  time  is  25  minutes  for  pint  glass  jars  or 
No.  2  tins,  35  minutes  for  quart  jars  or  No.  2% 
tins. 

Preserving 

The  Kieffer  pear  is  a  variety  commonly  used 
for  preserves  because  it  holds  its  shape  and  has 
good  flavor,  if  properly  ripened  to  the  full-ripe 
stage.  It  is  generally  best  to  cut  the  pared  and 
cored  fruit  in  quarters  or  eighths,  depending  on 
size,  as  sugar  penetrates  it  somewhat  slowly. 
Usually  %  to  1  pound  of  sugar  is  used  to  each 
pound  of  prepared  fruit.  It  is  preferable  to 
combine  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  alternate  layers 
and  let  stand  8  to  10  hours  or  overnight.  The 
mixture  is  then  boiled  rapidly  until  the  sirup 
is  somewhat  thick,  poured  into  clean  hot  jars, 
and  sealed. 

Drying 

The  Kieffer  pear  may  be  dried  in  the  same 
manner  as  many  other  fruits.  Two  methods  of 
drying  fruits  are  used — artificial  drying  and 
sun-drying.  However,  in  the  sections  of  the 
country  where  the  Kieffer  is  generally  grown  at 
present,  sun-drying  usually  is  not  feasible,  since 
the  fruit  matures  late  in  the  season  when  the 
days  are  relatively  short,  the  temperature  low, 
and  showers  comparatively  frequent.  For  ar- 
tificial drying,  special  equipment  is  needed.  In- 
formation on  how  to  build  home  driers  can  be 
obtained  from  some  State  Extension  Services.  _ 

To  produce  a  satisfactory  dried  product  it  is 
necessary  to  ripen  the  pears  properly  and  pare 
and  core  them.     Drying  is  accomplished  more 


