t:^- 


BS;    I 


*  1 


"i  '■ 


3    *i 

is  5: 


:lM<JiWSM«H«W«S«SMi(lfv. 


Book ^ 

Gopyrii,^!it  N" 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


Larkin 
Housewives'  Cook  Book 

Good  Things  to  Eat 

and 
How  to  Prepare  Them 

Five  hundred  and  forty-eight  recipes,  of  which 
four  hundred  and  eighty  are  prize  recipes 
selected  from  more  than  three  thousand 
submitted  by  practical  housekeepers  in  the 
Larkin  Recipe  Contests.  Compiled  especially 
for  customers  and  friends  of  the  Larkin  Co. 
by  the  Larkin  Kitchen. 

PRICE,  25  CENTS 


Published  by 

Established,  1875  Pure  Food  Specialists 

BUFFALO  CHICAGO  PEORIA 

Local  Branch:  Philadelphia 

415  F.  4529-lS 


COPYRIGHTED,  1915 

BY  LARKIN  CO. 

ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED 


m  20  1915 
'CI,A401084 


fi^t 


To  the  woman  who  takes  pride  in 
serving  tasty  and  attractive  dishes, 
who  delights  in  placing  on  her  table 
"Good  Things  to  Eat,"  who  wishes  to 
have  the  means  of  "variety"  ever  at  her 
command,  this  Cook  Book  will  be  a  valu- 
able and  constant  adviser. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  it  contains 
recipes  from  the  North,  South,  East  and 
West;  the  favorite  recipes  of  practical 
and  e^xperienced  housewives.  No  recipes 
were  accepted  from  professional  cooks 
but  all  from  the  homes  of  our  many 
customers.  We  believe  that  this  book 
will  prove  unique  on  account  of  the 
immense  variety  given. 

Here  will  be  found  an  answer  to  the 
question  that  is  ever  perplexing  the  house- 
wife— what  to  serve  for  the  coming  meal. 
Here  she  will  find  most  valuable  sugges- 
tions that  will  enable  her  to  prepare,  in 
great  variety  and  in  a  practical  and 
economical  way,  delicious  and  appetizing 
dishes  that  will  be  a  source  of  real  satis- 
faction and  extreme  delight  to  those  in 
her  home  who  truly  appreciate  "Good 
Things  to  Eat." 


"Now,  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite ^ 
And  health  on  both!" 

— Shakespeare. 


CONTENTS 

Page 

How  to  Measure 6 

Weights  and  Measures 6 

Rules  for  Testing  and  Using  Fat  for  Frying 7 

Soups 8 

Fish 14 

Meats  and  Poultry 19 

Vegetables 32 

Salads  and  Dressings 41 

Eggs 50 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  Dishes 53 

Bread  and  Rolls 58 

Toast  and  Griddle-Cakes 66 

Cakes  and  Frostings 69 

Gingerbreads,  Cookies  and  Doughnuts 84 

Desserts 89 

Pastry  and  Pies 100 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces 109 

Pudding  Sauces Ill 

Pickles  and  Preserves 113 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables 118 

Jellies,  Jams  and  Marmalades 120 

Beverages  and  Fruit  Juices 124 

Candies 127 

Sandwiches 132 

Index 135 


Level  Measurements  Only  Are  Used  In  These  Recipes 

Flour,  meal,  powdered  sugar  and  soda  should  be  sifted  before 
measuring.  A  cupful  is  measured  level ;  do  not  shake  down. 

A  cup,  as  used  in  these  recipes,  holds  one-half  pint 
(two  gills)  of  liquid,  or  one-half  pound  of  granulated 
sugar  or  butter.  A  tin  or  glass  measuring-cup,  divided 
into  quarters  and  thirds,  can  be  purchased  at  any 
house-furnishing  store  for  ten  cents. 

To  measure  a  level   tablespoon  or  teaspoon,   make  smooth 
with  a  knife  but  do  not  pat  down. 

A  half  spoonful  is '  measured  by  cutting  in  half 
lengthwise ;  a  fourth  spoonful  by  cutting  a  half  spoon- 
ful crosswise  a  little  nearer  the  handle  of  the  spoon. 

A  "pinch"  is  as  much  as  you  can  hold  between 
the  first  finger  and  thumb. 

A  family  scale  is  a  great  convenience,  both  for 
use  in  cooking  and  for  weighing  purchases. 


16     tablespoons equal 

3  teaspoons  of  liquid. . 

4  tablespoons  of  liquid 

2     gills 

2     cups 

4       "    (2  pints) 

4       "     of  sifted  flour. .  . 

2       "      "  butter 

3^  cup    "       "        

2     cups 
23^    " 


granulated  sugar, 
powdered  sugar. . 
pint   *'  water  or  milk. .  . 

"     "  solid  fat 

tablespoons  of  coffee  .  .  . . 
"   butter. .  . , 


sugar, 
flour . 


cup 

tablespoon 
gill  or  34  cup 
cup 
pint 
quart 

quart  or  1  pound 
pound 
J4  pound  or  4  ounces 
pound 
pound 
pound 
pound 
ounce 
ounce 

ounce  , 

ounce 


Rules  for  Testing  and 
Using  Fat  for  Frying 


To  Test  Fat  for  Frying 

1.  Drop  a  piece  of  soft  bread  into  the  hot  fat;  if  the  bread 
browns  in  forty  seconds,  the  temperature  is  right  for  any  cooked 
mixture. 

2.  Use  the  same  test  for  uncooked  mixtures,  allowing  one 
minute  for  bread  to  brown.  Fresh  fat  or  oil  should  be  used  for 
batter  and  dough  mixtures.  It  can  then  be  used  for  fish,  meat 
and  croquettes,  but  should  be  frequently  clarified. 

To  Clarify 

Melt  fat,  add  raw  potato  cut  in  small  pieces,  heat  the  fat 
gradually ;  when  fat  ceases  to  bubble  and  potatoes  are  well  browned, 
strain  through  double  cheese-cloth.  The  potato  absorbs  any 
odors  or  gases  and  collects  some  of  the  sediment.  The  remaining 
sediment  will  settle  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  When  you  have 
only  a  small  amount  of  fat  to  be  clarified,  add  boiling  water  to  the 
cold  fat,  stir  vigorously  and  set  aside  to  cool;  the  fat  will  float  to 
the  top  and  the  sediment  can  be  scraped  from  the  bottom. 

To  Try  Out  Fat 

Any  odd  pieces  of  fat  may  be  tried  out  more  easily  in  a  double 
sauce-pan  than  by  putting  into  the  oven;  it  will  then  take  less 
watching. 

Sauteing 

Saut^ing  is  frying  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat.  In  many  cases 
the  word  saute  might  be  used  in  this  book  but  is  not,  as  the  word 
is  not  generally  understood,  so  we  have  used  the  more  common 
word  "fry,"  which  really  means  cooking  in  deep  fat.  All  foods 
when  fried  should  be  drained  on  soft  paper. 

Fricasseeing 

Fricasseeing  is  sauteing  and  cooking  in  a  sauce. 

To  Egg  and  Crumb 

Before  frying,  dip  the  mixture  in  bread-crumbs,  then  In  the 
egg,  then  again  in  the  crumbs.  One  tablespoon  of  cold  water 
may  be  used  with  the  egg  to  good  advantage. 

To  prepare  the  crumbs  put  stale  bread,  thoroughly  dried  out, 
through  the  food-chopper,  using  the  fine  or  coarse  cutter  according 
to  the  kind  of  crumbs  required. 


THE  cheaper  cuts  of  beef  are  best  suited  for  the  making  of  soup 
— the  vein,  neck,  flank,  cheek  and  shin.     Though  quite  tough 
and  sinewy  they  are  full  of  nutriment  and  flavor. 

Water  cannot  dissolve  the  fiber  of  the  beef,  so  we  therefore 
always  remove  the  beef  from  the  soup  and  make  it  over  into  meat 
dishes.  The  bones  from  roasts  or  poultry,  or  part  of  the  steak 
from  dinner,  should  all  be  put  into  a  kettle,  covered  with  cold  water 
and  simmered  until  the  goodness  is  cooked  out.  Never  boil  soup- 
meat  of  any  kind,  for  boiling  hardens  the  meat  without  drawing  out 
the  goodness.  Be  quite  sure  to  have  a  lid  that  closely  fits  the  soup 
kettle  or  much  of  the  goodness  and  flavor  will  pass  off  in  the  steam. 

To  Make  Meat  Soups 

Wipe  meat  with  clean  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Cut  the 
lean  meat  in  small  pieces.  By  doing  so  a  larger  amount  of 
surface  is  exposed  to  the  water  and  the  juices  are  readily  drawn 
out.  Always  cover  soup-meat  with  cold  water  and  bring  slowly 
to  the  boiling-point.  If  a  portion  of  the  meat  is  browned  before 
adding  water,  the  soup  will  have  a  richer  flavor. 

To  Bind  Soups 

Cream  soups  and  purees  (purees  are  soups  with  the  vegetables 
strained  out  or  forced  through  a  sieve)  if  allowed  to  stand,  will 
separate,  unless  bound  together.  To  bind  a  soup  melt  some 
butter,  add  an  equal  amount  of  flour  and  when  mixed  add  a 
small  quantity  of  the  soup;  then  add  to  the  remainder  of  the 
soup.     In  this  way  lumps  will  be  avoided. 

To  Prevent  Cream  of  Tomato  Soup  Curdling 

Put  soda  with  the  tomato,  allowing  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda  to 
two  cups  of  tomatoes,  then  add  to  the  thickened  milk,  stirring 
all  the  time.  If  you  wish  to  keep  the  soup  hot  for  a  while, 
leave  it  in  the  separate  sauce-pans  and  do  not  add  the  soda 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Croutons  to  Serve  with  Soup 

These  are  made  by  cutting  stale  bread  into  thin  slices.  Remove 
the  crust,  spread  with  butter  and  bake  until  crisp  and  brown, 
or  brown  in  the  frying  pan. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SOUPS g 

Beef  Broth  with  Vegetables 

Cook  a  beef  bone  with  a  little  meat  on  it  several  hours  in  two 
quarts  of  water.  When  done,  add  one  can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes, 
three  onions  finely  chopped,  one  pint  chopped  cabbage,  one  cup 
chopped  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Rice  or  Macaroni. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Serve  with  oyster  crackers.  The 
vegetables  are  quickly  chopped  if  put  through  Larkin  Food- 
Chopper,  jj  L.  NuzuM,  Watson,  W.  Va. 

Mutton  Broth 

Put  two  pounds  neck  of  mutton  on  to  boil  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Add  one  turnip,  one  head  of  celery,  one  leek  and  one 
carrot,  all  cut  fine.  Cook  for  one  hour.  Then  add  two  potatoes 
cut  in  dice  and  one-half  cup  of  noodles  or  macaroni  ^and  one- 
fourth  can  Larkin  Tomatoes.       ^^^  ^  leary.  West  Chester,  Pa. 

A  Quick  Soup 

Take  what  is  left  of  a  roast  that  has  a  bone  in  it.  Put  it  into 
a  soup  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and  simmer  for  one  hour. 
Then  add  two  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Dehydro  Soup  Vegetables 
previously  soaked  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  also  four  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Rice  and  two 
potatoes  cut  in  cubes.  When  nearly  done,  add  one  can  of 
Larkin  Tomato  Soup,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.   Very  good. 

Mrs.  Stewart,  Paterson,  N.  J. 

Pea  Soup 

Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour  into 
a  sauce-pan;  cook  until  brown.  Add  one  can  of  Larkin  Peas 
and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  hot  water.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Add  a  little  freshly- 
,  chopped  parsley.     Boil  five  minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  E.  Varga,  Chicago,  III. 

Lentil  Soup 

Wash  one  cup  of  dry  lentils.  Cover  with  cold  water  and 
soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  add  one  quart 
of  stock  or  water,  one  small  bay  leaf,  one  small  onion,  one 
teaspoon  Larkin  Salt  and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  Larkin 
Pepper.  Stew  slowly  for  about  two  hours  until  done,  press 
through  a  colander,  then  through  a  sieve.  Blend  two  table- 
spoons butter  and  two  of  Larkin  Flour,  add  to  the  soup,  stir  until 
boiling.     Add  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


10 


SOUPS 


Bean  Soup 

Soak  one  pint  of  white  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  When  boiling  add  a  pinch 
of  Larkin  Baking  Soda,  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  again, 
add  fresh  water  and  simmer  until  tender.  Pass  through  a 
colander,  return  to  kettle,  add  Larkin  Celery  Salt  and  White 
Pepper  to  taste.  Melt  four  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Peanut 
Butter  in  hot  water,  add  to  the  soup  just  before  serving,  also 
two  tablespoons  grated  horseradish  or  one-half  cup  Larkin 
Chili  Sauce.     Serve  hot.  ^^^  ^  ^  Parsons.  Lyons,  N.  Y. 

Marrow  Bean  Soup 

When  boiling  beans  for  dinner  save  the  water  and  use  with 
left-over  beans  for  soup.  Put  beans  with  the  water  through 
colander,  allow  one  quart  of  milk  to  every  pint  of  beans.  Add 
salt,  pepper  and  butter.  This  makes  a  delicious  and  also  a 
nourishing  soup.  ^^^  ^  L.  Markle.  Lawton.  Mich. 

Pork  and  Bean  Soup 

Empty  the  contents  of  one  can  of  Larkin  Pork  and  Beans  into  a 
sauce-pan.  Add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  one  small  onion 
cut  fine,  one  small  bay  leaf  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Simmer  one-half  hour,  then  strain.  Cook  two  tablespoons 
butter  and  two  of  flour,  to  a  light  brown.  Gradually  add  a 
little  of  the  soup  until  you  have  a  smooth  paste.  Then  add 
to  the  soup  and  cook  five  minutes.  Serve  at  once  with  a  few 
croutons  in  each  plate.  ^^^  ^  Leighton.  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Potato  Soup 

Peel  one  quart  of  potatoes  and  cut  in  dice,  also  one  medium- 
sized  onion.  Put  into  kettle  and  cover  with  water.  When 
tender  add  one  cup  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt  and  Larkin  Celery 
Salt  to  season.  Melt  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  brown 
one  cup  of  bread-crumbs  in  this,  to  serve  with  the  soup.  Delicious. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Treon,  Turbotville,  Pa. 

Old-Fashioned  Potato  Soup 

Take  four  good-sized  potatoes,  cut  into  dice;  also  two  small 
onions  finely  chopped;  add  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt  and  a  small 
piece  of  bacon  or  a  little  butter.  Cover  with  a  quart  of  water. 
Cook  slowly  for  one  hour.  Blend  two  tablespoons  flour  with 
one  cup  of  milk.  Add  to  the  hot  soup,  stir  until  it  comes  to 
a  boil.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes.  This  is  very  good  and  will 
serve  four  people.  ^^^  ^  Croman,  Marion,  Ohio. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SOUPS 


11 


Cream  of  Potato  Soup 

Peel  and  cut  into  dice  four  large  white  potatoes  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.  Cut  up  three  medium-sized  onions,  fry  to  a 
golden  brown  in  butter  and  add  to  the  potatoes.  When  pota- 
toes are  quite  soft,  mash  through  a  sieve  using  water  and  all. 
Add  one  pint  of  milk  and  two  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour 
blended  (the  soup  should  be  the  consistency  of  good  cream) ;  add 
Larkin  Salt,  White  Pepper  and  Celery  Salt;  also  a  few  drops  of 
onion  extract  and  serve  at  once.  miss  M.  May,  Darby,  Pa. 

Cream  of  Peanut  Soup 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  into  a  double-boiler,  then  one  small  bay 
leaf,  and  one-half  cup  of  Larkin  Peanut  Butter.  Moisten  three 
tablespoons  Larkin  Bread  Flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  add  to 
hot  milk  and  stir  until  thickened.  Cook  five  minutes.  Add 
one-half  teaspoon  each  of  Larkin  Onion  Extract  and  Celery 
Salt,  and  a  little  white  pepper.  Crisp  Larkin  Saltines  in  the 
oven  to  serve  with  this  soup.  mrs.  H.  Wrench,  Goodrich,  Wis. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

Put  one  can  of  Larkin  Corn  into  a  sauce-pan  with  one  pint  of 
hot  water  and  a  slice  of  onion.  Simmer  for  twenty  minutes, 
rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  pint  of  milk.  Blend  together 
three  tablespoons  flour  with  three  of  butter.  Add  the  hot 
soup  gradually  so  it  will  not  be  lumpy.  Stir  until  thickened. 
Add  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  at  once.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Tomato  Soup 

Cook  together  for  twenty  minutes,  one  can  tomatoes,  one  pint 
water,  twelve  peppercorns,  four  cloves,  two  teaspoons  sugar, 
small  piece  of  bay  leaf,  and  one  small  onion  cut  in  slices.  Strain 
and  add  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  soda. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  when 
thoroughly  mixed  add  strained  liquid,  boil  three  minutes  and 
it  is  ready  to  serve.  If  desired,  one  quart  of  milk  may  be 
scalded  and  added  just  before  serving;  you  will  then  have 
Cream  of  Tomato  Soup.  Miss:Bessie  Renfrew,  Lenox,  Mass. 

Tomato  Bouillon 

Heat  the  contents  of  one  can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes  to  boiling  point. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  pint  of  hot  water  and  two  Larkin  Bouillon 
Cubes.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  It  is  exceed- 
ingly good  and  just  the  thing  for  a  luncheon  dish  or  when 
serving  a  heavy  dinner.     Serve  with  crackers. 

Mrs.  B.  Rayburn  Tate,  Moberly,  Mo. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


12 


SOUPS 


Tomato  Soup  with  Macaroni 

Put  one  cup  of  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  to  cook  in  one  quart 
of  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  about  twenty  minutes  or  until 
tender.  Be  careful  it  does  not  settle  to  bottom  and  scorch. 
When  cooked  add  one-half  can  tomatoes  and  bring  to  a  boil, 
add  a  pinch  of  soda,  a  generous  piece  of  butter  and  one  pint  of 
rich  milk.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  very 
hot.  Frances  C.  Argetsinger,  Van  Etten,  N.  Y. 

Vegetable  Chowder 

Put  through  Larkin  Food-Chopper  (using  coarse  cutter)  one 
beet,  two  onions,  two  carrots,  two  parsnips,  all  medium-size; 
also  four  large  potatoes,  and  one  quart  of  fresh  or  canned 
tomatoes.  Add  two  quarts  boiling  water,  cook  gently  one 
hour,  then  add  one  tablespoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper, 
two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  cook  for  thirty  minutes 
longer  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.     Sufficient  for  six  people. 

Mrs.  F.  a.  Hough,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Corn  Chowder 

Chop  fine,  one-half  cup  or  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork.  Put  into 
frying  pan  to  try  out.  Then  add  to  the  fat,  one  thinly-sliced 
onion.  Turn  into  a  soup  kettle.  Add  one  can  of  Larkin  Corn 
and  three  pints  of  milk.  Thicken  with  diluted  flour.  Add  pepper 
and  salt.  Place  a  Larkin  Soda  Cracker  in  each  plate,  pour  the 
soup  over  it  and  serve.  mrs.  H.  F.  Smith,  Morrisville,  Vt. 

Clam  Chowder 

Chop  fine  four  potatoes,  one  large  onion,  four  tomatoes,  and 
one  carrot  and  boil  in  two  quarts  of  water;  when  nearly  done 
add  twenty-five  clams,  finely  chopped,  four  tablespoons  of 
butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Harry  C.  Smith,  Trenton,  N.  J. 

Imperial  Fish  Chowder 

Take  two  pounds  of  halibut  or  fresh  codfish.  Wash,  remove 
the  skin  and  bones,  and  chop  coarsely.  Also  chop  one  pound 
of  salt  pork  or  Larkin  Bacon,  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  two 
large  onions,  six  fresh  tomatoes  or  one-half  can.  Put  all  in  a 
soup  kettle,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  boiling 
water  to  almost  cover.  Simmer  one  hour  or  more  over  a 
moderate  fire;  do  not  stir.  Rub  together  three  tablespoons  of 
butter  with  two  of  flour,  heat  a  quart  of  milk  and  gradually 
add  to  the  flour.  Put  a  pinch  of  soda  into  the  chowder,  add 
the  thickened  milk,  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Bliss,  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


SOUPS 


13 


Salmon  Chowder 

Put  one  can  of  Larkin  Red  Salmon  into  a  sauce-pan  with  one 
quart  of  milk.  When  hot  add  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  white 
pepper  and  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Cracker  Meal.  If  Cream 
Soup  is  preferred  strain  through  a  sieve,  put  a  teaspoon  of 
whipped  cream  in  center  of  each  plate,  and  serve  at  once.     Will 


serve  five  people. 


Mrs.  S.  D.  Cook,  Lansing,  Mich. 


Oyster  Soup 

Put  one  quart  of  oysters  into  colander  and  drain  away  liquid. 
Pick  over  to  remove  shells,  pour  over  them  one  quart  of  cold 
water.  Bring  one  quart  of  milk  to  scalding  point,  thicken  with 
two  tablespoons  butter  blended  with  two  tablespoons  flour. 
Then  add  oysters  and  liquor,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  pepper;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not 
allow  soup  to  boil  or  the  oysters  will  become  hard. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Cream  of  Clam  Soup 

One  pint  or  twenty-five  small  clams,  three  cups  of  milk,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Onion  Extract,  three  tablespoons  butter, 
three  tablespoons  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 

Pick  over  the  clams  and  chop  fine;  put  them  with  the  liquor 
into  a  sauce-pan  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  flour,  then  the  milk.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes;  add  salt 
and  pepper.  Add  milk  to  the  clams,  reheat  and  serve  at  once 
in  individual  soup  plates,  or  in  bouillon  cups,  with  a  spoon  of 
whipped  cream  in  each.  Sprinkle  a  little  fresh  chopped  parsley 
over  the  cream ;  add  a  dash  of  paprika,  and  a  charming  luncheon 
dish  IS  the  result.  ^^^  ^  g  Gracia,  New  Bedford,  Mass. 


To  Boil  Fish 

Wash  the  fish  well  in  cold  water,  wipe  carefully  and  rub  with 
salt;  wrap  in  a  cloth,  drop  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  add  a 
slice  of  onion,  a  bay  leaf  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  and 
simmer  gently,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  a  pound,  lift  out  care- 
fully, drain,  unfasten  the  cloth,  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon 
and  serve  with  plain  drawn  butter  or  fish  sauce. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

To  Fry  Fish 

Wash  and  dry  fish  thoroughly.  Dip  in  seasoned  flour,  then  in 
egg  and  bread-crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  on  soft  paper. 


Serve  with  sauce. 


Larkin  Kitchen. 


Broiled  Fish 

Wash  and  split  open  a  firm  white  fish  and  remove  the  bone. 
Spread  with  soft  butter,  dredge  lightly  with  flour  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Place  fish  on  a  buttered  pan  or  fish 
sheet  and  cook  under  the  gas  flame  or  over  the  open  fire.  The 
time  required  depends  upon  the  thickness  of  the  fish.  With 
a  Larkin  Spatula  remove  from  pan  to  hot  platter.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley.     Serve  very  hot. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Planked  Fish 

Prepare  fish  as  for  broiling.  Lay  onto  a  buttered  fish  plank, 
skin  side  down.  Bake  in  hot  oven,  or  in  broiling  oven  if  a 
gas  stove  is  used,  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  the  fish  is  a 
thick  one  it  is  best  to  heat  the  plank  before  using  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Surround  fish  with  a  thick  border  of 
well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes  and  bake  until  potatoes  are 
slightly  brown.     Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley.     Serve  hot. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


FISH 


15 


Baked  Fish 

Scale,  clean,  and  wash  the  fish.     Wipe  it  dry  and  fill  with  a 

stuffing  made  of  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  of  stale 

bread-crumbs,   seasoned   with   Larkin    Pepper,    Salt,   chopped 

parsley  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.     Sew  up  with  a  strong 

thread.     Lay  it  in  a  baking-pan,  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter 

or  pork  fat  on  top  and  dredge  with  flour.     Add  one-half  cup 

of  water.      Put  into  Larkin   Savory  Roaster  and   bake  in  a 

moderate  oven  one  hour  or  until  the  flesh  readily  separates 

from  the  bone.     Serve  hot.  ,,      t^  t  ,^r       ^  ^ 

Mrs.  D.  Leary,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

Baked  Shad  with  Tomatoes 

Clean  the  fish.     Brown  one  cup  of  bread-crumbs  in  butter,  fill 

shad  and  sew  up.     Grease  a  baking-pan  with  butter.     Take 

three  pieces  of  Larkin  Bacon,  lay  over  shad,  sprinkle  with  salt 

and  pepper,  baste  with  three  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Canned 

Tomatoes  and  three  tablespoons  of  water.     Bake  one-half  hour 

or  longer,  according  to  size.  ht      /-   a  tt 

^  **  Mrs.  C.  Adams,  Harrisburg,  Pa. 

Codfish  Balls 

Prepare  one-half  package  or  one  generous  cup  of  Larkin  Pure 
Codfish  as  directed.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan  with  two  raw  pota- 
toes cut  into  dice,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  bring  slowly 
to  boiling  point.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  drain  thoroughly  and 
mash  fine  with  wire  potato-masher.  Add  one  egg  (unbeaten), 
pepper  and  salt  if  needed.  Form  into  tiny  balls  with  a  spoon. 
Fry  in  hot  fat.  They  are  cooked  when  brown.  Serve  with 
egg  sauce.     This  quantity  will  serve  five  people. 

Mrs.  Martin  Burns,  Schenectady,  N.  Y. 

Codfish  Lo£if 

Soak  one-half  package  of  Larkin  Pure  Codfish  in  cold  water 
three  hours  before  using.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan  with  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  diced  raw  potatoes.  Simmer  twenty  minutes, 
drain  off  the  water  and  beat  light  with  a  wire  potato-masher. 
Melt  three  tablespoons  of  cooking  fat  or  butter  in  a  frying-pan. 
Add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  onions  (about  four  onions)  sliced 
quite  fine.  Cook  until  brown.  Add  to  the  Codfish  in  the 
sauce-pan,  mix  together  with  two  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice,  one 
teaspoon  of  Larkin  Dry  Mustard,  a  little  pepper,  salt  if  needed. 
Put  into  buttered  Larkin  Casserole  and  bake  in  hot  oven  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  cream  or  egg  sauce.  These  quantities 
will  serve  five  people.  Mrs.  V.  Zook,  Nevada,  Ohio. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


16 


FISH 


Creamed  Codfish 

Prepare  one-half  package  of  Larkin  Pure  Codfish  as  directed 
and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Make  a  cream  sauce  by  melting 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  milk, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  The  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  may 
be  used  in  the  sauce  if  desired.  Stir  in  the  codfish  and  serve 
on  toast.     Sufficient  to  serve  five  people, 

Mrs.  H.  D.  Clark,  Clark's  Summit,  Pa. 

Codfish  Fritters 

Cut  Larkin  Pure  Codfish  into  strips  about  the  size  of  a  finger. 
Freshen  by  soaking  several  hours  in  cold  water.  When  needed, 
dry  between  the  folds  of  a  soft  towel  and  dip  each  piece  in  a 
batter  made  by  sifting  together  one  cup  of  Larkin  Flour,  one 
teaspoon  Larkin  Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
few  grains  of  pepper.  Beat  one  egg  quite  light,  add  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk;  gradually  add  to  the  flour,  be  sure  to 
mix  quite  smooth.  Fry  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  fat.  Serve 
at  once.  Mrs,  Hutter,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Baked  Salmon  Loaf 

One  can  of  Larkin  Red  Alaska  Salmon,  four  tablespoons  of 
bread-crumbs,  four  tablespoons  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Add  one  egg  slightly  beaten.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in 
loaf  with  three  slices  of  Larkin  Bacon  across  the  top.  Serve 
with  creamed  onions.  mrs.  E.  A.  Ross,  Springfield,  Mass. 

Salmon  Loaf 

Mix  together  one  can  of  Larkin  Red  Salmon,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  cracker-crumbs,  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  bread-pan  half  an  hour,  turn 
out  on  a  platter  and  pour  around  the  loaf  one  pint  of  seasoned 
cream  sauce  to  which  you  have  added  one  cup  of  Larkin  Green 
Peas,  This  loaf  may  be  steamed  one  hour  instead  of  baked  if 
preferred.  Mrs.  J.  Knowlden,  Hinsdale,  N.  Y. 

Salmon  Souffle 

Flake  one  can  of  Larkin  Salmon,  add  one  cup  of  bread-  or 
cracker-crumbs  soaked  in  two  cups  of  milk.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Then  add  the  lightly- 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Fold  in  last  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  creamed  potatoes.         mrs.  Emma  G.  Burrows,  Amherst,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


FISH 


17 


Salmon  Croquettes 

Mix  one  can  of  Larkin  Salmon  with  one  cup  brown  bread-' 
crumbs,  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin 
Salt,  a  little  pepper,  one  egg  slightly  beaten  and  one  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter.  Form  in  croquettes  and  roll  in  bread-crumbs; 
then  egg  and  crumbs  again.     Fry  in  hot  fat. 

Daisy  E.  Light,  Martinsburg,  W.  Va.' 

Creamed  Oysters 

Make  a  cream  sauce  by  melting  two  tablespoons  butter,  add 
two  tablespoons  flour,  stir  in  gradually  one  cup  of  milk;  stir 
until  boiling.  Add  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper.  The  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  may  be  added  if  liked. 
Scald  twenty-five  oysters  in  their  own  juice  and  add  to  cream 
sauce.     Serve  at  once  on  buttered  toast. 

Anna  B.  Bond,  Woodensburg,  Md. 

Oysters  au  Gratin 

Put  two  tablespoons  butter  into  a  sauce-pan.  When  melted  add 
two  tablespoons  flour,  and  one  cup  of  milk  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.  When  cooked,  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
a  little  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Butter  a 
baking  dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  sauce,  then  a  layer  of  Larkin 
Cove  Oysters.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  more  sauce 
and  so  on  until  all  is  used.  Cover  top  with  bread-crumbs  or 
Larkin  Cracker  Meal.  Dot  thickly  with  butter  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Four  tablespoons  of  grated 
cheese  added  to  the  sauce  improves  the  flavor  for  some  people. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Henry,  Strawberry  Point,  Iowa. 

Fried  Oysters 

Put  the  oysters  into  a  colander  to  drain;  with  the  fingers  place 
each  one  on  a  dry  soft  towel  to  absorb  the  moisture.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  one  egg;  add  one  tablespoon  cold 
water.  Dip  each  oyster  in  the  egg,  then  in  stale  bread-  or 
cracker-crumbs  or  Larkin  Cracker  Meal.  Fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  soft  paper.  Serve  on  toast.  Pass  lemon  with  the 
oysters.  Mrs.  Jno.  Lattimore,  Claysville,  Pa. 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets 

Choose  large  plump  oysters  and  wrap  a  thin  slice  of  Larkin 
Bacon  around  each  one  pinning  it  with  a  tooth  pick.  Put 
them  into  a  heated  frying-pan  and  cook  until  the  bacon  is  crisp. 
Serve  at  once.  Mrs  Fanny  Young,  Albion,  Mich. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


18 


FISH 


Shrimp  in  Reimekins 

Melt  four  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  four  tablespoons  of  Larkin 
Flour  and  when  bubbling  stir  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk. 
Season  to  taste  with  Larkin  Salt  and  Pepper.  Add  two  cans 
of  Larkin  Shrimp  and  one  can  of  Larkin  Canned  Peas.  Rinse 
both  Shrimp  and  Peas  with  cold  water,  then  drain.  Fill  either 
buttered  ramekins  or  scallop  sheels  with  the  mixture  or  place 
in  a  Larkin  Casserole.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  bread-crumbs 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  prepared  in 
chafing  dish,  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Abercrombie,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

Lobster  Wiggle 

Melt  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  of 
flour.  When  bubbling,  gradually  add  two  cups  of  milk  or 
cream,  stir  until  thickened.  Add  one  cup  of  Larkin  Canned 
Lobster  broken  into  small  pieces,  one  cup  of  Larkin  Peas  drained 
from  liquor,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt  and  one-eighth 
teaspoon  pepper.  Serve  on  buttered  toast.  Cold,  cooked 
chicken  or  shrimps  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Shreds  of 
green  pepper  may  be  used  in  place  of  peas. 

Mrs.  E.  a.  Benham,  Saratoga  Springs,  N.  Y. 

Clam  Pie 

Put  one  pint  of  clams  or  one  can  of  Larkin  Canned  Clams 
through  a  food-chopper.  With  the  liquor  mix  one  tablespoon 
of  Larkin  Flour  diluted  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  to 
clams.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Line  a  deep  pie-plate 
with  pastry,  pour  in  clams,  and  put  on  a  top  crust.  Dot  small 
pieces  of  butter  over  top  crust  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about 
twenty  mmutes.  Mrs.  Carl  Southworth,  Bridgewater,  Mass. 


To  Pan  Broil  Steak 

Have  the  steak"  a  little  more  than  one  inch  thick.     Make  an 

iron  pan  very  hot,  rub  it  quickly  with  suet,  then  put  in  the 

steak.     Never  put  the  fork  into  the  lean  meat,  always  in  the 

fat.     Just  as  soon  as  one  side  is  seared,  turn  over;  turn  several 

times  in  cooking;  add  pepper  and  salt;  serve  on  a  hot  dish  at 

once.  J  „ 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

To  Broil  Steak 

See  that  the  fire  is  bright  and  clear,  put  the  steak  on  the  grid- 
iron, turn  often  and  allow  time  according  to  the  thickness  of 
steak;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve  very  hot.  Steak 
to  be  good  should  never  stand  after  being  cooked. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

To  Broil  with  Gas 

Light  the  gas  in  the  oven  at  least  five  minutes  before  you  wish 

to  use  it.     Take  out  the  rack  or  the  meat  will  stick  to  the 

bars  if  very  hot;  leave  in  the  lower  pan.     Put  the  steak  on  the 

rack  as  near  the  flame  as  you  can  without  the  flame  touching. 

As  soon  as  the  steak  is  thoroughly  seared,  turn  the  meat  over; 

be  careful  not  to  put  the  fork  into  the  lean  of  the  meat  as  that 

allows  the  juices  to  escape;  turn  once  more  and  season  liberally 

with  salt  and  pepper.     Drain  off  some  of  the  fat  in  broiling 

pan  and  pour  the  remainder  with  the  sediment  over  the  steak. 

Serve  at  once.  ,  t^ 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Pot  Roast 

Take  four  pounds  of  beef  from  the  shoulder.     Put  half  a  cup 

of  good  drippings  in  an  iron  kettle,  make  hot  and  sear  beef 

on  each  side;  when  well  browned  set  back  where  it  will  cook 

slowly  for  two  hours;  after  the  first  hour  add  salt  and  pepper, 

a  piece  of  celery,  carrot,  onion  and  bay  leaf  if  liked;  if  cooked 

slowly  no  water  will  be  needed.     Pour  off  some  of  the  fat  and 

make  gravy  as  for  roast  beef.  ,  y, 

*       ■'  Larkin  Kitchen. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


20 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


Roast  Beef 

Wipe  meat  with  damp  cloth,  place  in  baking  pan  bone  side 
down,  dust  lightly  with  pepper;  if  there  is  no  fat  with  meat,  cut 
up  a  piece  of  suet  and  place  around  beef.  The  oven  must  be 
very  hot.  After  first  twenty  minutes,  cool  ofif  oven  a  little,  add 
salt.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  for  cooking  and,  unless 
a  covered  roaster  is  used,  baste  every  ten  minutes.  To  make 
gravy,  lift  out  beef,  pour  off  fat,  scrape  together  all  brown 
sediment  from  around  pan,  allow  two  tablespoons  flour  to  two 
of  fat,  mix  well ;  then  add  hastily  one  pint  of  water  or  stock,  boil 
up  well,  add  salt  and  pepper,  strain  and  serve.       l^rkin  Kitchen. 

Swiss  Steak 

Have  two  pounds  of  round  steak  cut  one  inch  thick.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  of  fat  (suet  will  do)  in  a  frying  pan,  season 
steak  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  brown  quickly  on 
both  sides  then  put  into  a  Larkin  Casserole.  Brown  a  scant 
half  cup  flour  in  fat  l^ft  in  pan,  add  three  cups  hot  water,  pour 
over  the  meat.  Cook  for  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  If  onion  is 
liked,  flavor  with  Larkin  Onion  Extract,  or  cook  a  raw  onion  in 
the  fat  before  the  meat  is  browned.  The  toughest  meat  will 
become  tender  and  delicious,  cooked  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Dager,  LaFayette  Hill,  Pa. 

Spanish  Steak 

Two  pounds  top  round  steak  cut  about  two  inches  thick,  leave 
on  the  fat.  Brown  in  hot  frying  pan,  then  add  three-fourths 
cup  boiling  water,  cover  and  bake  forty-five  minutes  in  moder- 
ate oven.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  with  layer  sliced 
seasoned  onions.  Bake  another  hour.  Then  cover  with  layer 
of  the  solid  meat  of  a  can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes.  Bake  again 
fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  over  top  two  tablespoons  grated 
cheese;  place  in  oven  long  enough  for  cheese  to  melt.  There 
will  be  a  delicious  thick  gravy  and  the  steak  will  be  very  tender. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Durkin,  Shamokin,  Pa. 

Hamburg  Steak  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Put  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  round  steak  through  the  food- 
chopper,  add  one  or  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  Larkin  Cracker  Meal 
or  stale  bread-crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  one  small  onion  finely 
chopped,  water  or  milk  to  moisten;  mix  thoroughly.  Form  into 
small  cakes.  Cook  slowly  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot  fat. 
When  steak  is  cooked,  empty  one  can  of  Larkin  Tomato  Soup 
in  frying  pan,  when  boiling  pour  over  steak  and  serv^e  at  once. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Nohl,  Canton,  Ohio. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


21 


English  Beef  Steak  Pudding 

Sift  three  cups  of  Larkin  Flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  Larkin 
Baking  Powder  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Chop  one-quarter 
pound,  or  one-half  cup  of  suet,  quite  fine,  mix  with  flour,  add 
enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  and  line 
a  bowl  with  it.  Cut  up  one  pound  of  round  steak  in  one-inch 
pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  roll  in  a  little  flour. 
When  bowl  is  half  full  of  meat  pour  in  one-half  cup  of  water, 
add  the  rest  of  meat.  Trim  off  crust  and  roll  out  a  lid  to  fit 
on  the  top.  Pinch  the  edges  together,  dip  a  cloth  into  boiling 
water,  then  in  flour  so  it  won't  stick,  cover  over  pudding,  tie 
down  and  boil  or  steam  for  two  and  one-half  hours.  This  may 
be  boiled  in  a  cloth  but  is  not  so  good.     Turn  out  to  serve. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Roth,  Albany,  N.  Y. 

Family  Meat  Loaf 

Put  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  round  steak  through  food-chopper, 

also  one  onion.     Soak  stale  bread  in  cold  water  (about  one  cup) 

squeeze  out  with  the  hands,  add  to  beef,  season  with  salt,  pepper 

and  celery  salt;  mix  thoroughly.     Five  hard-cooked  eggs  may 

be  used  with  this  when  they  are  cheap.     Put  a  layer  of  the 

prepared  meat  in  a  bread  pan,  then  a  layer  of  the  sliced  eggs, 

meat  and  so  on,  having  meat  last.     Turn  into  a  dripping  pan 

or  covered  roaster.     Bake  for  one  hour.  ^ 

Contributed. 

Beef  Locif  with  Pimentos 

Put  two  pounds  of  round  steak  through  meat-chopper,  also 
three  Larkin  Pimentos  (Spanish  red  peppers)  and  three  Larkin 
Soda  Crackers.  Cook  one-half  cup  of  Larkin  Rice  in  boiling 
water  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  add  pepper,  salt,  meat  and 
one  egg.  Mix  very  thoroughly  together  and  bake  in  covered 
roaster  forty-five  minutes,  or  steam  in  Larkin  Steam  Cooker 
for  one  hour.  j^^^  ^  Lewis,  Fostoria,  Ohio. 

Jellied  Beef  Loaf 

Buy  a  soup  bone  with  some  meat  on  it  (shank  is  the  best),  put  in 
soup  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  one  onion,  one  carrot 
and  a  small  bay  leaf  and  simmer  gently  for  several  hours  or 
until  the  meat  will  fall  from  the  bone.  When  it  is  done,  put  a 
little  of  the  liquor  in  a  saucer  to  chill.  If  it  does  not  "jell" 
add  enough  Larkin  Gelatine  to  stifTen,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Pour  in  molds  rinsed  with  cold  water.  The  meat  may 
be  put  through  the  meat  grinder  if  preferred. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  Faecher,  Augusta,  Kans. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6, 


22 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


Jellied  Veal  or  Chicken 

Cook  in  the  same  manner  as  Jellied  Beef.  Remove  the  bones, 
season  and  use  sufficient  Larkin  Gelatine  to  stiffen.  Directions 
come  with  each  package.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Beef  Stew 

Two  pounds  of  beef,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  small  carrot, 
one  pint  water,  two  teaspoons  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper, 
two  tablespoons  suet  or  drippings,  one  onion.  Cut  meat  into 
small  pieces,  roll  in  flour,  put  drippings  into  pan,  shake  until 
smoking  hot,  then  put  in  meat  and  sear  on  every  side,  add  boil- 
ing water.  Stir  until  boiling.  Add  all  the  seasonings,  cover 
the  pan  and  simmer  for  one  and  one-half  hours,  or  place  in  a 
fireless  cooker  for  three  hours.     Serve  with  dumplings. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Bonneau,  Chicago,  III. 

Egg  Dumplings 

Sift  two  cups  Larkin  Flour  with  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Baking 
Powder,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt.  Beat  one  egg  light; 
add  one-half  cup  of  water;  mix  with  flour,  using  spatula.  Have 
broth  boiling;  drop  in  dumplings  with  a  teaspoon;  let  them  rest 
on  the  meat;  cover  tight  and  boil  gently  for  twenty  minutes 
without  lifting  the  cover.  If  you  follow  this  rule,  you  will 
have  the  lightest  and  tenderest  dumplings  you  ever  ate. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Morgan,  Pittston,  Pa. 

Potato  Dumplings 

Pare  three  medium-sized  potatoes  and  boil  until  tender.  Put 
through  potato  ricer  or  mash  quite  fine.  Add  to  them  one 
cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  egg  lightly  beaten.  Handle 
as  little  as  possible,  roll  out  and  cut  in  six  squares.  In  the  center 
of  each  put  some  bread-crumbs  which  have  been  crisped  brown 
in  the  oven  (a  little  minced  onion  is  very  good,  added  to  the 
crumbs).  Roll  up  the  squares  of  dough  around  the  stuffing, 
make  into  ball  shape,  drop  into  boiling  water  or  broth  and 
boil  steadily  for  twenty  minutes.  Do  not  remove  lid  while 
cooking.     These  may  also  be  steamed. 

Mrs.  William  Starke,  Methuen,  Mass. 
Nut  Steak  without  Meat 

Put  into  a  mixing  bowl  one  cup  of  walnut  meats  coarsely 
chopped,  two  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of 
salt  and  dried  sage,  and  a  very  little  pepper.  Mix  dry  ingre- 
dients together,  add  one  egg  slightly  beaten  and  four  table- 
spoons of  milk.  Shape  as  you  would  Hamburg  Steak  and 
saut6  in  hot  frying  pan  with  a  small  amount  of  fat.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Hillman,  Trenton,  N.  ;j. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


23 


Beef  Fritters 

Put  one  pound  of  round  steak  through  a  Larkin  Food-Chopper. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  add  one  can  of  Larkin  Corn, 
one  cup  of  bread-  or  cracker-crumbs  and  two  eggs  sHghtly 
beaten.     Cook  the  same  as  pork  sausage  in  a  hot  frying  pan. 

Miss  Orril  Newland,  Hoopeston,  III. 

American  Chop  Suey 

Cook  one-half  package  of  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water  for  twenty  minutes.  While  this  is  cooking  put 
two  onions  and  one-half  pound  of  round  steak  through  a  Larkin 
Food-Chopper.  Brown  in  a  hot  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  or 
beef  drippings.  Drain  water  from  macaroni,  add  one  can  of 
Larkin  Tomatoes,  season  with  Larkin  Salt  and  Pepper,  then 
add  steak  and  onions  and  cook  slowly  for  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  piping  hot.     This  is  sufficient  for  six  persons. 

Mrs.  Jno.  Pierce,  Lonsdale,  R.  I. 

Chili  Con  Carni  ^ 

Put  one  pound  each  of  veal  and  beef,  also  one  large  onion, 
through  a  Larkin  Food-Chopper.  Cover  with  water  and 
simmer  one  and  one-half  hours.  When  almost  cooked  add 
one  cup  boiled  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni,  one  can  Larkin 
Tomatoes  and  one  can  of  Larkin  Peas.  Season  with  salt 
and  red  pepper.     Will  serve  nine  people. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Bentheimer,  Green  Bay,  Wis. 

Roast  Pork 

Wipe  pork  with  a  damp  cloth,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  flour. 

Put  into  covered  roaster,  leave  off  the  cover  first  thirty  minutes, 

then  cover  closely.  Allow  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound.    Bake 

in  a  moderate  oven.     Make  gravy  as  for  beef.     Apples,  with 

the  cores  removed,  may  be  placed  around  the  pork  to  bake. 

This  gives  the  pork  an  excellent  flavor. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Baked  Pork  Chops 

Pare  seven  good-sized  potatoes,  slice  as  for  scalloped  potatoes. 
Take  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  lean  pork  chops  (loin  pre- 
ferred), put  a  layer  of  potatoes  into  a  Larkin  Casserole  or  Bak- 
ing Dish,  then  a  layer  of  pork  chops,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  onion,  continue  until  all  is  used.  Have 
potatoes  on  top.  Pour  in  one  cup  of  water  or  milk.  Put  on 
the  cover  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  for  one  hour  and 
forty  minutes;  uncover  during  the  last  ten  minutes  so  potatoes 
will  brown.     Serve  direct  from  the  Casserole.     Delicious. 

Mrs,  Wm.  Hess,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


24 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


Apple  Fritters 

Sift  three  times,  one  cup  Larkin  Pastry  Flour,  with  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cream  of  Tartar  Baking 
Powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt;  add  one  well-beaten 
egg,  one-third  cup  milk  and  two  tart  apples,  pared,  cored  and 
sliced.  Drop  into  deep  fat  and  fry  until  brown.  Drain  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar.  The  apples  may  be  coarsely  chopped  and 
stirred  into  batter  if  preferred.     Serve  with  roast  pork. 

Mrs.  a.  E.  Henderson,  Twin  Falls,  Idaho. 

Larkin  Sauerkraut 

Put  into  a  kettle  one  quart  of  Larkin  Sauerkraut,  one  pound 
of  fresh  pork,  two  onions  put  through  Larkin  Food-Chopper 
and  water  enough  to  cover.  Cook  slowly  three  hours.  The 
longer  it  is  cooked  the  better,  but  it  should  be  cooked  almost 
dry  when  done.  jyjj^g  rqy  S.  Heatwole,  Harrisonburg,  Va. 

Salt  Pork  with  Cream  Gravy 

Cut  required  amount  of  pork  in  moderately  thin  slices.  Place 
in  spider  and  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  a  few  minutes,  take 
out  and  dip  each  piece  in  milk,  then  in  flour.  Put  a  few  spoons 
of  pork  fat  in  spider  and  fry  the  pork  until  brown.  Dish  on  a 
hot  platter.  Stir  two  tablespoons  of  flour  into  the  fat,  add 
pepper  and  salt  if  needed,  add  to  this  one  pint  of  milk,  stirring 
until  gravy  thickens.  Pour  gravy  over  pork  and  serve  with 
baked  potatoes.     Delicious.  j^^^^    ^  Wrench,  Goodrich,  Wis. 

Boiled  Ham 

Soak  ham  several  hours  or  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
Wash  thoroughly,  put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  heat 
to  boiling  point  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  allowing  twenty 
minutes  to  the  pound.  Remove  from  range  and  set  aside  so 
that  ham  may  partially  cool;  then  take  from  water,  remove 
outside  skin,  sprinkle  with  fine  brown  cracker-crumbs  and  stick 
with  cloves  one-half  inch  apart.  Or  it  may  be  covered  with 
brown  sugar  and  baked  in  the  oven  until  brown.  Cabbage  and 
potatoes  may  be  cooked  in  the  water  in  which  the  ham  is  boiled 
and  served  with  the  ham  as  a  boiled  dinner.       larkin  Kitchen. 

When  Frying  Ham 

Slice  and  fry  in  usual  way.  Then  over  fried  meat  pour  hot 
water  and  immediately  pour  off  again.  This  freshens  the  ham 
and  leaves  it  tender  and  delicious.  Use  the  water,  which  is 
rich  in  meat  flavor,  to  make  the  gravy.  Larkin  Bacon  may  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way.      ^^^^  Charlotte  Bird,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY  25 

Deviled  Ham  and  Eggs 

Put  bits  of  ham  through  a  Larkin  Food-Chopper.  For  one  cup 
of  ham,  put  into  a  frying  pan  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  one 
tablespoon  of  Larkin  Flour,  one  teaspoon  of  vinegar,  Larkin 
Pepper,  and  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon  Larkin  Mustard  and  one-half 
cup  of  water.  Let  it  boil,  then  put  in  the  minced  ham.  Stir 
until  very  hot,  turn  into  a  pie  dish  or  casserole  and  break  on  the 
surface  five  raw  eggs.  Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  five  minutes 
or  just  long  enough  to  set  the  eggs.     Serve  in  baking  dish. 

Mrs.  C.  Flinn,  North  Terre  Haute,  Ind. 

Pork  Sausage 

Chop  very  fine  one  pound  or  two  cups  of  cold  cooked  pork, 
moisten  a  slice  of  stale  bread  in  half  a  cup  of  water,  add  to  it 
the  pork  and  three  or  four  tablespoons  of  mashed  potatoes,  and 
one  beaten  egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Mix  well 
and  shape  into  small  flat  cakes  with  the  hands;  dust  lightly 
with  flour  or  rolled  cracker-crumbs,  and  saute  in  a  little  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  Sidney  R.  Lodder,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Good  Sausage  Meat 

When  making  pork  sausage  use  one-third  fat  and  two-thirds 
lean.  Put  through  food-chopper  and,  to  every  twelve  pounds 
of  pork,  take  twelve  teaspoons  salt,  six  teaspoons  pepper,  nine 
teaspoons  sifted  sage.  Mix  well  with  the  hands  and  put  through 
the  food-chopper  again.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Mrs.  E.  Thomas,  Bristol,  Conn. 
Pork  Sausage  with  Tomatoes 

Separate  one  pound  of  link  sausage,  pierce  each  sausage  several 
times  with  a  fork.  Place  in  hot  frying  pan.  Cook  until  brown. 
Add  one-half  can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes  and  one  cup  of  water; 
also  one  tablespoon  each  of  onion  and  parsley  finely  chopped. 
Add  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  twenty  minutes.  The  gravy  may 
be  thickened  if  preferred.     Sufficient  for  six  people. 

Mrs.  George  Clansz,  Pearl  River,  N.  Y. 

Sausage  Rolls 

Make  pastry  as  for  pie-crust,  using  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
Larkin  Pastry  Flour,  one-half  cup  Larkin  Pure  Lard  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt.  Mix  with  cold  water.  Roll  out 
and  cut  in  small  squares.  Put  one  piece  of  Larkin  Luncheon 
Sausage  on  each  square,  and  pinch  the  edges  together.  One  can 
of  sausage  makes  eight  of  these  rolls.  Brush  over  with  white 
of  egg  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Very  delicious  for  lunch  when 
serving  Club-of-Ten.  Fresh  pork  sausage  may  be  used  if  it  is 
either  parboiled  or  baked  in  the  oven  before  using. 

Mrs.  H.  Wrench,  Goodrich,  Wis. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


26 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


To  Cure  Hams,  Bacon  and  Dried  Beef 

For  every  twenty  pounds  of  meat  use  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  Larkin  Salt,  one-half  ounce  saltpeter,  and  one  cup  Larkin 
Molasses,  mixed  thoroughly.  Rub  meat  with  mixture,  keep 
it  in  the  brine  for  three  days,  skin  side  down,  repeat  rubbing 
process  until  it  has  been  done  three  times.  Put  in  the  smoke  for 
three  days  after  last  rubbing.        mrs.  Edw.  Thomas,  Bristol,  Conn. 

Roast  Veal 

The  leg  and  loin  are  most  suitable  for  roasting.  Wipe  meat 
with  a  damp  cloth,  sprinkle  lightly  with  Larkin  Salt  and  Pepper, 
dredge  with  flour.  Place  slices  of  salt  pork  over  and  around  meat. 
Veal  is  best  cooked  in  covered  roaster.  If  cooked  in  an  open 
pan,  baste  often.    Make  gravy  as  for  beef.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Veal  Locif 

Put  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  veal  through  the  food-chopper 
with  one-half  pound  of  salt  pork,  also  eight  Larkin  Soda  Crackers 
and  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley.  Add  Larkin  Pepper,  Salt 
and  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  also  two  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Bake  in  a  greased  bread-pan  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Baste  occasionally  if  necessary.      mrs.  H.  F.  Riemer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

Sweetbreads 

Sweetbreads  spoil  very  quickly.  Remove  from  the  paper  as 
soon  as  received.  Put  into  cold  water,  add  a  little  salt,  leave 
for  one  hour,  drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a  little  salt. 
Cook  slowly  twenty  minutes,  drain  and  cover  with  cold  water, 
so  that  they  may  be  white  and  firm.  To  broil;  cut  in  slices, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  bread-crumbs,  saute  in 
frying  pan.     Serve  with  green  peas.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

To  Roast  Poultry 

One  rule  will  apply  to  all  poultry. 

Have  oven  very  hot  until  skin  is  browned,  then  cool,  and  if 
poultry  is  stuffed,  cook  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound;  unstufled, 
fifteen  minutes.  Salt  pork  is  very  nice  to  use  for  basting  pur- 
poses ;  baste  frequently  if  in  open  pan.  A  covered  roaster  is  much 
to  be  preferred  as  no  basting  is  then  required.     ,  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Fried  Chicken 

Singe,  clean  and  cut  in  pieces  ready  to  serve,  dip  in  cold  water, 
drain  but  do  not  wipe;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip 
in  flour.  Cook  in  hot  pork  fat  or  Larkin  Cooking  Oil,  serve 
with  gravy  made  in  the  pan  with  milk.  Larkin  Kitchen. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


27 


Maryland  Chicken 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  a  chicken;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper; 
dip  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs;  place  in  well-greased  dripping 
pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  basting  with  butter  or  other  fat. 
Arrange  on  platter  and  pour  over  it  two  cups  cream  sauce. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 
Pot-Roast  Chicken  with  Dumplings 

Cut  up  the  chicken,  wash  and  dip  in  flour,  brown  in  hot  fat, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  pepper,  salt  and  one  carrot  and 
one  onion  if  liked.  Cover  kettle  so  all  the  flavor  will  be  retained, 
simmer  until  tender.  If  an  old  fowl  it  will  take  two  or  three 
hours.  When  almost  tender  add  one  cup  of  Larkin  Rice  or 
drop  in  dumplings  ten  minutes  before  serving.  Do  not  remove 
the  cover  after  the  dumplings  are  in  or  they  will  be  heavy. 

Mrs.  George  Clansz,  Pearl  River,  N.  Y. 

Chicken  Pie 

Cut  up  a  chicken  as  for  stewing,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
add  pepper  and  salt,  cook  until  tender.  Remove  the  large  bones 
and  place  chicken  in  a  baking  dish,  slightly  thicken  the  gravy. 
Do  not  have  the  baking  dish  more  than  three-fourths  full. 
Make  a  good  biscuit  dough  and  cut  in  rounds  as  for  biscuits. 
Place  the  biscuits  over  the  chicken  leaving  room  for  the  steam 
to  escape.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  thoroughly  done.  This  is  an 
improvement  over  the  old  style  crust  as  the  biscuit  is  more  easily 
served  and  never  becomes  soggy,      mrs.  R.  E.  Best,  Decatur,  III. 

Chicken,  Creole  Style 

Chop  fine,  one  green  pepper,  one  onion  and  two  large  tomatoes, 
or  use  one  and  one-half  cups  of  canned  tomatoes.  Put  some 
butter  or  other  fat  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  the  onion  and  pepper 
and  cook  until  soft,  but  not  brown.  Brown  the  chicken,  then 
cover  it  with  boiling  water,  add  the  tomatoes  and  simmer  until 
tender  (if  an  old  fowl,  about  two  hours).  Sprinkle  one  cup  of 
washed  rice  over  the  chicken,  put  on  lid  and  cook  another  half 
hour.  This  is  very  delicious.  Veal  or  mutton  may  be  used  in 
place  of  chicken.  Mj^s  q  Nomdeden,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Extra  Dressing  for  Chicken 

In  making  an  extra  supply  of  dressing  this  is  a  nice  way  to  fix 
it.  Scrape  out  the  inside  of  two  half-loaves  of  bread,  leave  the 
crust  thin.  Rinse  out  the  inside  with  cold  water  and  fill  with 
the  extra  dressing.  Invert  on  pie  tin  and  bake  about  forty-five 
minutes.     This  will  be  found  very  nice. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Richards,  Perrinton,  Mich. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


28 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


Dressing  for  Geese,  Ducks  and  Pork 

Chop,  or  finely  slice,  four  onions,  cook  until  soft,  drain  off  the 
water,  add  two  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  one  teaspoon  dried  sage, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  ^^^  ^^^^^^  Anderson,  Dover.  N.  J. 

Rabbit  en  Casserole 

Skin,  wash  and  cut  up  one  or  two  rabbits,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  stew  thirty  minutes.  Roll  in  flour,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  brown  in  frying  pan.  Put  into  a  Larkin 
Casserole,  add  chopped  onion,  sprinkle  with  flour,  add  sufficient 
water,  made  slightly  acid  with  mild  vinegar,  to  cover.  When 
rabbit  is  prepared  in  this  way  it  loses  the  peculiar  flavor  many 
people  object  to.  You  will  find  this  a  very  delicious  dish. 
Bake  one  hour  or  more.     Serve  from  the  casserole. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Sleeter,  Rockford,  Iowa. 

Fried  Rabbit 

Skin,  wash  and  cut  up  two  rabbits.  Cover  with  cold  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  The  water  should  not  boil,  only  simmer. 
Roll  the  rabbit  in  seasoned  flour  and  brown  in  hot  fat.  Use 
the  liquor   in   which    they    were   cooked,    for   making  gravy. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Rabbit  in  Covered  Roaster 

Clean  and  joint  a  rabbit,  roll  in  flour,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Add  a  slice  of  pork  cut  up  in  small  pieces.  Place  in 
covered  roaster,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  put  on  the  cover 
and  bake  for  one  hour  in  medium  oven.  Then  add  potatoes 
and  bake  another  forty-five  minutes.  This  may  also  be  cooked 
in  the  same  fashion  as  a  pot  roast. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Lardiff,  Duluth,  Minn. 

Filled  Cabbage  Leaves 

Separate  the  leaves  of  a  medium-sized  cabbage,  pick  out  the 
best,  pour  over  them  boiling  water,  leave  for  a  few  minutes. 
Cook  one-half  cup  rice,  mix  with  it  one  pound  Hamburg  Steak, 
add  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Onion  Extract,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Line  a  kettle  with  the  outside  cabbage  leaves.  Fill  the 
scalded  leaves  with  the  prepared  meat.  Roll  up;  lay  closely 
together  in  kettle  so  they  will  not  separate.  Add  one  teaspoon 
salt,  a  little  pepper,  three-fourths  cup  canned  tomatoes,  three 
tablespoons  bacon  fat  or  butter,  and  water  to  almost  cover. 
Put  on  the  lid.  Cook  gently  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  filled 
leaves,  add  one  egg  beaten  light,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to 
the  liquor  in  the  kettle.  Stir  until  thick,  but  do  not  allow  to 
boil  or  it  will  curdle.  Pour  sauce  over  cabbage  leaves  and 
serve  at  once. 


Mrs.  Wm.  Schneider,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


29 


Stuffed  Cabbage 

Wash  a  cabbage  weighing  about  four  pounds.     Tie  in  a  cloth 

and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  wilted.     Take  out  and 

lay  on  a  platter;  turn  back  the  leaves.     Cut  out  the  heart  and 

place  in  a  chopping  bowl  with  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  one 

pound  of  pork  sausage.     Season  with  salt  and  black  pepper,  chop 

fine.     Make  a  ball,  place  in  center  of  cabbage,  fold  over  the 

leaves  one  at  a  time,  tie  up  in  the  same  cloth,  and  boil  gently  for 

one  and  one-half  hours.      ,,      t:-        tir  /-  t  xt 

Mrs.  Edith  Wilson,  Grand  Island,  Nebr. 

COLD  MEAT  COOKERY 

Beef  with  Tomatoes 

Two  cups  of  chopped  cold  meat,  one  cup  of  canned  tomatoes, 
one  cup  of  cracker-  or  bread-crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a 
layer  of  meat  in  a  baking  dish,  and  over  it  a  layer  of  tomatoes, 
then  a  layer  of  cracker-crumbs,  next  a  layer  of  meat  and  so  on 
until  dish  is  filled.     Bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Theresa  Scofield,  Amsterdam,  N.  Y. 

An  Economical  Meat  Dish 

Take  any  left-over  meat,  chicken,  beef,  or  pork,  cut  into  cubes. 
Heat  in  gravy  or  a  white  sauce,  well  seasoned.  Put  meat  in 
center  of  platter,  surround  with  a  can  of  heated  Larkin  Pork 
and  Beans.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  celery  tips.  This  uses 
up  scraps  of  meat  you  would  sometimes  throw  away,  and, 
combined  with  the  nutritious  beans,  it  may  be  used  as  the  main 
dish  for  luncheon  or  supper.     ^^^  g  ^  Richardson,  Topeka,  Kans. 

"Different"  Hash 

Put  any  cold  meat  on  hand  through  a  Larkin  Food-Chopper. 
To  two  cups  of  the  cold  meat  allow  one-half  pound  of  fresh 
round  steak,  put  this  through  the  food-chopper  also.  Cut 
up  one  large  onion  in  small  pieces,  put  some  drippings  into 
the  frying  pan;  when  quite  hot  put  in  the  onion,  brown  thor- 
oughly and  add  the  chopped  raw  beef,  dust  with  salt,  paprika 
and  celery  salt.  When  this  is  brown,  add  the  cooked  meat  to 
it.  Prepare  raw  potatoes  as  for  potato  chips  and  fry  in  another 
pan,  drain  and  salt.  Then  add  to  the  hash.  Pour  over  some 
gravy  if  you  have  it,  if  not  use  water.  Pack  the  hash  down 
in  the  pan  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  about  ten  minutes. 
Place  a  dish  or  round  plate  over  the  pan  and  turn  out.  You 
will  then  have  a  beautifully  browned,  savory  meat  dish.  This 
is  a  little  more  trouble  than  the  ordinary  hash  but  it  is  worth  it. 

Mrs.  H.  Armbruster,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


30 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


Michigan  Hash 

One  poui;id  of  Hamburg  Steak,  two  tablespoons  of  chopped 
onion,  one  cup  cooked  Larkin  Rice  and  two  cups  cooked  Larkin 
Macaroni.  Rice  and  macaroni  may  be  hot  or  cold.  Place  in 
layers  in  baking  dish;  season  each  layer  with  Larkin  Salt, 
Black  Pepper  and  Celery  Salt.  Pour  strained  tomatoes  over 
all  until  quite  moist,  sprinkle  with  cracker-crumbs  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven.      ^^s.  Rowe,  Fort  Smith,  Ark. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat 

Put  three  cups  of  cold  cooked  meat  and  one-half  onion  through 
Larkin  Food-Chopper,  add  salt  and  pepper,  two  eggs  slightly 
beaten  and  two  tablespoons  bread-crumbs.  If  you  have  any 
soup  stock  on  hand,  add  sufficient  to  moisten  well;  if  not,  use 
milk.  Butter  a  mold,  line  with  boiled  rice,  then  add  layer 
of  meat,  then  rice  and  so  on  until  dish  is  filled.  Have  layer 
of  rice  on  top.  Cover  closely  and  steam  forty-five  minutes. 
Serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Kinney,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

Turkish  Rice 

Boil  or  steam  three-fourths  cup  of  Larkin  Rice  until  tender. 
Then  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  mix  thoroughly,  and  place 
on  back  of  stove.  Heat  one  pint  of  strained  tomatoes,  add 
soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Put  two  cups  of  cold  chicken,  veal,  or  beef  through 
Larkin  Meat-Chopper,  add  meat  and  tomatoes  to  rice  and  mix 
thoroughly.     May  be  prepared  several  hours  before  using. 

Mrs.  Thos.  E.  Lewis,  Fostoria,  Ohio. 

Minced  Beef 

Put  scraps  of  cooked  meat  through  Larkin  Food-Chopper, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  spoonful 
of  butter  and  enough  water  to  moisten.  While  this  is  heating, 
toast  pieces  of  stale  bread  a  light  brown.  Dilute  one  table- 
spoon of  flour  with  a  little  milk  and  mix  with  the  meat.  Pour 
over  each  piece  of  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Miss  Carrie  Steltzer,  Granville,  Pa. 

Chicken  Cudets 

Season  pieces  of  cold  chicken  or  turkey  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  in  melted  butter;  let  this  cool  on  the  meat,  and  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  a 
delicate  brown.  Serve  on  slices  of  hot  toast,  with  a  cream  or 
curry  sauce.     Pieces  of  cold  veal  are  nice  prepared  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  David  Davies,  Remsen,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


31 


Chicken  Hash  with  Noodles 

Put  left-over  chicken  through  Larkin  Meat-Chopper,  add  one 
cup  of  gravy  or  a  Larkin  Bouillon  Cube  dissolved  in  one  cup  of 
hot  water.  Take  one-quarter  of  a  pound  or  one  cup  of  Larkin 
Egg  Noodles,  cook  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  then 
add  two  cups  of  Larkin  Tomatoes,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  into  Larkin  Casserole  or  Baking 
Dish  with  the  chicken,  sprinkle  top  with  cracker-  or  bread- 
crumbs.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  one-half  hour. 

Frances  B.  Hauser,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Ham  Surprise 

Take  two  slices  of  Larkin  Ham  (cold  boiled)  cut  in  medium- 
sized  pieces.  Make  a  batter  with  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  Larkin  Baking  Powder,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  (not  too  thick).  Dip 
piece  of  ham  in  batter  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  fat 

Mrs,  B.  p.  Monahan,  Bridgeport,  Conn. 

Salmagundi 

Cook  for  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water,  two  cups  of 
Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni.  Drain,  blanch  in  cold  water. 
Have  ready  about  half  a  pound  of  cold  cooked  beef,  cut  in 
cubes.  Put  into  a  Larkin  Casserole,  a  layer  of  macaroni,  then 
a  layer  of  meat,  a  layer  of  sliced  onion,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes 
(either  canned  or  fresh).  Dust  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and 
dot  with  butter.  Continue  layers  until  all  is  used  up.  Have  a 
layer  of  cracker-meal  on  top.  Pour  over  any  gravy  you  have, 
if  not  sufficient,  use  a  little  milk  or  water.  Bake  forty-five 
minutes.    This  is  delicious  and  makes  a  good  hearty  meal. 

Mrs.  James  A.  Cummings,  Gouverneur,  N.  Y. 

Savory  Hash 

Prepare  a  dressing  as  suggested  in  Mock  Duck.  Mix  with  two 
cups  or  one  pound  of  cold,  cooked  beef,  veal  or  pork.  Mold  in 
a  bread  pan,  turn  into  a  dripping  pan,  add  a  few  slices  of  bacon 
or  pork,  or  drippings.  Bake  slowly  forty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce  or  brown  gravy. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Rowe,  Fort  Smith,  Ark. 


Escalloped  Potatoes 

Pare  and  dice  amount  of  raw  potatoes  needed.  Butter  a 
baking  dish,  put  in  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  flour  and 
salt.  Add  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  continue  as  before, 
until  pan  is  three-fourths  full.  Then  add  sufficient  cream  to 
cover  (milk  and  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of  cream).  Bake 
in  hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes.  They  should  be  brought 
to  a  boil  quickly  or  the  milk  may  curdle. 

Mrs.  Irven  Rystrom,  Stromsburg,  Nebr. 

Cheese  Potatoes 

Put  a  layer  of  sliced  cold  potatoes  into  a  baking  dish,  then  a 
layer  of  cracker-crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  specks 
of  butter  and  cheese.  Add  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  so 
on  until  all  are  used.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top.  Cover 
with  milk  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Bernice  Beeson,  Greenfield,  Ind. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Put  a  layer  of  diced  cold  potatoes  into  a  baking  dish,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  alternate  layers  of  white  sauce 
and  diced  potato.  Cover  the  top  with  buttered  bread-crumbs, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about 
twenty-five  minutes.  ^^^  j^^^  ^^^^^^  Amherst.  Mass. 

Onion  and  Potato  Hash 

Chop  fine  two  small  onions,  fry  in  meat  drippings,  when  about 
half  done  add  two  or  three  cups  of  cold  potatoes  cut  in  dice. 
Stir  all  together,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Frank  Hastings,  Saranac  Lake,  N.  Y. 
Potato  Patties 

Mash  cold  potatoes  smooth  with  a  fork.  Add  one  tablespoon 
of  flour,  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  work  all  together  and 
pat  into  thin  round  cakes.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Delicious  for  break- 
fast or  supper.  ^^^  Harvey  Chambers,  Maysyh^le,  Ky. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


VEGETABLES 


33 


Stuffed  Potatoes 

Select  six  smooth  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  wash  clean,  wipe 
and  put  into  hot  oven  to  bake.  When  thoroughly  baked,  cut 
in  halves,  scoop  out  the  inside,  take  care  not  to  tear  shells, 
mash  potato  smooth,  add  one-half  cup  cream,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  and  one  teaspoon  of  Larkin  Peanut  Butter.  Salt  to 
taste.  Beat  light,  fill  in  shells,  put  into  a  baking  pan  and  bake 
a  light  brown.  Serve  hot.  If  desired  these  can  be  prepared 
some  time  before  needed,  bake  when  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  VV.  L,  Umbarger,  Konnarock,  Va. 

Potato  Puffs 

Beat  two  cups  of  hot  mashed  potato  until  smooth.     Stir  in 

one  beaten  egg,  one  teaspoon  grated  onion  and  a  little  milk 

if  needed.     Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.     Drop  by 

spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven 

until  light  and  brown.  , ,      „  „,  „         „,  ,, 

=•  Mrs.  H.  W.  Rowe,  Watervdlle,  Maine. 

Walnut  Sweet  Potatoes 

Peel  and  boil  until  tender,  twelve  sweet  potatoes.  Cut  in 
quarters,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  baste  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  black  walnuts  coarsely  chopped.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Winnie  Howells,  Murphysboro,  III. 

Potato  Fritters 

Mix  together  two  cups  of  hot  potatoes  put  through  vegetable 
ricer,  or  mashed  very  fine,  two  eggs  beaten,  four  tablespoons 
flour  diluted  with  a  little  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin 
Salt.  Fry  in  deep  hot  fat,  about  a  dessert  spoonful  makes  a 
nice  size  fritter,  or  form  into  small  cakes  and  saut6  in  frying 
pan.     If  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  more  flour. 

Mrs.  Margaret  R.  Schutte,  Tampa,  Fla. 

Boiled  Turnips 

Peel  and  slice  the  turnips.  Cover  with  a  generous  amount  of 
boiling  water,  cook  until  tender,  not  longer.  If  they  are  to  be 
mashed,  drain  thoroughly  and  mash  with  a  wooden  potato 
masher.  Season  with  salt,  butter  and  pepper  and  serve  at 
once.  When  cooking  turnips,  two  things  should  be  kept  in 
mind:  to  add  salt  when  cooked,  and  not  to  over-cook. 
Turnips  cooked  in  salt  water  become  pink  and  develop  a  bitter 

^^^°^-  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


34 


VEGETABLES 


Peas  in  Turnip  Cups 

Hollow  out  the  centers  of  small  white  turnips.  Cut  the  edges 
in  points,  steam  or  boil  gently  until  tender.  Make  a  sauce 
with  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  of  flour  and  one  cup  of 
milk,  add  salt  and  one-half  cup  of  Larkin  Green  Peas.  When 
quite  hot  fill  the  cooked  turnips  and  serve  one  to  each  person. 

Mrs.  John  Bartl,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Baked  Peas 

Soak  one  quart  of  Larkin  Green  Peas  over  night.  In  the 
morning  parboil  and  drain.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  Larkin  Pepper,  two  teaspoons  Larkin 
Salt  and  one  pound  of  salt  pork.  Bake  in  bean  pot  adding 
water  as  you  would  for  baked  beans.  Bake  slowly  all  day. 
Serve  for  supper  with  brown  bread. 

Florence  C.  Thayer,  Stoneham,  Mass. 

To  Boil  Parsnips  and  Carrots 

Scrape  parsnips,  cut  in  halves,  put  into  cold  water.  When 
ready  to  cook,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until 
tender,  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain,  baste  them 
with  butter,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve.  Parsnips 
are  very  nice  dipped  in  batter  and  fried  in  hot  fat.  Carrots 
and  parsnips  are  good  served  in  a  cream  sauce.  Young  carrots 
will  cook  in  thirty  minutes.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

To  Cook  String  Beans 

As  you  string  and  cut  the  beans,  put  them  in  cold  water  to 
keep  crisp.  When  ready  to  cook,  put  the  beans  into  a  sauce- 
pan, add  a  piece  of  butter  such  as  you  would  use  to  season 
them,  and  a  very  little  water.  Cook  over  a  moderate  fire,  add 
salt  and  a  little  more  water  if  needed.  Keep  the  cover  on 
during  the  cooking;  add  milk  when  done  and  serve  hot.  The 
beans  will  have  an  excellent  flavor  when  cooked  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  a.  B.  De  Long,  Creston,  Iowa. 

String  Beans  with  Bacon 

Remove  the  strings  from  yellow  or  green  beans  and  cut  in 
one-inch  pieces.  Slice  two  small  onions  and  a  small  piece  of 
bacon,  add  a  pinch  of  Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper,  and  a  little 
Larkin  Salt.  Put  into  a  sauce-pan,  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  Let  the  liquor  cook  down  before  taking 
from  the  stove.  The  onion  is  not  objectionable  as  so  small 
an  amount  does  not  give  a  decided  taste.  This  is  a  good  sub- 
stitute for  a  meat  dish.  »,      t-        c  t>  -mt     , 

Mrs.  Elsie  Seacoy,  Brainerd,  Minn. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


VEGETABLES 


35 


To  Boil  Cabbage 

Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  into  four  parts,  cutting  down 
through  the  stalk.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  a  pan  of  cold  water 
to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoon  of  salt — this  is  to  draw 
out  any  insects  that  may  be  hidden  in  the  leaves.  Take  from 
the  water  and  cut  into  slices.  Have  a  large  stew-pan  half 
full  of  boiling  water;  put  in  the  cabbage,  pushing  it  under  the 
water  with  a  spoon.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  salt  and  cook  from 
twenty-five  to  forty-five  minutes,  depending  upon  the  age  of 
the  cabbage.  Turn  into  a  colander  and  drain  for  about  two 
minutes.  Put  into  a  chopping  bowl  and  mince.  Season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  more  salt  if  required.  Allow  a  tablespoon 
of  butter  to  a  generous  pint  of  the  cooked  vegetable.  Cabbage 
cooked  in  this  manner  will  be  of  delicate  flavor  and  may  be 
generally  eaten  without  distress.  Have  the  kitchen  windows 
open  at  the  top  while  the  cabbage  is  boiling  and  there  will  be 
little  if  any  odor  of  cabbage  in  the  house.  Parkin  Kitchen. 

Cabbeige  Germain  Style 

Cut  the  cabbage  on  a  slaw  cutter,  put  into  a  kettle,  add  salt  and 
about  four  tablespoons  meat  drippings  or  butter,  add  sufficient 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Cover  closely  and  steam  forty- 
five  minutes  until  tender,  but  not  soft.  Beat  one  egg  until 
light,  add  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  and  a  little  sugar.  Mix  with 
the  cabbage;  do  not  let  it  boil  or  the  egg  will  curdle.     Serve 

3.t  oncG 

Mrs.  Quincy  R.  Sherry,  Connersville,  Ind^ 

Com  Fritters 

One  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk, 

one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  one-third  teaspoon  pepper,  one 

teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  cups  Larkin  Canned  Corn.  Sift 

together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  in  a  bowl.     Separate 

the  eggs;  beat  yolks  light,  add  the  milk.     Pour  gradually  into 

the  flour  mixture  and  stir  to  a  smooth  batter.     Add  butter 

and  corn;  cut  and  fold  into  the  batter  the  stiffly-beaten  egg 

whites.     Fry  by  the  spoonful  in  deep  hot  fat.     Drain  on  soft 

paper.      Serve  at  once.      This  batter  may  also  be  used  for  fruit 

and  other  vegetables  fritters.      ht      i^        ^^  ttt 

*  Miss  Delia  Tagatz,  Wautoma,  Wis. 

Corn  Oysters 

Beat  two  eggs  light,  add  one  can  of  Larkin  Corn,  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  and  one-half  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt.  Fry  on  hot  griddle  by  the  spoonful.  Serve 
with  cold  meat  or  as  a  dessert  with  Larkin  Maple  Syrup  or 
noney.  ^^^^  Bessie  Binnall,  Dow  City,  I  a. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


36 


VEGETABLES 


Green  Corn  Pudding 

Cut  the  corn  from  six  nice  fresh  ears;  add  two  beaten  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Break  up  six 
Larkin  Soda  Crackers,  cover  with  one  pint  of  milk,  leave  for 
ten  minutes,  add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  twenty  minutes  or  until  nicely  browned.  This  is 
n"^^-  Miss  Carrie  Steltzer,  Granville,  Pa, 

Fried  Tomatoes 

Take  solid  tomatoes,  not  overripe,  and  slice  in  one-fourth-inch 
slices.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  into  beaten  egg  and 
Larkin  Cracker  Meal.  Fry  in  Larkin  Cooking  Oil  or  bacon 
fat  until  golden  brown.     Serve  with  bacon,  ham  or  steak. 

Mrs.  L.  Loeffler,  Glendale,  L.  I.,  N.  Y. 

Tomato  Cakes 

Beat  four  eggs  light.  Add  one  can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes  and 
three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. /Stir 
in  cracker-crumbs  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  drop  by  the  spoon- 
ful on  a  hot  greased  griddle.  Brown  on  both  sides.  Serve 
at  once.     Good  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

Mrs.  Mary  Chapman,  Santa  Rosa,  Fla. 

Tomatoes  and  Rice 

Steam  one  cup  of  rice  in  three  cups  of  water  until  tender,  add  one 
can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon white  pepper,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar  and  one  grated  onion.  Bring  to  a  boil,  serve  hot. 
I   ,    Will  taste  better  if  left  standing  for  one  hour  before  serving. 

Mrs.  John  M.  Ford,  Lucas,  Kansas. 

Larkin  Special 

Cut  up  one  slice  of  Larkin  Ham  and  three  onions,  in  small 
pieces.  Cook  together  in  frying  pan,  add  one  can  of  Larkin 
Tomatoes,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  when  boiling,  add 
one-half  box  of  Larkin  Noodles.  Cook  for  twenty-five  or 
thirty  minutes.     Serve  hot.      j^^^  j^^^^^  E.  West,  Glouster,  Ohio. 

Boiled  Rice 

Pick  over  one  cup  of  rice,  put  into  strainer  and  wash  thoroughly. 
For  one  cup  of  rice  allow  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  add  one 
tablespoon  salt.  Have  the  water  boiling  rapidly  during  the 
entire  time  of  cooking.  Boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  if 
the  rice  is  old  it  takes  longer  to  cook.  Drain  in  colander,  pour 
over  it  one  quart  of  hot  water,  place  on  oven  door  or  back  of 
range  to  dry  off.  Larkin  Kitchen. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


VEGETABLES 


37 


Steamed  Rice 

Put  three  cups  of  boiling  water  into  Larkin  Double-Boiler  No. 
210.  Sprinkle  in  one  cup  of  rice  which  has  been  washed  and 
drained,  add  one  teaspoon  salt.  Steam  for  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar.  Milk  may  be  used  in 
place  of  water,  if  desired.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Baked  Rice 

To  serve  with  chicken  or  as  a  vegetable.  Wash  one  cup  of 
rice,  drain  and  put  into  a  buttered  dish  or  casserole,  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  pour  two  and  one-half  cups  of  water  over 
it.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  one-half  hour.  Uncover 
and  steam  dry.  Lay  slices  of  Larkin  Bacon  over  the  top,  place 
in  oven  until  brown,  serve  hot.    mrs.  Philip  Gokey,  Mooers,  N.  Y. 

Rice  Croquettes 

Take  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  cooked  rice  or  one-half  cup  of 
uncooked  rice  and  steam  in  double  sauce-pan,  when  tender  add 
a  beaten  egg,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice  or  one-half  teaspoon 
Larkin  Onion  Extract,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  ground  nutmeg.  Mix  thoroughly  together, 
spread  on  a  shallow  plate  to  cool.  When  cold  cut  in  small 
squares,  dip  in  cracker-crumbs,  beaten  egg  then  cracker-crumbs 
again.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Dish  on  hot  platter,  garnish  with  green 
peas.     This  makes  a  very  attractive  supper  dish. 

Mrs.  Florence  G.  Chipman,  Attleboro,  Mass. 

Rice  and  Pimentos 

Boil  one  cup  of  Larkin  Rice  in  salted  water  until  tender,  chop 
fine  one-half  can  of  Larkin  Pimentos.  Slice  thin  or  grate  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  Larkin  Cheese.  Beat  two  eggs  light,  add 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Salt  and  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  Black  Pepper.  Mix  altogether  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Starl  D,  Cook,  Lansing,  Mich. 
Spanish  Peppers 

Prepare  six  large  sweet  peppers.  Boil  one  cup  of  Larkin  Rice 
until  soft,  add  one-half  pound  chopped  round  steak,  dice  six 
slices  of  Larkin  Bacon,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly  and  fill  the  peppers.  Strain 
one  can  of  Larkin  Tomatoes,  add  a  little  water  and  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Stand  the  filled  peppers  in  a 
baking  dish,  surround  with  the  tomato  sauce  and  cook  gently 
until  soft  (about  twenty-five  minutes).  Rice,  bacon,  salt, 
pepper,  tomatoes,  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  were  all  bought 
from  Larkin  Co.  Mrs.  C.  Adams,  Harrisburg,  Pa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Ofily.    See  Page  6. 


38 


VEGETABLES 


Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

For  eight  good-sized  peppers,  use  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  halibut 
or  any  other  white  fish.  Mix  with  a  white  sauce  made  of  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and 
one-half  pint  of  milk.  Season  with  Larkin  Pepper  and  Salt 
and  a  few  drops  of  Worcestershire  Sauce.  Add  one  raw  egg 
slightly  beaten,  cook  for  two  minutes,  and  fill  prepared  peppers. 
Put  bread-crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.         ^^^^  ^  j  lawall,  Newark,  N.  J. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Peppers 

Six  large  peppers,  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  one  cup  bread-crumbs, 
one  large  onion,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  celery 
salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  one  tablespoon  butter. 
Remove  top  and  seeds  and  soak  the  peppers  in  salt  water  for 
two  hours.  Mix  together  tomatoes  and  bread-crumbs,  grate 
half  of  the  onion,  add  seasonings,  mix  thoroughly  and  stuff  the 
peppers.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  with  the  rest  of  the  onion  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Add  a  little  pork  fat  or  butter  and  a  very  little 
water.     Bake  slowly  one-half  hour,  basting  often. 

Mrs.  W.  a.  Tindall,  Maryville,  Mo. 

Baked  Beans 

Take  one  pint  of  Larkin  Pea  Beans,  soak  over  night  in  cold 
water.  Drain  and  add  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  put  on 
fire  and  when  they  begin  to  boil,  drain  off  water,  add  cold  water 
as  before,  also  one  small  onion  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  salt 
and  two  or  three  slices  of  Larkin  Bacon.  Cook  until  beans  are 
almost  done,  add  two  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Canned  Tomatoes, 
two  tablespoons  Larkin  Molasses,  and  a  pinch  of  Larkin  Soda. 
Put  in  covered  baking  dish,  arranging  slices  of  bacon  on  top,  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper.  Bake  four  or  five  hours,  adding  hot  water 
as  needed  to  keep  moist.      ^^^^  g  p^  Monahan,  Bridgeport,  Conn. 

Bciked  Beans  with  Meat 

Cover  one  quart  of  Larkin  Dried  Beans  with  cold  water  and 
soak  over  night.  Drain,  add  water  to  cover,  parboil  until 
skins  crack  when  blown  on.  Drain  the  beans  and  cover  the 
bottom  of  Larkin  Double-Boiler  No.  210,  three  inches  deep 
with  beans.  Add  one  large  onion,  one-half  pound  of  salt  pork 
and  one-half  pound  of  fresh  pork  (shank  is  good).  Add  remain- 
der of  beans,  two  tablespoons  molasses,  maple  syrup  or  brown 
sugar,  also  a  little  salt.  Add  the  strained  juice  from  one  can 
of  tomatoes.     Boil  gently  all  day  until  supper  time. 

Belle  D.  Robinson,  Williamstown,  Vt. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


VEGETABLES 


39 


A  New  Supper  Dish 

Take  one  can  of  Larkin  Pork  and  Beans,  four  potatoes,  one 
onion  finely  chopped,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Celery  Salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin  Pepper.  Cut  each  potato  in  four 
pieces,  put  all  ingredients  into  sauce-pan.  Add  two  cups  of 
boiling  water;  cook  thirty  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Sufficient  for 
five  people.     Cheap  and  nourishing. 

Mrs.  J.  K.  Foster,  Seaford,  Va. 

Chafing-Dish  Special 

Put  two  tablespoons  butter  in  the  chafing-dish,  add  one  cup  of 
Larkin  Pork  and  Beans  which  have  been  mashed  thoroughly 
through  a  sieve.  Add  gradually  one  cup  of  milk;  when  quite 
hot  and  well  blended  add  one  cup  of  diced  cheese  or  scraps  of 
dry  cheese  grated.  Two  tablespoons  of  Larkin  Chili  Sauce 
improves  the  flavor  and  should  be  added  with  the  cheese.  It 
is  ready  to  serve  when  the  cheese  is  melted. 

Mrs.  Leslie  E.  Bushnell,  New  London,  Conn. 

Baked  Lentils 

Soak  two  cups  of  dry  lentils  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  and  add  one  quart  of  hot  water.  When  the  water 
boils  the  lentils  will  rise  to  the  top.  Lift  out  with  a  skimmer 
and  put  them  in  a  Larkin  Casserole  or  a  Baking  Dish. 
Place  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  in  the  center  of  the 
lentils,  and  one  small  onion.  Mix  three  teaspoons  salt  and 
fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  pepper  with  two  cups  of  boiling  water. 
Add  to  lentils.  The  lentils  must  be  kept  moist.  If  necessary 
add  a  little  more  water  during  the  cooking.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  six  to  ten  hours,  or  in  a  Larkin  Fireless  Cooker  ten  hours. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Lentil  Croquettes 

Soak  one  cup  of  lentils  and  one-half  cup  of  Larkin  Red 
Beans  over  night,  drain,  add  two  cups  of  water.  Cut  up 
one  small  onion,  one  small  head  of  celery,  one  small  carrot, 
and  three  sprigs  of  parsley.  Cook  until  quite  soft,  then  press 
through  a  sieve,  add  one  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  one  beaten 
egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Make  a  sauce  by  creaming 
together  three  tablespoons  of  butter  and  three  tablespoons  of 
flour,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  cream,  (Larkin  Evaporated 
Milk  may  be  used).  Stir  until  boiling,  add  to  lentil  mixture. 
Mix  thoroughly,  cool,  shape,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry 
in  Larkin  Cooking  Oil.     Drain  on  soft  paper.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Conover,  Gambrills,  Md. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


40 


VEGETABLES 


Lentil  Stew 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  cup  of  lentils,  soak  over  night 
in  a  quart  of  water.  The  next  morning  put  them  on  the  fire 
and  simmer  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked.  This 
will  take  about  three  hours.  Add  any  vegetables  you  have  on 
hand.  I  use  a  small  onion  and  one  potato.  A  little  left-over 
meat  or  gravy  or  both  added  to  stew  during  the  last  half  hour 
gives  it  a  delicious  flavor.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces. 
Keep  just  enough  water  on  lentils  so  they  will  not  burn.  Add 
salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste,  before  serving.  We  have 
this  meal  instead  of  meat  at  short  intervals  and  find  it  very 
satisfactory.  To  cook  with  ham  or  corned  beef  prepare  in 
the  same  way,  using  more  water. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Young,  No.  Tonawanda,  N.  Y. 

A  Good  Supper  Dish 

Boil  one  cup  of  lentils  as  directed  in  recipe  for  Lentil  Stew. 
Boil  an  equal  quantity  of  rice.  While  these  are  cooking, 
prepare  a  pint  of  sauce  by  using  two  cups  of  Larkin  Canned 
Tomatoes,  a  small  piece  of  bay  leaf,  a  fair-sized  onion  chopped 
fine  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Cook  slowly  for  thirty  minutes,  then 
thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour  blended  with  three  of  butter. 
Carefully  add  the  hot  stock.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
pour  over  the  lentils  and  rice.  Place  the  rice  around  the  edge 
of  platter  and  pile  the  lentils  in  the  center.  Will  serve  four  or 
five  people.  Larkin  Kitchen. 


SMADS  AND 


Potato  Salad 

Cut  six  medium-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes,  three  hard-boiled 

eggs,  one  onion,  and  one  head  celery,  in  small  pieces,  and  mix 

thoroughly    with    boiled    dressing.     Serve    on    lettuce    hearts; 

garnish  with  small  radishes.        „  „  „  ^^  „  ^ 

°  Helena  E.  Pierson,  Norwood,  R.  I, 

Vegetable  Salad 

Two  cups  cabbage,  one  cup  celery,  one  cup  cucumbers,  one  large 
onion,  one  cup  cold  boiled  potatoes,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  all 
finely  cut,  and  two  green  peppers  cut  in  rings.  Serve  with 
boiled  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Moorman,  Lawrenceburg,  Ind. 

Combination  Salad 

Chop  fine  two  sweet  peppers,  five  good-sized  apples,  four  pieces 
or  stalks  of  tender  celery.  Remove  the  pulp  from  six  tomatoes 
and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  with  salad  dressing. 
Fill   the   tomato  shells  with   the   mixture.     Serve   on   lettuce 

Mrs.  Jno.  P.  Grant,  Delaware,  Okla. 

Larkin  Tomato  Salad 

Put  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Gelatine  to  soak  in  one-half  cup 
cold  water.  Heat  one  can  Larkin  Tomato  Soup,  add  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  few  drops  Larkin  Onion  Extract. 
Add  the  softened  gelatine;  mold  in  small  cups.  When  firm 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  Larkin  Salad  Dressing. 

Mrs.  August  Halberslaben,  Madison,  Wis. 

Cabbage  Salad 

Cut  a  hard  cabbage  into  halves  and  then  with  a  very  sharp 
knife  shred  fine  the  desired  quantity;  as  you  shred  it  put  it 
into  a  bowl  of  very  cold  water  and  leave  for  two  hours.  It 
will  be  more  crisp  if  you  change  the  water  once  or  twice.  When 
ready  to  serve,  put  into  a  cloth  and  swing  around  until  dry. 
Mix  with  simple  dressing  and  serve  at  once,  or  the  cabbage 
will  lose  its  crispness.     Celery  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Mrs.  G.  K.  Garrett,  Pequea,  Pa. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


42 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 


Combination  Cabbage  Salad 

Soak  one-half  package  Larkin  Gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes,  add  one  quart  boiling  water,  one  cup 
vinegar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoon 
salt.  When  cold  add  two  cups  cabbage  shredded  fine,  one  and 
one-half  cups  celery  cut  fine  and  one-fourth  can  Larkin  Pimentos 
cut  fine.  Pour  into  small  teacups.  When  firm  serve  on  lettuce 
with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  into  which  has  been  stirred 
sufficient  Larkin  Salad  Dressing  to  flavor.  When  preparing 
this  just  for  ourselves,  I  pour  it  into  a  meat  pan  and  cut  in 
squares  to  serve.     This  should  be  served  with  the  meat  course. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Clark,  KNOXvn.LE,  I  a. 

Cream  Slaw 

Slice  or  chop  one  quart  of  cabbage,  keep  in  cold  water  until 
ready  to  serve.  Put  one-fourth  cup  vinegar,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  sugar,  and  four  tablespoons  butter  into  a 
sauce-pan  on  the  fire.  Beat  one  egg  light,  mix  with  one  table- 
spoon flour,  add  one  cup  sweet  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the 
hot  vinegar  to  this,  cook  until  thickened  and  pour  over  the  crisp 
cabbage.     Serve  at  once.       ^^^  ^  ^  ^^^^^  g^  Pasadena,  Calif. 

Simple  Dressing  for  Cabbage 

A  very  good  dressing  to  serve  with  cabbage  is  whipped  cream, 
either  sweet  or  sour,  into  which  has  been  stirred  sufficient 
vinegar  to  make  it  tart,  and  a  little  sugar,  salt  and  paprika. 
Do  not  mix  with  the  cabbage  until  serving  time.  This  dressing 
is  also  good  with  lettuce.  ^^^  ^  ^  ^^^^^^^  p^^^^^^  p^^ 

Bean  Salad  No.  1 

Drain  liquor  from  one  can  Larkin  Red  Kidney  Beans,  add  one 
head  of  celery  or  three  chopped  onions.  Chop  four  hard-boiled 
eggs,  one  dozen  small  sweet  pickles,  and  one  cup  nut  meats. 
Mix  all  together  and  add  hot  mayonnaise  made  as  follows: 
Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  scant  cup  weak  vinegar, 
two  teaspoons  Larkin  Corn  Starch,  four  tablespoons  butter, — 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly. 

Mrs.  Kooch  Wilson,  Attica,  Ind. 

Bean  Salad  No.  2 

Empty  one  can  Larkin  Red  Kidney  Beans,  rinse  with  cold 
water.  Add  one  cup  Larkin  StufTed  Manzanilla  Olives  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  one  cup  diced  celery.  Mix  all  thoroughly 
and  serve  with  Larkin  Salad  Dressing  on  lettuce  leaves, 

Mrs.  Walter  R.  Holloway,  Murphysboro,  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS        43 

Bean  Salad  No.  3 

One  can  Larkin  Pork  and  Beans,  two  cups  of  diced  boiled  ham, 
one  good-sized  Spanish  onion,  one  large  sweet  green  pepper,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  when  ready  to 
serve,  place  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  good 
dressing.  Hard-boiled  eggs  may  also  be  placed  on  top.  This 
is  a  very  fine  dish  for  a  Sunday  night  tea. 

Mrs.  Geo.  S.  Brain,  Jersey  City,  N.  J. 

Salad  Delight 

Wash  one  cup  Larkin  Rice ;  put  on  to  cook  in  two  quarts  boiling 
salted  water.  Cook  until  tender  but  do  not  allow  it  to  become 
too  soft.  Drain,  and  pour  one  quart  boiling  water  through  the 
rice.  Dry  on  the  oven  door  shaking  occasionally  to  keep 
separated.  Allow  two  tablespoons  rice  to  one  tablespoon 
salted  ground  almonds.  Place  on  lettuce  leaves,  cut  four 
oranges  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  sugar  to  form  juice.  Put 
one  tablespoon  juice  with  several  small  pieces  of  orange,  over 
rice.  Then  add  one  tablespoon  cream  salad  dressing.  Place  a 
very  thin  slice  of  orange  on  top  and  a  salted  almond  on  the  orange. 
Serve  with  tea  and  wafers  for  a  lunch  at  a  Club-of-Ten  party. 

Florence  Thayer,  Stoneham,  Mass. 

Miscellaneous  ScJad 

One-quarter  pound  mild  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  or  grated; 
add  three-fourths  cup  chopped  sweet  pickles,  one  cup  chopped 
celery,  and  one  cup  broken  walnut  meats.  Add  sufficient 
boiled  dressing  to  mix.  ^^^^  ^  j^^^^^^  p^^^^^^  ^^ 

Chicken  Scdad  No.  1 

Cut  cold  boiled  chicken  in  dice,  add  an  equal  amount  of  celery  cut 
fine  and  one  cup  blanched  almonds  cut  in  halves.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Stir  into  this  a  few  tablespoons  mayonnaise; 
set  away  for  an  hour  or  more.  Just  before  serving,  arrange 
on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  thick  mayonnaise.  Garnish 
with  celery  tips,  Larkin  Olives,  and  Pimentos  cut  in  strips. 

Mrs.  Sadie  Chamberlain,  Pontiac,  III. 

Chicken  Salad  No.  2 

One  cup  chicken  meat  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  cucumber  cut 
in  cubes,  one  cup  English  walnut  meats  broken  in  pieces,  one- 
half  can  Larkin  Peas,  and  two  cups  celery  cut  in  strips.  Mix 
with  a  silver  fork,  add  one  cup  good  salad  dressing.  Serve 
very  cold  in  nests  of  lettuce.  Garnish  with  Larkin  Pimentos 
cut  m  points.  ^^^^  j^^  Hauser,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


44        SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 

Chicken  Salad  No.  3 

Mix  together  one  can  Larkin  Deviled  Chicken  and  twice  the 
amount  of  crisp  chopped  cabbage.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon 
Larkin  Celery  Salt.     Use  a  good  salad  dressing,  serve  on  lettuce 

Mrs.  Ernest  C.  Thurmond,  Ash  Grove,  Mo. 

Salmon  Salad  No.  1 

Flake  one  can  Larkin  Salmon,  add  four  medium-sized  cooked 
potatoes  cut  in  cubes,  four  Larkin  Pickles  cut  into  small  pieces, 
two  cups  finely-cut  cabbage.  Make  a  dressing  with  yolks  of 
two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  pepper,  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Mustard,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  and  four  tablespoons  Larkin  Vinegar.  Put  into  a 
Larkin  Double-Boiler,  stir  until  thickened,  cool,  add  sufificient 
milk  to  thin  out.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Sarah  E.  Burns,  Swathmore,  Pa. 

Salmon  Salad  No.  2 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  two  mashed  potatoes,  one 
can  Larkin  Red  Alaska  Salmon,  four  sour  pickles  chopped  fine. 
Mix  all  together  with  a  good  boiled  dressing  flavored  with 
Larkm  Celery  Salt.  ^^^^  Nettie  L.  Raney,  Tullahoma,  Tenn. 

Marshmallow  Salad 

Cut  up  one-half  pound  Larkin  Marshmallows,  pour  over  them 
one-half  can  Larkin  Pineapple,  grated.  Stand  this  aside 
several  hours.  Then  add  three  sliced  bananas,  one-fourth 
pound  chopped  walnut  meats,  two  oranges  cut  in  pieces,  add 
one-half  cup  whipped  cream.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 
This  is  delicious.  ^j^3  g  ^  Albrecht.  Jamaica.  N.  Y. 

Fruit  Salad  Supreme 

One-half  package  Larkin  Gelatine  and  pink  coloring  powder. 
One-half  cup  cold  water.  Three  cups  freshly-boiled  water. 
Juice  of  one  lemon.  One  cup  sugar.  Three  bananas.  Two 
oranges.  Moisten  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  sugar,  juice  of 
lemon,  pink  coloring  powder  and  boiling  water.  Put  half  of 
this  into  mold.  When  this  begins  to  set,  slice  the  bananas 
and  arrange  them  in  it.  Then  take  the  other  half  which  has 
started  to  set  and  beat  until  light  and  fluffy  as  whipped  cream. 
Pour  this  on  the  first  half  and  arrange  the  oranges  cut  in  sec- 
tions on  the  top.     Any  canned  fruit  may  be  used  in  place  of 

^^^^"*  Mrs.  Percy  S.  Macumber,  Corning,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 


45 


Fruit  Salad  No.  1 

Peel  and  dice  three  bananas,  one  orange,  and  one  small  apple. 
Cut  in  cubes  one-half  can  Larkin  Pineapple.  Chop  one-half 
cup  English  walnut  meats,  add  one  cup  Larkin  Canned  Peaches, 
and  three  tablespoons  cherry  preserves.  Mix  all  together  using 
a  silver  fork,  sprinkle  one  cup  granulated  sugar  over  the  fruit. 
Thicken  the  fruit  juice  with  corn  starch,  allowing  one  table- 
spoon corn  starch  to  one  cup  of  juice.  Add  sugar  if  needed 
and  one  tablespoon  butter;  when  quite  cold  pour  over  the 
fruit.      Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  sherbet  glasses  for  dessert. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Barlow,  Farmington,  III. 

Fruit  Salad  No.  2 

Four  bananas,  two  oranges,  three  apples,  one-half  can  pine- 
apple, one-half  cup  English  walnuts,  one  cup  marshmallows. 
Cut  the  fruit,  nuts  and  marshmallows  in  pieces,  and  mix  all 
together  (except  the  nuts).  Add  nuts  just  before  serving  as 
they  turn  the  salad  dark  if  put  in  too  soon.  Mix  with  cream 
dressing  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  Bernice  Beeson,  Greenfield,  Ind. 

White  Grape  Salad 

Halve  and  seed  one  pound  white  grapes.  Cut  up  quite  fine 
the  best  part  of  two  heads  of  celery  and  the  meat  from  one-half 
pound  English  walnuts.  Mix  with  cream  or  French  salad 
dressing.     Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  Frank  S.  Merrill,  Bristol,  Conn. 
Cherry  Salad 

Stone  one-half  pound  cherries,  saving  all  juice.     Dice  a  small 

cucumber,  chop  fine  a  dozen  blanched  almonds.     Cook  together 

until  slightly  thick,  one  cup  cherry  juice,  two  tablespoons  lemon 

juice,   and   one-half   cup   sugar.     When   cool   add    two   drops 

Larkin  Almond  Extract  and  when  quite  cold  add  to  the  salad 

mixture,  mixing  gently  with  two  silver  forks.     Serve  on  crisp 

lettuce  leaves.     Canned  cherries  may  be  used  when  fresh  ones 

are  not  in  season.  n^r^^  c-„..,^^   u.  r>  xt  ir 

Mrs.  Frances  Hauser,  Rochester,  N.  Y, 

Pineapple  Salad 

One  can  Larkin  Sliced  Pineapple.  One  head  of  crisp  lettuce,  one 
bottle  Maraschino  cherries.  Make  a  nest  of  two  blanched  lettuce 
leaves  on  individual  salad  plates.  Put  one  slice  of  pineapple  on 
each  plate,  cover  with  cream  salad  dressing,  and  put  a  cherry  in 
center  of  each  piece.  Sprinkle  with  ground  walnuts.  This  is  a 
very  pretty  salad  and  most  delicious.  Canned  Bartlett  Pears 
with  a  sprinkling  of  lemon  juice,  may  be  substituted  for  the 
pineapple.  j^jsg  £^^  l.  Davidson,  Cherryvale,  Kansas. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


46 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 


Banana  Salad 

Remove  skins  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise  as  many  bananas  as 
are  needed,  allowing  one-half  banana  for  each  person.  Mix 
Larkin  Salad  Dressing  with  whipped  cream,  roll  banana  in 
the  dressing,  then  in  chopped  nuts.  Walnuts,  peanuts,  or 
pecans,  may  be  used.  Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  A  small  spoon- 
ful of  the  dressing  may  be  placed  on  the  side  of  the  plates  and 
also  two  Larkin  Saltines.  ^^^  j^^  ^yler,  Plainfield.  N.  J. 

September  Salad 

Pare,  core  and  chop  two  ripe  apples  and  one  sweet  red  or  green 
pepper.  Add  one  cup  diced  celery,  two  tablespoons  chopped 
onion,  two  teaspoons  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  one  cup 
Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut,  Mix  thoroughly.  Serve  with 
French  or  cooked  salad  dressing  in  tomato  shells  or  on  lettuce 

1g3.VGS 

iv-avv-o.  Mrs.  Pearl  M.  Hacker,  Council  Bluffs,  I  a. 

Tomato  Surprise 

Peel  three  tomatoes  and  carefully  scoop  out  the  centers.  Place 
them  upside  down  to  drain.  Wash,  dry  and  cut  in  one-inch 
pieces,  four  sticks  of  celery  from  a  firm  stalk.  Break  six  eggs 
into  a  large  bowl;  beat  quite  light.  Add  to  them  one-half  tea- 
spoon Larkin  Salt,  a  few  grains  of  Cayenne  Pepper,  one-half 
teaspoon  Larkin  Onion  Extract,  four  tablespoons  milk.  Pour 
into'  buttered  pan  and  cook  as  for  scrambled  eggs.  When 
cooked,  add  the  celery  and  the  tomato  pulp  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Fill  the  tomato  with  the  mixture  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  Larkin  Salad  Dressing.      ^^^^  j^_  ^  Thomson,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Lobster  Salad 

Open  one  can  Larkin  Lobster  and  turn  out  on  a  china  dish. 
Cut  into  cubes.  Add  three  hard-boiled  eggs  coarsely  chopped. 
Mix  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Salad  Dressing  with  one  cup 
whipped  cream.  Mix  ingredients  carefully  together.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves,  garnish  with  three  half  slices  of  tomatoes. 
Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  sweet  green  peppers  and  serve 
with  Larkin  Saltines.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Meat  Relish  No.  1 

To  three  quarts  chopped  cooked  beets,  take  one  quart  raw 
cabbage  chopped,  one  cup  grated  horseradish,  two  cups  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  Larkin  Salt.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  put  in  a  jar 
and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.     This  is  easy  to  make  and  very 

^°  Mrs.  W.  C.  Obendorf,  Sterling,  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS        47 

Meat  Relish  No.  2 

Take  one-half  can  Larkin  Pimentos,  three  cups  cabbage,  nine 
sour  pickles,  two  small  onions.  Squeeze  out  the  vinegar  from 
the  pickles  and  put  all  the  ingredients  through  a  Larkin  Food- 
Chopper.  Mix  together  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar 
and  one-half  cup  vinegar  (or  vinegar  and  water  mixed,  depend- 
ing on  the  strength  of  the  vinegar).  Stir  all  together  and  leave 
for  one  hour  before  serving.     Excellent  with  cold  meat. 

Mrs.  K.  K.  Haggstrom,  Cheyenne,  Wyo. 

Tomato  and  String  Bean  Salad 

Scald  and  remove  skins  from  six  firm  tomatoes,  cool,  cut  a 
slice  off  one  end  and  gently  scoop  out  inside.  Have  one  pint 
of  fresh  string  beans  boiled  in  salted  water  and  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  with  tomato  pulp.  Make  a  dressing  with  one 
tablespoon  of  oil,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  Larkin 
Tomato  Catsup,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper.  Add  to  this  one  tablespoon  Larkin  Gelatine;  dissolve 
in  one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Mix  well,  cool,  add  to  string 
beans,  and  fill  tomato  cases.  Put  away  on  Ice  a  couple  of  hours 
before  using.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  a.  J.  Lawall,  Newark,  N.  J. 

Cooked  Dressing 

Stir  together  one  tablespoon  Larkin  Dry  Mustard,  one  table- 
spoon Larkin  Corn  Starch,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
Larkin  Salt,  a  few  specks  of  Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper  and  a 
pinch  of  Larkin  Soda.  Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup 
milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  and  lastly  (beating  constantly) 
one  cup  weak  vinegar.     Cook  until  thick  and  creamy,  stirring 

all  the  time.  iv^       t        tt  r^  ^      ^ 

Mrs.  John  H.  Fitzpatrick,  Old  Chatham,  N.  Y. 

Uncooked  Dressing 

Stir  together  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Prepared  Mustard,  two  tea- 
spoons sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-quarter  teaspoon 
Larkin  White  Pepper.  Add  one  cup  Larkin  Evaporated  Milk; 
mix  thoroughly,  then  slowly  add  three  tablespoons  Larkin 
Vinegar.     Mix  well  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  Geo,  Raupp,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Dressing  for  Cabbage 

Mix  together  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin 
Mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt  and  one  beaten  egg. 
Add  four  tablespoons  vinegar  and  eight  tablespoons  cream. 
Cook  until  thick  in  a  double-boiler,  stirring  constantly. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Noller,  Troy,  N.  Y. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


48 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 


Easy  Mayonnaise 

I  have  discovered  that  when  oil  dressing  is  made  in  the  following 
manner  it  never  fails.  To  the  yolks  of  two  fresh  eggs,  add  one 
tablespoon  vinegar,  beat  well,  then  add  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-half  cup  or  more  Larkin  Olive  Oil;  beat  constantly 
while  pouring  it  in.  The  old-fashioned  way  is  to  drop  the  oil 
in  very  slowly  but  if  the  vinegar  is  added  to  the  eggs  first,  the 
oil  may  be  poured  in  much  faster,  and  the  mayonnaise  will  never 
curdle.  Season  with  Larkin  Celery  Salt,  Larkin  Onion  Extract, 
Mustard  or  any  other  seasoning  you  prefer. 

Mrs.  Melvin  Smith,  Avon,  N.  Y. 
Crecimy  Salad  Dressing 

Put  into  a  double  sauce-pan  four  lightly-beaten  eggs,  and  one- 
half  cup  each  of  vinegar  and  water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  thick, 
then  add  one-half  cup  butter.  Mix  together  one  teaspoon  each 
of  Larkin  Mustard  and  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  white  or  cayenne 
pepper.  Add  a  spoonful  of  the  cooked  dressing  to  these  season- 
ings and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  balance  of  dressing  and  thor- 
oughly mix.  Thin  with  milk  or  cream  as  needed.  Use  more 
vinegar  if  liked  quite  sour.  Whipped  cream  folded  into  this 
makes  a  very  light  dressing  for  salad.  This  will  keep  for  weeks 
in  a  Mason  jar  if  screwed  down  tight  and  left  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Eva  S.  Pugh,  Brownell,  Kans. 

Sue's  Salad  Dressing 

Mix  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Mustard,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Add  one-half  cup  vinegar  and  cook  until 
thick.  Then  fold  in  the  stifily-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Cook  for  two  minutes,  cool,  thin  out  with  milk  or  cream  as 
needed.     The  beaten  whites  insure  a  light,  fluffy  dressing. 

Miss  Sue  Miller,  Edenville,  Pa. 

Peanut  Dressing 

Mix  together  in  a  small  bowl  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Peanut 
Butter,  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoons  cold 
water,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Salad  Dressing  and  one-eighth 
teaspoon  Larkin  Salt.  This  is  a  delicious  dressing  to  serve  on 
lettuce,  onions,  cabbage,  etc. 

Mrs.  Alex.  Jackson,  Favetteville,  N.  Car. 

French  Dressing 

Rub  a  small  bowl  with  garlic  or  onion,  then  put  in  one-half 
teaspoon  Larkin  Salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  Larkin  White 
Pepper,  Mustard,  Sugar  and  paprika,  add  six  tablespoons 
Larkin  Olive  Oil,  stir  in  drop  by  drop  two  tablespoons  Larkin 
Vinegar.     If  the  oil  floats,  too  much  vinegar  has  been  used. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS        w 

Mother's  Salad  Dressing 

Cook  three  eggs  until  hard ;  cover  with  cold  water.  Take  one- 
half  can  Larkin  Evaporated  Milk  (Baby  Size),  slowly  add  one- 
half  cup  Larkin  Cider  Vinegar  to  the  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
a  dash  of  pepper  and  one  tablespoon  granulated  sugar.  Shell 
the  eggs,  cut  in  half,  remove  yolks  and  mash  very  fine.  Add 
to  above  mixture.  Cut  whites  of  eggs  into  rings  for  garnishing. 
This  is  delicious  on  lettuce  or  raw  cabbage. 

Mrs.  Clayton  E.  Hackett,  Marshalltown,  Iowa. 

Dressing  for  Two 

Put  three  teaspoons  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mustard,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Celery  Salt  and  a  little  pepper  into  a 
bowl,  add  one  egg,  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Now  add 
three  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and 
water,  cook  in  double  sauce-pan  until  thick.  When  cool  thin 
with  milk  or  cream.  mrs.  Cora  Edwards,  Memphis,  Tenn. 

Salad  Suggestions 

A  person  with  ingenuity  will  make  a  salad  with  whatever 
happens  to  be  on  hand.     Here  are  a  few  suggestions: 

Equal  parts  of  white  grapes  (seeded)  and  diced  bananas. 

Juicy  apples  and  oranges,  cut  in  dice.  Add  a  few  Maraschino 
cherries. 

Hard-boiled  eggs,  celery  and  English  walnuts. 

Apples,  oranges  and  blanched  almonds. 

Marshmallows,  walnuts  and  pineapple. 

Tuna  Fish,  celery  and  boiled  dressing. 

Chopped  beets,  cabbage  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Cabbage  and  apples,  boiled  dressing. 


To  Boil  Eggs 

Eggs  are  cooked  in  many  ways,  but  for  cooking  in  the  shell 
there  is  no  better  way  than  to  put  the  egg  into  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  cover,  stand  in  a  warm  place,  leave  for  six  minutes, 
when  the  eggs  will  be  cooked  through,  but  soft;  if  liked  very 
soft,  allow  less  time.  Be  sure  to  have  enough  water,  according 
to  the  number  of  eggs;  if  two  eggs  are  needed  use  one  quart  of 
water,  and  so  on  accordingly.  To  cook  eggs  hard  leave  them 
in  the  water  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Then  put  them  in  cold 
water  for  five  minutes.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

To  Turn  and  Fold  an  Omelet 

Tip  pan  so  as  to  bring  one  side  of  omelet  higher  than  the  other. 
Place  spatula  under  higher  side  and  tipping  pan  to  almost  a 
vertical  position,  carefully  fold  over.  If  a  half-inch  cut  is  first 
made  at  each  end  of  fold,  the  omelet  folds  more  easily  and  with- 
out breaking.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Poached  Eggs 

Have  a  shallow  pan  nearly  full  of  boiling  salted  water,  remove 
scum  and  reduce  temperature  until  water  is  motionless;  break 
an  egg  into  a  saucer  and  slip  into  the  water;  when  a  film  has 
formed  over  the  yolk  and  the  white  is  firm,  take  up  with  a 
skimmer  and  place  on  toast  which  has  been  trimmed  into  shape. 
A  much  easier  way  is  to  use  Larkin  Double-Boiler  and  Egg- 
Poacher  which  poaches  five  eggs  at  one  time.       larkin  Kitchen. 

French  Omelet 

To  four  eggs  allow  three-fourths  cup  cold  water, — salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the  water 
and  thoroughly  mix.  Pour  into  hot  greased  frying  pan,  run 
spatula  around  the  edges  and  lift  slightly  to  allow  the  thin 
part  to  run  underneath.     Serve  at  once  on  a  hot  platter. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


EGGS 


51 


Puffy  Omelet 

Separate  three  eggs;  with  the  yolks,  put  a  little  pepper,  salt 
and  one  tablespoon  cold  water;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth; 
lightly  mix  in  the  yolks.  Make  a  pan  rather  hot,  grease  lightly, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  cook  three  minutes  on  hot  stove,  then 
place  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook  until  just  setting;  fold  over  and 
turn  onto  a  hot  platter.  If  your  oven  is  not  hot  turn  the  omelet 
carefully  over  and  finish  cooking  on  top  of  stove.  Minced  ham, 
or  beef,  with  a  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  is  very  good,  either 
stirred  into  the  mixture  or  placed  on  the  top.  Grated  cheese  is 
very  nice  sprinkled  over  the  omelet  just  as  you  put  it  in  the  oven. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Corn  Omelet 

Use  rule  given  for  puffy  omelet.     Fold  in  one-half  cup  canned 

corn;  take  care  not  to  stir  the  mixture. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Bread-Cnimb  Omelet 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs.     Beat  the  yolks 

light,  add  to  them  one-half  cup  fine  bread-crumbs,  one-fourth 

teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  of  pepper  and  one-half  cup  milk. 

Then   fold   in   the   stifffy-beaten   whites.     Put   two   teaspoons 

butter  into  a  smooth  frying  pan,  when  hot  pour  in  the  omelet 

and  cook  over  a  slow  fire.     Use  a  Larkin  Spatula  to  turn  the 

omelet  or  put  into  hot  oven  to  finish  the  cooking.     Fold  into 

a  half  circle  and  serve  at  once  as  any  egg  mixture  falls  if  left 

standing.  r,  a   r, 

Bertha  A.  Bottner,  Petrolia,  Pa. 

Stuffed  Eggs 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.     Cover  with  cold  water  for  five 

minutes.   Shell  the  eggs,  cut  in  halves,  remove  yolks,  add  to  yolks 

one  teaspoon  Larkin  Prepared  Mustard,  a  few  specks  of  Larkin 

Black  Pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  butter, 

and  sufficient  milk  or  cream  to  moisten.     Fill  each  hollow  where 

yolks  were  removed.     Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish 

with  chopped  beets.  TVTr.r.TVT  t^  ^ 

^^  Mrs.  B.  p.  Monahan,  Bridgeport,  Conn. 

Savory  Eggs 

Chop  fine  one  small  onion  and  one  tomato.  Cook  in  frying  pan 
in  small  amount  of  fat  until  brown.  Separate  four  eggs,  add 
to  the  yolks  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  two  tablespoons  cold  water.  Beat  the  whites  lightly,  mix 
with  the  yolks,  add  to  the  tomato  in  the  frying  pan  and  cook 
gently,  as  for  scrambled  eggs.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  G.  Nomdeden,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


52 


EGGS 


Spanish  Eggs 

Cook  six  eggs  until  hard,  remove  shells,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise, 
take  out  and  mash  yolks  smooth.  Add  three  teaspoons  melted 
butter,  three  Larkin  Sardines  rubbed  to  a  paste,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper,  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  and  form 
into  a  ball  and  fill  the  hollow  in  each  white.  Have  ready  one 
cup  cooked  rice.  Pile  up  in  center  of  a  platter,  sink  the  eggs 
into  the  rice,  and  pour  over  the  eggs  and  rice  two  cups  seasoned 
cream  sauce.     Garnish  with  parsley,  serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  Allison,  Pearl  River,  N.  Y. 

Delicate  Eggs 

Lightly  toast  two  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  butter,  trim  off 
the  crust.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  until  quite  light,  spread 
on  the  toasted  bread,  drop  the  yolks  in  the  center,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  bake  until  slightly  brown  in  a  medium  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  Thomas,  Houtzdale,  Pa. 


Serve  at  once. 


Eggs  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Put  two  tablespoons  bacon  fat  into  a  frying  pan.  When  melted 
add  one  small  chopped  onion.  Cook  until  brown,  then  add 
one  cup  Larkin  Tomatoes.  Dilute  two  tablespoons  flour  with 
one  cup  water;  add  to  above  mixture.  Season  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  cook  three  minutes.  Break  four  eggs  into  the 
sauce.  Cook  until  set;  serve  on  toast  with  the  sauce  poured 
around.  jy^^g  ^  DeScenza,  Medford,  Mass. 

Scalloped  Eggs 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes,  shell,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  place 

in  baking  dish  a   layer   of   eggs 
.      \  then  a  layer  of  cracker-crumbs. 

\v^        /S^5^— ^  Sprinkle   with    pepper  and    dot 

rr-|      lih/(^^)  with  butter.   Continue  this  until 

eggs  are  all  used.  Pour  over 
the  whole  one  cup  cream  or  rich 
milk.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Lenora  Gant, 
Minneapolis,  Kans. 


ACARONI  AND 
CHEESE  DISHES 


Macaroni  is  an  excellent  food,  wholesome,  delicious  and 
digestible.  Larkin  Macaroni  contains  a  large  amount  of  nutri- 
ment in  the  form  of  starch,  protein,  and  mineral  matter,  as  only 
the  best  flour  obtainable  is  used. 

It  is  thoroughly  dried  before  packaging,  so  that  there  is  prac- 
tically no  loss  in  weight.  It  is  truly  an  economical  article  of  diet 
and  can  be  prepared  in  a  great  variety  of  ways.  This  wholesome 
food  should  be  found  more  often  on  our  tables. 

If  macaroni  lacks  flavor  it  is  due  to  improper  cooking.  Follow 
directions  given  and  so  get  best  results. 

To  Cook  Macaroni 

Partly  fill  a  large  kettle  with  water,  adding  one  teaspoon  salt 
to  each  quart  of  water.  When  boiling,  put  in  the  macaroni  and 
boil  rapidly  for  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  Stir  occasionally 
with  a  spatula  or  wooden  spoon,  drain  through  a  colander,  rinse 
with  cold  water,  drain  again  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

When  Larkin  Macaroni  is  cooked  in  this  way  it  will  be  firm  and 
white  and  have  a  delicious  flavor. 

Macaroni  may  also  be  cooked  in  a  double-boiler.  Allow  two 
■cups  of  boiling  salted  water  to  each  cup  of  macaroni.  It  will 
take  thirty  minutes  to  cook.  No  starch  is  lost  when  this  method 
is  used,  as  all  the  water  is  absorbed  by  the  macaroni.  Cheese, 
tomatoes,  milk  and  eggs  all  combine  with  macaroni  to  make 
'delicious  dishes.  It  may  also  be  served  plain-boiled  with  a 
little  butter,  and  used  in  place  of  potatoes  with  any  meat. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 
Custard  Macaroni 

Cook  one  cup  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender.  Drain.  Beat  two  eggs,  add  one  pint  milk 
and  three-fourths  cup  grated  cheese,  a  sprinkling  of  pepper  and 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  soda.  Put  the  Macaroni  into  a  baking  dish, 
add  the  cheese  custard.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one-half 
hour  or  until  set.     Serve  for  supper, 

Mrs.  J.  Herbert  Robinson,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


S4 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  DISHES 


Macaroni  with  Cheese 

Cook  one-half  package  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom 
of  a  well-buttered  baking  dish,  over  this  spread  Larkin  Cream 
Cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  bits  of  butter  and  a  sprinkling 
of  Larkin  Soda  Cracker-crumbs,  then  more  macaroni  and  so 
on,  filling  the  dish.  Pour  over  this  one  scant  cup  cream  or 
milk.  Scatter  buttered  crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake  half  an 
hour  or  until  nicely  browned  on  top. 

Mrs.  Ernest  C.  Thurmond,  Ash  Grove,  Mo. 

English  Style  Macaroni 

Cook  one  cup  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender.  Rinse  with  cold  water.  Make  a  sauce 
by  melting  three  tablespoons  butter  in  a  double-boiler.  Add 
three  tablespoons  flour.  When  bubbling  add  one  and  one-half 
cups  sweet  milk.  Stir  constantly  until  thickened,  add  two- 
thirds  cup  grated  cheese  or  four  ounces  cheese  thinly  sliced. 
Stir  until  melted.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 
Mix  together  sauce  and  Macaroni,  reheat  in  kettle  _  or  put 
into  baking  dish  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  until  brown. 

Mrs.  I.  F.  Knee,  Omaha,  Nebr. 

Italian  Macaroni 

Cook  one-half  package  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Season  one  pound  chopped  raw  beef  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  Larkin  Onion  Extract  and  cook  as  Hamburg 
Steak.  Slice  one  small  onion  and  fry  with  the  steak.  Put 
the  macaroni  on  the  serving  dish  and  the  steak  on  top.  Add 
a  little  flour  to  the  fat  in  the  frying  pan  and  one-half  can  Larkin 
Tomatoes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  one-half  teaspoon 
sugar.  When  cooked  pour  the  sauce  over  meat  and  serve  at 
once.  Grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  on  top.  Place  in  oven 
until  melted.     These  quantities  will  serve  five  people, 

Carrie  Jordan,  Belvidere,  III. 

Macaroni  with  Meat 

Put  one-half  package  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  and  one  cup 
Larkin  Egg  Noodles  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until 
tender.  Put  one-fourth  pound  salt  pork  through  Larkin  Food- 
Chopper.  Try  out  the  pork  in  a  spider,  then  add  three  sliced 
onions  and  one  pound  ground  steak.  Cook  until  brown.  Drain 
Macaroni  and  Noodles,  add  to  contents  in  spider,  also  one  can 
Larkin  Tomatoes,  one  teaspoon  each  of  sugar  and  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  white  pepper.  Cook  forty-five  minutes.  No  potatoes 
will  be  needed.  ^^^  q^^  Southworth,  Bridgewater,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  DISHES    55 

Macaroni  and  Oysters 

Cook  two  cups  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  until  tender  and 
drain.  Have  ready  one  and  one-half  dozen  fresh  oysters.  Put 
a  layer  of  Macaroni  in  bottom  of  baking  dish  or  casserole,  then 
a  layer  of  oysters  and  so  on  with  Macaroni  on  top  layer.  Cover 
with  a  cream  sauce  made  with  two  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour;  when  bubbling  add  gradually  one 
cup  hot  milk  and  the  liquid  from  the  oysters.  Stir  until  boiling. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Pour 
sauce  over  oysters  and  Macaroni  and  bake  about  one-half  hour. 
Do  not  cook  a  moment  longer  than  necessary  or  the  oysters 
will  become  tough.     Serve  in  baking  dish. 

Mrs.  Leighton,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Macaroni  with  Sauseige 

Cook  one-half  package  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water  fifteen  minutes.  Drain.  Put  Macaroni  into  a 
baking  dish  or  casserole,  add  one  pound  pork  sausage  cut  in 
two-inch  pieces,  one  can  Larkin  Tomatoes,  one-half  teaspoon 
Larkin  Celery  Salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
thoroughly  mixed.     Bake  in  hot  oven  for  forty-five  minutes. 

^  '  (No  Name  Given)  Lowell,  Mass. 

Macaroni  and  Salmon 

Cook  one  cup  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender.  Drain.  Open  one  can  Larkin  Salmon; 
break  Salmon  apart  with  fork.  Make  a  cream  sauce  with  two 
tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  oil  drained  from  Salmon, 
three  tablespoons  flour,  and  two  cups  milk.  Arrange  the 
Macaroni  and  Salmon  in  layers.  Season  Salmon  lightly  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  sauce  over  each  layer.  Sprinkle 
buttered   crumbs   over   the   top.       Bake   in   hot   oven   thirty 

Mrs.  Arthur  Holtom,  Tiffin,  Ohio. 

Nilson  Macaroni 

Cook  one-half  package  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Cut  up  three  slices  Larkin  Bacon  in  small  pieces, 
cook  until  crisp,  add  three  or  four  onions  thinly  sliced  and  fry 
until  brown;  then  add  one  can  Larkin  Tomatoes,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  a  pinch  of  soda  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  with 
macaroni,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Von  Nilson,  Omaha,  Nebr. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


56 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  DISHES 


Dried  Beef  with  Macaroni 

Cook  one  cup  Larkin  Short-Cut  Macaroni.  Separate  one- 
fourth  pound  dried  beef.  Put  layers  of  beef  and  Macaroni 
into  baking  dish,  cover  with  two  cups  seasoned  cream  sauce. 
Sprinkle  buttered  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  thirty  minutes 
m  a  moderate  oven.       ^^^^  Walter  Miller,  Newark  Valley,  N.  Y. 

Cheese  Balls 

To  two  cups  grated  cheese,  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a 
few  specks  of  cayenne  pepper  and  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs,  or  sufficient  of  the  egg-white  to  moisten  the  cheese. 
Form  into  balls,  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve 
in  nests  of  lettuce  as  a  luncheon  dish.  The  cheese  may  also  be 
made  softer  with  more  egg  and  dropped  on  Larkin  Saltines  or 
rounds  of  thin  toast  and  baked  slowly  until  firm. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Wells,  Nashville,  Tenn. 

Cheese  Fondu 

Mix  together  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  soft,  fine  bread-crumbs, 
one-half  cup  grated  cheese.  Add  one  lightly-beaten  egg. 
Season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  moderate  oven.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Karl  E.  Noyes,  Salisbury,  Vt. 

Cheese  Puff 

Put  one-half  box  Larkin  Butter  Crackers  through  a  Larkin 
Food-Chopper  with  one-half  pound  cheese.  If  you  have  no 
dried  crumbs  put  a  crisp,  brown  bread-crust  through  also,  but 
keep  the  bread-crumbs  separate.  Season  mixture  lightly  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
pour  in  sufficient  milk  to  come  to  the  top  of  dish.  Let  stand 
for  twenty  minutes  so  the  cracker-crumbs  will  absorb  the  milk. 
Sprinkle  the  bread-crumbs  on  top,  dot  with  butter.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  immediately.  This 
dish  costs  twenty  cents  and  will  serve  six  people. 

Mrs.  Jno.  Hyler,  Plainfield,  N.  J. 

Welsh  Rarebit 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Corn  Starch,  one- 
half  cup  thin  cream,  one-half  pound  mild  cheese,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  Larkin  Mustard,  a  few  grains  of 
Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper.  Melt  the  butter,  add  corn  starch, 
stir  until  well  mixed,  then  add  cream  gradually  and  cook  two 
minutes.  Add  cheese  and  stir  until  melted.  Add  seasonings. 
Serve  on  toasted  bread  or  Larkin  Crackers. 

Miss  Maud  E.  Bryant,  Haverhill,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  DISHES    57 

Cheese  Fingers 

Cut  the  crusts  from  thin  sHces  of  bread.     Spread  a  slice  lightly 

with  creamed  butter,  then  a  layer  of  cheese,  slightly  seasoned 

with  Larkin  Salt  and  Pepper;  cover  with  a  second  slice  of  bread. 

Then  cut  into  finger-lengths,  about  one  inch  wide,  using  a  sharp 

knife.     Place  in  shallow  pan  and  brown  in  hot  oven.     Serve 

with  soup  or  a  green  salad.         , ,       a  ^nr  t-  t^ 

^  ^  Mrs.  Andrew  Wilhelm,  Easton,  Pa. 

Southern  Golden  Fleece 

With  a  fork  break  up  one-half  pound  Larkin  Full-Cream  Cheese. 
Put  into  a  baking  dish  in  a  warm  oven.  When  soft,  add  one 
cup  cream  and  a  sprinkling  of  Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper;  blend 
thoroughly  with  a  silver  fork.  Break  over  this  five  eggs, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  with  a  plate,  place  in  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  and  when  the  whites  begin  to  set  beat  briskly  for 
several  minutes,  then  put  back  in  the  oven  and  cook  for  three 
minutes.  If  properly  cooked  it  will  be  light  and  fluffy  like  an 
omelet.  Serve  immediately  it  is  done.  Heat  Larkin  Butter 
Crackers  in  the  oven  and  pass  with  this.  Delicious  as  a  supper 
dish  for  company.  ^^^  ^^^^^  Prestegard,  Pratt,  Minn. 

Blushing  Bunny 

Put  into  a  Larkin  Chafing  Dish  two  tablespoons  butter;  when 
melted,  add  two  tablespoons  flour.  Pour  on  gradually  one  cup 
thin  cream  or  milk;  when  thickened  add  one-half  can  Larkin 
Tomato  Soup  and  one  cup  macaroni  which  has  been  cooked 
in  salted  water;  then  add  one-half  pound  cheese,  grated  or  thinly 
sliced,  and  two  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Season  with  salt  and  a 
little  Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Mustard.  This  is  sufficient 
for  a  party  of  six  girls  and  is  delicious. 

Charlotte  B.  Richardson,  Topeka,  Kans, 


NDdR 


Bread  Made  with  Compressed  Yeast 

Sift  together  three  quarts  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  add  three  tea- 
spoons Larkin  Salt,  add  one  cake  compressed  yeast  softened 
in  one-third  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and  one  quart  cool  boiled 
water.  Mix  thoroughly,  sprinkle  the  bread-board  with  flour 
and  turn  dough  onto  it.  Knead  until  dough  ceases  to  stick 
and  is  smooth  and  elastic  to  the  touch.  Then  put  into  bread- 
raiser  and  let  raise.  It  will  take  about  three  hours.  Divide 
into  four  parts,  mold  each  into  a  loaf,  place  in  bread-pans,  cover 
with  a  clean  cloth  and  let  raise  again  until  double  in  bulk. 
Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  Amorosa,  Rockland,  Mass. 

Bread  with  Potato  Yeast 

To  prepare  Potato  Yeast  boil  six  potatoes,  mash  very  fine  or 
put  through  a  potato  ricer.  Pour  one  quart  boiling  water 
over  one  quart  flour.  Add  the  potato,  one  cup  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  salt,  and  when  cool,  three  cakes  dry  yeast  which 
has  been  softened  in  one  cup  lukewarm  water.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  stand  aside  in  a  fairly  warm  place  for  several  hours.  Use 
one  cup  yeast  to  a  quart  of  liquid.  If  kept  air-tight  in  a  cool 
place  it  will  keep  good  for  three  or  four  weeks. 

To  make  bread  take  one  quart  warm  liquid,  (milk  or  water), 
and  one  cup  potato  yeast.  Stir  in  enough  Larkin  Flour  to 
make  a  soft  batter,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise;  when  very 
light,  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  knead  very 
thoroughly,  and  place  in  four  greased  bread-pans.  When 
light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Daniel  Wills y,  Springfield,  Mo. 

Crisp  Bread  without  Baking  Powder 

Sift  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Chop  or  rub  in  one-half  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed;  add  one 
tablespoon  sugar.  Mix  with  one  cup  sweet  cream.  Roll  thin, 
lay  in  baking  pan  and  score  in  strips  about  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  wide.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  with  salad  or  coflfee. 

Mrs.  Homer  O.  Hastings,  Adena,  Ohio. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS 


59 


Milk-and- Water  Bread 

Put  one  tablespoon  each  of  sugar,  salt  and  lard  into  a  quart 
measure,  add  two  cups  scalded  milk,  and  two  cups  water.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  pour  into  the  Larkin  Bread  Maker,  reserving 
sufficient  to  soften  one  cake  dry  yeast.  When  the  yeast  is 
quite  soft,  add  to  the  liquid  in  the  pan  and  sift  in  three  quarts 
Larkin  Bread  Flour.  Put  in  the  kneading-rod  and  turn  for 
three  minutes.  Cover  and  let  raise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing if  a  very  fine  bread  is  desired,  put  in  the  kneading-rod  and 
stir  again  for  a  few  minutes.  Allow  to  raise,  divide  in  four 
portions,  mold,  place  in  greased  bread-pans,  let  raise  again,  then 
bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Wm.  G.  Tribon,  Sagamore,  Mass. 

Old-Fashioned  Bread 

Boil  and  drain  sufficient  potatoes  to  make  one  pint,  mash 
thoroughly,  scald  one  pint  flour  with  the  liquid  in  which  pota- 
toes were  boiled.  Soften  one  cake  dry  yeast  in  one  cup  warm 
water,  add  three  cups  water,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  one-half 
cup  sugar  to  scalded  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  and  allow  to  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  add  flour  to  the  batter  and  beat 
quite  stiff  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Let  it  raise,  then  add  more 
flour,  kneading  the  dough  thoroughly.  Again  put  to  raise  until 
double  in  bulk,  divide  into  four  portions,  mold,  place  in  greased 
bread-pans  and,  when  quite  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Thelma  Miller,  Osceola,  Ind. 

Grziham  Bread  or  Buns 

Scald  one  quart  new  milk,  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  Larkin  Cooking  Oil  and  one  teaspoon  salt;  add  one  cake 
yeast  softened  in  one-half  cup  warm  water.  Mix  to  a  firm  but 
soft  dough,  using  equal  parts  of  graham  and  white  flour.  Let 
the  bread  raise  to  double  its  bulk,  cut  off  pieces  of  dough  the 
size  of  a  small  egg,  make  into  small  flat  cakes.  Put  into  well- 
oiled  pans  two  inches  apart  so  they  will  not  touch  in  raising. 
When  quite  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  This  may  also  be  baked 
in  loaves  in  the  usual  way.  ^^^^  ^  ^  p^^^^  Brownell,  Kans. 

Graham  Loaf 

Mix  together  two  cups  Larkin  Graham  Flour,  one  cup  bread 
flour,  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Put  one  teaspoon  soda  in  one- 
half  cup  molasses,  mix  thoroughly,  fill  up  the  cup  with  sugar, 
add  to  the  dry  ingredients  with  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet 
milk.  These  quantities  make  one  large  loaf.  Bake  one  hour  in 
moderately  hot  oven.       ^^^  ^^^  ^  Cossentine.  Susquehanna.  Pa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


60 


BREAD  AND   ROLLS 


Larkin  Oatmeal  Bread 

Put  two  cups  Larkin  Rolled  Oats  into  bread-mixer,  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  scant  one-half  cup  Larkin  Molasses,  three  table- 
spoons lard,  add  one  quart  boiling  water.  When  cool  add  one 
yeast  cake  softened  in  one-half  cup  luke-warm  water.  Add  two 
quarts  sifted  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  stand  aside  to  raise  or  leave 
over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  down,  add  more  flour  if  neces- 
sary. It  should  be  stiff  enough  for  the  spoon  to  stand  upright. 
It  is  well  not  to  knead  the  bread  with  the  hands  as  it  is  better 
a  little  moist.  Put  into  three  greased  bread-pans,  raise  one  hour. 
Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Whole-wheat  or 
graham  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  white  flour  if  preferred. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Jersey,  Park  Ridge,  N.  J. 

Raised  Corn-Meal  Bread 

Put  one-half  cup  Larkin  Yellow  Corn-Meal  into  the  bread  bowl 
and  pour  over  it  one  pint  boiling  water.  Add  one  tablespoon 
Larkin  Lard,  one-half  cup  Larkin  Molasses  and  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  Larkin  Salt.  Stand  aside  to  cool.  Soften  one- 
half  yeast  cake  in  one-half  cup  warm  water,  add  to  mixture 
with  enough  Larkin  Bread  Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead 
well  and  set  to  raise.  Next  morning  knead  again  and  form 
into  loaves;  when  quite  light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  LeRoy  A.  Grant,  Roslindale,  Mass. 

Southern  Spoon  Bread 

Heat  one  quart  milk  to  boiling  point,  stir  in  two  cups  Larkin 
Corn-Meal  and  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt ;  add  three  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Cool  mixture.  Separate 
three  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  add  to  the  mixture,  then  fold  in  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish  or  Larkin 
Casserole  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 
Serve  while  hot.     This  is  especially  good  served  with  roast  pork. 

Mrs.  H.  Viger,  Clarendon,  Pa, 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

Sift  together  one  cup  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  two  cups  graham 
flour,  two  cups  corn-meal,  add  one  cup  molasses,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  thick  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  soda  and  one  teaspoon 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  divide  into  three  molds  and  steam  one 
and  one-half  hours.  Sweet  milk  and  baking  powder  may  be 
used  instead  of  sour  milk  and  soda.  This  bread  is  much 
improved  by  standing  in  a  hot  oven  about  fifteen  minutes  after 
it  is  steamed,  to  dry  out.  ^^^^  ^  ^  Obendorf,  Sterling.  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  « 


Nut  Bread 

Sift  four  cups  flour  with  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  add  one  cup  chopped  walnut 
meats,  one  egg  lightly  beaten,  and  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet 
milk.  Put  into  two  bread  tins  and  stand  aside  to  raise  twenty 
minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes.  Excellent 
for  sandwiches.  ^^^^  j^  L.  Hull,  Troy.  N.  Y. 

Raisin  Nut  Loaf 

Mix  together  one  cup  Larkin  Graham  Flour,  one-half  cup 
Larkin  Bread  Flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
and  three  tablespoons  softened  lard.  Beat  one  egg  light,  put 
one  teaspoon  soda  into  one  cup  thick  sour  milk,  add,  with 
the  egg,  to  dry  ingredients,  then  stir  in  one-half  cup  each  of 
chopped  English  walnut  meats  and  raisins.  Turn  into  greased 
bread-pan,  stand  aside  thirty  minutes  before  baking.  Bake  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  L.  a.  Minckler,  Oshkosh,  Wis. 

Corn-Meal  Gems 

Sift  together  one-half  cup  Larkin  Bread  Flour  and  one  cup 
Larkin  Corn-Meal,  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Baking  Powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt,  and  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Stir 
in  one  cup  milk,  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  or  lard.  Beat  thoroughly  and  pour  into  greased 
muffin-pans.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 
Buttermilk  or  sour  milk  may  be  used  with  good  results. 

Laura  J.  Sigman,  Water  Valley,  Miss. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

Sift  together  two  cups  Larkin  Flour,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  three 
teaspoons  Larkin  Baking  Powder.  Rub  into  the  flour  two 
tablespoons  each  of  lard  and  butter.  Mix  to  a  soft  dough 
with  a  three-fourths  cup  milk.  Roll  out  one-half  inch  thick, 
cut  into  biscuits,  place  in  a  greased  pan.  Do  not  let  biscuits 
touch.  Brush  tops  with  sweet  milk,  and  bake  from  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.         ^^^^^^  g^^^^^^^  Westboro,  N.  Y. 

Cream  Biscuits 

Sift  together  three  times,  four  cups  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  four 
teaspoons  Larkin  Baking  Powder,  and  one  teaspoon  Larkin 
Salt.  Add  one  cup  heavy  sweet  cream  and  one  cup  sweet  milk 
or  use  enough  coffee  cream  to  mix.  Roll  lightly,  cut  in  biscuits 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  rule  also  makes  an  excellent 
crust  for  chicken  pie,  very  tender  but  not  rich. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Fitzpatrick,  Old  Chatham,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


62 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS 


Egg  Biscuits 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar.  Add  one  teaspoon 
melted  butter  to  one-half  cup  milk  and  one  egg  beaten  lightly. 
Mix  with  a  spatula,  handle  as  little  as  possible,  roll  and  cut. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  ^^^^  ^^  S^^^^^^  Methuen,  Mass. 

Shamrock  Rolls 

Soften  one-half  cake  compressed  yeast  in  one-third  cup  luke- 
warm water.  Cream  together  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Sugar, 
one  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt,  and  five  tablespoons  Larkin  Lard; 
stir  in  one  beaten  egg,  then  add  five  cups  Larkin  Flour,  one  cup 
warm  water,  and  the  softened  yeast.  Beat  thoroughly,  cover 
and  let  raise.  When  set  at  night  it  is  ready  for  mixing  the  next 
morning.  When  molding,  allow  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  dough 
for  each  roll.  Do  not  knead  the  dough;  simply  cut  it  down 
with  a  knife  and  lightly  form  into  balls.  Brush  each  roll  with 
butter,  place  in  a  flat  pan,  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  If  kept  in  the 
refrigerator,  rolls  may  be  made  from  dough  three  to  five  days 
after  settmg.  ^^^^  James  R.  Abercrombie,  St.  Joseph,  Mo. 

Egg  Rolls 

When  the  bread  sponge  is  light,  before  you  add  flour  to  stiffen, 
take  out  two  cupfuls  and  put  into  a  mixing  bowl.  Pour  two 
cups  warm  water  or  milk  over  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  two-thirds  cup  of  lard,  or  part  lard  and  part  butter. 
Add  this  to  the  sponge  with  one  quart  of  sifted  flour  and  three 
lightly-beaten  eggs.  Stand  aside  until  quite  light,  knead,  roll 
out  on  a  board,  cut  into  shape;  when  light,  brush  over  with 
white  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
depending  on  the  size.  For  a  delicious  sandwich  split  open  and 
spread  with  Larkin  Peanut  Butter. 

Mrs.  Jno.  M.  Ford,  Lucas,  Kans. 
Parker  House  Rolls 

Scald  one  pint  milk  and  pour  it  over  one  tablespoon  each  of 
butter  and  lard,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Stir  these  until  dissolved.  When  just  warm,  add  one  yeast 
cake  previously  softened  in  one  cup  lukewarm  water.  Add 
from  seven  to  eight  cups  flour.  Raise  until  double  in  bulk. 
Knead  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  large  biscuit 
cutter,  put  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  pea  in  center  of  one  half 
and  fold  over.  Place  in  greased  pan  allowing  sul^cient  space 
between  rolls  for  them  to  raise  without  touching.  Brush  tops 
lightly  with  milk.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 
Mrs.  Eben  H.  Anderson,  Northampton,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  « 


Pop  Overs 

Sift  one  cup  Larkin  Bread  Flour  with  one  teaspoon  salt  into  a 
mixing  bowl.  Take  one  cup  milk,  add  enough  to  the  flour  to  mix 
smooth.  Drop  in  one  egg  (unbeaten),  beat  for  two  minutes,  add 
balance  of  milk.  Pour  into  very  hot  buttered  cups  or  gem  pans, 
and  bake  from  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  Marian  A.  Davis,  Westgrove,  Pa. 

Egg  Muffins 

Sift  together  two  cups  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Add  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  cup  milk  and  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter.  Beat  rapidly  until  very  light.  Bake  in  greased 
muffin-pans  in  a  hot  oven.  miss  R.  Jacobs,  Pai.myra,  Mo. 

Date  Muffins 

Sift  one-half  cup  each  of  Larkin  Whole-Rye  and  Bread  Flour 
with  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt  and  three  teaspoons  Larkin 
Baking  Powder.  Add  one  cup  Larkin  Graham  Flour,  two 
tablespoons  Larkin  Sugar,  one  egg  beaten  light  and  one  cup 
milk.  Stir  in  one-half  cup  chopped  dates  and  one-half  cup 
ground  walnut  meats.     Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Felch,  South  Framingham,  Mass. 

Rye  Muffins  without  Shortening 

Sift  together  one  cup  each  of  Larkin  Bread  Flour  and  Whole- 
Rye  Flour,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin 
Salt.  Add  one-half  cup  molasses  and  one  cup  sour  milk.  Have 
iron  gem-pans  very  hot  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  For  richer 
muffins  add  one  egg  and  four  tablespoons  of  butter  or  lard. 

Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Butts,  Putnam,  Conn. 

GrcJiEim  Muffins 

Sift  together  one  cup  each  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  one  cup  Larkin 
Graham  Flour,  four  teaspoons  Larkin  Baking  Powder,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  four  tablespoons  granulated  sugar.  Beat  one  egg 
light,  add  one  cup  milk  and  two  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Mix  with  dry  ingredients,  bake  in  hot  oven  in  buttered  gem- 
pans  twenty-five  minutes.      mrs.  Mary  E.  Tormey,  Pine  Park,  N.  Y. 

Bran  Muffins 

Two  cups  bran,  one  cup  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon Larkin  Salt,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sour  milk.  Mix  in  order  given.  Will  make  one  dozen 
muffins.     Eat  three  each  day,  and  keep  the  doctor  away. 

Mrs.  Marshall  K.  Olds,  Surry,  Maine. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


64 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS 


Pumpernickel  or  Whole-Rye  Muffins 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  each  of  Larkin  Pumper- 
nickel and  Bread  Flour,  three  teaspoons  Larkin  Baking  Powder, 
and  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  Larkin  Salt.  Sift  three  times. 
Beat  together  two  tablespoons  cream  (sweet  or  sour)  and  two 
tablespoons  molasses  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda. 
Add  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk  and  the  sifted  dry 
ingredients.  These  quantities  will  make  one  dozen  muffins. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  lillie  J.  Babcock,  Terryville,  Conn. 

Scotch  Scones 

Sift  together  twice,  two  cups  pastry  flour,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda.  Rub  in  four  tablespoons  butter  (or  lard),  add  one  table- 
spoon sugar  and  one-half  cup  currants.  Mix  rather  stiff  with 
one  cup  sour  milk.  Roll  out  round  and  about  one-half  inch 
thick,  cut  in  four  pieces  pie-shape,  brush  over  with  milk  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Caraway  seeds  may  be  used  in  place  of 
currants  if  preferred.  ^^^^  ^  ^^^^^^^  Goodrich.  Wis. 

Potato  Scones 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Rub  in  one-fourth  cup 
butter,  add  one  cup  warm  mashed  potatoes.  Mix  to  a  soft 
dough  with  one  egg  and  as  much  milk  as  necessary.  Divide 
into  three  portions,  roll  into  rounds  one-half  inch  thick  and 
cut  each  in  four.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  or  on  a  griddle.  Split, 
butter  and  serve  hot.  ^^^  ^^^^  Creighton.  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Plain  Scones 

Mix  and  sift  two  cups  Larkin  Flour,  two  teaspoons  Larkin 
Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt,  two  teaspoons 
softened  lard,  stir  in  one  well-beaten  egg  and  one-half  cup  milk. 
Bake  in  oven  or  on  hot  griddle.  To  use  part  graham  flour  or  oat- 
meal  makes  a  pleasant  variety.         ^^^  ^_  ^^^^^^  Kewanee.  III. 

Raised  Coffee  Cake 

Into  Larkin  Bread-Maker  put  one  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
and  one  cup  sugar.  Add  one  quart  hot  milk.  When  luke- 
warm, add  two  yeast  cakes  previously  softened  in  warm  water, 
also  one  pound  cleaned  currants,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
ground  nutmeg,  and  three  quarts  flour.  Put  all  into  the  mixer 
together,  turn  five  minutes,  put  aside  to  raise;  when  light  bake 
in  three  loaves.  This  cake  is  very  fine  for  sweet  sandwiches  or 
church  suppers.  By  omitting  the  currants  and  adding  two 
eggs  this  recipe  is  excellent  for  doughnuts. 

Mrs.  Henry  Weed,  Bethel,  Conn. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


BREAD  AND  ROLLS  65 


Bread  or  Coffee  Cake 

Take  one  cup  bread  sponge  raised  with  yeast,  add  one  cup 
sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  lukewarm  water,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  one  cup  seeded  raisins 
chopped.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  as  stiff  asfor 
fruit  cake.  Mix  thoroughly.  Put  into  a  well-greased  baking- 
pan,  let  raise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  More  fruit  adds 
to  the  quality  of  the  cake.  It  will  make  an  excellent  pudding 
cut  in  squares,  steamed  a  few  minutes  and  served  with  a  good 
sauce.  It  is  nearly  as  good  as  plum  pudding  and  more  easily 
digested.  It  also  makes  a  good  fruit  cake  by  adding  currants 
and  citron  and  will  keep  fresh  indefinitely  if  wrapped  in  Larkin 
Waxed  Paper  and  kept  in  a  Larkin  Cake  Box. 

Mrs,  Wm.  Wright,  Howe,  Ind. 

Dutch  Apple  Ccike 

Pour  one  cup  scalded  milk  over  one-third  cup  each  of  lard  and 
granulated  sugar;  add  one  teaspoon  salt.  When  lukewarm, 
add  one  yeast  cake  softened  in  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water. 
Add  two  unbeaten  eggs  and  three  cups  Larkin  Bread  Flour. 
Beat  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  spoon,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  raise  until  it  has  doubled  in  bulk.  Spread  in  two 
square  greased  pans,  brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Pare  and 
core  five  apples,  cut  in  eighths,  press  the  sharp  edges  of  the 
apples  into  the  dough.  Sprinkle  with  one-third  cup  granulated 
sugar  mixed  with  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon  and  scatter 
over  top  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Currants.  Bake  one-half  hour 
or  more  in  a  hot  oven.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  hot  with  butter 
or  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream.     Also  good  when 

^^-  WiLBERTA  MeRRELL  BlISS,  SHREWSBURY,  MASS. 


Milk  Toast 

Heat  the  milk,  add  butter  and  salt  and  pour  over  toasted  bread, 
or  make  a  thin  cream  sauce,  pour  it  over  the  toast  and  serve 
hot.     Make  brown-bread  milk  toast  in  the  same  way. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

French  Toast 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one 

cup  milk;  strain  into  shallow  dish.     Soak  bread  in  mixture 

until   soft.     Cook  on   a   hot,   well-greased   griddle;   turn   and 

brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  for  breakfast  or  luncheon,  with 

a  sauce  or  maple  syrup.  t  t^ 

^       J     ^  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Sour  Milk  French  Toast 

Slice  stale  bread  one-half  inch  thick.  Make  a  batter  with  one- 
half  cup  sour  milk,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Dip  each  slice  in  the  batter  and 
brown  in  a  skillet  with  part  lard  and  part  butter,  or  use  pork  fat. 

Miss  Katharine  Sellers,  Greencastle,  Ind. 

Sour  Milk  Griddle-Cakes 

Sift  two  and  one-half  cups  Larkin  Bread  Flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon Larkin  Salt,  one  and  one-quarter  teaspoons  Larkin  Soda. 
Add  two  cups  thick  sour  milk  and  one  egg  lightly  beaten.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  greased  griddle.  When  full  of  bubbles, 
turn  and  cook  on  the  other  side.     Serve  with  butter  and  maple 

^     ^"  Mrs.  J.  S.  Mills,  South  Ashburnham,  Mass. 


Griddle-Cakes 

Sift  two  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  two  teaspoons 

baking  powder.     Add  gradually  one  cup  water  or  milk.     Cook 

as  other  griddle-cakes.  »»      t  t-   *         t-  ttt 

'^  Mrs.  J.  F.  Alsip,  Tacoma,  Wash. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


TOAST  AND  GRIDDLE-CAKES   67 

Bread-Crumb  Griddle-Cakes 

Soak  two  cups  stale  bread-crumbs  in  cold  water,  squeeze  out 
the  water,  add  one  cup  flour  and  one  pint  thick  sour  milk.  Let 
the  mixture  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  one  egg 
beaten  very  light,  one  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  soda.  Add 
more  flour  or  liquid  if  necessary.  Cook  as  other  griddle-cakes. 
Mrs.  Jno.  N.  Stukman,  Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Rye  Griddle-Cakes 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  Larkin  Whole-Rye  Flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar.  Beat  one  egg  light,  add  to  it  one  and  one-half  cups 
mxlk,  add  gradually  to  the  flour.  Cook  as  other  griddle-cakes. 
Serve  with  Larkin  Honey  or  Maple  Syrup. 

Mrs.  a.  J.  Skellie,  Little  Rock,  Ark. 

Corn-meal  Griddle-Cakes 

Scald  one  cup  corn-meal  with  one  cup  boiling  water,  beat  until 
smooth,  thin  with  one  pint  buttermilk,  add  one  teaspoon  salt, 
one  egg  beaten  light,  one  teaspoon  soda,  and  enough  sifted  flour 
to  make  a  batter.    Cook  on  hot  greased  griddle.    If  sweet  milk, 

^  ^  '  Mrs.  Irven  Rystrom,  Stromsburg,  Nebr. 

Peanut  Butter  Griddle-Ccikes 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt.  Add  one  egg  and  four  tablespoons  Larkin 
Peanut  Butter.  Beat  vigorously,  add  two  cups  milk.  Bake  on 
a  hot  greased  griddle.  ^^^^  j^^  ^  ^^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^  ^^^^ 

Buckwheat  Cakes  with  Sour  Milk 

Put  into  the  sifter  one  and  one-fourth  cups  buckwheat  flour, 
one-fourth  cup  white  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one  teaspoon 
each  of  baking  powder  and  soda.  Sift  twice,  put  into  the 
mixing  bowl,  add  one  egg  beaten  light  and  two  and  one-half 
cups  thick  sour  milk.  Bake  on  hot  greased  griddle,  serve  with 
honey  or  maple  syrup.  ^^^  q^^^^  Prestegard,  Pratt,  Minn. 

Buckwheat  Cakes  with  Sweet  Milk 

Sift  together  twice,  one  cup  each  of  buckwheat  and  Larkin 
Whole-Wheat  Flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  one 
teaspoon  salt.  Add  enough  sweet  milk  or  water  to  make  a 
thin  batter.  Cook  as  other  griddle-cakes.  Serve  at  once  with 
Larkin  Corn  Syrup.  When  using  white  flour  allow  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder  to  one  cup  of  flour. 

Mrs.  L.  Loeffler,  Glendale,  L.  I.,  N.  Y. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


«s  TOAST  AND  GRIDDLE-CAKES 

Waffles  or  Peincakes 

Sift  one  and  three-fourths  cups  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Add  one  and  one-half 
cups  milk,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter.  Fold  in  last  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  If  you  make  waffles  quite  often  it  is  well  to  buy  a  small 
can  such  as  is  used  for  oiling  sewing-machines,  fill  with  Larkin 
Cooking  Oil  and  keep  for  oiling  waffle  irons. 

Miss  M.  A.  Kershner,  Shoemakersville,  Pa. 

Potato  Pancake 

Pare  and  grate  eight  medium-sized  potatoes,  add  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  four  tablespoons  Larkin  Bread 
Flour  or  sufflcient  flour  to  make  a  fairly  thick  batter.  Mix 
well,  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  a  hot  greased  frying  pan, 
cook  slowly  until  a  golden  brown,  turn  and  brown  the  other 
side.     Serve  with  butter.     Will  serve  six  people. 

Mrs.  Chas.  F.  Schaefer,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

German  Pancake 

Sift  one-fourth  cup  flour  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and 
one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  two  eggs  quite  light, 
add  to  them  two  cups  milk.  Mix  gradually  with  the  flour, 
pour  into  hot  buttered  iron  pan.  Lift  the  edges  with  a  spatula 
so  the  batter  may  run  underneath.  If  possible  finish  baking 
in  hot  oven.  Roll  up  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter.  Serve 
with  lemon  and  sugar,  or  maple  syrup. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Westman,  Strawberry  Ridge,  Pa, 


There  are  two  classes  of  cakes — sponge  cake,  in  which  no 
butter  is  used — and  butter  cakes.  Sponge  cake  includes  white, 
yellow  and  sunshine  cake.  Examples  of  butter  cakes  are:  layer, 
cup,  pound,  etc. 

In  making  cakes  use  the  best  materials.  Flour  must  be  sifted 
before  measuring.  Pastry  flour  is  preferred.  If  bread  flour  is 
used,  sift  two  or  three  times  before  measuring.  Never  melt  the 
butter,  the  bowl  may  be  slightly  warmed  before  the  butter  is 
creamed.  Larkin  Cooking  Oil  or  part  lard  and  part  butter  may 
be  used  with  good  results. 

Dried  fruits  should  always  be  cleaned  and  well  floured.  Never 
wash  currants  just  before  using,  or  the  mixture  will  be  heavy.  Add 
fruit  at  the  last  moment.  If  the  fruit  sinks  to  the  bottom  of  the 
cake,  the  batter  is  too  thin. 

In  making  cake  follow  this  order,  first,  get  out  all  necessary 
utensils  and  materials,  then  ingredients.  If  using  a  coal  range, 
arrange  the  dampers  so  that  the  oven  will  be  ready  by  the  time 
the  cake  is  mixed.  Next  prepare  the  pans,  then  mix  the  cake. 
For  butter  cakes,  grease  the  pan  with  oil,  lard  or  butter,  and  dredge 
slightly  with  flour.     For  large  cakes,  line  the  pan  with  paper. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Cakes  without  Butter 

Sponge  and  Angel  Food  Cakes  are  raised  by  the  air  which  is 
beaten  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  by  slowly  increasing  heat 
of  the  oven.  Care  must  be  taken  in  combining  the  ingredients, 
not  to  stir  the  mixture  or  reverse  the  motion  of  beating  or  folding. 

The  flour  and  sugar  should  be  sifted  several  times  before  being 
measured. 

These  cakes  may  be  baked  in  ungreased  pans  if  the  pans  are 
kept  exclusively  for  them.  The  oven  is  right  for  these  cakes  when 
it  turns  a  piece  of  white  paper  a  light-brown  in  five  minutes. 

Angel  food  and  sponge  cake  should  be  placed  in  a  very  slow 
oven,  increasing  the  heat  as  it  bakes,  browning  at  the  last. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


70 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


To  Bake  Cake 

The  oven  should  not  be  as  hot  for  cake  as  for  bread.  It  is 
right  for  cake  baked  in  loaves  if  it  turns  a  piece  of  writing  paper  a 
light-brown  in  five  minutes.  For  layer  and  small  cakes  it  should 
be  hotter. 

The  time  for  baking  a  cake  may  be  divided  into  four  quarters: 
First  quarter:  The  cake  rises;  little  bubbles  form  on  top. 
Second  quarter:     The  cake  continues  to  rise,  and  it  browns 

in  spots. 
Third  quarter:     The  cake  browns  all  over. 
Fourth  quarter:     The  cake  shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the 
tin,  becomes  elastic  to  the  touch,  and  stops  singing. 
During  the  baking,  the  oven  heat  should  be  increased  gradually 
but  very  slightly  until  the  cake  is  brown,  then  it  may  be  slightly 
reduced.     On  the  average  a  thin  loaf  will  bake  in  forty  minutes, 
while  a  thick  loaf  should  bake  for  at  least  an  hour.     Fruit  cakes 
may  require  several  hours. 

To  turn  cake  out  of  the  pan,  loosen  around  the  edges  with  a 
spatula  and  slip  out  on  a  wire  cake-cooler  or  a  clean  towel  or  paper. 
If  it  sticks,  turn  it  upside  down,  place  damp  cloth  over  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  and  let  it  steam  for  a  few  minutes.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Christmas  or  Wedding  Cake 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  ten  eggs,  six 
cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  each  soda  and  ginger,  one  tablespoon 
each  cloves  and  nutmeg,  two  tablespoons  cinnamon.  One  pint 
blackberry  jam  or  molasses,  two  pounds  almonds,  one  pound 
citron,  one  pound  dates,  one  pound  figs,  three  pounds  raisins, 
and  one  cup  fruit  juice,  or  brandy  if  you  use  it.  The  day  before 
baking  prepare  the  fruit,  shell  and  blanch  the  almonds.  The 
next  morning  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  yolks 
of  eggs  beaten  light.  Then  stir  the  soda  into  the  molasses  or 
jam  and  add  next,  then  add  the  flour  and  spices  sifted  together 
and  the  fruit  juice  or  brandy.  Dredge  the  fruit  well  with  flour, 
add  to  the  mixture,  then  the  almonds,  and  fold  in  last  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Line  the  pan  with  heavy  well- 
greased  paper.  Have  the  citron  sliced  very  thin,  put  a  layer 
of  cake  batter,  then  a  layer  of  citron,  alternately  until  all  is 
used.  This  cake  fills  a  pan  ten  inches  in  diameter  and  five 
inches  deep.  It  should  be  baked  six  or  seven  hours  in  a  very 
moderate  oven.  This  is  a  splendid  cake  and  will  keep  for 
months.  Half  the  quantities  make  a  large  cake.  All  Larkin 
material  used  except  eggs. 

Ethel  C.  Dudderar,  Gilberts  Creek,  Ky. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS         71 

Pennsylvania  Fruit  Cake 

Cream  two-thirds  cup  lard  or  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar,  and 
two  eggs;  beat  quite  light,  add  one  cup  molasses.  Sift  three 
and  one-half  cups  flour  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda, 
one  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  cloves,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon 
and  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Sift  three  times.  Add  the 
sifted  flour  gradually  with  one  cup  strong  coffee.  Add  one 
cup  each  of  currants  and  raisins.  These  quantities  make  two 
loaf  cakes.  Bake  in  very  moderate  oven  forty-five  or  sixty 
minutes.  The  cake  is  better  if  kept  five  weeks  before  cutting. 
All  Larkin  materials  used  except  eggs. 

Mrs.  Alice  Pennay,  Kingsley,  Pa. 

Mother's  Fruit  Cake 

Stir  one  and  one-half  cups  butter  or  three-fourths  of  a  pound, 
with  three  cups  brown  sugar,  until  light  and  creamy.  Add 
one-half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  mace.  Dissolve  one  teaspoon  soda  in  one-half  cup  sour 
cream,  add  to  it  one-half  cup  molasses  and  mix  with  the  other 
ingredients.  Add  six  eggs,  beating  each  in  separately.  Sift 
four  cups  flour,  add  to  cake  mixture  and  one-half  cup  fruit 
juice,  or  brandy  if  you  use  it.  Add  one  pound  seeded  raisins, 
one  pound  washed  and  dried  currants,  and  one-half  pound 
citron,  orange  and  lemon  peel  mixed  and  shredded  fine.  Sprinkle 
the  fruit  with  some  of  the  flour  and  mix  together  well  before 
adding  to  the  cake.  Beat  or  knead  ten  minutes  then  put  into 
tins  lined  with  greased  paper.  Place  in  moderate  oven  and 
bake  slowly  for  three  or  four  hours.  These  cakes  improve 
with  keepmg.  ^^^  ^  ^  Laxton,  Roanoke,  Va. 

Layer  Cake 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  mix  very 
smooth.  Sift  two  cups  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter  alternately  with  one-half  cup 
of  milk  mixed  with  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Add  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  any  Larkin  Flavoring  Extract.  Bake  in  layers  and 
put  together  with  any  frosting  desired. 

Mrs.  B.  L.  Tubman,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Kentucky  Layer  Cake 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  two  eggs; 
beat  very  light.  Sift  two  cups  flour  with  one-half  teaspoon 
soda,  add  the  flour  and  one-half  cup  of  any  home-made  wine  or 
Larkin  Currant  or  Grape  Jelly  and  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins. 
Bake  in  a  square  loaf  or  layer-cake  pans.     Good  with  or  without 

^^'"^*  Mrs.  Albert  Beaty,  Oakville,  Ky. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


72         CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 

Quick  Creaim  Cake  without  Shortening 

Sift  three  times,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 
one  cup  sugar.  Break  two  eggs  into  measuring  cup,  fill  with 
sweet  cream,  add  to  the  flour  mixture  with  one-half  teaspoon 
flavoring  extract.  Beat  three  minutes.  Bake  in  layers  or  a 
loaf.  If  sour  cream,  use  one-half  teaspoon  soda  instead  of 
bakmg  powder.  ^^^  ^^^^  j  j^^uucett,  North  Pomfret,  Vt. 

Cream  Puffs 

Put  one  cup  water  and  one-third  cup  butter  into  a  sauce-pan. 
When  it  boils  stir  in  one  cup  flour  all  at  once  and  stir  until  it 
leaves  the  edge  of  the  sauce-pan.  Let  the  mixture  cool,  then 
add  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time  and  beat  each  one  in  well  before 
adding  another.  Mix  until  smooth,  drop  by  the  spoonful  on 
a  buttered  pan  a  little  distance  apart  to  allow  for  spreading. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven  or  until  well  done.  If  in  doubt 
as  to  the  cakes  being  done,  take  one  from  the  oven,  if  it  does 
not  shrivel  up  in  a  few  minutes,  they  are  done.  This  makes 
fifteen  small  puffs.  When  cold  fill  with  cream  filling  prepared 
as  follows: 

One  pint  milk,  four  tablespoons  corn  starch,  one  teaspoon 
butter,  three  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Wet  the  corn  starch  with  cold 
milk,  scald  the  balance  of  the  pint,  add  sugar  and  salt,  cook 
five  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  two  tablespoons  of  the  corn 
starch  mixture  to  them,  then  pour  into  the  sauce-pan  with  the 
rest,  and  cook  sev^eral  minutes.  Take  from  fire,  add  vanilla 
and  butter.     When  cool  fill  the  pufTs  and  serve. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Singer,  North  Brookfield,  Mass. 

Pound  Cake 

Cream  one  pound  butter,  add  one  pound  white  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  nine  eggs  and  beat  until  very  light.  Then  add  one  pound 
flour  (four  cups)  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Add 
one  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  one-half  teaspoon  mace  if  the 
flavor  is  liked.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  quite  stift",  gradually 
add  them  with  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  large  pan  lined  with  waxed 
paper  in  a  very  moderate  oven  (see  rules  for  baking). 

If  you  wish  a  fruit  cake  add  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Allspice 
and  a  quarter  pound  each  of  Larkin  Raisins,  Currants,  Dates 
and  mixed  peel.     This  cake  is  much  better  if  kept  several  weeks 

^*  Mrs.  W.  S.  Shiflet,  Harrisonburg,  Va. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


73 


Sponge  Cake 

Six  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon,  one  cup  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Beat 
yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add  sugar  gradually  and 
continue  beating.  Add  rind  and  juice  of  lemon  and  the 
whites  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Beat  with  egg-beater  until  well 
blended.  Remove  beater  and  carefully  cut  and  fold  in  the 
flour  and  salt  sifted  together.  Do  not  stir  this  cake  as  it  would 
take  away  the  lightness.  Bake  fifty  to  sixty  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven.     Invert  pan  while  cake  cools. 

Miss  Bessie  Renfrew,  Lenox,  Mass. 

Four-Egg  Sponge  Cake 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons  cold  water,  one  cup 
flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  One-half  tea- 
spoon flavoring  extract.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  sugar, 
then  the  cold  water  and  the  sifted  flour,  then  the  extract. 
Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty-five  minutes.  j^^ss  ^  Rqmmel,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. 

Moleisses  Layer  Cake 

One-half  cup  Larkin  Lard,  one  and  one-half  cups  Larkin 
Molasses,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  thick  cream  (sweet  or  sour), 
three  cups  flour  sifted  three  times  with  one  teaspoon  each  of 
Larkin  Soda  and  Baking  Powder,  and  two  teaspoons  ginger. 
Cream  the  lard,  add  the  molasses,  the  egg  and  sifted  flour  and 
milk.  Beat  briskly  for  two  minutes.  Put  into  three  layer- 
cake  pans  or  into  a  loaf-pan.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Dr.  Edith  K.  Neel,  Santa  Rosa,  Fla. 

Corn  StcUfch  Cake 

Cream  one  cup  butter,  add  two  cups  powdered  sugar,  one  cup 
milk  and  one  teaspoon  flavoring  extract.  Sift  together  two 
cups  flour,  one  cup  corn  starch,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Fold  in  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  six 
eggs.  Place  in  a  greased  cake-pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty-five  minutes.     Cover  with  cocoanut  icing. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Wii.helm,  Easton,  Pa. 

Gold  Ccike 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar,  mix  thoroughly 
then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Sift  two  cups  flour  with  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Add 
gradually  to  the  butter  and  sugar  with  one-half  cup  milk  and 
one-half  teaspoon  any  Larkin  Flavoring  Extract  desired.  Bake 
in  tube  pan  about  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  G.  Reubens,  Pearl  River,  N.  Y. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


74         CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 

Father's  Coffee  Cake 

C(X)k  together  for  five  minutes  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  coffee, 
two  tablespoons  cocoa.  While  this  is  cooHng,  cream  one-half 
cup  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  then  add  one  cup 
cold  coffee.  Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients. 
Stir  in  the  cool  cooked  mixture  and  bake  in  a  loaf.  The  batter 
will  not  be  very  thick  but  do  not  add  more  flour.  Cover  with 
white  icmg.  ^^^  j  ^  ^^^^  Angus,  Nebb. 

English  Jcim  Cake 

Cream  three-fourths  cup  butter  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Add  one 
cup  sugar  and  three  eggs  beaten  in  singly.  Sift  together  two 
cups  Larkin  Pastry  Flour,  one  teaspoon  each  Larkin  Soda, 
Cinnamon  and  Nutmeg,  sift  three  times,  add  one-half  cup 
milk  or  water  and  one-half  cup  Larkin  Raspberry  Jam.  Put 
into  a  long,  narrow  pan ;  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  forty-five 
minutes.  This  also  makes  an  excellent  dessert  if  cut  in  small 
rounds  or  squares  and  covered  with  whipped  cream.  Decorate 
with  pecans  or  English  walnuts.  ^^^  ^^^^^  g^^^^^  Oakville.  Ky. 

Chocolate  Cream  Cakes 

Beat  one  egg  light  in  the  mixing  bowl,  add  one  cup  sugar  and 
one  cup  cream,  sweet  or  sour.  Sift  together  one  cup  flour 
and  five  tablespoons  Larkin  Cocoa  with  one  teaspoon  Larkin 
Soda;  add  sufficient  flour  to  thicken.  Flavor  with  Larkin 
Vanilla  Extract,  bake  in  gem-  or  layer-cake  pans  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  or  cold.  ^^  ^^  ^  England,  Van  Meter,  Iowa. 

Cocoa  Tea  Cakes 

Cream  one-third  cup  butter  with  one  cup  sugar.  Beat  in 
singly,  three  eggs,  add  one-half  cup  each  of  Larkin  Corn  Starch 
and  flour  sifted  with  one-fourth  cup  cocoa,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  Put  in  muffin-pans  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  Delicious.  May  also  be  baked 
m  layers.  L.  j.  Sigman.  Water  Valley,  Miss. 

Ice-Cream  Cake 

Make  a  good  sponge  cake,  bake  half  an  inch  thick  in  layer-cake 
pans.  When  quite  cold,  take  a  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  beat 
until  it  looks  like  ice-cream,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  Larkin 
Vanilla.  Blanch  and  chop  one-half  pound  almonds,  stir  into 
cream  and  spread  thickly  between  layers.  This  is  the  queen 
of  all  cakes.  ^^^^  j^^^^  Riggin,  Crisfield,  Md. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS         7s 

Watermelon  Cake 

For  the  white  part  use  four  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one-third  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  light  and  one-half  teaspoon  almond  extract.  For  the 
pink  part  use  the  same  quantities,  taking  two  yolks  of  eggs  and 
one-half  teaspoon  vanilla  extract  and  sufficient  Larkin  Cherry- 
Red  Culinary  Paste  to  make  a  pretty  pink  color,  add  one-half 
cup  raisins.  Line  a  long  narrow  pan  with  waxed  paper  and  pour 
the  first  mixture  into  it,  and  the  pink  over  that.  Bake  as  layer 
cake.  When  cool  make  a  white  icing  and  color  it  a  pale  green 
with  Larkin  Apple-Green  Culinary  Paste.     Cut  in  strips  to 

serve.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Stockmann,  Fredricksburg,  Va. 

Fourth-of-July  Cake 

Use  the  same  recipe  as  given  for  watermelon  cake,  leaving  out 
the  raisins  in  pink  part.  For  a  third  or  blue  part,  use  one- 
fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder  and  one  egg.  Use  juice  from  canned 
blueberries  or  logan  berries  to  mix.  Put  together  with  white 
icing,  having  red  cake  at  the  bottom,  then  white  layer,  and 
blue  on  top.     Decorate  with  tiny  flags.  Parkin  Kitchen. 

Potato  Cake 

Put  into  a  Larkin  Cake-Maker,  two-thirds  cup  butter  with  two 
cups  sugar  and  three  eggs.  Sift  together  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour  with  one  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon 
ground  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  three 
times,  add  the  flour  and  one  cup  hot  mashed  potato,  two  squares 
(or  ounces)  of  Larkin  Unsweetened  Chocolate  which  has  been 
melted  over  hot  water,  one-half  cup  milk,  three  yolks  and  two 
whites  of  eggs,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  Extract  and  one 
cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Stir  for  five  minutes,  put  into  a 
greased  square  cake-pan,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five 
minutes.     Delicious  as  a  dessert  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Chas.  W.  Hamilton,  East  St.  Louis,  III. 

Milkless,  Eggless,  Butterless  Cake 

Boil  together  three  minutes,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
water,  one-third  cup  lard  or  cooking  oil,  one  cup  Larkin  Seeded 
Raisins,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  one  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
When  thoroughly  cool,  add  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  one-half 
teaspoon  each  of  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt.  Bake  in  a 
square  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  One-half 
cup  nut  meats  may  be  added  if  a  richer  cake  is  desired. 

Mrs.  Edwin  W.  Fishburn,  Denver,  Colo. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


76 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


Chocolate  Nut  Cake 

Put  into  a  double-boiler,  two  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate, 
one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  cold  water  and  the  yolk 
of  one  egg.  Cook  until  thick,  then  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
extract  and  one  cup  chopped  nuts — pecans  or  walnuts.  Set 
aside  to  cool.  Cream  two-thirds  cup  butter  or  other  shortening, 
add  one  cup  brown  sugar  and  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Dissolve 
one  teaspoon  soda  in  one-half  cup  sour  milk;  add  with  two  cups 
flour.  Fold  in  chocolate  mixture  and  bake  in  loaf  or  layers. 
Cover  with  white  frosting.  ^^^^  j^^^^^  Kilbourn.  Wis. 

Rich  Chocolate  Cake 

Cream  one  cup  butter,  add  two  cups  sugar  and  mix  quite  smooth. 
Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  water  and  one-half 
cake  or  four  ounces  Larkin  Chocolate  melted  over  hot  water. 
Stir  all  together  then  add  two  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Fold 
in  last  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Bake  in  layers  or 
a  long  shallow  pan.  If  a  layer  cake,  cut  up  Larkin  Marsh- 
mallows  in  small  pieces  and  put  between  the  two  cakes  while 
still  hot.     Cover  with  white  frosting.     This  will  keep  a  week. 

M.  C.  ToppAN,  Hampton,  N.  H. 

New  Orleans  Cakes 

One  cup  Larkin  Molasses,  two  cups  Larkin  Light  Yellow  Sugar, 
one-half  cup  softened  lard,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon 
and  one  cup  hot  water.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  cake 
or  hard  gingerbread,  or  use  more  flour  and  make  drop  or  rolled- 
out  cookies.  You  can  stir  this  up  and  bake  a  cake  for  tea 
(make  the  consistency  of  layer  cake).  Then  the  next  day  add 
more  flour  to  what  was  left  and  bake  a  pan  of  dropped  cookies 
or  make  a  steamed  pudding  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Mrs.  a.  J.  Skellie,  Little  Rock,  Ark. 

Pork  Cake 

Put  one  pound  fat  salt  pork  through  Larkin  Food-Chopper, 
pour  over  pork  two  cups  boiling  coffee  or  water.  Put  one 
pound  Larkin  Raisins  and  one-fourth  pound  citron  peel  through 
food-chopper  using  coarse  knife,  add  to  pork  with  one  cup 
currants,  two  cups  brown  sugar.  Stir  one  teaspoon  soda  into 
one  cup  molasses.  Sift  six  cups  flour  with  two  teaspoons  each 
of  cloves  and  cinnamon  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Add  one  more 
cup  flour  if  necessary.  Bake  in  four  loaves  in  one-pound  bread- 
pans.  If  wrapped  in  waxed  paper  and  put  into  stone  jar,  it 
will  keep  for  months.  ^^^  leRoy  Stephenson,  Madison,  Wis. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS         n 

Apple  Sauce  Birthday  Ccike 

Put  through  the  food-chopper  (using  coarse  knife),  one-fourth 
pound  each  of  citron,  candied  lemon  and  orange  peel,  also  one 
pound  raisins.  Sift  together,  four  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons 
each  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  one  teaspoon  each  of 
soda  and  salt.  Cream  together,  one  cup  butter  and  two  cups 
brown  sugar.  Add  all  ingredients  with  two  and  one-half  cups 
unsweetened  apple  sauce.  Line  cake-pan  with  waxed  paper 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  for  one  and  one-quarter  hours.  Will 
keep  fresh  six  weeks  or  more  if  tightly  covered. 

Mrs.  W.  VVaigel,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Eggless  Apple  Sauce  Cake 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  or  other  shortening,  add  one  cup 
brown  sugar.  Sift  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  with  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  soda,  salt,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  cocoa.  Mix 
with  one  cup  unsweetened  apple  sauce;  bake  in  moderate 
oven  forty-five  minutes.    One  cup  of  raisins  may  be  added  to  this. 

Mrs.  Harry  Bunn,  Schenectady,  N.  Y. 

Spice  Cake 

Cream  one  cup  lard,  add  one  cup  each  of  sugar,  molasses  and 
thick  sour  milk,  four  cups  flour  sifted  three  times  with  two 
teaspoons  soda  and  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Add  two  teaspoons  vinegar,  bake  in  square  pan  in  moderate 
oven  thirty-five  minutes.     Ice  with  caramel  or  white  frosting. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Blake,  Marble  Rock,  Iowa. 

Rich  Spice  Cakes 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed,  three 
eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk.  Sift  three  and  one-half  cups  flour 
with  one  teaspoon  each  Larkin  Salt,  Soda,  Cinnamon,  Nutmeg, 
Allspice  and  Cloves.  Add  one  pound  chopped  raisins  and  one- 
half  pound  walnut  meats.  Take  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture, 
roll  in  sugar,  place  on  pans  one  inch  apart,  raise  twenty  minutes 
and  bake.  This  may  be  baked  in  a  loaf  and  will  keep  moist 
for  weeks.     Wrap  in  waxed  paper  before  putting  away. 

Mrs.  Ida  Fetterman,  Punxsutawney,  Pa. 

French  Pastry 

Cut  a  sheet  of  sponge  cake  into  small  rounds;  dip  in  chocolate 

frosting.     While  this  is  still  moist  lay  split  blanched  almonds 

cut  in  halves  around  each  little  cake  like  daisy  petals.     In  the 

center  drop  the  daisy  heart  made  of  fondant,  colored  yellow. 

Or  you  may  use  white  fondant  and  split  almonds  which  have 

been  delicately  browned  in  the  oven,  making  the  marguerite 

heart  of  chocolate.  n  i       t        u  r.  tvt  w 

Mrs.  John  Hauser,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Aleasuremerds  Only.     See  Page  6. 


78 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


Angel  Food 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one  cup 
sugar,  three-fourths  cup  Larkin  Pastry  Flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  three-fourths  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  egg  whites 
until  frothy,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  they  are  stiff; 
add  sugar  gradually.  Mix  flour  and  salt  and  sift  four  times, 
fold  into  the  eggs  and  sugar  and  add  vanilla.  Bake  in  an 
unbuttered  tube  pan  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Albert  Carpenter,  Gulderland,  N.  Y. 

Cocoa  Angel  Cake 

Beat  whites  of  five  eggs  until  foamy,  add  one-half  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  dry.  Sift  together,  one  cup 
sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  cocoa  with  one-half  cup  Larkin 
Pastry  Flour.  Fold  into  eggs  and  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  tube  pan.  When  cold  cover 
with  a  thin  boiled  icing.  ^^^  j^^^  Denker,  Lakefield.  Minn. 

Cocoanut  Macaroons 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  stiff,  gradually  add  one-half 
pound  Larkin  Powdered  Sugar  (or  one  and  one-fourth  cups), 
one-half  package  Larkin  Cocoanut,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin 
Almond  Extract.  Mix  gently  together,  drop  from  a  teaspoon 
about  one  inch  apart  on  Larkin  Waxed  Paper.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  When  cool  brush  the 
under  side  of  paper  with  water  and  remove  cakes.  This  recipe 
makes  three  dozen  delicious  macaroons. 

Mrs.  G.  a.  Randall,  Providence,  R.  I. 
Marguerites 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  stiff;  add  gradually  six 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla 
and  five  tablespoons  chopped  nuts.  Drop  with  a  teaspoon  on 
buttered  pans;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  golden  brown  or 
spread  over  Larkin  Saltines  and  brown  lightly  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mary  E.  Raymond,  Wayne,  Mich. 

Cococinut  Marguerites 

Boil  one  cup  sugar  with  one-half  cup  water  until  it  spins  a  thread, 
drop  in  six  marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour  the  mix- 
ture gradually  upon  the  whites  of  two  eggs  which  have  been 
beaten  dry,  add  one-half  cup  cocoanut  and  when  cool,  one-half 
teaspoon  vanilla  and  one-half  cup  chopped  nut  meats.  Tint 
with  Larkin  Cherry-Red  Culinary  Paste,  spread  on  crackers  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  until  slightly  brown.  Very  pretty  for  a 
luncheon.  j^^^  YVm.  McAlpin,  Jamestown,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


79 


Jelly  Roll 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  gradually. 
Sift  one  cup  flour  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt,  add  two  tablespoons  milk  and  mix  lightly 
but  thoroughly.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  pan  with  waxed 
paper.  Cover  bottom  of  pan  with  mixture  and  spread  evenly. 
Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Take  from  oven 
and  turn  onto  a  paper  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar.  Quickly 
remove  paper  and  cut  off  a  thin  strip  from  sides  and  ends  of 
cake.  Spread  with  jelly  or  jam  which  has  been  beaten  to 
consistency  to  spread  easily,  then  roll.  After  cake  has  been 
rolled,  roll  waxed  paper  around  it  to  keep  it  in  shape.  The  work 
must  be  done  quickly,  or  cake  will  crack  in  rolling. 

Mrs.  R.  Helm,  Mt.  Vernon,  III. 
Madeira  Cake 

Cream  one  cup  butter,  add  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  yolks 
of  three  eggs;  beat  quite  light.  Sift  four  cups  flour  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda,  add  the  grated  rinds  of  two  lemons.  Take 
care  not  to  grate  any  of  the  white  pith,  only  the  yellow  rind 
should  be  used.  Add  the  strained  juice  of  the  lemons  and 
two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  or  water.  Fold  in  the  stififly-beaten 
egg  whites.  Bake  in  a  large  round  cake-pan  in  a  medium  oven, 
one  hour.  When  cake  has  baked  twenty  minutes  put  two  long 
thin  slices  of  citron  peel  across  the  top. 

Mrs.  C.  p.  Deane,  Alberene,  Va. 

Rich  Blackberry  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  five  eggs.  Sift  together  three 
times,  four  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  each 
of  baking  powder  and  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  one-half 
teaspoon  nutmeg.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar;  beat  in 
one  egg  at  a  time  until  you  have  three,  then  add  some  sifted 
flour  and  more  eggs  until  you  have  five.  Add  the  flour,  one 
cup  of  thick  sour  milk,  and  one  cup  canned  blackberries  or 
blackberry  jam.  Bake  in  round  cake-pans  with  a  funnel  or 
in  small  bread-pans  for  forty-five  minutes.  See  directions  for 
baking  fruit  cake.  This  cake  tastes  the  best  when  kept  five 
weeks  before  being  cut.  ^iss  Ada  C.  Mitzel.  Bethany.  Ohio. 

Crumb  Cake 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter.  Mix  together  the  same  as  pie- 
crust. Take  out  one  cup  crumbs,  then  add  one  cup  sour  milk, 
and  one  teaspoon  soda.  Put  in  greased  meat-pan,  sprinkle 
the  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  John  Brady,  Kent,  Ohio. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


80 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 

Chocolate  Filling  No.  1 

One-half  cake  Larkin  Unsweetened  Chocolate,  one-half  cup 
sweet  cream,  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar.  Boil 
together  about  five  minutes.  Beat  until  cool.  Then  add  one 
teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  Extract,  spread  thickly  between  layers 
and  on  top.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Lyons,  Hale,  Mo. 

Chocolate  Filling  No.  2 

Take  one-half  package  of  Larkin  Prepared  Chocolate  Pudding 
and  make  according  to  directions  with  two  cups  of  milk.  Put 
between  and  on  top  of  layer  cake.  Cover  with  whipped  cream 
or  plain  white  frosting.  This  is  delicious  and  inexpensive  and 
makes  a  large  cake.  -^^^  jyi  Amorosa,  Rockland,  Mass. 

Chocolate  Frosting 

Melt  one  and  one-half  ounces  Larkin  Unsweetened  Chocolate 
over  hot  water.  Then  add  one-fourth  cup  scalded  cream,  a 
pinch  of  Larkin  Salt,  one  egg  yolk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla.  Stir  in  powdered  sugar  to  make 
right  consistency  to  spread.  A  pleasant  change  when  whip- 
ping cream  for  cake  is  to  put  in  two  dessert-spoons  of  Larkin 
Cocoa  before  you  begin  to  whip.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla  and 
you  have  a  delicious  frosting,     mrs.  C.  G.  Penniman.  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Fruit  Filling 

One-half  cup  mashed  strawberries  (raspberries  or  peaches  may 
be  used),  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  white  of  one  egg.  Put  all 
together  and  beat  briskly  until  stiff  enough  to  stay  on  layer 
^^^^-  Mrs.  Frank  S.  Merrill,  Bristol,  Conn. 

Rich  Cocoanut  Frosting 

Take  two  cups  whipped  cream,  two  cups  Larkin  Cocoanut, 
juice  of  one  orange  or  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Lemon  or  Orange 
Extract,  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar.  Mix  lightly  but  thor- 
oughly; spread  between  and  on  cake. 

Mrs.  James  A.  TenEyck,  Pluckemin,  N.  J. 

Minnehaha  Filling 

Chop  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  English  walnuts;  add  one  cup 
grated  cocoanut;  mix  together;  boil  one  cup  granulated  sugar 
and  six  tablespoons  water  until  it  threads;  pour  while  hot  over 
the  fruit  and  nuts.  Spread  between  layers;  put  cocoanut  on 
top  of  cake.  Hattie  Osborn,  Boring,  Md. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


81 


Mocha  Frosting 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  one  table- 
spoon milk,  one  tablespoon  strong  coffee,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
vanilla  extract.  Mix  well  with  spoon,  then  beat  light  with 
Sliver  fork.  ^^^  ^^^^  ^  Gurney,  North  Attleboro,  Mass. 

Lemon  Filling 

Put  three-fourths  cup  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar,  one  tablespoon 
cold  water,  one  beaten  egg,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon 
into  a  double  sauce-pan.     Stir  until  it  thickens.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  James  A.  Sipes,  Detroit,  Mich. 

Lemon  Icing 

Put  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  into  a  basin,  melt 
over  hot  water,  add  one  tablespoon  cream  or  evaporated  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  lemon  extract  and  sufificient  powdered  sugar 
to  spread.  -^^^^  ^  -^  Poppe,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Boiled  Icing 

Put  one  cup  of  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar  with  one-fourth  cup 
of  water;  add  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved;  then  let  it  boil  until,  when  tried  with  a  fork,  the 
syrup  will  end  in  a  fine  thread-like  stream.  Remove  immedi- 
ately from  the  fire  and  pour  slowly  over  the  stififly-beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  of  any  Larkin  Extract. 
Beat  until  the  icing  is  cool;  spread  at  once. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  H.  Miller,  Columbia  City,  Inb. 

Raisin  Filling 

Take  one-half  package  Larkin  Raisins  and  stew  until  tender; 
cool  and  drain  off  the  water.  Mash  with  a  potato  masher 
(do  not  chop  them),  add  two-thirds  cup  powdered  sugar  and 
one-third  box  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut.  If  this  is  a  little 
dry  add  a  very  little  milk,  spread  between  and  on  top  of  cake. 
It  is  delicious.     This  is  enough  for  a  three-layer  cake. 

Mrs.  Clyde  Croman,  Marion,  Ohio. 

Marshmallow  Filling  and  Frosting 

Take  one-half  pound  marshmallows ;  reserve  sufficient  whole 
marshmallows  for  top  of  cake;  cut  remainder  into  small  pieces. 
Cook  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  with  one-third  cup  water 
until  it  hairs.  Have  ready  two  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  a 
froth;  add  the  syrup;  then  put  in  cut  marshmallows.  Spread 
upon  both  layers  of  cake.  Put  a  little  hot  water  into  bowl, 
dip  one  side  of  marshmallow  and  put  on  top  layer  of  cake  as 
quickly  as  possible.  ^^^  Walter  R.  Herbert,  Bedford,  Iowa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


82 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


Mock  Marshmallow  Frosting 

Soften  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Gelatine  in  six  tablespoons  cold 
water.  Put  over  hot  water  to  melt.  Boil  two  cups  Larkin 
Granulated  Sugar  with  one-half  cup  water  until  it  will  thread, 
pour  into  the  gelatine,  flavor  with  Larkin  Vanilla  Extract  and 
beat  until  thick  and  white.     Nuts  are  a  fine  addition. 

Florence  E.  Titus,  Brattleboro,  Vt. 

Caramel  Frosting 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water,  white  of 
one  egg.  Take  one-fourth  of  the  sugar  and  put  into  a  small 
sauce-pan  and  brown  over  the  fire.  Then  add  the  boiling  water 
and  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  Boil  until  it  falls  in  a  heavy  thread 
from  the  spoon.  Pour  it  slowly  onto  the  beaten  white  of  one 
egg,  beating  all  the  time.  Beat  until  it  is  cool  and  thick;  spread 
between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

Mrs.  William  Connelly,  Fall  River,  Mass. 

Melba  Cake  Filling 

Boil  together  for  five  minutes,  one  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  Larkin  Brown  Sugar  and  one  jar  Larkin  Peanut  Butter. 
Then  add  one-fourth  cup  each  of  walnuts,  almonds  and  hazel- 
nuts coarsely  chopped,  to  the  boiling  syrup,  beat  until  thick, 
put  in  jelly  glasses  and  seal  up.  This  will  keep  a  long  while. 
When  ready  to  use  add  whipped  cream  to  spread. 

Mrs.  p.  Coleman,  Castleton,  Kans. 

Cream  Frosting 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  until  light  but  not  stiff,  add  gradually 
five  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  over  hot  water  and 
steam  ten  minutes.  Flavor  with  Larkin  Vanilla.  Beat  until 
cold.     This  is  almost  like  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  J.  Terpenning,  Newark  Valley,  N.  Y. 

Orcmge  Icing 

Strain  the  juice  of  two  oranges — add  enough  Larkin  Powdered 
Sugar  to  spread  easily.  Color  with  Larkin  Yellow  Culinary 
Paste  and  flavor  delicately  with  Larkin  Lemon  Extract.  This 
is  delicious  and  quite  a  help  during  the  hot  summer  months, 
when  you  don't  care  to  cook  icings. 

Mrs.  Henry  Davis,  New  Decatur,  Ala. 

Hot  Water  Frosting 

Put  two  tablespoons  boiling  water  into  a  bowl;  add  powdered 
sugar  and  three  tablespoons  Larkin  Cocoa  to  make  it  the  right 
consistency  to  spread;  add  one  teaspoon  melted  butter;  flavor 
with  Larkin  Vanilla.  ^^^  Carrie  K.  Baker,  Brewer,  Maine. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


CAKES  AND  FROSTINGS 


83 


Maple  Icing 

Moisten  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  with  strong  coffee  so  that  it 
will  spread.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  Larkin  Maple  Flavor 
Imitation  Extract.     This  makes  a  delicious  and  quick  icing. 

Mrs.  Frank  Boninie,  Monessen,  Pa. 

Vinegar  Frosting 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  sugar,  ten  tablespoons 

water,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  cream  of  tartar  the  size  of  a 

pea;  boil  all  together  until  a  little  dropped  into  cold  water  can 

be  gathered  into  a  ball;  pour  slowly  over  the  well-beaten  white 

of  one  egg;  beat  until  stiff.     Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  Larkin 

Vanilla  Extract.     This  icing  never  gets  hard.     Spread  between 

the  layers  of  cake  and  on  top.    ,/r      r>  \r  r>  \r  ^t  t 

^  ^     Mrs.  R.  V.  Buckage,  Vincentown,  N.  J. 

Fig  Filling 

Chop  three-fourths  pound  of  Larkin  Sun-Dried  Figs;  add 
three-fourths  cup  Larkin  Sugar,  juice  of  one-half  lemon;  stew 
together  until  soft  and  smooth,  and  spread  between  layers. 

Mrs.  Everett  B.  Curtis,  North  Bend,  Oregon. 

Pineapple  Filling 

Empty  a  can  of  shredded  pineapple  into  sauce-pan  and  bring 
to  a  boil;  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Corn  Starch, 
boil  a  few  minutes  and  let  cool ;  then  spread  between  the  layers. 
A  chocolate  frosting  is  excellent  on  this  cake. 

Mrs.  a.  J.  Lawall,  Newark,  N.  J. 


GINGERBREADSXOOIP 

iO^NUTS^ 

lES  AND 

a       ^ IHI^^m-H^     <f.^7v^ 

Hot  Water  Gingerbread 

Mix  together  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-third 
cup  butter  or  lard.  Sift  two  and  one-half  cups  flour  with  two 
teaspoons  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  each 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  together  well 
with  one  cup  boiling  water,  hastily  stir  in  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  This  is  very  thin  but  do  not  add  more  flour.  May  be 
baked  in  gem-pans,  or  layers.  If  Larkin  Waxed  Paper  is  cut 
to  fit  the  bottom  of  the  cake  tins  after  they  are  greased,  the  cake 
will  not  stick.  As  this  is  a  very  soft  cake,  let  it  cool  before 
removing  from  pans.  Cover  with  plain  white  frosting.  Will 
remain  moist  two  weeks.  ^rs.  Elmer  H.  Crisler,  Clyde.  N.  Y. 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread 

Mix  one-fourth  cup  Larkin  Cooking  Oil  or  Lard  v/ith  one  cup 
sugar  and  one  ^%g.  Beat  very  light.  Add  one-half  cup  molas- 
ses. Sift  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Ginger,  one  teaspoon  Larkin 
Cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-half  teaspoon 
soda  with  one  and  three-fourths  cups  flour.  Add  flour  alter- 
nately with  one-half  cup  sour  milk.  Pour  into  greased  pans 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

r-i      1         /-,.  I  1  Mrs.  J.  ScANLON,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Eggless  (jingerbread 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter  or  lard,  with  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
add  one-half  cup  milk.  Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  ginger. 
Add  to  the  first  mixture  with  one-half  cup  milk.  Spread  thinly 
with  a  spatula  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twenty  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  immediately  after 
removing  from  oven.     Serve  cold  or  warm  with  coffee. 

Mrs.  F.  Richardson,  Santa  Rosa,  Fla. 

To  Cut  Cookies 

When  making  Ginger  Snaps,  Cookies,  etc.,  if  the  dough  is  shaped 
in  long  narrow  rolls  and  chilled  on  ice  or  left  in  a  cold  place 
over  night  it  may  be  sliced  off  instead  of  rolling.  This  saves  a 
good  deal  of  time  and  is  very  satisfactory. 

Miss  Annie  E.  Graybill,  Buchanan,  Va. 
Use  Leuel  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


85 


Soft  Molasses  Cookies 

Cream  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar  and  one  cup  lard. 
Add  two  eggs  and  one  cup  molasses,  beat  well.  Sift  together 
five  cups  bread  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  ground 
ginger,  one  teaspoon  salt,  add  to  other  ingredients.  Now  add 
one  cup  boiling  water  very  gradually  and  beat  well.  Drop  by 
the  spoonful  onto  greased  baking  sheets  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  Ed.  Hughes,  East  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Boston  Cookies 

One  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  Larkin  Sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
hot  water,  three  and  one-fourth  cups  Larkin  Bread  Flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon,  one 
cup  chopped  walnuts,  one-half  cup  each  of  Larkin  Currants  and 
Raisins,  seeded  and  chopped.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar 
gradually,  then  the  eggs,  lightly  beaten.  Sift  flour  three  times 
with  salt,  cinnamon  and  soda,  then  add  nut  meats,  fruit  and 
flour.  Drop  on  greased  pans  with  a  teaspoon  an  inch  apart. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.     These  will  improve  with  keeping. 

Mrs.  Charles  J.  Prankard,  Upper  Troy,  N.  Y, 

Jelly  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one-fourth  cup 
sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  Add  flour  enough  to  roll 
out  thin.  Cut  in  two  layers.  Use  doughnut-cutter  for  top 
layer.    Spreadapple  jelly  or  fig  paste  between.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mattie  E.  Robinson,  Wn.LiAMSTOwN,  Vt. 

Spice  Cookies 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  each  lard 
and  butter,  four  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  each  ginger,  salt, 
soda  and  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  two  eggs.  Heat 
molasses  to  boiling  point,  add  sugar  and  shortening.  Mix 
and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  to  first  mixture  with  the  eggs 
lightly  beaten.  Chill  and  roll  out.  In  warm  weather  prepare 
the  mixture  over  night  or  some  hours  before  using  so  that  it 
may  be  easily  rolled.  ^^^  ^^^^  ^^^^^^^^  Dubuque,  Iowa. 

Graham  Cookies 

One  egg,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tablespoon 
molasses,  four  tablespoons  shortening,  one  teaspoon  each  soda 
and  cinnamon,  two  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  raisins.  Drop 
on  greased  pans.     These  are  delicious  with  or  without  raisins. 

Mrs.  Walter  Nichols,  Birmingham,  Mich. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


86 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


OatmccJ  Cookies  No.  1 

Cream  together  one  cup  butter  and  Larkin  Pure  Lard  mixed, 
add  one  cup  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar.  Sift  together  three 
cups  Larkin  Fancy  Patent  Flour,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda 
and  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon.  Sift  three  times.  Now 
add  two  cups  Larkin  Rolled  Oats  and  one  cup  Larkin  Seeded 
Raisins.  Mix  thoroughly.  Beat  light  two  eggs,  add  one 
tablespoon  Larkin  Evaporated  Milk  and  five  of  water.  Drop 
by  the  spoonful  onto  a  greased  baking  sheet.     Bake  in  a  hot 

^'^'^^-  Mrs.  L.  Leslie  Jones,  Mansfield,  Mass. 

Rich  Oatmeal  Cookies  No.  2 

Three-fourths  cup  shortening,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs.  Sift 
two  cups  flour  with  one  teaspoon  each  soda  and  cinnamon, 
three  times,  add  two  cups  oatmeal,  two  cups  chopped  raisins, 
one  cup  chopped  pecan  or  walnut  meats,  one  cup  Larkin  Cocoa- 
nut,  four  tablespoons  sour  milk.  Mix  in  order  given,  drop  on 
buttered  baking  sheet,  bake  in  medium  oven. 

Mrs.  a.  H.  Cameron,  San  Antonio,  Texas. 

Christmas  Cookies 

One-fourth  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
molasses,  one  cup  sour  cream,  two  teaspoons  soda,  one-fourth 
pound  mixed  candied  peel,  one-fourth  pound  almonds,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Add  sufficient 
flour  to  roll  out,  cut  with  fancy  cutters,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
These  improve  with  keeping. 

Mrs.  Volney  G.  Pitcher,  Jackson,  Mich. 

Hermits 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  soda  put  into  one-half  cup  boiling 
water,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  chopped  raisins  and  one  cup 
currants.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  then  add  the  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  stir  until  well  mixed ;  add  the  remaining  ingre- 
dients.    Drop  on  baking  sheets,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Jno.  Marasek,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Elggless  Cookies 

Sift  together  six  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Into 
this  rub  one  cup  shortening.  Add  two  cups  brown  sugar  and 
enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  lightly, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  quickly.  Raisins  may  be  placed 
on  some  and  jelly  on  others.  Sweet  milk  may  be  used  in  place 
of  sour.  j^j^g  Luther  Miller,  New  Philadelphia,  Ohio. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 


87 


Eggless  Date  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one-half 
cup  sour  milk,  two  cups  Larkin  Rolled  Oats  put  through  food- 
chopper,  one  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll 
every  thin.  Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  cut  in  any  desired  shape, 
and  put  together  in  pairs  with  the  following  filling: 
Wash  and  remove  stones  from  one-half  pound  Larkin  Dates, 
add  three-fourths  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  cold  water.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  use  when  quite  cold. 

Mrs.  Besse  Binnall,  Dow  City,  Iowa. 

Special  Peanut  Cookies 

Put  three  tablespoons  Larkin  Peanut  Butter,  one  teaspoon 
lard,  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  and  two  eggs 
into  a  mixing  bowl.  Stir  and  beat  until  mixture  is  quite  light. 
Add  two  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour  and  on^  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  three  tablespoons  thick  sour  milk.  Flavor  with 
one  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  Extract.  Roll  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     This  amount  makes  fifty  cookies. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Parrins,  Lyons,  N.  Y. 

Chocolate  Cookies 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  egg, 
one-half  cup  sour  milk,  two  squares  or  ounces  Larkin  Chocolate 
melted  over  hot  water.  Sift  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  with 
one-half  teaspoon  soda,  add  one-half  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup 
chopped  walnut  meats.  Mix  well  and  drop  with  a  teaspoon 
on  buttered  pans  or  use  more  flour  and  roll  out.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Nuts  may  be  left  out  if  not  on  hand. 

Mrs.  W.X.  Austin,  Alliance,  Nebr. 

Cocoanut  or  Sugar  Cookies 

Mix  together  thoroughly,  one  cup  lard  or  butter,  two  cups 
sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  cocoanut.  Sift  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  If  not  stiff 
enough,  add  more  flour  to  roll  out  quite  thin.  Bake  quickly. 
All  materials  are  Larkin  except  the  eggs.  For  sugar  cookies 
leave  out  cocoanut,  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract, 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Hudson,  Orangeburgh,  N.  Y. 

Raisin  Drop  Cookies 

Mix  and  beat  well  together,  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar, 
two-thirds  cup  butter,  three  eggs.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups 
raisins  chopped  fine,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  sifted  with 
one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cloves  and  nutmeg  mixed. 
Drop  on  a  baking  sheet.     Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Ray  F.  Cossentine,  Susquehanna,  Pa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


88      GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  fine  as  silk, 
A  little  nutmeg  (lemon  will  do),  of  baking  powder,  teaspoons 

two, 
Lightly  stir  the  flour  in,  roll  on  pie-board  not  too  thin; 
Cut  in  diamonds,  twists  or  rings,  then  drop  with  care  the  doughy 

things 
Into  fat  that  briskly  swells,  evenly  the  spongy  cells. 
Roll  in  sugar,  lay  to  cool.     Always  use  this  simple  rule. 

For  chocolate  doughnuts  use  the  above  rule,  add  four  table- 
spoons of  cocoa  with  the  flour,  or  two  ounces  of  melted  chocolate. 
Mrs.  Belle  Thorp  Ocker,  West  Union,  Iowa. 

Potato  Doughnuts 

Three  tablespoons  lard,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  freshly  mashed  potato,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  sift  together 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  ground  nutmeg.  Cream  the  lard,  add  the  sugar, 
then  the  eggs.  Stir  in  the  potato  and  milk.  Add  the  flour 
gradually  and  use  more  if  necessary.  Roll  and  cut  all  the 
doughnuts  before  commencing  the  frying.  Fry  in  deep  lard 
or  cooking  oil.  This  rule  will  make  three  dozen.  One  cup  of 
beef-suet  melted  with  lard  is  good  for  frying. 

Ruth  Wiggins,  Shelby,  Ohio. 

Buttermilk  Doughnuts 

Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cup  brown  sugar  and  one  cup  buttermilk, 
two  tablespoons  butter  or  lard.  Sift  together  four  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Soda,  one  teaspoon 
Larkin  Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  together, 
roll  out.     Cut,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Dessie  L.  Nuzum,  WatsoN;  W,  Va. 


Baked  Apple  Pudding 

Half  fill  a  pudding  dish  with  sliced  apples,  add  sugar  and 
spice,  cook  until  almost  soft.  Set  aside  to  cool.  While  still 
steaming  cover  with  a  batter  made  by  sifting  together  one  pint 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Add  one  egg  well  beaten,  two  table- 
spoons melted  shortening  and  three-fourths  cup  milk.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  one-half  hour.  Any  dried  fruit  may  be  used 
instead  of  apples.     Serve  with  a  sweet  sauce  or  cream. 

Mary  G.  Murphy,  Roxbury,  Mass. 
Spiced  Apple  Pudding 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  one-half 

teaspoon  ground  nutmeg  and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Add  one  beaten  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons  soft  butter, 

one  cup  milk  and  one  cup  cooked  Larkin  Canned  Apples.  Mix 

well  and  spread  in  a  flat  pan.     Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a 

moderate  oven  or  steam  one  and  one-half  hours  in  a  covered 

bowl.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  „  „  „  tt 

H.  Harper,  Portsmouth,  Va. 

Suet  Pudding 

Take  two  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  two  cups  raisins,  one  cup  cur- 
rants, one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  chopped  suet,  one- 
half  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Stir  all  together  and 
put  into  food  pan  of  Larkin  Double-Boiler.     Steam  three  hours. 

Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  a^      t^  «-  <-  n 

Mrs.  E.  Grindrod,  Connellsville,  Pa. 

Queen  Pudding 

One  pint  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  half  hour;  beat  yolks  of  eggs 
with  the  sugar  until  yellow,  add  the  lemon  extract  and  butter. 
Pour  into  baking-dish  and  bake  for  one-half  hour.  When  done, 
spread  a  layer  of  jelly  or  jam  over  the  top.  Beat  the  egg  whites 
quite  stiff;  add  four  tablespoons  granulated  sugar  and  spread 
over  the  pudding.   Brown  lightly  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Albrecht,  Jamaica,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


90 


DESSERTS 


Marshmallow  Pudding 

Soften  one-half  package  Larkin  Gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water.  Add  one  cup  sugar  to  one  cup  boiling  water;  when 
sugar  is  dissolved  add  gelatine.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
very  stiff  and  pour  the  liquid  over  them  beating  all  the  time 
as  for  boiled  icing.  Take  one-third  of  the  mixture  and  color 
with  Larkin  Apple-Green  Culinary  Paste,  add  to  it  one-fourth 
cup  each  of  chopped  pineapple,  Maraschino  cherries  and  English 
walnuts.  Pour  one-half  of  the  white  mixture  into  an  oblong 
pan,  then  the  pink  and  the  white  last;  stand  aside  to  cool. 
Cut  in  slices  like  brick  ice-cream.  Serve  with  a  custard  made 
with  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  and 
one  teaspoon  corn  starch.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  J.  Herbert  Robinson,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Sea-FoEim  Pudding 

Scald  three  cups  milk;  dilute  three  tablespoons  Larkin  Corn 
Starch  in  one-fourth  cup  milk.  Add  a  little  of  the  scalded 
milk  to  the  corn  starch;  pour  back  into  sauce-pan;  add  one-half 
cup  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes.  Remove  from  fire;  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  extract  and  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Pour  into  mold.     Serve  with  cream  or  boiled  custard. 

Mrs.  Louise  M.  Cobb,  South  Boston,  Mass. 
Leirkin  Cocoanut  Pudding 

One  pint  milk;  one-half  cup  Larkin  Sugar;  one-half  cup  rolled 
crackers;  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut;  pinch 
of  Larkin  Salt;  yolks  of  two  eggs;  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Lemon 
Flavoring  Extract.  Bake  like  custard.  Beat  whites  of  eggs, 
add  a  little  sugar,  put  on  top  and  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  a.  Whitney,  Melrose,  Mass. 
Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding 

Melt  two  ounces  chocolate  over  hot  water;  beat  one  egg  light, 
add  one  cup  milk,  sift  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  with  two 
cups  of  flour  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add  egg  and  milk 
gradually  to  flour,  adding  chocolate  last.  Pour  into  buttered 
mold ;  steam  one  and  one-half  hours.    Serve  with  creamy  sauce. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Smith,  Milan,  Pa. 

inexpensive  Plum  Pudding 

Mix  thoroughly  two  cups  stale  bread-crumbs,  one  cup  Larkin 
Molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  or  one-fourth  pound 
chopped  suet,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Ground  Cloves  and  Nutmeg,  one  cup 
raisins  mixed  with  one-half  cup  flour  and  one-fourth  teaspoon 
Larkin  Soda.  Put  into  a  tin  can  or  pail.  Steam  four  hours. 
Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  mrs.  James  F.  Ripley,  Bethel,  Vt. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


DESSERTS 


91 


Old  English  Plum  Pudding 

Put  into  a  mixing  bowl  one  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  grate  one 

raw  carrot  and  one  potato,  add  one  cup  sugar,  three-fourths 

cup  molasses,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  cups  Larkin 

Raisins,    one   cup   currants,  one    cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 

soda;   add   sufficient   flour   to   the   mixture   to    make   a   stiff 

batter.      Steam  four  hours  in  a   covered  bowl.      Serve  with 

sweet  or  hard  sauce.        x/r       a         t-  c  ^  ^      »t  -., 

Miss  Alice  E.  Seidmore,  Ballston  Spa,  N.  Y. 

Thanksgiving  Pudding 

Three  and  one-half  cups  milk,  eighteen  crackers  rolled  fine, 
one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  allspice  and  salt, 
one-half  pound  seeded  raisins,  one-half  cup  butter.  Pour  milk 
over  crackers.  Leave  twenty  minutes.  Add  sugar,  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  allspice,  salt  and  butter.  Parboil  raisins  until 
soft,  add  to  mixture,  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  bake 
slowly  two  and  one-half  hours.  Stir  once  to  prevent  raisins 
settling.      Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Mrs.  George  Balcom,  Natick,  Mass. 

Date  and  Nut  Pudding 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baldng  powder, 

one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  each  of  chopped  dates  and 

walnuts.     Mix  as  a  cake.     Put  dates  and  walnuts  through  a 

Larkin  Food-Chopper  and  add  last.     This  may  be  spread  in 

pie-pans  and  baked  one-half   hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  but  I 

prefer  to  put  it  into  small  cups  and  steam  three-fourths  of  an 

hour  in  a  Larkin  Steam  Cooker.     Will  serve  six  people.     Serve 

with  whipped  cream.  a/i      t>  u  /-.  ^  a  t        n* 

^^  Mrs.  p.  H.  Overgard,  Albert  Lea,  Minn. 

StcJe  Cake  Pudding 

If  you  have  any  stale  spice  or  fruit  cake  on  hand,  break  it  up 
in  small  pieces.  Use  half  as  much  milk  as  you  have  cake.  Mix 
together.  Put  into  bowl  and  steam  one  hour.  Sometimes  a 
stale  cake  may  be  bought  for  a  few  cents  at  the  baker's.  It 
will  make  a  good,  cheap  pudding.   Serve  with  hard  or  sweet  sauce. 

E.  L.  GiBBS,  Campello,  Mass. 

Cranberry  Pudding 

One-third  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 

milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 

baking   powder,   one  cup  raw   cranberries,   one-half  teaspoon 

lemon  extract.     Mix  as  for  layer  cake.     Add  cranberries  and 

flavoring  extract  last.     Bake  in  medium  oven.     Serve  warm 

with  hard  or  sweet  sauce.  Ti>r      /^        m  ti  t 

Miss  Orril  Newland,  Hoopeston,  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


92 


DESSERTS 


Baked  Rhubarb  Pudding 

Wash  fresh  rhubarb.  Do  not  remove  the  skin,  cut  in  one- 
inch  pieces  until  you  have  four  cups.  Put  into  a  pudding 
dish  with  four  or  five  shces  of  buttered  bread  cut  in  cubes  and 
one  cup  sugar.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 
Cover  the  pudding  during  the  first  ten  minutes  and  then  you 
will  need  no  water  as  the  rhubarb  is  juicy. 

Miss  Jessie  M.  Will,  Canal  Winchester,  Ohio. 
Graham  Pudding 

Two  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  milk  (or  Larkin 
Evaporated  Milk  diluted  with  water),  one  cup  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  currants  or  raisins,  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Mix  all  together,  steam  in  double-boiler  for  two  hours. 
It  is  good  served  with  lemon  sauce  but  best  with  whipped 
cream.  This  pudding  is  what  everyone  likes.  It  is  almost 
as  light  as  a  souffle  and  simply  delicious.     All  Larkin  material 

"^^^"  Mrs.  William  Reahr,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Snow  Pudding 

Soak  one-half  package  Larkin  Gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water,  dissolve  in  two  cups  boiling  water,  add  two  cups  sugar, 
one-fourth  cup  lemon  juice.  Set  aside  in  cool  place;  stir 
occasionally  and  when  quite  thick  beat  with  whisk  until  frothy. 
Fold  in  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  quite  stiff.  When  stiff 
enough  to  hold  its  shape,  pile  in  glass  dish.  Serve  with  boiled 
custard.  ^^^  Charles  A.  Martin,  Gardner,  Mass. 

Baked  Caramel  Pudding 

Scald  one  quart  milk,  brown  one-half  cup  Larkin  Sugar  in 
spider.  Add  milk  to  sugar  and  place  on  back  of  stove  until 
sugar  melts  in  the  milk.  Add  two  cups  bread-crumbs,  two 
beaten  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  Larkin,  Vanilla, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt.  Pour  into  buttered  dish. 
Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Charles  P.  Loring,  Auburn,  Maine. 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 

To  one  quart  new  milk  add  four  tablespoons  Larkin  Rice 
washed  in  cold  water.  Add  three  tablespoons  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Flavor  with  Larkin  Nutmeg.  Stir  all  together, 
place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  two  hours.  Stir  once 
during  the  first  hour.  One  and  one-half  cups  raisins  may  be 
added  if  liked.     They  are  not  necessary  however. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Clish,  Marquette,  Mich. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


DESSERTS 


93 


Rice  Pudding  in  Double-Boiler 

Put  one-half  cup  Larkin  Comet  Rice  into  double-boiler  with 
two  cups  sweet  milk.  Cook  until  quite  soft.  Add  one-fourth 
cup  Larkin  Raisins  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Cook 
twenty  minutes.  Then  add  one  egg  beaten  with  one-half  cup 
sugar.     Cook  three  minutes.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Wiley,  North  Amherst,  Mass. 

Baked  Tapioca  Pudding 

Wash  and  soak  three-fourths  cup  tapioca  in  two  cups  milk 
over  night  or  for  several  hours.  When  ready  to  bake  add 
another  two  cups  milk,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one  pinch  salt 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  any  extract  and  bake 
one  and  one-quarter  hours.  If  you  can  spare  it,  beat  one  egg 
and  add  to  the  pudding  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Martha  Strudwick,  Belmar,  N.  J. 

Indian  Tapioca 

Mix  together  one-third  cup  tapioca  and  one-fourth  cup  Indian 
meal  and  stir  while  sprinkling  into  one  quart  scalded  milk.  Stir 
and  cook  until  the  tapioca  becomes  transparent,  then  stir  into 
the  pudding  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  table- 
spoons butter  and  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  over 
the  top  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  milk  and  set  in  the  oven  with- 
out stirring.    Bake  about  an  hour.    Serve  with  or  without  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Lindberg,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Apple  Tapioca 

One  cup  Larkin  Pearl  Tapioca,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  five  apples.  Wash 
the  tapioca  in  cold  water,  soak  over  night  in  six  cups  water. 
Put  in  Larkin  Double-Boiler,  add  the  salt  and  sugar.  Cook 
one  hour.  Put  a  layer  of  tapioca  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  apples  pared  and  sliced.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  and  sugar. 
Cover  with  tapioca  and  bake  until  apples  are  tender  (about 
forty-five  minutes).  Serve  with  whipped  or  plain  cream.  This 
dish  is  very  pretty  if  the  tapioca  is  colored  a  light   red   with 

^  *         Mrs.  Emery  Christensen,  Morocco,  Ind. 

Pineapple  Tapioca 

Take  one  cup  Larkin  Pearl  Tapioca,  cover  with  water,  soak 

over  night.     In   the   morning  add   one-half  cup  water,   cook 

until  clear.     Add  one  pint  diced  pineapple,  juice  of  two  lemons 

and  one  cup  sugar.     Take  from  the  fire,  fold  in  whites  of  three 

eggs  beaten  quite  stiff.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  sweet 

sauce.     This  is  fine.  ,,       ata/t  t>  t 

Mrs.  a.  L.  Miller,  Eleroy,  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


94 


DESSERTS 


Tapioca  Cream 

Put  one-fourth  cup  Larkin  Pearl  Tapioca  into  double-boiler. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  one  hour.  Drain  off  water, 
add  two  cups  milk  and  cook  until  tapioca  is  soft  and  trans- 
parent. Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  one-third  cup 
Larkin  Sugar.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add  part  of 
the  tapioca  mixture  to  the  eggs.  Put  back  into  sauce-pan. 
Cook  for  three  minutes  or  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  flavor  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  each  of  lemon  and  orange  extract.  Serve  with 
or  without  cream.  ^j^^  Walter  F.  Barringer.  Newark,  N.  J. 

Brown  Betty 

In  a  quart  pudding-dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  sliced  apples 
and  bread-crumbs;  season  each  layer  with  bits  of  butter,  a 
little  sugar  and  a  pinch  each  of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
allspice.  When  the  dish  is  full  pour  over  it  one-half  cup  each  of 
molasses  and  water  mixed;  cover  the  top  with  crumbs.  Place 
the  dish  in  a  pan  containing  hot  water  and  bake  three-fourths 
of  an  hour.     Serve  with  any  sweet  sauce. 

Mrs.  Jennie  L.  Thomas,  Amsterdam,  N.  Y. 

Coffee  Corn  Starch 

Four  tablespoons  each  of  sugar  and  corn  starch,  one  cup  of 
left-over  Larkin  Coffee,  one  cup  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  corn  starch  and  sugar  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk.  Scald 
remainder  of  milk  with  the  coffee.  Pour  slowly  on  corn  starch 
mixture.  Cook  in  double-boiler  stirring  until  it  thickens. 
Cover  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  wet  mold  and  chill. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  ^  ^  lindsay,  Allston,  Mass. 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Make  a  biscuit  crust  with  two  cups  Larkin  Flour  sifted  twice 
with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt; 
rub  in  two  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  lard.  Mix  with 
one-half  cup  milk,  use  a  little  flour  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to 
the  hands  and  put  into  a  pie-tin.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
done,  split  apart  and  butter  each  half.  Then  spread  with 
strawberries  prepared  as  follows:  To  one  quart  berries  allow 
one  cup  sugar;  mash  sugar  and  berries.  Let  stand  an  hour 
or  two.  Before  using,  beat  the  white  of  one  egg  and  stir  into 
the  berries.  Spread  between  the  cake,  put  a  generous  supply 
on  top  and  cover  the  whole  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Mary  E.  Davidson,  Melrose,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


DESSERTS 


95 


Raspberry  Blanc  Mange 

Heat  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  in  a  double-boiler;  add  one-half 
cup  sugar.  Mix  six  tablespoons  Larkin  Corn  Starch  with  one- 
half  cup  milk,  add  to  the  scalded  milk,  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Cook  ten  minutes,  add  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  Flavor- 
ing Extract  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt  (the  blanc 
mange  may  be  colored  a  light  pink  with  Larkin  Cherry-Red 
Culinary  Paste).  Put  a  layer  of  Larkin  Raspberry  Jam  into 
the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish.  When  cold  turn  the  blanc  mange 
onto  it,   sprinkle  with   Larkin  Shredded   Cocoanut  and   it  is 

*  Miss  Vera  Laverty,  Lomerville,  Mass. 

Rye  and  Raspberries 

Dilute  one  cup  rye  flour  with  one  cup  water  or  milk.  Add  two 
cups  scalded  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  three-fourths  cup 
sugar.  Cook  in  double-boiler  one  hour  or  in  fireless  cooker 
several  hours.  Serve  with  ripe  raspberries  and  milk  or  cream. 
A  delicious  and  wholesome  dessert  or  breakfast  dish. 

Miss  Alice  Grady,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

Bavarian  Cream 

Prepare  one  package  Larkin  Orange  Jelly  Dessert  using  the 
juice  from  one  can  of  Larkin  Pineapple  and  water  sufficient  to 
make  one  and  one-half  cups;  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  and  enough  Larkin  Cherry- Red  Culinary  Paste 
to  give  a  pretty  pink  color.  Put  aside  to  cool.  When  it  begins 
to  thicken,  add  one  cup  of  cream  whipped  until  stiff.  Pour 
into  a  pan  rinsed  with  cold  water;  have  the  jelly  one  inch  thick. 
When  firm  cut  in  small  squares,  lay  on  each  square  a  slice  of 
pineapple,  cover  the  pineapple  with  whipped  sweetened  cream. 
Decorate  with  cherries  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Martin,  Columbia,  Tenn. 

Orange  Dessert 

Arrange   layers   of   sliced   oranges,    sprinkle   each    layer   with 

Larkin    Powdered    Sugar    and    Shredded    Cocoanut.     Sliced 

oranges  when  served  alone  should  not  stand  long  after  slicing, 

as  they  are  apt  to  become  bitter.     This  may  be  served  as  a 

salad  or  dessert.  t^/,      r-  itu  t-        /-  t 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Fogg,  Creston,  Iowa. 

Marshmallow  Dessert 

Cut  one-half  pound  each  of  Larkin  Marshmallows  and  walnuts 
in  small  pieces.  Whip  one-half  pint  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor 
to  taste.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  a  tiny  piece  of  jelly 
or  a  Maraschino  cherry  on  top. 

Mrs.  Alonzo  Bailey,  Island  Pond,  Vt. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


96 


DESSERTS 


Maple  Cream  Sponge 

Soak  one-fourth  box  of  Larkin  Gelatine  in  cold  water  until  soft. 
Dissolve  in  one  cup  hot  milk,  add  one-third  cup  sugar  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  vanilla.  When  gelatine  is  beginning  to  thicken, 
stir  it  up  and  fold  in  lightly  one  pint  whipped  cream  to  which 
has  been  added  one  cup  maple  syrup  and  one-half  cup  chopped 
walnut  meats.     Put  on  ice  and  serve  when  firm. 

L.  G.  Partridge,  Spofford,  N.  H. 

Rice  Jelly  Sponge 

Boil  one-fourth  cup  Larkin  Rice.  Drain  off  the  water,  add 
one  pint  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar;  when  quite  hot,  add  two 
tablespoons  gelatine  softened  in  one-half  cup  water.  Stir  over 
the  fire  two  minutes.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool  fold  in 
one-half  pint  whipped  cream  flavored  with  one  teaspoon  Larkin 
Vanilla.  Pour  into  a  mold.  Serve  with  canned  strawberries, 
raspberries  or  peaches.  ^^^  ^^^^  ^  B^^^^^  ^^^^^^^  ^^^^^ 

Prune  Jelly 

Soak  one  pound  of  prunes  over  night,  the  next  day  cook  until 
tender.  Remove  the  stones  and  add  a  little  sugar.  Make  a 
plain  jelly  with  one-half  package  Larkin  Gelatine;  when  begin- 
ning to  set  add  the  prunes  and  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one 
egg.     Serve  with  cream  or  custard  sauce. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Chace,  Somerset,  Mass. 

Baked  Apples  with  Sauce 

Wash  and  core  six  large  apples.  Fill  the  centers  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Pour  a  little  water  over  the  apples.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven.  Make  a  sauce  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  Larkin 
Corn  Starch  and  one  egg.     Flavor  with  vanilla.     Serve  warm 

^  ^     '  Mrs.  a.  Wiltmann,  Pearl  River,  N.  Y. 

Dainty  Dessert 

Prepare  one  box  of  Larkin  Gelatine  according  to  directions,  put 
away  to  chill.  When  just  setting  beat  up  gelatine  with  a  fork 
or  egg-beater  and  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  Larkin  Marsh- 
mallows  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  dozen  macaroons  crumbled 
with  the  hands,  or  clipped  with  scissors  in  small  pieces, 
one-quarter  pound  of  almonds  coarsely  chopped.  When 
well  mixed  fold  in  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cream  whipped 
quite  stiff  and  flavored  with  any  extract.  When  quite  firm  it 
is  ready  to  serve.     These  quantities  will  serve  twenty  people. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Chamberlain,  East  Providence,  R.  I. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


DESSERTS 


97 


FROZEN    DESSERTS 

Frozen  desserts  are  easily  and  quickly  made  and  are  both 
cooling  and  refreshing.  To  make  the  work  as  easy  as  possible  a 
good  freezer,  a  burlap  bag,  a  wooden  mallet  or  an  axe,  a  dipper  or 
sauce-pan,  ice  and  coarse  rock  salt  are  needed. 

Put  the  ice  into  the  bag  and  crush  fine — the  freezing  will  be 
accomplished  in  much  less  time  if  the  ice  is  quite  fine.  Place  can 
containing  the  mixture  in  freezer  and  turn  the  crank  to  be  sure  it 
fits  properly,  then  pack  around  it  solidly  with  salt  and  ice,  using 
three  level  measures  of  ice  to  one  of  salt.  If  only  a  small  amount 
is  to  be  frozen,  the  ice  and  salt  need  not  come  to  the  top  of  the  can. 
In  winter  snow  may  be  used  in  place  of  ice.  Never  have  the  can 
more  than  three-fourths  full  as  the  mixture  increases  in  bulk  during 
freezing,  and  if  the  can  is  overcrowded,  the  cream  will  be  coarse- 
grained. Turn  the  crank  slowly  and  steadily  to  expose  as  large 
surface  of  mixture  as  possible  to  ice  and  salt.  Never  draw  off  the 
salt  water  until  mixture  is  frozen,  unless  it  is  apt  to  get  into  the 
can,  because  the  salt  water  hastens  the  freezing.  After  mixture 
is  frozen,  draw  off  the  water,  remove  the  dasher,  and  with  a  spoon 
pack  solidly  or  place  in  a  mold  as  preferred,  put  cork  in  opening 
in  cover  and  repack,  using  four  level  measures  of  ice  to  one  of  salt. 
Place  an  old  piece  of  carpet  over  the  top.  When  ready  to  serve, 
run  cool  water  over  the  can  to  wash  off  salty  water. 

ICE-CREAMS    AND    SHERBETS 

Ice-Cream  with  Milk 

Three  eggs,  three  quarts  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one-fourth 
package  gelatine,  two  teaspoons  extract.  Soak  the  gelatine 
five  minutes  in  one  cup  milk,  scald  the  balance  of  one  quart; 
add  the  eggs  to  this;  cook  until  thick;  now  add  the  softened 
gelatine.  Add  the  milk  and  any  extract  preferred.  Crushed 
fruit  or  fruit  juice  may  be  used  with  this  if  liked.  These  quan- 
tities make  one  gallon  of  cream.     ^^^  j  ^  p^^^^^^  Seaford,  Va. 

New  Idea  Ice-Cream 

Moisten  the  contents  of  one  package  Larkin  Prepared  Pudding 
in  three-fourths  cup  cold  milk.  Scald  the  remainder  of  a  quart 
of  milk;  into  it  stir  the  moistened  powder.  Cook  ten  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  two  eggs  beaten  light  and  one  quart 
milk.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  one  tablespoon  of 
any  extract.  If  you  can  spare  it,  add  one  cup  cream.  Freeze. 
This  will  serve  twelve  people.     ^^^^  ^^^^^  ^^^^  Brockton,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


98 


DESSERTS 


Coffee  Ice-Crecim 

Scald  two  quarts  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  two 
cups  sugar  together  until  light.  Add  them  to  the  scalded 
milk.  Stir  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  take  from  the  fire  and 
add  one  pint  cream.  Stir  constantly  for  two  minutes,  then  add 
one-half  cup  Larkin  Ground  Coffee  and  stand  on  the  stove  until 
thoroughly  heated.     Stand  aside  until  cool.     Strain  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Frank  S.  Merrill,  Bristol,  Conn. 

Orange  Ice-Cream 

Use  two  pint-size  cans  of  Larkin  Evaporated  Milk;  add  an 
equal  amount  of  water  that  has  previously  been  boiled  and 
cooled  and  one  pound  sugar.  Flavor  with  three  teaspoons 
Larkin  Orange  Flavoring  Extract.  Mix  together  well  and 
freeze  in  a  Larkin  Ice-Cream  Freezer.  This  makes  about  two 
quarts  of  delicious  ice-cream.  Any  other  flavoring  desired 
may  be  used.  ^^^  ^  (.  Korahek,  Chicago,  III. 

Fruit  Cream  with  Gelatine 

Soften  one-quarter  box  Larkin  Gelatine  in  one  cup  milk.  Scald 
the  remainder  of  one  quart  milk.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar  to  milk  and  pour  over  the  gelatine.  Flavor  with  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  of  any  Larkin  Flavoring  Extract.  Add 
a  pinch  of  salt.  When  cold  add  one  pint  cream  (whipped). 
Freeze  in  Larkin  Ice-Cream  Freezer.  When  frozen  remove 
the  dasher,  repack  and  allow  to  ripen  about  two  hours,  that 
the  ingredients  may  be  well  blended.  One  pint  of  any  kind 
of  crushed  fruit  may  be  used  with  this. 

Mrs.  Roy  S.  Heatwole,  Harrisonburg,  Va. 

Lemon  Sherbet 

Juice  of  four  lemons,  grated  rind  of  two,  one  quart  water, 
three  cups  Larkin  Sugar,  one-fourth  package  Larkin  Gelatine, 
one  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  Flavoring  Extract,  white  of  one 
egg.  To  the  lemon  juice  and  rind,  add  the  sugar.  Soak  the 
gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Dissolve  by  standing  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water.  Thoroughly  mix  all  ingredients  and  when 
partly  frozen  add  the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  egg.  Freeze 
again.     Fruit  may  be  added  to  this  if  desired. 

Mrs.  I.  F.  Hurt,  Roanoke,  Va. 
Milk  Sherbet 

Two  quarts  milk,  juice  of  six  oranges  and  one  large  lemon, 
sugar  to  sweeten,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  juice  and 
sugar.     Stir  constantly  while  adding  milk;  freeze  and  serve. 

JosEPmNE  Murphy,  Roxbury,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


DESSERTS 


99 


Peach  Sherbet 

One  quart  canned  peaches,  one  quart  cream,  one  and  one-half 

pints  water,  two  cups  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs.     Put  the 

peaches  through  a  sieve  or  colander,   add  sugar  and  water, 

then  the  cream.     When  partly  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites 

of  the  eggs.     This   quantity  makes  one  gallon   in  a   Larkin 

Freezer  and  is  delicious.  ,,      iv/r       c        tv*  r. 

Mrs.  Mary  Slee,  Muncy,  Pa. 

Chocolate  Mousse 

Put  one  ounce  or  square  of  unsweetened  chocolate  into  a  small 
sauce-pan  with  one-fourth  cup  sugar ;  add  one  tablespoon  boiling 
water,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  smooth.  Add  a  few  spoons 
of  cream  to  this  mixture  and  whip  the  remainder  of  a  pint  of 
cream  until  quite  stiff.  Sweeten  the  cream  with  three-fourths 
cup  sugar;  add  one  tablespoon  vanilla  extract  and  the  chocolate 
mixture  to  the  cream.  Pour  into  chilled  mold  and  pack  in 
a  wooden  pail  for  three  hours  using  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt. 

Daisy  E.  Light,  Martinsburg,  West  Va. 

Fruit  Mousse 

Whip  one  pint  cream;  add  one  pint  Larkin  Canned  Fruit  or 

preserves  and  mix  well  with  cream;  pack  in  ice  or  snow  and 

leave  three  or  four  hours.  t»,t      r.  c<  c  tv/t         r. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Smith,  Milan,  Pa. 

Maple  Syrup  Cream 

Dilute  six  tablespoons  corn  starch  in  cold  milk,  scald  the  balance 
of  three  pints  in  double-boiler;  add  corn  starch;  cook  ten 
minutes.  Add  yolks  of  three  eggs;  cook  three  minutes,  then 
add  stififly-beaten  whites.  Remove  from  the  fire;  add  two  cups 
Larkin  Maple  Syrup.  When  quite  cold  add  one  pint  cream; 
one  tablespoon  vanilla  extract  and  one  cup  hickory  or  walnut 
meats  finely  chopped  or  put  through  food-chopper.  The  nuts  are 
not  necessary  but  improve  the  flavor.     Freeze  when  quite  cold. 

Mrs.  Ray  F.  CossENTifjE,  Susquehanna,  Pa. 


PAST 


Pie-Crust 

Two  cups  sifted  flour,  one-half  cup  lard,  one-fourth  cup  ice- 
water,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Cut  the  lard  into  the  flour 
with  a  knife  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  stir  in  the  water.  Do 
not  touch  with  the  hands  until  this  is  done.  Turn  it  on  a 
board  and  roll  quite  thin  using  as  little  flour  as  possible  in  the 
rolling;  fold  and  roll  out  again,  and  continue  the  folding  and 
rolling  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Everything  should  be  very 
cold  and  the  hands  used  as  little  as  possible. 

Elizabeth  G.  Leary,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

Baking  Powder  Crust 

Sift  together  two  and  one-half  cups  Larkin  Flour,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt, 
one-half  cup  Larkin  Corn  Starch.  Chop  in  three-fourths  cup 
Larkin  Lard  with  a  Larkin  Spatula.  When  thoroughly  mixed, 
add  enough  cold  water  to  mix  to  a  firm  dough.  Roll  out 
quickly  and  lightly.     Enough  for  two  pies. 

Mrs.  Barnett  M.  Rhetta,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Raisin  Turnovers 

Two  cups  Larkin  Pastry  Flour,  three-fourths  cup  Larkin  Pure 
Lard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  ice-water  to  mix.  Sift  flour  and 
salt  together  in  a  wooden  bowl;  chop  shortening  in  thoroughly; 
add  ice-water  to  mix.  Roll  out,  fold  evenly  into  three  layers; 
turn  half  around  and  roll  again.  Repeat  twice.  This  makes 
it  flaky.  Cut  out  with  a  saucer.  Place  one  tablespoon  of 
raisin  filling  on  one-half;  prick  and  turn  over  the  upper  half 
and  pinch  edges  together. 

To  Make  the  Raisin  Filling: 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  Larkin  Seeded 
Raisins,  three  Larkin  Soda  Crackers,  one  cup  Larkin  Granu- 
lated Sugar,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  cold  water.  Chop 
raisins  and  crackers,  beat  egg  and  sugar,  then  mix  all  together. 
One-half  cup  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans  added  to  the  filling 
is  a  great  improvement.  These  are  excellent  for  a  picnic,  as 
they  carry  nicely.  ^^^^^  g_  ^^^^^_  ^^^^^^^  P^^_ 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


101 


Peanut  Butter  Pin- Wheels 

Two  cups  flour  sifted  with   one-half  teaspoon  salt  and   two 

teaspoons   Larkin    Baking   Powder.     Work   into   this   one-half 

cup  lard  and  mix  to  a  dough  with  milk.     Roll  out  lightly  into 

a  long  wide  strip.     Mix  one-fourth  cup  peanut  butter  with  two 

tablespoons  water,  add  a  few  grains  of  salt,  spread  with  a  spatula. 

Roll  up  as  for  jelly  roll.     Cut  in  slices  one-fourth  inch  thick. 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  A/r      u  ^  c  ^  xr  ^r 

Mrs.  Henry  R.  Spencer,  Granville,  N.  Y. 

Crust  Cake 

Mix  together  two  cups  Larkin  Powdered  Sugar,  two  cups 
Larkin  Flour,  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Baking  Powder,  two  eggs 
beaten,  one-half  cup  butter  and  one-half  cup  milk;  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla.  Put  in  pie-plates  lined  with  pie- 
crust. Sprinkle  the  cakes  well  with  powdered  sugar  before 
putting  in  oven  to  bake.  This  will  make  four  ordinary-sized 
cakes.     When  done  they  will  look  like  a  pie. 

Mrs.  George  Owens,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cheese  Straws 

Two  and  one-half  cups  pastry  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 

salt,    one-half    teaspoon    baking    powder,    three-fourths    cup 

water,  one-half  pound  cheese  (put  through  food-chopper)  one 

teaspoon   paprika,   two-thirds  cup  shortening.     Mix  and   roll 

as  for  pastry.     Cut  in  strips  five  inches  long  and  one-fourth 

inch  wide.     Bake  eight  minutes  in  hot  oven.     Pile  log-cabin 

fashion  and  serve  with  salad  or  coffee.     These  quantities  make 

ninety  cheese  straws.  a/t      t>w         t>.  t^  at  ^r 

•'  Mrs.  David  Davies,  Remsen,  N.  Y. 

Lemon  Cheese 

One-fourth  pound  butter,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  three  lemons.  Mix  and  put  over  a  slow  fire,  stir  all 
the  time.  When  thick  as  honey  add  two  cups  sugar  and  cook 
a  little  longer.  Pour  into  jars,  seal  and  it  will  keep  for  six 
months.  If  it  is  not  required  to  keep,  use  less  sugar.  This 
makes  a  nice  filling  for  tarts  or  jelly  cakes. 

Mrs.  F.  Richardson,  Santa  Rosa,  Fla. 

Lemon  3ponge  Pie 

One  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Beat  these  together.  Add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
three  tablespoons  flour,  mix  all  together,  add  one  cup  milk 
and  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  three-fourths 
of  an  hour  in  slow  oven  using  only  one  crust. 

Mrs.  R.  V.  Buckage,  Vincentown,  N.  J. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


102 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


Lemon  Pie 

One  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  corn  starch,  two 
eggs,  one  pint  hot  water,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Dilute  corn 
starch  in  cold  water,  put  sugar,  butter  and  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  lemon  into  a  sauce-pan,  add  corn  starch  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes;  then  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  cook 
until  thickened,  cool,  pour  into  pie-shell,  beat  whites  of  eggs 
very  stiff,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar,  spread  on  top  of  pie 
and  brown  slightly  in  cool  oven. 

Mrs.  Harry  W.  Tyler,  Toano,  Va. 

Lemon  and  Other  Tarts 

Line  patty-pans  with  ordinary  pastry  and  put  one  teaspoon 
of  the  following  mixture  into  each  pan.  Mix  together 
thoroughly  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter, 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  A  good  filling  for 
cooked  tart-shells  is  Larkin  Prepared  Pudding  with  a  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream  on  top.  Larkin  Prepared  Jelly  Dessert  also 
makes  a  dainty  dessert  served  in  the  same  way.  When  straw- 
berries are  in  season  crush  a  few  berries,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
serve  in  baked  shells  with  whipped  cream.  These  desserts 
are  suitable  to  use  after  a  heavy  meal  and  also  inexpensive. 

Mrs.  Annie  E.  Campbell,  (No  Address  Given) 

Lemon  Crumb  Pie 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  fine  bread-crumbs 
(or  one  thick  slice  of  bread),  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  two 
eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  butter.  Cover  the  bread 
with  the  water,  leave  for  twenty  minutes,  add  the  egg  yolks 
slightly  beaten,  juice  and  rind  of  lemon,  butter,  salt  and  sugar. 
Mix  thoroughly,  line  a  pie-plate  with  good  pastry,  pour  in  the 
filling,  bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven,  cover  with  meringue 
made  with  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  sugar.  I 
have  used  this  recipe  for  thirty-eight  years. 

Mrs.  p.  C.  Brophy,  Mountain  Grove,  Mo. 

Eggless  Rhubarb-Lemon  Pie 

Stir  together  one  cup  stewed  rhubarb,  two  cups  boiling  water, 
one  and  one-half  cups  Larkin  Sugar,  add  eight  tablespoons 
Larkin  Corn  Starch  blended  with  one-half  cup  cold  water. 
Cook  over  boiling  water  ten  minutes,  stir  frequently.  Add 
three  tablespoons  butter,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Lemon  Flavor- 
ing Extract.  Pour  into  two  ready-baked  crusts.  Serve  when 
cold.    These  are  delicious.       ^^^^  j  ^^^^  Graybill.  Buchanan,  Va. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


103 


Plain  Custard  Pie 

Whether  for  a  pie  or  to  bake  plain  in  a  dish,  allow  three  eggs 
to  every  pint  of  milk  with  one-third  cup  of  sugar;  beat  suffi- 
ciently to  mix;  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla  or  a  little 
nutmeg.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  One-half  cup  Larkin  Shredded 
Cocoanut  may  be  sprinkled  over  custard  if  liked. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Hess,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Cream,  Banana  or  Cocoanut  Pie 

Cover  two  deep  pie-pans  with  a  rich  crust,  pinch  here  and 
there  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Mix  together  one-third  cup 
flour  with  three-fourths  cup  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add 
one  pint  scalded  milk  and  three  tablespoons  butter.  Cook 
five  minutes,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  gradually  to 
thickened  milk.  Cook  a  few  minutes  stirring  constantly.  Set 
aside  to  cool,  add  one  teaspoon  orange  extract  and  fill  prepared 
crusts.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped 
very  stiff,  and  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar,  spread  on  pies  and  set 
in  oven  to  brown.  Delicious.  For  banana  pie  add  three 
sliced  bananas  to  the  mixture.  For  cocoanut  add  one-half 
cup  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut. 

Mrs.  Howard  Douglas,  Wampum,  Pa. 

Eggless  Cream  Pie 

Mix  together  three-fourths  cup  sugar  and  four  tablespoons 
Larkin  Corn  Starch.  Add  two  cups  scalded  milk,  one  table- 
spoon butter.  Cook  in  double-boiler  ten  minutes,  take  from 
fire,  add  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Lemon  Flavoring  Extract.  Pour 
into  baked  pie-crust  and  sprinkle  top  with  Larkin  Shredded 
ocoanut.  Mrs.  Thomas  H.  Runyon,  Richmond,  Ind. 

Sour  Cream  Raisin  Pie 

Line  a  pie-tin  with  rich  pie-crust  and  fill  with  the  following 
mixture:  One  cup  Larkin  Raisins  chopped,  one  cup  Larkin 
Sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sour  cream,  pinch  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon.  Bake  slowly,  use  the  three 
whites  for  meringue.     This  makes  an  excellent  pie. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Steuerwald,  Estelline,  S.  Dak. 

Raisin  and  Rhubarb  Pie 

One  cup  raisins,  one  and  one-half  cups  rhubarb  cut  very  small, 
one  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  (rolled  cracker  may  be  used  instead  of  flour  if  preferred), 
one  egg.     Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  Florence  G.  Chipman,  Attleboro,  Mass. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


104 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


Red  Currant  Pie 

Mix  together  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one 
cup  sugar,  add  one  cup  ripe  red  currants  mashed.  Bake  in  a 
single  crimped-edge  crust  in  a  shallow  pie-pan.  When  baked 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  with  whites  of  two  eggs  stiffly- 
beaten,  and  two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar.  Brown  in 
slow  oven.  ^^^^  j  -^y^jjjjgj^  Merrell,  Three  Rivers,  Mass. 

Date  Pie 

Cook  three-fourths  cup  dates  with  two  cups  milk  for  twenty 
minutes.  Strain,  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  two  beaten  eggs 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  nutmeg.  Line 
pie-plate  with  pastry  and  bake  with  one  crust  in  the  lower 
part  of  a  fairly  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Robert  Paterson,  South  Paris,  Maine. 

Fig  Pie 

Put  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one-half  pound  Larkin  Figs  cut  fine  or  put  through  food-chopper, 
and  two  cups  water,  into  double-boiler;  cook  for  twenty  minutes. 
Thicken  with  four  tablespoons  flour,  add  one  beaten  egg.  Have 
pie-shells  baked  ready.     This  is  sufficient  for  two  pies. 

Mrs.  Pearl  Main,  Ingersoll,  Okla. 

Prune  Pie 

Cook  one-half  pound  prunes  without  sugar,  remove  stones, 
cut  prunes  in  quarters,  and  mix  with  one-half  cup  sugar.  Add 
one  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Cook  down  the  prune  juice  until 
you  have  about  three  tablespoons.  Spread  pie-pan  with  pastry, 
cover  with  prunes,  pour  over  the  juice,  dot  with  butter,  dredge 
with  flour,  put  on  upper  crust  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Prune  Cream  Pie 

Stew  gently  one-half  pound  Larkin  Prunes  which  have  been 
soaked  over  night.  Stone  and  mash  prunes  through  a  colander. 
Add  to  the  cup  of  pulp  one  cup  thin  cream  (or  milk).  Mix  one 
teaspoon  Larkin  Corn  Starch  with  one-third  cup  of  Larkin 
Granulated  Sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  two  well-beaten  eggs  and 
one  teaspoon  of  Larkin  Vanilla.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  pie- 
crust, fill  with  mixture  and  bake  quickly.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  spread 
over  the  pie,  return  the  pie  to  the  oven  and  brown  lightly. 
This  IS  delicious.  ^^^^  ^^^^  ^  Sechrist,  Blossburg,  Pa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


105 


Mock  Cherry  Pie 

One-half  cup  raisins,  one  cup  cranberries,  one-half  cup  hot 
water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  teaspoon  Larkin 
Vanilla.  Pour  the  hot  water  over  the  raisins  and  cranberries 
and  cook  till  the  cranberries  burst,  then  add  the  sugar  and 
flour.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla.  Bake  with  two 
crusts.  This  makes  one  pie.  If  you  wish,  the  cranberries 
may  be  cut  open  and  washed  in  cold  water  to  remove  seeds. 

Mrs.  L.  O.  Cogan,  Ravenna,  Ohio. 

Pineapple  Pie 

Put  one  cup  Larkin  Pineapple  cut  in  dice,  one  cup  water  or 
pineapple  juice  and  one-half  cup  sugar  into  a  sauce-pan.  Bring 
to  a  boil,  then  add  two  tablespoons  corn  starch  mixed  with  a 
little  cold  water,  boil  until  thick  and  clear.  Pour  into  pre- 
viously-baked crust.  When  cool  cover  with  whipped  cream  or 
a  one-egg  meringue.     This  makes  two  small  pies. 

Mrs.  Fred  Cole,  Cuba,  N.  Y. 

Carrot  Pie 

Add  one  cup  grated  raw  carrots,  to  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnam.on,  one- 
half  teaspoon  Larkin  Ginger,  beat  together  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Bake  with  one  crust.  Use 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  little  sugar  for  frosting. 

Miss  Anna  Faucett,  Sonora,  N.  Y. 

Rice  Pie,  Belgium  Style 

Cook  one-half  cup  Larkin  Rice  with  milk  in  double-boiler  until 
tender,  add  sugar  to  taste,  take  from  fire  and  cool.  Now  beat 
six  eggs  until  light,  flavor  with  Larkin  Vanilla  or  Lemon,  add 
eggs  to  rice  and  mix  all  together.  It  will  be  like  a  thin  custard. 
Make  a  good  pie-crust  using  Larkin  Flour  and  Lard.  Fill 
with  the  rice  custard,  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  custard  is 
set.     This  will  make  three  large  pies  without  top  crust. 

Mrs.  p.  F.  McGonigal,  West  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Cocoanut  Pie  without  Crust 

Beat  two  eggs,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  four  tablespoons 
flour  smoothed  with  a  little  milk.  Add  the  balance  of  pint 
of  milk,  one  cup  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  into  a  pie-pan 
^  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Insert  a  knife  on  the  side  and 
when  it  is  done  it  will  have  formed  a  crust.  This  is  quickly 
made  and  is  very  good.  ^^^^  j  ^  Stephens.  Jersey  City,  N.  J. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


106 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


Cocoanut  Custard  Pie 

One  pint  milk,  one  cup  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Beat  yolks  with  sugar  and  then  stir 
in  milk  and  cocoanut,  fill  crust  even  full,  bake  in  medium  oven. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  three  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  spread  over  pie  and  bake  a  light  brown. 
Excellent.  ^^^  j^^  j  g^^^^^  Leipsic,  Ohio. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie 

One  cup  Larkin  Brown  Sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  flour, 
one  cup  cold  water,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  teaspoon 
Larkin  Vanilla.  Mix  sugar  and  flour  together,  add  the  water 
gradually  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick.  Add  the  egg  yolks 
and  butter,  then  vanilla.  Fill  baked  crust,  beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  this  on 
top  and  brown  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Edgar  Gotschall,  Jacksonville,  III. 

Two-Egg  Chocolate  Pie 

Melt  one  ounce  Larkin  Unsweetened  Chocolate  in  one  cup 
boiling  water;  add  one  cup  granulated  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoons Larkin  Corn  Starch  mixed  together.  Cook  ten  minutes, 
add  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  butter. 
Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla.  Make  a  meringue 
with  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar,  brown  daintily.  When  eggs 
are  scarce  use  double  quantity  of  corn  starch  and  leave  out  eggs. 

Florence  A.  Richardson,  Topeka,  Kans. 

Chess  Pie 

Heat  one  cup  milk  in  a  double-boiler,  add  one-third  cup  sugar 
and  two  teaspoons  butter.  Mix  two  tablespoons  corn  starch, 
one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice  with  a  little 
cold  milk.  Cook  three  minutes,  then  add  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
cook  two  minutes  longer  and  pour  into  a  baked  pie-shell.  Beat 
the  egg  whites,  add  sugar  and  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Burke,  Neck,  Mo. 

Buttermilk  Pie 

Mix  five  tablespoons  flour  with  one-half  cup  buttermilk  until 
smooth.  Beat  two  eggs  until  mixed,  add  three-fourths  cup 
sugar  and  four  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  MLx  thoroughly. 
Line  a  large  pie-pan  with  pastry  and  pour  in  the  custard,  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut  sprinkled  over 
the  pie  gives  a  pretty  finish.  ^^^^  ^^  ^^^^^  Galeton.  Pa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


107 


Vinegar  Pie 

One  egg,  three  tablespoons  Larkin  Cider  Vinegar,  one  teaspoon 
Larkin  Lemon  Flavoring  Extract,  four  tablespoons  flour,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  cup  water.  Mix  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly 
together,  then  add  boiling  water,  cook  five  minutes,  add  egg 
well  beaten,  cook  in  double-boiler  two  minutes,  add  lemon  and 
vinegar,  put  into  pie-crust  which  should  be  already  baked.  If 
preferred  the  yolk  only  may  be  used  in  the  pie  and  the  white 
for  mermgue.  ^^^  ^^^^^  Harris,  Maxwell,  III. 

Mince-Meat 

Two  pounds  beef  from  the  shoulder,  one  pound  suet,  five 
pounds  apples,  one  pound  mixed  candied  peel,  three  pounds 
raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  two  and  one-half  pounds  brown 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  each 
of  cloves,  allspice,  salt  and  nutmeg,  one  quart  cider  and  one  pint 
molasses.  Cook  the  beef  until  tender.  When  cool  put  through 
the  food-chopper.  Also  the  suet.  Peel  the  apples  and  chop, 
not  too  fine  (be  sure  you  have  five  pounds  after  they  are  chopped) 
steam  the  candied  peel  awhile  over  hot  water,  then  shave  off 
in  strips.  Pick  over  the  raisins,  wash  the  currants,  add  the 
sugar  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  (I  always  use  cider 
that  has  been  boiled  down).  If  it  is  too  stiff  you  can  add  more 
molasses.  Do  not  cook  but  put  into  glass  jars  and  seal  up 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  fine  and  will  keep  all  through 
the  winter  months.  ^^^^  ^^^^^^  Herington,  Kans. 

Old-Fashioned  Mince-Meat 

Four  pounds  beef  (boiled),  three  pounds  suet  (kidney  pre- 
ferred), eight  pounds  chopped  apples,  three  pounds  Larkin 
Currants  washed  and  dried,  three  pounds  Larkin  Seeded 
Raisins  washed  and  dried,  six  pounds  Larkin  Yellow  Sugar, 
two  pounds  citron  cut  fine,  one  cup  Larkin  Strawberry  Jam, 
one  cup  Larkin  Raspberry  Jam,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
two  oranges  and  four  lemons,  four  tablespoons  Larkin  Cinna- 
mon, one  tablespoon  each  Larkin  Cloves,  mace  and  Allspice, 
two  Larkin  Nutmegs  grated,  two  quarts  Larkin  Grape  Juice, 
one  pint  Larkin  Molasses.  Cook  meat  in  the  least  possible 
amount  of  water,  chop  very  fine.  Remove  all  membrane  from 
suet,  dredge  with  Larkin  Flour,  chop  and  mix  with  meat. 
Season  with  Larkin  Salt,  add  to  this  all  other  ingredients;  cider 
may  be  added  if  desired.  This  must  not  be  cooked.  This 
makes  a  very  large  quantity. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Dager,  Lafayette  Hill,  Pa. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


108 


PASTRY  AND  PIES 


Tomato  Mince-Meat 

Chop  one  peck  green  tomatoes  or  put  them  through  food- 
chopper  using  coarse  cutter,  drain  off  juice  and  add  as  much 
water  as  there  was  juice;  also  add  five  pounds  brown  sugar  and 
two  pounds  chopped  Larkin  Raisins.  Cook  slowly  until  the 
tomatoes  are  tender,  then  add  two  tablespoons  each  of  Larkin 
Cloves,  Cinnamon,  Allspice  and  Salt;  also  one  cup  Larkin 
Vinegar.  Boil  until  thick,  stirring  frequently,  then  add  six 
large  sour  apples  that  have  been  peeled,  cored  and  chopped. 
When  the  apples  are  done  the  mince-meat  is  ready  for  the  jars. 
Seal  while  hot.     You  will  find  this  very  delicious  for  pies. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Henry,  Strawberry  Point,  Iowa. 

Mock  Mince  Pie 

Mix  together  one  and  one-half  cups  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar, 
one  cup  Larkin  Seeded  Raisins  chopped,  two  cups  bread- 
crumbs, two  cups  water,  one-half  cup  Larkin  Cider  Vinegar 
and  one  teaspoon  each  of  Larkin  Cinnamon,  Cloves  and  All- 
spice. Place  on  stove  and  cook  until  thick.  One  beaten  egg 
may  be  added  if  you  can  spare  it.     Bake  in  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Henry,  Strawberry  Point,  Iowa. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Take  two  cups  Larkin  Canned  Pumpkin,  two  cups  milk,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  ginger  and  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  eggs.  Beat 
eggs  with  sugar  and  spices,  mix  all  together;  bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  forty-five  minutes.  Squash  pie  is  made  in  exactly 
the  same  way.    j^^^  Viana  J.  Luchringer,  Great  Barrington,  Mass. 


MEAT  AND  FISR  SAUCES 


Tomato  Sauce 

Put  one  cup  Larkin  Canned  Tomatoes  into  a  sauce-pan  with 
one  cup  water,  two  whole  cloves,  four  peppercorns,  two  sprigs 
parsley,  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion.  Simmer  for  thirty 
minutes,  strain  and  thicken  with  three  tablespoons  butter  and 
three  tablespoons  flour  blended  together.  Add  hot  stock 
gradually.     Cook  a  few  minutes,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Mrs.  H.  F.  Riemer,  Detroit,  Mich. 

Cranberry  Sauce 

One  pint  water,  one  pint  sugar.  Boil  five  minutes,  then  add 
one  quart  cranberries  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Place  on  back 
of  stove  for  one  hour.     They  are  then  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Kimball  P.  Ryan,  Chatham  Port,  Mass. 

Peanut  Butter  Sauce 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  and  two  of  Larkin  Peanut  Butter 
in  a  small  sauce-pan.  When  softened,  add  three  tablespoons 
flour  and  two  cups  milk.  Stir  until  boiling,  cook  five  minutes, 
add  half  a  teaspoon  Larkin  Salt  and  a  little  pepper.  This  is 
sufficient  to  serve  with  two  cups  boiled  macaroni  or  noodles. 
Delicious  with  plain,  boiled  or  steamed  rice. 

Mrs.  T.  F.  Sargent,  Springfield,  III. 

Cream  Sauce 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  one  cup  milk.  Melt  the 
butter,  stir  in  the  flour  and  cook  until  bubbling,  add  the  milk, 
stir  constantly  over  the  fire  until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point; 
add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Apple  Sauce 

One  pound  apples  (or  four  medium  size),  one-half  pint  water, 
one-half  cup  sugar.  Quarter  and  core  the  apples,  do  not  pare 
them,  add  the  water,  cover  sauce-pan  and  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Press  through  a  colander,  add  the  sugar,  then  tura 
out  to  cool.     Serve  with  duck,  goose  or  roasted  pork. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


110 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES 


Egg  Sauce 

This  is  made  by  adding  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  to 
one  pint  cream  sauce.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Make  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  cream  sauce  using  water  in 
place  of  milk.  With  the  addition  of  one  tablespoon  vinegar, 
this  makes  a  good  fish  sauce.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Caper  Sauce 

Make  in  the  same  way  as  drawn  butter,  adding  one  tablespoon 
of  capers.     Serve  with  boiled  mutton.  Parkin  Kitchen. 


Vanilla  Sauce 

Mix  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  corn  starch;  add 
gradually  one  cup  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly;  boil  ten 
minutes,  remove  from  fire;  add  two  tablespoons  butter  and 
one  teaspoon  vanilla  or  any  other  extract. 

Mrs.  C.  Crane,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Lemon  Sauce 

Blend  two  tablespoons  corn  starch  with  one  cup  sugar,  add 
gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  hot  water,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  ten  minutes  then  add  one-fourth  cup  butter,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Bessie  Osborn,  Boring,  Md. 

Elggless  Lemon  Sauce 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  corn 
starch  or  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  few  gratings 
of  nutmeg.  Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch,  add  water  gradually, 
stirring  constantly;  boil  ten  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  add 
butter,  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg.  If  you  have  no  fresh  lemons, 
use  Larkin  Lemon  •  Flavoring  Extract. 

Mrs.  Hannah  Lloyd,  Alloway,  N.  J. 

Orange  Sauce 

Mix  together  two  cups  sugar,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  cream, 
one  tablespoon  soft  butter  and  one-half  teaspoon  orange  extract. 
Serve  with  any  plain  pudding. 

Miss  Elsie  A.  Bingham,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Custard  Sauce 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly,  add  one-fourth  cup  sugar  and  a  pinch 

of  salt;  stir  while  adding  gradually  two  cups  hot  milk.     Cook 

in  double-boiler,  continue  stirring  until  mixture  thickens  and 

a  coating  is  formed  on  the  spoon.     Strain  immediately;  chill 

and  add  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  or  Almond  Flavoring 

Extract.     When  eggs  are  scarce,  use  yolk  of  one  egg  and  two 

tablespoons  corn  starch.  rr         r,  -n  ^t  ^r 

^  Edith  Ryder,  Richmondville,  N.  Y. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


112 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


Foamy  Sauce 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs,  until  light.  Add  one-half  cup  sugar 
and  beat  until  stiff.  Whip  one-half  cup  thick  sweet  cream,  add 
to  sauce  with  one  teaspoon  vanilla  or  any  extract.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  Philip  C.  Story,  Three  Rivers,  Mass. 

Mock  Cream  Sauce 

Two  tablespoons  Larkin  Corn  Starch,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  cups  milk,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla,  whites  of  two 
eggs.  Mix  corn  starch  and  sugar,  add  hot  milk,  cook  ten 
minutes,  cool.  Add  vanilla  and  stififly-beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Serve  with  any  pudding  that  requires  cream. 

Alicia  Nova,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Chocolate  Sauce 

Two  ounces  chocolate,  two  cups  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  corn  starch,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  milk  into 
a  double-boiler  with  the  chocolate,  stir  until  smooth  and  melted, 
moisten  the  corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  milk;  add  hot  milk, 
cook  until  smooth  and  thick;  add  the  sugar;  take  from  the  fire 
and  add  vanilla.     Serve  with  cottage  pudding  or  blanc  mange. 

C.  M.  Small,  South  Harwich,  Mass. 

Hard  Sauce 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 

lemon  and  vanilla  extract  mixed,  or  a  little  nutmeg.     Cream 

butter,   add  sugar  and  extract  gradually.     Form  into  a  roll 

and  slice  or  serve  by  the  spoonful.  t  i^ 

•'  ^  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Fruit  Sauce 

To  one-pint  can  of  fruit  allow  one  cup  whipping  cream.  Drain 
the  fruit  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  whip  the  cream  and  fold  into 
the  pulp;  sweeten  if  necessary.  Apricots,  strawberries  or  rasp- 
berries may  be  used.  Delicious  with  plain  layer  cake  or  hot 
b^s^^^ts.  Larkin  Kitchen. 


PICKLES  anM>RESERVES 


^     *!» 


3z: 


Tomato  Catsup 

Wash  ripe  tomatoes.  Cut  in  four  pieces  and  boil  until  soft. 
Remove  from  fire  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Measure,  and  to  every  five  quarts  of 
juice  allow  one  and  one-half  pints  Larkin  Vinegar,  one  table- 
spoon each  Larkin  Black  Pepper  and  Cinnamon  and  two  and 
one-half  tablespoons  Larkin  Salt.  Mix  one-half  tablespoon 
Larkin  Mustard  in  two  tablespoons  cold  water;  add  to  other 
ingredients.  Put  on  fire  to  boil.  After  boiling  one-half  hour 
add  one  and  two-thirds  cups  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar.  Boil 
down  to  about  three-fourths  the  original  quantity.  Remove 
and  bottle  at  once.     Seal  air-tight  with  Larkin  Paraffin  Wax. 

Mrs.  Florence  Hall,  Natick,  Mass. 

Cooked  French  Mustard 

Three  tablespoons  each  Larkin  Mustard  and  Sugar.  Beat  one 
egg  light,  mix  smooth  with  one  cup  diluted  vinegar,  cook  a 
few  minutes,  add  one  tablespoon  butter  as  you  remove  from 

St"OV6* 

Mrs.  Charles  W.  Cooley,  East  Whately,  Mass. 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickle 

Pare  off  very  carefully  the  green  part  of  the  rind  of  a  good  ripe 
watermelon,  trim  off  all  the  red  part,  cut  in  pieces  two  inches 
in  length,  place  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  aluminum  kettle.  To 
each  quart  of  rind  use  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  water  to  nearly 
cover.  Boil  until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  silver  fork, 
or  leave  in  fireless  cooker  over  night.  Pour  into  a  colander  to 
drain,  dry  a  few  pieces  at  a  time  by  pressing  gently  in  a  crash 
towel.  Make  a  syrup  allowing  one  quart  best  cider  vinegar 
to  three  pounds  sugar.  Make  two  small  cheese-cloth  bags,  put 
into  each  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cloves  and  two  tablespoons 
Larkin  Cinnamon,  drop  these  into  the  syrup  and  let  it  boil 
up,  then  skim.     Put  in  the  melon  rind  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Fill  sterilized  jars  with  the  rind,  cover  with  the  boiling  syrup, 
place  spice  bag  on  top  and  seal  tight. 

Miss  Carrie  E.  Pugh,  Brownell,  Kans. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


114 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 


Hot  Minnesota  Pickle 

Take  twenty-four  large  tomatoes,  two  red  peppers,  two  green 
peppers,  four  large  onions,  three  heads  celery,  two  cups  Larkin 
Vinegar,  one  tablespoon  salt,  three-fourths  cup  granulated 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon.  Put  tomatoes,  onions, 
celery  and  peppers  through  Larkin  Food-Chopper  using  coarse 
cutter.  Add  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  and  boil  for  one  hour. 
Very  good  with  cold  meat.      ^^^  j  Marasek,  Minneapolis.  Minn. 

Uncooked  Tomato  Pickles 

Chop  fine  one-half  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  three  heads  celery  and 
two  red  peppers  with  the  seeds  removed;  add  one  cup  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  salt,  one  tablespoon  Larkin  Black  Pepper, 
one  teaspoon  each  ground  mace,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  two- 
thirds  cup  black  and  white  mustard  seed  mixed,  one  cup  grated 
horseradish  and  one  quart  vinegar.  Mix  all  well  together. 
Put  up  in  jars  or  bottles.     Keep  one  month  before  using. 

Elizabeth  Maroney,  Melrose,  Mass. 

Chili  Sauce 

Twenty-four  red  tomatoes,  six  onions,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  each  Larkin  Salt, 
Ginger,  Cinnamon  and  Ground  Cloves,  one  green  pepper,  a 
little  pinch  of  Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Larkin  Mustard. 
Chop  up  tomatoes  and  put  green  peppers  and  onions  through 
Larkin  Food-Chopper,  add  rest  of  ingredients  and  boil  slowly 
for  three  or  four  hours.     Put  in  an  air-tight  can.     Fine  with 

"^^^'-'  Kathryn  Buchanan,  Janesville,  Wis. 

Bordeaux  Sauce 

Four  quarts  cabbage,  two  quarts  green  tomatoes,  six  large 
onions,  two  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  ounce  celery 
seed,  one-half  ounce  tumeric,  three  red  peppers,  two  pounds 
granulated  sugar,  eight  tablespoons  salt,  two  quarts  vinegar. 
Put  cabbage,  tomatoes  and  onions  through  food-chopper;  add 
all  the  ingredients  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Seal  while 
hot.     This  makes  five  quarts. 

Miss  Margaret  Creighton,  Lonaconing,  Md. 

Pepper  Relish 

Put  twelve  green  tomatoes,  four  red  bell-peppers  and  two 
onions  through  Larkin  Food-Chopper,  using  coarse  cutter. 
Add  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoons  Larkin  Salt  and  two 
cups  vinegar.     Mix  well  and  bottle  without  cooking. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Quint,  Gray,  Maine. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES      ns 

Cherry  Olives 

Fill  a  quart  jar  with  nice  plump  cherries,  put  one  tablespoon 
Larkin  Salt  on  top  and  fill  jar  with  white- wine  vinegar  and  seal 
up.  Do  not  remove  the  stones.  These  are  ready  for  use  in 
a  few  days.     This  recipe  is  worth  trying. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Newlan,  Hoopeston,  III. 

Sweet  Pickled  Cherries 

Stone  and  cover  any  amount  of  cherries  with  vinegar.  Let 
stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  vinegar,  put  cherries 
into  stone  jar  and  add  one  pound  sugar  to  every  pound  of 
cherries.  Let  stand  nine  days  stirring  three  to  four  times 
daily.     On  the  ninth  day  bottle  and  seal. 

Mrs.  R.  V.  Buckage,  Vincentown,  N.  J. 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

Put  two  pounds  Larkin  Brown  Sugar,  one  ounce  stick  cinnamon 
and  one  pint  Larkin  Vinegar  into  a  preserving  kettle.  Cook 
twenty  minutes;  thinly  peel  one-half  peck  peaches  and  stick 
each  peach  with  several  cloves.  Put  into  the  syrup  and  cook 
until  soft.     Seal  while  hot.  ^^^  ^  Marshall.  Chicago,  III. 

Corn  Salad 

Eighteen  ears  corn,  one  head  cabbage,  four  onions,  three  peppers, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  ground  pepper,  one  and  one-fourth 
pounds  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  mustard,  one-fourth  cup 
salt,  two  quarts  good  vinegar.  Chop  corn,  cabbage,  onions 
and  peppers  fine,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  after  bringing  to  the  boiling  point.  This  recipe  makes 
about  five  and  one-half  quarts.     Seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Chris.  Christensen,  Garner,  Iowa. 
Mixed  Pickles 

One-half  gallon  cabbage,  one-half  gallon  cucumbers,  one-half 
gallon  green  beans,  one-half  gallon  small  onions,  four  green 
peppers  and  two  red  peppers.  Use  celery  seed,  horseradish 
and  Larkin  Spices  to  taste.  Cook  onions  and  beans  tender 
first,  then  add  cucumbers,  cabbage,  and  tomatoes;  mix  all 
together,  cover  with  vinegar,  put  on  the  stove,  bring  to  a  boil 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Jinkens,  Memphis,  Mo. 

Canned  Cucumbers 

Wash  cucumbers,  pack  in  fruit  jars,  cover  with  cold  vinegar; 
add  one  tablespoon  salt  to  each  two-quart  jar,  put  rubber  on 
and  seal  tight.  ^^^^  ^  g  Leach,  Brooeland,  Ark. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


116 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 


Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles 

Cut  cucumbers  in  halves  lengthwise.     Cover  with  alum  water, 

allowing  two  teaspoons  powdered  alum  to  each  quart  of  water. 

Heat  gradually  to  boiling  point;  then  let  stand  on  back  of  range 

two  hours.     Remove  from  alum  water  and  chill  in  ice-water. 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  five  minutes  two  pounds  sugar,  one 

pint  vinegar  with  two  tablespoons  each  whole  cloves  and  stick 

■  cinnamon  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin.     Add  cucumbers  and  cook 

ten   minutes.     Remove   cucumbers   to  a  stone  jar  and   pour 

in  the  syrup.     Scald  syrup  three  successive  mornings  and  return 

to  cucumbers.  at      t  a  c         t^ 

Mrs.  James  A.  Sipes,  Detroit,  Mich. 

Spiced  Cucumber  Pickles 

To  one  gallon  Larkin  Vinegar  add  one  cup  each  mustard,  black 
pepper,  salt  and  sugar.  Put  into  a  jar  and  mix  well.  Wash 
the  cucumbers  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  the  vinegar.  This  is 
enough  for  two  gallons  of  cucumbers.     They  are  fine. 

Mrs.  Ira  Carpenter,  Algiers,  Ind. 

Olive  Oil  Pickles 

Cover  four  quarts  sliced  cucumbers  with  boiling  hot  water 
and  when  cold  drain  and  cover  with  a  weak  brine.  Let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain.  Then  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  celery  seed,  two  teaspoons 
cinnamon,  one-half  cup  Larkin  Olive  Oil,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one-half  cup  mustard  seed,  one  dozen  onions  and  cold  vinegar 
enough  to  cover  thoroughly.     Mix  well  and  can. 

Mrs.  Chris.  Christensen,  Garner,  Iowa. 

Uncooked  Cucumber  Relish 

Pare  six  large  fresh  cucumbers  and  chop  fine,  add  one  tablespoon 
salt,  drain  cucumbers  in  a  colander  one  hour,  add  three  small 
onions  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  Larkin  White  Pepper,  one 
pint  white-wine  vinegar;  stir  all  well  together,  put  into  glass 
jars  or  bottles,  seal  air-tight  and  let  stand  one  month  before 

^'  C.  Elizabeth  Davidson,  Melrose,  Mass. 

Cucumber  Mustard  Pickles 

Put  into  a  one-quart  fruit  jar,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  each  salt  and  ground  mustard  (dry).  Wash 
cucumbers  and  pack  as  many  as  possible  into  jar.  Cucumbers 
should  not  be  more  than  four  inches  long.  Then  fill  up  jar 
with  cold  vinegar.  Screw  up  air-tight.  After  six  weeks  they 
are  ready  for  the  table  and  are  delicious.  These  will  keep 
several  years  if  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Sargent,  Brainerd,  Minn. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES 


117 


Mustard  Pickles 

One  gallon  cucumbers,  one   gallon   green   tomatoes,   one-half 

gallon  onions,  one-half  gallon  cabbage.     Cut  each  separately  in 

small  pieces.     Add  one-half  pint  salt  to  one  gallon  water ;  soak 

over  night.    Drain  and  add  the  following:  Three  quarts  Larkin 

Vinegar,  one  quart  sugar,  four  tablespoons  dry  Larkin  Mustard, 

one  and  one-half  tablespoons  tumeric,  one  tablespoon  Larkin 

Cinnamon  moistened  with  a  little  vinegar.     Cook  until  tender, 

will  keep  without  sealing.  ,.,       t        ^ 

**  MRS.  John  Dreith,  Lincoln,  Nebr. 

Old  Virginia  Chow-Chow 

Chop  fine  eight  quarts  green  tomatoes,  three  small  heads  cab- 
bage, six  large  onions,  six  ripe  peppers,  six  green  peppers. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours;  drain 
thoroughly,  add  three  quarts  vinegar,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  brown  sugar.  Boil  all  together  one  hour,  then  add : 
Eight  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  three  heads  finely  chopped  celery, 
one  pint  horseradish,  boil  another  fifteen  minutes  after  which 
add:  One  tablespoon  each  of  cloves  and  mustard,  two  table- 
spoons each  white  mustard  seed,  allspice  and  ginger.  Mix  all 
together   thoroughly,  put   up   in   jars   and  seal.     Use    Larkin 

spices,  sugar  and  vinegar.  ,  „ 

Leonora  Page,  Amherst,  Mass. 

Beet  Relish 

Chop  one  quart  cooked  beets  and  one  quart  raw  cabbage,  add 
one  cup  grated  horseradish,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  Larkin  Salt,  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Black  Pepper. 
Add  only  enough  vinegar  to  moisten. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Gillis,  Stanhope,  N.  J. 


CANNED  FRUIT 
AND  VEGETABLE 


a 


To  Can  Fruit 

The  important  points  in  canning  are  to  have  the  fruit  in  good 
condition,  the  syrup  clear,  rightly  proportioned  and  boiling 
hot,  the  jars  hot  before  putting  in  the  fruit  and  then  filled  to 
overflowing.  Keep  jars  in  hot  water  until  needed  to  fill,  stand 
them  in  a  pan  on  a  folded  cloth  with  a  little  hot  water  in  the 
pan.  A  wide-mouthed  funnel  is  a  great  aid  when  doing  the 
work.  Have  the  covers  for  the  jars  in  another  dish  of  hot 
water;  dip  the  rubbers  as  you  place  them  on  the  jars. 

To  can  small  fruits  it  is  better  to  put  the  fruit  into  jars,  then 
pour  over  the  hot  syrup  and  la)^  on  the  covers  but  do  not  screw 
down.  Put  some  slats  of  wood  into  a  wash-boiler  so  that  the 
jars  will  stand  steady,  stand  the  jars  upon  them  and  pour 
enough  warm  water  into  the  wash-boiler  to  come  about  half 
way  up.  Let  the  water  boil  five  minutes,  then  take  out  the 
jars  and  screw  tight.  Always  open  fruit  some  time  before 
using;  the  flavor  will  be  much  improved  by  so  doing. 

Amount  of  Sugar 

One  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  water  is  a  good  general 
rule  to  follow. 

To  Can  Pears 

Allow  one-fourth  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  water. 

To  Can  Peaches 

Allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  water. 

To  Can  Vegetables 

The  success  of  canning  vegetables  depends  chiefly  on  absolute 
cleanliness.  The  jars  must  have  glass  or  metal  covers;  do  not 
use  those  with  porcelain  lining.     All  vegetables  must  be  freshly 

gathered-  Larkin  Kitchen. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  . 


19 


To  Can  Peas,  Lima  or  Shell  Beans 

Fill  clean  jars  with  freshly-picked  peas,  fill  each  jar  with  water 
that  has  been  boiled  and  cooled,  adjust  rubbers,  lay  on  covers 
(do  not  screw),  arrange  them  in  a  wash-boiler  as  directed  for 
fruit  and  boil  continuously  for  two  and  one-half  hours;  lift 
each  jar  and  screw  tight  without  removing  the  cover.  This 
rule  will  answer  for  lima  and  other  shell  beans. 

Larkin  Kitchen. 
To  Ccin  Corn 

Shave  corn  from  the  cob,  fill  jars  and  press  down  with  a  wooden 

spoon.     Be  quite  sure  the  jar  is  full.     Seal  and  stand  in  Larkin 

Steam  Cooker  No.  140.     Steam  for  three  hours.     If  you  have 

no  Steam  Cooker,  place  a  rack  in  wash-boiler  and  surround 

with  cold  water.     If  the  corn  shrinks  and  you  want  to  fill  up 

the  jars  do  so  quickly,  screw  down  and  steam  a  few  minutes 

longer.     Corn   canned   in   this   way   will   keep   indefinitely   if 

instructions  are  observed.  t^i,      r-  r-  r>  kt  ^r 

Mrs.  C.  Crandall,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Canned  Snap  Beans 

To  twelve  pints  string  beans,  add  one  pint  salt  "with  water 
enough  to  cover  beans.  Boil  until  half  done.  Put  into  glass 
jars  and  cover  with  brine  in  which  beans  have  been  cooked. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Denker,  Lakefield,  Minn. 

To  Can  Tomatoes 

Put  tomatoes  into  a  wire  basket  or  colander,  plunge  them  into 
boiling  water  for  just  a  moment,  remove  skins,  cut  them  in 
half  and  press  out  seeds.  Put  tomatoes  into  a  clean  kettle, 
boil  for  about  thirty  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  If  there 
is  much  liquid  boil  a  little  longer.  Then  follow  instructions 
given  for  canning  fruit.  Larkin  Kitchen. 


WELLIES,JAMSi 
MARMALAD 


Jtjt£. 


Jellies  are  made  of  cooked  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  in  nearly  all 
cases  the  proportions  being  equal.  Where  failures  occur,  they 
may  usually  be  traced  to  the  use  of  too  ripe  fruit. 

To  Prepare  Glasses  for  Jelly 

Wash  glasses  and  put  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water;  place  on  range 
and  heat  water  gradually  to  boiling  point.  Remove  glasses 
and  drain.  Place  glasses  while  filling  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of 
hot  water. 

To  Cover  Jelly  Glasses 

Melt  parafifin  and  cover  jelly,  then  adjust  cover. 

To  Mcike  a  Jelly  Bag 

Fold  two  opposite  corners  of  a  piece  of  wool-and-cotton  flannel 
about  three-fourths  yard  square.  Sew  up  in  form  of  a  cornu- 
copia, rounding  at  the  top.  Fell  the  seam  to  make  more 
secure.  Bind  the  top  with  tape,  and  furnish  with  two  or 
three  heavy  loops  by  which  it  may  be  hung.         larkin  Kitchen. 

Apple  Jelly 

Take  twelve  good-sized  apples,  wipe  with  a  clean  cloth  and 
cut  in  quarters.  Cover  with  two  quarts  cold  water.  Leave 
over  night.  In  the  morning  stew  until  the  liquid  is  about  half 
cooked  away.  Then  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Boil  ten 
minutes.  Allow  the  juice  to  drip  through  double  cheese-cloth. 
Measure  the  juice,  put  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  in  a  granite 
dish  in  the  oven  to  warm.  Stir  occasionally.  When  the  juice 
begins  to  jelly  round  the  edge  of  the  pan,  add  the  sugar,  boil 
five  minutes,  skim  and  pour  into  heated  jelly  glasses.  Cover 
and  keep  in  a  cold  dry  place. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Brooks,  Los  Molinos,  Cal. 

Preserved  Cherries 

To  a  full  pint  of  stoned  cherries  take  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  turn  out  into  a  crock  to  cool. 
When  cold,  put  into  jars.     Boil  only  one  quart  of  fruit  at  a  time. 

Miss  Florence  Adrian,  Edinburg,?Ill. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


JELUES,  JAMS  AND  MARMALADES   121 

Preservea  Figs 

Put  ripe  figs  into  a  pan.     Strew  Larkin  Soda  thickly  over  the 

figs,  cover  with  boiHng  water  and  stand  aside  until  cool.     Make 

a  syrup  with  one  pound  sugar  and  one  quart  water.     When  the 

figs  are  cool  take  from  soda-water  and  cook  in  syrup  until  clear. 

Put  into  jars  and  seal.  ^..^  ,         t>  ^xr  xtj  t- 

•*  Mrs.  James  R.  Wilkerson,  Waldo,  Fla. 

Strawberry  Preserves  (Sun-cooked) 

Weigh  the  strawberries,  take  as  much  sugar  as  fruit,  put  on 

stove,  bring  to  a  boil,  have  large  meat  platters  ready  to  put 

fruit  on  and  stand  in  the  sun  all  day.     The  sun  draws  out  the 

water  and  the  berries  retain  their  full  size.     If  the  sun  should 

not  shine  all  day,  put  out  the  fruit  a  second  day,  then  put  into 

glass  jars.     One  trial  will  convince  any  cook  how  delicious  and 

easy  these  preserves  are.     Cherries  can  be  cooked  likewise.    If 

it  is  not  possible  to  put  the  fruit  outside  in  the  sun,  cook  for 

five  minutes  and  then  seal,     n/i      tt  u  /-  i  t^ 

Mrs.  Frank  H.  Godar,  Louisville,  Ky. 

Pineapple  and  Strawberry  Preserve 

To  one  cup  grated  pineapple  allow  two  cups  strawberries  and 
three  cups  sugar.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  fill  jelly  glasses; 
seal  when  cold.  ^^^  P  L  Myer,  East  St.  Louis.  III. 

Rhubarb  Conserve 

Take  six  pounds  rhubarb  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  pound  sun- 
dried  figs  cut  in  strips  or  put  through  food-chopper,  one-half 
pound  English  walnuts  and  five  pounds  sugar.  Put  the  sugar 
over  rhubarb,  leave  over  night;  in  the  morning  cook  until 
thick,  then  add  figs.  Cook  another  thirty  minutes,  add  walnuts, 
coarsely  chopped,  and  remove  from  fire.  Put  into  jelly  glasses 
and,  when  cold,  cover  with  paraffin.  Store  in  a  cool,  dark 
place.     This  is  delicious.  ^^^  j,  ^  ^^^^^^  Salamanca,  N.  Y. 

Grape  Conserve 

Take  ten  pounds  ripe  grapes,  separate  skins  from  pulp,  cook 
pulp  separately  (just  enough  to  separate  seeds),  put  through 
colander;  then  cook  the  pulp,  skins  and  ten  pounds  of  Larkin 
Granulated  Sugar  together  for  twenty  minutes.  Grate  the 
rind  from  four  or  five  oranges,  peel  off  the  white  pith,  add  the 
pulp  and  one  pound  of  cut-up  Larkin  Seeded  Raisins  to  the 
grapes,  cook  twenty  minutes,  then  seal  tight.     Delicious. 

Miss  Jean  Hauser,  Wilkes  Barre,  Pa. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


122 


JELLIES,  JAMS  AND  MARMALADES 


Plum  Conserve 

Use  this  rule  for  any  fruit.  Stew  two  and  one-half  quarts 
plums  with  one  and  one-half  cups  water  until  very  soft.  Strain 
through  a  colander,  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  as  much 
granulated  sugar  as  you  have  pulp.  Put  through  food-chopper 
two  oranges,  one  small  lemon,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  one- 
half  pound  walnut  meats  and  one-half  pound  sun-dried  figs. 
Use  rind  of  oranges  and  lemon  as  well  as  pulp.  Cook  all 
together  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  This  is 
delicious  for  sandwiches  or  to  serve  with  Chicken  or  Turkey. 

Mrs.  R.  Dubuc,  Berlin,  N.  H. 

Red  Currant  Conserve 

Pick  four  pounds  of  red  currants  from  the  stems.     Wash  and 

put   them   into   a   preserving    kettle  with  one  pound   seeded 

raisins   cut    in  halves,  three  pounds  sugar  and   four   lemons. 

Peel  the  lemons  very  thin,  remove  the  white  pith  and  seeds  and 

cut  in  thin  slices.      Boil  to  a  thick  jam.      If  you  like  spice,  add 

one  teaspoon  Larkin  Cinnamon  and  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin 

Cloves 

Clara  E.  Cooper,  Ashland,  Mass. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Shred  one  thin-skinned  orange  and  one  thin-skinned  lemon 
with  a  paring  knife.  Put  into  a  New  Idea  Kettle  (No.  210). 
To  each  measure  of  shredded  fruit  take  three  of  water,  cover 
and  set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours.  Put  on  fire  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Set  aside  for  another  twenty-four  hours. 
Measure  contents  in  kettle.  To  every  seven  cups  of  pulp  use 
eight  cups  of  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar  (buy  sugar  in  a  twenty- 
five  pound  bag).  Boil  until  it  jells  which  will  be  in  about 
twenty  minutes,  pour  into  jelly  glasses,  cover  with  paraffin. 
One  orange  and  one  lemon  with  quantities  given  will  make 
seven  glasses  of  marmalade  at  a  cost  of  less  than  three  cents 

^        *  Mrs.  Edward  Hiebel,  Holyoke,  Mass. 

Grapefruit  Marmalade 

Slice  very  thin,  one  orange,  one  lemon  and  one  grapefruit, 
leaving  out  the  bitter  center  of  grapefruit.  Add  eight  cups 
water  and  set  aside  twenty- four  hours.  Boil  twenty  minutes 
and  set  aside  another  twenty-four  hours.  Measure  and  add 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  jells.  This  will 
make  one  dozen  glasses.  For  a  delicious  sherbet,  add  one  pint 
of  good  lemonade  to  two  glasses  of  marmalade.     Freeze. 

Mrs.  Charles  Walker  Schlagel,  Des  Plaines,  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


JELLIES,  JAMS  AND  MARMALADES 


123 


Carrot  Marmalade 

Scald  and  rub  the  skin  from  a  number  of  carrots.  Then  put 
the  carrots  through  the  food-chopper.  To  each  pint  of  the 
pulp  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Put  into 
a  sauce- pan.  For  each  quart  pour  over  the  mixture  three  and 
one-half  cups  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar  and  let  it  stand  all 
night.  In  the  morning  boil  until  it  is  clear  and  appears  suffi- 
ciently cooked.  Put  into  jelly  glasses.  This  is  a  particularly 
delicious  marmalade  and  so  economical  that  almost  anyone 

Miss  Charlotte  Bird,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 

Rhubarb  Jam 

Wash  and  cut  up  without  removing  the  skin,  seven  pounds 
rhubarb.  Put  into  the  kettle  with  five  pounds  sugar,  one 
pound  seeded  raisins  and  two  oranges  thinly  sliced.  Cook 
until  very  thick  taking  care  not  to  let  it  burn.     Put  into  glasses 

Pi  n  ri  ^f*^  I 

Mrs.  M.  Stott,  Dormansville,  N.  Y. 

Pear  Chips 

Eight  pounds  pears,  six  pounds  Larkin  Sugar,  three  lemons, 
one  quart  cold  water,  one-eighth  pound  ginger  root.  Cut  the 
pears  fine,  grate  the  lemons  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  Now 
add  the  sugar,  water  and  ginger  root;  cook  slowly  for  three 

Mrs.  G.  E.  Larrabee,  Binghamton,  N.  Y. 

Quince  Honey 

Pare  and  grate  five  large  quinces.  To  one  pint  boiling  water 
add  five  pounds  sugar.  Stir  over  fire  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
add  quince  and  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Turn  into 
glasses.  When  cold  it  should  be  about  the  color  and  consistency 
of  honey.  ^^^  g  ^  ^^^^^^  Fallston,  Md. 


Coffee  Cleared  with  Egg 

For  six  cups  of  boiled  coffee  mix  three-fourths  cup  ground 
coffee,  one-third  of  the  white  of  an  egg  and  one-half  cup  cold 
water  in  the  coffee-pot.  Pour  over  this  one  quart  boiling  water, 
stir  thoroughly.  Boil  three  minutes.  Stir  again  and  stand 
on  back  of  stove,  where  it  will  not  boil,  for  ten  minutes.  Be 
careful  to  see  that  the  coffee  spout  is  free  from  grounds  before 
pouring.     Never  boil  coffee  furiously  or  the  true  flavor  will  be 

Larkin  Kitchen. 

Coffee  without  Egg 

Allow  two  tablespoons  of  coffee  for  each  cup.  Scald  the  coffee- 
pot. Pour  boiling  water  on  the  coffee  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Set  it  back  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Add  a  little 
cold  water;  pour  out  a  little  coffee  and  pour  back  again,  to 
clear  the  spout.  Or  the  coffee  and  cold  water  may  be  put 
together  in  the  pot  over  night  and  brought  to  the  boiling  point 
in  the  morning.  To  use  a  Larkin  Percolator  is  much  the  best 
and  easiest  method.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Tea 

Scald  the  teapot  and  use  two  teaspoons  of  tea  to  each  pint  of 
boiling  water;  stir  the  tea  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Never  use 
a  metal  pot  for  tea,  as  the  tannic  acid  acts  on  the  metal,  making 
the  tea  unwholesome.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Cocoa 

Scald  three  cups  milk  in  a  Larkin  Double-Boiler.  Mix  thor- 
oughly three  tablespoons  Larkin  Cocoa  with  two  tablespoons 
sugar,  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  add,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one  cup  boiling  water.  Boil  three  minutes  and  pour  into  the 
hot  milk.  Beat  several  minutes  with  a  wire  whisk  or  egg-beater. 
This  is  called  milling  and  will  prevent  a  scum  from  rising.  Flavor 
with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Use  whipped  cream  or  a 
marshmallow  in  each  cup.  ^ula  Breeden,  Haskell.  Okla. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


FRUIT  JUICES  AND  BEVERAGES 


125 


Chocolate 

Two  ounces  Larkin  Unsweetened  Chocolate,  four  tablespoons 

sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water,  few  grains  of  salt,  three  cups 

milk.     Scald  milk.     Melt  chocolate  in  small  sauce-pan  placed 

over  hot  water,  add  sugar,  salt  and  boiling  water  gradually, 

when  smooth,   place  on  range  and  boil  one  minute;  add  to 

scalded  milk,  and  serve  in  chocolate  cups  with  whipped  cream. 

One  and  one-half  ounces  sweet  chocolate  may  be  substituted 

for  the  unsweetened  chocolate.     Being  sweetened,  less  sugar 

is  required.  ,  .. 

^  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Grape  Juice 

Wash  and  stem  grapes  (Concords  preferred).  Measure,  and 
to  every  four  quarts  grapes  before  cooking,  add  one  quart  cold 
water.  Boil  until  soft.  Remove  from  fire  and  when  cool 
enough  to  handle,  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  twice  to  extract 
juice.  Measure  again  and  to  each  quart  of  juice  add  one  cup 
of  Larkin  Granulated  Sugar.  Place  on  fire  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Remove  and  bottle  at  once.     Seal  air-tight  with  Larkin  Paraffin 

Wax 

Mrs.  Florence  Hall,  Natick,  Mass. 

Shrub 

Almost  any  small  fruits  may  be  used  for  this,  but  raspberries 
are  particularly  good.  Berries  that  are  not  nice  enough  for 
the  table  or  those  that  are  gathered  damp  may  be  used  for  this 
syrup.  Allow  the  berries  to  ferment,  then  strain  and  use  one 
cup  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  juice.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  if  not 
sufficiently  acid,  add  a  little  vinegar.     Use  two  teaspoons  to  a 

^  ■  Mrs.  J.  S.  Mills,  South  Ashburnham,  Mass. 

Fruit  Juice  and  Syrup 

Secure  perfectly  ripe  fruit,  cook  with  about  one-fourth  as  much 
water  as  you  have  fruit.  Press  out  the  juice  and  strain  as  if 
for  jelly.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes  in  a 
preserving  kettle.  If  for  syrup,  use  equal  amounts  of  sugar 
and  juice.  Have  clean  sterilized  bottles  standing  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  corks  that  will  fit  completely  down  inside 
bottle  mouths  and  one  cup  of  melted  Larkin  Paraffin  Wax. 
Fill  each  bottle  with  the  boiling  juice  to  within  one  and  one- 
half  inches  of  the  top.  Press  down  a  heated  cork  until  it  touches 
the  juice  and  fill  the  remaining  space  above  the  cork  with  melted 
paraffin,  adding  more  as  it  hardens  until  a  complete  cap  is 
formed  around  the  top  of  mouth.  This  will  keep  for  any 
length  of  time  if  stored  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Elizabeth  Maroney,  Melrose,  Mass. 
Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


126  FRUIT  JUICES  AND  BEVERAGES 

Lemon  Syrup  or  Fresh  Lemonade 

Boil  one  cup  sugar  and  two  cups  water  twelve  minutes,  add 
one-third  cup  lemon  juice  to  syrup.  Dilute  with  ice-water  as 
needed.  Good  for  picnics.  For  fresh  lemonade  put  one  tea- 
spoon sugar  into  a  glass;  add  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  Stir 
until  sugar  is  melted.  Fill  glass  with  cold  water  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve.  Larkin  Kitchen. 

Fruit  Punch 

Make  one  quart  strong  tea  (using  Larkin  Mixed  or  Ceylon  Tea) 
add  sugar  to  hot  tea.  Make  one-half  gallon  lemonade  with 
six  lemons  and  four  oranges.  The  oranges  may  be  cut  in  small 
pieces;  add  one  can  Larkin  Pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces,  one 
bottle  Maraschino  cherries,  one-half  pound  Malaga  grapes  with 
seeds  removed;  sweeten  to  taste.  This  makes  about  one  and 
one-half  gallons.  Any  fruit  juice  on  hand  may  be  used  with 
this.     Serve  very  cold.  ^^^  ^  ^  ^^^^^^^  S^^^^^^  ^^ 

Club-of-Ten  Punch 

Pour  one  pint  of  hot  water  over  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon 
and  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  five  minutes.  Strain,  and  while 
still  hot,  slice  into  it  two  medium-sized  bananas  and  three  large 
peaches  (canned  peaches  may  be  used  and  put  in  v/hen  cold). 
Add  a  cup  of  grated  pineapple  (either  fresh  or  canned),  one  pint 
of  canned  cherries,  the  juice  of  seven  lemons  and  two  oranges. 
Put  a  large  block  of  ice  in  the  center  of  the  punch-bowl,  add  two 
quarts  of  water  and  let  stand  two  hours  in  a  cool  place.  At  the 
last  moment  add  a  few  fine  strawberries.  This  will  serve 
twenty-five  people.  ^^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^^ 


Ice-Crccim  Candy 

Boil  two  cups  sugar  with  one-half  cup  water,  one  tablespoon 
vinegar,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Do  not  stir  the  mixture.  Boil 
until  crisp  when  tried  in  cold  water;  when  cooked  add  one-half 
teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  When  cool  pull  until  white,  the 
longer  you  pull  the  better  the  candy. 

Miss  Evelyn  Whitney,  Attleboro,  Mass. 
Chocolate  Cream  Candy 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter, 

two  squares  chocolate   (four  tablespoons  cocoa  may  be  used 

instead  of  chocolate),  one  teaspoon  vanilla.     Put  butter  into 

granite  sauce-pan;  when  melted  add  sugar  and  milk.     Heat 

to  boiling  point;  then  add  chocolate  and  stir  constantly  until 

chocolate  is  melted.     Boil  until  a  little  dropped  into  cold  water 

will  form  a  soft  ball.     Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla,  cool  and 

beat  until  creamy  and  mixture  begins  to  sugar  slightly  around 

edge  of  sauce-pan.     Pour  at  once  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool 

slightly,  and  mark  in  squares.     One-half  cup  nuts  or  raisins 

may  be  added.  iv/r      o  r.  t-  tm  t 

Mrs.  R.  Rommel,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. 

Cocoanut  Bars 

To  one  pound  or  two  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  use 

the  juice  of  one  lemon,  white  of  one  egg,  and  make  into  a  smooth 

ball.     Roll  into  a  sheet  one-half  inch  thick,  sprinkle  thickly 

with  Larkin  Shredded  Cocoanut;  put  one-half  upon  the  other 

and  cut  into  bars.  n*      tt 

Mrs.  Haefner,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Nut  Loaf  Candy 

Two  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  Larkin 
Corn  Syrup,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  one-half  pound  English 
walnut  meats,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Boil  the  sugar, 
water  and  syrup  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Pour  slowly  over  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir  in  one-fourth 
teaspoon  Larkin  Vanilla  Flavoring  Extract  and  the  nuts;  beat 
until  light.     Then  pour  out  and  cut  into  squares. 

Miss  Reba  Peters,  Otterbein,  Ind. 


Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


128 


CANDIES 


Candy  Baskets 

Take  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  a  pinch  of  cream  of 
tartar  and  stir  together.  Put  on  stove  and  boil  (do  not  stir 
after  it  is  on  the  stove)  until  it  cracks  when  dropped  into  cold 
water.  When  it  is  almost  done  it  becomes  very  bubbly.  Pour 
it  out  on  a  buttered  slab  and  gradually  work  it  into  a  ball  or 
lump,  by  folding  the  edges  into  the  center.  When  cool  enough 
to  handle,  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  Larkin  Culinary  Paste 
Color  moistened  with  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin  Flavoring 
Extract.  Then  pull  and  form  into  baskets  making  each  a  dif- 
ferent shape.  Butter  the  hands  occasionally  while  pulling. 
These  quantities  will  make  three  small  baskets.  It  is  well  to 
keep  in  mind  that  these  extracts  and  colors  go  together:  When 
wintergreen  extract  is  used,  color  with  red  culinary  paste. 
When  lemon  use  yellow;  when  spearmint  use  green;  when 
nutmeg,  green  and  red  mixed,  using  twice  as  much  green  as 
red — you  will  then  have  gray;  when  orange  use  red  and  yellow; 
when  cinnamon  use  heliotrope;  sassafras  use  very  little  yellow; 
peppermint  use  no  color.  If  you  do  not  care  to  make  the 
baskets  the  recipe  is  equally  good  for  candies.  They  may  be 
cut  in  strips  or  formed  into  small  balls.  For  a  children's  party 
the  baskets  make  a  delightful  decoration  or  gift  especially  as 
they  are  good  to  eat  as  well  as  to  look  at. 

Mrs.  Edward  H.  Schell,  Harrisburg,  Pa. 

Fruit  Candy 

This  is  candy  you  can  let  the  children  make.  Wash  one  cup 
each  Larkin  Figs,  Dates  and  Prunes;  add  one  cup  seeded 
raisins  and  walnut  meats.  Put  all  through  the  food-chopper. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  it  is  ready  to  use.  Form  into  small  balls, 
dip  in  melted  chocolate  and  place  on  waxed  paper  to  dry. 
Cherries,  nuts,  pieces  of  candied  pineapple  may  all  be  used 
for  the  center;  if  fillings  are  used  you  may  then  call  them  Sur- 
prise Balls,  others  may  be  dipped  in  fondant  used  for  making 
candy   baskets.     This   fruit   is   also   delicious   as   a   sandwich 

"'""S-  Cecelia  Hahn,  Wabash,  Ind. 

Cream  Caramels 

One-half  cake  or  four  ounces  Larkin  Unsweetened  Chocolate, 
one  pound  Larkin  Powdered  Sugar,  one  scant  cup  milk,  one- 
half  cup  butter.  Boil  these  together  from  five  to  eight  minutes 
or  until  the  mixture  scrapes  off  white  from  the  side  of  the  pan. 
Take  from  fire,  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  hard  until 
it  thickens,  pour  into  well-greased  pan  and  when  nearly  cold 
cut  m  squares.  ^^^  Henry  M.  Buettner,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


CANDIES 


129 


Fondant 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  boiling 
water,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  ingredients 
together,  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point;  then  boil  without  stirring 
until  a  soft  ball  will  form  when  dropped  into  a  little  cold  water. 
Pour  fondant  into  a  shallow  pan,  flavor  with  any  Larkin  Flavor- 
ing Extract,  let  stand  a  few  minutes  to  cool  but  not  long  enough 
to  become  hard  around  the  edge;  stir  with  a  wooden  paddle 
until  white  and  creamy.  It  will  quickly  change  from  this 
consistency  and  begin  to  lump,  when  it  should  be  kneaded  with 
the  hands  until  perfectly  smooth. 

Put  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  oiled  paper  and  stand  aside  for 
twenty-four  hours  if  possible.  It  will  then  be  found  easier 
to  use.  Always  make  fondant  on  a  clear,  dry  day.  Cream 
Nut  Bars,  Cream  Mints  and  various  candies  may  all  be  made 
with  this  fondant.  Shirley  M.  Shaffer,  Oil  City,  Pa. 

Cocoanut  Fudge 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  put  into  a  sauce-pan 
and  cook  over  moderate  fire  until  a  little  dropped  into  cold 
water  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from  fire,  add  two  table- 
spoons butter,  cool  and  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  extract, 
one-half  cup  shredded  cocoanut  and  one-half  cup  chopped 
walnuts.  Beat  all  together  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
then  spread  upon  buttered  tin  to  thickness  of  one-half  inch. 
Cut  into  squares.  ^^^  George  W.  Quint,  Gray,  Maine. 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 

Cook  together  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
peanut  butter  and  one-half  cup  milk  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  Larkin 
Vanilla  Flavoring  Extract,  cool  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour 
onto  a  buttered  pie-plate  and  when  nearly  cold  cut  in  small 
squares.  ^^^^  ^  q  Caslan,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Pinoche  or  Divinity 

Take  two  pounds  or  four  cups  Larkin  Brown  Sugar,  one  cup 
milk,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  walnuts  chopped  fine  (or  any 
other  nuts),  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  the  sugar,  milk,  butter 
and  salt  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
stove,  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  cool,  add  the  nuts  and  beat  until 
nearly  hard.  Pour  into  buttered  pans,  mark  off  in  squares  when 
cold.  For  divinity  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  the  stifitly-beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  mixture 
will  stand  alone.  ^^^^^  ^  Rommel,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


130 


CANDIES 


Sultana  Caramels 

Two  cups  Larkin  Sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-fourth  cup 
molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  squares  Larkin  Chocolate, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-half  cup  English  walnut  or  hickory 
nut  meats  cut  in  pieces,  two  tablespoons  Sultana  raisins.  Put 
butter  and  chocolate  into  a  sauce-pan ;  when  melted,  add  sugar, 
milk  and  molasses.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  and  boil  seven 
minutes  longer.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  until  creamy,  add 
nuts,  raisins  and  vanilla;  pour  at  once  into  a  buttered  tin. 
Cool  slightly  and  mark  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Frank  L.  Hinds,  Northampton,  Mass. 

Larkin  Mints 

Put  one  cup  cold  water  into  a  sauce-pan,  add  four  cups  granu- 
lated sugar  and  one  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  without  stirring 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Take 
from  fire  and  cool  slightly;  add  one-half  teaspoon  each  of 
peppermint  and  apple-green  culinary  paste.  Beat  until  creamy. 
Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  waxed  paper.  Make  the  same  quan- 
tity again  and  color  pink,  flavor  with  Larkin  Wintergreen. 
These  mints  are  delicious  to  serve  after  a  heavy  meal  or  with 
afternoon  tea.  ^^^  j^^^  McKee,  Moriah  Center,  N.  Y. 

Marshmallows 

Take  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  add  six  tablespoons  water, 
stir  over  a  moderate  fire  until  it  boils,  then  boil  without  stirring 
until  a  little  dropped  into  cold  water  will  form  a  soft  ball. 
Have  ready  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Gelatine  soaked  in  six 
tablespoons  cold  water  about  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  the 
candy  and  stir  and  beat  until  thick.  Flavor  with  Larkin 
Vanilla  or  Orange  Flavoring  Extract;  pour  into  a  dish  well 
powdered  with  pulverized  sugar  and  spread  to  the  thickness 
of  one  inch,  sprinkle  with  the  powdered  sugar  and  put  in  cool 
place  over  night.  Then  cut  into  squares  with  knife  that  has 
been  dipped  in  boiling  water,  dip  edges  in  the  sugar  and  pack 
in  boxes  lined  with  Larkin  Waxed  Paper. 

Miss  Annie  E.  Graybill,  Buchanan,  Va. 

Children's  Rciisin  Candy 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  Larkin  Cocoa,  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  enough  boiling  water  to  mix 
stiff.  Flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Take  a  little 
of  the  mixture  on  the  end  of  a  teaspoon  and  form  into  a  ball, 
taking  two  raisins  to  each  ball  and  press  together  until  nearly 
flat.     If  white  candy  is  preferred  leave  out  cocoa. 

Mrs.  p.  E.  Monroe,  South  Weymouth,  Mass. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.     See  Page  6. 


CANDIES 


131 


Vinegar  Taffy 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  hot  water,  two  table- 
spoons butter.  Place  on  fire,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  five 
tablespoons  acid  vinegar.  Boil  until  brittle  when  tested  in 
cold  water.     Pour  into  buttered  pan  until  cool  enough  to  pull. 

Mrs.  Henry  Davis,  New  Decatur,  Ala. 

Larkin  Cocoa  Caramels 

One  cup  Larkin  Molasses  or  Corn  Syrup,  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  milk,  three  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  cup  cocoa,  one 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  sugar,  molasses,  milk  and  cocoa  until 
it  forms  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Add  butter  and  vanilla 
when  nearly  done.     Cut  when  cool. 

Mrs.  Henry  M.  Buettner,  Baltimore,  Md. 


Ham  Sandwich  Filling 

One  cup  or  one-half  pound  chopped  ham,  enough  good  vinegar 
to  moisten  well,  one  tablespoon  Larkin  Peanut  Butter,  a  few 
drops  of  Larkin  Celery  Flavoring  Extract,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Mix  well  and  you  will  have  the  best  ham  sandwich 
you  ever  ate.  ^^^  ^  L.  Umbarger,  Konnarock,  Va. 

Cheese  Olive  Sandwiches 

One-fourth  can  Larkin  Pimentos,  one  ten-cent  cream  cheese 
(little  snappy),  twelve  soda  crackers,  six  Larkin  Olives,  one 
medium-sized  onion.  Put  all  these  through  a  Larkin  Food- 
Chopper,  mix  with  Larkin  Salad  Dressing.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread  with  a  lettuce  leaf 
between.  ^^^  ^  g  Smith,  Fostoria,  Ohio. 

Pimento  Cheese  Sandwiches 

One  small  can  Larkin  Pimentos,  one  pound  Larkin  Cream 
Cheese,  one  very  small  onion,  put  all  through  the  meat-chopper. 
Mix  with  boiled  salad  dressing.  Spread  between  thin  slices 
of  bread  and  butter.  ^^^  ^^^  ^^^^^^^  p^^^^^^^  I^^^ 

Roquefort  Cheese  Sandwiches 

One-half  pound  Roquefort  cheese,  one  cream  cheese,  one  bottle 
Larkin  Stuffed  Olives,  one  small  onion,  one  head  celery,  three 
green  peppers,  one-half  cup  butter.  Grind  all  together  in 
Larkin  Food-Chopper  and  serve  between  crackers  or  sliced 
bread.     Half  these  quantities  make  enough  for  a  large  crowd. 

Mrs.  Charles  Kelsey,  St.  Johnsville,  N.  Y. 

American  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Cream  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  with  a  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  add  a  little  salt,  white  pepper  and  mustard 
and  one-quarter  pound  grated  cheese;  stir  in  a  scant  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread  with  a  lettuce 
leaf  or  cress.  ^^^  j^^^  Carper,  Franklin,  Nebr. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


SANDWICHES 


133 


Larkin  Sandwiches 

Put  six  hard-boiled  eggs  and  six  Larkin  Sweet  Pickles  through 
Larkin  Food-Chopper.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  two  tablespoons 
Larkin  Peanut  Butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Then  add 
Larkin  Prepared  Mustard  and  a  little  vinegar  to  the  consis- 

^         ^  ^*  Miss  Maude  Briles,  Fairmount,  Ind. 

Scrambled-Egg  Sandwiches 

Chip  left-over  ham  and  one  small  onion  in  small  pieces,  then 
add  it  to  one  well-beaten  egg  and  fry  in  butter.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     This  makes  a  fine  sandwich. 

Mrs.  Wm.  R.  Treon,  TuRBOTvn.LE,  Pa. 

Pork  and  Bean  Sandwiches 

Cut  thin  slices  from  a  loaf  of  brown  bread,  butter  and  put 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  a  teaspoon  of  Mayonnaise  dressing 
on  one  slice.  On  the  other  spread  a  layer  of  pork  and  beans 
which  have  been  mashed  until  smooth.  Put  slices  together 
and  wrap  each  sandwich  separately  in  waxed  paper.  Delicious 
for  school  or  picnic  lunches. 

Mrs.  Pearl  M.  Hacker,  Council  Bluffs,  Iowa. 

Peanut  Sandwich  Filling 

Mix  Larkin  Peanut  Butter  with  a  small  amount  of  Larkin 
Prepared  Mustard,  add  a  little  cream  or  Larkin  Evaporated 
Milk.  The  proportions  may  vary  to  suit  the  taste.  Spread 
on  thinly-sliced  graham  bread,  cut  cross-wise  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves  or  decorate  with  parsley  or  cress. 

Mrs.  Eric  H.  Lindquist,  Stromsburg,  Nebr. 

Sweet  Peanut  Sandwiches 

One-half  cup  grated  maple  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  finely-chopped 
peanuts,  one  tablespoon  rich  sweet  milk.  Mix  well  and  spread 
between  thin  slices  of  graham  or  plain  bread. 

Mrs.  a.  B.  Gracia,  New  Bedford,  Mass. 

Fruit  Sandwiches 

One  pound  each  Larkin  Dates  and  English  walnuts,  three 
tablespoons  sweet  cream.  Put  both  dates  and  nuts  through 
meat-chopper  using  the  fine  knife.  Mix  until  smooth  adding 
a  tablespoon  of  cream  as  needed.  Makes  about  four  dozen 
sandwiches  and  filling  will  keep  a  long  time  in  cool  weather. 
Used  with  whole-wheat  bread  makes  delicious  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  Cliff  Harris,  Maxwell,  III. 

Use  Level  Measurements  Only.    See  Page  6. 


134 


SANDWICHES 


Sardine  Sandwiches 

Take  one  small  can  Larkin  Sardines,  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon 
and  one  tablespoon  salad  dressing.  Mix  in  a  bowl  with  a 
fork;  spread  on  bread  or  Larkin  Soda  Crackers.  Fine  for 
outings  or  company.  ^^^  ^  T.  Walsh,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Tomato  and  Onion  Sandwiches 

Cut  very  firm  tomatoes  into  slices  as  thin  as  possible  without 
breaking  and  wafer-like  slices  of  very  white  onions.  Season 
with  salt  and  Larkin  Cayenne  Pepper,  add  a  dash  of  Larkin 
Salad  Dressing.     Put  between  crisp  Larkin  Saltines. 

Catherine  Nehan,  Geneseo,  N.  Y. 

Fig  Filling  for  Sandwiches 

Chop  fine  six  preserved  figs  and  one-half  cup  walnuts  and  mix 
with  enough  Larkin  Raspberry  Jam  to  spread  well.  Butter  thin 
slices  of  Larkin  Brown  Bread,  spread  with  the  filling  and  cut  the 
slices  m  quarters.  Florence  C.  Thayer,  Stoneham,  Mass. 


INDEX 


135 


PAGE 

^merican  Cheese  Sandwiches 132 

Angel  Food 78 

Apple  Cake,  Dutch 65 

Apple  Fritters 24 

Apple  Jelly 120 

Apple  Pudding 89 

Apple  Sauce 109 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 77 

Apple  Tapioca 93 

Apples,  Baked 96 


ganana  Pie 103 

Banana  Salad 46 

Bavarian  Cream 95 

Beans,  Baked 38-39 

Beans,  Canned 119 

Bean  Salad 42-43 

Bean  Sandwiches 133 

Bean  Soup 10 

Beef  Broth  with  Vegetables 9 

Beef  Fritters 23 

Beef  Loaf 21 

Beef,  Minced 30 

Beef,  Roast  20 

Beef  Steak  Pudding,  English 21 

Beef  with  Tomatoes 29 

Beet  Relish 117 

Beverages  and  Fruit  Juices.  124  to  126 

Birthday  Cake 77 

Biscuits 61-62 

Blackberry  Cake 79 

Blanc  Mange,  Raspberry 95 

Blushing  Bunny 57 

Bordeaux  Sauce 114 

Boston  Cookies 85 

Bread 58-59 

Bread  and  Rolls 58  to  65 

Bread-Crumb  Griddle-Cakes 67 

Brown  Betty 94 

Brown  Bread 60 

Buckwheat  Cakes 67 

Buttermilk  Pie 106 

Butter  Scotch  Pie 105 


(^abbage,  Boiled 35 

Cabbage,  Filled  Leaves 28 

Cabbage  Salad 41 

Cabbage.  Stuffed 29 

Cakes 69  to  83 

Candie? 127  to  131 

Candy  Baskets 128 

Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables.  118-119 

Caper  Sauce 1 10 

Caramel  Frosting 82 


,  PAGE 

Caramel  Pudding 92 

Caramels 128-130-131 

Carrot  Marmalade 123 

Carrot  Pie 105 

Cheese  Balls 56 

Cheese  Fingers 57 

Cheese  Fondu 56 

Cheese  Olive  Sandwiches 132 

Cheese  Puff 56 

Cheese  Straws 101 

Cherries,  Preserved 120 

Cherries,  Sweet  Pickled 115 

Cherry  Olives US 

Cherry  Salad 45 

Chess  Pie 106 

Chicken,  Creole  Style 27 

Chicken  Cutlets 30 

Chicken,  Fried 26 

Chicken,  Maryland 27 

Chicken  Pie 27 

Chicken  Pot-Roast  with  Dumplings.27 

Chicken  Salad 43-44 

Chili  Con  Carni 23 

Chili  Sauce 114 

Chocolate 125 

Chocolate  Cake 76 

Chocolate  Cookies 87 

Chocolate  Cream  Cake 74 

Chocolate  Cream  Candy 127 

Chocolate  Filling 80 

Chocolate  Frosting 80 

Chocolate  Mousse 99 

Chocolate  Nut  Cake 76 

Chocolate  Pie 106 

Chocolate  Pudding 90 

Chocolate  Sauce 112 

Chop  Suey,  American 23 

Chow-Chow 117 

Chowder 12-13 

Christmas  Cake 70 

Christmas  Cookies 86 

Clam  Chowder 12 

Clam  Pie 18 

Clam  Soup,  Cream  of 13 

Clarify  Fat,  To 7 

Club-of-Ten  Punch 126 

Cocoa 124 

Cocoa  Angel  Cake 78 

Cocoa  Caramels 131 

Cocoa  Tea  Cake 74 

Cocoanut  Bars 127 

Cocoanut  Frosting 80 

Cocoanut  Fudge 129 

Cocoanut  Pie 103-105-107 

Cocoanut  Pudding 90 

Codfish  Balls 15 


136 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Codfish,  Creamed 16 

Codfish  Fritters 16 

Codfish  Loaf 15 

Coffee 124 

Coffee  Cake 64-65-74 

Coffee  Cornstarch 94 

Coffee  Ice-Cream 98 

Combination  Salad 41 

Cookies 84  to  87 

Corn,  Canned 119 

Corn  Chowder 12 

Corn  Fritters 35 

Corn-Meal  Bread 60 

Corn-Meal  Gems 61 

Corn-Meal  Griddle-Cakes 67 

Corn  Oysters 35 

Corn  Pudding 36 

Corn  Salad 115 

Corn  Soup,  Cream  of 11 

Cornstarch  Cake 73-74 

Cranberry  Pudding 91 

Cranberry  Sauce 109 

Cream  Cake 72 

Cream  Caramels 128 

Cream  Frosting 82 

Cream  Pie 103 

Cream  Puffs 72 

Cream  Sauce 109 

Creamy  Dressing 48 

Croutons 8 

Crumb  Cake 79 

Crust  Cake 101 

Cucumber  Pickles 116 

Cucumber  Relish 116 

Cucumbers,  Canned 115 

Currant  Conserve 122 

Currant  Pie 104 

Custard  Macaroni 53 

Custard  Pie 103 

Custard  Sauce Ill 

J)ainty  Dessert 96 

Date  Cookies 87 

Date  and  Nut  Pudding 91 

Date  Pie 104 

Desserts 89  to  99 

Divinity 129 

Doughnuts 88 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 110 

Dressings,  Poultry  and  Meat...  27-28 
Dressing,  Salad  (see  Salads.) 
Dumplings 22 

Economical  Meat  Dish 29 

Egg  and  Crumb,  To 7 

Eggless  Cookies 86 

Eggs 50  to  52 

Egg  Sauce 110 


PAGE 

pat,  To  Test,  Clarify,  Try  Out 7 

Fig  Filling  for  Cake 83 

Fig  Filling  for  Sandwiches 134 

Fig  Pie 104 

Figs,  Preserved 121 

Fillings,  Cake 80  to  83 

Fish 14  to  18 

Fish,  Baked 15 

Fish,  Boiled 14 

Fish,  Broiled 14 

Fish  Chowder,  Imperial 12 

Fish,  Fried 14 

Fish,  Planked 14 

Foamy  Sauce 112 

Fondant 129 

Fourth-of-July  Cake 75 

French  Dressing 48 

French  Pastry 77 

French  Toast 66 

Fricasseeing 7 

Fritters,  Apple 24 

Fritters,  Beef 23 

Fritters,  Corn 35 

Frostings  and  Fillings 80  to  83 

Frozen  Desserts 97  to  99 


Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 
Fru 


t  Cake 71 

t  Candy 128 

t  Cream  with  Gelatine 98 

t  Filling 80 

t  Juice  and  Syrups 125 

t  Mousse 99 

t  Punch 126 

t  Salad. 44-45 

t  Sandwiches 133 

t  Sauce 112 

ts.  Canned 118 


Fudge. 


129 


(^erman  Pancakes 68 

Gingerbreads 84 

Gold  Cake 73 

Golden  Fleece,  Southern 57 

Graham  Bread 59 

Graham  Cookies 85 

Graham  Pudding 92 

Grape  Conserve 121 

Grapefruit  Marmalade 122 

Grape  Juice 125 

Griddle-Cakes 66-67 

J^am,  Boiled 24 

Ham,  To  Cure 26 

Ham,  Deviled 25 

Ham,  Fried 24 

Ham  Sandwich  Filling 132 

Ham  Surprise 31 

Hard  Sauce 112 

Hash,  Chicken 31 


INDEX 


137 


PAGE 

Hash,  "Different" 29 

Hash,  Michigan 30 

Hash,  Savory 31 

Hermits 86 

Hot  Minnesota  Pickle 114 

Hot  Water  Frosting 82 

Jce-Cream  and  Sherbets 97  to  99 

Ice-Cream  Cake 74 

Ice-Cream  Cand}' 127 

Icings 81-82-83 

Indian  Tapioca 93 

Tarn  Cake,  English 74 

"^   Jams  (see  Jellies.) 

Jellies,  Jams  &  Marmalades.  120  to  123 

Jelly  Cookies 85 

Jelly  Roll 79 

J^arkin  Sandwiches 133 

Larkin  Special 36 

Layer  Cake 71 

Lemonade 126 

Lemon  Cheese 101 

Lemon  Crumb  Pie 102 

Lemon  Filling 81 

Lemon  Icing 81 

Lemon  Pie 102 

Lemon  Sauce Ill 

Lemon  Sherbet 98 

Lemon  Sponge  Pie 101 

Lemon  Syrup 126 

Lemon  Tarts 102 

Lentil  Croquettes. 39 

Lentil  Soup 9 

Lentil  Stew 40 

Lentils,  Baked 39 

Loaf,  Beef 21 

Loaf,  Meat 21 

Loaf,  Veal 26 

Lobster  Salad 46 

Lobster  Wiggle 18 

]yjacaroni  &  Cheese  Dishes.  .53  to  57 

Macaroni  with  Cheese 54 

Macaroni,  Custard 53 

Macaroni,  English  Style 54 

Macaroni,  Italian  Style 54 

Macaroni  with  Meat 54 

Macaroni,  Nilson 55 

Macaroni  and  Oysters 55 

Macaroni  and  Salmon 55 

Macaroni  with  Sausage 55 

Macaroons 78 

Madeira  Cake 79 

Maple  Cream  Sponge 96 

Maple  Icing 83 

Maple  Syrup  Cream 99 

Marguerites 78 


PAGE 
Marmalades  (see  Jellies.) 

Marshmallow  Dessert 95 

Marshmallow  Filling  and  Frosting. 81 

Marshmallow  Pudding 90 

Marshmallows 130 

Marshmallow  Salad 44 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 48 

Measure,  How  To 6 

Meat  Loaf 21 

Meat  Relish 46-47 

Meats  and  Poultry 19  to  31 

Meat  Soups 8 

Melba  Filling 82 

Milkless,  Eggless,  Butterless  Cake. 75 

Milk  Sherbet 98 

Milk  Toast 66 

Mince-Meat 107-108 

Minnehaha  Filling 80 

Mints,  Larkin 130 

Miscellaneous  Salad 43 

Mixed  Pickles 115 

Mocha  Frosting 81 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 105 

Mock  Cream  Sauce 112 

Mock  Marshmallow  Frosting 81 

Mock  Mince  Pie 108 

Molasses  Cake 73 

Molasses  Cookies 85 

Mother's  Dressing 49 

Muffins 63-64 

Mustard,  Cooked  French 113 

Mustard  Pickles 116-117 

Mutton  Broth 9 

J^ew  Idea  Ice-Cream 97 

New  Orleans  Cakes 76 

Nut  Bread 61 

Nut  Loaf  Candy 127 

Qatmeal  Bread 60 

Oatmeal  Cookies 86 

Olive  Oil  Pickles 116 

Omelets 50-51 

Onion  and  Potato  Hash 32 

Orange  Dessert 95 

Orange  Ice-Cream 98 

Orange  Icing 82 

Orange  Marmalade 122 

Orange  Sauce Ill 

Oysters  au  Gratin 17 

Oysters,  Creamed 17 

Oysters,  Fried 17 

Oyster  Soup 13 

pancakes 68 

Parsnips  and  Carrots 34 

Pastry  and  Pies 100  to  108 


138 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Peach  Sherbet. 99 

Peaches,  Sweet  Pickled 115 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 129 

Peanut  Butter  Griddle-Cakes 67 

Peanut  Butter  Pin- Wheels 101 

Peanut  Butter  Sauce 109 

Peanut  Cookies 87 

Peanut  Dressing 48 

Peanut  Sandwiches 133 

Peanut  Soup,  Cream  of 11 

Pear  Chips 123 

Peas,  Baked 34 

Peas,  Canned 119 

Peas  in  Turnip  Cups 34 

Pea  Soup 9 

Pepper  Relish. 114 

Peppers,  Spanish 37 

Peppers,  Stuffed 38 

Pickles  and  Preserves 113  to  117 

Pie  Crust 100 

Pies 100  to   108 

Pigs  in  Blankets 17 

Pimento  Cheese  Sandwiches 132 

Pineapple  Filling 83 

Pineapple  Pie 105 

Pineapple  Salad 45 

Pineapple  and  Strawberry  Preserve.  121 

Pineapple  Tapioca 93 

Pinoche 129 

Plum  Conserve 122 

Plum  Pudding 90-91 

Pop  Overs 63 

Pork  and  Bean  Sandwiches 133 

Pork  Cake 76 

Pork  Chops,  Baked 23 

Pork,  Roast 23 

Pork,  Salt  with  Gravy 24 

Pork  Sausage 25 

Pork  Sausage  with  Tomatoes 25 

Potato  Cake 75 

Potato  Fritters S3 

Potato  Pancakes 68 

Potato  Patties 32 

Potato  Puffs 33 

Potato  Salad 41 

Potato  Soup 10-11 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 32 

Potatoes,  Cheese 32 

Potatoes,  Escalloped 32 

Potatoes,  Stuffed 33 

Potatoes,  Walnut  Sweet 33 

Poultry 26-27-28 

Pound  Cake 72 

Preserves  (see  Pickles.) 

Prune  Jelly 96 

Prune  Pie 104 

Puddings 89  to  94 

Pumpkin  Pie 108 

Punch 126 


PAGE 

Queen  Pudding 89 

^  Quick  Soup 9 

Quince  Honey 123 

■p  abbit  en  Casserole 28 

Rabbit,  Fried 28 

Rabbit,  Roast 28 

Raisin  Candy 130 

Raisin  Cookies 87 

Raisin  Filling 81 

Raisin  Nut  Loaf 61 

Raisin  and  Rhubarb  Pie 103 

Raisin  Turnovers 100 

Rarebit,  Welsh 56 

Rhubarb  Conserve 121 

Rhubarb  Jam 123 

Rhubarb-Lemon  Pie 102 

Rhubarb  Pudding 92 

Rice,  Baked 37 

Rice,  Boiled 36 

Rice  Croquettes 37 

Rice  Jelly  Sponge 96 

Rice  and  Meat 30 

Rice  and  Pimentos 37 

Rice  Pie 105 

Rice  Pudding 92-93 

Rice,  Steamed 37 

Rice,  Turkish 30 

Rolls 62 

Roquefort  Cheese  Sandwiches.  .    .  132 

Rye  and  Raspberries 95 

Rye  Griddie-Cakes 67 

galad  Delight 43 

Salads  and  Dressings 41  to  49 

Salmagundi . .  .  , 31 

Salmon  Chowder 13 

Salmon  Croquettes  . 17 

Salmon  Loaf 16 

Salmon  Salad 44 

Salmon  Soufflfe 16 

Sandwiches. 132  to  134 

Sardine  Sandwiches 134 

Sauces,    (Meat  and   Fish).  ...  109-110 

Sauces,  (Pudding) 111-112 

Sauerkraut,  Larkin 24 

Sausage  Meat.' 25 

Sausage  Rolls 25 

Sauteing 7 

Scones 64 

Scrambled  Egg  Sandwich 133 

Sea  Foam  Pudding 90 

September  Salad 46 

Shad,  Baked 15 

Sherbets  (see  Ice-Cream.) 

Shortcake,  Strawberry 94 

Shrimp  in  Ramekins 18 

Shrub 125 


INDEX 


139 


PAGE 

Slaw 42 

Snow  Pudding 92 

Soups 8  to  13 

Sour  Cream  Raisin  Pie 103 

Sour  Milk  Griddle-Cakes 66 

Southern  Spoon  Bread 60 

Spice  Cake 77 

Spice  Cookies 85 

Sponge  Cake 73 

Stale  Cake  Pudding 91 

Steak,  Broiled 19 

Steak,  Hamburg 20 

Steak,  Nut 22 

Steak,  Spanish 20 

Steak,  Swiss 20 

Stew,  Beef 22 

Strawberry  Preserve 121 

Strawberry  Shortcake 94 

Suet  Pudding 89 

Sugar  Cookies 87 

Suggestions  for  Salads 49 

Sultana  Caramels 130 

Sweetbreads 26 

'paffy.  Vinegar 131 

Tapioca,  Apple 93 

Tapioca  Cream 94 

Tapioca,  Indian 93 

Tapioca,  Pineapple 93 

Tapioca  Pudding 93 

Tarts 102 

Tea. 124 

Thanksgiving  Pudding 91 

Toast  and  Griddle-Cakes 66  to  68 


PAGE 

Tomato  Bouillon 11 

Tomato  Cakes 36 

Tomato  Catsup 113 

Tomato  Mince-Meat 108 

Tomato  and  Onion  Sandwiches.  ..134 

Tomato  Pickles 114 

Tomato  Salad 41-46 

Tomato  Sauce 109 

Tomato  Soup 11-12 

Tomato  and  String  Bean  Salad ....  47 

Tomatoes,  Canned 119 

Tomatoes,  Fried 36 

Tomatoes  and  Rice 36 

Try  Out  Fat,  To 7 

Turnips,  Boiled 33 

■yanllla  Sauce ..Ill 

Veal,  Jellied 22 

Veal  Loaf 26 

Veal,  Roast 26 

Vegetable  Chowder 12 

Vegetable  Salad 41 

Vegetables 32  to  40 

Vinegar  Frosting 83 

Vinegar  Pie 107 

Waffles 68 

Watermelon  Cake 75 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickle 113 

Wedding  Cake 70 

Weights  and  Measures 6 

Welsh  Rarebit 56 

White  Grape  Salad 45 


Good  Results  in  Cooking 

Good  recipes  produce  good  results  only  when  good  materials 
are  used. 

Good  materials  are  not  necessarily  those  that  cost  the  most,  for 
often  you  will  pay  the  highest  price  for  materials  of  inferior  grade. 

Many  good  recipes  are  often  condemned  because  of  the  use  of 
poor  materials.  Therefore  be  sure  that  the  materials  you  use  are 
good  quality,  that  the  flavoring  extracts  or  spices  are  full  strength 
and  that  the  utensils  used  are  the  proper  ones. 

Use  Larkin  Products 

You  will  have  better  results,  greater  satisfaction  and  at  the 
same  time  effect  a  noteworthy  saving  if  you  always  use  Larkin 
Products. 

Pure  Foods 

Larkin  Pure  Foods  are  of  the  high-  Powder  is  made  of  the  purest  materials, 

est  quality,  always  fresh,  full-weight,  It  combines   the   highest   baking  effi- 

clean  and  wholesome.  ciency  with  excellent  keeping  properties 

Our  Flavoring  Extracts  are  the  high-  and  may  always   be   depended  on  to 

est   concentrations,  our  Pure  Ground  g»ve    uniform     results.      Always    use 

Spices  the  fullest  strength.    Our  Maca-  Larkm  Bakmg  Powder, 
roni,  Egg  Noodles,  Corn  Starch,  Tapi-  Larkin  Teas  are  of  superior  quality, 

oca,  Shredded  Cocoanut,  Gelatine  and  They  offer  the  opportunity  to  secure 

Chocolate   are   articles   of  exceptional  delicious  tea  at  a  great  saving, 
merit  with  which  delicious  dishes  can  All  the  other  Larkin   Pure  Foods 

be  prepared.  are  of  the  same  high  quality  as  those 

Quality  in  Baking  Powder  is  of  vital  here  mentioned.     It  is  wise  economy 

importance.      On   it    depends   success  to  keep  your  pantry  well  stocked  with 

or  failure  in  baking.     Larkin  Baking  these  excellent  Products. 

Kitchen  Cutlery 

Every    capable    housewife    knows  ment    of    high-grade   kitchen    knives 

how  essential  it  is  to  have  in  her  kitchen  that   will  give  complete    and    lasting 

well-made    cutting    implements    with  satisfaction. 

keen  and  lasting  edges.    Larkin  House-  A  Larkin  Food -Chopper  will  add 

hold  Cutlery  offers  a  splendid  assort-  greatly  to  the  eflBciency  of  the  kitchen. 

You  Get  Extra  Value 

Remember,  when  you  buy  Larkin  Products  you  get  Merchan- 
dise-Bonus which  gives  you  double  or  almost  double  value  for 
your  money. 

Before  you  buy  an  article  at  the  store,  look  through  your 
Larkin  Catalog — see  whether  you  can  buy  it  as  a  Larkin  Product 
at  Factory-to-Family  price  or  get  it  without  extra  expense  as  Larkin 
Premium  Merchandise. 


"See  First  If  Larkin  Sells  It 


» 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  489  892  8 


