J  jIZj/j!  J i    KJ 

COOK  BOOK. 


T  X 

115 


.Mi36 


■    r= 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 
-^0V& 

Shelf.  Ml  3k 


(UNITED  STATES  OF  AMBICA. 


I 


U/.  ^.  Qrossmai?  8  Qo. 

^!  42  H^ 
East  Santa  Clara  St.,      San  Jose,  Cal. 


AGENTS     FOR 


**U  ESTATE  AG^^ERAMUCf^EE^ 

£      OFFICE aSALESK00^^    ^ 


l^eal  £stat<? 


Coaps  ai)d 


Ir^uraQee 


mm  ^<Aflh. 


ORCHARD  PROPERTIES  A  SPECIALTY. 


MARTIN.  &  ESTRABOOU, 


DEALERS  IN  ALL  KINDS  OF 


Fi^h,  fj&Ifc  nqd  ^p^ed  #  (Jeafc 


->-h>H 


S^ 


'cr 


«— 


CHOICE    JIEtTS    AT    LOWEST    RATES. 


NORTH-EAST    CORNER 


ganta  Clara  and  Third  jfc,  #  j&n  Jo0e,  Cal. 


A.    KRAUS.  ^jf  W.    RAI.EY. 

^357" •,  'yTV  ^S? 

HflliEY   &   Co., 
(Bom/ryssionf  PW^tyants, 

UEAI.KRS    IN 

Foreign  and  Domestic  Fruits, 

—SCREEN     AND     DRIED. '^^ 


COR.  THIRD  AND  SANTA  CLARA  STS., 

And    7    North    Third    Street, 

Sfl]St    JOSE.  CALiipOH^Ifl. 

Mrs.  Worcester's  School  for  Young  Ladies 

Is  located  in  a  Delightful  Suburban  Home,  with  ample, 
sunny    grounds,  one-half  block   from  Electric  Cars. 

A  three  years'  course  of  study  is  arranged,  with  a  fourth 
year  in  travel  and  study  abroad,  if  desired,  in  charge  of  a  careful 
and  capable  chaperone.      French  conversation  at  the  dining  table. 

Classes  in  Physical  Culture,  and  for  those  who  wish  any  of 
the  practical  courses  of  study,  now  so  popular,  Shorthand,  Type- 
writing, Music,  Physical  Culture,  and  a  Business  Course,  have 
been  provided  for.      Miss  L.  Krapp,  Teacher  of  Piano. 

Help  for  those  who  wish  to  prepare  thoroughly  for  the  State 
Normal  or  High  School  examinations. 

A  safe  and  pleasant  home  for  girls  whose  parents  wish  to  travel. 

Christmas  Session  opens  second  week  in  September. 

Easter  Session  opens  second  week  in  January. 

For  information,  address 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Worcester,  Principal, 

No.    1    Wichita  Avenue,    East   San   Jose. 


gAN  JOgE  iE^COp 

CHAS.  M.  SHORTRID&E,  Editor  and  Proprietor. 

CLIFFORD  I.  OWEN,  Associate  Editor  and  Manager. 


Issued  Every  Day  in  the  Year. 


SUBSCRIPTION    RATES: 

The  DAILY  MERCURY  is  published  Every  Day  in  the  Year  at 
the  following  rates: 

Per  Annum,  by  Mail,         -  $6.00 

Six    Months,         -         -         -  3.00 

Three  Months,        -------  1.50 

Per  Month,  delivered   by  Carrier,        -  .50 


The  Weekly  fljeftonj 

Is    published     EVERY     SATURDAY     MORNING,    at    the 
following  rates: 

Per  Annum, $1.50 

Six  Months,              .                                                            l.OO 
Three   Months, 50 


X. 


LIZZIES 


COOK  BOOK 


-KDITED  BY- 


The   Bachelette. 


^w^ 


n^K^ 


SAN  JOSE,    SANTA    CLARA   CO.,   CALIFORNIA. 

Smith  &•  Wilcox  Printers, 
i  891. 


Copyright,    i8qi, 
By   K.    V.    Darling. 


i^ 


^fie  friend 

In  'Whose  ^feasant  3£ome 

*(5fiese  Recipes 

%ert  "'(Dried"  and  Jound  <(5o  %e  li(fyrue 

'fyfiis  ^Boof{ 

is  J[ffecti°mtefy  dedicated. 


pt^spA®^- 


(7)VERYB0DY  knows  Lizzie  !  She  is  one  of  the  best 
r  cooks  in  town.       I  am  sure  of  this,   for    "The 

**—*— n proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating,"  and  I  have 
eaten.  Her  puddings  are  delicious,  delicate,  wholesome. 
In  fact,  I  am  a  living  monument  to  her  skill. 

It  seems  a  pity  to  waste  such  talents  on  a  few  individ- 
uals and  it  is  my  pleasant  mission  to  acquaint  a  suffering, 
dyspeptic  world  with  the  virtues  of  Lizzie's  well  cooked 
dishes,  spiced  now  and  then  with  some  of  her  pithy  say- 
ings. 

Many  cook  books  are  too  elaborate  and  confusing. 
They  seem  to  be  written  for  people,  who  live  with  great 
ceremony;  who  have  retinues  of  servants  at  dinner,  bring- 
ing in  turtle  soup  and  turkey,  silver  chafing-dishes  and 
gold  spoons.  But,  the  majority  of  Americans  do  not  live 
in  this  way  at  all;  they  are  glad  to  have  beefsteak  and 
bread;  wedgewood  ware  and  one  good  servant.  It  is  for 
this  great  majority,  that  "  Lizzie's  Cook  Book  "  is  written. 

No  recipes  will  be  found  here  for  the  dishes  set  before 
the  Duke  of  Nocastle,  when  Mrs.  Smith  of  Smithville 
entertained  him  and  so  incurred  the  undying  enmity  of 
her  neighbors.  But  there  are  recipes,  clear  and  exact, 
we  hope,  for  getting  good  breakfasts,  luncheons,  dinners 
and  suppers  for  people  who  live  simply  and  rationally. 


6  PREFACE. 

The  purpose  is,  to  make  this  book,  in  one  respect  at 
least,  like  Wordsworth's  "perfect  woman," 

"  Not  too  wise  nor  good, 

For  human  nature's  daily  food." 

With  the  recipes  for  cooking,  are  a  few  plain  directions 
for  marketing,  for  Lizzie  markets  as  well  as  she  cooks. 
When  she  starts  off  with  the  market  basket  on  her  aim, 
the  good  things  of  life  seem  to  come  out  to  meet  her. 

Her  searching,  merry  blue  eye  looks  around  the  mar- 
ket or  fruit  store  and  spies  all  the  tid-bits  hidden  away 
for  the  favorite  customer  or  for  the  millionaire's  table. 
Then  she  smiles  her  winsome  smile  at  the  market  man 
and  praises  his  baby;  he  can  no  more  help  bringing  out 
those  "  goodies,"  than  a  fly  can  help  going  into  a  spider's 
net. 

"  Everything  good  and  nothing  harmful." 

That  "Lizzie's  Cook  Book"  may  be  helpful  "in  the 
hour  of  need  "  is  the  sincere  hope  of 

"The  Bachelette." 


[The  authors  desire  to  present  their  cordial  acknowledgments 
to  the  skillful  young  stenographer  and  typewriter,  Miss  Nora 
Hall  of  Del  Norte,  whose  kiud  assistance  has  turned  the  labor  of 
composition  into  a  pleasure.] 


(Ty^o,   littfe  2)Oof{,  and  Wend  thij  ~3>aij, 
(jhrongH  citu,   mart  and  fane, 

DdZaidens  perchance,   and  !Z>omen  grey, 
O^Kciu  read  thee,   not  in  vain. 

Pv/  dishes,  spiced  bij  mother  !?»//, 

{75o  teff  the  Ivorfd,   thourt  a6fe, 

Jind  on  tluj  leaves  are  fairfu  ^rit, 
Good  tidings  for  the  table. 


HOW  TO  SELECT  GOOD   FLOUR. 


"It  don't  pay  to  buy  poor  flour  to  make  good  bread, 
because  you  can't  make  it." 

Good  flour  may  be  known  by  its  soft,  friendly  feeling. 
Rub  it  through  your  fingers  and  it  has  no  grit.  Pinch 
it  into  a  figure  and  it  keeps  its  shape.  Throw  a  little  on 
the  wall,  and,  if  good,  it  will  stick  like  the  paper  balls, 
which  naughty  children  throw  at  the  school-room  ceiling. 
Sometimes  it  has  a  yellowish  color,  then  again  it  isn't  so 
yellow  and  is  just  as  good. 

It  is  best  for  young  housekeepers  to  buy  flour  in  small 
quantities,  until  they  have  learned  to  select  it  well,  or, 
have  found  a  reliable  brand.  Some  millers  never  send 
out  anything  but  good  flour,  and  their  trade-mark  is 
never  questioned,  which  shows  that  "Honesty  is  the  best 
policy,"  for  the  miller  as  well  as  for  other  people,  though 
some  millers  never  find  that  out. 


©t^EA©. 


It's  half  in  the  making  and  half  in  the  baking. 

The  making  of  bread  is  no  small  matter,  for  to  make  it 
good,  takes  time,  strength  and  thought.  Give  a  man 
good  bread  and  butter  and  he  will  not  ask  for  pies  and 
cakes. 

The  first  thing  is  to  buy  good  flour.  Directions 
already  given. 


White  Bread. 

Flour, 3  qts- 

Potatoes,  2  (boiled  and  mashed  fine  while  hot.) 

Warm  milk 2  qts. 

Or  warm  water, 2  qts. 

Sugar, 1  tablespoonful. 

Fine  salt, 1   dessertspoonful. 

Compressed  yeast, ) ■£  cake. 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  little  luke  warm  water,  then 
stir,  or  rather,  beat  all  together  in  the  bread  pan.  Set 
the  pan  where  the  sponge  will  keep  moderately  warm, 
but  do  not  let  it  get  hot.  In  three  hours  it  should  be 
light  enough  to  knead.  Add  flour  and  knead  into  a 
dough  stiff  enough  not  to  stick  to  the  pan.  Let  it  rise 
again,  keeping  it  warm.  Then  mold  into  five  loaves, 
put  into  pans  well  greased  with   good  butter  let  it  rise 


BREAD.  II 

for  third  and  last  time,  and  then  bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  lor  about  one  hour. 

Some  housekeepers  prefer  to  set  the  sponge  at  night, 
knead  the  dough  early  in  the  morning  and  bake  during 
the  forenoon.  There  is  a  little  risk  of  its  souring  or  ris- 
ing too  much,  in  this  way. 

Others  set  the  sponge  in  the  morning — seven  o'clock  is 
a  good  hour — knead  into  dough  about  ten  o'clock;  mold 
into  loaves  and  put  in  the  oven  about  one  o'clock.  Both 
ways  are  good  and  you  take  your  choice. 

Graham  Bread. 

Fine  white  flour, r  qt. 

Salt, i  teaspoonful. 

Compressed  yeast, %  cake. 

Warm  water,    ,    i  pfnt. 

Dissolve  yeast  in  a  little  warm  water,  stir  all  well  to- 
gether and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  well 
risen,  take  a  half  cup  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  Graham  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  stiff 
batter.  Stir  well  with  a  spoon,  then  set  to  rise  again. 
When  light,  put  without  kneading  into  pans,  let  them 
stand  until  the  dough  rises  to  the  top  of  the  pans,  then 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Good  corn  meal, !  CUp, 

Rye  or  Graham, !  Cllpt 

Molasses,    i^  CUp 

Salt,    i  teaspoonful. 

Sour  milk, T  cup 

Butter, i  tablespoonful. 

Soda, i  teaspoonful.. 


12  LIZZIES     COOK     BOOK. 

Beat  all  well  together.  Grease  a  quart  can  or  mold, 
pour  the  batter  into  it,  cover  and  steam  three  hours. 
Very  good. 

Graham  Gkms  (No.   i.) 

Graham  flour, i  pt. 

Water, i  pt. 

Put  the  graham  flour  in  a  bowl,  stirring  in  the  water 
gradually.  Have  the  gem  pans  and  oven  very  hoty  for  on 
this  depends  the  success  of  the  gems.  Bake  twenty  min- 
utes. 

Graham   Gems  (No.  2.) 

White  flour, y3'  cup. 

Graham  flour, 1  cup. 

Molasses, 1  tablespoon  ful. 

Salt Yi  teaspoonful. 

Butter, 1  tablespoonful. 

Eggs, 1. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  well.  Heat  the  gem-pans  hot  and  bake  in  quick 
oven. 

Gallagher  Mary's  Muffins. 

Take  a  bowl  and  break  one  egg  into  it. 

Sugar, 1  tablespoonful. 

Salt, Y-z   teaspoonful. 

Butter, 1  tablespoonful . 

Beat  well  together,  then  add  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  of  sifted  flour  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Beat  all  well  together  and  pour  into 
warm  muffin  rings.  Bake  in  slow  oven  about  twenty 
minutes. 


ROLLS.  13 

Breakfast  Rolls. 

Take  from  the  bread  dough,  enough  to  make  one  loaf. 
Add  to  this- 

One  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

One  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  or  lard. 

Set  away  to  rise,  where  it  is  cool.  When  well  risen, 
roll  on  a  board,  cut  in  pieces  large  enough  to  make  a 
good  sized  biscuit.  Roll  the  pieces  out  flat,  put  a  little 
melted  butter  on  each  piece  and  fold  over  once.  Lay 
them  in  a  greased  pan  and  set  away  to  rise  again.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done, 
take  from  the  pan  and  lay  in  a  clean  napkin  until  served. 

Parker    House  Rolls. 

Scalded  milk, 1  pint. 

Compressed  yeast, y2  cake. 

Melted  butter, y2  cup. 

Sugar, 1  tablespoonful. 

Salt, y2  teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 1. 

Flour, 2V2  cups. 

Begin  at  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  if  you  wish  to 
have  them  for  breakfast  next  morning.  Sift  flour  into 
pan,  make  a  little  hole  in  the  flour,  put  in  milk,  salt,  and 
yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Stir  gently  from 
the  middle,  leaving  some  of  the  flour  around  the  edges. 
Set  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  About  eight 
o'clock  in  the  evening  add  butter,  sugar  and  egg.  Stir 
well,  add  flour  and  mold  into  a  stiff  dough.  Set  in  a 
cool  place  and  cover  with  a  clean  napkin.  In  the  morn- 
ing about  one  hour  before  breakfast,  make  into  rolls, 
folding  each  one  over   a  little  melted  butter.     Let  them 


14  LIZZIES    COOK     BOOK. 

rise,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  just  in  time 
for  breakfast. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

Flour, i  pint. 

Warm  milk, ...    i  pint. 

Salt, )/2  teaspoonful. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Butter,    1  tablespoonful. 

Put  the  flour  and  salt  in  the  bowl,  rub  in  the  butter 
with  the  hand  and  add  the  milk.  Sift  the  baking  pow- 
der into  a  half-cup  of  flour  and  add  to  the  mixture,  work- 
ing gently  with  the  hand  until  the  dough  is  flexible,  but 
not  stiff.  Roll  out  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cut- 
ter and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

White  Gems. 

Flour  (sifted,) 2^  cups. 

Milk  (sweet, ) 1  pint. 

Eggs, 1. 

Salt, y?,  teaspoonful. 

Butter  or  lard, 1  tablespoonful. 

Sugar, r  tablespoonful. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  the  eggs,  salt,  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the 
milk,  sift  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour  and  stir 
in  gently.  Pour  into  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Hygienic  Batter  Cakes. 

Stale  bread, ^   loaf. 

Sour  milk, i*&  pints. 

Salt, y2   teaspoonful. 


GRDDLE     CAKES. 


5 


Baking  powder, i  teaspoonful. 

Eggs, ,mlm 

Sifted  flour, r   CUp 

Soak  the  bread  over  night  in  a  pint  of  sour  milk.  In 
the  morning,  beat  the  eggs  and  salt  into  the  bread,  dis- 
solve the  soda  in  the  rest  of  the  sour  milk,  add  a  cup  of 
sifted  flour,  beat  all  well  together  and  bake  on  a  hot, 
well  greased  griddle. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

Cold  Boiled  Rice,    i  Cup. 

Salt, J4  teaspoonful. 

Sweet  milk, r  pint 

Baking  powder, i  full  teaspoonful. 

Flour  (sifted), 2  cups. 

E--s' 3- 

Beat  the  eggs,  rice  and  salt  together.  Add  the  milk 
and  sift  baking  powder  into  the  flour.  Beat  all  well  to- 
gether and  bake  on  hot,  well  greased  griddle.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 

Welch  Griddle  Cakes. 

Bggs 6 

Milk> ,    i  pint. 

F1°ur> i  pint. 

Salt, l/2  teaspoonful. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  white  separately,  then  add  milk 
and  salt  to  the  yolks  and  gradually  stir  in  flour,  beating 
constantly.  Lastly,  add  the  whites,  beating  all  together. 
Have  the  griddle  very  hot  and  well  buttered.  Butter 
the  cakes  when  taken  from  the  griddle  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 


1 6  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Sally  Lunn. 

Flour, i  quart. 

Milk,    %  pint. 

Hggs, 2. 

Butter, Size  of  an  egg. 

Sugar, 3  tablespoonfuls. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Pop-Overs. 

Flour, 3  ^PS- 
Milk,    3  CUPS- 

Hggs, 3- 

Salt, i  pinch. 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light;  add  one  cup  milk.  Add 
the  flour,  stirring  briskly  to  make  a  thick  paste,  then 
gradually  add  remainder  of  milk.  Heat  and  butter  gem 
tins  and  drop  in  the  batter.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Waffles. 

Sour  milk, i  pint. 

Eggs,    2. 

Salt, l/2  teaspoonful. 

Soda, i  teaspoonful" 

Flour, 2  cups. 

Melted  butter, i  tablespoonful. 

Beat  the  eggs  in  the  bowl  and  add  milk  and  salt. 
Stir  in  flour  gradually,  beating  all  the  time.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  milk  and  stir  in 
gradually.  Have  the  waffle  irons  very  hot  and  well 
greased.  Pour  in  batter  and  bake  quickly.  Serve 
immediatelv. 


corn  bread.  1 7 

Corn  Bread. 

Sweet  milk,    i  pint. 

Sour  milk, i  pint. 

White  flour, i  pint. 

Corn  meal, 2  pints. 

Syrup, 1  teaspoonful. 

Salt, y2  teaspoonful. 

Soda, 1  teaspoonful. 

Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk,  mix  all  together  and  steam 
three  hours. 

Corn  Bread,  No.  2. 

Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 1  cup. 

Butter, y9_  cup. 

Sweet  milk, 1  cup. 

Sour  milk, )A  cup. 

White  flour, y^  cup. 

Corn  meal, 1  yz  cups. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  all  well  together  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 


MUSH 


Corn    Meal  Mush. 

Take  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir 
in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  meal  very  slowly  to  prevent 
lumps  being  formed.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
cook  slowly  from  one  to  two  hours,  adding  hot  water  if 
needed. 

Fried    Mush. 

Pour  the  mush  when  cooked  into  a  shallow  dish  to 
cool.  The  next  morning,  cut  into  slices  and  fry  on  grid- 
dle greased  with  butter  to  a  light  brown. 

Graham    Mush. 

Have  ready  one  quart  of  boiling  water  with  one-half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  gradually  a  pint  of  Graham 
flour.  Stir  all  the  time  to  avoid  lumps.  When  well 
mixed,  set  where  it  will  not  burn  and  cook  slowly  a  half 
an  hour. 

Sago  Mush. 

To  one  cup  of  sago,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  in  rice  boiler  adding  warm 
milk  as  it  is  required,  to  keep  it  from  getting  too  thick. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 


MUSH.  19 

Germea   Mush. 

Take  about  one-half  pint  of  germea  and  put  it  into  a 
rice  boiler,  pouring  boiling  water  over  it  slowly.  Add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  stirring  well  at  first.  Steam  for 
one-half  hour.  This  is  also  good  when  cold.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

Farina  Mush. 

Add  a  pint  of  boiling  water  slowly  to  one-half  a  cup  of 
farina,  stirring  well  to  avoid  lumps.  Add  one-half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  boil  one-half  an  hour.  This  is 
good  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Whole  Wheat  Mush. 

Put  whole  wheat  to  soak  for  at  least  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  pour  into  a  rice  boiler,  add  boiling  water  and 
Cook  slowly  for  about  three  hours.     Serve  hot. 

Breakfast  Delight. 

Take  about  one-half  cup  of  breakfast  delight  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Put  into  rice  boiler 
and  stir  only  two  or  three  times,  while  cooking.  Cook 
quickly  for  half  an  hour. 

All  mushes  are  better  if  not  stirred  while  cooking.  Do 
not  soak  in  cold  water,  unless  the  grains  are  whole. 

Rolled  Oats. 

Stir  rolled  oats  into  one  quart  of  cold  water  until  of  the 
consistency  of  very  thin  mush.  Put  in  rice  boiler  and  cook 
for  about  one-half  an  hour.     Seave  hot. 


20  lizzie  s   cook    book. 

Boiled    Rice. 

Pick  one  cup  of  rice  over  carefully  and  wash  well. 
Put  it  in  the  rice  boiler  and  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water  or  milk.  Add  one-half  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt  and 
boil  for  an  hour,  not  stirring,  but  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  burn.     Serve  as  a  breakfast  mush. 

Cracked  Wheat  Mush. 

To  one  quart  salted  water,  add  three  quarters  of  a  cup 
of  cracked  or  hulled  wheat,  and  steam  two  hours. 

Hominy. 

Take  one  cup  of  hominy  to  one  quart  of  salted  water. 
Soak  over  night  and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  the 
morning.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  Slice  and  fry 
when  cold. 


M£AT<§. 


BEEF. 

HOW  TO  TELL.  GOOD  BEEF. 

The  best  beef  is  of  a  clear  red  color,  juicy  in  appear- 
ance, with  a  fine  grain,  smooth  to  the  touch.  In  cold 
weather  it  should  present  a  well  mixed  or  marbled  ap- 
pearance. The  fat  is  of  a  clear,  straw  color.  The  suet 
should  be  of  a  brighter  shade  than  the  meat  fat,  dry  but 
not  hard;  should  crumble  easily  and  show  little  fibre. 

The  second  quality  of  beef  has  flesh  and  fat  of  a  darker 
color  and  is  of  a  coarser  grain,  has  less  meat  to  the  quan- 
tity of  bone  and  is  less  juicy. 

The  hind  quarters  are  the  choicest  parts  of  the  whole 
beef;  from  them  is  cut  the  famous  "Baron  of  Beef," 
which  is  always  served  at  the  Christmas  dinner  of  the 
queen  or  king  of  England. 

The  "Baron  of  Beef"  divided  in  the  center  makes  two 
sirloins,  which  are  cut  into  roasts  and  sirloin  steaks.  The 
tenderloin  steak  ox  fillet  de  bomf  is  very  delicate,  but  not 
so  nutritious  as  the  regular  sirloin  steaks.  It  is  better 
for  young  housekeepers  to  find  a  good  reliable  butcher 
and  depend  upon  him,  until  they  have  learned  the  differ- 
ent cuts  and  qualities  of  beef  and  signs  of  good  meat. 

Roast   Beef. 

Rib  roast  or  any  cut  for  roasting,  should  be  put  into  a 
pan  on  a  wire  frame  as  this  protects  the  meat  so  that  it 


2  2  LIZZIES     COOK     BOOK. 

will  not  touch  the  water.  Lay  the  beef  on  the  wire  in 
the  pan,  salt,  pepper  and  flour  it,  put  into  a  hot  oven 
with  a  little  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  It  will  take 
about  one  hour  to  cook  an  eight  pound  roast.  Baste 
well,  while  roasting. 

How  To  Buy  Beefsteak. 

Never  buy  meat  that  is  already  cut.  See  the  butcher 
cut  it.  Beefsteak  should  be  at  least  two  inches  thick, 
with  plenty  of  fat  around  the  edge,  and  of  a  good  clear 
red  in  color.  Ask  for  sirloin,  tenderloin  or  porter-house 
steak.  These  are  the  best  and  although  dear,  at  first, 
cheaper  in  the  end,  because  there  is  no  waste. 

How  To  Broil  a  Beefsteak. 

Here  is  a  rule  adopted  by  the  famous  Beefsteak  Club 
in  London. 

"Pound  well  your  meat  until  the  fibres  break; 
Be  sure  that  next  you  have,  to  broil  the  steak, 
Good  coals  in  plenty;  nor  a  moment  leave, 
But  turn  it  over  this  way  and  then  that. 
Then  lean  should  be  quite  rare — not  so  the  fat: 
The  platter  now  and  then  the  juice  receive. 
Put  on  your  butter — place  it  on  your  meat 
Salt,  pepper;  turn  it  over,  serve  and  eat." 

The  first  direction  in  this  piece  of  verse,  most  good 
cooks  of  the  present  day  would  tell  you  to  neglect.  Good 
steak  should  never  be  pounded.  Poor  steak  may  be  im- 
proved by  it,  if  anything  can  improve  it.  The  following 
is  a  better  way  to  cook  steak: 

Trim  off  the  fat  around  the  edge  of  the  steak,  leaving 
some  for  cooking.  Then  slit  the  edges  here  and  there 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Heat  a  clean  broiler  over  a  bed  of 
clear  red  coals.     Lay  the  steak  on  the  broiler,  and,  when 


BEEF.  23 

one  side  is  well  browned,  turn  the  meat  and  cook  the 
other  side  brown.  Put  some  butter  on  a  hot  plate,  lay 
the  steak  on  it,  salt,  pepper  and  serve  immediately. 
Steak  should  not  be  put  on  the  fire  until  the  first  course 
is  already  served.  Those  who  prefer  their  steak  cooked 
through,  with  no  rare  meat,  should  buy  thinner  steak. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Select  seven  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef  and  remove 
the  fat  from  the  outside.  With  a  clean  skewer,  make 
two  holes  down  through  the  beef.  Cut  very  thin  pieces 
of  salt  pork.  On  them  scatter  cinnamon,  cloves,  fine 
mace  and  fill  the  holes  in  the  beef  with  the  pork  thus 
seasoned.  Tie  the  beef  then  with  a  cord  around  and 
around  to  form  a  loaf.  Chop  two  large  onions  and 
brown  in  the  skillet  in  butter,  then  put  in  flat  bottomed 
iron  pan  and  lay  the  loaf  in  on  top  of  the  onions,  over 
which  pour  a  teacup  of  boiling  water.  Then  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  two  honrs  over  a  slow  fire  and  cover 
closely,  watching  that  it  may  not  burn.  When  well 
done,  take  up  in  a  deep  dish  and  serve. 

Baked   Beefsteak. 

L,ay  the  steak  in  a  deep  pan.  Make  a  dressing  of  stale 
bread  broken  into  small  pieces,  one  small  onion,  chopped 
fine,  salt,  pepper  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut. Soak  the  bread  in  hot  water,  then  mix  all  together 
with  a  very  very  little  nutmeg.  The  nutmeg  gives  a  de- 
licious flavor,  but  there  must  not  be  enough  to  recog- 
nize. Mix  the  stuffing  well  and  lay  on  one-half  the 
steak,  folding  the  other  half  over  it.  Press  down  the 
edges.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Place 
in  a  hot  dish  and  serve  immediately. 


24  LIZZIES     COOK     BOOK. 

Corned   Beef. 

HOW  TO  SELECT  CORNED  BEEF. 

To  test  corn  beef  put  a  skewer  through  it,  withdraw 
it,  and  if  the  meat  is  good  the  fragments  that  adhere  to 
the  skewer  will  be  red  and  have  an  agreeable  odor. 

Corned  Beef. 

Take  from  three  to  five  pounds  of  corn  beef,  pour  boil- 
ing water  on  it,  cover  tight  and  boil  three  hours.  Should 
it  be  very  salt,  the  water  must  be  changed  at  least  once. 

Spanish  Tomato  Beefsteak. 

Take  a  very  thick  steak  from  the  round  of  a  beef,  cut 
gashes  in  it  with  a  sharp  knife,  fill  the  holes  with  pow- 
dered cracker  crumbs  and  little  bits  of  butter,  then  roll 
up  tightly  and  tie.  Pour  a  quart  of  tomatoes  in  a  deep 
sauce-pan  and  lay  the  roll  of  beef  into  it.  Cover  closely 
and  cook  slowly  for  two  and  one-half  hours,  until  the 
meat  is  well  done.  Then  untie  the  roll,  lay  it  on  a  hot 
platter,  pouring  the  tomatoes,  which  will  be  a  thick 
gravy,  around  the  meat. 

Beef  Heart. 

Clean  out  the  heart  and  wash  well,  salt  and  fill  with 
a  bread  dressing,  as  given  in  baked  beefsteak,  then  put 
in  pan,  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  in  oven  for  two  hours. 
Very  good  if  properly  made. 

A  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

For  every  pint  of  milk  take  three  eggs,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  to  a  batter  and 
pour  into  the  pan  under  roast  beef,  half  an  hour  before  it 


MUTTON.  25 

is  to  be  taken  from  the  oven.     Serve  on  a  plate  with  the 
roast. 

Irish  Stew. 

Take  about  two  pounds  of  beef  and  mutton,  mix  and 
chop  into  small  pieces  one  inch  square.  Put  into  a 
skillet  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Set  over  the  fire,  add 
two  good  sized  onions,  one  nice  tomato  and  one  small 
carrot,  cut  into  small  square  pieces.  Boil  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  When  meat  and  vegetables  are  tender,  add 
salt,  pepper  and  four  good  sized  Irish  potatoes.  Add  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  good  tablespoonful  of 
flour  mixed  well  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  gently 
into  the  stew  just  before  taking  it  off  the  fire. 

This  is  very  good. 

MUTTON. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  GOOD  MUTTON. 

The  fat  should  be  clear  and  hard,  the  lean  firm,  juicy 
and  of  a  rich,  darkish  red  color.  The  leg  bones  clean 
and  lean  or  quite  white. 

Poor  mutton  is  seldom  fat,  or,  if  plump,  the  fat  has  a 
yellowish  appearance,  the  flesh  is  flabby,  the  kidney 
small  and  stringy,  and  the  lean,  seen  through  the  skin  on 
the  back,  is  of  a  dark,  bluish  shade. 

If  possible  select  the  hind  quarter  of  mutton  or 
lamb,  as  that  is  always  the  best. 

Roast  I,ecx  of  Mutton  or  Umb. 

Take  a  good  leg  of  mutton  or  lamb,  wash  nicely,  put 
into  a  pan,  salt,  pepper  and  flour  it.  Then  pour  a  little  hot 
water  in  the  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  one  and  one- 
half  hours,  basting  well  all  the  time  to  keep  the  meat 
from  being  dry.  Should  the  oven  be  too  hot,  place  an- 
other pan  over  the  meat. 


26  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Mutton  Chops. 

Buy  lean  chops,  cut  out  all  extra  fat  and  scrape  the 
small  end  of  the  bones.  Have  the  broiler  hot.  Broil 
brown  but  do  not  burn.  Then  salt,  pepper  and  serve  on 
a  hot  platter.  Do  not  cook  until  nearly  ready  to  be 
served. 

Roast  Mutton  or  Lamb. 

Always,  if  possible,  get  the  hind  quarter  of  lamb  or 
mutton  as  that  is  the  best.  The  fore  quarter,  however, 
is  very  nice.  Take  out  bones,  fill  with  stale  crumbs  well 
seasoned  as  in  baked  beefsteak.  Sew  up  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.     It  will  be  fine. 

Minced  Mutton  or  Lamb. 

Remove  fat  and  bones  from  cold  mutton  or  lamb  and 
chop  fine.  To  one  cup  of  meat,  add  salt,  pepper  and 
one-half  cup  of  thickened  gravy.  Put  all  into  the  pan, 
heat  a  little  and  serve  very  hot. 

Scalloped  Mutton. 

Cut  cold  mutton  into  thin  pieces.  Remove  all  bone, 
fat  and  gristle.  Place  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  the 
bottom  of  a  shallow  dish,  then  a  layer  of  mutton,  then  a 
layer  of  boiled  maccaroni.  Then  add  gravy  left  from  day 
before.  Moisten  one  cup  of  crumbs  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Scatter  this  on  the  top  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes  until  brown. 

VEAL. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  GOOD  VEAL. 

The  fat  should  be  white  and  clear,  the  lean  pink  or 
flesh  color.  White  veal  or  that  from  calves  less  than  six 
weeks  old  is  not  suitable  for  food. 


VEAL.  27 

Roast  Veal. 

The  principal  thing  in  cooking  veal  is  to  have  it  well 
done.  Take  about  three  pounds  of  veal  from  the  leg, 
salt,  pepper,  put  in  a  pan  with  some  butter.  Dredge  a 
little  flour  on  it  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  It  requires 
about  two  hours  to  cook  it  well. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Try  to  get  the  loin  cutlets,  as  they  are  always  the  best. 
Take  about  six  good  cutlets,  one  egg  and  some  cracker 
crumbs.  Put  some  butter  on  the  bottom  of  a  pan,  heat 
it  very  hot  and  cook  the  cutlets  slowly.  Take  them  up 
when  well  done  and  lay  on  a  hot  platter,  but  do  not 
cover  them.     Keep  hot  until  served. 

Veal  Stew. 

Take  about  two  pounds  of  veal  from  the  ribs  and  cu* 
into  small  pieces.  Put  pieces  into  a  pan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  for  about  one 
hour.  Then  salt  and  pepper.  Wet  one  tablespoon  nil  of 
flour  with  cold  water  and  stir  in  slowly.  Then,  if  you 
wish  to  have  dumplings,  take  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  drop 
into  the  meat,  cover  tightly  and  cook  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.     It  will  then  be  ready  to  serve. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Take  three  pounds  of  lean  veal,  boil  in  a  little  water 
and  chop  fine  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  two 
eggs  well  beaten  and  one  cup  of  rolled  crackers.  '  Salt 
and  pepper   to  taste.     Mix    all  well  together  and  press 


28  lizzie's   cook    book. 

down  into  a  deep  pan.  Set  this  into  a  meat  pan  full  of 
hot  water,  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  one  hour. 
When  cold  cut  into  thin  slices.     Very  nice  for  luncheon. 

Veal    Fricassee. 

Buy  the  ends  of  the  ribs  and  some  of  the  breast,  about 
two  pounds  in  all.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  dredge  with 
flour  and  brown  in  butter  or  salt  pork  fat.  Then  put 
into  a  pot,  cover  with  boiling  water,  skim  as  it  begins  to 
boil  and  cook  until  well  done. 

Meat  Souffle. 

Cold  meat  of  any  kind  is  good  for  this  dish.  Remove 
all  bones  and  fat  and  chop  fine.  Place  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish  and  then  a  layer  of  meat. 
Pepper  and  butter.  Add  a  little  onion  or  thyme.  Then 
another  layer  of  crumbs  and  of  meat,  seasoned  as  before. 
Beat  one  egg  well,  add  to  it  one  pint  of  milk  °nd  pour 
over  the  meat.  Add  more  milk  if  necessary,  to  bring 
milk  up  to  the  top  of  the  crumbs.  Then  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  about  one-half  hour,  until  the  top  is  well  done. 

Stuffed    Veal. 

"Buy  about  five  pounds  of  the  shoulder  of  veal.  Have 
'the  blade  bone  taken  out  and  prepare  a  stuffing  of  stale 
bread.  Break  one  loaf  of  bread  into  small  pieces,  put  in 
a  little  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  a  little 
sage,  then  fill  the  veal,  sew  up  and  spread  butter 
over  it.     Bake  about  two  hours  in  hot  oven. 

vSweet  Breads. 

Lay  the  sweet  breads  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt 
before  ushi?.     Take  out  of  the  water  and  dry  thoroughly 


PORK. 


29 


by  pressing  gently  between  folds  of  clean,  soft  linen. 
Have  ready  a  hot  pan  with  butter.  After  dipping  the 
sweet  breads  in  flour  put  into  the  pan  and  fry  brown, 
serving  hot. 

Calf's  ok  Sheep's  Brains. 

Soak  the  brains  over  night  in  cold  water  with  a  little 
salt.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  salt  water  and 
plunge  them  into  boiling  water.  Then  skim  them  very 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  fibres.  Flour  them  and 
have  ready  a  pan  good  and  hot  with  some  butter.  Fry 
brown,  but  do  not  burn.  Some  people  like  them  rolled 
in  cracker  crumbs  instead  of  flour.     Serve  hot 

Scrambled  Brains. 

Clean  the  brains  as  above,  put  into  a  pan,  pour  a  little 
water  over  them,  add  a  good  piece  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly.  Then 
have  ready  some  small  picres  of  toast,  raise  the  brains 
carefully  and  lay  on  the  toast.     Serve  immediately. 

PORK. 

Some  folks  of  long  ago  said  that  the  devil  went  into 
the  swine  and  never  came  out.  Perhaps  he  did,  but  I 
like  ham.  So  many  other  people  like  ham  and  pork  too, 
and  persist  in  eating  them,  that  it  is  better  to  give 
recipes  for  cooking  them  well.  Buy,  if  possible,  pork 
from  the  pig  that  has  been  home  raised.  Many  people 
are  poisoned  by  not  buying  their  pork  with  care.  There 
is  hardly  any  part  of  the  pig  but  can  be  eaten,  and  con- 
sequently many  people  almost  live  upon  it. 

Pork  Chops. 

Buy  loin  chops,  have  pan  very  hot  and  keep  frying  un- 
til nicely  browned.     Serve  immediately. 


30  lizzie's  cook    book. 

Boiled    Ham. 

Put  a  good  sized  ham  into  boiling  water  and  keep  it 
boiling  for  about  four  hours,  until  very  tender.  Then 
let  it  stand  until  the  water  cools.  Take  out,  skin  it  and 
pepper  well.  Stick  some  cloves  into  it,  lay  it  where  it 
will  keep  cool  and  cut  thin.  It  makes  a  good  lunch 
dish. 

Deviled  Ham. 

Cut  some  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine,  add  a  little  good 
mustard  and  pepper.  Take  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  chop 
fine,  put  all  into  the  bowl  and  mix  well.  Then  put  into 
a  mold  or  deep  dish,  press  hard  and  cut  thin. 

Spare  Ribs. 

Wipe  the  spare  ribs  off  well  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Have  your  oven  hot  and  bake  the  ribs  one-half 
hour.  Have  the  bones  cracked  before  cooking.  Bad  for 
dyspeptics. 

Roast  Pork. 

Take  about  six  or  eight  pounds  of  the  ribs  of  fresh  pork 
and  slash  the  skin,  if  it  is  not  removed.  Salt  and  pepper 
well,  sprinkle  the  whole  with  some  flour  and  a  little  sage. 
Have  the  oven  very  hot  and  bake  about  two  hours,  tak- 
ing care  not  to  burn  it.  Pork  requires  more  cooking  than 
any  other  kind  of  meat  as  it  is  very  unwholesome  if  not 
well  cooked.  Baste  well,  while  roasting.  Serve  hot. 
Some  always  serve  apple  sauce  with  roast  pork. 

Liver. 

Liver  of  any  kind  is  better  soaked  in  water  a  little 
while  before  using.     Then  slice  it,  have  ready  a  pan  with 


SOUP    STOCK.  31 

good  hot  butter  and  brown  the  slices,  taking  care  to  let 
them  cook  through  well  as  liver  is  not  very  digestible. 
Serve  hot. 

Kidney  Stew. 

Take  as  many  kidneys  as  will  be  required  and  put  on 
to  boil  for  a  few  minutes  with  a  little  salt.  Then  take 
up  and  cut  intc  small  square  pieces.  Put  a  good  lump 
of  butter  into  a  pan.  Let  it  brown,  then  put  the  kidneys 
in  with  a  little  water  over  them  and  boil  well  until  ten- 
der. Add  about  one-half  glass  of  good  wine  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  with  water  to  thicken  thestew. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  place  little  pieces  of  toast  on  a 
platter  and  pour  the  stew  over  them,  serving  hot. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Cut  the  ham  into  thin  slices  and  have  the  pan  good 
and  hot.  Lay  the  slices  into  the  pan  and  brown  well. 
Care  should  be  taken  not  to  burn.  Fry  the  eggs  in  the 
fat  and  serve  on  the  slices  of  ham. 

SOUP  STOCK. 

Take  from  four  to  eight  pounds  of  lean  beef,  with  the 
shin  bone  and  some  mutton  and  veal.  Put  over  the  fire 
in  a  large  pot,  or  stock-kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
simmer  slowly  for  at  least  four  hours.  Take  two  large 
onions,  one  turnip,  one  carrot  and  a  little  celery.  Cut 
up  and  put  all  into  the  stock.  Boil  well  for  two  hours. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  skim  well  before  putting  in  the 
vegetables.  When  well  boiled,  strain  and  set  away  to 
cool.  When  cold,  remove  all  the  fat  and  put  the  stock 
where  it  will  keep  cool,  It  will  keep  for  several  days. 
Any  kind  of  soup  can  be  made  from  this  stock.     When 


32  lizzie's   cook    book. 

a  large  quantity  of  this  stock  is  made,  it  is  well  to  put  it 
into  several  small  jars.  Only  one  of  these  will  be  re- 
quired at  a  time  and  the  film  of  grease  which  makes  an 
air  tight  covering,  can  be  left  on  the  top  of  the  others  un- 
til ready  to  use  them.     The  stock  will  keep  better  in  this 

way. 

Bouillon. 

Buy  from  four  to  eight  pounds  of  beef  from  shoulder. 
Put  over  the  fire  early  in  the  morning  in  cold  water  and 
simmer  slowly  for  about  four  hours.  Skim  well,  then 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  two  onions,  one  car- 
rot, one  turnip  and  a  little  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Cook  slowly  for  three  hours  more.  Then  strain  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Remove  the  fat  when  cold.  This  will 
keep  for  several  days. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

Cut  up  one  ox  tail  with  about  two  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
a  knuckle  of  veal  and  some  mutton  bones.  Put  all  into 
a  soup  pot.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  simmer  slowly. 
Stir  occasionally,  and  remove  all  scum.  After  simmer- 
ing for  about  four  hours,  put  in  salt,  pepper  and  one 
onion.  Cook  two  hours  longer,  then  strain  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.  When  cold  skim,  and  it  will  be  ready  to 
serve.     The  longer  soup  is  cooked,  the  better  it  is. 

Rice-Tomato  Soup. 

Take  some  of  the  soup  stock  and  put  into  it  one  cup  of 
tomatoes.  Heat  well,  let  it  stand  a  little,  then  add  one- 
half  cup  of  rice.  Cook  one-half  hour  before  serving. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  very  hot. 

Beef  Tea  or  Broth  for  Invalids. 
Buy  two  pounds  of  meat  from  the  round,  cut  it  up  fine. 


soup.  33 

put  into  a  stone  jar  and  let  stand  in  boiling  water.  Put 
one  cup  of  cold  water  into  the  jar,  cover  tightly  and  boil 
for  about  three  hours  or  until  the  meat  is  white  and  alL 
goodness  extracted  from  it.     Then  season  with  salt. 

Bean  Soup. 

Pick  over  one  pint  of  beans,  wash  and  soak  in  cold 
water  over  night.  In  the  morning,  put  them  on  to  boil, 
covering  with  water.  Boil  slowly,  being  careful  not  to 
let  them  burn.  Add  water,  if  necessary.  When  the 
beans  are  well  done,  rub  them  through  a  colander.  Then 
add  about  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  rice  boiler  just 
before  serving.  This  will  not  keep  long  on  account  of 
the  milk.     It  is  very  good  if  properly  made. 

Potato  Soup. 

Pare  and  boil  three  good  sized  potatoes.  Add  one  on- 
ion. When  well  boiled,  rub  through  a  colander.  Add 
a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  into  rice  boiler  and  cook  about 
one  and  one-half  hours  before  serving.     Serve  very  hot. 

Tomato  Cream  Soup. 

Take  one  pint  of  stock,  one-half  onion  and  one  can  of 
tomatoes.  Boil  one-  half  hour.  Pass  through  a  seive 
and  return  to  the  fire.  Add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  add  a  little  Worcestershire 
Sauce:     Serve  very  hot. 

Corn  Soup — For  twelve  persons. 

Take  nine  good  ears  of  corn  and  twelve  tomatoes.  Cut 
the   corn   from   the   cobs,  mix   with  the  tomatoes.     Add 


^4  lizzie's   cook    book. 

two  quarts  of  water  and  boil  one  half  hour,  then  let  it 
stand  and  add  one  pint  of  milk  and  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Just  before 
serving  put  in  a  pinch  of  soda.       Always  serve  soup  hot. 

Mutton  Broth. 

Buy  about  two  pounds  of  lean  mutton  from  the  shoul- 
der, cut  into  small  pieces,  put  into  cold  water  and  cook 
very  slowly.  Skim  well,  as  the  grease  of  mutton  is  not 
good.  Cook  about  thiee  hours,  then  strain  and  add  one- 
half  cup  of  rice.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  until 
rice  is  done  and  serve  hot.  Some  people  like  a  little  on- 
ion, but  when  made  for  invalids,  the  onion  should  be 
omitted. 

Clam  Chowder. 

Pare  and  cut  into  small  pieces  four  or  six  good  sized 
potatoes.  Boil,  mash  and  add  twenty-four  large  clams 
with  their  juice.  Have  ready  about  two  quarts  of  warm 
sweet  milk.  Add  the  milk  and  a  good  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Pepper  and  salt.  Put  all  into  a  double  kettle 
and  cook  a  lew  minutes. 

Clam  Soup. 

Take  twenty-five  fresh  clams  and  heat  well  in  their 
liquor  in  a  double  kettle.  Just  before  serving,  add  one 
quart  of  hot  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  large  piece 
of  butter  and  favor  slightly  with  onion,  if  desired. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Get  two  dozen  fresh  oysters  or  one  can  of  preserved 
oysters.  Put  into  a  rice  boiler  and  heat;  then  skim  care- 
fully.    Scald    one  quart    of  fresh    milk  and   just  before 


soup.  35 

serving  pour  the  oysters  into  the  milk.     Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  good  butter.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Oyster   Soup,  No.  2. 

MADE  FROM  FRESH  OYSTERS. 

Cook  the  oyster  juice  in  a  double  kettle.  Pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Scald  one  quart  of  fresh  milk  and  add 
the  oyster  juice  with  a  tablespoonful  of  good  butter.  Put 
the  oysters  in  the  soup-tureen  without  cooking  add 
one-half  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  rolled  very  fine.  Now 
pour  the  liquid  over  the  oysters  and  crackers  and  serve 
immediately.  In  this  way  the  oysters  will  be  deliciously 
tender, 

Lentil   Soup. 

Soak  a  pint  of  lentils  over  night  in  cold  water. 
About  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning,  put  them  on  to  cook, 
add  more  water  and  a  little  beef.  Boil  until  very  soft, 
then  rub  through  a  colander  and  add  about  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Cook  in  a  rice  boiler  not  to  burn  the  milk. 
Serve  very  hot. 

Mock    Turtle  Soup. 

Scrape  a  calf's  head  clean,  leaving  011  the  skin. 
Soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  it  on  in  a  soup 
kettle  and  boil  slowly  until  the  flesh  falls  from  the  bones. 
Take  out  the  meat  and  put  the  liquid  back  on  the  stove. 
When  well  done,  add  about  four  quarts  of  stock,  one 
quart  of  tomatoes,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  lit- 
tle cloves  and  allspice  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar 
Salt  and  pepper.  Let  this  stand  in  a  soup  kettle,  adding 
one-half  cup  of  browned  flour  with  a  little  water.  Then 
let  all  come  to  a  boil  and  when  ready  to  serve,  add  some 


36  lizzie's   cook    book. 

of  the  meat,  cut  into  small  pieces,  one  glass  of  sherry 
wine  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Toast  and  butter  two 
slices  of  white  bread.  Remove  the  crust,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  drop  into  the  soup.  Very  good,  if  properly 
made. 

Chicken    Broth. 

Cut  one  good  sized,  old  chicken  into  pieces,  put  in 
the  soup  pot,  cover  with  water  and  boil  slowly  for  about 
three  hours.  Some  chickens  are  much  older  than  the 
poultry  dealers  say,  and  require  more  cooking.  When 
tender,  remove  the  bones,  strain  the  soup,  add  about  one- 
half  cup  of  rice,  then  boil  very  slowly  for  another  half 
hour  so  as  to  keep  the  rice  whole.  Add  pepper  and  salt 
and  serve. 

For  invalids  this  soup  is  good,  but  it  is  better  not  to 
add  the  rice,  as  man}'  people  are  not  fond  of  it,  or  it  may 
not  agree  with  them. 

Turkey  Soup. 

A  very  delicious  soup  may  be  made  out  of  the  bones 
of  the  turkey  after  the  meat  is  removed.  Put  them  into 
a  pot  and  cover  with  cold  water;  boil  slowly,  and  when 
the  broth  begins  to  look  like  soup,  open  a  can  of  sweet 
corn  and  pour  it  into  the  pot.  Boil  about  one-half  hour 
longer.  Then  let  it  stand.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.      Boil  up  again  and  serve  at  once. 

Salsify  or    Oyster    Plant  Soup. 

Take  two  bunches  of  salsify,  scrape,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Put  on  to  boil  and,  when  tender,  rub 
through  a  colander.  About  twenty  minutes  before  serv- 
ing, add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat 
to  boiling  point  and  serve  immediately. 


FOWL. 


Turkey. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  A  GOOD  TURKKV. 

Select  a  large  hen  turkey,  weighing  about  eight  or 
ten  pounds.  If  its  feet  and  legs  are  clean,  not  covered 
with  scales,  and  the  end  of  the  breast  bone  soft, it  is  good. 
Kill  two  days  before  using. 

Roast    Turkey. 

Remove  the  entrails,  pick  off*  all  the  small  feathers  and 
singe  carefully,  then  wash  and  dry  off  with  a  clean  towel. 
Salt  the  inside  well  and  lay  it  ina  large  pan  until  ready  to 
fill.  To  make  the  stuffing,  break  up  fine  one  loaf  of 
stale  bread  and  soak  in  water  or  milk.  When  soaked, 
beat  well  with  a  spoon.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Sprinkle  a  little 
sage,  or  any  other  spice  which  may  be  desired.  Some 
people  like  a  little  flavor  of  onion.  When  the  onion  is 
used,  chop  it  fine  and  brown  in  a  spider  with  hot  butter, 
before  putting  it  into  the  stuffing.  Stuff  the  turkey,  and 
sew  up  the  breast.  Lay  it  in  a  large  baking  pan,  put  but- 
ter, flour,  salt  and  pepper  over  it.  Have  oven  very  hot  at 
first,  that  the  pores  may  be  closed  at  once.  Brown  well 
and  baste  very  often.  It  will  take  about  two  hours  to 
cook  thoroughly.  A  larger  one  will  require  a  longer 
time. 


SS  lizzie's  cook   book. 

To  Make    the  Gravy. 

Boil  the  heart,  gizzard,  liver  and  neck  in  two  quarts 
•of  water  two  hours;  take  them  out,  chop  very  fine,  and 
put  them  back  again;  thicken  with  one  spoonful  of 
flour  wet  with  cold  water,  and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Let  this  simmer  one  hour  longer,  and  when  you 
dish  the  turkey  turn  the  drippings  into  the  gravy.  Boil 
up  once  and  send  to  the  table. 

Boned   Turkey. 

Buy  an  old  turkey  weighing  about  eight  pounds. 
Clean  well,  cut  into  pieces,  put  on  to  boil  until  the  meat 
will  drop  from  the  bones.  Then  take  out  of  the  pot  and 
pick  out  all  the  bones.  Chop  meat  very  fine.  (Some 
people  like  it  better  in  pieces.)  Season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Take  a  pint  or  more  of  the  liquor  in  which 
it  has  boiled,  and  add  to  the  meat.  Then  put  into  deep 
dish  and  press  down.  Let  it  stand  until  cold,  cut  thin, 
and  serve.  Very  nice  luncheon  or  tea  dish,  if  well 
cooked. 

How  To  Select  Good  Chicken. 

The  signs  of  a  good  chicken  are  about  the  same  as 
those  of  a  young  turkey.  The  legs  and  feet  should  be 
clean  and  the  end  of  the  breast- bone  soft.  The  spurs 
should  be  loose  and  short.  When  old,  the  legs  are 
rough,  the  spurs  hard  and  firmly  fixed,  and  the  end  of 
breast-bone  hard.  There  are  few  creatures  more  tender 
than  a  young  chicken  and  few  more  tough  than  an  old 
fowl.  Great  care  should  be  taken  in  selecting.  Young 
chickens  are  best  for  cooking  in  many  ways,  but  spring 
chickens  are  generally  poor,  unless  well  fed.  By  some, 
the  yellow  chickens   are  preferred,  by  others,  the  white. 


CHICKEN.  39 

Split   Back   Chickens. 

Split  two  young  chickens  down  the  back  and  clean 
well,  then  lay  them  into  a  baking  pan  and  put  salt,  pep- 
per, flour,  and  pieces  of  butter  over  them.  Have  a  good 
hot  oven  ready  and  put  a  little  boiling  water  into  the 
pan,  around  the  chickens,  but  not  over  them.  Then 
baste,  and  when  brown,  turn  them  over  in  the  pan  and 
baste  again  well.  They  will  cook  in  about  one-half 
hour.  When  done,  take  them  up  on  a  hot  platter.  Pour 
gravy  over  them  and  serve  hot  at  once. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Buy  two  young  chickens.  Clean,  wash  and  wipe  well. 
Cut  them  into  pieces;  flour  and  lay  aside  until  ready  to 
fry.  Heat  some  butter  in  a  pan  and  when  very  hot,  lay 
pieces  of  chicken  in.  Salt  and  pepper  well.  Brown  one 
side,  then  turn  over  and  brown  the  other.  When  thor- 
oughly cooked,  cover  up  and  take  from  the  fire.  When 
ready  to  serve,  place  chickens  on  hot  platter,  put  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour  in  pan  from  which  the  chickens  have 
been  removed.  Mix  well  with  the  fat  in  the  pan,  then 
add  one  cup  of  good  cream  or  milk,  stirring  well  all  the 
time.     Pour  this  gravy  over  the  chicken  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken  Fricassee. 

Clean  a  nice  sized  chicken  well  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Put  into  the  pot,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook 
slowly  for  about  two  hours.  If  the  chicken  is  old,  it  will 
take  longer.  When  tender,  salt  and  pepper.  Wet  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir 
gradually  into  the  chicken.  Remove  from  the  fire  for 
fear  of  burning.  Serve  on  crackers  laid  into  a  platter, 
taking  pieces  up  carefully  not  to  break  them.     Serve  hot. 


40  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  a  young  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  parboil  a 
little.  Then  take  it  up,  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish,  salt,  pepper 
and  pour  the  "liquor  in  wnich  it  was  parboiled,  over  the 
pieces.  Sift  two  cups  of  flour,  in  which,  rub  one-half  cup 
of  butter.  Add  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  this 
dough  well,  roll  out  and  lay  over  the  chicken.  Put  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  and  bake  to  a  nice  light  brown. 
Serve  hot. 


&f\W\*E. 


Quail. 

Clean  six  quail  carefully,  slit  up  the  back,  and  lay  over 
them  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Have  a  good  hot  oven  and  lay  the  quail  in  a  pan 
with  a  little  hot  water  and  flour.  Bake  about  one  hour, 
then  lay  toast  on  the  platter,  put  the  quail  on  top  of  the 
toast  and  serve  very  hot. 

Fried  Quail. 

Fried  quail  are  very  nice.  Cut  very  young  ones  down 
the  back  and  flour  well.  Have  ready  some  butter  in  a 
pan  very  hot,  and  when  the  pieces  are  nicely  browned, 
cover  very  close  and  let  them  stand  for  a  few  minutes. 
Some  people  prefer  them  broiled,  but  great  care  has  to  be 
taken  in  broiling  not  to  let  them  burn. 

Broiled  Quail. 

Have  ready  a  good  bed  of  coals  and  have  broiler  very 
hot.  Butter  the  platter.  Salt  and  pepper  the  quail. 
Broil  the  quail  quickly  and  lay  on  hot  platter.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 

SIGNS    BY    WHICH    YOU    MAY    KNOW    YOUNG    DUCKS. 

When  young  and  tender  the  joints  in  the  legs  will 
break  by  the  weight  of  the  duck.     The  windpipe  will 


42  lizzie'e    cook    book. 

break  by  a  very  little  presure.  Young  geese  are  known 
by  the  same  signs  and  also  by  the  fact  that  the  wings 
will  meet  over  the  back. 

Roast    Duck. 

Buy  young  ducks  and  prepare  by  getting  all  the  pin- 
feathers  off  nicely  and  singeing  well.  Clean  and  soak  in 
salt  water  over  night,  then  dry  well  on  a  clean  napkin. 
Flour,  salt,  pepper  and  lay  in  a  baking  pan.  Have 
ready  a  good  hot  oven.  Put  a  little  hot  water  in  the 
pan  about  the  duck.  Bake  two  hours.  Some  like  them 
stuffed  like  a  turkey. 

A  good  stuffing  may  be  prepared  in  this  way:  Take 
one  loaf  of  stale  bread  and  soak  in  water  or  milk.  Have 
ready  two  onions  chopped  fine  and  brown  them  in  but- 
ter. Mix  onion  with  bread,  salt  and  pepper.  Salt  the 
bird  well  and  fill  with  the  stuffing. 

Tame  Pigeon. 

These  beautiful  birds  are  used  for  food,  though  they 
are  sometimes  very  dry  eating  and  good  only  for  pot  pie, 
fricassee  and  stew.  Among  the  many  varieties  are  those 
with  ruffled,  raised  feathers  around  the  neck.  The  most 
beautiful  ones  are  the  best  to  eat.  Squabs  are  young 
pigeons.  They  are  very  tender,  delicate,  and  good  food 
for  invalids,  when  broiled  or  stewed. 

English  Snipes. 
Broil  or  stew  them. 


FISH- 

Salmon. 

HOW   TO   CHOOSE    SALMON. 

This  nuble  fish  is  considered  very  choice  and  nutritious. 
It  is  somewhat  high  priced.  Salmon  have  small  heads 
and  are  quite  thick  in  the  shoulders.  They  weigh  from 
six  to  twelve  pounds.  When  cut,  the  flesh  ought  to  be 
solid,  flaky  and  pink. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

Take  about  three  pounds  of  salmon,  wrap  it  in  a  clean 
cloth,  put  into  a  pan  and  cover  with  water.  Salt  it  and 
boil  for  about  one-half  hour.  Care  must  be  taken  in  tak- 
ing out,  not  to  break  it.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
cream. 

Fried  Salmon. 

Cut  the  salmon  into  thin  slices,  have  a  pan  hot  with 
some  butter,  and  fry  very  slowly.  Be  careful  not  to  let 
fat  soak  into  the  fish.  Serve  very  hot.  If  any  salmon 
is  left  cold,  take  potatoes  and  make  fish  cakes  for  break- 
fast. These  are  very  gOQd  fried  in  butter.  Cut  fresh 
limes  in  quarters  and  serve  with  fish. 

Baked  Shad. 

Buy  a  good  young  shad.  Open  down  the  middle, 
clean  well  and  wipe  dry.     Then  make  stuffing  of  bread 


44  LIZZIES    COOK     BOOK. 

crumbs,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkling  over 
it  a  little  sage.  Stuff  the  fish  and  lay  in  a  deep  pan,  hav- 
ing read}7  a  good  hot  oven.  Bake  one-half  hour.  Lay 
on  platter  and  serve  very  hot. 

Shad  Friux 

Remove  the  .  back  bone,  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into 
thin  pieces  and  have  ready  a  hot  pan,  well  buttered. 
Fry  until  brown. 

Silver  Smelt. 

Take  out  the  bones,  flour  the  ns*1  or  put  corn  meal  on 
them  and  have  ready, butter  in  a  good,  hot  pan.  Fry  the 
fish  till  nicely  done.  Salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste. 
Serve  hot. 

Broiled  Smelt. 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner,  and  broil  over  hot  coals, 
browning  well  on  both  sides.  Lay  on  a  hot  platter. 
Salt,  pepper,  and  butter  to  taste. 

Fresh  Mackerel. 

Take  out  the  back  bone,  wipe  dry  and  broil  over  hot 
coals.  Then  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  serve  on  a  hot 
platter. 

Salt  Mackerel. 

Soak  the  fish  over  night  in  cold  water,  changing  water 
several  times.  Then  in  the  morning,  put  the  fish  in  the 
pan  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  for  about  ten 
minutes,  then  strain  off  the  water  and  lay  fish  on  platter, 
butter,  pepper  and  serve  hot. 

Lake  Trout  Broiled. 
These    are    very    fine   fish,    either   baked   or    broiled. 


FISH.  45 

Clean  trout  well,  slit  down  the  back,  have  the  fire  good 
and  hot.  Broil  the  fish,  browning  well  on  both  sides. 
Lay  on  a  hot  platter.  Butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Lake  Trout  Fried. 

Prepare  as  for  broiling  by  rolling  in  corn  meal,  or 
bread  crumbs.  Have  ready  a  pan  with  butter  very  hot 
and  fry  very  quickly,  so  as  not  to  soak  fat.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Cod  Fish. 

This  is  very  good  when  fresh,  cut  into  thin,  (half 
inch)  slices,  and  fried  or  broiled. 

Salt  Cod  Fish. 

Soak  fish  over  night,  removing  all  the  bones.  Boil 
some  potatoes  and  put  in  with  fish.  Mash  well  and 
make  into  small  cakes.  Fry  brown  in  very  hot  butter, 
and  serve  immediately. 


a^LA^a 


Chicken    Salad. 

Buy  an  old  hen  and  boil  well  until  the  meat  falls  off 
from  the  bones.  Then  pick  out  all  the  white  meat  and 
some  of  the  dark.  Put  into  a  bowl  and  chop  fine.  Salt 
and  peppor  well.  Then  take  several  good  heads  of  let- 
tuce, cut  up  fine, and  mix  with  the  chicken.  Add  salad 
dressing, not  making  it  too  thin.  If  prepared  two  hours 
or  more  before  using,  it  is  better  put  in  a  cold  place. 
Serve  in  salad  dish,  garnished  with  lettuce  leaves  and 
hard  boiled  eggs.  Some  people  prefer  celery,  and  when 
used,  it  should  be  very  tender. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well.  Then  add  one-half 
cup  of  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  red 
pepper.  Stir  all  these  well,  then  add  one  pint  of  good 
cream .  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  rice  boiler  and  steam 
until  thick.  Very  good  and  wholesome.  Many  who 
cannot  eat  a  salad  with  oil,  can  eat  this. 

Salad  Dressing,  No.  2. 

This  kind  will  last  for  one  meal  only.  Take  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  beat  well  with  a  silver  fork.  Add  salt 
to  taste,  a  little  red  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 
and  olive  oil  until  the  eggs  are  well  thickened,  dropping 


SALADS.  47 

the  oil  in  slowly,    beating  all  the    time.     Some  like  a 
little  mustard  also. 

Potato  Salad. 

Cut  up  boiled  potatoes  into  small  pieces.  Take  about 
one-half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  put  into  it  a  good  sized 
piece  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little 
red  pepper.  Mix  all  well  together.  Let  it  cool  and 
pour  over  the  potatoes.     Very  nice  dish. 

Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  cut  into  round  pieces.  Take  lettuce 
leaves  and  lay  on  salad  dish.  Lay  the  slices  of  tomatoes 
on  the  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  the  dressing  over,  or  serve 
the  dressing  in  a  separate  dish. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

Prepare  the  shrimps,  taking  care  that  there  are  no  bits 
of  shell  left.  Have  ready  some  nice  lettuce  leaves  wel 
drained;  lay  the  leaves  around  the  salad  bowl,  then  put 
shrimps  in  the  middle  of  the  dish.  Pour  over  the  dress- 
ing just  before  .serving. 

Crab  Salad. 
Prepare  like  shrimp  salad. 


g/\N©wi©H£^- 


Ham  Sandwiches,    No.    i. 

Take  two  pounds  of  boiled  ham  and  chop  it  very  fine. 
Mix  well  with  this,  one  teaspoonful  of  Durham  mustard 
and  one  shake  of  cayenne  pepoer.  Slice  the  bread  thin, 
cut  off  all  crust,  and  butter.  Spread  the  ham  between  the 
slices  and  put  together  evenly. 

Ham  Sandwiches,  No.  2. 

Slice  boiled  ham  very  thin  and  lay  it  between  the 
slices  of  bread  prepared  as  in  Ham  Sandwiches,  No  1. 
Veal,  roast-beef,  or  tongue  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Cottage  Cheese  Sandwiches. 

Slice  the  bread  thin,  cut  off  all  crust,  and  butter" 
Spread  the  slices  with  cottage  cheese  and  put  them  to- 
gether evenly. 

Boned   Turkky    Sandwiches. 

L,ay  the  boned  turkey  between  slices  of  bread  prepared 
as  for  Cottage  Cheese  Sandwiches. 

Egg  Sandwiches. 

Slice  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Prepare  the  bread  as  previously  directed,  and  lay 
the  sliced  eggs  between  the  slices. 


U£©£TA^L£i,. 


Vegetables  should  be  very  carefully  cooked.  Many 
people  think  that  beans  and  beets  are  very  indigestible.. 
But  this  is  not  so,  when  well  cooked.  Young  house- 
keepers are  very  apt  to  serve  the  vegetables  before  they 
are  thoroughly  done.  Beware  of  this  and  give  them 
plenty  of  time. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Pare  and  wash  well  as  many  potatoes  as  may  be  neces- 
sary  for  dinner.  About  one-half  hour  before  it  is  time  to 
serve,  lay  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
briskly.  Some  potatoes  take  longer  to  cook  then  others, 
but  most  of  them  will  cook  in  one-half  hour.  When 
well  done,  salt,  pour  out  the  water  and  set  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  to  dry.  This  will  make  them  white  and 
mealy. 

Scalloped    Potatoes. 

Pare  and  slice  ten  potatoes.  Take  a  deep  dish  and  put 
into  it  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkling  over  them,  flour,, 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter.  Then  put  another  layer 
of  potatoes  with  seasoning  as  before.  Keep  on  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Just  before  putting  into  the  oven,  add  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
in  a  slow  oven.     Good,  if  well  done. 


5o  lizzie's  cook    book. 

L/Yonnaise  Potatoes. 

Cut  twelve  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  square  pieces. 
Fry  two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  onions  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  then  add  potatoes,  stirring  with  a 
fork,  being  careful  not  to  break  them.  Salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Cook  ten  minutes  longer.  When  done  add 
parsley  and  serve  hot. 


'to' 


Cream  Potatoes. 

Cut  four  good  sized  potatoes  into  square  pieces.  Boil 
until  tender,  but  not  until  they  break.  Then  drain  in 
hot  colander  and  add  one  cup  of  good  cream.  If  cream 
is  not  at  hand,  add  one  cup  of  milk  and  a  little  butter. 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Chop  up  a  little  parsley  and 
scatter  over  after  putting  in  the  dish.     Serve  hot. 

Breakfast  Potatoes. 

Cut  six  good  sized  potatoes  into  small  square  pieces. 
Heat  some  butter  in  a  pan  until  very  hot.  Put  potatoes 
into  the  pan,  then  add  a  little  more  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cover  well  while  cooking,  being  careful  not  to  let 
them  burn.  Stir  occasionally.  When  done,  place  in  dish 
and  serve  hot. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Sweet  potatoes  require  more  time  for  cooking  than  Irish 
potatoes.  Take  large,  fine  potatoes,  wash,  clean  and  boil 
with  the  skins  on  in  plenty  of  water,  but  without  salt. 
They  will  require  at  least  one  hour  for  cooking.  Pour 
off  the  water,  set  them  back  on  the  stove  in  the  pot  in 
which  they  were  cooked  to  dry  for  a  few  minutes. 
Peel  them  before  sending  to  the  table. 


vegetables.  5 1 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Select  those  which  are  of  nearly  the  same  size,  but  not 
too  large.  Bake  like  common  potatoes,  except  that  they 
require  a  longer  time. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes,  No.  2. 

Steam  the  potatoes  until  they  are  almost  done.  Then 
put  them  into  the  oven  and  bake  until  they  are  soft  at 
the  heart. 

Rice   as  a  Vegetable. 

Rice  should  first  be  picked  over  carefully,  washed  and 
dried.  Then  put  into  boiling  water,  salted  and  boiled 
twenty  minutes.  There  should  be  plenty  of  water.  At 
the  end  of  twenty  minutes,  pour  oft"  the  water,  cover  the 
rice  and  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  steam  for  about 
fifteen  minutes.  If  it  steams  well  during  this  time  it 
will  be  done,  and  every  grain  will  be  distinct  and  whole. 
If  any  water  is  left,  pour  it  off  and  for  eveiy  cup  of  rice 
add  one-half  cup  of  milk.  Warm  the  milk  before  adding 
it. 

Squash. 

Peel  the  squash,  cut  into  pieces,  put  in  steamer  and 
cook  one  hour.  When  done,  drain  well  and  mash  fine. 
Add  salt,  pepper  and  butter.     Serve  hot. 

Stuffed  Squash. 

Pare  a  small  squash  and  slice  off  the  top.  Take  out 
the  seeds  and  lay  the  squash  in  salt  and  water  for  a  few 
minutes.  Then  take  out,  dry  and  fill  with  a  good  stuff- 
ing of  crumbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  parsley  etc.,  wet  with 
gravy.  Put  on  the  top  slice  and  set  the  squash  in  a 
pudding  dish,  with  a    few  teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter 


52  lizzie's   cook    book. 

and  as  much  hot  water.  Cover  and  bake  two  hours. 
Then  take  out,  lay  in  a  fresh  dish  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it. 

Turnips. 

Pare  the  turnips  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put 
them  in  water  well  salted  and  boil  until  tender.  Then 
drain  thoroughly.  Mash  fine,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  hot. 

Turnips,  No.  2. 

Pare  and  cut  into  square  pieces.  Put  into  boiling' 
water  and  cook  until  done.  Pour  off  the  water,  season 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Beets. 

Some  people  think  this  vegetable  not  fit  for  the 
table  but  it  is  very  good,  when  properly  cooked.  Beets 
should  cook  at  least  four  hours,  keeping  plenty  of  water 
on  them.  When  tender,  pour  cold  water  over  them  and 
the  skin  will  come  off.  Then  put  into  a  bowl  and  chop 
fine.  Add  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  a  little  butter. 
Place  over  fire  again  and  serve  hot. 

Beets,  No.    2. 

Beets  are  always  good  for  fresh  pickle.  Boil  them 
well,  skin,  cut  into  thin  slices,  pour  vinegar  over  them 
and  serve  cold. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Take  as  many  tomatoes  as  necessary  for  dinner  and 
bake    them    whole.     Then  scoop    out  a   little   place   at 


VEGETABLES.  53 

the  top  of  each  one.  Fill  with  cracker  crumbs,  a  little 
salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Put  them  back  into  the  oven  to 
brown.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  burn  them.  Serve 
hot.     Very  nice. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Boil  some  macaroni  well.  Place  a  layer  of  macaroni 
in  an  earthen  dish,  then  a  layer  of  tomatoes.  Season 
well  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter.  Then  another 
layer  of  macaroni  and  tomatoes  seasoned  as  before  and 
so  on,  making  the  last  layer  of  tomatoes.  Bake  about 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Some  like 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs  over  the  top.     Serve  hot. 

Steamed  Tomatoes. 

Peel  the  tomatoes,  cut  into  pieces  and  put  into  a  pan. 
Granite  ware  is  always  the  best,  as  tin  or  iron  spoils  the 
taste.  Steam  slowly  for  about  one-half  hour,  then  add  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  pepper  to  taste  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Have 
ready  some  pieces  of  toast  and  break  into  the  tomatoes 
just  before  serving.  For  steaming,  use  the  double  gran- 
ite ware  kettles,  if  possible. 

String  Beans. 

This  vegetable  should  be  cooked  a  long  time.  Two 
hours  is  not  too  long,  but  care  should  be  taken  not  to  let 
them  burn.  Break  up  into  small  pieces  and  put  on  to 
boil.  If  very  old,  they  will  require  a  pinch  of  baking 
soda  in  the  water.  Skim,  and  they  will  cook  without 
changing  the  water.  Take  out  when  well  done,  strain 
off  all  the  water,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  good 
sized  piece  of  butter.     Serve  hot. 


54  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Lima  Beans. 

These  beans  are  very  good  in  summer.  Shell  and  put 
on  to  boil.  Take  care  to  keep  plenty  of  water  on  them. 
Cook  about  one  hour.  Salt  and  pepper.  Add  cream,  or 
if  there  is  no  cream,  a  little  butter. 

Green  Peas. 

Green  peas  are  very  nice  when  fresh.  Boil  not  more 
than  one-half  hour.  When  done,  strain  off  the  water, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  add  a  little  butter  or  cream. 
Do  not  let  them  stand  long  after  cooking.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Corn  Oysters. 

Cut  the  kernels  of  six  or  eight  good  ears  of  corn  from 
the  cobs  and  put  into  an  earthen  bowl.  Break  two  eggs 
on  the  corn.  Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  wet  with  water.  Mix  well. 
Have  ready  in  a  pan  some  butter  very  hot.  Drop  spoon- 
fuls of  the  corn  into  the  pan  and  fry  brown.     Very  good. 

Green  Corn. 

Take  as  many  ears  of  corn  as  are  needed  for  dinner. 
Pull  oft*  the  husks  and  boil  the  ears  about  twenty  min- 
utes before  they  are  to  be  served.  Pour  on  boiling  water 
and  cover  tightly.  When  done,  take  out  of  water  and 
serve  on  platter,  wrapped  in  clean  napkin. 

Asparagus 

This  vegetable  is  very  nice  when  young  and  tender. 
Cut  the  hard  part  off  the  stalks  and  tie  them  up  in  nice 
little  bunches.  Boil  about  one-half  hour.  Season  and 
have  ready  some  slices  of  toast  well  buttered.  Lay  the 
asparagus  on  the  toast  and  serve  hot.     Some   like  cream 


VEGETABLES.  55 

on  asparagus,  but  if  used,  it  should  be  poured  on  just  be- 
fore  the  asparagus  is  taken  to  the  table. 

Spinach. 

Take  the  leaves  of  spinach,  no  stems,  and  wash 
them  thoroughly.  Put  them  in  enough  salt  and  water 
to  cover  them  and  boil  until  tender.  Then  take  them 
out  and  put  into  cold  water  to  set  the  fresh  green  color. 
Let  them  remain  in  the  water  until  cold,  then  rub 
through  a  colander  with  a  potato  masher.  Heat,  season 
and  serve. 

Spinach,  No.  2. 

Wash  the  leaves  well,  taking  care  to  pick  out  all  poor 
ones.  Put  on  over  the  stove  in  boiling  water  and  cook 
about  one-half  hour.  Then  strain  well.  Chop  up  fine, 
add  salt,  pepper  and  a  good  piece  of  butter.  Mold  in 
little  cups,  as  many  as  will  be  wanted  for  dinner.  Set 
the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  when  ready  to  serve, 
turn  out  of  the  cups  on  a  warm  platter.  Have  ready 
some  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  them  into  slices  and  lay  over 
each  cup  of  spinach.  It  makes  a  very  nice  appetizing 
dish.     Serve  hot. 

Egg  Plant. 

Peel  the  plant  and  cut  into  slices,  salt  well,  cover 
over  and  let  them  lie  for  two  hours  or  more.  Drain  off  all 
the  water  and  wipe  the  slices.  Dip  in  butter  and 
cracker  crumbs.  Have  ready  some  butler  in  a  hot  pan, 
and  fry  rapidly,  but  take  care  not  to  burn.  Serve  very 
hot. 

Egg  Plant. 

SPANISH. 

Put  two  large  egg  plants  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 


56  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Boil  one  hour.  Remove  the  pulp  and  mix  with  it  half 
an  onion  chopped  fine,  one-half  a  green  pepper,  and  salt 
to  taste.  Put  all  into  an  earthen  dish,  and  pour  over  it 
half  a  cup  of  cream.  Place  in  the  oven  and  let  it  bake 
slowly  one-half  hour. 

Cauliflower. 

Remove  all  the  green  leaves  except  a  few  of  the  lit- 
tle ones.  Put  on  in  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender, 
which  will  take  about  twenty  minutes.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  break  in  cooking.  Take  up  carefully,  drain, 
salt,  butter  and  serve  hot.  Instead  of  butter,  cream  may 
be  used. 

Stewed  Celery. 

Clean  the  heads  of  celery  thoroughly.  Take  off  coarse, 
green  outer  leaves,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  stew  in  a 
little  broth.  When  tender,  add  some  rich  cream,  a  little 
flour  and  a  little  butter.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Mushrooms. 

Take  off  the  outside  of  the  mushrooms  and  put  them 
into  a  pan  with  a  little  boiling  water.  Boil  about  one- 
half  hour,  then  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  hot 
in  a  deep  platter.  Mushrooms  are  of  a  bright  pink  in- 
side, while  toadstools  are  white  or  yellow.  Another 
method  of  distinguishing  between  mushrooms  and  toad- 
stools is  by  putting  in  a  silver  spoon  when  cooking.  If 
poison  the  spoon  will  be  blackened. 

Fried  Mushrooms. 

Wash  and  pare  them,  cut  off  the  stems,  have  ready  a 
very  hot  pan  with  butter,  and  fry  until  thoroughly  done. 


vegetables.  57 

Succotash. 

Take  ten  ears  of  good  corn  and  one  pint  of  Lima  beans. 
Cut  the  corn  from  the  cobs  and  stew  gently  with  the 
beans  until  tender,  using  as  little  water  as  possible. 
Season  with  butter  or  cream.  Salt  and  pepper.  Very 
rich  and  nourishing  dish,  invented  by  the  Indians. 

Succotash,  No.  2. 

Boil  one  quart  of  Lima  or  string  beans  until  tender, 
then  cut  the  grains  from  ten  ears  of  corn  and  scrape  the 
cobs.  Drain  the  water  from  the  beans,  add  the  corn  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter. 
If  too  dry,  add  a  little  cream.  Cook  two  minutes  after 
adding  the  corn. 


ENTREES. 


Deviled  Crab. 

Boil  six  crabs  and  chop  the  meat.  Add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-half  glass  of 
good  cream,  yolks  of  three  boiled  eggs  chopped,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix 
all  together  and  put  back  into  the  shells.  Sprinkle  the 
top  with  cracker  crumbs  and  a  little  butter  and  brown  in 
a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot  in  the  shells. 

Fish  Croquettes. 

Chop  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  fish,  free  from  the  bones 
and  skin.  Add  one  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes.  Mix 
well.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Bake  slow- 
ly for  one-half  hour,  then  serve  hot. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Take  the  meat  from  one  boiled  chicken,  one  ounce  of 
melted  butter,  one  ounce  of  sifted  flour,  one  cup  of  the 
liquor  in  which  the  fowl  was  boiled*,  one  cup  of  cream, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  two  eggs  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Boil  butter,  flour,  cream  and  a  little  water  together  for 
two  minutes,  then  mix  with  the  chicken.  Cool  and 
shap  into  balls.  Dip  them  into  beaten  eggs  and  then 
roll  them  lightly  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown. 


ENTREES.  59 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Drain  one  quart  of  large  oysters  in  a  colander. 
Then  take  an  earthen  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  pepper,  salt  and  butter. 
Continue  until  the  dish  is  full,  putting  a  layer  of  crackers 
on  the  top.  Set  in  a  good  hot  oven  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes  until  it  is  a  nice  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Drain  liquor  from  large  oysters.  Have  ready  cracker 
crumbs  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Dip  the  oysters  into 
the  eggs,  then  into  the  cracker  crumbs.  Have  a  pan  hot 
with  some  butter  and  fry  very  rapidly  until  done.  L,ay 
upon  a  hot  platter. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Take  as  many  oysters  as  are  required  and  have  ready 
a  good  bed  of  hot  coals.  Drain  the  oysters  well,  lay 
them  on  the  gridiron  and  hold  over  the  coals.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  burn  them.  Have  ready  small 
slices  of  toast  well  buttered;  lay  the  oysters  on  the  toast 
and  serve  hot.  A  very  nice  dish,  but  very  difficult  to 
cook  without  scorching. 

Stuffed   Potatoes. 

Select  potatoes  all  of  one  size,  cut  off  each  end  and 
bake.  Take  from  the  oven  and  scoop  out  the  inside  with 
a  spoon,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skins.  Add  to 
the  part  scooped  out,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  beating  to- 
gether until  very  light.  Then  fill  the  skins,  lay  on  a 
buttered  pan  and  set  in  the  oven  until  brown  on  top. 
Very  nice. 


60  lizzie's   cook   book. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Take  one  pint  of  green  corn  grated,  one-half  teacup  of 
milk,  one-half  teacup  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butted,  two 
eggs  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  well,  fry  in 
butter  and  serve  hot. 

Pilaf. 

A    RUSSIAN     DISH. 

Pick  over  carefully  one  cup  of  rice,  but  do  not  wash  it. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  beat  them  together. 
Then  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling  mutton  broth.  Stir  well 
once  only,  then  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  cook 
slowlv  for  one  hour.     Serve  as  a  vegetable. 


7t^ 


^ 


«  RIBBONS,  * 


K,ID    GLOVES, 

„P6ST     PLACE    IN     r 


<m- 


0&  Pn  <*&&' 


LADIES',    CHILDREN'S,    INFANTS', 

FUKHisHiHG  *  GOODS 


C°*<v  STATIONERY.  ^e 


-fWOME^l   *  PHYSICIANS.*- 


San  Jose  is  rich  in  Women  Doctors.  For  a  long  while  they 
numbered  seven,  but  now  a  slightly  profame  person  has  dubbed 
them  "The  Sacred  Nine."  Lately  the  coming  here  of  a  Lady 
Dentist  brings  the  medical  women  up  to  a  half  score.  May 
"Lizzie's  Cook  Book"  be  helpful  to  them  and  their  patients. 


DR.    E.    S.    MEADE, 

Office  and  Residence — 33  North  Third  Street, 

•r  SAN     JOSE,      CAL,  ••• 

Offick  Hours— 10  a.  m.  to  12  m.,  and  4  to  5  p.  111.  TELEPHONE  68. 


MISS    C.   A.  GOSS,  M.  D., 

Homeopathc  Physician, 
96    North   Third   St,    -       San    Jose,     Cal. 

Office  Hours— i  to  3  p.m.;    6  to  7  p.  m. 


E.    R.    OSBORN,    M.  D. 

Physician  and  Surgeon, 

Office  and  Residence— 68  South  Third  St.,  San  Jose,  Cal. 

Office  Hours — 10  to  12  m  ,  and  2  to  4  p.  m. 


DR.   SARA    BROWN    BAILEY, 

The  Richmond  Building,     -     59  South  Second  Street, 

•f  SAN     JOSE,      CAL.  -f 

Office   Hours — 10  to  12  m.,  and  2  to  4  p.  m. 


DR.    ALIDA    CORNELIA    AVERY, 

Formerly  of  Denver,  and  for  nine  years  ('65-74) 
Resident  Physician  at  Vassar  College,  Poughkeepsie,  N.    Y. 

Seventh  and  Santa  Clara  Streets,       -      -       San  Jose,   Cal. 
Office  Hours— 10  to. 12  m.,  and  2  to  4  p.  m. 


Chow-Chow. 

Chop  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  twelve  onions,  three 
small  heads  of  good  cabbage,  three  red  peppers  and 
spinkle  well  with  salt.  Put  all  into  a  coarse  bag  and 
drain  over  night.  In  the  morning,  put  into  the  preserv- 
ing kettle  with  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  a 
cup  of  grated  horseradish,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
celery  seed,  some  cloves  and  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice. 
Cover  the  whole  with  good  vinegar  and  boil  until  clear. 
Very  nice. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

Take  about  twenty  pounds  of  good  peaches  and  rub 
the  skin  well  to  get  off  all  the  down.  Then  lay  the 
peaches  in  a  large  stone  jar.  Take  one  quart  of  good 
vinegar,  three  pints  of  brown  sugar,  boil,  skim  and  pour 
over  the  peaches.  Next  morning  pour  off  the  syrup,  heat 
it  and  pour  on  fruit  again.  This  must  be  done  for  three 
successive  mornings.  Then  drain  off  the  syrup  and 
sprinkle  the  top  of  the  fruit  with  bits  of  whole  cinnamon 
and  whole  cloves.  Boil  down  the  syrup  until  it  is  thick 
like  molasses,  pour  boiling  over  the  fruit,  taking  care  to 
have  enough  to  cover  the  peaches  well.  Put  into  ajar, 
let  it  cool  and  cover  closely. 

Pickled  Peaches,  No.  2. 
Take  twenty  pounds  of  peaches,  peel  carefully  and  cut 


62  lizzie's   cook   book. 

in  halves.  Have  ready  a  syrup  of  two  quarts  of  good 
vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon  and  one  of  allspice.  Boil  the 
syrup.  Then  drop  in  the  peaches  and  boil  up,  but  not 
so  that  the  peaches  will  break.     Put  into  glass  jars. 

Sweet  Pickles. 
Take  about  five  hundred  small  cucumbers,  three  quarts 
of  good  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  ounce 
of  allspice  and  one  of  cloves  and  of  cinnamon  and  a  few 
small  red  peppers.  I^et  the  cucumbers  stand  all  night  in 
salt  water.  Then  drain  and  put  on  to  boil  in  vinegar 
and  sugar.  Boil  gently  for  about  five  minutes.  Then 
put  in  pepper  and  seasoning.     Put  in  jars. 

Tomato  Sauce. 
Cook    tomatoes  until    soft   and  rub  through  a    colan- 
der.    Boil  six  hours,  stirring  often.     When    done,  pour 
into  a  stone  jar  and  cool.     Then    add   one   pint  of  good 
vinegar,  bottle,  seal  tight  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Tomato  Catsup. 
Take  one  pint  of  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  out  stem  ends 
and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  celery,  one  teaspoonful  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  mustard  and 
one  pint  of  vinegar.  Pour  into  a  kettle  boil  and  skim. 
When  done  bottle  and  seal. 

Chili  Sauce. 
Take  fifty  ripe  tomatoes,  twenty  onions  and  two 
bunches  of  celery.  Chop  very  fine  and  add  one  gill  of 
good  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  good  brown  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  powdered  Chili,  allspice,  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  salt.  Boil  two  hours.  Then  bottle 
and  seal. 


pU©»lts|©§. 


Snow    Pudding. 

Dissolve  one-half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  of 
cold  water.  When  soft  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water, 
the  j trie 2  and  rind  of  two  lemons  and  two  cups  of  sugar, 
strain  and  let  stand  until  cold.  Then  beat  well  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  gelatine,  beat- 
ing all  well  together.     Pour  into    molds  and  set  on  ice. 


3- 


Custard  for    Snow  Pudding, 

Hggs, 

Milk, i  pint. 

Sugar, 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well,  add  a  pint  of 
milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Then  beat  all 
well  together,  put  in  the  rice  boiler  and  cook  until  done. 
Set  away  to  cool.     When  cold,  pour  over  snow  pudding. 

Snow  Pudding,  No.  2. 

Stir  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  into 
one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Beat 
up  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar.  Beat  this  into  the  corn  starch  after  taking  it 
from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Let  it  cool,  then 
pour  over  it  a  custard  made  like  custard  of  number  one. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 


64  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Poor  Man's    Rice  Pudding. 

Put  into  an  earthen  dish  two  quarts  of  milk,  one- 
half  cup  of  rice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little 
piece  of  butter.-*  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven,  two 
hours  or  longer  stirring  occasionally  not  to  let  burn  on  top. 
When  nearly  done,  grate  little  nutmeg  over  it    Serve  cold . 

Queen  of    Puddings. 

Take  one  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  pour  over 
them  one  pint  of  warm  milk.  Beat  together  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  pint 
of  cold  milk.  Stir  well  and  add  this  to  the  bread  already 
soaked.  Put  into  an  earthen  dish,  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
and  stir  occasionally  until  done.  When  done  beat  the 
whites  of  the  three  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
together.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  some  good 
jelly  and  lay  over  this  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Set  in  a 
hot  oven  until  a  light  brown,  being  careful  not  to  let  it 
burn.     Serve  cold. 

Apple   Whip. 

Apples,  (good,  large  and  ripe), 2 

Sugar. r  Clip. 

Eggs, 2. 

Grate  the  apples,  adding  sugar  while  grating  to  keep 
apples  from  turning  black.  Then  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beating  all  well  for  a  half  hour.  Put 
into  a  glass  dish  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Serve  with  this  a  custard  made  as  follows:  Beat  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Put  a 
pint  of  milk  into  a  rice  boiler,  heat  it,  pour  in  eggs  and 
sugar  and  let  it  thicken.     Enough  for  four  people. 


puddings.  65 

Lemon  Meringue. 

Put  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  this  into  the  boiling 
water  until  thick.  Then  take  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
and  one  lime  and  one  cup  of  sugar.  Add  to  the 
corn  starch  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  then  the  fruit 
juice  and  sugar  and  put  all  in  an  earthen  dish.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  three  eggs,  spread  over  the  top  and  set  in 
the  oven  until  it  is  brown.  Take  care  not  to  burn.  Set 
away  to  cool. 

Floating  Island. 

Take  one  quart  of  good  milk,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  oi 
sugar.  Beat  all  well  together  and  put  in  rice  boiler.  Cook 
slowly.  When  done  add  about  three  drops  of  vanilla. 
Pour  the  custard  in  a  glass  dish.  Then  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  well  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
drop  into  the  custaad  with  a  spoon.  Set  on  ice  to  cool. 
Serve  with  sponge  cake. 

Fruit  Tapioca. 

Tapioca, 1  cup. 

Boiling  water, 1  pint. 

Sugar, y2   cup. 

Take  one  cup  of  tapioca,  soak  over  night,  put  it  into 
a  rice  boiler  with  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  one-half 
cup  of  sugar.  Cook  until  clear.  Then  add  apricots, 
peaches  or  apples.  Stir  well,  put  in  a  glass  dish  to  cool 
and  serve  with  cream. 

Bavarian  Cream. 
Take    one-half     a    cup    of  gelatine   and  soak  in  cold 


66  lizzie's   cook    book. 

water  about  one-half  hour.  Warm  a  pint  of  good  rich 
milk  in  a  rice  boiler  and  put  the  gelatine  in  the  milk  when 
warmed.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  milk  and  steam  until  it  be- 
comes like  custard.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  set  away 
to  cool.  Then  whip  one  pint  of  good  cream  well  and 
beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  a  little  vanilla.  Add  this  to  the  custard. 
Then  put  all  into  a  glass  dish  and  set  to  cool.  If  made 
early  in  the  morning  it  will  be  ready  in  about  five  hours. 

Steamed    Rice 

Milk, .1  quart. 

Rice, *    2  3  of  a  cup. 

Salt, .  .    .  .  i  pinch. 

Mix  well  together  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  rice  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Put  into  a 
mold  and  set  in  a  steamer.  Steam  until  the  rice  is  like 
jelly.  When  cold  turn  out  of  the  mold  and  serve  with 
sugar  and  cream. 

Coffee  Jelly. 

Gelatine, y2   box. 

Strong  coffee, i  pint. 

Sugar, i  cup. 

Boiling  water i  pint. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  for  half  an  hour  in  cold 
water.  Pour  the  coffee  over  the  gelatine,  stir  in  the  su- 
gar and  add  boiling  water.  Strain  through  clean  linen 
into  a  mold  and  cool.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Rhubarb  Pudding. 

Peel  two  bunches  of  rhubarb  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  a  layer  of  rhubarb  in  an  earthen  dish,  add  sugar  and 


PUDDINGS.  67 

a  little  butter.  Then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  (brown  or 
white  are  equally  good),  then  a  layer  of  rhubarb  with 
sugar  and  butter  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pin 
the  bread  crumbs  on  top,  cover  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven 
for  about  two  hours.  Ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  re- 
moving it  from  the  oven,  take  off  the  cover,  that  the  pud- 
ding may  brown  nicely.     Serve  cold. 

Baked    Custard. 

Milk,    1  quart. 

Eggs, 4 

Sugar, 3  tablespoonfuls. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  milk.  Then  stir  in  the 
sugar  and  beat  all  well  together.  Put  into  cups,  set  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Grate 
a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  serve  cold. 

Souffle  Pudding. 

Milk, 1  quart. 

Sifted  flour, y2  cup. 

Hggs 4. 

Sugar, 3  tablespoonfuls. 

To  one  quart  of  milk  when  boiling,  add  one-half  cup 
of  sifted  flour,  stirring  well  all  the  time  until  thick.  Add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Stir  well  into  the  milk  and  set  to  cool.  When 
cold,  half  an  hour  before  serving,  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  immedi- 
ately. 


68  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Cottage   Pudding. 

Milk, i  cup. 

Sugar, x/z  cup. 

Melted  butter, 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Baking  powder, 1  teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 2. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  into  a  pint  of  flour.  Mix  all 
well  together.  Bake  half  an  hour  and  serve  with  a  liq- 
uid sauce. 

Good  Fruit  Pudding. 

Stoned  raisins 2  pounds. 

Currants, 1  pound. 

Citron x4  pound. 

Chopped  suet, y2  pound. 

Stale  bread  crumbs, 2  pounds. 

Eggs, 6. 

Sour  milk, y?  cup. 

Soda, 1  teaspoonful. 

Molasses,    1  cup. 

Brown  sugar, 2  cups. 

Flour, 1   cup. 

Cinnamon, Y/?  teaspoonful. 

Cloves, y2 

Allspice, V2 

Nutmeg, 1. 

Mix  the  molasses,  sugar  and  eggs  all  well  together; 
then  add  the  sour  milk,  having  first  dissolved  the  soda  in 
it.  Add  the  bread  crumbs.  Stir  all  of  these  well  to- 
gether. Have  the  fruit  well  floured.  Add  suet  first, 
then  the  fruit,  and  stir  all  thoroughly.  Then  add  one 
cup  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  the  same 
of  cloves,  of  allspice  and  of  grated  nutmeg.     Have  the 


SHORT   CAKE.  69 

two  quart  pail  well  greased,  pour  the  batter  into  it,  cover 
tightly  and  steam  four  hours.  This  will  keep  for  several 
weeks  and  can  be  re-warmed  when  wanted. 

Strawberry  Short-Cake. 

Rub  one  cup  of  butter  into  one  pint  of  flour,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  up  but  not  too  stiff. 
Roll  out  and  bake  in  jelly  tins.  Spread  the  berries,  well 
sugared,  between  the  layers.     Serve  hot. 

Sweet  Short- Cake. 
Beat  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  to  a  cream. 
Add  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Mash  and  sugar  strawber- 
ries and  spread  between  the  layers,  putting  whole  berries 
on  the  top.     Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Suet  Pudding. 

Molasses   14  cup. 

Hggs 2 

Milk r   cup 

Chopped  suet y2  cup 

Salt 1  teaspoonful 

Baking  powder 2  teaspoonfuls 

Sifted  flour 3  small  cups 

Raisins.  .  .2  cups,  (or  one  of  any  kind  of  fruit.) 
Mix  all  well   together,  season  with  a  little  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg  and  steam  three  hours. 

Sauce  for  this  pudding.— Beat  up  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter,, two  cups  of  sugar  and  a  little  boiled  water  and  sea- 
son with  nutmeg.     Beat  them  well  together. 


70  lizzie's   cook   book. 

Ice  Cream. 

Hggs 3 

Good  cream i  quart 

Milk i  quart 

Sugar V2    cup 

Beat  the  milk,  eggs  and  sugar  well  together,  then  put 
on  in  the  rice  boiler  and  cook  until  like  custard.  Set  away 
to  cool.  When  cold  add  one  quart  of  good  cream,  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  vanilla  or  any  other  flavoring  according 
to  taste.     Freeze. 

Ice  Cream,  No.  2. 

Take  as  many  quarts  of  good  sweet  cream  as  will  be 
required.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  for  every  quart  of  cream 
and  a  little  vanilla  or  any  other  kind  of  flavoring.  Put 
into  freezer  and  freeze  for  about  ten  minutes.  Pack  well 
until  used. 

Fruit  Cream. 

Sugar 2  large  cups. 

Milk      1  pint 

Hggs 2 

Gelatine 2  tablespoon fuls 

Cream 1    quart 

Fruit 

Soak  the  gelatine  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  eggs  well, 
then  beat  the  eggs,  sugar,  milk  and  gelatine  together. 
Put  this  into  the  rice  boiler,  cook  until  like  custard,  then 
let  it  cool.  When  cold,  add  one  quart  of  good  cream  and 
peaches  or  any  other  kind  of  fruit.  Rub  fruit  through  a 
sieve.     Mix  all  well  together.     Freeze. 

Strawberry  Cream. 

Mash  well  one  quart  of  good  fresh  strawberries  with 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  rub  through  a  sieve.     Dissolve  two 


ICES.  7  i 

tablespooufuls  of  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then  add  to  the 
gelatine  one  pint  of  warm  milk.  Stir  well  until  the  gel- 
atine is  dissolved.  Then  add  berries  and  one  pint  of 
whipped  cream. 

Strawberry  Cream,  No.  2. 

Rub  one  quart  of  strawberries  through  a  sieve  and  mix 
with  three  pints  of  rich  cream  whipped  to  a  froth.  Add 
one  ounce  of  dissolved  gelatine.  Put  into  glasses  and 
set  on  ice.     Serve  in  the  glasses. 

Lemon  Ice. 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then 
-add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  two  lemons  and 
two  cups  of  sugar.  Put  the  rind  of  one  lemon  in  for  a 
few  minutes.  Strain  all  and  when  cool  put  in  the  freezer 
and  freeze  well. 

Junket. 

Warm  one  quart  of  milk  slightly  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  ren- 
net. Mix  well,  put  into  a  glass  dish  and  set  on  ice.  Good 
for  invalids. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Cream T  quart 

Milk 1  quart 

Sugar , 2  cups 

Hggs 2 

Grated  chocolate 5  tablespoonfuls 

Beat  the  eggs  well  and  rub  the  chocolate  smooth  with 
a  little  milk.  Then  mix  all  and  heat  to  nearly  boiling 
point,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cold  beat  in  one  quart 
of  good  cream  and  freeze. 


72  lizzies   cook    book. 

Frozen    Peaches. 

Peeled  peaches, 2  quarts. 

Sugar, 1  pound. 

Water, 1  quart. 

Put  the  sugar  over  the  peaches  and  let  them  stand 
two  hours.  Then  mash  fine,  add  the  cold  water  and 
freeze. 

Tapioca  Ice. 

Soak  one  cup  of  tapioca  over  night.  In  the  morning 
put  it  on  to  boil.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  boil  until 
clear.  Chop  up  one  pineapple  and  pour  the  tapioca  over 
it.  Stir  well  and  put  into  a  mold.  When  cold  serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. 


■£&&§,. 


HOW   TO   TEW*  FRESH  EGGS. 

If  eggs  are  put  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water  the  fresh 
ones  will  float  to  the  top.  One  of  the  best  ways  to  be 
sure  of  fresh  eggs,  however,  is  to  buy  them  of  a  dealer 
who  has  them  brought  in  fresh  every  day. 

Jellied  Eggs. 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a  dish,  lay  as  many 
eggs  into  it  as  the  water  will  cover,  ten  minutes  before 
serving,  cover  tight.     Very  good,  especially  for  invalids. 

Baked    Eggs. 

Lay  the  eggs  in  a  pan  and  bake  for  one-half  hour  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  This  cooks  both  whites  and  yolks 
until  mealy  like  a  baked  potato.  Invalids  can  often  eat 
eggs  baked  in  this  way,  when  they  cannot  eat  them 
boiled  soft  or  poached. 

Baked  Eggs,  No.  2. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  baking  pan  and  let  it  melt, 
then  break  eggs  into  it  and  set  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
Watch  carefully  that  they  do  not  burn.  Bake  from 
eight  to  ten  minutes. 

Scrambled   Eggs. 

Take  a  dozen  half  sheets  of  stiff  note  paper  and  turn 
up  the  edges  of  each  piece,  making  little  dishes.     Break 


74  LIZZIE  S     COOK     BOOK. 

the  eggs  in  a  saucer.  Place  the  dishes  on  the  top  of  a 
moderately  hot  stove,  put  a  little  butter  in  each  one  and 
grease  the  whole  surface  carefully.  Drop  an  egg  into 
each  dish  and  stir  gently  with  a  silver  fork.  Season 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot.  Very  delicate 
and  nice,  but  difficult  to  cook  well. 

Scrambled  Eggs,  No.  2. 

Heat  a  pan  on  top  of  the  stove  with  a  little  butter  in 
it.  Break  eggs  in  a  dish  and  then  put  into  the  pan. 
Season  well  and  stir  until  done.  When  cooked  enough, 
the  eggs  will  be  light.     Take  up  on  a  hot  platter. 

Poached   Eggs. 

Pour  boiling  water  into  pan  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Break  eggs  in  a  saucer  one  by  one  and  drop  into  the 
water.  Boil  slowly,  taking  care  to  have  the  water  cover 
the  yolks.  Have  ready  some  pieces  of  bread  well 
browned.  Take  each  egg  up  carefully  without  breaking 
and  lay  on  the  toast. 

Fried   Eggs. 

Have  a  hot  pan  with  some  butter  in  it.  Break  eggs  in 
a  saucer,  drop  into  the  pan  and  fry  rapidly.  Take  out  as 
soon  as  cooked,  unless  they  are  to  be  turned  over.  If 
they  are  to  be  turned,  turn  quickly.  Then  serve  on  a 
hot  platter,  on  toast  or  on  crackers  dipped  in  boiling 
water. 

Omelet. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs  separately.  Into 
the  yolks  stir  a  pint  of  good  milk  and  a  little  salt;  then 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beating  all  together.  Have 
ready  a  pan  with  very  hot  butter,  pour  in  the  eggs  and 


OMELETS.  yc 

set  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Bake  for  about  eight  minutes, 
watching  to  keep  from  burning.  Take  the  omelet 
up  carefully  and  lay  on  a  hot  platter,  folding  over  on  it- 
self.    Serve  immediately. 

Ham  Omelet. 

Make  in  the  same  manner  as  above  and  add  one-half 
cup  of  boiled  ham,  chopped  very  fine.  Take  up  on  hot 
platter  and  fold  as  above. 

Oyster  Omelet. 

Make  as  in  the  first  omelet,  adding  twelve  fresh  oys- 
ters chopped. 

Omelet  with  Jelly. 
Make  omelet  as  in  first  recipe,  then  take  it  from  the 
oven  and  spread  it  with  one  layer  of  currant  or  any  acid 
jelly.     Fold  over  as  in  the  first. 


®/\K£&- 


"They  cannot  be  too   sweet  for  my  lord's  tartness." — Shakespeare. 
ANGEL    FOOD. 

Granulated  sugar, i}4  gills. 

Flour, i  gill. 

Cream  of  tartar, i  teaspoonfnl. 

Eggs  (whites  only) 1 1 . 

Sift  sugar  five  times.  Sift  flour  and  cream  of  tartar 
five  times.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  add  the  sugar.  Then  add  flour  and  stir  lightly  un- 
til all  is  well  mixed.  Flavor  with  two  drops  of  pure  extract 
of  almond.  Have  ready  a  tin  pan  that  has  never  been 
greased,  warm  it  well,  put  in  the  dough  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  for  about  thirty  minutes.  Take  from  the  oven, 
turn  pan  bottom  side  up  without  removing  cake  and  let 
it  cool. 

Delicate    Cake. 

Sugar, i}4   cups. 

Butter, }4     " 

Sweet  milk, i     " 

Sifted  flour, 2    " 

Corn  starch, y2     " 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs  (whites  only,) 7. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.     Add  milk  and  flour 


CAKES.  77 

sifted  with  baking  powder,  corn  starch,  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  before  they  are  added. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  square  baking  pans  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

Sugar 2  cups 

Sweet  milk i  cup 

Flour 3  cups 

Butter 2  tablespoonfuls 

Bggs 3 

Baking  powder 2  teaspoonfuls 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  eggs 
well  beaten,  and,  last,  the  flour  with  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins  in  quick  oven. 

Filling  for  this  cake: 

Eggs  (whites  only) 2 

Powdered  sugar i  cup 

Grated  cocoanut i  cup 

Beat  eggs  well  then  add  sugar  and  cocoanut.  Spread 
between  the  layers  and  on  the  top  of  the  cake. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Sugar i  y?,  cups. 

Butter Y  °f  a  CUP- 

Sweet  milk i  cup. 

Sifted  flour 3  cups. 

Chopped  nuts i  cup. 

Baking  powder 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether and  bake  in  loaf. 


78  lizzie's  cook   book. 

Silver  Cake. 

Sugar 2  cups 

Butter y?  cup 

Sweet  milk i  cup 

Sifted  flour   3  cups 

Eggs  (whites  only) 6 

Baking  powder 2  teaspoonfuls 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  milk,  flour 
sifted  with  baking  powder  and  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten 
first.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  into  square  pans  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 

Gold  Cake. 

Sugar 2  cups 

Butter y2  cup 

Sweet  milk y>  cup 

Sifted  flour 2  cups 

Hggs  (yolks  only) 5 

Baking  powder 2  teaspoonfuls 

Mix  and  bake  as  in  the  recipe  above. 

1-2-3-4  Cake. 

Butter 1  cup 

Sugar 2  cups 

Sifted  flour 3  cups 

Hggs 4 

Baking  powder 2  teaspoonfuls 

Mix  thoroughly,  beat  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Orange  Cake. 

Sugar 2  cups 

Butter, y2  cup. 


cakes.  79 

Sweet  milk, i  cup. 

Sifted  flour, 3     " 

Hggs 3. 

Baking  powder,  . 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  next  the 
well  beaten  eggs,  then  the  milk  and  last  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  sifted  together.  Bake  in  sheets  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

Filling  for  this  cake: 

Pulverized  sugar, 2  cups. 

Eggs  (whites  only), 2. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  ol  one  orange. 
Juice  of  one-half  lemon. 

Beat  all  well  together  and  spread  between  the  layers 
and  on  the  top. 

Jelly  Cake. 

Sugar, 2  cups. 

Milk, 1  cup. 

Sifted  flour, 3  cups. 

Eggs, 3. 

Butter, 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  then  add  eggs  well 
beaten,  milk,  and  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  jelly  cake  tins.  Spread  good  sour  jelly  between  the 
layers  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

Marble   Cake. 

WHITE    PART. 

Butter, yd,  cup. 

Sugar, .2 


So  lizzie's   cook   book. 

Sifted  flour, 2V2  cups. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs  (whites  only),    4. 

Beat  all  well  together. 

DARK     PART. 

Butter, J/2  cup. 

Brown  sugar, 1     " 

Sour  milk,    V2     ' ' 

Sifted  flour, 2     " 

Eggs  (yolks  only),    4. 

Soda, ....  1  teaspoonful. 

A  pinch  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon  each. 
Put  the  soda  into  the  sour  milk  and  then  beat  all  well 

together.     Butter  the  pan  well,  pour  in  first  a  layer  of 

the  dark.     Have  the  top  layer  dark,  then  the  light  and 

so  continue  until  all  is  in  the  pan. 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  one  hour. 

Molasses  Cake. 

Molasses, 1   cup. 

Brown  sugar, 1 

Butter, y2    " 

Strong  coffee, 1       " 

Sifted  flour, 3      " 

Soda, 1  teaspoonful. 

Eggs, 2. 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water  then  mix  all  thoroughly. 
Bake  in  thick  sheets  in  a  slow  oven. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Butter, 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Sifted  flour, 2  cups. 

Eggs, 9. 

Boiling  water, 1  pint. 


CAKES.  8 1 

Put  the  butter  in  the  boiling  water  then  add  the 
flour  gradually,  beating  well  until  thick.  When  cool  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beating  with  the  hand,  then 
the  beaten  whites.  Have  ready  hot  gem  pans,  pour  in 
the  dough  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  cold,  open 
and  fill  with  whipped  or  cooked  cream. 

Fig  Cake. 

Eggs, 3. 

Sugar, 1  l^cups. 

Butter, y?  cup. 

Sweet  milk,    1  ' ' 

Sifted  flour, 3  cups. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 

FILLING    FOR     THIS    CAKE. 

Figs  or  raisins  chopped  very  fine,    .  .  .  1  cup. 

Walnuts, 1  cup. 

Powdered  sugar, 1^  cups. 

Eggs  (whites  only,) 2. 

Beat  all  well  together  and  spread  between  the  layers 
and  on  the  top. 

Wedding  Cake. 

Sugar, 2  cups. 

Butter, 1  small  cup. 

Sweet  milk, 1  cup. 

Sifted  flour, 3  cups. 

Corn  starch, .    y2  cup. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Eggs  (whites  only,) 10. 

Citron  cut  in  small  pieces, y?  cup. 

Cream    the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  milk  and  flour 


82  lizzie's   cook    book. 

sifted  with  the  baking  powder  and  the  corn  starchy 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  and  stir  in  slowly  ~ 
Then  add  the  citron  dusted  with  flour.  Bake  in  moder- 
ately hot  oven  for  about  one  hour. 

Genuine  Fruit  Cake. 

Butter,   i  cup. 

Brown  sugar, 2  cups. 

Molasses, 1  cup. 

Eggs, 8. 

Sifted  flour,     1  pound. 

Soda 1  teaspoonful. 

Brandy, 1  wine  glass. 

Currants, 1  pound. 

Stoned  raisins,    1       " 

Citron  (cut  fine,) )A      " 

Blanched  almonds, 1  cup. 

Cinnamon, 1   teaspoonful. 

Cloves, 1  " 

Allspice, 1  " 

Grated  nutmeg, 1  " 

Beat  well  together  the  butter,  sugar  and  molasses. 
Then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  flour,  the  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water,  and  the  brandy.  Beat  well,  then 
add  the  fruit  and  spices.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  let  it 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  stir  into  the  mixture.  Put  into  well 
greased  pans  and  bake  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  Before 
taking  from  the  oven,  try  with  a  broom  splint.  This  will 
keep  for  years  if  not  eaten  but  it  generally  is. 

Cookies. 

Sugar 2  cups 

Butter V2   cup 


CAKES.  83 

Milk 1  cup 

Flour 3  cups 

Eggs 3 

Baking  powder 2   teaspoonfuls 

Mix  well,  roll  out  thin,  cut,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
bake  in  a  good  hot  oven.     Keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

Molasses, 1  cup. 

Brown  sugar, 1 

Butter, Y-z  cup. 

Flour, 3  cups. 

Eggs, 2. 

Soda, 1  teaspoonful. 

Sour  milk 1  cup. 

Dissolve   soda    in    a  little   water,     mix   all    well     to- 
gether, roll  out  thin,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Black  Cake. 

Brown  sugar 2  cups 

Butter 1  cup 

Flour  (browned) 3  cups 

Sweet  milk, 1  cup. 

Strong  Coffee, 1 

Eggs, 6. 

Molasses, 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Soda, 1  teaspoonful. 

Cream  of  tartar, 2 

Cinnamon, 1 

Cloves, 1 

Raisins, 2  lbs. 

Currants, 1    " 

Citron, YA     " 


84  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  the  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  water.  Then  put  in  the  coffee  and  the 
flour  in  which  the  cream  of  tartar  is  sifted;  lastly  the  fruit 
and  spices  and  then  mix  all  thoroughly  and  bake 
three  hours  in  slow  oven. 

Water  Melon  Cake. 

WHITE    PART. 

Sugar, 2  cups. 

Butter, i    " 

Sweet  milk, i     " 

Sifted  flour, 3  cups. 

Corn  starch y2  cup. 

Cream  of  tartar, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Soda, 1  teaspoonful. 

Eggs  (whites  only,) 6. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well,  dissolve  soda  in  a  lit- 
tle water,  then  mix  all  thoroughly. 

RED    PART. 

Red  sugar,    1  cup. 

Butter, t/z    " 

Sweet  milk 1     " 

Eggs  (whites  only,) 3. 

Cream  of  tartar, 1  teaspoonful. 

Soda, y2 

Stoneless  raisins, 1  cup. 

Sifted  flour, 2  cups. 

Beat  eggs,  dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water,  then  mix  all 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  pan  with  a  tube,  taktng  care  to 
keep  the  red  part  around  tube  and  the  white  around  the 
edge.  It  is  well  to  have  two  people  fill  the  pan  together. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  nearly  one  hour. 


CAKES.  85 

White  Sponge  Cake. 

Eggs  (whites  only,) 10. 

Pulverized  sugar, 1  y2  tumblers. 

Sifted  flour, 1  tumbler. 

Cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoonful. 

Beat  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  in  sugar  and  flour 
lightly,  having  first  sifted  both  twice.  Flavor  with  van- 
illa or  rose.     Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

Plain  Sponge   Cake. 

Pulverized  sugar, 2  cups. 

Eggs,  6. 

Sifted  flour, 2  cups. 

Baking  powder 1  teaspoonful. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar.  Add  the  flour  and 
baking  powder,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Stir 
all  slowly  until  the  top  is  covered  with  little  bubbles. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Pound  Cake. 

Sugar, 1  lb. 

Sifted  flour, 1  lb. 

Butter, 1  lb.   (scant.) 

Eggs, 8. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  thoroughly  with  the 
hand;  add  to  this  the  beaten  yolks  and  stir  in  well;  next 
put  in  the  sifted  flour  and  powder  and,  last,  the  beaten 
whites.  Pour  into  a  square  pan  and  bake  one  hour  in  a 
slow  oven. 

This  cake  is  not  easily  made,  because  it  requires  so 
much    beating  and   such  careful    baking.       Everything 


86  lizzie's   cook   book. 

should  be  prepared  before  beginning,  so  that  the  hand 
need  not  be  removed  from  the  mixture  until  it  is  finished 
and  ready  to  be  put  in  the  pan. 

Ribbon  Cake. 

Sugar, 2  cups. 

Butter, i  cup. 

Sweet  milk,    i  cup. 

Sifted  flour, 4 

Bggs, 4. 

Cream  of  tartar, 1  teaspoonful. 

Sod^., y2  teaspoonful. 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water,  then  beat  all  well  to- 
gether. Bake  half  of  this  in  two  jelly  cake  pans.  To 
the  remaining  dough,  add 

Seeded  raisins, 1  cup. 

Currants, 2     " 

Molasses 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Cinnamon 1   teaspoonful . 

Allspice, 1 

Cloves, 1  ' ' 

Bake  this  in  a  pan  of  the  same  size  as  jelly  cake  tins. 
Lay  the  three  loaves  together,  the  fruit  loaf  in  the  mid- 
dle with  a  little  icing  between  them. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Eggs,  (3  yolks  1  white), 3. 

Sugar, 2  cups . 

Milk, 1     " 

Sifted  flour, 3     " 

Butter, 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Sift  baking  powder  with  flour,  mix  all  thoroughly  and 
bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 


CAKES.  87 

FILIylNG. 

Eggs,  (whites  only) 2. 

Powdered  sugar, 1  cup. 

Grated  chocolate,  or 

Phillips'  cocoa, ^ 

Beat  all  well  together  and  put  between  layers  and  on 
the  top. 

Snow  Cake. 

Sugar 1  cup. 

Butter, V2    " 

Flour, i}i    " 

Sweet  milk, %    " 

Eggs  (whites  only), 4. 

Baking  powder, 2  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  all  well  together.     Flavor  to   taste.     Bake  in  a 
•quick  oven. 

Cream  Cake. 

Sugar, 2  cups. 

Sifted  flour, 2       " 

Good  cream , 1       " 

Hggs, 2. 

Baking  powder, 2  small  teaspoonfuls. 

Beat  all  well  together.     Bake  in  loaf. 

Quick   Cake. 

Sugar, 1  cup. 

Butter 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Hggs 2 

Sweet  milk ]A,  cup 

Sifted  flour i}£  cups 

Baking  powder 1  teaspoonful 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  of   eggs  separately.     Mix  all 


88  lizzie's   cook    book. 

well  together  and  bake  in  quick  oven.     May  be  eaten 
warm. 

My  Grandmother's  Sayings. 

My  grandmother  used  to  say,  ' '  There  is  a  great  deal 
of  nonsense  talked  about  cake-making.  It  is  not  half 
the  worry  that  people  think.  If  you  are  in  haste  or  have 
unexpected  company,  just  do  this." 

Then  she  would  carefully  lay  aside  the  "big  Bible," 
take  off  her  spectacles,  put  on  a  large  checked  apron  and 
go  out  into  a  kitchen  as  large  as  the  whole  of  a  modern 
flat.  She  would  break  the  eggs  into  the  bowl,  measure 
into  it  flour,  sugar,  etc.,  stir  all  around  quickly  a  few 
times,  pour  into  a  pan  and  set  into  the  oven.  This  would 
take  about  five  minutes  and  the  cake  was  always  good. 

This  will  do  with  simple  recipes,  but  very  elaborate 
ones  must  be  made  carefully. 


41»IS.|€- 


REMARKS    ABOUT    IT. 

"  What  you  don't  know,  don't  worry  you." 

Lizzie. 
American  Pie. 

"  Tough  and  indigestible  above;  more  tough  and  indi- 
gestible below,  with  untold  horrors  between'" 

The  English  Tourist. 

Pie. 

The  greatest  obstacle  to  the  advancement  of  the  Amer- 
can  nation.     It  is  making  a  race  of  dyspeptics. 

The  Reformer. 

As  this  book  is  not  written  to  retard  progress,  but  to 
help  it  on,  there  are  in  it  no  recipes  for  the  ordinary  pie, 
the  crust  shortened  with  lard,  because  other  desserts  are 
more  wholesome.  But  English  fruit  pies,  sometimes 
called  by  us  "  Apple  Cobblers,"  "  Peach  Cobblers,"  etc., 
are  very  good.  Below  are  general  directions  for  making 
them. 

English  Fruit  Pies. 

Take  a  deep  earthen  dish  and  fill  it  with  any  fruit,, 
adding  sugar,  spices  or  any  seasoning  desired.  Lay  over 
the  top  of  this  a  thick  biscuit  crust  and  bake  until  well 
done.  Serve  with  cream  or  with  some  liquid  sauce. 
Fruit  pies  made  in  this  way  have  no  heavy  undercrust, 
soaked  with  fat  and  juice,  but  are  very  appetizing  and 
digestible. 


eJELLy, 


GENERAL    DIRECTIONS. 

i.     The  fruit  must  not  be  too  ripe. 

a.     The  juice  should  drip  from  the  bag  without  press- 
ure. 

3.  There  should  be  equal  parts  of  juice  and  sugar, 
cup  for  cup. 

4.  The  jell)'   is  cooked  enough  when   it  drops  clear 
from  the  spoon . 

5.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to  skim   well  after  juice 
cand  sugar  boil  up  together. 

6.  Put  into  jelly  glasses.     When  cool  and  settled,  lay 
'over  the  top  a  piece  of  writing  paper  cut  to  fit  smoothly 

and  dipped  in  good  brandy  or  alcohol.     Then  screw  on 
the  tops. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Take  a  box  of  good,  sound  currants  and  pick  them 
-.over  carefully  but  do  not  remove  stems.     Put  them  into 
^preserving  kettle,  warm  them  all  through  and  mash  with 
,a  spoon.     Have  a  bag  of  cheese  cloth,  fill  it  with  fruit, 
\tie  up  and  let  the  juice  drain  from  it.     The  jelly  is  better 
•if  the  fruit  is  not  squeezed.     When  well  drained,  measure 
the  juice.      Boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  sugar,  cup  for  cup  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer,  or 
until  it  will  drop  from  the  end  of  a  spoon. 


JELLY.  91 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. 

Wash  and  cut  into  halves  nice  crab  apples.  Put  over 
fire  in  preserving  kettle  with  a  little  boiling  water.  Stir 
constantly  to  keep  from  burning.  When  done,  put  the 
jelly  into  a  bag,  and  let  it  drip  from  it.  When  the  juice 
stops  dripping,  add  to  it  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  meas- 
uring first  a  cup  of  juice,  then  of  sugar.  Boil  until  done. 
This  takes  longer  than  currant  jelly.  It  is  done  when  it 
drips  clear  from  the  spoon. 

Raspberry  Jelly. 

Pick  over  thoroughly  and  wash  two  boxes  (jo  quarts)  of 
raspberries.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  and  let  them  warm 
up  to  form  juice,  then  in  bag  to  drain.  To  every  cup  of 
juice  add  one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  hard  ten  minutes,  skim- 
ming carefully  the  while.  When  done,  the  jelly  will 
drop  from  the  spoon. 

Grape  Jelly. 

Mash  well  some  sour  grapes  and  put  into  a  preserving 
kettle  with  a  little  water  to  cook.  Stir  to  keep  from 
burning.  When  done  put  into  a  bag,  hang  the  bag  and 
let  the  juice  drain  until  clear,  then  add  sugar,  cup  for 
cup,  and  cook  until  done.  This  jelly  requires  more  cook- 
ing than  any  other  kind. 

Lemon  Telly. 

Take  one  half  box  Cox's  gelatine  and  soak  in  one  half 
cup  cold  water.  When  soaked,  add  one  coffee  cup  sugar, 
juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  rind.  Allow  it  to  remain  in 
the  kettle  about  two  minutes.  Then  strain  through  a 
linen  cloth  into  molds. 


92  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

To  12  lbs.  nice  fruit,  add  6  lbs.  sugar  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Then  put  into  preserving  kettle  and 
boil  up  well.  Add  5  lbs.  more  of  sugar  and  boil  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  well 
done,  put  in  jelly  glasses  and  seal. 

Blackberry  Jam. 
May  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Pickled  Figs. 

Figs, 6  lbs. 

Sugar,  3    " 

Vinegar  (good,) 1  qt. 

A  little  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  in  a  bag.  L,et 
the  figs  stand  over  night  in  a  weak  solution  of  salt  and 
water.  Wipe  well  in  the  morning.  Let  the  sugar  and 
vinegar  become  scalding  hot,  put  in  the  figs  rnd  boil  un- 
til soft.  Takeout  carefully,  put  into  a  jar  and  pour  the 
liquor  over.     Repeat  this  process  two  or  three  times. 

Bottled    Peaches. 

To  thirty  lbs.  of  peaches,  pared  and  halved,  take  15 
lbs.  sugar.  To  one-half  the  sugar  add  enough  water  to 
melt  it.  When  it  boils,  drop  in  half  the  peaches,  let  them 
remain  on  the  stove  five  minutes,  then  bottle.  Use  other 
half  of  the  fruit  in  the  same  way.  (Always  have  bottles 
hot.) 

Bottled  Apricots. 

Same  recipe  as  for  peaches. 

Apricot  Marmalade. 
To  10  lbs.  apricots,  pared  and  stoned,  use  7  lbs.  sugar. 


JELLY.  93 

Add  to  the  apricots  one-half  the  sugar  and  let  them  stand 
over  night.  Then  put  on  stove,  and  let  them  come  to 
boiling  point.  Then  add  remainder  of  the  sugar  and 
boil  four  hours.  One-half  hour  before  it  is  done,  add 
i  doz.  blanched  and  chopped  apricot  stones.  Put  in 
jelly  glasses. 

Bottled  Pears. 

Pare  fruit  and  cut  in  halves.  To  every  10  lbs.  of  fruit 
use  7  lbs.  sugar.  Add  to  sugar  one  pint  boiling  water 
and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Boil  to  a  syrup.  Then  add  the 
fruit.  Let  it  cook  about  one-half  hour.  Watch  care- 
fully. 

Some  prefer  cooking  pears  about  fifteen  minutes  in 
clear  water  before  putting  in  the  syrup. 


©ANN£©  F^UlT. 


Use  glass  jars  and  clean  them  thoroughly.  Prepare 
the  fruit,  which  should  not  be  too  ripe,  by  paring,  ston- 
ing or  whatever  is  necessary.  As  the  fruit  is  prepared, 
place  it  carefully  in  the  jars,  taking  care  not  to  break  it. 
Prepare  the  syrup,  sweet  according  to  the  acidity  of  the 
fruit,  and  the  taste.  Boil  and  skim  the  syrup.  Set  the 
jars  in  a  boiler  prepared  for  canning.  If  that  cannot  be 
procured,  take  a  common  boiler.  Lay  a  board  in  the 
bottom  of  it  and  set  the  jars  filled  with  the  fruit  in  the 
boiler,  pouring  more  water  around  them  to  about  half 
their  height.  Put  the  covers  on  loosely,  but  do  not  screw 
them  down.  As  soon  as  the  water  is  hot,  pour  on  hot 
syrup  and  cook  them  twenty  minutes.  Then  fill  with 
syrup  to  the  brim  and  screw  on  the  tops.  Take  out  of 
boiler,  and  set  to  cool.  If  not  perfectly  air-tight,  they 
will  leak  and  the  process  must  be  repeated. 


©fflNKS. 


Coffee. 

Buy  Mocha  or  Java  coffee  ground  coarse.  Take  one 
tablespoonful  for  every  person  and  one  for  the  pot.  Beat 
up  an  egg  and  mix  some  or  all  of  it  with  the  coffee. 
Then  stir  up  the  mixture  well  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water.  When  well  mixed,  pour  on  the  boiling 
water  about  ten  minutes  before  serving.  Keep  hot  but 
do  not  let  it  boil. 

Coffee,  No.  2. 

MADE   WITH    COI.D    WATER. 

Take  coffee  in  the  same  proportions  as  above  according 
to  the  number  of  persons.  Stir  it  up  thoroughly  with  a 
little  cold  water,  just  enough  to  soak  the  grains.  When 
thoroughly  soaked,  add  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  every  per- 
son and  one  for  the  pot.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  place  over 
a  hot  fire  and  take  cff  as  seen  as  it  toils.  It  will  te 
clear  as  amber  and  very  good.  This  is  an  excellent  way 
to  make  coffoe  over  a  spirit  lamp. 

In  buying  coffee  instead  of  all  Java,  many  persons  pre- 
fer a  mixture  of  one-third  Mocha  and  two-thirds  Java. 
Those  who  are  fond  of  strong  coffee  sometimes  prefer 
one-third  Costa  Rica  and  two-thirds  Java.  Leading  groc- 
ers now  often  make  their  own  mixtures,  called  "Blended 
Coffee."  Always  have  the  coffee  berry  freshly  ground  or 
the  aroma  escapes  and  the  delicious  flavor  is  lost. 


96  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Cocoa  Shells. 

This  is  not  a  favorite  drink,  but  when  well  made  is 
very  good,  especially  for  delicate  stomachs.  Put  two 
handfuls  of  shells  into  a  pot  and  pour  over  them  one  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Boil  well  for  at  least  one-half  hour, 
then  add  one  pint  of  good  milk.  Let  it  just  boil  up, 
after  adding  the  milk.     If  too  strong,  add  more  milk. 

Chocolate. 

Reliable  directions  for  making  chocolate  are  printed  on 
the  packages. 

Tea. 

Have  an  earthen  tea-pot,  heat  it  well  and  measure  into 
it  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  every  person,  and  one  for  the 
pot.  Pour  boiling  water  over  this,  one  cup  for  every 
spoonful  of  tea  if  it  is  to  be  of  good  strength.  Let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place.  Never  boil  tea;  it  makes  a  bitter 
and  unwholesome  drink.  Let  the  water  just  boil  before 
pouring  it  over.  Tea  well  made  is  a  fragrant  and  re- 
freshing drink.  Do  not  buy  green  teas  for  they  are  col- 
ored and  sometimes  poisonous. 


BILL  OF   FARE  FOR  A  WEEK. 


SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Fruit, 

Oat  Meal  Mush  with  Cream, 

Broiled  Chops, 

Graham  Gems,  Coffee, 
Dinner. 

Vermicelli  Soup, 

Shrimp  Salad, 

Split-back  Chickens,  and  Currant  Jelly, 
Green  Peas,  Beets,  Potatoes, 

Snow  pudding,  Angel  Food, 
Fresh  Fruit, 

Black  Coffee. 

Supper. 

Cold  Chicken, 

Bread  and  Butter,  Cake, 

Fruit,  Tea  or  Chocolate. 


98  lizzie's   cook    book. 


MONDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Baked  Apples, 

Farina  Mush  with  Cream, 

Hash  and  Omelet, 

Muffins,  Coffee. 

Dinner. 
Tomato  Soup, 

Lettuce  Salad, 

Broiled  Porter-house  Steak, 

Sweet  Potatoes,  String  Beans, 

Lemon  Meringue, 

Fresh  Fruit, 

Black  Coffee. 

Supper. 
Stewed  Peaches, 

Bread  and  Butter,  Cake, 

Tea,  Chocolate. 


BILE    OF     FARE.  99 


TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Breakfast  Delight,  with  Cream, 

Brains  a  la  Creme, 

Saratoga  Potatoes, 

Corn  Bread, 


Coffee. 


Dinner. 
Bean  Soup, 

Salad,  Crab  on  Lettuce, 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce, 

Pilaf,  Turnips,  Potatoes, 

Queen  of  Puddings, 

Sliced  Peaches, 

Black  Coffee. 
Supper. 

Bread  and  Butter, 

Canned  Pears,  Jelly,  Cake, 

Cocoa  Shells,  Tea. 


oo  lizzie's   cook    book. 


WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. 

Graham  Mush  with  Cream, 

Stewed  Prunes, 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast, 

Cream  Potatoes, 

Pop  Overs,  Coffee. 

Dinner. 
Oyster  Soup. 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad, 

Roast  Veal  with  Cream  Gravy, 
Mashed  Potatoes,  Cauliflower, 

Apple  Whip,  Fruit, 

Black  Coffee. 

Supper. 
Buttered  Toast, 

Canned  Apricots, 

Cake,  Tea  or  Cocoa  (Phillips). 


BILL     OF     FARE.  IOI 


THURSDAY. 


BREAKFAST. 


Rolled  Oats  with  Cream. 
Baked  Pears. 

Cod-fish  Cakes,  Eggs,  (Jellied.) 

Brown  Bread,  Coffee. 

Dinner. 
Bouillon. 

Chicken  Salad. 
Roast  Beef. 

Baked  Potatoes,  Asparagus. 

English  Plum  Pudding, 
Nuts  and  Raisins. 

Black  Coffee. 

Supper. 
Parker  House  Rolls. 

Baked  Apple  Sauce,  Cake. 

Chocolate  or  Tea. 


102  LIZZIES     COOK     BOOK. 


FRIDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Melon. 

Cracked  Wheat  with  Cream. 

Picked-up  Codfish,  Sweet  Breads. 

Gems,   Coffee. 

Dinner. 

Rice  Tomato  Soup. 

Salad,  Cold  Slaw. 

Fish,  Roast  Beef,  (from  Thursday.) 

Potatoes,  Spinach,  Beets. 

Ice  cream,  Water  Melon  Cake. 

Fruit,  Black  Coffee. 

Supper. 

Brown  and  White  Bread. 

Jelly  Cake. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Tea  or  Coffee. 


BILL     OF     FARE.  103 


SATURDAY. 

BREAKFAST. 

Fruit. 

Oat  Meal  and  Breakfast  Delight  with  Cream. 
Harn  and  Eggs. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

Coffee 
Dinner. 
Mutton  Broth. 
Salad. 

Quail  on  Toast. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Corn. 
Jelly. 

English  Fruit  Pie  with  Cream. 

Supper. 
Buns,  Bread. 

Apricot  Marmalade. 

Cake. 

Chocolate. 

For  those  who  prefer  dinner  at  night,  the  dishes  given 
for  supper  may  be  used  for  noon  luncheon,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  cold  meats  and  entrees,  soups,  chops,  etc.  The 
supper  menus  are  designedly  made  very  simple,  as  those 
who  prefer  a  midday  dinner  generally  wish  light  sup- 
pers. 


poots)  poi^   iN^ALitsg 


Raw  Beef  Soup. 

Chop  fine  one  pound  of  raw  beef,  put  it  in  a  bottle 
with  one  pint  of  water  and  five  drops  of  muriatic  acid. 
Let  this  stand  in  a  cool  place  all  night.  In  the  morning 
set  the  bottle  in  a  pan  of  water  at  no  degrees  F.,  for 
about  two  hours.  Strain  through  a  cloth  until  the  mass 
is  nearly  dry.  If  the  raw  taste  be  objectionable,  the  beef 
to  be  used  should  be  roasted  quickly  on  one  side,  then 
make  as  above.  This  soup  ma}7  be  substituted  for  milk 
when  the  latter  is  called  for,  but  cannot  be  taken. 

Beef  Tea. — (Best  way.) 

Three  pounds  of  beef  cut  into  dice  and  thrown  into 
three  pints  of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  three  hours^ 
Add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  then  cover  and  put  it 
on  a  slow  fire.  Let  it  simmer,  but  never  boil,  until 
the  quantity  is  reduced  one-half.  This  will  take  six 
hours  at  least.  Strain  and  set  aside  until  next  day, 
when  skim,  season,  and  serve  hot.  It  should  be  per- 
fectly clear  and  of  a  golden  brown  color. 

Beef  Tea,  No.  2. 

A    QUICK   WAV   TO   MAKE    BEEF   TEA. 

Cut  one-half  pound  of  beef  into  dice,  and  put  it  into  a_ 
wide  mouthed    bottle   with  just    cold  water  enough  to 


FOOD     FOR     INVALIDS.  105 

cover  it.  Cork  the  bottle,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce  pan  of 
cold  water  over  a  slow  fire.  When  the  water  in  the 
sauce  pan  boils,  the  tea  is  made.  Strain,  skim,  season 
and  serve  hot.     This  makes  about  half  a  cup  full. 

Beef  Tea,  No.  3. 

Half  pound  of  beef  chopped  fine,  and  soaked  in  half 
pint  cold  water  with  a  little  salt,  for  ten  minates.  Then 
heat  it  slowly  to  boiling  point,  and  let  it  boil  three  min- 
utes.    Strain,  skim,  season,  and  serve  hot. 

Beef  Tea,  No.  4. 

BEEF   TEA    THAT    THE    MOST    DELICATE    STOMACH    CAN     RETAIN. 

One  pound  of  beef  cut  into  dice  and  thrown  into  one 
pint  cold  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  four  drops  of 
hydro  chloric  acid,  cover,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour. 
Skim,  strain,  season,  and  serve  hot.  Only  to  be  given 
with  the  Doctor's  consent. 

Beef  Juice. 

Take  one  pound  of  beef  cut  into  dice,  and  throw  it 
into  half  a  pint  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours. 
Then  strain,  skim,  heat  quickly  with  a  little  salt,  and 
serve  hot.  with  a  half  slice  thin,  hot  toast. 

Beef  Juice,  No.  2. 

Boil  for  one  minute,  one  pound  of  beef.  Then  grate  it 
fine  by  rubbing  and  tearing  it  on  a  large  grater.  Rub 
this  through  a  sieve  and  you  have  a  thickish  liquid  which 
can  be  drank,  and  yet  contains  the  whole  nourishment  of 
the  beef.     Heat  quickly  with  a  little  salt  and  serve. 


106  lizzie  s   cook   book. 

Beef  Tea  and  Egg. 

Beat  a  raw  egg  a  little  and  stir  it  into  a  half  pint  of  hot 
beef  tea. 

Egg  Nogg. 

Beat  up  well  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Add  slowly  one 
tablespoonfnl  of  boiling  water.  Beat  again.  Add  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Beat  again.  Add  slowly  one 
tablespoonful  of  brandy,  beating  constantly.  Have 
ready  the  white  of  the  egg,  beaten  lightly.  Stir  it  in 
thoroughly,  and  serve  at  once. 

Egg  Nogg,  No.  2. 

One  egg;  One  tumbler  of  milk; 

One  dessertspoonful  of  brandy ; 

"  "  "     sugar. 

Carefully  scald  the  milk  and  let  it  afterwards  become 
cold.  Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together  to  a  froth,  put 
into  a  glass,  add  the  brandy  and  fill  up  with  the  milk. 
Can  be  made  quickly  if  desired  without  boiling  the  milk. 

Baked  Milk. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  stone-ware  jar  and  cover  with 
foolscap  writing  paper  tied  over  it.  Set  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  two  or  three  hours  according  to  quantity.  This 
is  very  delicate  when  made  properly.  Experience  will 
guide  as  to  heat  of  oven.  The  paper  allows  for  slow 
evaporation. 

Macaroni   and  Milk. 

Take  three  pieces  of  curled  macaroni,  soak  in  pint  of 


FOOD     FOR     INVALIDS.  107 

warmed  milk  until  quite  swollen  and  soft.     Add  pinch 
of  salt,  and  boil  slowly  for  twenty  minutes. 

Milk  Punch. 

One  tumblerful  of  milk;  two  dessertspoonfuls  brandy. 
Sweeten  the  milk  well  and  stir  in  the  brandy  thoroughly. 
Keep  very  cold  with  ice. 

Kumys. 

Three  quarts  fresh,  rich  milk;  Three  quarts  hot  water; 
Half  a  pound  of  white  sugar;  one  tablespoonful  of  good 
yeast.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  hot  water,  add  this  to 
the  milk,  and  let  them  cool  until  lukewarm.  Now,  slowly 
and  carefully  stir  in  the  yeast.  Set  the  crock  containing 
this  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  as  you  would  bread.  In  five 
or  six  hours,  it  will  be  slightly  sparkling,  and  small  bub- 
bles will  rise  to  the  surface  when  stirred.  When  it 
reaches  this  stage,  put  it  into  stout  bottles,  tie  down  the 
corks,  and  set  bottles  in  a  cool  place,  in  the  refrigerator 
or  on  the  floor  of  a  cool  cellar.  A  thick  mass  (the  case- 
ine)  will  form  on  the  surface;  once  or  twice  a  day,  for 
several  days,  the  bottle  should  be  well  shaken,  and  this 
will  fall  in  a  powder  to  the  bottom.  When  two  days  old, 
it  is  ready  for  use,  although  it  will  keep  for  a  much 
longer  time,  and  may  be  used  when  a  week  or  more  old. 
It  is  best,  however,  when  two  to  four  days  old.  Care 
must  be  used  in  opening.  Use  a  champagne  faucet  if 
possible. 

Corn  Meal    Grukl. 

Take  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  stir  into  it  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  corn-meal  and  y2  teaspoon  ful   of  salt.     Boil   hard 
for  1  hour,  stirring  constantly.     Milk   may  be  added  to 
s,  if  agreeable  to  the  invalid. 


108  lizzie's   cook    book. 

Farina  Gruel. 

Take  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  stir  into  it  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  farina  and  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  con- 
stantly while  it  boils  half  an  hour. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel. 

Take  a  pint  of  Irish  oat-meal  and  pour  upon  it  a  quart 
of  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  three  hours,  stirring  occasion- 
all}7.  When  well  soaked  drain  off  the  water  and  put  the 
water  into  a  double  kettle  to  boil,  adding  ^  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  one  hour.  Milk  ma}7  be 
added,  if  agreeable  to  the  patient. 

Milk  Gruel.— (With  flour.) 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  kettle  and  let  it  boil. 
Blend  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  Vs  teaspoonful  of  salt 
with  a  little  water,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  it  thickens. 


HUSBANDS- 


A    RECIPE    FOR   COOKING   HUSBANDS. 

One  of  the  lectures  before  the  Baltimore  Cooking 
School  recently  gave  this  recipe  for  cooking  husbands: 
'  'A  good  many  husbands  are  utterly  spoiled  by  misman- 
agement. Some  women  keep  them  constantly  in  hot 
water.  Others  let  them  freeze  by  their  carelessness  and 
indifference.  Some  keep  them  in  a  stew  by  irritating 
ways  and  words;  others  roast  them.  Some  keep  them  in 
a  pickle  all  their  lives.  It  cannot  be  supposed  that  any 
husband  will  be  tender  and  good,  managed  in  this  way, 
but  he  is  truly  delicious  when  properly  treated.  In  se- 
lecting }^our  husband  you  should  not  be  guided  by  the 
silvery  appearance,  as  in  buying  a  mackerel,  nor  by  the 
golden  tint,  as  if  you  wanted  a  salmon.  Be  sure  to  se- 
lect him  yourself,  as  tastes  differ.  Do  not  go  to  market 
for  him,  as  the  best  are  always  brought  to  your  door.  It 
is  far  better  to  have  none,  unless  you  will  patiently  learn 
how  to  cook  him.  A  preserving  kettle  of  the  finest  por- 
celain is  the  best,  but  if  you  have  nothing  but  an  earthen 
pipkin  it  will  do,  with  care.  See  that  the  linen  in  which  you 
wrap  him  is  nicely  washed  and  mended,  with  the  required 
number  of  buttons  and  strings  tightly  sewed  on.  Tie  him  in 
the  kettle  by  a  strong  silk  cord  called  comfort,  as  the  one 
called  duty  is  apt  to  be  weak.  Make  a  clear,  steady  fire  out 
of  love,  neatness  and  cheerfulness.  Set  him  as  near  this 
as  seems  to  agree  with  him.     If  he  sputters  and  fizzes,  do 


no  lizzie's   cook    book. 

not  be  anxious ;  some  husbands  do  this  till  they  are  quite 
done.  Add  a  little  sugar,  in  the  form  of  what  confection- 
ers call  kisses,  but  no  vinegar  or  pepper  on  any  account. 
A  little  spice  improves  him,  but  it  must  be  used  with 
judgment.  Do  not  stick  any  sharp  instrument  into  him 
to  see  if  he  is  becoming  tender.  Stir  him  gently,  watch- 
ing the  while,  lest  he  lie  too  flat  and  close  to  the  kettle, 
and  so  become  useless.  You  can  not  fail  to  know  when 
he  is  done.  If  thus  treated,  3tou  will  find  him  very  re- 
liable, agreeing  nicely  with  you  and  the  children,  and 
he  will  keep  as  long  as  you  want,  unless  you  become 
careless  and  set  him  in  too  cold  a  place." 


©£N|£^AL-  iN©£,x 


PAGE 

How  to  select  good  Flour.  .  .  9 

BREAD     10 

White  Bread 10 

Graham  Bread 1 1 

Boston  Brown  Bread 11 

Graham  Gems 12 

Muffins   12 

Breakfast  Rolls 13 

Parker  House  Rolls 13 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits.    .  14 

White  Gems 14 

Hygienic  Batter  Cakes.  ...  14 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes   15 

Welch  Griddle  Cakes 15 

Sally  Lunn 16 

Pop  Overs 16 

Waffles 16 

Corn  Bread 17 

MUSH   18 

Corn  Meal  Mush 18 

Fried  Mush 18 

Graham  Mush 18 

Sago  Mush 18 

Germea  Mush 19 

Farina  Mush 19 

Whole  Wheat  Mush.      ...  19 

Breakfast  Delight 19 

Rolled   Oats   .       19 

Boiled  Rice 20 

Cracked  Wheat  Mush 20 

Hominy 20 

BEEF 21 

How  to  tell  good  Beef 21 

Roast    Beef 21 


PAGE 

How  to  buy  Beefsteak 22 

How  to  Broil  a  Beefsteak.  .  22 

Beef  a  La  Mode 23 

Baked  Beefsteak 23 

How  to  select  corned  Beef.  .  24 

Corned  Beef 24 

Spanish  tomato  beefste'k .  .  24 

Beef  Heart 24 

Yorkshire    Pudding 24 

Irish  Stew 25 

MUTTON 25 

How      to      Choose      Good 

Mutton 25 

Roast   leg     of    Mutton     or 

Lamb 25 

Mutton  Chops 26 

Roast  Mutton  or  Lamb 26 

Minced  Mutton  or  Lamb ...  26 

Scalloped  Mutton 26 

VEAL 26 

How  to  choose  good  Veal  26 

Roast  Weal 27 

Veal  Cutlets 27 

Veal  Stew 27 

Veal    Loaf 27 

Veal  Fricassee 28 

Meat  Souffle 28 

Stuffed  Veal 28 

Sweet  Breads 28 

Calf's  or  Sheep's  Brains.    .  29 

Scrambled  Brains 29 

PORK 29 

How  to  Select  Pork 29 

Pork  Chops 29 


112 


LIZZIES    COOK     BOOK. 


PAGE 

Ham 30 

Devilled  Ham 30 

Spare  Ribs 30 

Roast  Pork 30 

Liver .  30 

Kidney  Stew 31 

Ham  and  Eggs 31 

SOUP  STOCK.  ...  31 

Bouillon 32 

Ox  Tail  Soup   32 

Tomato  Soup 32 

Beef  Tea  or   Broth   for    In- 
valids    32 

Bean  Soup 33 

Potato  Soup 33 

Tomato  Cream  Soup 33 

Corn  Soup  for  12  Persons    .  33 

Mutton  Broth    34 

Clam  Chowder 34 

Clam  Soup 34 

Oyster  Soup 34 

Lentil  Soup 35 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 35 

Chicken  Broth 36 

Turkey  Soup .  36 

Salsify     or     Oyster     Plant 

Soup 36 

FOWLS   37 

How     to     choose     a    good 

Turkey ^7 

Roast  Turkey .  37 

To  make  the  gravy 38 

Boned  Turkey 38 

How  to  select  Good  Chirk- 
ens 3S 

Roast  Chicken 39 

Split-back  Chicken 39 

Fried  Chicken 39 

Chicken  Fricassee 39 

Chicken  Pie   40 

Quail 41 

Fried  Quail      41 

Broiled  Quail 41 

Signs    by    which  you    may 

know  Yonng  Ducks.  .  .  41 

Roast  Duck 42 

Tame  Pigeon 42 

English  Snipe   42 


PAGE 

FISH 43 

How  to  Choose  Good   Sal- 
mon    43 

Boiled  Salmon 43 

Fried  Salmon 43 

Baked  Shad   43 

Shad  Fried 44 

Silver  Smelt 44 

Broiled  Smelt      44 

Fresh  Mackerel 44 

Salt  Mackerel 44 

Lake  Trout  Broiled 44 

Lake  Trout   Fried 45 

Cod  Fish 45 

Salt  Cod  Fish 45 

SALADS 46 

Chicken  Salad 46 

Salad  Dressing 46 

Potato  Salad 47 

Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad.  47 

Shrimp  Salad 47 

Crab  Salad 47 

SANDWICHES    .  .  48 

Ham 48 

Cottage  Cheese 48 

Boned  Turkey 48 

Egg   * 4$ 

VEGETABLES....  49 

Boiled  Potatoes 49 

Scalloped  Potatoes 49 

Lyonnaise   Potatoes 50 

Cream  Potatoes 50 

Breakfast  Potatoes 50 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 50 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 51 

Rice  as  a  Vegetable 51 

Squash.    51 

Stuffed  Squash 51 

Turnips 52 

Beets 52 

Baked  Tomatoes 52 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 53 

Steamed  Tomatoes 53 

String  Beans    53 

Lima  Beans 54 

Green  Peas 54 


INDEX. 


113 


Corn  Oysters  . 
Green  Corn  .  . 
Asparagus 

Spinach 

Egg  Plant 

Cauliflower  .  .  . 
Stewed  Celery 
Mushrooms  .  .  . 
Succotash 


ENTREES. 

Devilled  Crab 

Fish  Croquettes 

Chicken  Croquettes.. 
Scalloped  Oysters.  .  .  . 

Fried  Oysters 

Broiled  Oysters 

Stuffed  Potatoes 

Corn  Fritters 

Pilaf 


PICKLES 


Chow  Chow 

Pickled  Peaches  . 
Sweet  Pickles.  .  .  . 
Tomato  Sauce  .  .  . 
Tomato  Catsup  .  . 
Chili  Sauce   


PUDDINGS 


Snow  Pudding 

Custard  for  Snow  Pudding. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding. 

Queen  of  Puddings 

Apple  Whip 

Lemon  Meringue 

Floating  Island 

Fruit  Tapiocca   

Bavarian  Cream 

Steamed  Rice 

Coffee  Jelly 

Rhubarb  Pudding 

Baked  Custard   

Souffle  Pudding 

Cottage  Pudding 

Good  Fruit  Pudding 

Strawberry  Short  Cake.  .  . 

Sweet  Short  Cake 

Suet  Pudding   


54 
54 
54 
55 
55 
56 
56 
56 
57 

5S 

58 
5» 
58 
59 
59 
59 
59 
60 
60 

61 

61 
61 
62 
62 
62 
62 

63 

63 
63 
64 
64 
64 
65 
65 
65 
65 
66 
66 
66 
67 
67 
68 
68 
69 
69 
69 


PAGE 

Ice  Cream      70 

Fruit  Cream 70 

Strawberry  Cream 70 

Lemon  Ice   71 

Junket 71 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 71 

Frozen  Peaches   72 

Tapioca  Ice 72 

Eggs 73 

How  to  tell  Fresh  Eggs.  ...  73 

Jellied  Eggs 73 

Baked  Eggs 73 

Scrambled   Eggs 73 

Poached  Eggs 74 

Fried  Eggs   74 

Omelet 74 

Ham  Omelet    75 

Oyster  Omelet    75 

Omelet  with  Jelly 75 

CAKE 76 

Angel  Food 76 

Delicate  Cake 76 

Cocoanut  Cake 77 

Hickory-nut  Cake 77 

Silver  Cake 78 

Gold  Cake 78 

1-2-3-4   Cake 78 

Orange  Cake 78 

Jelly  Cake 79 

Marble  Cake 79 

Molasses  Cake 80 

Cream  Puffs 80 

Fig  Cake 81 

Wedding  Cake    81 

Genuine  Fruit  Cake 82 

Cookies.  . 82 

Molasses  Cookies   83 

Black  Cake 83 

Watermelon  Cake 84 

White  Sponge  Cake  85 

Plain  Sponge  Cake 85 

Pound  Cake 85 

Ribbon  Cake   86 

Chocolate  Cake   86 

Snow  Cake 87 

Cream   Cake   87 

Quick  Cake 87 

My  Grandmother's  Sayings     88 


H 


LIZZIE  S     COOK     BOOK. 


PAGE 

PIE 89 

American  Pie 89 

Fruit  Pies 89 

JELLY 90 

Currant  Jelley 90 

Crab  Apple  Jelly 91 

Raspberry  Jelly 91 

Grape  Jelly 91 

Lemon  Jelly 91 

Raspberry  Jam     92 

Blackberry  Jam 92 

Pickled  Figs 92 

Bottled  Peaches 92 

Bottled  Apricots 92 

Apricot  Marmalade 92 

Bottled  Pears 93 

CANNED   FRUIT...  94 

DRINKS 95 

Coffee 95 


PAGE 

Cocoa  Shells 96 

Chocolate 96 

Tea 96 

BILL   OF   FARE    FOR    A 

WEEK   97 — 103 

FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS..      104 

Raw  Beef  Soup 104 

Beef  Tea  (Best  way) 104 

Beet  Juice 105 

Egg  Nogg 106 

Beef  Tea  and  Egg 106 

Baked  Milk 106 

Maccaroni  and  Milk 106 

Milk  Punch 107 

Kumys 107 

Corn  Meal  Gruel 107 

Farina  Gruel 108 

Oatmeal  Gruel 108 

Milk  Gruel  (flour) 108 

HUSBANDS(HowtoCook)   109 


ALPHABETICAL   INDEX. 


Bread 10 

Bill  of  Fare 97- 

Cakes 76- 

Canned  Fruit 

Drinks 95 

Entrees 58- 

Eggs   73- 

Fowls 37- 

Fish 43- 

Food  for  Invalids J04- 

Game 41- 


PAGE 

-  17 
-103 

-  88 
94 

-96 

-  60 

-  75 

-  40 

-  45 
-108 

-  42 


How  to  Select  Good  Flour        9 
Husbands 109 

Jelly 9°—  93 

Mush iS —  20 

Preface 5 —     6 

Pickles 61 —  62 

Puddings 63 —  72 

Pie 89 

Salads 46 —  47 

Sandwiches 48 

Vegetables   49 —  57 


INBEX  T9   ADVERTISERS. 


PAGE 

W.  E.  Crossman  &  Co 1 

Martin   &   Estraboou 2 

Raley&Co.... 3 

Mrs.  Worcester  .  3 

San  Jose  Mercury 4 

Notion  Store 60 

Women  Physicians 61 

Rudolph 115 

City  of  San  Jose 115 


PAGE 

San  Jose  Herald 116 

J.  G.  Munson 117 

Hill  &  Watkins 117 

Charles  A.  Bothwell 118 

W.  S.  Trader  &  Co 118 

E.  H.  Wemple 119 

San  Jose  Tea  Co 119 

Mangrum  &   Otter 120 

Gray  &  Cadwell 120 


^lORUDOLiPHl^ 

andg  & factory 

J=OR     THE      BEST 


5r;e  *  pipest  *  /}5sortmer)t  #  of 

FRESH  CREAM  #  PLAIN  CANDIES 

IN      SAN     JOSE. 


No.  61   East   Santa    Clara    Street. 

"^ifg  *  of  *  J^ai]  *  <§Jo§e." 
C^ampiorp  of  Ltow  Prices. 

We    ark    HEADQUARTERS    for 

Dress  Goods,  Gloves,  Corsets, 

Silks,  Hosiery,         Linens, 

Underwear,  Domestics,  etc. 


A  Cordial  Reception  to  All. 

I.  LOEB  &  BROTHER, 

(Safe  Deposit  Block.)  N.  E.  Cor.  First  and  Fountain  Sts. 


~»i  T  H  £  K- 

DAILY  HERALD 


KND 


WEEKLY HERALD, 

SAN  ®  JOSE,  @  CAL. 


The  Herald  is  the  only  Democratic  paper  published  between 

San   Francisco   and   L,os   Angeles,  and  has  therefore  an 

immense  circulation  in  the  Southern  Counties 


||  of  California.  || 


It  is  also  the  Official  Organ  of  the  City  of  San  Jose,  and 
is  therefore    an 

5)xeellent  #  ^\5^epti§ing  >(<[^\eclium 

for  all  who  desire  to  reach  the  solid  men  of  the 
City  and  County. 


DAILY  HERALD,  25a  a  Month.    $3.00  a  Year. 

WEEKLY  HERALD,  $1.50  a  Year. 

PUBLISHED     BY 

HERALD    PUBLISHING    COMPANY 

OFFICE-31    South    Market    Street. 


RELIABLE  DRUGS.  )K  RELIABLE  DRUGS. 

*  IS    THE     MOTTO    OF  * 

J.  G.  MUHSON,  the  Druggist,? 

16  South  First  Street,    -     -     -     -      San    Jose,    Cal. 


MR.  MUNSON  is  a  graduate  in  Pharmacy,  With  14  years'  experience,  9  years 

of  which  was  spent  in  leading  Prescription   Drug  Stores  iu    San 

Francisco.  These  facts,  combined  with  the  handling  of  only 

RELIABLE   •   IMilj 

Have  been  the  means  of  making  hts  business  so  successful. 

The  only  place  in  Jan  Jose  where  you  can  get  WHIPPED  CREAM  SODA  is  at 

MUNSON'S    PHARMACY.     SODA  WATER  at  all   times. 

Ladies  Toilet  Articles  in  Great  Variety. 

The    Best    of   Family    Medicines. 

Your  Patronage  most  respectfully  solicited.     Remember  the  place, 

No.  16  South  1st  St.,  Safe  Deposit  Block,  San  Jose,  Cal. 

« G7*L*L*     ON ► 

■»     LEHDING     «• 

*M  Photographers,  [^ 

79   and    81    LCiest    Santa    Clara    Street 

SAN    JOSE,     CAL. 

The  Best  Material.      The  Only  Importers. 

"po^tel         ®  Water  ©olor^  ®  Oil 

©rayograpte  ®       Tinted   p^oto? 

"painting    on    Vs/atct^    "©i&t^ 

•»   FIRST  •••  CLHSS  *  iztfORIC  +  ONLY  «■ 


-§cuvcniF  spoons. 


VfWches,     m 

©Jewelry,     # 

Silverware, 


CHARLES  A.  BOTHWELL, 

112  Soath  first  St.,  San  Jose,  Gal. 


p^epaiping    in   ^\ll    (§>ran^hc-5    |Ducmp-H\j   Attended   to. 
^i^crwarc,    Ivnkc-s,   jp^opks   and    spoons. 

©•oeks.   <®ine    ^ibep   polish. 

W.  S.  T$flDE$  &  CO. 

REAL*ESTATE 


O 


INSURANCE 


25  West  Santa  Clara  Street.  San  Jose.  California, 


Real  Estate  Sold  at  Auction  or  Private  Sale. 

Houses  Rented.     Rents  Collected. 

Taxes  Paid,  and  Full  Charge  taken  of  Property. 
Money    to    Loan    on    Mortgage   or   Collateral    Security. 


E.  H.  WEMPLE, 

J\)e  Ceadip<§  Qroeer, 

S&n  ^)ose,     ---#---     California. 


A  Complete  Stock  of  Fancy  p^  Staple  Groceries, 
Crockery  and  Tinware. 


Gall  and  See  my  Stock,  ^  get  Priees  before  Baying. 

Use  "Cameta"  Baking  Powder, 

■f    It  is  StrictTy  Pure.     No  Adulteration.     We  Guarantee  it.     * 

flllD       "PAWirTA"       CYTDAPTQ      are    triple    strength,   water  white, 
UUn  UAIYIlIA  L/UHAuIu        strictly  pure;  no  coloring  matter. 

"    *>■**■•     OUR     LIN6     OP     ■*,»    „ 

Teas,  *  Coffees  *  ft  *  Spiees 

Is  the  most  Complete  in  San  Jose.        •         ■        We  deal  only  in  Pure  Goods. 
All  Goods  sold  under  that  guarantee. 


^     TRY  OUR  JEWEL  TEA  at  50  ets.  pep  lb.    e§ 

It  is  strictly  machine  cured;   of  Superior  Quality. <^^^ 

v_^"^  A.slz  for  Free   Sample   of  Jewel   Tea. 
HANDSOME    PRESENTS    GIVEN     AWAY. 

SAN   JOSE   TEA   CO., 

41  &  43  E.  SANTA  CLARA  ST.,      -     -     -     -    SAN    JOSE,    CAL. 


Agents  for  Mann's  Patent  Chimney.  Telephone    228. 

Mangrum  &  Otter, 

Maxufacturess  of  and  Dealers  in 

Stoves  •  ^  •  Hinges, 

Heaters,  Pumps,  Copper,  Tli,  Sleet  &  Galvanized  Iron  Ware, 
Plumbing,  Gas  Fitting,  Tin  Roofing.  All  Kinds  of  Jobbing. 

Galvanized  Cornice  Work  and  Slate  Roofing  a  Specialty. 

Mantels,  ©rates,  Ciles   and  ©as  fixtures. 

GAS    AND    GASOLIN"    STOVES,    ETC. 

MAGEE'S    FURNACES>   *  «<NEW  HOUSEHOLD  RANGES. 
81-85  BAST  SANTA  CLARA  ST.,  SAN  JOSE,  CAL. 

R.  G.  CADWELL.  •••  O.    L.    GRAY. 

231-235  EAST  SANTA    CLARA  STREET, 
Between  Fifth  and  Sixth,       ...         -       SAN    JOSE,    CAL. 

©l?^ap  Qa$\)  (|roe^ry 

AND    FEED    STORE. 

P>poduee  a  cgpeeialtvj.      ^      Wholesale  &  f&ctail. 


Goors    Delivered   to   any   Part   of  the   City   or   Suburbs. 

&&*•  Special  Attention  paid  to  Children.  — $^& 
TELEPHONE    263.  #  ORDERS    SOLICITED. 


-unjlfts    T     H      E    ^/WSI^ 


The  #  people's  *  paper1. 

-a  »    m 

FUN  &&>  FACT 

•a  GO  HAND-IN-HAND  IN  ITS  COLUMNS.^ 


READ  IT, 


Learn  to  Love  Your  Neighbor. 


g*>C.  fl  Monti?.   ^£C. 


THE  PHOENIX, 


THE    ONLY    ENTIRELY 


-f Independent   Papei*  «£- 


IN     SANTA    CLARA    VALLEY. 


PUBLISHED  EVERY  MORNING, 

MONDAYS      EXCEPTED, 

By    M.    P.    OWEN. 


Terms  per  Month,      -      -      -      -      JfO  Cents. 
lerms  per  Annum,       -  $I±.50> 

f  ■■■■■■■—   II    |,L^ 

Advertisements  Inserted  at  Moderate  Rates. 


IT  IS  THE  FEARLESS  DEFENDER 


RIGHTS    OF   THE    PEOPLE 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


